

The Bulletin
New Contact with South America— page 4
Wednesday, March 9, 1960
Price l/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
’ Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
" it’s your turn to ring the Firs Brigade."


BOOKIIUNTER,
A service for
Sydney.
Box 26"71, G.P.0.,
•- . , , renders. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE HUMANITIES
It is always nice to know what a
book is about; and, since the present
reviewer has always been vaguely
perturbed by the word “humanities”
—which could mean anything from
anthropology to not being unkind to
Eskimos—it is doubly pleasing to find
that, before all the learned contribu-
tors to The Humanities in Australia
(Angus and Robertson) begin to
discuss the subject. A. G. Mitchell and
J. A. Passmore manage to define it
very clearly.
“Humanities” has, in fact, meant
all sorts of things; though always,
basically, the same thing. It has been
used to distinguish the study of man
as opposed to the study of divinity;
and now the tendency is to use it for
the study of man as opposed to science.
In the Renaissance, say Mitchell and
Passmore, it meant substantially “a
classical scholar”—the Professor of
Latin at some Scottish universities
still bears the title of “Professor of
Humanity.” Nowadays, as ' reluct-
antly it has been recognised that more
people than the Romans were human,
it has wider connotations; but basic-
ally it implies, in this most successful
definition, that
The humanist makes a persistent
attempt to come to a fuller under-
standing of the creative human
spirit through a study of the master-
pieces it has created.
Whether or not the theory of rela-
tivity, the exploration of the atom and
the current preparations for the ex-
ploration of space, as well as Caesar’s
“Commentaries” and (reluctantly)
“Madame Bovary”, are also master-
pieces of the creative human spirit is
a point which many of the contributors
earnestly debate;, and answer, on the
whole, in a wary affirmative. There is
a feeling that science, in the long run.
may become respectable. The basic
point at issue seems to be, as R, G.
Menzies says in his foreword, that the
scientists should, if possible, try to
write clearly: then science and litera-
ture may meet. And it is also
emphasised by all that the scientists,
in their turn, should not deprive them-
selves of the wisdom and delight to be
found in literature. Dr. A. D Trendall
suggests that both Science and Arts
students should undergo “a full three-
year course on the history and philo-
sophy of science from the beginning of
time to the present day.”
Having defined “humanities”, the
book also contrives to tell us, through
Dr. TrendalTs introduction, what tha
mysterious body the Australia
Humanities Research Council is, wha
it proposes to do; and why we have
book about it. Without going int
details as to its aims and constitution
one may say it . is a committee o !
luminaries from the universities who
have here conducted a compfehensiv
enquiry into the state of culture in tfl
universities, supplementing the Murra
Report; who have touched-on fh
secondary schools and propose t
scrutinise them in more detail in th
future; and who envisage their activi
ties as leading to something like th
Massey Royal Commission which wa
set up in Canada to inquire into th
state of the humanities in the nation
at large and which resulted, pleasingly
in “the spending of very large sums o ’
money” . . . “to rank Canada as
civilised nation and not merely as an
enormously wealthy and heavily in
dustrialised Siberian hinterland to the
world”.
Thus if the present volume is chiefly
of interest to the universities (anc
secondary schools) the Humanities
Research Council, which from its in-
ception has had the goodwill of the
Commonwealth Government, may in
the long run be of profound import-
ance to literature and the arts gener-
ally in this country: and at least one
of its suggestions is of immediate
interest to the literary world. Dr.
Trendall says that the present “would
seem to be a propitious moment for
. . . the possible establishment of a
combined press with the support of
all the universities and learned institu-
tions of Australia”. A combined Uni-
versity Press could be of the greatest
value: provided its publications were
not confined—-as, necessarily limited,
the “Bibliography” in the present
volume is largely confined —to the
works of university scholars.
It would not be possible to discuss
in detail in a review ail the points
raised in the book: but one may note
in passing that J. I. Auchmuty and
A. N. Jeffares, giving the historical
background, are interesting on such
worthies as The Rev. Charles Badham,
the great .English scholar who. accord-
ing to A. E. Housman, was “set to
teach boys at Birmingham and finally
transported to the Antipodes”; and
also they stress the advantages of
residential colleges. E. L. French
discusses the humanities in secondary
education, wonders why Latin was
everywhere preferred above Greek and
notes with some misgivings the present
trend away from languages to “aft”
and “history”. When it consists of
daubing nonsense out of your head on
half-acre sheets of brown paper it is
no wonder that “art” is popular.
A. G. Mitchell, to continue, writes
about university faculties and the
“alarming” problem of evening
students and external students—in
Western Australia “SO per cent, of the
Arts students are part-time or ex-
ternal”-—the problem being, do you
pass exams or do you get educated
at a university? G. H." Russell, in
collaboration with A. Grenfell Price
(who has edited the volume) has a
look at the university libraries and
says that the problem is not only one
of finance but of buying the best
books, including literature outside the
subjects that may actually be taught
for examinations.
University research, with a list of
all sorts of unexpected projects now
going on, is examined by various con- ‘
tributors; I. R. Maxwell noting that
“Australian studies are in good health”
and that “The question whether 'Aust.
Lit.’ should grow up in an over-
crowded English course may soon
become a pressing one”. Dr. Price
discusses university finance; and there
are notes on drama, museums, gal-
leries and other “aids and facilities”
even unto television.
The conclusions, as reached at a
meeting of the Humanities Research
Council at Canberra in 1958, are 40
recommendations “which call foT
immediate action.” No. 38 asks for
something like a Massey Commission.
No. 36 says that “further financial
assistance should be offered to
enable talented children to enter
a university without being obliged to
enter into any sort of bond.” And
No. 2, returning to the basic theme
of the book, says that “Whenever there
is established an institution officially
designated ‘a university’ it should, from
the outset, contain a faculty of Arts,
in which the humanities, as they are
traditionally understood, are taught to
an advanced level in a systematic
way,”
Adelaide Festival
“The Bulletin” wrote to lan Mudie
to find out what is being done about
Australian literature at the Adelaide
Festival, and apparently there is
plenty. Mudie wrote back, among
other things: .
The midday readings of verse
will be given from the “Advertiser”
sound-shell in Elder Park on the
bank of the Torrens, where numbers
of office-workers and others sit on
the lawns to eat their lunches. I'm
to blame for this experiment—the
first time, so far as is known, that
there have been outdoor verse-
speaking programmes in South Aus-
tralia. If, as sceptics suggest will
(Continued on page 58)


TRUCK OPERATORS WHO KNOW
• • •
FOR
INTERNATIONAL
t\ve^ lS -
■r ,<pVO a "
I'U
. Co
24 *
ot ust>
Y"f
U -
.V, \» eV \
■ voa""* 4
oi
• «a\ " uC
c a\ac ‘ a c v u a" 4 ;V
a\«-: • _ %,a\A'" c .i.»v"vc v
So""
4 ‘"' * «itn»*- “ -•oO ai ' „aU°" a
,10 V" e , cVaV
, ftce' 1 ~,,«vo"*
#*«*!** °* et
•\ a"
A \" veV '
aeVe c
V e
A'"
0V CI
i"
■e* ¥
fO" vC
V OV
&"V e '
O'"
Ac"'"
’\ •>"
•r i'S J " , , e cO" Ve
\9" 4 O'"'
e cO"°
»«»« ce
LlO'"‘
a aU °" v Y'" k ' n Act" u '
•' ' ' el - 'A' Van !\ <v aA - aS
a\s
•lAx " osV
’
50
aaWv"
\o" a
c» r
to^ io ;„.
• \vte
iovA'Cf
A r o'*" »
,«tot °y u ,..„v *>**
avft c \c~
£o*-
e os u a'¥"'= ;/ ftii*** I '' u vaV'"S
a"VO" aaU " o"" k A *e\ 4 « 4 ' . c icsv a U " V '"^
Uoist """ U to "" v( ,\ v a-c "V - a
»v O'C'" , »\ac V"’ \ ta^
fl " a V \o" ' Ve ,\ u {">"'■ . vrvl \y,
cav
a"'
V a^ s cM" c
v\' c
ot V°
lew
Vow
u*o c
iP**®
;C¥o"
m
E
\
Mr. Stan Fox, owner of Coal Right Pty. Ittf.,
Camden, N5.W., one of the largest industrial
truck Operators, in the country, already has
SEE YOUR LOCAL IH DEALER OR NEAREST INTERNATIONAL SALES OFFICE TODAY I
INTERNATIONAL
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT3S6/36'


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 9, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4178
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
S. AMERICAN CONTACT
TT is singular that though South,
A America is closer to us than any
Europeanised continent, it might be on
another globe for all Australians know
of it. This is even more strange seeing
that only a generation or two ago
harbors on the east coast of the Com-
monwealth were full of ships loading
for Callao and Valparaiso with coal
and other products, and that Rio de
Janeiro, in the days of sail, was regu-
larly on the route to Botany Bay.
South America—the fabulous con-
tinent with the most luxurious of capi-
tals and the last large tracts of
unexplored wilderness, with untold
wealth of minerals and oil and timber —
scarcely exists except as a dim abstrac-
tion for the ordinary Australian
newspaper-reader. South America —
the teeming, artistic cluster of com-
munities setting new paces in architec-
ture, in road-construction and in cattle-
breeding and agriculture ranging from
coffee to rubber and corn and lucerne
—is hardly ever mentioned. It gets into
the news only when it sprouts Evita
Perons or revolutions.
But the fact is that South America
in all its phases except the political is
going ahead faster than most parts of
the world; but since it does not threaten
anybody and apparently feels that
nothing threatens its remarkably
volatile and temperamental communi-
ties, nobody worries about it except its
northern neighbors.
Only when the Communists decide
to use its politicians as symbols of graft
and Fascism and the rottenness of the
capitalist system has it any real
outside impact.
Peron of Argentina was Heaven’s
gift to Moscow; but in actual fact
Peron and many like him have only
proved over the last century how little
politics can matter in lands surging
with progress against a background of
unlimited natural resources.
The main foreign investment until
recent years in South America came
from the United Kingdom, and
Britain’s was the main external politi-
cal influence in foreign affairs, despite
the Monroe Doctrine. But since World
War II the Americans, lured south-
ward by the need for rubber, oil and
(sther materials for the motor and
aircraft industries, and strategically
placed to assert a domination over
South American air and sea communi-
cations, have gradually knitted every-
thing south of the Rio Grande, except,
perhaps, Mexico, into the United States’
commercial and political pattern.
Y\7TTH no desire to mix themselves
directly in European and Asian
affairs or to become parties to anything
that might involve them in war, except
on a sort of ceremonial basis, the big
and little South American republics
have been glad to leave overall external
policy to the United States.
In general, since 1890, the joining-
together (Canada and European
interests excepted) of the 20 or so
American countries at a level above
local storms and assassinations into a
close-tied union has been going on,
though it is only in the last few years
that the tightening-up has been marked
and has given the United States an all-
out lead in influence over the rest.
In April, 1948, the ninth conference
of American States at Bogota framed
the charter of the Organisation of
American States, which ostensibly was
designed to serve the objectives of the
United Nations regionally, devoting
itself to the peaceful solution of dis-
putes among Western countries and
understanding between each other.
Ostensibly even bandit Governments
like those in Cuba and Dominica are
included, though they have become
nasty thorns in the side of the associa-
tion, Cuba apparently having become
the Russian Formosa in the Caribbean.
Generally speaking, there is a closely
co-ordinated policy concerted by a
council with headquarters in Washing-
ton, where each country keeps a
member with the rank of ambassador,
plus an Inter-American Economic and
Social Council, a Jurists’ Council and
a Cultural Council, and all these have
their offices in Washington. All are
inside the Pan-American Union, which
runs the lot on a policy which might
be summarised as; “When Uncle Sam
turns over we all turn over.”
The United States can, generally
speaking, depend on the complete bloc
of 21 American votes—equal to a
quarter full U.N. voting-strength—
when it wishes to oppose anything put
forward in U.N. by other Western
great Powers.
It used them to great effect during
the Suez crisis. These votes are of
infinite importance to United States
foreign policy, and the spokesmen of
the smallest countries can be of great
service in initiating projects and world
political moves. Moreover, the exist-
ence of the Pan-American union gives
the United States a considerable
advantage in being able to concert the
use of the bloc and its votes in secret
in Washington before Assembly and
Security Committee meetings.
Naturally, there is not unanimity
about the advisability of this policy
among the South American nations
themselves, and the kind of accord that
exists is a constant temptation to the
Communists to use every effort to break
into and wreck the bloc.
To the rest of the Western world the
bloc is an advantage rather than a dis-
advantage, and becomes less dangerous
to European policy with the resurgence
of the political power and military
strength of Western Europe.
ten-days visit of President Eisen-
hower to South America on the
verge of his meetings with other Wes-
tern leaders prior to the visit of
Khrushchev to France, before the
Summit Conference in May, has shown
both the solidity and the rifts in the
support of Western policies in the
greater countries of South America;
but mainly the solidity is with the
countries that matter.
At the same time there is no question
that the polyglot and hybrid nature of
the South American populations and
the lower standards-of-living of the
masses make South America a fertile
field for the cultivation of Communism,
as has been proved already in Cuba.
This is vital to Australia, whose
South American air-communications
will shortly be opened by Qantas via
Tahiti, and which will soon find itself
with new opportunities of travel and
new and entertaining routes through the
great and opulent cities of the Latin
South, which are nearer to us than
San Francisco.
Wedged in between a Communist
South America and a Communist
Africa, with a Communist Indonesia
sitting on its aching head, the Com-
monwealth would be in a parlous
position, since all the oceans would
then be strategically Communist-
controlled oceans, including the South
Atlantic.
It seems that the sooner and the
more thoroughly we establish our own
communications and do our own part
to weld the South Americans into our
own Western world, the safer the
future of Australia as a country of free
men is likely to be.


"AFTER US, THE DELUGE!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
British Deterrents
The British defence potential, as outlined
to the House of Commons by Mr.
Watkinson, Minister for Defence, last
week was food for thought for those who
like to think of Britain as a disarmed
country dependent for its security on the
thinking and engineering genius of the
Americans.
One faculty which has always stood to
the British in lean times has been their
ability to harness their thinking to other
people’s bullock-work, and this knack
obviously hasn’t been lost.
In long perspective, the ultimates of
the victory in the West in World War II
will probably be contained in a picture
of the British steering unsuspecting allies
to follow their policies and plans ; for
almost every conception of strategy, after
the entry of the United States, that paid-
off was born somewhere in Westminster.
And where British military thinking, with
all the experience of centuries behind it,
was ditched the result was not pretty.
In the nuclear age the British policy
has been much as it was in the wars of
Marlborough or in the Napoleonic wars
—the other allies could provide at least
the cream on the defence resources and
as much manpower and imposingly-titled
high-brass as they liked? but the U.K.
provided the hard kernel both of the
thinkings and the solid fighting-potential
outside the purely experimental range.
Thus, British radar is the crucial radar
and there is nothing to match its import-
ance as a feature of defence of the West.
That has been carefully developed by
the British themselves.
Bomb-delivery elements have also been
carefully planned by the British. As
with the Lancaster in the last war, theie
is nothing plain or fancy suited to Euro-
pean conditions that can match the
V-bombers, ready on the spot, and having
none of the faults and encumbrances
involved in the use of a lot of other large
bombing aircraft and unlikely to be
bettered for the purpose for some years
ahead.
American critics have been inclined to
snigger at the V-bombers as old-fashioned
vehicles made for the delivery of free-
dropping bombs, but they were planned
for the future when an aimed bomb
should turn-up. Turn-up it has in the
Skybolt, now in a state of advanced
development which, in conjunction with
the V-bombers, from which it can be
launched, is regarded by the Minister as
a “major contribution to the deterrent.”
The British Army contains a number
of units which are missile-armed with
non-guided weapons, but it is developing
for the future. The period in defence
is still one of reconstruction, but not in
planning ; only in weaponry.
There is no doubt that with British
thinking and control of weapons (very
expensive) produced elsewhere, the U.K.
is now, as Mr. Watkinson said, “capable
of a terrifying retaliation.”
In assessing what that means it is
perhaps judicious to remember the British
habit of understatement.
Labor on the Attack
[From Canberra]
The Labor party has determined to open
the Parliamentary session which com-
menced yesterday (Tuesday) with an all-
out attack on the Government on two
points.
The first of these is the Government’s
decision to “agree” to a swap of aircraft
between T.A.A. and Ansett-A.N.A., and
the second is the Government’s general
economic policy, particularly its latest
move to free imports.
Labor’s long-sustained claim, whether
true or false, that the Government has
been trying to sacrifice T.A.A. for the
benefit of the private airline has been
inevitably strengthened by the aircraft-
swap between the two companies.
Even though it can be argued that this
will ensure greater fleet-parity between
the two airlines and, consequently,
greater stability in the industry, it does
give the Labor party ammunition with
which to hit the Government where it is
vulnerable.
Again, with its decision to free im-
ports, the Government has handed the
Labor party weapons which it will
undoubtedly use vigorously, if indis-
criminately and probably not intelli-
gently.
The Labor party will get support from
the manufacturing industry in its claim
that the new trading arrangements will
lead to unemployment, the closing of
smaller factories and higher costs.
With little legislation on the books
for the session, the Government can look
forward to some pretty hard-hitting from
the Opposition on these two points.
The Government, in the future, will
have to keep a pretty keen eye on the
economic affairs of the country or not
only will the Opposition be attacking it,
but so will some of its most ardent
supporters.
Beer Castle-m-the-air
For a quarter of a century the George
Street entrance to Sydney’s Wynyard
station has been flanked by a series of
bars and bottle-departments bearing the
name Plaza Hotel. In the shadowy blue-
prints of this institution, produced from
time to time over the years when the
question of renewal of liquor-licence
came before the court, hovered a lofty
edifice of from six to 10 or more stories
designed to convert the string of saloons
into a first-class residential hotel. Over
the building itself hovered nothing but
air and sparrows.
During that long period the lease issued
by the N.S.W. Department of Railways
has often seemed about to be cancelled,
just as the liquor-licence has often seemed
about to be withdrawn. Both, however,
have survived the vicissitudes of peace,
war and peace and remain intact. At
least, they did until very recently.
When the licence came up for renewal
in December last year the Licensing
Court gave the lessee until next July to
add 74 bedrooms to the building. Last
week came the announcement that the
lease had been transferred and that the
new lessees planned to build a modern
hotel and shopping-arcades at an outlay
of £4 million. This sounded like good
news, provided proof was forthcoming
that the building was to be an actual
three-dimensional one and not merely
another picturesque blueprint.
But suspicion seems to hang heavily
over Wynyard, and only a few hours
passed before M.L.A.s, both Labor and
Liberal, were asking awkward questions
about the lease. The two pertinent ones
were, first: Why was the transfer of the
lease granted by the Railways Commis-
sioner without the calling of tenders?
(A former Minister for Transport claims
that the lease was already forfeit through
non-compliance.) Second: Is it true that
a man once actively associated with the
company seeking the new lease was pre-
viously refused permission to take-over
the licence of the Newport Hotel on the
grounds that he was not a fit and proper
person to hold a licence because he gave
false evidence at the Liquor Commission?
Premier Heffron promised on Thurs-
day to make inquiries and that the lease
would not be signed until he had a report
from the Railways Commissioner.
The White Flag
The people most affected by the North
Shore bus-strike were residents of .elec-
torates mainly represented by Liberals.
It is noticeable that in these particular
areas bus and transport employees in
general are more arrogant, rude and
regardless of timetables and ordinary
courtesy than in industrialised centres
where there are Labor members, and
anything that brings disturbance to the
Labor vote also brings quick reactions
from the A.L.P. and the local members.
Eventually, after several days, the
Government mildly gave permission for
multiple-hiring of taxis on the North
Shore, which certainly would have
reduced the hardship to nothing if there
had been enough taxis. It is cheaper for
four people to travel from, say, Cremorne
to the G.P.O. in Sydney, by taxi than it
is by bus and ferry.
Private cars were told they might
charge for carrying passengers, but most
owners of cars going to the city, in a
spirit of mateship completely foreign to
Labor and the unions, were already
carrying their full quotas free.
Lorries were told that they might carry
passengers for fares, but the Govern-
ment’s overlord, Mr. Ryan, secretary of
the Bus and Tramway Employees’ Union,
negatived this permission as “contrary to
the accepted principles of Labor,” and
the secretary of the Transport Workers’
Union, Mr. Wifinot? an equally power-
ful overlord, forbade members of the
union to use their trucks to carry pas-
sengers and sternly informed them that
they would be “disciplined” if they
disobeyed him.
Eventually, after 12 days of discom-
fort, the bus-men graciously agreed to


“compromise” as the result of a con-
ference between the Government repre-
sentatives and the Federal conciliator.
The “compromise” consisted of an
abject surrender by the Government, as
the result of which four of the 23
allegedly “overheating” Daimler buses
involved will be permitted to be used
while the Commonwealth conciliator
makes an inspection. The Government
has agreed to accept the Conciliation
Commissioner’s decision. The men hold
themselves free to revive the strike if they
don’t like the decision.
In that case, of course, the Govern-
ment will almost certainly prove once
more that it has ceased to be a Govern-
ment and is merely an agent for anybody
in the union world who cares to shake
a fist at it, and haul up the white flag
once more.
Canteen Capers
[From Canberra]
The small, but powerful, Canberra
section of the Australian Hotels’ Associa-
tion has won a cold-war against the
Army.
For some time A.H.A. members had
been concerned at the fact the members
of the public could drive out to the Army
canteen -at the Royal Military College
and buy liquor and cigarettes at reduced
prices.
Beer is 7d. a bottle cheaper than in the
hotels, wines up to 2s. cheaper, and
spirits 2s. to 3s. cheaper, while all brands
of cigarettes were at least a penny a pack
less.
The A.H.A., led by president Kevin
Kelly, banded together and “fronted” the
Army brass.
Result, R.M.C. Commandant Wilton
issued an instruction that canteen
assistants were to cease, as far as prac-
ticable, from serving civilians.
Next target in A.H.A.’s offensive is
expected to be the canteen in the Govern-
ment Administrative Block.
As personnel from the three defence
services are quartered in this block, the
canteen there also sells goods, including
liquor and tobacco, at lower Army rates.
Service-members in future will
probably have to wear uniforms to work
if they hope to get the benefits of the
canteen.
Overseas Backers
Discussing overseas finance in develop-
ing countries such as Australia, Robert L.
Garner, president of the International
Finance Corporation, told the Interna-
tional Congress of Scientific Management
in Melbourne that generally the trend
was for joint undertakings.
(This has not been the practice in
Australia in recent months.)
The difficulties in joint ventures were
that the experience and traditions of
the two groups may be vastly different
and that the successful offshoot might
press for higher dividends than were
deemed advisable.
Against that there was the growing
realisation of the advantages to a foreign
enterprise of identifying itself with the
community in which it operated, and of
eliminating the nationalistic sentiment
against foreign exploitation.
A satisfactory capital set-up was for
the overseas company to provide the
imported equipment which could be
bought only with foreign exchange and
for the local partners to provide the cost
of construction, working-capital and
bank-credit.
Words Without Music
[From ‘'Collins Street”]
The Melbourne opening of the Interna-
tional Congress of Scientific Management
by Mr. Menzies seemed to me the perfect
platform for a statement by the Prime
Minister of what scientific management,
economy and efficiency the Federal Gov-
ernment proposed in order to put its own
affairs in shape.
For a decade this Government has
been urging saving and other Spartan
virtues for all Australians other than
those on the Canberra payroll; but never
a word has been heard about the Govern-
ment practising what it preaches that was
not quickly shushed, or squashed.
It was a brilliant scene, with the Town
Hall decorated with growing flowers and
shrubs and trees, the accomplished
gentlemen in black ties and high good
humor, a sprinkling of ladies, some in
national costume, a very nearly full house
and a press-table of mature, knowledge-
able reporters.
“On the side of government, there are
two tasks to perform,” Mr. Menzies said.
“The first is to slow-down the massive
upward rnovement of Government expen-
diture, which in the case of the Com-
monwealth has been rising of late at the
rate of something like £IOO million a
year.
“The second is to do all in our power
to avoid further deficit-finance. How to
do these things will be our greatest
Budget task later this year. And let
nobody think it will be easy,” said Mr.
Menzies. “It is difficult because manage-
ment is the most important and the most
difficult element of all.”
Examining this briefest of passing
references, it will be seen that the Prime
Minister promised or undertook nothing,
other than to see if the massive upward
movement of Government expenditure
could be slowed-down (not stopped) and
to see if further deficits could be avoided
in financing the vast upward movement.
When he was suggesting that managers
should absorb additional costs without
passing them on, I rather expected a
few coarse guffaws from those in receipt
of telephone-bills, postal accounts and
freight returns, but I heard none from
the well-bred, reserved gentlemen
listening.
Melbourne “Herald” pointed out that
inflation was here now, and that the P.M.
was giving cool general advice on fire-
prevention when the fire was already
blazing. The P.M.’s promise to “do all
in our power to avoid further deficit-
finance” sounds rather hollow when
related to the Commonwealth Bank
figures showing that for the three years to
1957-58, leading Australian companies,
other than h.-p. companies, put £133
million of their into expansion
compared with only £ll6 million from
new capital-issues.
In the light of these accomplishments,
compared with the Government’s record,
the speech had an impertinent core.
Khrushchev's Farewell
Khrushchev’s visit to the South-east
Asian countries, which at first seemed
a somewhat aimless excursion, revealed
at the end the usual definite, if tortuous,
purposes of Communism.
It enabled him to exhibit himself to
the South Asians in a guise which they
respect —that of a man of force and
arrogance —as the admiring New Guinea
natives used to say of the departed
Germans, regretting the substitution of a
tender-hearted Australian regime for the
tough Teutonic rule: “Him he strong
fella too much.”
In front of admiring Indonesians he
made oblique references to Western
leaders in the guise of “stubborn and
thick-skulled people” whom it was need-
ful to “soften-up” before world peace
was possible.
The essence of his viewpoint is still
not understood by most of those who
listen to his double-talk that “the Soviet
Union evaluates the international situa-
tion as favorable to the preservation
of peace, but peace depended on the
common peoples.”
This, as explained in the doctrines of
Leninism, means that no peace can be
expected from capitalist governments,
but only through world-revolution which
will replace them with Communism.
President Eisenhower in Santiago
(Chile) during the week remarked that
he was “too realistic to expect miracles
from the Summit- conference.”
That statement is a platitude in light
of the fact that Moscow’s participant
provided a test of his sincerity in
Djakarta in his statements that Russia’s
policy was that “all armaments and
military bases should be liquidated....
We have always fought against military
bases on foreign soil.”
All Khrushchev has done during his
visit to Indonesia has been to encourage
the idea that arms should be used to
conquer West New Guinea, whether
West New Guinea wants to be conquered
or not. And he has encouraged the
idea in full knowledge that an attempt
at conquest such as was envisaged by
General Nasution might lead to world
war.
Khrushchev’s departure from Indo-
nesia has been followed by two curious
events —Soekarno has dissolved the
Indonesian Parliament, which may or
may not be an attempt to get control
of the Budget on which he does not see
eye-to-eye with the Assembly. Secondly,
Peking official newspapers have set out to
show that Mao is at odds with Khrush-
chev, who is accused of poaching on
Chinese territory and running counter
to Chinese ideas on world peace.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"Derhaps the new Governor-General’s
surprised expression on arriving
at the Federal capital (B. 17/2/’6O)
was caused by the signs of civilisa-
tion which met his gaze. A Sydney
girl has received a letter from her
English pen-friend enclosing a cutting
from an English newspaper which pity-
ingly extols Princess Alexandra for her
heroism in paying a visit to “that little
collection of huts called Canberra where
she was in constant danger of being
bitten by snakes and scorpions.”—
“Hattie Hop.”
❖ #
“M’Lou”: The Victorian Railways
last year decided that the traffic there
didn’t warrant the cost of upkeep, and
removed the conveniences from 63 small
country stations. Now the Grain
Elevators Board is building conveniences
at 63 country railway-stations.
■> >
“Mugga Way”: Some mourners in
Rockhampton (Q.) may find their grief
lessened by the knowledge that they
will travel in the funeral-procession in
cars of distinction Rockhampton
undertaker bought at a Sydney auction
a limousine (£1200) and a landaulette
(£800) which had been used by the
Queen during her 1954 visit. As well
as being used for the Queen’s tour, the
cars were used for the Duke of
Edinburgh’s visit in 1956 and by
the Queen Mother in 1958. The
limousine was used during Princess
Alexandra’s tour, and the landaulette
by the Archbishop of Canterbury and
U.S. Vice-President Nixon. Both cars
were bought by the Chifley Government
in 1948 for the Royal visit scheduled
for 1949, which was cancelled when
George VI died.
* * *
“Maitri”: In Welsh villages it’s
customary to attach people’s occupa-
tions to their names, so that you’re likely
to meet Mr. Jones the Meat, Mr. Davies
the Bread and Miss Evans the Milk. In
Germany there was no difficulty in
determining the precise social standing
of the ladies you met because their
husbands’ businesses were invariably
tacked onto their names: Frau Colonel
von Überalles, Frau Pastor Heimwald or
Frau Sanitary-inspector Schmidt. If
something of the kind could be insti-
tuted in this country, it would save a
lot of sotto voce inquiries and we’d know
exactly where we stood with Mrs. Sheep-
station Brown, Mrs. Civil-servant Smith
and Mrs. Hire-purchase Robinson.
A Jr J.
V V V
“Jock”: A Lithgow (N.S.W.) woman,
who hails from Scotland, telephoned an
alarm and not one, but two, fire-brigades
responded. “Which room?” asked one
of the fire-captains. “That one,” the
woman replied. “But there’s no smoke
here—where’s the fire?” “Not smoke
—snake, mon, snake!” The firefighters
emptied-out the room and found a hole
in a wall leading under the house. Two
volunteers went under with torches and
saw a dog bailing-up a snake. The snake
was killed with a rake. But the woman
got her money’s worth ; she said she
rang the police, who didn't turn-up, and
then, in desperation, called the brigade.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cece”: High-school recruit explains
that in primary school if you grin when
you get the cuts you get an extra one
for impudence; in secondary school
you are commended for the grin—it’s a
sign you can take punishment like a man.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: There was neither incen-
tive-payment nor marginal rating for a
weekend job in Perth when burglars
broke into the office of a city firm, spent
time and energy removing the back of
a safe and found nothing but a few
files of business papers. Even then they
did not find out that the safe hadn’t been
locked.
v
“Drypan”: Latest blow to fluoridation
in Queensland was struck by the electors
of Chinchilla who voted in a referendum
by 937 votes to 341 to reject the scheme.
Following their defeat Queensland health
authorities are planning to introduce
fluoridation secretly into the water of
three towns. The councils in these towns
have approved fluoridation, but the
names of the towns will not be disclosed
until several months after fluoridation.
The referendum in Chinchilla (S.Q.) was
hard-fought by top officials of the State
Health Department, the Australian
Dental Association and the Anti-
Fluoridation Association.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kelanoa”: “And as the cock crew”
—there, in full moonlight, stood Stanley,
the village plonkey, mindful only of his
pressing 3 a.m. need. From an irate pub-
lican an irate reply: “No grog till ten,
and get to hell out of here, anyway.”
Stanley (softly): “I don’t know what
the world’s coming to. A man walks
down in the cool of the evening for a
drink and the place is closed! ”
DOLLAR DRUGS
“An overall charge of ss. was instituted last
week on drugs prescribed by doctors, and also
applied to ‘life-saving’ drugs which were
previously free.”
In days of old, or not so old,
It cost a lot to cure a cold,
But sickness is in large supply
And fees reduced accordingly
And illnesses both small and large
Will bear five-shillings cover-charge.
And yet the boom is hardly over ;
The dollar charge will also cover
Life-saving drugs which used to be
Made available for free,
And round the town the rumor flies :
“The Cost of Living s on the rise !”
The Government combines to cheer:
“Be sick, it’s cheap ! We hold life dear !”
The Opposition parties weep:
“Sickness encouraged, life held cheap !”
Which is correct ? I cannot tell,
But merely hope this finds you well.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


It seemed like the usual summer-
holiday idyll when the fetch-
ingly-suited blonde, and the sleekly-
trunked boy-friend climbed out of the
sports-model and toted picnic-gear and
vocalising transistor down the beach.
But though he settled himself supine,
with shut-eyed, smiling contentment,
transistor on chest, she sat bolt upright,
scowling and chewing hair-ends. Finally
she flung a murderous glance at the
prone body and her sun - hat on the
sand, and, as he remained unmoving,
apparently unmoved, she stamped off
alone to test her two-piece’s staying-
power in the surf. Nor did he stir when
much later she emerged sans scowl,
accompanied by a terribly hirsute and
attentive other, with whom she shortly
vanished in the direction of the next
and much more secluded shore. Then
he acted. He opened one eye and
agitated one finger—to tune the radio in
to another station, that from which the
Shield-match broadcast was to continue
describing Victoria’s victorious progress.
Prospects of his being selected, even as
an opener, for the ensuing day’s play,
looked fearfully dim. —“Narumee.”
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Shibli Bagarag”: A few years before
he died Will Lawson wrote his auto-
biography. It was never published. The
MS. which he sent to a friend in New
Zealand has now been presented to the
Turnbull Library, and it should provide
material for some future biographer,
for Will’s life had as many ups and
downs as any poet might cram into 80
years. He was as unpredictable with
this MS. as he was with most things.
First he decided to call it Baa Baa, Black
Sheep, but later rewrote it and gave it
the title of The Golden Horseman, after
one of his poems. Then he was con-
cerned as to whether he had revealed
too much. The MS. passed from his
friend in N.Z. to himself three or four
times for revisions and was unpublished
at the time of his death.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: I’ve heard some strange
efforts at pronouncing Soviet Premier
Khrushchev’s name, but a dame I over-
heard surely reached to divine heights
with “Mr. Crucifix.”
♦♦♦ *X* ❖
“M.S.N.”: Westland, N.Z., is celebrat-
ing its centenary, and anecdotes of old
times are being revived. In Hokitika, a
solicitor named Sellars, with the magis-
trate and half-a-dozen others, was caught
by the police in a pub after-hours. The
cops charged all except the magistrate.
Sellars appeared in court to put up a
plea for “his client” (himself). “My
client,” said Sellars solemnly, “was un-
aware of the passage of time. My client
is suitably penitent. He has not offended
in the past, and it is unlikely that he will
offend in the future,” etc. The magis-
trate, in convicting «nd fining his cobber,
said gravely that he had been impressed
with the plea that Sellars had made for
“his client.” “I am pleased indeed,” he
said, “that your client is suitably peni-
tent. But would you kindly give your
client this advice: in future he should
keep better company.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
‘Jane Williams”: H. A. Lindsay’s
article on Guy Boothby (B. 24/2/’6O)
revived some pretty stinging memories.
Forbidden to read “trashy novels,” it
“Go and learn the rules!”
was thanks to Boothby and “Ouida,”
obtained from goodness knows where,
that I ate a lot of well-salted meals off
the mantelpiece. It was worth it, to
read about the “Beautiful White Devil”
and her shenanigans amongst the idle-
rich on their sumptuous yachts. I
cannot remember if he was the author
of my favorite novel whose heroine
allowed the millionaire’s will to be
tattooed on her back after the yacht was
wrecked —my mamma grabbed the book
before I could finish it —but I spent many
a sleepless night wondering if the heir
did right by the little girl.
*X* *X* *>
“Ardoyne”: So far as I could see, only
superficial damage was done when the
two cars collided at walking-pace, but
the young chap in the sports-model
was on to the footpath like a shot. Be-
fore the other driver had emerged to
argue he had levelled his camera and
taken a snapshot of the scene. An ultra-
keen photographer, or an ultra-cautious
motorist? I couldn’t say which ; but
there’s no doubt that a photograph of
the cars and their occupants immediately
after impact would be a handy and irre-
futable piece of evidence if it came to a
claim for damages.
♦j* »j* *fr
“Hup 2-3-4”: That the years since
demobilisation have not dampened the
enthusiasm of the war-time W.A.A.F.
has been proved by the response to the
full-scale reunion being planned for
March 19 in Melbourne. The official
birthday is the 15th, but the 19th is a
Saturday and the end of Moomba. The
organisers had booked the Lower Town
Hall, hoping to get 800 starters to fill it.
Already there are over 1200 who say
they are coming, from all States. There
was some frantic scurrying to find bigger
accommodation, and the reunion will now
be held in the 6th Field Ambulance
Drill Hall at the corner of William and
A’Beckett Streets
“Judee”: At New Lambton (N.S.W.)
a woman, in between hosing the walls of
her home, doled out iced-beer to hot and
thirsty firefighters in the blazing scrub.
A drive-in cinema employee, seeing a
fire-engine go past, dashed after it with
gifts of fruit-juice in cardboard con-
tainers straight off the ice. There should
be more of it.
+s♦
“Ailsey”: A Newcastle (N.S.W.) news-
agent received a book-list from a London
publishing-firm, addressed to the man
from whom he bought the business 19
years ago.
+> ❖
“G.C.X.S.”: During Sydney’s bus-
strike, after visiting a North Shore friend,
I hailed a taxi. “Going as far as King’s
Cross?” I asked. “Take you to Heaven
if I had the petrol,” the driver said,
knocking down the flag and accelerat-
ing ; then, “Funny how many people
ask that question.” “Probably a habit
picked-up in city zones,” I murmured.
By this time we were at Crow’s Nest.
I said, “Bit of a nuisance, this bus-
strike.” “Nuisance? ’Course it’s not.”
I said, “It’s all right for you blokes.”
He changed gear: “Nothing wrong with
it. You get there faster and more
comfortably.” We zoomed down to the
Bridge. On the city side a car swerved
out from Macquarie Street and shot


in front. “Well,” said the driver, “who’s
in the right if I’d smacked into him?”
“He is, of course,” I said. “Why?” asked
the driver. “Well, he had right of way. ,
At any rate, that’s your territory. I’m
not an expert on traffic rules.” “Damned
if I know,” he said ; then, as we were
sliding around the broad waterfront
thoroughfare, an expensive overtaking
sedan lined us up. “I’ll chicken him,”
said the driver, swerving the cab so it
missed the oncomer by a fraction. “What
would happen,” I said, “if you broad-
sided him? The driver gave a short
laugh. Well, mate, Id be curled
around the steering-wheel and you’d be
lying over there on No. 3 Wharf.” At
least, I thougnt, when he jammed the
brakes on hard as I said Right here,
the man knew something about traffic
effect if not cause.
“Zake”: Like “G.T.’s” junior teacher
(B. 2/3/’6O) there must have been many
a swaddie who found that on enlistment
his screw had taken a jump. From a
“If it's a self-portrait , the nose is too big; if it's the Snowy
Mountains Scheme , you haven't suffered enough."
£6O p.a. junior-clerkship in the N.S.W.
Railways I went into the Ist A.1.F., so
that from 23-bob a week I shot up to
the princely stipend of 425. (six-bob a
day for seven days a week, including a
deener deferred). Patriotically the depart-
ment was making-up the diff. in pay, so
that for the first 18 months or so they
didn’t have to dip in to the old oak-chest,
for it took that long for the automatic
increases in salary to overtake my
military pay. I returned three-and-a-half
years later to collect some £4O which
had piled-up to my credit. How they
must have wished I’d finished-up a
colonel!
>+< . + * 4
“Bo”: The electricity authority which
supplies my outer-suburban Sydney
residence with juice has at last acknow-
ledged defeat, after a prolonged and
costly campaign, by dumping on the
footpath a brand-new pole; compared
with the attenuated wreck it is to replace
it looks startlingly obese. When the
original was planted outside my gate
jt, too, looked robust, but it wasn’t long
before the ceaseless champing of termitic
jaws challenged officialdom. After many
a surgical probe they decided that bored
holes filled with poison was the shot;
but apparently They couldn’t bore as fast
as the inhabitants. Then they co-opted
the ftammenwerfen; the white ants,
seemingly salamandrous, went on munch-
ing. But loungers
were discouraged
from leaning against
the charcoal-coated
rind. With broad-
axes they whittled
away until its waist
was as tenuous as
Sabrina’s. Whittling,
burning and shaving
over the years so
debilitated it that,
mowing the grass
around it, I invari-
ably refrained from
sneezing. I fully
anticipate that the
blind, intelligent
creatures that are
still dining sumptu-
ously off the doomed
pole will transfer at
the right time their
allegiance to the new
meal-ticket.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”: Cock-
roaches have been
causing quite a bit
of excitement in
Sydney’s Harborside
suburbs. You are
sitting back enter-
taining someone im-
portant and out they
come, waving their
whiskers. Around
our way, thumps and
bangs and piercing
screams mean merely
that a housewife is
going for cocky with
a broom. Our favorite uncle has a
wonderful time when he visits us, taking
off his shoes and stalking the nimble
scatterfoot with shoe at the ready. He
even leans out the window and smacks
them on the path outside. They fear
no man or woman ; I’ve been burning
midnight-oil a lot lately and the little
dears come out and frisk round about
11 p.m. One walked up my leg, and
the foundations of houses for miles
around were weakened. When attacked,
they always run at you and not away
from you. This is disconcerting. But
one found it fatal, sitting in the middle
of the kitchen floor, daring me to do
something about it. I threw the
dictionary at him and missed, but a mild
swipe with a boot ended his skitterings.
*i* *x* ***
“N.S.”: Making sure that the peaches
would not be damaged, our fruiterer
appended an embargo to customers at
largo: “Please do not Handel.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wythburn”: As matron of a Mel-
bourne hostel for probationary trainees
for the nursing-profession I applied to
the P.M.G.’s Department for a trunk-
line telephone to alleviate the home-
sickness of young probationary trainees,
mostly from the country. Last week
the job was done. I went down to have
a word with the technician, rather a
fresh young bloke, who inquired, “How
many p.t.s have you here?” With
matronly nose somewhat in the air I
replied, “Forty-five at present.” “My
God,” said he, “where are they all?”
I was certainly off the beam—p.t.s in
P.M.G. language being public tele-
phones !
■*£♦
“Sister Ellell”: The season of abstin-
ence approaching, some youngsters asked
the bachelor friend of their father, “What
will you give up for Lent?” He thought
for a while, then: “Fairy-floss and going
to the Zoo!”
*** ♦♦♦ ♦♦+
“Narumee”: Ruddy tans had paled
first at the Saturday intelligence that
Toorak (Vic.) was exclusive no longer
—the Common Wasp had taken-up its
abode there ; worse, it had the effrontery
to erect its non-U paper humpies in the
very ventilators of the elect; worse still,
imperious dialling by Toorakian fingers
of the number given by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries produced no
team of destroyers, or even a reply. On
the Sunday there were no suburban trains
running; that meant that Dad was
forced to forsake rod- or club-flailing
for family-fetching and often for carry-
ing as well —how otherwise could they
get to Aunties or Nannies? Unless, of
course, Dad’s pocket yielded up the price
of the bus-fares that had risen to the
occasion. But the weekend had not only
left its mark on middle-aged mugs ; the
crew-cuts and the combers, the sharp-
dressers and the natty-suited squares all
bore the agonised expression common
to the hunted: Sunday was also St.
Valentine’s Day. The chaste and fair
had crowded-out the card-counters for
weeks previously. Their intentions were
honorable —no missing-out on a year
when misses can become Mrs. by pro-
posing instead of choosing, chasing,
harrying, parrying, pandering, blandish-
ing, hoaxing, coaxing, fluttering, bluster-
ing, acquiescing, digressing, beguiling,
smiling, ranting and relenting: so much
simpler to pin a pink-paper heart on
one’s sleeve!


ra studio not far from Martin
Place, Sydney, where girls made
lampshades while the matron painted
seascapes, landscapes and architectural
designs thereon, a wealthy patron in
costly garments called to arrange the
purchase of lampshades and obtain
advice on the lighting of his new home.
“Like to see me pop it on her to be my secretary ?”
He politely hung his hat and walking-
stick on the hallstand ; then began to
examine lampshades, chatting merrily to
the proprietor on their round of the
exhibits. Then, in spite of belated
moves by the girls to stop him, the
wealthy customer seated himself on a
painter’s palette moist with the day’s
colors. Looks of dismay on all faces
were dismissed by the prompt action of
the matron, who hustled the elegant
visit&r into a large cupboard while he
removed his pants. He threw these over
to her, and the paint was expertly re-
moved by thinner?, of which she luckily
had quarts on the premises.-“Pelham.’’
+:♦ ♦> ♦;*
“Smithy”: The road-roller moved
sedately through the traffic like a
dowager at a boozer's picnic the driver
wearing a fractured cigarette, highly-
greased overalls, and what made me turn
o took twice at him—peacock-blue
Uw-de-snoes.
* * *
“Tom Trout”: Wingeing about Con-
tinental motorists’ tooting furnishes a
large part of the conversation of returned
Anglo-Saxons; but customs vary. Cities
in France and Italy mostly ban the use
of the horn except in emergency, but
on the open road the motorist is required
to announce his arrival at a bend or
corner, even if the way seems clear.
Spaniards really drive by ear as much as
by sight. Method when overtaking seems
tc be to lean on the horn from half-a-
mile behind. Friends of mine who
politely waited till what they thought a
reasonable distance often had to brake
in a hurry until the bloke in front
decided it was time to move away from
the centre of the road. Absence of the
almost continuous hooting seems to con-
vince them all is clear, and they will
debouch from a side road on anything
from an ass to a T-model Ford without
a glance to right or left. Hard to say
whether they or the unexpecting tourist
gets the bigger shock!
*** * ***
x , „ _ T . • r . IMf
Septulm : Nostalgic reference to 19
wages still paid in gold (B. 17/2/60)
reminds me that Sydney Min half-sovs.
survived sovereigns in circulation by six
months. In 1908 Ng Wan, growing
vegetables on the Yarra a Heidelberg,
'T as a b° ut to junket to China, and he
S° w ? d ™ e h,s P resent for Mam a " d
Dad m Canton—in two canvas bags, 400
pale-gold Sydney Mint half-sovs. Said
Ng: “Very good ; no copper alloy. Only
silver.”
......
R , Gillespic . Re “G. 8." (B.
i7/2/ , 60) on so^ereigns> , broU ght back
' { m time f expired n . c . os . and
me „ from China in 1933 and at Gibraltar
was g j ven a bag of sovereigns to pay
them out. The Welsh infantrymen were
suspicious: “Now come, sir, would you
pay us in farthings, indeed, when we’ver
earned good pound-notes?” I had
trouble in persuading them of the value
of coins they’d never seen before. Yet
when my father was killed on Damak-
jalik Bair (west of Lone Pine) there
were some sovereigns in his money-belt
which he’d carried for Lance-Corporal
Mileham, his soldier-servant. Since 1915
my mother and I have tried hard to trace
Corporal Mileham to give him back his
money (now worth treble its original
value), but never found him. If he
should read this, let him know that the
money is waiting.
* ❖
“Medic”: Some time back in the
operating-theatre the catgut slipped from
the eye of the needle. 1 'proceeded to
rethread it myself without troubling the
patiently waiting instrument-sister. After
witnessing with faint professional scorn
my ultimate success she remarked to the
theatre at large: “A woman always
threads the thread into the needle. A
man always threads the needle onto the
thread.” Since then I've watched, when-
ever possible, and so far she's right.
“Aronui”: In an interview on a
Sydney TV-channel he said he had met
Marilyn Monroe in New York. Asked
what sort of person she was, he re-
vealed that although he had often
swapped a word with her he couldn’t
claim to have known her very well. “I
often wish,” he added carefully, “that I’d
had the chance to become more intimate
with her.” A hoot of laughter, quickly
suppressed, came from behind the
cameras, but the interviewer swallowed
hard and, no doubt drawing on his
last ounce of professional self-control,
asked the next question.
THE PROPHYLACTIC
PROFESSION
“Bookmakers are regarded as being among
the best risks of life-assurance companies.”
Filling their lungs with good clean air
That’s tainted only by the bods
Who curse fully are made aware
Of shatteringly trifling odds.
With brazen throat
Fielders devote
Their lives not only to getting wealthier,
But, by to us
Mysterious
Ways, to achieve ’em vastly healthier.
The exercise they get, you’d say,
Is strictly limited to the jaw,
Either roaring the odds they’ll lay,
Or when at sumptuous scran they gnaw.
Yet it’s enough.
For, boy, they’re tough !
Blood-pressure ? Nix! They have no
worry
To cause unease
And then disease.
They all dish-out, not cop, the curry!
Deadly bacteria must have swarmed
On notes with which their bags are
stuffed;
However, you’d be misinformed
If you were told some bookie’d snuffed
Because of this.
Though he might kiss
Tenners in ecstasy, and then have eaten,
He’d own this boon :
He is immune
Even a wog knows when it’s beaten !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


POLITICAL POINTS
As this page went to the printer the
Federal Labor caucus was meeting in
Parliament House, Canberra, to choose
a new leader and deputy-leader.
• •
N.S.W. Premier Heffron must be
beginning to wonder how Joe Cahill
managed to make the job look so easy.
In his short tenure of office he has had
caucus trouble from the word “Go.”
Just a few of the problems, nearly all
still unsolved: late-shopping ; the hold-
ing of both legal portfolios by an Upper
House Minister ; abolition of the Legis-
lative Council ; the sacking of rebel
M.L.C.s ; the bus-strike ; increased train-
fares ; the Plaza Hotel lease. There’s
never a dull moment. His trip to Hobart
for the education-conference must have
been a welcome break.
• •
The world’s two top-ranking tourists
are running neck-and-neck. Khrush.
arrived home from his trip to Indonesia
on Saturday and Ike got back from
South America on Sunday.
• •
In a last throw to save face, the Trades
Hall disputes committee ordered the
stopping of trains in Melbourne on Mon-
day from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. so that rail-
waymen could stage a demonstration.
They rejected a suggestion by an
arbitration-commissioner to call-off the
go-slow strike and overtime restrictions
because the strike-leaders now realise it
has all been a mistake, and the £6 week-
end overtime that many railwaymen
received now seems to be fading-away
for ever.
• •
Sydney newspaper poster: “Rail
Shock. Some Fares Down.” A shock all
right—in the same category as “man
bites dog.”
• •
When counsel for the Commonwealth
Government appeared to put the Govern-
ment’s evidence in the basic-wage hear-
ing counsel for the employees protested
that to admit the evidence at that stage
would give the employers’ counsel an
unfair advantage. Protest upheld. The
Government’s case will now be presented
after the employers’.
• •
Fidel Castro of Cuba accuses the U.S.
of being party to the explosion in Havana
of a French ship carrying Belgian
ammunition for his Government. The
charge had nothing behind it save the
fact that the U.S. had sought to persuade
the Belgians not to send further arms
to the Caribbean, which surely has
enough already. No doubt Cuba’s apostle
of liberty is running out of bullets to
shoot-down those who don’t share his
opinions. His wild charges can be
written-off to frustration account.
• •
Things are quietening-down in demo-
cratic peace-loving Baghdad—only 17
sentenced to death at the last weekend
in February, plus 51 sentences from six
months to life. The Baghdad court which
imposed the sentences accused Nasser of
using the Federal Arab Republic’s
Embassy in Baghdad as the plotting centre
for achieving his dream of “an empire
from the Atlantic to the Persian Gulf.”
Nasser did not reply. He was too busy
accusing the Israelis of plotting to destroy
the Arab bloc.
• •
At 37, John Jess, Liberal candidate for
Latrobe, looks very like his father, the
late Sir Carl Jess, it the same age. The
former Adjutant-General, who died in
1948, was a professional soldier, but John
went into real-estate when he left the
Army after the war.
Latrobe is very much a young people’s
electorate. The other parties have chosen
young men to represent them ; and, aside
from his other qualifications, including
some hard work as a backroom boy for
the party, this may have been the decisive
factor in gaining him the pre-selection
from a most representative card of names
which included some heavyweights.
• •
At the rate hearing of applications for
country commercial TV-licences is going
the successful applicants will be due for
retirement by the time they get their per-
mits. But think of the backlog of Wes-
terns piling-up for them in the meantime!
• / •
[From Canberra]
More than one Government back-bencher
was annoyed over the decision to have a
glittering evening reception to follow the open-
ing of the new Parliamentary session.
Members from both sides of the House were
almost unanimous that the session should be
opened with full ceremony by the new
Governor-General, Viscount Dunrossil, but
many wondered whether the lavish Tuesday-
night show was justified.
Treasurer Holt, who is also Minister-in-
charge of the House, more than 12 months ago
decided that each official opening should be
followed at night by a reception “with
facilities for dancing.” These “facilities”
include the provision of a full dance-orchestra
and the clearing of King’s Hall to allow plenty
of dancing-space.
Holt maintains that the entertainment is not
a ball, yet for anyone attending it, it is the
best ball of the year.
The main complaint of critics is that at
present, with the P.M. expressing concern at
rising costs and urging everyone to exercise
economy, the Government should spend £lOOO
to entertain members and their wives (together
with other invited guests) at what is, after all,
a social event.
"MARY HAD A LITTLE BEEF..."


In a speech that was just as much a
part of his personal/campaign for the
Labor Leadership as the opening-shot in
the Latrobe by-election, Arthur Calwell
said that Latrobe would be fought on
the issue of inflation and that if Labor
won it, “Australia would see a sweeping
Labor victory at the 1961 general
elections.”
There’s a few tons of wishful thinking
in that prophecy. . The first hurdle is the
by-election itself, but even if Labor
candidate Don Pritchard manages to win
the seat—which at this stage seems
extremely unlikely—that’s no guide to the
general elections. In 1952 Labor won a
by-election in Flinders, for 20 years a
Liberal seat. Yet at the general elections
18 months later the Government was
returned with a large majority and
recaptured Flinders.
0 0
Calwell’s prediction of a Labor victory
was followed by the remark that “inter-
national financial interests would not find
this country so easy to exploit then.”
He probably intended this as an earnest
of his sturdy Australianism, but its most
likely effect would be to discourage
overseas interests from investing in Aus-
tralia although this country, like all other
growing countries, needs finance from
abroad if it is to keep up its rate of
development. Even as election-bait a
statement like that is a blunder ; it insults
the intelligence of the people whose votes
he is seeking.
0 0
Sydney is in the throes of Identifica-
tion Week, a project sponsored by
Rotary with the object of drawing atten-
tion to the need to improve and increase
street-name signs and numbers on build-
ings, and to press for more and better
direction-signs throughout the metro-
politan area. The City Council, P.M.G.,
Police Department, Water Board,
electricity- and gas-supply authorities,
radio, TV and motion-picture houses,
fire-brigade and ambulance services,
retail-traders and business houses are
co-operating willingly in the publicity
campaign, as they realise that everyone
stands to gain from making the city an
easier place to find one’s way around in.
As far as private homes are concerned
the sponsors are plugging the theme:
“Names are nice, but numbers are
necessary.”
0 0
Playford’s thirst for Murray water is
never sated. His latest proposal is a £9-
million dam below the junction of the
Murray and Darling to impound some-
thing like three million acre-feet of water
in an artificial lake about 50 miles long.
So far it’s only an idea, and the S.A.
Premier will have to convince Victoria
and New South Wales, as well as Can-
berra, of the merits of the plan before
anything can be done about it. But where
Murray water is concerned Tom can be
Very persistent.
0 0
Arrival of Rupert Murdoch, the late
Sir Keith Murdoch’s son, in the
Sydney newspaper-field, via the suburban
network of Cumberland Newspapers,
has caused speculation on the possi-
bility that he may soon offer Sydney
what it has long lacked —an evening
newspaper . of the standard of the
Melbourne “Herald.” The present
evenings, now closely associated, are
mainly advertising-sheets, with sensa-
tionalism as icing. One good newspaper
might knock ’em both into cocked paper-
hats.
0 0
Detective-sergeant A. W. James has
been selected as Labor candidate for the
Hunter seat, kept warm by his father for
30 years and by Dr. Evatt for 14 months.
The new candidate has been a member of
the A.L.P. for 10 years. Explaining why
he came to take an active part in politics,
although the Police Regulations Act
forbade such activities by members of
the force, he said that sincerity had
demanded that he should join the A.L.P.
His action in defying the regulations has
apparently never been challenged either
by N. S. Wales police-force or the N. S.
Wales Government. It would have been
interesting to see how things would have
worked-out if sincerity had demanded
that he join the Liberal or Country party.
0 0
Agadir, unenviably in the spotlight as
the scene of a disastrous earthquake, last
held the headlines half-a-century ago
when, in April, 1911, Kaiser Wilhelm II
sent the gunboat Panther there as a
gesture of protest against French expan-
sion in Morocco. For a while the
“Agadir incident” looked like sparking-
off a war, but the British Government
intimated that if France were attacked
for her action in Morocco she would
have the support of the United Kingdom.
Germany then withdrew the Panther (and
the cruiser Berlin, which had joined it),
and the war was postponed for three
years.
0 0
Postal-voting facilities are to be pro-
vided in Federal polls for members of
religious orders who object to voting at
booths during the greater part of polling-
hours on Saturdays. These include
members of the Hebrew faith and
Seventh Day Adventists. On a lower
level, the hoteliers of N. S. Wales are
seeking repeal of the law which compels
pubs to close on polling-days.
0 0
Don Pritchard, Labor’s young civil-
engineer candidate, aimed his opening
shots in the Latrobe campaign at the
numerous young-marrieds of the elec-
torate. He reminded them that, although
they could buy motor-cars bn credit, they
had to live in unmade streets, and that
many of them had no sewerage though
they could get TV on hire-purchase. It
doesn’t add-up, but it was good surface
electioneering for the politically unsophis-
ticated —probably more useful than
Calwell's harping on “international
financial interests” and similar bogies
which are only a bore in the outer
suburbs.
• •
“C.S.”: The P.M. still tells a good
anecdote. His latest, at a public meeting
in Melbourne, was about being held-up by
traffic-lights outside a pub where at one
door were four shirt-sleeved fellows
drinking schooners, and, at the other
door, another fellow also with a drink.
One of the quartet sighted him and called,
raising his glass, “Good on you, Bob,”
and the four drank to him. Menzies
was obviously a little touched by this,
but he had to get over it quickly because
the next fellow called, “You bloody big
mug.” “On the whole, though, it was
cheerful,” remarked the Prime Minister.
“It showed 1 still had a majority.”
• •
When a Socialist member in the Indian
Parliament moved that India should quit
the Commonwealth the principal reply
was made by Mrs. Lakshmi Menon,
Deputy Minister for External Affairs.
In the course of a long speech Mrs.
Menon said the critics didn’t seem to
realise the true nature of the Common-
wealth link. The reason why former
colonial countries preferred to remain in
the Commonwealth was that they felt
that in it they had “a political system
in which participating members need not
surrender their freedom or their loyalties
for something imposed on them by other
countries.”
The motion was overwhelmingly
defeated.
0 , 0
Chiang Kai-shek, after apologising for
having failed to retake the Chinese main-
land, decided to stand again for the
presidency of Nationalist China on a
programme assuring “military prepara-
tions for the counter-offensive against
the Reds and on a more solid and exten-
sive basis than ever.” He made an
“appeal to safeguard Chinese ethics and
morality.” But he is finding opposition,
which includes the author of the present
Chinese (Nationalist) Constitution.
0 0
Mr. Justice Kirby, Commonwealth
Arbitration Commissioner, said last month
that although the commission asked for
the metal-trades margins-increase to be
limited, the Australian community
apparently wanted the increase to be
general, no matter how critical it was
of the original judgment. He “thought
this should be a factor any commission
or full bench of the commission would
have to take into account when handling
subsequent margins-cases.” Exactly, but
it is difficult to understand why the com-
mission didn’t know what would happen
in a country in which “Ask and it shall
be given” has become the national slogan.
0 0
Construction of Vacuum Oil’s new
refinery at Hallett’s Cove, near Adelaide,
is expected to begin towards the end
of the year, and the plant is to be com-
pleted by the middle of 1962.


Personal
ITEMS
At present head of the Australian
Diplomatic Mission in Bangkok, J. Keith
Miller has been appointed Australian
Ambassador to Russia and will take
charge of the reopened Moscow Embassy
in July. He proved himself a born
diplomat early in his career with the
External Affairs Department when
appointed private-secretary to W. M.
Hughes, who had just quarrelled with and
dismissed three private-secretaries within
a week. Miller lasted three years.
• •
Elected president of the N.S.W. branch
of the Royal Commonwealth Society,
Lieut.-Colonel George Colvin has been
deputy-chairman for the last three years.
In the electrical industry since 1926, he’s
now Kelvinator’s N.S.W. manager and
vice-chairman of the Radio and Elec-
trical Development Association. With
the 2nd A.I.F. in North Africa, Syria and
the South-west Pacific, commanding the
2/13th Battalion from 1942 to 1945 and
winning the D.S.O. and Bar, he formed
a new battalion from the 9th Division
to take part in the occupation of Japan
and remained in command till ’47.
• •
Archbishop Woods, of Melbourne, has
chosen as his Bishop Coadjutor one of
the most cheerful priests in the nation,
Donald Llewellyn Redding, and person-
ally collated him at St. Paul’s last week.
Bishop Redding came to Australia
at 16, migrating with his father
from England in 1914 and reaching
Gibraltar the day War I was declared.
He became a farmer’s boy until he was
ol,d enough to enlist, and then
joined the Australian Light Horse as a
trooper and served in Egypt and
Palestine.
He was first a curate at Mt. Gambier
in 1922, and most of his service has been
in South Australia. He served as chaplain
in many campaigns (but chiefly Syria,
New Guinea and Borneo) in the Second
World War, and then returned to Mt.
Gambier.
He was ordained Bishop of Bunbury
(W.A.) in 1951, and since 1957 has been
vicar of St. Mary’s, Camberwell. He is
62, single, rotund and happy, and looks
it; and he must make his married
colleagues wonder.
• e
Colin John Asher, of Perth, a 24-year-
old science graduate of the Westralian
University, has been awarded one of the
first three wool-research fellowships
established in Australia. The fellowships
will provide post-graduate training in
improving the efficiency of wool-produc-
tion and other similar work. Asher will
research on potassium nutrition of
Westralian pastures.
Herewith Australia’s “Mr. Futures,”
a nickname bestowed on Clive Hall by
the Bradford “Wool Record” during his
recent visit to England. It also said
that “in the tradition of his countrymen,
he stood-up to the fast-bowling very
stolidly and, in return, knocked a few
British objections for six.”
Clive M. Hall, born in Cottesloe
(W.A.) in 1913, is a fourth-generation
CLIVE HALL
Australian. A King's School (Parra-
matta) boy, he served 20 years with
John Vicars and Co. as a woolbuyer,
and in War II he joined the R.A.A.F.
and, a member of No. 1 Course in the
Empire Scheme, was shot-down over
Europe in 1941 and spent the rest of
the war “in the bag” in Germany. Re-
suming work with Vicars after return to
Australia, he became associate-director.
In 1952 he set-up on his own. His
“futures” company is an associate-mem-
ber of the London Wool Terminal
Market Association and also a class-B
member of the Wool Association of the
New York Cotton Exchange. Hall, is
chairman of the Sydney Greasy Wool
Futures Exchange, which starts opera-
tions on May 11.
• •
Sidney E. Spies, of Doon Doon, Tweed
River (N.S.W.), president of the N.S.W.
Vegetable Growers’ Association, has
taken on the additional job of chairman
of the N.S.W. Banana Growers’ Federa-
tion. Taking an active part in local-
government and growers’ affairs for the
past 25 years, he has lately attended
annual conferences in other States and
made presidential visits to widely
separated association-branches in his
own. He advocates virile sales-promo-
tion planning as the best antidote to
gluts and other seasonal set-backs.
• •
“F.J.G.”: It was a surprise to hear
that Len Carleton, of Bowen (Q.), has
given-up show-work. Well known to
cattlemen as a sound practical judge of
stock, he built the cattle-section at
Bowen Show to a very high standard.
Hard-working and straightforward, never
afraid to speak his mind, he used to be
out on the grounds on Show-days from
early morning till late at night. Show-
presidents with his force of enthusiasm
are hard to replace.
• •
“Splasher'’: In the midst of the cheers
as swimmers smashed world records at
the Australian championships in Sydney,
Australian Swimming Union president
John Morison didn’t forget a man whose
foresight started Australia on the way
back to world eminence in the sport.
When bestowing the winner’s medal on
South Australia’s Dawn Fraser, Morison
said he could not help recalling that Miss
Fraser owed much to the late Professor
Frank Cotton, of Sydney University.
Professor Cotton, a champion himself,
was the man who devised the scientific
training-methods now used by the lead-
ing coaches. It was a good thought and
a well-merited tribute, as the capacity
crowd appreciated.
• •
Naturalist Alec Holmes, who has
occasionally written about snakes and
other objects of beauty for The Bulletin,
is off to the Kimberleys this month with
Phil Spalding and W. Hosmer, field-
associates of the American Museum of
Natural History, to look for reptiles and
amphibia. They will be three months on
the trip, slowly working their way to the
Gulf country. Hosmer is the man who
found the unknown Bindaboo tribe of
aborigines near the W.A. border two
years ago.
• •
“Splodger”: “Saltire” omits some of
Lord Huntingfield’s education (B.
10/2/’6O) when he gives Wellington
College, England, as his school. Vanneck,
as he was then, attended Baxendell’s
Downs school, Toowoomba (Q.), for his
early education. I was there in ’9/.
Vanneck was then a robust boy of about
14. I was an undersized shrimp of 12.
He had a nickname, given him on
account of his no doubt aristocratic
proboscis. About 30 years later I called
in at Daydream Island, Whitsunday
Passage, when the liner had unloaded
some of its passengers for a stroll around.
Huntingfield was among them. We did
some of the do-you-remember stuff. He
wasn’t very tall; I had developed into
a six-footer. We didn’t mention any of
the hidings he had given me at school.
Doubtful about addressing me, he com-
promised on “Sir.” As he was the King’s
representative I gave him a similar
address. He and his aide came to the


beach to see me off. When I had my
launch going he waved both arms and
called: “Good-bye, Froggy, old man.
Good-bye.” Not to • be outdone in
courtesy I waved in reply and shouted
to him: “Good-bye, Ikey, old man.
Good-bye.” We were schoolboys again
with a width of water in between.
• •
Appointed Director of Recruiting,
Captain A. S. Rosenthal, R.A.N., was
until recently Director of Studies, Indus-
trial Mobilisation Course, in the Depart-
ment of Defence. Son of Major-General
Sir Charles Rosenthal, he was educated
at The King's School, Parramatta, and
the R.A.N. College, served for two years
with the Royal Navy and then in various
Australian warships. In War II he
commissioned H.M.A.S. Westralia in
January, 1940, and later won the D.S.O.
and bar in H.M.A.S. Nestor protecting
Malta convoys. After the war he was
deputy-superintendent and captain of
the dockyard at Garden Island, Sydney,
and later served two years as naval
attache at the Australian Legation in
Washington.
• •
During his 25 years as Sheriff of the
Queensland Supreme Court J. S. (Joe)
Emerson spent most of his spare hours
in various executive positions in the
Queensland Amateur Swimming Associa-
tion and as a keen rep. at annual con-
ferences of the Australian Swimming
Union. He accompanied the Australian
teams to the Auckland Empire Games in
1950,'- and soon now he'll be packing
his bags for Rome's Olympics. Much of
the success of the Leander Club, which
today dominates Queensland Swimming
—in the Queensland championships this
year members of the club won 48 first-
place medals! —is due to the coaching
of enthusiastic amateur Joe Emerson and
another Joe—his equally swim-devoted
colleague, newspaperman Joe King.
• •
Delmar R. Lammers, appointed
assistant-managing-director of Caterpillar
of Australia Pty., Ltd., was born in
E. K. SPENCE, South Australian
manager of the A.N.Z. Bank.
Nebraska (U.S.A.) and majored in
mechanical-engineering at Sacramento
College (California). He joined the
Caterpillar organisation in 1937 with the
service-department of one of their U.S.
dealers. After serving in War II he
joined the service-department of Cater-
pillar Tractor Co., and became depart-
mental manager in 1953.
• •
At present Commandant of the R.M.C.,
Duntroon, Major-General J. G. N.
Wilton has been appointed chief of
Seato’s military planners. Born in Sydney
in 1910 and schooled at Grafton
High with Duntroon to follow, he served
before the war with the British Army in
the U.K., India and Burma, and then with
the 2nd A.I.F. in the Middle East and
New Guinea. From 1947 to 1951 he
was Director of Military Operations and
Plans at A.H.Q., subsequently command-
ing the 28th Commonwealth Brigade in
Korea.
• •
“Maitri” : Passed on at 72, the Rt. Rev.
William George Hilliard, M.A., D.D.,
since 1940 rector of historic St. John's
Church at Parramatta and Anglican
Bishop-Coadjutor of Sydney. The
complete Sydneysider—born at Redfern, and
educated at Sydney Boys’ High School, Sydney
Teachers’ College and Sydney University—he
gained renown as scholar, teacher and cleric.
His pupils at Fort Street Boys’ High, where
he taught modern languages, included N.S.W.
Chief Justice H. V. Evatt and Sir Percy
Spender.
Bishop Hilliard’s outstanding quality was
sympathy; he had experienced much personal
sorrow, but was always cheerful. . To the
end he retained another special interest —in
cricket, which his friends called his “other
religion.”
Once, when as part of my job I had arranged
the musical programme for a “Sabbath
Observance” broadcast, it was Bishop Hilliard
who, in contrast to the rantings of other
speakers, logically and concisely put forward
some excellent reasons why the Sabbath should
be observed. Then there was the occasion
when I was asked to chair for a lecture he
was billed to give on Shakspeare, a subject
as dear to his heart as cricket. But the affair
had been badly organised and, as a result,
there was an audience of precisely four people.
It was a Saturday night (the worst evening
in the week for clergy), yet Bishop Hilliard
showed not the slightest sign of annoyance, and
gave the five of us a scholarly exposition of
“A Midsummer Night's Dream” that we
remember to this day. What s more, he
patiently continued to answer our questions Till
close on midnight.
• •
Arthur W. Talbot, chairman and
managing-director of Swift Australian
Company, has been associated with meat-
packing in five countries. Born in
Canada, he started with Swift Canadian
Company in Toronto in 1925, then
worked in Winnipeg and Chicago before
transferring to Swift and Co., Ltd.,
London, in 1934. In 1940 he transferred
to Compania Swift de la Plata in
Buenos Aires and coming to Australia
to Sims Cooper (Freezing Works) Pty.,
Ltd., Melbourne, five years later, joined
the Swift Australian Company at Bris-
bane in 1947. He was appointed
managing-director in 1952.
Four new directors lately appointed
to the co.’s board are: L. W. Farns-
worth, of Sydney (advertising and mar-
C. E. PETERSEN, Queensland’s new
Auditor-General, serves the northern
State also as a member of the University’s
Senate, chairman of trustees for Newstead
House, and ex-officio member of sundry
public and semi-public boards and trusts.
keting), Arthur Bassingthwaighte, of
Brisbane (livestock-buying), W. M. Shaw,
of Brisbane (commercial planning), and
H. H. E. Couper, of Brisbane (managing-
service).
• •
“Joanne'’: Dr. Tom Hamilton, of
Merewether (N.S.W.), leaves for an
overseas tour this month aboard the Port
Pirie, which is named after the South
Australian town where his father-in-law,
Alfred Goninan, settled when he came
from Cornwall in 1899. Goninan had a
foundry in Port Pirie, and went to New-
castle before the 1914-18 war to establish
the engineering firm that still bears his
name.
• •
Into the Silence: —-
In England, at 72, Rear-Admiral Philip
Phillips, former member of the Australian
Naval Board.
In Adelaide. John Desmond Guy, former
advertising-manager of the “Advertiser.”
In Florence (Italy), at 56, James Cook,
artist, lecturer, critic and once Director of
Perth Art Gallery. Born in Christchurch (N.Z.),
he won a scholarship to Europe and worked
in the U.K., Belgium, Italy and Spain. Made
official records of blitzed London, and later
of the New Guinea campaign. A keen
draughtsman and art-historian, he was a valued
teacher at the National Art School, Sydney.
In Sydney, at 73, R. A. (Bob) King, M.L.C.
General-manager of 2KY since 1958, he was
vice-president of the Australian Council of
Trade Unions for 25 years and was a former
president of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council.
In Melbourne, at 67, Brigadier Duke Douglas
Paine, C.8.E., D. 5.0., chairman of the Vic-
torian Trotting Control Board and former
chairman of the Public Service Board of
Victoria. An original Anzac, he served again
in War II and became Deputy Quartermaster-
General, Land H.Q., A.M.F.


ABORIGINALITIES
Many tailer lately caught north and
south of Fremantle have had
blowfish in them, so it looks as if they’ve
developed a taste for the blowies and
a resistance to their poisonous properties.
It’s a potent poison, and I thought every
fish in the ocean knew and feared it.
Fishing from a boat, I’ve actually tossed
blowies into the mouth of a shark and
seen them spat out or, rather, pushed
out again by the tongue. However, I’ve
used parts of blowies for bait —the flesh
on the tail, between the gut and the
tailfin, is harder than most fish-flesh and
is apparently non-poisonous. Anyway
it makes good bait, possibly because in
that form there’s nothing to indicate it
comes from a scaleless fish. I think it’s
the absence of scales on the whole fish
which warns an attacker, and that’s
probably why seagulls also reject blowies.
A young gull which swallows one gets
sick within seconds and vomits inside
a couple of minutes. A few sips of
seawater puts it right, and I’d say that
thereafter it would automatically reject
anything without scales. If blowfish-
poison were less potent or slower-acting
it couldn’t be vomited so easily, and
there’d be a bigger mortality among
immature gulls. But how have tailer
managed to acquire immunity to a poison
which sharks haven’t learnt to handle?
—“Bass.”
$ $ * $
“Ben Backslider”: May I carry on the
Australian history of the ancient game
of iron quoits (B. 17 /2 / ’60)? It was
popular long, long, long ago, before the
fall of the 19th century, in most of
Victoria’s goldfield towns ; certainly so
in the deep quartz-mining areas, where it
was introduced by Cousin Jacks from
Cornwall. Pub yards and adjacent spaces
were the natural choice as sites for the
playing-pitch with its wet red-clay ends.
My head droops in shame when I
remember that as a callow religious
youth in my hometown of Clunes I sup-
ported Wesleyan moves seeking prohibi-
tion of this manly recreation on Sundays.
* * * *
“Snobby”: Before other amusements
wiped it out, the quoits-pitch was a
feature of almost every station and
shearing-shed in W-Q. Players didn’t
use iron quoits; discarded horseshoes
were much easier to get and just as
good ; and quite a few quids have
changed owners after a match. Another
game played on quite a few stations and
in most wayside pubs was bull-and-ring,
which was even easier than quoits. All
you needed was a wall with a hook (or
bent nail) knocked into it at about eye-
level —say, sft. or 6ft. from the floor.
A single hobble-ring would be hanging
by a length of string from ceiling or
rafter about 10ft. to 12ft. back from
the hook. The player stood back at
the full length allowed by the radius
of the string, then swung the ring so
that it hooked over the nail or swung
onto the hook. It was so ridiculously
easy that anyone could do it—until they
tried. The best break I ever saw at the
game was 28, and if it had happened
in a bar instead of a station-hut at
least 28 drinks would have changed
hands.
* * * *
“Botanical Bill”: A female devotee
of pot-plants advised a learner-friend
that when certain ferns and palms
develop “constipation”— i.e., tightness of
sprouting new leaves—a little castor-oil
poured into the crown (I think that was
the part mentioned) would do wonders.
Sound enough advice, apparently ; but
the learner later complained that the
“He just cant stand the cold!"
plants had not responded—if anything,
they seemed to resent the remedy. On
further questioning, however, she
admitted that she had not followed in-
structions exactly: “I had no castor-oil,
but I thought Epsom-salts would do.”
* * * *
“Nosra”: Those who condemn beer
might give a thought to the dangers of
water in clear gallon-jars. Over the past
few years in the Victorian Wimmera
such jars, converted by sunlight into
burning-glasses, have started two fires in
the Douglas district —one checked in the
smouldering stage, the other out of hand
before discovered —and have also started
a smoulder in bags on a truck and in a
moving car.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: A sub-editor changed
“Ourtown” to “Fiji” in my par. on Peter
Alexander and the radio hams (B.
20/1/ '6O). There are three hams in Our-
town ; but approximately 20 keen hams
operating in the Fiji Islands.
* * * *
“R.A.M.”: Death-sentence has been
passed on the oldest railway-line in the
sandy West —the 33-mile stretch between
Geraldton and Northampton. Built with
pick, shovel and crowbar by the Mid-
land Railway Co. (one of the few private
railway-companies still in existence in
Australia), it was opened for traffic just
over 80 years ago —July, 1879—t0 bring
lead from the mines around Northamp-
ton to the port. Later it was extended
north to Ajana, and another line
branched out to Yuna to serve mines
in those parts. Minerals still come from
the ground to the port, but since 1957
they have come by road, for the rail-
services were suspended. The Govern-
ment has decided to introduce legislation
to pull-up the two lines.
**\ * • *
“Wippegong”: No, “8.A.K.” (B.
10/2/’6O), we don’t use mirrors to keep
all birds away in this country. Ever
tried to bring a wild emu within range
of your camera? You can lie on the
ground and wave your legs in the air,
or turn back-flips, or run round in ever-
decreasing circles, or otherwise suggest
to the glum fowl that all is not normal
in his territory, and he may stroll up to
inquire ; but it’s much easier to flash a
mirror on him. The perfect instrument
for the job is the emergency signalling-
mirror once issued to aircrew and others
who ran the risk of changing at short
notice to a rubber dinghy from which,


(HeRB S REAL C/
UJROMG LOITH THAT
OOP So/) (T 's Just THAT
tp ir’s SEOO/V\e A Uimue
CONTEMPcxRARy IN ST/oe
/rsi <TS Pt-P AGS' . "


by following the simple instructions
printed on the back of the mirror, you
could send a flash to plane or ship which
had little chance of spotting you, or
which you couldn’t see yourself (a com-
forting footnote says: “When rescue-
craft are not visible, practise sweeping
cross-shaped spot along the horizon.
Flash may be seen 10 miles”). I brought
mine home to show my boys, and with
them have used it to bring an emu’s
head up with a jerk, even though it was
too far away to notice that a car had
stopped. Pretty tame after the possible
drama associated with its original
purpose ; but I still get a kick out of it.
Anyway, emus are the only chickens that
take any notice of my signals these days.
If! * * *
“Glen”: The relics of the ill-fated
Loch Ard (B. 17/2/’6O) have been pre-
sented to Miss Kathleen Green, of
Melbourne, a descendant of Miss Eva
Carmichael, the 19-year-old girl who
was saved from the wreck by the only
other survivor, Tom Pearce, a young
midshipman. Some months after her
ordeal Eva Carmichael returned to her
grandmother’s home in Ireland and did
not again visit Australia—which is
understandable when one reads in a
lonely cemetery near Princetown, on the
Victorian coastline, a marble headstone
to the memory of her father and mother,
Dr. and Mrs. Evory Carmichael, her
three sisters and two brothers, “all of
whom were lost in the calamitous wreck
of the Loch Ard, Ist June, 1878.”
* * * *
“Narumee”: I’ve always imagined cats
and possums to be naturally allergic to
one another rather as dogs and
monkeys are. But the other evening
moonlight revealed two tails dangling
not a cubit’s length apart from the
lowest branch of our backyard gumtree,
which had hitherto been spit-and-claw-
fully reserved by our cat for her bird-
watching inactivities. Closer inspection
revealed puss and possum humped side-
by-side, apparently wrapped in com-
panionable contemplation. Neither took
the slightest notice of the other, yet both
glared disapprovingly at me until, half-
an-hour later, I left them to fraternise
in peace.
* * * *
“Sanasi”: A rookie policeman in
Queensland admitted carrying his issue
pistol unloaded because he didn’t know
how to load it. Better he had carried
half-a-brick! Another told a court that
the man he had arrested was carrying
an “automatic revolver” —the accom-
panying illustration showed clearly that
the weapon was a Colt type blow-back
automatic pistol. In this par. here and
henceforth for “automatic” read “semi-
automatic (self-loading)” since, unlike
the Lewis-gun, which is fully automatic,
the trigger must be pulled for every shot.
An automatic revolver is not one that
can be fired without first cocking the
spur hammer ; that is merely a “double-
action.” At the best the Webley-Fosbery
automatic revolver, of .455 calibre, six-
shot, was a clumsy contraption, a
veritable hand - cannon. I bought a
secondhand one in a dealer’s on Kearny
Street in San Francisco in 1922. The
barrel and cylinder moved backward by
recoil and forward by retractor-spring,
revolving the cylinder one-sixth of a
revolution and leaving the spur-hammer
cocked for the next shot. Ingenious slots
cut in the cylinder worked by a fixed
stud in the lower frame caused the
revolving. Very scarce these days and
probably no longer manufactured, it was
the only automatic revolver of all time.
* * * *
“B. A. K.”: One of the most expen-
sive houses in an exhibition lately
organised by the Master Builders’
Association at West Pennant Hills
(N.S.W.) featured what is euphemistically
called a “split-level” floor. In other
words, the architect, faced with the
minor problem of a big fall on the land,
solved it by adopting “the modern trend”
and placing three steps in the floor of
the hall. My dad was a bit ahead of his
day when, 40 years ago, he put a couple
of steps in our hall; but he did it for
the very utilitarian purpose of keeping
sufficient headroom beneath the skillion
roof as the house grew with the family.
Nobody called ’em “split levels” in those
days, but the steps were called plenty
of other things by the scores of visitors
who fell down ’em. Trouble with old-
“Yes, I think we can find something for you."
timers was that they couldn’t seem to
understand that a fall flat on the kisser
doesn’t really matter so long as you’re
following modern trends in architecture.
* * * *
“Sunray”: I had to read a book about
whaling to find out that kangaroo-
tendon, described as “rare and expen-
sive,” is used as surgical sutures to repair
hernias. Now, if kangaroo-tendon is so
rare and expensive, has anybody told
the shooters? There must be an awful
lot of tendon going to waste because of
ignorance as to its value.
* * * *
“Siosal”: North Queensland’s Innisfail
(nee Geraldton) used to pride itself on
being the wettest spot in Australia, but
has usually had to take third place since
little Tully and Babinda grew-up and
entered the calculations. Last year, for
example, Tully scored 194 in. and 93
points, whereas Innisfail had to be con-
tent with a miserly 188.11—this despite
its 214 wet days as opposed to Tully’s
202. Obviously, the weather-gods
haven’t fulfilled their promise made to
Innisfail in 1950, when they bestowed
juice in excess of 230 in. The local
correspondent of the “North Queensland
Register” is at once mournful and pride-
ful on the general subject: “Although
Innisfail can no longer be classed as the
wettest place in the Commonwealth, as
against Babinda and Tully, it can still
bask in the upper bracket.”
* * * *
“Emel”: Australia’s smallest mar-
supial is the phalanger—the pigmy- or
feathered-glider which measures only
sin. overall, 3in. of which belongs to
the flatfish, feathered tail. Half-a-dozen
of these creatures were found in 1957
in the Victorian Wimmera. The female’s
pouch, no bigger than a match-end, has
only four teats ; so when, as often hap-
pens, five or six young are born at a
time, only the four strongest can sur-
vive. In search of the insects and nectar
from bush-blossoms on which they feed,
they glide comparatively long distances
from branch to branch with the help
of the fleshy membrane between fore-
and hind-legs. Suction-cups as well as
claws on each of the five toes on each
foot ensure safe landings.


“What is it—a puncture?”
“Flight”: An anomaly I note in
Queensland is that kite-hawks are fully
protected because grasshoppers are on
their menu. They are, however, even
more partial to the chickens of ground-
nesting birds, especially plovers. But
whereas the kite-hawk can only take
’hoppers when those pests are actually
on the wing—he is quite useless for the
job when grounded—and his intake is
strictly limited, the plovers get among
the ’hoppers when they are in myriads
on the ground, and before they can
fly, thus dealing-out by far the greater
destruction. And they’ll gorge them-
selves to the limit. I’d say the big bird
has wangled his dispensation by false
pretences.
* * * *
“X 50”: “Cedar’s” reference to
Queensland’s first School of the Air (B,
17/2/’6O) is interesting if the use of
“first” is not misinterpreted. Let it never
be forgotten that the first School of the
Air started in 1951 through the Alice
Springs control-station of the S.A. sec-
tion of the R.FiD.S. of Australia and
that it has operated without interrup-
tion ever since.
“Ceg”: Can’t argue about the com-
parative merits of vanilla-essence and
lemon-essence as a tipple (B. 10/2/’6O),
but I once made an interesting alcoholic
discovery while travelling to England on
a troopship. Australian troopships were
“dry” in those days, and anything in the
way of a spot was hard to come by.
Crossing the Line, Neptune came aboard,
and into the tank went the Sergeant Dis-
penser. He emerged with a painful ear-
affliction, and volunteers were called to
give him a spell off the job. My know-
ledge of dispensing was confined to taking
Gregory’s Powder during infancy, but I
got the job. Being of an inquiring and
experimental mind, I cast round to see
what might be concocted. A Winchester
quart of “Spts. Vini. Rect.” (spirits of
wine and 90 per cent, alcohol) seemed
to offer possibilities, but some sort of
flavoring was clearly indicated. A bottle
labelled “Tinct. Card. Co.” provided the
answer. The color of cochineal and with
a very pleasant taste —as it should have
had, considering the spices in it—-it
couldn’t have been improved on in the
circumstances. A dash of the tincture
was poured ino a crystal liqueur-glass
(souvenired in Perth) and the glass filled
with the spirits. A few solo-playing
friends, invited up to the dispensary that
evening, pronounced the concoction
nearly perfect. The M. 0., prowling round
the dispensary one day, noticed the
inroads made on the Spts. Vini. Rect.,
and asked the reason. One glass con-
vinced him that I had put it to good use.
The tedium of the voyage was much
lessened by my discovery.
* * * *
r pHE regular angling-trio of the seaside
town the banker, who owned
the boat; the butcher, whose con-
cern was the bait; and the doctor,
who always brought the oil and petrol—
had a routine £3 sweepstake t'or the day’s
best fish. This day the butcher and the
doctor each landed * a big bream. The
former confidently pointed out that his
was the half-inch longer ; but the doc.,
researching with a piece of line, found
that his was of greater girth. The dis-
cussion lasted until the jetty was reached
and a pair of scales gave it to the
butcher by half-an-ounce. The trio
cleaned their take on the steps. The
butcher was slow and thorough; the
banker slow and untidy; and the
medico, not averse to displaying his
legerdemain with a lancet, sliced apace.
Finishing first, the doc., to show there
was no ill-feeling, grabbed the butcher’s
big bream and cleaned that, too. A
comradely gesture, except that the post-
mortem disclosed two sinkers. —“Jeyles.”
SOUTH
[From a sequence entitled “Mawson to
Queensland” —the author spent over a year as
an International Geophysical Year Antarctic
Expedition doctor based at Mawson. The
sequence won a special prize in the Centenary
Poetry Competition of the Queensland Fellow-
ship of Writers. The pilot mentioned, “Bill”
Wilson, was recently killed while doing
Vampire jet-conversion training.]
Then there was no way further, only a
plain
Of dazzling ice, upthrust and tortured by
The underheaving sea ruthlessly grinding
Floe upon floe between the / bastions
And turrets of innumerable bergs.
Eric, the Dane, and I swung down the
ladder
Into a waiting boat, while Law and
Wilson,
The pilot for the day, entered the plane.
We towed them out into the smooth dark
water,
Where no ice lurked to tear the speeding
floats.
The engine grumbled, coughed, then
steadied to
Its purposive smooth sound; a white
wake followed,
And high spray hung; step-high the
plane still clung
To glue-smooth sea until they crossed
the wake
Of our small boat, which broke the bond
between.
Airborne and Southward out of sight
they flew
We waited on the cold and lonely sea.
Mile over mite of frigid desolation
They flew to Oates Land sixty miles away,
And no sea-lane, no smallest lead
whereby
Our ship could travel further, and the ice
Was closing in about us. Yes, the ice,
Obeying the command of wind and tide,
Was moving in on us, a white shark pack
Seeking its puny prey. Make haste, small
plane !
Make haste through grey clouds clotting
in the south,
Your orange wings a spark of impudence
Blown in the face of sombre majesty !
Make haste before we are beset! Make
haste !
All eyes turn southward as a moving
speck
Ripens to sound and color, furrows the
sea
With foam, and taxis to the red ship’s
side.
Calmly we sailed that avenue of ice
Which led to freedom, while from y floe
to floe
The happy penguins leapt and dived and
followed.
Darkly the bow-wave veed across the
water
Flights of black swans were etched no
lovelier
At home upon the evening sky ; swept
clouds
Burnt flaming up the west and through
my heart,
So that a little time l did not feel
The chill air sear my face ; and all the
while,
Reflecting the red splendor of the sun,
Still icebergs smouldered in the silent
sea.
QUEENSLAND.
J. E. G. CHANNON


★
leand^
• AGRf
There's richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
simnes
po+ s t ni BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. « WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
Business, Robbery, Etc.
MENZIES ON PRODUCTIVITY
Tt was refreshing—and en-
couraging—fco have Mr.
Menzies speaking-out at last,
on a major occasion but not
a political one, on the trans-
cending importance of pro-
ductivity in the determination
of wages, profits and the
general standard-of-living.
The occasion was the open-
ing of the Melbourne meetings
of the twelfth International
Congress of Scientific Manage-
ment at Melbourne Town Hall.
What is needed of the Prime
Minister now is for him to
carry the productivity banner
to the floor of Parliament and
to the occupiers of the larger
departmental suites in Can-
berra. Even if, in the end,
through frequent use, it starts
to look a bit ragged and homely
like a Salvation Army banner,
it will be in appropriate com-,
pany. Increased productivity
could be the economic salvation
of Australia, and it is not right
that it should be left to only
one sector of the economy to
achieve it through tears, toil,
sweat and blood-pressure.
The more important part of
Mr. Menzies’s address, in sum-
mary: —
Employees have well-understood
ambitions for better pay and condi-
tions, and security of employment,
and a full opportunity for their
children.
But they must, and I am sure
many thousands of them do, realise
that if wage-increases outstrip
increased productivity the effect will
be that demand will exceed supply,
prices will rise and the value of
money will fall.
Employees therefore have a
vested interest in increased efficiency
and production—it is by these
means that real and effective wages
will rise and family interests will
be served.
On his side the employer who
simply passes on wage-increases
into higher prices is contributing to
the inflationary spiral, rendering
inevitable the next wage-increase,
cost-increase and price-increase.
Vast numbers of ordinary citizens
will suffer in the process, the export
industries will be penalised and the
national finances will be dis-
organised.
Employers should absorb as far
as. possible rises in labor costs
without regarding the current profit-
rate as sacrosanct. They should
improve the efficiency of operations
to reduce, or at least stabilise, their
unit costs of production.
ATr. Menzies said the grow-
ing availability of power,
the rapid development of auto-
mation, the rising levels of edu-
cation and skill should pay their
own dividends to ordinary
men and women.
If, therefore, there is on the face
of it a conflict between the profits
of investment and the upward
pressure of wages, that conflict
must be seen as a challenge to
increased efficiency on both sides.
In short, the present period of
our national development can pro-
duce a damaging inflation if we
are to pass the labors of contribut-
ing ingenuity to others and adopt
as our motto: Each for himself
and the devil take the hindmost.
But if we see the problem and
are prepared to understand and deal
with it, we can make the decade
of the 60’s in Australia even more
dynamic and productive than the
last 10 years.
According to a Sydney
“Herald” report, Menzies said
that the industrial tribunals,
which exercised a great power
over the national economy [the
“Age” had it “a great un-
controlled and uncontrollable
power over the national
economy”], had been known to
express a view that if there was
any inflationary consequence of
any decision, “the Govern-
ment” had power to deal with
it.
“This, I fear, is not correct,”
Mr. Menzies said.
“Indeed, it is one of the facts
of life that the two most signifi-
cant economic instruments, the
Arbitration Commission and
the Tariff Board, are, in the
first case absolutely and in the
second case for all practical
purposes, independent bodies.
“I think it a very good thing
that this should be the case.
The nation has good reason to
appreciate the work that they
have done.
“But clearly the Com-
monwealth’s anti-inflationary
powers are severely restricted
in consequence.”
TT is quite true that awards
and decisions by the Arbitra-
tion Courts which prove to be
beyond the capacity of industry
to pay, and which are reflected
in an inflationary rise in costs,
cannot readily be rectified by
Budget or central-bank action.
The Bulletin has made this
contention for years. When
“the Government” attempts,
by fiscal means, to defeat costs-
inflation the process is usually
like the old one of burning-
down a house to roast a pig.
The wage-cost push rises
from wages paid and hours and
efficiency of work, which nowa-
days control our economy
almost as influentially as the
gold-standard used to do.
Where productivity does not
rise to meet the effect of higher
pay and fewer hours in the
working-week, the matter is
only capable of being rectified
where it began—at the wage-
bargaining level or at the pro-
ductivity level.
But what the Menzies Gov-
ernment could have done over
the past decade was to have to
told the public the plain facts
more forcibly and more fre-
quently than it has ever thought
to do, and to have given more
incentive to industry even at
the cost of some inconvenience
to the civil service. There has
been too much inclination
right through Canberra to re-
gard inflation as inevitable, and
to relax and enjoy it.
N.K.S. Holdings, Ltd.
A fairly steady but unspec-
tacular profit-earner since
its formation, in 1954, to take-
over the Knox Schlapp and
Noyes Bros, interests, N.K.S.
Holdings, Ltd., has paid 8 p.c.,
8 p.c., 7 p.c., 8 p.c. and 8 p.c.
during its five years of
existence.
For 1958-59 net profit was
disclosed at 11.1 p.c. on capital,
compared with 10.2 p.c. in the
preceding year.
A non-contributor to profits
has been a half-interest
(750,000 £1 ords.) in Noyes
(Australia) Pty., Ltd., the other
half of the capital being owned
by Crompton Parkinson, Ltd.,
of England, which was a large
initial shareholder in N.K.S.
This associate is engaged in
merchandising electric-motors*
and other items, and last year
withdrew from “certain of the
co.’s fields of activity which
had proved unprofitable.”
Provision for consequent losses
has been made in the accounts
of Noyes (Aust.), and better
results are now looked for.
The manufacturing group, at
Huntingdale, Vic., covers 12
acres, and comprises Ogden


' J
m
m
% 1
1
Wales
hould to the
You s
Now that you’re earning a
regular income you should open
your own cheque accounts. This
would help you to keep an
accurate record of income and
expenditure, provide a safe place
to keep your money and give
you experience in handling your
own affairs. Also, there’s a
certain prestige in having a
cheque account. Consult and
use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London.
YOU CAN BANK ON THE “WALES”
A6003C
Industries Pty., Metalex Pty.
and Australian Die-castings
Pty. The group makes, among:
other products, Lockwood
door-locks and hydraulic door-
closers, Ogden lawnmowers
and garden tools, Fillery
polishers and vacuum-cleaners,
Steelcon steel-flooring, Sebco
masonry anchors, diecastings
for Black and Decker power-
drills and for stiletto-heels and
lawnmower-wheels, and Meta-
lex brass and aluminium rods,
wire and sections. Other
general diecasting work is
carried on.
Although several of the lines
are highly competitive, the co.
reports an improving trend in
turnover and profit.
The interim dividend for
1959-60 has been maintained
at 8 p.c. p.a. on improved
turnover and profits. Noyes
at present is trading profitably.
Knox Schlapp Pty. and its
subsidiaries comprise the mer-
chandising group, and, apart
from the group's own manu-
factures, it has the exclusive
national distribution of Metal
Manufactures’ non - ferrous
tubing, demand for which
increased over the term. Dis-
tribution of Broomwade air-
compressors and pneumatic
tools went on at an accelerated
pace.
During the year a new co.,
Broomwade - Knox Pty., was
formed, 60 p.c. of the scrip
being taken by Broom and
Wade (U.K.) and 40 p.c. by
N.K.S. Holdings, to develop
the local manufacture of
Broomwade equipment in Aus-
tralia. Management is by Knox
Schlapp, on Knox Schlapp
property. Satisfactory profits
are anticipated.
The group handles some
first-class products, either as
manufacturer or distributor,
and a greater proportion of
these manufactures each year
is made in Australia. Cromp-
ton Parkinson have their own
Australian manufacturing-sub-
sidiary. N.K.S. Holdings has
a fairly big capita1—£2,505,927,
in £1 shares—and goodwill on
consolidation, £532,179, is in
excess of reserves, £299,605.
But the present-day value of
buildings would be much more
than the £427,682 book-
value, and plant is conserva-
tively entered at £329,391.
Liquidity is satisfactory, and
stocks have been reduced in
value each year for the past
three years.
At 245. each the £1 shares
appear to have a potential for
holding purposes, and in the
meantime give a satisfactory
yield of 6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis.
Anderson Meat Industries
Tust how Anderson Meat In-
J dustries, Ltd., got into the
position where it has been
obliged to miss its interim divi-
dend and to contemplate no
final dividend isn’t clear.
But in its balance-sheet as at
June 30 last the Anderson
group were carrying prodigious
stocks. In the books “at the
lower of cost or market-value,”
they stood at £2,091,863, h rise
of £1,266,338 on the valuation
of a year earlier.
Notwithstanding the extra-
ordinary size of the stocks
item, the growth of which was
accompanied by a jump of
£670,720 (to £1,109,548) in the
bank-overdraft and a rise of
£645,544 (to £780,872) in “ad-
vances against export stocks,”
no special comment on the
position was forthcoming from
the directors in their report
dated October 16, 1959.
The co. showed a near-record
profit of £113,205 (after tax
and depreciations) for the year
to June 30, 1959, compared
with £65,763 in the preceding
year. An interim and final
div. at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
were paid.
Stocks to the value of
£2,091,863 would represent an
awful lot of sausages. But
Anderson’s these days is in-
terested in far more meat-
products than sausages. Actu-
ally, results for 1958-59 were
adversely affected by earnings
of the sausage subsidiary. It
was the U.S. market which
proved most attractive. But
the high prices available in the
U.S.A. made purchase of meat
for processing for the Aus-
tralian market very expensive.
And there has been fierce com-
petition among meat-processors
to get their products into the
big grocery-chains and super-
markets. This competition has
resulted in higher costs through
the pre-packaging required in
order to sell smallgoods in
self-service chains.
Although, judging by the
high advance-payments against
export stocks at June 30, a
large proportion of Anderson’s
big stock-pile was for export
to the apparently profitable
overseas market —sales, “chiefly
export business,” rose 27 p.c.
in the half-year after the close
of accounts—increased cost of
livestock “resulted in unfavor-
able trading-results.” Hence the
passing of the interim and the
absence of hope for a final
dividend this financial year.
However, “more livestock
are now available,” and “trad-
ing conditions are improving,”
the board reports.
The £1 shares, which have
been selling around 31s. for
some time, slumped to 225.
following the shock report on
trading, then recovered to 235.
Local operations in the
smallgoods business look like
continuing difficult, and what-
ever special problems were
associated with the recent
trading-reverse, general con-
ditions are not likely to make
recovery quick or easy.
The co. itself does not carry
much financial fat. At last
balance-day visible reserves of
only £245,201 supported
£612,720 of paid capital.
Liabilities were then more than
three times shareholders’ funds.
“Capital Increment”
/~\ver and over again you
hear the contention by
someone that he isn’t interested
in the yield obtainable from an
investment he has made on the
Stock Exchange; he is more


Telephone
BWBI7I t 3 lines) 8L5327
MULLENS & CO.
A. ft. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, P. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
{Incorporating Headlam, Hew son & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BLi 1855 (8 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP,” Sydney.
concerned, he says, about
“capital increment.”
Not only novices make the
remark. It is made by some
of those of the older school
who rarely seem to be prepared
to take-out their increment in
cash but “leave it run” in the
hope of building on it still
further.
The idea that one can go on
gaining “market increment”
without regard to yield is one
of the greatest fallacies that
can inflict an investor. Yield,
present or prospective, is all-
important in an investment in
the long-run, however much it
may be overlooked during a
bout of speculative fever.
Furthermore, market-incre-
ment, whether based on present
or prospective yield or not, has
a tendency to spread itself very
thin after a glamor-stock has
had a long run of “increment.”
For example, a share bought
for £1 which rises to 30s. shows
a capital-gain of 50 per cent,
if sold at the latter figure.
The buyer at 30s. who sells
at 40s. again makes 10s., but it
drops to 33 1/3 p.c. on his
outlay.
Bought at 40s. and sold at
505., the 10s. profit represents
25 p.c.
Bought at 80s. and sold at
905., the same 10s. profit
amounts to only 12j p.c.
Oddly enough, it is when the
perfume of high price starts to
surround a stock that it attracts
the most attenti6n, even though
it may not really have improved
its trading position very much
between the time it could be
bought for 40s. and when it
started fetching 80s. or 90s.
Often an increase in the
dividend will be followed by
a rise in the market which will
make the immediate yield on
the higher div.-rate less than
it was on the previous lower
rate. Yet profit-earning may
not have improved in the mean-
time.
A company which has been
in the public eye because of
its frequent capital-issues may
see a steep rise in the price of
its shares after each new issue,
though perhaps it is quite
clear that it started-off with a
one-for-one issue, dropped the
ratio to one-for-two next time,
and then made it one-for-four
because the previous large
increases in capital made the
smaller ratio adequate for quite
a big capital-operation. This
fall in ratios has been apparent
in the case of 8.H.P., which
now has an issued capital of
£63.6 million, and a one-for-
six issue would raise over £lO
million.
Similarly on the bonus-issue
side. One of our prolific
issuers of bonus-shares in the
last decade has been Minster,
Ltd. It is still a most profit-
able, expanding and enterpris-
ing organisation. But its first
bonus-issue, in 1951, was a
one-for-one affair. The second,
“I am pleased to note that since the appointment of an
additional young director We have all become more
alert and dynamic .”
in 1957, was three-for-f our.
The latest, this year, is in the
ratio of one-for-two.
It has been a wonderful
story, but the mathematics are
obvious. The more bonus-
issues that are made, the harder
it becomes to maintain the
previous ratios.
This bonus-issue arithmetic
is another factor that should
be kept in mind when enter-
taining fanciful thoughts about
“market increment.”
Tennant Creek Goldfield
r T''His remarkable field, situ-
ated near the centre of
Australia, covers an area of at
least 20 miles by 30 miles (i.e.,
600 square-miles) of highly
mineralised Cambrian and pre-
Cambrian rocks in which occur
great blobs of black iron-ore.
Quite often these ironstone
outcrops are associated with
gold, either in the crush-rock
bordering the iron or even in
the iron-ore itself. This has
been the guide to the old
gougers, many of whom, in the
early days, did quite well, as
in the case of the Blue Moon
Mine, where a single stope
(underground quarry) no bigger
than a small cottage, provided
a fortune for the owner.
But Tennant Creek is no
longer a gouger’s field; the
vfery hard nature of the rock,
coupled with the high cost of
air-compressors, hauling-gear,
explosives and tungsten-steel,
have put the gouger out of busi-
ness and his place has been
taken, to some extent, by small
companies, hard-up for cash,
but living in the hope of
striking 2oz. dirt.
Some of these small com-
panies had been marking-time,
waiting the outcome of the
development at the Orlando
leases, which are owned by
the Peko company. It had
been predicted that spectacular
values would be found when
sinking the Orlando shaft.
High values at Orlando would
have stimulated public interest
in the field to the advantage (it
was hoped) of such mines as
New Merloo, Blue Moon,
Eldorado, Burnt Shirt, Enter-
prise, Lone Star, Queen of
Sheba, New Hope and others.
Tradespeople and publicans
in the town had been counting
on this, but the recent report
of Peko of testing-operations
at Orlando dampened the local
optimism, which had been
getting somewhat out of hand.
However, the field is by no
means finished. The potential
is tremendous, but it badly
needs thorough study by some
of the world’s leading mining
geologists, to determine, if
possible, the structural features
which control the deposition of
the gold. Up to date, the field
has been retarded by some
wild theories and woolly
guesses.
The Wright, Heaton Bonus
TXZith its centenary just
round about, Wright,
Heaton and Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.),
declared a one-for-six
bonus-issue to those on the
register on February 22.
It is probable that the bonus
will come from the revaluation
of shares in the McCulloch
Carrying Co., which was the
source of the one-for-three
bonus-issue in 1956.
The merits of Wright,
Heaton as an investment were
discussed at length in B.
15/1 / ’5B, when the 10s. ords
were at 30s. ; but they have
not been an active stock since
a large parcel of shares came
on the market about that time
following the issue of 49,394
10s. ords. (at 305.) for the
acquisition of a department-
store at Warren (N.S.W.).
Today Wright, Heaton is
chiefly a wholesale chain-
grocer, with 30-odd branches
in N.S;W., and its profitable
subsidiary, McCulloch Carry-
ing Co., owns two stores in
N.S.W., one in Victoria, and
also controls Murray River
sawmills.
A feature of the business
is the rapid rate of turnover,
a comparatively low stock-in-
trade, and debtors kept to a
(Continued on page 55)


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
I^
r
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Chevalier in Melbourne
Chevalier the legend has
become Chevalier the fantastic
fact for Melbournites at the
Comedy Theatre ; and there’s
not much to separate the two.
Certainly M. Chevalier is
today no chicken —indeed,
throughout his two-hour -plus,
one-man performance he fre-
quently alluded to his lost
youth and his 71| years—but
that does not mean that his
youthfulness, too, is a thing of
the past; nor the fascination
of the face, the jutting lower
lip, the apple cheeks, bright
eyes, rolling shoulders, and
straw hat precariously perched
over his right eyebrow. No,
these are still with him, in
all their familiar freshness.
There could have been
something rather grotesque,
even pathetic, in the spectacle
of a man of M. Chevalier’s
vintage constantly thanking
Heaven for leetle girls, flirting
with the matrons in his audi-
ence, tap-dancing as if the
general overall thickening of
his solid frame didn’t exist,
swinging recklessly into rock-
’n’-roll routines and all the rest
of it.
But there was not. And never
at any stage do we experience
anything other than the sheer
enjoyment which M. Chevalier
himself seems to be 'sharing
with us onstage. He even had
his starchily turned-out first-
night audience singing with
him some choruses from
“Louise.”
Perhaps the most remark-
able thing about Chevalier
today is not his singing or his
dancing or his charming
joking ; to the present writer
it is his superb mime-sketching
of audiences he has encount-
ered, ranging from a noisily
extroverted drunk to a shy
priest, and another (with appro-
priate sounds, but not words,
added) in which he imitates
the antics and intonations of
men of different nationalities
talking in their own languages,
culminating in their all
meeting-up together at a con-
ference. In both these he
revealed a depth of feeling and
a sense of character which
many a “straight” actor might
well envy.
Opera in Perth
Easily the most entertaining
and satisfying production seen
in Perth for some time was a
presentation of “intimate
opera” by the Festival of
Perth Committee in association
with the A.B.C. and the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
The programme of three
short works by Pergolesi,
Menotti and Wolf-Ferrari
seemed particularly suited to
the open-air setting of the
Somerville Auditorium. Pre-
viously encountered difficulties
in outdoor singing were
Prize-winning Play
Perhaps you’ve met some of
them before: the pretty, slightly
mixed-up aboriginal girl who
gets a role in a film, then has
“Oh, good-gracious, I'm sorry, Mr. McPherson- I
thought you Were taken ill!”
trouble readjusting herself to
the ways of her small-town
home; the aboriginal who wins
a respected place in the pro-
fessions but who nobly denies
himself an easy life because he
feels duty-bound to tend to all
those, both black and white,
whom his achievements have
left behind; the slap-happy,
hard-drinking, wow-with-the-
women newspaperman who
nevertheless has his heart in
the right place; the color-
conscious town-bully who
resorts to bluff, swagger and
bottle (empty and broken
varieties) to hide from the
world the fact that he has a
crippling inferiority - complex;
the talkative, emotional old
Italian cafe-milkbar proprietor
who is perpetually torn be-
tween the conflicting demands
of his cashbox and his rich
humanity; and, finally, the
nasty rich girl (her parents, of
course, own most of the town)
who falls for the journalist,
fears she is not making much
headway and in her frustration
shamelessly encourages our
not overbright bully and sets
his hand to evil deeds (which
in this play culminate rather
horribly in the blinding of an
aboriginal, youth).
If by some chance you
haven’t come across these
people (which, in this world of
numberless glossy women’s-
magazines, films, TV- and
radio-serials, must be almost
impossible), then a visit to Mel-
bourne's Little Theatre, where
“Burst of Summer,” by local
playwright Oriel Gray, is
having its world premiere,
should soon put you right.
Not that Miss Gray has
written a particularly bad play;
but it is a thousand pities that
she chose such stereotyped
characters and situations as
vehicles for her often stimulat-
ing thoughts on the problem
of racial intolerance.
Despite the rather fashion-
able seriousness of its theme,
the play is probably more
notable for its absence of dull
moments, its perky good-
humor and wit and the
author’s efficient handling of
dialogue.
Miss Gray’s most impressive
characters by far are the
aboriginal lawyer and the
Italian —roles which are sensi-
tively and at times compell-
ingly handled by Frank Camm
(oddly enough, an Englishman)
and Max Bruch respectively.
The best that can be said of the
others is that their responses
in the play are never less than
true to form—the good, you
might say, get gooder, and the
bad get distinctly badder.
Overall, the play was well
served by Irene Mitchell’s
characteristically meticulous
yet quick-paced production;
and lohn Truscott’s settings—
there are only two scene-
changes—strike just the right
atmospheric notes.
“Burst of Summer” is the
work which, out of 200-odd
entries, took first prize in the
Little Theatre’s highly com-
mendable £lOOO play-quest.
Despite the lack of any real
distinction in the chief award-
winner the theatre is to be
congratulated on this brave
attempt to bring a wprth-wh'le
Australian play before the
public.
There should be no dis
illusionment over the outcome
of the competition. Master-
pieces don’t grow on every
tree, nor do they inevitably
fall with every well-intentioned
wind—even if it takes the
admittedly enticing form of a
four-figure reward.
A. S. J.


apparently overcome; tone and
quality remained unimpaired;
enunciation was perfect. This
was fortunate: as all three
pieces are full of fun, with wit
as sparkling as the music, a
word lost would have been a
point missed.
Perg o 1 e s i’s “La Serva
Padrona,” first performed in
1733, concerns a young maid-
servant who plans to marry her
master. She persuades the
valet to assist her by playing a
part, and her ruse succeeds.
Bass-baritone Alan Light and
soprano Molly McGurk sang
separately and together with
spirit and feeling, making the
most of a wide range of emo-
tion offered by the music. As
the silent valet, Neville Teede
(having spoken a prologue)
displayed his admirable gift
for mime.
Elaine Blight sang the
demanding part of Lucy in
Menotti’s brilliant and delicious
skit on modern life, “The
Telephone.” Ben (tenor Donald
Munro) wishes to declare his
love, but is foiled by the con-
stant interruption of Lucy’s
telephone. Though he has a
train to catch, he is not beaten
by his beloved’s interminable
conversations: rushing off, he
also telephones (from the sta-
tion), and the talking wires
ring with an ecstatic duet of
requited love. Lasting but
half-an-hour, this gem must be
among the most original of
modern operatic works.
Ferrari’s “Susanna’s Secret,”
written at the end of the 19th
century, concerns an Italian
countess who, still on her
honeymoon, arouses her hus-
band’s suspicions. Forbidden
to smoke, she still cannot
resist a cigarette. The aroma,
clinging to her hair, fills Count
Gil with jealous fear. After his
ebullient Pergolesi perform-
ance Alan Light presented the
count with -suave polish, dis-
playing the range and quality
of his acting as effectively as
that of his voice. Elaine Blight
made a charming Susanna, her
clear notes particularly appeal-
ing in tender mood. Neville
Teede once more shone as a
silent aged retainer, abetting
his mistress towards the happy
ending.
The A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra, under John Farns-
worth Hall, gave a fine per-
formance, notably in “The
Telephone” overture. All three
works were produced by
Donald Munro.
H.D.-B.
“A Must for Dolly”
Whether verbally demolish-
ing our education-system, or
protesting the rights of the
individual to his individuality,
or peering out over the audi-
ence to declaim a few relevant
lines of Shakspeare, or simply
standing quietly to one side of
the stage, J. Beresford Fowler,
as author, leading actor and
producer, dominated this play
from the first scene to the last.
The result (at the Arts
Theatre, Melbourne) was cer-
tainly unusual as theatrical
standards go in this city—and
thoroughly enjoyable.
Fowler —for long one of
Melbourne’s best - known
theatrical personalities— wrote
“A Must for Dolly” as a sequel
to Bernard Shaw’s “Man and
Superman,” and he acknow-
ledges assistance from both
Shaw and Sylvia Archer.
Though not without its
moments of humor and sus-
pense, the play is first and fore-
most didactic in intention;
equipped with several of
G.B.S.’s most perky arguments,
the author lashes out at just
about everything he can lay
hands on.
If the play was not on the
whole as dramatically effective
as it might have been, this was
probably because too few of
the cast were able to bring to
their parts the experience, con-
viction and assurance that
Fowler undoubtedly brought
to his.
A. S. J.
“Odd Man In”
The lasting impression Derek
Farr and Muriel Pavlow leave
of their performances in
J. C. W.’s latest in Brisbane is
one of genuine charm and
lovability. Once or twice,
perhaps, Farr flashed his well-
preserved boyish smile with a
little more wattage than the
situation required, but this
could be excused by the agree-
able bounder of a role he was
portraying.
As a stranger who drops
into a cottage on the marshes,
drinks there by mistake half a
sleeping-potion left by its
pretty owner, curls-up in her
bed and is joined for an
innocent evening by the equally
drowsy Pavlow, Farr had the
necessary lightness of touch to
gloss over the elaborate
scaffolding of this double-bed
situation. And, of course,
Muriel Pavlow in her pink
pyjamas looked ten times as
pretty as she need have to
distract from the artificiality
of the farce at this moment.
Their easy teamwork in
such intimate scenes may have
been due to their years of off-
stage domesticity (they are
married), but in any case it
had a genuine felicity about it.
It is to Noel Ferrier’s credit
that his portrayal of the less
glamorous, stuffy husband
showed-up no less brilliantly
than the English pair, who have
had a nine-months’ West End
run to perfect their perform-
ances. Indeed, Ferrier’s role,
with its touches of loneliness
and sympathy, was the only
true character-study in the
farce.
A word, too, for the pleasing
set from the J.C.W. work-
shop. It looked “lived in”
without descending to prosaic
representationalism.
VAL VALLIS
AMALFI
The'house stood across the river and, in the morning
Through yellow haze and over the dream of water
That lies dark green, so early, before the sun
Reaches and quickens the depth of it, or a breeze
Should stir its surface or touch its stillness —then
In those most nebulous mornings, the house through mist
Was part of phantom and close to me still from sleeping.
Or it would rain and thin grey shrouds go sweeping
Across its fagade—as if the wind were blowing
Ghosts in ghostly garments along the river,
Whose draperies trailed between vapor and grey water,
That in and through and out of the house were driven
And sent from the sea to some mysterious source
Where never the river rises, but might have risen.
Then, at evening, on still days when water doubles
All images, that time of all most insubstantial,
A golden sandstone house glowed up through the river
While the house near the water vanished in haze and glitter.
So may tranquillity be, yet be belied
By those intimations of dream and unquiet confusion
Of substance and shadow in the darkening mind of water.
The house has gone, most strangely gone—a spectral
Business of unglazed windows suddenly staring
Across the water and then of wrecked walls tumbling.
But the expected scar on the land, foreseen by reason
Was never. An unnoticed cave on the sandstone foreshore
Is now a focus for eyes that cross the river
To learn a romantic story and unlearn a Gothic.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
Artbursts
Sculpture Competition
The proposed Myer Shop-
ping Centre at Chadstone (Vic.)
promises to be a strikingly
massive, if rather squat, con-
struction. There will be all the
usual glass and glitter, hundreds
of feet of plain, sturdy architec-
tural lines and very little
decoration.
Presumably in an attempt to
offset the almost unavoidable
monotony of such a necessarily
workmanlike project, Myers in-
vited a number of Australian
sculptors to submit models for
three large sculptures to be
commissioned for the site. The
exhibition now at the National
Gallery is the result.
Two commissions have
already been awarded—to Len-
ton Parr and Stanley Hammond
—and it is believed that a
third sculptor has been asked
to submit further designs.
On the whole the response
to the competition with its
three suggested subjects—the
family, world merchandise and
Australian flora has been,
with a few exceptions, rather
uninspired. Bearing in mind
the function of the sculptures,
the selection of Parr’s plant-
like arrangement of welded
steel seems understandable.
Abstracted from natural forms,
the work has a vitality and an
earthiness lacking in most of
the other entries.
This lack is most evident in
Hammond’s commission-win-
ning sculpture. Aiming at a
symbolic representation of the
relationship between buyer,
seller and consumer, the entry
is too close a relation to
dozens of other formalised
figure-groups.
Julius Kane, refusing to be


For a truly smart home . . . and
a lower building estimate... use
the world’s strongest
roofing material
HI
ifl
1
• *4.
Galvanized
eTEEI
2p 1 E MK aLi
fUECT
&} E E a
Your new house can be the showplace of the street
and yet be the lowest-cost home in the street!
A Lysaght roof makes all the difference, lending itself
readily to the most advanced modern designs, yet giving
you worth-while savings compared with competitive
materials.
Completely fire-proof . . . absolutely unbreakable
because Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for
roofing purposes. So easy to care for that you can
virtually forget about maintenance problems.
Decide now to investigate the facts and figures on the
beautiful, practical, economical Lysaght roof!
• Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Free —
low cost home
plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new
series of practical, low-cost
home plans, especially designed
to suit Australian conditions.
GI6SXC
LY3MBT
HOME
PLANS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
Port Line Building, SO Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please send me, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
NAME - - -
ADDRESS - -
STATE.


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
dwarfed by the shopping-
centre’s immensity, did better
on a similar theme with his
model for a giant Henry Moor-
ish figure-group in aluminium
(36ft. tall). If only he had
been able to bring the same
impressive ability to resolve
form with material to the
upper portions of his figures
(especially the three heads) as
he did to their middle portions,
then he must surely have got a
commission.
Of the other entries, lan
Bow’s arresting, if not particu-
larly original, bronze figure-
groups have most to commend
them. Each has a rough fresh-
ness and a simple vigor which
would have been ideally suited
to the sharply contrasting
shopping-centre.
❖ * ❖
Travelling Exhibition
The Melbourne National
Gallery continues to do admir-
able work in stimulating art-
interest in Victorian country
centres. In the gallery’s north
rotunda at present an exhibi-
tion which will go on tour
later this year is shown set up
on screens as it will be seen
in the country. Under the
title “The Australian Vision,”
it has been arranged by the
gallery in conjunction with the
Council of Adult Education.
The exhibition, surely one of
the most impressive yet con-
ceived by the gallery for such
a purpose, consists of original
landscape-paintings from the
national collection by artists
from colonial days to the
present as well as several photo-
graphed reproductions of
works whose size excluded
them from screening, and a
well-documented chronological
list of local painters displayed
alongside a corresponding list
of their better-known European
colleagues. This last feature
should lead to some thought-
provoking comparisons.
Films
“The Siege of Pinchgut”
There is a good run of
excitement in this tightly knit
suspense-drama set mainly on
Fort Denison, or Pinchgut, in
Sydney Harbor.
The basic set-up is not bad
at all. A convict, with his
brother and two other men
who had helped him escape,
are making out of the Harbor
in a fishing-boat, aiming for
Queensland, when a broken
shaft forces them ashore on
Pinchgut. Their presence
discovered by the police, they
first hold the caretaker and his
family as hostages, and then,
finding that the 4in. naval gun
on the island is in workable
order and that a fully-loaded
ammunition-ship is within easy
range off Garden Island, they
use this as a bargaining-point
for a new trial for the escapee,
who claims he is innocent of
the crime he was convicted for.
Bearing in mind what hap-
pened in Bombay in 1942 when
an ammo-ship went up, the
authorities go into several
huddles to counter the threat;
these being portrayed soberly
and convincingly. With cops
operating telescopic-rifles on
top of the Bridge and the ram-
parts of the old Fort Mac-
quarie tramsheds —since demo-
lished to make way for the
Opera House —the tension as
the outlaws work feverishly to
get the gun-ammunition from
its heavily locked underground
pits becomes acute and is well
sustained into the bloody
climactic scene on the island.
, Sydney in many of its
aspects, especially around the
Harbor, shows-up well under
the black-and-white cameras:
and Pinchgut, looking surpris
ingly extensive, makes an ex-
cellent background for the two-
day siege.
Aldo Ray is the bad lad,
but his efforts to reconcile his
ruthlessness with his supposed
innocence lack conviction.
Heather Sears is suitably sweet
as the caretaker’s daughter who
bends a soft eye on the
escapee’s basically decent
brother.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Career”
A backstager with a differ-
ence. Replete with ironical
asides, with bitter disillusion as
its main theme, it concerns an
actor who sacrifices domestic
happiness to pursue a career
because he fiercely believes in
himself where nobody else
does. Though not without
talent, he never gets any of
those breaks which, so often
in show-business, are almost as
important as histrionic gifts;
and in the end, after years of
striving and heartbreak, he
finishes just about where he
began, playing in an obscure
workshop-theatre, but with his
talents slowly beginning to be
recognised—though still not by
the people who count.
The film is brutally truthful:
it is the story of so many
actors who never make the
grade but who will have no
other life. Here all the glamor
of the theatre is stripped off
until realism becomes at times
almost painful.
Anthony Franciosa, in the
chief role, mixes an intense
dramatic style with some subtle
effects; Shirley MacLaine is
the neurotic, whisky-swilling
daughter of a producer, with
no sexual inhibitions and a
bantering attitude to a pro-
fession which has ruined her;
Dean Martin plays a director
who shoots meteorically to
fame, but is brought down by
the numerous flaws in his
character; and Carolyn Jones
is a hard-boiled theatrical agent
with a built-in weakness for
actors.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
❖ ❖ *
“The Best of Everything’'
Cynicism gets a thorough
work-out in this serio-comedy
set in a big New York publish-
ing-company, with the impact
of love on careers —feminine
career s —and the cattiness
among skirted executives con-
juring both laughs and what the
director has fondly hoped
would be tears. There are
several inter-office love-affairs
entwined, extra-marital amours
bloom exotically, with a maga-
zine glossiness over all.
It adds-up to entertainment
of no great depth; but some
recognisable characters emerge,
the dialogue is snappy, and the
little intrigues inseparable from
the determination of a group
of females eternally jockeying
for plum positions are limned
with merciless frankness.
The best performances come
from Brian Aherne, who is
editor-in-chief of paperback-
production when not pursuing
with seeming casualness the
less fly of the girls in the office;
Joan Crawford, as a waspish
editor who regards every other
member, of her sex as a poten-
tial destroyer, professionally,
of herself; and Hope Lange,
as the ambitious girl who
achieves her dedicated task of
replacing Miss Crawford, but
finds that the chair can become
a hot-seat.
At Sydney Regent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ferry to Hong Kong
Routine stuff about a no-
good (Curt Jurgens) who,
barred from landing in either
Macao or Hong Kong —his
favorite sport is starting brawls
in nightclubs—is obliged to
shack-up on a ferry skippered
by Orson Welles. Sylvia Syms
brings her schoolchildren across
on the ferry every Friday, and
she becomes interested in the
cynical permanent passenger.
Then comes the old business
of crisis bringing out the best
in a man: there is a hurricane,
and Jurgens takes the ship into
a Chinese cove where a bunch
of Communists come on board.
Revelling in his new responsi-
bilities, Jurgens gets rid of
them; the captain, all surliness
and pomposity gone, now
merely a dejected wreck,
manages to steer the ferry back
to harbor, where it sinks.
Jurgens, in a dirty cotton
suit, is convincing enough;
Sylvia Syms is a fresh and
believable teacher; Orson
Welles, rather typically, over-
plays the captain.
At Sydney State.
*> ❖ ❖
Ballet Film
Dancer Robert Pomie's latest
enterprise is the filming of his
own ballet “Death Cell,” which
had its first Sydney perform-
ance at the Ballet Theatre
Franqais last year. Running
for 16min., the film has been
devised primarily for television.
Pomie directed the film him-
self, assisted by Jacques Pou-
devigne, and in it he is part-
nered by Kathleen Gorham.
As a pilot-film, designed to
show what can be done to
provide Australian-made tele-
vision-material, it is full of
promise. Although the music
by Grieg seems out of keeping
with so sombre a theme, the
quality of the dancing, the
skilful use of devices such as
the dissolve, and the successful
creation of mood give it much
interest. One cannot imagine
how it could possibly be in-
terrupted by a TV-commercial,
no matter how carefully
chosen, at any point.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatraax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 1771 —BW 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
r. R. LEVY
saiosiaa <i v
oxntAvoa r i u it
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 —(10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Victorian-registered, and listed in
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide,
Cyclone is widely known throughout Aus-
tralia. Subsidiaries include Cyclone
Double-Grip Scaffolding Pty., K-M Steel
Products Pty., Cyclone Forgings Pty.,
Wm. C. Lynch Pty. and T. N. Chuck
Pty.
The group operates about 20 factories
and branches, and manufactures a wide
range of metal products. The parent-co.
turns-out gates, fences, prefabricated
buildings, and other equipment from
tubular-steel and wire. Subsidiaries
manufacture drop-forgings of various
types, tubular scaffolding, steel and
aluminium window-frames and other
sheet-metal articles.
Only last week Cyclone announced a
new expansion programme, involving
capital - expenditure to the tune of
£2,000,000, about half of it financed
internally.
The co. will take-over M.P. Metals
Pty., scrap metal-merchant and processor,
and its associate co., M.F. Washers Pty.
Consideration will be in cash (amount
undisclosed) and Cyclone scrip (305,000
f.-p. 10s. ords.). The group will spend
about £200,000 in M.P. Metals to ensure
adequate supply of "steel-scrap to the
subsidiary K-M Steel. Having secured
its own source of raw metal, the co. will
cast its own steel billets for rolling for the
first time.
K-M Steel will build a new £1,500,000/
plant at Clayton (Vic.). It will be the
first in Australia to install a continuous
casting-process.
Last term, particularly during the first
six months, was said to have been “very
difficult.” The sharp drop in wool prices
had slashed rural incomes. The easing-
down of urban spending on building early
in 1958-59 had aggravated the reduction
in demand.
Sales were lower, but were described as
“reasonable” under the circumstances.
In order to boost the slackening turnover
cost-increases had to be absorbed, reduc-
ing the profit-margins. A “concerted
effort” was made to control and reduce
expenses.
The subsidiaries “maintained a satis-
factory level of business.” Cyclone
Double-Grip Scaffolding had a reason-
ably good year. The depots at Porf
Kembla and Newcastle (N.S.W.) contri-
buted to group-profit. Several new lines
were added, including a wide range of
concrete accessories. K-M Steel Products
made steady progress. Sales were main-
tained and satisfactory profits earned
despite stiff competition. Extensions to
the subsidiary’s works at Richmond
(N.S.W.) were completed.
Cyclone Forgings Pty. had improved
its results, reflecting the introduction of
53 new lines produced and marketed
during the year. Tooling has commenced
for some additional products to be put.
out in the current term.
Structural changes included the sale
of most of the assets of T. N. Chuck, Pty.
(which did not operate during the year).
Wm. C. Lynch Pty. was brought under
direct control of Cyclone. Wm. C.
Lynch Holdings Pty. was liquidated
during the term.
Difficult trading conditions experienced
last term resulted in a substantial cut in
consolidated net earnings. The drop
appears even greater if previous year’s
profit is adjusted for the £29,000 tax
overprovision.
Group trading-profit was £175,185
lower at £703,683. Income from invest-
ments amounted to £4873 and there was
£743 of sundry earnings. This was after
writing-off £226,206 for depreciation of
fixed assets (down £13,929 on a slightly
lower book-value of fixed assets).
Consolidated net profit (after allowing
£23,069 for minority interests) for the
year ended June 30, 1959, was £69,118
lower at £441,739:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
—Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. serves. serves.
6 p.c. 12A p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Add excess par over cost shares in
subsidiary, £60,132 .. .. 1,739,869
Less unexplained reduction, £19,327 1,720,542
6 p.c.
1956. .293,895 38,591 182,358 72,946 1,793,488
Less net excess cost over par shares
in subsidiaries, £353,060 . . . . 1,440,428
Loss sale assets, £9460 .. .. 1,430,968
Share-issue expenses, £36,873 . . 1,394,095
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ... .. 1,389,095
Share-premiums, £155,564 .. .. 1,544,659
Add adjustment minority interest,
£40,095 1,584,754
Tax overprovided, £16,908 .. 1,601,662
Unexplained reduction, £ll,BlO .. 1,589,852
1957. .298,402*39,000 227,453 31,949 1,621,801
Profit sale assets, £9048 .. .. 1,630,849
Share premiums, £230 .. .. 1,631,079
Tax overprovided, £10,259 . . .., 1,641,338
Add adjustment minority interest,
£397 1,641,735
Less not difference between par and
book values of shares acquired in
subsids., £37,367 .. .. •• 1,604,368
Unexplained reduction. £3410 . . 1,600,958
12 A p.c.
1958. .510,857*39,000 293.918 177,939 1,778,897
Profit sale assets, £18,457 .. .. 1,797,354
Share-premiums, £2 . . •• •• .1,797,356
Less net difference between par- and
book-values of shares acquired in
subsidiaries, £1479 . . . . 1,795,877
Unexplained reduction, £5020 .. 1,790,857
Tax overprovided, £29,300 .. 1,820,157
Add adjustment minority interest, £9l 1,820,248
1959. .441,739 39,000 293,918 108,821 1,929,069
* Less pre-acquisition profits, deducted from the
excess of cost over par-value of shares in subsidiaries.
The result was arrived at after providing
£244,400 for taxation (down £105,800).
In the past the co. had consistently over-
provided for its income-tax, but the posi-
tion is complicated a bit by the operating
subsidiaries.
After satisfying the unchanged pref.-
dividend requirements, absorbing
£39,000, the earning-rate on the average
ord. capital was 17.1 p.c. This compares
with almost 20.1 p.c. in the previous
term.
Perhaps a better picture of the trend
in Cyclone's earnings is given by the
relation of net profit for ords. adjusted
for lax overprovisions to the average ord.
capital employed. Last term’s 17.1 p.c.
would then compare with 21.6 p.c.,
34.2 p.c. and 22.4 p.c. over three years
back to 1956.
Profit on sale of assets brought-in
£18,457. Another £29,300 overprovided
for tax in the preceding year was written-
back into reserves. Intangibles increased
by £1479. There was a £5020 undisclosed
reduction in the general reserve, but £9l
was added by way of an adjustment of
minority interests.
Dividend-rate was steady at \2\ p.c.
There were no changes in share-capital.
Loans on mortgage were reduced by
£83,125 to £701,875. Borrowings on
unsecured notes remained unchanged at
£1,000,000 (£299,200 maturing in 1962
and £700,800 in 1967):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Old 2,283,663 2,351,339 2,351,839
Reserves .. . . 1,621,801 1,778,897 1,929,069
Minority interest. . 458,820 332,673 335,251
Mortgage, etc. . . 563,829 785,000 701,875
Notes .. .. 274,825 1,000,000 1,000,000
Deposits, etc. .. 25,365 14,076 14,266
Overdraft . . 1,608,663 773,966 808,477
Creditors, etc. .. 671,622 626,440 643,659
Tax provision .. 453,330 350,200 244,400
Final divs. .. 136,113 166,459 166,459
£8,748,031 £8,829,050 £8,844,795
Land, buildings .. 2,659,782 2,811,498 2,819,165
Plant, etc. . . 2,267,676 2,277,818 2,199,659
Stock .. .. 2,299,605 2,354,635 2,315,695
Debtors .. . . 1,294,757 1,248,746 1,349,120
Cash, etc. .. 226,211 136,353 161,156
£8,748,031 £8,829,050 £8,844,795
Land and buildings were a bit higher,
but plant showed the effect of substantial
depreciation write-offs. Stock was
£38,940 lower, but debtors were up
£100,374 at £1,349,120. Working-capital
increased by £140,117 compared with the
preceding term.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at £7 11s. 9d. for the 20s. prefs., and at
18s. 3d. for each of the 2,351,339 10s.
ords.
Cyclone has shown definite resilience
by maintaining its pc. div.-rate, in
spite of the fall in -earnings. The group
has built-up substantial reserves to fall
back on in times of need.
However, minority interests and short-
and long-term borrowings still loom fairly
large in the group’s capital-structure.
Cyclone’s fortunes are tied to the


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. I>. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mntnal Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Orafton and Armidale
sheep’s back, and its earnings are vulner-
able to fluctuations in rural incomes. Its
connection with the building-industry is
less dependent on the wool prices, and
seasonal conditions, but may be affected
by any anti - inflationary credit-
restrictions.
The current indications are that
this term’s earnings will be higher.
Early results have been described
as encouraging. The new expansion
moves should considerably improve the
group’s productive capacity and earning-
power.
At last sale in Sydney the 10s. ords.
fetched 30s. each. The immediate return
was 4.2 p.c. on the steady p.c. div.-
rate. The 20s. prefs. last changed hands
at par.
East African Coffee Plantations, Ltd.
TThe co. was formed in Melbourne in
1928 to operate coffee- and tea-plan-
tations in Kenya. It owns and leases
extensive holdings in the Kiambu and
Nandi uplands.
For the first 20 years there was nothing
in it for shareholders. After the war the
situation rapidly improved, and in 1949
a 7 p.c. maiden div.-cheque was paid.
Handsome dividends and bonus-scrip
then started to bubble through the
percolator.
The very high-grade type of coffee
grown in Kenya (of the Arabica
flavor) enjoys a better market than the
more universally known Santos and Java.
More recently, the world demand for
coffee became steadier. Last term
prices eased somewhat, and the crop
itself was much lower. On the other
hand, tea production was 59 p.c. higher
than in 1957-58. The gross tea-profits
amounted to 27.6 p.c. of all the gross
earnings.
Total production from coffee estates
was 305 tons (down 194 tons). The
average price received per ton was £399
(£33 less than in the previous year).
East African’s production represented
1.3 p.c. of the total Kenya coffee-crop,
compared with 2.4 p.c. the year before.
Black tea processed in the co’s tea-
factory amounted to 256,0171 b. (60171 b.
above the estimate). Prospects are good,
and the estimated crop for the current
term is 340,0001 b.
At the Nairobi tea-auctions prices
averaged 3s. lid. a pound (down ljrd. a
pound).
During the year about 200 acres of
forest-land were cleared for tea-cultiva-
tion, making 250 acres of new land.
Weather conditions in the Nandi area
were generally favorable, but at Kiamara
irrigation saved the plantations from the
effects of drought.
As a result of the smaller coffee-crop
and lower prices, net profit for the year
was almost halved, falling by £65,977 to
£71,108:
To Re- Re-
May Profit. ( Dividends v serves. serves.
31, £ £ £ £
1952.. 97,070 32| p.c. = 58,500 38,570 191,849
Loss sale investments, 4250 .. .. 187,593
Unexplained reduction, £32 ... .. 187,561
1953.. 60,288 27J p.c. = 49,500 16,788 204,349
Loss sale investments, £1231 .. 203,118
Unexplained reduction, £l4B . . 202,970
1954.. 65,570 37J p.c. = 67,500 201,040
Assets revalued, £360,000 . . .. 561,040
Revaluation res. capitalised, £360,000 201,040
Unexplained reduction, £136 . . • • 200,904
1955. .121,254 16J p.c. = 87,750 33,504 234,408
Loss sale investments, £3179 . • 231,229
1956.. 93,690 161 p.c. = 87,750 5,940 237,169
i Assets revalued, £270,000 .. •• 507,169
Revaluation res. capitalised, £270,000 237,169
Written-off investments, £124 .. 237,045
1957. .102,913 104/sp.c.= 87,750 15,163 252,208
1958. .137,085 10 4/5 „ „ 87,750 49,335 301,543
1959.. 71,108 10 4/5 „,, 87,750 284,901
All amounts shown are converted to Australian
currency at prevailing exchange-rate.
The figure was struck after providing
£11,794 for Kenya taxation (down
£27,574), writing-off £8931 for deprecia-
tion (up £1719). Australian tax absorbed
£139. (All in Australian currency.)
The earning-rate on average ord.
capital fell from 16.9 p.c. to 8.8 p.c. This
wasn’t enough to cover the steady 10f p.c.
div.-rate, and £16,642 was drawn from
reserves
Cash and bonds, etc., fell by £99,593
to £BBBB during the year:
Converted to Australian Currency.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £BlO,OOO £BlO,OOO £BlO,OOO
Reserves .. .. 252,208 301,543 284,901
Staff fund .. 3,805 5,303 7,998
Bank overdraft .. - 7,412
Creditors . . . . 11,764 26,257 13,108
Tax provision .. 44,989 63,786 47,869
Dividends .. 87,750 87,750 87,750
£1,210,516 £1,294,699 £1,259,038
ASSETS.
Freeholds, leaseholds,
buildings . . 825,493 833,575 840,632
Plant, livestock, etc. 58,587 78,609 80,483
Plantation develop-
ment . . . . 202,642 229,569 267,980
Stock . . . . 18,036 16,890 21,937
Debtors . . . . 15,943 24,458 36,001
Shares . . . . 3,117 3,117 3,117
Cash, bonds, etc. 86,698 108,481 8,888
£1,210,516 £1,294,699 £1,259,038
Current liabilities exceeded current assets
by £94,194. Current ratio was only
0.4 to 1. Intangibles, represented by
£267,980 accumulated plantation develop-
ment expenditure, may be less intangible
than they appear formally.
But, excluding the item, net tangible
asset-backing works out at 10s. 2d. for
each 10s. stock-unit.
In spite of the 1958-59 setback, East
African coffee has good chances of
making a much better showing in the
current term.
The general condition of the two
coffee estates in the first half of this year
is said to be very satisfactory. Good
flowerings are reported. Although
weather conditions continue to be dry
at Kiamara, irrigation has made-up the
deficiency in rainfall. Prospects are
described as “excellent.” However, losses
through coffee-berry were severe, and no
antidote has been found to date. This
term’s coffee-crop estimate is 420 to 450
tons.
Quite apart from the financial aspects
and production technicalities, a prospec-
tive investor would be wise to consider
the risks inherent in any African venture.
Labor-costs will gradually rise as
the native workers begin to enjoy higher
standards of living. Admirable as this
may be, the world coffee- and tea-markets
are ruled by the law of supply and
demand and will not compensate the
growers for the increasing wage-costs.
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s. ords.
could be bought for 165., returning 6.8
p.c. on the basis of the steady 10 p.c.
dividend. "
Cemac Associated, Ltd.
/'"''emac Associated, Ltd., is a manufac-
turer, importer, distributor and con-
tractor of plywoods, veneers, etc. From
the outset the co. experienced buoyant
growth and developed expansionary
tendencies.
On conversion to public status in 1956,
Cemac controlled three operating-cos.
engaged in merchandising plywoods,
veneered panels, doors and certain
builders’ materials, designing, prefabri-
cating and installation of partitions, and
importing and selling timber.
In 1958 the Rosebery Veneer group
was bought-out, giving Cemac direct
control over its chief source of supply.
Next, Cemac Rosebery Pty. was taken-
over, becoming the main distributor for
the Cemac group in Victoria. Another
two cos., manufacturing and distributing
veneers, were acquired in Cairns (Q.).
Early in 1960 the subsidiary Rosebery
Veneer bought the whole issued capital
of Veneer and Plywood Pty., said to be
one of the largest millers of native soft-
wood logs in N.S.W., with sawmill and
veneer-plants on the Hastings River.
Purchase consideration was satisfied
partly by the issue of Cemac shares and
partly in cash.
By the end of last February paid-up
capital had more than trebled to £250,460.
Expansion continues.
The first three full years of business
give an impression of business vitality
and drive. Profits increased each year,
and earning-rates were high. Shareholders
were invited to subscribe to a one-for-
four par-issue in 1957-58.
Last term was described as a period of
consolidation, but expansion was stepped-
up in the current year. Aggregate turn-
over increased by £190,836 to £1,673,525,
reflecting the co.’s entry into wider
markets. Costs of establishing new out-
lets for Cemac’s wide range of products
were considerable, and dampened the
overall profit-margin. But the co. still
had a good year, comparing favorably
with the preceding financial period if the


Wm. NOALL & SON
ESTABLISHED 1857
Members of
THE STOCK EXCHANGE OF MELBOURNE
are pleased to announce
the establishment of
their Sydney office at
CITY HOUSE
164 Pitt Street
Telephone 61 5180
Manager:
Mr. HAROLD MARTIN
*
Partners:
Gerard Noall
Noel Larritt
R. G. Noall
J. W. Cords
G. A. Richardson
J. A. E. Carr
D. G. Annells
*
Melbourne Office: 401 Collins Street
also at
Canberra Dandenong Geelong
Make a safe and secure investment with . ..
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.)
FINANCE COMPANY
This is «n INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED INVESTMENT
FIXED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
EARN
per annum
10% for 3 years
,9% for 2 years
8% for 1 year
BASED ON THE
SECURITY OF
CAREFULLY
SELECTED REAL
ESTATE
INVESTMENTS,
PLUS INDEMNITY
POLICY
• Interest is paid quarterly e The original sum
deposited is returned in full at the end of the
term nominated • The depositor has the right of
withdrawal of capital in an EMERGENCY.
The repayment of principal and interest is
INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED by an
Indemnity Co. which issues a policy to each
depositor.
MAIL THIS COUPON FOR BROCHURE.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O’Connell Street,
Sydney. Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines) or Box 4790,
G.P.O., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 9/3
J
Mi 0/A.
1957-58 preacquisition earnings are
excluded.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1959, was £9744 higher
at £45,734:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. , Dividend ——serves, serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
Share expenses written-off, £1467 .. 7,016
Over-provision for tax, £2571 .. 9,587
1957 ~ 20,037 10 p.c. = 8,000 12,037 21,624.
Share premiums, £21,636 .. .. 43,260
Assets revalued, £2566 . . . . 45,826
Capital profit, £3 . . . . . . 45,829
Added 'on consolidation, £17,982 .. 63,811
1958 .. 35,990 124 p.c. = 20,419 15,571 79,382
Less decrease consolidation reserve, £8 79,374
1959 .. 45,734 1?J p.c. ?0,774 24,960 104,334
* Subject to intangibles, £2391 at 30/6/’59.
This was after providing for all expenses
and charges, including £30,811 for taxa-
tion (down £7802) and £17,123 for depre-
ciation (up £3647). The anomalous
reduction in tax-provision may be
explained by the fact that in the previous
year Cemac paid tax on £14,590 pre-
acquisition profits of subsidiaries
(excluded from the consolidated net
earnings in the table).
The div.-rate remained steady at 124-
p.c., taking-up a bit more at £20,774.
Reserves benefited by £24,952 net, and
totalled £104,334 at balance-date, subject
to £2391 intangibles.
The earning-rate on average ordinary
capital improved to 27.5 p.c., compared
with 22 p.c. in 1958 and 25 p.c. in 1957,
(However, if pre-acquisition earnings are
added-back into the preceding term’s
group-profit, there was an easing-down
in the earning-rate from 30.4 p.c.)
There were no capital changes during
last term. At June 30, 1959, paid capital
was £166,199 in ss. f.-p. ords., each
backed by Bs. Id. of net tangible assets:
.Cemac Associated and Subsidiaries.
1937. 19-58. 1959.
Paid capital .. .. £BO,OOO £ 106.199 £ 166,199
Reserves .. .. 21,621 79,382 104,331
Outside interest . . 2 1
Mortgages, etc. .. 5,500 54,130 57,240
Overdraft .. .. 10,857 31.431 85,744
Creditors .. .. 102,695 145,557 133,036
Tax provision .. .. 11,722 39,694 31,275
Final dividend .. 8,000 12,465 10’387
£240,400 £52.8,862 £588,215
Freeholds .. .. 25,513 81,752 102,677
Leaseholds. ~ 8,379 2,229
Plant, etc 10,981 72,283 734-520
Shares 6,008 88 88
Stock 65,260 149,917 178,846
Debtors 125,422 207,315 221,673
Intangibles .. .. 1,904 2,212 2,391
Cash, etc. .. .. 5,312 6,916 6,791
£240,400 £528,862 £588,215
Since then paid capital has increased to
£250.460, following the issue of 337,044
ss. ords. at a premium, as part-
consideration for the acquisition of
Veneer and Plywood. The share-
premium reserve has lifted from £21,636
(at balance-date) to £156,454.
Overdraft was £54,313 higher at
£85,744. Creditors showed a slight
decrease. Stock and debtors were up.
Current ratio was 1.6 to 1, and working-
capital £146,868.
The future looks promising, but the
co.’s prospects are tied to the unpredict-
able building-trade. Cemac has the
advantage of certain diversification, both
in products and market geography.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands at 15s. 9d. each. The
immediate yield was 4 p.c. on the basis
of the steady 124 p.c. div.-rate.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd.
'T'he oldest extant brewery in Australia,
■*- Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd., began
operations in Tasmania in 1833. Marcus
Clarke, the celebrated Australian author,
writing in praise of the brewery and its
products—Cascade ale, beer and stout —
affirmed “I had tasted nothing like it
since I left the Old Country.” Be that as
it may, Cascade has exhibited a com-
placent disregard for the investment
curiosity of shareholders. The 21s. ords.


Profit Participation
SHARE INVESTMENTS THROUGH
REG. SHARE BROKERS
The Investment Advisory Bureau has reopened its
list for subscribers until the end of March, 1960, and will
register applications for memberships in the order of their
delivery to this office. Please fill in the subscription coupon
below for further detailed information. The outstanding
success of the Bureau has been confirmed by the many
clients who have written to us expressing their deep
appreciation of the service we have rendered. Your
immediate attention to this matter will enable you to enjoy
a greater income through the sound advice given by the
Bureau concerning your investments.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Investment Advisory Bureau,
Suite 19,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Cl. Victoria.
1. Please find enclosed my cheque/money order
for £5/5/- for 12 months’ subscription.
2. Please forward detailed information concerning
The Investment Advisory Bureau.
Name .......... .
Address 8.1.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
(20s. paid with a reserve-
liability of Is.) sold for 68s. 6d.
last week, yet, less than a year
before, fetched only 265. 6d.
Last term Cascade presented
accounts in consolidated form
for the first time, and indicated
group-profit at £260,586, more
than three times the amount
claimed by the parent in the
preceding year (£70,420). A
timely warning to takeover-
merchants, this revelation of
hidden strengths comes as
rather a bitter brew for inves-
tors who sold their holdings
prior to account-consolidation.
Comparative analysis loses
much of its value in that group-
figures are not available for
1957-58. The problem is not
simplified by omission, in the
latest reckoning, of amounts
set aside for taxation and de-
preciation. However, compari-
son does give a clearer picture
of Cascade’s actual earning-
power and real asset-worth.
Group profit, £260,586 (up
£190,166), works-out a solid
36.1 p.c. on capital, as against
a diminutive 9.7 p.c. in the
previous term (a token figure)
and 11.5, 10.5, 11.2 and 7.1 p.c.
in the years back to 1954:
Parent Only.
Re-
Jne., Profit. — N serves.*
£/ £, £/
’53.. 48,141 5 p.c.- 27,373 287,328
To staff fund, £l5 N. . 287,313
Tax written-back, £7186 294,499
Unexpl’d reduction, £4lB 294,081
’54.. 52,511 5 p.c. = 30,000 316,592
Tax overprovided, £792.. 317,384
Profit sale assets, £27,234 344,618
W/off freeholds, £1505.. 343,113
Unexpl’d addition, £195 343,308
’55.. 66,970 6 p..c. = 36,000 374,278
Tax overprovided, £2512 376,790
Profit sale assets, £16,115 392,905
Unexpl’d addition, £750 393,655
’56.. 63,239 6$ p.c. = 39,000 417,894
Tax overprovided, £2439 420,333
Less adj. on formation sub-
sidy £8448 .. .. 411,885
W/off plant, £5452 . . 406,433
’57.. 69,037 7 p.c. = 42,000 433,470
Tax overprovided, £3029 436,499
Unexplained additions, net,
£279 436,778
W/off plant, £2456 . . 434,322
’58.. 70,420 74 p.c. = 54,210 450,532
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Tax overprovided, £4412 454,944
W/off freeholds and plant,
£14,793 .. .. 440,151
Surplus on consolidation,
£634,971 . . . . 1,075,122
’59..260,586 8J p.c. = 61,438 1,274,270
* Subject to intangibles, £9222 at
30/6/’59.
Dividends, £61,438, are amply
covered by profits, £199,148
remaining for transfer to re-
serves. Cascade upped the div.-
rate from 12 p.c .to 13| p.c. in
1949, after 11 years at the lower
figure, the rate dropping back
to 8 p.c. in 1951, following par
(three-for-five) and bonus (two-
for-three) issues in May, 1950.
Shareholders missed - out
entirely in the 1952 term, when
the board, unable to gain
Treasury approval for a new
share-issue, was forced to fall
back on borrowed funds and
trading-profits to finance a
heavy outlay on plant. Late
in 1952 the co. was permitted
to issue 90,000 ords. at par, a
modest 5 p.c. div. going out in
1953 and 1954. Since then
div.-rates have evinced a
steady upwards trend to 8i
p.c., the latest distribution. In
1957 Cascade acquired the paid
capital of J. Boag and Son by
the issue of scrip to a par-
value of over £122,000 and the
payment of an undisclosed
amount in cash, the deal rais-
ing capital to £722,804. There
have been no subsequent
increases.
Consolidation brought to
light a massive £634,971 (sur-
plus on consolidation) which
added to tax overprovided in
previous years, £4412, plus un-
distributed profits, less £14,783
written-off freeholds and plant,
raised reserves £823,738 to
£1,274,270. Subject to in-
tangibles £9222, disclosed re-
serves are now almost three
times the total shown in the
1957-58 accounts:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £722,804 £722.804
Reserves . . 450,532 1,274,270
Outside interests 20,927
Mortgage, etc... 137,000 407,074
Bank overdraft.. 74,233
Creditors, etc. . . 30,479 280,978
Tax provision .. 23,000 163,815
Final div. . . 32,526 39,754
Inter-co. balances 33*636
£1,396,341 £3,017,491
Freeholds . . 884,688 1,249,218
Plant, fittings.. 24,471 827,287
Shares other cos. 655
Shares, subsids. 428,402
Owing by subsids. 31,000
Stocks . . . . 517,513
Debtors .. 14,135 314,534
Cash, bonds .. 13,645 99,062
Intangibles . . 9,222
£1,396,341 £3,017,491
* Prior to 1959, parent figures available
only.
Rebuilding of hotels con-
tinued during the year, expen-
diture amounting to almost
£41,000. Installation of new
plant at the Esk brewery
(operated under the auspices of
subsidiary Tasmanian Breweries
Pty.) has been virtually com-
pleted, and further replace-
ments are planned in the cur-
rent term. Book-values of free-
holds and plant, fittings, etc.,
rose, largely the result of con-
solidation, to £1,249,218 (up
£364,530) and £827,287 (up
£802,816) respectively. Mort-
gage-liability increased £270,074
to £407,074.
Prospects for the current
year look well enough. Cas-
cade, through its subsidiaries,
Tasmanian Breweries Pty. (the
Cascade and Esk breweries),
Cascade Cordials Pty., Traders
Pty. and J. Boag and Son
(1911), Ltd., reports increased
activity and sales since June 30.
Directors are confident of
further expansion, and funds
necessary to finance same wili
be obtained from an issue of
unsecured convertible notes to
be made at par later this year.
The ords. had at balance-
date a net tangible backing of
555. (compared with a visible
325. 6d. 12 months ago), and
now that a truer measure of
the group’s disposition is avail-
able, the sharemarket has
rallied, trading going as high
as 68s. 6d. At this price the
shares (paid to 205.) give an
immediate yield of 2.5 p.c
from an 8{ p.c. div.
New ’Change Members
ATelbourne ’Change, cur-
rently engaged in electing
new members, has now chosen
Alan Thompson, who has
lately worked for and is now a
partner in the McKinley Wil-
son broking firm and before
that was with the E., S. and A.
Bank ; Vernon Hauser, who at
31 will become a partner with
Leonard May and Son and is
currently president of the
Camberwell L.C.P.; and Brian
J. Shimmer, who will become
a partner of Davies and Dal-
ziel, for whom he has worked
for the past 10 years.
Thompson bought the
seventh, Llauser the sixth and
Shimmer the fifth of 10
new seats made available at
£lO,OOO each. The ’Change
authorities are making very
smart work of the elections,
too. More than ever, time’s
money on ’Change.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGi PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magrnettingr Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
eU. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
eta,
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, February 29, 1960.
TCurther relaxation of N.Z.’s
-*• import-restrictions is ex-
pected to be announced soon.
The Minister of Customs,
Mr. Boord, told a public meet-
ing last week that the Govern-
ment felt that the financial
position of the country was
extremely strong and it could
now allow more exchange for
imports.
“New Zealand will never go
back to free importing so long
as the Labor party is in power,’’
said Mr. Boord.
The Government's policy is
to guarantee tariff and quanti-
tive protection to manufac-
turers who are efficient. That,
according to the Minister of
Industries and Commerce, Mr.
Holloway, is the only way
N.Z. can expand at the rate it
should.
Mr. Holloway said that to
deserve protection manufac-
turers would have to produce
quality goods at reasonable
prices.
New Industries
The Secretary for Industries
and Commerce, Dr. W. B.
Sutch, said it was clear from
the proposals for new indus?
tries that had been made and
continued to be .made that the
N.Z. market could now support
industries that a few years ago
could not have been established
economically.
The surge in industrial
development over the past two
years had two main reasons —
a rich expanding market with-
in N.Z. and a tendency for the
demand for imports to be
greater than the country’s
ability to pay for them.
The basic fact now was that,
even in a minor balance-of-
payments difficulty, savings in
overseas funds were made
partly at the expense of raw
materials, equipment for in-
dustry, machinery, -transport-
equipment and capital-goods
generally.
The urgent task was to
manufacture in depth, to im-
port materials in less-processed
form, much closer to the raw-
material stage and indeed some-
times right at the raw-materials
stage.
N.Z.’s overseas reserves at
February 17 stood at £9l
million, against £65.8 million
a year before and £45.8 million
two years ago.
During the year ended Janu-
ary, 1960, there was a surplus
“I feel much better since giving-up smoking!"
of £15,600,000 in overseas ex-
change transactions, compared
with a surplus of £18,400,000
for the year ended January,
1959. This year’s surplus was
achieved notwithstanding Gov-
ernment investment overseas
of £15,900,000 (net) and official
debt repayment of £11,600,000.
A Surplus Expected
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, expects a surplus
in the Consolidated Fund at
the end of the financial year,
March 31.
The public accounts for the
nine months to December 31,
1959, show that payments in
the period exceeded receipts by
£30.2 million.
The accounts include the
first £6 million of the £lO
million recently invested in the
United States Government
securities in preparation for re-
paying a New York loan next
year. Investments were also
made in Britain to the extent
of £5.6 million.
Mr. Nordmeyer said invest-
ments, and the decision not to
borrow externally, would neces-
sarily result in an overall
deficit. The £15.4 million sur-
plus of last year, however,
which arose from substantial
overseas borrowing, should
properly be offset against this
deficit.
Taranaki Iron-sands
Japan wants to buy Taranaki
iron-sand from N.Z.
The deposits were inspected
recently by S. Yasuhara, mana-
ger of the Okura Trading Com-
pany, which handles minerals,
machinery and shipping, and
T. Ichikawa, who is manag-
ing-director of the Nissho
Steel Manufacturing Co., Ltd.,
Tokyo, and is also a' geologist
specialising in the treatment of
iron-sands by electrical furnace.
On his return to Japan Mr.
Ichikawa said that Japan would
like to buy iron-sand if the
N.Z. Government removed the
present export-ban and export
prices were reasonable.
The Government has offered
Japanese interests reciprocal
N.Z. import-licences to a fixed
maximum percentage of the
value of any coal deal which
may be signed.
At least six Japanese firms
or their representatives had
been negotiating for West
Coast coal.
The Government has sent a
circular to all interested firms
advising them of the Govern-
ment’s licensing proposition
and outlining goods which
would be considered for im-
portation from Japan.
Paparoa Coal
Japanese steelmen have de-
clared that Paparoa coal is
ideal for their purposes.
The Paparoa mine has an.
annual output of about 25,000
tons, of which between 18,000
tons and 19,000 tons are needed
for domestic orders. Some
15,000 tons of coal at present
lie in stock-piles at Blackball,
a legacy from recent years in
which production has exceeded
demand. Production could be
extended to meet Japanese
needs.
The Nissho Trading Com-
pany of Japan plans to estab-
lish a joint Japanese-N.Z. trad-
ing-firm in Wellington soon.
It is proposed that capital
should be shared equally with
Bing Harris and Co., Ltd., of
N.Z.
The business of the new firm
will cover imports of Japanese
goods including sundry goods,
pottery, table-wares, electric
cables and wires, steel products,
and textiles, and exports to
Japan of N.Z. timber, raw
wool and meat.
Japan is reported to be
becoming more and more in-
terested in N.Z. mutton, largely
as a result of strenuous efforts
being made by the N.Z. Meat
Producers’ Board.
In 1955 Japan’s imports of
mutton amounted to a mere
eight tons. In 1958, this had
risen to 26 tons, but in the first
six months of 1959 imports
amounted to 267 tons and by
the end of the year were ex-
pected to reach 1000 tons. It
is considered possible that this
figure could be doubled in the
future.
Hearings beginning on
March 22 in the United States
will determine whether N.Z.
can look to building-up a trade
in lamb and mutton.
N.Z. hopes to sell a million
lambs in the United States
this year, but American sheep-
men are frightened at the effect
of imports on the future of
their industry and are asking
Congress for either higher
tariffs or import-quotas.
Timber Exports
N.Z. will find it harder to
sell timber in Australia now
that import-licensing has been
lifted, according to the presi-
dent of the N.Z. Sawmillers’
Federation.
New Zealand had never been
short of timber-licences in Aus-
tralia, but in future would face
stiff competition from the
United States and Canada
with Oregon and Russia and
Scandinavia with softwoods,
he said.


My Time in the West
By J. E. WEBB
TT is just on sixty years since
I had my first sight of
Forrestland. I was a fugitive
from my native Victoria, flee-
ing from the prospect of being
condemned to settle down in
Melbourne as a “senior” law-
clerk at a pound a week, my
solicitor boss having decided
to sack the fellow to whom I
was junior, and who knew a
great deal more about the job
than I did (for one thing, he
had an immeasurably better
engrossing hand), to save
expense.
The family fortunes had
been wrecked in the depression
of the ’nineties, and my father
was dead. I had become an
office boy in the Carlton
brewery, a temporary appoint-
ment, reserved for a proces-
sion of sons of distressed
licensees, and then in the Vic-
torian house of the Ward, Lock
concern, which was publishing
Ethel Turner's early and most
successful works. I can re-
member the shy, gentle creature
coming into the office. Beer
paid me seven-bob a week;
books, five-bob. The five-bob
I collected thankfully till 1
came to blows with the mana-
ger’s son, already an organist
of acknowledged parts. Hear-
ing the din, and seeing me on
the floor, his sire sacked me.
■poLLOWED a period of unein-
A ployment, during which I
became an habitue of the
Flemington Flat (I saw the
Melbourne Cup race of 1896)
and a visitor to John Wren's
backyard tote. Wren and his
myrmidons let kids like my-
self have the run of his evil
Collingwood joint. For all he
and they cared we could all
have gone to the devil, and I
dare say some of us did.
I had no “reference,” and the
solicitor employed me on the
recommendation of the
“senior,” already an acquaint-
ance, whom, when I had evi-
dently made good in a humble
fashion, he had decided to
dismiss. “But I can't take it,
sir,” I replied to his offer. “I’m
going to W.A.”
This brought me face to face
with the first great problem of
my working life. I had thought
vaguely of emigration to Kal-
goorlie, but had rejected the
notion as impracticable. I had
no money, and though there
were in Melbourne several
well - endowed paternal rela-
tives, one a rich bachelor, they
and their proud old mother
Fated a member of my family
so much that I could expect
only a curt refusal from any
of them.
In desperation I wrote to the
uncle least able to help, a
north-east farmer who had had
his reverses. He sent me a £lO
money-order and his blessing,
adding, that though he was
afraid I was too young and
too frail of physique to stand
up to the rough life of the
West, he could deny nothing
that was in his power to give
his favorite brother’s son.
“The thoughts of youth are
long, long thoughts,” and its
memories, unless there is decay
of faculties, are life-long. This
is one of the memories on
which I dwell with abiding
gratitude.
TTalf my uncle’s tenner
sufficed for a passage from
Port Melbourne to Fremantle
on the old Perth, long ago con-
signed to a shipbreaker’s yard.
She was packed from stem to
stern with Victorians making
for the goldfields, as I was.
The cabins were stifling; the
food rough, though plentiful.
Noticing my reactions, two or
three good fellows spoke to me
seriously, repeating my uncle's
foreboding and urging me to
return to Victoria as soon as I
could raise the passage-money.
It was my first introduction
to the rough kindness and
courtesy of Australian working-
men in my experience, preva-
lent then, and nowhere more
than in Kalgoorlie, which was
to be my home for three years.
To me, at least, there has been
a real decline in good fellow-
ship and manners in the present
age.
Another two pounds went in
railway fares from Fremantle
to Perth (where I did not then
tarry) and from Perth to Kal-
goorlie. A' trying experience
that, for a youngster who had
spent nearly all his life in Mel-
bourne, most of it in pleasant
St. Kilda. The train was slow,
the heat terrific (it was mid-
summer) and the carriages
were packed with thirsty
souls who perspired profusely.
Beyond Northam the country
seemed a howling wilderness.
It looks infinitely better today,
thanks largely to John Forrest,
C. Y. O’Connor and (in later
years) James Mitchell and his
adviser from N.S.W., G. L.
Sutton, who correctly prophe-
sied that much of that desert
would grow wheat and carry
stock.
Nobody met me at the
journey’s end. Carrying my
bag, I walked from the rail-
way. station to Hannan Street,
unexpectedly wide and spaci-
ous, in search of a boarding-
house-keeper who would put
me up for a few days without
making too much of a hole in
the little I had left.
Him I found in Jonathan
Morris, a queer character
whose formula for all and
sundry, strangers and accepted
boarders alike, was “Meals, a
shillin’; bed, eighteenpence.”
I was told later that Jonathan,
though only a handful, was a
master of the art of chucking-
out defaulting lodgers; but I
did not put his prowess to the
test.
A cousin whom I met
behind a Hannan Street
shop-counter, offered to put
me up for a few days
and show me the sights. 1
can't remember any of the
sights he showed me other
than the betting-shop, into
which he conducted me, ex-
plaining that a big race was
coming on at Kalgoorlie on the
Saturday and he had a good
thing for it. Pinned to a
wooden wall was a list of
starters —nine—and prices then
available from the merchant in
charge of the enterprise. My
kinsman studied this work of
art and mentioned Mealy
Potato as his good thing, but
said the price was too short.
“I’ll back Damaged Goods,”
he said; “no, Thunder and
Lightning. But what about
Asteroid, at fours? Yes; I’ll
have a pound on Asteroid—it’s
picking-up money. Here, lend
me a quid till Monday!” I
handed him a sovereign (yes,
they were in circulation then),
silently bidding it farewell.
At this cousin’s house, inno-
cent that I was, I was to be-
come acquainted with certain
of the facts of life. The walls
were of canvas, and to me one
night, anxious about the future
and trying to get to sleep,
came a dialogue of connubial
love. It was made up of
abrupt demands from one
party and of shrill protests and
reproaches from the other.
T left next day, having, as it
A happened, met my good pal
from the Melbourne solicitor's
office, who was working for
the leading lawyer in Kalgoor-
lie, a dry stick with a wonder-
ful practice, and who promised
to get me employment as his
assistant during a few busy
weeks. Knowing he would be
as good as his word, I rented
a hessian hut, “furnished” in
a fashion, for five shillings a
week, paying another five
shillings for a hundred gallons
of tanked water. This was to
be my home for most of my
three years in Kalgoorlie.
When the lawyer had no
further use for me I tried doing
a bit of hawking on the Golden
Mile, but as a hawker I was
a total loss in every sense of
the expression. The unsale-
able goods I had loaded up
with 1 dropped down an empty
shaft. I was feeling rather
gloomy, when I read in the
Kalgoorlie “Miner” that a boy
was wanted to help its proof-
reader. I expected a rush of
applicants, but there wasn't,
and I was successful.
Of my chief I remember
only that he was a rather
melancholy person, as proof-
readers are apt to be. Much
more vivid in my memory are
two cheerful compositors,
George Spruhan and Larry
Doyle (my rotten penmanship
notwithstanding, I always got
on well with comps.), and the
literary staff, whose stuff I
read aloud. There was a
leader-writer from Sydney,
long past his prime, but em-
ployed, I suspect, because the
firm got him cheap, and
because the editor, one of the
proprietors, couldn’t write,
though he was too conceited
ever to admit it.
The old party’s favorite topic
was Russia, and his great
aversion the reigning Czar.
Given his head, he would have
had two articles on the Mus-
covites and their ruler every
week; as it was, he had to be
content with one always headed
“Holy Russia,” and always
greeted with shouts of laughter
in the proofreader's room, if


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Jn Divorce.
TO DAN LANE late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that STELLA MARY LANE has
tiled a Petition for Divorce No. 3444
of 1959 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the, 16th day of May
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from T. L. BLATCH-
FORD, Solicitor, 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO REGINALD WILLIAMS.—TAKE
NOTICE that EDITH ALICE WIL-
LIAMS has filed a Petition for Divorce
in Suit No. 2391 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 16th day
of May 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from TAPER-
ELL & PETERSEN, Solicitors, 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce. -
TO PHYLLIS MARY PAULL late of 23
Barker Street Lewisham. TAKE
NOTICE that EDWARD PAULL has
filed a petition No. 4152 of 1959 for
divorce from you on the grounds of
desertion during 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 4th day of May
1960 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MERVYN FINLAY
& COMPANY, Solicitors, Newlands
House, 141 Elizabeth Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
nowhere else. His effusions, as
I remember them, closely re-
sembled many I have read in
recent years, with a Com-
munist boss substituted for a
Romanoff; some in papers
to which the 20 years’ Angio-
Russian alliance which
Churchill and Eden brought
off with Stalin in 1942
was an immortal triumph of
diplomacy. Hailed once in
Hannan Street our Czar-baiter
was asked how he was getting
on. “Splendidly, my boy,” he
said. “I’m eight leaders ahead
of them!”
A man with a much greater
influence on me was Irving,
the cable- and sub-editor. A son
of Professor Irving, of Mei-
bourne University, and a grand-
son of the Irving who was
the Thomas Carlyles’ closest
friend, and of whom Carlyle
wrote more affectionately than
he wrote of any other charac-
ter of any age, our Irving, deep
down, was as good a fellow
as his grandfather. He had
been trained for the teaching
profession; how he came to
toil on an obscure print for a
crowd like the “M ine r”
proprietors, none of whom he
could have liked and all of
whom I came to hate, I never
heard. But I am positive it
was to him that I owed my
promotion to junior reporter.
I am equally positive that I
did not let him down. In i
few months I was doing the
work of a general reporter, and
more—covering police rounds,
court work, council meetings,
public meetings, Trades Hall
developments (thereby getting
to know all the Labor leaders,
two of whom were presently to
become Federal members and
others State Ministers); report-
ing even boxing-matches. For
Kalgoorlie purses were attract-
ing the foremost sluggers of the
period. But they were not the
equals of the great boxers who
left Sydney in the late ’eighties
and early ’nineties —Jackson,
Slavin, Fitsimmons, Hall,
Creedon, Dawson, Meadows,
Billy Murphy, the incompar-
able “Griffo,” Willis and
others.
TU/Ty work as a reporter grew,
but my salary remained
stationary. It was a beggarly
twenty-five bob a week. Too
proud or too silly to ask the
proprietors for more, I was at
length obliged to put my case
before Irving, telling him I
could no longer live and
dress decently on the five
crowns and send something
worth-while to my mother in
Victoria. He promised to see
the editor about it, but said,
looking sadly at me, “You
know, Webb, none of us is
getting much here.” His repre-
sentations availed to the extent
that I found thirty-bob in my
next pay-envelope. Unless
my memory is betraying me
here, the editor had just become
first Federal member for Kal-
goorlie, and this distinction,
which very obviously swelled
his head, may have induced
him to be generous in his
fashion to me. I am certain
he wasn’t grateful for Irving’s
intervention. The first Com-
monwealth Parliament sat in
Melbourne for most of three
years. Throughout that period
this Kirwan insisted on remain-
ing titular editor of the
“Miner,” though Irving did
the work.
I could never understand
why Labor let Kirwan get
away with that Kalgoorlie
election. All the goldfield
seats, Federal and State, were
gifts for that party, but its
chiefs were strangely slow to
recognise it. Even in 1903,
when Kirwan had to go up for
re-election, they didn’t want to
oppose him; but Charlie Frazer,
my closest Trades Hall pal,
forced them down, got himself
selected and beat Kirwan
hollow. He was said to be 23
then, but my private informa-
tion was that he was only 21,
Frazer made a good impres-
sion on his fellow-members and
got into one of the early Labor
Ministries, but failed to look
after himself and died, still
young. Kirwan, for his part,
landed a Legislative Council
seat, rose to President, became
connected with exclusive Im-
perial clubs and periodicals
and died a knight.
For years Kirwan dogged
Forrest, denying him credit
for all the great works he
fathered and found fit
instruments to construct
among them the conver-
sion of a shallow roadstead
into a modern harbor at Fre-
mantle, an amplitude of gold-
fields-railways and good
schools and, above all, the
damming, piping and pumping
of water 400 miles to Kalgoor-
lie and beyond, all built with
remarkable rapidity consider-
ing the comparatively primitive
equipment then in use. And
Kirwan, an immigrant,
did his darnedest to stir-up fil-
feeling between goldfielders
who had come from the
eastern States and native sons,
of whom Forrest was the
chief: “T’othersiders” and
’Gropers, a division that was
dying even before the war of
1914-18, saw its finish.
But Kirwan had to take a
back seat when the Mundaring
water was turned-on without
overmuch ceremony. It was
Forrest’s day, and everyone but
the editor of the “Miner” and
his kind recognised it.
But I confess that my chief
memory is of George Houston
Reid, immensely fat and per-
spiring from every pore, and
what he said when the laugh-
ing crowd insisted that he
should speak. “Ladies and
gentlemen,” he began, wiping
his brow, and then his mouth,
with a handkerchief that looked
like a pillow-slip, “I have
never heard so much talk of
water in my life, and seen so
little drunk.” There were
other speakers, but none of
them could make himself heard
by the now-boisterous crowd —-
not that the now-boisterous
crowd wanted to listen.
!
I had been adding a guinea
to my thirty-bob from the
“Miner” by writing a weekly
chronicle of events for the
(Continued on page 45)


The Argument About...
Australia’s First Powered Flight
By STANLEY BROGDEN
IN the 1920’s one of the
most debated questions in
Australian flying-circles
was: “Who was the first
man to make a real powered
flight in Australia?” Many a
minor fracas has broken out
in pubs near the old grass air-
fields scattered over this con-
tinent because some would
credit Colin Defries and some
Harry Houdini. The uproar
has always been heightened by
the fact that Defries took-off
in Sydney and Houdini near
Melbourne.
I believe the credit goes to
Harry Houdini, who made his
flight on March 1, 1910, to
begin the unbelievable romance
of Australian aviation; but I
agree that the question can be
argued sensibly on both sides.
What the debaters often for-
get, however, is that Australia
came very close to securing
the honor of being the first
nation to produce powered
flight at all. For Lawrence
Hargrave might very well have
beaten the Wright Brothers.
\/fOST Australian school-
children know—or, as
Macaulay would have said,
they should know —that Har-
grave was one of the great
theoreticians and practical ex-
perimenters in early aero-
nautical research. He dis-
covered the principle of the
rotary engine and made beauti-
ful models of it. His design
was later copied by the French
aircraft industry to produce
the Rhone, Clerget, Gnome and
similar engines which powered
French aircraft in World War
I.
Hargrave also perfected the
box-kite to the point at which
the United States Weather
Bureau built some of them in
the 1890’s for observations.
In the 1900’s the French Gov-
ernment took up the design
for artillery observation and
military recce. The only
country which ignored it was,
apparently, Australia, where
Hargrave was popularly known
as “that mad kite-flier.”
In 1900, Hargrave had dis-
cussions with Sir Henry Bar-
raclough, then Sydney Univer-
sity’s Professor of Engineering,
on the possibility of making a
full-scale rotary engine and
powering a box-kite with it.
If he had done this —in other
words, if somebody had come
through with some money; for
Hargrave always had difficulty
in finding money to continue
even his most modest researches
—Hargrave might well have
beaten the Wrights. And, if
he had failed in that, he would
certainly have been first to fly
in what was then popularly
known as the British Empire,
the first flying citizen of which
was the Canadian, J. A. D.
McCurdy.
To compare the attention
paid by his own countrymen
to McCurdy with the neglect
given to Hargrave, G. A. Tay-
lor and John Duigan by their
fellow-citizens always raises
my blood-pressure. McCurdy
became a Cabinet Minister
(but so did the early Australian
pilot, Tommy White).
On February 23, 1959, Mc-
Curdy’s flight was celebrated
as a national event all over
Canada. Special stamps were
issued; his aircraft was copied,
built and flown at special air-
displays; the whole country
knew about it and regards
McCurdy as a national hero.
If any Bulletin reader under
the age of 70 can remember
March 1 for an important
event in Australian history I
would be surprised.
TJOWEVER, back to the
rival claims about the first
powered flight in Australia.
There are three contenders.
First, George A. Taylor,, pub-
licist, engineer and visionary,
who helped Hargrave in the
1890’s. In 1908 he opened a
factory in Redfern to produce
box-kites to Hargrave’s speci-
fications. The first to be flown
was a big affair of 28ft. wing-
span and weighing 1281 b. Har-
grave himself flew it at Narra-
been Beach. Taylor flew it,
too, and so did his wife, who
was Australia’s first woman
aeronaut, apart from those who
had gone up in balloons in the
1800’s.
Now, this was not a powered
flight, and for 30 years
hundreds of glider-flights had
been made by pioneers such
as Ch a n u te, Lilienthal and
others; but it was the first
flight made by mechanical
means in this country, as
opposed to balloon ascents,
which had been commonplace
from the 1850’s to 1880’s. The
date was December 5, 1909.
Taylor organised the Aerial
League of Australia, originally
chaired by Hargrave, 'to push
the development of aviation
here. In Europe flying had
been delayed until it was learnt
that the Wrights really had
flown —they were regarded as
liars in Britain and Europe for
some years after 1903. Flights
such as Louis Bleriot’s first
crossing of the English Channel
in 1909 created great interest
in flying. In Australia, Taylor
wanted flying to start on a
proper basis.
The league coaxed the Com-
monwealth Government to put
up a prize of £50,000 for the
first man to build and fly an
Australian aeroplane. The
money was never paid, but the
publicity set Australians on the
path to be followed by Hawker,
Hinkler, the Smith Brothers,
Kingsford Smith and many
other great Australian pilots.
Taylor himself was unlucky.
He had a glider which could
fly and be steered against the
wind. He designed and built
for it a 20-horsepower engine
at Balmain in early 1910.
When he brought the engine
to his airframe plant at Red-
fern he found it was defective.
From this came the first legal
battle in Australian aviation
history.
A young Sydney engineer, L.
R. Jones, then built an aircraft
to his own designs based on
imported plans of a Bleriot
monoplane. He also designed
and built a 30-h.p. steam-
engine. He was unlucky or
lucky, according to your ideas.
The aircraft was wrecked in a
storm before it could be flown,
which was perhaps just as well,
for the history of steam-
engined aircraft was dismal and
horrifying.
T ATE in 1909, Colin Defries
got together with J. and
N. Tait to stage a “Flying
Fortnight” at the Victoria
Park Racecourse. The idea
was not philanthropic. When
the aircraft was landed at
Circular Quay, Defries stood
on the packing-cases to whip-
up enthusiasm for the 2s. 6d.-
a-head take at the course. He
explained to the hecklers that
he could not think of taking-
off along Pitt Street, for the
Wright biplane weighed nearly
half-a-ton, and he couldn't fly
over the Harbor as he could
not find a take-off point at its
edge. The fans just had to pay
their half-crowns.
Some hundreds of them
turned-up at the course on
December 4, 1909, to see
Defries make his attempt. The
aircraft, with Defries in it, was
towed round the course so that
the fans could see it. On the
way it hit a fence, causing
damage that was quickly re-
paired. Then the tow-car
started again to pull the Wright
into the air. It would not go
up. Again they started, but
this time its undercarriage was
damaged. The crowd went
home.
On December 9, by arrange-
ment with the Aerial League,
a white flag was raised in down-
town Sydney to notify the
fans that the weather was right
for another Defries attempt.
This time he had better luck.
Daylight appeared under the
undercarriage, and the Wright


Fttitwe
\
Life in this century is full of adventure; swift
and exciting. The youth of today is being born
and reared in a world of cumulative wonders.
Whether or not they realise it—and are
prepared to fit themselves to take advantage of its
opportunities—they are heirs to an age their parents
and grandparents could not have thought possible.
Look, for example, at what has taken place
in aeronautics. Only fifty-six years have
passed since man succeeded in getting the first
heavier-than-air machine to rise power-driven above
the earth’s surface.
Since then advances through engine-propelled
flight have brought us on to jet propulsion. And
this, we are assured, is only a half-way stage to the
faster-than-sound speeds that will be conventional
in international air travel in the 1970’5.
To put it into a still more graphic frame:
Within sixty years from the day in December,
1903, when powered conquest of the skies was
begun with a flight measured only in feet in height
and seconds in time, plans are being made to traject
men to outer space.
I have cited the achievements in air and space
because they illustrate so well the dynamic progress
this century has produced. But all around us are
other flashing proofs that the fantasy of yesterday
has become the fact of today.
The effect of this is profound and all-touching.
Like its youth, Australia as a nation is young. Here
we have, for union with the future in all its fullness,
the great natural bounty of a continent.
Fortune has favoured us with this combining
of time and circumstance. It is something for
which history holds no parallel; for when other
nations were forming, mankind had not come
nearly so far along the ways of appliable
knowledge and discovery.
It is for us, then, to rise now to the
opportunity-gearing Australia’s effort to the paces
of performance this marvellous age will offer
and demand.
X
left the ground for 115yds. and
sjrsec. The crowd went wild.
Defries himself was not over-
impressed. On December 18
he tried again, but crashed into
a ditch. He was unhurt, but
the aircraft was wrecked. Exit
Defries.
This uncontrolled leap into
the air, towed by a car, is
claimed as Australia’s first
powered flight, but that to me
is hardly a tenable claim. The
honor definitely goes to —un-
fortunately, if you like— a
foreigner.
TN 1910, Ehrich Weiss, a
-*■ former Hungarian better
known by his stage-name of
Harry Houdini, was touring
the Australian circuit with his
famous escape-acts. He was
also one of the crack pilots of
his day, and he determined to
be the first man to fly in this
country.
With him came his Voisin
aircraft and his French mecha-
nic Brassac. The Voisin was
a box-kite adaptation, but a
very fine machine for its time.
When Hargrave was invited to
attend the first flight here he
refused, saying he had invented
the machine.
Houdini, his engineer and a
small party of enthusiasts went
up to Digger’s Rest, near Mel-
bourne, late in February, 1910,
to erect a tent and prepare.
There they found an American
pilot, Ralph Banks, with a
Wright biplane all ready for
flight. Neither man doubted
that they were vying for the
honor of making the first
powered flight in Australia.
Banks was a braggart.
Houdini, not very modest about
his professional life, was very
modest about his flying. He
often said the parrot talked
best and flew worst of all the
birds he knew.
The dawn of March 1
seemed perfect for flying. In
those days you needed a mild
breeze, without gusts, to take
the aircraft to its heart and
support it. If the wind blew
more than 40 m.p.h. while you
were aloft you simply flew
backwards —an achievement
which gave the late Tommy
White considerable enjoyment
in his later years.
Banks took-off just as a gust
came and wrecked his aero-
plane beyond repair.
Houdini awaited perfect
conditions. The sun was shin-
ing, the breeze came steady at
about 8 a.m. and the world
was lovely, he later wrote. He
told Brassac to let go, turned
the engine, tried taxi-ing, and
then let Brassac fix the rudder.
The aircraft raced along the
grass until it reached about 40
miles an hour; then it took-off
very well and stayed up for a
full minute. Houdini wrote
that as the earth pulled away
he felt all his tension and
worries vanish with it.
This flight was the first to
be regarded as a properly con-
trolled aerial voyage in Aus-
tralian history. The aircraft
took-off in a modern manner;
it was controlled in the air, and
the pilot stayed up as long as
he thought fit.
On March 4, Houdini went
up x again, for 7flmin., thus
putting his claims beyond
question. More than 30 people
signed a document stating that
they had witnessed this flight.
I often wish I could find one
of them.
MOW for the first Australian
to make a proper flight.
In France in 1909, just after
the Channel flight, F. H. Jones,
an Adelaide businessman,
bought a Bleriot monoplane
It cost him £lOO0 —a shocking
sum in those days for what
was a maze of fabric, wire and
wood.
Helped by two mechanics
who worked for nothing in
return for flights, Jones
assembled the aircraft at Boli-
var, near Adelaide. The first
man to try to fly it was Wittber,
who, on March 14, 1910, taxied
the aircraft about the field and
was literally thrown into the
air by a gust. He did not
claim this as a flight.
On March 17, Fred Custance.
the other mechanic, made a
proper take-off and stayed in
the air for simin., going up
to 50ft. As neither Custance
nor Wittber had ever seen an
aeroplane before and were
simply going by the textbook
supplied by the firm, Custance
had trouble getting down again.
To put a fine word to it, he
crashed.
When the Bleriot was re-
paired and ready for another
flight a child came too near
the propeller and lost an arm.
This so upset Jones that he
locked the aircraft in a shed.
(It was burnt in an accidental
fire). Jones abandoned aviation;
Wittber, I understand, may be
still living on Kangaroo Island;
Custance died some years ago
at Morgan (S.A.).
TN any other country all these
•*- anniversaries would be
celebrated at least mildly, and
some permanent memorial
would be raised. Here, the
Department of Civil Aviation
and outside enthusiasts have
been unable to persuade the
Commonwealth Government
to underwrite an aviation
museum.


How Free Should It Be?
THE FIVE-BOB POTION
One of the most controversial
questions of the modern “Welfare
State” is the extent to which a
Government should be responsible
for the health of the community.
This country has rejected the concept
of a completely nationalised health-
service with doctors, nurses and
pharmacists all on the public payroll
and with every citizen entitled to receive,
when required, free medical, surgical and
hospital treatment, free medicine and
free everything from spectacles to corn-
plasters. Benefiting from the experience
of other countries it has preferred a
system which combines Government
assistance with splf-help and under which
doctors, nurses and pharmacists are con-
trolled rather than directed.
The principle behind the National
Health Scheme is that while no person
needing medical attention must be denied
it on grounds of poverty it is desirable
that the average person should pay some
portion of the cost of keeping him well.
For this reason people have been advised
to join hospital- and medical-benefit
funds, which provide partial insurance
against the cost of illness and supplement
Government payments on that account.
Despite criticism from those who think
it a crime that anyone should be asked
to pay for even an A.P.C.-powder or a
pick-me-up, these schemes are working-
out fairly weli and have done much to
ease the financial burden which accident
or serious illness used to load on the
family-man. Few people really mind
paying-out for the minor illnesses that
befall everyone. It is when the occasional
big blow comes and to serious illness or
incapacitation, or worse tragedy, is added
a heavy bill for medical and hospital
expenses that the long-suffering victims
are inclined to ask, “Why did this have
to happen to us ?”
“Free” Medicine
TThe third side of the National Health
Scheme, pharmaceutical benefits, has
been developed more slowly than the
other two, but like them has been the
subject of bitter political controversy.
On March 1 the new scale of pharma-
ceutical benefits came into force, but so
many extravagant things had been said
about it in the preceding few weeks that
most people weren't in a position to know
whether something was being given to
them or whether they were being robbed
of something they'had previously had.
If they believed New South Wales
Health Minister Sheahan, for example,
then they Would consider they had “been
sold the biggest pup ever in this so-called
extension of the free-drugs scheme. To
call the scheme a free scheme is complete
and utter humbug.”
The answer to this, of course, is that
no responsible person (with the exception
of Mr. Sheahan) had called the scheme
a free one. As with the medical and
hospital sections of the health-scheme
“free” medicine would go right against
the principle on which the plan was
based—the principle of helping those who
help themselves.
Before the change last week the posi-
tion in regard to drugs and medicines
was that persons and their dependants
enrolled in the pensioner medical service
were entitled to free medicine. This
entitlement included “all drugs listed in
the British Pharmacopoeia, and other
drugs as specified.” In addition to this
plan for pensioners, certain “life-saving
and disease-preventing” drugs were
supplied free of charge to the general
community provided they had been pre-
scribed by a doctor. This list has been
progressively extended, and at the end of
June, 1958, covered 247 preparations.
Some Gain, Some Lose
TTnder the new scheme the position of
the pensioner is unchanged, except
that the list of free drugs has been
expanded. The practice of providing
life-saving drugs free to the general
patient has been discontinued and instead
the entire range of th_e list now authorised
for pensioners will be available to the
general patient at a fiat rate of five
shillings for each prescription. This
means that life-saving drugs formerly
free will now cost five shillings, but that
many other drugs which formerly cost
far more will also cost only five shillings.
That’s the official story, but many
critics, including some doctors and
chemists, claim it doesn’t work out that
way and that many people will find that
drugs they formerly received free will
now cost them a considerable sum, as
they have been removed from the
authorised list.
When Federal Health Minister Dr.
Cameron presented his amendment to the
National Health Act last October he said
that when the scheme had first been
introduced (in 1950):
No one could have foreseen that drugs
of this type, which then represented a
small area of total prescribing, and were
almost entirely specific in use, would,
within a few years, have their numbers,
uses and purposes enormously expanded
by fresh discoveries which have, in effect,
produced what can only be described as a
therapeutic revolution in the treatment
of disease... .Inevitably the number of
both drugs and prescriptions and, indeed,
indications for their use, has increased,
and in recent years at an accelerated pace.
The Minister said that in the first
complete year of operation (1951-52) the
life-saving drugs scheme has cost about
£7,600,000. In 1954-55 the cost was
£10,700,000; in 1955-56 it was
£11,800,000 and in 1956-57 £11,700,000.
At that time it seemed to have levelled
out to a condition of relative stability,
but in 1957-58 it jumped to £l5 million
and last year to £2l million. The pro-
jected cost for the current year was
several million higher still.
“An Element of Stability”
At this rate, said the Minister, the cost
would soon exceed £3O million a
year, so that pharmaceutical benefits
“would dominate the entire national
health service, leaving correspondingly
less room for manoeuvre for improve-
ments and operations in other directions.
The five-shillings prescription-charge is
intended to go some way towards meeting
this mounting cost.
The direct participation of the recipient
in the cost of such schemes will introduce
an element of control and stability other-
wise extremely difficult to obtain.... It is
important that social-welfare schemes should
be the responsibility of all, including the
beneficiaries, unless they are indigent.
This last remark is, of course, the key
to Labor opposition to the scheme. The
Labor view is that all such schemes
should be absolutely free, no matter how
high the cost and without any regard to
the source of the money that ultimately
has to pay for them.
In the debate on the bill most of Labor
criticism was inspired by a belief in free
medicine, and much of it consisted of an
attack on the medical profession, which it
sought to blame for the rising bill for
pharmaceutical benefits.
Foimer Health Minister Sir Earle Page
dealt with the “free” argument when he
related how the New Zealand Minister for
Health (in a Labor Government) had
said to him quite recently, “The cost is
going to rise £3 million this year. I don’t
know how we can cope with it. It started
at £1,400,000 and today between £8
million and £lO million a year has to be
found.” (New Zealand has a population
of 2,400,000.) He also reminded the
House that even Aneurin Bevan had been
forced to bring-in a charge of Is. a bottle
on medicine in an attempt to halt the
mounting cost of free medicine in Britain.
The move didn’t succeed and the charge
in Britain is now Is. for each ingredient.
Sir Earle doesn’t believe the five-shilling
charge will keep the Australian bill down,
either. He suggests that this can best be
done by bringing pharmaceutical benefits
into line with medical and hospital
benefits by means of an insurance-scheme
organised by the chemists themselves,
which would entitle contributors to be
supplied with medicine at a small fee
(he suggests Is. or 25.). This would be
similar to the provisions, already covered
in the Act, under which the friendly-
society dispensaries work. Pharmacists
have shown no enthusiasm over Sir
Earle’s proposal but if, as he confidently
predicts, the cost of subsidised medicine
continues to soar, it is a plan the Govern-
ment might well consider.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Melbourne Meetings
Fortunately, the V.R.C.,
which begins its Autumn Car-
nival next Saturday, has
retained its St. Leger, although
the A.J.C. has seen fjj; to dis-
continue this three-year-old
classic, which was first run in
Sydney in 1841 and has graced
the Randwick autumn meeting
since 1861.
Travel Boy will probably
start favorite for the V.R.C.
St. Leger, and has a chance to
join the select company of
winners of the Derby-St. Leger
double. However, this writer
prefers the Victorian youngsters
Dhaulagiri and Nilarco, and
selects them in that order, with
Travel Boy next.
The Newmarket, which goes
back to 1874, has rarely looked
so hard to forecast. One could
select half-a-dozen horses and
easily miss the winner. On his
seconds to Todman in the
Lightning Stakes and Futurity
Stakes, Gay Port could win,
with Anonyme and Oakleigh
Plate winner Power Duke
dangerous rivals. The chances
of Gabonia, Noholme, Prince
Lea and Planetoid could not
be discounted, and altogether
it promises to be one of the
best Newmarkets in living
memory.
• • •
The seven furlongs of the
Sires’ Produce Stakes should
suit Dalby nicely, with Impul-
sive (if she runs) and Samson
likeliest of the rest.
The Queen’s Plate is a
w.-f.-a. race over 10 furlongs,
and if Tulloch comes back to
racing in it he will command
more interest than any other
horse at the meeting. It is
impossible to say whether he
will win or not, but he will
carry everybody’s good wishes.
At anything like his best he
would win easily. Mac may
be the hardest for him to de-
feat, with Chicola next-best.
For the Australian Cup this
writer prefers Prince Dahomey
to the exclusion of all other
runners.
• • • •
Todman is a wonder —
there’s no doubt about that!
His clash with Lord in last
Saturday’s Futurity was one of
the most-eagerly-awaited races
in recent years. Many Vic-
torians, thinking more with the
heart than the head, were con-
vinced that Lord could beat
Todman, and at one stage of
‘he betting the two were equal-
.favon es - Hardly able to be-
heve it was not a mirage, Tod-
rnan s admirers accepted all the
even . m the b P ookmakers
~ , 3 , . . , ,
WOuld lay ’ and kept 0n back '
him [{ started at
®
antic|imax Todma P had i£
WQn a , a „ stages> and Lord ,
“A dumper-and-a-half, THAT one, eh, m’boy?”
in one of his occasional bad
races to lose second-place to
Gay Port. Todman ran the
seven furlongs in 1.23 f, a new
record for Caulfield.
Todman’s owner, English resi-
dent Stanley Wootton, was here
to see the Futurity, and at the
presentation-ceremony he paid
eloquent tribute to Maurice
McCarten’s skill in bringing Tod-
man back to racing as good as he
was before his breakdown.
There was one aspect of Tod-
man’s run which troubled this
writer a little. Neville Sellwood
did not touch the champion with
the whip, and he won very con-
vincingly ; and yet the nagging
doubt remained that Todman
would have trouble getting any dis-
tance further than seven furiongs.
Over the last little bit Gay Port
was not getting any closer, but he
was not losing any ground. It was
a very good run by Gay Port, and
must gain him admirers for the
Newmarket.
A few weeks ago this page
ventured the opinion that
Dhaulagiri and Nilarco were
the two best three-year-olds in
Victoria, with a slight margin
in Dhaulagiri’s favor. In the
10-furlongs Stanley Plate —
the field in which included
most of Victoria’s St. Leger
hopes—they substantiated that
opinion. It was Nilarco who
won the race, but he carried
8.8 against his rival’s 9.5, so
that the question of which
is the better is not quite
decided. It adds piquancy to
the situation that their respec-
tive trainers, Brian Courtney
(Dhaulagiri) and Ray Chap-
man, are close friends. The
St. Leger next Saturday should
settle the question. In that,
they will carry 8.10 each.
Wenona Girl came to Mel-
bourne with an unbeaten
record in four starts, and with
the reputation of being a
flying-machine. Rumors of
her ability were strong enough
to send her out a 7-to-4-on
favorite for the £2500 Merson
Cooper Stakes, over six-
furlongs for two-year-olds.
Wenona Girl finished second,
but at no stage did she look
like beating the Landau filly
Impulsive ; in fact, in another
stride or two she would have
lost second-place to the Sir
Dallas colt Dalby.
Quite a lot has been said on this
page about Impulsive, and it was
suggested here last week that she
might win the Merson Cooper.
She gets her great speed from her
dam, Spitfire, by Hostile, who won
the Oakleigh Plate in 1950. Impul-
sive has established her claim as
the best two-year.-old filly in Aus-
tralia, and she will give the Rosehill
£lO,OOO Golden Slipper Stakes
quite a shake.
• • • •
It was good to see Chicola
win a race again after her
long spell away from a
winning-bracket. As a three-
year-old she was an outstand-
ing filly, good enough to win
the Oaks, the St. Leger at
Flemington and the Adrian
Knox Stakes at Randwick. It
would be too much to suggest
that Chicola, now a four-year-
old, is back to her best, but the
win was an encouragement for
her owner, Mrs. J. Foster, who
hopes to win the Sydney Cup
with her.
Prince Dahomey defeated most
of his Australian Cup rivals in the
12-furlongs Woodcliff Handicap,
and although his margin over the
improving Joss Sticks was only a
few inches, Prince Dahomey’s was
the best staying performance, and
it is staying blood which wins the
Australian Cup (2 miles, \\ fur-
long). A five-year-old gelding by
Angus from Arresting, he has come
a long way in the last 12 months,
developing from a Trial horse to
a Bagot Handicap winner.
Gabonia gained himself a
lot of Newmarket admirers
when he won the Hawksburn
Handicap over six furlongs.
The merit of Gabonia’s run
was the time—l. 9.2, which
took a considerable slice off
Anonyme’s course record of
1.9.8, but the track was light-
ning fast at Caulfield, and the
fact that Correct was only
inches behind Gabonia dis-
counts the run. Still, Gabonia
likes the straight-six at Flem-
ington, and is sure to give his
backers a good sight.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Raced by R. E. and Mrs.
Polhill, a smart Newtown
Wonder (imp.) colt, Flash
Time, convincingly won the
opening race, the First Two-
year-old Maiden for colts and
geldings, at last Saturday’s
Warwick Farm meeting. A
well-developed youngster, he’s
from Nisi Prius (a half-sister
to Epsom winner High Law),
who’s by Marconigram (imp.)
from Statute by Law Maker
(imp.). Favorite New Legend
ran about a lot in the straight,
but as Flash Time did prac-
tically all the pacemaking his
win was full of merit, and
there should soon be more.
Two of the best resumed
racing at the Farm, Martello
Towers being defeated half-a-
head by Wanton Lass in the
Denham Court sprint, and
Valerius scoring a half-head
win in the Warwick Handicap
from favorite Essayist and
Kurrawong. Trained by Frank
Dalton for A.J.C. chairman
Sir Alan Potter and former
A.J.C. committeeman Keith
Mackay, Valerius, on 8.6,
comes into calculations for
the Sydney Cup, and also for
the A.J.C.’s £lO,OOO Centenary
Invitation Stakes. Not a sound
two-miler, he’d appear to be
best suited by the Invitation
Stakes, to be run over 12
furlongs.
Brisbane stayer Grand
Garry (now a member of T. J.


start tha day right!
.M+t
Smith’s team), Flash Gem,
Nadar Shah and Ziette all had
a preparation-outing in the
Denham; they were among
the last home. They’ll soon
be doing better over a bit
more distance. Boorala, who
also had a run, looks a quick
improver.
• • • •
Very well named in the cir-
cumstances, Something New,
from the T. J. Smith stables,
won the Two-year-old at 66 to
1. That was certainly out of
the way for a Smith-trained
runner, and there was no fluke
about it, either. The filly could
go on to much better things in
stronger company. Raced by
W. P. Keighery, W. Laforest
and A. H. Watson, and skil-
fully ridden by stable appren-
tice H. Williams, she’s by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Mid Gem by Midstream (imp.)
from Ducal Gem by Le Grand
Due (Fr.).
Following a series of un-
placed runs, Grecian Vale was
taken to the front early in the
seven-furlongs Edensor Park
Handicap in an attempt to lead
all the way. That suited G.
Moore on favorite Morning
Star, who won narrowly.
Dare Say came from the centre
of the field for third, and
appeared a little unlucky, and
Weeamera’s fourth indicated
an early win. Moore was hav-
ing his last race before going
again overseas. Remarkable
how many have ridden winners
in their last races before going
abroad!
Three placings from four
prior starts pointed to the grey
colt Malihina winning the
Second Juvenile Maiden for
colts and geldings, and he duly
started favorite, but the quote
would have been shorter had
not connections considered
Cathay Gem close to a good
thing. The pair had the race
practically to themselves from
the half-mile, with Malihina,
helped by the inside running,
able to hold Cathay Gem off
and win by three-quarters of, a
length. Malihina gets his color
from his dam, Niwari, who
is by the grey sire Nizami
(Fr.) from Tilt by Legionaire
(imp.) from Ednaver by Pistol
(imp.). Gallant - Archer, sire
“ Pop—could I have the dab-net if you're not
going to use it?"
of Malihina, won 17 races and
upwards of £23,000 in stakes
and his progeny are racing in
their first year. Highest bid
for the grey at the yearling-
sales 475gns. was turned
down.
Rosebery mentor Harold
Buckley has a promising
galloper in Kashgar, trained
for breeder-owners H. S.
Calder and S. N. Andrews.
The Rio Fe gelding gave a
very impressive display in win-
ning the 10-furlongs Novice
(for three-year-olds). Kashgar
had been placed at two prior
starts, and when third at Rand-
wick to Rancher came from
second-last at the home-turn.
His dam, Bedelia, is by Lusson
from Venetian Comedy, and
comes from an old family-line,
going back to Chester.
• • • •
At the midweek Canterbury
Park meeting Sky High (at
fours on) had another soft
snap, and Doncaster candidate
In Love beat a line-up of five.
An interesting winner was En-
core, a bush horse who won
his first race at Newcastle in
August, 1957, and has since
been successful round the sou’-
west, with five wins at Wagga
and others at Albury and Gun-
dagai. A six-year-old gelding
by Laudus from Maristra,
trained by J. L. Mclntyre and
ridden by F. Mclntyre, he made
his followers in the First Novice
look easy.
Tuilie Glance, shdrt-priced
winner of last Saturday’s Two-
year-old Maiden at Albion
Park (Brisbane), is a daughter
of Passing Glance (imp.) and
Tuileries by Genetout (Fr.)
from Mob Rule by Winning
Hit. The filly has an interesting
background, her family-lines
including Avalanche (Sydney
stayer whose wins included
Tattersall’s Gold Cup), Wise
Force (Caulfield Memsie
Stakes), Few Words (Queens-
land Cup) and Playboy (A.J.C.
Derby and St. Leger).
* * *
“Wanchai”: In the 1920’s I
was a poor-but-honest young
bank-officer in Dandenong
(Vic.). Shortly before Easter
a local s.-p. operator was
hawking a doubles-chart:
“Ten-quid to a bob, Doncaster
Handicap-Sydney Cup. You
can have anything that hasn’t
already gone.” I selected Don
Moon-Pisstoon ; it came off,
and the tenner was a definite
lift for me at the time. In
response to numerous after-
the-event inquiries, I acknow-
ledged that my selection was
based entirely on The Bulle-
tin’s tipping. Local circula-
tion increased by half-a-dozen
at least.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Following the
lead of the A.J.C. (whose
Randwick apprentices’ school
was the first of its kind in the
world), the Jockey Club of
South Africa is to build an
apprentice jockeys’ school in
Natal, the leading racing State
in that part of the world. How-
ever, the lads there will live as
well as learn at the school.
Should be a boon to racing in
S’Africa, where horses are
“scrubbed” or “sooled” along
rather than ridden.
* * *
The Trots
Great Cheer’s splendid
record of 14 wins from 15
starts was nearly shattered last
Friday night at Harold Park in
the second heat of the Sires’
Produce Stakes for three-year-
old pacers. Melbourne’s fine
three - year - old Alternative,
driven by Dal Fitzpatrick,
nearly did the trick. Trailing
Great Cheer at the bell-lap,
Alternative challenged strongly
from the home-turn and failed
by only half-a-head. With
seven straight wins at Harold
Park, Great Cheer is still three
behind champion Fettle’s great
run of wins there. Riverina
colt Bold Face won the first
heat from Shy Songster and
Malyandry’s Pride —head, head.
The first five in each heat will
contest the final next Friday
night. Kerryfield’s win over
Rosslawn in the Harold Park
Handicap completed the
double for Jim Caffyn, who
now has an unassailable lead
of 13 over P. J. Hall in the
drivers’ premiership.
* * *
Other Sports
“Bob Ray”: The English
speedway motor-cycle team
created records in winning the
recent “Test” series 5-nil. It


Divorce Notice
TO JOHN ROWLEY COHEN formerly
of 62 Vincent Street Nedlands W.A. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife PAT-
RICIA EUNICE LILLIAN COHEN has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of your
desertion for a continuous period ,of
three years or more If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia at
Perth within forty clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court may pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
DATED the 15th day of February, 1960.
—J. T. STAPLES, Registrar.
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
was the first time either team
won a series undefeated in
Australia, and also was Eng-
land’s first success in a series
here.
* * *
“Plunge”: Swimming must
be Australia’s wealthiest
amateur sport, both in talent
and in £.s.d At the recent
Australian championships 12
world records were made —one
more than in the former
greatest championships (1958)
—and followers have given such
solid support that the Aus-
tralian Swimming Union now
has about £23,500 in the bank.
A large amount will go towards
paying for the training of the
Australian team of 42 in
Queensland before they leave
for Rome.
* * *
“Oly”: One cause of com-
plaint in the past looks like
being attended to before our
teams head off to Rome.
Designers from Melbourne’s
big stores have worked
on frocks and so forth that will
knock ’em cold overseas when
our lasses go on parade. The
men, too, will be upholstered in
nothing but the best. They're
going to relax in Rome in
specially-made shorts and
monogrammed shirts, the idea
being to give them attire that
will help them overcome the
discomfort of Rome’s “enerva-
ting weather.” And it’s all “for
free,” Australian firms gener-
ously donating every stitch of
clothing required —a saving to
the Australian Olympic Federa-
tion of thousands of pounds.
* . * *
“Eianora”: Charlie Macartney
—the “Little Governor-General,’
as he was called —once told me
that when he first came to Sydney
he played with Waverley; Hansen
Carter, the Test wicketkeeper, was
captain. Waverley was playing
Paddington; Noble and Trumper
were in that team, and Macartney
was naturally anxious, in such
company, to acquit himself well.
He was 98, straining for his cen-
tury. Noble was bowling his ott-
theory, but he would not be
tempted. Noble kept it up, and at
last he nibbled at one. There was
a snick that could be heard all
around the ground. Third-man
snapped it up. “How’s that?”
came from all the Paddington team.
“Not out,” said the umpire.
Macartney knew he was out, and
he knew the whole Paddington team
knew as well. He said he felt so
rotten still being in when everyone
knew he was out that he had a
lash at the three remaining balls
of Noble’s over, but survived. As
the fieldsmen crossed - over,
Trumper, as he passed him, quietly
said: “Don't throw your wicket
away. In first-class cricket you'll
be given out more often when
you’re not out than you'll be given
not-out when you are out.” Sport-
ing of Trumper . . , and that’s
cricket.
* * *
“A.M.N.”: Don’t know of
any present-day notable
family cricket-team, but in the
past such teams recorded some
solid performances in country
cricket. The only international
from one of them in my book
was Ted Evans, a bowler in
the Evans team at Come-by-
Chance, back in the 1880’s. In
inter-colonial cricket, prior to
the Sheffield Shield, he played
in 17 matches, taking 107
wickets at an average of 13,
and was compared second only
to Turner and Spofforth. Ted
Evans played in six Tests
against England, four in Aus-
tralia and two in England on
the 1886 tour, when well past
his prime, taking seven wickets
at an average of 47.
* * *
“Bris”: The Queensland-
Victoria Shield match in Bris-
bane included a very attractive
second-innings 55 by 18-year-
old left-hand batting colt Des
Hughson. The timing of his
hook shots and back cuts was
a delight to watch. A few
years ago, when he was repre-
senting Queensland in the
inter-State schoolboys’ compe-
tition in Adelaide, his style was
likened to that of one-time
N.S.W. and Australian batting
star Warren Bardsley. Next
season he could fulfill that
promise.
* * *
“Keima”: Perth University fast-
bowler Keith Punch a week or two
back took four wickets in four balls
against Mt. Lawley, to finish with
8-13. Perth cricket has produced
quite a few good fashes in recent
years; Gaunt and Hoare have been
the most successful; Price, Dunn,
Gorringe and Bevan have also all
bowled well for the State. A good
fast-bowler in the making is Queens-
lander Peter Allan, who bowled
very well against both Victoria and
W.A.
* * *
“Mitron”: Odd feature of
the Q. v. W.A. Shield match
was that nine left-handers
played in the game, six in the
W.A. team and three in the
home team. I recall in the
1930’5, when Eddie Gilbert
was at his top, Victoria coming
to Brisbane with six (or
seven) left-handers, and, from
memory, they batted in suc-
cession.
* * *
“Inquirer”: Kevyn Webb,
p.-r.-o. of the N.S.W. Rowing
Association, has alerted the
sport to the danger of its dis-
appearing from future Empire
Games Because of costs of
boats, the sport is no longer a
compulsory one at Empiads,
but Webb has put plans before
the associations designed to
lift its status. In consequence,
N.S.W. has put it to the Aus-
tralian Empire Games Associa-
tion that many nations should
be invited to send oarsmen to
Perth in 1962. Webb has also
laid the foundations for staging
national championship
regattas for all sizes, shapes
and grades of oarsmen. The
first national regatta will prob-
ably be at Ballarat in 1962.
* * *
“Recorder”: Want a per-
manent film-library of the
colorful Olympic Games in
Melbourne in 1956? If so, 26
short-length films, produced in
Australia and showing 17 sports,
are available. They cost money
—the 26 will set you back
£677. Included is an introduc-
tory film of 2,omin. duration,
and total length of the films is
18,057 ft. —a tidy lot of sport.
Peter Whitchurch, head-
manager of the Official Film
Unit, Bellevue Hill, is the man
to contact.
* * *
“Athlete”: Youthful Robyn
Woodhouse, who shares the
women’s high-jump record for
Australia with Michele Mason
and Kath Atkinson at sft. 6-
ini, is regarded as the best
prospect in women’s athletics
for the Olympics. She’s a
perfectionist in the scissors style
—and she should be, too,
because she’s coached at Wol-
longong (N.S.W.) by Dr. John
Wiseman, who’ll be remem-
bered as a brilliant G.P.S.
champion of the 1920’5.
* * *
“Baffled”: What’s wrong
with the fodder or whatever it
is that makes N.S.W. such a
persistently dud State in top-
line mile footrunning? It can
hold its own at pretty well
everything else, but, amazing
as it seems, since the “mile”
was introduced in 1893 George
Campbell (1947) is the only
man to have won the Austra-
lian title for the State! On
the other hand, Vict o r i a‘s
record is just as remarkably
good.
* * *
“Know”: Big Stuart
MacKenzie has notched
another victory. He has beaten
the suggestion of the Australian
Rowing Council that he should
return to show he is fit for the
Olympic Games. MacKenzie
found a strong supporter in
W. Williams, Australia’s row-
ing-delegate to the world body.
Writing from London, Wil-
liams told the A.R.C. that Mac-
Kenzie was the only Australian
sculler who could win at the
Games, and to this MacKenzie
added a challenge to the A.R.C.
to send a sculler overseas to
race him at Henley in June.
Doubt over MacKenzie’s fit-
ness followed an operation in
Yugoslavia last year and his
subsequent defeat in the Euro-
pean championships at Macon
(France). He had, however,
not then thoroughly healed,
but, though he realised the
risk, he preferred to keep the
appointment to row at Macon.
* * *
“Frozen”: How paltry sec-
tions of the Australian press
become in having nothing but
sneers for those defeated in
international sport. The sar-
castic way in which they
referred to the defeats of the
Australian ice-hockey, ski-ing
and other teams at the Squaw
Valley Olympics couldn’t have
been in worse taste. To their
credit, these teams were not a
financial burden upon the Aus-
tralian public. They paid their
own way and took their defeat
in the true spirit. The same sar-
castic criticism will happen to
the hockey and water-polo
teams when they go to Rome,
and the public might keep in
mind that these sportsmen, too,
have raised their own money
for the trip. Good luck to
them!


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE'S ATOMIC CLOUD
Editorial comment on the
Sahara explosion of
France's first atomic bomb :
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“President de Gaulle’s reasons
for persisting in developing
French atomic weapons —so
costly, especially in view of the
continuing drain of the
Algerian rebellion —are logical.
Nuclear weapons, he argues,
are decisive in modern war.
“No nation can be depend-
ent for its decisive armaments
on an ally. Even if nuclear
bombs should never again be
fired in war, their possession,
or the capability of making
them, are vital elements in
negotiating with friends or
potential enemies.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
sole ground of criticism of the
French atomic-bomb test in
particular is that it should be
held while there is some pros-
pect of making permanent the
de facto suspension of tests
by France’s predecessors in this
field, and in defiance of African
protests and fears and of the
overwhelming body of opinion
in the United Nations.”
* *
Manchester “G u a r d i a n”:
“Most Frenchmen will believe
that, thanks to her bomb,
France can hold her head
higher in the world. This is
of great significance. Any-
thing that gives Frenchmen
greater pride in their country
and therefore greater confi-
dence in their Government, in
turn gives their Government
greater strength in the world.
It is not the bomb itself which
may serve to strengthen
France but the fact that the
bomb has probably strength-
ened President de Gaulle’s hold
over Franc^.
“It may also give him more
room for diplomatic manoeuvre.
Since he came to power he has
behaved to the rest of the
world with punctilious intran-
sigence. One reason may be
that he was brought to power
as a promise of national great-
ness. How can a promise of
greatness make concessions, at
least until some of the great-
ness has started to appear?
Now it has done so—or, at
least millions of Frenchmen
think that it has —and conces-
sions may become correspond-
ingly easier to make. That is
a gain.”
The same : “The effect of the
French bomb on Nato will
depend on the extent to which
President de Gaulle is prepared
to make concessions to his
allies—and on the extent to
which they make conces-
sions to him. If France
should decide to become a
fully fledged nuclear Power,
with hydrogen-bombs and the
means of delivering them, then
the effect on Nato might easily
be little short of disastrous.
France cannot afford both to
develop modern nuclear
—London "New Statesman.”
THE LONG AND THE SHORT AND THE TALL.
weapons and to maintain con-
ventional forces large enough
to play their allotted part in
the defence of Western Europe.
“Worst still, France might
then demoralise the other
members of Nato and encour-
age the disintegration of the
alliance into a loose coalition
of separate States, each vainly
trying to become independent
militarily. The possibility that
it might happen should be an
ever-present nightmare in the
minds of French and British
statesmen.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The French have done no
good to themselves or the rest
of us in Europe by committing
this physical indelicacy on
African soil. Already the
Sahara smells of oil, and oil
smells of white profits, and
white profits are a rabble-
rousing medium of detonation
in a continent which is quite
ready enough to blow-up with-
out atomic assistance. For a
long time the rain and the itch
and the cattle-scab in all the
illiterate dominions of the
witch-doctors will be blamed
on the fall-out from the wicked
white men’s bomb. But if, as
de Gaulle claims to hope, this
was a bomb to end nuclear
bombs, a greater good may
come out of one more of the
earth’s ills.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “From
one point of view, it might
seem that France, by pursuing
its determined course in this
way, has exposed the fatuity
of the Geneva negotiations on
test-suspension. The biggest
question - mark over these
Geneva talks has always been
the improbability that the
world’s other nations would be
content with a ‘freezing’ agree-
ment that would freeze them
all out and guarantee the
nuclear oligopoly of the Three.
This is doubtless the thought
behind the repeated French
assertions that France's pro-
gress in developing its own
nuclear weapons would enable
it to press more forcefully for
general disarmament.”
* * *
“New York Times’’: “What
General de Gaulle has done
has emphasised the sternness
of the urgency under which
we live. We need more than
ever to do all we can to find
an acceptable programme:
first, to end experiments with
nuclear weapons in the air, in
lower space or in the sea, and
eventually to abolish this horror
altogether ; second, to provide
a system of control and
inspection that will eliminate
the atomic weapon everywhere
and prevent its manufacture.
“The eyes of mankind will
be on the three-Power nuclear-
weapons talks which have been
dragging on for more than a
year at Geneva and also the
ten-Power disarmament con-
ference when it opens in the
same city this month.”
Japan's Wool Textiles
TJriefly summarising the
history of Japan s wool-
textile industry, a correspondent
of Bradford “Wool Record”
notes that, although an un-
favorable climate and the
national habit of wearing
cotton delayed the start of the
industry until 1879 (when the
Government opened a wool-
spinning plant), Japan was
within 60 years “competing
almost as an equal with the
major wool-industry nations”:
“It was the absorption of
Western culture into Japan
towards the end of the 19th
century and the consequent
greater use of wool, especially
for clothing, which spurred-
on the growth of the industsy.
The Government wool-spin-
ning and weaving plant was
gradually turned over to
civilian ownership and manage-
ment, and a switch from the
import of wool textiles to the
import of raw wool was suc-
cessfully made.
“World War I halted the im-
port of spinning- and weaving-
machines and wool goods, but
at the same time there was a
big increase in domestic de-
mand for wool goods, since,
by then, the Japanese kimono
could be made from the light
wool fabrics now available.
This led to a rapid increase in
local production of machinery
and wool products, which
formed a sound basis for
what was to become a thriving
industry.
“Except during the world-
wide recession of 1929, Japan


steadily built on these founda-
tions. Export markets were
opened on the Chinese main-
land, in India, South Africa
and Brazil, and the home
demand increased as well. By
1937, there were 1,100,000
spindles in Japan, com-
puted on a mule basis,
which in this sphere put the
country fifth in the world be-
hind only Britain, Germany,
U.S.A. and France. In the
same year Japan became the
fifth-ranking wool-textile ex-
porting nation, next to Britain,
France, Belgium and Germany.
Japan’s wool industry was
then only 58 years old.
“Most of this progress was
obliterated by World War 11.
No raw wool could be im-
ported, machinery was scrapped
and bombs destroyed the mills.
But post-war progress was such
that the former standing of the
wool industry in Japan was
not only equalled but sur-
passed.
“This improvement, which
took only five years, was not
achieved without changes,
especially in the export market.
Chinese markets, including
China proper, Manchuria and
Kwantung Province were lost,
but Hong Kong, which has
proved one of the most profit-
able post-war ‘acquisitions,’
appeared on the scene. By
1948 Japan’s wool-textile ex-
ports totalled 3,510,000 square-
yards—lo times the total of the
first year after the end of the
war. Of this total, about 70
per cent, went to Hong Kong.
“Exports declined as a
result of import restrictions im-
posed by the sterling area and
the world lecession at the same
time, which, among other
things, reduced the importance
of Hong Kong as a market for
Japanese wool-textile exports.
But just as Hong Kong de-
clined, so Africa, particularly
South Africa, emerged as a
promising market, and in 1954,
as world business improved,
Japan’s wool-textile exports
improved, too. That year, they
totalled $l2 million.
“Hong Kong, too, came
back into the picture, and
Japan was also able to make
inroads with her wool-textile
products into the Middle East.
“Openings were increasing
in the American market as
well, and in 1956 Japan started
exporting her wool - textile
products to Communist China,
while at the same time there
was a sharp increase of her
exports to Asia, America, the
Near East, the Middle East and
Europe. Particularly note-
worthy was the sharp upcurve
of exports to the United States
and the decline of those to
South Africa, which had be-
come Japan’s chief market.
South Africa’s virtual exit was
caused by her raising of import-
tariffs on wool textiles in 1955.
“A year later tariff-rates on
wool goods were also raised
in the United States, and
although this jolted Japan’s
exports, the U.S. still buys
about 40 per cent, of Japanese
wool goods which leave the
country. There was, at this
time, a marked increase in
goods exported to Europe.”
However, the correspondent
adds, although Japan’s exports
—Manchester “Guardian.”
SHADOW IN THE EAST.
of worsteds, spun-wool tex-
tiles and serges have attracted
“the attention —and the custom
—of countries of high national
income,” they have not yet
reached the highest European
levels of quality.
And, in spite of her rapid
headway since the war —and
especially over the period
1956-57 —“in the absolute
volume of wool-textile exports,
Japan’s amount to only 5.6
per cent, of the world total,
which compares ill with her
own volume of cotton-goods
exports, which make-up 25 per
cent, of the world total.”
Australian
Book-buyers
Tn that much-quoted “New
Statesman” article on his
experiences in Australia, J. B.
Priestley, after noting that more
new books are on show in Mel-
bourne and Sydney than in
London, Manchester and Bir-
mingham put together, asked:
“Yet who buys and reads them,
where and how is their influ-
ence felt in public life?”
This brought to the “New
Statesman” a letter from
Andrew Fabinyi, of Mel-
bourne, who, after compliment-
ing Priestley on the general
tone of his article, continued:
“Unless one assumes that
Australian booksellers con-
tinue to buy, year after year,
some £6-million-worth of books
merely to support charitably
British writers and publishers,
and then, having done their
duty, pulp the books on
arrival, one must come to the
inescapable conclusion that
these books, so enticingly dis-
played, are in fact sold to the
public.
“One can produce no proof
that people who buy books
actually read them, but from
my long experience with books
and book-buyers in Australia,
I must say that there is an
extraordinarily strong presump-
tion that they do.
“Whether in Australia books
influence public life to a greater
or lesser extent than elsewhere
is a question to which there is
probably no answer. Can one,
to begin with, take it for grant-
ed that in other places—in
America or in the United
Kingdom—b oo k s generally
(and not, of course, one par-
ticular book at a particular
time) have any obvious and
strong influence on public
affairs? From this distance
there is absolutely nothing to
suggest that this is the case.
“Australia, like the rest of
the Western world, is being
overrun by cunning mass-com-
municators. Yet we have here
a core, a small but steadily
growing band of TV- and press-
resistant readers and intellec-
tuals. They are an unassuming
and probably introverted lot,
most of them unaware of being
intellectuals at all. But they
are everywhere, in every corner
of this vast country; the
majority young people in their
twenties and thirties. Mr. Priest-
ley might have caught a glimpse
of them. We hope that in spite
of some of his disappointments
he will soon come back to have
a long, steady thoughtful look.”
China's
Economic Squeeze
Writing in “Problems of
Communism,” Dr. Yuan-
li Wu, associate-professor of
economics at Marquette Uni-
versity, Wisconsin (U.S.), notes
that “while Communist
China’s military infringements
of the frontiers of its neigh-
bors to the south and south-
west have understandably
attracted wide international
attention in recent months,
another aspect of Chinese.
Communist strategy in Asia-
less spectacular but, in the
long run, of much greater con-
sequence—has been receiving
far less notice abroad than it
deserves. This is Peking's
steadily expanding effort to
develop trade and other econo-
mic ties with the free Asian
nations, particularly the under-
developed countries of South-
east Asia, with the long-range
objective of absorbing them
into Communist China’s
economic and political orbit.”
A few outstanding examples
of China’s trading activities in
the area are given by Philip
Goodhart, in London “Time
and’ Tide”:
“Some time ago tomatoes
grown near Tientsin were
exported to Hong Kong. They
were put on sale in Hong Kong
at a wholesale price equal to
the cost of shipping the toma-
toes the hundred-odd miles to
their market from Canton. To
earn a pittance of foreign
currency the Communist
traders were willing to write-
off the cost of growing, pick-
ing and packing the tomatoes
as well as the considerable cost
of internal transport from
Tientsin to Canton—a
thousand-mile journey.
“In Hong Kong it is possible
to buy good tailor-made silk
shirts for 375. each. Some silk
shirts, made in Canton, of
reasonable quality, so it seems,
have now appeared on the


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N 2.
shelves of Communist mer-
chants in Hong Kong for 12s.
each.
“But if hunger for currency
is the main motive for Peking’s
decision to dump sparrows
[tinned], tomatoes and silk
shirts on the export-market,
part of her activity is deliber-v
ately designed to create the
maximum embarrassment for
such unfriendly Governments
as those holding power in
Formosa and Japan.
“In one year the Peking
Government* imported some
190,000 tons of sugar. But in
the following year Communist
merchants sold 300 tons of
sugar in Hong Kong at a price
well below the cost of import-
ing sugar to tjie mainland.
Why? At that moment some
merchants from Formosa were
trying to sell sugar in Hong
Kong, and Peking wanted to
depress the price.
“Citronella is grown on
Formosa and also on the
Communist-controlled island
of Hainan. Once again every
vestige of commercial costing
has been thrown out of the
window by the Communists.
When it comes to marketing
their crop, the principal objec-
tive of Peking has been the
ruin of the citronella-growers
of Formosa. And they have
not been unsuccessful, since
Peking is doing everything pos-
sible to harm Japanese trade.
The Overseas Chinese' corn-
London “News Chronicle ” cartoon comment on British
Defence Minister Watkinson’s latest White Paper, which
emphasised the importance of mobile conventional forces
able to “act quickly and decisively wherever they are needed”
munity, which controls much
of the trade of South-east
Asia, has been repeatedly
exhorted to by-pass Japanese
goods. There has been much
talk of a great new textile
centre at Canton to undercut
Japanese textiles —the 12s. silk
shirts on sale in Hong Kong
are the first visible result of
this talk. One result of this
new trade-war has been the
virtual disappearance of the
Hong Kong cement-industry ;
ground back to dust between
the millstones of Japanese and
Communist competition.
“So far, the volume of
Chinese Communist industrial
exports has been less impres-
sive than their willingness to
ignore every basis of commer-
cial costing in the price that
they ask for their goods.
“Tiny Hong Kong, with a
population of less than three-
million, has made more of an
industrial impact on the
world’s markets than the 600-
million inhabitants of the
Communist mainland. So far,
the salesmen of Peking’s indus-
tries have not been seeking
large orders. But every
increase in exports is milked
of its full propaganda value.”
But, Goodhart adds, “Chinese
offers of barter-deals and
technical-assistance pacts have,
however, not been an unquali-
fied success. Some of the goods
offered have been much below
standard and have given anti-
communists an opportunity to
dwell on the terrible condi-
tions under which the shoddy
goods were produced.
“Some of the offers of tech-
nical assistance also have a
distinct air of unreality about
them. The Chinese pledge to
set up a steel-mill in Cambodia
makes little more sense than
an offer by France to set up a
marmalade - factory in the
Outer Hebrides.”
But Dr. Wu, in concluding
the article quoted earlier, notes
that “it would be wrong to
place too much stress on the
fact that the statistics show
China—even where it has been
relatively successful —to be
still far from achieving the
necessary degree of economic
dominance over the free Asian
countries to permit Peking to
enforce political compliance
by means of economic pres-
sure. The Chinese effort is,
after all, still young, and
China’s economic capabilities
are steadily increasing.
“The record does, however,
justify one significant conclu-
sion on this score —namely,
that Communist China has not
thus far been too successful in
co-ordinating and reconciling
its practice of economic war-
fare on the short-term and
long-term levels. This is to
say, it has in many instances
employed such aggressive
tactics for the immediate pur-
pose of capturing an Asian
market that it has antagonised
the country concerned and
thus rendered more difficult
the realisation of its broader
political objectives. Again, as
illustrated most clearly in the
case of Japan, it has sought to
use economic pressure for the
purpose of extracting political
concessions prematurely—that
is, before gaining a sufficient
economic stranglehold to make
this possible.
“The setbacks that Com-
munist China has suffered
because of these mistakes
could temporarily weaken its
ability to wage economic war-
fare, but they could also result
in a more astute strategy in
the future. In any event, it
is vital that the underlying
aims and methods of Com-
munist China’s ‘peaceful’
economic offensive in free
Asia be more fully under-
stood.”
Russia and Japan
'T'he Manchester “Guardian”
notes that “many Japan-
ese —not all of them sympa-
thetic to Communism —have
misgivings about the new
security-treaty recently signed
with the U.S.; but the Soviet
Government seems as clumsy
as the Chinese Government in
exploiting these doubts”:
“One might almost think
that their interventions are
designed to defeat the causes
for which they shout so loudly.
Perhaps they are. To punish
Mr. Kishi’s Government for
signing the treaty Mr.
Gromyko handed the Japanese
Ambassador in Moscow a
memorandum in which the
Soviet Government announced
that it would not return
Habomai and Shikotan until
all foreign troops have been
withdrawn from Japan. These
are small islands just off the
coast of Hokkaido ; when in
1956 the Japanese and Soviet


Established 1808
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a,
o'SU’LUVA’V
PTYITD v.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
T VPOGR APHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Governments resumed diplo-
matic relations the Soviet
Government promised they
would be restored as soon as a
peace-treaty was signed be-
tween the two countries. (No
such promise was made about
the Kuriles and South Sak-
halin, other islands which the
Japanese want back.)
“Neither in logic nor in law
has the Soviet Government any
cause for going back on its
word. As the Japanese point
out, a sovereign State is
entitled (within limits) to
choose its own treaties;
besides, the treaty in force
when the Soviet Government
made its promise bound Japan
much more tightly to the
United States than the new one
does.
“Many Japanese look upon
the Soviet memorandum as an
attempt to hinder the ratifica-
tion of the new security-treaty,
and therefore as interference
in their own affairs; even
critics of the treaty resent it.
Since in any case few people
can have expected that the
islands would revert to Japan
in the foreseeable future, the
Japanese cannot have lost
much by the memorandum,
and the Russians have gained
little except ill-will.”
Dragnet Digest
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“The economic aid which
America distributes [to under-
developed countries] far out-
does that of any other country.
But even when all the aid
supplied by the West and
Russia combined is added-up,
it is neither sufficient in amount
nor used wisely enough to
make a very significant differ-
ence.
“The kind of aid most easily
available, such as medical ser-
vices and pest-control tech-
niques, tends, unless accom-
panied by massiye and largely
unremunerative investment in
basic services and means of
production, to aggravate the
problem. The rich, including
Russia, get richer and the poor
get poorer. What Karl Marx
wrongly predicted of capitalist
society is today true of the
human race generally.
“The problem stands no
chance of solution so long as
it is seen in terms of the cold
war. The most effective way
of tackling it is through the
United Nations special
agencies, which are completely
disinterested and have proved
their worth within the limits
which their small finances have
allowed. The trouble is that
none of the great Powers gets
any kudos from this, and they
have jointly resisted or ignored
all attempts to enable these
agencies to operate on a scale
more in keeping with their huge
task.”
Hs * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Gheorghiu-Dej, First Secre-
tary of Rumanian Communist
Party, while on a tour of the
provinces, paid a surprise call
on a boyhood friend. He is
reported to have told children
playing in front of a cottage
that he would like to speak to
their father.
“ ‘Who shall we say wants to
speak to him?’ they asked. ‘Tell
him it’s the man whom he
heard on the radio last night.'
The children rushed indoors,
shouting: ‘Father, come quickly,
President Eisenhower wants to
speak to you.’ ”
H: * *
London “New Statesman”:
“During the past year Mr.
Khrushchev has done every-
thing he could to relax tension
in the West. Russia is in-
creasingly a prosperous country
which wishes to enjoy some of
the fruits of its revolution.
His plans are baulked by the
Chinese, who are still in the
revolutionary, aggressive stage
of Communism. Because of
this basic difference commenta-
tors both in the West and in
India have talked as if there
could be a public quarrel be-
tween China and Russia. This
has always been an absolute
illusion. If Khrushchev can
exercise a modifying effect on
Mao Tse-tung, it will be in
private. However, one bene-
ficial result of his present tour
may be an awareness that India
and other Asian countries want
independence from Commun-
ism as well as from capitalism;
and that his hopes for the
Summit, as well as success in
‘peaceful competition’ in the
ex-colonial world, may thus
depend on his ability to modify
the heady policy of Peking.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “It is
still unquestioned in Peking
that Russia and China have to
live together; there is mean-
ing in the assertions that the
alliance of 850 million is un-
breakable and inseparable. But
that is not to suppose that the
Chinese do not mean to have
an increasing say in deciding
the diplomatic orientation of
the alliance, or that they do
not count on finding fresh
support in Moscow if Mr.
Khrushchev returns empty-
handed from the Summit.”
Robert C. North, in
“Problems of Communism ':
“Forced industrialisation, as it
functions under Peking’s mani-
pulated pressure, is a process
of powerful velocity and should
not be underestimated. At the
same time, in terms of China’s
explosive population-growth, it
is difficult to believe that
Chinese industrialisation will
ever catch-up with the needs
and demands of its proliferat-
ing millions of people. If this
is true, then the Chinese Com-
munist regime is doomed to
further frustrations which, in
view of the way the Com-
munist system operates, must
be visited upon scapegoats,
upon the ‘inside enemy’ and
the ‘outside enemy,’ wherever
they can be found or provoked
or imagined. There is no other
alternative short of a trans-
formation of the system itself
—or short of its disruption.”
* * *
Aubrey Jones, M.P., in
London “Sunday Times”: “The
Soviet achievement in science
and technology is uneven —
strong in some faculties, weak
in others; indeed it is more
uneven than in the West. In
the West, however, uneven-
ness is the product either of
tradition or of accident; not
so in the Soviet Union. The
Soviet Union is strong where
she has chosen to exert a
conscious effort; she is weak
where she is prepared to accept
weakness ; and the pattern of
unevenness is but the pattern
of her priorities.”


An Errand of Mercy
By R. WAYLING
Adventure on a Sydney Tug
Sam Ward, master of the
steam-fug Millie, was not
in a happy frame of mind
as he watched the shore-
line of the Parramatta River
diift slowly by while the
Millie pushed two empty coke-
punts against the ebb tide.
And it didn’t improve his
state of mind when Joe the
engineer came into the wheel-
house and informed him that
the steam was back a bit be-
cause of the poor quality of the
coal.
“I can’t tell Chapman that,”
said Sam waspishly.
“Ward, he says to me,” imi-
tating the hated Manager’s
voice, “I don’t want the tugs
incurring overtime ; and I don’t
want to hear about bad coal.
Engineers have used that
excuse since Stephenson started
the Rocket.”
“Ah, well,” said Joe with
finality, “if we’ve got to take
number-two garbage-punt to sea
after this tow it’ll be well after
five o'clock when we get back
to the depot and the damned
Port Jackson Lighterage Com-
pany can pay me overtime. I
can’t do impossibles.”
“No, but I’m supposed to do
them,” Sam growled. “It’s low
water at 9.30 and that’s just
about the time we’ll arrive at
the Gas Works with these
punts. Then we’ve got to push
two full ones back against the
flood tide.
“It’ll be eleven o’clock before
we hook on to the garbage-
punt and she’s supposed to go
ten-mile out to sea. But what
does Chapman say to that?
‘Dump it five miles out,’ says
he. But it’s me,” Sam empha-
sised by tapping his chest with
the stem of his pipe, “that has
to break the regulations, not
him.”
Sam moved the wheel a
couple of spokes and steadied
her on, to pass Cabarita Point.
“You and I are getting too
old to be looking for other
jobs, Joe,” Sam continued.
“Well just have to dump it
five-mile out and trust to luck
that the signal station hasn’t
got his telescope on us. Any-
how, what do you fancy for
the Flying on Saturday?”
“Haven’t glanced at ’em yet,”
Joe replied, “But I see they
haven’t found those two kids
that were lost in that there
canoe up the Hawkesbury.
They’re making a search around
Pittwater and Lion Island. ”
“Damned fools,” Sam re-
marked. “They’ve been miss-
ing two days now and they’ve
probably drifted out to sea.
That’s where they ought to
search.”
A s they approached the Gas
Works the fireman came
up out of the stokehold to help
the deckhand moor the punts.
The two empty punts had to
be berthed ahead of the two
full ones waiting alongside the
wharf. Sam eased the punts
in at an angle of 45 degrees
until the deckhand was close
enough to put a line on the
wharf, then, by the easing of
the tug astern, the punts began
to swing into their berth.
“Let go!” said Sam to the
fireman who was standing by
the tugs’ mooring-lines. With-
out alteration of the engine-
room telegraph, the Millie
dropped slowly astern alongside
the two full punts.
While the fireman was
making the tug fast to the full
punts the deckhand finished
mooring the empties, then
hopped across to the full ones
and threw off their mooring-
lines.
The Millie, with a few pushes
and pulls, yanked them out
from the jetty, manoeuvred
them one in front of the other
and began pushing them down
river against,the flood tide.
It was said on the waterfront
that Sam Ward could make the
Millie sit-up and beg.
It was five-past-eleven when
they arrived back at the depot,
and 15 minutes later they were
under way again with No. 2
Garbage punt.
Two yardmen had joined
them to empty the punt at sea.
This was done by releasing a
set of brakes, which released
the bottom doors of the punt,
the whole contents of muck
and slush dropping' into the
sea.
Care had to be taken that rio
long pieces of timber or scrap-
iron were left in the punt to
cause a jamb. These were
fished-out, piled on deck and
dumped piece by piece on the
way out.
■pASSiNG under the Harbor
Bridge, Sam spoke down
the speaking-tube that led to
the engine-room.
“Tell the fireman to start
cleaning his fires, Joe. I’ll make
fast to the Darling Point
buoy and they can go to lunch.
We'll wait there for twenty
minutes to give the fires a
chance, then, if you’ll tickle
them up I'll slip the buoy line
and well get under way.
“i'll book us both a cur-
tailed meal-hour, Joe. Chapman
won’t be able to complain
about that, especially if it's
going to save overtime for the
rest of ’em.”
“Oh, 0.k.,” Joe growled up
the tube. “But I reckon we
ought to get the union down on
to Chapman and end all this
hustle and bustle.”
“The day after we do that,”
Sam observed sgnificantly,
“we won’t be working for the
Port Jackson Lighterage Com-
pany.”
At 12.40, Sam, after telling
Joe to stand by, stepped aboard
the punt and let go the slip-line
that was holding them to the
buoy. He then climbed up to the
wheelnouse, waited a ' few
minutes while they drifted clear
of the buoy and rang “Full
Ahead.”
As they hauled round
Bradley’s Head they passed the
company’s other tug, Billie,
inward-bound with No. 1
garbage-punt. The two crews
exchanged greetings and the
Billie’s whistle spurted steam.
Sam didn’t waste any steam ;
he just waved his hat.
At the Sow and Pigs shoal,
Sam looked at his watch and
rang down for slow speed. The
crew had five minutes left of
their meal-hour and he dare not
get out into the ocean swell
with the punt lashed alongside.
The stern towline had
already been hooked to the
bow of the punt ; the rest of it
was flaked along the deck of
the tug ready for running.
When the time was up Sam
slammed the telegraph handle
down to “Full Speed,” then


Kalgoorlie “Sun,” owned by
-James McCallum Smith and
Arthur Reid, who ran the
Perth “Sunday Times” as well.
Hayward, the editor, was
English, an Oxford man
who had qualified for the
Bar and practised in
South Africa —according to
critics, his only client was a
Kaffir charged with pinching
a pair of pants. Anyway, he
tired of the Law and South
Africa and decided to try his
luck in W.A. There he found
a firm friend and admirer in
John Drew, who was to be-
come Labor’s leader in the
Upper House; and Hayward
was named editor of the Drew-
owned Geraldton “Express.”
Elis work on that paper was
outstanding, and Reid, a capital
judge and a good fellow, with
only two enemies—himself
and his partner—snapped him
up for the “Sun.” In after
years Bulletin readers were
to appreciate Hayward’s
quality, chiefly as a writer of
light verse in the true Calverley
tradition, as “Iford,” “Pipards”
and “T. the R.”
At Hayward’s instance, I
was offered a job on the “Sun-
day Times” at £4 a week.
Naturally, I took it, and left
Kalgoorlie as soon as I could.
Not that I left it with any
great pleasure. I liked the
place and (with the exceptions
mentioned) liked the people,
and could not have wished to
see a better example of Aus-
tralian initiative, ability and
pluck. It was a blow to me
when, travelling by rail re-
cently from Perth to Sydney,
I was unable to walk along
Hannan Street again. A stay
of only 25 minutes was allowed,
for the Kalgoorlie-Port Pirie
express was already in position,
and the midday meal was
waiting for passengers leaving
one train for the other.
This is ridiculous, especi-
ally as a stay of nearly an hour
was made at a station of no
consequence because one of
the trains was that much ahead
of scheduled time. There is not
an American making the over-
land journey (unfortunately
few do —Australia has foolishly
neglected its opportunities for
attracting tourists from a coun-
try so immensely important to
us and which during the
war had 900,000 of its sons
in Queensland alone) who
would not be glad to see
something of a city, of it-
self one of the most inter-
esting in the Commonwealth,
which was the headquarters for
upwards of two years, 1897-
1899, of the only U.S. President
who has ever lived among us,
and who, though then in his
early twenties, impressed his
capacity as mining engineer on
a very critical community, and
farther afield. To The Bul-
letin, unconsciously prophetic,
he was “Hail Columbia”
Hoover.
This other former Kalgoor-
lian had occasion to write to
Mr. Hoover not long ago. The
ex-President, now turned 85,
replied courteously, as is the
wont of eminent men, closing
with the words “All my re-
collections of Australia and
Australians are pleasant.” A
moving tribute to the goldfields
and the goldfields people, this
grand old American knew, and
richly deserved.
stuck his head out of the
window and yelled, “Let go!”
The two yardmen stepped
on to the punt, cast-off the
forward and after brest-lines
and walked aft to the tiller.
Charlie the deckhand cast-off
the towing-spring from the tug
and walked aft as the punt
dropped astern.
The Millie, now free of the
punt, forged ahead like a tiger
looking for a free lunch, while
Sam watched the lengths of
towline slide along the deck
and out over the stern. When
there were only two lengths
left, he rang “Stop,” and as
the strain came gently onto
the towline he pushed the
handle down again to “Full,”
and the Millie dipped to the
gentle swell as she rounded
Hornby Light and proceeded to
sea with the punt in tow astern.
A mile out, the punt crew
began dumping the sinkable
stuff off the deck ; the bottom
doors were not to be let go
until Sam gave the signal on
the steam whistle.
As was the custom outside
the Heads, Charlie climbed up
to the wheelhouse and took the
wheel. Sam climbed down on
deck, pinched the morning
newspaper out of the engine-
room and sat on a stool outside
the engine-room door in the
sun.
After skimming through the
latest developments on the
missing canoe he turned to the
acceptances for next Saturday’s
race meeting.
Cam had just arrived at the
stage where he had figured
out how best he could spread
his ten-bob over five selections
when Charlie, who was fond of
playing with the skipper’s
binoculars, stuck his head out
of the wheelhouse and said:
“Hey, Skipper! There’s a
small boat out to the east. Got
no one in her, I think.”
Sam climbed up to the wheel-
house. He glanced at his watch,
then at the shoreline and pulled
the whistle-string for the punt
to be emptied. He then picked
up the binoculars and after a
while got the right focus.
“Damned long way off-
shore for a small craft,” he
observed to the deckhand.
“But then, there’s no telling
where some of these dopey
open-boat fishermen will go
after fish. They’d chase fish
half-way across to New Zea-
land in a canoe if they were
biting.'”
Sam stared hard through the
binoculars. “By gosh, it is a
canoe! Steer straight for her,
Charlie! ”
They covered another half-
mile before they could dis-
tinguish the object.
“Don’t appear to be anyone
in her,” said Sam. “Go and
tell the engineer to come up.”
“It’s a canoe, all right,” said
Joe after a glance through the
binoculars. “Could be the
missing canoe.”
“That’s what I think,” said
Sam. “And those poor lads
may be lying in the bottom
of her, too weak to signal for
help ; maybe even”
Joe looked at Sam and
sprang to the ladder. “I’ll go
down and help the fireman to
get more steam!”
But in spite of Joe's help in
the stokehold, it was another
half-hour before they came up
with the drifting canoe.
It was empty.
hauled it on board and
found it to be of home-made
design, built of iron and badly
battered.
“Something fishy there,”
Sam remarked to Joe as they
headed for home. “The
weather’s been flat calm for a
week, and boys don’t jump out
of canoes and into the sea ;
and there’s no water in her, so
she hasn’t been upset. I’m
tipping she’s broke adrift and
those boys are ashore some-
where—maybe starving.”
“Something in that,” Joe
agreed.
“It’s a clue, anyway,” said
Sam. “And,” he added signi-
ficantly, “it’ll mean a couple
of hours’ overtime for all hands
by the time we get back to
the depot. And Chapman will
have no kick coming. This is
an errand of mercy.”
It was 7.30 p.m. when they
tied-up at the depot just
astern of the tug Billie.
The crew went home. Sam
entered the yard office and
rang-up the newspaper office.
“This is the master of the
steam-tug Millie,” said Sam.
“My name isn’t Millie,” said
the girl at the other end.
“I don’t want any sauce from
you,” said Sam. “I’ve just
picked up the missing canoe
and if your newspaper wants
a scoop you’d better send a
reporter down here with a
camera.”
Sam slammed the receiver
down, drew a sheet of paper
from the manager’s desk and
wrote a report. He also made
out an overtime-sheet and
placed it, with the report, in a
prominent place on Mr. Chap-
man’s desk.
When the reporter hadn’t
arrived at 10.30, Sam went
home.
For the first time in years,
Sam bought a paper on his way
to work. He was puzzled and
a bit disappointed to find no
reference to the missing canoe
now lying on the deck of the
Millie. Then he remembered
he hadn’t told the girl where
to send the reporter.
The skipper of the tug Billie
was standing on the wharf
looking down at the canoe
when Sam arrived.
“The missing canoe,” Sam
explained with a touch of
pride. “Picked her up seven-
mile out. Rang the newspaper
office last night, but some
damned-fool girl answered the
phone and I don’t suppose she
knew what I was talking about.
I’d better ring the police. It
might help them in their
search.”
“Search nothing,” said the
Billie’s skipper sarcastically.
“The canoe they were looking
for was built of wood, and if
you’d have read last night’s
paper you’d find that they
located the canoe and the boys
safe and sound up at Hawkes-
bury Bridge. We dumped this
old thing off our punt yester-
day morning, but the damned
fools forgot to punch a hole
in it to make it sink. You’d
better dump it before Chapman
comes in.”
“Charlie! ” yelled Sam. “Get
an axe and make that thing
sinkable! Then toss it over the
side!”
Sam glared at the skipper of
the Billie and stalked off in the
direction of the office.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Law and the Cold War
Th i s year, the Federal
Government will probably in-
troduce legislation to tighten-
up the Crimes Act. In the
report of the Royal Commis-
sion on Espionage, the com-
missioners came to the con-
clusion “ . . .that the law of
Australia is inadequate to
combat espionage, particularly
in times of peace.”
Modelled on the U.K.
Official Secrets Act of 1911,
the Crimes Act has simply not
kept pace with events and
changing circumstances. The
provisions of the Crimes Act,
as they apply to enemy agents,
were admirably suited to that
“gentlemanly” period of history
when the formalities of declar-
ing war were carefully
observed. As the provisions
now stand, they serve no better
purpose than to indicate the
infinite patience of those bent
on treachery, and who at the
same time want to stay within
the law. As the law now
stands, in some circumstances
a person getting a secret docu-
ment from an official could be
charged with no greater offence
than larceny.
As the three Royal Com-
missioners on Espionage found,
the interpretation of the word
“enemy” places a severe limita-
tion in prosecuting those en-
gaged in espionage. In 1920,
the U.K. Parliament amended
the Official Secrets Act, making
drastic changes as to the onus
of proof and substituting the
words “foreign Power” for
“enemy.” Following the dis-
affection of the Soviet official
Gouzenko in Canada in 1946,
and the subsequent revelation
of widespread espionage
activity, the Canadian Parlia-
ment also made substantial
alteration to its Official Secrets
Act.
During the Commons debate
in 1920 on the Official Secrets
Act amendments, a host of
predictions were made that the
country would be turned into a
police-State. Similar prophecies
will no doubt greet the Aus-
tral.an Government's amend-
ments to the Crimes Act. Yet
neither mischievous critics nor
high-sounding but naive argu-
ment should deter the Govern-
ment from ensuring there is
competent law to deal with
espionage.—D.J.K. (Q.).
U.S. Patriotism
“Farinmail's” patriotism is
commendable, but he is
scarcely fair to the Americans
(B. 10/2/’6O). Americans
have indeed been reluctant to
enlist for war-service to the
extent necessary' to win wars
—but so have Australians.
Only 16,000 Australians
volunteered for the Boer War
—admittedly an unpopular
war —and the Australian
Government tried to introduce
conscription in 1916-17, and
actually did so in the last war.
Also, many members of the
Second A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
were, like myself, originally
militia conscripts.
The Americans certainly
relied heavily on French sup-
port to win their independence
from England. Surely no one
could expect a colony, with-
out a regular army, to succeed
alone against the military might
of England?
The war of 1812 was un-
necessary and , unpopular,
particularly in New York,
hence the understandable
reluctance of New York fen-
cibles to do any more than
they had to. In the Civil War,
both sides introduced conscrip-
tion. Here again, the war was
unpopular in many quarters,
for northern conscripts could
not see why the southern
States had to be forced to re-
join the northern-dominated
Union.
Americans do go in for
more flag-waving—the exter-
nal machinery of patriotism—
than we do. It is a conse-
quence of their historical
background. The Australian
population was almost 100 per
cent. British in background
until the post-war flood of
migrants began. But the
U.S.A. received millions of
migrants throughout the 19th
century.
In 1870 only 44 per cent, of
Americans were native-born ;
in the following 50 years
almost 20 million more immi-
grants arrived. Most of these
newcomers could not speak
English.
Hence the emphasis on
saluting the flag, public educa-
tion for all, and other devices
for turning this people of many
tongues into a united nation. —
B. E. D. (N.S.W.).
Incentive Payments
“Pieter Nuyts” (B. 3/2/’6O)
employed an apt analogy when
he referred to the “spur” of
incentive-payments to em-
ployees. Such a scheme will
only be effective when it hurts,
and this presupposes a work-
force which measures its obliga-
tions to its employer in terms
of material gain.
Consider the circumstances
under which an incentive
scheme is likely to achieve a
significant result. If the exist-
ing staff is able and conscienti-
ous it is unlikely that they will
be able to lift their work-level
substantially. If the existing
staff is poor, a considerable
improvement can be expected,
but this would be true of a
general salary-increase which
would attract more capable
staff.
Of course everyone benefits
from increased productivity,
but the methods used to achieve
it should be consistent with
our general social values. The
great Marxist fallacy was the
belief that material wealth was
the principal source of human
worth. The simple truth is that
an employee who measures his
obligations simply in terms of
what he is paid is an unreliable
employee, and the basic defect
of an incentive-system is that
it lays too much emphasis on
naked economic value.
1 recently visited the U.S.A.
It is a rich and wonderful
country ; but in their mad
scramble for material progress
Americans have sacrificed
something of the plain dignity
of the Australian worker. In
fact, recent American research
indicates that the cost of treat-
ing physical illnesses resulting
from economic pressures is
so great that the American way
of life may need to be revised
for economic reasons! — Fiat
JUSTITIA (N.S.W.).
Sunday Movies
It strikes me as amusing to
hear the public outcry for
Sunday-night movies, especially
as theatre managements can’t
fill their theatres on weekdays.
Picture-shows _ all round the
place are being closed, and
others are open only two or
three nights a week. With
penalty-rates for employees,
opening on Sunday nights
would be a losing proposition.
Of course, this would be
merely the start. It would be
followed by a demand for
hotels to open on Sundays,
and in a short time we would
have a Continental Sunday.
One gets a bit fed-up with
overseas visitors and New
Australians telling us what is
done overseas, thereby imply-
ing that we are years behind
the times here.
I feel we can get enough
sport and enjoyment on six
days and nights to leave Sun-
day as a day of rest. If one
wants to go to churchy then it
is quite all right; and it’s just
as right to weed the garden,
take a stroll in. the park or
just do nothing. Unfortu-
nately many sporting bodiesi
quite openly break the law by
staging organised sport of all
kinds, ranging from football
to dancing and even trotting.
Let us “Keep holy the


Sabbath Day” as we have done
for years, enjoying sport and
recreation if desired, but not
organised sport, much of which
is run for financial gain.—
W.P T. (N.S.W.).
Physicians and' Patients
Old-time G.Ps. don’t and
wouldn’t envy their successors
of today (B. 24/2/’6O). They
were, with a negligible
minority, professional men first
and last, and fees were in-
cidental to their work. At the
turn of the century, not one
would have dreamed of suing
for fees, and it was not the
practice to render accounts
under three months at least.
I agree with “Appendix”
that many present-day practices
are worked as cold business-
concerns and often with high-
pressure methods repugnant to
the ethical code of bygone
days; but his charge that many
doctors indulge in fraudulent
transactions seems to be off the
beam. If this idea is based on
personal knowledge and ex-
perience he would not, I think,
be a party to the fraud; and,
if based on gossip, it can be
discounted.
If there are a few profes-
sional outcasts about, their run
will be short. J. Swirr
(N.S.W.).
Asian Migration
Australia will continue to
invite the suspicion if not the
active hostility of Asian coun-
tries unless it overhauls its
migration-policy to include an
Asian quota. In Canada a few
hundred Asians a year are
admitted by bilateral arrange-
ment, which ensures a choice
of country. Australia is
much nearer the countries of
Asia and has more to fear
from any expansionist pro-
gramme than Canada.
There appears no justifica-
tion for an exclusive immigra-
tion policy. We permit Asian
wives of Australian servicemen
to come to Australia and could
with equal consistency follow
this up by admitting the chil-
dren of Japanese mothers and
Australian soldiers, as H. A.
Lindsay (B. 24/2/’6O) points
out.
Surely we have seen enough
of the behavior, -demeanor and
social habits of the thousands
of Asian students in Australia
to know that a quota-system
would work. Australian girls
are attracted to young Asians ;
it is only the thought of living
in a strange and backward
country that prevents many of
them from marrying. Admit-
tedly, a quota-system would
not prevent or even delay the
threatened population explo-
sion in countries such as India ;
but it would demonstrate
Australia’s goodwill and sin-
cerity and lack of color-
consciousness.
Three concomitants to peace
with our Asian neighbors are
a revised immigration policy,
the buildmg-up of mutual
trade and increased cultural
exchanges. The three taken
together mean that Asian coun-
tries will be helped to develop
their nationhood, to feed
themselves, and, because of
the removal of the migration
“I said, ‘Take it away ’ —it puts me to sleep before I
finish my bottle !”
barrier, to look with friendly
feeling to Australia as the
bastion of Western democracy
in this part of the globe.—
Plain Australian (Vic.).
Tip from Top Actors
A double-barrelled tip to
Australian theatre-promoters
and -producers came recently
from two distinguished English
actors, Robert Morley and
Roger Livesey, separately in-
terviewed by the A.B.C.
Each was asked if he’d like
a return-visit to Australia.
Both gave eager, but pointedly
qualified, affirmatives. Morley
said, inter alia: “Yes, very
much. Trouble is, there are
today so many Australians who
are better actors than I.”
He could have been speaking
tongue-in-cheek, but the state-
ment was no less a gentle hint
to those managements and
producers who still seem to
think Australia’s top talent is
never up to overseas standard.
Livesey, with his inimitable
grace of voice, was even more
directly self-effacing, with:
“Yes, I’d be most eager.
Perhaps in a supporting part
to an Australian actor.”
For two such eminent over-
seas artists to “play down”
their own abilities merely to
draw attention to stage-talent
(largely overlooked in lead-
part casting) on this side of the
world, is both enlightening and
encouraging. Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Blavatsky: Fraud or Genius
“Old Bookworm’s” remarks
ane n t Madame Blavatsky
(B. 17/2/’6O) provide food for
thought, coming as they do
from one who owes no allegi-
ance to the Theosophical
Society.
Only a day or two ago, in
Pear's Encyclopaedia, I chanced
on a short biography of that
incredible lady which, among
other things, claimed that she
“founded the Theosophical
Society, the influence of which
has gradually changed the
religious and scientific thought
of the age.” Even I, at one
time a prominent member of
that organisation, am not pre-
pared to go as far as that,
though, if personal testimony is
worth anything, I can remem-
ber the tributes paid to Blavat-
sky by the only one of her
pupils I knew. Admitted, he
found her cranky and alarming
enough ; but he never seemed
to stop talking about her self-
lessness, her knowledge, and
her wisdom, and believed her
to be the greatest spiritual
teacher of modern times.
It is certainly odd, as “Old
Bookworm” states, that a 19th
century “crank” should reveal
in her writings such know-
ledge and understanding of
Eastern philosophy. Anyone
who has ploughed through her
amazing Secret Doctrine will
.have no doubt but that Blavat-
sky was a profound student of
Oriental scriptures, even if we
are unwilling to accept the
conclusions she arrived at.
Only a handful of Europeans
had access to those sacred
books in her day and, to read
those with which she was mani-
festly familiar, it was necessary
to have a knowledge of
Sanskrit, Pali, Tibetan and,
probably, Maghadi. And, if I
remember correctly, it was the
famous “Mahatma Letters’’
which the Society for Psychical
Research exposed as frauds.
[The “Letters,” Blavatsky had
claimed, had been “precipi-
tated” to Theosophical head-
quarters at Adyar by “Masters
of the Wisdom” who lived in
Tibet and elsewhere.]
Allowing, purely for the
sake of argument, that the
“precipitation” was a trick, the
question at once arises that if
the Mahatmas did not write the
letters, who did? The answer,
of course, would be “Blavat-
sky;” it is improbable that any-
one else at Adyar could have
done so. If she wrote them,
then, while we have to account
her a fraud, we also have to
acknowledge her learning. The
27th “letter,” for instance, con-
tains long passages quoted from
the Parinirvana Sutra, a still
difficult-to-come-by Mahayana
Buddhist scripture; not in her
day, I think, translated into a
European language.
Naturally, Blavatsky, form-
ing a new international society
with its emphasis placed on the
wisdom of the mysterious East,
was bound to attract to it a
fair number of the unbalanced
as well as the more intelligent,
earnest seekers. Even if its
founder was not above experi-
menting with psychic things,
theosophical teaching from the
beginning was concerned with
the development of character
and the following of a strictly
moral (indeed, puritanical) code
—no meat-eating, drinking of
alcohol or taking of drugs in
any form. Nor did Blavatsky,
as did other founders of trans-
cendental movements at that
time, hold out to her disciples
any promise of material
success; instead, she pointed
out a more spiritual way of
life.
Like most institutions, the
Theosophical Society has had
its share of internal strife,
resulting in quite a few break-
away movements. But the
slogan of the “breakaways” is
always the same: “Back to


Blavatsky.” And, despite the
fact that orthodox Buddhists
have always been inclined to
look askance at theosophy (the
Theosophical Society stands in
somewhat the same relation-
ship to the Buddhist corpus as,
say, Jehovah’s Witnesses do to
the Christian Church), at least
one modern Buddhist writer
has admitted that Blavatsky has
thrown great light on hitherto
“difficult" passages of Buddhist
scripture. All things con-
sidered, it seems to me that her
critics, to be fair, must allow
a good deal for her scholarship.
As for her being a crank and
a fraud, there is just a chance
that those psychical researchers
may have been wr o n g. —
Maitri (N.S.W.).
Voluntary Service Trouble
P. and C. associations in
many State public schools in
N.S. Wales have been anxious
to provide amenities such as
lunch-rooms for the children.
In the past, the practice has
been for the Education Depart-
ment to provide the materials;
voluntary workers, organised
by the P. and C., put the build-
ings up. This system has
worked well. Several associa-
tions have raised money over
the Department’s grant, and
have built bigger and more
comfortable buildings than
were originally envisaged.
A few months ago the
department clamped-down on
“But you forget, dear — it's our anniversary—I been
shelebratin our twenty-five years together !”
voluntary work. ' The build-
jngs now have to be erected by
tradesmen under contract, and
if lunch-rooms are needed the
association must raise the
money to pay the work-force,
Apart from stifling the
voluntary spirit, this official
ukase will mean that fewer
needed amenities will be pro-
vided for sc hools, as the
department won’t provide them,
It wiu 5e interesting to see if
the film-strip and movie-projec-
tors provided for many schools
by P. and C. associations must,
in future, be operated only by
members of the appropriate
trades unions, and not by
teachers or pupils.—Yeno Ham
(N.S.W.).
Summit Topics
As the Summit approaches,
interest grows in the subjects
to be discussed. There are
suggestions that even the
German question may not be
included ; there are doubts
whether the other Soviet neigh-
bors and satellites, Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
Rumania, Albania and Jugo-
slavia, will have their problems
mentioned —in spite of de
Gaulle's recent forthright
declaration that if these peoples
were allowed to express them-
selves freely they would reject
the Communist regimes.
Australia, which may be
represented on the British
delegation by a Common-
wealth-representing statesman,
Mr. Menzies, has especial in-
terest in aspects of Soviet and
Chinese policy which may be
raised.
Will there be any discussion,
official or otherwise, on the
intense interest being shown
by China in both Africa and
South America? The future of
these continents may well have
some material bearing on our
own. Will there be any con-
sideration of current Soviet
pressures in India and Indo-
nesia, nations with immense
populations near us, where the
Chinese are at present un-
popular?
It seems pretty doubtful. If
Mr. Menzies is to accompany
Mr. Macmillan to the con-
ference, it might be an idea if,
before he leaves Australia, he
makes some public reference
to these and allied subjects in-
dicating the official Australian
viewpoint. And it’s to be
hoped that, when he gets back,
he will make as full a report
as possible to the nation.—
Charles Meeking (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 581
Across
I—South Australian batsman I put in last position, Tas-
mania being inseparable from this place according to
some Swift theorists. (8)
s—Nothing5—Nothing dull-witted in this Scandinavian city. (6)
10— Stick ivories in this tree. (3)
11— Drawn up in favor of some Australian woodman. (11)
32—Crop backed by some influential Abyssinian turned it
against someone born in the country like Micawber. (15)
13 — Bed wear close to neckwear. (8)
15 — Ashes won only if those in the
M. A. Noble Stand are
beheaded. (6)
18— Petty friend seen with some
effort. (6)
19— Priestly chair tie is damaged. (8)
22 —World paintings (and such)
Yours Truly throttles; the green-
grocer doesn't stock many. (5, 10)
25 Eagerness to pilfer a poem in
talk, deviously. (11)
26 — You backed an Iberian one lor
a girl. (3)
27 — Honest lessee is too long to
settle-in snugly. (6)
28— An airport is both unemployed
and furious. (8)
Down
1— Branches fasten Benaud’s stock
accomplishment. (7)
2 A duck! Leg before! It’s hard
for it to be remembered here,
though. (5)
3 Little devil has a considerable
time with some rocky-mountain
ruler. (9)
4 Not expelled? You have
commonsense, Edward. (8)
6 Barker’s mum because it’s a set
code of belief. (5)
7 Men turn it into food. (9)
8 — Undying? Attend lessons too
long for that. (7)
9 Game, yet show fear. (5)
14 — Racehorses which give an Ameri-
can girl jumpers. (9)
16 — Marzipan is to walk over some
of the window. (9)
17 — I nip up and take Id. at last,
when held in a way which
restricts most movement with
wings. (8)
18- —Relatives of a snorter foot-
ball? (7)
20— Upset over trifles. (7)
21— Drop on a serious play. (5)
23 Laud. (5)
24 Timber-growing in the U.K.
air. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 580


5*
*
*
Si*
NEW ERA
IN
EARTHMOVING
IN
AUSTRALIA
with the new Caterpillar
DW2O-DW2I
. TRACTORS
fTTfffl
! 1 aJJ v
m
m
DW2O
and No. 456 Scraper
DW2I
and No. 470 Scraper
Here’s a new concept in high-speed
low-cost earthmoving the like of which
has never been seen in Australia. Here
they are: the new CAT DW2O and
DW2I Tractors with matching low-
bowl scrapers. More power . . . faster
... more efficient... more productive
than ever!
NEW POWER. The new, powerful DW2O
and DW2I give you extra pull in the
cut—faster acceleration —higher haul
speeds—better gradeability.
NEW EFFICIENCY. The extra perfor-
mance given by the new Super-Turbo
engine results in better acceleration—
faster cycles greater production
more profits for you.
NEW SPEED. The amazing Super-Turbo
engine provides mighty power for
higher working speeds. New profit by
reduced cycle times with maximum
loads cutting costs boosting
production.
Let us demonstrate the CAT DW2O
and DW2I to you. Let us prove their
capacity to move more earth faster and
more profitably than any other machine
in Australia.
CATERPILLAR
•CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRAXCAVATOR or* Registered Trademarks
af Caterpillar Tracter Ce.. U.S.A.
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES.
Sold, serviced and backed to the hilt In N.S.W. by
WAUGH & lOSEPHSGN PTY. LIMITED
WJ 222.115
YEARS A
CATERPILLAR
DEALER
Head Office: Mitchell Read, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phene: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone 657;
Moree, 'phone 208.


Australia’s wool cheque
for the first five months
of this financial year
was almost £35 million
more than for the same
period of 1958 - 59,
according to reports dis-
closed by the Com-
monwealth Statistician
recently.
The value of wool
exported in the five
months was £140,992,000
compared with
£106,004.000 in the five
months to November,
1958.
Wool shipments in
the period totalled
570,415,000 lbs., an
increase of about
80,000 lbs. over the
previous period.
Lamb losses occasioned
by fly-strike and disease
can be lessened con-
siderably with the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings for all Castrating
and Tailing. Elastrator
provides the only safe
method of Castration
and Tailing because it
is completely bloodless.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CHALLENGE TO AGRICULTURE
By CHARLES MEEKING
Primary Industry Minister
Charles Adermann had some
reason to describe the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council as
“an excellent example of Com-
monwealth-States co - opera-
tion” when he opened the
Silver Jubilee meeting of the
council in Hobart the other
day. The council has done a
good job, and its effects are
far-reaching and mostly bene-
ficial.
The council, which met for
the first time in 1935, has func-
tions covering all aspects of
Australian farm-policy. It
tries to promote the welfare
and development of agricul-
tural industries ; it arranges the
exchange of information on
production and marketing.
It sets an example which
could well be followed in such
fields as health and education
—it facilitates the co-ordina-
tion of technical work by the
rural departments of several
Governments in Australia, to
their mutual benefit. It helps
the Federal and State Govern-
ments which are its members to
try to reach a balance between
production and available
markets (with the said Govern-
ments always bearing in mind
the vagaries of Nature and the
limitations of the Constitu-
tion), and it discusses the
“Landing-gear sticks.”
various phases of organised
marketing.
It also works to promote a
uniform policy (odd enough
anywhere in Australia) on ex-
ternal-marketing procedures,
which on occasion includes dis-
cussion on encouragement of
and assistance to various agri-
cultural industries.
The Minister, admitting the
wide range of the council’s
functions and the variety of
Australia’s climates and topo-
graphy, claimed that the coun-
cil had “always managed to
give a clear lead" on matters of
agricultural policy.” This
can be accepted with some
reservations, but he was pro-
bably right in saying that the
work done by the council in
the last 25 years has been re-
flected in Australia’s growing
stature in international coun-
cils concerned with agriculture.
Unfortunately, the same claim
cannot be made on all kinds
of marketing, as Mr. McEwen
acknowledged recently.
The Hobart meeting took a
look at the challenge of the
future, in general and in detail.
It took some credit for itself,
because the continued improve-
ment from export earnings
from rural products had
enabled an increased inflow of
imports.
This, as Mr. Adermann said,
should make “some contribu-
tion to checking the rise in
local costs and prices.” He
added that some of the things
which now needed to be done,
or continued, included the most
efficient use of all available
natural resources (that will be
the day!), and expansion of an
efficient rural sector able to
meet the additional local de-
mand by an increasing popula-
tion.
Here, unhappily, he lapsed
into official jargon by adding
that this sector should also be
capable of “making a substan-
tial contribution to the higher
export-income which will be
needed to finance the rising im-
port-requirements required for
the continuation of the rapid
development achieved in the
post-war period in our
country.”
(A few moments’ reflection
on this ponderous phrasing will
reveal what the Minister meant
and how much more simply it
could have been expressed.
Charles Adermann is a simple
and direct man in his natural
state —he should not let official-
dom put windy sentences into
his mouth).
Some of his other urgings
included- the maintenance of
high standards to keep custom,
more attention to marketing-
methods, and vigilance in inter-
national bodies and bilateral
talks to secure maximum
marketing-chances for our pro-
duce and to reduce unfair
trade-practices by our com-
petitors.
They weren’t new problems,
he agreed, but the changing
world environment meant a
new kind of challenge.
Some of the factors in that
environment were the rise of
agricultural protectionism, with
its narrowing of markets and
increased competition for
them ; regionalism, with pos--
sible restrictive economic
arrangements ; agriculture's
“terms of trade” in the indus-
trial nations, where food-con-
sumption did not necessarily
rise on all fours with increases
in the national income ; and
the major problem of making
demand “effective” in the
underdeveloped countries
(which meant, in effect, deal-
ing more efficiently with both
.costs and marketing).
These were challenging
thoughts, and the Minister fol-
lowed them, properly, with a
detailed exposition of the pre-
sent situation abroad and the
policy-issues arising in specific
primary industries. It was, in
brief, a fruitful meeting.
Power in Victoria
“Electra”: The Victorian
State Electricity Commission
quotes impressive figures to
show its progress during 1959.
Last year practically all
Victoria's electricity was
generated by the commission,
whose net increase of over
400-million units enabled it to
sell eight per cent, more elec-
tricity than in the previous
year, and to connect over
36,000 new users, 67 per cent,
of them (including 2749 more
farms) outside the metropoli-
tan area. It also mined over
one-and-a-half million more
tons of brown coal than in
1958, and produced a record
642,590 tons of briquettes at
Yallourn.
To extend its supplies and
improve its existing facilities
the commission built, on an
average, nine miles of new lines
and 11 distribution sub-
stations each working-day. To
meet the needs of the next 10
years it plans to expand its
building and double its brown-
coal output.
A newly-completed trans-
mission-line gives Victoria a


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
ft
%
Bth April-19th April, 1960
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1960 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1960 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
share in power from the
Snowy Mountains hydroelectric
scheme and greatly extends
interchange of power between
the Victorian and N.S.W.
generating-systems. Thus, with
both commissions sharing the
total savings in cost, power in
both States can always be
derived from the most econo-
mical plant.
These extensions and im-
provements involved a 12 per
cent, increase ip total expendi-
ture, easily met since the year’s
total income rose by 13 per
cent, and allowed for an
increased reserve at the end of
the financial year.
Serrated Tussock
Again
“Zorok”: Serrated tussock,
as great a problem to
pastoralists in the central and
southern parts of N.S.W. as
lantana on the North Coast and
Bathurst burr further inland, is
still far from being kept under
control by shire-councils in
the region.
Yet 15 of the 17 constituent
councils of the Central and
Southern Tablelands Serrated
Tussock Committee recently
voted against setting-up a
county-council to fight the
tussock.
At a meeting of the tussock-
committee in Goulburn
(N.S.W.) last November the
proposal for a county-council
was referred back to all the
constituent councils; and the
result was this decisive “No.”
At the last meeting of the
committee, early in February
this year, councillors from most
of the shires gave cogent
reasons why they opposed a
county-council.
They claimed that, with
sufficient Governmental grants,
councils could cope with the
menace
Main objections to a county-
council—reasonable enough
objections, too —were that it
would mean a further strength-
ening of bureaucracy, that it
Would throw an extra burden
on ratepayers, and that weeds
officers of a county-council
might not know local condi-
tions as well as would a shire
Weeds-officer.
At the November meeting
the Serrated Tussock Com-
mittee had unanimously thrown
out the suggestion of a trust to
fight the tussock. It was cor-
rectly pointed out that a trust
would be another Government
agency, that it would not be
responsible to ratepayers, and
that it would very likely be
used as a “plum” for political
appointments.
Yet there is surely a differ-
ence between a county-council
and a trust. One of the most
fervent opponents of the trust
idea, Cr. H. T. Ellsmore, of
Berrima County Council, spoke
in favor of formation of a
county-council. He spoke from
practical experience.
Another who spoke was an
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture expert on serrated
tussock, K. Green, who said he
was “amazed” at the councils’
rejection of the proposal. He
recalled that a deputation from
the tussock committee to
N.S.W. Minister for Agricul-
ture Nott a few months ago had
told the Minister that serrated
tussock was getting out of hand,
and that shire-councils couldn’t
cope with it.
Yet now they claimed they
could control it.
Supporting him, T. Lewis,
Liberal M.L.A. for Wollondilly,
said he was “disappointed” at
the councils’ rejection of the
scheme.
I think, myself, that a county-
council, with its concentration
of experts and with control over
a bigger area, and with perhaps
more chance of getting a
Governmental grant, would be
the better answer to a serious
problem.
Blue Cattledog
“Wongan”: Re kelpies and
dingoes (B. 10/2/’6O), some
people confuse kelpies with
the blue cattledog, whose
ancestry contains both kelpie
and dingo.
The evolution of this breed
began when in 1840 a N.S.W.
grazier crossed some imported
blue Scotch collies with dingoes.
The progeny combined the
collie’s tractability with the
dingo’s cunning and instinct
for silently stalking from
behind. They were the best
cattledogs bred in those days
—good heelers, intelligent and
tireless. But inheriting the
dingo’s lack of allegiance, they
were indifferent camp-
guardians; and their strong in-
stinct for working the tail and
wings of a mob made it difficult
to teach them to wheel or halt
stock.
Introduction of new blood
corrected these faults: the
Dalmatian contributed his
guardian-instinct, and the Aus-
tralian black-and-tan kelpie
endowed the new breed with
his clever headwork.
The new blood also brought
new problems for dog-fanciers
who wished to evolve a perfect
cattledog. The animal exhibited
nowadays is the result of years
of patient breeding-experiments
by Sydney kennelmen towards
the end of last century.
The Marrikai Plains
A news-item (“N.T. News,”
19/l/’6O), which received no
mention, so far as I know, in
the southern press, concerned
the Marrikai Plains, out from
Adelaide River in the N.T.
K. Thorak, veterinary-officer
of the Animal Industry Branch
in Darwin, said he thought
that mixed rice-growing and
cattle-farming could turn these
vast plains into a gigantic food-
bowl.
Having driven or walked
over these plains in 1950, I
cordially agree. He is only
saying what old Dr. Holtze told
the S.A. Government time and
again, though his reports now
lie accumulating dust in various
archives. -
Those flood-plains are big.
I drove for close on 100 miles
over them without reaching
their end. In that part of the
Territory rain is guaranteed
and averages round 75in.
When the Adelaide comes
down in flood, as it does each
year'with unfailing regularity,
they are covered with water to
depths of from 18in. to 3ft.
Here and there, perhaps a mile
or, two apart, are belts of
timber on sandy or gravel
ridges. Clearing is thus
reduced to a minimum.
Thorak points out that a lot
of earthmoving equipment
would be needed and that costs
would be high because many
dams and channels would be
required, but returns would be
good.
The N.T. Director of Agri-
culture, Bill Curteis, who really
does know something of the
problems associated with
tropical agriculture, agreed in
general with Thorak. He
pointed out that one of the
problems associated with mixed
farming would be getting
suitable grazing-crops for cattle


Between
Ourselves
-Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting amp
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
FOR SALE
Diesel Electric Generating
Plant
Petter Fielding FH2 Florizontal,
80 H.P.
Newman Alternator, 80 K.W.
2 H.P. Air Compressor.
Complete with Switchboard,
Water Tanks, Tools, etc. Can
be seen running.
Installed 1952 as stand-by
plant—hardly used. Inquire:
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond
Phone (JB2114)
to eat during the dry season.
But he remarked that after the
rice was harvested the stubble
could be planted with legumes
or cow-peas, while sorghum
could also be used.
However, it’s no use just
talking about what can be
done. I believe that enough
fodder can be conserved on
those flood-plains to carry cattle
in good condition throughout
the dry season.
The rainy season normally
ends in April on the Marrikai
Plains. From then on through
May and June there is usually
good feed. Cattle start to lose
condition in July, and, by the
end of the “dry”—usually the
first week in November —they
are in a bad way. But fodder-
conservation on a comprehen-
sive scale would alter all that.
These plains are easy to
irrigate. Damming the head-
waters of the Adelaide is one
solution ; individual plants
pumping from the river are
another. There are roughly
two-million acres along the
Adelaide and Mary which lend
themselves to the type of agri-
culture envisaged by Curteis
and Thorak. And two-million
acres mean 4000 farms, allow-
ing each an average of 500
acres as suggested by Thorak.
If the Federal Government
created an authority like the
Tennessee Valley, and went to
the Australian public for a
loan of £5O million earmarked
for this purpose and no other,
I believe they would get the
money. Southern folk are at
length waking-up to the
menace of an empty North.
Territory Rice is doing its
best with its concession, but
seems handicapped for the
lack of working-capital. If the
Federal Government seems dis-
inclined to tackle the problem
on a really big scale, what is
wrong with inviting English,,
Australian and American
investors to form a company
and do the job? It would be
interesting to hear comments
on this aspect of development.
There are few parts of Aus-
tralia where the annual rain-
fall is as reliable as it is on
the Marrikai Plains. It might
be added that the Adelaide —
one of Australia’s largest rivers
—is navigable for boats larger
than those which used to trade
to the Richmond River for
close on 60 miles.
Modern earthmoving equip-
ment has altered the whole
technique of development, as
the Snowy River scheme
proved. It seems tragic that
a tract of land capable of
supporting 4000 families should
remain just a buffalo-wallow.
D. C. Tilghman.
Darling Downs
Oat-trials
“Myall”: At oat-trials held
last season on Darling Downs
properties at Bowenville and
Jondaryan, oat-varieties were
divided into two groups, early-
season and mid-season.
In the first group, two old
varieties, Algerian and Klein
(an improved strain of
Algerian), were grown with
two new kinds, Sante Fe and
Saia, together with a new, dual-
purpose variety of wheat
(Hopps) for comparison in
growth. On early-autumn sow-
ings, the results (green weight,
tons per acre, three cuttings)
were:
Total
Ist 2nd 3rd yield
Klein .. ..3.97 .43 1.69 6.09
Algerian ..3.74 .61 1.71 6.06
Sante Fe .. 2.58 .77 1.73 5.08
Landhafer 2.19 .45 1.45 4.09
Hopps .. 1.94 .55 Nil 2.49
The low production of Flopps
is not a good indication of the
productivity of wheat, because
the variety was affected by a
disorder to which oafs are
resistant.
The mid-season trial was to
ascertain the performances of
a number of oat-varieties in
comparison with wheat and
canary-seed, when sown late
in the season:
Total
Ist 2nd 3rd yield
Benton .. 3.87 .63 5.16 9.66
Camellia .. 1.89 1.64 5.85 9.38
Bovah .. 2.81 .79 5.52 9.12
Vieland .. 2.68 .63 5.16 8.47
Saia .. .. 2.84 .81 4.80 8.45
Clinton .. 2.75 .50 4.47 7.72
Hopps .. 2.07 1.82 .84 4.73
Canary-seed 1.40 .97 2.16 4.52
In this trial, Camellia, a
large stout grain, did not ger-
minate well, and resulted in a
poor stand. This accounts for
the small weight of fodder in
the first cut.
A forage-harvester was used
to cut all samples for green-
weight records, and the plots
were then grazed. The second
and third forage-harvester cuts
were taken from areas previ-
ously grazed, not from strips
cut with the harvester.
Of the new varieties, Camel-
lia gave the best performance,
but Sante Fe and Saia, both
varieties resistant to crown-
rust, show promise in their
respective classes. Crown-rust
is usually a minor disease on
the Downs, but in coastal areas
is often very serious.
Of the slow-growing varieties,
Algerian and Klein retain pride
of place, while in the quick-
growing class, Benton and
Bovah proved outstanding
under Downs conditions. From
the trials, neither wheat nor
canary-seed can compare with
the grazing productivity of
oats.
Preserving
Fenceposts
“R.L.P.”: FI a v i n g been
associated with several efforts
like those described by “Big
Billy” (B. 13/2/’59), I no longer
recommend the practice. Cross-
section samples which appear
to have taken-up the preserva-
tive satisfactorily show-up
poorly when reacting dye-
indicators are applied. Where,
say, 25 per cent, of the sap-
wood fails to react, prospects
of rot and insect-attack pene-
trating to the heartwood are
too great for confidence.
The trouble, of course, lies
in lack of correct facilities for
doing the job—quick and com-
plete removal of bark within
eight hours of felling; maxi-
mum exposure of the sapwood
to evaporation; maintenance
of ‘the level of preservative
liquid above the highest cut in
the sapwood, and treatment of
the top ends.
During erection it is also
important to avoid breaching
the treated “outer.” If posts
are being pointed for driving,
they should be pointed before
treatment. Crosscuts should be
sealed with several applications
of creosote or tar, diluted with
kerosene or sump-oil to which
preservatives have been added.
For the same reason stapling is
preferable to boring holes,
which should be kept as small
as possible.
Tropical Legume
“Ruddigore”: Officers of the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture are * experimenting
with a machine to harvest seed
from „the tropical legume
Glycine javanica grown on
their Ayr Regional Experi-
mental Station.
Trial-plantings with javanica
were started over 10 years ago,
and results have been encourag-
ing. The legume has grown
profusely in the rich tropical
scrub-soils in the South John-
stone and Palmerstone districts
near Innisfail, as well as on the
colder red soils of the Atherton
Tableland.
The legume has proved a
useful adjunct to pasture-
mixtures comprising Rhodes-
grass and green-panic. Its
growth is fairly slow for the
first year, but, once established,
javanica will stand relatively
heavy grazings.
In trials on the Atherton
Tableland, the department
found that swards of glycine
and green-panic made faster
growth and were more succu-
lent than green-panic planted
on its own.
Row-planting, spaced at 14in.
intervals, appeared to be the
best way to establish these
swards. Weeds can be trouble-
some during the first year of
growth, though cultivating
between the rows keeps them
in check, aerates the ground
and allows the grasses to
establish themselves without
struggling against competition.
Provided a pasture is succu-
lent, its main requirement Is
weight of roughage to the acre.
Trials conducted on the Table-
land showed that glycine and
green-panic together are
capable of rapid recovery and
growth after a drought. A
3in. fall of rain broke the
November, 1957, drought.
Three weeks afterwards, green-
panic pastures were cutting
scwt. of green material to the
acre, while g/ycme-green-panic
mixture was cutting 16cwt.
The Atherton Tableland is
predominantly a country of
paspalum and kikuyu. The
crying need in these pastures,
which are showing the ravages
of time and heavy stocking, is
a legume which will combine
with the grasses and not choke
them out or be choked-out
itself.
Glycine shows promise of


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
fulfilling this need. Plantings
of the legume in old swards
of kikuyu have, in the second
year, raised the amount of
green material to 10 tons an
acre —an increase of 6 tons over
the old sward of grass.
The need for a legume in
central and southern pastures
has long been realised, and the
Department of Agriculture has
experimented with glycine as
far south as Gayndah, in the
heart of the cattle-country of
the South Burnett.
The seasons here are much
drier than those further north.
Twenty-seven inches is a
normal year’s rainfall;
droughts and summer
temperatures around the
century are common. The
winters can be cold and dry.
Plantings of glycine at Brian
Pastures just out from Gayndah
have shown promising results.
It will probably never succeed
lucerne as the legume par
excellence, but, in combination
with native grasses, will raise
the level of soil-fertility and
increase the grazing-rate.
Glycine javanica is a native
of the East Indies and is also
found in East Africa and Asia.
It is a prolific seeder, up to
2001 b. of seed being harvested
from one acre of grass. Once
a plentiful supply of seed
becomes available, more will be
heard of glycine —the most
promising legume to hit this
country for many years.
Roundworms in Pigs
“W i 1 g a”: Large round-
worms are most common in
pigs, though often farmers
don't realise that their animals
are infested. In the larval
stages they cause damage to
liver and lungs, and when
mature they lodge in the small
intestines and can greatly re-
tard the pig’s growth.
The female worm lays eggs
in the animal’s intestines.
Clean pigs pick them up and
become infected.
The egg-stage, outside the
pig’s body, is the point in the
worm’s life-cycle where control
measures can best be under-
taken.
Whenever possible, rear all
piglets up to weaning in pens
with concrete floors, apd keep
these free from dung. When
young animals’ are allowed to
run in paddocks, keep them on
fresh or spelled ground to
prevent them picking up worm-
eggs.
Never allow them to form
wallows and be sure that dung
and food-wastes, such as corn-
cobs, do not accumulate. Worm-
eggs soon perish on dry ground
in bright sunshine, but remain
alive for long periods in
moist areas round wallows and
feeding-troughs or under
rubbish and litter.
Treat all breeding-stock for
roundworms at the beginning
of each dry season and again
just before its end. Each
litter should also be treated
just before the piglets are
weaned.
Sodiumf-fluoride or pipera-
zine compounds are good for
treating roundworms, but must
be administered with care
because they are poisons. If
in any doubt about use of the
drugs, consult the local Agri-
cultural Department pig-
branch officer, or the veterin-
ary services in the district.
Cultivation Methods
“F.C.”: That disk-plough
item in B. 27/1/’6O reminded
me of the few profitable days
I spent in 1951 at Volkenrode,
Germany’s biggest research-
station.
A scientist there told me
that the various families of the
soil-population occupy different
elevations in the earth. When
the conventional plough turns
the soil over, it throws these im-
portant little blokes into the
utmost confusion. Instead of
carrying out their legitimate
business these professional
humus-manufacturers have to
struggle to regain their respec-
tive positions in the co-opera-
tive team. While they are so
engaged they receive further
discouragement from a dust-
storm of super., the sulphuric
acid ingredient of which is unfit
for micro-consumption. When
the farmer becomes more
scientific and bombards them
with copper, zinc, sulphate-of-
ammonia and other lethal
weapons, the bacteria isolated
below the hardpan are cut off
from the air and throw-in the
towel.
When the Ist A.I.F. were
chasing the Turks out of
Palestine in 1916-17 they were
greatly amused by the Arabs’
idea of a plough—a pole with
a sharp point. (Progressive
Arabs put a shoe of iron on the
point to reduce depreciation.)
But the rich strip of soil be-
tween sea and desert produced
the barley that was used in
Guinness’s stout, for which
only the best would do.
When P. A. Yeomans in-
vented the chisel-plough he was
doubtless aware of the import-
ance of leaving the soil-bacteria
where Nature put them, i.e.,
where they can do the most
good. In contradistinction to
many soil-scientists, Yeomans
has discovered that by work-
ing with Nature the most grati-
fying results can be achieved.
On the other hand, by dis-
regarding her decrees you are
asking for trouble in the shape
of a great variety of diseases.
It seems that with the best
possible intention the soil-
scientists have raised the lid
of Pandora’s box.
Another
African Grass
“Mulga”: Besides Makarf-
kari-grass (B. 24/2/’6O) another
less-desirable variety has been
noted. African love-grass,
which has made its unwelcome
appearance on a grazing-
property near Armidale
(N.S.W.), is of tussocky habit,
with leaves like strong brown
string. It’s worthless for fodder
as stock will not touch it.
Officers of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture,
who identified the pest, declare
that this is the first recorded
discovery of the grass in the
Commonwealth, and don’t
know how it was introduced.
The owner of the infested
property says that he first
noticed one or two plants
about five years ago, and has
only been able to restrict its
spread by snipping off the
seeds. It has now covered
about four acres and, fearing
that it would get away
altogether and spread to
adjoining properties, he noti-
fied the Agricultural Depart-
ment.
So far the grass has with-
stood all efforts to destroy it.
Hoeing, ploughing, firing and
spraying with the strongest
weed-killers have had no effect
and even drought has not
retarded its growth.
Crosscut
“Gricola”: Because of the
railway-line bisecting the
property, the 1560-acre farm
which won the 1959 Fire Pre-
vention Competition in Vic-
toria’s No. 17 Region had 30
miles of double-ploughed
breaks to protect its grass- and
crop-paddocks.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/2/’60)
Rain will probably be plentiful in Queensland during
March, with heaviest falls on the coastal districts, Peninsula
and around the Gulf, and flooding likely in many parts.
The north-coastal area should have further heavy rain in
April, though falls may be poor elsewhere in the State. The
eastern half should have good rain in June.
N.S.W. may have patchy rain during March, although
moderate falls are likely in most of the coastal districts, on
the Tablelands and on the North-west Slopes and the plains
of this area. The North Coast will probably have heavy
falls. Poor rainfall is indicated for the State in April, but
heavy falls and serious flooding are likely in May.
Light to moderate rains should be received in Victoria
during March and April, but good seasonal rains are
indicated in May.
Rainfall may be poor in South Australia during March;
moderate rains are indicated in the agricultural areas and
on the west-coastal districts during April. Good seasonal
rains should be received in May.
Good rains are likely in Western Australia during
March; heavy in the north-west area of the State. Rainfall
is likely to be poor during April.
LENNOX WALKER.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Round the Rugged Rocks, by
David Niven. —6949.
Old Army lists, Army orders,
dress-regulations, regimental
standing-orders and old handbooks
of military weapons. —6950.
Taste —Peace and Tradition, by
Bernard Smith. —6951.
Bound vols. of The Bulletin for
any years—or year—of the 1890’s.
—6952.
Sowers of the Wind, by T. A. G.
Hungerford; Stone of Destiny, by
lon Idriess; Herbs and Herb
Gardening, The Old English
Herbals, A Garden of Herbs, Rose
Recipes, all by Eleanor Sinclair
Rhode.—69s3.
Information Supplied
(From “A.W.”): Re inquiry
6943 (B. 24/2/’60): Remembered
from about 50 years ago ; author
unknown:
Is it true, O Christ in Heaven,
That the strongest suffer most;
That the bravest wander farthest
And most hopelessly are lost?
That the mark of rank in nature
Is capacity for pain;
And the anguish of the singer
Marks the sweetness of the strain ?
Information Sought
Is “Kurnell’ •’ an aboriginal name ?
The origin of the name Kurnell,
an area near the southern head of
Botany Bay (N.S.W.), where Cap-
tain Cook made his first landing
in Australia, has not been definitely
established. One theory makes it
an aboriginal attempt to pronounce
the name of John Connell, who in
1828 bought from Captain James
Birnie a grant of 700 acres in the
area which had been made to the
latter in 1815. On the other hand,
the “Australian,” of July 25, 1828,
mentions a place called by the
natives “Collonell.” An article in
the “Town and Country Journal,”
of April 30, 1870, gives a picture
of “Kundell House,” which it says
was sometimes called “Curnell
House,” 'a corruption of the native
name “cunthal.” An article in the
“Sydney Morning Herald” (June 6,
1890) refers to Captain Cook’s
landing-place as “Kundel, now
corrupted into Colonel.” It seems
likely, therefore, that Kurnell
approximates the original native
name of the place, rather than
being a variant of John Connell’s
name.
* * * *
How to make a liquid floor-polish
using beeswax ?
Assemble 4oz. beeswax, loz. plain
white toilet-soap, 1 pint turpentine
and 1 pint water which has been
boiled. Shred the wax and soap
into a tin, cover with the turpen-
tine and let stand all night until
melted together. Alternatively, it
may be stood in a pan of water
and melted over gentle heat (it is
very inflammable). When cool, add
the water cold. Put into a bottle
and shake until it is white and
creamy. Apply with a woollen
cloth. Polish with an old silk
duster. The wax by itself, shredded
into turpentine, makes a very good
polish, and is the one used on
many valuable antiques to produce
a fine patina.
Some details of the history of the
oldAlhambraHall in Sydney.
The building was originally
o p enec i by Harris Bros, as a hay-
and-corn store in 1886 The
Alhambra Music Hall was opened
jn JBB9 b Frank Smith After
Smith , g death jn 18%> Mick
Simmons transferred the lease of
the building to Delohery, Craden
and Holland at £8 a week. In
1892, Mick Simmons gave the lease
G f the building for two years to
Harry Rickard. Rickard then
“Well, THAT should keep you up with the Joneses !”
opened the Tivoli Theatre in the
same year and ran it together with
the Alhambra. In 1894, Mick
Simmons died and Rickard closed
the Alhambra. Then Samuel and
R. Simmons turned the building
into a cigar-factory, which ran for
several years. The lease of the
Alhambra building later expired,
and Puglieci opened it as the
Alhambra Music Hall. It was still
running in 1914, and was finally
closed-down at about the end of
World War I.
* * * *
What is the law regarding trespass
an the banks and waters of a river ?
It wouldn’t be prohibitively diffi-
cult to write a book on the
subject. It is always possible to
commit trespass on the banks of
a river unless some area along the
bank has been set aside for recrea-
tion. Generally speaking, persons
who without permission travel
along the bank of a river trespass
either against the Government
department which has the care of
the river, or the owner of the bank.
Doubtful whether it would be
possible to trespass on the waters
of a river because, generally speak-
ing, trespass in English law is
known only in the form of trespass
to land or to goods or to the
person. Where a river, perhaps
in its early stages, flowed through
someone’s land, it would be possible
to trespass on the river insofar
as it was necessary to trespass on
the land to get to the river. If
this general treatment of the ques-
tion does not solve your problem,
perhaps you could provide a more
detailed series of facts.
* * *
General information on the crab-
eater seal ?
Sometimes called the white
Antarctic seal, it is a rare visitor
from the Antarctic, where it lives
among the pack-ice. It resembles
the leopard-seal in its creamy-grey
coloration, with darker mottling of
the neck and sides; but the leaf-
like lobing of the teeth, the smaller
head and the more definite neck
distinguish it. It feeds mainly on
small crustaceans (brit), which are
strained from a mouthful of water
by the teeth. The seal has been
reported from Graham Land and
the Bay of Whales; it is at times
fairly numerous on the Patagonian
coast. There are only a few
records of its occurrence on the
New Zealand and Australian coasts,
the northernmost stranding having
been at Nambucca Heads (N.S.W.).
One captive survived for a few
weeks in Taronga Park Zoo
(Sydney), where it was seen to
remove the skin from a fish, eat
the flesh and leave the head and
skeleton intact.
Brief Answers
T.R.: Your question will involve
a fair bit of research. It’s not an
impossible query, but it will take
time to answer... .“Old Digger”:
If you feel you should do some-
thing about this money, write to
the Deputy Commissioner for
Repatriation and tell him what has
happened and ask him what he
wants you to do. Probably you
could not be compelled to return
the money, but you may have to
have other dealings with the depart-
ment. Maybe the department
knows what it has done and intends
you to keep the money R.A.
(Goulburn): It is quite possible for
you to get a pension without your
family knowing about it. If you
want a pension for yourself and
your wife it might be difficult to
keep it from her that you have
changed your name, but, provided
you can prove that you are the
person mentioned in the birth-
certificate, there is no reason why
you should have to tell anyone
why you changed your name. If
you went to the Pensions Office
and asked them they might find
some way of helping y0u....L.5.:
Gerard’s Herball is the title of a
famous catalogue of plants pub-
lished in 1597 by John Gerard
(1545-1612), an English herbalist and
surgeon; in 1633 and in 1636
improved editions appeared. All
are now very rare and valuable,
only a few copies still surviving in
museums and university libraries,
with possibly some in private
collections. It is doubtful if there
is a copy in Australia. Gerard
was interested in plants all his life,
and his first catalogue indexed
those grown in his garden in Hol-
born, London —an astonishing
collection of 1039 species and
varieties. His books are now
curiosities from a horticultural
point of view, although interesting
to gardeners and botanists.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
N.P.: It has its moments, but
they are too few and too mild....
L.H.; Try writing prose.... M.T.:
It was all right until you decided
to pop a few murders in—that was
where the story popped 0ut....
E. 8.: The taxi-driver will have to
call elsewhere... .L.R.: So will the
shearer D.W.: Your style is too
light. Try using a few shorter
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
words—polite ones, that is... .8.R.:
It can never be said you’re not
trying A.M.G.: “The Blue
Kite” came closest of the three;
still, it’s little more than a sketch,
See if you can expand the basic
idea K.A.: An exceedingly
bloodthirsty story. It might make
the grade as a serial in a children’s
magazine 1.L.: Six “shivering”
off-rhymes are “lingering” in the
basket C.C.: Quite a fresh
little study. Let’s see the next one.
A.J.: Ballad about sado-
masochist two-year-old might
interest Tom Lehrer, but not us.
....P.R.: Almost.


short-term basis. Both stocks
and debtors are modest in
relation to turnover.
The bonus-issue will take
paid capital up to £495,480 in
10s. shares.
Tin in N.Q.
Tnterest in North Queens-
land tinmining appears to
be reviving. Clutha, Ltd.,
which has been checking the
Herberton-Irvinebank area for
some time, is now operating
the old Gilmore Tin Mine,
reopened a few years ago with
favorable returns by Vancea
and party. The Kitchener
Extended is being sampled,
apparently by the same com-
pany, which has overseas
connections.
Cuming Smith
A dividend of 8 p.c. is being
maintained by Cuming
Smith, Ltd. (B. 10/2/’6O),
from slightly increased divi-
dend-receipts. The shares have
firmed from 525. to 565. Though
the fertiliser industry in Vic-
toria has become more' com-
petitive in recent years, the
co.’s interests are spread be-
yond that State into N.S.W.,
Queensland and W.A., and,
with its 1.C.1.A.N.Z. interests
valued on the sharemarket at
over 365. per Cuming Smith
share, and Cuming shares on
the market at 545., the fertiliser
empire is valued at under 20s.
a share, which is less than half
the book-value of the net
assets concerned if they are
traced through the associated
companies.
THE HOLLIDAYS
"I suppose this means cold soup again!"
New Recordings
Piano and Pianist
Although not strictly a new
recording, a Vox disk deserves
special mention, and not
merely because it adds a
luscious final commentary to
the wave of 20th-century
music presented in Sydney, at
least, over the last few weeks.
It is titled Moussorgsky :
Pictures at an Exhibition ;
Stravinsky : Petrouchka Suite ;
Balakirev: Islamey (APL 9140),
and the pianist is Alfred
Brendel.
The lusciousness divides
between actual performance,
clarity of recording and the
brilliance of the piano—hard,
powerful and, at times, ringing
with virtually pipe - organ
presence. You can observe
this piano’s other side—the
fluty softness —in the second
Promenade in the Mous-
sorgsky, where Brendel trims
and thins the forte; and there
is yet another type of tone in
the troubador’s-song section —
a kind of one-third brilliance,
like a very rich dark-olive
color.
Brendel really turns it on
in the Stravinsky. Having
previously heard it only by an
orchestra, one Was prepared
for a let-down. Although you
miss the orchestral variations
of tonal colors (an important
aspect in impressionistic music
such as this), it is really sur-
prising how much light and
shadow can be produced on
a piano. There is an early
fluttering run that sounds like
a harp; and often Brendel’s
right-hand seems to be playing
a solo against percussive
strings.
His playing in the Balakirev
is quite brilliant, giving you,
besides the pleasure of listen-
ing without worrying about
limitations in technique, the
whole range of Balakirev’s
impressions of Oriental life.
It is well recorded, and the
first side —Moussorgsky—goes
for 30min. 12sec., the second
side for slightly less; .so even
at the price of other l.p.s, it’s
something of a bargain.
❖ ❖ ❖
Lehrer
On Decca LFA 1311 Tom
Lehrer sings 12 of the songs he
lately sang at Sydney Town
Hall —“The Old Dope Ped-
dler,” “Be Prepared,” “The
Wild West (atomic-tests, etc.),
“I Wanna Go Back to Dixie,”
“F i g h t Fiercely, Harvard,”
“Lobachevsky” (from which it
appears that the secret of
mathematical success is
plagiarism—always, of course,
called “research”), “The Irish
Ballad” (a juicy number), “The
Hunting Song” (which some-
how exposes the loops in
American gaming-laws), “My
Home Town” (full of homely
people like idiot-arsonists,
slashers and maniacs), “When
You Are Old and Grey” (it.
reverses the everlasting-love
idea), “I Hold Your Hand in
Mine” (severed from the body),
and “The Wiener Schnitzel
Waltz” (faintly naughty).
Lehrer’s accompaniments are
skilful, and his voice, if it is
sometimes slightly nasal in
effect, manages the lyrics well.
He does everything: lyrics,
music and accompaniment.
♦♦♦ ❖
Followers of Tschaikowsky
will find a thoroughly agree-
able “Sleeping Beauty” Ballet
Suite on TW 105 (World
Record Club). There is an
unfortunate tendency among
some conductors to belt away
at Peter Ilyitch as if all his
music w,as written for a brass-
band, justifying this treatment
on the grounds of splendid
nationalism. Well, John Hol-
lingsworth, who conducts the
Sinfonia of London, shows
that care and absence of heavy
accent can make this music
come delicately to life: in the
adagio, for instance, the harp
dissolving in colored spray.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Red, white and blue flowers were
arranged in large urns at the reception
given by the State Government in
Queen’s Hall, Parliament House, in honor
of delegates to the International Congress
of Scientific Management. Guests were
received by the Premier and Mrs. Bolte,
the latter wearing a frock of white taffeta
printed in cinnamon and pale-green
leaves and a tiny flower-curvette in beige
and apple-green tonings. Mrs. Walter
Scott, wife of the world-president of
C. 1.0.5., chose a frock-and-jacket
ensemble in soft-blue mounted on taffeta
and she had a swathing of blue tulle over
her hair. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Evans, wore a pastel-blue-and-
white-spotted silk frock and a deep-
crowned hat of white straw.
☆ ☆ ☆
Verdi’s “Aida” was the opera chosen
to mark the silver jubilee of the National
Theatre, and the gala-performance at the
St. Kilda Palais drew an elegantly-
dressed audience. The Governor and
Lady Brooks passed between a guard-of-
honor comprising New Australians in
colorful national costumes to be greeted
by Gertrude Johnson (who has guided
the National Theatre’s destinies since she
founded it) and the president of the
theatre, Sir Robert Knox.
Lady Brooks’s gown of powder-blue
chiffon featured a draped bodice and full
skirt. Gertrude chose a sheath-frock of
amethyst satin embroidered with rhine-
stones and sequins ; a pure-silk stole of
olive-green was draped over one shoulder
and fell to the hem of her skirt. Lady
Knox wore with her bouffant gown of
primrose pure-silk a matching stole. A
striking gown of deep-cream taffeta
patterned with tiny bunches of autumn-
tinted flowers was worn by the Lady
Mayoress.
<r ☆ ☆
At the civic reception given by the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Cr. and
Mrs. Bernard Evans, in honor of Marshal
of the Royal Air Force, Lord Tedder,
and Lady Tedder, Mrs. Evans wore a
silk sheath-frock printed in two shades
of brown leaves and a curvette of cinna-
mon-brown velvet leaves which carried a
matching brown chenille spotted veil.
Lady Tedder’s choice was a dress and
jacket of heavy black silk-faille and a
toque of turquoise-blue feathers. On the
dais with the official party were the
Premier, the G.O.C. Southern Command,
Lieut.-General H. G. Edgar, and Mrs.
Edgar (her multicolored silk frock worn
with a black fascinator); and the Air
Officer Commanding Support Command,
Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters, and Mrs.
Walters (the latter in a slim black frock
and a wreath of artificial red and white
cherries).
Tall, slim and always impeccably
groomed, Mrs. John Chaldjian is a
foundation-member of the Australian-
Asian Association and was formerly
chairman of the women’s group. During
the 1956 Olympic Gomes she headed the
Hospitality Centre, which found accom-
modation for the thousands of visitors
who poured into this city. Now Mrs.
Chaldjian is chairman of a large commit-
tee which has arranged a gala-premiere to
raise funds for the Victorian Olympic
Council to meet the cost of sending our
team to Rome. “Please Don’t Eat the
Daisies,” a hilarious comedy, is the film
chosen for the premiere, which will be
held at the Metro Theatre, Bourke Street,
on March 30. The Governor and Lady
Brooks will attend, and they and other
distinguished guests will be received by
the president of the V.O.C., Sir Wilfred
Kent Hughes. Seats in mezzanine-lounge
and d.c. are £3 3s. each. Back-stalls are
£1 1s. and front-stalls 10s. 6d. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. J. Liney, 3 Howitt
Street, Glen Iris (Tel. BX 7235), and Mrs.
J. M. Shaw, 9 Grosvenor Court, Toorak
(Tel. 50 3757).
There wasn’t a vacant seat at the
Princess for the opening of the gay,
colorful and fast-moving “The Music
Man.” Audience-dressing was glamor-
ous, the most outstanding ensemble being
worn by Mrs. Garnet Carroll: a full-
length sheath-gown of white duchesse-
satin and a full-length coat of matching
satin embroidered all over in a fine cord
to form a lace-pattern. Sitting in the
box with the Garnet Carrolls were Sir
Norman and Dame Mabel Brooks, and
Dr. and Mrs. Keith Fairley. With Sir
Arthur Warner was Lady Warner, wear-
ing a black silk theatre-frock and white
mink stole. Mr. and Mrs. Russell Robin-
son brought a party which included their
son, Louise Home, Gillian Syme, Bar-
bara Hucks, Neville Day and Clive
Nettlefold. Mr. and Mrs. Jack Horn were
accompanied by their daughter Alex-
andra. Wearing an attractive white
guipure-lace frock was Mrs. Ernest
Greenhalf, who was with her husband
and “Miss Summer Festival” (Karen
Pyers).
☆ ☆ ☆
A record number of 850 attended the
special luncheon given by the Australian-
American Association in the Royale
Ballroom, guests of honor being Lord
and Lady Baillieu, and Lord and Lady
Casey. Forty members of the Interna-
tional Congress of Scientific Manage-
ment representing 17 countries, were
given a special welcome at the luncheon.
The president, Sir John Latham,
welcomed the official guests. A cap of
white organza-petals topped the silk
dress printed in shades of blue on a white
ground worn by Lady Baillieu. Lady
Casey chose a sheath-frock of black silk
and a cream-and-black beret. Mrs.
Henry Bolte, who deputised for her
husband, wore a brown floral-printed
silk frock and large brown straw
mushroom-hat. The Earl of Verulam,
Sir Edmund and Lady Herring, Sir Owen
and Lady Dixon, Dr. Lillian Gilbreth
(U.S.A.) and Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scott
were also in the official-party.
* ☆ ☆
Group-Captain S. Shi Sho, Combined
Services Attache for Burma, and Madame
Shi Sho were guests-of-honor at a buffet
dinner-party given in their home by Dr.
and Mrs. Ray Shatin before they left to
take-up official residence in Canberra.
Both wore their national costume; his
sarong in bright-brown-and-white checks
topped by a white-cotton bolero, hers of
emerald-green silk worn with a white
organdie blouse. Dr. and Mrs. Shatin
were assisted by their daughter Christine,
who recently returned from the U.S.,
where she did a post-graduate course in
nursing. Among the guests present were
Italy’s Consul-General the Marchese
Georgio Serafini, Mr. and Mrs. John
Dynon, Dr. and Mrs. A. E. Dunlop, Dr.
and Mrs. Ringland Anderson, Mr. and
Mrs. John Casson, Dr. and Mrs. John
Hayward, the Consul for Japan and Mrs.
Nomoto, Thai Consul H. I. Fader and
Mrs. Fader, Philippines Consul G. C.
(“Bing”) Molyneux and Mrs. Molyneux,
the Commercial Attache of the Indo-
nesian Embassy and Mrs. Song Tjoe Gie,
and Canadian Commercial Counsellor
T. Grant Major and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another party with an international
flavor was that given by the Consul for
the Republic of China, Mr. T. Y. Leung,
and Madame Leung in their Toorak home
in honor of Miss Yah Chuan-Wang, who
is returning to Formosa from a Unesco
seminar in New Zealand. Miss Wang
has worked as an educationalist for 30
years, and was the first woman to be
appointed to her post in the Ministry of
Education.


SYDNEY
Now is the time to give thought to the
n ew season’s fashions, even though a
summery heaviness still lingers in the air.
The shop-windows have bloomed with
smart winter garments, and mannequin-
parades, springing up all over the place,
make the savings in one’s pocket-book
feel very insecure.
How will we look in 1960? What will
it take to be smart? Well, firstly, we will
have an easy, casual look, no squared-off
shoulders, no “sensible” shoes, nor
military precision, in general effect.
Shoes are still pointed and heels very
slender, whether they are tall or short.
Some of the evening-shoes are very
decorative, made of brocade or
embroidered with pearls and brilliants.
The colored-satin shoe is still very
popular for evening.. The high sandal
has given way to the backless shoe, with
emphasis on pretty heels.
Of the suits, the Chanel type will
probably be the most successful, its
straight skirt and grosgrain-bound jacket
being so easy to wear and inconspicuously
elegant.
But, inching-in determinedly on the
suits’ territory, is the ensemble featuring
dress and little jacket. This is such a
useful type of garment, it may eventually
oust the suit altogether. The jackets may
be any length from above-waist to hip-
line, are mostly square-cut, but are also
seen pinched-in at the waist with a
wide belt.
The dresses, though mostly in woollens,
are often cut with a fairly low neckline.
Even pullovers are showing this tendency
to be cut away. Of course this means that
quantities of junk-jewellery will find a
home round the neck. Pearls and gold-
necklaces are still in, though they do not
dangle so much. They seem more
inclined to cluster high round the neck-
line and form a choker.
Bracelets, too, show this tendency
towards togetherness, piling-up in
numbers in that space between wrist and
forearm left by the sawn-off sleeves.
Slacks, by the way, also tend to look as
if the wearer has grown out of them.
They are cut very short and tight, leaving
a rather cold area round the ankles. But
(one must suffer to be beautiful) they
really do look smart.
Topcoats seem to have very big coach-
man’s-collars or no collars at all. Some
have kimino-sleeves. All are relaxed-
looking, falling free from the shoulder or
with their fullness caught in at the waist
by a belt (wide, of course).
To top all this there are little coach-
man’s hats or bowlers —these are the
sauciest —turbans, high cloches or deep-
brimmed Garbo types (how the name
clings!). And, of course, there are fur-
hats, ranging in price from £6 to £6O.
Chief among the fashion-parades seen
so far was the showing of winning
designs in the Wool Fashion Awards for
1960 at the Trocadero. The Governor,
Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady Woodward
were guests-of-honor and were greeted
by the chairman of the Wool Bureau,
Mr. W. A. Gunn. Director of Promo-
tions, Miss Nan Sanders, wore a Pierre
Cardin model of fine white flannel, hand-
embroidered in blue, gold and orange.
Other Melbourne visitors included Mr.
T. G. Carter with his daughter, Mrs. B. J.
Vassey, and Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Payne.
The supreme fashion award went, so
justly, to a top-coat of carameLcolored
fine wool swinging freely from an
elliptical collar of beautiful brown-mink.
The clothes shown, having been chosen
from manufacturers’ ranges which are
now available in the shops, stressed
elegance and simplicity rather than
drama, and demonstrated how greatly
the standards of taste have improved in
Australia during the past 10 years.
Points picked-up from the showing
included the prevalence of checks, both
big and small—the big ones including
the new season’s favorite “antique
tartans” —which are muted in color, as
were nearly all the garments shown.
The color most favored was green, in
its grey and brown moods, though
charcoal, oyster and beige in its many
manifestations were popular. One or
two white wool dresses were interesting,
and there was a pretty gerbera-pink.
Otherwise, guardsman-red and a yellow
coat of 4oz. wool-material were the only
notable colorful items.
Welcomed back to Australia is New
Zealand-born Joan Hammond, who will
sing leading dramatic roles in the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust’s operatic season
for 1960. It will be a delight to hear
again Miss Hammond’s beautiful por-
trayal of Madame Butterfly, and there
will be great interest shown in her role
of Salome in the Richard Strauss opera.
Preparations for the Royal Easter
Show are gathering momentum for the
grand opening, which, although many
weeks away yet, attracts so many visi-
tors to Sydney—perhaps the greatest
number the city sees at any time of the
year.
One wonders what the visitors will
make of the changing face of the town?
To those of us who live in it the altera-
tions come by degrees, but even so we
meet with surprises with increasing fre-
quency, and begin to sense a new identity
for the city growing out of the old.
The tall new glass-buildings which have
risen at so many points are, of course,
impressive, but it was the opening of the
Cahill Expressway which made us look
at the city from a new angle altogether
and enabled us to see the Harbor and
streets from above instead of below.
Now the extension of Elizabeth Street
past the Qantas Building to Phillip
Street has opened a new vista. There’s
to be a little park and a fountain in this
square, one hears, when all the clearing-
up has been done.
In the shopping-centres arcades are
opening-up all over the place. There’s to
be a new one in Angel Place when the
reorganisation of the area of Swain’s and
Paling’s Buildings is effected. All these
places have memories, which must give
place to new ideas, and with them old
Sydney may fade into a dream.
One of the most interesting changes
to watch day by day is the revival of the
inner city and closer suburbs where
formerly rows and rows of terrace-houses
showed little inclination to blossom-out
individually. Now the homes vie with
one another in gay color-schemes, and
bring to life streets that were formerly
drab. |
It is becoming quite the fashion, too,
for people to buy a terrace-house in one
of these inner residential areas and to
spend as much renovating it as they paid
in purchasing-price. Organisations are
doing the same thing; the Arts Council,
the Stage Club, the Elizabethan Work-
shop have all taken-up premises near
Darlinghurst in old buildings and are
bringing them to life. On the other side
of the Harbor the Ensemble Theatre has
turned an old warehouse on the water-
front into a place of individuality and
charm.
What with these changes and those to
come, such as the proposed removal of
Sydney Hospital to Randwick, the sug-
gested substitution of a park for the
Queen Victoria Buildings, the planting
of trees in Martin Place (plus the intro-
duction of illuminated hanging flower-
baskets similar to those already in Hyde
Park), the time may soon come when
we won’t know our old home-town.
* ☆ *
The Mid-March Miorka is the entirely
new name given to the informal dance
which the Lindfield Young Liberals are
holding on Saturday, March 19, at the
Lane Cove Town Hall. Those who would
like to go to the Miorka may get their
tickets from Rodney Cottrell (WY 4770).
Committee-members include Douglas
Hammond, Jill Beiers, Margaret Forsyth,
Ed Hankin, Mary Sullivan, Bob Begg,
Sam Sheffer and Elizabeth Alexander.


happen, the sound of traffic along
King William Road and of the
diesels in nearby Adelaide Station
drown the noises coming from the
amplifier it will be rather hard for
John Blight, for it will be the first
time he has spoken his verse in
public.
But of course the proper and obvious
thing to do is to stop all traffic while
a poet is speaking.
The chief literary attraction should
be the premiere of the new Australian
play, “Goodbye to No. 6.” by the
South Australian writer Alex Symons.
It opens at the University’s beautiful
Union Hall on Monday, March 14.
Several new books are to be pub-
lished during the Festival: namely
Southern Festival, a collection of South
Australian writing, which has had the
support of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund; Henry Kendall, a critical appre-
ciation by Dr. Thomas Thornton
Reed, Anglican Bishop of Adelaide;
Geoffrey Dutton’s Life of Colonel
William Light, Founder of a City;
a survey of Architecture in S.A. pub-
lished for the S.A. Institute of Archi-
tects; Modern Australian Painting and
Sculpture, by Kym Bonython; and
Sunny South, a pictorial volume on
South Australia. There will be a book-
exhibition at the Public Library; in
conjunction with which Hazel de Berg
will play her tape-recordings of Aus-
tralian poets speaking their own verses.
Booksellers are also arranging displays
of Australian books, and the Royal
Geographical Society will display
Australiana.
The public verse-speakings in Elder
Park have already been mentioned.
Speakers taking part will include
Robert Clark, George Farwell, Mary
Finnin, Flexmore Hudson. lan Mudie,
Roland Robinson and Colin Thiele.
There will be other readings of Aus-
tralian literature in the evenings, when
speakers will include Nettie Palmer.
Kenneth Slessor, T. Inglis Moore.
Katharine Susannah Prichard and
Nancy Cato. Max Harris apparently
isn’t available to read his own verse,
which will be read by Alexander Hay.
Nettie Palmer is to be chairman of a
playreading which will read Louis
Esson’s “The Drovers,” Vance
Palmer’s “Telling Mrs. Baker” and
passages from a verse-play by John
Bray, “Papinian.”
These evening readings take place in
the Y.M.C.A. Hall, 76 Flinders Street,
where also, sometimes by day and
sometimes by night, will be held
literary discussions. Leslie Haylen
is to chair a “Forum” on “The Status
of the Writer in Australia,” George
Farwell one on “Is There an Australian
Poetry?”, Judah Waten one on “Pub-
lishing in Australia,” A. G. Yates
(Carter Brown) one on “Mass Media
and the Writer” and Beatrice Davis
one on “The Critics and Australian
Writing.”
The A.B.C. is to broadcast Colin
Thiele’s verse-play “Burke and Wills”
and also, on March 13, a “Quality
Street” produced by John Thompson
from Hazel de Berg’s recordings of
South Australian poets.
And last but not least —if one hasn’t
lost track of something among so
complex and varied an array: there
will be an official programme available
from the Festival Office, Way mouth
Street —the winner of the 1959 Miles
Franklin Award of £5OO will be
announced in the Adelaide Town Hall
on Friday, March 18, at a sherry-party
at which Sir Donald Wolfit will speak.
The Murrumbidgee
Everybody likes to read about the
Murrumbidgee. It is one of our sacred
rivers, like the Thames in England or
the Ganges in India. As the anonym-
ous author of Letters from the River
(“Daily Advertiser,” Wagga Wagga)
puts it, forcefully if a little darkly, “I
have a feeling for this sullen, treacher-
ous, dull, magnificent Murrumbidgee.”
But it must be said that the attrac-
tion of “Letters from the River” is
considerably reduced when one dis-
covers that the letters are not genuine.
Eric Irvin, who has published and
edited the booklet, amplifying it with
learned notes, says that the sequence,
“which presents a composite picture
of a trip down the Murrumbidgee
River from Wagga Wagga to Echuca
in 1875 in the Wagga Wagga Steam
Navigation Company’s boat, the Vic-
toria,” originally appeared in the form
of “articles by an unknown contribu-
tor” to the Wagga newspaper; but
this does not state quite as precisely
as it might that, signed by “Tom”,
addressed to “Dear Allan” and pur-
porting to convey messages to “Emily
and the children”, the letters neverthe-
less were obviously not genuine but
were cooked-up by some member of the
paper’s staff (or a contributor) to give
an account of the river. Thus there
is nothing of the freshness, spontaneity
and sense of personal involvement
which so often make living documents
of the genuine letters of pioneers.
Journalists, if hardly able to capture
this kind of authenticity, can never-
theless, as C. E. W. Bean has shown,
write eloquently and amusingly about
rivers; but the contributor to the
“Advertiser” has fallen victim to the
special doom that threatens, or used
to threaten, all country journalists.
City journalists, if they can’t write, as
is very often the case, fail simply
because they are illiterate; but the
country journalist, as all who have
gone through the mill know too well,
is under the awful necessity of placat-
ing his few and precarious subscribers,
It is a fate which also afflicts, oddly
enough, the Communist journalist,
And once you start placating people
you get stilted; and so, instead of a
living description of the Murrumbid-
gee, here we have nice, polite words
about each of the settlers along it.
Even a house becomes “a substantial
brick residence”:—
I forgot to mention that before
leaving Gogeldrie we touched at
Mr. Warby’s selection, Billenbah.
This is a beautiful site, and the
proprietor is making the most of it
by the many improvements in course
of construction. Among others, he
is erecting a substantial brick resi-
dence on the most elevated part of
his frontage.
But the most placatory of journalists
never loses, at least, his feeling for
news: —
Balranald . . . has a name with
which certain tragic happenings will
always be associated. A publican
was murdered there, and the mur-
derer was hanged at Goulburn.
One of the witnesses at the trial
was drowned on his way home.
His widow later went to Deniliquin
to get married and while she was
away one of her children was burnt
to death, while the messenger sent
to tell her of the tragedy was
drowned crossing the Murrumbid-
gee—
and, in fact, if you allow for a certain
fulsomeness, this is quite a readable
account of the trip down the river,
with many useful pieces of local
history. Eric Irvin’s notes, about
horrifying massacres of the aborigines
or about stoking the steamer with slabs
of bacon, are also interesting. But on
the whole it is a pity that Irvin, who
is an accomplished poet, did not write
his own history of the river instead of
merely reprinting and annotating this
orie.
"Music of Division"
Chris Wallace-Crabbe’s first book
of poems, published in Angus and
Robertson’s attractive “Modern Aus-
tralian Poets” series, is aptly titled
The Music of Division for —though
this may not have been quite what
he meant by it—his poetry does come
very largely from a seemingly divided
outlook.
His own speech and imagery, he
says, must be “plain”; the shepherds
and the nymphs have had their day
in love-poetry: but he does not fail,
nevertheless, to take proper advantage
of the echoes of poetry that still


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
remain in the mere mention of nymphs
arid shepherds:—
Written under Capricorn, a land
Two centuries and half a globe
away
From pastoral conventions at theif
end.
The shepherds and the nymphs
have had theif day
And merciless beauty will no longer
make
The stuff of formal poems. So I
take
This plainer speech to say what I
must say.
Love breaks upon my cold hills like
the sun.
His poetry, he says, musing upon
old colonial houses, must come
From places closer settled
And man as a social being
Caught in the flood of time:
but he does not fail, nevertheless, to
extract 72 admirable lines from the
old colonial houses.
“Spectacular fireworks,” he says, in
some disapproval of William Blake,
appear to be the only kind of poetry
this age will accept; yet he finds him-
self dissatisfied with an unspectacular
poetry, mistrusting verse which begins
to slip
Down to the plain of graceful
ironies
And deadpan humor fanned by any
old breeze—
This is the urgent day when Christ
was born
And, at the least, demands a round
of song.
The mass of humanity, living its
tangled lives in cities, gives him, he
says “stronger images of man” than
“the single rose or tree”; yet obviously
his mind is still attracted, with what-
ever distant amusement, far out from
the city to where
Our individualists recline
In rude graves in the distant west.
The great romantics, he says, sum-
marising his outlook and reconciling
its apparent contradictions, seem “a
joke”;—
But when all avenues darken and
Become the jungles of the heart
And the beasts roam close at hand,
We turn out of the trees and make
Peace with the men who sing apart,
And all their nomad insight we
Admire though w'e act otherwise;
The long groves of society
Can never admit their rambling
fire —•
Yet that intense light burns our
eyes.
It is. then, a very civilised kind of
poetry which Chris Wallace-Crabbe
writes; taking proper cognisance of
the past but essentially concerned with
the present; urban in setting, smooth
in contour, appropriately polished in
style. It is concerned with one over-
riding problem: how, dissatisfied with
“graceful ironies and deadpan humor”
but equally dissatisfied with outworn
images and ideas from the past, can
the poet make a poetry' of the modern
world that still has force and depth?
The answer, no doubt, is simply to
write on those subjects about which
you feel deeply and forcibly. Thought-
ful. disciplined, witty, sometimes using
fixed French verse-forms as if they
were a natural mode of speech, some-
times as in “The Bird” and “The
Witness” breaking out into an un-
expected freedom and imagination,
Chris Wa I lace-C rabbe's poetry is
always attractive; but it is in the two
love-poems. “Written under Capri-
corn” and ‘Taolo to Francesca”,
where he feels most deeply, that he
becomes most memorable.
Penguin Plays
Two important additions to the
excellent Penguin library of modern
drama are a volume of three plays by
Luigi Pirandello and Route, by Arnold
Wesker.
The Pirandello contains “The Rulss
of the Game” (written 1919), “The
Life I Gave You” (1924) and
“Lazarus” (1929). The first two,
though not among Pirandello’s best
plays, finely exemplify his perceptions
of the interplay between illusion and
reality and of the strange power of
human love and sympathy. “Lazarus”,
his attempt to present the conflict
between religion and science in
strictly concrete human terms, is
surely one of the most remarkable
works in modern theatre.
“Roots” is the second of 28-year-
old Arnold Wesker’s trilogy about
English working-class life (the first,
“Chicken Soup with Barley”, appeared
last year in Penguin’s “New English
Dramatists”). It is a Syngean study
of family-life among the farm-
labourers of Norfolk. Without sen-
timentality or derision, Wesker reveals
these people as both narrow-minded
and generous, both boorish and like-
able. Modern English society, he im-
plies, is cutting them off from the soil
and deadening their cultural roots with
third-rate processed entertainments;
they are passive and shoddy-minded
accessories to this process, and both
they and society are the losers by it.
There is thus a lot of preaching, but
it grows logically out of Wesker’s
story about a girl who, returning to
Norfolk after years in London, realises
that she has never escaped her origins
as she had thought she had, and that
her family background has made her
inadequate in a love-affair. The
dialect is handled with a rare feeling
for its rough music.
Reviewed Briefly
The Scienfirls: Eleazar Lipsky
(Longmans). The dedicated scientist
who discovers a substance of great
value to mankind would seem to be
a fortunate man. yet strenuous conflicts
may be generated by his discovery
and the jealousies aroused by it;
politics and commerce may en-
tangle him in intrigues so complex
as to put to the test his integrity and
sincerity, both emotional and scientific.
This is the subject of “The Scientists,”
set in an American University, and
written with skill and strength. There
is a good deal of scientific jargon
necessarily included in the story, but
there are also suspense and drama.
« * * *
The Merry Muse; Eric Link later
(Jonathan Cape). The discovery Of 16
pages of merry impropriety in the
handwriting of Robert Burns is the
theme of this new Linklater book, a
theme full of possibilities for a satiric
writer. But though there is a good
deal of fun made out of the losing
and finding of the MS., and of its
effect on the staid citizens of
Edinburgh, the book doesn’t make the
most of those possibilities. Light and
playful throughout, it will be chiefly
remembered for the character of Max
Arbifthnot. bon viveur and lover of
Scotland, whom it is a pleasure to
meet.
*9OO
Housewife’s Book of Home Equip-
ment: Kay Smallshaw (Odhams). It
would scarcely seem necessary for the
housewife to have to buy a book to
tell her what equipment she needs in
the home, Advertisements and the
neighbors generally keep her only too
well-alerted. But Kay Smallshaw is
not sensational as the advertisements
are, nor undependable like the
neighbors. She analyses with
impartiality all equipment available,
from the humblest to the most expen-
sive. “Country dwellers with access
to the woods,” she says, “will usually
be able to improvise a wooden clothes-
prop.” Then she follows with a
description of every type of drier until
she comes to the tumble-type fitted
with variable heat control and safety
cut-out, “Initially rather expensive.”
Her methodical approach, thorough-
ness, soberness and sanity will make
her book a useful reference for those
with tidy minds. Those with more
untidy minds (and houses) however,
might find it rather dull.


*;SBj
HB^g|fc :
:v™:v:v:v:
mmm
“■mm 1
WSSS:
: -v Vv
S
: ft
111
: ■' r '
llliillllllllli
WS*
■ X
««fpt»«Bi
:&s
:
,:v ; -;v : :
wMm
*§
XV
'
-
Mi
■**
:3-;€P
■
■v.•:
mm*
mmm
Gillette
the only way to get a real man’s shave
Men need a man's shave —with water, lather and a good sharp blade!
The best and sharpest blade is the Blue Gillette —made from finest
high-carbon steel, toughened, tempered, ground, honed and stropped
till it has the sharpest edge in the world. And the razor to get
the best from it is the precision-made, one-piece Gillette. One of the
Gillette 3-weight Trio is just right for you: if you have tough
whiskers or like the heft of a heavy razor, choose the Gillette Heavy
weight; if your skin is sensitive or you prefer a light razor, Light
weight is for you; Medium weight is for average skin and beard.
Each is in a handy travel case with dispenser of Blue Gillette blades.
Get yourself one next time you buy blades and find out how
good a shave can be. Only 15/- each.
55
Y i TiA
