

The Bulletin
SPLINTER' RETURNS-P«ge 32
Wednesday, November 30, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Ah, come and do if yourself!"


The Red Page
ANOTHER NINO CULOTTA?
“She'll do me!” says the narrator
of She’ll Do Me! (Jacaranda), speaking
about this wonderful land of beer, sun-
shine, girls, horses and opportunity
with an enthusiasm only rivalled by
Nino Culotta in “They’re a Weird
Mob”; and really it is so delightful to
have all these New Australians uniting
to tell us what wonderful people we are
that it is a very great pity to have to
remember that Nino Culotta wasn’t a
genuine Italian migrant but a plain
Australian John O’Grady.
But if we seem virtually to have been
patting ourselves on the back in
“They’re a Weird Mob,” Mark Vizzers,
the author of “She’ll Do Me!” at any
rate seems the genuine article, a Dutch-
man who, “like the hero of this novel,
came to Australia from Sumatra in
1929 as an unwanted immigrant and
after a long period of odd jobs and
unemployment established a consider-
able reputation as the A.B.C. story-
teller before the Second World War.
He now lives in Brisbane.”
“She’ll Do Me!” is clearly modelled
on “They’re a Weird Mob,” The
formula is exactly the same; a
migrant’s success-story. Some of the
incidents are much the same: beer-
parties. the meeting with the wonderful
Australian girl, adventures in the weird
world of racing, meeting the weird mob
of Australians in boardinghouses and
in various jobs around Sydney, And
the outlook is exactly the same —we
are kind to immigrants, we are good
mates, and we have an amusing and
incomprehensible slang. Here, for
instance, is the narrator when, jobless
in Sumatra, he observes three travelling
Australians: —
What happened next appeared to
me a well-rehearsed act as its timing
was perfect. They emitted, in per-
fect unison, three of the most
thunderous and rollicking belches
it had ever been my good fortune to
hear, even at a Chinese New Year’s
party.
After this they sat up straight,
patted their stomachs and, again as
one man, said; “Arrrrrr! That’s
better! ”
The native waiter had approached
their table and hovered about dis-
creetly. They were about to order
drinks, but not before one of them
proclaimed in a loud voice: “Gee,
those Dutch barstuds can drink!”
His companions nodded gravely and
concurred: “I’ll say!” They didn’t
speak Malay and gave their orders
in a strange-sounding English
accent. They called the waiter
“sonny” and told him to bring three
bottles of beer and shake it up.
This struck me as a new way of
drinking beer.
What else could any sensible Dutch-
man do after that but shake it up and
come to Australia? Which this Dutch-
man promptly does; and in next to no
time is being taken by a friendly Aus-
tralian to observe the six-o’clock swill,
and so to an afternoon of s.p. when the
newcomer picks all the winners because
of their beautiful names, and so to the
beer-party that night, where he is the
hero of the occasion, plays the piano,
avoids a fight and meets the Girl.
The surprising thing is that “She’ll
Do Me!” very staunchly survives its
resemblances to “They’re a Weird
Mob.” In fact it almost comes out the
stronger of the two. except that the
first-comer, the trail-blazer, is always
first and Culotta’s observation of the
Australian workman was, at his best,
supremely exact and amusing.
Vizzers stands up to comparison
partly because when he is doing the
Culotta stuff —the slang, the beer-
parties, the racing, the mateship, the
sentiment and the sentimentality—he
does it very well, not quite with so fine
an edge, but always with goodwill and
good humor; but largely because
incidents that make up the loose,
episodic “novel” are his own, are
extremely interesting for Australian
and particularly Sydney readers and,
on the whole, touch life more deeply
and more variously than the anecdotes
which make-up “They're a Weird
Mob.” If you think back over Culotta’s
bestseller nothing very much really
seems to have happened in it: the
excellence is in the descriptions,
whether of scenes or of characters. But
in “She’ll Do Me!” quite a lot happens.
It opens most promisingly in
Sumatra, where the young narrator has
just sold his coffee-plantation to a
Baron who has four native house-
keepers and twenty-one children and
who is to inherit, along with the estate,
a murderer,
Sydney is made more dramatic in
a mild way—more human—than
Culotta’s because, instead of just
rollicking in prosperity, the city and
its people are here enduring the
depression. Vizzers’ hero, besides
painting suburban letter-boxes for a
living, has to leave his boardinghouse
for an old shed on one of the wharves
at Woolloomooloo. He also goes scrub-
cutting and fishing at Wyong. north of
Sydney, where he gets a black eye at a
wedding-party because, not knowing
the language, he asks when the shot-
guns are going to be fired; and, in the
course of his adventures from job to
job, he meets a lively variety of charac-
ters, the most notable being an amorous
landlady and an English remittance-
man, very plausibly described, who gets
knocked down by a grazier for making
passes at his wife and afterwards comes
to live in the shed at the ’Loo with the
kind-hearted prostitute whn *
■ng him. The SMpW-
his marriage, when he „ SUCCess ~~^er'
that he forgot to rent a flart S ° K - exciled
10 live m B -co ra e s X f h' hlSb *
Brisbane and gets a job wrhLfS 10
for commercial radio I, is f
bn longer than it needs to be
How this story, so closely resemhi; I
Culotta s, will be received is SSI
guess; but if it had been first in tttj
"°“ ld .certamly have been a win„2
and it should still do pretty well W
light and derivative though it is |h!j-
is a lot of genuine quality Bn jM
MerJer ere ‘" UStralions b f E J
Partridge on Elephants
Nobody, perhaps, should ever writ!
a book about Australia: for if you sa
the right thing about us, as Eric Pari
ridge does with sunburnt, sardonii
stockmen, etc., in A Charm of Words
(Hamilton) it makes one’s teeth cur
with embarrassment; if you say th
wrong thing (and then hastily deny it
as Partridge does when he says tha
both in speech and writing we all uss
far too much slang (adding, on second
thoughts, that we don’t), you are likely!
to set every local tribesman after yoif
with nulla-nulla and boomerang; and if
you don’t say anything at all, which is
what Partridge’s remarks on our
famous Accent amount to. then you are
likely to be accused of being merely
evasive.
At least if a writer is going to tackle
this prickly subject he should perhaps
know something about it; and Partridge
seems a bit out-of-touch. Historians
will wonder where he found his hordes
of French settlers to mix apparently in
equal numbers with Germans and
Italians; and the literary world will
wonder whether it is right to say that
Australian writers have shown “a far
greater ability” in prose than in verse,
and will find his list of Australian
“expatriates” (including Martin Boydi
and Chester Wilmot) as haphazard asj
his account of the treatment of writers!
in Australia is misleading.
In short, the “national ear”-whicttj
he says has been refined by “a constanl
listening to the wind rustling in 1
eucalypts (‘gum-trees’) and the acac, j*|
(‘wattles’) and soughing about
surrealist cactus ‘prickly pear ) v
be considerably startled by sonie .
the things it hears-though not ne
actual remarks on language 1
chapter Partridge entitles Au
English.” , . r : n “A
But that is only one chapter_n
Charm of Words”; as the afl(j
but very slight notes on litt)e c hap-
Mencken are only two mo an( j
ters. Partridge is a T^ s for most
when he is on words, as jj s ten, 1
of the book, the critic can ony
(i Continued on page


IL.
■v
’l/'
.. in the year 1 839
There arrived in the new colony of Australia the schooner
* Minerva” from Scotland under the command of Captain
Alexander Lang Elder.
Having a cargo of Merchandise, Captain Elder saw a great
opportunity of starting a business in this new land. So he immedi-
ately set to work and began a modest Commercial Enterprise that
eventually became the nation-wide organisation of Elder, Smith
& Co. Limited.
- "
mm 1 m
PiliPtifiilll
wmm
. . today, in 1 960
Elder, SiAith & Co. Limited, with administrative offices in five
capital cities of Australia, nine well appointed stores, one in each
of the major Wool Selling Centres, and 200 Branches in the
principal Country Districts, Elders are able to render a most
complete Service to the ‘‘Man on the Land.”
The scope of Elders activities includes Wool Booking, Buying
and Selling Livestock, Handling and Marketing of Skins and
Hides, Rural Land and Property, Chartering and Shipping,
Industrial and Country Merchandise, Travel, Insurance and
Rural Finance.
ELDER,SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Nov . 30, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4216
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Man”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 436-440 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
GOLD IN THEM THAR
WASTES
M RR : F KERR, of the American
A Society of Travel Agents, has had
something to say about the unorganised
state of the Australian tourist industry.
It is only a few years since Australia
started becoming tourist-conscious, and
in the recent years of boom the interest
has been rather among affluent tourists
getting out of the country than among
tourists who wish to come in to see
the Australian scene.
The blame for this lies with Aus-
tralians themselves, though the one-way
outlook on tourism has perhaps been
natural. This continent has been
isolated from the rest of the world by
long stretches of ocean over which the
only means of travel was the liner or
the cargo-boat. Europe and America
have been magnets to the people of a
new country. These older-world
centres have acquired a glamor
of their own through their inaccessi-
bility to most inhabitants of this young
and hitherto backward country and
because they were the source of our
recent origins. So when the chance and
money to go abroad came, the rush
started.
Only recently has it occurred to
anybody that Australia itself might
have overriding attractions for Old
World inhabitants anxious to get away
from the heady turmoil of New York,
London, Chicago and Los Angeles and
find interest and rest in relatively
frontier surroundings which, to be
fully enjoyed, must, however, be
endowed with the facilities for what
American tourist agencies sometimes
describe as “gracious living.”
The war and stage and film produc-
tions have introduced the West Pacific
and the Australian continent to some
millions of Americans, thousands of
whom have a nostalgic longing to
revisit the regions of thpir heroic
youth, complete with their former
battlefields of love and war.
There has, however, been no real
organised attempt to capitalise this
back-to-the-Pacific movement in Aus-
tralia itself, and one wohld almost
imagine that the Commonwealth did
not seek some of the good American
dollars which are pouring into Europe
in tourists’ pockets.
Mr. Kerr, on his way to the conven-
tion of the A.N.T.A. in Melbourne, laid
down the conditions precedent to suc-
cess in this sort of campaign.
He declares that it is necessary to
“create a new image of Australia as the
last frontier of pioneering” which
would bring back memories of Ameri-
can visitors’ own pioneering history—-
and he might have added, as suggested,
of their recent wartime pioneering as
well.
H E . declares that American travel-
agents must be educated, because
they don’t know enough about Aus-
tralia; that Australian tourist propa-
ganda abroad should be nationally
unified and not carried on by the
separate States piecemeal, and that the
image created of us should be clear.
Also, the outback should form the basis
of tourist publicity abroad instead of
the cities; and more money should be
spent—very much more money, one
would imagine, seeing that the budget
of the Australian National Travel
Association at present appears to be
limited to about £150,000 a year, which
Mr. Kerr describes as, a drop in the
bucket.
Preceding the advertising, however,
should be the organising of something
to show the tourists. The means of
getting them to the magnetic points
quickly and comfortably is important,
as are the facilities for good living
when they arrive.
The kind of attractions now offered
them—the big capital cities and the
crowded beaches of the Gold Coast
full of bikinis—are not much different
from the sort of attractions that they
can see at home, where they are better
presented.
The real attractions lie in the out-
back, the Far North and New Guinea
and the islands round the Barrier Reef,
Torres Strait and the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. But they are almost com-
pletely unorganised.
A little advertising has been done in
Alice Springs, which as late as 1924
had eight regular white inhabitants,
two of them policemen and one a
schoolmistress.
Yet even though the Alice has grown,
through publicity, to be a sizeable
town by dint of its situation in the
tourist sense. m 01 § ani sed in a
With the aid of a counl P l
the standard of the Golcfr f h ° tels ot
better-planned, good tea*
the more primifive p ait
a few luxury hostels at Ay®?"*'
other strategic scenic points hehC,?
services to view the exttaoS
scenery and regular fast S ervi« 2
air direct to the chief ports conne*
sea Wltdl America, Eurone
and the East, it could become a toS
paradise of world class.
i Th f sam^ might be said of Arnhem
Land, the Barrier Islands and New
Guinea, all of which are stupendous
from a tourist point of view if properly
prepared to receive the great dollar
invasion.
Arnhem Land and Cape York a
great part of them little populated, but
with scenic features and attractions
both for sportsmen and tourists that
are unique to Australia, with roads,
motels and, at the right spots, hunting-
lodges or luxury hotels or hostels, as
the circumstances demand, could be
turned into national holiday-resorts to
which thousands of Australians as well
as tourists from abroad could be
attracted.
A great deal of the country which
is useless for any kind of normal pro-
duction by reason of poorness of soil,
seasonal rainfall and remoteness has a
stark and unique beauty and a weird
attraction of its own unlike anything
else in the world.
■pARTS of these regions are suitable
for game and hunting preserves.
The herds of water-buffaloes which are
now making themselves a nuisance by
invading the main road from Darwin
to Alice Springs, spilling out from the
Arnhem Land fringes, could be made
at tourist wonder; the bird-life of that
area is unique; and the crocodiles, now
being shot-out ruthlessly in the North,
like the teeming marsupial and
migratory bird-life, should be preserved
in reservations and national wild-iire
parks after the American fashion, an
used, with big-game fishing, to draw
tourist money into the Commonweal
It needs planned effort and large
capital-expenditures to begin with, u
no larger than is being spent wit m
next half-dozen years in P ut “f’"f
office-buildings in about half a
Phillip Street in Sydney. .
It takes capital to earn in /
whether in drawing touris s
building factories. But 't“ onanß s
doubt that there are sever j st .
waiting to be opened-up w
money in the North and g arr j er
a range that stretches fron n( j
Reef to King Georges Sound
north to the Kimberleys.


LUMUMBO-JUMBO


Plain English
RED TIDE IN THE CONGO
Insidiously the Communist bloc moves
on its way while the Western world is
politically in transition, as in the United
States and Japan ; or disturbed, as in the
United Kingdom (where the Labor-party
fight is not over despite Mr. Gaitskell’s
three victories over the “ban-the-bomb
issue”); and France, where de Gaulle
has the handicap of Algeria on his
shoulders.
The Communist world is making as
little noise as possible. Its conference in
Moscow has finished in almost complete
silence, a signal, perhaps, that it has
taken decisions of which it does not want
the Western world to know.
The inference allowed to leak out that
Red China and Red Russia are still at
loggerheads is obviously false on the face
of the pattern to which events are
shaping.
There is an interweaving of action
geographically which is as sinister.
Red China, for instance, has silently
renounced Laos as a zone so as to let
the Russians in. The Red aid going
there while a helpless West looks on is
Russian —food, arms, transport. The
United States, which has spent £2O mil-
lion in the area, seems to be out.
The Congo situation has worsened
again, and the vote to decide who should
be allowed the right to represent it in the
U.N. showed a line-up of Communist
Powers (and those whose borders are
adjacent to them) on the side of the
Kremlin’s nominee, Lumumba.
The arrogance of Communism in
Africa was shown a few days ago when
Khrushchev sent a message by his dele-
gate to the inauguration of Niger, which
will be the biggest and solidest country
in Africa, with its 36-million people and
its established traditions and culture. He
“demanded” the right to establish there
an Embassy on a scale dictated by him-
self —which means, of course, something
like the Red Chinese one in Guinea,
which has several hundred employees.
The Nigerian reply was an intimation
that the Soviet Union might establish
an Embassy only on the same basis as
other friendly countries and by grace of
the Nigerian Government. And the
Nigerian Assembly followed this up by
ratifyng by legislation a mutual-defence
pact with the United Kingdom which
allows the U.K. to establish a large air-
base in the area.
The calm and orderly manner in which
the Nigerian takeover by its own people,
with one of its most vocal and sometimes
violent anti-colonialists as Governor-
General appointed on the Queen’s
nomination, is in illuminating contrast
to the chaos in the Congo.
The vote at the U.N. Assembly has
undoubtedly divided U.N. into two
camps, both contending for supremacy
and fighting for the support of the 19
neutrals who abstained from voting. It
aligns India, one of whose generals
commands the U.N. force in the Congo,
with the Communist countries and their
fellow-travellers. The- resistance of
Ghana’s Ambassador to being turfed out
of Leopoldville for interfering in local
politics seems to commit Nkrumah to
the Red camp.
Meanwhile, the United Nations forces,
with their racial divisions, their lack of
correlation or ability to work under a
united command in any field operations
are proving how ineffectively U.N. can
deal with a violent situation.
The moment U.N. troops killed Con-
golese even in self-defence seemed to
settle their chance of being much help.
Nehru’s opposition to Colonel Mobutu,
whom he holds responsible for the killing
of Indian troops, and his intervention in
a problem which theoretically is in the
hands of U.N., complicates a situation
already complicated.
The Russians will move Heaven and
earth to maintain a chaos which they
hope will end in the return to control of
the pliant Lumumba, who already
appears to be in charge of Stanleyville,
capital of the Oriental Province.
Australia can thank its lucky stars that
it is only on the ringside in the scrim-
mage. v. There appears no chance of a
decision so long as the Communists will
not back the U.N. choice of a recognsied
leadership.
New Zealand Labor's Defeat
The rout of Labor in New Zealand
follows the pattern of decline and fall
of the Socialist parties throughout the
British Commonwealth.
In Australia the electors have run away
from the party which has become more
and more involved with Communism
through the trade-unions and with the
less reputable elements in the community.
It seems to have nothing much to offer
save abuse of its opponents on the Liberal
side, whom it treats with greater enmity
than it treats the Red bosses.
In the United Kingdom Labor was
powerful enough to defeat even Churchill
himself and to institute the selling-up of
British prestige and dominion through-
out the world to appease Moscow and
New York.
Now its various factions seem to be
bent only on defeating each other.
In New Zealand, the Government went
to the poll behind Walter Nash, a tricky
militant 79 years old, the last British
immigrant politician to head a Govern-
ment in a part of the British Common-
wealth beyond the seas.
He had held office by a narrow
majority of two, and he was decisively
defeated with apparent loss of six seats
to the Opposition, and with a decisive
majority of actual votes against Labor
and a five per cent, swing, restoring the
position as it stood at the poll of 1954.
The P.M. himself had his majority cut
in half, and one of his Ministers was
beaten, while the seats that were won
by the National party were even more
significant than the swine A „
Labor strongholds S ' All were
The new Primp •
Holyoake, is 56 years ““'has’h K 'l
Parliament smce he was 28 u " 10 '
leading authority on the m‘ i 6 ,s a i
primary products! and a formed?!! 6 of
nearly all the marketira. ? ader of
of New Zealand. He was d rBa . msati °ns
Minister in the HdC H
Prime Minister and Minister f. LH
Affairs for two momhs“b
National party’s defeat. the fl
Labor in N.Z., havine swim* t '
early in its term of office, has bff!
swinging rapidly Right as the elect m
approached, and found itself very 2
in the same position as the British Lahf
party at the last general election °l<
With Walter Nash going out as he\
must, nothing lies ahead of NZ U'm
that does not lie ahead of other Labo *
parties in the British Commonwealth ;
Only failing leadership, chaos and
futility, with its Left wing nestling ever
closer to the Communist-minded union! 6
leaders for protection. l
' ' J(
/ " M
Thankful for Recess
[From Canberra]
The Liberal party’s two stars—Treasurer
Holt and Attorney-General Barwick-
will be very glad to see the current 1
Parliamentary session adjourn for the
Christmas recess.
Politically speaking, both men have]
been badly battered in the last week.
Holt’s economic measures have met;
with a much more severe storm of criti- ]
cism than he or any other member of the :
Government expected. Some of this criti-j
cism has been of the destructive type, but
much of it has come from leaders in busi-j.
ness and industry who feel that the Gov-,
ernment, through Mr. Holt, has rushed in,
with ill-considered short-cut methods,
likely to add to bureaucratic authority
rather than to the stability of the
economy. ,
The suddenness of the Governments
action, so soon after presenting its annual
Budget to Parliament, shook the confi-
dence of many of its supporters, includ-
ing a number of back-benchers. j
Question-time in Parliament for the],
past week has been predominantly L
question-and-answer period for Haro
Holt, many of the questions coming from
his own side. These questions have m
embarrassing in many cases, particu
a couple from former World B»«
executive Leslie Bury, a Libera
N.S.W. The worst feature,o ■<,-
that in many instances Holt didn k
the answers. . , h bis
While Holt was going 'through f
travails, Sir Garfield Barwick , r j n g
respite from the battering he
debate on the amending Cn j e gisla-
Irrespective of the merits rf the
tion, Barwick’s handling of
still lacked politick adroitness-
He became ruffled during ience d
more heated debate, a b j s posi-
Labor stagers,.quick to y
tion, capitalised on lt 0 led by the
wick became obviously netu


, ( [, e professional interjectors on
6re ''front bench.
>it , ~n it has been a bad fortnight
'J government, particularly for Holt
of 3
'of "
3 The Federal Poll
ind [From Canberra]
Iorf
theL s for an early Federal poll next
L best take another look at their
.eft v-.IL It now seems more likely
sen jie Government will wait until the
ion last moment— February, 1962
J cho facing the electorate again.
50r edit-controls imposed a fortnight ago
i stop-gap measure, and it is tipped
hi le squeeze will become more pro-
fited by about March next, the time
s °! iy were talking of as an election-
.th?
1 I be this time next year before
’government can hope to relax credit-
>n|tols, and it will want a few months
utheir relaxation for people to settle
-ii and forget.
he Minister Menzies does not like
Ler elections because of the discom-
iof making nation-wide tours in the
; lot weather. But oh this occasion
_Ms as though he will be obliged to
Ji one—like it or not.
nt
he
/e Ued Kelly Minus Horse"
remarks of C. J. Cahill, one of
Labor rebels in the N.S.W. Legisla-
e: Council, about poker - machines
mild give the State Government a
turn.
Sier-machines make it far easier to
p than the lotteries because they
Jtap gambling and call for lower
i®eal “investment” so that the
'‘ascarcely realises how much he is
I? till it is lost. They are usually
j N in places where liquor is served.
l| te Sydney suburban businessmen’s
.'has a procedure as follows. The
J member coming in for lunch orders
mcheon from a steward on enter-
!He cannot enter the dining-room
:"® s meal is ordered and his name
j table-number are called. There is
i 1 utterval of a quarter-of-an-hour be-
| mis happens, during which he re-
jtsinan anteroom in which there are
,‘ ila nd a row of 2s. poker-machines,
-intention and the result are obvious.
e enormous revenues from poker-
‘■fes in clubs do nothing for the
~ Uni 'y- They merely provide a
! or large group of club-members
ltlore drinking or other facilities for
; ow n personal benefit as a group,
■'are exactly as immoral as private
l and lotteries, which are forbidden
. and even more against public
I pcause they are carried on
4it. secrec Y °f club walls and are
j ll to supervise.
t'id Jtk reser, t a class-monopoly asso-
rt! and are even less to
tich° an same machines in
ars > where the impact of public
opinion and the supervision of the police
might be a check.
Mr. Cahill, who is well known in sport
and is scarcely likely to be over-fussy
about a little gamble, declared that the
only difference between the machines and
Ned Kelly was that “Ned Kelly had a
horse.” He said that “every day people
were robbed just as effectively as if a
gunman had poked a gun in their ribs
and was rifling their pockets,” yet there
were 462 “addresses” —a term he used
because he did not think some of them
worthy of the name of club—in the
country and 454 in the city where this
legalised gambling was carried on.
The trouble is that the disease is
spreading slowly and insidiously to
better-class clubs which are either losing
members to those that are acquiring
wealth through gambling, or feeling the
heavy strain of increased taxes and rates
on city property and of inflation
generally.
How Much for Your Pains?
Tight shoes, aching teeth and even
heartache have always seemed more im-
portant to the victim than to his friends
or to innocent bystanders, and it is very
hard indeed to assess the degree of
another’s pain.
It is harder still to place a monetary
value on it, yet this is what the courts
are often required to do in compensation
cases. In N.S.W. the task is even more
difficult than in the rest of Australia as
it is left to the jury to do the assessing.
In other States this duty rests with the
judge.
This difficulty was mentioned by
Sydney barrister D. S. Hicks, Q.C., at
the inaugural meeting of the Medico-
Legal Society of N. S. Wales, in a dis-
cussion on “Pain, Real and Unreal.” He
said that what was needed (from the
lawyers’ point of view) was some measure
by which pain could be described to
juries—something comparable to gallons
or acres.
Lawyers and judges did their best to
give some meaning to the phrase “pain
and suffering” to enable the jury to assess
it in terms of money, but there was no
way of assuring accuracy or uniformity.
Hicks mentioned that two American
surgeons had invented a device which
they called a “dolorimeter,” which pur-
ported to measure pain. It had obvious
weaknesses, but he suggested it might be
the first step towards giving juries a yard-
stick with which to measure pain.
Pain, of course, isn’t the only thing
N. S. Wales juries find hard to assess.
The problem of proper assessment of the
monetary value of damages and depriva-
tions is one which continually concerns
those interested in law-reform. Probably
the best plan would be to confine the
jury’s responsibility to determining
whether there is a liability to pay com-
pensation. The actual amount awarded
could be decided by the Bench.
Back to that dolorimeter! What would
be really useful would be a machine to
measure the cash-value of “change in
personality,” a phenomenon that is
appearing more and more in compensa-
tion cases. To be perfectly fair it would
have to be capable of measuring gains
as well as losses. The possibility of a
personality being changed for the better
by an accident has never been canvassed
in court, but it must exist. There are
some personalities in which any change
at all would simply have to be for the
better.
Words, But No More Fish
All that the State Development Com-
mittee can produce after its marathon
trawl around Victoria is an 800,000-word
report recommending yet another Gov-
ernment board to control the fish industry
and the bland assertion that no evidence
was submitted to confirm that a fish ring
existed or that retailers made excessive
profits.
Therefore what has been known as
The Great Fish Mystery in Victoria for
at least four decades remains unsolved,
the most baffling whodunit on public
record, but fishermen lost no time in
reasserting that retailers sacrifice turn-
over to high margins, making difficult the
sale of fish at cheap prices to the public.
Complaints about Government boards
in Victoria are not infrequent, but since
no investigation, especially such an ineffec-
tual one as this committee’s, seems to be
capable of pin-pointing the blame for the
high prices for fish (although most Mel-
burnians could hazard a guess) a Gov-
ernment form of control may do no
worse and could prevent any further
fleecing of fish-eaters.
The comment by the Chief Secretary,
Arthur Rylah, on the report was hardly
surprising. He said he intended to con-
sult his departmental advisers about it.
Bank-credit Policy
The Governor of the Reserve Bank, Dr.
H. C. Coombs, on Friday explained to
the press that “further guidance” had
been given to the trading-banks regarding
their lending policy. “It was essential
that reliance on bank-finance should be
reduced in directions where there was
already an excessive demand upon
available resources.”
Trading-banks have been asked to be
“especially restrictive” in new lending,
and in reviewing existing arrangements,
where it appears that advances may be
used to finance the holding of stocks of
imported or domestic goods, consumer-
credit by retailers, trade-credit, building-
construction (“where social purposes such
as housing are not involved”), “bridging”
operations, underwriting, investment in
shares and real-estate ventures.
Continued pressure by the Reserve
Bank on trading-banks’ liquidity will be
maintained. But “appropriate finance” for
export-production, particularly in mining
and rural industries, will be provided.
The statutory-deposit ratio would be
reduced temporarily to help trading-
banks meet the usual pre-Christmas cash-
withdrawals.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T/isiting the McKenzie Falls in the
* Grampian Ranges (Vic.) I was sur-
prised to meet in this outlandish place
Adrian Trick, an English French-horn
player who played with the London Sym-
phony Orchestra for four years, and often
at Covent Garden before Royalty. He
was in the Irish Guards for 2\ years be-
fore coming to Australia. Although he
has played with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra he says it’s difficult to break
into a permanent orchestra ; you usually
have to wait for a French-horn player
to die. He and his wife, a Hall’s Gap
girl, run a kiosk and tea-rooms at the
Falls, and instead of playing the French-
horn he spends his spare time hunting
black snakes, for which he receives 30s.
a head from Melbourne University.
—“E.R.”
♦> *l* ♦>
I read of a man being arrested and
charged with indecent exposure after
women had lodged a complaint about
him undressing before an open window,
and on page there is a story of
a Peeping Tom who watched a young
woman undress at an open window.
She screamed ; the police were notified,
and they chased the alleged Peeping
Tom. The young woman was not charged
with indecent exposure. The complain-
ing women were not charged with being
Peeping Toms. And they call this a
man’s world! —“Eureka.”
*> ♦♦♦ ***
Sales-resistance to chromed and finny
monsters, combined with increased sales
of smaller European cars, has produced
“the compact car.” But already the
backswing of the pendulum has begun.
A new model is being advertised as “the
biggest of all the compact cars.” —
“Roger Mike.”
❖ *> ❖
Although I’m training my mind to
accept business expansion, unusual com-
binations still find me mentally flat-
footed. Scarcely had I assimilated the
shock of chain-stores selling fruit and
vegetables when they began to stock
plants and fruit-trees. Before I’d fully
recovered, they added meat; and then
introduced groceries. On top of that
came news that a well-known ice-cream
factory had' been bought-out, but would
continue production under the manage-
ment of soap-manufacturers. And now
I’m confronted with the sign in the win-
3ow of a butcher’s shon al
Street, Redfern
Tools For Sale.” AndthevY* ? arde n
too. There are no rakes nr h° n dlSpla y»
collection, but the variety of gj" B *
shows a nice understanding of f " and ' to °ls
of the gardens in Redfera.-'s^
* * *
In spite of the modern contenmt r
the horse-and-buggy days (whic? w ° r
still going only 40 years ago! a \n? e
man could then drive his girl honjfrom
a dance at 3 a.m. and hug and kiss W
lu hl l u earU COntent with °ut pilin
them both up a bloody mess at the 0
of a tree or at the bottom of a culvert
He just pulled the old neddy into a sedate
walk and let him pilot the buggy horn
No car yet made can do that' '
“Exped.”
❖ * *
The master supervising the Inter-
mediate English paper at our school
wondered why the boys grinned $ 0
broadly when they happened on the last
question, read through the paper, and
wondered no more. Question F ran:
“At the end of the passage Olivia calls
Malvolio to her. Explain what she asked
him to do and how he gets on when lie
does it.” —“Kenyas.”
♦♦♦ * ❖
Our foreign lecturer was talking on
A.R.P., and he had much to say about
bombs, pronounced in his own style.
Some bombs were small, he told us,
some of medium size, while some bombs
were very large indeed. A fusillade
of spluttering coughs followed each
pronouncement; he faltered to an
early close, and when he left we could
really laugh. The lecture was to have
been one of a series.—“l.Q.”
“ You’re quite sure he's fond of children?
THE CITY WITHOUT ANY
HEART
“Is Sydney a City Without a Heart? ‘Sydney
never had a heart and probably never will have
one,’ said Reuben Lane, Sydney architect,
writing of the need for a ‘great public square
where the G.P.O. now stands, and a broad
avenue running from it to a smaller piazza at
the Quay.’ ”
As I walked forth one morning, I met a
young maid
Who said, “Of the cities in which l have
strayed
The worst is your Sydney, I’m forced to
declare ;
It’s a city of crooks, and it hasn’t a square.
“Oh, this is the message I have to
impart:
Sydney’s a city without any heart;
Its old horse-and-carteries
Are not traffic-arteries,
Just streets through a city without any
heart.
“In London, in Paris, in New York and
Rome,
There’s always a square that a girl can
call home,
But what is the use of just street after
street
To a woman who’s wanting a heart and
a beat ?
“Oh, there isn’t a section where trouble
can start
In a city like Sydney, that hasn’t a
heart, v
And the soul of Australia
Will die of heart-failure
In Sydney, the city without any heart !’’
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


one d as she undid her creak-
-1 Joints from the depths of
] u ; r and limped across the
fc Chat have you done to your-
!;ld her friend, in alarm. Shed
volunteer collector for a door-
I S and they’d given her the
K ? the Street to look after, with
:il ; ts flats, and houses perched at
’I; 0 f assorted stairways ; few of
Lings had lifts. She said people
Tss were kind. Most of them
Id to help, even if only with
" Very few refused outright. It
I her the number of women who
i„’ t open the door until they knew
i s on the other side. When they
open the door, it was a further
lent to see the diversity of their
raeots She labored under a feeling
ijormous gratitude to the understand-
few who invited her in to sit down
jj they found donations, and the
j s on earth who saw her in the
«ng, made a quick cup of coffee
|i she knocked on other doors, and
Aid her for a five-minute break on
(By out. She could still sniff the
rising odor of the Sunday dinners
iting, and the assortment of menus
icing the odors. She was surprised
Itle number of vacant flats in the
it; neighbors would say: “It’s no
knocking on that door. That flat is
at.” She was intrigued by the in-
ert people took in their neighbors’
ions, and the eagerness with which
i pointed out other doors on which
hock. She was frustrated by noises
agh doors which totally disregarded
(knock. They couldn’t all have been
itdeaf! She was irritated over the
Aer of doorbells which just didn’t
if and the frightening few which
(ned with a noise like someone trying
ley that wouldn’t fit, and she was
harassed at being mistaken for a
wing-spouse or -child, the door flung
iand the dismayed grin when the
»S was administered. And how did
heel now? “As if I’d had a strenuous
/mg weekend in the mountains,
-of all. Then regret that there wasn’t
® to ™ck on more doors and many
■ Pte must have been missed because
' f °[ volunteers, and gratitude for
or chance of seeing how the other
01 the street lives.”—“Sunray.” -
* ❖ *
i Ve on the authority of an acquain-
i n !lr X ' wholesale and -retail butcher,
|L ■ lcan ’ that the average Sydney
is considerably tougher than his
l mlu ng ot^er things, this authority
td i no butcher worth his salt
if , ess than about 90 per cent.
,inL araover . I believe him; I
ftl« na atel y another sausage-sorcerer,
il n , d , on > a confirmed teetotaller,
, ;nk himself in and out of three
ssn in utc hery businesses in less
Wyears.-_“p.O.M.C ”
V * * *
:Ci-? ng ’ all r / 8ht ’ jumping
“luig-in t ns ■ I was aboard a ship
piously a f where a little man,
riParenflv t C u ’ v ( aved continuously
Af? three jockeys we had on
te r visitors had come on
board I saw the jockey and our
stewardess hugging and kissing in a
gloomy side-alley. Though long past
being easily surprised, I did think :
;Um-um!” Then I learned that the
“jockey” was a student. His widowed
mother had taken the stewardess job to
“She’s engaged—to someone with the initials C.S.I.R.O.!”
support him while he passed through
university.—“Y.B.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
My mate Joe got into the town bookie
so deep that in self-defence the bookie
gave him a job as a penciller. Joe soon
struck trouble. A woman rang his boss
to say, “I didn't hear any of my horses
called today. They must’ve been
scratched. Can I have my money back?”
Checking the list of runners the bookie
couldn’t find any of their names; but
they had all been racing the previous
week. The woman punter had put her
bets on the wrong meeting—and Joe
had accepted the lot. “Seven bets with
the wrong woman,” was all he said when
we chipped him. —“El Arem.”
♦> ❖ ❖
University College, London, is pro-
ducing a brain, due to be finished in
about a year, which will be able to recog-
nise shapes and letters, indicate recogni-
tion by squeaks of varying pitch, and
recognise Uces and people, and may be
set either to prevent strangers from feed-
ing it with information or to refuse to
process material from unknown sources.
But give us the old-fashioned human
secretary every time ; when she squeaks
with varying pitch, it’s often for a really
satisfying reason. —“Mugga Way.”
» ❖
She is rather large, and when club-
members were asked to compete in a
talent quest she remarked lightly that she
might do a strip-tease ; but a cynic said
later that he would get as much thrill out
of it as seeing a rug taken off a horse.
“Doric.”
* ❖ ❖
Though Alfred Hill’s N.Z, pieces are
not mere arrangements of folk-music,
I can attest that they are unquestion-
ably true Maori rhythm; I was a
member of a concert - party in a hall
outside Brisbane when Arline Nilsson,
a star pupil of Hill’s, sang his “Poi”
song as he had taught it to her. She
always sang it well. But this night there
was such a furore in the audience that
she had to repeat it before the stopped
show could go on. “There must be
Maoris in the house,” she said to me
when the roof lifted a second time ; and
it turned out that there were —a company
of Maoris who were to perform in the
hall next night. They simply went wild,
proving beyond all doubt that Alfred
Hill has preserved for ever true Maori
rhythms, which might have been lost
without his genius.—“Dom Seven.”
1.C.1. Building, the upmost skyscraper
of Melbourne town, appears to be burst-
ing at the seams of its 20-story, blue-glass
facade. During the past few months
certain of the 6ft.-by-3ft. sheets have
disintegrated, leaving fragments clinging
precariously to aluminium framework
and concrete walling. Interested on-
lookers over their cups of tea in the
big green-tiled Commonwealth Building
across the way, seeing vacant sections
appear in the colossus across the park,
have instituted a type of housie-game:
every sheet numbered, a bob-in on your
favorite number, winner take all when
his numbered sheet shudders to destruc-
tion. —“R.R.”
♦jf
Having lived for a few years opposite
a racing-stable, I found many memories
awakened by James Holledge’s article on
how jockeys have to suffer to get their
weight down (B. 9/11/ ’6O). The doctor
who used to supervise the weight-reduc-
tion at my stable (his own horses were
trained there) told me it is nothing but
dehydration of the body ; he now in-
forms me that most of it was unnecessary.
A man, they have since discovered, can
get as skinny as a rake and stay like it,
yet remain strong and healthy, on a
small piece of grilled meat or fish, with-
out fat, three times a day, plus some
lettuce, a raw carrot, an orange or an
apple, with a cup of milk daily. The
only other drinks allowed are tea or


coffee without milk, and saccharin in-
stead of sugar. In place of the old-style
purging, prunes stewed without sugar
are eaten. Further weight can be reduced
by drinking only a mouthful of water
flavored with lemon-juice after each of
the five meals before the race. The out-
standing lesson I learned from my stable-
mates was that the average jockey is the
world’s worst judge of form. Knowing
that I didn’t bet myself and didn’t repeat
what I’d been told, those boys talked
openly in front of me. Up to Friday
evening I’d hear what was going to win ;
on Sunday I’d listen to the explanations
why they didn’t. —“Bogaduck.”
♦♦♦
The Bow-and-arrow Boys of World
War I and all who had their hackles
raised by the desecration of the Light
“Carm on, Auntie—just a hop , step and a jump!”
Horse Memorial in Cairo will be glad
to know that after a devious sea-journey
and a long spell in Perth, the. vandalised
fragments have reached Frankston (Vic.),
and that sculptor R. B. Ewers, of Aus-
tralian War Memorial fame, will prepare
a replica to be recast overseas in the
original metal. Where it will finally rest
Canberra is not yet saying.—“R.R.”
♦5 * *
Goulburn (N.S.W.) police - station’s
three top men are Inspector Steer, only
recently appointed, Sgt. lst-class Catt
and Sgt. 2nd-class Lyons.—“Zorok.”
<£♦
A new explanation for a black-
eye on exhibit at Geelong Show—all the
colors of the spectrum from deep-purple
to pale-yellow, a shiner of the first water ;
its bashful wearer told us he had been
kicked by a lamb. As he was a grazier
I was inclined to believe him until
another friend, who knew the bloke
better than I, remarked: “Oh, yes. What
was her name?” —“Ceg.”
+2* +I 4
There’s a move to erect a memorial
at Coalcliff, 40 miles south of Sydney,
to the first man to discover coal in Aus-
tralia, William Clark. Wollongong City
Council has agreed to accept responsi-
bility, and well it might; the coal in-
dustry close to Wollongong employs
directly 4000 men and has made possible
20,000 heavy-industry jobs at Wollon-
gong and Port Kembla. A ship, the
Sydney Cove, wrecked on rocks facing
Bass Strait in 1797, had a crew of 17.
The men headed for Port Jackson.
Fourteen died of privation and attacks
by blacks, but the rest reached Sydney,
among them William Clark, who reported
having seen a coal-seam in a cliff facing
the sea. Bass was sent to investigate
and endorsed the claim, but it was not
until 1849 that any Illawarra coal was
mined. Now there are 17 coastal mines,
nearly all mechanised and producing
good coking-coal for steel-making.—
“Warra.”
♦J> »J» *>
In spite of Kalgoorlie’s 57-year-old
pipeline with its daily capacity of Si-
million gallons, main prize in a recent
flower-show there was 5000 gallons of
water. —“Roger Mike.”
♦l* $
A Melbourne theatre advised ticket-
holders that because of the stickiness of
the recently-varnished floor their seats
would be transferred to another section.
What an opportunity for progressive
manufacturers and enterprising managers
to benefit from a preparation that would
not only tend to prevent people from
leaving their seats during the show but
would also discourage shuffling, and
retard the sudden dash fw
make for the exit during peo P'»
the National Anthem!«f
* * *
Baby-sitting on a wet aft .
charge of a doctor’s youns fw? 0011 ’ 4
playing “hospitals” o n fh? Y ° f fiv «
overheard the complaint of th anda ’ 1
henpecked five-year-old AmolV°th
°y ; Mary, l don’t it 6 ft
appendicitis!”—“Wythburn” l haVe f
❖ A ' . :St
* V i®
Asked how her husband was J®
gessmg ,n hospital Mum beamed a„ i
said Oh, very well, thanks No il
effects expected, and he should be W°
m -n a j° r SO, Reckon the hosnid i 1
will be glad to get rid of him at 3
They call him ‘Station 2XY’ becau e he 1
never off the air! He's got a b“„d. , >
audience and none of them can J 1
away.”—“Beam.” lea
CELESTIAL BUST-UP
“A petitioner told the Divorce Court that
she and her husband married because an
astrologer told them they were perfectly suits
according to their horoscopes. He gave he
a hiding a week after their wedding and lef
her. He never returned.”
Divers the reasons why some pairs gi
spliced.
One, perhaps diced
By his adored, will on the rebound take
And marry another.
"I’ll show her!” You can almost hear
him say.
And — well, it may
Work out that with her he will get a
break
Much better than with t’other.
I
Love can be sparked in many ways!
his wad;
Or something odd
A bout him, like the way his lugs stick
out;
His prowess at tennis. V
The color of her lamps; sheen on her
tress; , : fl
Her smile — and, yes,
Most puissant resolver of all marriage-
doubt — 1
The shotgun menace!
But these twain pinned their hymened
, faith,
Not on the wraith , 1
Of sudden love, but something molt j
sublime:
Mysterious function
Of astral forces far in outer space. J
Their first embrace , .
Stemmed from their guiding stars being |
at that time
In sweet conjunction.
Ah, well, seers astrologic cant be r g
Always. A blight . , „ misfit,
Upon that ill-starred pair, each
Speedily landed. ~ ] xe
But, true to the Zodiak still, before
left
His spouse bereft, . his mitt,
To her a shower of stars, via 1
He forthwith handed.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


GLIDING DAYS
By JACK LUSBY
| back in the early ’thirties that
Ld gro u P s in Australia began
and flying gliders. It was a
j neW sport and there were
! a jore as devotees taught them-
-10 fly. , . ,
ie getting into the air, however,
11 group of enthusiasts spent
, 0 f spare time making our first
The wings were the main job.
l £ ld 40 ribs and each had to be
ikh painstaking care. The thought
t all had to eventually trust our
uthe structure was conducive to
care in every detail. When the
was finished the result was
ited by truck to Hargrave Park,
idoey, for assembly. We camped
Jr the weekend, the first of regular
i camps.
iike-off the glider was to be towed
ig cable by a car. When aloft
ilhad the means to disengage the
nd he was then alone in the air
first time with only book know-
ad screamed advice from the
lo help him.
: were some spectacular flights,
der, we found, took-off easily and
d like a kite on the end of its
The embryo pilot had to guess
sd by the wind on his face and
tile of wind in the wires. There
«ns, stalls and plunges to within
the ground. There were crashes
lies and weeks of repair-work,
trial and error most of us learned
I the glider with confidence and
«ly gliders were open-air affairs.
sat strapped in a bucket-seat
‘Out in front on the landing-skid.
1 nothing around him but fresh
| and free of the cable he felt
fas a bird. He heard nothing
Ring of the wind over wings
P Each landing brought a
f : 't achievement.
I
!t °w group, usually had a girl-
> Margaret, as an admiring
Ron became so confident he
'argaret could fly the glider,
curable trust Margaret allowed
10 be strapped in the seat and
towed her high into the air.
;®d the cable as instructed. The
‘i® Ue d to climb at an alarming
I£ d and plunged at the ground.
:J low w >ng struck it boomed like
•“d a cloud of dust rose. Mar-
;S upside-down in the wreckage,
/ghost but miraculously alive.
: :er a crash we gathered sadly
estimating the weeks
ijj, glider rebuilt we moved to
/ iJr -onslow aerodrome near
j er e there was more room and
.I ( e a much longer cable. Here
0 ta ke up passengers. The
passenger was wedged between two
struts behind the pilot and had to keep
his feet clear of control-wires and cling
on for dear life.
The passengers had nothing to com-
plain about in the way of thrills. First
the rocket-like on the end of
900 ft. of cable. Then the weird sensa-
tion of silent flight, the circling glide
with the earth coming up slowly, and
the light-as-a-feather landing.
Tt was at Camden, over a few beers one
A winter night at the Plough and
Harrow, that I got the idea of a night
flight. I reckoned the air would be
colder and denser and we'd stay up
longer.
This crazy notion was accepted as a
reasonable proposition, and a night flight
was fixed for the following night.
The night was jet-black and bitterly
cold. No moon, no stars. I hoped
enthusiastically that the first night-glide
in Australia would be made by someone
else. No luck.
“It's your idea,” they said. “You’re
first.”
The glider was attached by a 900 ft.
cable to the old Chandler chassis we
used for towing. I was strapped into
my seat and handed a strong torch to
show if there were trees or aerodrome
beneath me.
The Chandler started up and the glider
soared kite-like into the *black air. The
Chandler's exhaust-flame came back
behind my rudder-bars and I cast loose,
900 ft. up with a torch.
Several car headlights were to be
shown near the hangars for me, but the
people on the ground were too excited
and all was dark.
Judging my airspeed by the wind on
my face and the whistle of it through
the wires, I circled, pointing the torch
downward. It showed the alarming
tops of gumtrees with occasional, clear
ground. The ground finally came up at
a surprising angle as though the glider
was diving steeply, but it was a slope
rising at one end of the aerodrome. The
sudden landing took me completely by
surprise and the torch flew out of my
hand. People raced towards me fear-
ing a crash, but the car headlights
showed that all was well. The first night
glide was over.
“Who’s next?” I asked jubilantly.
“No one,” was the verdict. “We’ll wait
for a full moon.”
The only way to remain up for any
length of time in these primary gliders
was to head into the uplift of wind
against a hill. A good breeze rises
300 ft. or so over a hill-top before
descending on the leeward slope. By
flying to and fro along a crest a pilot
could stretch out his glide for some time
No great heights were achieved.
lt remained for a young Austrian, Herr
Kronfeld, to demonstrate that soaring
was possible quite independently of
“hill-lift,” and the results were soon seen
in Australia.
A graceful gull-winged sailplane came
to Camden and was towed aloft by a
Gypsy Moth. Released, it could circle
like a hawk in the rising thermal currents
under cumulus clouds. The pilot fre-
quently found himself spiralling up-
wards. By moving from cloud-base to
cloud-base in proper conditions he could
stay up for hours. Cross-country flights
were possible.
More sailplanes made their appear-
ance in the late thirties. Weather-men
helped with information that “lift”
existed in front of thunderstorms.
A glider-pilot launched in advance of
towering black nimbus clouds could keep
height in the turbulence churning in front
of the storm for as long as the storm
lasted. Occasionally a glider was sucked
into the heart of the storm and went up
like a lift. It was a frightening experi-
ence for the .pilot. Lightning often
cracked around him and there were
stomach-turning plunges.
\X/hen War II broke out most Australian
glider-pilots went naturally into the
R.A.A.F. And because of their gliding
experience they went solo in three or four
hours on powered machines. The
normal time to train a man to fly solo
was eight to 10 hours.
During the war large gliders, towed
behind Douglas Dakotas, were used
extensively for landing troops in Burma,
the Middle East and France.
There was one disastrous tow in Aus-
tralia. A de Havilland glider was to be
towed from Bankstown to Cootamundra
(N.S.W.). Geoff Cutler, brother of the
V.C., flew the ancient Wapiti aircraft,'
while Ron Drabsch, an ex-New Guinea
pilot, manned the glider. All went well
until they were passing over the town
of Yass, when the cable parted. Drabsch
was faced with a landing in small pad-
docks and crashed against a fence, break-
ing his back. He lived to fly again, but
no more gliders!
Gliding is an exhilarating sport. You
feel as light as a bird and have to
develop a kind of bird-sense to keep aloft.
Turning into rising currents like an
eagle: it’s like sailing compared with
motor-boating. It’s man riding on the
wind.


POLITICAL POINTS
Hypnotised, perhaps, by the retail-
stores’ shop-early-for-Christmas cam-
paign, N. S. Wales Parliament adjourned
for the Christmas recess last Thursday.
Several bills the Government had set
its heart on were rejected by the Legis-
lative Council during the session ; others
were kept in storage rather than risk
similar treatment. But one much - pub-
licised measure towards which the
“rebel” M.L.C.s had expressed no
hostility wasn’t given the chance of
becoming law before the recess.
This was the bill to amend the Motor
Traffic Act, the professed purpose of
which was to reduce the toll of road
accidents. The bill passed the first
reading in the Council and apparently
an extension of a few more hours would
have taken it through all stages and back
to Assembly. Now it won’t come up for
discussion again until February 22 at
the earliest. Yet the Christmas and New
Year period is the time of the year above
all others when death rides the roads!
• •
Reported by Sydney “Herald” that
Caiwell, speaking in Chinese, told
Oriental friends he would be Prime
Minister within a year. As electors don’t
speak Chinese they are unlikely to hear
about this pipe-dream. Somebody must
have slipped a little opium in the dream-
ing statesman’s soup.
• •
An English butcher who began to sell
copies of Lady Chatterley’s Lover along
with the chops and sausages has been
told to desist on the grounds that his
job is to sell meat, not books. That’s
fair enough, but he probably felt that
some of the bookshops were selling pretty
raw meat.
• •
Castro has grabbed another U.S.-
owned company the Havana Dock
Corporation. There can’t be much left
now to grab. What happens when there
are no more assets to loot?
• •
Walter Nash’s Labor Government was
defeated in Saturday’s election in New
Zealand when it lost six seats to the
National party. The swing away from
Labor was general and in some electorates
quite considerable. The National party
looks like winning 45 seats to Labor’s
35, though votes still to be counted in
narrowly contested electorates may alter
this slightly. If they don’t, the state of
parties will be the same as it was before
the 1957 election —a case of as-you-were
after three years of Labor rule.
Keith Holyoake will be the new Prime
Minister. It’s not his first experience in
the post, though his previous tenure was
brief—he succeeded Sidney Holland nine
weeks before the election which brought
Labor back to office.
• •
On the eve of the 24-hour holdup of
all trains, trams and buses in N. S.
Wales, Sydney Labor Council secretary
J. D. Kenny said he believed the public
would be “with the workers” —by which
he meant, as far as Tuesday was con-
cerned, the non-workers. If Kenny be-
lieves that he’d believe anything.
Lloyd Ross, State secretary of the
A.R.U., is off the beam, too, in arguing
that Commissioner McCusker has “taken
advantage of the sense of responsibility
of the railwaymen” and taken the atti-
tude that their demands could be ignored.
McCusker had already offered to go part
of the way towards meeting the wage-
claims and had not closed the door to
further negotiations. To grant the full
claim would mean incurring a record
deficit on the railways, with the only
alternative steep increases in fares and
freights with consequent further loss of
patronage. The same applies to buses
and trams.
• •
Tn what is described as “a sweeping
move to cut drinking” France is to
raise the legal drinking-age from 12 to 14.
As a further move to wean the nippers
away from their nips the tax on soft-
drinks is to be lowered.
• •
With the validity of the last nine dis-
puted votes decided by the State Return-
ing Officer —Hams got four, Casey two
and three were informal —the Frome seat
in the S.A. Assembly was retained by
Labor by 11 votes. Final score: T. M.
Casey (A.L.P.), 2515- m
(L.C.L.), 2504. ’ M - E - Ham s
• i
The most ominous and •
dangerous of ,he Governmen t" 1 ""'
financial measures is the m “
insist on life-assurance coil ? t 0
superannuation funds holdiS? ft
per cent, of their investments in Gc, 3 ?
ernment securities. Forced inn n l'
have no place in our econo m »i" S n ?°*
Ihe principle is introduced where dwl
e , nd Caiwell and his fellow-Sociaiisu
should be moving hearty votes of t J i
to Bland Holt fo? falling for this
Treasury advice. If they ever become t
Government they’ll be able to use it Z
a precedent to socialise the' whole
economy.
• •
As the D.L.P. is giving its preferences
to the Liberals in the Higinbotham poll
on December 10 and gave them to the
Country party in Calare, it looks as if
it is merely putting a flea in the A.L.P.’s
ear in asking it to carry out its principles
in return for D.L.P. preferences in
future elections. It is easy for A.L.P,
president Chamberlain to tell D.L.P
Senators he would rather die than carry
out its platform and annoy the Com- :
munists ; but he may find it difficult
to say the same thing to the Right-wing
A.L.P. in the January conference.
• .
The two U.S. fliers captured by the
Russians after the shooting-down of the
RB-47 in the Barents Sea seem to have
disappeared into limbo. Presumably
Khrushchev is holding them for bait
pending the time when he has to negotiate
with the new President.
• •
To the committee which investigated
conditions at Callan Park mental hos-
pital the food was “monotonous and
unimaginative.” To N.S.W. Healt
Minister Billy Sheahan it was a piece ot
cake!
MORE "A"-FALLOUT


...mans are conjecturing on the
files of seeing Princess Margaret
C 2 the Possibility is full of “ifs.”
. Antony Armstrong-Jones comes
Melbourne as a witness in a court-
■ a if the Princess accompanies
* al An February 27 Melbourne
fv, published an article about
f j. s fashion - photography for
allegedly reproduced one of
'Sites quoting from the magazine,
i “Herald” is now being sued by
K N a st Publications for alleged
light infringements. .
Ln the case came on, the plaintiffs
, j ftP d they were in a bit of bother
‘not being able to produce Mr.
jmstrong-Jones forthwith, and, in fact,
„t his legal position in the future
-j. ( ordered the case off the printed
Intil it was ready for trial.
• •
Calwell’s cries of wolf in recent Vic-
liffln broadcasts and addresses got
ae volume from Holt’s economic
asures, encouraging him, in his latest,
I forecast bigger and more ferocious
ids ahead in his favorite mirage, “a
■stable pool of unemployment.”
o •
For the second time the N. S. Wales
fernment’s bill to give municipal
Kurils power to control the demolition
Houses has been rejected by the Legis-
ive Council, six of the “rebel” Labor
IL.C.S voting with the Opposition.
Homey-General Downing said the legis-
ilion was necessary “to prevent indis-
liinate demolitions in a time of
ousin g shortage.” The Opposition
fed that the bill would give aldermen
-men with no special qualifications—
wer which should rightly be exercised
of magistrates under the Landlord and
tat Act.
Downing said no council had objected
tothe bill. That seems hardly the point,
fct councils have asked for it? The
W at issue is the familiar one of the
It of a man to do as he chooses with
jiown property. On this matter of
Volitions the Heffron Government
to face several ways. On the one
there’s Downing’s statement; on
Mother there’s the policy of upping the
tV. of property in certain areas to
Extent which may force homeowners
for demolition. And on the day
Council threw-out the bill Local
Eminent Minister Hills announced
‘ tar an expressway in North Sydney
lctl would involve the demolition of
D> e number of homes.
• •
c ® u ntry may not rank high in
k!\i ex P°rting its own tourists
itatf ? ear the to P- The Australian
liimftk tbe British Travel Association
I at P er head of population Aus-
Lj ads m °re tourists to the United
y ear than any other
C 7 about 40,000 ° f ’em-
-1 Jear- tbe y spend £stg.7 million
%wo u ICa ’ s a h the more reason
iirjy > ould build-up the Australian
lrabi e •? to °h set this quite con-
I, ltem in our invisible-imports
U.N.’s acceptance of Kasavubu, to
whom Belgium originally confided the
freedom of the Congo, as the distressful
country’s bona fide representative intro-
duces the definite struggle between Com-
munism and the West for the mangled
body of the so-called new nation. The
voting was 53 to 24 (for Lumumba), with
19 nations abstaining. The Opposition
consisted of most Asian and African-
Arab countries under Communist in-
fluence, plus Ghana, Guinea, Indonesia
and India. Nehru is certainly a whale for
sleeping with strange bedfellows.
• •
British Labor was defeated, as ex-
pected, in six by-elections for Conserva-
tive-held seats, but they won Aneuran
Bevan’s seat, Ebbw Vale, with Michael
Foot and a majority of 16,729 —a reduc-
tion of about 4200. The notable feature
of all the seven polls—“the little general
election” —was the progress of the
Liberals and the decline of Labor. The
percentages polled, including Ebbw Vale
with its big Labor majority: Conserva-
tives, 42.2 p.c.; Labor, 30.5 p.c.; Liberal,
26.1 p.c.; others, 1.2 p.c.
• •
At the mention of a possible double-
dissolution the D.L.P. announced that it
did not fear such a contingency. That’s
an understatement —it is probably pray-
ing for one. At present the party holds
two Senate seats, and at an ordinary
election with half the Senate up for
judgment it might retain them, but could
hardly expect to improve its strength.
At a double-dissolution election, with
10 Senators required from each State,
the quota for a successful candidate
would be a little over nine per cent. On
that basis the D.L.P. might get a man
home in three States, possibly four.
• •
When the Federal Government accepted
in the Reps, a Senate amend-
ment moved by Liberal Senator Wright
(Tas.) extending the field of sales-tax
exemptions on bulk-milk tanks Reg.
Pollard (A.L.P.) said the Government
was “bowing the knee to a few rebellious
individuals.” He was referring to the
fact that 10 Government Senators had
crossed the floor to vote with the Oppo-
sition on the amendment. What does
he want? Even as he spoke he and the
rest of his party were keeping their
fingers crossed in the hope that Senator
Wright and a couple of other “rebellious
individuals” would again cross the floor
to defeat the Government’s bill to in-
crease the sales-tax on cars.
• «
U.S. Secretary for Agriculture E. Ben-
son told a Canberra press conference last
week that there was something to be
said in favor of a reduction” of U.S.
tariffs on wool and that discussions had
been held with Australian representatives
on the subject. He said a reduction might
mean cheaper wool for American con-
sumers and it would provide stiffer com-
petition to synthetic fibres.
A fortnight ago the abolished
its tariff-quota on wool-textiles, but at
the same time increased its ad valorem
rates. Australia is not directly affected
by this, but British manufacturers aren’t
very happy as the new schedule will
penalise high-quality British cloth more
than the cheaper range of Japanese tex-
tiles which in the last three years had
already outstripped the British product
in the U.S. market.
• •
IyroTHiNG could be more pernicious
than the medieval system under
which, according to N.S.W. Premier
Heffron, shop-assistants who report
breaches of the early-closing laws are
paid “something for seeing the law is
carried out and to recompense the union
for any expense it may incur.” What
expense does it incur when, as the
Premier admitted in Parliament, the
prosecutions are launched by the Shops
and Factories Department and not the
trade-union or its members? The expense
of spying or just the expense of inform-
ing? Against both practices Labor has
angrily set its face ever since the party
was formed.
• • '
Veteran Senator Agnes Robertson, of
Western Australia, who switched from
the Liberal to the Country party in 1955,
when passed-over for endorsement, and
was re-elected —to the chagrin of her
former colleagues—is not seeking
Country-party endorsement for the next
Parliament. The Country-party team for
W.A., which will be opposed by a full
Liberal team, is E. W. Prowse, J. K.
Powell and Clayton C. B. Mitchell.
• • ■
It’s been pointed out that the 280 com-
mittees recently named by the Prime
Minister as advisers to the Government
represent only part of the picture. The
total is estimated at something like 1100,
with Repat. claiming the largest number.
Some of the boards and committees offer
full-time and well-paid jobs. Others serve
merely for expenses, and quite a few get
no pay whatever.
• •
Peking University’s press, reported to
be extolling the ox as an example to
Chinese youth, is only repeating Mao
Tse-tung’s advice to good Communists
written two decades ago—that the rank-
and-file should be “the oxen of Com-
munism,” bowing their backs “quietly,
obediently and practically to their Com-
munist task even to death.” It is a great
pity that the visiting Chinese trades-
unionists didn’t read extracts from the
works of Mao to the cheering Austra-
lian wharfies.
• - •
Oriana, the new Orient liner due in
Sydney on Christmas Eve, has a device
called a “telenurse” which mothers can
switch on while at dinner so as to hear
their babies if they cry when left in
their cabins. Treasurer Holt should put
one in every home, to be switched on
by the Treasury when he speaks.


Personal ITEMS
Melbourne lays claim to having the
two oldest bishops in Christendom —
Archbishop Mannix and Bishop J. W.
Ashton. Dr. Mannix, Roman Catholic
Archbishop of Melbourne and senior
bishop of his communion, was bora at
Charleville, County Cork (Eire), 98 years
ago and has been Archbishop of Mel-
bourne since 1917. Dr. Ashton, now 94,
is a former Bishop of Grafton (N.S.W.)
who took his D.D. with honors at
Oxford, and is senior bishop of the
Anglican communion.
• •
Under the Colombo Plan, Mohammed
Hasan Khan, an engineer from Pakistan,
has been studying Australian methods of
storing, handling and applying bitumen.
His seven-months’ stay has been divided
between Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne
and Adelaide, and Geelong, Horsham
and Traralgon (in Victoria). What has
chiefly impressed him, he says, is the
great improvement brought about by
mechanisation in Australian road-
making.
• •
Affectionately known throughout
western N.S.W. as ‘ ‘Old Barney,” B. H.
Williamson, of Abbotsford, Ivanhoe, has
been a member of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association since 1919 and a councillor
since 1924. Now 81, he was la'tely pre-
sented with a vacuum-jug and glasses
at a meeting of the general council,
marking his long connection with the
association. Because of his wide practi-
cal knowledge of grazing he’s been
dubbed by fellow-landholders “the
Western Division Encyclopaedia.”
• • •
Dr. John A. G. Holt, appointed
foundation Director of the Institute of
Radio Therapy at Hollywood Repatria-
tion Hospital, Perth, graduated from
Bristol University in 1947 with honors
in medicine, surgery and radio-therapy.
His main job in the present appointment
will be running the linear accelerator
early next year.
• •
Going into the second Chair of
Mechanical Engineering at the University
of N.S.W. on January 1, Dr. C. F. Kettle-
borough is English-born, a former
scientific officer in the Royal Naval
Scientific Service and at present Pro-
fessor of Mechanical Engineering at the
University of Auckland, New Zealand.
Another crossing from N.Z., John
Hearsy McMillan Salmon, historical
author and now a lecturer at the Vic-
toria University of Wellington, is to be-
come foundation Professor of History,
and Alexander Hunter, a senior lecturer
at the University of Melbourne and a
member of the board of editors of the
“Review of Economic Studies,” fins been
appointed Professor of Economics.
• •
Michael William Byrne, who becomes
liaison - officer to the chairman of
directors of A.W.A., left a big gap in
the landscape when he went from Par-
liament House at Canberra in 1954 to
be head of the Commonwealth News and
Information Bureau at Australia House
in London. He had been a pioneer of
the Parliamentary Gallery (1928) and,
incidentally, is a member of a pioneer
family connected with the Appin district
A.W.A. LIAISON-OFFICER
(N.S.W.) for nearly 160 years. He left
daily journalism to become Arthur
Fadden’s press-secretary in 1940, and his
capacity for hard and patient work and
his quiet and unassuming good temper
soon established his success.
After serving in that post during
Arthur-Fadden’s brief period as Prime
Minister and until 1949, Mick Byrne (here
sketched) was with Prime Minister
Menzies for a time, and then took-over
the versatile job of general public-rela-
tions officer to the Federal Government.
His final assignment in Australia was
the organisation of the world - press
arrangements for the Petrov Commission
inquiry. In his London job he did a
great deal to put modern Australia on
the map during the period of its greatest
modern expansion. He knows the official
inside history of Australia from 1928
onwards as thoroughly as any man alive.
Experience of the lanH „
problems of settlers has Ql]a -fi d , of the
Collett for his post of ?" ai P F ' M '
adviser in the development T?
Esperance (W.A.) district u the
with rural development in the toe m?
as an inspector for the old WA a
cultural Bank (now the Rural and f
dustrtes Bank) in the wheatbel. "i
managed branches at Northam n and
and Kununoppin
depression period. As chief rural JvT
of the bank he has been associawS
the development of the district for 5
past 10 years, and will now be statLne
on home-ground at Esperance, giv,™
advice on rural economics to settler
intending settlers, and maintain 1
liaison between the Agricultural Deoart-
ment and the Esperance Land and
Development Company.
• •
Visiting Sydney and Melbourne to gear
production of what’s somewhat for-
midably named the Pg plate industrial
traction-battery and rated as revolu-
tionary as that may sound, 64-year-old
John Oldham is group-chairman and
managing-director of Oldham and Son,
Ltd,, Manchester. The big name in bat-
teries in the U.K., the Oldhams started
in hatting-machinery back in 1865, swung
to mining-lamps and batteries at the turn
of the century, and have spread to France,
South Africa, India and Australia—a
sort of industrial British Commonwealth
of Nations. John Oldham Churchil-
lian in appearance, and certainly
Churchillian in his love of the British
Commonwealth —joined the family firm
at 16 and learned the business from floor
to roof. An astute, observant, able
administrator, he makes a point of going
round his far-flung traps once a year
and of getting executives to England to
keep them up to date on company policy.
• •
Before he went off to Queensland, last
stop of a 10-months’ tour of Australia,
L. St. Clare Grondona called at The
Bulletin to talk about his latest two
ventures: a new book and a plan tor
the development of Australia s bar
North.
Australian Stocktaking, which will be
published early next year, is a surv
“in more or less colloquial term j’.
the whole range of Australian ac i
ment and progress. Prefaeed by the
contrast of th 6 empty and hos 1
that challenged the first w'hi e
against the developed and civili .
that Australia is today, Grondon
will start “underground, ceau loUI oUg h
mineral resources, then work P
forestry, pastoral industry and
the stocktaking is complete- . a
Australia’s Far orth ’ rt r Q f the
points out, is the last P*-
tropical world in wl J^ h deve iopment,
man still holds sway. 1 we jj as
he believes, is of strategi . eye this
economic importance. formation
development he envisages and the
of a development & perioc i
spending of £l5O ml 10 • ct would be
of 10 years. The project w


, one -fifth bv Australian, two-
- y British and two-fifths by
.jj ™ • |
‘Jpment would be based on the
industry. Pasture-improvement,
ro ads to the north to new
("5 would be justified by the in-
i world markets for beef. Ancil-
ndustries such as phosphate manu-
: would be started and, once the
; vas rolling, private capital would
'the band-wagon.
Lhook and the plan have one thing,
st j n common. They share the
I,’of vision characteristic of their
aiitor. ,
• •
femporary lecturer in the Department
litany and Zoology at the University
New England, Armidale (N.S.W.),
l Eastman, jnr., is a Master of
iK e of the University of Kansas
SA), where he has done a lot of
ftg in botany, biology, geology,
analogy, ornithology, and wildlife-
srvation. He’s booked for a promi-
-i! part in preparing the School of
wj and Zoology now being con-
ncted at the University.
r v »- •
• •
fe Bulletin will miss Eric Schlunke
ling in with his slow grin, his country
id, his interest in what other Austra-
i short-story writers were doing, his
in for classical music and his
iiisiasm for the fine art-collection
it! he and his wife Olga were
mbling. He died at Temora (N.S.W.)
November 18, after an illness which
2given him a bad time over the last
years. He had a big output of
p-stories, and the best of them, such
ERIC SCHLUNKE
i tf. plastic Prisoner” and “The
W ‘Mo,” h ave long been estab-
?®ed anthology-pieces. He
iich his fo*u mora on land
ia i aer owned before him, and
u Se n : II P-to-date interest in the
s recent - Car ® °f the soil. One of
ories is printed in this issue.
Revisiting these parts is Roger M. Lee,
chairman of the Calico Printers’ Associa-
tion, Ltd., the Lancashire Cotton
Corporation, Ltd., and other companies ;
he was last here in 1950. His Lancashire
interests established an Adelaide factory
in 1942 which is still the greatest im-
porter of printed fabrics into Australia ;
though, because of Japanese competition,
he now sees no hope- of increasing
business.
Lee is very much impressed by the
decade's progress in Australia and what
lies ahead in future decades. Not at
all deterred by the temporary financial
juggling, he says the investment oppor-
tunities in Australia are enormous.
• •
Field-Marshal Sir Gerald Templer,
former C.1.G.5., passed through Sydney
last week, reminding “Light Bob’’ of
a couple of meetings with him:
First, in Anzio, where, posted suddenly as
senior major of a battalion of the Oxfordshire
and Buckinghamshire Light Infantry in his
56th (“Black Cat”) Division, 1 had been invited
to breakfast with him my first morning. Alone
together in his caravan, he explained that this
was the Peninsular custom, which men of
Wellington’s regiments —we were lineal
descendants of the Light Division, and the
Fusiliers brigaded with us had Albuhera among
their battle-honors —should emulate, because
“breakfast is the only meal which you can
eat together with reasonable certainty before
battle, for who knows what the day will
bring?” Then he proceeded to give me a
resume of the fighting of the last few days —
the division had taken a bad knock; our own
Oxfords were down to three officers and 67
left in the line out of the 35 and 800 who had
marched in three weeks before. He ended with
the typically stern injunction: “Remember you
are a light-infantryman now —and it may be
to the end of your life—so when I come round
your battalion tomorrow morning see that you
are wearing a Light Division cap and the
gorget-cords, whistle-strap and rank-badges
your new regiment wear. It’s good for moral
at this time.” My servant got me a cap
from a dead officer’s kit, made gorget-cords
from bootlaces, produced miniature badges
from somewhere, and a double whistle-strap
from somewhere else, so I could at least look
the General in the face next morning—did I
see a wink? There was nothing much to
smile about those days when we hung-on
waiting for the relief, but Templer seemed to
find a little amusement that muddy
morning ...
Next, in London at the end of the war,
when the surviving officers of the division
dined one night and afterwards walked about
swapping yarns—“Hm, so they shot your leg
off, did they? Well, they broke my back.
After I had gone to the Sixth Armored, I was
driving along the road one day when the truck
ahead of me went up on a mine and a grand-
piano it was carrying landed on top of me.
I’ve been in plaster since.”
That hardly stopped him —he was D.M.I.
at the War Office at that time and moved up
to Vice-C.I.G.S. later, took-over as G.0.C.-
in-C., Eastern Command, in 1950 and reached
his greatest fame as High Commissioner in
Malaya, 1952-54, where the measures he intro-
duced—careful, stern and completely right for
the situation —put paid to the C.Ts.
• •
Ted Scott doesn’t look it, and his
exceptionally youthful sort of exuberance
flatly denies it, but he is, in fact, old
enough to have had service in destroyers
of the U.S. Navy up round the North
Atlantic in War 11. Three years
after that finished he tried his
vocal chords, reckoned they might
improve with tuition, submitted them
to a bout of it—and landed 1250
dollars when his light-baritone got him
top marks in the Attwater Kent Com-
petition. Concurrently he had come
good in drama, and the combination
led to his getting the lead in “Oklahoma.”
After a year on the road with it he
became understudy to Alfred Drake in
“Kiss Me Kate,” since when he has
filled leading roles in some 25 musicals.
His present assignment here is the
title-role in Meredith Willson’s “The
TED SCOTT
Music Man,” which already has five
years behind it on Broadway with no
signs of flagging. It’s a role that has
him on stage almost continually from
curtain to curtain. When Melbourne's
bumper season ends Ted and Co. transfer
to Sydney's Tiv., where on December 13
Ted the con.-man will begin anew
promising kids he’ll teach them to play
the instruments he’s sold them, though
he knows less about music than they do.
On his home ground in the U.S. he
squeezes TV appearances in between his
stage commitments.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 65, Brigadier Arthur Seaforth
Blackburn, V.C., C.M.G., C.8.E., a member
of the Australian National Airways Commission
since 1955, M.H.A. for Sturt, 1918-21, former
Adelaide City Coroner and Commonwealth
Conciliation Commissioner, 1947-55. He was
with the old 10th Bn. on Gallipoli, in Egypt
and France and won the V.C. at Pozieres, July
23, 1916. As G.O.C. A.1.F., Java, in 1942 he
was captured and spent the remainder of the
war a p.-0.-w.
In Sydney, at 39, Muir Holburn, winner
of the “S.M. Herald - ’ Poetry Prize for 1951
and past-president of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers.
In Brisbane, at 81, Sir Donald Cameron,
veteran of the Boxer Rebellion and of the
Boer War, commander of the sth Light Horse
in War I (three “mentions,” twice wounded,
C.M.G. and D. 5.0.), M.H.R. for Brisbane,
1919-31, and for Lilley, 1934-37, Australian
delegate to the League of Nations Assembly
in 1923 and 1932, and honorary colonel of
the 61st Battalion (The Queensland Cameron
Highlanders).
In Perth, at 72, Frank Walpole Leake, Q.C.,
specialist on municipal and local-government
law. A son of Sir George Leake, a former
Premier of W.A., he served with the Ist A.I.F.
in France and was later with Dunsterforce in
Mesopotamia and Persia.


VV /C 0(?P attewjs! — ,r SAys HSKt that uoyp georm, Ojho
u was MiNisron of englanp purimg
THE ftf&T WOt&p m g
tr
7 hap sighted msTf&szes /
'file*
4$ UaS a Goov
th.\c£(L you « now
Tkecr’s Ht Got inxo
TOO I "
\


ABORIGINALITIES
(the bar at the Grand in Kal-
plie the big bloke was laboring
itr a feeling of guilt in that he
i inadvertently allowed me to quaff
Jmy Jimmy Woodser before he offered
shout for me. He seemed to think that,
not disclosing my solitary state, I
J tricked him into a breach of gold-
’fc hospitality. He forgave me when
explained I was from Melbourne, at
»mention of which he shivered in
collection of an horrific experience.
'® r >” be said, “I put in two days there
s my way home to the West for dis-
use from the Sixth Divvy in nineteen-
ftive. With more than my issue
‘Sid I was crossing Prince’s Bridge
i | jotted two sheilas in uniform,
filing-looking pair of WAAFS to me ;
■: the way they were dressed I reckoned
? could’ve been officers. Next thing,
L i, t "Where are you going,
. j I to ld ’em I was heading for
But I didn’t hesitate
“shesaid I’d do better if I went with
I ' an d pointed to the big flash-looking
itlhml' J air! 1 went with them—
P to bloody Russell Street, and put
tlw h*®? 1 m the cooler, and it cost
a drunk-and-disorderly.”
r»|;, ed fhat he probably retained
(L „ j lc jeas about lady constables,
«c n f aclually s hed his haunted look
f nued • “That’s not the end of
•ota in«; w hh only a moderate
lesamp / me ’ * was st hl heading for
w >the«? nCe w .h en ’ right at the same
g ave me P a ir picked me up again
didn’t tat 16 same iuvite. They
110 the car Lk° f °u an answer i 1 § ot
:]J got readf f Cr than stack on a blue,
Her. w. another night in the
'■'iceman ! c , tlle y dumped me at a
i t( *. i°r me v • w b ere they fixed up a
• l lr ‘ Melbourne's women
re a U right! ” —“ Cura te' s Egg .”
These things always come too late.
If I’d seen that newsreel before the Mel-
bourne Cup, instead of a couple of weeks
later, I’d have made something else
favorite in my annual splurge on the
Turf. But there it was—Tulloch having
a sand-roll after the morning’s training,
and he didn’t roll right over. The old
bush adage immediately struck me with
all its wise-after-the-event impact: “The
horse that rolls right over is a good ’an.
One that only rolls half over, then
comes back on the same side, will let
you down.” How sadly, sadly true.
My dough murdered in cold blood —the
whole five-bob! —“Sack.”
* * *
Four miles past his surprisingly
broken - down and abandoned latest
Super - Swish I caught up with Tom
Moloney, making good pedestrian pub-
ward progress. In gratefully thanking
me for the lift, he asked me to speed-up,
explaining that he wanted to get to the
Shearers’ Arms before Murphy headed
home from Mulgaville. Yes, he wanted to
see Murphy all right urgently. It
appeared that on the previous Saturday
Murphy had belted young Tom Moloney
—largely, according to my passenger*
“Fastest gun in the West, eh? Well, bully for you!"
on account of a five-years seniority
advantage. I left Moloney, snr., on the
outskirts of Mulgaviile and turned home-
wards. I couldn’t bear to witness what
might have happened to Murphy at the
hands of the outraged parent, 75-year-old
Tom Moloney, snr.—“O. K. Lee.”
* * *
A Queensland cocky’s cow in a
drought-area was too weak to get up.
She refused to eat; took sugar-and-water
but remained grounded. Into a bottle
her owner mixed two liberal shots of
o n rum molasses, mineral-food supple-
ment and linseed mush. He gave her
one taste, then stood the bottle in front
of her. As she stretched-out her neck
and tongue he heaved from behind, and
up she rose. He walked her about a
mile home. Now she gets up under her
own steam and eats anything. As he
says, “Whacko the rum!” —‘"Rumbo.”
* * * *
For well - lined lovers of the
rough sea-life Newcastle (England)
builders are making a new yacht-class,
110 ft. long, with a speed under engines
of 12f knots, air-conditioning, deep-
freeze, automatic pilot, radar, echo-
sounder, stabilisers, and bulbous bow.
Each of the eight passengers will have a
private suite and bathroom, and there
will be a crew of seven. —“Stromlo.”
* * * *
Ouzie was a very fat girl, so the
doctor prescribed some tablets to
take away her appetite and to give
her more energy. Suzie lost a lot of
weight, then became allergic, and the
doc. gave her some anti-histamines that
made her drowsy. So he suggested that
she shouldn’t drive the car. It was a
good excuse for Suzie to have a lovely
rest • the only trouble was, she acciden-
tally broke one of the bottles, the one
that held the green anti-histamines ; she
put them in with the pep-tablets. In
the hot and humid weather the green dye
on the allergy tablets melted. Suzie,
thinking she was taking one of the green
tablets, took one of the white ones that
had absorbed the gieen coloring. Just
as she swallowed it, she realised what
she had done. Oh, well she thought,
as she had taken a pep-tablet she mignt
GOLPAK
. , m , n have built a small stone-and-
fS at a lonely New Britain patrol-
-1 iv of Golpak, the native who
;J”Sed lives during the war.]
lkK New Britain shews her face
0 with death. Go pace by pace.
I, a jungle green with hate,
lid, running while he ate.
lithe crash of bomber dives—
to black hands held many lives.
yive son, both loved and feared,
jlfough grey jungle wall appeared ;
|to the shore lay white with foam,
hi the party safely home :
'Held by our fierce enemy
In my daughter dies for me.”
|fairy, broken, always there,
For the watchers of the air,
lister man and master spy,
tipak bolds the jungle sky.
In he sleeps both night and day
Softly, near Jacquinet Bay.
pENSLAND.
KEVIN McAULIFFE.


as well work it off as lie awake tossing on
her bed all night. So she did her laundry,
cleaned out her room, cleaned the win-
dows, and finished the night doing all
the mending left undone for weeks. At
dawn she decided to return to the
hospital where she worked, although she
wasn’t due to return from her holidays
until the next day. Matron was just up
when she saw Suzie come in, so she
called the girl and asked if she were
better. Suzie said she was, and was sick
of being home, so had returned a day
early. “How did you get here?” asked
Matron (Suzie lived more than 20
miles away.) “I hope you didn’t ignore
the doctor’s advice. You didn’t drive the
car while you are on those tablets, did
you?” “Gosh, no, Matron! I wouldn’t
take a risk like that —I borrowed my
brother’s motorbike. Don’t look so
shocked, Matron! It’s quite o.k. —I’ve
got a licence!’’—“Ashley Hill.”
* * * *
Victoria’s National Parks Authority
has successfully experimented with
green - dyed carrots as rabbit - bait
in Wyperfeld Park, in the State’s far
nor’-west. Idea of the dyeing —it was
“When did you first become aware of this ‘split personality'?"
used quite a while back in the U.S.—is to
keep the 181 species of birds in the
reservation away from the baits.—“ Vic.”
# 0
Question asked in an A.B.C. quiz was,
“What is a calico - muster?” To my
amazement, the expert replied that he’d
never heard of it, and made wide-of-the-
mark suggestions connecting it with the
drovers’ custom of yarding travelling
sheep in calico “breaks” for the night.
As I understand it, the term dates from
the time when shearers and other casual
bush-workers all had swags, usually with
calico or tarpaulin covers. At night a
swag - cover would be spread on the
ground for a table, and the shearers
would sit around in a fog of insects
attracted by the naked flame of the
hissing carbide lamp and gamble against
their earnings. When cut-out came, a
calico-muster or, more commonly, tar-
paulin-muster, might be held for the
benefit of the hospital, some work-mate
who had gambled away his entire cheque
in advance, or any other suitable object
of charity ; that is, the swag-cover was
spread as usual, and contributions were
thrown into it. Both terms were common
in the 2nd A.1.F., and “tarpaulin-muster”
is still well-enough known in the out-
back. —“Wommadoo.”
* * * *
The waxeye (Zosterops lateralis),
with his greenish coat and con-
spicuous eye-markings, is so well
known in New Zealand that most people
class him as a native bird, but he is in
fact an Australian visitor. The Maori
names for him, tauhou (stranger) and
kanihi-mowhiti (spectacle-eye), give us
the clue that he is not a genuine
Enzedder and that he has come since
Maori contact with Europeans. Another
more recent Aussie traveller is the
rosella. Now quite common in the
Waitakere Ranges near Auckland, it
doesn’t seem to venture further south,
probably owing to the climate. It closely
resembles the native red-fronted parra-
keet, which is now found only in dense
forest and on some island sanctuaries.
The yellow-fronted parrakeet is smaller,
I have sat by the only watering-place on
an isolated island and seen dozens of the
yellows chattering and squabbling there,
a sight as rare as it was beautiful. —
“Janus.”
* * * *
The doctor slipped-on his pre-
decessor’s practice, house and place at
cards with ease. He was quite at home
until his turn to have the card-players at
wife h °on'iet.ing W «*; hi,
see ,wo very B l ar g e ra “d W
come m also. The players proteae/P
knew where to hang their coat? , , ey
dogs bounded joyfully to the 1 vinTm
fi°° k T Va K nta § e -P°ints in hon uf
the fire. As the game
visitors and the new owners of the hot
preserved a studied silence on the <2
Finally one of the players asked- “vS
are a dog-lover, Mrs. Jones'?” “Oh no ->l
said the hostess. “I thought you
have been, said the now very puzzS
player, “because you have these two and
there were six others on your veranda as!
we came in.” “Heaven forbid!” gasped
Mrs. J., and the dogs were smartly shown
the door, much to everyone’s relief
“Vee.” 1
* * * *
A tourist’s sight of large blue
or green plastic bags encasing bunches'
of bananas in plantations round Mur-]
willumbah (N.S.W.) took me back to 1
Murray Island, in Torres Strait, where]
the islanders have long practised wrap- !
ping banana-bunches still growing. The
plastic bags seen on the Tweed are
mainly for protection against pests, but
the island qutfits serve several purposes,
one being to ensure supplies at the right
time for funeral-feasts and suchlike
occasions. The process is rather compli-,
cated, necessitating the bunch being
wrapped in leaves and pieces of the,
hessian-like material which comes from
the coconut-palm; over this is tightly
fastened a network of plaited coconut-
fibre. In this way the ripening is slowed-
down; I’ve seen these net-covered
bunches decorating native gardens for
long periods. When uncovered bunches
were cut while green their ripening was
hastened, if required, by covering them
in sand-trenches, or trailing them in t el
water alongside the boat—“C.-Coral* j
* * * ®
I’ve often heard the claim that
there are gums that make better poss
than jarrah, but I’ve travelled over j
fair part of W.A. without meeting them,
and while I’ll concede that w
whitegum would run jarrah c >
make the stipulation that any argu
on durability must take into' c
tion the difference in situations j
to be met. In the swampy sa ? d w coa j
you frequently strike in sou-W«ttaJ»
she-oak will outlast most woo \ a
often, will a good stout P P
timber which usually isn t worth
in the ground. On the othe >
gum often won’t last g re^Uy hungry
are termites, and if they j, ve
they’ll go for some classes ja
fenced over a big sk° e ent j on ed, I'd
with the reservations I ve : arra h,
list fencing-posts in this . reason-
wodgil, jam, whitegum. go0( j
able conditions any ° , situat jons they
for 40 years, and m idea be sol Tie
might better. 70. There ‘ five
woods which are b et e j finish” aS
mentioned —I’d sugges sca rce, and,
one —but they’re -» «***„ m
while you might find n » t be classed
and there in a fence, t L^raveisnatcher-
as fence-post timbers.


apital
apital
..
1953.
£
50,000
1,320,000
1954.
£
50,000
1,320,000
1955.
£
50,000
1,320,000
1956.
£
50,000
1,320,000
1957.
£
50,000
1,320,000
1958.
£
50,000
1,320,000
1959.
£
/ 50,000
1,320,000
1960.
£
50,000
1,320,000
reserve
H
• 60,000
3,316
60,000
Dr. 137,383
60,000
Dr. 826,787
60,000
Dr. 698,157
59,696
Dr. 706,292
59,696
Dr. 670,412
59,696
Dr. 531,044
59,626
Dr. 334,730
holders’ funds ..
1,433,316
1,292,617
603,213
731,843
723,404
759,284
898,652
1,094,896
terdraft
I
>a
J 1 ! provision (pref.)
Provisions ..
••
749,015
140,374
66,723
. .. 1,250
964
1,177,813
140,077
41,986
5,930
1,601,233
125,679
39,189
104,673
1,216,866
81,308
39,192
17,111
1,064,178
67,406
39,071
9,897
845,752
48,429
39,071
7,155
747,992
52,309
39,071
6,915
638,484
46,304
39,071
6,381
Jtures on fixed assets
- P e $ on staff houses
• •
200,000
54,024
200,000
62,019
200.000
65,664
215.000
55,638
202,500
48,844
183,070
46,174
178,070
42,182
173,070
38,080
2,645,666
2,920,442
2,739,651
2,356,958
2,155,300
1,928,935
1,965,191
2,036,286
;|j' an( l and buildings ..
glands ” ”
! er board mill freeholds ..
::
■>'
t j c 0r sale of board-mill ..
its
413,506
15,895
59,247
793.357
238.357
105,323
37,399
664,467
151,733
12,490
153,892
2,645,666
447,222
17,097
55,649
920,920
247,516
110,068
34,900
639,594
261,077
13,590
172,809
460,021
17,056
60,117
213,616
275,489
100,061
34,500
690,798
724,979
6,432
156,582
170,406
23,707
111,624
293.777
213,338
297.172
88,268
34,500
544,941
226,647
192,000
3,495
157,083
174,779
23,812
120,053
293,777
213,338
297,259
80,948
35,000
418,123
243,763
96,000
1,559
156,839
174,610
23,718
126,906
293,777
212,888
274,927
78,881
35,000
329,112
219,378
2,899
156,839
174,253
23,560
130,189
293,777
212,888
256,297
77,581
35,000
401,053
« 195,650
8,104
156,839
173,860
22,396
140,948
293,111
207,300
250,411
78,602
34,500
426,611
242,527
8,515
156,839
2,920,442
2,739,651
2,356,958
2,155,300
1,928,935
1,965,191
2,036,286
Business, Robbery, Etc.
TASMANIAN BOARD MILLS, LTD.
U who were disap-
ted by the statement of
K C. Holyman that,
! Tasmanian Board Mills
ade a considerable ad-
, towards recovery, it
ite some years before a
nd could be contem-
j; should not have been
lyed.
jas been apparent for a
time that dividends are
i around the corner. But
is equally apparent is that
is a most profitable busi-
tepresented by the timber-
land sawmilling activi-
of the co., and that the
tl which can be related to
profit-earning section of
teiness is not high when
pred with these profits,
diyear the big deficit that
mated by the loss on the
iiner-board operations and
lin 1955 has been grado-
itduced.
let deficit of £766,787 in
: had been reduced to
I at last balance-day.
lie same period outside
lies had been brought
[from £2,136,438 to
p), to an extent by the
Nof redundant assets,
ply by the earning and
wn of profits.
Last year (to June 30)
weather conditions were favor-
able for logging and milling,
the timber market maintained
a steady tone, and, after pro-
viding £78,557 (up £31,165) for
depreciation and £40,136 (down
£4568) for bank and mortgage
interest, net profit was £47,784
higher at £183,272:
Consolidated Figures.
/ —Dividends—Re-
June, Loss. Pref. Ord. serves.*
(5 p.c.)
& & £
1953.. 37,374 2500 Nil 63,316
Taxation written-back, £95 63,411
Deficit.*
1954. .140,794 Nil Nil 77,383
Taxation w/baek, £2916 74,467
1955.. 94,164 Nil Nil 168,631
Loss on container-board
assets, £580,810 .. 749,441
Establishment written-off,
£17,346 .. .. 766,787
Profit.
1956. .128,630 Nil Nil 638,157
Profit sale assets, £21,491 616,666
Loss.
1957.. 29,559 Nil Nil 646,225
Reduction in reserves, £371 646,596
Profit sale assets, £2242.. 644,354
, Profit.
1058.. 33,638 Nil Nil 610,716
Profit sale assets, £897 . . 609,819
Insurance claim, £2983 .. 606,836
1959. .135,488 Nil Nil 471,348
Profit sale assets, £2339 469,009
Insurance claim, £10,703 458,306
Reduction reserves, £70.. 458,376
1960. .183,272 Nil Nil 275,104
* Subject to intangibles—goodwill on
consolidation, £121,992, preliminaries,
etc., £34,847 —at June 30, 1960.
As in the preceding year, no
taxation provision was neces-
sary by reason of the offset of
accumulated losses during the
operations of the board-mill.
Had tax been charged at Bs. in
the £ the disclosed net profit
would have fallen to around
£114,000. That would never-
theless have been equal to 21
p.c. on the market-value of the
ord. capital (allowing for the
small pref. requirements) at Bs.
per £1 share. Latest Stock Ex-
change quotations are around
7s. 6d. per ord. share.
As it was, after bearing a
heavy depreciation charge
(equal to over 30 p.c. on the
sawmilling plant, though some
amortisation is also involved),
no tax, and an interest bill that
grows lighter each year as
ploughed-back profits reduce
(he outside debt, the disclosed
profit, with the assistance of a
net £12,969 added to reserves
from insurance claims and capi-
tal profits, brought a visible im-
provement of £196,244 to the
co.’s financial position.
Another two years of the
same sort of thing would see
a credit in p.-and-l. appropria-
tion account, but there would
still be the £501,077 of inopera-
tive assets of the container-
board mill in the books. These
undoubtedly have some value,
but precisely what it is it is
hard to say. The board has
so far been unable to sell them
to overseas interests. But
something of the kind is always
a possibility.
Last term the old board-mill
buildings brought in a rental
of £11,347.
The container-board plant
and the freehold on which it
stands are in at much the same
valuation as in 1956. But the
profitable working-assets show
signs of being kept up to the
mark by capital-expenditure
and then written-down. An
interesting movement is annual
growth in “timber-lands” (up
£10,759 to £140,948 last term).
This indicates confidence by
both the board and its bankers
in the future of logging and
milling.
Investments of £34,500 in-
clude a holding in Tasmanian
Containers Pty., Ltd. This is
apparently a profitable busi-
ness, because last year divi-
dends brought in £6900, and
£5175 the year before. The
Container co. is vacating the
parent’s building in 1961 to go
into premises of its own.
What effect the Federal
Government’s sudden credit-
restriction and taxation policy
will have, indirectly, on Tas-
manian Board Mills it is diffi-
cult to say. Credit policy is not
aimed at restricting home-
building but rather at specula-
tive commercial building. Tim-
ber is used more extensively in
homebuilding than in concrete
structures.
At the annual meeting of the
co. on November 17 chairman
K. C. Holyman said that
trading results for the first
three months of the current
financial year were in keeping
with those for the same period
of last year (which were a
record), in spite of excep-
tionally wet weather which
TASMANIAN BOARD MILLS, LTD.
CONSOLIDATED FIGURES.


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Lite Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
I' m
★
iHANDt
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGnes
potstiii BRANDY
BSmT
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
hampered drying operations,
How long earnings will remain
free of tax is not clear.
The £1 shares at 7s. 6d. have
appeal, in their own way, as a
stock for capital growth, seeing
that it is recuperation 5 rather
than dividends which can be
looked for during the next three
or four years. They also have a
special facet as a hedge against
inflation, because inflation tends
to lighten a debt burden, and
even the board-mill assets
might be artificially respirated
under inflationary conditions.
r.. tll „„ iL QUai-pmav-Gl
Future of the Sharemarket
A post-mortem on the share-
movements of the
past month seems to indicate
that prices went down too far
and fast and then came up
again too quickly.
This verdict would apply
more particularly to market
leaders and stocks affected
by particular circumstances,
Second-liners and third-liners
are, in some cases, still coming
down ; or, if rising, doing so
comparatively slowly.
Movements in market leaders
naturally precede the slower
stocks. Publishers’ Holdings, a
popular but comparatively
small and well-held Sydney
stock, resisted the downward
movement for several days
before selling down to 225. 6d.,
after previously seeing 265. The
stock is now on the rise again,
some days in the wake of the
leaders.
Stocks still on the way down
last week were Frederic Ash
(Newcastle) and Ford Shering-
ton (Sydney).
Davis Gelatine, making an
issue of one for five at par, is ,
another stock that has followed
its own trend. Before the issue
the shares had been as high as
675. 3d. this year. Rights to
the new issue are sought at
10s. (making 30s. fully-paid).
The co. is having trouble with
competitive imports, but this
should not be insurmountable.
Those investors who feel they
have missed the bus in the
front-rank of the buying queue
might with profit have a look
at those in the second and third
ranks. Stocks like N.K.S. Hold-
ings, F. J. Walker, Fairymead
Sugar and Ford Sherington are
worth looking at, considering
they are still at a big discount
on their highest prices of the
year.
However, the general advice
given here last week shouldn’t
be overlooked either. That is
that a select list of high-quality
stocks should be prepared, a
price (on the low side) should
be set against them, and they
should be bought when the
market again has another spas-
modic fainting-spell. These
fainting-spells are likely to
occur from time to time, but
they may be brief, as on the
last occasion. The advice
therefore is for the investor to
satisfy himself of the invest-
ment-value of a stock regardless
of the market, to fix in his
mind what he regards as bar-
gain price, and to act promptly
when a fall occurs.
In order to get a parcel of
one or two stocks in this way
it may be necessary to pick
several stocks in advance.
Though it is unlikely that,
say, 1.C.1. shares will be avail-
able at 535. 6d. again for some
time, there will be periods of
market weakness between now
and June 30 next year. Fluc-
tuations are normal in every
market, though in the Austra-
lian sharemarket they have
been absent for so long that
some newcomers to the Ex-
changes are unused to them.
Myer’s Offer for Farmer’s
HThe offer by Myer Emporium
(Melbourne) for the shares
of Farmer’s Holdings, Ltd.
(Sydney), is a handsome one.
It amounts to one Myer ss.
ord. for each Farmer’s ss. ord.,
the offer to embrace Farmer’s
shares issued to former share-
holders in Western Stores.
Myer shares issued in the take-
over will participate in the one-
for-two bonus-issue to be made
next year. But Farmer’s will
be required not to proceed with
its proposed two-for-five cash
issue at a 2s. 6d. premium.
An alternative cash offer of
w««sfst:t F „7 et ' s ''
tendered. ’ or^- ls also
at around 2ot a befoTeV el ff S
was made. Thev mm oSet i
**- 1 ?
Myer shares have k I
traded at 375. 6d. beei >
It is hard to 3 ee Mver’c
Jo. Farmer ’s, in the long t
being turned-down. ° 1
__
'—-
Developing Weipa Bauxite
Consolidated Zinc is kw
U-S-capital into the Wdpf
(C cn P tn Y u° rk) baux ‘ te project on
a 50-50 basis. The U.S. partner
will be Kaiser Aluminium an (
Chemical Corporation.
Con. Zinc had previously
parted company with Briti#
Aluminium, now owned Iff
Reynolds Metals Cora!
(U.S.A.).
Involving an estimated fffij
million (Australian money),it!
plan provides for an alumina
plant with a capacity of 360,ii|
tons a year at Weipa. In New,
Zealand there will be a hydro-
electric-power plant at La|
Manapouri, in the Soil
Island, and an aluminium-
reduction plant (12,500-tons
capacity) at Invercargill. The
project, overall, is expected to
be operating by 1966.
Consolidated Zinc will raise
a good deal of its proportion of
the resources required by bor-
rowing. It has also given an;
option over 2,285,714 Con. Zuic
shares to Chartered Holdings,jj
Ltd., of London, at 87s. M.
stg. a share. These people will
put up £lO million sterling on
5| p.c. unsecured loan as well.
“Cash-flow” is expected to
provide most of the rest ot t e
Con. Zinc’s commitments, W
directors think an issue
shareholders might also be
the cards. However, any
“rights” issue “will■ u°t “jj
the progressive dividend po
which it is hoped to follow.
__
Trilith About Interest j
oydney “Financial
commenting on wv
problem of ‘ he ru , iona l »
Australian w a prinC ipal
serves,” says that £xpall .
factor stimulating borro;V .
sion of
ing on the capita
finance to
As interest has uct ible 1
regarded as a [aX purp j’
(unlike dividends) t° a conl pany
the effective cost


j-Divorcti Notice
’J!. s *i i J^l n>FirEw
, »»™ WILES.- - "■
y ARTHUR L inp tr uri sti rc TlO y •
KE NNY late
kerny h, N fi, TI P E that enid
SN O gn^ B ffl „ ed a Petition for
6 ® f of 196° on the
! without w° r three years and
wish to dAf St^ Cause or excu se
I,: “wearanee in /i® nd r .?' ou ma Y enter
M a the Eivoree Begistr-
by the l!th M d» qUar / e Street S..
1 obtain a day of January 196
Ss...*® cotr , »i t
'i’ffiicit ,rom "oha'ele
-t ?' d ' Sydney °\r 10^‘109 Elizi
>&xsr. w -
MULLENS & CO.
'!*»■ Passmore, K. \V. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
ers of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
° ’Connell St «-eet, Sydney
l 3 Ime s) BL 5327
Cables and Telegrams
‘EMDECELEX,” Sydney
Do you know how
A “FAMILY
TRUST”
would benefit
your dependents?
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think—leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
THE ,
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
2 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT35.82N
5 ner cent, interest com-
(J 8 i be little more than
SfSent, taxpayers at large
l»*j£g the payment of
'"K?money by the com-
? concerned. _
, l( j s a tragic misconception
1 truth of the matter but
iich has gained establish-
, through long-standing
custom. The basic
tis that companies, in pay-
roll profits (their share-
spaying tax again with-
| rebate, on dividends re-
rf have been subsidising
spayers at large, not the
way round.
: ro interest payment is a
siness expense, like any other
charge, whether it be
,l or taxi-fares. In a
He company it does not
to the proprietors of the
Less unless by poincidence
J, accident. To disallow inter-
ns a cost of deriving income
us unjust and inequitable as
blowing the cost of rented
ness premises.
He fact that greater resort
tasbeen made in recent years
I borrowed money by com-
ities arises from the inequity
file company-tax beforemen -
bed. Compared with indi-
ial traders, the company-
taholder pays double-taxa-
a It is inequities of this
ire, and other basic in-
pities and unsoundness in our
ration system (which is de-
fied to suit the Treasury and
k political convenience of the
k and damn the economy),
Wi are largely responsible
II the economic muddle in
'Hi we find ourselves today.
Short-cut fiscal methods
wte long-term problems for
" l productive economy.
the Suckers
K boom in land-for-
i ers and investments-for-
phas instigated two new
" in Victoria.
_ der one, individuals or
firms are prohibited from using
high-sounding names (many of
which bear a striking resem-
blance to Australian institu-
tions or noted companies) in
making invitations to the public
to lend or deposit money at
high interest-rates.
The second makes it an
offence for salesmen to make
or advertise false claims or
promises about land they are
selling. The penalties under
this bill are high, and long.
The object is to bring them
all, when seeking money from
the public, under the pro-
visions of the stringent control
of the Companies’ Act.
The Land-shark Bill pro-
hibits the technique of promis-
ing to re-buy land at a profit
(or promise to have it re-
bought) or promising to buy
other property from the buyer.
In future a salesman must have
written advice from the depart-
ment concerned before he
assures buyers that roads, gas,
water and electricity will be
available within a specified
time.
Departmental investigations
in Victoria show that the most
gullible buyers are still country
people. Some of them, no
doubt, have also been misled
by their Premier’s more expan-
sive pronouncements.
Tin-mining in N.Q.
r_ pHE revival of lode tin-mining
in N.Q. goes on. The
Government “Mining Journal”
records Clutha Development, in
the Gilmore Mine, as working
at 450 ft., 350 ft. and 250 ft.
levels, and having 218 tons of
ore (estimate four per cent,
concentrate) at the Emuford
and Herberton batteries. Previ-
ous reports record sizeable
parcels of 6 p.c. ore returning
£39 a ton, and diamond-drill-
ing from the 350 ft. level in
progress.
Broken Hill Pty., on its
authority -to - prospect, has a
party of men on preparatory
work retimbering some of the
openings of old mines prior to
sampling and prospecting.
The Dover Castle mine-shaft
(Bamford) has been sunk to
336 ft. in rich ore and is attract-
ing attention with parcels of
about 100 tons of 10 p.c. to
12 p.c. ore worth about £55 a
ton. The Sunnymount battery,
with bookings of Dover Castle
and other mines’ ore, has
several months’ crushings
ahead.
No reports appear from the
Kangaroo Hills field, but one
battery’s returns list 59 tons
treated for an estimated value
of £33 per ton of ore. A new
find by a couple of New Eng-
land (N.S.W.) prospectors is
reliably reported to be over
100 ft. long on the surface, 4ft.
wide, with the deepest cut 9ft.
deep, the material crushing
about 7 p.c. concentrate yield-
ing seven tons to date. The
party has bought the Northum-
berland Battery at Hidden
Valley, off the ’Gregory High-
way.
R. B. Davies Industries
"p merging from the doldrums
after several years, R. B.
Davies for 1959-60 lifted its
div. from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. Since
then a tie-up with a German
firm of manufacturers of sus-
pension-staging window - clean-
ing equipment for multi-story
buildings has been announced.
The R. B. Davies group already
manufactures under licence
many overseas brands of hard-
ware, including door - locks,


“WALES” REPORT, year ended 30.9.6 Q
Bank Activities Continue to Grow
The services of the Bank of New South Wales have widened further in the past year and have
continued to grow.
In the trading bank, deposits rose by 4% but advances increased 17%. The resulting fall in
liquidity was aggravated by restrictive central bank policy.
The savings bank subsidiary showed further substantial expansion. In less than five years it
has attracted over 800,000 accounts. Its deposits increased 27 % in the year. It is providing support
for government and other public authority loans and making mortgage loans for housing, churches,
and schools.
The Wales Unit Investment Limited, another wholly-owned subsidiary, has received more than
21,000 applications for units in less than two years, and now has total funds exceeding £l5 million
under its management.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
and
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER 1960
ASSETS £
Coin, Bullion, Notes, and Cash at Bankers 36,373,839
Money at Short Call —Australia .. .. 3,145,000
—London .. 2,531,250
Short-dated Treasury Bills—Australia and
London 5,200,000
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with
Reserve Bank of Australia 70,920,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand .. 15,614,535
Government and other Securities .. .. 158,469,822
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 78,974,150
Due by- Other Banks 9,741,563
£380,970,159
Loans and Advances to Customers and
Local Bills Discounted 338,793,820
Shares in Subsidiary and other Companies 5,075,507
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances .. 2,513,608
Bank Premises 13,000,000
£740,353,094
LIABILITIES £
Issued and Paid-up Capital 21,950,000
Reserve Funds 15,500,000
Undistributed Funds . . 1,179,032
Proposed Final Dividend 493,875
Deposits, etc 698,388,854
Notes in Circulation 80,872
Due to Other Banks <. .. 2,760,461
£740,353,094
The Wales Superannuation Funds Limited
began operations in New South Wales and
Queensland in June and has received encouraging
response. Full operation throughout Australia
has been delayed pending amended company
legislation in all States to which the Funds
must conform.
The main movements in the whole of the
operations of the Bank of New South Wales were
as follows: —
Deposits
Total deposit items at September 30 amounted to
£698,000,000, an increase of £52,000,000, of which
£33,000,000 was in the Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited.
Advances
Advances at September 30 were £339,000,000, a rise
of £53,000,000 over the year of which Savings
Bank advances, mainly for housing, accounted for
£9,000,000.
Profit
Consolidated net profit for the year was £2,554,302,
equivalent to 6.91 % of consolidated capital and
reserve funds.
Dividends
Total dividends for the year ended September 30
were £1,975,500, or 9% pn capital.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WAIJS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
Oldest and largest trading bank operating In Australia, New Zealand, FIJI, Papua-New Guinea, with
three branches in London and a wide network of oversea agents Suod corr<vpondeBtS*
. I
A 6043
door - closers, sash - balances,
etc., although it sold its in-
terest in Yorkshire Fittings
(soldered - joint plumbing fit-
tings) a couple of years ago.
Earlier this year R. B. Davies
ords. sold as high as 345. Last
week they sold at 255., after
sagging to 235. 6d. At 255.
the yield on a 9 p.c. div.
basis would be 7.2 p.c., which
is interesting, especially as
the co. is now under the
chairmanship of Raym o n t
Moore.
With earnings at 10.8 p.c.
on average capital last term,
the margin over the 9 p.c. dis-
tribution looks slim. However,
the lift in the div. was made
at a time when the earlier form
of Government credit policy
was already known, and the
increase in company-tax had
been provided for. All
of which suggests that the
board has a degree of con-
fidence in maintenance of the
current distribution even under
present conditions. The group
is the largest manufacturer of
builders’ hardware in the
Southern Hemisphere, and its
capital is not over-large at
£701,682. It has always seemed
just short of a gallop.
Gillespie Holdings, Ltd.
'T'he 55.-paids in Gillespie
Bros. Holdings, Ltd., look
particularly cheap at 10s. 6d.,
with ss. to pay on November
30.
On the basis of 15s. 6d. for
the shares, fully-paid, the yield
would be over 5 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div., which in
has been more than V?
covered notwithstaJJ" '»
much new capital ha V 1
earn its keep - m to
in the fire (with Al g gj
they are a major force S
table-margarine), are extremeivl
progressive, and, in view
their growth” prospects (the
are a “bread-and-marga 3
stock, not a' luxury line) X(
yield of 5 p.c. at the preset
market level is quite attract^.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
inter Journey”
4orm, as opposed to content,
|to determine whether a
Las "well made.” Clifford
L like a growing number
flis American and European
{temporaries, reverses the
Less. His “Winter Journey”
ttourne Comedy Theatre)
perhaps the most perfectly
fed play seen at a Mel-
me commercial theatre in
j s past decade. But it is the
iitedients that overshadow all
se here.
Odets doesn’t deal with
idi'nary people: all are
«d in putting on a risk-
in new play in Boston
fore its New York opening ;
’ire at a critical moment of
sir lives.
Dodd, the brash, ambitious
Mg director, has taken the
jjtst gamble in his life on
:play; there are also Cook,
1 snarling, cigar-chewing,
Mike entrepreneur; Unger,
< casual, sensitive play-
Nancy the pretty,
actress; and the
'■Pals, Frank Elgin, the
% actor, fighting against
; l°ttle and a desperate sense
Dis own insufficiency, and
J r §>c, his beautiful, long-
ing wife.
", e met all these a
* times before on stage
• screen 1 they and their
f ! 10ns , are dramatic cliches.
ff s ais external toughness
nurse s a tender and
2 heart. After scenes of
:i e , insensitivity with
jiv Wl ( e as shocked to
“self i n love with her.
£ herself is the only one
»Un S ? e her talented but
S led husband from
U7 ra 0r wrist-slashing—
i, C K our f e > at the play’s
'J'bySg™ his £eet - put
it all we have a
Wtr ma f ICian 111 ode tS
an f°F m the old into
to i s 1, believably new ;
icter l! 0 re vitalise each
1% ”,® ac h well-worn
\u’ h ma king them his
See i„ S ,f en B iven every
».7 7 1S re naarkably
“ nd free-flowing pro-
duction by John Sumner and
by' an ideally chosen cast. The
three key parts, Georgie, Elgin
and Dodd, are handled with
imagination and sensitivity by
Googie Withers, Clement Mc-
Call in and Brian James. Mc-
Callin’s fumbling, confused
Elgin gripped us from the
start, while Miss Withers
brought just the right balance
of restraint and visible fire to
a role which in less assured
hands could have collapsed the
whole play.
❖ *> *
“The Song of the Earth”
Mahler’s symphonic song-
cycle at Sydney Town Hall, of
songs translated from the
“It’s called ‘modern art !”
Chinese into German for tenor
and contralto, was sung by
Kenneth Neate and Florence
Taylor and conducted by Nico-
lai Malko. The piece is heavily
loaded in favor of the con-
tralto. All the tenor gets out of
it is a couple of drinking-songs
and a tintinnabulation of
youths drinking and writing
verses in a summerhouse,
whereas the contralto gets the
sea mists from the wind-section
with the eerie little breeze blow-
ing off the strings underneath
it, and the girls picking flowers
by the river with the young
men’s horses neighing in the
brass, and the concluding fare-
well to the earth with its dark
moments for the bass fiddles
and the mournful repetition of
“ever . . . ever . . . ever . .
that Neville Cardus used to
rave over.
In fact, as the reviewer
followed in his programme
Steuart Wilson’s English trans-
lation from the German trans-
lated from the Chinese, as Mr.
Neate read his German from
the score into the microphone,
as Miss Taylor looked raptly
into the faces of the audience
while she sang the German
words she must have known
only one in a hundred under-
stood, and as Dr. Malko
secured from the orchestra a
fine translation into sound of
the scenes Mahler had trans-
lated into music, one couldn’t
help feeling that the fullest
appreciation of this ' pro-
gramme - music could be
had from only Neville Car-
dus’s prose. There the whole
thing used to be translated
so that only one act of per-
ception was needed, instead of
a complex reorganisation in the
listener’s mind of scene, voice,
orchestra and three different
languages. There is no guess-
work about a prose description
of programme-music, no un-
certainty whether the flute-solo
represents the fleeing of the
soul or the waving of the
grass.
The Mahler was preceded
by a subdued performance of
Beethoven’s No. 1 Symphony,
the first movement flowing like
continuous milk, some nice
short-bow figuration from
basses and ’cellos in the second,
and in the fourth a masterly
demonstration of how to be
vivacious quietly, as though
someone were singing the
“Largo al Factotum” with the
half-voice.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Hold the Line”
Mona Brand’s political bur-
lesque of “The Mikado” at
Sydney’s New Theatre (the
Wharfies* joint in Sussex
Street) turned-out to be a sur-
prisingly deft dubbing of
Gilbert’s lines, painful though
it was for a Medium Liberal
to see his Uncle Bob put on
stage as “Pooh Bob,” holde
of innumerable portfolios i
“the Land of Teletap,” wit i
the chorus of the “Willow
Song” translated into “Stool-
pigeon, stool-pigeon, stool-
pigeon,” Gilbert’s List tha
“never would be missed” by
the “Lord High Persecutor
extended to take in estate
agents, hire-purchase opera
tors, etc., and the Wandering
Minstrel (renamed “Yankee
Doo”) equipped with
transistor-radio instead of
guitar.
But the triumph of the even
ing was Sullivan’s music, which
turned the most lurid denuncia
tions of the Crimes Ac
amendments into the utmos
good-humor, music far too
poised and graceful ever to
allow a rebellion to be stagec
in it. It was finely and clearly
sung by Arthur Rudkin as
“Pooh Bob,” Joseph Rundle
as “Push Face,” Denis Doonan
as the “Lord High Persecutor,’
Milton Moore as “The
“Emperor of Tycoonia,” anc
Keith Antill as “Yankee Doo,’
while the full, true soprano of
Margaret Arnold, as the for-
lorn maiden “Strum Strum,”
rose satisfyingly to the top
notes over the ensemble sing-
ing, and Marie Armstrong, as
“Hytaxia,” an elderly lady
from the Emperor’s court,
made a first-rate contralto
virago. The one-set show was
excellently characterised, and
with its small and effective
chorus was "smoothly directed
by Edmund Allison.
K* +s►
“La Roncfe”
Schnitzler’s charming, cyni-
cal play about the whims of
love is produced in Melbourne
by Wal Cherry for Theatre 60
at the Russell Street Theatre.
Unfortunately, the play has
dated. What Schnitzler in-
tended as social criticism has
today become public dogma,
and so, while the play still has
a meaning for modern audi-
ences, its 10 episodes merely
repeat this point 10 times. All
that is left after the first
transient encounter is an un-
gainly comedy of manners
which renders Schnitzler a
less-penetrating Freud, a less-
thorough Kinsey.
Mr. Cherry should have
been able to achieve a great
success with this play. It is
extravagant, stylised and Ger-
man, and these are three fields
in which Mr. Cherry has
repeatedly demonstrated his


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE,
1
e Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTERS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
artistry ; yet the production is
not attractive. Sets and stage
movements are unnecessarily
claustrophobic; glamor is
strangely down - at-the-heels.
Mr. Cherry’s trademarks are
present, but this time with-
out accompanying exhilara-
tion. The long and enforced
periods of darkness on stage at
the culmination of each seduc-
tion, when the characters whis-
pered sweet nothings and per-
formed The Act were repeated
with a tedious lack of imagina-
tion.
The acting was generally
poor. Only David Mitchell, as
the Poet, achieved the assured
caricature necessary to each of
the parts ; the only others to
approach him were the three
street-singers who introduced
each episode.
“Look Back in Anger”
At Sydney Stage Club the
theatre is two front-rooms;
the stage, behind red plush
curtains, has a back-door that
opens on to a stone-paved
backyard; here the Vogue
Players gave a creditable per-
formance of John Osborne’s
comedy about the Angry
Young Man.
As angry Jimmy Porter,
Donald McDonald nagged
a little lightly, tending
to cross his t’s overmuch
and early in the play to
elocute, but he was credible.
Valerie Roy was rather too
well worn-out a young wife to
suggest her upper-class up-
bringing, and in the same way
Rita Rider, a most presentable
intervener, had not quite the
icy hauteur in disapproving of
Mr. Porter that one finds in
the book.
As the friend about the
house, Robert Ford was
just so, but Robin Monat
spoilt the part of Mrs. Porter’s
father, the colonel, with tricks
of speech. The decor of the
one-room flat was excellently
familiar and repulsive, the
movement within it well
rehearsed, and the trumpet
improvisation offstage by the
producer, Andrew Bos, suit-
ably annoying. The play will
be repeated on December 3
and 4.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ruddigore”
The Rockdale (Sydney)
Municipal Opera Co. is an
example of how patient
encouragement by a cultivated
municipal council can help to
raise standards of singing and
acting in its own bailiwick.
The enterprise of its directors,
so often demonstrated in the
past, is pointed-up in its latest
venture, for “Ruddigore” re-
quires something extra special
in Gilsullivan presentation. Tt
received it, in a performance
which had a polish and verve
that went very close to pro-
fessional standard. The whole
cast threw themselves into
their work as if thoroughly
enjoying it. Among them were
Mary Blake, Beryl Cheers,
Valerie Ryann, Roy Ramsden
and Charles Matthews (who
also produced the show).
David Hillier stepped from
his portrait-frame to deliver in
forthright and resonant voice
the juiciest baritone solo in all
Gilsullivan: “When the Night
Wind Howls”: and the orches-
tra under Cedric Ashton gave a
happy and accurate reading of
the score.
Artbursts
Pictures in Perth
Recent shows at the Skinner
Galleries have included Margo
Lewers’s lively abstracts with
their imaginative suggestions of
reality ; and Clifton Pugh with
a small group of recent oils.
Pugh’s clean, clear colors and
delicate drawing gave refresh-
ing impact to direct represen-
tation of birds and landscapes,
notably the elegant smooth
blue-heron stalking through
“Tea-tree Growth,” where
ragged paperbark straggled in
white and grey banners.
Ivor Hunt next showed a col-
lection of watercolors painted
during a visit to Europe and the
West Indies. By a character-
istic choice of significant em-
phasis and a minimum of line,
he achieves a lyrical interpre-
tation of places and people that
possesses strength as well as
charm.
The Perth Society of Artists
followed with its spring exhi-
bition more various than
usual and of better standard.
There were Irwin Crowe’s three
bright oils, Geoffrey Allen’s
stylised Iceland-poppies, Ernest
Philpot’s golden and green sun-
flowers, and pleasant land-
scapes by Allon Cook and B.
Blair Barber. Of the water-
colors, Ivor Hunt’s “Papeete”
was outstanding; and Ethel
Sanders, Portia Bennett and
Cyril Lander were well repre-
sented. At the Perth Gallery
the virtuosity of the Helena
Rubinstein Scholarship artists
provides too harsh a contrast
for the 13th Claude Hotchin
(landscape) Prize for W.A.
artists, currently on view at the
Hotchin Gallery. Of 158
entries more than half are poor,
nor is the average of the rest
of much interest. No prize
has been awarded in the water-
color section. Maurice Ken-
nedy, who won the £lOO oil
prize with a coldly clear “Early
Morning,” has done more in-
teresting work, although he
here achieves the particular
quality he sought. Allan
Baker’s old boat, Owen Garde’s
old houses, Cyril Lander’s city,
Craig Gough’s suburbia, M.
Fletcher’s countryside and
Rhoda Heathcote’s gay red
trees are more exciting.
F. D.
❖ ❖ *
McCaughey Prize
There are probably many
who will dispute George Bell’s
judgment in awarding this
year’s £4OO John McCaughey
Memorial Prize to Francis de
Silva, of Queensland.
At first, with so many other
entries clamoring impressively
for our attention (at the Mel-
bourne National Gallery), De
Silva’s loose, unpretentious
piece “Come in Spinner” hardly
seems in the running.
But there may be reasons
why Bell rejected the more
obviously “competent” works
by such painters as Roger
Kemp, particularly his power-
fully symbolic “Bushman,”
Clifton Pugh, Noel Counihan
and Fred Williams. Each of
these painters has submitted
works well in key with his
best: but without exception
each seems on this occasion to
have made his particular ap-
proach to his subject-matter an
end in itself. Style has become
the dominant feature a .
does not convince ? il
relevance to the h of to
cems of content CeP "
The impression We 9P » •
of admittedly Cnnc ', Bt ls
painters self cnn<? Sl< ? erable
their labors no™*'™* at
style through subject but f*
anything new to sav m ?!
well equipped with the m?
to say it Dp ca, ® eans
other hand, has a subjecf-cM
ceptron which seems to £
found its only possible expres
sion: it convinces in purely
painterly terms. His work a!
sumes a life of its own quite
independent of other painting,,
we have seen by this artist.
* * *
Biake Prize
The Blake Prize for 1961 will
h® £250 , the Darcy Morris •
Prize (for “the best religious!' l
painting for a scriptural sub-1
ject”) £5O. Closing date Feb-il
ruary 6, 1961. Details from®
Mrs. J. D. Maclurcan, secre- t
tary, G.P.O. Box 4484,1
Sydney.
The committee, in a state- :
ment issued as a guide to
competitors, continues to be
troubled about the problem of
abstraction, and seems to be-
having a bit both ways. It !
says that “it believes the church hi
should welcome a thoroughly l
contemporary presentation of
religious truth ; this involves 4
both some attempt to pene- i
trate into the profundity of I
theological thought, and also -f
the ability to convey inspira- d
tion in a manner that is ulti-ft
mately communicable to the 5
perceptive seeker as well as to p
the artist” ; but on the other a
hand “the committee recognises:
another role of the artist in the ji
church as a decorator, in so far t
as he reflects the beauty of ■
Godin the beauty of his work, i
Films
“Where the Hot Wind
Blows”
A dying aristocrat in Ws
mansion in southern Itay
tended by his mistress (married
off to a family retainer), an
daughters, including the be*
ful slut Marietta, o
Lollobrigida. Good ol
is unofficial head of th to
sgfStASni
m to P u“fsh".heb»p
notecase of a ;o»,st
town fete, and re pj, er e
serted cottage on • toWfl s
she is menaced y g on .
unofficial laWg|V , ; ’ c h ee k w< tfl
land, and slices his cnee


Notice
SOUTH''wf,™ COURT OF NEW
; tErJ AL *»r-is div
OSCE.
i a jL LENNOX
' of 27 Hume Avenue
•BCS t h,t ottt Ta >n'vorth.—TA KE
h® 1 PATRICIA
V Ko a Petition for
1,11,1 of d’esertit“ °? , 1960 on the
®®se for *v° n without just cause
!t# "ish tn a S c years and upwards
i-r, Qe ;i end you ma y enter
Ute Court ai: rl Divorce Registry
*i ! Sydney y, v n { ® uildin S Macquarie
S a nd obtain* January
'5 l thargo C ° P ' V " of the Petition
S i ; o Mcd°neu, k
V’ H « '|iS d ,
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
dp
THIS BANK PAYS
2%
PER
ANNUM
ON INTEREST
BEARING DEPOSITS
FOR 12 MONTHS
AND
41%
PER
ANNUM
ON DEPOSITS LODGED
FOR 3 TO 9 MONTHS
Enquire at any of the bank's
Commonwealth-wide branches and agencies
©
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED !834
, ni f e when he attempts
'“ her She is keeping
fir the young engineer
\ north who is down to
,|n ,he old aristocrat s
SJaod she sees that he
C ao d tries to give him
Lris of her robbery ;
1 r “dot” to overcome his j
J es about being too poor
fwhile Montand’s law-
y son is about to elope
[t he judge’s wife. Montand
noces them in a bus, and
dates over the judge's wife
, his son. Pretending to
pe his advances, she
fS herself from the high
low of his room. The son
,leaves town for keeps, and
disgraces Montand, so that
jno longer the unofficial
.giver. But Lollo inherits
° old aristocrat’s house
I marries her engineer,
ten you stop thinking
g the open-fronted beauty
Lollobrigida you realise that
is is a pretty packed play.
« scenes of the cruel drink-
fceremony called “The
in which the town bully
inates the table; of the
men casting their nets
i a tall cliff and winding
fflinwith primitive winches ;
i generally of the town by
fand night—it is folk-study
its best.
fith the acting in such scenes
Montand seducing the
lie’s wife and denouncing his
linthe bus, to say nothing of
(general interest of Lollo
monstrating how to get the
®d door of a car open with
ebuckle of a belt from that
,£ ly waist, it all goes to
ft another of those Euro-
films whose extravagances
"violence and passion are
wed by wit and humor and,
®eall, by truth to nature.
, Sydney Liberty and
fciated theatres.
>Z*
Storm”
fehcock without gim-
I S ’but this is a “situation”
£ A dozen-or-so very
face a mad-
l 'I 1 bomb on their
w ho is determined that
they all shall die. Tn retro-
spect it becomes a pot-boiler,
but the climatic scenes—and a
brilliant duet by Harry
Secombe and Sybil Thorndike
-—are excellently handled and
despite the drawback of having
to see a little of everybody,
one is kept in suspense, wonder-
ing if it will happen.
Before the excitement, Arthur
Askey dispenses large doses of
laughs (“Make Mine a Mil-
lion”) as he runs riot with
national television programmes.
At Sydney Victory.


APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED
FOR AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF
With rates, terms and asset backing offering an excellent
combination of security and profit.
4 years, 9% p.a.
o
o
FIVE-
SEVEN
YEARS
3 years, 8% p.a.
OBJECT OF THE ISSUE .. .to provide further funds to finance the Company's
continued expansion in a programme of planned and profitable diversification
. . . in the fields of land and property development, general finance, industry,
retail stores and shipping.
INTEREST. Interest will be paid quarterly free of exchange and calculated from
the actual date on which the application money is received at any branch of the
Company.
(The Company's profit at 30/6/60 covered interest on the Debenture Stock 2.02
times.)
ASSET BACKING
£444 FOR EVERY £lOO OF DEBENTURE STOCK
DIRECTORS
S. HARP, Chairman and Joint Managing Director
B. STUART, Joint Managing Director K. H. WILSON (Solicitor), Director
W. R. WATTS, Director M. G. NORTON, Director
OVER-SUBSCRIPTIONS. The Company has the right to accept over-
subscriptions to this issue within the limit provided by the Trust Deed. The
Company reserves the right to refuse any applications or to satisfy any application
in part only.
HOW TO INVEST. Applications will be accepted only on the application form
contained in the printed Prospectus, which is obtainable from—
Any branch of H & S Credits Limited
SYDNEY: Ist Floor, Renown House, 163 Clarence Street. BX 1733
ALSO NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, HOBART
Or any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
The minimum amount of Debenture Stock that may be applied for is £lOO
H & S CREDITS LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of N.S.W. on 16th June, 1954. Authorised Capital, £1,000,000. Issued Capital-, £380,027.)
TO: H & S CREDITS LIMITED, 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, printed Prospectus for your 10% First Mortgage
Debenture Stock.
NAME
ADDRESS.
B.SO/ 11


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
kalian Mutual Provident Society
Italia’s big life-offices, of which
the 111-year-old A.M.P., with assets
| n g over £467 million,' is the oldest
j largest, represent a system of collec-
> security which provides, firstly, a
Kt-anchor in family finance, secondly,
Stabilising factor in the economic and
jal structure. The system has with-
nd the test of time, including two
odd-wide depressions and two world
its; and the offices cater for a wide
iriety of personal wants and needs out-
sit the range of social-security legis-
ition.
Public recognition of these facts, plus
icwth of population, rising living-
audards, full employment, inflation
Ich has stepped-up the need for
rater life-cover), the development of
rap-assurance and superannuation
femes and the modification of policy
ilracts, generally, to meet changing
ijinrements, has contributed to the
tat expansion of assurance business in
ler years:
hr Policies Issued (Excluding Annuities).*
Mto Sum Year to Sum
■l®,' Assured. June 30, Assured.
£’ooo. £’ooo.
IB .. 325,183 | 1958 . . 484,567
B .. 367,374 | 1959 .. 553,352
8 .. 425,335 | 1960 .. 724,795
'Scarce: Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics.
•hi life-assurance cover has more
M trebled in Australia during the last
and sums assured, including
Nonary-bonus additions, are now in
tesiof £4OOO million.
A.M.P. Society has written a very
share of the big amounts of new
France taken-out over recent years, its
•jussive financial strength and com-
*lltlVe premiums and bonus-rates assist-
'll l to chalk-up a series of record-
ing figures.
fotlie term to December 31, 1959,
7 |e increased competition (in the last
r five years one Continental-based
I ® ce and 11 British life-offices have
business in Australia or
1 nce d their intention of doing so ;
I, e sartle time there has been an
•I es t a blishment of varied
a «d alternative—that is alterna-
nt J j’ a f u . rance ~ sa vings and invest-
tss edla £ income, assets, new busi-
lo’ujt f 6ntS t 0 Policyholders and the
Id ail revers ionary bonuses distri-
’ rose to new levels.
there were 2,685,291
Uustriai a torce * n the ordinary and
foments, assuring a total
Nh mil- m iiii°n in bonuses) of
ilhon— for the first time the
A.M.P. has published accounts with all
figures in Australian currency. The sum
assured under new business rose to
£238 million (previous year’s figures not
available on a converted basis) and of the
total a shade under 95 p.c. was written
in the ordinary department.
Taken together, the two departments
lifted premium-income by £4.1 million
to £50.2 million, and, after deducting
£2.5 million for income- and land-taxes,
gathered in a net £19.9 million (up £2
million) in interest, divs., rent, etc. Total
income rose to £70.1 million (up £6.1
million and equivalent to an increase of
9.5 p.c.):
Ordinary Department.*
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’51.25,493,393 9,119,243 3,049,319 160,080 13,164,751
Surplus sale assets . . .. . . 83,844
•52.28,309,830 10,349,872 3,363,399 96.730 14,499,829
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 27,481
’53.31,829,068 11,370,230 3,629,369 231,965 16,597,504
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 20,328
Tax overprovided . . . . .. 1,672,793
’54.35,202,581 12,536,090 3,945,889 242,633.
Exchange adjustment, £400,320 .. 18,077,649
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 44,991
’55.38,854,548 13,396,283 4,509,342 225,370 on ARa ....
Exchange adjustment, £255,049 . , 2U, 468,094
Loss sale assets .. reduction 19,636
Tax overprovided .. .. . . 100,000
’56.43,064,593 14,686,733 4,820,127 163,999,™ soo
Exchange adjustment, £53,925 .. ' 8 ’ '
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 112,478
'57.47,966,781 16,052,591 5,395,777 169,127 9fi
Exchange adjustment, £193,658 . . ’ 00,0 8
’58.53,233,809 17,694,154 5,735,956 378,670, Q
Exchange adjustment, £356,577 . . ’ ’
Loss sale assets . . reduction 91,522
’59.61,972,791 19,985,110 6,643,498 534,62934,809,554
Surplus sale assets . . .. .. 108,294
Transfer to industrial department,
reduction 50,430
* Figures up until and including 1958 unavailable
on a converted basis.
Industrial Department.*
Total Ex. Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’51.6,319,352 2,830,553 698,892 16,526 2,773,381
Surplus sale assets . . .. .. 17,994
’52.6,592,718 2,651,234 1,437,396 8,820 2,495,268
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 5,851
'53.6,933,058 3,072,346 1,428,491 18,630 2,413,591
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 4,248
Tax overprovided .. .. .. 408,488
'54.7,209,131 3,570,600 1,426,334 45,232 1 9
Exchange adjustment, £80,274 .. j ’
Surplus sale assets . . .. .. 9,022
’55.7,385,720 4,144,989 1,509,300 43,925 ( ,
Exchange adjustment, £49,114 .. j ’ ’
Loss sale assets .. reduction 3,781
'56.7,631,330 4,793,771 1,615,368 30,203 j .
Exchange adjustment, £9829 . . j ’
Loss sale assets .. reduction 15,378
’57.7,689,639 5,654,556 1,627,350 28,980 t 345,878
Exchange adjustment, £32,875 .. j
Surplus sale assets . . . . .. 19,094
'58.7,842,054 5,341,637 1,635,757 60,083 f 748,556
Exchange adjustment, £56,021 .. j
Loss sale assets .. reduction 14,379
'59.8,084,298 5,539,376 1,677,715 73,612 793,595
Surplus sale assets . . . . - • 15,259
Transfer from ordinary department 50,430
* Figures up until and including 1958 unavailable
on a converted basis.
Expressed as a percentage of premium
revenue, expenses of management in
respect of ordinary business rose from
14.38 p.c. to 14.54 p.c., a minor increase
alongside wage and price inflation. In
the industrial department, where
numerous small premium-payments have
to be dealt with, the ratio rose from
28.06 p.c. to 28.29 p.c. Extensive
mechanisation of accounting-procedures
and a tendency towards larger individual
policies have played a considerable part
in checking the growth of the expense-
ratios, which, as far as controllable ex-
penses are concerned, have remained
relatively stable.
When all claims and expenses had been
met, and after writing £608,241 (up
£156,216) off the book-values of certain
assets, £35.7 million of the term’s income,
including surpluses on sale of assets
(£123,553), remained to be added to the
life-funds (£450,433,108).
Until recently, life-offices have been
strict adherents to the principle of
absolute security in investment of their
funds; but the pressure from higher-
yielding alternatives, which are becoming
increasingly available to potential policy-
holders, has necessitated a revision of
traditional practice. Greater yields are
now being sought to provide more attrac-
tive bonuses.
Last term the A.M.P. channelled funds
increasingly to commerce and industry
rather than to Government securities.
Holdings of debentures and shares rose
by £13.9 million to £58.6 million, and
loans on mortgage, a big proportion of
which relate to housing, lifted by £15.4
million to £l9O million. By comparison,
Government and semi-government loans
showed only slight movement, rising to
£170.9 million (up £4.9 million). As a
result, effective net interest-rate, after
deduction of income- and land - taxes,
worked-out at £4 15s. 7d. per cent. —that
is Is. lOd. p.c. better than in the previous
term.
To arrive at the surplus £16.4 million
(up £1.4 million) available for distribu-
tion among policyholders, the society’s
liabilities under policies in force, with
the exception of certain contracts on the
N.Z. register, were actuarially valued at
an unchanged 2 p.c. net-premium basis
for assurances with deferred participa-
tion, 2\ p.c. for policies with immediate
participation and 2 \ p.c. for all other
types of business:
1958. 1959.
Assufance funds* .. £414,706,406 £450,433,108
Actuarial liability* .. 399,732,369 434,030,257
Surplus .. .. £14,974,037 £16,402,851
Bonuses 14,102,395 15,808,983
Carried forward as —-
Reserve contingencies ]
Res. interim bonuses |
Res. group cash }-
bonus .. .. |
Unappropriated . . J
155,000
871,642
58,000
880,808
* Include investment and contingency reserve,
£0,750,000 at 31/12/’59.
Last year, £15.8 million (up £1.7 million)
went to reversionary-bonuses, the distri-
bution being the largest ever made by
the A.M.P.; bonus-rates were at their
highest level in 29 years. The total
amount of additional assurance created
by the division of the surplus was £29.5
million.
In 1958, the A.M.P. formed two sub-
sidiary cos., both wholly-owned, the
A.M.P. Fire and General Insurance Co.,
Ltd., and the A.M.P. Fire and General
Insurance Co. (N.Z.), Ltd., so as to offer
comprehensive assurance-cover to policy-
holders. Results to date have been
encouraging, both cos. swelling the sur-
plus from which policyholders, in the
parent, receive bonuses. Discount
Corporation of Australia Pty., two-thirds
owned, as an authorised dealer co. in the
official short-term money market, com-
menced operations in April, 1959. Results
have been more than satisfactory.
Rapid progress is the keynote of the
society’s building - project at Sydney


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE
i 3 BLIGH ST., 20 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. 2-0137
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
67-5089. 67-5080. 67-1257.
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking,” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Ercian j,P.
R. H. ALIEN, M. R. L. DOWMNO, P- ®‘ ide „ t partner)
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne lines)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney---2»^ 67 _ 5957 (4 U “ <i
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St., Melbou _ Wollongong-
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbou
Cove. A new 11-story office-building is
being built in Auckland:
1958. p.c. 1959. p.c.
Government
securities! .. £166,177,152 38.7 £170,862,032 36.8
Mortgages .. 174,609,299 40.7 189,968,072 40.6
Loans on policies,
etc 19,632,939 4.6 21,834,195 4.7
bentures . . 44,775,287 10.4 58,626,823 12.5
Debtors, etc.J 6,951,753 1.6 7,623,286 1.6
Cash .. .. 4,728 ] 4,020]
[4.0 1-3.8
Freeholds, etc. 17,053,185 J 18,503,305 J
Total assets. . £429,204,343 £467,421,733
Liabilities* .. 13,865,195 16,505,204
Net assets ..£415,339,148 £450,916,529
f Includes local- and semi-government securities,
j Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
Total assets rose by over £3B million
during the year. The holding in Govern-
ment securities is well above the mini-
mum (30 p.c.) now stipulated by Treasury
edict.
It can be taken for granted that there
will be further growth in life-assurance
and that the A.M.P. Society will partici-
pate in this growth. Through its balanced
investment policy, through its entry into
the fire and general insurance field, and
(in Australia) through its activities on the
official short-term money-market, the
A.M.P. plays a deserving role in ensur-
ing that domestic resources of capital are
marshalled and put to effective use in the
development of the economies of both
Australia and New Zealand.
National Consolidated, Ltd.
Aided by a series of major acquisitions,
the widespread National Consoli-
dated organisation has made rapid pro-
gress in recent years. Last term sales
more than doubled and consolidated net
profit jumped by 127 p.c.
Founded in 1922 and converted to
public status in 1948 (as National
Radiators, Ltd. —the name was changed
to present form in 1959 after acquisition
of the Muller business in Sydney),
National Consolidated, Ltd., is the largest
producer of automotive radiators in Aus-
tralia. The co. operates through more
than 20 subsidiaries, organised in four
divisions in Australia and New Zealand.
Factories are located in Sydney and
Melbourne. Branches of the parent and
subsidiaries are spread through N.S.W.,
Victoria, Queensland and W.A.
The National Radiator and Muller
groups manufacture motor radiators
(both original units and replacements)
and other automotive products. Radiator-
assemblies are supplied (as original equip-
ment) to General Motors-Holden’s, Ford
Motor Co., 8.M.C., Chrysler, Rover,
Standard, the Rootes group, International
Harvester and others.
The Perry group turns-out builders’
hardware and allied products. The Bear-
ing Service group (the most recent acqui-
sition) conducts a huge ball- and roller-
bearing distributing business throughout
Australia.
Other products include fuel-tanks,
heat-transfer equipment, aerosol-valves
and anti-corrosive inhibitor paper, etc.
All the four major groups traded
successfully, contributing to consolidated
earnings. The N.Z. subsidiaries are
encountering some growth difficulties
through a shortage and excessive turn-
over of labor, and inadequate premises.
However, the N.Z. co’s. output and sales
have continued to expand *‘at a rapid
rate.”
Aggregate sales for the year ended
June 30, 1960, assisted by takeovers, were
£4,510,058 higher at £8,179,078. Con-
solidated net profit was £476,605, or 127
p.c., higher at £851,524, after providing
£108,064 for depreciation (up £47,117)
and setting-aside £545,917 for taxation
(up £309,037):
Parent and Subsidiary.
——Dividends ■ — N To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. Ord. 5 serves. serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
’55.. 66,131 2500 13J p.c.= 29,902 33,729 203,741
Revaluation freeholds, £23,197 .. 226,938
Reserves capitalised, £56,066 . . 170,872
Profit sale fixed-assets, etc., £lOl4 . . 171,886
’56.. 68,365 2500 13J p.c.= 34,574 31,291 203,177
Tax underprovided, £46 .. .. 203,131
Profit sale assets, £203 .. .. 203,334
’57.. 71,749 2500 13J p.c.= 40,949 28,300 231,634
Tax overprovided, £1165 .. .. 232,799
Added revaluation reserve, £19,790.. 252,589
Surplus on consolidation, £33,518 . . 286,107
Profit sale assets, £1602 .. .. 287,709
’58..200,054 2500 20 p.c.= 83,688 113,866 401,575
Profit sale assets, £4O .. .. 401,615
Tax underprovided, £299 .. .. 401,316
Share-premiums, £399,904 .. ... 801,220
Res. on consolidation w/off, £33,518 767,702
’59..374,919 2500 20 p.c.=180,053 192,366 960,068
Profit sale assets, £14,845 .. .. 974,913
Tax underprovided, £903 .. .. 974,010
Reserves on consolidation, £1,280,180 2,254,190
’60.-851,524 2500 20 p.c.=439,971 409,053 2,663,243
After paying the unchanged pref.-divs.
(£2500) this was equivalent to an earning-
rate of almost 38.6 p.c. on the more
than doubled average ord. capital.
This compares with 41.4 p.c. in the
previous term and 47.2 p.c., 22.5 p.c.,
23.4 p.c. and 28.4 p.c. in the four pre-
ceding years (all on smaller capital).
The ord. div.-rate remained steady at
20 p.c. despite the capital-increase,
absorbing £439,971 (up £259,918). Re-
serves received £409,053 and also
benefited by £1,280,1&0 premium on con-
solidation and £14,845 profit on sale of
assets, but were reduced by £903 tax
underprovided in the preceding term.
Total reserves and undistributed profits
were disclosed at £2,663,243 free of
intangibles.
Early last term ord. capital was lifted
to £2,199,858 by the issue of 4,598,284
ss. ords. in acquisition of Bearing Ser-
vice (Holdings), Ltd., and subsidiaries.
Consolidated balance-sheet reflects the
rapid pace of expansion of the National
Consolidated group. Total tangible
assets increased by £3,853,683 to
£6,479,209 as a result of incorporation
of Bearing Service figures.
Liquidity improved mainlv a
massive rise in current due to a
£2,046,164 at £2,922 065) t? 5 <“P
working-capital increased fr , oretlc al
to £2,668,104. Creditors "“d * “s’ 181
were htgher. Cash, etc., debased*!®
Paid capital—■ i Q r fi
£ r ® f £50,000 £50 5 000 r- 1960 '
„ ord 450,191 1 050 28? o^ 50 ’ 000
Reserves .. .. 401,575 2 19 9)858
Mortgage .. .. 17 000 ’ 2,663,243
Overdraft .. ~ _i ,
Creditors .. .. 100,676 53,358
Staff fund .. 18,752 532,45 2
Tax provision .. 183,124 * 984 oa! 74,184
rinaldi,. .. Sffi “g
£1,240,097 £2,732,720
Freeholds, leaseholds ’ 9,2(19
sh“e, pl “! :: ‘*4 2 ;S bu«
Debtors .. .. gj
Stogibl*' ii »S
£1,240,097 £2,732,720 £6^479^209
Depreciated book-value of freeholds and
plant, etc., was £1,034,054 higher at
£1,946,848. Investment in scrip of other
cos. increased by £67,775.
The most important task facing
National Consolidated is consolidation
of its vast and rapidly growing interests,
A large rise in aggregate turnover was
achieved last term, but' the ratio of net
profit after tax to total sales showed a
much slower increase (from 10.2 p.c.
to 10.6 p.c.). Strict cost-control is
essential.
On the whole, future prospects look
good. Demand for the co.’s products
is steadily rising. But recent fiscal curbs
may dampen the sales of automotive
equipment in current term. The new
40 p.c. sales-tax on motor-vehicles will
hurt some of National Consolidated’s
best customers.
Diversification of interests is a major
long-run asset. Perry group’s new factory
at Sherwood (Q.) will help to cope with
additional demand. The recent franchise-
agreement with Vincent Whitney Co. of
California will extend the range of
products.
The Muller group is embarking on a
large-scale development programme m
Kingsgrove (N.S.W.). A manufacturing
and technical assistance agreement was
concluded with McQuay, Inc., of • •
The preservation, as far as possible, o
separate identities and managements o
absorbed cos., which has been a c ara
teristic feature of National C° ns ,• j.
expansion policy, has paid g
dends. • f ?08 6d.
At the current market price o •
a unit the ss. ords. look attractive
ing. The immediate return ) . 1 ; s rate P
on the basis of the 20 p.c. div.*J*
Net tangible asset-backing is fflf
for each ss. ord. and £ ■ basl - s
each 20s. 5 p.c. cum. pref. on ttre
of consolidated accoun s.


m I
♦“graphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
15 Pitt <s.
»treet, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
'Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
A YEAR FOR
3 YEARS
7h% p.a. for 2 Years
7% p.a. for 18 Mths.
6i% p.a. for 12 Mths.
6% p.a. for 9 Mths.
5£% p.a. for 6 Mths.
5% p.a. for 3 Mths.
APPLICATIONS can be accepted only
on the application form attached to
the Prospectus which can be obtained
from
• All Branches of the
A.N.Z. BANK
0 All Members of the
STOCK EXCHANGE
• All HASTINGS DEERING
Companies and Branches
(or) TELEPHONE FA 0322 (40 lines)
and the Prospectus will be posted to
you free and without obligation.
iJ<e Trading, Ltd.
=sueof £187,220 ss. ords.,
I for-four at P a| . ear| y
“1 Will raise the one-
<“2 capital of Hardie
5.f «> » 36 -t° a T e
(2205. 5 p.e. cum prefs
, converted to ords, last
Pref shareholders re-
-1(0 1, twn 20s f.-p. ords. for
L live 20s. prefs, held.
[ addition, 9522 20s. ords.
pt issued as purchase con-
for Colour and
Leals, Pty., acquired m
L 1959. Later the 20s. oids.
U split into ss, units.
First registered in Victoria in
g a nd converted to public
jams in 1945, Hardie Trading,
nj j s a manufacturer, lm-
ffl[ter and distributor of paints,
dishes, abrasives, industrial
chemicals, allied raw materials,
dye-stuffs, textile-mill supplies,
miners’ machinery, plastics,
foundry - facings, laundry
machinery, etc.
jhe co. operates through
L subsidiaries and two
[associate cos:
1 Spartan Paints Pty., maker of
sis, enamels, varnishes, etc.
Operates factories in all States
apt Tasmania.
L Horscroft Pty., largest pro-
to of dry-cleaning and industrial-
iitdry machinery in Australia,
limes Hardie Trading Co. Pty..
ilfacturer of car-polishes, rub-
a compounds and adhesives,
jso carries on a merchandising
pess similar to that of the
Iran co.
fraud Bros. Pty., manufacturer
[[foundry-facings.
lames Hardie Trading Pty.. a
jHiary of James Hardie Trading
fifty., of Sydney.
Colours and Chemicals Pty.,
■facturer of naphthenate driers,
f* Trading Co. (N.Z.), Ltd.
Wralian Bobbins Pty. (half-
®st), largest Australian manu-
*er of wooden bobbins for the
Sle trades.
WHardie Pty. (minority in-
formed in association with
ijfMile and Engineering Co., Ltd.
, 4 to produce injection-mould-
'fitod I i r „g™ us,y imported
;; ‘ ::i v £| e "well maintained,”
f'Sber turnover was offset
iL®ng costs - Pre-tax group
jo" i%n year
llito J L' *960, was
h, § he r at £530,788.
[., , e • rorn investments
win another £10,877.
Jolted net profit
fc up b y £13,435 to
3 U89 for n after - . providin B
Iji ror depreciation (down
an d setting-aside
£197.389 for taxation (up
£790):
Hardie Trading Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
r~ Dividends , Re-
Jne. Profit.* Prefy Ord. ——, serves.f
5 p.e.
30, £ £ p.e. £ £
’55..175,525 7503 121— 63,799 855,034
Res. capitalised, £51,040.. 803,994
Profit sale assets, £7559.. 811,553
From tax provision, £1732 813,285
. Lmexplained addition, £ll3 813,398
’56..172,992 7503 70,180 908,707
Res. capitalised, £56,143.. 852,564
Tax overprov’d, etc., £8055 860,626
Profit sale assets, £4166 . . 864,786
’57..197,032 7563 121= 77,197 977,118
Res. capitalised, £61,758.. 915,360
Profit sale assets, £3296 . . 918,656
Tax overprovided, £13,772 932,428
’58..212,398 7503 124= 84,917 1,052,406
Profit sale assets, £4563.. 1,057,059
Tax overprovided, £7652.. 1,064,711
’59..223,758 7503 15 =101,900 1,179,066
Profit sale assets, £4626.. 1,183,092
Tax overprovided, £11,303 1,194,995
Unexplained addition,
£150,007 ' .. ..1,345,002
’60..237,193 15 =112,332 1,469,863
* After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and contributions to staff fund.
7 Subject to intangibles, £175,679 at
30/6/’6O.
This was equivalent to an
earning-rate of 31.7 p.e. on the
slightly higher average ord.
capital, compared with 31.8
p.e. in the previous term, 31.3
p.e. in 1958, 33 p.e. in 1957
and 29.4 p.e. in 1956.
Div.-rate was steady at 15
p.e., absorbing £112,332. Re-
serves benefited by £124,861
and also £4626 profit on sale
of assets, £11,303 tax over-
provided written-back, and
£150,007 taken-out from inner
reserves, and were disclosed at
£1,469,863 (subject to £175,679
intangibles).
This shows a net tangible
asset-backing of 13s. Bd. for
each ss. ord.
Paid capital rose to £748,880
at balance-date, following the
result of the conversion of
prefs. early last term. Bank
overdraft, creditors, stocks and
book-debts were all higher:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960.
Pief. .. £150,060
Ord. . . 679,334 748,880
Reserves .. 1,179,066 1,469,863
Outside share-
holders . . 51,250 51,250
Mortgage . . 13,782 13,782
Overdraft . . 63,320 215,050
Deposits . . 95,574 76,847
Sundry creditors 877,852 1,101,530
Tax provision, etc. 196,719 198,463
Final dividend.. 105,652 112,332
£3,412,609 £3,987,997
Freeholds . . 689,699 778,423
Leaseholds . . 249 —-
Plant, etc. . . 239,311 268,724
Shares other cos. 22,700 22,700
Stock . . . . 1,382,965 1,608,687
Debtors .. 893,687 1,128,253
Cash, etc. . . 2,484 5,531
Intangibles . . 181,514 175,679
£3,412,609 £3,987,997
Book-values of fixed assets
increased. Formal liquidity
looked satisfactory.


D&I
€ STAB LIS MED 1882
& Investment Co. Ltd.
Registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Financiers Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBEHTURE STOCK
Interest Payable
Quarterly
Free of Exchange
5-10-15-20
Years
PER ANNUM
\
2^
6 MONTHS 9 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 2 YEARS 3 YEARS
4 YEARS
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman) T. H. Martin Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
Ralph W. King & Yulll (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Kindersley House, 20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
84 William Street, Melbourne, and at Armidale, and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie Street, Canberra
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA:
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN QUEENSLAND:
Charles Elliott & Son (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
S. C. Ward & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications will be accepted. only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
South Australia, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO., LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES.
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
February o r f °M°rch w“ b next
m £187,220, which win ! br '" 8
to help finance new L'i 5 •*“
one will be erected inSfrif’
Road, Melbourne b „" dl
selling and s■»£*
branches of the parent co. Z
the subsidiary Spartan Paints
Prospects seem fair, pro .
vided the sales-volume can be
maintained and costs keot
under control. Competition is
keen and cost increases have
to be absorbed.
Hardie Trading has a good
earnings and dividend record.
Profits have been steadily
edging up over the past decade.
Earning-rates, assisted by large
reserves, have been fairly
steady at a satisfactory level.
At the last sale in Melbourne
the ss. ords. fetched 245. a
unit. The immediate yield is
3.1 p.c. on the basis of the
present 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Golden Plateau, N.L.
HPhe accelerated rate of
development at the Golden
Plateau, N.L., goldmine,
Cracow (Q.), was maintained
last term. But profits fell
further. Exploration so far has
failed to uncover grades (or,
for that matter, quantities) of
ore ranking with discoveries of
earlier years. The co. acquired
two additional leases last term
for a consideration involving
1000 f.-p. shares. Profits,
which have declined since
1957, will continue to fall
unless higher-grade ore is
revealed.
At June 30, 1960, estimated
ore reserves were 70,500 tons
(67,500 tons at June 30, 1959),
and average value was
7.Bldwt. gold (against
7 69dwt.). Last term 34,7bU
tons of ore (35,506 tons) was
treated for a recovery o
13,852 (15,278) fine ounces o
gold, plus 19,049 (15,336)
ounces of silver, * nd °l inu JJ
revenue slipped £20,79
£223,393. Costs per ton of or
treated, mining, treatment a
administration costs, rose
635. 7d. to 695. Id. leaving “
profit from mining EM
lower at £43,118 income
investments, £2908
took overall net P
£46,026 (down £27 800).
Divs. absorbed £42, L-. W)
ments at the rate o are .
per share going ( J ut ds a t
holders. Capital Q f
£114,250, and is in 213,00^
3 , 4 d. shares and 63
contnbs. paid to 6d.
Sellers last asked 1 gs
for the f,p- scr^l h Is 235. 3d.
were quoted as hig
in 1957.


Divorce Notice
toiS JPREME COURT of new
™ WALES. —In Divorce.
« REGINAL « BURGESS and
« ARET COOK each late of 73
SOtiop ~t reet Leichhardt.—TAKE
, ‘ h at IVY JOYCE BURGESS
1 1 etition for Divorce No. 1618
“ n . * he grounds of desertion by
WNALD BURGESS for 3
» u P' v ards without just cause
BEOIXA TI , and ot adultery by CYRIL
BURGESS ‘with MAR-
■UDBiirX If Lou CYRIL REGIN-
AS n .k™ wish to defend you may
tehv (?PP earan ce in the Divorce
ViiAo U of eiDe Court Mint Building
kh,‘ Sydney by the 15th
! m „ bruar y 1961 You Margaret
"»M 7 a PP]y to the said Court to be
•tin a a e f e nd Either of you may
iiitof “1W of the Petition without
S, «t «!!, LESLI E RUNDLE, 66 King
W, a , ydne . v -—C. A. H. HARMS,
ANYTIME ... ANYWHERE
Always be well groomed with a ...
LORD RIAM
battery operated
SHAVER . . .
SAFE,
DEPENDABLE
In PLANES,
TRAINS, BOATS
... In your CAR or
OFFICE, CAMP-
ING or CARAVAN-
ING, the LORD
RIAM will shave
you perfectly at the
touch of a button.
Made in Switzer-
land . . . fully guar-
anteed rugged com-
mutator motor . . .
self sharpening
cutters. Two 1.5-
volt torch batteries
guarantee months
of easy shaving.
..
mm
Mtt
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
You’ll be glad
you did.
Complete with
batteries.
PRICE ONLY
92/8
POST FREE.
CUT OUT POST NOW
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money order
enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
NEW ZEALAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Kington, November 21, 1960.
-SOLIDATED Zinc has de-
,Ad to go ahead with the
Ltlishtnent of an alu-
Lium-smelter in N.Z. The
iect is expected to bring
i 000,000 of capital to
Uland. The smelter will
, e Weipa bauxite from
Queensland.
It i s possible that the com-
py will use surplus power
|om Benmore so that it can
date an early start on the
Later, power
| come from Lake Mana-
pouri, under the agreement
Jade between the company and
|e Government last January.
sie agreement was embodied
in the Manapouri-Te Anau
Development Act passed this
session.
Within the next 10 years the
Itompany must construct a
power-station capable of pro-
ving continuously—24 hours
i day — at least 100,000 kilo-
latts.
Within the following 20
years this output must be raised
lo the full potential of the
area—more than 600,000 kilo-
utts continuously.
The agreement does not com-
®itN.Z. to any capital-expendi-
fc in this respect and, at the
termination of the agreement,
hi fixed assets, including the
taels, dams and powerhouses
P belong to N.Z.
The ultimate production
tae of the industry could
reach £50,000,000 a year ; even
“its early stages the industry
Nd approach the total out-
fit of Norway’s aluminium
Auction to-day. In its ulti-
mate it could equal the
tabined production of both
t[ ®ce and Norway.
[her the years probably
'•tOOO,000 will be spent in
Payments to N.Z. labor and
hbly a further £20,000,000
£30,000,000 on N.Z. mate-
fils.
Meat to America
The dispatch of experimental
shipments of N.Z. meat by air
to Hawaii, North America and
elsewhere has been arranged
by the Meat Producers’ Board
in conjunction with established
international airlines serving
N.Z. It is expected that these
shipments will be made early
nextyear.
These plans are the outcome
of a long-term investigation of
air-cargo transport of meat.
The board became interested
some years ago.
The Government last year
amended the Meat Export Con-
trol Act to give the board
authority in the field of air-
transport. For the last twelve
months the board has had a
qualified air-transport expert
making a study of the eco-
nomics and general feasibility
of air transport for meat.
By air, meat not only gets to
its destination much sooner, but
it can also travel chilled rather
than frozen, and this favor-
ably affects its market price. Of
course it is not yet feasible
to transport a large volume
of meat by air.
“It is the approaching jet air-
cargo era which now begins to
give us our opportunity,” said
a spokesman for the board.
“The real future lies with jet
aircraft yet to be delivered or
manufactured. Air-cargo trans-
port in the jet age will mean,
perhaps, more to N.Z. than to
any othemcountry, as our pro-
ducts have to be carried right
across the globe to their mam
markets.”
“To be ready to take advan-
tage of this opportunity at the
earliest moment the board, in
conjunction with the airlines
and aircraft-manufacturers, has
been conducting for the last
twelve months an investigation
which covers all aspects, in-
cluding available back-loading
(without which the economic
carriage of meat by air would
be impossible), the various
types of carton, method of
stowage, control of tempera-
tures, and a number of associ-
ated factors.”
West Coast Coal
Negotiations are at present
being conducted between N.Z.
and a Japanese firm for the sale
of 100,000 tons of West Coast
coal. The sale is expected to
include a barter arrangement
for the purchase of Japanese
goods.
The negotiations follow a
similar arrangement entered
into by the Government in
April last with Banno New
Zealand, Ltd., for the sale of
50,000 tons of Paparoa coal at
a figure of £217,500, or approxi-
mately 87s. per ton.
On that occasion Japan was
given permission to export to
N.Z. at a rate of £1 for every
every £2 paid on the price of
coal.
(It is understood that the
price of coal has been reduced
from 87s. (N.Z.) a ton to
around 70s. a ton as a result
of the cutting of handling
costs.)
Banking Services
Bank-officers are concerned
at developments which have
undermined the ability of the
trading-banks to maintain their
traditional services to the
public. The Banks’ Staff Action
Movement, a new organisation
supported and financed oy
bank-officers, says that the time
could come, and very soon,
when services now taken for
granted may have to be denied.
Nationalisation of the bank-
ing industry, by stealth, is
possible under existing legisla-
tion, and is a real danger to
free competitive enterprise.
The Government has refused
to permit any form of expan-
sion by the banks, which could
and would provide additional
services, particularly full-scale
hire-purchase and savings-bank
facilities, if permitted to do so.
Most Government resistance
arises from an unwillingness to
permit any threat, however
illusory, to Government access
to finance.
“It must now be abundantly
apparent that the Government's
thirst for funds is unquench-
able,” says the movement.
“Not satisfied with the heavy
demands levied on taxpayers,
which are steadily strangling
incentive, the State is quicken-
ing the tempo of its policy to
channel savings into its own
coffers at the expense of private
capital needs. The cumulative
effect of continued restraint kills
incentive and denies to the indi-
vidual the opportunities which
lie at the base of our economic
system.”


A BACK-TO-MOUNT MORGAN SYMPOSIUM
SPLINTER RETURNS
By M. H. ELLIS
S plinter, an old resident of Mount
Morgan, stood and surveyed the
city of gold from the veranda on
the Mine Range. He hadn’t seen
it for over 50 years and he had been
suffering from a form of amnesia.
He had not even remembered that
his name was Splinter—it certainly didn’t
fit him now —until six-feet-something of
native son with a hand like an elephant's
paw had seized him in the crowd at the
civic reception given to Back to Mount
Morgan Week visitors, and shouting
“Howy’re goin’, Splinter?” had recalled
the past.
The past included a lot of things that
had happened and were still alive in the
mind. For The Mount had always been
a vivid place, a community on its own,
effervescing with excitement even in its
direst days.
It might have been the greatest gold-
mine in the world in its prime, with a
whole shed full of gold-blocks and a
habit of giving gold horse-shoes to dis-
tinguished visitors. But gold never
brought it solidity.
Its only solid citizens lived far away,
or came and stayed at the company’s
Carlton House, where the champagne
flowed like water and top-hats were
visible from afar on garden-party days
and names like those of Knox Darcy
and Walter Hall were as the names of
the gods on Olympus in ancient Greece:
beings remote and to be wary of, lest
Nemesis should fall on the offender.
Woe betide the grimy proletarian who
dared to offend the great by not touching
his cap or carrying the bag of a Big
Boss when told —yea, even though the
lowly one might be a retired cavalry-
officer, who had been driven to menial
work by the crash of ’93 or the flood
of ’9O.
Mount Morgan of old was a place of
turgid movement directed by giant voices,
lighted continually of an evening by a
bright, lurid light in the sky, its
atmosphere suffused with smoke, its
river red with tailings, its sides like the
slopes of a building antheap.
Little electric mules ran round the
opencut like trotting stars at night. The
electric lights, rare and certainly not so
bright anywhere else in Australia, glowed
in long rows that would seem dim today.
The chimneys belched their rosy
smoke. And the giant voices of half-a-
dozen hooters ordered the day and night.
They blared three minutes on end for
change of shift at 7.30 a.m., 3.30 p.m.
and 11 p.m. And then you saw lopg lines
of men, moleskinned or dungareed,
bowyanged, crib-basket under arm, billy
in hand, crawling up to the Linda or
the West Works or the Mundic, and
another line crawling ant-like down, and
presently crawling up other hills.
At night there were strings of lanterns.
And always there was the mine, with its
giant purr that could be heard 10 miles
out in the bush of a still night and
its giant glare that you could see from
the Berserkers beyond the City of Sin,
Sweat and Sorrow down on the Fitzroy
River 28 miles away.
Mount Morgan is a place of hills.
Everybody lived on a hill in the days
when Federation was being born rather
painfully and noisily and men were rush-
ing to enlist in what were locally called
Prospectors at “Peter’s Rush,” Struck Oil, November, 1903.
the “contiginets” for South Africa, and
the hooters gave special giant blasts when
the news of the relief of Mafeking and
Ladysmith came in, and when the brass-
bands came home triumphant from
licking the daylights out of southern
bands or Harry Goy demonstrated his
prowess on rifle-ranges in foreign parts.
Living on hills you could see every-
thing. The men coming off shift, the
trains of boys and girls trotting to or
from school, up crag and down glen,
like mountain-goats among the hard and
poisonous Devonian rocks. The ponies
with their chaff-bags on each side being
towed homeward loaded with wood and
groceries; the flocks of goats being
brought into their yards at event'd
the two daily passenger-trains «oine 6 1
and in ; the water-trains durnw the £
drought, when the dams “ran ot ”
emptying their contents off the railway
bridge beyond the little station- th
pepper-trees from Athens; the man J
trees which today are all that remain of
once social streets of tin shanty and
weatherboard. *
You could watch your husband and
father all the way to work to earn his
7s. or Bs. a day and back again, and tell
whether he had stopped on the way to
sit in the gutter before the Shamrock
or the Golden Spur while the three-quart
cutter passed from mouth to g
mouth down the thirsty line—thiee q ,
of beer for sixpence, left to hea' P . g
some cases) in the side-passage
hostelry in readiness for the payday
TU t the years of drought and disader
before 1903 you could sit
home, probably the mother ’
see your man toil weariy hjf P t hoping
mine at a beginning of a sn
for work that wasn t tn - spon dent
emerging later as part ° k L their way
dribble of the rejected ma^' n | owly .
homeward and walking v > , ose j a ys
The sight you didn t see in of
was the furtive deposit


(jnd a loaf of bread on your gate-
v our veranda when you were
because that was always done
Jjjght in the darkness.
i guy’s Mountain
, n[INT Morgan in those days was a
jfwonderful place for a boy.
The roads were long and full of
'Lent. There were Chinamen’s
£ full of watermelons. There were
Lg orientals with pigtails and some-
L endowed with a surprising turn
speed at the wrong moment. There
Ire othe rs who possessed iron roofs
at made a fine, rich sound when a
L of granite was heaved from a safe
Lee upon them with a sling, bringing
,„t the denizens with a sonorous
sc k a hilo in hot but fruitless pursuit,
paey were kindly men who failed to
teeognise a sling-wielder when he went
Iter to buy the family tea and groceries,
4 who handed out with the order a
ro w of boiled lollies, or, at Christmas, a
jit of ginger and, as like as not, a porce-
li teaset.
There was still gold in the hills, and
every boy worth his salt had a private
hi somewhere up Dairy Creek or the
[tampion Gully or Long Gully, a spot
iere there was a bit of wash that one
light clean out with a cradle and a
town dish and little pick ; where one
could enjoy the never-to-be-forgotten
sensation of seeing the golden color
come up in the ironstone tail in the
crease of the dish. There were the little
oae-ounce bottles, precious possessions,
irto which one transferred the bullion
on a licked finger.
There were old “death-adder” pros-
pectors who peered through bushes eager
to catch off-balance a youthful gold-
finder with no Miner’s Right (or entitle-
ment to it) and a good streak in his pan,
jad who put in his pegs round the find
lid outraged shoutings.
There were kerosene-cases to be stolen
to make cradles, and bits of blankets to
le filched to fit them, and shops with
fold-scales on their counters, which in-
'iriably demonstrated to optimists that
he product of a month’s hard weekend
'Oil that looked like half -an-ounce was
4y only 3 dwt., though, of course, 23-
'®tfine and worth 4s. a ’weight,
there were pea-rifles bought with the
■ooty to “moon” possums and spotted
, on c^ear nights in the trees
6 Waterhole up the Dee,
1 . possession of which was ex-
med Heaven knows how to parents
Jj Wou 'dh av e had the product of one’s
-washing in a trice without blinking
yehd if they had known about it.
tnitio?/ j ere was hard toil which one
temiir.1 as k est; °ne could. Goats to
Haw ♦ i y dozen of a morning,
j: w : n * 3e hauled out of a well with
the carr ied uphill in tins on
lhC n ? sides of the P°ny or in
T y , goat -carts m oildrums.
cooking P S a^so wo °d to be got for
1 ea« a chopping this
if rather some what by the generous
care^ess habit of the mine-
iet°natol! nt - ° f leavin § gelignite, eke
for an ln .sundry accessible places
sue nipper to nip, so that he
might blow-up stumps instead of chop-
ping them down.
He lent verisimilitude to his pretence
of laborious toil by putting a few
tomahawk-marks on the splintered timber,
and devoted time saved to the pleasant
tasks of washing for color or giving his
appreciative companions rides up and
down the shaft of the old Retrieve, or
some other mine, in a loop at the end
of the frayed rope left by the erstwhile
proprietors on the windlass, by kind
permission of a Mines Department
which did not value human life as much
as in a later day.
Down the Shaft
A favorite variation of this exercise or
sport among the brave was to give
the passenger in the foot-loop a “passage”
as he went up or down, jerking the wind-
lass so that his thin form bumped against
the sides of the shaft, causing him to
emit a series of protesting howls.
In defence of this pastime, it can only
be said that nobody ever seems to have
been killed by it, and that it was just
as safe as seeing whether one could
jump high enough to touch the 10,000-
volt powerline which a company, as
adventurous as most of its work-force,
had strung only reasonably high over
the track to Red Hill school, and from
which “Obi” O’Brien had been hurled
head-over-fundament without mortal
injury. Fortunately the powerline was
nearly as inaccessible to the average
leaper as Heaven. “Obi” was, to his
sorrow, over the average.
United Nations
Mount Morgan in the days when
Splinter was a boy was a polyglot
assembly, sectionally divided on every
subject except loyalty to Mount Morgan.
It was made up mostly of national
enclaves, and in any of these entertain-
ment could always be organised at the
right time.
There were the Welsh, who were so
Celtic that they even spoke their own
language and organised the eistedffod in
which Splinter once won a golden half-
sovereign in a green purse for singing
that good old Llandudno ditty, “The
Minstrel Boy.”
There were the Ulstermen who, on
July 12, put on their orange rosettes and
strolled through Tipperary Point singing
their intention of kicking the Pope before
them, and in retribution were thrown in
heaps into the red tailings of the river-bed
by indignant Hibernians.
There also were the 500 or more Tip-
perary Point denizens, who, on St.
Patrick’s Day, held their H.A.C.B.S.
procession and sports, and, growing a
little bit unsteady, were apt to be hurled
into the tailings themselves by indignant
Orangemen.
Men fought stripped to the waist in the
dry river-bed. Boys fought in Shepherd’s
Gully. Swains took their current sweet-
hearts “up Ganter’s Gully,” because it
was a convenient place for love if one
climbed high enough to roll stones down
its slopes upon the jealous or curious
coming up to peer or capture from below.
Queer slang prevailed, brought from
Durham or Lancashire or Lincoln, where
some chimney-men had been trained on
the towers and steeples of Ely or Boston.
Heroes became famous, and are still
remembered today, for there are
those who have not forgotten Victor
Jones, who was the first Queenslander
killed in the Boer War, or Watty Mercer,
who put the bands round the big stack
in 1905.
Among all the wild rambunctiousness
of men who had come from East and
West, by dray and ship and Shank’s pony,
there was still a core of religion and
simple piety and loyalty. Churches
flourished galore and were full —Angli-
can, Catholic, Baptist, Wesleyan, Metho-
dist, Primitive Methodist, Presbyterian
and what - have - you which even strong
men frequented in the blue serge or the
broadcloth of their grandfathers.
Ten-thousand souls fermented round
the churning mine, lived by it, were part
of it in its heyday, knowing it like their
own house, though it was not their own.
Sometimes life was monotonous, but for
everybody it had its great days.
Farewell to the Mount
Splinter, standing on the veranda up
on the Range with a cool glass in
his hand and fanned by the cool Mount
Morgan breeze which clears the air of
that salubrious place, remembered one
such day as he gazed down on the roofs
of the town, with the hills bubbling up
as if they were part of the boiling pot
of Providence.
It was a hot January afternoon when
the Great Drought of 1903 was breaking.
He had just walked three miles or more
to the Red Hill school. Down Spring
Street, which now is only a few mango-
trees, the houses and huts all gone.
Across the gully past the little shop where
they charged you a ha’penny to listen to


the Edison phonograph. Down the long
Rockhampton Road, past the Chinese
Garden. Along Morgan Street, which
goes up and down like a switchback, to
sell a speck or two of color at Lundager’s,
nearly opposite the School of Arts, where
he had seen his first “biograph”—Robin-
son Crusoe hopping fast as if he had
suddenly trod on the floor of Tophet, and
Man Friday hopping after him across
the flickering screen.
Then out along the red course of the
river, to find at the end that there was
“no news yet.” Then back again by a
different route below the mine, past the
Electric Light Works, stopping to spend a
precious penny at the railway-station to
buy the Rockhampton “Bulletin.”
Halfway up the home hill he paused,
looked at the stately journal and there
saw his name in print for the first time
in his life. He stood frozen with pride,
so that old Mr. Molloy, black and red
from the mine, who came, bowyanged,
with the gait of a mountain goat up the
stony track behind him on his way from
work, became a little alarmed.
“Whoi, the Boy Splinter?” shouted Mr.
Molloy. “Phwat’s the matter wid ye?”
“I g-gotta bursary,” spluttered the
awed Splinter, as the whole wide world
and its opportunities displayed them-
selves to his astonished mind.
“The divil ye have?” shouted Mr.
Molloy. “Whoi, ’tis a great man ye’ll be.,
Wan day ye’ll be up on the Range.”
To be “on the Range” was the acme of
exaltation in station ; to ascend Olympus
to be among the silvertails, the gods, thj
top-hats of Carlton House. . .
“On the Range”
Mow, after 57 years and more, Splinter
had arrived on the Range. He had
seen a good many Ranges in the meantime
and a good many people in top-hats and
other kinds of hats, both bad and good—
Kings, Presidents, bookies, Hitler, Musso-
lini, Sun Yat Sen, John Wren, Nehru.
But the rocks and the goats and the
barefooted boys and the wood-cutting
and the purr and glow of the great mine
and its works had always remained as a
vividly remembered part of his life.
Other mining towns that he had known
pulsing with excitement in his younger
days had become graveyards inhabited
by ghosts. But. looking down from the
Range, which it had taken him nearly a
golden jubilee of years to attain, Mount
Morgan was still there —the hospital with
its red roof looking as if it had not been
painted in his absence, the same winding
tracks that he wandered, the same distant
hills that he shot wallabies in. Only the
mountain itself had gone, tipped into
grey dumps of millions of tons of over-
burden and tailings, one so large that
soon it will have a DC-3 airstrip on its
levelled summit.
Many of the Mount Morganites of
yore were there gathered from all parts
of Australia—one from New Zealand —
for their back-to-the-town week, some of
them from the summit of prosperity and
success, sonie, like those who had
remained soberly behind, good mechanics,
miners, technicians trained in the work-
shops of the old mine.
In groups and crowds they mustered in
a town thick with motor-cars, brilliant
with flags, fairly reeking with money and
prosperity.
All the old salient features were there
—the love of song, the theatrical ability
which produced a celebratory revue no
capital-city could better . . . one that held
its audiences till after midnight.
The churches were still full on Sun-
day morning. The parade of Morgan
Street on Saturday forenoon persisted as
of yore-—there one saw the whole town
weeping as Charley Briggs wrote the news
of Queen Victoria’s death on his
auctioneer’s blackboard.
The Gods Have Gone
'T'he roads were better paved. The
A accents were. smoothed into a soft
Australian drawn which seems to be
characteristic of the district. The words
jannock, guiver, dink u m, spalpeen,
omadhaun, gossoon were heard no more.
The goats had all been eaten in the
“ Tailor-made or off the hook?”
terrible depression years after the mine
closed and the Old Company died, and
when half the outer streets disappeared
into cooking-fires.
Nobody runs the cutter at the Sham-
rock or the Rising Sun. It is a sober
town, where one has to walk a full
hundred yards in any direction to find a
pub.
The people are well dressed. The
ragged boys and girls barefoot in rag
and mushroom hats have given place to
the neat-uniformed, earnest young pupils
of the High School and the equally sedate
inhabitants of the Central Schools, none
of whom has ever needed to steal a
melon or outrun old Bawly, or Monkey,
or any other pursuing Chinaman.
The Mine is strangely silent. Its hooters
give only a feeble, desultory peep at the
shift’s end. The machinery does not
churn with its old all-pervading snarl.
The gods of Olympus have gone. The
people, management and men and
women, live together in a community as
nearly socially classless as is possible.
The general-manager « a ♦ *
and father-confessor In ° Squire
relations of the town the i public '
the shire, a union official of
mutually regard each ota ® ' m '
hand men. r as ri ght-
The town- and mine-g ane s wnrv *
gether on the reads. The mL k , to '
the road-metal and backs fin SUpplles
everything—the baths the NewS 8 1
Boyd Sports Grounds, the theatricals
Supply! b ° Wlln8 -™ ks - £
Nobody wears a top-hat. The i m
comes to present the prizes at the %„
gymkhana in his shirtsleeves fresh from
the company’s salt-gardens at Port Aim
where 15 highly paid men evaporaiesai
‘° f aR f *“ " idel >',- used I*® chemicals
of the technological age.
Ponies do not carry wood and water
and more. They are reserved for the
gymkhanas, which have teams from far
and wide competing. The rack-railway
that used to run up the Razorback to link
the town with the outside world has gone,
replaced by graded curve and motor
highway,
Mount Morgan has become a stable
industrial town with 20-million tons ot
workable ore under its belt, and prob-
ably a lot more to come, and with a
vision of settlement opening up m i
environs down the river, where■ P°
Herefords and fields of milo hne me
to the once tough, rough road m
upper Dawson Valley, which a vas
or two on the Dee and the Don
time turn into a new kingdom,
Its prosperity and vitality are apP 3^’
its f utu re, seemingly assured tar
the lives of those who, 50 in
called Splinter and Obi and ec j’ oU t
those days when color was sti g
of the gullies and nU §2 ets r c trUC k Oil,
buckets of Peter’s Rush 0 £ us-
and when the Commonwe tune 0 f
tralia had just been born
“Soldiers of the Queen.




A Page of Verse...
THE DOOM-CALLER
When birds and leaves do scatter
Along the winter beach
The village’s mad-hatter
Comes out to walk and preach.
“Prepare,” he shouts, and twitches
His decent rags aside
And looks behind for witches
And skipping, cheats the tide.
Then quick he will dissemble
Before the lowering cloud
And pause and smile and tremble,
His dooming disavowed.
But when the cloud has shivered
Away before the sun,
A not her threat delivered
He will begin to run
And wildly will he scramble
Along the tangled dunes
And spill upon the bramble
His old man’s crazy tunes.
A spidered track and narrow
Winds to his dusty house
Shared with the drowsy sparrow,
The frog, the bat, the mouse.
Where others fear the sadness,
The little death of night
He, cosy in his madness,
Lies down without a light.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.
FAIRY TALE
The summer sky was a smoky haze,
The sun went down in a bloody blaze.
The gate creaked and footsteps fell
On the gravel path by the window-sill.
“Why are you late, old man, old man ?’’
Grumbled the wife as she filled the can.
“It’s a long tramp from the harvest
patch ;
Now light the lamp and put up the
latch.” \
“Where is the boy who went today
To cut the oats and cart the hay?”
“Gone to the neighbors down the road;
Now shut your mouth and get the food.”
“Why is his jacket over your arm?
Why hasn’t the boy come down from
the farm ?”
“Hold your peace and get to work,
You’re just like him—all grizzle and
shirk.”
“What is the dried blood over your
coat ?”
“It’s the wallaby’s blood—l cut its
throat.”
“Where is its hide, where is its tail ?”
“I buried it down by the lower sliprail.”
“The curse of the devil lie on your heart
Who’ve caused my son and me to part!”
Then she stamped and shrieked and
vanished like breath,
While the old man watched with the fear
of death.
TASMANIA.
B. EASTERBROOK.
BRAHMS AT BRUCKNER’S
FUNERAL
In a casket the deviser of symphonic
boa-constrictors:
I do not swill wine, harangue like the
classic victors
Though these twenty-four hours his
wasted deferential head
Has moved with the wind beside my
moody little bed.
“His music is a swindle, will be forgotten
a year or two
After my death’’ —and my death is
overdue.
lam routed with volkslied in rout: the
round bald head,
Peasant boots and customs: but that
imbecile is dead.
Hardly a woman in the shy catacomb
and cavern
Of his skull: many sailors and molls in
my tavern.
His music: shall they munch that grey
archetypal bread ?
Worms will gobble allegro troppo it is
said.
Into the Karlskirche where every besieged
Saint
Would close his eyes, yawn in his plaster
and mess of paint.
I dip my fingers in holy water, not think-
ing of grace,
Make the Sign of the Cross, and stalk up
to Anton’s face :
Sallow, harvested—by any conceivable
trouble
Shall the Kapellmeister have sparks to
twinkle in that stubble ?
—When Schumann lay in the asylum,
fallow place,
I brought to him, moderato, a picture
of Clara’s face
And creaked while the dazzling grain
improbable
Poured buzzing into my hermetic
sceptic mill . . .
Now little punctilious boys trill De
Profundis, in case
They be signed as grist to Anton’s clank-
ing embrace.
Hobbledehoy music dies. The pimping
nonchalances
Of time who sups his coffee between
dances
Till eternity, his burly frau, rustles near:
Tick tick his petty excuses amidst organs
of fear.
Let Z&bZZZXt '*• *<-
Lov 7XX7f y : checkm
Be carted from tall apartments i n the
Belvedere ine
Whose prim leaded orthodox mni om
peer past fear;
Leave the broker’s piano (misterioso nil
her notes)
To reminiscence of a Te Deum with the
hundred throats
Of mouse, manuscript, wreath w
chandelier ;
Be all music, under the sacristy lantern
here.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS WEBB
CROWS IN WINTER
They've come at last these wild crows,
the snow is heaped both fresh and hard,
to sit upon the silent tree
that drew the wind into the yard.
Magic birds from long ago
why have you come to visit me,
wearing still your gallow clothes?
Once you knew the hangman’s tree.
But no ; I see you merely stare
alone, ahead. There is no sun.
The sky is grey and without shape:
so was the world when just begun.
And from the stones another bird
flaps to the tree and shakes, ignored,
his shabby, cracked and tired wings:
he’s full of anger, spite,, and bored:
and through the winter calm there runs
his shallow broken strident cry.
Heraldic birds and birds of dreams,
strips of rock and storm-filled sky
they stare and crouch, indifferent;
their eyes are deadened with distrust—
the new snow falls and spirals down
gently falling—where it must.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
MISS STRAWBERRY’S TURTLE
[From a series for children]
Miss Strawberry keeps a turning turte
Who spins and talks philosophy.
He says “To spin is half the battle;
The rest is in this brandy-bottle
Which I hold to my thirsting Ihi owe
While l wind it round with me.
“If the bottles dry then I am falll
If the bottle’s full then l am d ,
The days are short and never aui
As I whirl around and cry
“ ‘Here am I a turning turtle
Tipping brandy down my 11
This is better than life in a ri
Though what it does to my
Is anyone’s guess.
Still here’s your health,
Long life and wealth ; n
And mud in your eye.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
tative Tennis
iwther the Davis Cup inter-
ne semi-final between
,$A and the Philippines in
Brisbane last week nor early
5 of the Victorian L.T.A.
championships under way m
Melbourne offered convincing
comment on current tennis
; or[ ,i Indeed practically all the
comment these try-outs have
offered has been of a wholly
negative kind.
fhe Americans were not
expected to have much trouble
i the Filipinos in the Cup
prelim, and they didn’t; they
ion the rubber five matches to
I, On paper they couldn’t
toe won more convincingly,
tat in fact, on the court, they
looked far from world-beaters.
Mac Kay and Buchholz res-
pectively won the opening
singles matches. The U.S. then
clinched the rubber with a
tables victory, in which the
combination of McKinley and
Ralston, while individually a
class above their Filipino oppo-
! nents Dungo and Jose, gave
the impression of being a
lather slender reed for the
Yanks to lean on as a Challenge
Round doubles team —that is,
assuming the Americans beat
the Italians in Perth to qualify
lor the Challenge against Aus-
tralia at White City.
After the doubles win
clinching the tie, the American
kt-line singles players, Mac-
Ray and Buchholz, headed
south for Kooyong, leaving
junior team-mates Mc-
Rinley and Ralston to pick up
Mier Davis Cup experience
111 the final singles matches,
wich both won.
At Kooyong the Victorian
tampionships began with
examples of the sort of form
, a t led some sage to define
orse-sense as the faculty that
taman^ orses f rom betting on
,£ esh from the N.S.W.
iWa tf naI ’ in which he
d Barry Mac Kay off the
iJL ln straight sets and
loin« ~c aP a b te of as easily
a m i, e sam e to any other
Neal? p aroun( f at present,
secon/ raser f aste£ f only to the
• s AUhen° Un i d - at K °° yong ’
Howe h S elir Mnated by Bob
tiocp tc Eraser won the first
bosed i l°°ked home and
led 5.4 S rai §ht sets when he
lird jw 11 * s serv ice in the
positi ot f r/ rom this impossible
| let to a f ° We a Phoenix
de feat the Wimbledon
winner 4-6, 6-8, 7-5, 6-3, 6-4.
Howe, who at 35 is approach-
ing the sere and yellow as top-
flight tennis players go, is an
itinerant Australian who has
been enjoying the good life
following a practically non-
stop circuit of overseas tourna-
ments for years past and has
played relatively little tennis on
the home sod in the mean-
time.
Fraser was only one of the
sundry Davis Cuppers to
go down in the opening rounds
of the Victorian titles. How-
“That about fixes it! Now it's ruddy hovercraft !”
ever, before the American
squad had time to become too
elated by this turn of events
they began to have their own
troubles.
Their bright junior hope,
Dennis Ralston, was beaten in
straight sets by South Austra-
lian Barry Phillips-Moore.
Then Bernard Bartzen, last
year ranked No. 1 in the U.S.,
went under to visiting British
junior Mike Sangster, again in
straight sets. Following this,
the Yank’s mainstay, big
Barry Mac Kay, was very
lucky to scrape through 1-6,
8-6, 12-14, 6-0, 6-3, against
Victorian Wayne Reid, a hefty
and palpably out-of-condition
14-stoner who played Mac Kay
only after the authorities had
turned down what seemed a
reasonable request for a post-
ponement, based on his having
played over 100 games the
previous day.
In case some of this may
have been depressing the
Americans and elating the
Australians, or vice versa,
McKinley continued the busi-
ness of making all form look
haywire by outing. Roy Emer-
son 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.
Then Italian Nicola Piet-
rangeli gave both the Yanks
and the Aussies something
more to think over by outing
Bob Mark 6-2, 5-7, 7-5, 6-3.
That left Rod Laver the only
remnant of the Australian
Davis Cup squad still in the
running, and present writer
threw his form-guide out for
Lonnie Donegan’s old man to
collect.
* * *
Champagne Cricket
The weekend’s two days of
cricket at the S.C.G. produced
two centuries (Harvey and
O’Neill), a batting collapse
(when the West Indians seemed
determined to score from every
ball, though neither a poor
light nor a lively pitch were in
their favor), and numerous
“incidents,” not the least of
which was O’Neill’s running-
out Harvey when he nearly
had (or so it seemed) his
double-century.
But putting everything else
in the shade was Cammie
Smith’s second-innings 48.
When Smith twice on-drove
Davidson to the fence in the
first over, as though he were
no more than a howler of
medium pace “seamers,” one
could sense the thought “flashy
batsman” behind the applause.
But when, after Solomon had
beautifully cut Rorke to the
fence at the other end, the
“flashy batsman” faced-up
again and capped those first
two shots with an almost non-
chalant six over square-leg any
reservations vanished.
It didn't matter in the
slightest that little Joe Solomon
stayed on four until the 50
partnership was up, because he
wasn’t allowed a look-in, and
such a champagne innings as
Smith's needs, after all, the
proper foil to set it off.
In his 48 runs Cammie Smith
played all the shots, and
played them all brilliantly, and
it was almost with a sigh of
relief that one watched him go
in Benaud’s first over, spared
the agony of groping against
spin where a minute before
there was no such thing as hesi-
tation.
After Smith, Benaud held
the stage, and his figures
(10-6-16-2) tell their own
story. It looked as though
Kanhai and Solomon had lead
in their boots against the
N.S.W. and Australian cap-
tain, who scarcely bowled a
loose ball, and beat the bat
more than once every over.
Kanhai went near the end
of the day, after an unsuccess-
ful appeal against the light,
when he, too, tickled a Benaud
delivery into safe hands. It was
a disappointment that was
accentuated when the umpires
shortly afterwards decided that
the light really wasn’t good
enough, and a glorious day’s
cricket finished on a somewhat
sour note.
* * *
The West Indian cricketers
are lucky to have a manager of
the experience, calibre and
character of Jerry Gomez. The
most stable member of their last
unpredictable team, he stole
the thunder of the famous
“three W’s” by topping their
Test batting averages and gain-
ing second bowling honors.
Also, he figured in their highest
partnership for each of the
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and
eighth wickets. Australian
crowds loved him for his fight-
ing heart, which rivalled in
size his well-known sun-hat.
In Perth, Manager Gomez
stated that he would try to keep
this tour free from “issues,”
a policy not new to the Carib-
beans. Their pioneers, in their
first Test match against Aus-
tralia (1930) at the Exhibition
Ground, Brisbane, suffered
from some “patriotic” umpiring
with l.b.w. decisions against


(zP/(//e -
Me TMi'/dtf r (pAoice
f/\
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
M.
m
V,Sfel
m
fi
m
:&■■■
>s
PH
Libel
Dewars Fine Scoicn Whisky
Dewar & Sons V
"SCOTLAND
DWII7
Street scene, hong kong. Photo by Qantas.
White Label
Dewars
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended In Scotland.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES IN EQUITY.
IN THE MATTER of Comet Manufac-
turing Company Pty. Limited AND IN
THE MATTER of the Companies Act
1936 (as amended).
NOTICE is hereby given that a Petition
for the winding up of the abovenamed
Company by the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its equitable Jurisdic-
tion was on the second day of Sep-
tember 1960 presented to the said
Court bv W. J. Manufacturing Company
Limited of 418 Military Road Mosman
and that the said Petition will come on
for hearing before the Court on tn
twelfth day of December 1960 and any
Creditor or contributory of the saw
Company desirous to support or °PP ;
the making of an Order on the
Petition may appear at the time f
hearing in person or by his Con*,
that purpose; and a copy °t the p
will be furnished to any credito .
tributary of the said Company reqmri g
the same by the undented on_ P 7
ment of the regulated cha g^^
same. —(Signed) J. MTfIHELk
Solicitor for the Petitions.
AND GEE, Solicitors, 92 P™
Sy NoTE: Any person
appear on the hearing oth ogt t 0
tion must serve on. or writing his
the abovenamed notice " ti( ° mus t
intention so to do. lfle , { m
state the name and
person, or, if a fi™> tbe signed
address of the firm, an m g[ tht! ir
bv the person or firm or serv ed,
Solicitor (if any) anj m
or, if posted, must be a i )oV e-
efficient time to O ’ c iook m
lamed not later . th t u” ninth day ° l
;he afternoon of tne
December, 1960.
them reaching epidemic pro-
portions. Despite a masterly
century by Headley, who took
“one-leg” and whittled down his
repertoire by refusing to “go-in-
front,” they lost by an innings,
Though privately aghast at
their treatment, their only com-
plaint to the press was that
they allowed a Bradman
double-century by spilling a
“lolly” in slips when our
record-breaker was only four.
B-1 ate-o.
v * *
In Melbourne current West
Indies spin-twins, Sonny
Ramadhin and Alfred Valen-
tine, repeated the dose they had
handed-out in Victoria’s first
innings, and the visitors
snatched an innings win despite
the loss of a day’s play. Vic.,
118, 204; West Indies, 493. Be-
tween them the spinners cap-
tured 15 wickets —Ramadhin
5-37 and 5-65 ; Valentine 2-40
and 3-55.
• • • •
For figures-fanatics: Neil Harvey
has already topped 500 runs in first-
class cricket this season; four
completed innings have given him
an average of 126.7. Kanhai and
Simpson have each topped 400;
and all three batsmen have double-
centuries to their credit. “Sonny”
Ramadhin leads the wicket-takers
with a bag of 16 at an average
cost of 15.7; he’s closely followed
by S.A.’s Peter Trethewey, with
15 at an average of 22.1.
* * *
Sydney Winners
Evidently one of the good
little-’uns that crop-up every
now and then to show that size
isn’t everything, Ivory was first
out from her wide barrier
possie in last Saturday’s
Canterbury Park Maiden
Stakes for fillies, and wasn’t
again troubled. ' Oddly, quite
a number of USUa i lv ,
regular punters stood off?
not because of the
°dds, but becan« bnef
reckoned she w^Ul?
win anything this side of if
Put. Had they taken , Lllh '
look at her they’d W, B °° d
[hat actually she's quite *2
bit of work, and akn u, \
trainer Tom Smith had turned
her out fine fettle. sheTbJ
Gabador (Fr.) f rom
brook by Ajax from Capford
(imp.) by Pick of the Ch«
The dam was taken to New
GabaSor. ““ " h
The Two-year-old Maiden
tor colts and geldings was
fought-out by a couple of
youngsters making their first
appearance with the colors
up, both of them well backed.
In the final few strides Eau
De Vie, well placed all the
way, cut Segovia out of first
money by a long head.
Favorite Persian Duke, going
at top speed about a furlong
from the winning-line, shied
at a crossing or something near
it and leapt into the air like a
Boeing. It looked from the
stands that he might otherwise
have won ; he finished third,
and will do better. Trained
at Randwick by Bill Kelso,
who won a race three days
earlier with Pierre, Eau De Vie
is raced by Mrs. A. Wolfens-
berger, and is a grey gelding
by Good Brandy (imp.) from
Tazi (sister to Mumtazi and
Amar) by Nizami (Fr.).


start the day right!
m
f^Sr
>-s
o»l* c
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Imorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
m Norman Fox’s sprinter
le began racing as a two-
p“id he scored stylish wins
l s company at Randwick
Caulfield, and at one stage
’ f l2oOO offer for him was
lined down. Then he went
; ! and was out of the
2; until he lately landed
liter Six and a Highweight
Canterbury. These wins
Uested a return to form,
W With a 51b. penalty, he was
jowned by Saydor in Satur-
n’s Pennant Hilts Handicap
,1 t he same track. Still,
p er ouse is a strongly built
(our-year-old by English sire
pm from the imported mare
tyu Clair, and he should be
jorth keeping an eye on for
liters, at least.
It was a good win by Say-
lor, with some promise for the
Villiers (December 24), first leg
of the A.J.C.’s Christmas-time
double, with the 12-furlongs
0500 Summer Cup to
follow on Boxing Day. Say-
lors best efforts at one mile
lave been his fourth in the
Epsom to Ma Cherie and his
third a few days later to
Second Earl and Tulloch in
Hie w.-f.-a. George Main
Stakes, in which he carried
only 31b. less than that good
pair. In last Saturday’s win
he came from the middle of the
held at the home-turn and
finished on strongly. His time,
1.12}, was nothing out of the
way, but the track was on the
slow side from the rain of a
Jay or so earlier. Gay Port
reappeared in this race, but
looked burly and should be in
M form for the Christmas
sod New Year sprints at Rand-
tick.
Apprentice Hilton Cope,
'fio looks like developing into
s really class rider, added a
°uble to his good run when
: e B°t Saydor and Luck’s A
fortune home in fine style on
aturday. With 17 winners for
e season so far, he’s fourth
JJ the premiership list to
f, y>, Selkrig and Sellwood.
n landing the French’s Forest
andicap on Luck’s A Fortune
5 gave the six-year-old
oeky Bag gelding his first win
' nce August of last year. That
J lous win was in a 10-
, on jp event, and with the
nr he’s now showing Luck’s
in : rtune 9 0 uld take a hand
fn« Jfcs and Summer
liim' feet have made
to train. Dual
hi’ Se c ond to Luck’s A For-
h tk° n Saturd ay, wasn’t suited
0,;. e lc ky Canterbury cir-
will do better at
?’ as also should third
Ulandra,
At Moo nee Valley
A rather unusual feature of
the Moonee Valley programme
on Saturday was that the main
event —the 10-furlongs Albion
Handicap—was for three-year-
old fillies. Most punters saw
the race as a match between
Glimpse and Smokeview,. who
had both run well in the rich
set-weight events for fillies
during the spring carnival; but
the finish was between two
outsiders, Beautiful Star and
Potranca. The camera gave
it to Beautiful Star by a few
inches.
A. P. Ward, who races Beautiful
Star in partnership with the trainer
W. Accola, bought the filly
cheaply for 150gns. at the New
Zealand yearling-sales. She’s by
the little-known Castle Donnington
from Beautiful. The filly’s only
previous win was over furlongs
at Caulfield in October, and it was
surprising to see her run out the
Albion distance so strongly. A
lot of the credit was due to Trevor
Dyer, who rode her beautifully.
“ Who said I couldn't fight my Way out of a paper-bag?”
Dyer won the Caulfield Cup last
year on Regal Wench, b’ut he’s had
a lean time since.
There was not much con-
solation for' punters in the
long, nine-event programme,
but those prepared to lay 9-
to-4-on Royal Meadow had no
worries. The good-looking
chestnut was never off the bit
to canter home by four lengths
in the Barkoola Handicap for
two-year-old colts and geldings.
He has won at three of his
five starts, and his seconds in
his other runs were behind
good ones in Cymbal and
Cotillion.
• • • •
The appealingly - named
Cointreau —by Good Brandy
(imp.) from Dark One —won
a Trial race in September, but
her form in two starts had
been moderate before her win
on Saturday in a division of
the Pascoe Handicap (five fur-
longs ; two-year-old fillies). A
few days earlier she’d been
acquired by a quartet of
owners, Mrs. M. M. Quinn
and C. B. Buckley, M. South-
well and C. E. Major.
There was a lot to like about
Cointreau’s win. She came home
strongly, and raced right away,
giving the impression that she could
win over a bit of distance.
Valley specialist Sahibah, a
four-year-old Belvedere mare,
won her fourth metropolitan
race on Saturday, a heat of the
Dunalister Highweight, and
those four successes have all
been at the tricky track. There
was another point in Sahibah’s
favor —she’s a much improved
galloper on heavy ground.
A horse to remember from this
race is the gelding from the
Riverina, Burmonga, who had not
been defeated in any of his eight
previous starts. Had Wagga jockey
Frank Mclntyre allowed Bur-
monga to run along instead of
fighting with him for most of the
journey, the gelding would probably
have kept his unbeaten record.
Former Queensland gal-
loper Westdale has proved
very consistent amongst the
second-grade stayers in Mel-
bourne this spring. He won
at Flemington in September,
at Caulfield in October, and
completed the round of metro-
politan courses by taking the
13-furlongs Mt. Alexander
Handicap at the Valley.
Young D. Hey wood, one of
the most promising lads riding
in Victoria, handled Westdale
brilliantly.
Westdale is likely to race in the
Challenge Stakes in Adelaide on
Christmas Eve. The class of
stayers in Adelaide is not high, and
Westdale should be able to win
there.
• • • •
In the Dunalister High-
weight Hyleena was disap-
pointed for a run on the home
turn, and then finished wide
out for a close second to ex-
Queenslander High Polish.
Hyleena looks certain to make
amends very soon.
• • • •
A most unusual organisation
has been formed in Melbourne.
Termed “The Small Punters’
Club,” the organisation is
inviting members through press
ads. Its declared aims are to
race its own horses, employ
its own trackmen, support all
moves for the betterment of
racing, and to “place small
punters on an equal footing
with the big man in racing.”
The club intends to hold
monthly meetings, which
should be lively affairs if the
group’s horses are not running
up to par.


GOOD MEDICINE
FOR
DISSATISFIED
INVESTORS
•
Learn what we, in our
professional judgment,
would suggest to meet
your personal investment
needs.
JUST SEND THE COUPON
BELOW.
For free information or enclose
£5/5/- for 12 months’ letter
advisory service.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY
BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, U.l.
| NAME
ADDRESS
1
Phone
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. ELECTION AFTER-THOUGHTS
"1171 th the American Presiden-
’ ’ tial campaign quickly
fading into history commen-
tators are hastening to put on
paper “lessons learnt” and
trends observed before these,
too, become mere history.
The independent magazine
“U.S. News and World Report,”
noting that the campaign was
the toughest ever, wonders
whether older and less-vigorous
men than Kennedy and Nixon
could have stood the pace. It
feels that “either there must be
a change in future campaign
methods, or only young men in
the pink of condition can
expect to be nominated.” It
asks whether this campaign has
set the rules for the future or
whether it will force a change
in methods. “The danger is
seen that, in the future, this
country may be deprived of
the leadership of a great man
simply because he is not young
enough or athletic enough to
stand the rigors of a presiden-
tial campaign.” It concludes
that probably the real answer
is that “the candidates, issues
and times fix the pattern for the
campaign.”
Writing in New York
“Herald Tribune,” Roscoe
Drummond names the three
things which impressed him
most about the campaign:
“1. The terrible emptiness of
the campaign in which neither
candidate dealt substantially
and significantly with hardly
anything.
“2. The notable absence of
smear tactics and personal
abuse.
“3. The almost uniform
fairness of the press in giving
even-handed space and promi-
nence to both sides. There were
few signs of the one-party press,
from the standpoint of news
objectivity, about which Adlai
Stevenson used to protest —
and with some justice.
“I thought the campaign
would be just the opposite from
shallow. Here we had two
unusually knowledgeable, ex-
perienced, articulate nominees.
There was every reason to
expect that the cases which
Manchester “Guardian.”
“AT LEAST, MAC, THIS IS MY VERY OWN.”
each would make to the nation
would, to a large extent, be
solid and meaty. Mostly they
were shallow and horribly
repetitive. The issues which
came to dominate so much
of the talking, like Quemoy
and Matsu, had no more place
in the campaign than Nixon’s
five-o’clock shadow.
“The debates were a welcome
innovation and they ought not
to be lost. But after the first
one they yielded little that was
new and less that was illu-
minating.
“Perhaps because of the
‘debates’ the candidates de-
livered hardly any serious, sub-
stantial ‘set speeches’ and these
were not often broadcast to
file nation. On this point Rich-
ard Rovere wrote in the ‘New
Yorker’ that, while such
speeches in the past may have
had little impact, ‘they served
an important political purpose,
They provided a kind of ideo-
logical scaffolding for the cam-
paign. They forced the candi-
date to dwell at some length
on a single problem and to
impose some kind of order and
organisation on his thoughts.'
They were almost totally
missing this fall.
“I assume that each candi-
date conducted the kind of
campaign he thought most use-
ful. I hope it won’t happen
again.
“Compared with many other
Presidential elections this was
a clean campaign. At the very
start in Los Angeles Senator
Kennedy, comparing his oppo-
nent with a riverboat gambler,
tried to taunt the Vice-Presi-
dent into replying in kind, but
he never returned to this theme.
Mr. Nixon never spoke more
harshly of his opponent than
President Truman and Senator
Johnson had before the nomi-
nation.
“In the terms of Mr.
Stevenson’s past criticism, the
press showed notable fairness
in covering both sides. Ken-
nedy had 19 more newspapers
supporting him than supported
Mr. Stevenson. With rare
exceptions Kennedy and Nixon
got equal play in the news
columns.
“I suspect that the even-
handed treatment Mr. Kennedy
almost invariably received was
in part one of the unexpected
dividends of the religious issue,
since no paper wants to offend
a large body of adherents of
any faith. But it also reflected
a trend toward greater political
objectivity fo
columns.” e Q e\vs
‘‘thecloseSCoTt^
lar vote will act a* l lne P°PU-
on legislation to carry^utl?
extreme social-economic Vm
gramme placed in the n P
cratic Platform.” On t h? mo '
th u ath K ic candid ate he 5
Si t by c K hoosing Kenned Y the
electors have now dispelled a
legend which had worked to
the disadvantage of Tj S
foreign relations. But he says
that voting statistics from the
big cities make it p l a i n that
there was a concentration of
Catholic voters for Kennedy:
“What else could have been
expected of them, and those
of other minorities who joined
them, after evidence mounted
that his faith was the principal
reason why many citizens in
normal Democratic areas in-
tended to vote against him?
It is also plain that Kennedy’s
campaign strategists, conscious
that as a ‘sleeper’ this factor
could defeat him, but in the
open would be an asset to him,
kept it awake after certain Pro-
testant groups had rung public
bells to arouse it. But the
demonstration that a Catholic
birthright is not an automatic
bar to the Presidency should
minimise the issue hereafter.”
Returning to his “restraint”
theme Krock apparently relies
on the strength of Vice-Presi-
dent-elect Senator Johnson:
“Barely has there been an
instance of more cynical ‘practi-
cal’ politics than the choice
of Johnson to run on a plat-
form pledging him to major
policies and legislation he has
steadfastly opposed. Just after
the Los Angeles convention
ended, it seemed improbable
that the Democratic South and
its leaders would support can-
didates, even though one was
its own, committed, at least
publicly, to a political philoso-
phy and legislative programme
which Southern Democrats
have been denouncing 311
obstructing for years.
“But Johnson used his great
influence to convince every
important Southern P 3l y
leader except Senator Byrd
Virginia that by party. re S u '
larity they could restrain
liberal Democratic majority
Since they also depend on
Democratic national
and the seniority sys f m Coa .
their powerful places in
gress and their State ° r S _
tions, and on lo “ Ip * he y hold
larity for the offices they
or seek, Johnson .
these arguments eff‘ vely rong
“Also they ‘got the sn b
impression’ (9 uo ' 8 persU ade
them) and managed to per


Divorce Notice
ImJUPREME COURT OF NEW
)0 HllTn\r'l, ALES- — In Divorce.
kdal/H JALBOT MINER late of
lit Aimo" Brisbane.— I TAKE NOTICE
>Ptfi«n KE 7 ESME MINER has filed
1960 on« for Divorce No. 1992 of
It just ground of desertion with-
excuse for three years
Hay e n t„.. s “ you wish to defend you
Ndstrv si, 8 * 1 a PP ear ance in the Divorce
W ar ;„ p Jf me Court Mint Building
iSrySydney by 19th
PetiH« an .H obtain a copy of
n without charge from
m ■ charge nom
Vof S .V; IOHNST °NE & CO., Soli-
S). a lr ereagh Street, Sydney.
' HARMS, Registrar.
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
r-;.
:&i£Sj SjWtere
irsi
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in" and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he’ll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
—London “Daily Express.”
ALL OF A SUDDEN WE'VE BECOME A LITERARY-MINDED, PURITANICAL,
CULTURE-SEEKING NATION..."
feir resentful constituents, that
Johnson would somehow see
to it that the extreme proposals
Iky bitterly resented in the
Los Angeles platform would
lever become acts of Congress
during a Kennedy-Johnson
administration.
“This impression will meet
is supreme test when the
Democratic pressure - group
affiliates demand redemption
if the platform pledges that
were designed to assure their
continued affiliation. But the
Johnson - nomination scheme
• worked in enough Southern
States to avert Democratic
Meat in the very close elec-
ion of 1960.”
Taking the opposite view to
frock, London “Financial
limes" thinks too much em-
phasis has been placed on the
possibility of the narrowness
H Kennedy’s win having a
moderating effect on the policy
} fthe next Administration:
The winner of the Presi-
dential election inherits all the
powers of the U.S. Presidency
irrespective of the size of his
majority. Mr. Kennedy would
undoubtedly like to transform
ls reputation from that of a
fjy Politician supported by
Jlt the nation to that of a
teat President respected by
e whole world, but nobody
has suggested that he is the kind
of sentimentalist to be deflected
from his chosen path by a
statistical calculation of the
number of citizens who voted
against him.
“The narrowness of -his
majority, and its dependence on
Southern support, will not, of
course, smooth his path in
Congress ; but there are a great
many spheres of policy where
the initiative lies almost entirely
with the President himself.
Moreover, if Mr. Kennedy has
a fraction of the ruthlessness
with which he has been credited
he should find means of ensur-
ing co-operation from Con-
gress.
“A more interesting point
about the next President is how
very little is known about his
precise ideas on policy. For all
the arguments on Quemoy and
Cuba, and the catalogue of
social reforms in his party’s
programme, Mr. Kennedy has
essentially asked for a doctor’s
mandate. His appeal was to
Americans who wanted to see
an active President take the
initiative at home and abroad,
rather than react to blows of
fate after they have been
delivered. But he has made no
attempt to specify in advance
the various types of action
which might be necessary.
“Nowhere, in fact, is this un-
certainty greater than the
problems connected with the
international status of the
dollar. Mr. Kennedy made the
necessary campaign denial of
any intention to devalue the
dollar, but how he would react
to any sudden emergency can
only be guessed.
“A great deal will depend
on whether he will regard the
present system of international
relationships governing the
dollar, as a technical matter, to
be subordinated to the other
aspects of policy in which he
is clearly more interested, or
whether in the last analysis he
will see these relationships as an
important aspect of that U.S.
prestige which he is so deter-
mined to restore.”
Subsidising a New
Queen Mary
~[\JTo great enthusiasm has been
aroused in Britain by the
Government’s decision to sub-
sidise the building of a new
Atlantic liner to replace the
Queen* Mary. The “Financial
Times” is among the milder
critics of the plan:
“What price does one put on
national prestige? If the Gov-
ernment’s latest terms for lend-
ing £lBm. to Cunard to replace
the Queen Mary is any guide,
it is likely to be a high one.
After the Conservatives’ elec-
tion pledges to uphold the
British position on the North
Atlantic run the Minister of
Transport was bound to accept
almost all the Chandos Com-
mittee's proposals for helping
Cunard towards this aim ; and
this, with a few marginal but
interesting changes, he has now
agreed to do. The size,
speed, accommodation and
structure of the ship are to be
just as the committee recom-
mended and, on the matter of
prestige alone, one can only
hope that this 75,000-ton ven-
ture does not prove to be the
misdirection of investment
that the present switch of North
Atlantic traffic from sea to air
would make one suppose.
“Where, however, Mr.
Marples has decided to depart
from Lord Chandos’s recom-
mendations, he has generally
done so in the right direction.
One of the main criticisms of
the original proposals was that,
even considering the national
issues involved, Cunard was
being lent the money too
cheaply. The terms of the loan
have therefore been noticeably
stiffened. This applies not so
much to the higher rate of in-
terest the loan will in theory
bear —Cunard is being given a
lump-sum grant to compen-
sate for much of the extra cost
of this —but rather in the more
stringent conditions laid down
about repayment. Very
properly, interest is now to be
charged from the actual date
on which the money is lent
and not from the date on which
the ship enters service. Even
more important, if the ship fails
after six years to show a satis-
factory profit to Cunard, the
rate of interest the company
will have to pay on the Govern-
ment loan will not be reduced
pari passu with the return on
the ship itself.
“All this, as well as the slight


change in the form of the Gov-
ernment’s advance aimed at
giving Cunard more incentive
to keep down the cost of the
ship, are steps in the right direc-
tion. But plenty of doubts re-
main. The fact is that the Gov-
ernment is committing itself
once again—and at a time
when every effort is being made
to cut unnecessary State ex-
penditures in other spheres—-
to a project which few of even
the more committed experts
really expect to pay a market-
rate.
“It could be even so that the
ship will be a worth-while pres-
tige investment —this is a
thing which no one will ever be
able to tell. And certainly the
better the ship that is built for
the money, the better bargain
for the nation it is going to be.
But inevitably the precedent
that the Government has set in
the case of the Queen Mary
will make it hard for it to re-
fuse a subsidy when the Queen
Elizabeth comes up for replace-
ment. This is, perhaps, the
most disturbing thought of all.”
Various Voices
Harold Watkinson ( Britain’s
Minister of Defence): “British
defence policy is not centred
around any particular theory
or any particular weapon or
group of weapons. It is not
dependent exclusively upon
nuclear or upon conventional
weapons. It is, as it should be,
a balanced combination of the
weapons and devices that are
available, carefully matched to
the immense variety of defence
tasks that fall to the United
Kingdom .... One cannot
separate the conventional from
the nuclear in watertight com-
partments.”
* * *
U.K. Conservative M.P. John
Tilney : “I do not think that
the Western world realises what
it may have to face in ten years’
time. We are only partially
united. Our Nato alliance is
temporary, and shows many
signs of national desires going
in the opposite direction to
collective needs. In no way
is Nato or the Atlantic Com-
munity in being on the eco-
nomic and social front. Yet, it
is in this field that, in my
opinion, the ideological war
against the Communist faith
must be fought and won.”
* * *
Mr. Butler: “Without the
nuclear weapon Britain’s voice
would not be strong in the
councils of the world ....
Without the nuclear weapon I
do not believe we would have
the strength to achieve the dis-
armament upon which the
future of the world at the
present time depends.”
* * *
Britain’s Defence Minister,
Harold Watkinson: “By aban-
doning nuclear weapons Britain
could not avoid the effects of
a nuclear war, or influence any
other nation in its policy to-
wards such weapons. It is com-
pletely dishonest to claim that
we could opt out of the tragic
effects of a nuclear battle.
Neutralism —unilateralism or
the rejection of our own nuclear
London “Observer."
“THE HOUSE, I AM SURE, WILL AGREE WITH ME ...”
London “Spectator."
“WELL, WHOM MARX HAS JOINED TOGETHER
LET NO MAN PUT ASUNDER.”
capacity will not help us to
keep the peace—it can only
make this vital task more
difficult.”
* * *
Dr. Grayson Kirk, president
of Columbia University: “We
are today in an extremely
ironical situation. Men can
reach out into space for hun-
dreds of thousands of miles,
but they cannot reach across
the conference-table to each
other except in bitter dispute.
They can look into the heart
of the atom and they are begin-
ning to understand what they
see there. But they cannot look
into each other’s hearts with
understanding and sympathy.”
* * *
Cyril Osborne (British Con-
servative M.P. ): “The danger
of a third world war is ten
times greater from China over
Formosa than from Russia over
Berlin. Russia is now one of
the rich satisfied nations. She
has too much to lose to want
war. China has only her
poverty and her faith. She has
nothing to lose.”
Dragnet Digest
New York “Herald Tribune”:
Since the foundering earlier
this year of the negotia-
tions at Melun between spokes-
men for the French govern-
ment and the rebel F.L.N. the
Algerian struggle has returned
to its old pattern of bitter and
hopeless guerrilla war, with
neither side capable of clear-
cut victory. It is this climate
that encourages F.L.N. sym-
pathisers in France to openly
defy the government, that leads
the Soviet Union to introduce
another explosive element by
sending a shipload of supplies
to the rebels, that brings new
misgivings to the mass of the
French populace which wishes
to see an end to the war.
“In a situation of this kind,
it seems to us, a resumption of
the direct talks that were
broken off at Melun would
offer the best answer to the
doubts of the public in France
and Algeria alike.”
* * *
Richard Scott, in the Man-
chester “Guardian”:
“It seems to me that me
facts do not yet warrant accep
ance of the internationalisation
of the Algerian prohlem a
that to do so would , o J ly ,u t 0
a solution more difficu
achieve. The Al 2 er ‘ a ” t w
tion is very different from that
of Indo-China before.»
Geneva conference be
assembly “of 99
nations.”


C.S.R. Co.'s half-yearly report
Points from General Manager’s report to shareholders
In his recently released half-yearly report to shareholders,
pr. J. Vernon, General Manager of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Limited, mentioned:
»increased sales of building materials (but
costs rising and competition keener)
* in industrial chemicals import competition
severe for some products. Satisfactory pro-
gress in building new chemical factories at
Altona
« low production of raw sugar in Fiji and likely
financial loss
« C.S.R. retail packs of refined sugar, selling
well in N.S.W., will soon be sold in Victoria
and Queensland
The Company’s
Sugar Activities
Raw Sugar
Australian raw sugar mills:
The Company’s seven Aus-
tralian mills are expected to
make about 297,000 tons of
raw sugar in the 1960 season,
an increase of 3% over the
previous season.
Fiji raw sugar mills: Pro-
longed negotiations for a new
purchase of cane contract seri-
ously delayed the start of har-
vesting this year.
For a number of reasons,
particularly the low production
and the continuation in 1960
of the unsatisfactory price scale
for cane, the season’s oper-
ations at our four mills in Fiji
seem certain to result in a
financial loss.
Refined Sugar
Australia: Sales of sugar
products for the half-year
Ended 30th September were
233,000 tons, a small reduction
on the corresponding half-year
of 1959.
Retail packets of 2 lb. and
‘t lb. now represent about a
tod of our sales of refined
!lJ to to the grocery trade in
New South Wales. These
packages will soon be produced
and sold in Victoria and
Queensland.
New Zealand: Sales of sugar
products by our subsidiary,
the New Zealand Sugar Co.
Ltd., increased slightly.
Sugar Industry
Matters
Australian Raw
Sugar Production
The 1960 season’s output of
the 34 Australian raw sugar
mills (of which C.S.R. owns
seven) is expected to total
about 1,330,000 tons, which is
about 80,000 tons more than in
the previous season.
International Sugar Agree-
ment restrictions on exports
continue in force, but their eff-
ect for 1960 has been eased for
Australia by about 100,000
tons by the inability of
Mauritius to supply its full
quota, due to cyclone damage.
Cane is available to produce
more than the 1,330,000 tons
of raw sugar.
Bulk Loading of Raw
Sugar in Queensland
The new bulk raw sugar-
storage and loading terminal
at Mourilyan Harbour has
come into operation with the
1960 crushing season. Twenty-
six of Australia’s thirty-four
raw sugar mills now handle
their output in bulk.
Building Materials
Ruberoid: With The Ruberoid
Co. Ltd., of London, we have
formed a new company, The
Ruberoid Company of Aus-
tralia Pty. Ltd. A factory is
being built at Altona in Vic-
toria to manufacture bitu-
minous roofing materials and
allied lines, and it should start
operating in the latter part of
1961. The C.S.R. Co. has a
60% interest in the joint com-
pany and will market the pro-
ducts through its Building
Materials Division.
Pyneboard (60% C.S.R.):
The new factory at Oberon,
making a rigid furniture and
building board from pine flakes,
started producing in May and
is now working at full capacity.
Pyneboard is of very good
quality compared to similar
overseas products, and is
already in strong demand.
Equipment has been ordered to
double the capacity of the
factory.
Hardboard: The construc-
tion of the new factory at
Bacchus Marsh is proceeding
and production is expected to
start early in 1961. Sales of
Masonite and Timbrock were
higher than in the previous six-
monthly period. A new range
of “Marlite” decorative hard-
boards is being produced to
meet the demand for durable,
finished linings. Further ex-
pansion of hardboard manu-
facturing capacity is being
A recent development at C.S.R.’s Yarraville sugar refinery in Victoria is the hulk-handling
installation for receiving raw sugar. Photograph shows the wharf conveyor and elevating conveyor
whic carry sugar from ship to refinery.
made at the Raymond Terrace
factory.
8.1. Fibertex: Sales of rock-
wool insulation have increased
satisfactorily and additional
plant capacity is being installed
in Sydney. B. I. Styltone
fissured acoustic tiles are now
being marketed and have been
well received by the building
trade.
Gypsum and Plaster: The
Kangaroo Island bulk gypsum
loading plant in South Aus-
tralia and the new plaster mill
in Brisbane have commenced
operations.
Gyprock: The use of this
gypsum lining board is now
well accepted in the building
trade and sales continue to
increase markedly. Plant
capacity is being increased at
our factory at Concord, Sydney.
Sales and costs: Almost all
other lines of building
materials continue to sell satis,
factorily, and sales of all C.S.R.
building products for the half-
year just ended were about
10% more in value than for
the previous corresponding
half-year. Costs, however, have
increased for many lines.
The production of building
materials is attracting new
manufacturers into the field
and, with the continued ex-
pansion of capacity of existing
manufacturers, this is resulting
in keen selling competition for
all lines.
Industrial Chemicals
Demand for chemical pro-
ducts from both the Lane Cove
and Rhodes factories of C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty. Ltd. (60%
C.S.R.) has continued at a
fairly, high level. However, as
a result of the abolition of im-
port licensing, a number of
products are experiencing very
severe competition from im-
ports, and for some of them
a difficult period lies ahead.
Satisfactory progress is being
made with the erection for
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50%
C.S.R. Chemicals) of the
factory at Altona, Victoria,
where styrene monomer,
ethylene dichloride, caustic
soda and chlorine will be made.
Styrene monomer is expected
to be produced in August,
1961.
The other joint chemical
venture at Altona, B. F.
Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. (40% C.S.R. Chemi-
cals), to manufacture the well-
known plastic, polyvinyl
chloride (PVC), is making good
progress and production is
expected to start early in 1961.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 3 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
THE WOOER
By
E. O. SCHLUNKE
In the days when any young
Australian farming - man
with a future had his own
horse and sulky, and
perhaps his thoughts on a T-
model Ford by the time he got
to the age for serious courting,
Charlie Hohnberg came to our
place riding a rugged young
mare he’d bought cheaply be-
cause it was an outlaw.
When I took the news of
his approach to the girl we had
helping my mother, she said,
with a toss of her head, “Him!
He needn’t come seeing me.”
“That’s right, Hilda,” my
mother encouraged her. “He’s
not nearly good enough for a
nice girl like you.”
Hilda watched him through
the window; the first man
who’d come to see her in all
the years she’d been with us.
“He’ll never get on, either,”
said my mother.
Hilda seemed to be in agree-
ment with this ; however, with
another toss of her head, she
disappeared into her bedroom,
to reappear in her prettiest
frock, a white muslin with pink
trimmings.
“You go first,” she said to
me in an excess of modesty, her
voice full of ululations.
She pushed me through the
door with tremulous hands.
She wasn’t a good-looking girl,
but very kind, and in my 10-
year-old way I was in love with
her.
/Charlie arrived slowly. Not
like most young men who’d
have the whip busy, so they’d
arrive in dashing style. But to
my discerning eye —for we all
knew a great deal about horses
in those days—it was quite a
feat to arrive at all, on the
kind of horse he was riding.
Under the firmly-held reins,
its sturdy neck straining rebelli-
ously, it tacked from side to
side of the track in a nervous,
quick-stepping amble, writhing
and squirming under him, inch-
ing its back legs up under its
stomach ready to rear, or
striving to get its head down
for a buck. Although it was
a cool day the horse was sweat-
ing freely, while Charlie had
the look of a man who'd been
uncommonly active on the way
over. His felt hat was jambed-
on at an unbecoming angle,
and there was a smudge of dust
on one shoulder and hip as if
he’d had a fall.
But his eyes were full of
pride and excitement, and when
he smiled he momentarily
looked handsome enough to be
a suitor for Hilda. Normally,
his rather mongoloid eyes and
cheekbones disqualified him for
the role; on this long-tailed,
shaggy-maned horse, he looked
rather like a follower of
Genghis Khan.
The horse made a great
demonstration when I ran out
to meet him ; backing off and
pig-rooting, her eyes watching
me, desperate and embarrassed
“The first time she’s been
rode for more than a minute,”
Charlie explained.
He sat there,
reluctant to dismount; then he
gave a good-humoredly rueful
smile.
“Six times she got rid of me.
Then I managed to get stud
on. Reckoned I might as well
take her for a good long ride;
make her get used to me being
up here.”
C h a- r 1 i e concentrated on
manoeuvring his horse within
tethering-distance of a big
strong eucalypt while he waited
for me to accept this uncon-
vincing explanation for his
presence.
Then he said, nodding posi-
tively towards the back of the
house, “Is she coming out?”
I told him she might.
“You go and tell her to come
and have a look at me young
mare.”
The next moment Charlie
was sprawling on the ground.
The horse, sensing his abstrac-
tion, had decided this was the
moment to get rid of him.
Charlie, with a good grip of
the reins, sat up and looked at
the horse admiringly.
“Quickest bucker I ever sat
on.”
“I’ll get her,” I said, trying
to suppress my laughter.
By the time I brought Hilda
out, Charlie had tied his
horse, by a very thick rope, o
the big eucalypt. _ m
By way of greeting he aifl
to her, “She
gateposts I tied heT t °’ e \ oots ->
young pine-tree, by
The horse snorted at * .
fiery-eyed, J erkin f a eVery
and attempting to &
time she made a m „ charlje
“She’s a fine horse, djs .
asserted, seeing ~ oU [ a hand
like of it, He te d»“ ~%e
towards it, . | "’until #
ole girl, good it *!>•
allowed him t°


MALNKANA
COURT
CROMULLA
HOME UNITS
Thinking of visiting Cronulla again
this year? Why not have a lovely
Home Unit available right at the
beach for your holidays—Units can be
rented during the rest of the year.
These Units have glorious ocean and
beach views, are handy to station and
shops—are all electric and sewered —
have lovely green lawns all around.
Prices range from
£5,500 to £7,250
Contact —Registered Office
Malnkana Court Pty. Ltd.
Room 220, Hunt Bros. Bldg.,
Crofts Avenue, Hurstville.
’Phone: After Hours:
57-0361. LJ 1 465.
Estab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSULUV/VN y J
PTYLTD Crr
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
„the neck. From there
'lite patience and
y progressed to
nOS e Finally, he’d
over with his fondling
* Ig that it stood still
; patted it on the back.
11 /softened visibly to-
Charlie, throwing me
, cmiles when she dis-
j W much I’d been
pat her,” Charlie
‘.Hilda; just Stroke her
and gentle on the neck,
liter by the head whtle
Jo it”
i £ 2 irl was terrified. She
“back at the mere sugges-
iof touching that sweating,
B jng neck. Charlie, how-
persuaded her with the
and gentle-
-5 he’d used in wooing the
Jt put out her hand ; too
jly, too abruptly.
| £ horse rushed forward to
lit her, knocking Charlie
a Then it jerked back,
ling the girl on the side of
dace, with its bony head,
lagged so demoniacally that
iy leaf in the big eucalypt
id, while the rope bit into
neck so that it seemed the
■1 was going to pull its
doff. Terrible groans came
m out of its great chest.
Charlie leapt to his feet with
agonised cry. He pulled at
fad, trying to induce it to
in the strain ; he tried to
lie the knots, but they were
led iron-hard.
Sow the horse was making
angled noises, more horrible
nits groans: its legs sagged,
nit collapsed in an awkward
np, the rope still biting deep
■0 its neck. Charlie sent me
f°r a knife to cut the
%
horse rolled out flat on
“ground, unconscious.
0 Charlie ran to put his ear
against the region of its
n’ hands spread over
l orse like a mother’s.
, 'aprang erect in great
.threw his coat and hat
| ®ly on the ground and,
rawn with anxiety,
I / a PPIy his own variant
ehaeffer-s resuscitation-
t,o the horse.
then he knelt
4y ful / t 0 hsten for
pan? V s - Eac h time he
'4 renewed
Worn f Vl f or ’ s fl ue ezing
tu t ] le huge chest,
en coural tEe l 5 ront legs apart
The I f lnha ling.
i Er t)leedin l > rneanwE he nursed
:) ce, then n ° Se and injured
-obed a/ ! ecover ing a little,
“ to frock with a
handkerchief, where the horse’s
spittle had stained it.
she was quite outside Char-
lie’s grief and despair. Several
times she turned unhappily to-
wards the house, no doubt
imagining my mother watching
her. She studied Charlie a
while longer, seeing his com-
plete absorption ; looking lost
and a bandoned. Finally she
stuffed her sodden handkerchief
into her pocket, turned to
Charlie and said in a trembling
voice:
“It’s a horrible animal. I
hope it dies! ”
She waited a moment for his
reaction, but after one brief,
shocked glance at her he went
on with his struggle.
She turned from him then,
and, erect and with more
dignity than I’d ever seen in
her before, she marched back
into the house.
went on with his
struggle. At last the mare
began to show signs of revival;
its chest heaved of its own
volition ; life began to return
to Charlie’s face.
But it was not until he had
the mare on its feet again that
he remembered the girl.
“You tell her,” he said to me
with a bitter sort of triumph,
“that the mare ain’t going to
die.”
The look on his face was a
warning to me of what mistakes
a man can make. I felt torn
for Hilda.
“Your horse hurt her badly,”
I told him ; “she was crying.”
But Charlie was relentless as
he mounted his now miracu-
lously-quietened mare.
“I told her, ‘slow and
gentle,’ ” he said, “and she
goes shoving out her hand like
the house was on fire! ”
THE LAKE IN WINTER
1
Birds on the slowness of the lake
are winter-black and sound as sharp
as splitting waters on a weir
and at our sight they break and slip
among the numbed slow lily-pads
and shake their warnings to the reeds.
The lake glides back among the hills
where all the trees come silently
like nervous deer to stop and peer
at this apparent unity
with air and mountains. See, the birds
among such calms are small as words.
m
Out to the centre of the lake
pursued by broken surfaces
they flee from us, as if they were
too timid to bear witnesses
to such small raptures as they touch.
All flee, like silence, out of reach.
If we should love this place as well,
then why should we be strangers here?
Why should these birds have made such cries
and warnings clamorous with fear?
The water where they all have fled
now stills again, their noise is dead.
2
While we stand together silently
in this filled valley water-risen far
among the first and stranger hills, my dear
one wife, give me your hand, stand close to me
that we may come into this long country
and these unbidding lovely ways with our
two lives as one, and, being strangers here,
may not be hurt and lonely, suddenly.
Water chills, it is no welcome touch
in winter, and these hills mean more than cold
and rock to break our feet —we have no hold
to claim the lake, we have no truth to reach
these places. Only in each other’s hand
do we find peace to exorcise this land.
Queensland.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Better Speech, Please
A 15th-century Italian, Vit-
torino da Feltre, is spoken of
in F. G. Phillips’s School Is
Out as being “the first modern
schoolmaster.” Among other
ideas and ideals concerning the
education of the young, Vit-
torino attached the utmost im-
portance to reading, and in-
sisted on proper breathing,
clear enunciation, right empha-
sis and correct intonation.
These things he considered
“essential in a gentleman.”
The importance of correct
speech could be profitably re-
viewed by modern educators,
who would do well to consider
the advisability of making an
English oral-test compulsory
for Intermediate and Leaving
Certificate students.
The majority of schools en-
courage students to take the
oral examination in French and
German. Why should there not
be some equivalent standard
in their native tongue?
Judging by the discussions I
have heard recently on trains
and buses where examination-
candidates have been airing
their opinions of the papers set
and answers required, few
could match even a B-pass with
an equal mark in English
speech. And how many really
clever students must suffer from
ignorance of correct pronunci-
ation and general lack of vocal
ability when, in later life, they
are required to air their ideas
aloud!
Our modern schools attach
no merit to reading-ability.
There is no general instruc-
tion in correct and clear
speech. No marks are lost
for tortured vowels, missing
consonants or incomprehen-
sible mumblings. Children
whose parents wish them to
utter more distinctly and cor-
rectly must take private elo-
cution lessons outside the
school curriculum. And these
are charged for handsomely.—
Pat (N.S.W.).
“Frozen Bank Deposits”
If there is anything more
timid and afraid than a pound-
note, it is two pound-notes—
which explains why the old lady
came into the bank clutching
a daily newspaper in her hand,
and with the avowed intention
of withdrawing her balance.
Under the mattress, in the tea-
pot, up the chimney—anywhere
other than in a bank was her
idea of safety for her savings.
And the cause of her disquiet
was the intimation, in thick
black type on the front page,
that “Banks warned they can-
not expect release of frozen
deposits from the Reserve Bank
until next February or March/’
Now, to most people with
bank-accounts such an intima-
tion is nebulous ; but any sug-
gestion that deposits are to
be “frozen” is enough to urge
some to withdraw while
they can. To those who under-
stand even the generalities of
banking procedure this seems
quite silly, but people can be
scared easily. For instance, one
"I'll say it's super-boosted high-octane !”
woman customer closed her
account when she found that
the newly-opened branch in
rented premises had no strong-
room and was managing tem-
porarily with two safes.
Stupid rumors (largely poli-
tical) were sufficient to start
a run on the Government
Savings bank of N.S.W. which
resulted in the bank suspending
payment and subsequently be-
ing taken over by the Common-
wealth Bank. For that reason it
is highly desirable that any
talk about “freezing” deposits
be in a minor key. A discreet
reserve is a good line to follow
where other people’s money
is concerned. There is no need
to give matches to fools ; bush-
fires can be started easily
enough without their aid. We
all know there are certain ele-
ments which would be only too
pleased to see the “hated banks”
in trouble. So there should be
a soft pedal used on those con-
stant announcements about
Australia’s financial stability.
Reverting to the late-lamented
N.S.W. Savings Bank, it is sig-
nificant the more the commis-
sioners stressed the bank’s
ability to pay on demand, the
longer became those queues.
—Gard (Vic.).
Rice in the North
Given rich alluvial flats,
periodically-flooding rivers, a
tropical climate and eager
customers, the logical thing for
us to do is to grow rice, and
on the biggest scale. Nobody
knows what Australia’s rice-
growing potential really is. We
grow a little for our own use,
of course; but so far have
done nothing worth while to
assess the possibilities of what
—going by such reports as we
have had —should become one
of the world’s great rice-
producing areas; that is, the
Gulf of Carpentaria littoral
and the Kimberleys.
Some years ago a start was
made to grow rice in the North-
west (from memory, on the
Fitzroy) and more recently
there was a furore about a new
scheme at Humpty-Doo. The
first area seems to be battling
still, apparently competing with
the N.S.W. Riverina on the
local market; but the latest
news to hand of Humpty-Doo
is that the sponsors have sunk
over £l.sm. in the project, are
£300,000 down, and are asking
for Federal Government aid.
In all the circumstances it
might be a sound long-term
investment to give that aid;
but before Australian taxpayers
are committed to k , ■
Private capitalists’ bilk w 1 " 8
entitled to know j u * ’ J* a u re
first rosy glow has fai r the
» hat is lacking t( ; and
Humpty-Doo on theuiva Bet
Paying list. Success 0i f 'nd-
in large-scale development l '
and at the already-establit
enterprise on theFiLo y s &
tell us what we need L , ld
about the possibilities 0 f
in tropical
us ing up-to-date
machinery and technique w e
can produce and market rice
in a big way, then we should
get on w.th the job without
any more messing about if
we can’t do it, we should be
plainly told so, and told whv
not. ’
Before long our White Aus-
tralia policy will be attacked
seriously in U.N. and elsewhere
We can’t ignore world opinion
and may find it hard to justify a
dog-in-the-manger refusal to
let others feed themselves from
land which we refuse to till,
Even our friends will ask awk-
ward questions, and it would
be a good thing for us to have
some answers ready. We
haven’t the rest of time in
which to dig them up.— Jas.
Macansh (Qld.).
The Seventh State
K. A. Saxby's proposal to in-
clude Papua-New Guinea as
another State of the Common-
wealth of Australia (B.
17/11 /’6O) should have been
advanced long ago. We should
be preparing those territories
for Statehood now, giving the
residents a promise of voting
for secession some time in the
future if they so desire.
Statehood would be the
answer to fears of an influx of
cheap, colored labor to the
mainland, because all natives
would become Australian
citizens, subject to industrial
awards ruling in the Common-
wealth.
Only by including Papua-
New Guinea as a State can
Australia be sure of its defence-
lines. Independence would not
guarantee that surety-it would,
in fact, be a danger as the
natives could not defendlt e
selves against an invader o
any strength.
Statehood could be achieve
g°a™ed "
Nations opposition, smc
hood would be
people far wore n( j they
could otherwise gam,


FajJJi In ihc
Fniune
\
With the ending of another school year,
thousands of young Australians will be starting out
to make their careers.
This thought returned to my mind recently
when I met Master Angus John Mclntyre at his
parents’ home in Geelong. He has years of
schooling yet ahead of him, but his is one of the
fresh young lives to whom the future belongs. And
it is to them that these words are mainly addressed.
• First, let no boy or girl stepping out into the
world today get the idea that they are destined to
be “ordinary people.” Everyone has a special
aptitude ready to be developed and expressed, a
particular influence to exert.
One essential piece of advice, then, is: Do not
under-rate the strength of the thread of influence
you are weaving. Were it not for “the magic of
the minimum,” none of life’s great forces would
ever have been started, much less sustained.
So start your careers with an earnest belief in
yourself, in the country in which you are blessed
to be living, and in your ability to grasp the
magnificent opportunities it offers to you in
your generation.
Sometimes you will be perplexed at the
problems that will rise around you, and with the
individual contribution you can make towards
solving them from out of your own positive will
to succeed.
But be not deceived into thinking that material
gain is the true measure of success. Wealth, like
power, is given to the few; and as men in all ages
have found, both can be a good slave but a
bad master.
It is the spiritual, with all its strength and
simplicity, that will leave the imperishable imprint
on everything you are .and everything you do.
And the degree to which you pattern your life’s
work on those standards will decide the future of
this Australia which, while dear to all of us, is now
your own special inheritance.
///A
y
u become integral parts of
la concern immediately.
7 it would banish any
y/iVs-wj.
“New” Economics
t student of economic
L spends a great deal of
c absorbing the details of
Mercantile System, that
iial brand of economic
r which Jacob Vmer
; 'meant freedom for the
restrictions for the many.”
i, star of the Mercantilist
,s setting fast in 1776. This
~a momentous year in the
lid’s history. On the
tstern side of the Atlantic it
(the drafting of the Ameri-
i Declaration of Independ-
ltt; on the eastern' side the
kblication of Adam Smith s
Mu of Nations.
It also ushered-in the Indus-
kl Revolution. It was the
tiili of laissez-faire and an
Lsion in trade and corn-
ice that has never been
[passed. It ushered-in a
aadard of living which, a
utury before, would have
a considered a wild dream.
The basis of the “new
aoirncs” is credited to John
liynard Keynes. Here, it was
Slimed, was the answer to the
pmist’s prayer. No more
ipressions, because now we
lie the economic tools to
Sal with such a catastrophe,
le new theory. had a try-out
3 the U.S. with Roosevelt’s
iew Deal. It looks as though
listobe the panacea applied
lie Commonwealth Govern-
»t.
ta the strange thing about
ftills is that closer observa-
*of it will disclose un-
stable signs of the old
teantile System sticking out
:iln| y. Control of credit and
lr ®oy; import restrictions ;
tpansion of exports ; savage
* °p certain industries ;
W'es, whether they are
Wor not; in short, Gov-
ri ®nt control and direction
• ve ry life-blood of
mmerce and industry: these
t the devices of the much-
,l lte d Mercantilist. It is
J surprising how people
; taen deluded into think-
w , 5 * s the latest in
L lc fought. It’s rather
! tsc j, new ty'g ra duated doctor
, mg red-flannel shirts
a , Wea k chest.
ilia °? not . foll ow that Aus-
L lm Port recklessly
>S eC i e ( xpor,s - 11 does
tj ,1 that we can borrow
t th at e COWs come home ;
: ’he o? e , have t 0 8° back
it 17th n<^arc * °f living of
century.
But it is a fact that we must
plan around our possible
future export markets, for
there we will receive the money
to pay for our necessary
imports. These exports will
lie more and more in the direc-
tion of the so-called un-
developed countries, which are
beginning to expand at a
remarkable rate. They will be
greater potential markets than
the highly industrialised coun-
tries such as England, the U.S.
and Canada.
But this brings out the crux
of the problem. These poten-
tial importers are poor coun-
tries relatively to the others.
Their markets will be highly
competitive. If we are to cap-
ture them, our price must be
right. We must be able to
guarantee delivery.
The only way to do this is
to cut costs to the bone ; to
expand output without lower-
ing wages.
We are not going to get far
by shortening the working-
week, bumping-up wages with-
out increasing production or
taxing our best industries out
of existence.
The working-week could be
shortened if the same output
as at presept was maintained ;
wages could be increased only
if output were expanded and
more markets captured. There
is nothing mysterious about
this. It’s just plain common-
sense,
Australia has made remark-
able strides industrially and
commercially since the end of
the war, but so have Japan,
Russia and Germany. They
are now in a position to com-
pete more than favorably with
us in the race for markets.
If the Commonwealth
Government would formulate
a long-range plan based on
sound economics and common-
sense, it would earn the grati-
tude of all thinking Australians.
At present, their economics
are as outmoded as the frock-
coated physician and his four-
in-hand. — Bilwon (Q.).
Bunnies
It is ironical that in Sydney
a rabbit-control symposium
should have been discussing the
best methods of rabbit-eradi-
cation coincidentally with the
Minister for Agriculture grant-
ing State-wide licensing of
domesticated rabbits for car-
cass and fur-production.
Advocates of domestic-rabbit
farming claim that it will boost
the economy from sales of car-
casses and pelts, with no danger
of their reverting to the wild
state. But no matter how
thorough regulations may
appear on paper, in practice


there is always the human ele-
ment to contend with. Policing
of the conservation of these
rabbits will fall primarily on
the Pasture Protection Boards,
which already have more work
than they can cope with.
Already one board reports that
there are far more inquiries
connected with intentions to
run rabbits than there are for
1080 poison.
Perhaps the biggest stumb-
ling-block to successful running
of domesticated rabbits is our
Australian character. Straying
stock on the roads, fences in
need of repair, noxious-weeds
left undestroyed, etc., will ex-
plain that eloquently enough.
—Van (N.S.W.).
The London Exchange Rate
There is still one bottle in
the medicine-chest that should
be tried on the malady-stricken
Australian economy. It was
shoved away on a back shelf
years ago, labelled “London
Exchange Rate.” It’s good
medicine, properly applied, but
it has been badly misused over
the past 30 years because,
whether our balances' in Lon-
don were over-large or too
small, the dose has remained
constant.
Time was when the Austra-
lian pound could be kept close
to sterling by the simple ex-
pedient of shipping gold, either
to or from London as the case
demanded ; if the rate reached
a figure at which it was
cheaper to ship gold, this was
done. Known as “the gold
point,” it has gone down the
“Chicken!”
drain with much else that was
instrumental in permitting the
proper operation of natural
economic law.
It is about 30 years since the
Commonwealth Bank an-
nounced that it was prepared
to buy exchange on London at
the rate of £AI2S for £lOO
sterling during a time when the
primary-producer was in need
of some artificial bolster ; and
no doubt the Country party
has wielded the big stick to
ensure that it has not been
disturbed since, even when
wool prices reached astronomic
heights. Yet only the other day
a spokesman for the graziers
said that, while their costs of
production were “geared” to
Australian money, their sale-
price was tied to world prices.
What about that fictitious Lon-
don exchange-rate? Doesn’t
that come into the picture?
An adjustment of the rate
should be no more ticklish a
job than all this sudden put-
ting-on and taking-off of im-
port-controls. It
result in fewer n §h perha P*
Queers gracing the stat^'^ 0 '
of the luxury H ners S
by and large w e all u IDgit
much better off- L f Uld be
and graziers iaclJed.
. Th e whole thine is „
inflationary, and it’ s
Holt and Menzies (who caiwi
them specialists?) dredged K
bottle out. There will h d hat
squealing, but the mediXe'S
be administered in gra< S
doses, and verv often tif' 1
unpalatable medicine does The
most good. It i s h.Vh r;
that the poor old Australian
pound was made a bit Z
presentable and fit , 0
Its English brother in the face
to say nothing of its American
cousin, the dollar. Its pur
chasing-power, both home and
abi oad, is too low. If one could
walk round London and buy
for 15s. sterling the same
quantity of goods as one can
buy in Australia for our pound
then it would not matter; but
it doesn’t work out that way,
as visitors to England and
New Zealand soon discover,
Incidentally, our sister
Dominion across the Tasman;
years ago showed the way
towards economic stability by
restoring the £NZ to par with i
sterling, and the good effects
were soon obvious.
Restoration of our pound to
eventual parity with sterling
should be steadfastly aimed at,
and no political pressures
should be allowed to interfere
with steps taken to achieve it,
—Ceg (Vic.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 619
Across
I—lt’s dampening to walk away from such wicked lies. (4)
3 and 9 —lt’s on the air when there’s any test work for
the social editress. (4-2-4, 11)
11— Stored water cuckoo is back. (3)
12 — Hoppin’ ? (8, 6)
15 —File by holding stray fruit. (9)
17 —Gone wrong with an address for baby Columbus. (5)
18—Departed form of 17-across. (5)
20—A news item on the essential
ego feature of S.A. politics. (9)
22—Communist in the legislature at
Providence is quite a bird.
(5, 6,3)
26 — Pop one line on another,
buddy! (3)
27 Can be disciplined like one
between the Wurlitzer and the
fur. (11)
28 — Cowboy country’s will is most
superficial. (10)
29 — Poetical work does badly. (4)
Down
1 — Legal proceedings under a river
of smokestacks and all that. (10)
2 Hurts the lesson I arranged. (7)
4 Pen of a tree. (5)
5 Have now to change. (3)
6 No drain affected this hearth
equipment and pressing equip-
ment. (7)
7 Game material with a metallic
sheen. (4)
8— Work under a doctor during the
fall. (4)
10 —One Tchaikovsky, being dis-
heartened, is scratchable. (5)
13 — Dark thing is even obscurer. (5)
14 — And I send up the middle attitude
of the frank. (10)
16 —Almost bare comedian is having
a little loaf. (5, 4)
19 — Hope ruined 51 and a Shakes-
pearean. (7)
20 — Inspiring dread up in flight. (5)
21— No breed could be thus
dressed. (7)
23 — Peter Thomson’s at home on such
measures. (5)
24 — One’s distorted features include
it. (4)
25 Work for any composer m the
soup. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 618


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ABOUT THE DAIRY INDUSTRY REPORT
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Lrvone who reads the re-
tport from the committee of
Lj ry is bound to interpret
Mh the bias which his par-
liilar interests dictate. If the
L means more money to a
L it’s a good report so far as
Eis concerned! If it supports
L particular prejudices, it’s
0 better!
] write as a scientist with a
tiled interest in research ; to
1 implicate my judgment I
lime from New Zealand,
itre for years I’ve been com-
bining about the inefficiency
tfdairyfarmers. However, I’m
sing to say what I think about
Itnewspaper summary of the
tport—having not yet been
le to read the original docu-
stiit.
] Ina changing industry where
je march of progress some-
fa alters the direction of our
Domic structure, so that
Itnian on the land finds him-
i losing-out to the city-
teller, I believe that it is the
responsibility of the community
Mwbole to make adjustments
15 smooth and as painless as
*sible for those sections
'feh suffer in a change. The
»I 1 farmer is in such a posi-
ta today.
A dairyman usually grows-
!f® the farm, knows no other
'■r f'fe and in many cases
dairying to any other
S'°n. If his farm is
i he probably lives on a
?j r standard than a city
]J er doing much less work.
I- f not his fault; it is the
tl 0 , a changing economy.
Prol ?l ein is to reconcile
lie ec °nomic reality.
L e ; X , ent to which this is
l ' 0 me one criterion of
£f n > SS c 0r b adne ss of the
I "flees findings,
kiv? , no , t an economist, but
H tif had a little experience
lt d ir manufacturing side of
taS Stry ’ 1 thoroughly
Hat t L . ae committee’s view
variety re , ; should be more
f| 3 our f i A the Uoducts offered
C s ° a ”fa Aus-
«more becoming more
jfa are tood-conscious and
1! Non * £ PP ° rtunities for
One field which
comes to mind is that of fancy
cheeses. Considering the
variety and excellence of the
cheeses of Europe or America,
I often wish the Australian
dairy-industry would show
some enterprise in this direc-
tion. And what about savory-
“Quick, Mary! Get a king-size hoe !”
spreads based on butter? Or
sweet-curd preparations?
I entirely agree with the com-
mittee about the need for more
efficiency in the industry. The
output of each labor-unit is too
low. The present output of the
dairy-industry of N.S.W. could
be maintained with half the
present labor-force if we
applied knowledge we already
have —the gap between practice
and knowledge is far too wide.
I know we have a poor cli-
mate and poor soil for dairying.
But, on the other hand, I know
what good farmers are doing.
Of course, lots of our farms are
too small; but then so are
many farms in other countries.
In Sweden they have been en-
forcing the enlargement of
farms for years in the interests
of the farming community.
There are also dairy-farms in
areas where cows just don’t do
well. It’s silly to carry on
dairying in such places. These
are things the industry has to
face. Let’s get out of the
troublesome areas and make a
real job of the good ones. The
result will be better living for
everyone concerned.
Apart from drastic changes
which will have to come, there
is much to be done which does
not concern a farm’s size of*
location. As I have said, there
is a gap between what good
farmers know and what the
average farmer does. The
farmer himself can hardly be
blamed because he doesn’t
know what can be done. If he
did know, he would probably
do something about it. So the
first problem is to get across to
the average man on the land the
fact that he can do better
for himself.
Who is responsible for the
education of the farmer? I
believe this is the job of the
Department of Agriculture and
also believe it has fallen down
on the job. First, I think that
graduates of the agricultural
colleges are not well enough
trained; secondly, I think
salaries paid to extension-
workers are so poor that
good men will not take
on these jobs; thirdly, I
think the Department itself
has no sense of mission and no
driving purpose. Extension-
officers must be men with a
mission in life. Good men
quickly lose their enthusiasm
when enmeshed in the bureau-
cracy of a Government depart-
ment. There are many good
men in the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture. Well, for
Heaven’s sake, let them get on
with their much-needed jobs
and give them money to work
with, and give proper responsi-
bility. The effectiveness of the
New Zealand Dairy Board’s
consulting officers grew from
methods like these.
Extension - work among
farmers is a job for an en-
thusiast with a mind of his
own ; it is not the job for a
poorly paid clerk suffering from
a chronic infection of red-tape
worms.
Next, the universities! Poor
teaching means poor teachers.
The staff of the colleges should
be drawn from the ranks of
first-class graduates. There are
two reasons why this hasn’t
happened. First, pay is too low
for these jobs to attract the
right men. Secondly, the uni-
versities haven’t provided the
right kind of training in the
field of dairying. At Sydney
University we are trying to
build-up a course in dairy-
husbandry and at the same time
to establish a research-centre.
Almost the whole cost of this
enterprise has been met by the
dairy-industry itself through
the Dairy Husbandry Research
Foundation. It seems to me
that the University has a real
responsibility for training in-
structors in farming problems
with special emphasis on dairy-
husbandry. It’s a bit tough to
expect the dairy-industry to
finance the teaching of its own
subject when most other in-
dustries can obtain the gradu-
ates they need without con-
tributing a penny to the Uni-
versity.
The committee is absolutely
right in emphasising the need
for extension. This means
training men for the work.
And that is the job of the Uni-
versity. The amount of money
spent on agricultural educa-
tion in the universites in N.S.W.
is an insult to the status of the
industry and dairying is per-
haps worse off than many other
branches of agriculture.
Another need, according to
the report, is for more research.
To me, a newcomer from a
country which for years has
led in dairy-research, this is
outstandingly true. I was
shocked to find that there has
been practically no research in
Australia on problems related
to production of quality milk in
local conditions. How can we
possibly make dairy-products


good enough to compete on the
world’s markets unless we
knqpv how to produce good,
clean milk on the farm? We
just can’t borrow other people’s
work and hope it will apply
here ; we must do our own re-
search. The reason it hasn’t
been done is the same as with
extension. Good men are not
attracted into the State Agricul-
tural Departments because of
the drawbacks of poor pay and
bureaucracy, and the univer-
sities haven’t had facilities for
research. The C.5.1.R.0. has
done a good job so far as pro-
duction and manufacture in
the dairy-industry go, but it has
not had enough funds to handle
the dairyfarm side of things.
In particular, I feel that the
role of the universities has been
underestimated in this aspect.
Good teachers and instructors
can only come from institutions
which are active in research.
Hence it is necessary for re-
search in dairying to be car-
ried out in our universities, so
that students can come in con-
tact with the problems of the
industry.
To resolve the current crisis
of the dary industry, perhaps
the most important single con-
tribution which could be made
by Governments is the active
support of teaching and re-
search in the Department of
Agriculture and the universities
together with an expansion of
the work of the C.5.1.R.0., so
that a co-operative effort could
be made on a scale that recog-
nises the difficulty of the tasks
ahead.
The Government of
India has outlined its
third Five Year Plan
for the production of
raw wool. They have
set the target at 90-
million lbs. This is
an increase of 25 per
cent, over the estimated
production in 1960-61.
To achieve this target
they intend opening up
six new sheep-breeding
farms, and 4000 exten-
sion centres. The sheep
population of these
centres would range
from 10,000 to 15,000.
Sheep health is of vital
concern to growers
everywhere, and sheep-
owners are indeed for-
tunate to have available
the Elastrator method
of castrating and tail-
ing. Elastrator Green
Rubber Rings are
humane, lambs cannot
suffer the cruelty of the
“knife,” and are less
likely to become
affected by fly-strike and
disease.
Successful
Young Farmer
The 1850-acre farm run by
S. F. Fisher and his son Peter
at Yaapeet, on the fringe of
the Victorian Mallee, has such
diverse soils —grey-clay loam,
red loam and light sandy
ridges—that a fixed rotation is
difficult. Where cereals can be
grown, though, the programme
is wheat, oats and then barrel-
medic clover.
Three - hundred - and - fifty
acres are sown to lucerne
(because they are unsuitable
for cereals) and receive an
annual topdressing of 701 b. to
901 b. super, an acre. Each
year a portion of the lucerne-
stand is undersown with oats.
Fodder-reserves each year con-
sist of oats (grain) and about
5000 bales of lucerne and
cereal-hay.
This allows the Fishers to
carry 600 Merino-Corriedale-
cross ewes, whose progeny,
sired by Dorset Horn rams,
are sold as fat lambs at four
months or less, weighing 701 b.
to 901 b.
Perhaps the finest product
of this farm, though, is
24-year-old Peter S. Fisher,
selected as Victoria’s out-
standing Young Farmer and
eligible for a three-months’
farming-tour of New Zealand
sponsored by the Bank of New
South Wales.
A foundation-president of
the Rainbow (Vic.) Young
Farmers’ Club, Peter adds
practical experience on his
father’s farm to his training
at Rainbow High School and
Longerenong Agricultural Col-
lege, where he was dux and
gained his Diploma of Agri-
culture with first-class honors.
The pure Dorset Horn
sires for fat-lamb breeding at
Yaapeet come from Peter’s
own small Dorset stud of 30
ewes. —“Wimra.”
Feeding Sheep
Nothing much is gained
from crushing or grinding
grain before feeding it to
sheep.
Trials and observations in
the paddock have made this
clear.
Of all farm animals, sheep
are best able to do their own
grinding. In recent drought-
feeding trials in Queensland,
grain-sorghum, barley, maize,
oats and wheat were all fed
whole —each as a sole diet,
with a bit of finely-ground
limestone —for periods up to
eight months. During this
time there was no evidence
that undigested grain was pass-
ing through the animals. There
was no apparent advantage,
either, when urea was fed with
crushed grain.
When old sheep with poor
teeth are being fed, grain-
crushing is certainly an advan-
tage and it is also better for
young lambs up to six weeks
old. The teeth of ewes that
have been for a long time on
water high in fluorides are
likely to be affert^
animals wili a a to d d ’l ndthese
crushed grain. d better °n
On the Darlina
where self-feeding "f Co ?°* ns >
the ration is usually S" 0 "’
of equal parts of??"? U P
roughage, mainly 8 k? and
roughage prevents g
poisoning or acidosis c
and roughage are mixed?"
gether and nut , °"
hammermill.— a
Poison Train
The Victorian Railways run
a special train to spray weedi-
cide a'ong all railway-lines in
tne State once each year.
This poison-train, with two
sleeping-carriages for its crew
includes nine tankers of 7000
gals, capacity, six of which
contain concentrated weedi-
cide and the other three
weedicide and water. As well,
there’s a mixing-and-spraying
van which also acts as brake-
van.
The sprayed mixture of
sodium-chlorate and sodium-
metaborate—3 gals, to 7 gals,
of water —acts on both the
leaves and roots of the weeds.
The train travels at up to
20 m.p.h., and with four
nozzles on each side and fire
at the back of the brake-van
sprays a 26ft.-wide strip each
side of the track. The mixture,
which isn’t inflammable or
toxic to livestock, clears an
effective fire-break, one full
train-load of spray being suf-
ficient for 400 miles of line,
—“Wimra.”
Wool Marketing
Wool-growers are the victims
of their own efficiency. In the
last 15 years the increase m
individual production has been
amazing. The clip has been
nearly doubled, and the revolu-
tion in land-usage has meant
that 50-million more sheep (ana
also 2-million more cattle) are
now carried in Australia.
A national asset worth more
than £4OO million has grow
from improving land-fort y
and stopping the deten
which was evident in
our grain-producing
This development has
costly, and many have: h
use their labor atld - P Daya ble
years before t ob Sed ty 311
returns; but, .' duS .
siaisrsss--
•%rss bas
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/11/’60)
There should be moderate to good rains in most of
Queensland during December, with light falls in western
and far-south-western districts, and heavy rain on part of
the south coastal area. Similar rains are probable in
January, but with heavy falls in the north coastal and
Peninsula areas.
N.S.W. will probably have moderate patchy rains
in December, with better fails on the Northern Tablelands,
along the North Coast and in north-western districts.
In January there should be moderate rains along the coast,
on the tablelands and in north-western districts, but poor
rainfall seems likely in February.
Victoria will probably have only light patchy rains in
December, and apart from good falls in the central division
and in Gippsland similar conditions are also likely in
January. General rains should start in April.
South Australia may have only poor rainfall in
December, apart from light falls in some south-eastern dis-
tricts. Conditions will probably be dry in January, with
moderate rains likely in the central districts in February.
Good storm-rains are likely in much of Western Aus-
tralia in December, though light falls are probable in the
s.-w.-central north and conditions may be dry about the
Fortescue and West Gascoyne. There should be heavy rains
on the Kimberleys and in north-western districts during
January, probably associated with a cyclone towards the
end of the month.
LENNOX WALKER.


Dry-ttid Picktf
more
■ ■
UP
H\}
%
1
mk
to the acre!
Whether it be wheat, barley or
oats you are sowing the one pickle
that gives you the greatest disease
control is ICI XERESAN' . . . follow
Departmental recommendations.
XERESAN' is a must for pickling
barley and oats . . . you must use a
mercurial dressing to control diseases of
these crops. XERESAN' the only
pickle for barley and oats!
Men year Meet Bteiet
eelk-Otmm...
MERCURIAL DRY-SEED PICKLE
Available from
M&aig®§y<&
or your local ICI Supplier
5AG.227X.9681
[•••
IT'S Vm,n d
YOU'pZI ,NC °n
Or* WOWIHr.,
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
the lift in pastoral
*1 was interpreted as a
f flti relv of price-rises in
*L 1950’5. Consequently
< £ f;L to all sections of
tffby means of pros-
rises etc., has not taken
Account the paramount
s Tave this marvellous
fjl with the means and
to continue the tempo
jits progress.
T u re is some excuse for
ilributing our present mfla-
to these judgments. They
ha ve been manifestations
4er than causes. But the
it is that the wool-industry
; been hamstrung in its
m to beat the challenge of
Uthetics by cheapening the
induction of its staple, in
,j. e 0 f commendable efforts
,«rds this end by increasing
adividual output.
Correction of this maladjust-
,fflt is more important than
hying to find the villain of the
pie in marketing arrange-
rs (which are highly
,egarded throughout the
fid) or in occasional mani-
pulation by buyers when
demand is restricted. We can’t
lord to antagonise buyers by
Bidding ventures when
lore is a rival waiting to fill
it resultant gap in supply. It
i pointed out at the recent
Agricultural Science seminar
It production-costs of man-
jiade fibres can be reduced by
inlomation.
What is needed is a thorough
»w of the factors which
toe led to cost-inflation these
list two years.
This is also necessary if we
®to be able to perfect this
itthod of social adjustment,
tause the trend of business
t amalgamation into larger
■ls, so the proportion of
tmployed persons is increas-
% The matter of their just
Wards and security needs
®dul correlation with the
fhty of private enterprise to
iction in the country’s
Merest.
.With the prospect of an
leasing number of young
attaining working-age
i “ e next few years, it would
ragic for Australia to be
.a state of unbalance when
J ®ed to be absorbed. No
staking i n Australia except
jf Jool-industry is capable
:io„f°t' n | buoyant condi-
w led with farming, its
field rem 5 nts cover the whole
Son S r UfaCtUre and
m i \. There is no com-
Se stands a better
track j needed till the
%it • d °° rn than wo °l P ro_
4 e d J. ls . su PPhe d at a price
the w L 1S P re P a red to pay.
man doesn’t use up
our resources; and we can’t
plunder him and expect to get
away with it. A. D. Murrer. ’
Pleuro-pneumonia
pneumonia
Because there’s no news
of outbreaks of pleuro., it
does not follow that the danger
isn’t there. Two conditions
which make control difficult
are the time that elapses be-
tween infection and actual
appearance of the disease, and
the deceptive normal condition
of some infected animals.
Between infection and
appearance of the disease,
which may take as long as four
months animals may pass from
« to.owner and travel
A carrier may show no out-
ward signs of infection. Ani-
mals recovering from an attack,
but suffering a recurrence of
severe germ-infection due to
physical stress, can spread the
disease during their relapse,
Other sufferers develop a cough
during convalescence and can
also spread the disease, though
they are easier to identify.
Infection starts from germs
exha , ed b infected animals
and inhaled b health beasts .
close contac , y of unva y ccinated
stock favors the spread of the
lsea se.
Symptoms include watery
eyes, loss of appetite, saliva
dropping from the mouth, dis-
charge from the nose, distressed
breathing and coughing. As
the disease develops, the ani-


Smooth, seamless walls that won’t
crack, buckle or warp
Here the smooth, seamless effect of Gyprock walls can be seen to advan-
tage in this attractive living area of a modern "Sun-Line" home.
Gyprock is a core of plaster
encased in stout chipboard
and cut to economical sheet
lengths.
Two sheets in the 4'6" width,
placed horizontally, cover a
standard 9' wall completely.
No gaps... no old-fashioned
picture rails to break that
smooth, seamless surface.
The return maintenance
visit a builder must make to
repair possible cracks in wall
and ceiling surfaces is now no
more than a routine call.
Gyprock stays crack-free,
never buckles or warps.
Gyprock is a wall lining of
exceptional strength. A Gyp-
rock wall is particularly re-
sistant to cracks caused by
frame movement, vibration
and settlement. Can be
decorated with paint or paper.
Gyprock is fireproof. Home
fire insurance premiums are
reduced when Gyprock is used
for interior walls and ceilings.
White ants and borers won't
eat Gyprock. For more infor-
mation about Gyprock write
or ’phone your nearest C.S.R.
Building Materials Showroom
or contact our distributors.
GYPROCK PLASTER BOARD
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at: Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. CSRB9BA
mal stands with its back arched,
legs apart, head down and ears
drooped.
Most infected beasts show
some or all of the symptoms,
but some bear little or no sign
of the sickness. Called sub-
clinical cases, these are a fruit-
ful source of infection.
Blood-tests will detect in-
fected animals but cannot
always be carried-out in the
vast areas where large herds
exist. Vaccine evolved by the
C.5.1.R.0. is almost 100-per
cent, effective as a preventative,
Immunity for at least a year
can be obtained by injecting a
small quantity into the soft
tissue at the tip of the tail or
by inserting a woollen thread
soaked in vaccine under the
skin about from the tail-
tip.
Regular herd - vaccination
will build up resistant animals,
although it has no effect on
carriers, which will eventually
die or recover. When it is not
possible to carry-out regular
herd-vaccination, calves should
be treated after weaning or at
branding-time and the herd
vaccinated as often as condi-
tions permit.
Vaccination during the in-
cubation of the germ will not
effect a cure. It is purely a
preventive measure and losses
are likely to occur for three
months following treatment.
Isolated cases of abnormal
tail-swelling may appear up to
six weeks after vaccination
owing to the sensitivity of in-
dividual animals to the virus.
The animal may be saved by
amputating the tail above the
swelling to allow bleeding. If
the rump becomes affected
lance the swelling in several
places to permit drainage,
The'disease was introduced
into Victoria in 1858 by an in-
fected cow from England. In
the first 15 years it caused the
loss of 1,500,000 animals. Now
complete control of pleuro. in
cattle is stopped only by the
difficulties of large numbers of
beasts spread over wide areas,
These handicaps are being over-
come and losses reduced.—
“Dirran.”
Crosscuts
In the area east of Lake
Hindmarsh (Vic.), where the
country is mostly sandhills —
some of them very steep-sided
—the Chaplin brothers are
checking erosion by establish-
ing on the dunes a cover of
lucerne and barrel-clover. So
far they have successfully
covered two-thirds of the dunes
they own. —“M. Lou.”
Present problem in the
Victorian Wimmera is how
to cope with prolific growth
after ample rains in winter
and early spring. One farmer
11 miles from Horsham
thought to eat-out a 75-acre
paddock before fallowing by
putting 155 Herefords on it;
but after a fortnight the
natural grasses and clover were
still high enough to Wa
animal lying down a 5
70-acre paddock with 00 * 61
higher feed i s marJ/ h SV «»
baled hay.—“Y mar „ now for
. Init ial differences iw
interested bodies r b tWeetl
at the time Brettabl e
formation 0 f a the
wheat - research V ° nan
But that “ f »r rai,,et-
the State’s wheat
decided advantage. Finances
meanwhile built-up, no J
e ?Kr u the c °mmittee J
establish its wheat-research on
a more permanent basis, and
to do the job properly. And
there s much to be learned
from the mistakes and
success of research - com-
mittees formed earlier in other
States.—“Ramy.”
ORANGE
By “E.O.M.”
Field Days are worthily
placed at Orange, hub of
the railways in western
N.S.W. This exhibition of
mechanical power and in-
genuity is most conveniently
ocated there handy both to
the city and the backbtocks
Orange is important in his-
tory, too. The explorers who
opened up the west Mitchell
and Sturt among them—passed
through the district on their
way, and cattle to stock the
first station in the Wellington
Valley took the same road.
When gold was found at Ophir
(a few miles out of the town)
109 years ago, a new era started
for all the Colonies, and a
tremendous flow of population
began. This gave impetus to
the infant railway-system,
commenced in 1855, to be
rapidly extended once the
barrier of the Blue Mountains
had been passed, just as settle-
ment of the newly discovered
lands had followed the success-
ful passage of Blaxland, Law-
son and Wentworth in 1813.
Railways
The story of Orange is
largely that of the railways,
which made settlement of the
west possible. The rails came
to Orange in 1877, four years
before Albury was linked with
Sydney and 11 years before the
Queensland border was
breached at Wallan-garra.
As a provincial centre,
Orange therefore had an early
start. The main western line
was opened to Bourke in 1885,
ending the monopoly of the
far-western wool enjoyed until
then by Darling River ship-
ping. Bullock-drays, now rele-
gated to flank-areas to bring
wool to the main line, would
no more crawl over the Blue
Mountains to Sydney.
The rails reached Cobar in
1892, and Lithgow coke was
sent by rail, keeping the smelters
going for many years. The
branch-line down the Lachlan
country from Orange was
started in 1885, and finally got
through to Broken Hill in
1927.
The N.S.W. railways may be
described as being either
strategic or developmental.
Strategic lines include a num-
ber of cross-country routes,
valuable to the Railway De-
partment for circulation of
rolling-stock and trade, but
also needed by the defence-
planners. There were advant-
ages from these lines during
War II in movement of men
and munitions to Queensland,
but the pitiful barriers to
speedy movement imposed by
the breaks-of-gauge still dis-
figure most of our State
borders. AH the same, without
the interior transport afford*
bv the railways, it is doubtful
whether we could have success-
fully supplied the Pacific
When Farrer developed new
whea, - strains capable »f
enduring in low-rainfa
the boundary for wheatfa*
ing was pushed 300 m J
of Sydney, and a new
railway expansion*dobo-
Lines to Forbes an en
fin added 250 nute»J*
1885 and 1900. m
miles were bull Brewa rrina,
taking the rails to Brewu


GENUINE
REGD.
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
are now freely available
from all good Stores
INSIST ON GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS!
If you have any difficulty please contact:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon W 5, Victoria
PHONE: FX4747
jlu Tullamore, Dune-
< ! In the next
; a further 508 miles
•"Vmostly strategic—
f. t he Riverina and the
1 ,nfrv a great addition
poll place after
.kcentre
lan! e railway-junction is
icentre f°r mter-State
Through it poured
tide of Queensland and
r> cattle which (until
island lines were thrown
L,d from the coastal
Js) came by road through
Channel country to
and Brewarnna on the
,10 markets at Sydney and
Itlbourne.
He efforts made by railway-
[i to improve the passage of
Block are not generally
cognised, and there are
jiodical charges of cruelty
id loss on the rail. But back-
ountry graziers and stock-
inis'know the true facts.
Iterations of railwaymen in
|district h.q. at Orange have
it their best to make a better
(of the sheep and cattle
ing through their hands,
ing for improved plant
methods to give them
d, Modern diesel-traction
improved the treatment of
wiling stock, and the new
agie wagons now building
ill give express speed, and
ten halve the journey-time,
be financial advantage of
peis and the Taxation De-
iriment and the greater pros-
trity of our country.
1 Times
tee events must be in the
aiousness of men like those
•have organised the Orange
Days, as examples of
fiihidy given by Australians
needs of their country.
i ll ■' m ight be interesting to
pi the clock back to the be-
r®t> of this century and
Orange as it was then.
In 1900 Orange was still in
* horse - and - bicycle age.
, re Were no cinemas, cars,
J or aeroplanes; the
tod not yet been
~ °l' diesel-engines and
* nc traction by rail were
0Wn ’ and radio had not
invented. Picnic-trips to
anobolas were made by
i F Wa §onette. The towns
tod a few tarred
1 n i business sections,
:^ ac Ada m was the
E * h » se main roads
L to^ ns —without any
LI! ensure safety,
i! s “after TV nor ice-
that matter,
r't kl ba^ lc wage (which
e stablished till 1908).
Federation had not yet been
accomplished, and taxation
was a trifling burden for the
few.
I can imagine young people
of today asking: “How were
you able to spend your time?”
Well, the Orange of that period
was a very happy community.
It depended largely on the
earnings of its railwaymen, but
had a backbone of wheat and
sheep, and orchards founded
by people from England were
already climbing about the
foothills of the Canobolas.
Young men from country-
towns came down to Sydney
for work and started the move-
ment to the Big Smoke that
has ever been the way of the
young. There they found
steam-trams running to Bondi
and great white hills of sand
behind the beach, where surf-
bathing was making a small
start after years of prohibition.
The general change in scene
at Orange is the same as that
at Bondi, where the sand-dunes
have disappeared, never more
to be seen, and steam-trams
(later electric) has given way
to diesel-buses. Orange now
has secondary industries, and
is able to absorb most of the
product of its schools and pro-
vide employment for its youth.
Development of Motor
Transport
Diggers who went from
Orange to War I saw the in-
ception of motor-transport in
France when supply-lorries
took much of the burden off
the horses. Knowing the carn-
age which happened when Ger-
man batteries ranged on the
wagon-lines, their reaction was
that, in war, machines were
better than horses.
Arriving home, I was asked
by a senior traffic-officer of
railways: “What do you think
of motor-transport?” My
answer was emphatic: “The
end of the horse is in sight,
and nothing will stop the use
of the motor-lorry.” Presently
the fine horse-teams of “Butty”
McMahon, which for 40 years
had been clearing the wool
from Darling Harbor yards to
the warehouses, disappeared,
and were replaced by early
designs of motor.
The man-on-the-land quickly
recognised the value of the new
medium and began the
mechanisation of stations and
farms, which led to the idea
of the Field Days. Mechanisa-
tion brought an enormous
reduction in the labor-force
needed on the land and released
men and women for the expan-
sion of secondary industry.
Rail versus Roads
Here, though, is what hap-
pened when motor-vehicles
trespassed into the former pre-
serve of railways and horses.
The Public Works Committee
had not been able to assess
correctly the changes brought
about by development of
motor-transport for military
purposes during War I, and
consequently never rejected
proposals for hundreds of
miles of new railway or substi-
tuted roads by which motor-
traction could serve the dis-
tricts concerned. In spite of the
years of planning involved in
new line-proposals, the de-
velopment of motor-transport
had often already nullified
advantages offered by a rail-
way before the rails were laid.
Even where the lines have since
been closed the capital debt
remains to be cleared.
Today bitumen highways
cover practically all the State,
and good gravel roads fill the
intervening distances. All parts
of the west are within a day’s
car-drive of Orange. Airlines
provide for all main routes,
and valuable cargoes of stud-
sheep for Shows and sales can
be moved by air wherever
required. Instant communica-
tion by telephone and radio-
broadcasts of weather- and
market-reports have destroyed
distance, so that interlocking
of interests is easy.
Conclusion
Such is the stage on which
the Field Days are set.
Orange in spring is delight-
ful. My first vision of Orange
in the spring of 1907 was magi-
cal. The town seemed to have
radiance. Everyone was happy
and interested and hospitable.
The gardens and crops looked
their best. To Australian eyes
accustomed to drought and
the annual summer yellowing
of pastures, the contrast was
almost violent.
Good luck to the citizens
who have promoted this annual
review of Australian equip-
ment and advancement. It’s
a testimony to the enterprise
of Westerners, whether towns-
men or bushmen.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
„Subscription Dept., NEW SUB./RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r .......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Phase add exchange to country cheques.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
How was Prussia governed
between Wars l and II ?
Prussia, after the revolution of
1918, became a “land” of the
Weimar Republic, adopting a
republican and democratic form of
Government. From 1919 to 1933
there was a remodelling of the
bureaucracy by which the Social
Democrats, under their Minister-
President, Otto Braun, sought to
replace the old conservative element
by persons more in sympathy with
the democratic and socialist
majority. During these years
Prussia’s liberal Government was
often in conflict with the more
militaristic and nationalist Central
Government of Germany. After
1933 Prussia lost its identity as a
State. The Prussian Constitution
was set aside by the National
Socialists, its legislature abolished
and its Ministries merged with
Hitler’s Central German Ministries.
• * * *
Cape Nelson, I have been told,
was named not after Lord Nelson
but after a ship which took its
name from him. What was the
ship and when was it in Australia ?
The ship after which Cape
Nelson, and Mount Nelson, Tas-
mania, were named, was the Lady
Nelson, a 60-ton brig built at
Deptford, England, in 1799. She
left England for Australia in
March, 1800.
The Lady Nelson had an import-
ant part in early Australian
history. She was the first vessel
to sail parallel to the entire southern
coast of Australia; she was the'
first vessel to sail eastward through
Bass Strait; she charted the coast-
line of Victoria, explored its inlets
and rivers. She travelled north to
Moreton Bay, Port Essington and
Melville Island and also helped to
establish Lieut. Bowen’s colony at
Risdon Cove, Tasmania.
Governor King used the brig to
carry messages to Norfolk Island,
and at one time or another she was
variously used for carrying grain
from the Hawkesbury, coals and
timber from Newcastle and troops
and settlers to the Far North.
At one time the Lady Nelson
was dismantled, but she was
brought back into service and in
1852 was sent to northern islands
to collect a cargo of buffaloes. On
this trip she was attacked by
islanders in Torres Strait and, the
crew murdered, was run aground.
• • * *
Who was the Australian who
went to China about the turn of
the century rand later became
correspondent for the London
“Times” in the Far East ?
Name of the journalist was
George Ernest (“Chinese”) Mor-
rison, who was born at Geelong
(Vic.) in 1862. From the age of
twenty he travelled extensively in
the South Sea Islands, where he
studied the Kanaka labor question,
and in Australia, which he crossed
on foot from the Gulf of Carpen-
taria to Geelong. He took his
M.D. degree in 1887 and after
journeys to the United States and
the West Indies worked in his
medical capacity in Spain, Morocco
and Australia, where he was
resident-surgeon at Ballarat Hos-
pital. In 1893 he abandoned
medical work and travelled through
China, writing a book on hi-*
experiences called An Australian
in China.
In 1895 he became the special
correspondent for the “Times” in
Siam, and in 1897 special corres-
pondent in Peking. In 1912, after
the revolution, Morrison resigned
his “Times” appointment and
became political adviser to Yuan
Shih-K’ai, President of the newly
formed Chinese Republic. In this
position he tried to influence the
Chinese to enter World War I on
the side of the Allies, was later
adviser to the Chinese delegation
at the Versailles peace conference.
* * * »
Can you give the whitewash
mixture used for the White House,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A. ?
Slake half-a-bushel of lime with
warm water, covering during the
process to keep in the steam.
Strain the liquid through a fine
sieve or strainer. Add to this a
peck (141b.) of salt (which has been
well dissolved in warm water) and
31b. of ground rice (boiled to a
thin paste). Then dissolve of
powdered Spanish whiting and lib.
of glue over a slow fire and stir in
boiling-hot.
Add five gallons of hot water
to the mixture, stir it well and
let it stand for a few days, covered
to keep out dirt. The mixture
should be applied hot. One pint,
properly applied (small brushes are
recommended), will cover a square
yard.
* * * »
Recipes for chupatties and dhal
sauce ?
Chupatties are made with plain
unleavened flour and water and
a little salt, mixed to a thin dough,
flattened to a thin sheet and cooked
on glowing embers or a metal
sheet. They resemble girdle scones
or damper of the simplest kind
and are not very palatable to
Europeans.
Dhal sauce varies according to
the region in which it is made, but
the principal ingredient is peas of
the chick variety. Take some split
peas or lentils, boil with salt and
water until soft, rub through a
colander, then season with pepper,
allspice and a little curry; vinegar
can be added. Native methods
sometimes include fermentation,
but this is the nearest that can be
got for your information.
Brief Answers
“J.T.”: “Air Beef” was a name
first used by Air Beef Pty., Ltd.,
which in 1949 established a killing-
and freezing-plant at Glenroy
station in the Kimberleys. The
company was at that time a sub-
sidiary of A.N.A. Pty., Ltd
P.V.: There is no article under
that heading in The Bulletin index.
L.P.: The first art society in
N.S.W. was the Society for the
Promotion of Fine Arts, formed in
1847. A New South Wales Academy
of Arts was constituted in 1871,
from whose council were chosen
the trustees of the Art Gallery
established and subsidised by the
Government in 1875. The oldest
existing art society in Australia is
the Royal South Australian Society
of Arts (1856) R.E.: The wedge
is the modern equivalent of the
niblick in so far as it is a “trouble
club.” Confusion may have arisen
by the American use of “pitching-
wedge” and “sand-wedge” instead
of “wedge” and “sand-iron.” The
pitching-wedge is not suitable for
the bunker shot because it does
not have the flat «
venis digging ft,,
K.F.. The plastics san d..
beginning [ n t £ s m dustry had it,
».h century *1 of £
working towards man ? Were
a cellulose-nitrate eve l°Pment of
first real t£
young American S* a
Wyatt, who, working ’•, Joh n
brother, discovered c e lhfl n Wlth - his
Plastic, later to be given
name celluloid g the trade-
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address mmt
all MSS. No lS,°lZZ
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS wil t
yz md Msf ,s , t°T
MSS. should be addressed
{f, tfie Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary .
• * : is some feel™
m Autumn Morning,” but look a
your language:—
Choristers loth, like a lover,
Will muffle the prating rill
... .R.G.: Werry Welsh..,
D.B : Ever read the very 1®
Wordsworth? ... .N.G. : Bigger, but
not better, than ever 0.0.: Oo
0.0.! S.W.: Bring in your
.... W.D.: Art stnctly f ° r p a jece
sake.. • - P-L- : j[ he coU id, P° ssibly J
came close. K S G . A t° ucb
be expanded...-f aboU
of “sing becau^ t \ few pl eaS J. n
most , of these, but po witho ut the
surprises.. • - A-”;,; toUC b. • •
“ain’t love f an lj 0 n but too
Something to £ be
hard to swallow.
BOTTLEBRUSH AND BOTTLES
Ten miles to the northward from Cir-
cular Quay
There are acres of scrub, where the
possum and bee
Find all for life’s need, in a riot ol
blossom—
There’s nectar for bee, and a gum leaf
for possum.
But, oh, in this hush where grevillta s
grow,
Where the flannel flowers bloom and
the waratahs glow,
The rocks are disfigured and chipped
by the Blacks
With outlines of fishes and kangaroo
tracks;
Camp dust and stone axe heads proclaim
where they’ve been,
And bones in old ash heaps still litter
the scene.
But scholars are raking this rubbish
today
For scraps of their culture and art
to display—
The worn out and useless, the Black!
threw away.
These old Abo. relics and sandstone
recordings
Repose in the woodlands of tent
moss and vine, , .
Quite close to aesthetic White Man s
ful hoardings . .
That advertise petrol, and house pat
and wine, . . , j
And blend with a landscape of
A»d*pwS'.na jam tins where
By
are hacked. puzzled
Oh, what will the grav, r
scientist say ?—shall « e
Five hundred years hence? snai
„„
HU “ to «
broken bottle (
...R.P.: An hors-d’oeuvre.—
Sing a song of sevenpence,
Market full of P 1 ®; ■
Four-and-twenty brok e _ .
Watch the prices rise


THE HOLLIDAYS
“Never again will I say, ‘You wont get time up in one of those things !’”
New Recordings
fevered Fantasy
It was the most prolonged
i fiercely-pursued courtship
ifthe 19th century, that of the
ill actress Henrietta Smith-
ji, by music’s most extrava-
|ntly romantic figure,'Berlioz
-'mad Hector of the flaming
locks”—that put the torch to
le Frenchman’s inspiration
ad drove him to compose his
kphonie Fantastique, the
hst true “programme”-
pphony. On a Philips Gold
M disk (GL 22) Willem
® Otterloo pilots the Hague
Sharmonic Orchestra
feugh a reading which avoids
pshing violent puce tints on
® Patches that should be
®ely purple, such as in the
•1 scenes of hobgoblin
fcquerie; but he pulls no
fhes in the wild “Witches’
which is a parody of
m jroe; he puts mode-
P assi °ns into the idee fixe
/-•and draws from aboe
hi born in the Pas-
lection some lovely lyri-
!:f ects - For those who like
& *f u^ ca l meat nicely
*° ne( l, this is it.
❖ 4*4
Popular Pair
®Cron toBether °n the
%ate d V fL aft6r havin S
able or y ear s a memor-
P S taS mn ’ bari "
n Fddy and soprano
Jeanette MacDonand sing in
Favorites in Hi-fi (SL 10627)
a round dozen, singly and in
concert, of the most famous
airs from the eight films they
made together. In this R.C.A.
stereo album the voices blend
beautifully in “Indian Love-
call,” “Ah, Sweet Mystery of
Life” and others.
❖ ❖ ❖
Beethoven’s Fourth
This symphony, which Schu-
mann likened to “a slender
Greek maiden between two
Norse giants,” has certainly
little in common with the Third
and the Fifth, both replete with
tonal thunders and concerned
with soul-struggles. The one
point where the Fourth touches
common ground with the
giants is in the heaving-sea
opening. But this soon gives
place to the sunny geniality
that dominates the rest of it.
In the performance for,
Columbia, Beethoven Sym-
phony No. 4 (330 CX 1702),
Otto Klemperer takes the
podium, and concertgoers who
were fortunate enough to hear
the conductor during his only
Australian tour are well aware
that Otto, with unspectacular
use of his two index fingers,
could get more out of Beeth-
oven and Mahler than most
others could do with the most
wildly-waved baton. This per-
formance is all high spirits,
with control held firmly so
that it never spills over into
abandon, for here Beethoven
cast back into the days of
Haydn, with emotion damped-
down to almost vanishing
point. For symphonic music
easy to listen to, with delight-
ful melodies and enchanting
rhythms, this interpretation of
the Master of Bonn in his most
felicitous mood would be
hard to beat.
■£♦ +**
Carols in the Round
From H.M.V., Christmas
Carols by the Temple Church
Choir (OCLP), as fine a col-
lection as one is likely to find
this Christmas or any Christ-
mas. There’s no need to list
the titles; most of the best-
loved ones are there, including
several in arrangements by Sir
Walford Davies, who was
organist at the Temple Church
from 1898 to 1919, and others
arranged by Dr. George
Thalben-Hall, successor to
Davies and still organist and
director of music at the church.
In 1927 H.M.V. made the first
electrical recording ever taken
in a church —the Temple Choir
with Master Ernest Lough
singing the treble solos “Hear
My Prayer” and “I Know
That My Redeemer Liveth.”
Lough is still a member of
the choir and in this collection
his son Robin sings the treble
solo in Peter Cornelius’s
“Three Kings.” The choir’s
traditional Christmas presenta-
tions of “Carols in the Round”
were interrupted when the
12th-century church was badly
damaged in the blitz, but were
resumed when it rose again
from the ruins. And here they
are, on microgroove!
❖ ❖ ❖
Xavier Cugat
A year ago Xavier Cugat
took his orchestra to Europe
and dispensed Latin-American
rhythms to French, Spanish
and Italian audiences. Back
in America, he has now
recorded for R.C.A. a batch
of melodies and memories
typical of the three countries
visited. Cugat in France, Italy
and Spain (L 10946) includes
several pieces already popu-
larised by other American
orchestras—Modugno’s little
Italian song “Ciao Ciao Bam-
bina,” “Under Paris Skies,”
and the two Spanish dance-
numbers “Valencia” and
“Andalucia” —but there are
also several less-known titles
in the collection. Old or new,
they all have the authentic
Cugat touch.
+> *x*
Spirituals by Chorus
Music from the deepest
resignation to the most exult-
ant rhythmical expression of
Old Testament faith is ranged
over in Deep River and Other
Spirituals (L 16260), put on
disk for R.C.A. by the Robert
Shaw Chorale. This tightly
disciplined ensemble, of excel-
lent balance, puts wonderful
fervor into “My Lord, What a
Morning,” “Dry Bones,”
“Every Time I Feel De Spirit,”
“Set Down, Servant” and
others, as well as the title-
number. The chorus is sup-
ported by some very fine solo-
ists.


Women's Letters
Consumers Anonymous: DOLLS
Dolls used to be pretty. Today they
must be true to life.
There is one baby doll on the market
this year who is so true to life that
when you pick him up, his head wobbles.
When you comb his hair he sucks his
thumb.
Another doll sits in a high chair, crosses
one foot ? over the other, waves his arms
and bangs his plate with his spoon. A
third can be rocked to sleep. Nearly all
can be washed and fed and diapered.
They can all talk, if only to say
“Mama,” but one, Chatty Cathy, has a
repertoire of 23 sentences —uttered with
an American accent. She says things like
“I’m hungry” or “Please carry me” or
“I hurt myself.”
Hair that can be washed and set in
curlers is now commonplace. Hair-styles
are up to the minute. One bride-doll
has her hair done in a Princess Margaret-
style. Pony-tails, plaits and gamine-cuts
are replacing the conventional curls.
Eyes have changed. Blue is still the
favorite, but one Gigi-like doll has green
eyes that go with her corn-colored hair.
Many of the best dolls have “flirty” eyes
that move from side to side. Mr. John
Malcolm, who is David Jones’ expert on
toys, says that the Italians are the best
makers of flirty eyes.
Italian dolls are also the most fashion-
ably dressed. The Italians have a couture
for dolls’ clothes. Dolls’ fashion houses
have as many as four designers working
full-time, who take as much care with
materials and workmanship as if the
dresses were for the fashion leaders of
the world.
But it is in the creation of the doll-
figure that the Italians have brought
about the greatest changes. Instead of
the usual rounded baby-limbs, there are
now shapes to represent (with great
artistry) every stage of the little-girl figure
up to the young teenager.
In the luxury dolls, which cost up to
£2O, these figures are particularly intri-
cate. One tall, slender doll, dressed in
printed silk mousseline draped over
buttercup organza, is jointed, not only
at arms, legs and neck, but also at the
waist. She is intended to be a girl’s
“last doll,” the one she keeps to show
her daughter how quaint and old-
fashioned dolls were in mother’s day.
The English still make their dolls
conventionally. The French achieve the
Italian finesse, but they seem to lack the
Italian imagination. The Canadians seem
to be coming up in dolls. Their dolls
have something of the Italian quality
without being quite so expensive.
Australian dolls in the medium price-
range are beginning to follow the new
trends, although there is not so much
variety. It needs as much as £12,000 to
get the dies and moulds made for a new
type of doll and the Australian market is
not big enough for the outlay.
Most of the dolls we have mentioned
cost more than £6. The new baby-doll
is £lO 10s., Chatty Cathy is £l4 10s.
Teenager dolls are £7 to £9. But these
are the pace-setters. Dolls can be bought
from 2s. lid. upwards. And these dolls
may still be the most popular with the
little girls, if not for their mothers.
it it ☆
Trade Parade
People in the clothing trade must
ignore the weather and think two seasons
ahead. (One American designer was said
to retire to a Turkish bath for most of
the winter so that he could be in the
right frame of mind to design beach
clothes.)
So it was on a warm Sydney summer
evening that 73 models paraded next
winter's clothes in a presentation of the
Wool Fashion Awards for 1961. Of the
126 gold medals won, Victorian firms
carried off 112. New South Wales won
11, Tasmania two and Queensland one.
Melbourne maintained its lead as the
fashion centre of Australia.
The party was more lavish than was
intended. 300 invitations were issued and
400 guests arrived. This meant a last-
minute change in arrangements. Instead
of being seated for the four - course
dinner, everyone stood up.
Standing up makes people noisier than
sitting down, so there was a roar of voices
unfamiliar to fashion showings. Mr.
W. A. Gunn, the Bureau’s chairman,
prayed silence, but did not get it. Miss
Sanders, the director of promotions, said
she would not talk if the company did.
But she did.
Once the parade began, chairs were
brought in but it was still hard to hear
the announcements.
There had been over 1000 entries for
the awards. In the men’s lightweight
suiting and the women’s two-piece
ensemble sections the judges thought the
garments of international standard in
design, styling and workmanship.
Though there werp
designs there was an imn r eal ! v ct «ti»e
A parade of clothes of ?hk ® e ra »8t
quality would not have he™ slantl W of
Australian manufacturer, m° ssible fl «"i
A good deal of trouhi aga
taken with the presentfi b "n
award was announced a modei p As each
the stage through one doorl? 1 * 6 oQt °
winning garment. Then f ’ Wearin § the
a representative of the firm anolher
popped out, all smiles, reSvtf
medal and retired. • hls gold
The girls then paraded
hall, or rather sped through
paused to show the clothes ,£ !"
weanng or to gran, one piroueS^
Jd*numbered. Ln\ £
agencies. Almost without exception £
were spectre-thin and pale, £
piled into extraordinary shapes, their ey
mournful and shadowed, their li ps wf n
Young girls who dress in the extreme
of fashion are generally seen against !
background of livelier, more robust types
73 of them all m a row was rather over-'
whelming.
But in models as in fashion you must
be at least two seasons ahead.
* ☆ ☆
Sydney : Xmas Party
Lady Dunrossil was guest-of-honor at
the Christmas party of the Society of
Women Writers held at the Royal Com-
monwealth Society. There was no
Christmas-cake (which reduces the sum
total which will have to be consumed
in the coming month) and “Click Go the
Shears” replaced “Hark the Herald
Angels Sing.” President Miss Beryl
Guertner, very elegant in teal guipure-
lace, introduced all the guests to Lady
Dunrossil. Miss Kitty Archer-Burton,
Miss Ruth Bedford, Mrs. Gwen Morton
Spencer and Mrs. Hilda Abbot made up
the official party.
☆ fr *
An organisation with a sizeable credit
balance for the year is the N.S.W J
for Crippled Children. Its president, Mr
Kenneth Coles, said at its
despite its £30,661 on the Tight si
the ledger the society still e^e M;!Hre( j
because of increased costs. Mrs. s j.
Muscio, who had retired from P
dency of the central council ot m
women’s auxiliaries after A ?_ y Marg aret
vice, is succeeded by Miss
Crawford. .
☆ * *
New words for your £££-
Y.W.C.A.'s display of
Duke of Edinburgh s D F an( j
the science of opening y°


, fnnt in it; the fashion-word
< sort of cotton blouse.
* ☆ *
rhine se scroll, showing the sacred
1 ! the foot of Mount Lo, was
I o Mrs. A. J. Ayliffe, of Goul-
# token of her prize as winner of
j j Cross Silver Bride Competition.
Avliffe could not take the trip to
) I given by Interocean Lines as
e but Mr - van Bochove ’ § eneral '
’fpr for Australia, is extending the
:I ? a year in the hope that Mrs.
fi and her husband, who is Deputy
for of Goulburn, will be able to take
trip th en>
n, King’s School is to have a ladies’
fry for the first time! The presi-
de newly-formed auxiliary, Mrs.
Iloore of Mosman, says that mothers
'-st, present and future pupils are
, being given the chance to help,
ifirst function is an American Tea
jo school on December 12. Members
ifi e new committee include Mrs.
SIB. Small, Mrs. B. B. Riley, Mrs.
Mrs. C. K. EllSm and Mrs.
firing.
☆ ☆ ☆
| permission of the Governor -
ieral and Viscountess Dunrossil,
Siiralty House will be the setting for
le on Saturday, December 3, in aid
lie Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund,
of the organisations which will benefit
«the fund will be conducting some
le stalls. They include the Civilian
led and Limbless Association, the
sic Centre and the Sydney City
in,
ft ☆ ☆
A minute in Martin Place, what do
i see? Triplets, a man with a ’cello,
tok full of philodendrons, a New-
iland dog collecting for the Deaf
llnd Children. This Newfoundland
•of a family of nine, father, mother,
® children. They live on the North
* and don’t think they have any
wes in Australia.
i no Mary Brannagan is to give
Mai at the Conservatorium this
wnesday, November 30. Well known
e r work with musical-comedy
in Sydney, Miss Brannagan is
er at the Conservatorium. She’s
®g to go abroad soon.
who is .vice-chairman
Commonwealth Society for the
avtsit to the School for the
■i y , ar ™§ton during the week. She
Uieriv Sir Gerald Templer
iite) n ls h High Commissioner in
Ladl T 1Sltil ? 8 Australia from
: methnH em Pi er sa id she thought
“*<l a*, the Darlington
ill and ttf P r< ? Bressive as any in the
a Sae wou ld recommend
other Canng for deaf children
Si,t °seelc inf neS ’ es P ec ially those in
k km 5 0rmatlon from the R °y al
institution for Deaf and Blind
MELBOURNE
A gay finish to Thanksgiving Day was
the dinner-dance at The Embers, organ-
ised by the Junior Australian-American
Association. Four-hundred-and-twenty
young folk dined and danced and
enjoyed a special floor show. They were
welcomed by president Wayne Hinton,
assisted by vice-president Judy Gundill.
Judy’s pretty frock had a white back-
ground oh which sky-blue flowers were
printed in profusion. On every table
was a small black cardboard hat (as worn
by the Pilgrim Fathers) and at the
entrance was a cornucopia filled with the
fruits of the earth. Committee-member
Jan Newman chose a short bouffant
frock of ice-white satin, and Barbara
Zinnow a dark-green strapless silk frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
The late afternoon party given by
Melbourne University Chancellor Sir
Arthur Dean and Lady Dean in the
Union House Buffet sparked-off the pre-
Christmas round of parties. Greatly
admired were the deep-pink rhododen-
drons and peony roses used as decora-
tions. Host and hostess were helped in
entertaining the 350 guests by their
daughters, Mrs. M. G. Whiteside and
Mrs. I. M. Tulloch. Vice-Chancellor Sir
George Paton and Lady Paton were
present, as were Sir Gordon McArthur
(President of the Legislative Council),
Sir William McDonald (Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly) and Lady
McDonald, Sir Charles and Lady Lowe,
Sir Harry and Lady Winneke and Major-
General and Mrs. George Canet. Most
of the members of the Consular Corps
were there, including Consul for Thailand
Harry Fader and his wife, Philippines
Consul G. C. Molyneux and Mrs. Moly-
neux, the Consul for the Republic of
China (Mr. K. Y. Leung) and his wife
and French Consul M. Le Bas de
Plumetot and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the marriage of
Prudence Mary, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. H. Malcolm, of Balranald
(N.S.W.) and lan Howard Kirby Ingham,
only son of Mrs. A. R. Ingham, of
Toorak, and the late Mr. Howard K.
Ingham. The bride’s square-necked gown
was of white silk-taffeta ; her tulle veil
was held by a miniature tulle pillbox,
and she carried a bouquet of white roses.
Attending her were Lyn Mason, Margaret
Atkinson, Cheryl Hutchinson and Pattie
Gruer, with the groom’s niece, Jennifer
Heathcote, the junior bridesmaid; all
wore long frocks of pale-pink shantung
and carried bouquets of white roses.
David Heathcote was pageboy. Barry
Arnold was best man, and the grooms-
men David Dunlop, Wilson Ronald and
Clive Watson. Reception was at Ciro’s.
☆ ☆ ☆
After a fairly lengthy absence, Googie
Withers is back at the Comedy Theatre
with a moving performance of the wife
in Clifford Odets’s “Winter Journey.” In
the first-night audience were Premier and
Mrs. Bolte. She wore an eye-catching
theatre-coat of cinnamon, gold and green
Paisley brocade. They sat with Sir Frank
and Lady Tait, she wearing an attrac-
tive two-piece theatre ensemble of shim-
mering Parma-violet satin-brocade. Mrs.
Len Buxton’s orange-dyed Arctic-fox
stole was worn over a black frock pat-
terned in red roses. With Dr. J. Grantley
Shelton was his wife whose frock on
sheath-lines combined black Chantilly-
lace and French_crepe. Black sequins
dotted Mrs. S. Garnsworthy’s slim-cut
frock which had ruffles of black taffeta
at the hemline. A long white mink collar
embellished the black faille coat chosen
by Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, and a frock of
white silk-taffeta patterned in azure-blue
roses was the choice of Mrs. Rodney
Davidson.
☆ ☆ ☆
“West Side Story,” now at the Princess
Theatre, was the inspiration for the East
Side-West Side dinner-dance at The Del-
phic, arranged by the Whernside Junior
Auxiliary of the Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital. Gay posters with scenes of New
York City decorated the walls and on
every table were bowls of flowers centred
with a small American flag. Members
of the cast of “West Side Story” came
along after the show. Elizabeth Duckett,
youthful president of the auxiliary, wore
a short bouffant frock of cotton-brocade
patterned in red roses and green leaves
intermingled with gold lurex thread.
Among the guests were honorary secre-
tary June Fleming and honorary
treasurer Jeanette Chapman. The
auxiliary organiser of the hospital (Mrs.
G. J. W. Leeson) and her husband were
there and so were Roma Stephens, Paddy
Flynn (her black Chantilly-lace frock
worn under an emerald-green satin
coat), Elizabeth Winter Cooke and Mr.
and Mrs. Michael Bacon (she in a white
cotton dance-frock with a band of black
velvet outlining the strapless top).
❖ ❖ ❖
About 500 attended the Royale Ball-
room for the Australian-American Asso-
ciation’s Thanksgiving Day luncheon, at
which Lord Casey was guest-speaker.
The official guest-list, included Lieut.-
Governor Sir Edmund Herring and Dame
Mary Herring, the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Opposition Leader Clive
Stoneham and Mrs. Stoneham, Country-
party Leader Sir Herbert Hyland, and
Federal Minister Hubert Opperman
(representing the Prime Minister) and
Mrs. Opperman.
☆ ☆ ☆
Heart’s Desire, a 30-square “dream”-
house, which in the next eight months is
expected to raise thousands of pounds
for the National Heart Foundation of
Australia, was opened by the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Evans. The
house has been built on the site of the
former Occidental Hotel at the corner
of Exhibition and Collins Streets, and
is the product of the pooled ideas of
architects, master-builders and interior-
designers and -decorators. As Mrs.
Evans turned the key an R.A.A.F. band
played “On The Street Where You Live.”
After the opening 400 guests were enter-
tained at a reception nearby. Mrs. Henry
Bolte is president of the women’s com-
mittee of the Foundation.


with the most profound respect and
interest.
There are, for instance, elephants.
A very noble word is “elephant,” and
this reviewer, for one, had never
troubled to think where it comes from.
It is pleasing and useful to learn, for
a start, that it is the same word as
“oliphant.” “oliphaunt” and “olifante”;
and so to follow Partridge as he pursues
it back to the Mycenaean “erepatejo,”
which means “of ivory.” and the
Hieroglyphic Hittite “ulubandas” or
“ulupantas.” which means “a bull” or
“a wild ox.” Apparently the ancients
were not very happy, or not very clear,
about any large and conceivably
dangerous wild animal, and the
Ethiopic “falfal.” which is connected
with “elephant,” meant “a fierce lion,
a rhinoceros, a buffalo”; while it
seems possible that the two words
which blended to mean “elephant”
both originally meant “elephant”
anyhow, so that an elephant is really
an “elephant-elephant”; which is
altogether too much.
Then there is our old friend “bar-
barian,” which Partridge—very sens-
ibly. one would think —links not only
with the foreigners who could only
say “ba-ba-ba” but also with the babies
who said the same thing. Thus a
foreigner is both a babbler and a child.
In Old Irish he seems to be connected,
unkindly. with “borp.” meaning
“foolish.”
Irish gives us “phoney,” too, which
Partridge suggests came from “fainne”
(pronounced “fawny”) which was a
finger-ring and. in the shape of the
“fawney rig.” a ring-dropping confi-
dence-trick. may have been introduced
by the Irish to London. “Cockney,”
he thinks, came from the Indo-
European “kak,” meaning “bad. evil,”
rather than the commonly accepted but
rather senseless “cokenay.” meaning
“cock's egg,” somehow meaning “milk-
sop,” somehow meaning “town-
dweller.” And there are also “nirvana,”
“ecstasy,” “atman,” “gas” and “peni-
cillin” . . . all remarkable words and
very pleasant for any Australian to
read about while listening to our great
winds rustling in the wattles or sough-
ing about the surrealist cacti.
Letters to Mother
Other people’s letters, when you can
find them lying about, always make
interesting reading; and the letters of
famous people which Charles van
Doren has assembled in Letters to
Mother (Allen and Unwin) make excep-
tionally good material for an anthology,
partly for their intrinsic interest, partly
because selection prevents any single
letter-writer from being a bore.
It might be very difficult, for
instance, to read a whole volume of
the letters of Albert the Good,
especially a volume of his letters to
his mother. Albert was quiet, guarded,
good, rather dull. But the little note
presented here, written after Victoria
had proposed to him. is delightful in
its mixture of fortitude and forebod-
ing. It seems a singular coincidence
that he wrote it on Guy Fawkes Day:—
Windsor, sth November, 1839.
Dear Mama, —Apart from my
relations with her [Victoria], my
future position will have certain
dark sides, and the skies above me
will not always be blue and un-
clouded. Still, life, wherever one
is, has its storms, and it is a support
to one to feel that one has used all
one's endeavours and strength in
some great object, decisive for the
welfare of so many.
Then there are Harry S. Truman’s
letters. These are so fetching in their
naturalness and simplicity, so illuminat-
ing on the human side of great events
(“Have had one heck of a time with
the Prime Minister of Great Britain”),
that it is possible they would stand up
to extensive publication. But Roose-
velt’s letters, in mass, weren’t the best;
and these might turn out a shade too
simple. But in brief selections Truman
is certainly most readable. Here he is,
on learning that he has become Presi-
dent: —
Dear Mama and Mary When I
arrived at the Pennsylvania entrance
to the most famous house in America
a couple of ushers met me . . . and
then took me up to Mrs. Roosevelt’s
study on the second floor.
She and Mrs. Boettiger, her
daughter and her husband the Lt.
Col., and Steve Earlv
Mrs. Roosevelt put g. T* there-
shoulder and said ° n %
President is dead.” ’ Harry > the
R was the only tin* ;
1 think, thatleverfeu
a real shock. 1 had h 1 d had
White House to to the
and when I arrived 1 Pr , esiden{ >
the President. So one in TV ™
of our country ever hadVh 6 hlStory
him justthat way . dlthap P en lo
baton d - ereheiS ' toyingwitl 'Gobring- s
Dear Mama and Marv Tk
generals came in ,o see me iest rl!
and Genera! Parch g ave „
Goering s baton. I always get tho
drrty Nazrs mixed up, bu, t
dl ,f e^ ence -. Anyway it’s the fat
Marshal s insignia of office it »
about a foot and a half long, mad e
of ivory inlaid with gold eagles and
iron crosses with diamond studded
end caps with platinum rings around
it for engraving. Must have cost
several thousand dollars— maybe
forty—to make. Can you imagine a
fat pig like that strutting around
with a forty thousand dollar bauble
—at the poor taxpayer’s expense an
making ’em like it. It g° es t 0 a
military museum.
It would hardly be conceivable to
describe Baudelaire as a bore,
is likely enough that his le * ters : h ' are
improved by selection, for 1
exceedingly dismal— horrify 111 ?-
—and a little dismalness. P j on g
revealing though it is here, g
way:—
Every time I take
tell you how I am J .-u- ns you,
afraid. I am afraid <>
destroying your feeble my-
ceaselessly, and
am on the verge of suicid ■
GHOST TOWN: NEW ENGLAND
The grass is bleached by summer light
The dry pods rustle underfoot,
On quartz-bright rocks the lichens creep
Like frail anemones betrayed
Still trembling towards an unknown sea.
Up the steep shoulder of the hill
The wind goes scattering seeds of light.
Here at the edge the mind goes on,
The eyes go on, though steps must stop
At plunging scarps where dizzily
The plumes of haze shroud and unshroud
Knife-edge and scree; and down and
down
Still sight must drop, be cut and grazed,
To find at last the dry creek-bed.
This is no landscape for the eye
Cupped by a hand to shield the mind
From earth's most naked cruelty.
Who looks the longest must take on
The fierceness of the eagle-hawk,
His hungry thought, his still intent,
His burnished, undeflected eye.
H °W fared they then who built and hi
Below the shoulder of the hill,
Who planted with their hopeful had
The oak, the fruit, the sheltering hedge
The store, the church, the bakery
Where still the letters are discerned
That here for man is meal, his bread.
The houses lean against the wind,
Their eyes are scarfed with sheets of tin.
1 heard in all that stillness once
The cracked complaining of the bell
A door that shut on nothing scraped,
And with a turning, sick unease
I saw a child’s discarded shoe.
Was it on such a summers day
They gathered from the bakery,
The store, the church, and, beckoned on
By the compulsion of the fall,
Plunged to those knife-edged silences!
His mind, as mine, will veer away
Who lacks the hawk's unwavering em
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


ItOOKHI INTER, I Sox 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult co
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
inve me passionately, blindiyj
80 toe!;-. And
the terrible situation m which
'“lced I am convinced that one
3,11 will kill the other, and that
SUM each other. After
iath you will cease to live ; that
W f After your death, above all
fn'dkof some shock I have
‘JS you, I should undoubtedly
I myself.. •
this is, of course, tremendous
I an( j Baudelaire should be classi-
cs, among .the great letter-
whose productions, though they
V read at length, naturally still
j well in selections. Byron, one of
Latest of them all, whose two
is edited by R. G. Howarth for
Everyman’s Library are so full of life
/fire, of rage and comedy and
jgjal that sometimes one wonders
jjltily whether they are not, on the
Hole, better reading than his poetry,
®ies out most amusingly here as a
iiera young moralist:—
It is my opinion that Mr. B
ought to marry Miss R Our
fct duty is not to do evil; but,
alas! that is impossible: our next
is to repair it, if in our power.
The girl is his equal: if she were
his inferior, a sum of money and
provision for the child would be
some, though a poor, compensation:
as it is, he should marry her. I will
lave no gay deceivers on my
(state...
Napoleon, also one of the great letter-
liters, is responsible for another
■sing contribution: in which one
ffl him doing his best to be ruthless
A his brother Jerome, King of West-
ihaiia, for running off with the Ameri-
-30 Miss Paterson, and at the same
Ae trying his hardest to wriggle-out
Lhe situation. Even dictators have
table keeping the family in order:—-
M. Jerome Bonaparte has arrived
st Lisbon with the woman he is
Vin S w ‘th—.1 shall give him only
® e interview. If he shows himself
unworthy of the name he bears, and
inclined to persist in his
Z° n / shall show him no mercy.
“he shows no disposition to wipe
“t the dishonour with which he has
/led my name by deserting the
iTi° r a wretch e d woman I shall
an ( J <ks ° wn ancl Perhaps make
office™? 6 ° f h - m to teach y°ung
vi Ce sanctity .of military ser-
lev mm k. C enormity of the crime
tothe 1 fl”g lf they prefer a fenlale
IwMhTV hat ** comes to Milan,
II £ owr ;f toh im. Tell h,m
Mht hke afather to him.
to obevm P at !! 1S his sacred duty
is t 0 Ks r nd that his on,y hope
h'°U,Z mand ' Get his
’* lBlerlwri, Cr “' s conlr ‘hi]tors are
able tn rS ° r not ’ Charles van
leif bes anH P B eS t nt them all here
and he has surely struck
a goldmine in them. It is pointless to
criticise the selec.ion, since obviously
he could not include all the fascinating
letters which people have wxitten to
their mothers; but the job has been
very well done, and the prevailing tone
is not, as one might fear, sentimental,
but rather of freshness and humanity.
It is a big book, containing precisely
100 letters, divided into sections of
‘ Letters from Churchmen and Scien-
tists,” “Letters from Explorers,”
“Letters from Fighting Men,” “Letters
from Poets,” “Letters from Statesmen
and Rulers,” etc. The editor supplies
a lively and informative commentary.
"Voyager Poems ”
One of the most pathetic spectacles
in the literary world is to see an author
replying to a critic with the stock open-
ing, “I never reply to criticism of my
work, but . . and I hope that is not
what I am going to do in yielding to
the temptation to comment on Profes-
sor T. Inglis Moore’s very handsome
review of the Voyager Poems anthology
which I edited.
At least I can say that when he
criticises my remarks in the introduc-
tion—
It is too much to claim, as the
editor does, that, omitting Brennan,
“the poems in this book are the most
substantial, the most impressive, yet
written in Australia.” What of
O’Dowd’s “The Bush,” Slessor’s
“Five Bells,” Fitz Gerald’s “Essay on
Memory,” “The Hidden Bole,”
“Fifth Day” and—most substantial
of all —“Between Two Tides”?—
I thoroughly agree with him. I am
always willing to side-step “The Bush,”
but of course “Five Bells” is more pro-
found and more of-a-piece, though less
broad and colorful and epical, than
“Captain Cook,” therefore certainly
not less impressive; and of course —-
admitting the point about the others —•
Fitz Gerald’s “Between Two Tides” is
much more substantial than “Heems-
kerck Shoals.” I don’t know why,
except in the desire for a thundering
peroration, I didn’t qualify those con-
cluding remarks; and I will do so if
the anthology is reprinted. The little
word “among” would have helped a
lot.
But (I thought I would fall to a
“but”) I really must say I don’t agree
with Inglis Moore in his strictures on
William Hart-Smith's “Christopher
Columbus.” I won’t attempt here to
justify its inclusion as “Australiana”
in the anthology, since I have said my
say on that point in the introduction.
But I would like to point out
that in narrative structure, fragmentary
though the method is, it is really more
complete than some of the other poems;
and that its lyrics contain a great deal
of vision and drama as well as the
“lilting” and pictorial qualities which
Inglis Moore grants them. It is a poem
I often re-read for pleasure; and the
more I re-read it the more it seems to
grow in stature. I agree that it is
fragile, but I think that it is pure
crystal.
Douglas Stewart.
P.E.N . Anthology
For some years past P.E.N. has
issued anthologies of new verse, and in
1962 the ninth of these volumes will be
published by Hutchinson, edited by
Vernon Scanned, Patricia Beer and
Ted Hughes.
Australian writers wishing to contri-
bute should submit their work to the
Editors of New Poems, 1962, P.E.N.,
62 Glebe Place, London, 5.W.3.
Not more than two poems should
be submitted by each poet, with return
postage. Poems which have appeared
in book form are not eligible, but work
published in periodicals during 1960
may be submitted. Payment will be
made for all poems accepted. Closing
date for entries: January 31, 1961.
Coffs Harbor Prizes
Prizes of £lOO for a full-length play
and £5O for a song are offered by the
Coffs Harbor (N. S, Wales) centenary
celebrations committee. Closing date
April 30, 1961. There is an entry-fee
of £1 for a play, 10s. for a song. Details
from the secretary, playwriting and
songwriting committee, Coffs Harbor.
Lugs O'Leary; Anthony Kim mins
(Heinemann). Opens with the hero in
hospital from the last book’s bullets.
Back at his place at Palm Beach
(Sydney), his little son Tommy finds a
beautiful corpse in the surf: but where
was her other shoe? The trail leads
on naturally to a sinister night-club;
and then they go by plane to the
Barrier Reef and down a Queensland
goldmine, until finally the villain is
run to earth in a burning bank. It has
the picaresque flitting from the
picturesque to the picturesque which
characterises so much Australian
fiction, but it makes an exciting tour
for anyone who hasn’t been there
before.


I dreamed my wife
was a widow...
N»
i
-•••':•.
'v>x :••-•••
v:
amm
SSmSS®
Maybe it was just a nightmare, but it woke me up with a start.
How would Elizabeth and the children fare if I died tomorrow? They’d
have the house ... or would they? What about the mortgage?
We only just seem to keep afloat now, even though I’ve had two decent
increases in pay in the last four years. The bills wouldn’t stop coming in, just
because I was out of the picture.
Food .. gas.. electricity . . telephone.. doctor’s bills.. clothestextbooks..
How would a woman with three children survive the battle for mere existence?
My present life-assurance policy would give her less than one year’s income.
What would be left when death duties were paid ? And I’ve been thinking ...
when I’ve thought at all ... that I can’t afford more Life Assurance.
Let City Mutual Life Assurance draw up a plan to really protect your
family. Call your local City Mutual representative to work out how the special
needs of your family can be met within your budget. You’re drawing on the
yast experience of the only all-Australian, Mutual Life Office.
Your passport to peace of mind
;/• ' . THE
CITY MUTXJAIi
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in N.S.W. in 1878)
Head Office: 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney. Phone BW 2021
Your local City Mutual representative will gladly provide personal service.
