

The Bulletin
A Financial Summary—page 20
Wednesday, March 2, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"The other actors bought it as a home-unit "


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTTS CAN TRAIN YOU
Many Stott Students pay for their course
before completing; it.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various coun-
tries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS to the best advantage: If
YOU have a story to tell, leam how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
tnofae
159 FftifflPTs Lane, Melbourne: 14b ■CasMe-
reagh St., Sydney: 2JM) Adelaide Kt.. Itris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your prospectus, mid full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 560)
BOOKHENTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
tessrt book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
DOCTORS' DILEMMAS
In Honor a Physician (Hollis and
Carter) “Philip Add,” “a G.P. with a
practice in a large [English] industrial
town,” has made a year-by-year study
in short sketches and bits of dialogue
of the British National Health Service
from its inception in 1948 until 1958.
The sketches mount-up into a night-
mare. Maybe the daily round of any
general practitioner, with its smelly
squalor among the no-hopers and its
skeletons in cupboards among the rich,
seen in the varying lights from dawn
to dawn which make life seem in-
secure, is nightmare enough; but for
his hero, Dr. Gatwood, the National
Health Service is the last straw. As the
Labor alderman says when the service
begins:—
“Well, for one thing, the public
are going to see to it that you chaps
provide the sort of service they
want; and what’s more, when and
where they want it.”
One thing they wanted was cotton-
wool:—
“What about my cotton-wool?”
“What do you want it for?”
“My last doctor gave me a pound
every week.”
“What for?”
“My neighbor used to get it, too.
When her niece got married she
gave her nine cushions made out of
lint filled with cotton-wool. Beauti-
ful they were.”
They wanted certificates:—
“There’s nothing wrong with your
back. As far as I’m concerned
you’re fit for work.”
“You can’t prove I haven’t got a
bad back,” Staffing objected bel-
ligerently. “I’ve got a right to a
Panel note if I want one.”
They object to paying for certifi-
cates: —
“Why has Thomas Ferby trans-
ferred, 1 wonder,” said the recep-
tionist, “Doesn’t he owe you a
shilling for a private certificate?”
She consulted her pad. “Yes, that’s
it. How low can they get?”
“D’you mean he’s transferred to
bilk me for a bob?”
“I’ve told you before, Doctor, you
shouldn’t let them have certificates
on tick.”
They get taken for rides:—
“A patient of mine knocked me
up last night just after eleven and
said his wife was ill. They live about
six miles out of town. He asked me
if he could come along in the car. I
thought I’d spare the rota man, so
off we went. When we got there he
said: ‘Thanks for the lift, Doctor.
The missus isn’t really poorly I
missed the last bus, and taxis are an
awful price.’
“1 said: ‘Aren’t you going to offer
me a cup of tea now I've brought
you home?’ and he said: ‘Sure—
be glad to.’ So in we went. There
was a filthy great television set in
the living-room—a thing about the
size of that sideboard, i picked up
the poker and held it about an inch
from the screen ; I said, ‘The taxi
fare’s five pounds—you’ve got thirty
seconds to produce it.’ ”
So it will be seen that the patient
doesn’t always get his own way ; in
fact, the patient’s new power to
demand seems to have provoked a
toughening of the G.P.’s power to
answer back, as in the case of the
couple who annoyed Dr. Gatwood by
continually “sending” for him to come
to their child, “screamin' wiv pain”:—
“Pain my foot. He was crying
with fright, and misery, because his
parents love him so much they left
him alone in the house while they
went out boozing..l’ll tell you
what I’m going to do. I’m going
to make notes on your records to
show exactly what drunken scum
you are, how you neglect your
child and how much consideration
you have for your doctor.”
Or when he was called in to a boy
of 16 with a damaged heart whose
father had encouraged him to drink
eleven pints of beer in half-an-hour
at a wedding-party:—
“I’m afraid he’s dead . . . Did you
think eleven pints of beer would do
him good, Mr. Larker?”
There is a longer account of a lead-
swinger who studied symptoms and
counterfeited them, and eventually
had a case brought against Gatwood
before the district Ethical Committee,
which reprimanded Gatwood and fined
him £25. The finding was cancelled by
the Ministry' of Health: “In my opinion,
Chairman, if there’s a reprimand indi-
cated in this case it ought to go to
the Service Committee. They’ve
obviously been gunning for this Gat-
wood man.”
This illustrates another side of Gat-
wood’s woes: if there are virtuous
G.P.s who refuse to sign false certifi-
cates, there are others, good doctors,
who are not so virtuous, and there are
some, irresponsible doctors, whose only
interest is to get the business, and
almost openly solicit transferences.
When a strict doctor is brought up
before a Committee of such
worthies . . .
Nor is Gatwood merely down on the
poor; he is cuttingly rude to a rich
“abuser of the Domiciliary Scheme.”
On the other hand, when he produces
(Continued on page 58)
MACQUARIE PLACE
l will go out and hear the strain
of rat-bag orators at large.
There is a battery in my brain
which just that fever might re-charge.
The blends of curious craziness
which crank and anarchist extol
could fill with their electric stress
the run-down fury of my soul.
Whether some economic scheme
to conquer currencies, and spread
over the honeyed earth its dream,
moves them, that all men may be fed;
or whether warnings of the worst
in drink or diet or ike boss,
or judgment coming with a burst;
they bring back vision gone as loss.
For nudist, atheist, or pest,
half genius and half distraught,
has in his frenzy of unrest
the drive of some determining thought.
God keep me sane until my last
of breath or knowing; but lei faint
fervor still reach me from the vast
madness of prophet and of saint.
I could proclaim the world is flat
with reasonable skill and wit,
but need fanatic zest if that
I would persuade my seif of it.
So I will cross Macquarie Place
and covet zeal as crude as loud
in lunch-hour lunatics who face
amused indifference of the crowd.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.


DEEP,
RUGGED
GOODYEAR
TREAD
REALLY
GRIPS THE
ROAD
Ut
t 4
I
4
Hsl
;5.
8640 gripping edges mean
road safety for your family
No wonder it’s the safest tread on the road! Any family man
will appreciate that. And, any man of average means will
like the fact that it’s today’s longest-lasting tread, too!
Goodyear scientists have done a fine job in creating this
tyre but that’s just what you’d expect from the world’s
largest tyre company. You can’t buy a safer, long-lasting,
smoother-riding tyre than Goodyear. And, that’s for sure.
Safety goes far deeper than the road-
gripping tread in a Goodyear Tyre.
Only Goodyear builds tyres with 3-T
cord cord that is tempered like
steel for greatest strength, greatest
bruise and blowout resistance. See
your Goodyear Dealer, Garage or
Service Station and insist on Good-
year tyres.
3
S3UAI
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OVER, RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER KIND
"rhey feat
you fne
at the.
QoodyearSgn/"
Wherever you drive, there's a
Goodyear Dealer nearby,
ready to serve you with better
tyre values and better tyre
care,
LOOK FOR THIS SIGN


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 2, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4177
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K._ Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
OUR BUREAUCRACY
AS the public is learning (the hard
** way) since the margins judgment,
one of the most revolutionary changes
in the past few decades has been that
of the civil service.
The change is so marked that the
whole conception of the meaning of
the word seems to have gone into
reverse, and the public is well on the
way to being the civil service’s humble
servant. When a few busmen feel
that they don’t like a type of bus which
the drivers of most great cities of the
world (outside the richest) are glad
to drive, the electors walk or hitch-
hike to work until the men to whom
they pay good wages, overtime and
sometimes double overtime, elect to go
back.
The same busmen contempor-
aneously clamor for, and get,
large increases in their wages as
“skill” margins because a tribunal
originally has said that the workers
in an entirely different industry should
have a 28 per cent, increase in their
edge over the unskilled laborer. The
electors again pay in fare-rises.
The railwaymen are less selfish and
more amenable to discipline in some
States—those in which their local
heads do not happen for the present
to be Communist—but at the same
time there is a big deficit in railway
finances, largely because of the wages-
and-salaries bill which tends to fly
upwards like the lark on the slightest
and most indirect pretext, and because
of the 40-hour week, which slow rail-
ways can’t speed-up to cope with.
The old conception of the civil
service was that it was there to serve;
that because of its short hours and
special privileges it was not entitled to
quite the same salary-range as private
employees who hadn’t the same
permanence of employment, and
nothing like the perquisites or the
security of the services both while
employed and in old-age. Strict poli-
tical impartiality was expected from
the public employee, who, after all,
was much in the minority. He was
expected not to join in politics in any
shape or form and he had no vote.
r T' I ODAY civil servants not only vote
-*■ and form political organisations.
They threaten and bully Governments
at election-time. They send telegrams
to candidates demanding this or that
hand-out —or else. They have exacted
rights to the formation of tribunals
that are so obstructive in their nature
that it is difficult to punish even the
most flagrant breaches of courtesy or
ill-behavior to the public, or even to
deal properly with offences against the
criminal law.
In New South Wales it is now pro-
posed to introduce a bill which will
enable the Public Service Commis-
sioners to retain in the service persons
who have been convicted of penal
offences such as peculation and fraud.
On' the side of remuneration, Aus-
tralia is a paradise for most civil
servants.
It was the dictum of Sir Henry
Parkes that if you gave a public
servant a table in a passage to write a
letter and came back in half an hour,
you would find him with a full
department.
Now a new scientific fact has been
established, namely, that public depart-
ments are liquid entities in which there
is an increasing tendency of the atoms
to rise to the top where the cakes
and ale and black hats float. Also
that at that level, ferment turns cakes
and ale into champagne and caviare
at the least provocation, and that they
breed from single bottles and cakes
into almost unlimited magnums and
batches of confectionery for everybody.
Thus what used to be clerks become
supervisors; what used to be senior
clerks grow into deputy-directors;
directors become assistant-secretaries;
assistant-secretaries become deputy-
secretaries or heads-of-branches or
assistant-heads-of-branches, or acquire
some new and fancy title.
All these offices multiply, and, as
they increase, new titles have to be
invented for sub-departments, and the
seniors become larger in bulk, more
subject to the disease of knighthoods.
New classifications have to be invented
to bolster up their “salary brackets.”
The “heads” climb ever up the wall
until at last they are out of reach of
the electors and Parliament altogether,
and are inclined to tell Cabinet
Ministers where they get off.
Yet, such is paradox, all the greatest
are amenable to the gentle rain of
margins. Let an assistant-toolmaker
in a foundry be told by a commission
that he is worth another 28 per cent,
more than he already gets above the
sweeper who cleans-up the floor round
his bench, and black hats are knocked-
off and trampled in the indecent rush
to get another seven-, eight- or nine-
hundred a year from the public coffers.
Not all the most senior civil servants
are overpaid. Some in public utilities
are much underpaid by the standards
of private enterprise. It would, for
instance, be considered entirely
inadequate in a private business to
pay the Director-general of Posts and
Telegraphs, head of what is probably
the largest business in Australia, the
£6OOO a year provided in the Budget,
or even the roughly £7OOO a year which
he will get after he has benefited by
the new margins allowances.
The G.P.O. finds it difficult to keep
its topmost men. It is notorious that
the governor of the Commonwealth
Bank receives a poor salary com'
pared with that paid to heads of other
banks. And such jobs as the Com-
missionerships of Railways do not
command the sort of salaries that
would be expected in private
enterprise.
AT the same time, there is no doubt
** that the senior ranks of the civil
service make-up in group-salaries for
what adequate reward the commanding
brain may lack.
Every department, Federal and
State, has built-up nests of assistants
and deputies. The Defence Depart-
ment has, for instance, one secretary
at nearly £7OOO since the new rise,
three first-assistants round £4OOO each;
seven assistants in the £3OOO-odd
bracket; a director-general in the £3500-
and-upwards bracket; a Director of
Organisation and Methods at over
£3OOO, with the new rises; a “Scientific
Assistant to the Defence Scientific
Adviser,” ditto ; a Secretary of the
Defence Committee getting about
£3000; a Secretary of the Defence
Business Board about the same; and
67 officers all bearing special names
who are in the £l6OO-£2200 class.
This is a typical higher-bracket depart-
mental nest.
The stage has not been reached at
which 52 officials of the Government
draw higher salaries than Cabinet
Ministers, as in England, but this is
only because Australian Cabinet
Ministers are more agile climbers than
the slower and more stolid British.
The point has nearly been reached
when the word “democracy” should
be scored-out of the record and
replaced in the description of our
system of government by bureaucracy.


THE NEXT-BEST THING
“Well, if you won’t give me a gold-pass like the politicians have, and I can’t get a free car and driver like the top
civil servants, you’d better let me have one of those new workmen’s weeklies.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
From Jerquers to Deputies
The near-abolition of import-rationing
might have been expected to cause a
flutter in the department affected, since
it will, or should have, put in jeopardy
staffs which have been built-up to handle
the millions of miles of red-tape in which
the administration was wrapped-up.
It is estimated that in the Sydney office
66 per cent of the officers of the branch
that has dealt with import-rationing have
become redundant.
Nobody need, however, weep for those
who have lost their jobs and picture them
cast out into the maw of industry, which
could do with their services.
The Government doesn’t do things
that way. Those who are not provided
for by the simple method of making two
men do one man’s work in another sec-
tion will appear in the Estimates under
the heading of “officers on the unattached
list awaiting suitable vacancies.”
One department alone Works ex-
pects to have a bill for £IOB,OOO for
salaries paid for this sort of desirable
job, and five departments taken at
random have provided over £220,000 to
remunerate the fortunate out-of-works in
the category in 1959-60.
The more promising may, of course,
be absorbed into new classifications
which the Commonwealth Public Service
Board or somebody in the business of
fitting civil servants into jobs has a
positive genius for inventing to meet
emergencies.
Departments now possess such flam-
boyant female myrmidons as “the
Steno-secretary to Head of Department.”
There is, in the Department of Trade,
an “import-policy officer,” a “commercial-
policy officer” and a “commodity-policy
officer.” One section in the same de-
partment consists of 167 employees made
up of “clerical assistants, junior assist-
ants, typist-in-charge, steno-secretary,
typists, accounting-machinists, teleprint-
operator and storeman.”
The Customs Department possesses
some officers who rejoice in the title
of jerquers. Webster’s Dictionary very
lucidly explains that “a jerquer is one
whose duty it is to jerque ships.” In
some other, departments, when there is
no other way of providing for an up-
and-comer whose seniority entitles him to
be called something more than clerk, a
tag can always be hung on him describing
him as a researcher, supervisor, adminis-
trative officer, card-punch operator,
deputy-assistant director —there are a lot
of those —field-officer, compiler, officer-
in-charge.
Inquiry - officers and investigating -
officers, examiners, planning-officers and
assistant planning-officers are not as
exalted as the top hierarchy of the De-
partment of Trade, which consists of one
Secretary, one Deputy Secretary, the
First Assistant Secretary, nine Assistant
Secretaries and 10 Directors and Regional
Directors. The Department of Primary
Industry, a new growth, boasts these rulers
in order of seniority: Secretary, two
First-assistant Secretaries, four Assist-
ant Secretaries, four Deputy Assistant
Secretaries, plus Assistant Directors,
Deputy Directors, Senior Project Officers,
Administrative Officers, Chief Clerk-
who used to be the monkey’s pyjamas in
pre-war days, next to an exalted official
who was then called only an under-
secretary at the top of the tree. He is
now almost lost in the crowd of 131 hold-
ing specific secondary positions.
It is obvious that while the inventive-
ness of the designers of the service does
not flag, the displaced persons of import-
licensing will not want for a crust even
if it is found necessary to turn some of
them into vocational counsellors, senior
social workers, medical ancillaries or even
jerquers—but not laborers.
There is only one of those apparently
in the service—in the Department of
Shipping and Transport, where he prob-
ably is an exhibit in a glass case.
McEwen Speaks Out
Among friends plain talking never does
much harm, and the remarks of Trade
Minister McEwen at a luncheon given
by the Australian-American Association
for delegates to the International Con-
gress of Management could hardly have
been blunter.
He said that in the past eight years,
when Australia had been battling to
earn more exchange so as to avoid slow-
ing down its rate of development, no
other great trading-country had
obstructed it as the United States had. He
then listed U.S. restrictions with which
Australia had to contend. These in-
cluded a duty on Australian wool; a
wheat-policy which adversely affected
Australia ; cuts in lead- and zinc-quotas
which drastically reduced our dollar-
earnings. He admitted that the U.S.
bought Australian butter and cheese —a
whole nine tons a year—but its sugar
came entirely from Cuba. It had been
importing a quantity of meat from
Australia, but “now we are fearful that
our meat-exporters may be cut-across.”
Lest his audience should think his
complaint was merely a Government-
to-Government matter he told them that
it was not the chosen policy of the U.S.
Administration that had placed these
restrictions on Australian trade with
America ; the restrictions had been im-
posed as a result of pressures from U.S.
industry.
McEwen couldn’t have chosen a better
audience for his speech. It included
many of the top business-consultants of
America, some of them possibly con-
sultants to the very interests he was
attacking.
Plain talk is not much good if it is
mere scolding, and McEwen stressed that
Australia still needed, and would
welcome, U.S. investment and U.S.
industry, “with all its magnificent skills
of management,” but he warned that Aus-
tralia did not intend to be taken-over
by U.S. business.
At the weekend the U.S. Commerce
Department was reported to have told
American businessmen that they would
have to be aggressive if they wished
to sell more goods to Australia in the
face of competition from the U.K.,
Japan and West Germany. Perhaps some
of the delegates from the Sydney man-
agement congress will also tell them
that they can’t expect American-Austra-
lian trade to be one-way traffic.
Taking Latrobe Easy
Victorian Liberals, apparently under the
illusion that Latrobe, the electorate
vacated by Lord Casey, can be won by
any respectable Liberal selected by the
party machine, put-off making a choice
(John jess, a son of the late General Sir
Carl Jess, and secretary of the Toorak
branch of the Liberal party) until last
Saturday, although nominations close on
March 15, and the by-election will be
held on April 9.
The A.L.P. and the D.L.P. are already
in the field with Donel Pritchard, a
Board of Works engineer, and John
Martyr, a company representative,
respectively. Both are young family men,
and their endorsement by the two Labor
parties of such types of candidates
is more significant than coincidental.
Each year sees the settlement in the
electorate of about 2500 such young
married men. About 4000 newcomers of
this type will vote in the by-election, and
sound judges not attached to any political
party believe they may be predisposed to
Labor.
Lord Casey, despite his remarkable
personal following, won by only 4000
votes 15 months ago, and public resent-
ment at the recent Parliamentary salary-
rises has been rekindled by the latest signs
of renewed inflation. The stately Liberal
approach to the selection of a candidate
indicates an unawareness that the seat
may be lost.
Lord Casey won with a majority over
both his A.L.P. and D.L.P. opponents,
and it is apparent the Liberals are reckon-
ing that in a pinch their man will
get the preferences of the D.L.P. can-
didate. Many of the D.L.P. preferences
undoubtedly were for Liberals rather
than an Evatt-led A.L.P. ; and Dr. Evatt
has now left the A.L.P.
The disappearance of Casey and Evatt
from the Latrobe scene is a double blow
to the Liberals'.
Art and Age
[From ‘‘Collins Street”]
The Australian inferiority-complex got
its best airing for a year in Melbourne
last week when Oriel Gray’s superior
and rather lovable prize-winning play,
“Burst of Summer,” had its world
premiere at the Little Theatre and
Maurice Chevalier arrived for his
month’s season at the Comedy.
Chevalier, who eez the American and
Australian personification of what a
stage-Frenchman should be like, was
besieged by the press, radio-interviewers
and TV-cameras, not to mention the


ladies’ weeklies. Most of the inter-
viewers couldn’t get near him, and half
of them were, in fact, ordered off by
his manager, a chap named Shapiro,
from the U.S.
Nevertheless, he got the most glamor-
ous buiid-up, as they blurb in such
circles, any septuagenarian has ever
received, if it is glamorous to see an old.
man cosseted by young females.
“Burst of Summer” received the usual
treatment accorded Australian art. No
mention from TV, or commercial radio,
a review from the A.8.C., and the usual
back-page notice in the dailies.
This explains in some measure why
the best seats in the house for the play
are 9s, 9d., and those for Chevalier four
guineas. The other part-explanation for
the Chevalier prices is Mr. Shapiro, who
is reported to be the keenest manager
J. C. Williamson’s have ever had to do
business with.
Bill Withdrawn
Mr. Nicklin, Premier of Queensland,
after a three-hour conference with the
Liberal and Country-party wings of his
Parliamentary supporters, has announced
that a recommendation by the State
Cabinet that the Declaration of Rights
Bill be withdrawn this session had been
accepted.
Mr. Nicklin said that there had been
considerable controversy about the final
draft of the bill, and “one Government
department had raised a particularly vital
matter which could only be resolved on
the receipt of certain information.”
The bill was brought down in Decem-
ber, but in an atmosphere which led the
Government to give an assurance that
it would not be carried beyond the first
reading until all sections of the' com-
munity had an opportunity to consider it.
Few members of the public have taken
more than the slightest interest in the
curious measure, except the two sections
of the Labor party, which have naturally
combed it word by word in search of
material with which they can hit the
Government. They seem to have found
plenty. The inner group of the A.L.P.
demanded its withdrawal and reconstitu-
tion, and Mr. Gair’s Labor party pro-
nounced it “inadequate, ill conceived and
a propaganda measure not fulfilling the
Government’s promises to pass a Bill of
Rights.”
The issues raised by one group of
departmental rulers are obviously highly
important, since the Premier announced
that it would be “impossible to be com-
pletely sure that the points raised could
be satisfactorily resolved in the near
future due to the very intensive legal
study that will be involved.” So the
Government has decided to “defer the
bill for the present”—which seems to
mean that it will be held over until after
next election.
It is a sound decision. Most of its pro-
visions are merely a restatement of the
law as it exists. It is held by its advo-
cates that it is especially necessary in
Queensland because of the fact that there
are no safeguards provided against
tyrannous action by the single house of
Parliament, the Legislative Council
having been abolished.
It is true that there has been abuse
of Parliamentary powers by the Labor
majority, but it is not an argument for
a Bill of Rights but for the restoration
of a revising Chamber.
A statute which defines rights can also •
be used by an ill-disposed majority with
totalitarian ideas to limit them, and a
measure which has the support of nearly
all the Government departments and
which, it seems, will be amended to
meet the objections of departments which
do not support it in toto does not appear
to be likely to help in putting a curb on
Governments.
The objections to the bill are far
greater than the arguments in favor of
it, especially seeing that so much of it
only restates the law.
The Government was wise in with-
drawing it, and it will be wiser still if it
loses it.
Fate in the Balance
[From Canberra]
Next Tuesday, on which the Parlia-
mentary Labor caucus meets to elect a
new leader and deputy-leader, could
prove to be one of the most eventful days
in Labor’s turbulent history.
On the caucus-vote will depend the
future and fate of the A.L.P. On Tues-
day the party must look for men who
can settle-down to the job of reuniting
the party, adapting its outlook to con-
temporary thinking and presenting a
well-knit organisation to'fihe electors by
the end of next year.
This will be a colossal job for any
man elected as leader, be it Arthur Cal-
well or anyone else, and probably the
time-lapse between now and the elections
will be insufficient for the task. There-
fore, it can be argued that greater
importance attaches to the election of a
deputy-leader than the leader.
Assuming Calwell or Pollard gets
the leadership, each will be well into
his sixties by the next elections and
closer to 70 by the 1964 elections. There-
fore, the new deputy-leader should be
the leader by 1964.
This being so, what must the Labor
party look for? Not another member
of the Old Guard—Ward, Haylen, etc.—
but a younger man who, in the inter-
vening four or five years, can be groomed
as leader.
Admittedly there is not a great deal
of promising material to choose from,
but men like Whitlam, from N.S.W., or
Crean, from Victoria, must be the type
of men the rank-and-file caucus will give
close consideration to.
If personal hates and antagonisms,
personal ambition and pride, prevail,
Labor can look forward to as many years
on the Speaker’s left ahead of them as
they now have behind them.
The Workers' Only Paradise
One of the most remarkable chances to
study the effects of the rule of the
Kremlin in what it is pleased to
call “the Workers’ Only Fatherland” is
presented by the figures of the Russian
census. This was taken in January last
year, but it is only now that analysts
have sorted-out the official deceits in
the Census Report and given a real
estimate.
It is established that whemthe Russian
revolution took place in 1917 the popu-
lation was at least 169 million. On the
Soviet official figures it was only 153
million in 1922 for the territory now
comprising the U.S.S.R., a loss of 16
million, mainly the result of the revolu-
tion.
During the decade before 1932 the
Russian birthrate went up to the amazing
rate of 42 to 44 per thousand, but at the
end of the period in 1931-32 “collecti-
visation” was introduced, and this
resulted in a disastrous fall-off in the
birthrate and rise in the deathrate.
Then followed the years of Stalin’s
greatest glory, marked by massacres,
deportations and the great artificial
famine.
Thus, although in the decade 1923-32
the increase had been about 35 million,
the actual increase in the five years
before 1938, on the official figures, was
less than five million —and this with a
birthrate of 38.3 per 1000, which fell to
31 in 1940.
The next few years were disastrous.
War, famine, decline of the birthrate
and increase in the civilian deathrate, all
played their parts, along with the whole-
sale mortality of the concentration-
camps. The total loss of population
between 1939 and 1945 was about 18
million. In 1946, at 173 million, it was
only two million more than in 1916. In
the next 10 years it reached the 200-
miilion-mark, and by the end of 1958
had added another eight million.
The most striking fact has been the
redistribution rather than the increases.
The population of Russia proper in the
year World War II broke out in the
West was 108 million out of a total for
the U.S.S.R. of 190 million. In the next
20 years it has shown an overall increase
of only nine million. The 40-million
population of the Ukraine in the same
period has developed by only 1,400,000.
Belorussia has actually lost the best part
of one million, out of nine. But Uzbeki-
stan, Kazakhistan and Georgia, which
between them had about 16 million
before the war, now have 21 million.
The three Baltic States —Lithuania,
Latvia and Estonia —have actually made
a total joint gain of only just over
100,000 on a 1939 figure of five million.
This is in strong contrast to the small
Asian States with an original population
of about the same as the Baltic ones,
for which the figure has jumped up
nearly two million, much of this being
due to forced immigration. Russia is
retiring more and more into its Asian
shell.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A newspaper boy who sells the Sunday
papers about our outer Sydney
suburb makes a little bit extra by carry-
ing a stock of cigarettes. He reckons
that at times they sell better than the
papers.—“W.P.T.”
+*♦ ♦♦♦
“G.T.”: A healthy pay-cheque dis-
played' by our junior teacher recalls
1940, when our j.t. answered the call to
fight for King and country, and was being
farewelled. The shire president waxed
eloquent on the virtues of the blushing
18-year-old, and called on all to witness
the sacrifices the lad was making, par-
ticularly that of finance . . . Fact was,
at five-bob a day the Army was the
better financial proposition.
♦&
“Blink”: Lately Hobartians were
grieved over the wrecking of a fine old
freestone building which a century ago
housed the Bank of Van Diemen’s Land.
The ceiling of the old banking-chamber
displayed the coat-of-arms of the city ;
the new bank-building, a steel-and-glass
job, carries a plaque showing in
miniature the design destroyed, while an
attached plate gives the relevant details
—a nice thought, considering there was
little kudos and less moula to be gained.
The Arms of the City of Hobart were
changed in 1953 ; part of the crest of
Lord Hobart has been incorporated in
the design.
❖ <* *X*
“D.1.F.”: “Peter Simple’s” letter (B.
17/2/ ’6O) mentions the day 50 years ago
when the temperature was 118 degrees in
the shade at Grafton. The Scottish
Rifles Regiment paraded at St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian church on that day after
a long march. My father was the minis-
ter and I helped to carry buckets of
water to place at the end of the pews
for their re-hydration, apd had the job
of mopping the pools of perspiration off
those pews after the service. It was
hotter than the day Dad went into the
pulpit at Ulmarra one Sunday afternoon
with a cabbage-leaf on his bald head.
It had stuck there when he took his hat
off. He used the leaf as an air-con-
ditioner.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eureka”: Proprietor of a dry-clean-
ing factory discovered that about 75 per
cent, of his women-staff came to work
in drip-dry cotton frocks or frocks of
some other material
that did . not need
dry - cleaning and
pressing. “No won-
der business is fall-
ing off,” he told
them. It was not
until a girl who was
leaving the factory
that afternoon drew
his attention to his
own dress that he
realised that he was
wearing trousers
that did not need
cleaning or pressing.
In the north - west
of N. S. Wales a
grazier, stressing to
a meeting the neces-
sity for Australians
to be educated to
wear more wool,
was asked how
much wool his wife
and daughters were
wearing. He had to
admit it was nil.
Lately a traveller
told me that the
members of a coun-
try bov/ling - club
were all wearing
trousers of terylene,
notwithstanding that
a big percentage of
them were depen-
dent on the wool in-
dustry for a living.
“Arthur R.”: “G.T.’s” par. on the
prayer of the young Fijian theoldgical
student (B. 3/2/’6O) brings to mind the
exhortation of Dan Bung, a Chinese who
joined the Salvation Army. In his first
public appearance he concluded his
fervent appeal to be made a better man:
“And if at first you don’t succeed, Lord,
for God’s sake try, try and try again!”
“W.P.T.”: Spending a holiday in
Melbourne with our son at the bayside
suburb of Black Rock, I tried eating
flake —a species of school-shark —and
found it truly delicious. The proprietor
of the fish-shop seemed astonished when
I told him that it was unavailable in
Sydney. Some of it is actually caught
off Eden, in N. S. Wales waters. He
told me that if he didn’t stock flake he’d
have to close his business. Moreover,
the amount of potato-chips you get for
sixpence at Black Rock would cost two-
bob in my Sydney suburb.
A. JU.
V V V
“Dileabach”: Having run into financial
difficulties a few months back, and not
being able to pay my fuel-bill with the
oil - company (except in instalments,
which they accepted), I was without
warning summoned through a debt-col-
lector. I raised a loan to pay that off. Now
I’m in the clear again I get a nice little
statement each month showing my
balance as nil, and shortly I expect to
have a nice little letter crawling for my
custom again, and a visit from their rep-
resentative.
PIX AND CHIX
“ ‘A beautiful woman is more agreeable than
a painting,’ said Maurice Chevalier, arriving
from America for an eight-week stage engage-
ment in Australia.”
Paintings that one sees,
Such as paintings of trees,
Don’t seem to please
Like my painted Louise ;
Each painted lip
Gives me the tip :
I love you . . . Love you!
Pictures of roses
You hang on the wall
Haven’t got noses
Or features at alt:
Your hennaed hair
Makes me declare
I love you, Louise !
Venus, in a picture,
Cannot speak or wcdk :
If l have one stricture,
It’s on how you talk —
But anyone will know,
When / yearn for your kiss,
I’m wise not to go
To an Abstract for this:
That’s why it’s true
Someone like you
Must love me, Louise!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'T'he elderly gentleman waiting beside
*- me on a Wynyard (Sydney) seat
was disposed to be chatty about his
morning’s experiences in the big city.
“Lots of strangers in town,” he observed.
“Been stopped three times by ’em, want-
ing to know the way to the zoo and
the gardens and D.J’s.” “Nice to think
we’re getting some tourists from abroad,”
I said companionably. “Oh, none of
these were from abroad,” he decreed.
“Melbourne, I’d say. The women were
all fine set-up types with good com-
plexions. Can always tell a Victorian
woman by her figure and her skin. The
Queensland girls, now; they get that
washed-out look, and in Sydney, here,
they’re much smaller-built than in the
other States. I’ve travelled round Aus-
tralia all my life and there’s a big
difference in the people from each State.”
“What about the men?” I asked. “Men!
No point in me studying the men, was
there?” he demanded. At which junc-
ture our train rattled in and we boarded
the back carriage. But he ignored the
vacancy beside me and seated himself
across the aisle by the heaviiy-henna’d
type who had come, partially at least,
out of her close-fitting sun-top and
matadors. —“Pat.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nor”: There was much heated dis-
cussion at our meeting, but one cautious
member relieved the tension. Asked his
opinion, he replied, “Yes, and no, with
reservations.”
♦> ❖
“Bellfield”: The Master Builders’
Association has formed the nucleus of a
town at West Pennant Hills (N.S.W.).
Thirty-five homes have been built on
the virgin estate and are on exhibition
before being sold. With entrance to
the exhibition at 2s. a head, parking-
fee another bob, and three sessions
daily, the takings have climbed into
big money. The exhibition is a
study in contrasts. There is excellent
planning and atrocious planning (such
as the house in which the only means
of reaching the back-door from inside
is by passing through the lavatory);
the exquisite in color-schemes and the
positively revolting; beauty in archi-
tecture and the grotesque, ridiculous,
commonplace, incredible, striking, fan-
tastic and astoundingly ugly. And one
touch of topical humor. A house bear-
ing the street-number 77 also carries the
name: “Sunset Strip.”
Ju, Ju.
V V V
“N.S.”: On my first day in the new
job I was bespoken by the accountant
about the staff superannuation-scheme.
“It’s not compulsory,” he said, “but you
have to join.” I joined.
♦l* ♦Jf
“Svvelpme”: This is the age of come-
backs. The last, generation’s popular
songs are sweeping the hit - parades.
Maurice Chevalier, now a youngster in
his 70’s, has been offered fabulous money
to appear in person on Australian stages.
Nelson Eddy, after 20-odd years of com-
"He Was desperate. You know me, Maud —I
couldn't turn a lodger away with money in his
pockets ."
parative obscurity, has again become one
of the most popular singers in the U.S.A.
And now Mr. Chad has returned. I saw
him peeping over the slot in a letterbox
at The Entrance (N.S.W.), and asking
his question: “Wot, no mail?"
♦jt »>
“Beam”: She wanted to send her true-
love a card for Valentine’s Day and knew
the rules, so didn’t sign it. But her
Scotch soul got the better of her, and
at the last moment she enclosed a letter
in it because it seemed a shame not to
make use of the postage!
*l* *>
“Jock”: “G. 8.” (B. 17/2/’6O) says he
was last paid wages in golden sovereigns
in T 5. My first pay came in ’lO, when,
as an office-boy, I received two half-
sovs. for a fortnight’s pay. Was so
elevated that I ran home all the way to
hand over to Mum. My last association
with the Jimmy O’Goblins was 10 years
ago, when I dug-up a sov. in my Sydney
suburban garden near the water-meter.
Wasn’t sure of my find, so 1 showed it
to several passers-
by, all younger than
myself. Their iden-
tification ranged
from a coupon that
Sydney merchants
of early last century
issued as tokens to
something belong-
ing to a child’s toy-
shop. But Mrs. Nex-
door, who is older
than I am, said
without much in-
spection: “You’ve
got a sovereign
there —look at the
milled edge! ” The
young Common-
wealth Bank fellow
wasn’t sure of the
value —had to ring
head-office to find
out —they credited
my account with
£3 12s. I got into
hot water with my
three daughters, all
under 30, who be-
rated me for not
holding the pelf
until their boy-
friends had visited
the house and seen
such a thing as a
golden sovereign.
But a man hasn’t
my patronymic for
nothing! Inquiries
showed that sove-
reigns haven’t been
legal tender since
the early ’2o’s.
$ ‘J
“P.0.M.C.”: I
suppose, in a sense,
it made sense. She
looked 17, nicely
dressed, beautifully
groomed and very
pretty. He was about the same age,
pegged-trousered, gaudily-shirted, side-
levered and none too clean. They were
seated next to me in the train: “An’ if
you’re cornin’ to our nex’ rock-’n’-roller
with me,” he was saying sulkily, “you’ve
gotta be properly dressed.”
❖ >*+
“Ben Backslider”: A suggestion culled
from Biblical sources for the Australian
Wool Bureau publicity-campaign: “Thou
shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts,
as of wool and linen together.”—
Deuteronomy 22:11.
“Banker's Wife”: A man I know wore
his wedding-shoes when he gave his
daughter away at her wedding ; and he’ll
celebrate his silver-wedding this year.
Not that he’s mean or hard-up —his
product is grown in most gardens all
over the world—but his shoes just don't
wear-out. Still a good black, shining
with respectability, they look no dif-
ferent from the shoes my husband


bought last week. Though I’ve tried
hard to persuade him that our newly-
formed historical society is the only place
for his old shoes, he insists on wearing
them to church and dinner-parties.
What’s more, he reckons they’ll be
walking up the aisle when his next
daughter (19) and son (13) make their
vows.
*> *i* ❖
“Septulm”: The successful 17-year-
old Australian contender for a four-year
U.S.A scholarship had finally to attend
the study of his Melbourne high-school
headmaster to be quizzed for completion
“Get of my foot!”
of a Harvard questionnaire. Mother
was a bit agog when son returned from
this ordeal and related that the only
curly one was question number-eight:
“State parental dissension if any.” Mum
waited breathlessly while junior re-
counted: “I told the Head I hadn’t a
clue, but that your silver-wedding anni-
versary last week seemed to go off quite
smoothly.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sack”: It doesn’t take long for an
inspired sobriquet to become hackneyed.
Somebody known as “Old A.P.C. ’
(Aches, Pains and Complaints) is now
likely to be found in every workshop,
job or office. Most service-stations have
their I.W.W. customers (Information,
Wind and Water). Where there is heavy
lifting to be done the loafer is invariably
known, these days, as “London Fog”
(never lifts). And stevedores on every
Australian wharf have at least one
wharfie tabbed as “The Judge” (always
sitting on a case). Occasionally you are
lucky enough to be at the bedside when
a new one is born, as I was when the
foreman sought to describe an alleged
worker he had been obliged to repri-
mand. “You must know him,” he in-
sisted, “The Abdominal Slow-man.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cece”: Australian representative of
International P.E.N. (Poets, Essayists and
Novelists in case you don’t know) reports
that the only Australian novelist of note
abroad is Patrick White. His audience
had the grace to squirm in recognition
of the fact that few of them knew his
works here,
♦> * *
, ,
C.A.A. . I knew there must be at
lea f one holidaymaker who couldn t do
without his TV on his annual break,
At a newly-opened caravan-park 50 miles
from Melbourne a lone antenna pointed
skywards. The set was placed in a special
marquee rigged-up next the caravan,
and as the news spread the crowd squat-
ting nightly on the ground recalled the
diggers watching an open-air film show
j n t he north,
* *** *
« Bo .. ; Those ri val newsboys in Perth
w ith their microphones strapped to their
chests and their cumbersome metal coin-
dispensers (B. 3/2/’6O) would raise grins
f rom their fellow-practitioners in Sydney,
the majority of whom have long since
left boyhood behind. To get a lesson
in real digital dexterity with paper and
coin those Swansiders should come
across and get a gander at the paper-
sellers in action outside Wynyard Station
in the afternoon peak-hour stampede,
when tens of thousands of news-hungry
homegoers are handled with expedition
and ease. They’ve got the technique
down to a fine art. It's all done in dead
silence —they let the posters alongside
’em do the yapping. By the time you’ve
recovered from under your armpit the
paper which in a split-second they’ve
folded and flicked there, the change is
in your mitt. With only the tendered
zack, bob and two-bob to think about,
the change resolves itself into either a
penny, sevenpence or one-and-seven for
a fivepenny rag. Coins are arranged in
a neat strip along the outstretched left
hand, the browns near the butt, bobs
next and the zacks down towards finger-
tips. If they can’t handle a customer
every one-and-a-half seconds they’re
considered as approaching the doddering
stage.
*i+ *x* *i*
“Pat”: Passing a leception-room in
one of Sydney’s big stores I noticed that
the little man on the door beamed at
all-comers from behind an elaborate
chrome-plated notice: “Official Greeter.”
♦> ❖
“O’ Jai”: There is no need to call
the long-suffering medico out of bed
to judge the degree of drunkenness in an
inebriate. The articulation of '“British
Constitution” and the walking of a
straight line can go by the board, for
a method has been discovered for
measuring the phenomenon called the
hangover:— ®_
With the aid of special apparatus, it
has been proved that disturbances of the
sense of balance remain long after the
concentration of alcohol in the blood has
sunk below 0.8 pro mille, the upper limit
permitted for Swedish automobile-drivers.
Disturbance of balance after alcohol-
poisoning are expressed in the form of
small regular movements of the eyes called
nystagmus. An intimate connection
between such eye-oscillation and the
amount of alcohol in their blood has been
found in hangover-victims studied. Even
in imperceptibly-affected persons symptoms
of balance-disturbance could be measured
long after all alcohol had left the body.
IT took the “Saturday Evening Post”
to show me just how Zane Grey
has two-timed me. Him and his
gunmen who battle through deserts
for weeks without enough water to damp
their foreheads, let alone wash their
feet, who sleep fully-clothed with never
so much as a mention of pyjamas, and
who, when Nemesis finally catches-up
with them, have just one dying request:
to die with their boots on! The “Post”
advt. showed me the true gunman: .45’s
hung very low ; top of holsters with
extra lashing to belt to prevent drag on
the draw ; point of holsters tied to thigh
to ensure no kick-up as the gun clears
leather; fingertips slightly bent and
brushing well-notched butts ; TV-cameras
in the background. A killer if ever I
saw one. The advt. was of a deodorant
for masculine armpits.—“Swelpme.”


Some Characters in Steam
By W. N. SCOTT
For more than half-a-century sugar-
cane was hauled to the North
Queensland mills by fussy, fierce,
bucketing little steam locos., but
one by one they have been replaced by
diesels, which are more efficient, econo-
mical —and thoroughly prosaic.
To get my meaning it is only neces-
sary to put a small boy near one of
each variety and see which draws him
like a magnet. The diesel sits like a lump.
The steam loco, is alive as he is alive,
and there is where he will be found.
It breathes, it pants contentedly, it hisses
steam from unexpected places. Its per-
sonality shows-out in many ways, and
locos, are as capable of developing
personalities as ships.
At one mill where I worked for some
years there were four steam locos., all
different and all worth knowing. They
were the Bomb, the Flying Piecart, Old
Number Two and Number Six. There
were also two petrol locos., known as
Big Pig and Little Pig, but they were
such colorless personalities that they
deserve no mention.
HThe Bomb was the most happy-go-
•*- lucky piece of machinery in the
world. She was as cheerful, well-mean-
ing and unreliable as some of the ladies
who once upon a time hung around the
waterfront pubs in Cairns. There was
nothing fixed about her. In motion she
made noises like a travelling-tinsmith’s
wagon, and she had a penchant for
derailing herself when travelling tender-
first. Yet, stuck in a hollow with a
heavy load, she would clank cheerfully
at the grade, finally overcoming the
obstacle in a crescendo of noises like a
Burmese gong-orchestra.
Back at the shed the loco.-fitter would
grasp the crosshead, rattle it up and
down vigorously, yelling, “Plenty of
play, plenty of tolerance there!” He
would squirt some oil over the bearings,
and she would be ready for anything
again.
Being a lightweight, she worked mainly
short-distance nuisance-jobs, close to the
mill-yards. On the rare occasions when
an emergency sent her further afield, she
clanged over bridges, through cuttings,
and along embankments in the most
cheerful way. At these times her whole
demeanor was that of a child off on a
holiday. An excited, exploratory mood
seemed to settle over her, and nothing
was too much trouble for her. A
wondering joy at escaping for a while
from the humdrum shunting of the
“empties” yard, or the pulling of 20
“fulls” from the Two-mile that were her
usual lot.
On her own job she bore-up light-
heartedly ; occasionally piling-up her
load more from exuberance than
deliberate malice. She was never shame-
faced after leaving the rails herself. Once
back on the metals she would bound
away, as carefree as ever.
On a good running-rail she would pull
her heart out; thumping, creaking,
determined. But in that humid climate
the dew-falL is as heavy as a thunder-
shower ; and at two or three in the
morning the rail would be as slippery as
a codfish. A moment’s drowsiness on
the part of the driver, a slight wriggle in
the rail, and she would leave the steel
and bounce to a painful halt, rakishly
askew on the sleepers. Then the sleepy
fireman would curse wearily, grab his
“larrikin” lamp and plod off to the
nearest farm to ring the mill for the
breakdown gang. I don’t think the Bomb
liked late nights. She thought her age
demanded privileges.
Five, the Flying Piecart, was
named for the short length of stove-
pipe chimney that protruded through
the roof of the cab. This pipe never
carried smoke ; it'was for shunting clear
steam from the safety-valves, which were
inconveniently placed on top of the
fire-box.
Her personality was in direct anti-
thesis to the Bomb’s. She sulked, loafed,
skulked, slipped, developed hot-boxes,
and was as touchy as a bull in fly-time.
When she felt like it she would astound
you by pulling a load first try that she
had consistently refused to look at every
day for the previous' fortnight. She
always looked neat and well-groomed
because she spent so much time over the
pit in the loco.-shed being repaired.
Some of her tricks were mystifying.
At one moment her boiler would be full.
Turn away and back again and you
would have trouble getting a show in
the gauge-glass. Don’t talk to me about
grades affecting the water-level, either.
That’s the way it was, and none of the
others did the same thing.
She was a driver’s heartbreak, a fire-
man’s nightmare and a fitter’s despair.
She would sulk her way through her
shift so long as she wasn’t asked to do
anything out of the ordinary. But if
she felt she was being put upon there
would be a broken blast-pipe, leaking
tubes, or maybe a bearing would heat
and the metal run out without any of
the smells of frying oil or sounds of
complaining metal that attend this mis-
hap on a normal engine. Let her driver
relax, and she would hit the dirt. Let
her fireman dream of his lunch for a
moment, and he would find himself with
a clinkered fire, little steam or water
and an upgrade ahead.
Sometimes she came to a standstill
despite all vigilance. Once I saw the
driver and fireman frantically shovelling
dirt into the firebox to choke the lire.
Both injectors had refused to function at
the same time, and they couldn’t get
any water into the boiler. Despite her
failings, her crews bore her a blasphe-
mous affection. I am sure this sprang
mainly from their pleasure in outwitting
her. There was nothing lovable in her
make-up.
/’'Vld Number Two and Number Six
were the real workers, the long-
distance locos. They worked 24 hours
a day, five and sometimes six days a
week, for seven months of the year.
They were the long-haul locos., threading
their way on a web of steel far from
the mill. They shuttled back and forth,
out with empties and back with full
trucks in an intricate game of chess.
o Continued on page 44)


POLITICAL POINTS
On Saturday Fleet Street* was soggy
with a dull sound of gossip-columnists
dashing their heads against their desks.
Not one of ’em had thought to link
Princess Margaret’s name with the Jones
boy.
• •
Fleffron's N. S. Wales Government
hasn’t seemed to give two hoots about
the North Shore bus-strike, and the daily
papers have tended to regard it as a
minor irritation. So it is—to those who
own cars or live handy to the only rail-
way-line north of the harbor. But to the
thousands who depend on bus-trans-
port the strike has been a real hardship.
Belatedly the Government has author-
ised taxis to accept multiple-fares and
private car-drivers to charge for a “lift. ’
This action should have been taken right
at the outset. But with legislation already
prepared for the legalisation of strikes,
Heffron and Co. are apparently afraid
to condemn even such a reckless and ill-
advised one as this, in which the chief
sufferers are the travelling public.
• •
Arthur Calwell told the A.L.P. regional
conference at Hamilton (Vic.) that the
Prime Minister had got rid of Lord
Casey by arranging for him to be elevated
to the peerage so that he could become
Minister for External Affairs and attend
the Summit talks himself. Come to
think of it, the new peer has been mur-
muring around Melbourne that External
Affairs is itself a full-time job.
• •
General Nasution, Indonesian Army
Commander-in-Chief and Minister for
National Security, in the presence of
Khrushchev (who had restated Russia’s
support for the claim to Western New
Guinea), urged West New Guinea natives
to resist the Dutch, and said that insur-
rectionists there would be supported, even
if it meant war. Khrushchev, the Red
Messiah of peace, must have been asleep
when the remark was made. There wasn’t
a beep out of him in protest —but he gave
Indonesia a credit of £lll millions to
build steel-mills and other facilities and
free its local resources for armament, of
course.
• •
Brasilia, the city in which President
Kubischek of Brazil greeted Eisenhower,
is Federal capital-in-waiting of Brazil.
Built from scratch (like Canberra) in
jungle country 800 miles inland from
Rio de Janeiro, it seems to have got away
to a quicker start than Canberra. The
site was proclaimed in September, 1956,
and the city will supplant Rio as official
capital in two months’ time .
• •
Under the margins decision, all Vic-
toria’s senior 120 public servants get
substantial rises—some of them bigger
than the whole of the basic wage. The
Chief Justice; chairmen of Railway
Commissioners, State Electricity Com-
mission and Gas and Fuel Corporation ;
Solicitor-General and 14 Supreme Court
Judges each get £7OO-a-year rise, along
with a number of others. There is no
report yet of anybody refusing it on
grounds of fair play—not even the
Auditor-General, who gets another £650.
• •
Adenauer is by no means the first man
who has had to forget about building
castles m Spain.
• •
Sydney bus-drivers complained that
certain types of buses were out-of-date
and unsuitable for use, as their engines
became overheated in hot weather and
caused discomfort to passengers and
crew. Rather than let the passengers
put-up with this discomfort any longer,
they went on strike. But there’s no
pleasing some people. Many of the
passengers who had to walk to work
complained that they arrived there just
as overheated as ever.
• •
While Khrushchev is wandering the
East, China is invading the West. It
already has an embassy in Morocco
which is used as propaganda headquarters
by the local Communists. Peking has now
received agreement from the Cameroons
Government to the opening of another
one there. The Russians seem a bit
hipped, but that, of course, may be
powder-play.
• •
A vast zinc-mine is to be exploited
in South Australia —the huge slag-dump
at the Port Pirie lead-smelters, the accu-
mulation of 70 years of smelting. The
dump is estimated to contain five-million
tons of treatable slag, with a zinc-content
of 800,000 tons. New plant to be in-
stalled at the smelters at a cost of £2l
million is expected to be in production
by the end of 1963. A coke-works
is also to be established at a cost of
£750,000.
"BOOTS. BOOTS, BOOTS. BOOTS..."
[After 15 years of negotiation, two free pairs of boots a year will be issued to
postmen by the P.M.G.]


Another attempt to persuade the N. S.
Wales Legislative Council to walk the
plank will be made during the Par-
liamentary session that begins this week.
Towards the end of last year the Council
refused to receive the Abolition Bill sent
to it by the Assembly, seven Labor
M.L.C.s voting with the Opposition—a
crime for which they were subsequently
expelled from the party. As there’s no
reason to believe the rebels have changed
their minds, the reintroduction of the
bill is probably more a matter of tactics
than a real effort to abolish the Council.
Many of the Labor M.L.C.s who fol-
lowed the party-line and voted to have
the bill admitted, were secretly grateful
to the seven who opposed it.
• •
Bolte has copied Menzies’ not-me-
but-you recipe for holding inflation.
“Governments should set an example
in holding costs,” he said, “and all other
measures taken are incidental to this
action.” Then he let-out the news that
permanent heads of State public-service
departments could expect from his
Cabinet salary-rises up to £7OO a year,
with similar cheeseparing rises for heads
of Government commissions and instru-
mentalities.
• •
When a foreman on a coke-oven con-
struction-job at Port Kembla used a
cuss-word to a builder’s laborer a strike
resulted which threatened to hold-up the
whole project, although the conciliation-
commissioner had ordered a resumption
of work and the trade-union concerned
had advised the men to go back. Later,
the donor and recipient of the cuss shook
hands and work was resumed. Then
someone must have said something else,
and it was on again.
Builders’ laborers, like sailors, aren’t
usually fastidious in choice of language.
But in such cases it’s not so much the
words used as the time, place and tone
of delivery. After ail, the Mediterranean
Fleet was once almost brought to a
standstill because the skipper of a battle-
ship applied to his bandmaster a term
usually reserved for the cook.
• •
Increases in pensions and wages with-
out higher costs is the new theme of
Calwell. He is also sympathising with
those businesses which will encounter
more competition through the abandon-
ment of import-licensing, although when
last heard of up that particular lane
he was sympathising with importers be-
cause of their treatment by the Federal
Government. No wonder they call him
Big-hearted Arthur.
• •
It now seems clear that Comrade
Jacky Brown, the so-called wizard-
secretary of the Victorian A.R.U., has
led railwaymen on another losing and
expensive strike. In a desperate effort
to save face, the unions reduced their
service-pay claims to about a quarter
of what they had sought with their
go-slow strike.
The Railways Commissioners, with a
win in the bag, merely advised them to
take their case to arbitration. The rail-
waymen have not much public sympathy.
They have had a cost-of-living rise, the
margins - rise and have been told
officially that their service-pay claims
are just about compensated for by other
recent benefits.
• •
Not everything Khrushchev has done
and said in Indonesia has pleased his
hosts, but they have heartily approved
his attacks on imperialism and
colonialism and his endorsement of their
claim to Dutch New Guinea. In the
eyes of both K. and Soekarno the only
imperialist and colonial Powers are the
Western nations, but in its lack of regard
for the rights or wishes of the people
of “West Irian,” Indonesia’s claim to
that area is sheer imperialism. Holland
has frequently stated its intention —re-
affirmed only last week —of giving the
natives independence as soon as this is
practicable. If control passes to Indonesia
there will be no more likelihood of that
happening than there is of the subject-
races of the Soviet Union being granted
self-determination by Khrushchev.
• •
“Actin’’: When Supply Minister
Hulme was a private member he was
chairman of a committee which made
some valuable recommendations on
taxation, especially on depreciation-
allowances—most of which were not
adopted by the Government. Recently,
as a Minister, he spoke at the annual
meeting of the Taxpayers’ Association of
Queensland on the subject of taxation,
and left his hearers dejected. He sug-
gested that in a developing economy
there were other things “even more im-
portant than mere reductions in taxa-
tion.” He added that if attention were
directed to reduction of Government
expenditure then there should be no
endeavour to reduce the .standard of
living of other groups in the com-
munity, such as the pensioners. He
didn’t mention depreciation.
• •
Quite properly, a move at the A.L.P.
conference in Tasmania to debar from
endorsement Federal members living
outside their own State failed by 38
votes to 117. The move was aimed at
the two “absentee” Senators, McKenna
(a Sydney resident) and Aylett, a Gold
Coaster. They got a sympathetic hear-
ing at the conference, and a local news-
paper said the move had been ludicrous.
But it added that if Tasmanians felt their
representatives were fulfilling their
duties by living hundreds of miles away,
then it was “truer than ever that people
got the politicians they deserve.”
• •
Explaining to the Australian Purchas-
ing Officers’ Association the reasons for
ending import-licensing, Trade Minister
McEwen said that the restrictions had
been imposed to conserve overseas funds
but had now been removed to prevent
inflation from costing us out of export
markets and deterring investment from
abroad. He said Australia now had the
oversea reserves, the capital inflow and
the export income to enable the restric-
tions to be removed. Although the manu-
facturing industry might fear it would
be harmed by the move, it was in fact
“by far our greatest importer and must
benefit by having free access to world
markets.”
• •
Nasser has been shouting that the
explosion of the French atomic bomb
in the Sahara was “an attempt to
eliminate our beloved sister Algeria.”
Unless our beloved sister Algeria has
changed her spots, she also loves the
Egyptians. Of yore the Berbers just
loved cutting them up.
• •
Victorian police are positive 100
Herefords have been duffed from the
rich pastures on the Nuwong Plain
(3000 ft.) in eastern Victoria. This is
the first large-scale cattle theft in Vic-
toria since the C. 1.8. formed a modern
cattle-stealing squad. The missing cattle
were part of a herd born on the plain,
which offers wonderful feed but is rather
inaccessible. Michael Murphy, the
owner, who lives near Omeo, values them
at £3700.
• •
In a speech at Nottingham, U.K.
Labor leader Gaitskell called for more
public ownership. After their experience
with nationalised coal and transport he
must think the British are gluttons for
punishment.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: It’s bad luck for the
Services Ministers and all the people in
the armed services, but there’s no longer
any need for them. At least, some people
obviously think so. Russian Ambas-
sador Ivan Kurdiukov has written to a
group -of church leaders in Victoria
agreeing with their declaration that there
must be “complete disarmament.” The
Anglican Archbishop of Melbourne and
the Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church were among the signers of the
declaration, which the Ambassador has
sent on to the Soviet Government, which
will doubtless be suitably impressed.
• •
Potentially the most important country
in Africa, Nigeria is to become an inde-
pendent State next October. With a
population of 35 million, it has seven
times as many people as Ghana and five
times as many as all the territories in
the French African community put
together. The three main regions differ
in religion, language and race, and 10
years ago their differences seemed too
great for early unity ; but in 1957 the
Moslem north, which had stood aloof
from the independence-movements of the
other two regions, agreed to work for
a target-date. With British approval this
was fixed for 1960.


Personal ITEMS
Australia’s defence representative in
New Zealand, Captain Rodney Rhoades,
has been appointed Naval Officer In
Charge, Western Australia. He passed-
out of the R.A.N. Naval College in 1926
and, during War 11, commanded the
destroyer Vendetta on the Tobruk ferry-
run and at the evacuation of Greece
and Crete. He was “mentioned” and
awarded the D.S.C. In 1946 he com-
missioned the frigate Shoalhaven and
served as senior officer of the Ist Frigate
Squadron. Later he was captain of
H.M.A.S. Watson, the navigation and
anti-submarine school in Sydney.
• •
“Kune”: The Robertson (N.S.W.)
show marked for sawmiller William
(Bill) Missingham his 24th consecutive
year as president of the local show
society, and his 40th year of member-
ship, which must be nudging at the
State record. Running parallel with
this office, he’s been a member of the
Wingecarribee Shire Council for 25
years, including two terms as president.
At 68, he doesn’t seem to be losing any
of his ardor. His proudest possession
is a Citizenship Award medallion (1958)
presented by the Moss Vale Apex Club.
• •
A memorial service for the late
Launcelot Owen, The Bulletin’s oil-
correspondent missing in an aircraft lost
over the Timor Sea on January 26, will
be held in St. Mark’s Church, Darling
Point, Sydney, today (Wednesday,
March 2) at 1.15 p.m. The Rev. C. A.
Goodwin will deliver the oration.
• •
Jack Kelly (B. 3/ 2/ ’6O) has been in
hospital for an operation on his eye.
He called on The Bulletin last week to
show that the surgery had been a textbook
success. He also said his future plans
include four works: The Beef Cattle
Industry in A ustralia; an account of
the development of irrigation in Aus-
tralia ; a book on the War Service Land
Settlement scheme; and a historical
romance based on a family well-known
among cattlemen in Northern Australia.
Given time, he says, he’ll also write an
autobiography of Jack Kelly.
• •
R. N. Simkin, lately retired as assistant
g.-m. and executive director of Dunlop
Rubber Australia, had more than 48
years’ service with the company. He
joined in its early years and helped it
grow from six branches and one factory
to its present establishment of more than
10,000 employees. Simkin served with
the Ist A.I.F. and was a member of the
Rubber Advisory Panel in World War 11.
At present in Australia in the course
of a 30,000-mile world-tour, Marshal of
the Royal Air Force Lord Tedder hopes
to meet as many Australian war-time
colleagues as possible. He's spent five
days in Sydney and has about another
fortnight in the Commonwealth before
his visit ends.
Arthur William Tedder was born at
Glenguin, Stirlingshire (Scotland), in
1890, and, after education at Whitgift,
and at Magdalene College, Cambridge,
joined the Colonial Service. He went
AIR STRATEGIST
back from Fiji to England in 1914 to
join-up and was commissioned in the
Dorsetshire Regiment, from which he
was seconded to the Royal Flying Corps.
When the R.A.F. was formed at the
end of War I, he joined that service
and in 1943, as Sir Arthur Tedder, he
was appointed deputy to General
Eisenhower at S.H.A.E.F. At the end
of the war in Europe —he had shown
himself a master of air-strategy and in-
vented the “air-bombing carpet,” which
blasted the way for Allied ground-
advances —he was raised to the peerage
as Baron Tedder of Glenguin and
appointed Chief of Air Staff. Since his
retirement from the Service, much of
his time is spent in R.A.F. activities —
he was elected chairman of the R.A.F.
Association in 1953 —and he’s also on
the board of The Distillers Company
and chairman of Standard - Triumph
International, Ltd.
• •
Robert Drummond, of Ayrshire
(Scotland), who will judge Ayrshire cattle
at Sydney’s Royal Easter Show, judged
at the London Dairy Show last November
and is judging at the Scottish Dairy Show
this month. After the Royal Easter he
plans to officiate at the Scottish Highlands
Show in June. His herd, which was
founded by his father in 1893, is on
two Ayrshire properties Bargower
Farm, Hurlford and Leigh Grange,
Maybole.
• •
“Joanne”: The post-office at the tiny
village of Camberwell, near Singleton
(N.S.'W.), was 100 years old the other
day. For 58 years it has been in the
hands of the Dunn family. John Dunn
was succeeded in 1945 as postmaster by
his son, Joseph, who still retains the
position. The post-office is on the
veranda of the family home. There’s no
telephone switchboard, but a public-
telephone is available. The first post-
master was Thomas Hawkins, who con-
ducted the service in association with his
general store.
• •
A. Deelen, who has become managing-
director of Shell Refining (Australia)
Pty., Ltd., in succession to W. H. Zaaijer,
is a graduate in chemical engineering
from Delft (Netherlands) Technical
University and joined Shell as a labora-
tory trainee in Amsterdam in 1934. He
transferred to Curacao a year later and
spent seven .years there learning about
all phases of refining before he took
charge of the manufacturing and ship-
ping section. From 1942 to 1945 he was
on special assignments in London and the
U.S.A., then between 1945 and 1951 he
served in Indonesia, as superintendent of
the Pladju refinery, Sumatra, and later
in charge of Shelf Group activities in
Borneo. Since 1951 he has been stationed
at The Hague, where for the past year
he has been head of the Area Refinery
Advisers’ Division of the Shell Manu-
facturing Group.
• •
“D.”: John Franklin Gordon, presi-
dent of General Motors, will be in Mel-
bourne in April and will visit other G.M.
plants while he is here. He was a gradu-
ate of the U.S. Naval Academy in 1922,
but immediately joined up with G.M'
as a laboratory assistant at Cadillac. His
earlier career was devoted to designing
and to engineering, and only compara-
tively recently to management. He was
born in 1900 and is a Republican. I
hope they give him here about the only
car that could be a novelty to him—
a Holden.
• •
“O-Twit”: Thirty years ago, at the
instigation of a firm of Adelaide
opticians, E. Scheler arrived in Aus-
tralia and set-up business as a maker of
artificial eyes. He found that in South
Australia the demand was relatively
small and extended his activities by
regular visits inter-State, so that eventu-
ally his services were available to all-
His glass-eyes last a lifetime and match
the good eye to perfection.


Westralian-born D. M. Arnold, now
chief-manager for W.A. of the Bank
of New South Wales, joined the staff
of the old Westralian Bank in Perth in
1925, and went over to the ’Wales
when the two banks amalgamated in
1927. He’s a Fellow of the Australian
Institute of Management and helped to
sponsor the International Congress of
the Institute of Management, which has
just held a congress in Sydney.
• «
Kenneth Harold Vial, the Melburnian
who has been appointed vice-chairman
of the Australian National Airlines Com-
mission after three years as a member,
has the background the post demands.
He is a senior partner in Fuller King
and Co., the Melbourne accountants, and
he was a war-time transport pilot. He was
a pilot with Nos. 34 and 37 Transport
Squadrons and he was attached to the
administrative and personnel branches at
R.A.A.F. headquarters in 1945-46.
• •
The Australasian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy Medal for 1959 has been
awarded to lan Munro McLennan, chief
general - manager for Broken Hill Pty.,
“in recognition of his services to the
steel industry, both in production and
in utilisation, of his national service in
many phases of the Australian economy
and of his contribution to the welfare
of the institute.”
He has been a councillor of the insti-
tute since 1951, and was president in
1951 and 1957. He was chairman of the
Joint War Production Committee and
deputy-chairman of the Immigration
Planning Council.
• •
Pat Lawlor: Select the leanest
youngster from the Phiz picture of
Oliver Twist asking for more and you’d
get a fair idea of the aspect of Walter
d’Arcy Cresswell, errant New Zealand
Mark lodge, chairman and
Managing-director of the South Austra-
lian Rubber Mills, Ltd., and director of
numerous other cos.
poet, who was found dead in his room
in London at 64. He wrote several books
of poems and two prose-works, The
Poet’s Progress and Present Without
Leave. Cresswell was born in Christ-
church, went to London in his early
twenties, served in the 1914-18 war and
then began his wanderings over Europe,
selling his poems on the way. He became
a friend of T. E. Lawrence, Sir William
and John Rothenstein (the former drew
a portrait of him), Robert Graves, E. M.
Forster and other notables. He returned
to N.Z. two or three times, the last
occasion in 1950 when he was embroiled
in literary arguments. When he left
10 years ago to return to London he told
me he would never some back. In his
last book of verse he championed the
Cypriot insurgents.
• •
“Light Bob”: Prince Henry of Batten-
berg, who died at sea of a fever con-
tracted on active service with the British
forces in the Ashanti War, left two sons,
Prince Alexander (later first and only
Marquess of Carisbrooke, who died last
week) and Prince Maurice, who joined the
60th Rifles and died of wounds at Ypres in
October, 1914. Both boys were at Wellington
College (Eng.) in the early 1900’s. Alexander
left at 15 to join H.M.S. Britannia as a naval
cadet, but Maurice stayed there from 1905 until
he went to Sandhurst in 1910, becoming a
school prefect and a member of the shooting
VIII. Twenty years later, you couldn’t be at
the school long without hearing some happy
reminiscence about the Battenbergs—about the
least ostentatious and most human of the
swarm of notabilities who buzzed around that
royal and religious foundation under the master-
ship of Pollock.
Prince Alexander, last survivor of Queen
Victoria’s grandsons when he passed-on at 73—-
his mother was Princess Beatrice—served in
the Royal Navy for six years and then trans-
ferred to the Grenadier Guards, with whom
he fought in War I as a regimental officer and
later on the staff. In 1917, at the request of
King George V, the family-surname was
changed to Mountbatten, and Prince Alexander
discontinued his royal style and was created
Marquess of Carisbrooke. He retired from the
Army in 1919 and went into business, but
rejoined the R.A.F.V.R. as a pilot-officer in
War II and ended a flight-lieutenant. He was
on the board of the Eagle Star Insurance Co.
and of the Australian Estates Co.
• •
R. H. Miller, who’s been appointed
Director of Tourist Development in
Westralia, will have to give away his
part-time job of deputy-chairman and
member of the Betting Control Board.
A qualified master-printer, he was
Government Printer from 1942 to 1946,
when he was made director of the W.A.
Tourist Bureau.
• •
Tired of the social life associated with
successful business in the city, Gordon
Stynes (sketched above) gave away
manufacturing cosmetics in Melbourne
five years ago, packed himself, his wife
and four children into a caravan and
headed north. His destination was
deserted Dunk Island, 2\ miles off the
coast and 32 miles south of Innisfail
(Q.). Practically on their own, he and
his family converted the island into a
holiday-resort. Now they can accommo-
date 40 people all the year round
in self-contained suites set among natural
ISLAND PLANNER
lawns, surrounded by coconut-palms,
hibiscus, frangipani, banana-palms and
coral-trees. There’s electric-light laid-on,
plenty of fresh spring-water, a school for
the kids, and a modern bar where you
can enjoy a cool drink while watching
tropical fish sporting in the sunshine.
For communications they’ve got a 40ft.
diesel launch, and have now built an
airstrip, which brings Cairns only 45
minutes away. Stynes and his wife say
that, although they start work at dawn
each day and only stop when they can
work no longer, they find life on this
island-paradise so ideal that one week
in the city is seven days too long.
• •
Into the Silence: —-
In Sydney, at 49, Harold Primrose, former
Rugby Union international.
In Perth, at 60, Robin M. Black, stock-
broker and former pastoralist, who served
with the Royal Flying Corps in War I and
the A.I.F. in War 11.
At Orford (Tas.), at 64, John Edwin (Jack)
Charlesworth, one of the Speck’s most famous
sportsmen and a former executive of the
Electrolytic Zinc Co.
In Brisbane, at 79, Lewis Joseph Kimber,
who retired in 1939 after 41 years in the
permanent Army. Served in Egypt and France
in War I, losing a leg in 1917.
In Perth, at 82, Mrs. Mary Bertha Raine,
hotel proprietor, and a generous benefactor
to worthy causes. She gave £150,000 to the
Westralian University’s medical school, and a
half-share in hotel-properties and shops, from
which the Uni. expects to draw £17,000 a year.
In her youth an accomplished pianist and a
contralto singer who appeared at Drury Lane,
and with J. C. Williamson companies in
Australia.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 97, J. J. Marlow, who
broke so many records for long-distance service
on local bodies that Ripley was on his trail.
JJ. rode to and from the city on a push-
bicycle until he reached his eighties, in spite
of Dunedin’s hills and cable-cars. Londoner
by birth and furniture-maker by trade, he was
a director of the “N.Z. Tablet” for 50 years.
In Melbourne, at 61, Gerald Francis Wraith,
deputy-chairman of the Tramways Board.


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'hroughout Australia foresters are
alarmed at the way mistletoe is
spreading —possibly because of the
destruction of animals such as possums
which ate it—and at the damage it’s
doing to our timber-trees. A semi-
parasite, mistletoe lives partly on the sap
of its host-tree, but also has some green
parts so it can manufacture some of its
own food—in places it’d be hard to find
a tree that wasn’t affected. As well as
the loss of timber there’s the problem of
erosion caused by concentrations of the
“Which reminds me, Harvey — AßE We or are We NOT joining the
Fair glen Nudist Club back home ?”
parasite killing trees over big areas; so
mistletoe has been declared a national
menace, and the tree-men are after it.
I'd hate to see it disappear entirely—
not for its own sake but because it has
become the major food of a beautiful
little bird with a gleaming black back and
red underparts which occasionally visits
my sou’-Westralian home. In W.A. the
mistletoe-bird has adapted itself to a diet
of mistletoe-fruits, which are soft and
don’t require grinding ; and, not having
much need for a gizzard, it has reduced
that organ almost to vanishing-point.
Don’t know how this bird would fare if
it had to change its diet, and I can’t think
offhand of any other food that would
replace mistletoe-fruit. It would be inter-
esting to find out if the bird could
regenerate its gizzard if it had to ; but
tragic if it had to try, and failed. —-
“Pieter Nuyts.”
* * * *
“Tyabb”: If by diamond-sparrow
“Swelpme” (B. 10/2/’6O) means the
spotted-pardalote, then his mate who
picked a pair out of a nest in a low scrub
in the off-breeding season should be
immortalised. Not that odd birds are
unknown to roost in nests after brood-
ing, but all pardalotes invariably nest in
chambers at the end of an earth-tunnel
in a creek or other suitable bank.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Don’t like striking my
colors ; but after precariously surviving
some 10 years in the frontier city of Mel-
bourne I’m thinking defeatist thoughts
of hightailing it back to Queensland.
There, in the regions between Thursday
Island to Thargomindah, I found life less
stimulating, but far safer. Thought I’d
made the grade in Melbourne after
becoming inured to the more-or-less daily
hazards of stampeding steers interrupting
peak-hour passenger-traffic at Flinders-
street station, kangaroos in safety-zones,
havoc-wreaking bushfires in the outer
suburbs and sporadic gunplay in the inner
ones ; but a radio news-item the other
morning just about demoralised me. A
policeman arrested a sozzled gent armed
with 12ft. of pet carpet-snake, bundled
him into a taxi and headed for Russell-
street calaboose. En route the two
fathoms of restless Joe somehow con-
verted the taxi-driver into a modern
Laocoon, interrupting more than some-
what the steering of the cab and causing
a pile-up. But the most terrible sequel
occurred at the boob, where another
sozzled gent., on being awakened in his
cell by the new arrivals, looked, saw and
was convinced that an instant swearing-
off was the only way left to him. Such
horrible things just don’t happen north
o’ 28.
* * * *
“Tyabb”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
10/ 2/ ’6O) that the dingo is a true dog,
and that there is only one species of dog;
therefore a dingo mating with any known
type of dog, regardless of shape, size or
breed, produces a true and fertile dog.
“G.’s” theory that juvenile association
is necessary to the mating of wild and
domesticated dogs, and also for the
mating of jack-donkeys and mares, is
pure supposition. I can assure him that
a jack-donkey (a most ardent male) will,
without former association with horses,
cover any willing mare. The progeny
is a mule, usually a sterile female as
most true crosses are. It might be true
that a jack-donkey reared with horses
will mate with mares rather than with
Jennets ; the Jennet being a small Spanish
horse that was once used at stud with
donkey-mares (Jennies) to produce that
curious crossbred the Hinny.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: There used to be a
semi-humorous maxim to ensure the
safety of strangers in a country-town:
“Don’t pass remarks about anyone local
—ten-to-one you’re talking to the bloke’s
cousin.” It’s still good advice, and
probably nowhere more so than in the
N.S.W. South Coast town of Gerringong,
where the odds would almost certainly
be shorter still. No fewer than 28
families in the district bear the surname
of Miller, and they are all related.
* * * *
“Tough”: The temperature through-
out our Victorian district had passed the
century, but down the 40ft. well being
dug for the Horsham North pumping-
station, where no breath of air could
temper the heat, it must have touched
120 degrees. Yet the man shovelling dirt
down there kept two power-hoisted
buckets going steadily all day.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: “Cyda’s” recollection (B.
13/l/’6O) of seeing the whole Desert
Mounted Corps together at one time
filled me with envy ; it also made me
wonder what was the largest gathering
of Light Horse, or other mounted troops,
ever seen in Australia? Incidentally,
though the Light Horse made history
during War I, it’s already being forgotten
GARDENERS
7 have known the craziness of gardeners
Who, raking heaps of household filth,
Are delighted at traces they discover
Of warm conversions into tilth,
Of skins and husks and woody marrow
All heaped and rotting to mould
That’s black and soft and ample treasure
To resurrect what’s stale and old.
The carrot, onion, withered lettuce,
All changed and mingled into loam,
Start up again upon the focus
Of seeds by wily fingers sown.
These gardeners grow upon the future
Of deaths they husband like pure gold.
Their skins and husks and woody marrow
Turn life and life to lives untold.
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


-r" 1 *
rtocJ J IvnCn youfijZ £AR_^y f <frt£ T/^ /N
** £ /<VG ,S ALWAYS OATS
e?c>T Ct#s£<v S&v'fze ■ h
u\re
trs Qov/v£> tv se-
/
CW '


that they were still in existence between-
wars, and that a few units kept their
horses into the second year of World
War 11. A sight I wish I’d seen was the
Ashford (N.S.W.) troop the year they
won the Prince of Wales Cup. The late
Mr. Duncan Sinclair, of Fraser’s Creek,
whose team of hacks was for many years
a feature of Brisbane and Sydney Royal
Shows, travelled all over N.S.W. to
inspect and buy (with the
assistance of the late
Colonel Nichols) a team
of 17 matched chestnuts
for the fortunate troop.
Chosen from so many by
such an expert horseman,
they must have presented,
on a small scale, a sight
worth ranking with
“Cyda’s.”
* * *
“M’Lou”: Heaviest
losers, as a class, by fly-
ing stones on the roads in
the Horsham (Vic.) dis-
trict have been the stock-
agents, who had over a
dozen windscreens shat-
tered in 1959. A grazier
had his windscreen broken
on his way into Horsham,
and the replacement
smashed on his way home,
both casualties occurring
at the same spot where,
two years previously, he
had had another wind-
screen shattered by a
stone.
* * *
“Botanical Bill”: The
pawpaw-tree can be not
only either male or female,
but bisexual, and an
unfertilised female may
bear fruit. Like an un-
mated queen-bee which
lays only eggs produc-
ing male drones, the paw-
paw spinster will bear
seeds which will grow into
male trees only. A paw-
paw growing at the edge
of a scrub will virtually
get down on its hands and
knees and crawl along the ground for
up to 20ft. seeking the sun; then it
will shoot upwards before developing
its crown of leaves and fruit. You
can change a tree’s sex by driving a
nail—a rusty one for choice —through
the butt of the trunk. The tree may then
bear as a normal cow-plant, though often
it reverts to its original sex.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Often the material for
factual historical works, readily available,
goes unheeded—until somebody else
does the job. Anything connected with
Tahiti was supposed to have been written
to death, but Adelaide journalist Robert
Langdon discovered that no popular
work giving a full account of its history
had appeared ; so he wrote Island of
Love. When an Australian publisher
dithered over it for six months Langdon
sent it to Cassell (London), who accepted
it at once. A second edition was needed
within a few weeks of publication, and
it is now being translated into several
European languages, with paperback
rights sold. Even stranger was the ex-
perience of Harold Cooper, an ex-Navy
officer now on the staff of the South
Australian Museum. He found that an
English translation of the journals of
“The purser's safe Was a pushover !”
Nicolas Baudin and of Ronsard, his
master-shipwright, had never been pub-
lished. Sydney’s Mitchell Library had
copies in French; Cooper obtained
photostats and made translations, aided
by having known the waters of S.A.
from boyhood. Thinking that the book
would have only a small sale, he pub-
lished his French Exploration of South
Australia in a limited edition of 200
copies—then discovered that universities
all over the world wanted it! He soon
had but one copy left. I heard one
arts-graduate say sadly: “I had a hell
of a job to find a subject for my M.A.
thesis —and all the time this job was
waiting to be done!”
* * # *
“Quartercut”: The new car is the
fourth of its make to transport us reliably
at 31 miles per gallon. I, however, would
have cheerfully forgone the price-
decrease, the two-tones, the glittering
chromium and even the publicised
increased diff-clearance of .05 inches if,
for a change, the handbrake worked and
kept on working, as it did on my 1914
Lizzie, 1918 Spa and their contem-
poraneous benzene-buggies.
“Flight”: An outstanding feature of
ground-nesting birds, particularly the big
fellows such as brolgas and turkeys, is
the early age at which their chickens
can take to the air. Out on the Flinders
country (W.Q.), coming on a hen-turkey
with a chicken by her side, 1 gave chase
across a wide claypan on horseback.
The hen, after a few running strides, was
airborne. The chick, the only part of
. \yhose body carrying feathers was the
wings, succeeded at last after a desperate
effort to get a grip on the air, and by
the time it had cleared the claypan it
was going beside its mother with all the
confidence of a grown bird.
*. * * *
“Weakstaple”: After months of shear-
ing-shed life and mutton Mum and I
hit the Smoke with a few'spare fiddlies
in the kick. Looking for something
gastronomically different we went to one
of those new grey-flannel-suit-touch
cafes where you pay the world and do
your own offsiding. Mum asked the
chef what he recommended. The chef
recommended what he had the most of
—a very elegant French-phrased dish.
It set me back 15-bob a serve for an
old mutton stew not nearly as good as
our old babbler used to knock up every
night for tea.
* * * *
“Drypan”: Jack (beanstalk - type)
would probably go for a tree that has
appeared in Highgate Hill (Brisbane). In
three weeks it has sprouted from a seed-
ling to a giant of 30ft. and is still going up
at the rate of sin. to 6in. a day. Uni-
versity botany-lecturers suggest that the
vegetable rocket is a member of the
agave family and a close relative of the
sisal-hemp..
* * * *
“Drypan”: “Sunray’s” par. (B.
10/2/’6O) about the boat-caulking poten-
tial of soft bitumen brought to mind an
incident which occurred in an N.Q. town-
ship some years ago. Youngster, play-
ing with mates in a council road-plant
depot, found one opened tin of bitumen
three parts full, jumped on the solid
surface of the bitumen and rapidly sank
to his armpits in the soft mass, his
struggles firmly implanting him there.
Mates pulled to free him—no result.
Adults, summoned from nearby, tried to
jerk him loose —no result. The drum
was tipped over to see if the lad would
flow out —no result. Ambulancemen
later rescued the lad with an axe. Then
scraping, kerosene, soap and hot water
finally had him ready for bed.


“Bass”: “Wulworra” is on unsafe
ground in assuming that a bird accepted
as belonging to a certain district won’t
be seen elsewhere (B. 27/1/’6O), how-
ever authoritatively the accepted range-
limitation has been established. In W.A.
one of the self-imposed tasks of amateur
naturalists is the recording of new species
in their districts, and already the known
ranges of several birds have had to be
extended, often by hundreds of miles.
When John Gilbert was collecting for
Gould in the 1840’s he didn’t find the
straw-necked ibis in the south-west. Now
the bird ranges as far south as Albany.
Until 1950 it was held that the arctic-
tern avoided Australia in its annual
migration from the Arctic ; but since
then specimens have "been collected or
seen on both sides of the continent. In
1951 it was said with perfect truth that
the red-backed kingfisher was found all
over the State except in the south-west
corner; lately it has been reported
around Perth, and I have seen it on my
south-west property. Much of this redis-
tribution of bird-life is due to settlement,
but some must have been in progress
prior to that. Nature is seldom static.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: During Sydney's recent
heatwave a truck stopped outside our
job and the driver, obviously on the
verge of heat-stroke, staggered to the
tap and plunged head, shoulders, arms
and wrists under the far-from-cool
trickle. “Don’t feel too hot,” he croaked
to Morgandi, our laborer, then shakily
returned to his vehicle, leaving me to
explain to a bewildered New Australian
how an Old Australian so manifestly
feeling too hot could not feel too hot.
As if that one hadn’t been tough enough,
next day the apprentice launched into
an account of how his mate was pinched
for riding a more than ordinarily noisy
motorbike. “Mind you,” he chuckled,
“it was making more noise than an atom-
bomb, just quietly.”
* * * *
“C.W.D.”: That mysterious poultry-
killer which “Harbel’s” ex-Hungarian
friend suspected of being a weasel (B.
10/2/’6O) might have been a Phascogale.
This small, nocturnal creature is sudden
death to poultry and, although fairly
scarce these days, can still be found on
the Bellarine Peninsula in Victoria. It is
readily identifiable by its very long tail
with a fluffy end.
H* H* »i»
“Rehab.”: Having to take to hospital
one of the two stock-boys hired from
an aboriginal mission to help with the
mustering, and having to return the
other, who wasn’t worth feeding, didn’t
improve the station-manager’s opinion
of mission-trained blacks. x But a point
in the missions’ favor was raised when,
delivering a mob of bullocks to the
station, the boss-drover requested that
we advance some money for travelling-
expenses to one of his native boys who
was quitting the outfit. The manager
asked me to make out a receipt, on
which was required the recipient’s
thumbprint and mark as signature. The
formality completed, the manager noted,
not the usual mark (X), but the native’s
full signature, Otto Skinner, in flawless
handwriting. “Educated at an aboriginal
mission,” the boss-drover told us.
* * * *
“Ceg”: While the Greek tramp-steamer
waited to sail from Williamstown her
officers filled-jn the time comparing Aus-
tralian vintages with the Hellenic pro-
duct, and showed signs of being well
satisfied with the test. At this stage the
pilot came aboard and she cast-off. On
the bridge with the pilot was the quarter-
master, but no ship’s officer. “What’s
she drawing?” came the usual inquiry
from the pilot to the skipper in his cabin.
“Seventeen-feet,” he was told, so a course
was set for the West Channel. In the
channel the ship came to a halt. The
excited skipper appeared. “What-a for
you stop?” he asked the pilot through a
roseate aura of vin Australis. The reply
cleared the fumes a bit: “She’s
aground! ” Then the pilot wanted to
know, “What did you say you were draw-
ing?” “Seventeen-feet,” said the skip.
In that case the ship should have been
well afloat. “Are you sure, or dkj you
fill your tanks before leaving?” asked the
pilot. “Ah, yes,” admitted the skip., “I
remember, we fill all-a da tanks, but I
forget, that make her a bitta more.” That
“bitta more” had made all the difference,
“S-s-h-h! Don't frighten this Abominable Snowman. I Want to study
his habits.”
and after much engine-work she was
got-off and a course set for deeper
water.
* * * ♦
“Pimlico”: As a veteran clay-target
shooter, allow me to correct John
Fountain (B. 20/1/’6O) on a few minor
points: (1) There are now no such
things as clay-“pigeons”—they are clay-
targets (large) and “sparrows” (small
clay-targets); (2) The ruling body is
now the Australian Clay Target Associa-
tion —the “Clay-pigeon Trapshooting” in
the name has been eliminated ; (3) The
association magazine’s title also substi-
tutes “Clay Target” for “Pigeon.” The
association’s head-office is in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Ymar”: “Drought” is, after all, a
relative term. Although the Victorian
Wimmera’s 1959 rainfall dropped to a
little more than 15in., they still had
enough spare fodder for the relief of
arid areas in the nearby Western District,
where the year’s rainfall had been
over 19in!
* * * *
■Cor a retrenchment-free job paying
good money, plus a life in the open,
try piloting ships along Queensland’s
east coast. All you need is a master-
mariner’s ticket and a pilot’s licence;
you get the licence after 10 years of
fault-free service on ships sailing that
coast. It’s also useful to acquire the
unwinking watchfulness of a hungry
croc., the eyesight of a night-hawk, the
memory of an elephant and the sixth-
sense of a hunted fox.
The 1365-mile pilot-run from Point
Danger to Torres Strait is the longest and
most dangerous in the world. The Inner
Route Channel is entered opposite
Bundaberg, and navigational hazards
increase as ships sail northwards. There’s
little enough elbow-room most of the
way, and erratic tide-movements and
unpredictable variations of ocean-
currents keep pilots interested. The
island-studded shipping-lane is a mine-
field of submerged reefs and shoals;
cyclonic rainstorms and inky nights
ward-off boredom. Radar and echo-
sounding gadgets are a boon to pilots—
on ships possessing such aids.
Acquirement of a sound working-
knowledge of these tides, currents, reefs
and shoals is an achievement not inferior
to uni. matriculation. So what a navi-
gational genius Cook must have been to
register only one bump against the coral
while edging his tub through the worst
of it!
EN PASSANT.


mm
'< fe
>X
>3C«>
giiMP
A happier choice for every occasion . . ,•
ARGOVES WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you'll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . , each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’*
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT. MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY. St AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WAIT AND SEE
"Cor a number of reasons, it
will probably pay the
investor in ordinary shares to
hold-off from buying on
the sharemarket for a while
yet, even though prices of the
leaders fell quite heavily last
week.
Obvious opportunities should
not be neglected—if any
arise—but even present levels
for top ordinaries are high,
and could be subject to further
price-revision. The market as
a whole is still very elevated.
A number .of important
changes have occurred in the
Australian economy over the
past few months. The margins-
rise has added to the problems
created by the 15s. basic-wage
lift of June last, and from
tes fact a variety of other
circumstances have flowed.
One has been the removal of
import-restrictions on most
overseas commodities. This
will create difficulties among a
number of manufacturers,
including Associated Pulp,
and some importers will be
affected. It will be easier for
the old-established manu-
facturers’-agents to get their
particular products direct ,now
without using the intermediary
of a licence-“seller,” and some
newcomer concerns, in business
only because of import-
restrictions on their opposition,
may be hit.
TPhere is still a prospect of
some indiscriminate and
expedient Budgetary, action at
Canberra designed to halt
inflation at any cost—to
industry. It has always been
found politically easier to put
the squeeze on the proprietary
side of industry than to
attempt to deal with actual
first causes, and the danger in
this is that industry may be
called upon to pay heavier
taxation later on as well as
footing the bill for the
increased wages that have been
the prime cause of the infla-
tion now being seen, first of
all, in freight and transport
charges,
Wool prices have also weak-
ened perceptibly since 1959
closed.
Another factor the share-
market has to consider right
now is the undersubscription
of the recent Commonwealth
loan. Other loan-offerings are
now near, and it is conceivable
that slightly better terms may
have to be offered. In such
an event the result would
normally be a weakening in
the sharemarket.
It can be taken for granted
that when a share-boom comes
to a halt it will not merely
stand still and level-off.
The reason for this is that
a long-sustained upsurge in a
market inevitably brings in
people who are purely specu-
lators, mostly emotional and
super-imaginative, and they will
stay in the market only so long
as it is rising.
If it levels-off they will find
a 2 p.c. yield of no attraction
to them and they will get out.
In getting out they will knock
the market down. That is
inevitably the result of an
over-glamorised market that
suddenly becomes the subject
of hardheaded dealing instead
of imaginative and inspired
boosting.
TJrovided we can overcome
•*- the-wage-cost problem so
recently created, development
in Australia should go on at a
brisk pace. But we cannot
avoid facing the fact that in
pricing the shares in companies
with large capitals on a basis
which gives only a 2 p.c.-3 p.c.
yield the benefits which may be
expected from those companies
have been discounted in
advance for some years to
come.
They are likely to be very
hard stocks to live with without
the continued spice of capital-
appreciation. Yet the higher
a stock goes the higher it has
to go in order to make capital-
appreciation, expressed as a
percentage, worth while.
It would seem a sound
policy to sit-out the next
few weeks and to watch
how things sort themselves out.
It requires blind —and mis-
placed—confidence to go on
betting that a market will
continue rising just as a matter
of course.
Associated Pulp and Paper
"O emoval of import-restric-
tions on newsprint and
other printing-papers came at
a disconcerting time for Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper Mills,
Burnie. The company has been
negotiating with paper-mer-
chants throughout Australia for
some weeks in an endeavor to
get a decision as to whether
individual firms will agree to
tie themselves to Burnie pro-
ducts, other lines competing
with Burnie to be handled only
at the discretion of A.P.P. To
so tie themselves to Burnie
would mean that many distri-
butors would have to cease
importing comparable lines of
overseas paper and to abandon
connections built-up over many
years, including watermarked
lines.
A.P.P. decided to make this
move when it realised that the
manufacture of tissue-paper in
Australia by Bowaters and
Apcel would mean that import-
quota previously used for the
import of tissue would then be-
come available for the import-
ing of papers competitive with
Burnie.
Now the dropping of import-
control on all papers has,
dramatically, made the problem
a much bigger one for A.P.P.
than it had previously bar-
gained for, and it has strength-
ened the hands of paper-
merchants desiring to build-up
their import-trade in bonds and
banks.
A.P.P. has not had all the
protection it has sought from
the Tariff Board, and under the
present tariff it is vulnerable to
overseas competition. But a
source of strength has been the
profitability of Burnie-board,
output of which has been
steadily increased.
Mutual Underwriting
AN issue of 1,200,000 ss.
shares is being made by
Mutual Underwriting and
Development, Ltd., 500,000 of
which have been underwritten
and taken firm by Vinton
Smith, Dougall and Co., the
Melbourne sharebrokers.
The new Melbourne com-
pany aims to (a) assist in
financing and developing select-
ed companies; ( b ) underwrite
and sub - underwrite capital


Cop* Tarf
QUEENSLAND
*
\
★
★Jtr
NEW SOUTH WALES /
VICTORIA
A
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
3 ? THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Alfoury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT23O
issues; (c) act as financial ad-
visors to public and proprietary
cos.; ( d ) invest in equity port-
folio and other investments.
The board believes that
rapid expansion of business
activity in Australia in recent
years has shown the need for
specialised finance-houses of
the kind known overseas as
merchant-bankers. It also con-
siders that there are excellent
prospects for the profitable
employment of funds.
On the board are Baron
David Snider, ML. A.; Sir
Douglas Copland; Frank L.
Fitzpatrick; Sir Norman
Martin; Hon. Leslie George
Norman; and John C. Farrin
Webb.
Loan-failure and Margins
'"The failure of the Common-
wealth £45-million cash
loan can be directly related
to the concern aroused by the
Arbitration Commission’s
award of increased margins to
metal-trades workers.
The loan was undersub-
scribed by £4.7 million.
Treasurer Holt said there had
been continued strong support
from the savings-banks, but
only very' minor subscriptions
from the trading-banks. Mr.
Holt did not comment on the
nature of support from the
general public.
As was pointed out in B.
10/2/’6CT, under the heading of
“Wage-push and Government
Bonds,” investors, in their own
reasonable interest, could not
fail to be concerned about the
wage-inflation evident follow-
ing the 155.-a-week basic-wage
increase in June, 1959, and the
28 p.c. margins - increase
towards the end of the year.
It was added that “the
stability that encouraged
investment in fixed-interest
securities during the seven-year
period November, 19£2, to
June, 1959, when the total
increase in the basic wage was
only 30s. a week (an average
of about 4s. 6d. a week a year)
is now in danger.”
In recent years, during a
period of comparative wage-
stability loans have been
mostly oversubscribed. It is
unfortunate that the position
should have been upset at this
juncture.
On the day that the under-
subscription of the Common-
wealth loan was published, a
lift in N.S.W. railway-fares
and -freights was announced.
Averaging around 5 p.c., and
6 p.c., they will come into
operation on March 6, the same
day as the increased Victorian
rates will begin to operate.
Steel prices have already been
raised in line with wage-in-
creases.
These are the first evidence of
an increase in the cost-of-living
since the margins-increases
were awarded. It is almost im-
possible for Government rail-
ways, in the present state of
their equipment and finances,
to do anything but pass-on
increases in operating-costs.
Some other industries may have
a better chance of absorbing
wage-push inflation, but clearly
it is already in its second round.
It is particularly unfortunate
that a threat of stimulated in-
flation should have occurred at
the present time. There are
old loans coming up for re-
demption or conversion during
1960 totalling £lOl million, and
though conversions are usually
more readily carried through
than cash loans, the Loan
Council will still, to an extent,
be up against the same
problems as were encountered
during the flotation of the
recent loan.
Robertson and Mullens
■p ejection of Angus and
Robertson’s takeover offer
by the board of Robertson and
Mullens, Ltd., is unlikely to
find favor with the majority
of the Melbourne co.’s share-
holders.
Following the offer by A.
and R., the R. and M. ords.
jumped from 295. to 425. on
Melbourne ’Change, so,
market-wise, the situation
spoke for itself. In other
words, there seemed to be little
doubt in the minds of investors
that a takeover on A. and R.’s
terms would be satisfactory all
round.
A. and R.’s offer was four
ss. ords. for every two 20s.
R. and M. ords. and four ss.
ords for every three 20s. prefs.
A one-for-six bonus-issue is
being made by Angus and
Robertson, and this will attach
to shares issued in exchange
for R. and M. shares of both
classes. It will also apply to
A. and R. pref.-shareholders
who accept the offer of one
20s. ord. in return for every
three prefs.
Where there is a legal disa-
bility about conversion, A. and
R. prefs. will be offered 295. 6d.
cash.
Full acceptance by R. and
M. shareholders of both
classes, and full conversion by
A. and R. prefs., would take
A. and R.’s pre-bonus capital
up to £440,000. The one-for-
six issue on top of that would
take it to £513,000.
The bonus-issue will be
financed from share-premiums
reserve. Cum. bonus, A and
R. ss. ords. are at 225. 9d.
Angus and Robertson’s are
in an expansive mood. They
are the largest book-publishers
in Australia, but for 30 years
have not included the profits!
of their printing and book-
binding subsidiary, the
Halstead Press, in the parent’s
accounts. The profit-earning
position has thus been much
better than indicated, as has
the assets position.
Towards the end of last year
A. and R. made a one-for-
three bonus-issue and a cash-
issue of one-for-four at a
premium of 15s. a share.
The board indicated that a
15 p.c. dividend would be paid
on the increased capital, and
it is believed that that rate
will be maintained on the
bigger capital if the R. and M.
takeover is achieved.
Robertson and Mullens have
shown profits over the past
five years that have, overall,
necessitated a drawing upon
visible reserves in order to pay
9 p.c. on the ords. for two
years up to 1956-57 and 8 p.c.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines) 8LK327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
for the two latest years. On
trading profits only slightly
better, there was a pick-up in
group net profits last term
resulting from a rearrangement
of trading within the group
which permitted, for taxation
purposes, an offset of losses
previously shown by one
member against profits which
in other years had been earned
by the parent.
R. and M., since the close
of their last accounts, have re-
valued their strategically placed
Elizabeth - street, Melbourne,
freehold, and have made a
one - for - eight bonus - issue
therefrom. A merger proposal
previously made by the Collins
Book Depot (Melbourne) was
turned down during 1959.
The Parkside Laboratories
TTanded-over by the South
Australian Government on
February 16, the Australian
Mineral Development Labora-
tories, at Parkside and The-
barton (S.A.) are now operat-
ing on a national scale, and
offer a contract service for the
investigation of problems
associated with the develop-
ment of mineral resources, min-
eral-processing and utilisation
of mineral products.
In sponsored investigations,
results and all patents arising
therefrom remain the confi-
dential property of the sponsor.
The outcome of studies under-
taken by the laboratories in-
dependently, however, will be
made freely available either
through special reports or
through scientific journals.
Services available from the
laboratories are (a) detailed
mineralogical and petrological
examination of rocks, non-
metallic minerals, ore-minerals
and mill-products ; ( b ) com-
prehensive inorganic chemical
analyses and assays of ores,
minerals and mineral products ;
(c) detailed investigation of all
mineral-separation processes up
to large pilot-scale operation,
development of new methods,
and also the design and specifi-
cation of full-scale operating-
plant ; (d) complete investiga-
tion of chemical processes from
laboratory development
through pilot-scale evaluation
to detailed design and specifi-
cation full-scale plant.
The mineralogy and petro-
logy, the analytical chemistry
and the chemistry groups are
at Parkside, three miles s.-e. of
Adelaide. The others are at
Thebarton, three miles n.-w.
of the city.
The equipment throughout
is the most up-to-date avail-
able, and the staff is experi-
enced. Council of the group
comprises I. M. McLennan, of
B.H.P. (chairman); T. A.
Barnes (deputy - chairman) ;
F. C. Drew ;A. K. Keast; M.
A. E. Mawby ; H. G. Raggatt ;
I. W. Wark.
Estimates of costs of investi-
gations are given, and must be
accepted by the sponsor before
work is commenced. The
sponsor may terminate an
investigation at any stage.
Under some circumstances
arrangements may be made for
nominees to work in the labora-
tories to facilitate development
projects.
Some of the projects already
completed include development
of a concentration-process by
which Radium Hill uranium
mineral could first be
separated at the mine to reduce
costs of transport; develop-
ment of a flotation-process and
a pilot-plant set-up for treat-
ment of Nairne pyrite; gravity-
concentration process for Ora-
parinna barite; preliminary
examinations which overcame
problems associated with Kan-
garoo Island gypsum-deposits;
development of a controlled-
acidity process to deal with
complex Mary Kathleen
uranium ores; separation of
ilmenite from sand-dunes near
Bunbury (W.A.) for Western
Titanium, Ltd.; development
of processes for treating N.T.
uranium-ores by United
Uranium at El Sharana and
for South Alligator Uranium,
N.L.
Allied' Mills, Ltd.
three issues of
equity capital during the
calendar-year 1959 (which will
almost double ord. capital),
Allied Mills, Ltd., contem-
plates further issues of capital
funds for development.
Chairman John Cadwallader,
at the co.’s annual meeting,
said modern developments in
bakeries (in which the co. is
now very deeply interested)
need bigger single production
rather than a number of small
units, and this calls for capital
to pay for automatic plant to
achieve the savings possible
from the bigger units.
During the 1958-59 trading-
year purchase of bakeries in-
volved the payment of £330,000
for goodwill and trade rights.
Investment in bakeries has
enabled the co., which is
fundamentally a group of
flourmillers, to rely less on the
unprofitable export-market for
flour and to tie a considerable
part of the baking-trade to
itself.
There has been keen com-
petition in the animal-foods
business. New plant in the
starch and gluten-making sub-
sidiary is expected to be in full
production by April. One of
the co.’s most profitable sub-
sidiaries, Vegetable Oils Pty.,
which makes Daffodil table-
margarine, edible fats, shorten-
ings and linseed-oil, is expand-
ing into nut-foods and similar
lines.
Through Mowbray Pty.,
Ltd., Gillespie Bros. Holdings,
Ltd., another listed flourmiller,
has a one-third interest in
Vegetable Oils Pty.
When existing capital-issues
are fully-paid Allied Mills,
Ltd., will have a paid capital
of £1,212,125, all but £200,000
(5 p.c. prefs.) in ord. shares.
In the 1958-59 term Allied
Mills disclosed its profits con-
servatively at 31.7 p.c. on
average ord. capital, from
which a 10 p.c. dividend was
paid.
There is growing competi-
tion in most lines handled by
the co.’s subsidiaries, but in
its diversification policy it is
following methods that have
proved particularly profitable
overseas and which have
already shown spectacular
results here. This is indicated by
the fact that Allied Mills’ ord.
shares could have been bought
as low as 16s. lOd. in 1957
Last week, following three sub-
stantial par issues in 1959, they
were selling at 505., after
having reached 58s. before the
sharemarket setback.
Packaging
A USTRALIAN packers will
get their opportunity to
earn, for a change, some com-
mercial renown during May
The first national packaging
competition in Australia for
consumer-goods in local and
export markets will be held at
Chevron Hotel, Melbourne,
from May 2 to 6.
Sir John Allison, who is
chairman of the Export
Development Council, has an-
nounced arrangements for a
national export convention in
Canberra in the third week in
May, and the whole, or major
part, of the exhibits will be
transferred to Canberra and
set up in the Academy of
Science.
Awards will be made for
the best pack in various
categories, and a special award
will be made by the Minister
for Trade for the best export
pack. The Chevron competi-
tion will be organised by the
National Packaging Associa-
tion of Australia, of which H.
T. Aldred is secretary.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOI
NSW.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Tom Lehrer in Sydney
“Sick” is the word fashion-
ably used to describe the
humor of this tall, smooth-
faced, bespectacled mathema-
tician from Harvard (U.S.)
who appeared at the Town
Hall the other night, supported
by a piano and a mike ; but
nothing could be more salutary
than his cheerfully outrageous
songs and the lengths of quietly
pungent talk—much of it a
superb parody of the lecture,
the editorial and the bio-
graphical styles—with which
he joins them together.
“I have always regarded it
as part of my mission,” he
said, “to go around after Billy
Graham and undo all his
work.” He was only kidding,
no doubt ; but the statement
somehow suggests the peculiar
brand of healthy destructive-
ness on which his humor is
founded.
His essential method, as he
himself explains with disarm-
ing frankness, is to kick old
songs while they’re down. At
its simplest, this consists of
taking something like a popu-
lar song, usually a cloyingly
sentimental one, and fitting it
out with lyrics of comically
contrasting horror.
His lovers go to the park
to poison pigeons; his old
home-town is a sink of violence
and perversion ; his old lamp-
lighter has become an old
dope - peddler dispensing
“powdered joy”; the little girl
in the Irish ballad drowns her
father, burns her mother and
puts her dismembered sister
into a stew; and, in “The
Masochism Tango,” the lover
begs his mate not only to con-
sume him in the usual way but
also to flog, mutilate and burn
him.
Some of the kicked songs
are not so old, either- —like the
French cabaret-song, with its
nice-sounding words revealed
"Look !"
as meaningless ; or the adult-
western theme, with its gun-
slinger-hero psychoanalysed ;
or the movie theme-song
about the unhealthier activi-
ties of CEdipus Rex.
Often while he is kicking
the rubbish out of a song—his
face never losing its expression
of quiet pleasure—Lehrer
manages to deliver a swift
rabbit-killer of social satire as
well. The Southerner wants to
go back to dear old Dixie to
get the feel of a Ku Klux sheet
again ; tourists go to old
Mexico to see bulls being tor-
tured in a ring; hunters are
trigger-happy menaces; the
Christmas-carol becomes a
singing commercial to fit the
merchandising spirit of the
season ; and so on.
Thus Lehrer often liberates
our exasperation with some of
the more persistent kinds of
nonsense and hypocrisy. But
easily his finest achievement is
to be truly funny about nuclear
weapons and world tension.
There’s nothing like the old
Wild West now that it’s used
for the missile-test, he assures
us. “We will all go together
when we go / All suffused
within an incandescent glow,”
he sings, to a tune like “Cornin’
Round the Mountain,” remind-
ing us of all the ghastly ad-
vantages of this gregarious
arrangement. And in Sheldon
Harnick’s “Merry Little
Minuet” the wryly funny
.record of human misery in
Africa, Asia and elsewhere, set
terribly against the light grace
of the music, cuts deep into our
complacency.
Lehrer has been accused of
cynicism, of not showing a
belief in something. But isn’t
the true humorist always
something of an anarchist?
Look at Evelyn Waugh before
and after belief. Look at
Chaplin and Danny Kaye be-
fore and after the sense of
mission got them. What does
a humorist need to believe in
save honesty? What must he
assert save a dislike of the
phony and the pretentious?
Lehrer’s achievement, along
with the Englishmen Spike
Milligan and Peter Sellers, is
in finding a humor to cut
through the fears and repres-
sions which, as Malcolm Mug-
geridge has noted, engender in
us an excessive respect for
authority.
He is thus in rare company.
To quote Muggeridge again:
“Though there is plenty of
anger around, there is a de-
cided shortage of those capable
of transmuting it, as Swift did
his furious indignation, into
dancing patterns of bright
thought.” Lehrer fills a modest
part of this shortage.
J. A.
»X* *X* *>
“The Entertainer”
John Osborne continues to
tear and shriek at society’s
most cherished values in this,
the second of the plays to
bring him world fame and a
certain notoriety as Britain’s
leading Angry Young Man.
Make no mistake about it,
“The Entertainer” is the work
of a considerable dramatist;
in every way a worthy sequel
to “Look Back in Anger,”
Osborne’s earlier, perhaps
more effectively worked-out,
criticism of post-war England.
Again we get the din and
tumult of protest which
Osborne and his colleagues
have made peculiarly their
own; but now, above and
beyond all this, we cannot fail
to sense the emergence of an
altogether new note —a pas-
sionate, and outwardly para-
doxical, concern for the value
of the individual and a redeem-
ing faith in what might be
called the brotherliness of
man, despite his so often sick
and shoddy values.
The overall quality of John
Sumner’s production—the cast-
ing, the acting and, of course,
Osborne’s writing—make it far
and away the Melbourne
Union Theatre Repertory
Company’s best effort of the
present season. It is bold,
inventive and essentially
sympathetic work.
The play opens with an


THE ADELAIDE
FESTIVAL OF ARTS
March 12th-26th, 1960
AUSTRALIAN FIRSTS!
• drama
Murder in the Cathedral, by T. S. Eliot, with Robert
Speaight: first professional production. (Elizabethan
Theatre Trust).
Goodbye to No. 6, by Alex Symons.
Moon on a Rainbow Shawl, “Observer” prize-winning
play by Errol John.
Sir Donald Wolfit, Shakespearean recitals with Rosalind
Iden.
• opera
Salome, by Richard Strauss, with Joan Hammond.
(Elizabethan Theatre Trust; booked out.)
The Trittico, three one-act operas by Puccini. (Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust.)
• concerts and recitals
Gioconda De Vito (A.8.C.), Philippe Entremont
(A.8.C.), Lois Marshall (A.8.C.), Janacek String
Quartet (Musica Viva Society), The Dave Brubeck
Quartet (Aztec Services Pty. Ltd.).
• art
Paintings by J. M. W. Turner (Tate Gallery, London) ;
Modern Mexican Art (San Francisco Museum of Art).
Programmes include: Sydney Symphony Orchestra, Victorian
Symphony Orchestra, S.A. Symphony Orchestra, Elder Pianoforte
Quartet, The Hogarth Puppets (London), UNESCO Composers’
Seminar, Australian Writers’ Week and the Miles Franklin Award
for the. Australian novel of the year.
Full programmes and booking order forms from S.A. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
banks, airlines, shipping companies, Allans Ltd., Rundle St., Adelaide, and
Festival Office, Box SOU, G.P.0., Adelaide.
abnormally long and dis-
jointed monologue from an
old ham actor which superbly
sets the scene for what is to
follow. We are immediately
plunged into the gloom, the
desperation, the conflict of
values (and the shocking lack
of them), the faint jabs of
warmth and hope that make
the Rice household the terribly .
real muddle that it is. This
is old Billie Rice talking. He
is alone and not very happy
—a pathetic figure vainly try-
ing to console himself with
memories of a past made secure
and hopeful by an uncritical
acceptance of all that was sen-
sible and silly in Victorian
manners and morality.
There is a knock at the door.
It is Jean, his granddaughter,
In she breezes, and with her
come all the doubts, frustra-
tions and yearnings of what
could conceivably become the
prototype Osborne heroine—a
sort of female Jimmy Porter,
minus that character’s immense
capacity for self-pity.
Soon they have all trooped
into this draughty, clumsily
furnished living-room—Archie
(Billie’s son), Archie’s second
wife Phoebe and their son
Frank, who is Jean’s half-
brother.
What a collection they
make! And how sharply
Osborne has observed them;
how strongly he has drawn
them! No matter how repul-
sive they may seem at times,
we feel in no position to dis-
miss any one of these com-
pellingly sad-happy misfits ;
the playwright forces us with
an almost Chekhovian per-
suasion to sympathise with
them, to see their point, to
appreciate their justifications
of themselves, to understand
that “There but for the Grace
of God . . .”
At the risk of oversimplifica-
tion it could be said that
Osborne is parading before us.
in these three generations of
Rices, what he conceives as the
logical outcome of three basic
and opposing attitudes to
society and the values upon
which it is built,
In old Billie we find almost
complete acceptance, coupled
with a deep-rooted distrust of
the foreign and unfamiliar. In
Jean we have dissatisfaction;
the attempt to reject the worst
of the values she has inherited ;
and the desire to seek-out new
ones. In Archie, the failed
music-hall man, the sold-out
cynic (“dead behind the eyes”),
we find one who won’t have a
bar of either attitude, a person
unsupported by the past or by
hope for the future, who gets
his only kicks in life out of
the tawdry present,
Whereas the structure of
“Look Back in Anger” was
thoroughly conventional, “The
Entertainer” is notably and
deliberately loose even
sprawling yet at all times it
is unified and contained within
itself. Osborne uses music-hall
techniques and an element of
fantasy, sacrificing just about
everything though, oddly
enough, never character in
a somewhat desperate attempt
to get across to his audience.
Among the cast two per-
formances stand out: those of
Frederick Parslow as Billie
Rice, and loan Harris as
Phoebe, both of whom work
with astonishing conviction
and control.
Frank Gatcliff’s interpreta-
tion of Archie, though charged
with art" admirable intensity,
is open to question. This
Archie is probably too likeable
and sympathetic. His moral
bankruptcy' is suggested, cer-
tainly (it is everywhere in the
writing), but only too rarely
enacted. Consequently
Osborne’s device of trans-
planting his key-character from
the lewd but curiously ordered
world of the music-hall to the
confusion of his home at fre-
quent intervals is not the all-
revealer of the Osborne point
of view that it might have
been.
A. S. J.
❖ *X* <♦
Mackerras
Preceded by John Antill’s
“Overture for a Momentous
Occasion” —slight in for m,
brassily powerful in impact
and predominantly coloristic
in musical context —Bartok’s
“Music for Strings, Percus-
sion and Celesta” was the high
point of conductor Charles
Mackerras’s final concert in the
Festival of 20th-century Music
at Sydney Town Hall
In the andante tranquillo
there is some involved but
beautiful writing—the initial-
subject loneliness of the six-
part fugue, leading to a water-
color sketch by twining strings,
with the tympani softly sound-
ing a warning of fury yet to
come; the allegro, with piano
trumpeting against quicksilver
pizzicato basses (Joyce Hut-
chinson’s strictly agitated play-
ing satisfactory served the
music’s contrasting bursts of
color and touches of menace);
the adagio, a night-scene with
crickets, a shivery mosquito-
like part and a vigorous storm,
highlighted by a dialogue be-
tween piano and celeste; and,
after a contrived end-section,
the scathing beat of the allegro
molto, with, among other
things, that entirely Bartokian
device of heavily accented off-
beat piano-chords.
In terms of performance, the
quality of the wood was in-
disputable, but there was a
shortage of veneer. Kodaly’s
Concerto for Orchestra pro-
vided a direct and somewhat
saner contrast. His more
readily appreciable logic
showed-up in the sight Hun-
garian folksiness permeating
the work. There is a fine re-
flective ’cello melody, and a
subsequent working-back to a
dynamic peak. The last bit is
broad and flowing, and here
the woodwinds sang neatly.
On the whole, it was more
firmly played than the Bartok.
Of the shorter pieces, the
Sibelius tone-poem “Tapiola”
was the most substantial: a
deeply-felt essay founded on
a short theme. Early, Macker-
ras had to dampen the strings
to allow the woodwinds to sing
their sulky little ditto, but the
climaxes were masterfully con-
trolled
Mahler’s Adagietto from the
Fifth Symphony is an angels’
song, never descending, Spohr-
like, to the mere saccharine.
It was shaped with a crafts-
man’s skill; and, while it is
possible to use this expression
about Strauss’s waltzes from
“Der Rosenkavalier,” there
was some obvious uncertainty
at the beginning of it.
A.W.
♦J* *£♦
“The Doll’s House”
Sometimes in his youth
Ibsen discovered that things
were not as they seemed ; that,
just as there was filth at the
bottom of the lovely fiords in
Norway, so there was moral
filth in the relations between
men and women. At the same
time he discovered that all the
people in society in charge of
behavior the clergy, the
lawyers, the judges, the
teachers were anxious to
suppress this fact. So in a
series of plays he set out to
expose what was going on.
So long as he kept to an
artist’s perception of the truth
about the human situation he
wrote plays of stature. But he
could not resist the temptation
to preach, and, in this, what


INVEST WITH SAFETY
3
6
9
12
*
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
(^oup
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 4 dated 30/9/59 with audited balance
sheet as at 30/6/59 available from:
All Members of fhe Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS DEERING
FINANCE 6l INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
HD&I3
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME i
ADDRESS
he' had to offer was trivial and
at times even dangerous.
Thus, in “The Doll’s House,”
he preached a shallow,
embarrassing individualism
which converted N o r a’s
awakening from a spiritual
experience of some depth into
every schoolboy’s stand when
a group finds his behavior
insufferable. We have suffered
so much from these crusaders
for individualism that the play
is more a document of a
spiritual disease than a plea
for the rights of women.
Canberra Repertory, under
the excellent guidance of
Joyce Goodes and Ralph
Wilson, made a brave attempt
to present the play as though
the cause of women had still
to be pleaded. In that they
may be right, but this Nora is
not a woman: she is a fig-
ment of Ibsen’s imagination,
or a medium to enable him
to preach his nonsense about
loyalty to the self.
The curious thing is that the
preaching was always getting
in the way of the art. So Peter
Steer, who made an excellent
villain, was just not given a
chance to show how the past
blights us when we are about
to enjoy our happiness, because
Ibsen wanted to chill our bones
with a picture of a villain.
Joyce Goodes created a
mature Nora, a person so in
charge of the situation that it
was difficult for Bob Brissen-
den, as Torvald, to pet her as
a doll ; and by the time Ibsen
gave him the chance to get
angry, Nora was in her pulpit,
and poor old Torvald had to
listen in silence as though man
had no reply to woman.
M. C.
Artbursts
Blake Prize
If one of the aims of the
Blake Prize is to decorate and
enrich churches and church-
halls its sponsors could be well
enough pleased with the
current exhibition at Mark
Foy's, Sydney; for, although
most of it is abstract art that
does not convey much religious
feeling, there is at least always
a good deal of mystery in an
abstract, and plenty of these
paintings have the color to
enliven a wall or a window.
But as for that moment of
awe and tranquillity that
arises when any great work
of art, religious or secular,
meets the eye, that is another
matter. It can hardly be
attained until the artists consent
to give some clear meaning to
which the whole mind can
respond; for if we are going to
be excited all the time merely
by boldness of color we might
as well be bulls responding to
a red rag. If there is design
as well as color, as of course
there is, we are still only half-
way to meaning.
Though it does in fact look,
if not like a red rag, rather
like a Union Jack in its simple
coloring of red, white and
blue, John Coburn’s prize-
winning triptych of the Passion
is symbolic rather than
abstract, conveying a perfectly
clear meaning in its whips and
spikes and thorns, dripping
with blood. But in spite of
its careful design it is a facile
piece of work —we have had
spikes before by the thousand
—and this commentator would
much prefer such a painting as
Robert Curtis’s “Descent from
the Cross,” in which the jigsaw
(Continued on page 55)


New Car Feature —
MERCEDES-
BENZ
ASSEMBLED
IN
AUSTRALIA
TV/Tercedes-Benz (Australia)
lvA p TY ., Ltd., have intro-
duced two new passenger-cars,
the 220 S and 220 SE.
Both 2.2-litre models, the
cars represent the first major
change Mercedes-Benz have
made to their models in eight
years, and while the 220 S and
220 SE still retain the traditional
and classical Mercedes-Benz
characteristics, both models
differ so basically from their
predecessors that they form a
class of their own within the
Mercedes - Benz production
programme.
The new cars, in their first
international showing, filled
the first three outright placings
in the Monte Carlo Rally.
The new models are currently
being produced on a new and
enlarged assembly-line at the
Fishermen’s Bend plant of Aus-
tralian Motor Industries, Ltd.
This assembly-line has been
designed on a pattern identical
with those existing in the
Daimler-Benz plant at Stutt-
gart, West Germany. ’
The new body-lines of the
2205-SE, lower and sleeker with
a wider radiator grille, are
modern, and at the same time
distinctively in the Mercedes-
Benz evolutionary tradition.
Generally, the designers in
planning the body have worked
from the inside outwards.
Passengers’ space is in-
creased, seats are shaped for
comfort and good lateral sup-
port when cornering, and the
capacity of the boot has gone
up by almost 50 per cent, to
22.6 cu. ft.
The whole fascia-panel of
the new models is encased in
a cushioned frame, with added
refinements for comfort and
safety of recessed door-handles,
padded visors, flexible control-
knobs and padded window-
winder handles. The steering-
wheel has a large padded hub.
Technical factors which play
an outstanding role in the road-
holding ability of the new
models include a stiffer unit-
body structure, a refined single-
pivot rear-suspension employ-
ing a transverse compensating-
spring—the same as on the
300SL sports-roadster, one of
the fastest production-cars in
the world today—and an en-
tirely new flexibly-mounted
front end.
The newly designed sub-
frame, carryingfront-suspension
steering and forward engine-
mountings, is attached by two
vertical, rubber-bonded cone-
mountings which are flexible
vertically, to absorb road-
shocks and vibrations but are
stiff fore-and-aft or sideways.
Together with this, the sub-
frame is supported by two
sturdy leaf-spring type struts on
the front members of the frame
floor-unit, which resist road-
shocks and braking-reactions, as
well as a torsion-bar stabiliser.
In addition, the frame floor-
unit has been stiffened by
numerous cross-members.
The Mercedes-Benz recircu-
lating ball-type steering, with
automatic readjustment, is pre-
cise, light and shock-free.
As with the rest of the car,
the power-units of both models
have undergone advanced
changes.
The six-cylinder overhead
camshaft engine of the 220 S is
now fitted with twin compound
downdraft carburettors, Rede-
signed valve-gear and camshaft
give improved torque at prac-
tically all engine speeds and
increase output to 124 h.-p.
(SAE) at 5200 r.p.m.
On the 220 SE engine, the
intermittent manifold fuel-
injection system has been
further improved, and now has
straight instead of curved induc-
tion-pipes. With improved
torque, the 220 SE now has a
power output of 134 h.-p
(SAE) at 5000 r.p.m.
The gearbox, which in both
models has undergone no major
change, is synchronised on all
four gears.
As standard equipment on
the new 220 S and 220 SE are
a vertical speedometer
directly in the driver’s line of
vision with color - changes
(yellow from 0-31 m.p.h., then
red), and a new heating and
ventilating system now serving
the rear space as well, with a
two-speed booster-blower.
Also available is the Daimler-
Benz hydraulic automatic
clutch.
Prices range from £2870
(including tax).
SOME SPECIFICATIONS OF THE 220S
Horsepower: 124 at engine speed
of 5000/5200 r.p.m.
Max. torque: 139 foot-pounds.
Number of cylinders: 6.
Bore!Stroke: 3 5/ 32in., 2|in.
Total piston-displacement, eff.:
133.9 cu.-in.
Compression-ratio: 8.7 : 1.
Max. engine speed: 6000 r.p.m.
Crankshaft bearings: Four multi-
layer bearings.
Connecting-rod bearings: Multi-
layer bearings.
Valve arrangement: In-head.
Carburretor: Solex type.
Fuel consumption: 26 1/3
m./Imp. gal.
Oil-consumption: 390 m./US qt./
235 m./Imp. pt. Fuel-filter in front
of pump. Strainer-filter with
change-over cock.
Oil-filter: Plate-type filter with
micronic element in main flow.
Air-filter: Damper filter with
micronic element.
T ransmission (mechanical trans-
mission): All four gears controlled
synchromesh.
Reduction ratio: Ist gear,
3.64 : 1; 2nd gear, 2.36 : 1;
3rd gear, 1.53 : 1; 4th gear, 1:1;
reverse, 3.92 : 1.
Rear-axle ratio (standard):
4.10 : 1.
Steering: DB recirculating ball-
type with automatic readjustment
and shock - absorbers. Steering-
wheel: Two-spoke with signal-ring,
padded.
Chassis lubrication: Grease lubri-
cation.
Front axle: Sub-frame, double
wishbone arms, independent wheel-
suspension.
Rear axle: Single-joint swing-
axle with low pivot and hypoid
gears.
Springs, front: Coil springs with
additional rubber blocks, torsion-
bar stabiliser, shock-absorbers.
Springs, rear: Coil springs with
additional rubber blocks, shock-
absorbers and compensation spring.
Shock-absorbers: Hydraulic, tele-
scopic.
Foot-brake: Hydraulic. Ate-
booster brake T 50/24, front Alfin,
rear special grey cast brake-drums
with turbo-cooling.
Hand-brake: Mechanical pistol-
grip hand-brake acting on rear
wheels.
Wheel-base, sedan: 108-yin.
Track, front: 57|in.
Track, rear: 58 15/32in.
Min. turning-circle: Approx. 36ft.
Dry weight: Approx. 27201 b.
Pay-load: Approx. 9901 b.
Permissible total weight: Approx.
39301 b.
Permissible axle load front f rear:
Approx. 1790 / 21401 b.
Capacities (approx.): Fuel tank,
14.3 Imp, gal. Reserve: 1.1 Imp.
gal.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BWI77I—BW BOB®
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Lamson Paragon Industries, Ltd.
A public co. since 1910, Lamson
Paragon Industries, Ltd., has had a
successful run through most of its half-
century. The only exception was during
the 1930 depression days.
Operating through a number of sub-
sidiaries, with factories in all States
except Tasmania, and in New Zealand,
the group manufactures a wide range
of office-equipment and stationery.
Lamson’s products include various
office - machines, sales counter - check-
books, continuous stationery, auto-
graphic registers, typewriter-attachments,
Taylorix accounting-systems. Para-punch
punched - card systems, carbon - paper,
ribbons, carbon copy-books and printed
forms of all descriptions. There is a
close technical link with the Lamson
Paragon organisation in the United
Kingdom.
Trading conditions continued to be
competitive last term, but results were
described as “very satisfactory.” The
co.’s factory at Wodonga (Vic.), com-
pletely destroyed by fire in 1958, was
rebuilt and is again “operating satisfac-
torily.” The N.Z. offshoot “showed
excellent results” despite “exceptionally
difficult trading conditions.”
There were some changes in the pre-
sentation of accounts for the last term,
and gross profit and operating expenses
were not disclosed. Consolidated net
profit for the year ended October 31,
1959, was 16 p.c. higher than in the
previous term, increasing by £24,293 to
£171,739:
Lamson Paragon and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. f Dividend serves. serves.*
31, £ £ £ £
1955. .152,172 12 p.c. = 82,687 69,485 559,020
Adj. o/side interests, £674 .. 558,346
Unexplained reductions, £3246 .. 555,100
To superannuation fund, £13,520 .. 541,580
1956.-145,128 12) p.c. = 88,594 56,534 598,114
Lamson Paragon Industries and Subsidiaries.
Adj. o/side interests, £4l .. .. 598,155
Profit sale assets, £3OBl . . .. 601,236
Unexplained reductions, £2166 . . 599,070
To superannuation fund, £14,460 .. 584,610
1957. .148,205 9 p.c. = 92,198 56,007 640,617
Unexplained reductions, £3248 . . 637,369
Added realisation reserve, £10,482 647,851
To superannuation fund, £12,225 .. 635,626
1958. .147,446 7 p.c. = 99,330 48,116 683,742
Adj. o/side interests, £282 .. 684,024
Added realisation reserve, £5697 •• 689,721
Unexplained reductions, £6667 * . . 683,054
1959. .171,739 8 p.c. = 113,520 58,219 741,273
* Subject to intangibles £736,180 at 31/10/’59.
The result was struck after writing-off
£58,343 for depreciation (up £3709),
paying £5765 interest on unsecured
notes, £6411 directors’ fees and £4OOO
auditors’ remuneration, and providing
£107,934 for taxation (up £19,708).
The earning-rate on the average
ordinary capital was 12.1 p.c. p.a. This
compares with 10.4 p.c. in 1958 and
14.5 and 20.5 p.c. on smaller average
capital in 1957 and 1956.
A virtual one-for-one bonus-issue was
made in 1957.
Div.-rate was raised from 7 p.c. to
8 p.c., absorbing £14,190 more at
£113,520. Reserves benefited by £58,219
and also by £5697 additions to assets-
realisation reserve and £282 adjustment
of outside interests. There was a £6667
undisclosed reduction in the reserves
which totalled £741,273, subject to
£736,180 intangibles.
Paper prices have been relatively
steady over the past two years and the
stationery section of Lamson’s business
was not handicapped by large increases
in cost of raw-materials. If this stability
continues the co. should be able Lo
maintain its share of the market.
Paid-up capital remained unchanged at
£1,419,000, split-up into 10s. f.-p. shares.
Last July the co. made an issue of
709,500 6f p.c. 10s. unsecured notes,
convertible into ords. at par on July 31,
1962: •
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital . . £1,419,000 £1,419,000 £1,419,000
Reserves . . .. 640,617 683,742 741,273
Outside interests . . 180,904 192,059 202,831
Mortgage . . .. 107,286 104,715 102,139
Convertible notes.. 354,750
Overdraft . . 318,484 386,104 21,420
Creditors . . .. 182,583 202,813 220,158
Tax provision .. 127,872 120,032 149,662
Staff funds .. 132,455 ' 145,703 142,328
Final div. .. 56,760 63,855 70,950
£3,165,961 £3,318,023 £3,424,511
Freeholds . . 503,090 541,329 593,892
Plant, etc. . . 625,344 652,395 743,417
Stocks . . .. 852,174 809,647 808,663
Fire-claims .. 80,474
Debtors .. .. 452,916 502,190 540,491
Cash, etc. .. 1.557 1,666 1,868
Intangibles . . 730,880 730,322 736,180
£3,165,961 £3,318,023 £3,424,511
The sharp reduction in bank accom-
modation (by £364,684 to £21,420) was
said to be “largely resultant on the note-
issue.” Creditors were £17,345 higher at
£220,158. Stocks and debtors show little
change.
Book-value of freeholds went up by
£52,563 to £593,892 and of plant, furni-
ture and vehicles by £91,022 to £743,417.
Liquidity was satisfactory, with working-
capital ample at £746,504 and current
ratio 2.2 to 1. The balance-sheet leaves
a generally favorable impression, not-
withstanding that intangibles loom
massive at £736,180.
Net tangible asset-backing on book-
values works out at 10s. for each 10s.
ord. At the last sale in Melbourne,
Lamson’s scrip fetched 19s. 7d. a unit.
The immediate return is 4.1 p.c. on the
basis of the increased 8 p.c. dividend-
distribution.
Automotive and General Industries
A holding co. in automotive engineers
and distributors, Automotive and
General Industries, Ltd., operates through
a group of nine subsidiaries.
These are:
Austin Distributors Pty., and Ausdis
Spares and Service Pty. (sole Victorian
metropolitan distributor for Austin
vehicles; servicing of motor-vehicles).
F. W. Henry and Co. Pty. (wholesale
sale of automotive parts).
Continental and General Distributors
Pty. (Australian distributor of Peugeot
cars).
Ausdis Finance Pty. (hire-purchase
finance).
Northern Engineering Pty. (motor-
vehicles assembly and body-manufacturer,
auto-repairs).
Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. (sale of
materials-handling equipment).
Forklifts (Vic.) Pty. (hire of fork-lift
equipment).
Howard Industries Pty. (manufacturers of
Howard rotary-hoes, etc., and automotive
parts, also general-engineering services).
There were major changes within the
group during the last term. Disappoint-
ingly, the profitable Simca concession for
Australia was lost. Termination of the
Simca link was caused by the acquisition
of “a very substantial shareholding” by
Chrysler Corporation in the main Simca
co. in France. On May 1, 1959,
Chrysler Australia, Ltd., took-over the
local Simca business which had been
substantially built-up by Automotive and
General. Simca sales had been going very
well.
Another “very great shock” came
when the British Motor Corporation
decided to curtail the group’s Austin
franchise by taking back the country
areas of Victoria and Southern Riverina.
B.M.C. now distributes its vehicles
directly to the dealers. Formerly an
Automotive and General’s subsidiary
(Austin Distributors Pty.) handled this
line.
The group retains Austin’s Victorian
metropolitan franchise, and also State-
wide spare-parts distribution rights. The
upset with Austins did not become
effective till August 1, 1959, and so
didn’t directly affect the earnings for
the year ended June 30.
Thanks to energetic efforts, Automo-
tive and General managed to find for
itself a silver lining in an unexpectedly
clouded sky in the form of the Australia-
wide concession for Peugeot cars.
A general reorganisation of assembly
facilities was undertaken. The co.’s
works were moved from Keys Road,
Moorabbin (Vic.), to “the splendid new
premises” at Dougharty Road, Heidel-
berg (Vic.). The transfer “was not with-
out its problems,” but at the moment
the Peugeots are said to be rolling-off
the production-line at Heidelberg accord-
ing to schedule.
Registrations of Peugeot are showing
an upward trend, but during 11 months


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Lite Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761.(4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
ended November, 1959, amounted to
only 0.7 p.c. of the Australian total for
cars, and 0.6 p.c. for station-wagons
(Simca’s figures were 2.1 p.c. and nil
for the same period). In December last
146 Peugeot cars were registered, com-
pared with 103 in November.
In November, 1959, 244 Peugeot
ambulances, utilities, panel-vans and
trucks were registered, representing 0.4
p.c. (355 and 0.6 p.c. in November,
1958).
These sweeping changes necessi-
tated difficult and costly adjustments.
In the circumstances, the group’s per-
formance was quite creditable, although
there is little in the accounts to give
immediate cheer to shareholders. Earn-
ings for the year ended June 30, 1959,
were a far cry from Automotive and
General’s heyday, when handsome 25
and 30 p.c. divs. were paid. Two sub-
sidiaries lost a total of £51,086, and
consolidated turnover was said to have
been slightly lower at £8.3 million.
Consolidated net profit was about
10 p.c. lower at £120,799 (down £14,613),
after paying £64,925 interest on long-
term borrowings, writing-off £58,180 for
depreciation and amortisation (up £9834)
and providing £49,000 for taxation (up
£30,200):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit, (— —Dividend serves. serves.*
30 £ £ £ £
1955. .376,968 25 p.c. = 232,108 144,860 1,540,300
Adjustment re pre-acquisition profits,
£108,039 1,648,345
Revaluation assets, £114,171.. .. 1,762,516
Profit sale assets, £539 .. .. 1,763,055
Tax overprovided, £4779 .. .. 1,767,834
Revaluation shares subsid., £333,100 2,100,934
Revaluation res. capitalised, £333,100 1,767,834
Adjustment on revaluat’n of book value
of shares over par value, £331,425 1,436,409
Prelim, expenses written-off, £27,114 1,409,295
1956. .319,600 15 p.c. = 197,683 121,917 1,531,212
Provision accrued long-service sub-
sid., £30,000 1,501,212
Loss sale assets, £18,576 .. .. 1,482,636
Tax overprovided, £1782 .. .. 1,484,418
Stocks written-down, £45,307 .. 1,439,111
Long-service provision, £15,000 . . 1,424,111
Development exp. written-off, £2484.. 1,421,627
Loss.
1957.. 98,212 Nil 1,323,415
Tax overprovided, £626 .. .. 1,324,041
Profit sale property, etc., £19,519 .. 1,343,560
W/off subsid. assets, £127,243 .. 1,216,317.
Profit.
1958. .135,412 5 p.c. = 83,275 52,137 1,268,454
Pre-acquisition reserves in sub-
sidiaries, £BOB3 .. .. .. 1,276,537
Goodwill w/off, £2OOO . . . . 1,274,537
Tax underprovided, £572 . . . . 1,273,965
Less increase intangibles on acquisi-
tion subsidiaries, £42,653 . . 1,231,312
1959. .120,799 5 p.c. = 83,275 37,524 1,268,836
* Subject to intangibles, £6Oll at June 30, 1959.
Tax provision was lower than the level
normally required, because some pre-
vious losses were deductible from the
assessable income.
Div.-rate was steady at a modest 5 p.c.,
absorbing £83,275 and leaving £37,524
to reserves, which also benefited by
£BOB3 pre-acquisition profits in two new
subsidiaries, but were reduced by £572
tax underprovision and £2OOO goodwill
written-off. There was a £42,653 increase
in intangibles connected with the new
subsidiaries.
Bank accommodation increased by
£135,541 to £288,263, but sundry
creditors were £136,205 lower at
£321,957. Stock was £219,568 down at
£1,971,315. Debtors were £138,907
higher at £1,909,260. Cash balances went
up by £83,095:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital . . £1,665,500 £1,665,500 £1,665,500
Reserves . . .. 1,323,415 1,268,454 1,268,836
Debentures .. 1,079,400 1,068,100 1,057,400
Mortgage .. 13,920 13,280
Deposits . . . . 151,144 152,722 288,263
Overdraft .. 430,860 458,162 321,957
Creditors, etc. . . 643,064 1,044,112 1,038,117
Staff fund .. 45,000 42,500 58,935
Tax provision . . 1,150 18,800 49,000
Final dividend . . 41,688 41,638
£5,353,453 £5,773,268 £5,789,646
Land, buildings . . 1,433,209 1,308,226 1,333,605
Plant . . . . 558,727 492,522 483,087
Stock . . . . 1,893,487 2,190,883 1,971,315
Debtors . . .. 1,438,977 1,770,353 1,909,260
Cash, etc. . . 3,011 3,273 86,368
Intangibles ... 26,042 8,011 6,011
£5,353,453 £5,773,268 £5,789,646
Debtors included £1,217,525 h.-p. con-
tracts, adjusted for unearned interest (up
£246,008). Formal liquidity was slightly
improved with £1,944,126 in working-
capital. Current ratio worked out at
2.1 to 1 on the consolidated accounts.
Net tangible asset-backing was Bs. 9d.
for each of 6,662,000 issued f.'-p. ss. ords.
Another major development last year
was a gradual disposal of assets of the
subsidiary Howard Industries Pty.
(formerly Howard Auto - Cultivators,
Ltd.) to Rotary Hoes, Ltd., of U.K., and
its Australian subsidiary, Clifford
Howard Pty.
The group sold its interests in rotary-
tillage, some raw materials, work-in-
progress and finished goods, most of
Howard’s plant and a substantial propor-
tion of land and buildings. The remain-
ing assets will be disposed of in the
current term. “Complete advantages” of
this move “will not be realised imme-
diately, but will accrue over a period.”
Spending on motor-vehicles is steadily
rising. Official statistics show that sales
rose by 16.8 p.c. in the last quarter of
1959, compared with the same period
in 1958. Relaxation of import-restric-
tions will probably result in further in-
creases, bringing more foreign-made c<*rs
on the Australian market.
This will hardly make life easier for
the numerous car-distributors and re-
tailers. The greater number of cars on
the market will tend to stimulate com-
petition, increase selling-costs and reduce
profit-margins.
It is unlikely that the “good old days”
will return. Distributors and dealers
(and manufacturers) must start thinking
in terms of larger turnovers, higher
operating efficiency, better service to
customers and lower retail prices.
The motor-vehicles industry will con-
tinue to be expansive, but it will also
become increasingly difficult and com-
petitive. Automotive and General,
energetically struggling against consider-
able difficulties, will need every ounce
of its efficiency, energy and skill to make
a real comeback.
With these sober reflections in mind,
the ss. ords. looked a fair buy at 3s. lOd.
at the last sale in Melbourne. The
immediate yield is 6.5 p.c. on the basis
of the steady 5 p.c. div.-rate.
Malleys, Ltd.
Tn October, 1958, Malleys, Ltd., took-
over the entire share-capital of Colda
Home Appliances, Ltd. The deal,
involving the issue of 163,928 £1 ords.
at a total premium of £81,964, brought
immediate benefits. A manufacturer and
wholesaler (through a subsidiary), Colda
Home Appliances turns out domestic
refrigerators, washing-machines and
lawnmowers. Added stature plus a
ready-made market lifted Malleys’ turn-
over to record levels. Earnings followed
suit —they had evinced little movement
in the three preceding years—£l73,ol2
in 1956, £177,563 in 1957 and £179,972
in 1958—jumping £34,871 to £214,843.
Malleys, Ltd., had its origin in a small
sheet-metal business founded in 1884
by the late Francis Malley. Floated to
public status in 1919, the co. now has a
capital of £1,098,641, of which £30,000
only is held in £1 9 p.c. cum. first pref.
shares. In addition to the manufacture
of sheet-metal products for the plumbing
and building trades, the group turns-out
ventilation-equipment, washing-machines,
refrigerators, electric stoves, wash-boilers,
kerosene room-heaters, domestic cisterns,
porcelain-enamel baths, bath-heaters and
numerous other lines fabricated mainly
from sheet-metal.
Interests in the domestic-appliance
field have been expanded considerably
over the past few years. Thus the
acquisition of Colda Home Appliances.
In 1954 a licensing arrangement was
concluded with the Whirlpool Corpora-
tion of St. Joseph, Michigan (U.S.A.), for
local manufacture of various Whirlpool
products. The Whirlpool Corporation
is the largest manufacturer of home-
laundry equipment in the world.
Headquarters of the Malleys group
are in Sydney, with factories at
Alexandria and Auburn (Sydney
suburbs). The sales-and-distribution
complex spreads to Melbourne, Brisbane
and Adelaide.
Last term’s bumper profit was ascer-
tained after setting aside £56,260 (up
£128) for depreciation and £118,197


v.v.v.vXv/X-v.'
name]
Hie
[assurance
(Old established, sound and progressive, the
"Metropolitan Life” is a completely Australian financial
institution, providing a variety of attractive policies to
suit every purse and purpose.
You will find the “Metropolitan” representa-
tive to be a friendly and courteous advisor.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD,
(Inc. in Qld, 1995)
The Metropolitan building. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
(previous figure net disclosed)
for tax:
Parent Co.
t —I—Dividends 1 —Dividends N
Pref. Re-
A’ril, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries, serves.*
£ £ £ £
10
’51.. 80,565 2700 p.c. = 42,500 423,674
Reserves capitalised,
£212,382 211,292
Net share premiums, £7600 218,892
Surplus sale assets, £44,055 262,947
June, 8
’52.. 88,237 2441 p.c. = 51,863 296,880
Share premiums, £3654 . . 300,534
Capital profit, £533 .. 301,067
8
’53.. 63,078 2400 p.c. = 57,028 304,717
Reserves disappear, £4460. . 300,257
8
’54.. 42,247 2700 p.c. = 57,028 282,776
To bad debts reserve, £7908 274,868
Capital loss, £6516 . . 268,352
8
’55..128,596 2700 p.c. = 63,933 330,315
Share-issue exes., £4524 . . 325,791
Capital profit, £1427 . . 327,218
10
'56..173,012 2700 p.c. = 90,471 407,059
Written-off subsidiary assets,
£17,550 .. .'. .. 389,509
10
’57..177,563 2700 p.c. = 90,472 473,900
10
’58..179,972 2700 p.c. = 90,472 560,700
Parent and Subsidiary.
Less added intangibles,
£67,576 493,124
Pre-acquisition losses w/off,
£6317 486,807
Note-issue expenses w/off,
£4452 .. .. .. 482,355
Share premiums, £81,964 . . 564,319
10
’59..214,843 2700 p.c. = 106,864 669,598
* After deducting intangibles, £90,258
at 30/6/’59.
It works-out a slightly
improved 19.9 p.c. on ord.
capital, after allowing for the
prefs.—l9.6, 19.3, 18.9, 15.7
and 5.5 p.c. back to 1954 —
and after payment of divs.
allows transfer of £105,279 to
reserves. Ord. divs. have been
held at 10 p.c. since 1956.
Together with £81,964 share-
premiums (the Colda Home
Appliances take-over), £4452
of note-issue expenses partly
written-off, and £6317 pre-
acquisition losses written-off,
reserves rose in all £108,898 to
£669,598 ; that is after deduc-
tion of intangibles (£90,258 at
balance-date).
Balance-sheet comparisons
indicate flexible and well-
proportioned strength:
Paid capital— 1958. 1859.
Preference .. £30,000 £30,000
Ordinary .. 904,713 1,068,641
Reserves .. 583,382 759,856
Notes .. .. 500,000
Mortgages . . 45,600 44,000
Overdraft .. 388,909 559,696
Creditors* . . 309,294 295,508
Tax provision .. ' - 119,683
Final divs. .. 45,236 53,432
£2,307,134 £3,430.816
Freehold
properties .. 422,279 675,279
Plant, vehicles,
etc. .. .. 516,835 796,932
Shares in other
cos .. ..
Stocks on hand 799,365 1,042,168
Debtors .. .. 543,800 822,408
Cash, Government
bonds .. 2,173 3,771
Goodwill and
patents .. 22,682 90,258
£2,307,134 £3,430,816
* Includes tax provision until and
including 1958.
Absorption of Colda Home
Appliances put heavy strain on
financial resources early in the
term, but a £500,000 issue of
unsecured notes in November,
1958, eased the pressure.
Theoretical working-capital is
now adequate, and last term
saw an advance of £238,129 to
£840,028. Stocks and debtors
rose £242,803 (£1,042,168 at
balance-date) and £278,608
(£822,408) respectively. Over-
draft facilities were extended,
up £170,787 at £559,696, and
creditors, including provision
for tax, lifted £105,897 to
£415,191.
The book-values of free-
holds and plant increased
(again consequent upon
acquisition of Colda Home
Appliances), the one to
£675,279 (up £253,000), the
other to £796,932 (up
£280,097). Mortgage liability
(A.M.P. Society) declined
£l6OO to £44,000.
Immediate prospects are
encouraging. Malleys’ fortunes
are closely linked to those of
the building industry, and this
sector of the economy shows
no signs of slackness. Building-
activity, both domestic and
commercial, is still at a high
level, though economic condi-
tions at the moment are a trifle
mixed. Refrigerators, on the
other hand, are being produced
for a fairly saturated market.
Replacement demand is of
growing importance and the
market for initial purchases is
falling towards a level deter-
mined by the rate of new-
dwelling construction.
Investors express evident
approval of Malleys’ potential
and, last traded on ’Change
at 455., the £1 ords. give an
immediate yield of 4.4 p.c. The
prefs. recently fetched 265. 9d.
giving a yield of 6.7 p.c. At
June 30 ords. had a net
tangible backing of 325. 6d.;
prefs. of £5B 18s. lOd.
Engineering Supply Co. of
Australia, Ltd.
'T'HIS Queensland-registered
A machinery and engineer-
ing-supply merchant had a fair
year, but experienced some
easing of profits due to rising
operating-costs. Trading con-
ditions were described as diffi-
cult, but turnover was said to
have been “well maintained”.
Sales dropped by less than one
per cent., and showed an im-
proving trend in the last few
months of the co.’s fifty-sixth
financial year, ended June 30,
1959.
Engineering Supply Co. of
Australia, Ltd. (popularly
known as Esca), had to fight
against mounting expenses on
a very competitive market.
Particular difficulty was ex-
perienced with labor costs,
which are largely outside the
co.’s power to control. Last
year’s wages-bill went up by
£13,180, eating into earnings.
However, “the gross margin of
profit was at least equal to
that of the previous years.”
Keen business rivalry pre-
vented the co. from passing-on
the cost-increases to con-
sumers.
Esca fought-back by making
stronger efforts to secure an
increasing volume of sales, and
embarked on an extensive
advertising campaign. Full
benefits of this publicity-drive
were not all reaped last term,
but should accrue over a longer
period of trading.
Trading-profit, agency-com-
missions and income from
investments amounted to
£117,614 (a drop of £30,517).
Net profit was £18,157 down
at £73,414, after setting-aside
£11,653 for depreciation
(almost unchanged) and pro-
viding £42,500 for taxation
(down £12,360):
Net Re-
June, Profit. , — 1 ‘ —Dividends —— N serves.
£ £ £
’53.. 56,250 15 p.c. = 41,250 245,270
’54,.100,980 15 „ „ 41,250 305,000
Contingency reserves dis-
closed, £76,715 .. .. 380,715
*55..109,298 17f p.c. = 48,125 441,888
Unexp. reduction, £363 .. 441,525
Asset revaluation, £200",000 641,525
Res. capitalised, £137,500 504,025
’56..101,379 p.c. = 51,562 553,842
’57.. 98,761 15 „ „ 61,87.5 590,728
Staff funds transferred to
general reserves, £25,000 615,728
’58.. 91,571 15 p.c. = 61,875 645,424
Tax provision transferred to
reserves, £5331 .. .. 650,755
Less reduction contingency
reserve, £6135 .. . . 644,620
’59.. 73,414 15 p.c. = 61,875 656,159
The profit was equivalent to
an earning-rate of 17.8 p.c. on
the unchanged average one-
class capital (£412,500, split
into ss. f.-p. ords. last term).
This compares with 22.2 p.c.
in the previous term, and 23.9
p.c. in 1957, 24.6 p.c. in 1956,
26.5 p.c in 1955 and 24.4 p.c.
in 1954—the last three years
on a lower paid capital.
Dividend was steady at 15
p.c., taking-up £61,875. Re-
serves benefited by £11,539
plus a £5331 transfer from tax
provision. There was a net
reduction of £6135 in the con-
tingency reserve, reducing the
balance-sheet figure to £656,159
(free of intangibles). Vigorous
reserve-building is a charac-
teristic feature of the co.’s
financial policy.
Although the drop in profits
was relatively small, it appear-
ed to continue a downward
trend. Perhaps this is an in-
evitable development of the
increasingly competitive con-
ditions. Esca certainly shows
a lot of push and drive in
itself.
Trading in tractors, agricul-
tural machinery, engineering
and automotive supplies, etc.,
from its Brisbane headquarters
throughout the Sunshine
State, the co. is influenced by
the way rural fortunes turn
out. Better seasons may help
to boost Esca’s takings, but
the coin might also fall the
other way.
Esca seems to rely basically
on internal finance. Borrow-
ings have been comparatively
small and short-term in nature.


MESSRS. L. MILES
GILLON & JAMES F.
DERHAM, B. Com.
wish to announce that as
from 29th February they
will be trading in partner-
ship, under the name of
GILLON DERHAM & CO.
381 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Postal Address:
360 Collins Street, C.l.
Phone: MU 7471 (3 lines).
Paid capital was increased only
once during the last 11 years,
when shareholders were treated
to a one-for-two bonus hand-
out in 1956.
Prior to that freeholds were
revalued by £200,000 in 1955.
One can’t help wondering just
how much might still be
tucked-away in an inner kitty.
Such terms as “property-
reconditioning”, “dividend-
equalisation” and the like have
an inviting flavor when used
as adjectives to describe re-
serves. Easing earning-rates
and the balance-sheet’s bare
bones do not necessarily give
a conclusive idea of Esca’s true
position.
The formal figures showed
little variation. Liquidity was
somewhat better and working
capital entirely satisfactory at
£586,407. Bank-overdraft dis-
appeared, but cash, bonds, etc.
dropped substantially: —*
1958 1959
Paid capital .. £412,500 £412,500
Reserves .. 645,424 656,159
Overdraft .. 55,369
Creditors . . 110,830 153,354
Tax provision . . 58,160 42,500
Staff funds . . 18,253 16,753
Final uivs. .. 41,250 41,250
£1,341,786 £1,322,516
Freeholds .. 312,691 318,954
Furniture and
vehicles, etc... 47,762 44,212
Shares . . . . 3,470 3,470
Stocks . . . . 586,895 601,407
Debtors . . 329,544 334,791
Cash, bonds, etc. 61,424 19,682
£1,341,786 £1,322,516
Net tangible asset-backing
was more than twice the scrip’s
face-value at a solid 12s. Id.
for each ss. ord.
Brisbane’s sharemarket last
valued Esca’s scrip at 15s. a
ss. unit. The investment re-
turned 5.1 p.c. p.a. on the
basis of a steady 15 p.c. div.-
rate.
Timor Oil, Ltd.
A SYDNEY registration,
Timor Oil, Ltd., prospects
for oil in Portuguese Timor.
Work during the year was
concentrated on the Suai,
Viqueque and Ossulari areas
with a reconnaissance of the
concession district east of Ali-
ambata in the latter part of
the year. Surface - mapping,
diamond core-drilling and
gravimetric surveys were
carried out.
Towards the end of the year
to June 30, 1959, a structure
considered to warrant deep-
drilling was defined at Ossu-
lari. Tradewinds Exploration,
Inc., decided to site its first
well in this location, by prior
agreement with Timor Oil.
The term of the exclusive
prospecting concession was ex-
tended by the Portuguese Gov-
ernment to December 31, 1962.
Important capital changes
have taken place. Timor Oil
acquired 250,000 ss. ords. in
Tradewinds Exploration by the
exchange of an equal amount
of shares. This brought paid
capital to £1,062,500 at
balance-date:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,062,500
Creditors .. 11,932 9,687
£1,011,932 £1,072,187
Plant, equip-
ment .. .. 181,598 196,708
Shares other cos. 15,677 78,178
Stores .. ... 41,779 38,954
Debtors, etc. .. 13,775 15,502
Cash, deposits .. 184,237 31,964
Prospecting rights 127,200 127,200
Prospecting, de-
velopment, ad-
ministration,
etc. '.. .. 378,393 514,408
Preliminary ex-
penses . . 69,273 09,273
£1,011,932 £1,072,187
Fixed assets increased by
£15,110, representing one addi-
tional landing-craft, two new
Unimog vehicles, and various
drilling and camp equipment.
Current assets fell by £153,371,
mainly due to reduced cash and
deposits. Prospecting- and
development - expenditure in-
creased by £109,204, represent-
ing the cost of field work
during the year. Administra-
tive expenses totalled £30,147.
Since the close of accounts
another 400,000 ss. ords. in
Tradewinds Exploration were
acquired, bringing the total to
650,000.
Also after the balance-date
a one-for-four “rights” issue
at par was made to share-
holders, involving 1,062,500 ss.
ords. and another 250,000 ss.
ords. were issued to Trade-
winds Exploration by agree-
ment. Total issued capital of
Timor Oil is now 5,562,500 ss.
ords.
These capital-increases are
said to have provided funds
'‘necessary to carry on the ex-
ploration programme.”
At last sale in Sydney Timor
Oil’s ss. ords. fetched 4s. 9d.
a unit.
The co.’s area, around Ali-
ambata and Viqueque, is a
seepage field, with the usual
problems accompanying mani-
festations of migrated oil.
The late L. Owen, oil-geolo-
gist specialising in migrated oil,
was on his way to the field
when his aircraft disappeared
over the Timor Sea on January
26.
Westralian Oil, Ltd.
\lGEstralian Oil holds areas
** in the Bonaparte Gulf
Basin (N.T.), the Fitzroy Basin
(W.A.) and in Gippsland
(Vic.).
Early last year the
Commonwealth Government
approved a 50 p.c. subsidy for
the drilling of a stratigraphic
hole to a 3000 ft. depth in the
vicinity of Spirit Hill (N.T.)
with the object of testing the
nature of the strata at depth.
The field-party has com-
pleted geological checking of
the co.’s permit 106 H in the
Fitzroy Basin of W.A. The
strata available are of Car-
boniferous and Devonian age.
No field-work has been
carried out in Gippsland
(licences 199 and 210) since
1957.
Most of the co.’s current
income comes from £156,761
invested in bonds, shares and
notes. Directors say that funds
were profitably invested dur-
ing the year ended June 30,
1959, and “close attention was
given to all items of expendi-
ture.” Offset by investment
income, the net cost of admini-
stration from formation of
Westralian Oil to date has been
£11,884. During last term
non-operating income at
£15,919 exceeded administra-
tive expenditure by £lBO2.
Total income was £3656
higher than uncapitalised
expenditure (£7373 higher in
1958 and £4494 higher in 1957).
The co. reports that an
“efficient and modern plant”
was erected for the treatment
of mineral sands at Yoganup
(W.A.). The concentration-
plant and the separation-plant
(at Capel, W.A.) are almost
complete. Production has
reached the “running-in” stage.
For the time-being it is
intended to stockpile the
section containing zircon and
monazite and concentrate on
the output of ilmenite and
leucoxene.
From the operation of a
pilot-plant a quantity of
ilmenite was obtained during
the year and sold for £7IS(X
Selling expenses amounted to
£4228.
Against liquids and invest-
ments totalling £156,761 there
are liabilities and provisions
of £45,245. Paid-up capital
remains unchanged at £895,470
in 2s. f.-p. ords., which last
fetched Is. 9d. a unit.
Blair Athol Coal and
Timber
T^ifty-year-old Blair Athol
A Coal and Timber Co., Ltd.,
works an opencut coalmine at
Blair Athol in Queensland, and
holds about 1700 acres of land
in the area. Originally the co.
operated three underground
mines, but switched to open-
cut coal-winning in 1946. It
now owns all the opencut
mining-equipment, formerly
operated by a firm of con-
tractors.
The quantity of coal sold
during the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1959, was slightly
less than in the preceding term
(down 3094 tons at 94,320 tons)
but earnings showed an appre-
ciable increase.
Revenue from all sources
was £2498 higher at £142,380.
After deducting all expenses
(including £11,975 depreciation)
pre-tax profit was £10,815
higher at £38,052. Tax-pro-
vision absorbed an additional
£6821 at £14,000 and seems
a shade high on the figures
disclosed.
Net profit for the year was
£6330 higher at £24,652, and
was equivalent to an earning-
rate of 19.5 p.c. on the average
ordinary capital, compared to
14.7 p.c. in the previous term,
and 11.5 p.c. and 10.9 p.c. in
1957 and 1956.
Div.-rate was raised from
10 p.c. to 15 p.c., absorbing
£18,482. A capital profit of
£lOO was made on sale of
plant.
Paid capital remained un-
changed at £123,217 in ss. ords.,
backed by Bs. lid. of net
tangible assets each. Reserves
totalled £95,670, free of in-
tangibles. Fixed assets were
slightly higher at £259,402.
Current assets increased by
£36,770 to £91,894. Current
liabilities were higher at
£137,154.
However, the co. included the
£77,778 depreciation reserve
in current liabilities and the
true liquid position was satis-
factory.
At the last sale in Brisbane
the ss. ords. fetched Bs. 3d. a
unit. The yield is 9.4 p.c. on the
basis of the new 15 p.c. div.-
rate.


Missing Heirs
HEIRS SOUGHT—WALSH ’
IRELAND
CIRCUIT COURT OF JUSTICE
South Eastern Circuit
County Kilkenny
RECORD No. E. 19/1959
Information is sought concerning JOHN
WALSH, formerly of Ballyrowragh,
Slieverue, County Kilkenny, Ireland,
who emigrated to Australia about 1907
or 1908. The said JOHN WALSH was
a son of THOMAS WALSH and JUDITH
WALSH (formerly Delahunty) and was
a brother of PATRICK WALSH and
MARGARET WALSH, all of said
address.
If the said JOHN WALSH or any of
his issue survived the 3rd July, 1938,
he or they may be entitled to a distri-
butive share in the estate of the said
PATRICK WALSH. If the said JOHN
WALSH or any of his issue survived the
26th November, 1945, he cu’ they may
be entitled to a share in the estate of
the said MARGARET WALSH. Said
estates are the subject of proceedings
presently pending in this Court.
If no claim is received by me on or
before the 2nd day of June, 1960, from
or on behalf of the said JOHN WALSH,
his issue or next-of-kin, an Order may
be made in this Court that the said
JOHN WALSH be presumed to have
died without issue prior to the 3rd
July, 1938, and that the estates of
the said PATRICK WALSH and
MARGARET WALSH be distributed
accordingly, without regard to the said
JOHN WALSH.
Dated this 25th day of January, 1960. —
THOMAS G. CROTTY, County Registrar,
Circuit Court Office, Kilkenny, Ireland.
HOW TO MAKE
NEW FRIENDS
More and more people are
narrowing their lives by only
knowing people like them-
selves. In March Reader’s
Digest are tested ways to
make new friends, broaden
your world get more fun
out of life!
Other articles include: Do
You Need More Sleep?, Good
Pope John, They Ride on
Cushions of Air, Maker of
Happy Marriages, Condensed
Book: Give Us The Tools, Too
Many People! What Can We
Do About It?
Twenty nine brand new
articles in March Reader’s
Digest. On sale NOW at all
bookstalls and newsagents.
Get your copy today. Only 2/-.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
TlTith the country gripped
* * by a cold spell and most
of its roads ice-bound, a rail-
way strike lasting three weeks
or so would have been calamit-
ous. Luckily rather than
providentially, it was called-
off on the Friday evening,
leaving people’s minds at rest
over the weekend. (Even so,
the amount of wasted money
was considerable. Commercial
and industrial firms had
chartered fleets of coaches and
reserved hotel-rooms by the
block. The railways, too, had
lost business in anticipation of
the strike.)
Apart from the natural relief
that business could go on with-
out interruption, the manner
of the settlement was looked
upon as disquieting. Although
there was an element of com-
promise (the strikers demanded
immediate, but accepted
deferred, cash), the settlement
condoned the irresponsibility
of the extremists in the
N.U.R., and there are fears
that other groups of lower-
paid workers will try to hold
the nation to ransom.
Mr. Peter Thorneycroft, a
former Chancellor of the
Exchequer who resigned
because he felt the Govern-
ment wasn’t tough enough,
was provoked to attack his
successor in the correspond-
ence columns of “The Times,”
arguing that five per cent, (the
provisional increase in rail-
waymen’s pay) may now
become the standard for the
next round of wage-increases
and contemplating “with
sorrow and with some astonish-
ment the present position” of
Mr. Heathcoat Amory.
Certainly there is evidence
of lack of foresight on the
Government’s part. The trans-
port deficit stands at nearly
£4OO million ; the loss for 1959
is believed to be about £75
million, and that for the cur-
rent year will be at least £lOO
million. Yet the wages-struc-
ture depends upon the rail-
ways paying their way. On
a previous occasion when an
inquiry was held, the report
came out with the now
notorious finding: “If the
nation has willed the end
(nationalisation) it must pro-
vide the means.” A situation
such as the present was inevit-
able, sooner or later. Mean-
while, the higher - skilled
railway employees moved to
other jobs and the unskilled
became more and more
unsettled and resentful.
As in other countries, a sub-
sidy seems unavoidable. An
idea is being put forward that
this should be applied to the
uneconomic sections (services
for remote communities, etc.),
while long-distance travel and
commuters’ trains should be
modernised and conducted on
commercial principles.
Finch’s Oscar
The news that Peter Finch
is to play Oscar Wilde in a
film is surprising if only
because the personalities of
actor and role could hardly
be more opposite. This is the
very antithesis of type-casting,
in fact.
Finch’s astonishing success
duing the past seven years has
altered him little. He has
filled-out a trifle, and can, if
he chooses, wear the grand
manner of the international
star, but he retains not only
his Australian accent but his
Aussie virility and forthright-
ness.
Although he appeared for
a few months at the Hay-
market a year ago, he is prob-
ably lost to the stage. Once
an actor hits the £25,000-a-
-picture class he is so much in
other people’s hands (the tax-
collector’s especially) that he
cannot be spared.
For example, Finch appeared
in two plays only at the Old
Vic. He was then whisked
away, mid-season, to appear
in a film and has since never
looked back. Nor was his
stage career particularly un-
rewarding, for, despite good
notices, the parts he was given
were exacting and the back-
ground was not always as
unselfish and friendly as the
Vic.
In films his versatility com-
pares with that of Alec
Guinness, who is, perhaps, the
better impersonator. Finch,
though, has a unique gift for
getting inside a part psycho-
logically, and this, no doubt,
is why he has been cast for
Wilde in preference to a for-
midable list of names, includ-
ing, it is said, his one-time
sponsor, Sir Laurence Olivier.
Besides being his biggest
challenge the character-study
involved is immense, amount-
ing not only to Wilde’s pub-
lished works but also to some
130 biographies and similar
books.
Unhappy Hampstead
John Mortimer, a barrister
whose television plays have
attracted much notice, has
brought off a triumph with his
first full-length play “The
Wrong Side of the Park”
(Cambridge Theatre). Mor-
timer has two contrasting
sides to his talent. He is a
craftsman who meticulously
works out his story, down to
the slightest incident that will
illustrate a character or estab-
lish a mood, and he is also an
author who uses the theatre
or the screen as a medium for
interesting talk, in the Shavian
manner.
His three-act play is sub-
stantially in the second
category although, so far from
being merely talk, it is a study
in hysteria and has a cogent
plot. It differs from current
fashion in being neither
“gloom and doom” nor
earnestly realistic. There are
many laughs, the ending is
happy, though hardly joyous,
and the characters are some
way removed from those of
everyday life.
Mr. Mortimer (Harrow and
New College, Oxford) has
chosen a drab household in
the seedier part of Hampstead,
but his creations are uncon-
vincing in real-life terms. The
husband, a stodgy, revue-
sketch civil servant, is also an
impossible part for an actor.
At first, Richard Johnson
seems wasted—he is too intelli-
gent, too personable, for this
dull and poorly-paid boor—
but in the third act the
demands the author makes
upon him account for the
apparent miscasting.
The plot, too, is novelettish.
Elaine, a silly, immature
woman of nearly 40, lives in
the gay past of her first mar-
riage (to an R.A.F. officer in
Norfolk) and gets hysterical
when her second husband
forgets anniversaries important
to her but by no means
obvious to him. She takes in
a lodger, a young, bouncing
go-getter, and sees her first
husband in him. After a
clever, if theatrically contrived,
mock-seance, at which she
intrudes, seeing apparently the
spirit of the dead man, she
runs away. It is then disclosed
that neither the first husband
nor their relations together:
were as she made out. He was
a bounder, and Elaine is,
underneath her fantasies, guilt-
stricken because of a belief
that she was responsible for
his. errors and for his death.
This condition of mind is
soothed but not resolved by
the happy ending.
The impact of the play is
indefinable but powerful. The
people on the stage are little
more than a dramatist’s toys,
but the abstract and cumula-
tive forces they engender
crystallise with shattering
effect. Indeed, the last act is
non-derivative Chekhov, so
devastating are the evidences
of human kindness, suffering,
folly and inadequacy.
As to the acting, the evening
is Margaret Leighton’s for a
brilliantly - sustained Elaine,
gangly, kittenish and rathef
frightening. Robert Stephens
breaks new ground as a parlor-
boarder with a difference. The
husband’s touching humility
in the later scenes is some
recompense to Richard John-
son for his earlier colorless-
ness. The other parts, all
of them inclined to the stagey,
are effectively carried off by
Wendy Craig, Charles Heslop
and Joyce Carey.


TOK-WIND
Bare feet whispered in the dust. Only white cockatoos
rent the silence with their harsh screams.
BY
GEORGE
CLIVE
From the doorway of the
native hospital Frank
Chard watched the choco-
late back of his messenger
merge into the green and gold
of the New Guinea morning.
The young medical assistant
tossed back his brown hair with
a nervous gesture. During a
wakeful night he had decided
to goad the assistant district-
officer out of his phlegmatic
calm. His note should bring
some action. His second
thoughts were not entirely com-
fortable, but the note was on
its way now. The shrug of his
shoulders was almost a twitch
as he swung round and went
into breakfast.
Another actor in this un-
rehearsed drama was off-stage
at the moment. A mile or so to
the north, under the gaunt
frown of the Whiteman Ranges,
Father Zwecke still slept the
sleep of the conscience-free.
His black hair and sallow
cheeks contrasted dramatically
with his thin white pillow. His
beard pointed to Heaven.
To the south, John Sullivan
was shaving. Even at six
o’clock the blinding white of
the New Guinea sun, piercing
the open louvres of his window,
dazzled him as he turned from
the mirror. Hot and getting
hotter.
Though not long in charge of
this station, John Sullivan had
settled into a personal routine
during his 10 years in the
administrative service. The
early morning shave was his
time for thinking and planning,
a quiet time before the day’s
demands clamored round him.
The mirror showed clear blue
eyes in a tanned skin. He
shaved a long upper lip, went
carefully round the firm chin.
An immaculate man, whose
cigarette-lighter would always
work.
Renewed by sleep, Sullivan
looked out on his morning view
with real pleasure. The strange
symmetry, the regularity of the
kapok branches was backed by
the random hugeness of the
wild rubber-trees. Arrows of
sunlight gleamed on the springy
grass. Although it was not-
done to admit it openly, Sulli-
van never attempted to disguise
his delight in the life of New
Guinea.
Movement caught his atten-
tion. A uniformed orderly
from the native hospital was
hurrying down the white coral
road. News? At this time of
day probably bad news! Sul-
livan cursed, nicked himself,
cursed again. It could be
another move in the childish,
dangerous feud that was growl-
ing on his station.
Oullivan was worried about
the feud.
This station, controlling the
south coast of New Britain,
was an exceptionally good
appointment for an assistant
district-officer still under 30. He
was “Government” for 30,000
people in 5000 square-miles. He
had tried with desperate reason-
ableness to drive home the
importance of good relations
among the handful of Euro-
peans who aided, treated or
advised so many thousands of
natives. He was not going to
see the respect for “Govern-
ment,” patiently built up over
the years, sabotaged by new-
comers who failed to grasp the
significance of the changes from
ancient to modern ways going
on around them.
A brisk knock on the frame
of the mosquito-proof door.
“Come in! ”
The hospital orderly held
out a slip of paper. “Pass from
the doctor.’’
Sullivan glanced at it. “Tell
Mr. Chard I’ll reply latef.”
The orderly left.
Anything unusual in his
bearing? Surliness? Arro-
gance? Sullivan dried his razor
slowly. The man hadn’t used
the formal “Sir.”
Sullivan wondered if he was
beginning to imagine things.
How much had that young ass
Chard let his staff guess?
He unfolded the note.
John,
The Father was down again
yesterday, harping on my being
a Seventh Day Adventist. He
practically ' accused me of
favoring some people more
than others and admitted that
he was warning members of his
flock to keep away from this
hospital.
/ can t do my job if you
won't do something about this
pestilential priest. I know the
Director of Public Health will
support me if l write.
Some action please,
Frank Chard.
Pulling on a white shirt and
shorts, Sullivan strolled over
the grass to his office. He
opened a drawer and took out
a note in the square, angry
script of the local missionary.
It was dated the previous day.
Dear Mr. Sullivan,
1 have heard from my cate-
chists and my people that
treatment at the Government
hospital is according to beliefs
held by the individual, and our
faith is not favored.
If members of my flock are
not welcome, how can l advise
them to place themselves in the
hands of a hostile Seventh Day
A dventist ?
As yet I have made no
official complaint, as / am con-
fident of your ability to handle
the situation.
Yours,
J. ZWECKE.
Sullivan grimaced. He
wished he felt the same con-
fidence in his own ability. The
fact was he couldn’t see what
was behind the sorry mess.
The climate never bothered
him, but even making allow-
ance for the effect on the other
Europeans of the parching
dryness, the searing heat before
the rains came, it just didn't
make sense. Drought came
every year at this time. It was
a strain, but didn’t necessarily
trigger-off bitter quarrels. It
couldn’t be loneliness. Both
Chard and the Father had been
in New Guinea long enough
to adjust themselves. There was
no basic antipathy. They had
got on smoothly until just
recently. There must be some
hidden factor.
It looked like remaining
hidden because the district
seethed with rumors, and
accurate information became
scarcer, as the local people,
sensing enmity among the
Europeans, kept away from the
station.
C|uch folly could have incal-
culable results. Already
Sullivan had noticed his main-
stay, Corporal Ulilio, leader of


YOU WILL BE WELCOME
at the
BOWEN CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS
October 16, 1959, to April 12, 1961
CONTINUOUS PROGRAMME OF EVENTS
Write
Dr. P. R. Delamothe, 0.8. E., Bowen, N.Q.,
for details.
the police detachment, mooch-
ing round the station with a
sour face, in sharp contrast to
his normal smart and cheerful
self.
In point of fact, Sullivan
needn’t have concerned himself
about police morale. Ulilio’s
worries happened to be purely
personal. What had galled the
corporal was the remarkable
and sudden wealth of a New
Guinea trader called Sali and
his unbearable manner of
flaunting it.
Only the night before,
Ulilio had been a guest at
another of Sali’s parties with
ten pigs slaughtered! Who couid
possibly compete with such pro-
fusion? And yet compete
Ulilio must if he were to
maintain his own social stand-
ing.
Nor was that all. Sali had
just bought a new wife, young,
plump and intriguingly curved,
and, what made Ulilio sick with
envy, a new canoe, slender,
cunningly carved and very
graceful! Where does he get
all the money? pondered
Ulilio. How can a man get
such wealth so quickly?
With Ulilio to think was to
act. He applied to the worried
assistant district-officer for two
days’ leave, which Sullivan will-
ingly granted.
After filling a haversack
with cooked taro, tough strips
of dried banana and a handful
of black twist-tobacco, Ulilio
slipped-off along the narrow
jungle trail to the village of
Kwongan.
He had three things in his
favor. He was a master bush-
man, he had tobacco to ex-
change for information and he
was pressed by black-hearted
envy.
Tn the last hours of his leave
a tired and filthy Ulilio
limped back to the station. He
made great haste with water
and clean clothes, bianco
and rifle-oil, before presenting
a parade-ground figure to his
a.d.-o.
It was after dinner, and
around the bright, white light
of the pressure-lamp shadows
lay thickly in Sullivan’s house.
From them, the corporal’s ac-
coutrements glittered as he
stood in the doorway.
“Oh, so you’re back on
time, Ulilio. Come in. Good
leave? Feeling better?”
“Yessir. I’m all right,” said
Ulilio, “but it was not a good
leave.”
“Why not?”
“Sir, I found out a lot of
things and I know I should tell
you, but I’m afraid it will make
you angry.”
“What things?” Sullivan sat
a little straighter. “Don’t
worry about making me angry
if it is police business. Do
you want to tell me tonight?”
“Yes, sir. I want to tell you
at once. This is bad talk. In
all the villages I visited men are
saying that the white men have
a cross. Some say the doctor
makes bad talk about the
Father. Some say the Father
speaks angrily about the doctor,
and all say both men are angry
with you. No man will come
to the station.”
“Ulilio, I am not angry. You
are not a fool, and to you I can
say that some of this is true.”
“But sir, this is a bad thing.
I can’t understand why you
don’t stop it.”
“Any man,” returned Sul-
livan, dropping into the ver-
nacular, “can start a cross, but
who can say how to stop it?”
“But, sir!” Ulilio was genu-
inely surprised. “Why not just
go up the road beyond
Kwongan and meet those new
people up there?”
“New people? People who’ve
never seen a white man, you
mean? What have they got to
do with it?”
“Well, sir,” Ulilio spoke in
the patient tones of N.C.O.’s
throughout the ages, “it’s like
this. Those bushmen have
shells and dogs’ teeth and paint
and other things of great value.
By their laws only one man
has been promised a safe road
to them and that man makes
great profit because he alone
can trade with them.”
“Uram ... I can see that. I
suppose I would have heard of
them if the people hadn’t been
so frightened.”
“That’s it. That’s it. But
who made them frightened?
Ever since you came here and
the people liked you, this man
has feared that you or the
doctor or the Father would
hear of these bushmen. Then
you would visit them and they
would see how they had# been
cheated.”
“I can see half of this, but
how could one man stop the
Government hearing about
these people?”
“That’s easy.” Ulilio per-
mitted himself a slight grin.
“He made tok-wind in the
villages that the doctor said
this and that of the Father and
he used the Father’s name to
say this and that of the doctor,
and then he said that both
were angry with you.”
“Well I’m damned! ” ex-
claimed Sullivan. “I suppose
word got back to the Father
through his catechists and to
the doctor through his
patients.”
“That’s all,” said Ulilio.
“Thank you, Ulilio. I’m far
from angry.. This is a good
job. I will go to see these
people, but I wish I knew the
name of this trader.”
“Him? The richest man for
three days’ walk.”
“Sali?”
“Him.”
Sullivan remembered Sali as
he had last seen him, his great
body bent as he pushed his canoe
through surf no other man on
the south coast would attempt.
The a.d.-o. drew a breath and
held it for a long time. Sud-
denly, for the first time for
several weeks, he laughed.
“Very good, Ulilio. Send
me a pair of runners.”
After he had dismissed the
corporal he addressed himself
to the task of composing two
carefully phrased letters.
It didn’t take long to make
the necessary arrangements to
leave the station in the hands
of his senior patrol-officer, Jim
Bradshaw. Corporal Ulilio
was obviously disappointed at
having to stay behind, but
Sullivan explained it was better
that he should not meet Sali
just then.
Co, in a few days, at the head
of a fully-equipped patrol,
Sullivan marched into Kwon-
gan village.
It was another dazzling
morning, but the palm-trees,
nodding to the first breezes of
the trade-winds, signalled the
approaching end of the dry
spell. To the a.d.-0., emerging
from the rich tones of the
shadowy green jungle, the
palm - leaf pandanus huts,
indeed the whole village, waited
bleached and drab. A few
clumps of croton and hibiscus
haphazardly planted intruded
blotches of color.
Three or four women were
carrying bundles of firewood
and food on their heads. One
had a baby on her back, curled
in a bag of netted vine which
hung from the broad strap
across her forehead. Bare feet
whispered in the dust. Only
white cockatoos rent the silence
with their harsh screams.
Sullivan passed through the
irregular line of pandanus-leaf
huts to the village square,
where the Government rest-
house stood a little apart. A
few curious heads popped out
of doorways and window
spaces.
A tall, powerful native
hastened to greet him before
the village officials could get
there. His thick, curly hair had
been peroxided to paleness.
His eyes were restless.
“Good-day, Kiap !” he said,
respectfully enough. “Have
you come here to work?”
“Sali, I’m glad you’re here.’*
Sullivan spoke quickly. There
were things he wished to say
before the inevitable crowd
gathered. Looking Sali directly
in the eye, he went on: “Men
say you hear everything. On
the station I have heard that
the doctor and the Father have
been saying bad things and
have been using my name, and
I came to ask the truth of
this.”
“True, Kiap. I hear many
things, and some things which
come from the mission and the
hospital I would be ashamed
to tell.”
“Would you now?” Sullivan
raised his eyebrows. “But who
are those men there?”
He pointed to a track coming
from the north. Tin patrol-
cases swung from carrying-
poles on the brown shoulders
of pairs of men, walking in
unison.
“Carriers!” Sali was sur*
prised. “From the hospital!”
He thought quickly. “Could
the doctor be coming to see
what you do in the bush?”
“And look, Sali.” Sullivan
indicated another track. “More
carriers.”
Following Sullivan’s gesture,
Sali managed to control him-
self. No one could mistake
Father Zwecke’s black '‘beard
at the head of the third line.
“The Father has come as
well as the doctor. I hope there
won’t be any trouble!”
“Come,” said the a.d.-0.,
o Continued on page 45)


GOLD CUP
By ELAINE MOON
Although my des k-
calendar told me it was
the second Thursday of
the month, the social
implication of the day eluded
me until the junior typist, five
minutes late, minced down our
two office steps in new stilt-
heeled, ankle-strap sandals.
Of course, I thought then:
Thursday !
She tapped across the
polished floorboards, hobbled
by her black, slitted skirt,
strait-jacketed by the new, high-
necked sweater.
Well . . . sound the trumpets,
I thought. Spread the red
carpet. For today was definitely
the day, and Barney Walters,
unaware and unsuspecting
stationery - salesman, an old
hsnd of the road, was eagerly
awaited.
I gave Kathy a smile because
together we comprised the
office staff and although there
was a chasm of 30 years be-
tween us —well, I was young
and romantic once.
“ ’Morning, Miss Jones,” she
chirruped, trailing an unsubtle
reek of heavy perfume past my
desk. Her mouth was a gash
of that orange favored for the
gaping mouths of dummy
clowns at carnivals.
“ ’Morning, Jonesy.” Mac
the boss breezed in, nodding to
me. He stopped dead at sight
of Kathy, meticulously adjusted
the dark horn-rims on his nose,
and gave her a long, low wolf-
whistle. “My, my!” he
chortled. “Stepping out to-
night?”
Kathy shook her pert head.
“Well, what are we waiting
for? My wife doesn’t under-
stand me —can I take you to
dinner and tell you the sad
story of my life?”
“Oh, you’re always joking,
Mr. McDonald!” Kathy
tossed her blonde, riotously
curling hair, the result of a
slightly too-enthusiastic home-
perm, and turned to sorting the
mail.
Mac laughed, walking
through to his office, tossing
his hat. One of the real joys
went out of his life the day
Kathy stopped rising to his leg-
pulling.
“Barney Walters calls to-
day,” I said significantly to his
back.
Mac turned and showed
Kathy a sepulchral face, his
glasses dropping an eighth of
an inch on his thin nose.
“What’s that old so-and-so
got that I haven’t?” he
demanded.
Kathy said nothing. Just
stalked past —an enforced,
mincing stalk because of the
hobble—to fill the jug for the
cup of tea Mac likes by
9.30.
Twice a month Barney
Walters arrived at half-past
nine to the tick. He was a big,
black-haired salesman astride
the fence of 40, with a finely-
boned head and a scar running
up his left hand, a reminder
that he’d once been close to
a Japanese bayonet.
If Kathy had been of my
generation she would have
murmured: “Mr. Walters is
just the dead image of Clark
Gable! ”
But Clark Gable was passe,
and Kathy had never read the
novels of Fran?oise Sagan, so
she contented herself with talk-
ing disparagingly of “that
kid” when her erstwhile
admirer phoned the office, and
snubbing the eager, unsophisti-
cated advances of the red-
haired junior storeman.
In the words of the soap-
operas, she had succumbed to
the (albeit unwitting) “mature
charms” of an “older man”—
a happily married man!
Everything was prepared for
the ritual of morning-tea, the
jug on the bubble, the tea-
pot rinsed and warmed, the
cups set daintily along the
table—an extra cup today, the
one which was always pushed
to the back of the cupboaid
for two weeks and miraculously
made its appearance again on
alternate Thursday mornings
A short time after Kathy
began working with us, Barney
had admired the green-and-
gold-patterned leaves around
the cup’s edge. Since then it
had been sacrosanct.
I looked at my watch. Barney
was late.
“Time for Mr. McDonald’s
tea,” 1 called softly.
Kathy’s orange lips pushed
out mutinously, but she
poured the tea, hot and black,
into Mac’s big cup, then
hobbled with it past my desk.
“I brought some chocolate-
biscuits in from home!” she
said defiantly, as I registered
what was on Mac’s plate. “I’m
sure Mr. McDonald’s tired of
the same old plain-mixed. It’s
0.k., isn’t it?”
I said, of course it was o.k. ;
it was very nice of Kathy—
very thoughtful. I reminded
myself that Petty Cash didn’t
run to chocolate-biscuits for
salesmen.
There was a step at the door,
and Kathy flew out.
But it wasn’t Barney. An
explosive, rattling cough pre-
ceded a shuffling old, dried-up
man. A thong of leather belted
the thinning khaki greatcoat
around his waist.
“Yes?” demanded Kathy,
distaste in every rigid line of
her sentrylike stance. “What is
it?”
“Got some” —Cough!
Cough! “Got some tickets for
sale, Miss.”
“I’m afraid you’re wasting
your time,” Kathy said sharply.
Then, as Mac had told her to
do: “We subscribe to certain
charities by cheque.”
The old man moved in
craftily and Kathy took a step
back.
“Just a couple of tickets for
the old soldiers, Miss,” he
wheedled. “The ones that was
wounded like” - Cough!
Cough! Then, persuasively,
“There’s good prizes. First
prize’s a cruise around them
islands up north.”
“I’m sorry,” Kathy said
rigidly.
“For the old soldiers, Miss.
I’m one meself —see me gammy
leg ; and me chest’s no good no
more . . .”
“No!” snapped Kathy.
It looked like my cue to
intervene, But Mac had
come out of his office, cup in
hand. At the same time,
Barney’s big form filled the'
doorway.
“What is it, Dig?” Mac said.
“What’s it for?”
The old fellow' smiled feebly,
showing decayed black stumps
of teeth, and his thick, knotted
fingers pulled open a battered
case.
“Just for the disabled
soldiers, Jack. Look—here’s
me badge. All fair and square.
I wouldn’t sell you no pup.”
“I bet you wouldn't,” Mac
said good-humoredly, lifting a
hand in greeting as Barney
moved up. “What are they
worth?”
“They’re a quid each, but it’s
a good cause mate, and a cruise
if you win”
“A quid!” Mac yelped.
“Strike me pink! How do
I know if my old woman left
me that much after she went
through my pants last night?”
The old man grinned,
scratching his big elephant-
ears, digging a stubby finger in
the sprouting black whiskers.
“Tell you what,” Barney said
from behind them. “Why
don’t we go halves in a ticket,
Mac?”
“Halves?” bellowed Mac.
“And if we win I’ve got to
go on a cruise with you!
Helluva lot of fun that'd be,
I don’t think! ”
Kathy moved up with my
cup of tea.
“Excuse me! ” she said
distantly.
They separated and Kathy
wafted herself under Barney’s
nose, as unsubtle as her per-
fume.
“I think you’d be wonder-
ful fun to go on a cruise with,
Mr. Walters,” she cooed to
Barney.
Ble§s her! One day, years
ahead, no doubt, she’d remem-
ber what she’d said and writhe.
Mac guffawed, but Barney


jFaiffli in 7/i c
Juiluf+c
\
Humanity at large is always an enlightening
study. Looking at its form and direction, we are
better able to measure ourselves.
One aspect of recent human history that
should be of special interest to Australians is the
trend in world population. It reminds us how
closely our destinies are linked with the rest of
the world.
I have just been examining an extract from
the latest issue of the United Nations’ Demographic
Year Book, which gives annual account of how the
human race is increasing.
This authority puts Europe’s present
population at fourteen per cent, of the world’s
total. It says that if present tendencies continue,
Europe will have ten per cent, of the much larger
over-all numbers by the end of this century.
In thbse same forty years, we are told, the
population of Asia will have risen to possibly sixty,
per cent, of the earth’s total. Asia already holds
more than half the present aggregate of
2800-million.
The net increase in human lives is placed now
at forty-five million a year; and with its cumulative
rising, demographers put the estimated population
of the world by the year 2000 at almost double
that of today.
Now this has profound implications , for
Australia, and for the international role we will
be called upon to play —not at some far distant
time, but in years well within the span of an
average life.
It underlines the importance of our country
geographically, economically, and as a spiritual
force among the nations. It emphasises the
urgency with which we must turn to Australia’s
full productive development. And it calls for a
superlative national effort, beside which the best
we have done in the past will have been only a
mild comparative.
In essence, it brings us up to a realisation of
that imperative “change” to which we are required
to address ourselves; to our acting upon a faithful
determination that Australia in these coming years
shall advance quickly, boldly, in pace with the
onrush of human existence.
just ruffled her hair kindly in
passing. The reddish purple
scar on his hand showed
strongly through the blonde
strands of Kathy’s hair. He
was embarrassed a little, too,
but Barney was no disenchanter
of dreams. He left the rain-
bow bubble unpricked.
“I wish that filthy thing
would go! ” Kathy whispered
furiously as she placed a cup
on my desk. “What are they
keeping him here for?”
“He’ll be gone in a minute,”
I replied soothingly.
“Yairs, mate, I got mine at
Pozieres.” Th'e thin, wizened
body in the khaki coat
creaked down onto a chair.
Cough. Wheeze. Excruciating,
racking cough.
Barney held out the hand
that bore the scar.
“New Guinea. Owen Stan-
leys,” he said.
“I can’t show you jokers
my memorial on account of
ladies present!” Mac shouted.
“But don't think I’m letting
you have that on your own!”
The old man smiled feebly.
“You’ve got to be in it to
win it,” he wheezed. “Like
this raffle. What about it,
mates?”
“You can give me one,” Mac
said.
“Count me in.” Barney
pulled a note out of his wallet.
Kathy was at his elbow.
She carried the cup, shining
as though she had polished it
with silk, steam rising from
tea poured exactly as Barney
liked it; and a plate on which
reposed three chocolate-
biscuits.
It was a ritual offering ,
Kathy’s face was rapt.
“Thanks, Kathy. Looks
good,” Barney said. “Boy —
chocolate-biscuits! Must be
payday!”
Kathy rocketed joyfully on
her stilts.
The old man’s thin furry
tongue licked his cracked lips.
He rose.
“Oh, well.” He wavered
slightly. “Thanks a lot . . .
Better be going, I s’pose . . ”
Cough. Wheeze. Racking,
shattering cough.
“Here,” Barney said quickly,
kindly, pushing him onto the
chair again and proffering the
green-and-gold cup. “Have a
hot drink of tea.”
The old man turned a hope-
ful face up to him.
“Y’sure, mate?”
“ ’Course.”
“Go ahead,” said Mac, turn-
ing on his heel into his office
and calling over his shoulder.
“Kathy: get Barney another
cup, will you?”
HThe office seemed strangely
silent without Barney’s
quiet voice, the old man’s harsh
coughing no longer attacking
the ear; strangely pungent
with the scent of one reed-like
smoke rolled in grubby hands
mingling with the customary
whiff of Mac’s tailor-mades.
“What am I going to do with
this?”
Kathy picked up the cup and
saucer from the desk with the
tip of her thumb and fore-
finger and held them at arm’s
length away from her.
“Honestly,” she said. “I
can’t bear to touch it, even.
When I think of the smell!”
“Probably a while since he’s
seen a bathtub,” 1 agreed. “But
it’ll wash, Kathy. Scald it with
boiling water and soap and
it’ll be good as new.”
She set her mouth in a rigid
line and her eyes flickered
sceptically.
1 jumped an inch when the
crash came from the washroom.
“What happened down
there?”
“I’m sorry,” she called back
casually. “I broke a cup. You
know ; the one . . .”
I thought again of the
chasm between us. Perhaps
I could never really remember
what it was like to be 17.
But I called back: “Never
mind. Buy another one out of
Petty Cash.”
As she walked back, Kathy
poked her blonde head around
the door of the storeroom.
“Hi,” she called to the
junior storeman. “What’s
new?”
DOVE AT LANE COVE
A dove is a moulded tile
on a red-tiled roof
kerook keroo
a cross between a miniature
romanesque saint
and a medieval gargoyle
kerook keroo
a carved waterspout
on a gable jutting out
putting the roof out of balance
so that another one
is needed for aesthetic symmetry
kerook keroo
he serves the role of hook
for wandering djinn
keeping the bad ones out
and the good ones in
kerook
kerook keroo
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


They Booed Its Entry and Hooted Its Exit
Labor and Import-licensing
From the tone of the comment from
some sections of manufacturing
industry and of the Labor party
on the removal of import-restric-
tions it would seem that they are under
the impression that the licensing-system
was introduced in order to protect Aus-
tralian industry from overseas competi-
tion.
That, of course, is the function of the
tariff. Any benefit derived by local
manufacturers from import-licensing is
incidental to its primary purpose of
conserving overseas funds. Admittedly
the system has been, in one form or
another, a part of the economic struc-
ture for so long that concerns which
have benefited from it may be excused
for thinking that it was ordained to be
their own personal fairy-godmother. No
such excuse, however, can be advanced
on behalf of Acting Opposition-leader
Calwell who, as an aspirant for the post
of Prime Minister and a sometime
would-be Federal Treasurer, should be
able to take a broader view of things
and should, moreover, be well aware of
the origins and history of import-
licensing.
Like many other controls that lingered
on into the peace, import-licensing was
a wartime measure. It was first imposed
on December 1, 1939, by the first Menzies
Government and its avowed purpose
was to “conserve resources of non-
sterling exchange and, in particular, to
prevent the absorption of those resources
in the purchase of unessential imports,
to the detriment of more vital national
needs.” Other objectives were to enable
priority in shipping-space to be given
to essential imports and to gather in-
formation on the relative importance of
various classes of imports “to enable
future restrictions (if required) to be
soundly based.” There was an ominous
ring about this last purpose.
Falling Reserves
T r will be noted that the first restrictions
applied only to non-sterling sources,
but by 1941 Australian sterling reserves
in London were falling-off badly, and
in December of that year the restrictions
were extended to sterling imports. By
this time steps were being taken in Aus-
tralia, as elsewhere in the British
Commonwealth, to divert manpower,
materials and machinery to war-produc-
tion. The war situation had deteriorated
badly and shipping-space was getting
scarcer. It was the Menzies Government
that initiated import-restrictions, but
their extension (by that time very neces-
sary) to the sterling-area took place early
in the first term of the Curtin Labor
Government.
By the end of the war sterling balances
in London were high, and in January,
1946, controls were relaxed on a large
range of goods of sterling origin. Twelve
months later a further list of goods was
“freed,” and in the next few years the
restrictions were progressively modified
on many classes of goods from non-
sterling countries. By 1951 the Common-
wealth Year Book was able to say that
virtually all goods from “easy-currency”
non-sterling countries were permissible
imports, but that there were still balance-
of-payments problems with a small
number df “hard-currency” non-sterling
countries:
Australian policy in respect of importa-
tions from these countries (the chief of
which are those which comprise the
dollar area) is to restrict importations to
those goods which are of an essential
nature and are unobtainable from sterling
or easy-currency sources.
At that time it was hoped that import-
licensing, except for the dollar-area
exceptions mentioned, had gone for good.
Consequent on abnormally high prices
for wool the value of exports had soared
and London funds were at a very high
level. Very quickly, however, the situa-
tion changed drastically. The vast spend-
ing-power released by the swollen wool-
cheque itched to be used, and, as local
manufacturers had no hope of coping
with the augmented demand, a flood of
imports came into the country. British
suppliers, whose recovery from wartime
stagnation had been rapid, hastened to
fill banked-up orders. Simultaneously
with this came a 25 per cent, drop in
wool prices, dealing a blow at London
funds which had to be countered by
drastic action. In the period July-
December, 1951, Australia’s overseas
balances fell from £843 million to £544
million, and it was estimated that by
the end of June, 1952, they would be
down to the dangerously low figure of
£3OO million.
It was to meet this situation that
import-restrictions were again imposed
on March 8, 1952. Almost all classes
of imports were brought under control,
and licences were based on a percentage
of imports for the base-year 1950-51.
Although it is possible that earlier action
might have averted the need for going
back to the licensing-system, it cannot
be denied that in the perilous condition
of London funds and the certain pros-
pect of their further decline drastic
action was necessary at the beginning
of 1952. Certainly none of those who
at the time criticised the move proposed
any practical alternatives.
Virtuously Indignant
A section of the Sydney press attacked
the Government’s action violently,
as it had attacked the Budget a few
months earlier, and the Labor party, of
which Mr. Calwell had recently become
deputy-leader, was virtuously but incon-
sistently indignant. His then leader,
lately translated to another field of
activity, described the import-cuts as
“stringent and savage” and expressed
himself amazed that the Government had
acted “without the slightest prior con-
sultation with the practical leaders in
industry, labor, commerce and finance.”
If restrictions were really necessary, he
said, then they should have been im-
posed discriminatingly. The Govern-
ment should have concentrated on the
non-dollar, non-sterling countries and
not on the United Kingdom. Menzies
replied that Australia was a signatory
to GATT, an agreement which had been
entered into by the Government in
which the Opposition-leader was Deputy
Prime Minister and that the whole
essence of GATT was non-discrimina-
tion. Furthermore, even if the Govern-
ment had completely prohibited all
imports from non-dollar, non-sterling
countries, it would still have been a long
way from balancing its overseas
accounts. This could only be done by
reducing imports from the U.K. “very
substantially.”
Labor continued to attack the step
and fought three by-elections on the
issue of finance, linking the import-
restrictions and anti-inflationary
measures taken in the 1951-52 Budget and
prophesying mounting unemployment as
a result. It had some success, too,
winning the Flinders (Vic.) seat and
seeing the Government’s majority con-
siderably reduced in Bradfieid and Lyne
(N.S.W.). But at no time did it (or
anyone) suggest that the restrictions had
been imposed to help Australian manu-
facturers.
When the restrictions were introduced
Menzies said there was no intention of
setting -up a permanent licensing-
system :
Just as soon as our balance-of-payments
position permits, we will b'e able—and
indeed anxious—to modify and eventually
remove these controls.
In Australia temporary controls have
a habit of making themselves permanent
and import-licensing was no exception.
There has been progressive relaxation
in recent times, but we have had to wait
almost eight years to see the end of the
restrictions.
In view of the past history of import-
licensing and of Labor’s two-faced atti-
tude towards it there is perhaps nothing
surprising in Calwell’s attack on the
abandonment of something his party
opposed at its introduction. But that
doesn’t make his present attitude any
the less ridiculous.
At the same time it is possible that
officialdom in some places has also come
to regard import-restriction as a tariff,
and the Tariff Board may have to be
approached in order to give Protection
its proper name where an industry is
deserving of it.


start the day right!
V1*»?
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Oakleigh Day
The Oakleigh Plate has been
called the sprint championship
of Australia, and this year the
“belt” has gone to a very
remote corner of the Com-
monwealth—to Kangaroo
Island! That’s the home of
A. Cane and S. A. Sunman,
owners of Power Duke, who
scored a comfortable win last
Saturday.
Only a couple of years ago
Power Duke opened his win-
ning account in a Maiden at
the once-a-year meeting on
Kangaroo island. It hardly
seems possible that a horse
could graduate from such
humble company to a win
against the smartest sprinters
in the land, but Power Duke
not only won the Oakleigh—
he took half-a-second off the
Australian record for 5| fur-
longs set by Small Time at
Caulfield a couple of weeks
before! Power Duke’s time
was 1.3 j.
In point of fact, though
Power Duke was a 20-to-l
chance that was not a fair
assessment of his form —it has
been very good in Adelaide.
He won the Christmas Handi-
cap at Cheltenham, and just
before coming across for the
Plate he won a five-furlongs
race at Morphetville in smart
time. He’s a five-year-old
gelding by Duke John from
a Conservator mare.
The Oakleigh has been an
unlucky race for Leo O’Sullivan.
His charge New Spec ran second
in both 1958 and ’59, and in this
year’s Plate he was second with
Gay Port. Saturday’s event was
a bad race for Sydney horses
altogether-—Merry Polly, Endure,
Olympiad and Front Cover were
the last four home. Anonyme’s
third, after dwelling at the start,
was an excellent run, and this
Landau colt looks a real New-
market hope.
It’s a long time since any
horse came back to such a
reception from a Caulfield
crowd as Lord got after his
win in the St. George Stakes.
The big gelding is virtually un-
beatable at Caulfield, where
he has won at 13 of his last
14 starts. On Saturday he
thrashed that very good gal-
loper Noholme, to win the St.
George for the second year in
succession. Lord is now a
five-year-old, and he’s racing
better than ever. Under the
scale for nine furlongs he had
to concede Noholme 131 b., and
many thought he could not do
it, but he paced it on the out-
side of the colt to the
“distance,” where Geoff Lane
shook him up, and all Nev
Sellwood’s wielding of the
whip could not get his mount
near the big Targui gelding
in the last furlong.
Travel Boy was doing his best
work at the finish, and there should
be a race for him before the carni-
val is over. Sir Blink was fourth
“Well — I've seen the strain-Watchers and the bird-
watchers — NOW —”
in front of three handicappers, but
the “nine” was too short for him.
His aim is the £lO,OOO Invitation
Stakes at Randwick. Lord’s win
was his Nth, and took his stake-
earnings past £30,000.
Prior to the failure of
Sydney horses in the Oakleigh
Plate and St. George Stakes, a
lot of money was lost on the
two-year old Sydney colt Per-
sian Lyric, who started an
even-money favorite in the
Second Trenton Stakes, but
was never in the race. It can’t
be his true form. The race
was won by Samson, whose
connections had no fear of
Persian Lyric—they backed
their colt from twelves to
9 to 2.
It was Samson’s first win, but
he had put the writing on the wall
by finishing third to Aly Khan at
his previous start. He’s a Nilo
colt, and races in the ownership
of Mrs. H. L. Catchlove, whose
husband, Dr. Catchlove, bred the
colt from Hora, a mare he imported
from England.
• • • •
Last week this writer men-
tioned that he was very
impressed with Lady Major
following her win in the Holly-
mount Handicap at Moonee
Valley. At Caulfield the filly
showed that she is certainly
above average by ending the
winning run of Impulsive. In
the five-furlongs Teppo Stakes
Lady Major was at generous
odds (sixes to fives) because
most people thought Impul-
sive had a mortgage on the
race. As it turned out, Lady
Major beat the favorite very
easily. Impulsive, however,
had to concede her 261 b., but
increased weight will not stop
Lady Major from winning.
Fred Astaire’s filly Far Out
ran third once again—from
her last five starts she has run
four thirds and a second.
A Fred Hoysted-trained
two-year-old winning at 50 to 1
seems about as unlikely as
you could think of, but it
actually happened when, hav-
ing his first start in a racd,
Muirfield flashed up to snatch
the first heat of the Trenton
on the line. Owned in
Adelaide by I. and A. P.
McLachlan, whose father won
the Melbourne Cup with
White Nose in 1931, Muirfield
is a gelding by the sire of
sprinters Coronation Boy from
Seawitch.
Olive Branch, who won the
mile Manfred Stakes for three-
year-olds, was a maiden before
the win, but only his wayward-
ness had kept him out of a
winning bracket. He is hard
to ride, and perhaps it’s appro-
priate that he should have
scored in a race named after
one of the best but most can-
tankerous horses the Australian
Turf has known. Olive Branch
has had different riders in his
last four runs, but good horse-
man Neville Sellwood kept him
under firm control on Satur-
day. Sellwood rode a lovely
race, judging the gelding’s
finishing run to a breath.
Old Royal Somme (“Ossie”
Porter’s sole remaining link
with racing)- has certainly
struck an extraordinary patch
of form. It took the old geld-
ing years to win three races,
but he has now won another
three in a row since January
30. He’s racing with a ton of
courage, and responded well
to Max Stebbing’s riding to
win the Bond Handicap over
12 furlongs in the last stride.
Close runner-up was the
hurdler French Master, which
suggests that Royal Somme is
fortunate to be racing against
weak fields.
It’s Futurity Stakes day at
Caulfield next Saturday, and
the question is: Can Lord pro-
vide real opposition to Tod-
man? The Melbourne public
so loves Lord that there will
be plenty of money to say
“Yes!”, but this writer thinks
that no horse in Australia
could trouble Todman over the
seven furlongs of the Futurity.
The odd conditions of the
Futurity require Lord to carry
10.7 ; Todman will have 10.2,
and surely Lord cannot give
him weight! Gay Saba, who
is a really good horse over
seven furlongs, should run
third. The colt Dalby and the
filly Impulsive should run well
in the Merson Cooper Stakes,


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
m
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
TO DONALD BLACKMAN late of 8
Smith Street Marrickville. TAKE
NOTICE that JILL BLACKMAN has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 3426
of 1959 on the ground that you have
during three years and upwards been
an habitual drunkard and have habitu
ally left her without means of support
and habitually been guilty of cruelty
towards her If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
3rd May i 960 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from J. W.
BEGG, BLACKMORE & CO., Solicitors,
of 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. 11.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
To JOYCE ISABELLE MITCHELL late
of Pambula.—TAKE NOTICE that
KEVIN THOMAS HENRY MITCHELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
85 of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse - for three
years and upwards. If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Macquarie Street Sydney by the Second
day of May 1960 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. J. J. GARDINER & CODD,
Solicitors, Bega, or their Agents,
MESSRS. W. A. PECK & DRAPER,
Solicitors, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
and if Anonyme meets his
engagement in the six-furlongs
Hawkesburn Handicap he
could be worth a bob or two.
* * *
Sydney Horses
The most surprising feature
of last Saturday’s A.J.C. racing
at Randwick was the heavy
backing to favoritism of
middle-distance galloper Super-
tax for the main sprint, the
six-furlongs Lindfield Handi-
cap. The New Zealander, now
in Jack Green’s Randwick
stable, hadn’t won since last
April, and that was in a 10-
furlongs race at Hastings
(N.Z.) He hasn’t done much
in Australia, but holds a good
record in the Dominion up to
11 furlongs. Now a five-year-
old entire, he was having his
second start after a spell, and
a couple of weeks earlier he’d
started at 33’s in a Rosehill
sprint and finished nearly last.
At Randwick he couldn’t match
the speed of Wanton Lass,
Doubtless and Mt. Royal, who
filled the places in that order,
but his fourth suggested an
early win over seven furlongs
or so. Wanton Lass is now
to be set for the big winter
sprints in Brisbane.
* • • •:
With, T. J. Smith away in
Melbourne for the big racing,
his foreman, “Happy” Rolls,
led in 4-to-l-on Prince Benalla
(Juvenile Handicap) and
Rancher (Three - year - old
Maiden) at Randwick.
Rancher, a 2900gns. yearling,
is by Pan II (Fr.) from First
Row (a Randwick winner) by
Nilo (imp.) from Dress Circle
by Actor (imp.), and is the first
foal of his dam.
As earlier noted here, Rose-
bery trainer Gordon Brown’s
three-year-old gelding Travel
On looks like developing into
a solid performer over dis-
tances with a little more
experience and age. He was
inclined to run about in the
final stages of the 10-furlongs
Willoughby Handicap, but still
made it his fourth successive
win. He’s in the Doncaster
with 7.7, but may be set for
spring events, by which time
he should be a more robust
horse ; he’s lightly framed, and
there’s room for him to
develop. Another recent stay-
ing find, Gemstone, had an
easy task in the mile-and-a-
half Encourage, making his
record three in a row. He has
earned a spell, and he, too,
may be set for spring racing.
Racing right up to her
Rosehill win, Primrose Lane
nicely won the Two-year-old
Handicap. At Rosehill she
quickly set-up a useful lead,
but on Saturday she raced
greenly and was a bit slow to
settle down, only in the final
stride or two managing"* to
head the pacemaker, Winni-
peg, with Distinction third.
Tabulate’s win in the First
Maiden Handicap at the
Canterbury Park midweek
meeting added further proof
that the outside barrier-draw
at the six-furlongs chute at
this track is seldom a dis-
advantage. A three-year-old
Persian Book (imp.) filly from
Formulate by Valiant Chief,
she’s trained by Clem Guy for
D. and H. Abbott and was
very capably ridden by appren-
tice Keith Smith. Racing in
blinkers and going , kindly for
N. Sellwood, Second Maiden
winner Sun And Fun is a
Squander Bug (imp.) filly from
Evangeline by A 1 Wassat
(imp.), trained by Ernie
Fellows for F. Egli. Another
to notch a first win was Missel
Thrush, who landed the
Punchbowl Stakes for fillies
and mares; Mulley rode her
hard to down the pacemaker,
Prima Donna, in the final half-
furlong. Missel Thrush is by
Flying Missel (Am.) from
Fancy Free by A 1 Wassat
(imp.).
• • • •
A couple of youngsters
worth noting at last week’s
Hawkesbury meeting: Good
Duchess, who easily landed
the First Maiden for two-year-
olds, is by Port Vista (imp.)
from the Star Kingdom mare
Bev Lor (a half-sister to
Stamen, who won good races
in Adelaide, Brisbane, Mel-
bourne and Sydney). Gilt
Queen, who won the Second
Two-year-old, is by Rego
(imp.) from Gilt Lady. Bred
by her owner, P. Allan, she
added another to Darby
Munro’s steadily growing
successes as a Randwick
trainer.
The £10,250 Randwick Cen-
tenary Invitation Stakes, to be
run at Randwick on Saturday,
April 9, should be a race right
out of the box, judging by
acceptances received by the
A.J.C. They include N.S.W.
representatives Tulloch, Tod-
man, Noholme, Macdougal,
Martello Towers, Travel Boy,
Valerius, Bardshah, On Line,
Weeamera and Royal Jester;
Queenslanders Earlwood and
Grand Garry; Victorians Sir
Blink, Regal Wench, Webster,
Mac and Lord Gavin; South
Australians Trellios, Minta-
way and Sun Eclipse; Western
Australian England’s Dust; and
New Zealanders Stylish Officer,
Froth and Great Sensation.
Armchair handicappers
might amuse themselves trying
to allot handicap weights for
that little lot.
* * *
“K.M.”: The record of main-
land horses making last-minute
trips for Cup events in Tasmania
isn't good, but Wangaratta-trained
Overproof (5 to 1), arriving on the
morning of the race, managed to
land the Launceston Cup (1| mile)
at Mowbray last Wednesday (24th).
Cleverly ridden by Melbourne
apprentice R. Durey, who had him
last at the half-mile, the four-ygar-
old Atout-Maitre (imp.) gelding
just got there b'y a nose from the
favorite, Royal Djafar (4 to 1),
with Real Fun five lengths away
third. A protest by the rider
of the second horse for interfer-
ence over the last furlong was
quickly dismissed. Attendance was
the best since the w'ar.
• • • •
At odds-on Blue Light, first
living foal of his dam, Harem
Scarem, a mare by Wise Force
from Hippona by The Buzzard
(imp.) fr,om Eastern Belle by
Syce (imp.), won last Satur-
day’s First Maiden two-year-
old at Doomben without much
effort. A son of Gaekwar’s
Pride (imp.), he comes from a
family of stayers, the pedigree
including The Buzzer (Auck-
land Cup), Sir Falcon (Sydney
Cup) and the great Queens-
lander Lough Neagh. State
Emblem, who also had it easy
in the Second Maiden Two-
year-old, is by The Magistrate
(imp.) from Ayarpee by Brue-
ghel (It.) from Susie by
Heroic, and is related to
Achilles and Second Earl.
* * *
Trots
At Harold Park last Friday
night Jim Caffyn continued h's
run of successes with two-year-
olds by-staking the Youthful
Stakes with Call Up. The ex-
perienced youngster War Ace
(four wins, a second and a
third from eight starts) took
the lead with a lap to go, but
Caffyn’s strong driving got
Call Up past the post with half-
a-length to spare. Caffyn has
won the last two Youthful
Stakes with Robert Lawn and
Great Cheer, and the last two
Sapling Stakes finals with Eden
Monaro and Great Cheer.
Call Up’s record is now five
wins and a third from six
starts. Caffyn completed the
double when Kerryfield proved
too strong for favorite Ross-
lawn in the Harold Park Han-
dicap.
* * *
Other Sports
First unofficial Test at
Wellington (N.Z.) ended in a
draw, with the advantage Aus-
tralia’s way: set 222 to get in
as many minutes, and 21 shy


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Established 1808
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON 4
osuluvav
PTt LTD
Z't* s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINGES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
with three wickets in hand.
N.Z. put up a really good
show. Batting stars were
Simpson and Thomas (Aust.)
and N.Z. skipper and all-
rounder John Reid ; trundler
to impress most was N.Z.’s 19-
year-old fast-bowler Gary
Bartlett, bagging five in Aus-
tralia’s first innings, and rated
as fast as Tyson at his top.
Announced his retirement
soon after Ray Lindwall, 35-
year-old W.A. skipper Ken
Meuleman has been one of
Australia’s best and most con-
sistent Shield batsmen in recent
years. Amazing he was never
given a Test. His only Aus-
tralian recognition was to be
12th-man in the first two 1946-
47 Tests against England and
a tour of N.Z. in 1949-50 with
Australia’s “second XI.” Fol-
lowing in line after N.S.W.’s
Keith Carmody, he has been
the second of W.A.’s two
capable “expatriate” skippers,
and has done a lot for W.A.
cricket.
• • • •
“Keima”; Queensland will
probably have two 'real
Mackays in its Sheffield team
next season. Ken Mackay, of
course, will be one. The other
one, unrelated to “Slasher,”
is medium-pace bowler John
Mackay, from Rockhampton,
who had three Shield matches
at the end of this season, with
the good figures of 4-66 against
S.A. and 5-83 against W.A. A
brother of Ken Mackay’s, lan,
has been getting his share of
wickets in Brisbane cricket.
“Bob Ray”: Wicketkeeping
record-breaker Wally Grout
kept in his first A-grade match
with the South Brisbane Dis-
trict Club in 1941-42 when he
was only 14. He played with
them for 11 seasons, then
transferred to his present club,
Toombul —home of another
Test player, Ken Mack ay.
* * *
At the end of the most
extraordinary term in Austra-
lian swimming the selectors on
Sunday announced the big team
(42) for the Olympics. Over these
past couple of months a number
of the ,chosen have hardly ever
"My bomb's gone of!"
gone in without cracking some
warld or other record, and the
team as a whole is fairly labelled
“the youngest and strongest ever.”
Men’s section: — Freestyle: J.
Devitt (capt. —23), N.S.W.; J. Hen-
ricks (24), N.S.W.; J. Konrads
(17) N.S.W.; M. Rose(2I),N.S.W.;
J. Rigby (17), Qld.; G. Shipton
(18) N.S.W.; R. Windle (15),
N.S.W.; A. Wood (16), N.S.W.;
D. Dickson (19), W.A. Backstroke:
D. Theile (22), Qld.; J. Monckton
(21),> N.S.W.; J. Carroll (17),
N.S.W. Breaststroke: T. Gathercole
(vice-capt. 24), N.S.W.; W.
Burton (18), Qld. Butterfly: N.
Hayes (16), N.S.W.; K. Berry (14),
N.S.W. Diving: G. Deuble (16),
Qld.; B. Holmes (24), N.S.W.;
K. Crotty (20), Vic.
Women: Freestyle: I. Konrads
(15), N.S.W.; D. Fraser (22), S.A.;
L. Crapp (21), N.S.W.; R. Everuss
(15), N.S.W.; S. Morgan (17),
N.S.W.; D. Kreig (16), S.A.; A.
Colquhoun (17), Vic. Backstroke:
G. Beckett (capt—l 9), N.S.W.;
M. Wilson (18), Vic. Breaststroke:
R. Lassig (18), Qld.; J. Hogan (14),
N. Butterfly: J. Andrew (16),
N.S.W. Diving: S. Knight (17),
N.S.W. Balance is the water-polo
team: A. Charleston (W.A.), D.
Clarke (S.A.), T. Hoad (W.A.),
J. O’Brien (Vic. —capt.), E. Pierce
(N.S.W.), G. Sherman (Vic.), R.
Thornett (N.S.W.), K. Weigard
(Vic.), K. Whitehead (N.S.W
vice-capt.), M. Withers (Vic.).
Reserves: R. Jeffrey (W.A.), L.
Nunn, J. Farrell (Vic.), V. McGrath
(N.S.W.).
* * *
“Plunge”: When John Mori-
son was officially asked to
accept appointment as a swim-
ming-official at the Olympics
the invitation must have been
specially gratifying to a family
that holds a unique position in
Australian swimming. John
and Norah Morison, who live
at Sydney’s seaside Dee Why,
have had some 30 years of the
sport. John (New South Wales
A.S.A. and the Australian
Union) and Mrs. Morison
(Women’s Association) have
held many executive positions.
In 1955 Mrs. Morison was
honored with life-membership
of her association ; husband
John now is president of the
Australian Swimming Union.
In 1956 they were asked to
act as liaison-officials for
swimming at the Melbourne
Olympics, where son Stan was
one of the official starters. A
former champion, Stan became
a starter in N.S.W. and sub-
sequently starter in Australian
championships before his
Olympics appointment. As for
John now being asked to act
as an official in Rome —nowa-
days men break friendships
trying to secure that soft of
job. John and wife plan to
leave Australia in June —at
their own cost, as always when
helping swimming.
* * H=
“G.C.”: The University of
New South Wales won the
Imperial Universities Rifle
Match (1959), open to all uni-
versities of the British Com-
monwealth. Order of placings;
New South Wales, 1; London,
2; Queen’s, Belfast, 3;
Adelaide, 4; Cambridge, 5;
Sydney, 6; Queensland, 7;
Aberdeen. 8. Each of the eight
members of the N.S.W. team
gets the Imperial Universities
“blue,” entitling him to wear
either the I.U. blazer, or the
I.U. shield on the breast pocket.
Captain was A. Howard, now
in his final year of Architec-
ture. The shoot is decided by
post, on a check-up of certified
score-cards. In 1959 the Uni-
versity of N.S.W. also won the
Australian Universities Chal-
lenge Shield (Venaur Nathan
Shield), but the Frank Albert
Trophy, shot for by the Uni-
versities of Australia and New
Zealand, which it had won in
1958, was lost to Adelaide.
“Mitron”: Between them,
Brisbane Soccer clubs Hellenic
and Azzurri have signed-on
nine of last year’s State team
that drew with Hearts, 3-3.
Azzurri also have international
Gordon (“Bunny”) Nunn as
player-coach. Both teams
appear powerful, and it’s freely
predicted that the 10-team
premiership competition will
be a match-race between them
—but there’s many a slip . . .
* * *
“O 1 y m p u s”: Australian
Olympic Federation secretary
Edgar Tanner, M.L.A- (Vic-
toria), doesn’t approve the Aus-
tralian Swimming Union’s plan
to train its Olympic team for
several weeks. at Townsville.
He says the scheme isn’t in
keeping wjth the spirit of the
Olympic movement—which is
“to compete” but presumably
not to care a whit about
winning - and he fears that
some nations may protest. He
needn't worry. The Iron Cur-
tain countries have arranged
numerous training-camps, and
America proposes to put its
whole team —not only its
swimmers—into camp.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ARMING GERMANY
“I>eople really must expect
the natural and probable
consequences of their actions.
Once German rearmament was
accepted, in the course of time
Germans would become armed
with, or have made available
to them, the same weapons as
other members of the same
alliance.”
These words, spoken lately in
Parliament by Britain’s Foreign
Secretary Selwyn Lloyd, and
following hard upon President
Eisenhower’s statement that he
favored sharing U.S. nuclear
arms more freely with “trusted”
allies, touched-off some edi-
torial concern in the U.K. over
the possibility of Germany
getting full possession of
nuclear warheads (at present it
has only the missiles) and other
such weapons.
Putting the case against the
nuclear arming of Germany,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” notes
that when German rearmament
was under debate six years ago
the opponents of it said exactly
what Mr. Lloyd is now saying
and “were assured that there
was absolutely no question of
Germany having nuclear
weapons”:
“If the argument that Mr.
Lloyd advances now had been
advanced by the Government
then, there would certainly have
been no serious diyision of
opinion in the country
generally or in the Labor party,
which was profoundly split, in
particular. If the decision to
give Germany nuclear weapons
has really been taken, there
seems little hope for even the
beginnings of a fruitful settle-
ment in Europe and little point
in discussing it at a Summit
Conference or anywhere else.
For ‘people really must expect
the natural and probable con-
sequences of their actions.’
“The natural and probable
Russian reaction will be to
regard all Western proposals
for a settlement in Europe with
deepened scepticism. And how,
indeed, can Mr. Lloyd reconcile
this intention to give nuclear
arms to Germany with the pro-
posals for the inspection and
limitation of arms in Europe
by which, he says, the Govern-
ment still stands?
“The first step to inspection
and limitation is a standstill in
the distribution of nuclear
weapons. West Germany is a
sovereign country as well as a
London “Evening Standard.”
“THERE —l SAID WE’VE BEEN GIVEN A HEAVENLY TASK..."
member of an alliance. It is no
secret that one of the reasons
for the development of British
nuclear weapons was to make
sure that we not only had a
veto on the use of such weapons
from our shores, but also that
nuclear weapons would be used
if we ever wanted them to be
used.
“West Germany is just as
much a sovereign nation as
Britain. The safeguard of inte-
grated Nato defence might have
some meaning if it were inte-
grated. But Nato is an alliance
with a joint supreme com-
mand, composed of national
Armies whose small-arms are
not even standardised.
“Few Germans want nuclear
weapons. They are content
that they should remain in
American hands. And why
should they not if the alliance
is an effective alliance? There
is little enough hope of reuni-
fication in any case, but this
move would kill it stone dead.”
Also arguing against the
proposal, London “New States-
man” adds that the rearmament
of Germany proceeds “steadily
and stealthily”:
“In less than two years the
German contribution to the
ground-strength of Nato will be
greater than all the other
allies combined. And this pre-
ponderance will be inevitably
reflected in the higher-com-
mand structure —and ultimately
in policy.
“West Germany will shortly
possess nearly a thousand
supersonic fighter - bombers,
which can carry nuclear
weapons far across the Iron
Curtain. German forces
already have their hands on two
types of missiles ; these will be
joined by the Mace and
Matador, whose range can
carry them into Russia.”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
however, holds that “no nuclear
weapons are, or are intended
to come, under German control
in time of peace. Even in time
of tension it is the supreme
commander of Nato and not
any German commander who
would order the warheads to be
moved to the missiles. Even in
war it would be an allied com-
mander, acting on an allied
political decision, who would
order delivery.
“So much for the Soviet
charge, strenuously and widely
made, that the nuclear re-
armament of Germans has
begun. From that charge,
many false deductions have
been made and much unneces-
sary indignation has sprung,
especially within the Labor
party. What in fact has hap-
pened is that a small number
of German troops have been
instructed in the use of such
missiles as Matador and Mace
in common with other Nato
forces. These weapons give
those forces a power to deter
and destroy which lies between
the limited scope of conven-
tional forces and the limitless
scope of the West’s nuclear air-
power.
“Uneasiness on allowing
Germany to touch nuclear
weapons is, however, wide-
spread and genuine. To state
the facts as they have just been
stated is only part of the
reassurance that is needed.
There must be a political argu-
ment as well, and this Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd repeated in the
foreign-affairs debate, con-
vincingly if somewhat irritably.
“What is happening is the
result of deciding to make a
full and equal ally of Dr.
Adenauer’s Germany; to
qualify trust and partnership is
to poison its spirit; to bind
the Germans as closely as
possible into Nato and its
'forces is the true way to safety.
He might have added that if
any nation" in Europe has a vital
interest in not using nuclear
weapons it is Germany—-the
battlefield.”
London “Economist,” after


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM °»ARTH RITES
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which ha 9
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
7 HOWARD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
stressing that the U.S. has as
yet reached no decision on the
matter of sharing the nuclear
weapons, notes that the “im-
mediate reason why the
military experts have brought-
up the point is because the
present interpretation of the
[U.S. Atomic Energy] Act re-
quires atomic warheads to be
kept entirely separate from the
weapons which are to carry
them and which are already in
the hands of various members
of Nato” :
“To bring the two together,
if war broke out, would take so
long, it is argued, that the
weapons would not be ready
in time to be of any use. At
the moment Britain, with its
Thor intermediate - range
ballistic missiles and its Genie
air-to-air missiles, is more con-
cerned than anyone else; but
soon Italy and Turkey,, also to
have IRBMs, will be involved ;
and eventually, if the United
States equips its allies with the
tactical atomic arms which are
becoming conventional for
Americans, they will all be
affected.
“This raises the question
whether West Germany can be
left without atomic weapons if
other allies have them. Yet
nuclear arms for Germany
would provide the Russians
with a good excuse for giving
similar weapons to its own
allies, including perhaps Com-
munist China. The ‘nuclear
club’ would thus become world-
wide.
“The President [Eisenhower]
wants to avoid this by negotiat-
ing an agreed ban on atomic
tests ; meanwhile, he sees no
point in denying to America’s
allies weapons and informa-
tion which the Soviet Union
has already obtained for itself.
But both among his advisers
and in Congress are many who
do not feel so generous, especi-
ally as regards France, with its
supposedly unsatisfactory
security arrangements and its
uncompromising leader ; more-
over, they dread the prolifera-
tion of potential sources of
nuclear war which would
accompany any proliferation
of nuclear weapons.”
Colored Nationalism
/Commenting on what it calls
“the debate among the
races of men,” the “New York
Times” notes that “the deepest
undertone in this wild music
is the discontent of those whose
skins are black, brown or
yellow at being dominated by
those whose pigmentation is
lighter. Consider some out-
standing examples:
“1. The Algerian crisis,
which is also a French crisis,
developed out of a struggle
between Algerians of European
descent and those of Arabic
and Berber ancestry. The ratio
between the two groups is
about one to eight.
“The European settlers do
not trust the old mainland
“Sunphcissimus,” Munich.
TALKING ABOUT DISARMAMENT.
principle of liberty, equality
and fraternity to give them
what they think they ought to
have. General de Gaulle
this doctrine of
minority-rule and won his
point during the white Algerian
revolt that lasted from January
25 to February 1.
“2. British Prime Minister
Macmillan, touring British
Africa, found Africans in con-
trol in Ghana and Nigeria....
but not in the Union of South
Africa. In the first two countries
there was no question of white
supremacy. It would in these
days be ridiculous. In the
Union of South Africa, how-
ever, a white minority of about
three million is attempting to
segregate and dominate three
times as many South Africans
of native African stock.
“Mr. Macmillan got vividly
into the news when he told the
South African Parliament that
there were ‘some aspects’ of
its policies that he and his
friends could not accept ‘with-
out being false to their own
deep convictions about the
political destinies of free men.’
“If he had gone to Kenya, a
vast territory where Europeans
are only about one-twentieth
of a population less than that
of New York City, he would
have found again that the
power of the European white
man was bound to be dimin-
ished. Even as he spoke, a
conference in London was
sweating over what to do about
the situation.”
After a brief consideration
of the third example—the situa-
tion of the American negro—
the “Times” sums-up:
“This is the situation [now],
and we will not expect it to
be revolutionised when we go
to press one year from today,
but it is a situation that has to
change. Democracy is for
everybody or for nobody. We
can win against the enemies of
freedom only by developing
freedom. If all God’s chillun
don’t have wings, as the old
spiritual says they do, then
none of them have wings.”
Coming at the problem from
the specifically African angle,
London “Economist” expresses
some doubts about the hastily
laid foundations of black
nationalism:
“The very speed and ease
with which African nationalism
has swept forward in the wake
of Asian conceal its own weak-
nesses. Its capacity is untested
yet: Ghana has only been a
State for three years, the
Sudan for four. The rest of
independent black Africa is
largely scaffolding under which
the white administrator, the
factor forgotten by political
commentators, still obediently
toils away, with his bag half-
packed at his side.
“The problems of creating
and administering an African
State of any size and efficiency,
let it be remembered, are
unsolved. Nigeria is only a
hope (if a bright one) on
paper ; French West and Equa-
torial Africa have been torn to
bits by Africans themselves.
Dr. Nkrumah snatched the
headlines from Mr. Macmillan
during his visit to Ghana by
calling for a ‘United States of
Africa’ and a halt to the
balkanisation of the continent
into ‘tinpot’ States by the
‘imperialists’; but it is unclear
what practicable plans he has
for this, aside from the ‘libera-
tion’ of his tinpot neighbor,
Togoland, and its integration
into Ghana when it gets its
independence.
“Already African blood has
been spilt by Africans—after
self - government in the
Cameroons and French Congo,
and on its eve in Ruanda
Urundi and the Belgian Congo.
Above all, the possibility of
the dissolution of the vast,
hitherto well-run Belgian terri-
tory must restrain any confi-
dent predictions about black
nationalism in Africa.
“Obviously, if with so little
training and preparation Afri-
cans prove capable of running
great modern States with
efficiency enough, and with
the restraint that rule imposes
on rulers if they are to go on
ruling, the days of the remain-
ing white-ruled States are
numbered. Practical demon-
stration will have been given
that Africans here and now
can sufficiently match the white
man on his own ground—the
modern organisation of
society.
“But if they do badly, then
the embattled white minority
at the tip of Africa may yet
make a most determined stand
in their laager. Black and
white baaskap States may long
have to coexist —and it is
typical of Mr. Macmillan that
he carefully left his hands


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6*B O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce-
TO EDWARD CHARLES WINDLE late
of Portland.—TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA DAPHNE WINDLE has
filed a petition for divorce number 58
of 1960 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 3rd
day of May 1960 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO.,
solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
To JOHN HENRY MERVYN PEARCE
late of Bathurst.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN MARGARET PEARCE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4412 of
1959 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 4th day of
May 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solici-
tors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DONALD GEORGE MERRICK late
of Scone.—TAKE NOTICE that ELVA
ELLA MERRICK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2854 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 2
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the third day of May 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN PERCY De AUDNEY
ANTHONY WITHERS late of Taree
TAKE NOTICE that LOIS MAUREEN
WITHERS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4411 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 4th day of May 1960 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
entirely free to accept such a
situation and be friends with
both.”
Cyprus Breakdown
"p ditorial comment on the
breakdown of negotiations
between Britain and Cyprus
over the size and status of
British military bases on the
island :
London “Daily Mail”: “A
year ago the Greek and Turkish
Cypriots agreed that Britain
should retain bases. The
reason for keeping them has
never been explained, and their
importance to us [Britain] is
arguable. But both the Greeks
and the Turks pledged their
word that we should have them.
“This being so, neither should
try to go back on it. This is
what Archbishop Makarios is
trying to do. The Turkish atti-
tude is not clear, but it is worry-
ing to read of Dr. Kutchuk’s
[Turkey] attack on the British
policy.
“ ‘For nine months’, said Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd [Britain’s
Foreign Secretary], ‘we have
been making offer after offer,
none of which has been
accepted,’ As he indicated, the
Archbishop has agreed to
certain things and then repu-
diated them. Negotiation in
such circumstances is almost
impossible.”
* * *
London “Economist”:
“Archbishop Makarios is no
doubt a most difficult and exas-
perating negotiator; and the
British have certainly retreated
a long way from their original
demands in an effort to reach
agreement. Moreover, there is
bound to be trouble when two
sides have quite different con-
ceptions of what they have
signed. Still, it is hard to believe
that the present deadlock would
have been reached if the
British Government had got the
fact clear in its mind that it
cannot usefully operate bases
in the middle of other people’s
territory without any reference
to the hostility or good-will of
the local population. Certainly
it cannot in Cyprus, where,
whatever happens, there will be
some military facilities that are
essential to the base but lie
outside the sovereign areas.
“Mr. Selwyn Lloyd and Mr.
Watkinson [Britain’s Defence
Minister] listed the successive
concessions that the British
have made. It does not seem
to have' occurred to them that
concession has already, and
necessarily, gone so far that
they cannot rely on sovereignty
alone.”
Manchester “Guardian”:
“Mr. Lloyd said that the
Government was perfectly will-
ing to continue negotiations,
but the Cypriots would have to
accept British sovereignty over
our bases in the island. He was
not prepared to let the future
Government of Cyprus raise
the question whether what we
[Britain] are doing in (or from)
our bases was right or wrong.
“Mr. Lloyd’s argument, that
such an arrangement would be
advantageous to the Cypriot
Government, will not stand
examination. The advantage he
has in mind is that, in the
event of an armed conflict with
a foreign Power, the purely
London “News Chronicle
FISHING FOR A SETTLEMENT OR, THE
COMPLEAT WRANGLER.
civilian parts of Cyprus would
remain immune from possible
retaliation. But would these
fine legal distinctions be ob-
served? In any actual conflict,
should the Cypriot population
not wish to share our dangers,
the position of the bases might
become precarious—even if we
could point to a sealed docu-
ment confirming that, right or
wrong, these are our bases. So
much must be obvious to the
Foreign Secretary.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : “It
may sound inconsequential, but
one of the main reasons for the
breakdown of the Cyprus talks
is to be looked for a few
hundred miles to the West, in
Malta. The dispute is now over
economic, rather than military
or nationalist, issues. The
Cypriots, acutely conscious of
the hole which the withdrawal
of occupying forces made in
their pocket, are anxious to
make sure that they get a size-
able income out of what forces
remain. And this is one of the
reasons for the dispute over the
size of the bases.
“The Cypriots, reconciled
though they are to the bases’
existence, are anxious that the
British forces should not be
able to isolate themselves with-
in the perimeter. Whether or
not a country-club, say, or a
road-house is outside the
perimeter may make a sub-
stantial difference to the eco-
nomy of the district. And, as
Archbishop Makarios is well
aware, the size of the area
which the British are claiming,
if conceded, would allow them
to live very comfortably, with
the minimum of Cypriot
assistance—and the minimum
of spending on Cypriot goods
and services.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“It is arguable that an exactly
opposite approach might have
had a happier result than the
one which ambiguity has now
produced. Had we [Britain]
given Cyprus unconditional in-
dependence, with only the pro-
viso that its Government should
then negotiate with us for
the ceding of bases, we might
well have found them eager
to grant all that is now being
haggled about. For the
cardinal fact in Cyprus is that
the country cannot live without
the work and wealth which
British bases provide.”
U.N. Voting
'T'he Milwaukee (U.S.)
“Journal” notes that “under
U.N. rules, each member
State has one Assembly vote ;
and when future rolls are
called, the vote of Cameroun
and its 3J-million people will
count as much as that of the
United States, India, Russia or
Britain.
“Thus, as U.N. membership
mounts, influence of the small


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO JACK HORRELL late of Fairy
Meadow.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
MARGARET HORRELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3254 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 3rd May 1960 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ERNEST COOKE late of
Mudgee.—TAKE NOTICE that INA
MERLE COOKE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3912 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the ninth day of May 1960 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, .Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS ROY CLEAL late of
Muswellbrook. TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA CHARLOTTE CLEAL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 296 of
1960 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the ninth day of May
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY' SEE,
GILLIS CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO HECTOR WILLIAM VICTOR Mc-
MASTER late of 52 Illawarra Road
Marrickville. TAKE NOTICE that
LAVINIA MYRTLE McMASTER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2914 of
1959 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s " discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 2nd day
of May 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GERALD
W. MITCHELL & GARLAND, Solicitors,
of 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
m
>
.....
m
MB
In restaurants, shops, homes . ••
Vinylflex Tiles
stay “first day beautiful” for life
Look for them in beautiful, individually
designed floors ... spick and span under the
heaviest foot traffic. Vinylflex Tiles resist
grease stains, harsh alkalis and dirt—need
only a damp wipe over and occasional
waxing to maintain full beauty.
In 18 Marbleised colours for commercial
floors. For walls and for domestic use there
are 28 colours including 4 pastels and 6
Terrazzo patterns.
SAME GIRL—“DO-IT-YOURSELF.” At
home you can have a floor as smart as the
one in the restaurant above by using special
“lay-it-yourself” Vinylflex Tiles. Plan your own
design. Save pounds in every room. Ask for
“lay-it-yourself” Vinylflex Tiles with easy-to-
follow instructions at department, furnishing
and hardware stores.
VINYLFLEX TILES
Made by the Building Materials Division of The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. ltd.
Showrooms at : Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
State grows. So, of course,
does that of Africa, where
nationalism is spawning new
countries each year. Today
there are nine African votes ;
in a decade, there will be 20
or more.
“The U.N. founding-fathers
saw this problem in 1945, but
not its extent. They agreed
that, big-Power influence (and
security) should be assured
through the small Security
Council, where China, France,
the U.S.S.R., the United King-
dom and the United States
would have permanent seats.
“The cold-war split between
the great Powers, the single-
Pcwer veto, the Communist
takeover in China all con-
tributed to nullifying Security
Council authority. Gradually,
and by necessity, the Assembly
has assumed wider and wider
powers.
“With this transition has
come greatly increased
Assembly lobbying, bargaining,
trading, bloc voting and, at
times, a ‘ganging-up’ against
one or another of the larger
Powers.”
Dragnet Digest
A letter to London “New
Statesman” by Donald Horne,
editor of Sydney “Observer” •
“Australians are beginning to
fear that the last traces of Eng-
lish colonialist prejudices are
now to be found in London
radicals. Mr. J. B. Priestley
is a notable case in point. Aus-
tralian reactions against Mr.
Priestley were based on the
fact that he appeared to con-
sider that the second-best (in
fact the bad) was good enough
for Australians. Although for
very good reasons he would not
be seen dead in London in an
English offshoot of the World
Peace Council he appeared to
think that this kind of thing
was good enough for Australia.
“If he had had a pro-Com-
munist record the reaction
might have been different. But
that such a famous non-Com-
munist should carelessly lend
himself to a Communist cause
because it was merely in Aus-
tralia and then attack people as
McCarthyite for pointing out
this fact, made Australian in-
tellectuals feel that if Mr.
Priestley did not take them
seriously there was no par-
ticular reason why they should
take him at more than what
appeared to be his face-value.”
* * *
Edward Crankshaw\ w
London “Observer” ; “Stalin
held [Russia’s] satellites by
brute force, as he held Soviet
Russia itself. He did his best
to iron them all out to one
level, and Russian police and
Russian bayonets and
machine-guns held them down
to that level.
“Such a policy is at odds
not only with Khrushchev's
economic policies but also w'ith
his new ideas about defence
Just as he is giving his own
people more freedom to
realise their own potentialities,
so he must be trying to en-
courage the satellites to realise
their potentialities as peoples.
But how to do this without
losing control? And how to
stimulate nationalist pride and
self-respect without reviving
traditional enmities?
“These are some of the con-
siderations which must be very
much alive behind the mono-
lithic front of Communist
Ministers in Moscow.”
* * *
Milwaukee (U.S.) “Journal'' :
“’Senator Neuberger, D., Ore.,
has come up with some com-
parative statistics on United
States and Soviet Union pro-
duction of luxury-items.
“In the seven-year period of
1952-58 the Soviet Union pro-
duced 1,200,000 refrigerators,
1,200,000 washing - machines
and 3,000,000 television-sets,
he says. In the single year of
1958 the United States pro-
duced 3,050,000 refrigerators,
2,744,000 washing - machines
and 5,300,000 television-sets.
That’s quite a production lead,
isn’t it? If it makes you feel
proud, consider the question
Senator Neuberger asks:
“ ‘Which will decide world
supremacy in the future—the
ability to hit the moon or a
capacity for washing sheets?’ ”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in New
York “Herald Tribune” :
“Having made it known that
the [Algerian] problem does
not fit into the traditional
pattern of colonialism and im-
perialism, we [the U.S.] should
recognise that General de
Gaulle is committed to an
experiment which must be
given every chance to succeed.
It is in the general interest not
only of France and of Algeria,
but also of the rest of Africa
and of the peace of the world
that this experiment in creating
a plural society should suc-
ceed.
“For if it fails, the outcome
will at the best be a partition
of Algeria with the French
Army occupying the coast and
the immediate hinterland. At
the worst the outcome will be
chaos in which tyranny will
flourish. We should use our
good offices in Tunisia and
Morocco, and in other
countries which have be-
friended the Algerian nation-
alists, to persuade them that
this is the time, which if missed
may never return, to col-
laborate with General de
Gaulle in order to end the war
and to prepare for the process
of self-determination.”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Viee-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
They made sure that there
was enough cane in the yard
to keep the giant elevator
moving its endless circle, and
at the same time ensured that
empty trucks were delivered in
time to all the far-flung gangs
of cutters in the remote mill-
areas.
They were sisters in make
and model, though Old Num-
ber Two was the senior by
three years. Some quirk of
chance seemed to make her
trade on this age. She was
incapable of pulling the same
weight as her sister. Her puff
had a lackadaisical quality
compared with that of Six, who
coughed with a clear-cut deter-
mined bark when pulling hard.
Under a full load Two had a
more hysterical note, and even
her whistle was pitched to a
higher, more effeminate scream.
But she could pull, and if you
treated her right she would
respond nobly.
On her long run she usually
had her load mustered about
five miles from the mill-yard,
and those final five miles were
always something of a dash.
There were two rather sharp
upgrades, and if you took the
first without bogging, then
you could be fairly certain of
the second. The real heartbreak
was the final winding mile of
slight upgrade to the mill itself.
Because of the curves it was
impossible to make a dash at
it, so you went steady, and
hoped that the pull would be
enough to get you safe on the
final stretch of straight running
300yds. from home. The fric-
tion of the wheel-flanges on
the curves was the killer. This
often brought her to a stop with
her rake of trucks only half-
way round the last bend.
Tf you could successfully
negotiate this last curve
there was the delight of thun-
dering past the school with the
pupils lining the fence and
cheering. They were a critical
audience, with a lot of technical
knowledge as befitted future
drivers. I doubt if there was
one future lawyer or doctor
among the male pupils! So to
roar past trailing clouds, of
thick smoke,, and with the
safety-valve lifting, was the aim
and practice of every fireman
in the mill, and generous
applause was always forth-
coming.
But if one stuck ignomini-
ously at the curve there was the
miserable business of splitting
the load, pulling the half of
“Why don't you try minding your own business, Sailor?"
it in, then returning for the
rest to a barrage of catcalls
and reflections on the ability
of both driver and fireman.
If the Bomb happened to be
in the yard and heard your
whistle, she really came into
her own. She would bustle
and roll fussily down the line
to where the bigger loco, sat
helpless. Then, coupled to the
nose of Number Two, she
would squeal once, and the two
of them would be off in, a
tremendous din. Slowly at first,
then faster ; triumph radiating
from every lurch of the Bomb,
and Old Number Two quietly
doing most of the real work
behind.
Reliable and uncomplaining,
she had only one fault. This
was a peculiarity in one of her
safety - valves. Occasionally
when it lifted it didn’t close
until she had lost 201 b. of steam
instead of five. This was not
important except on upgrades
with a full load, when it meant
the difference between making
the crest and bogging. I have
seen her plugging uphill,
dogged as a bullock-team, with
her fireman perched pre-
cariously on the side of the
boiler tapping gingerly at the
valve with the handle of the
coal-hammer, trying to per-
suade it to reseat itself. Being
an acrobat was one of the
necessities of a fireman.
And so to Number Six—
■ efficient, hard-worked and
hard - working. The solid
determination to do a good job
sounded from every beat of
her exhaust and showed in
every turn of her cranks. She
was the Martha of the mill.
Not colorful like the Bomb,
never temperamental like the
Piecart, innocent of any sins
like Two’s safety-valve, she was
a pleasure to work.
Of course, she occasionally
ran off the rails and tumbled
trucks of cane off bridges.
But consider that she was 10
tons of steel and water, pre-
cariously balanced on 2ft.
tracks, and that speed was
sometimes essential. The
wonder is that she achieved a
quarter of the work she so
faithfully did.
There was no atom of
viciousness in her. On one
occasion she tossed a hump-
backed bull off a bridge, but
it was without malice. (Her
driver remarked: “I looked
down, and all I could see was
four legs and a grey belly
sticking up out of a patch of
lantana!”) She brushed that
animal aside with the pre-
occupied gesture of a man
swatting an insect that distracts
him from the job in hand.
“Get on with it” seemed to
be her motto.
Easy on both fireman and
driver, she was a pleasure to
work. She could be spectacu-
lar when she chose ; like the
time she rode up on the riding
points that some cane-cocky
had carelessly left on the blind
side of a curve. It took two
gangs of navvies and the “Big
Pig” 36 hours to get her righted
that time. And there was the
time she filled a cutting with
27 trucks of cane in an awful
tangle. A buffer pulled out of
a truck three back from the
tender at full speed. She
stacked them three-high on
their sides that time. But in
neither case was it her fault.
As I said, she wasn’t vicious or
even playful. She was a hard-
working, cheerful Martha.
'T'hey are all gone now. I
■*- haven’t had the heart to
ask about their fate. All I
can say is that these ladies have
given way to machines with
burning gas in their vitals
instead of cheerful live steam ;
machines without safety-valves
to stick open, or grime to dis-
figure their Sunday faces ;
machines that will stolidly and
competently, prosaically and
colorlessly, do their job and
never need to be coaxed and
blasphemed into producing that
extra 51b. of steam to get them
over the top of the hill.
But a lot of color will be
gone from the tracks they ruled
so long. And I am sure that
the diesels will occasionally
meet sneering, hissing ghosts
in the Two-mile swamp and
among the river-mists at Sun-
down. I wouldn’t eveln be sur-
prised to learn that there are
some future doctors or lawyers
among the pupils at the little
faded yellow school.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FLORRIE MYRA TULL late of
Kogarah.—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT
TULL has filed a petition for divorce
No. 3972 of 1959 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 2 (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the ninth day of May 1960 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& CO., solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney,—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
a
\-
i
S'
*****
■v?
4
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS .
STATE
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free ) Amount enclosed
taking him gently but firmly
by the arm, “we’ll go and see
what they are here for.”
Three carrier-lines! To-
gether! The startled villagers
of Kwongan clustered round.
Sullivan pressed the now
reluctant trader through the
huddle of brown bodies
towards the rest-house, outside
which Chard and the Father
stood, smoking and joking
together, plainly the best of
friends.
Sullivan waved a greeting.
They responded.
TTe mounted a couple of the
rest-house steps. In the
stillness he heard the sizzle of
a match as Father Zwecke
relighted his pipe. By now the
square was packed with the
villagers. Facing them, Sulli-
van spoke in a fatherly way:
“People of Kwongan, there
is a kind of talk among us
called tok-wind, the talk that
comes from nowhere, and now
I know that tok-wind has been
using the names of the doctor,
and of the Father and of me,
saying that we were angry with
each other and there was a
cross between us. All men
near the station have heard
this. They have been fright-
ened and stayed at home.
“Now, everyone knows that
to start tok-wind that is not
true and to make trouble is
wrong. This talk of a cross
was wrong.”
Sullivan paused. His eyes
looked from man to man. The
people of Kwongan stirred
restlessly.
Chard gazed stiffly in front
of him. The Father studied
the brown earth, compacted by
brown feet.
“And,” Sullivan continued
more slowly and impressively,
“this talk has been started by
one man. Let there be no
more of it. I have heard that
there are bushmen who live
on the road which starts at
Kwongan village and I go
today with the doctor to find
them.”
Sullivan had watched Sali
closely from the moment of
meeting the other Europeans.
The trader had hidden his dis-
may behind a mask of interest.
But the quickness of Sali’s next
move made the others realise
what a shrewd and formidable
character they had to deal
with.
Without a second's pause,
the big man stepped up to the
a.d.-o. and smiling, said: “It’s
true, Kiap. There are men on
that road. I’ve often wondered
when you’d go to visit them.
For a little pay I could guide
you.”
Sullivan caught smothered
exclamations from the priest
and the medical man, but the
seriousness of the situation
helped him to maintain his own
composure. With a straight
face, he replied crisply: “Yes,
Sali. You may come as my
guide, but not for pay. To
start such talk as you have
started is enough to send a man
to jail for a long time.”
He went up the steps into
the rest-house, with Chard and
the Father following. Sullivan
sat down on a meat-case. The
others remained standing.
“Well, I’d like to congratu-
late you two on your timing.
It was perfect. I will take
friend Sali as a guide because
he has been promised a safe
road by the bushmen and I’d
like to have him where I can
watch him. Who knows what
mischief he’d be up to while
we’re away? But this morn-
ing’s demonstration and the
patrol should fix him. I’m
afraid if he can repeat any-
thing like that magnificent
performance out there, I’ll
hardly be able to put him in
jail.”
“Anyway,” Father Zwecke
put in, “what would you charge
him with?”
“Eighty-six B of the Native
Regulations, ‘spreading false
reports and causing trouble’. . .
Oh —I see what you mean.”
“Yes, we’re caught,” laughed
Chard, “since we have just
demonstrated there was no
trouble, how could you charge
him with having caused it?”
“For there to be a case you
must prove that he caused
trouble,” persisted Father
Zwecke, a trifle heavily.
“Or that he spread false
reports,” remarked Sullivan.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Backyarders”
As “Magnoon” (B. 3/2/’6O)
says, the case of the “backyard
grower” opens-up a pretty big
subject. My complaint was
not against the legitimate
primary - producer, but the
professional man who grows
“on the side.”
Seven years ago there were
10 pineapple-growers in my
area. Pines “flopped,” and
although subsequent post-
mortems have put the blame
on everybody but the growers,
enthusiasm and inexperience
played their part in the debacle.
Left with large overdrafts,
most of the growers took out-
side jobs and ran their farms
on a modified basis, helped by
their wives. The roadside-stall
was the chief source of income.
Every one of the “roadsiders”
looked forward to the time
when he could quit outside
work and return to full-time
farming. And each roadsider
was paying-off pineapple-losses
and investing what was left
in his block.
These legitimate growers had
every right to hold down a job
and run a farm on the side,
but the success of the stalls
attracted the outsider. On my
own particular stretch of road
(a main tourist highway), a
stall has appeared run by a
hairdresser, and a medico has
moved-in with a roadhouse.
And canefarmers, realising
that there’s a bob or two in
the tourist, are hopping in.
All this cuts into the profits
of the chap who is desperately
trying to pull himself out of
the mire. These intruders had
a reliable source of income, and
the success or otherwise of
their weekend venture would
hardly mean the difference
between prosperity and bank-
ruptcy. Result: legitimate
growers are slowly but surely
being forced out of business.
Establishing a good pawpaw
plantation takes time and
money, and it is impossible to
meet competition like this. At
present, pawpaws in town are
selling at Bd. a pound retail. My
wife can sell at 7d., fresh from
the tree, a quality product
developed through five years
of cross-breeding to fix the right
amount of Hawaiian strain
in a good-sized fruit. Seven-
pence is good money for on-
the-farm fruit, and could show
a profit; but sales drop when
a canefarmer’s children open-
up with the family surplus
at 4d.
In Queensland, fruits can be
“directed” by the C.O.D.
When a “direction” is issued
by the Committee of Direction
“‘ Do-it-yourself Simpson's in strife again!”
of Fruit Marketing —a grower-
owned and-operated co-opera-
tive —any fruit or vegetable can
be directed to be sold through
agents only. When I was active
in fruitgrowers’ administration,
a direction was issued to
Townsville over tomatoes, the
area affected being 200 miles.
As a result, all tomatoes in the
directed area would have to be
sold through registered agents.
Our F.G.A. was consulted,
because we came within five
miles of the directive. We
pleaded exemption because we
realised that it would cost too
much to police the regulation.
The directive was issued
primarily because, owing to the
activities of the “backyarders”
in Townsville, the marketing
of tomatoes had become
chaotic. Some retailers sent
their children to other shops
to buy a pound to find out
the current neighborhood
price. “Backyarders” were run-
ning cases direct to the retailer
and getting what they could for
them. The “backyarder” didn’t
suffer, but the legitimate
grower did: many growers
went broke before the directive
came into operation.
I agree with “Magnoon”
when he says that it is down-
right wickedness to waste a
handful of food or to leave a
square-yard of good land lying
idle, but I think it is criminal
for “backyarders” to bankrupt
small growers, whose liveli-
hoods depend on their markets.
—Papaw (Q.).
Higher-density Housing
In recent years the employee
has stopped being a slave to
his desk or bench. He has
become, instead, a slave to
the gods of private and public
transport. Consequently the
efforts of “J.S.” (B. 17/2/’6O)
to stem the tide of redevelop-
ment are likely to be as ineffec-
tive as those of King Canute.
The most that can be antici-
pated is effective control to
avoid the American mistake of
leaving inadequate living-space
around the block of apart-
ments. After all, if 50 families
live in one building, their off-
spring really need a few acres
of green and open space —
unless TV, milk-bars and juke-
boxes are considered satisfac-
tory alternatives.
The most disquieting aspect
of redevelopment has been the
role of the councils towards
the speculator. One might have
expected that they would have
been natural enemies, and that
the resultant conflict would
have produced living accom-
modation of a satisfactory
quality. Of course, whether
higher-density building involves
the exchange of new slums for
old depends on the type of
construction and its planning.
The speculator will
maximise profits. A responsible
authority could exact stan-
dards which, admittedly, would
increase the initial cost of
housing, but which would
ensure that the living accom-
modation, park and sporting
facilities came up to a socially
acceptable level.
As it now seems clear that
municipal councils are too
weak to resist or control the
forces behind redevelopment,
a new authority should
be created. — Fiat Justitia
(N.S.W.).
“Yandy”
The Bulletin’s reviewer of
Donald Stuart’s novel Yandy
(Red Page, 27/1/’6O) has
obviously been concerned to
treat this remarkable piece of
writing sympathetically. In
saying that “the first half-dozen
chapters must rank among the
best Australian writing in
years” he pays just tribute.
There are, however, three
points I'd like to take him up
on.
The first is that “the author
has been unable or unwilling
to make the people who oppose
them [the aborigines] anything
more than stock symbols of
irritable oppression.” It is
exactly because Donald Stuart
has been at such pains to get
inside the mind of the “black-
fellers,” to chronicle the
thoughts and emotions of these
primitive people, their reac-
tions when in conflict with the
ideas and the acts of the whites
(in all of which he has suc-
ceeded so well), that the figures
of their white opponents appear
less substantial than those of
the blackfellers themselves.
Stuart has shown the pro-
cesses of thought guided by
the background of the law of
the aboriginal people as no
other Australian writer to date
has attempted. And this por-
trayal of the thought and
speech of the blackfellers, cul-
minating in the action of the
strike has, I have been told, had
the stamp of truth set upon it
by some of the men of the
Pindan themselves with the


This World Famous Brand is .
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies :•
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Teenagers
Teen-age delinquency and
immorality continue to make
headline news, and the bogy
of parental control (or lack
of it) still gets most of the
blame.
Admittedly, parents tend to
be easier on youth than they
used to be —they give far more
pocketmoney to their children
than the kids got 10 years ago.
However, the decline in the
real value of money has been
so severe that real doubt exists
whether or not the average
parent is too generous.
Personally, I think the
average parent is less at fault
for the modern adolescent's
waywardness than is the over-
much publicity and pandering
to teenagers so readily given by
radio, TV, sporting and/or
athletic bodies, welfare and
even school authorities. Con-
certed harping on the theme
plainly aggravates the less-
intelligent teenager’s naturally
exaggerated notion of his or
her own importance. Intelli-
gent teenagers are certainly in
the minority. Intelligence, of
course, is native, but time and
education alone lend intelli-
gence, balance and proportion.
I heartily second the motion
of that bright teenager who,
sneaking on a radio-session
recently, remarked that the
years 13 to 19 are no more
important fundamentally as a
phase of life than old-age or
middle-age. He was appealing
for less flattering notice of his
age-group. In short, like
Christmas Day and Mother’s
Day, teen-age has reached the
stage of commercialisation
For the general good of the
kids themselves, this rather
sordid subservience to the
group should be eased.—P. O.
MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Japan and the U.S.A.
Behind the new U.S.-
Japanese mutual-security pact
there may be more than meets
the eye (B. 10/2/’6O). There is
nothing basically normal in this
alliance. Th<? world is still in
an international state of flux,
and there are two major points
to be considered.
First, Japan needs a lot more
living-space than she will ever
have in her own territories, and,
since Japanese are accustomed
to Northern climatic condi-
tions, they are not inclined to
migrate to tropical climes if
they can stay in their own
latitudes. In any case, the
neighboring territories of Korea
and North China have plenty
of room when the time comes.
Second, the ambitions of Com-
munist China are great and
growing.
Here are two branches of
Mongolian stock. If ever the
time comes for a show-down
cohesion would be natural:
Japan has all the know-how of
the West, and China has the
room, power and ambition for
Asian domination. For
thousands of miles the fron-
tiers of China and the Soviet
Union are contiguous.
The alliance between the
Soviet and China today is a
marriage of convenience,
China, being shut-off from
trading with the West by the
machinations of American
politics, has to depend on the
Soviet, not always a favored
neighbor. This marriage could
break at any time, should
power and ambition expand in
China. It is highly probable
that Soviet statesmen realise
this, and it is not easy to
imagine the Soviet Union
giving way to any Chinese
demand anywhere along the
frontier from Vladivostock to
Bokhara, or wherever the Mon-
golian race is in the majority
in these regions.
China is going ahead with
communications and transport
facilities, and the South-
western provinces are not as
far away as they used to be.
The recent Soviet move to
populate Siberia and those
parts with many divisions of the
army now being demobilised
may well be a foresighted move
to prepare for future emerg-
encies. After all, the greater
part of Russia is in Europe,
words “That’s right. That’s
how it was” when portions of
the book were read aloud to
them.
If, then, Stuart draws his
white characters thinly, it is be-
cause to the aboriginal the
white man is as a shadow that
falls across his life. Can one
give dimension to a shadow, or
objectivity to the consideration
of actions that are incompre-
hensible?
The second point at issue is
with a reviewer who wishes
Stuart “had written a factual
report instead of a novel.” To
my mind it is presumption on
the part of a critic to tell a
writer what form to use ;he
should analyse why an author
chooses a certain genre and
praise dr condemn according
to success or otherwise.
Donald Stuart is a creative
writer of genius. This is not
his first or only writing. In-
deed, it is but part of a long
manuscript, the second half of
which will doubtless soon
appear in print. Then it will be
seen with what skill he links the
apparently unlinked sketches of
character and events now seem-
ing episodic, and the whole
pattern of the novel will then
appear. Many so-called factual
reports have already appeared
on the Pindan Co-operative,
compiled mostly by partisan
observers. The wisdom of the
approach through the form of
the novel will be evident when
the second volume of the story
is published.
And the final point objected
to lies in the last line: “It is a
good legend.” Let no one
build a legend around either
McLeod or the blackfellers who
followed him in the faith of a
new way of life for them in the
white man’s world. A legend is
an old story. This is the
newest yet told, and it is the
truth, and truth is harsh, cruel,
and disillusioning. It is still
going on, this struggle of the
natives in this mining co-
operative to control their own
affairs, and the word finis has
yet to be written by McLeod,
Stuart or anyone.-
IRENE A.
GREENWOOD (W.A.).


and, however much the race
may be mixed with frontier
peoples from Outer Mongolia
to Kurdistan and the Caucasian
areas, every Russian in power
will claim to be European, and
white.
As Asian, and particularly
Chinese, ambitions rise, the
time will come when paper-
alliances will be worthless, and
Russia will be forced to
align herself with the West. The
whole of the Soviet-China
frontier is vulnerable. How far,
and how soon American in-
fluence in Japan fades out,
will decide the alignment of
Japan with her natural neigh-
bors and the shape of the vast
Mongolian block stretching
from Tibet to near Vladi-
vostock.—Onlooker II (N.Z.).
Down to Earth
Nothing that “R.H.G.” can
read into the writings of P. A.
Yeomans (B. 3/2/’6O) can
“make nonsense” of my ideas
that soil-erosion is man’s
greatest problem and that
“R.H.G.” is barking up the
wrong tree.
“R.H.G.” has identified him-
self in these columns as a road-
board official and if, as he says,
he has soil-erosion problems
on his own property, he should
be interested in a recent
approach by the W.A. Road
Board Association to the
Commissioner for Soil Con-
servation. The association
asked that local authorities be
given power to take measures,
at the expense of the farmers
concerned, to prevent or con-
trol erosion where the farmer
neglects to —I quote “R.H.G.”
—“panic” or “build unsightly
“ Borers — It's not safe!”
and unnecessary contour- and
absorption-banks.”
The Commissioner pointed
out in reply that local authori-
ties already have this power
under the Land Drift Act of
1919, and that it will also be
covered in the projected Local
Government Bill. This shows
the gravity with which this
matter is viewed in W.A. by
the Agriculture Department,
the local authorities and the
State Government. Their con-
cern is logical. Erosion is a
State matter, and it’s right that
the State should have the power
to discipline people who indis-
criminately oppose the advice
of agriculturists.
These scientists have always
urged “keep that topsoil on
your property” ; and those of
them who have held that “soil-
erosion” and “conservation”
have been overemphasised have
merely been stressing their
view that the important thing
is to conserve the vegetation,
which in turn will conserve the
soil. That’s so ; but where
the vegetation has already been
destroyed, and erosion is tak-
ing place, such tactics as
contour-ploughing become un-
avoidable.
What “R.H.G.” seemingly
fails to realise is that the top-
soil is alive, and in a way the
subsoil can’t be. It’s teeming
with bacteria, fungi, yeasts and
other micro-organisms—there
may be up to five-thousand-
million bacterial cells living in
one gramme of fertile earth.
These micro-organisms need a
wide variety of conditions,
which include, for those favor-
able to fertility and plant-life,
aeration and moisture. They’re
so touchy that flooding and
drying-out destroy them almost
immediately, and so resilient
that they respond rapidly to a
restoration of their optimum
conditions. They exist in the
numbers needed for high fer-
tility only in the topsoil which,
in many cases, has become a
suitable medium for their
propagation only after thou-
sands of years.
Given time and work a small,
isolated eroded area can be
restored to fertility; but the
period of restoration is un-
productive. A large eroded
area, such as the American
dustbowl, takes more than time
and work —it takes also the
sort of finance only a big,
wealthy country can provide.
That’s why responsible citizens
throughout Australia actively
fear erosion and deplore mis-
guided utterances on the
subject.
The world’s population has
doubled during the past 100
years, and is increasing at the
rate of around 20 million a
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 580
Across
I—She whose husband is a brave and majestic character is
complaining. (9)
6 —Wanton goat-man had a session a short year later. (5)
9—Cloth border and tick off. (9)
10— Russian city afterthought is corresponding with striking
success before five. (5)
11 — Tell an expert with this respectful gesture in which
the temper is none too sweet. (8)
12 — Not opposed to the remote area
of Scotland. (6)
13 — Thus a loco, can make a burnt
sacrifice. (9)
15—Valley in need. (4)
18 — Got in touch with a climber’s
foothold. (4)
19 — Bawbees collected by the fen
chapel. (9)
21— Poker round toecap repairs. (6)
22- —They don’t change some label
among beasts of burden. (8)
25 Prevent admission from crumbs
of bread. (5)
26 —Curious reactions from a com-
pound containing 23 carbon
atoms. (9)
27 Damaged sewer vessels. (5)
28 — It may shelter a factor influenc-
ing the flight of a cricket ball,
and its turn. (9)
Down
1— Smartly groomed timber. (6)
2 Why we can’t say our A, B, C —-
one pun Len misrepresented. (15)
3 Gaelic version of state panel-
ling ! (8)
4 Sweetheart in the morning—or a
childish expression of thanks. (9)
5 Gallery idols. (4)
6 It’s honorable to taste soda from
this, perhaps. (6)
7 Quitter! Get it! Play the
wag! (4, 6,5)
8 — Daydreams wherein I reverse. (8)
14 —Sun of us is affected by such an
overspreading of color. (9)
16— I groaned for a dress
material. (8)
17 — Sacrifice some medical
graduate’s tom. (8)
20 —Timber lodges. (6)
23 Smooth and shining ship stems
turned up. (5)
24 — A course to study. (4)
Solutfon to Crossword No. 579


STOP
SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
START TODAY
TAKE
c |o|l|c|h| i |s|o|n|e
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from the intense pain of Gout —Rheumatism—Sciatica —
Lumbago Fibrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOWS. This special COLCHISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most cases is the
cause of the inflammation and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases, 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England—Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.).
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
year. More than half the
world’s people are under-
nourished. What can we do
about it? The globe hasn’t a
great deal of new land to offer
agriculture, and it’s yearly
losing millions of acres to
erosion. At all costs this trend
must be halted, and where
possible reversed. Existing
arable land must be induced
to produce more. — Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.).
Maori—Written and
Spoken
The Maori initial “ng” (“Red
Page,” B. 10/2/ ’6O) is not
nearly such a “fearful problem”
as it looks. It can be managed,
with a little practice, by any-
one who has a normal ear for
speech-sounds; and managed
it must be by anyone who
wants to speak the language
passably.
A glance at a page of written
or printed Maori will show
how often the “ng” occurs —
probably more often than final
“ng” in a page of English. The
little word “nga,” the plural
form of “the” (“te tangata” =
“the man,” “nga tangata,” “the
men”), is likely to turn up in
every other sentence. Pro-
nounced as “na,” it would be
quite incomprehensible.
In Auckland, many years
ago, an esteemed Maori teacher
had a drill for “ng” * which
worked effectively and quickly
with most of his pupils. First,
he wrote on a blackboard a
series of English monosyllables
ending in “ng”: “king,” “ring,”
“sing,” “long,” “wrong,”
“song.”
These had to be spoken aloud
and sonorously, dwelling on
the final “ng.” Then “ah” was
added to the words on the
blackboard: “kingah,” “fingah,”
“singah.” These were repeated
again and again, with increas-
ing stress on the end: “kingah,”
“nngah,” “singah.” Finally,
the pupil had mentally to blot
out the first letters and pro-
duce a self-sufficient “nga.” He
might fail once or twice, or
even more often, but generally
he got the right sound very
soon, and went on to face with-
out flinching such terrors as
“Ngengi” and “Ngongotaha.”
There is one primary rule to
remember in speaking Maori:
a consonant can occur only
at the beginning of a syllable,
and must be followed by a
vowel, never by another con-
sonant. (“Ng” and “wh,” stand-
ing for single sounds, count
each as a single consonant.)
New Zealand printers have
done shameful deeds in the
matter of dividing Maori words
—“wang-anui” and “whang-
arei” are common form in
some otherwise respectable
newspapers. But the rule still
stands in its beautiful simpli-
city, without any exceptions.
Few written languages are
so nearly phonetic as Maori;
few are so easy to learn and
so musical to the ear; few
have been so grossly maltreated
by the thick-eared Anglo-
Saxon. —R. B. (Vic.).
Geography, Snobbery
and' Trade
Geography and snobbery
we rent the only obstacles to
Federation. Intercolonial (or
inter-State) trade was a vital
factor as far as W.A. was con-
cerned. With a big and grow-
ing primary industry and prac-
tically no secondary industry,
the ’Gropers saw themselves
getting the worst end of any
Federal-tariff legislation, which
would obviously be aimed at
protecting industries of the
eastern States.
Taken by and large, the
’Groper vote was against
Federation, but there were
enough t’othersiders in W.A. to
carry it. My father was one of
them ; and although I wasn’t
born until long after Federa-
tion, I often heard him speak
of the vote as a victory of the
imported element over the
“native.”
He reckoned Federation was
a good thing—perhaps it was,
even then, taking the national
view. But for 50 years W.A.
paid heavily in customs duty
on which the eastern States,
notably Victoria, built-up
secondary industries. Federa-
tion had little to offer a pri-
mary-producing State, and
W.A. is still suffering from
that disability.
That’s why ’Gropers smile
when Victorians scream about
their disabilities under uniform-
taxation. They claim they
built the Narrows Bridge. Well,
they did drive a few piles;
but a dozen bridges wouldn’t
repay the big State for what it
has contributed to the
prosperity of the Cabbage-
patch.—Pieter Nuyts (W.A.).
Australia and Asia
,John Wilkes’s argument at
the Summer School of Political
Science at Canberra —that Aus-
tralia ought to sever its ties with
the U.K. and U.S.A., abandon
the White Australia Policy, and
“take its rightful place in a
triangle with India as the
apex, Africa on one side, Aus-
tralia on the other” —was
absurd (B. 10/2/’6O).
It would mean abandoning
our whole spiritual and
political heritage to gain noth-
ing. The argument that Aus-
tralia is not part of Western
European civilisation because
the countries nearest to it are
Asian has no reality. It would
be as logical to say that Spain
and Italy are African rather
than European because they
are near Africa. Indeed, there
would be more sense in this,
for not only are those countries
far closer to the northern main-
land of Africa than is any part
of Australia to the most out-
lying Asian island, but both
have had substantial ethnical
and social contact with North
Africa.
In the southern areas, this
contact has left its mark on
their customs, and in some
parts even the physical appear-
ance of the people. Yet both
countries, in their culture and
religious allegiance, are defi-
nitely Western European in
every meaning of the term.
How, then, can an island
continent, separated by
hundreds of miles from the
farthest island outposts of Asia,
peopled originally by and still
mainly representative of people
of British stock, and 90 per
cent. European in its racial
composition, be seriously con-
sidered as part of Asia?—
Cunedda (N.S.W.).


PPOOf
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LY
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETYING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK tor Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
m
;•*■ >'•'
Nil
m
sl&Ssi \£
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Eeg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
"BUT IS IT SILAGE?"
By “K.E.M.”
TThe usual way to make silage
is to dig a hole or trench,
or make a clamp from old rail-
way-sleepers, or even erect a
functional-looking round tower,
and fill it with freshly cut grass,
grass-and-legume mixtures or
crops specially grown and
harvested.
Graziers everywhere will
no doubt be pleased to
hear of the vast new
wool markets in Asia,
which are already chal-
lenging wool production
to meet the demand.
If this trend is to con-
tinue the total world
production will be lifted
to a new record height.
Evidence of this trend
was felt in last year's
record sales in Aus-
tralia.
To meet the demand of
buyers the National
Council of Wool Selling
Brokers has resolved to
provide for sales in
every month of the year
by extending sales for
two weeks into July,
thus cutting the seven-
week period before the
resumption of the August
sales to five weeks.
One way to increase
wool production is by
using the Elastrator
method of Castration
and Tailing, because
with Elastrator there are
no open wounds to
harbor germs thus
lessening the risk of
disease to your lambs.
While the filling-up is going
on, you have to drive your
tractor continually over the
stack or through the pit or
trench —or, if the ensilage is
in a tower, get inside and keep
The circular plastic envelope, with silage in process
of compaction.
trampling over the material.
The reason for this, as every
farmer knows to his cost, is
to compact the mass and expel
as much air *as possible, so
that proper fermentation will
take place.
When all is over, the ensiled
material is covered with earth
or, latterly, a loose plastic
cover; you heave a sigh of
relief and hope you never have
to take the so-and-so stuff out,
for getting it out is worse than
putting it in.
But there’s a lot to be said
for silage. When it's properly
made—which doesn't happen
all that often it has a high
protein-content, and little waste.
Once stock take to it they
thrive on it. Properly made,
it has a sweet-and-sour sort of
smell; but when badly made
it stinks like a mouldy bread-
bin.
Lately a new way of making
silage was shown on a Sydney
farm. The inventors —they’ve
taken out patents on certain
aspects of the process—call it
“vacuum fodder,” and I’m
prepared to agree with a lot of
the experts who witnessed the
demonstration with me that it's
got something.
All makers of ensilage know
that proper compaction is the
secret : you’ve got to get the
air out. Then the mass of
green material settles by its
own weight, with bacteria,
acids and enzymes combining
to turn it gradually into food-
stuff. Sometimes the material
is too wet and a slight wilting
in the field is necessary before
it is put away. Sometimes,
particularly on a hot day, the
cut greenstuff wilts of its own
accord, and then the race is on
to get it into the silo before
the sun turns it into hay.
“Vacuum fodder” does away
with all that, we were told.
The inventors claim that any
sort of vegetable - matter
normally used for the purpose
can be made into silage by
“vacuum fodder.” And it was!
First, a circular sheet of
fairly thick plastic was placed
on level ground, and around
its edge a “forming ring” of
galvanised iron was put into
position. This ring was about
18in. high, and the diameter of
its circle about 25ft., giving a
circumference of about 80ft.
Then a grab mounted on a
tractor dumped the silage
material into the circle, a farm-
hand spreading it out over the
whole area with a fork. A$
the stack mounted, the “form-
ing ring” slowly crept up the
side (this piece of black magic
must be part of the patented
process ; I can offer no explana-
tion for it.).
Therv, when the stack was
about 10ft. high, the forming-
ring was unfastened, rolled-up
and put away. A large circular-
shaped envelope, or “dome,”
was then placed over the stack
and its edge sealed at ground-
level with that of the plastic
groundsheet. A piece of pipe,
called the “needle,” was poked
into the stack for a distance
of about 4ft. and then coupled
by a rubber hose to a vacuum-
pump driven by a tractor.
Nothing happened for two or


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS ...
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
three hours. In the meantime,
while we're waiting, here’s a
resume of costs.
The vacuum dome costs £65,
the plastic base £ll 10s. When
a stack has been “vacuumed”
the dome may be taken off and
replaced with a plastic cover.
This costs £44 and is known as
the permanent cover; it is
roped down over the stack. The
forming-ring costs £26. If the
process is used on a dairyfarm
the vacuum-pump from the
milking-machine can be used
Power could come from a
tractor, but my own opinion is
that a much smaller motor, if
available, would be less waste-
ful.
For six stacks, then, leaving
out pump and power, the cost
would be £424. Give the plastic
a life of three years, assume
the original permanent covers
are available for further use
after the first year, and the next
two years’ costs would be £l3B
for 12 more plastic bases.
Over three years, omitting
labor-costs, it should be pos-
sible to conserve nearly 500
tons of ’silage for about £l9O,
since each stack is claimed to
hold about 80 tons.
Labor, of course, can be
reduced. If stacks are strategi-
cally situated, then all that
has to be done to feed the
silage out to stock is to take the
covers off and let them help
themselves. There’s a feeding-
face of 80ft., and this should
accommodate up to 1000
sheep or 120 head of cattle (or
so the makers claim —I’m in-
clined to go a little lower).
When a stack of “vacuum
fodder” put down last Novem
ber was opened for our inspec-
tion the experts classed it of
good quality. The compaction,
really tight layers of material,
was excellent; a chain-saw
operator adroitly cut it out for
our examination. One of the
visitors, a N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture officer with lots
of experience in silage-making
by conventional means, here
asked a leading and loaded
question : “Could this stuff be
eaten a day after it was made?”
To which Dr. Franklin, of
the C.5.1.R.0.’s McMaster
Animal Health Laboratory,
replied: “The same day.”
This cryptic exchange was
interrupted by our return to the
first stack. The needle of the
Vacuum-guage was quivering,
but the dial registered no
vacuum so far. There were
certainly changes in the ex-
ternal appearance of the stack.
The plastic envelope was now
sucked into the side of the
stack—this was external air-
pressure at work—and the stack
had also lost height.
An attendant walked round
the stack, pushing in sharp ends
of stems and the like that might
puncture the plastic (but any
holes, we were told, could
easily be mended with sticky-
tape). Some hours later, but
Cutting the vacuum-fodder stack with a chainsaw.
we were gone by then, the
gauge was to register nearly
20in. of mercury-vacuum in-
side the stack, and the pump
was to be detached. The stack
would then be fully consoli-
dated.
The economics of the process
seem reasonable, and there are
other advantages. Stacks can
be made anywhere, of course,
but the main thing is that com-
paction is certain and rapid.
You’ye got what amounts to
positive control over air-con-
tent. Given a grab on his
tractor, a farmer can build a
stack in no time at all. What’s
more, it would appear that any
material, from pasture-sward
to saccaline, can be turned
easily into silage.
It is harder, normally, to
make silage from some fodders
than from others. The dairy-
officer mentioned told me he
made “vacuum fodder” from
white-clover alone—a notori-
ously difficult silage material —
with a . plastic bag and his
wife’s vacuum-cleaner ; he had
little waste and an end-product
with something like 25 per
cent, protein-content.
There’s also the point that
carbon-dioxide, through the
respiration of plant-cells, is pro-
duced quickly. Carbon-dioxide
is a natural preservative, and
its assured presence in what
could almost be a calculated
amount must add to the life of
the material conserved.
This “vacuum-fodder” pro-
cess, as developed in Australia
in its air-pressure-compaction
principle, comes from Europe.
New Zealand, the land of
grassland farming, has not
caught-up with it yet, although,
according to my latest reading,
they’re experimenting. In other
countries, notably the U.S.,
glass-lined silos are in use and
the air is sucked out ; but
obviously no use can be made
of external air-pressure.
But, I ask myself, is it
silage, this “vacuum fodder”?
If you wanted to, £ut of course
you wouldn’t, you could,
according to the experts, feed it
out to your stock the day it's
made.
Silage, in the old days of
1959, took a long time to make
with a lot of hard work
thrown in—and longer to fer-
ment and mature.
Just what sort of frenzied
activity is going on inside a
stack of “vacuum fodder’’
silage, in the dozen or so hours
it takes to make, I’d really like
to know.
Spraying Fruit-trees
“Fruit-Cocky”: Spraying
fruit-trees used to be merely
dirty and unpleasant; nowa-
days it's becoming downright
hazardous as well.
On the introduction of
various organic - phosphate
sprays during the 1958.-59
season, growers in at least one
important N.S.W. district were
earnestly advised in a Depart-
ment of Agriculture circular to
visit their medical advisers
beforehand. The idea appar-
ently was that the doc. could
check-up on symptoms follow-
ing contamination—you don’t
need to drink the stuff—anti-
dotes, etc., and generally pre-
pare for casualties among men
spraying. All this sounded
pretty alarming and, if ever the
housewife had got to hear of
it, sales of apples would not
have been boosted.
However, looking back now
over the experiences of last
season, there do not seem to


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\I! Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F . S» WATSON , Manager.
have been either casualties or
evidence of poisonous residues
on fruit marketed. Growers
must have picked-up their
safety-drill very thoroughly.
Some important lessons have
emerged from the welter of new
materials and recommenda-
tions. D.D.T., wonder-drug of
10 years ago, is slipping.
Codling-moth, the apple-
growers’ oldest enemy, has
succeeded in breeding strains
immune to D.D.T., and
these strains are showing
signs of becoming widespread.
It was to meet this situation
that the organic-phosphate
sprays —particulary parathion,
trithion, gusathion and mala-
thion —were introduced. Many
growers have condemned the
first two —parathion as too
poisonous, and trithion as in-
effective against the light-
brown apple-moth.
Gusathion is giving good
control over codling-moth,
light-brown apple-moth, red 1 -
mite and red-spider. Although
offensive to use, it does not
seem to bother operators if they
work with air-blast equipment
and wear protective clothing.
Smaller growers Spraying
with handguns are not so
well off, however, because
they can’t avoid some inhaling
and drenching. Malathion is
not a bad alternative —a little
less effective, but harmless and
comparatively cheap.
If generally adopted, an
alternating spray-programme,
using different type materials
in turn, would prevent codling-
moth and other pests from
breeding resistant strains.
There are still newer spray-
materials coming over the
horizon, and it may be hoped
that researchers are awake to
the need for giving us com-
pounds that are non-toxic as
well as effective.
Arum-lilies
“O-Twit”: Although not a
noxious weed, the arum-lily is
steadily encroaching on good
pastures. Because of apathy
shown by many farmers the
plants have flourished ever
since they were first introduced
from South Africa.
Some farmers have attempted
to control the lilies by rotary-
hoeing and spraying, and the
Westralian Department of
Agriculture has tried to limit
this troublesome legacy of
Australia’s early days ; but so
far there has been no public
“Do you think she has the right kind of eye-appeal
to sell tractors on a national advertising campaign?”
report of the results of the
tests carried-out.
While trying to get rid of
a similar pest, wild triangular
garlic, one farmer in S.A.
tumbled on a cheap, easy
method of wiping-out the
arum-lily. Garlic also thrives
on moist, rich pasture-land,
but has resisted the treatment
which has practically wiped-
out the lily in four years.
Use a knapsack-spray, fitted
with a No. 4 Rega fantail-
nozzle instead of the regular
Bordeaux nipple, with a mix-
ture of Tuluxone (l|oz. to
lgal. water), Polybor-chlorate
dioz. to 4gals. water) and a
wetting-agent (l|oz. to 4gals.
water). The wetting-agent can
be ordinary household liquid
detergent, and when hard
water is used the quantity
should be doubled. Best time
for spraying is at the start of
flowering, and each patch or
clump must be given a thorough
wetting. Weather conditions
are most important—a mini-
mum of 48 hours of fine, dry
and warm sunny weather is
needed for best results.
The tubers from which the
growth comes and all existing
foliage are affected by each
annual spraying, and subse-
quent growth is from the dor-
mant tubers and roots. This
regrowth becomes progressively
weaker each year as the root-
system is gradually destroyed.
Export Apples
“Lynx”: Orchardists in
Queensland’s Granite Belt are
trying hard to capture the
early-apple market in the
United Kingdom.
The apple-crop, now ready
for harvesting, will be bulk-
handled for quicker shipment.
Pickers will fill huge containers,
holding up to 60 bushels of
apples, which will be lifted
onto trailers and fork-lifts and
hauled to the grading-
machines.
The trial-shipments will be
packed in large boxes and sent
by semi-trailer to Brisbane for
shipment to various ports in
the United Kingdom. Ships
should arrive at their destina-
tions about mid-April, and the
fruit, coming on an empty
market, should realise high
prices.
Broiler Chickens
“Myall”: The broiler-
chicken industry, which sup-
plies Brisbane and the Gold
Coast, is developing into big
business. No longer must a
housewife order poultry days
ahead, and probably receive
an old bird fit only for stew-
ing. Food-markets now have
prepacked, dressed chickens
displayed on refrigerated
counters at a price comparable
to that of choicest beef. The
price-gap between chicken and
other meats is gradually closing
because with the number of
broiler - producers increasing
and improvements in breeding
and feeding, birds can be
retailed cheaper.
Next year a scientifically-
bred “super-meat” chicken will
be available to Queensland
housewives—a result of experi-
ments being conducted by the
Agricultural Department at
Rocklea Animal Husbandry
Research Farm. These chickens
will be heavier, and cheaper to
rear than present-day types.
A southern firm has also
developed a strain called the
“T.M.3. super-meat” chicken,
and preparations are being
made to distribute 750,000 day-
old chicks of this breed to
broiler-raisers in Queensland.
Scientific feeding of the maxi-
mum proteins they can assimi-
late, with a little of the fatten-
ing hormone stilbestrol, will
make it possible to retail
broilers at Is. a pound less
than the present price of high-
grade beef. The meat, too, will
be more tender and succulent
than that now marketed.
The expansion of the
industry has been spectacular.
For the first 10 months of
1957, about 219,000 cockerels
were slaughtered in the Bris-
bane-Gold Coast area ; this had
increased to over 325,000 for
the same period of 1958 and to
over 538,500 by the end of
October, 1959. At least 300,000
birds were sold during the
Christmas rush, and this
number fell short of the
demand.
Big broiler-cockerels, dress-
ing-out at 3|lb. to 51b. at about


GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
Although Import Restrictions may
make it more difficult to obtain
ALL the Tilley Spares you need,
limited supplies of every item
ARE available. If your Store-Keeper
is temporarily unable to
help you, ask him to contact
the Australian Agents :
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon, W. 5. Victoria
Phone: FX 4747
15 weeks old, are in greatest
demand ; but small, plump
chickens about nine weeks old
and weighing lib. to l|lb. are
eagerly sought for grilling and
barbecuing.
There are now over 40
broiler-chicken plants in
Queensland —the majority in
the Brisbane-Gold Coast area
•—which cost from £lO,OOO to
£lOO,OOO to establish. The
largest plant has an output of
5000 birds weekly, and is be-
ing geared-up to a turnover of
6500 a week.
On some farms, chickens are
reared in cages. This con-
serves space and in such con-
ditions chickens put on weight
quickly at greatly reduced cost.
Water for the Inland
Calpernum and Chowilla,
two stations in the lOin.-rain-
fall belt of South Australia,
have given a practical demon-
stration of drought-prevention,
and their example might be
copied with profit by others so
circumstanced.
Both stations lie north of
Berri, Calpernum having
576,000 acres and Chowilla
232,000. Like thousands of
other pastoral holdings in the
inland, they were not worried
by lack of feed but by shortage
of water. Stock tend to hang
round watering-points ; in any
case, three miles for sheep and
perhaps six for cattle is about
as far as they will travel for
feed away from water.
The Calpernum owners
solved the problem by installing
about 20 miles of 3in. fibro-
lite-piping from the Murray,
together with a diesel-
engine and pump. The piping
feeds a 3i-million-gallon dam
and six concrete tanks, five of
25,000ga15. capacity and one
of 30,000 gals. The tanks are
located roughly three miles
apart, and from them are sup-
plied cement drinking-troughs,
64ft. long. Lift to the highest
point is reputed to be 50ft.,
and it takes about 18 hours’
pumping a week to keep-up
the supply.
The job was costly, but has
paid big dividends. Before its
installation, Calpernum could
only carry 9000 sheep with any
degree of safety ; now it carries
25,000.
Chowilla went in for the
same system, except that it
used 4in. fibrolite-piping to tap
water from a permanent creek
on the Murray. It has six
20,000ga1. tanks and five
10,000 gal. storages. Chowilla
owners are so satisfied that
they plan to lay a further 20
miles of piping in addition to
the 19 miles already installed.
Chowilla’s carrying-capacity
in a dry time was as low as
3000 sheep; now the owners
reckon they can safely build-
up to 25,000.
Both properties had tried and
failed to obtain artesian
water now both can face-up
to drought. Their flocks have
only short distances to walk to
water, and keep in good con-
dition.
If these two can do it, why
not others? There is ample
scope along the Darling alone
for hundreds of similar plants.
Between Cobar and Bourke is
some of the best sheep-country
in the State of N.S.W., with
plenty of mulga as a standby.
But there’s no artesian water,
no permanent creeks, nor any
surface water.
I have often been over. the
Cobar-Bourke road in a dry
time. It is tragic to see 100
miles of beautiful country
carrying tons of feed, but prac-
tically no stock, simply because
there is no water. It has often
puzzled me why landowners
along that road do not form
a water-trust, iiistall a 6in. pipe-
line and pumping-plant and
reticulate their properties.
They could borrow over a
period of years ; there are no
engineering difficulties to over-
come ; and modern machinery
makes light work of laying 6in.
mains. Or, if there be an
objection to creating a water-
trust, what about the Cobar-
Darling shires tackling the
problem?
D. C. Tilghman.
Farm Hinfs
“Halpa”: When storing
grain on concrete floors, cover
the concrete with waterproof
material before operations,
When building new concrete
storage-spaces put a coating of
bitumen or prepared water-
proofing material between
foundation and floor to ensure
dryness.
“Cawah”: When taking-up
a line of fibro-piping, don’t
attempt to break the joint at
the rubber seal. With the pipe
under tension, tap the opposite
end of the socket with a
hammer till this leaves the
spigot. When relaying, coat the
inside of the socket and out-
side of the spigot with a
bitumenous compound,
Concrete - floored
farrowing-pens for pigs are
warm, dry and windproof and,
with a little sawdust or broken
straw on the floor, are practi-
cally ideal. However, piglets
must have access to dirt to
obtain iron which is absent in
sow’s milk, so a few shovelfuls
put in will keep them healthy.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/2/’60)
Queensland should have good rains during March,
with heaviest falls on the coastal districts and the Peninsula
and around the Gulf. There may be flooding in many parts
of the State, though the far-south-western districts may
have only light falls. A good season is likely in the
eastern half of the State, although rain may be light in the
western areas until November.
N.S.W. should receive moderate rain on the coastal
districts and on the tablelands and the n.-w slopes and
plains during March, with heavy falls and flooding on the
North Coast. Rainfall may be light elsewhere. Conditions
are likely to be mainly dry in April, with heavy rains and
serious flooding during May.
Rainfall should be patchy, and below normal in
Victoria during March and April, although good seasonal
rains are likely in May.
South Australia may have only poor rainfall during
March, followed by moderate rain in the agricultural areas
and on the west coastal districts during April. Good
seasonal rains should fall in the agricultural areas during
May.
Western Australia should receive good rains during
March, with heavy falls on the north-west-coastal districts.
Rainfall may be poor during April, apart from moderate
falls on the lower south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
F. W. DUESBURY, Chairman; H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
ALFRED S. WHITE ; A. G. PARKER ; DOUGLAS WADLEY ; T. K. MAGNEY.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States ) 'l6/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of Wisden’s Almanack,
1948 and 1949; also N.S.W.
Cricket Year Book, 13th, 14th, 18th
and 19th editions. —6944.
For a college library trying to
build-up a collection of Australiana:
Journal of the Royal Australian
Historical Society, vols. 1-11, 14-28
inclusive; Commonwealth Year
Book, Nos. 1, 2 and 4; Historical
Records of Australia, Series 1,
vols. 2 and 10; Australian Poetry,
except 1943, 1949-50, 1951-52, 1954
and 1956; Plays of the Year, vols.
1-5, 11.—6945.
The Story of South Africa, vol. 11
(Australasian edition), by G. B.
Barton, Frank Wilkinson and
others (pub. about 1902); Australian
Cavalry, by Frank Wilkinson (1902).
—6946.
Copy of a book of verse contain-
ing “Maloney’s Cockatoo,” by
“Riverina” (Cecil H. Winter).—
6948.
Elbow Room —author unknown,
but the book was in circulation
around 1900. —6947.
Information Sought
How many types of ibis are there
in Australia ? '
Three, the commonest of which
is the straw-necked ibis ( Threskiornis
spinicoliis), unknown outside Aus-
tralia. This species is less aquatic
than the others, visiting cultivated
areas and pastures to feed on grass-
hoppers, its principal food. The
average number of grasshoppers
found in the stomachs of several
birds investigated by D. Le Souet
proved to be 2000, and he estimated
that there were 240,000 birds in a
flock he found breeding in the
Riverina. Thus the birds are valu-
able as pest-controllers. The white-
ibis, common throughout northern
and eastern Australia, is nearly
related to the sacred ibis of Egypt.
The glossy-ibis occurs throughout
the Australian mainland and Tas-
mania. Outside Australia this
particular species is almost cosmo-
politan.
* * * *
When and where was the first
lighthouse built in Australia ?
At South Head, Port Jackson,
Sydney, under the authority ot
Governor Macquarie in 1817. It
was known as the Macquarie Light-
house, and was designed by Francis
Greenaway. The tower was 76ft.
high, and the light stood 353 ft.
above the sea. Two wings housed
the lightkeepers and their equip-
ment. The light itself, which was
illuminated by an oil-lamp, was not
installed until 1818, and is reported
to have been visible on a clear night
for a distance of 24 miles. The
lighthouse tower was repaired in
1822, and in 1883 it was replaced
by a new one, built nearby to a
similar design. This tower, called
the South Head Light, is still in
use, and is equipped with an electric
light of more than one-million
candlepower.
** # * *
Information on the water-rat’s
habits, diet, etc., and the best way
to trap him ?
Water-rats are the most interest-
ing of nativd rodents because their
special adaptations for aquatic life,
“It certainly sounds like a hacking cough, but I Wouldn't
care to venture a diagnosis without seeing you.”
such as the paddle-like and partly
webbed hind feet, have been
developed within the Australian and
New Guinea regions. Burrows up
to 15ft. long are made in banks;
food consists of snails and mussels,
crayfish or yabbies, frogs, fishes and
even water-birds, young poultry and
eggs. Water-rats are harmless,
except when too plentiful near river
or lakeside homesteads, and are
considered useful animals in some
districts because they feed on
yabbies, which burrow into irriga-
tion-canals. Water-rats can be
trapped in ordinary strong rat-
traps, baited with any kind of meat,
unseeded raisins and various fruits.
Pumpkin and cheese could also be
tried.
Brief Answers
N J.: Kerosene-tree, or kerosene-
wood, is a name often applied to
the North Queensland timber-tree
Halfordia scleroxyla because of its
very inflammable wood (even when
green). The highly resinous Heli-
chrysum ho'okeri, which flares-up
when ignited, has been called
kerosene-bush in Tasmania, where
it is a common mountain-shrub....
T. : Write to your Department
of Agriculture P.G.: Produc-
tion of bananas there is confined
almost entirely to a narrow strip
of land along the Gascoyne River
at Carnarvon. The crop is trans-
ported by road to Perth and sold
locally in competition with bananas
imported from other Australian
States... .E.W.: The figure is some-
what higher. There are in all
about 900 museums and art-
galleries open to the public in the
U. though many are only small
collections or merely a few rooms
set aside in a public building for
the display of local treasures. The
national museums and art-galleries
in London probably contain
between them the most compre-
hensive collection of objects of
artistic, historical, scientific, archaeo-
logical and general interest ever to
exist within one city... . A.V.G.:
Cold-chisels are better if well
worked and tempered off the
hammer. With the hammer-face at
the angle of the slopes to the
point, work the cutting-edge back
on both sides so that it is solid
and well compressed. For a tough
hardness, temper without reheating
and with regard to the type of steel
used... .M.T.: No available infor-
mation on such a question. It
would be best to put the matter
entirely in a solicitor’s hands....
M.P.: Why not write to the
director, The Genesian Theatre, 420
Kent Street, Sydney?
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
P.J.1.: The Cab'ean is news;
old age n0t....G.T.: We’re olt
gutter-poetry.... R.McD.: Clarify;
simplify... Not for us yet,
but promising for your age. Read
Angus and Robertson’s annual
Australian Poetry... .E.D.: They
have feeling but they’re amateurish.
J.G.E.: Charmed by the billy-
goat’s love-song M.W.: All
National Anthems are more or less
the same; yours would be as good
as anyone else’s if you could get
someone to sing them....J.D.:
“Ballad of the Week-old Bride” is
a very sad story... .A.M.A.: It’s
only rarely that we can venture
into that field P.K.: Abysmal.
... .R.L.: “I am unable to account
for this sudden burst.” Ah, it is
Inspiration.... J.0.P.: The best
thing you can do with “Ode to a
Flea” is squash it N. 0.: That's
a pale little petal H.McG.: If
she really likes your poetry as much
as all that, marry her 5.1.:
“Outback” backed 0ut....E.5.:
Simplify your style. Think of
language as an active form; don t
worry overmuch about “pre-
sumablies,” “therefores,” “expatiat-
ings,” etc.... .D.R.: Change it to
third-person. And how about get-
ting the hero out of his armchair?
. ...M.P.: Vaguely puzzled by the
phrase “excessively thingy.” In the
first place, you use it too much;
secondly, no one, not even the
Religious Editor, has an inkling of
its precise meaning V.S.:
Borders on the irreverent 8.P.:
It’s a reasonably fresh story, but,
interesting as Canada is, why not
try an Australian setting ?
M.J.8.: The bears have gone olt
on a picnic l ... .S.K. and E.K.: A
fair effort. Try to loosen the
dialogue. It seems a bit stilted at
present D.E.L.: Rather a long-
winded way of justifying your
favorite hymns. Why not try some
paragraphs? ... .C.K.: Unable to
use the poem, but the Valentine
Day card was attractive V. 1.:
It is, as you say, a “true descrip-
tion” of a cricket-match, but it’s all
been said before R.T.: Nearly.
Cut-out some of the reminiscences.


Divorce Notice
TO JAMES ELDERSHAW formerly of
Randall’s Siding, via Parkeston in the
State of Western Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife NORMA JEAN
ELDERSHAW has commenced an action
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for divorce on the
ground of desertion by you for a
continuous period of three years or more
or alternatively on the ground that you
have been separated for a “continuous
period of not less than five years
immediately preceding the commence-
ment of the action and there is no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation
being resumed IF you desire to defend
or lodge a counter-claim to such'
proceedings you must file your defence
and/or Counter-claim in the Central
Office of the. Supreme Court Perth
within forty clear days fsom the date
of this publication In default of
your so doing the action may proceed
and the Court may pronounce Judgment
and make such orders against you in
your absence as it shall deem fit. Dated
this 25th dav of February 1960. —G. T.
STAPLES. Registrar.
ABOUT COCKROACHES
OLAZINE kills the DIRTY
Over a million jars have ROACH
been sold.
NO SPRAYING NO
SMELL.
Just Put on Paper
or in Bottle Tops.
As Supplied to
Dep’t Army and U.S.A. Navy.
CHEMISTS & STORES
SYDNEY.
3/1 per Jar,
' 4/~ Post Free.
from
NICOL CHEMICAL CO.
...HIS LAST PARTY
TASTY SUPPER ■ HASTY DEATH
PTY. LTD., Brisbane.
style has been disciplined into
meaning and where abstraction
has been developed to just the
most effective point between
the real and the symbolic.
There is something to be
said, too, for the fairytale
charm of William Gleeson's
“Good Friday Afternoon” and
for Douglas Norwood’s “The
Ninth Hour,” which, even if
it looks like the familiar pieces
of iron sculpture, has a rich
luminosity about it and would
undoubtedly make a striking
altar-piece.
Thomas Gleghorn’s two en-
tries, failing to emerge suffici-
ently from abstraction, are
hardly more than decorations
—rich, but confused and turgid
—and Eric Smith has this year
got so vague that his nice
pieces of color have little more
to say for themselves than wall-
paper.
The Darcy Morris prize went
to Jean Appleton for a land-
scape called “The Miraculous
Draught of Fishes.” She has
done more attractive fish be-
fore, but this is refreshing in its
cool colors and moving planes
and, particularly frorfi a dis-
tance, stands up dramatically.
❖ ❖ ❖
Landscapes from France
Moya Dyring is showing
landscapes from France at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries —
curiously sketchy and lightless
works with a look of haste
about them and sometimes an
attractive lightness of touch, as
if the artist were trying to
accomplish in oils that quick
impression best caught in
watercolors. “Spring Flowers”
is very light, almost pretty-
pretty, but gay; and “Avalon”
has warmth and color.
❖ +>
Les Such
Les Such is currently show-
ing, in a wall of watercolor
drawings at the “Walk” Gallery
in David Jones’ (Sydney),
memories of a visit to Japan.
His series of light sketches of
various parts of the vessel he
travelled in and the personali-
ties on-board are less appeal-
ing than the Japanese scenes.
These, swift and delicate, are
in general pleasant: there are
some nice trees in “Yokohama
r'u,. u » ,
Protestant Church, and the
regimentation of the native
figures in “The Wharf at
JRabaul” is offset by the firm.
• , J
quiet COIOI.
+ +
*♦* ***
Durga Lall
. , . tt j ,
At Anthony Hordern s
Aranda Room, Sydney, are
paintings by Durga Lall; pro-
, . .y r., ° n ,
ceeds in aid of the
Mission, Madras. In her cata-
logue the artist explains: —
When Franzis Souza, the Goa
Painter whom I discovered for
Europe and for whom I gave his
first One-Man show in my house in
London, said on leaving—on
account of my complaint “I will
miss you somehow —“Why don t
you paint?” I replied, “Don’t be
silly, I cannot paint.” However,
Souza left some old Tubes and
Brushes, and in a desolate moment
a. power drove me to them, although
j h ac }. never touched any before,
and squeezing the contents on to
m y Breadboard, a magic urge got
ho J d °/ me ’ an obsession which did
not stop until I had about 8
paintings done, and fainted from
physical and mental exhaustion of
this unique experience of visional
creation. I never stopped painting
since. My frustrated artistic feel-
ings had taken a new direction and
found an outlet and expression.
When Souza finally saw this work,
he exclaimed: “Stop, or I am
no longer your friend! I replied:
“j found a better one.” By the
time Souza found it possible (after
coming from Paris) to enter a first
London Gallery, I already was a
veteran of Exhibitions. I started
full-speed painting in 1951.
. . .
Despite the spectral origin of
these paintings they bear a
considerable earthly resembl-
, c ...
ance to those of Picasso, with
touches of Douanier Rousseau.
THE HOLLIDAYS
"I'm afraid I cant pay the duty on this , Holliday. How about you and I knocking it off?"


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
His Excellency the Governor of Vic-
toria (Sir Dallas Brooks) and Lady
Brooks have issued invitations to a
garden-party at Government House -on
March 11. Cautiously, they have added
the words “weather permitting” to the
invitation. The following morning, the
vice-regal couple will entertain at another
garden-party —approximately 3600 mem-
bers of various youth organisations.
☆ ☆ ☆
Maurice Chevalier walked onto the
stage of the Comedy Theatre wearing
the familiar straw boater jauntily over
one eye and gave the audience a big
happy smile. He captivated the audience
from the beginning with “Thank Heaven
for Little Girls” and kept them amused
for almost two hours of singing, imita-
tions and chatter. In a most receptive
audience on opening night were Sir Dallas
and Lady Brooks and their son-in-law
and daughter Mr. and Mrs. Robin Byrne.
Lady Brooks chose a frock of white
chiffon embroidered with pink roses out-
lined with sequins and wore it with a
pink-chiffon stole. The short theatre-
frock was seen in a variety of materials.
There were filmy chiffons and laces,
satins and gaily printed cottons. Lady
Tait’s smart frock was of black French-
crepe cut on Empire lines; pinned on
her bag was a purple orchid. With her
husband was Mrs. Ronald Nott, wearing
a striking ensemble in orange-printed
silk-faille. Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Buxton
were there with their son-in-law and
daughter Dr. and Mrs. J. Stoney, of
Albury. Mrs. Buxton chose a short full-
skirted frock of black silk-taffeta, printed
in small pink roses. Mrs. Stoney’s choice
was a white brocade silver-threaded
frock. Mr. and Mrs. Morris Sallmann
and Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Sloman were
in the audience, as were Mr. and Mrs.
M. Ress and their son and daughter-in-
law, Mr. and Mrs. Leon Ress. Outstand-
ing among the younger members of the
audience were Sarah Luxton wearing a
mink-trimmed powder-blue satin-coat,
Prue Elder, in a frock of candy-pink
chiffon and Sandra Pizzey, attractive in
a floral silk-taffeta frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
First function organised by the
recently formed Spastic Children’s
Society Eastern Suburbs Group was a
luncheon for 40 guests at the. Hotel
Australia. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
Bernard Evans) was guest-of-honor and
chose a jacket-suit of forest-green pure
silk, patterned in a floral design of green
and dark-brown. It was worn with a
fascinator of black veiling, spotted in
chenille. Mrs. John Rosenberg, smart
in a frock of strawberry-red brocade
and a large matching red hat with a
drooping brim, received the official
guests, who included Mrs. Rattray Wood,
Miss M. McCauley (secretary of the
Spastic Children’s Society) and Mrs.
Maria Donovan, author of It’s a Square
World. During luncheon Mrs. Donovan
spoke of her recent trip to the Near
East. Another guest was Mrs. H.
Houston, of Maroomba, North Queens-
land, who is visiting her daughter, Mrs.
Rosenberg. Also present were Mrs. Tony
Gorman, Mrs. Ernest Nieman, Mrs.
Peter Condon, Mrs. H. Lee, Mrs. M.
Smith, Mrs. J. Dolan, Mrs. H. Lasky
and Betty Birss.
In the Miss Teen-age Quest, 1959,
Barbara Burrows raised £1000 which,
with money raised by other contestants,
went to the Royal Women’s Hospital.
Barbara has a twin sister, and the girls
are daughters of Mr. and Mrs. A. S.
Burrows, of Beaumaris. Barbara, who is
a clerk in the Taxation Department, is
again an entrant in this year’s Miss Teen-
age Quest and she’s busy with money-
spinning efforts by ' which she hopes to
better last year’s total. Her sponsors in
the quest are Parkmore Holmes, building
contractors. Barbara’s hobbies are tennis,
swimming and dressmaking.
Even the weather was in the appro-
priate mood for the premiere at the
'Little Theatre of Oriel Gray’s prize-
winning play “Burst of Summer.”
Actors mopping their brows during the
course of the play found sympathetic
reaction from the audience. Because of
the heat many pretty filmy frocks were
seen in the audience. Lady Brooks, who
was there with Sir Dallas, chose a
delightful short frock in candy-pink
organza. Diamente shoe-string straps
held the fitted bodice, and sequin-and-
diamente embroidery formed a pattern
on the front of the full skirt. The vice-
regal couple were accompanied by their
son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Robin Byrne, she in a short, full theatre-
coat on white faille, splashed all over
with a design of blue carnations. Irene
Mitchell, who produced “Burst of
Summer,” chose a formal gown of leaf-
green silk-taffeta, and Mrs. Garnet
Carroll looked cool in a becoming short
frock of white chiffon, coin-spotted in
black, its shirred bodice featuring a deep
rounded neckline and the full skirt
trimmed with a band of black Chantilly-
lace. Author of the play, Oriel Gray,
chose a slim-fitting frock of deep cafe*
au-laix guipure-iace. Lace was also
chosen by Mrs. John McCallum (Googie
Withers) for her frock, which was black
and had a short full skirt allied to a
bodice with a deep V at the back. Sir
Frank and Lady Tait, Mrs. Rupert
Downes (who was with her grand-
daughter Susan Campbell), Dr. Margaret
Troup and Mr. and Mrs. John Summer
were also in the audience.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a delightful morning-tea party in
her suite at the Oriental Hotel, Mrs.
Maurice Ress outlined plans for a series
of functions in aid of the Montifiore
Homes. She is president of a recently
formed ladies’ auxiliary which will work
for that cause. The first function will
be a champagne-party next Sunday
(March 6), to be held at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Visbord, 27 Lansell
Road, Toorak. A highlight of the party
will be a preview of a winter-collection
by Le Louvre. Mrs. Visbord, accom-
panied by her daughter Carole, was at
the morning-tea, and other committee-
members present were Mrs. J. Sharp,
Mrs. O. Waisberm, and Mrs. J. Bercove.
Tickets and reservations are in the hands
of Mrs. J. Korman (L 82419) and Mrs.
D. .Davis (LB4401). Tickets: £5 ss.
double.
☆ ☆ ☆
About 130 guests attended the
luncheon at the Victoria given by the
Australian-Asian Association in honor
of the High Commissioner for India,
Shri Samar Sen, and his attractive wife,
who were paying their first official visit to
this city. Association president Sir
Charles Lowe, and Lady Lowe, with vice-
president J. R. C. Taylor and Mrs.
Taylor, and hon.-secretary Norman
Rosenthal and Mrs. Rosenthal, received
the official guests, among whom were
Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring and
Lady Herring, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans)
and Chief Secretary Arthur Rylah (who
represented the Premier). Also present
were Mr. Justice Sholl, Mrs. Arthur
Dean, Sir Wilfred and Lady Kent
Hughes, Professor L. Mathieson (vice-
chancellor of Monash University) and
Mrs. Mathieson, Thai Consul H. I. Fader
and Mrs. Fader, the president of the
Geelong branch of the association (Dr.
Noel Heath) and Mrs.' Heath, Mr. and
Mrs. L. J. Dooling and Mrs. W. K.
Burnside. Miss Violet Morgan taste-
fully arranged the flowers for the
luncheon: large bowls of red gladioli,


carnations and driftwood in Grecian
urns, with low bowls of mixed flowers
on every table.
SYDNEY
The news of the week was, of course,
the announcement of Princess Margaret’s
engagement to Mr. Antony Armstrong-
Jones, and everyone is delighted about
it, as “Tony”—as he prefers to be called
—is the same age as the Princess (29)
and shares so many of her interests.
Many people have been struck by his
resemblance, in a couple of photographs,
to the Duke of Windsor when Prince
of Wales, and others have commented
on the fact that, although handsome,
he is under sft. 6in. in height. (The
Princess herself is about sft. 2in.) They
both look remarkably happy in their
engagement-photographs. Theirs should
be a gay and joyous marriage.
☆ ☆ ☆
It seems safe to predict, too, that
there will be a revival of ruby-and-
diamond fashion for engagement-rings,
especially set in gold in a flower-design!
☆ ☆ ☆
An honor accorded to Australian
bookplate-designer and engraver Ella
Dwyer was the exhibition last month
of samples of her work at the Montalvo
Art Gallery at Saratoga, U.S.A. With
Miss Dwyer’s work was also shown the
work of Robert Louis, the official
heraldic artist of France, and Hans
Ictserinkhuijson, of Amsterdam. Miss
Dwyer has designed ex libris plates for
many famous people including Sir
Joseph Kinsey (who was knighted for
the aid he gave to Antarctic expeditions),
David H. Graham, New Zealand scientist
and author, and Lady Game, wife of a
former Governor of N.S.W.
This is not the first time Miss Dwyer’s
bookplates have been exhibited in
America. Last year they were shown
at the Los Gatos Memorial Library,
and she has received many commissions
from Americans to etch special designs
for them. Some of her etchings are
included in the authoritative work of
the late Percy Neville Barnett Pictorial
Nameplates; Their Origin and Use in
Australia. She is the sister of author
Vera Dwyer and does all her work at
her home at Roseville, Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
A very distinguished visitor who
arrived in Sydney during the week is
Dr. Anne Carlsen, who is to remain in
Australia for five weeks and will address
interested groups on the care and treat-
ment of handicapped children. Although
severely handicapped from babyhood
herself (she has no hands or feet), Dr.
Carlsen, who is still in her Twenties,
is Superintendent of the Crippled
Children’s School in Jamestown, North
Dakota, U.S.A., is a Master of Arts and
a Doctor of Philosophy, drives her own
car and has a fine style in handwriting.
At the leception given in her honor
by the N.S.W. Society for Crippled
Children, president Sir Kenneth Coles,
with Lady Coles, greeted the guests,
who included Mr. and Mrs. Hugh
Bedwin (famed for their work with the
Civilian Maimed and Limbless Associa-
tion) ; Mr. Frank Brown (with Mrs.
Brown), representing Rotary ; Mr. N. W.
Drummond, from the Far West Child-
ren’s Movement; Miss Bromell, from
the Margaret Reid Orthopaedic Hospital;
Miss M. Bayliss, Miss Thoms and Mrs.
J. Grice, officers-in-charge of the
Crippled Children’s Society’s three
schools at Canterbury, Kogarah and
Parramatta.
Muriel Pavlow, who stars with her
husband Derek Farr in the J. C. William-
son’s comedy “Odd Man In,” to open
at the Royal on March 19, is already
known to Sydney people through her
films, notably “Doctor in the House”
and “Doctor at Large.” It was in her
first film appearance during the war,
“Quiet Wedding,” that she met her
husband, who starred with Margaret
Lockwood. Born in England and edu-
cated there and in Switzerland, Miss
Pavlow has appeared on the stage with
a galaxy of theatrical stars, starting from
the time when as a child she “walked-on”
in “The Old Maid,” which starred Lillian
Gish. She has also appeared on TV,
playing Ophelia in the Television Festival
production of “Hamlet.”
At the international luncheon held
at Mark Foy’s restaurant for women-
delegates and wives of delegates to the
International Congress of .Scientific
Management, a parade of wool-fashions
was shown which stressed the great
variety and elegance of wool-fabrics,
“Australia’s national pride,” as it was
billed.
Mrs. R. J. Webster welcomed the 250
guests, who included Dr. Lillian M.
Gilbreth, the distinguished American
efficiency-expert (known to so many
Australians as the mother of 12 children
in the best-seller Cheaper by the Dozen),
Mrs. M. Marconi, of Milan (whose hus-
band is leader of the Italian group at
the congress), Mrs. E., C. Schleh, of
Minnesota, U.S.A. (who said she had
found little to distinguish Australians
from Americans during her visit here),
and many other interesting women from
all parts of the world. New Zealanders
included Mrs. A. E. Bartrum, of Christ-
church, and Mrs. B. A. Moon, from
Wellington, also Mrs. R. Simmonds, who
is a New Zealander living in Australia.
Mrs. F. N. Leddy was one of those who
featured a spring-like hat covered with
white flowers, as did Mrs. A. Burton-
Taylor, of Warrawee. Also present were
Mrs. F. C. Bennett, Mrs. R. Tolnay and
Mrs. P. C. Williams (Melbourne).
☆ ☆ ☆
“To wet the head” of the Queen’s
new baby son was the occasion for the
gathering of the members of the Royal
Commonwealth Society during the week.
Proposing the toast, in champagne, was
Mr. Ivan Black, M.L.A., who said it
was a rather emotional moment for him,
as he was making his last speech as
president of the society. Then (after
Mr. A. L. Rigby had spoken in praise
of the work that Mr. Black had done as
president) everyone drank his health in
champagne.
☆ ☆ ☆
Actor George Sanders’s comment, re-
ported during the week, that “a beautiful
woman gets old. A plain woman gets
plain and old besides,” shows just how
wrong a person can be. Anyone who
has been to an Old Girls’ Reunion 30
years after will confirm that it is hard
to pick out those who were considered
pretty in schooldays and those who were
ugly (to use the schoolgirl’s crude word).
In fact, the once-ugly often surpass the
others in looks because they have taken
the trouble to develop character and
personality over the years, the things that
really make for beauty in an ageing face.
V V
A barbecue with a special interest will
be that held in the beautiful gardens of
Broughton Hall on Saturday, March 5.
The auxiliary arranging the barbecue
particularly want people to see the
lovely surroundings of Broughton Hall
and to get to appreciate the value of
the work that is done there in restoring
its patients (all of whom are voluntary)
to full mental health. Tickets for the
barbecue are 12s. 6d. each and are
obtainable from Mrs. C. Radeski
(UM7589). Proceeds will go towards the
hospital canteen and other amenities.
☆ ☆ ☆
While browsing through a “Round the
World” cookery-book it was surprising
to find that a popular everyday dish in
Australia is “Toad in the Hole”! One
can only assume that the author had her
leg pulled by one of our “wags.” Other
“typical” dishes she gives are pumpkin-
soup, lamb-pie, oatmeal-bread, cheese-
curry biscuits and peanut sponge-cake!


the Perfect Patient, it is with the wary
flourish of a tragedian hoping the
audience won’t laugh: from the point
of view of the General Patient, the
General Practitioner’s Perfect Patient
might seem a bit of a crawler.
All in all, it makes a fascinating
cross-section of present-day English
life, from living-room to lavatory, and
a welcome statement of the doctor's
point of view as against those of
recent debunkers of the medical pro-
fession.
John Aubrey
Anthony Powell’s John Aubrey and
His Friends (Heinemann), which was
first published in 1948, a year before
Oliver Lawson Dick’s magnificent
edition of the “Lives,” and has now
been reissued, is essentially an anti-
quarian’s or a scholar’s biography
rather than a biographer’s. Though he
has written novels and should be able
to organise and dramatise his material.
Powell never seems able to take
Aubrey up as a living character and
set him clearly and straightforwardly
moving through the turbulent, tragic
and irresistibly comic events of his
life.
From the facts which he sets down
the reader can, it is true, see clearly
enough what sort of a man Aubrey
was. Thus on page 174, very late in
the book to place so clear a stroke of
portraiture for the first time, Aubrey’s
friend Ralph Sheldon (who was sus-
pected of being a Papist and was
imprisoned during the frenzy over
Titus Oates) memorably describes him
in a letter: “Yesterday came to mee
honest Mr. John Awbrey, whose head
is so full that it will not give his
tongue leave to utter one word after
another. I assure you he is (to my
apperance) as mad as anyone almost
in the university of Bedlam.” On page
176 Aubrey himself comes on, in a
letter to his cranky, irascible, anti-
quarian friend Anthony Wood, to
indicate at least one of the things of
which his head was so full: he had
repeated in another letter the rumor
that, during the Popish plot scare, the
Queen was accused of attempting to
poison the King and Aubrey now
excused his perilous indiscretion on
the grounds that “my head was fuller
of good wine than prudence.”
On page 187 Sheldon gives another
invaluable glimpse of him—“l have
met our friend Mr. Awbrey twice in
the streete, talking to himselfe and
passing forward without regarding
anybody ; I am really of the opinion
that he is a little crazed.” And so
from a glimpse here and a glimpse
there throughout the book it is possible
—not that Aubrey is an unfamiliar
figure to those who cherish the “Lives”
—to build-up a lifelike portrait of this
busy, idle, drunken, gossiping, tor-
mented, happy-go-lucky, stammering,
excitable, altogether charming “Little
Boswell” who was always full of the
great books he was going to write,
always plagued by the poverty which
reduced him in middle life to an exis-
tence of sponging on his friends and
relations, and usually so full of wine
that his MS. is practically indecipher-
able; and who. a “little Boswell” in
literature as well as in life, left us at
least one book of unfading charm, the
“Brief Lives” ; and left, too, as Powell
rightly reminds us. quite a body of
other writing in the shape of his
“Miscellanies” about witch-craft and
his antiquarian “Wiltshire Collec-
tions.” But it is left largely to the
reader to assemble for himself, from
these glimpses among Powell’s anti-
quarian researches, the portrait of the
living man.
However, if it is a little paradoxical,
and regrettable, that a biographer who
excelled in brevity should himself be
biographed in a Life cluttered with
detail, it must be admitted that the
provision of detail —who Aubrey’s
friends were ; the elucidation and
expansion of “The Lives” —was pre-
cisely Anthony Powell’s object in this
book.
Devotees of Aubrey will probably
value every word of it. It is cheering
for any reader of the “Lives” to learn
that, in spite of the failure of all his
matrimonial projects (even to falling
into protracted and ruinous lawsuits
with one of his intended brides)
Aubrey apparently managed to console
himself during his long years of
bachelordom and poverty (Thomas
Pigott, with whom Aubrey used to
correspond about the Universal Lang-
uage, wrote “1 never met with any
persons more deserving and obliging
than Mr. Aubrey and his lady”). And
after all, Aubrey was so entertaining
in himself, his writings, his friends and
his interests that no book about him
could fail to catch something of his
spirit. Whether he is learning from a
curate about a voice that laughed so
loud a ho-ho “on the other side of a
hedge” that he thought it must be
Robin Goodfellow. or meeting in
France a peasant whose cheek had
been gnawed by a werewolf, or listen-
ing to a Greek singing his way through
Xenophon and Homer, or gossiping
about Pepys’s colleague. Lord Brounc-
ker, who had to be bribed through his
mistress, Aubrey is always worth meet-
ing again; and Powell’s book does give
a much fuller account of him than
Oliver Lawson Dick’s introduction to
the “Lives”—even though that must
be one of the longest introductions on
record.
World Without Godot
Samuel Beckett reminds one of a
solitary radio-operator periodically
transmitting strange and enigmatic
messages from a tiny cellar below the
streets of an anonymous city. He has
CUNNINGHAM’S SKINK
So slow with sleep, so quick to slide
From footstep’s threat or shadow’s
hazard,
Speckled and black with sun and shade,
Half granite rock and half a lizard.
So far as you are visible, friend,
Rasping your way to that dark chink
Where now you lurk, l apprehend
You must be Mr. Cunningham s Skink.
The grasshoppers flash green and yellow
Like flying sunlight by the stream,
Calm glides the water past the willow
And you are safe in your dark home;
So there you are and here I am,
Each well content to watch the other,
But where is Allan Cunningham
Who rode these rocks and far out further
By Darling Downs and Liverpool Plains
When all the world was hot and wide
With sunlight for his bridle-reins;
And like a hawk the mountains spied,
And pounced on flowers and squeezed
them dry
And seized the brown snake by the tail
And trapped the birds and sent his eye
Poking like the horn of a snail
Under the stone and into the cleft;
So lived to make the botanists blink
In learned Kew, and died and left
His name immortal in a skink . . .
No matter with what foolish burdens
And economic turns and twists
Like growing carrots in the Gardens
They plagued Colonial Botanists,
No matter in what stony tomb
Secret and dank and solitary
In his own pond they planted him
To sleep like some dim waterlily.
You’ve but to move, my speckled friend,
With your reptilian hiss and slither
And there’s his own quick sliding mind
Joining the three of us together
Sunlight and rock and running water,
Lizard and I and, so I think,
Cunningham’s dark scaly rapture
Pouncing to capture Cunningham’s Skink.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
never seemed to care much—at any
rate in his plays—whether or not the
public knew the wave-length of his
thoughts and feelings. His first play,
“Waiting for Godot,” was his clearest.
Few people could claim to have under-
stood it in full —its symbolism was far
too complex, its language too Joycely
allusive —but most people could get
some meaning from it, for the central
image it projected was of a very public
state of mind: the anxiety commonly
felt in a world without unquestionable
sanctions and ideals. The proof of this
was the excitement “Godot” aroused
in audience after audience, even while
it confused and baffled them.
However, instead of learning from
“Godot” what symbols the public
would grasp and working from them
towards a clearer statement, Beckett
has withdrawn a little further from the
market-place with each play, until now,
with the publication of Krapp’s Last
Tape and Embers (Faber), it is almost
impossible to get in touch with him.
In “Krapp’s Last Tape,” a short
monologue for the stage, a mumbling
old man rummages through his desk,
fiddles frenziedly with tape-recordings,
eats a banana, tipples in the dark
behind the spotlight, plays a tape he
made many years ago about an erotic
experience, derides the passions and
hopes he can no longer feel, and
generally gives the impression that his
whole life has been little more than an
absurdity. In “Embers,” a short radio-
play, an ageing man sits by the sea
talking to himself about his past. He
is joined by his wife, and together they
evoke the impasse of their marriage,
the helpless anguish of the small
daughter he did not want, his anger
at the failure of his mind and nerves
and the cruel pointlessness of all
activity. Godot has not come, and
nobody has even waited for him.
Both these plays, like the earlier
ones, ingeniously exploit the mechanics
of their respective media; but the
images they project are of nothing but
a bone-bare desolation ; and the
language, always closer to poetry than
to the normal requirements of prose
and drama, borders now on incanta-
tion. “Fire out, bitter cold, great
trouble, white world, not a sound,”
says the man on the beach, over and
over.
What is disturbing about all this,
apart from the obscurity, is the inescap-
able feeling that Beckett is not merely
expressing the marginal experiences
of age and neurosis ; that he intends
these plays as comments on life gener-
ally; that he finally sees all humanity
straitjacketed in its own deadly
compulsions or living off its
past with a failing memory ; that the
“message” he has chosen to dwell
upon is the one expressed by Hamm
in “Endgame”: “You’re on earth, man,
and there’s no cure for that.”
Of course, every thinking person is
bound to be overcome by something
like this feeling at some time or other,
and Beckett, like the early Eliot and
others, has expressed it unforgettably
for us. But as a total view of life it
is more subject than most to the law
of diminishing returns. It can prob-
ably be sustained by the writer who is
interested in how and why things keep
going wrong—i.e., by a realist—but
the dealer in pure symbols soon finds
his stock of universal images for it
running out. He is then forced to dig
deeper and deeper into his private
stock. This is what appears to have
happened to Beckett—at any rate in
one branch of his art. If he does not
free himself from his “bitter cold,
white world” of subjectivity it is hard
to see how he can survive as a play-
wright.
"Coast to Coast"
Contributions are invited for the
fourteenth issue of Coast to Coast, the
anthology of Australian short-stories
published every second year. Writers
may submit two or three recently-
written stories.
The anthology will be edited this
year by Cecil Hadgraft, and contribu-
tions should bo addressed to the
Editor, “Coast to Coast 1959-60,” c/o
Angus & Robertson Ltd., 89 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. Closing-date
March 31.
Reviewed Briefly
The Magic Stones: Alain (Faber).
A simple and accurate description,
chiefly for children, of the way men
learned to buttress an arch. It tells
all about keystone, vaults and pillars,
and shows in word and picture how
the Romanesque and Gothic arches
were evolved.
* • • *
Trade Unions in Australia: edited
by John Wilkes and S. E. Benson for
the Australian Institute of Political
Science (Angus and Robertson).
Papers by Lloyd Ross, Lord Citrine,
David J. McDonald, J. H. Wootten,
D. Rawson and A. E. Monk at the
Summer School held in Canberra in
January, 1959. With lively speeches,
followed in each case by discussion—
P. A. Wright on the sad lot of the
woolgrowers or J. Ducker of the Iron-
workers asking Wootten “If we were
at war with China and Healy of
the Waterside Workers decided to call
a stoppage, thereby assisting Com-
munist China to take over Australia,
would that be a proper application of
the right to strike?”—it makes an
interesting book in which most of our
contemporary political problems get an
airing.
* * • *
Invasion: John Frayn Turner
(Harrap). A popular and very read-
able account of D-Day, illustrated with
some excellent photographs. As
when the Commandos are bursting into
Langrune through the breach in the
walls—a most vivid scene—it takes the
reader right into the action, and at the
same time there is a good comprehen-
sive picture of the complete invasion,
from preparations in England to the
precarious landings and eventual con-
solidation of the beach-heads.
* * • *
A Matter of Conviction: Evan
Hunter (Constable). When three
members of a Harlem juvenile gang
kill a Puerto Rican boy the Assistant
D.A. assigned to prosecute them be-
comes the object of demands and
threats. The tabloid papers and the
victim’s gang want the killers sent to
the chair; the killers’ gang and the
attorney’s anti-Puerto Rican neighbors
want an acquittal. A Harlem boy him-
self, the attorney goes searching for
the facts behind the case and soon
finds himself questioning the whole
nature of justice and society’s respon-
sibility for its criminals. He decides
that the youths fight and kill because
the insecurity of Harlem life plants
in them a fear they have to conquer;
and he sees that he also has been fight-
ing a similar fear in other ways all his
life. Characters are all from stock ;
plot is sometimes cheap and thin with,
cliches ; but it makes a good fast read,
well colored with documentary interest.
* * • *
Churchill; the Walk with Destiny:
compiled and designed by H. Tatlock
Miller and Loudon Sainthill (Hutchin-
son). An immense, handsome and ex-
ceptionally interesting book of photo-
graphs, some in color, most in black-
and-white, illustrating the great man’s
career from infancy (there is a color-
photograph of a lock of his auburn
infant curls, “preserved at Blenheim”),
through his first days in the House of
Commons, Boer War and World War
I days up to World War II and after-


U
U
w.
m
vv
""’’N
' *&
a
w
(TO
N *-C
/rT/^
/>r>s
***■
vJ
/ :
j
i
Uhi
13
sSf
c
o
\
qKJ
i
>***
Q^>/
©
*25
V 5.
iS
,~
VS
v§
All these farmers (bar one)
22fcv
.
t
m
TRACTOR FUELS md
LUBRICANTS
BP Super and C.O.R petrol—the Benzol
blends • BP Power Kerosine • BP Diesoleum
• BP Energol Tractor Oil Universal and
a comprehensive range of BP Energol
automotive oils and greases.
Prompt deliveries of BP tractor fuels and
lubricants are available from your local BP/C.O.R agent •
BP
m
CBl3
RP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oi! Refineries Limited
