

The Bulletin
"Saturday-afternoon Hero”—Page n
Wednesday, June 8, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"We struck oil, then a willy-willy struck us."


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
QUEENSLAND ANTHOLOGY
Granted its special purpose and
allowing for the inevitable arguments
as to who’s in and who’s out and what’s
in and what’s out, The Queensland
Centenary Anthology (Longmans),
edited by R. S. Byrnes and Val Vallis,
seems a pretty good job. It is certainly
an attractive piece of reading: which, in
a centenary anthology, is phenomenal.
Those who, like the present reviewer,
have been protesting lately at the
neglect of Australian documentary
literature in favor of trivial verse and
.fiction, can have no complaints this
time, for the collection opens with an
excellent essay by F. W. Robinson on
“The Earliest Writings of Queensland”
in which there are not only liberal
quotations from the journals of Cook
and Flinders but also appropriate
references to the reappearances of these
navigators in such works as Kenneth
Slessor’s “Five Visions of Captain
Cook.”
There follows John Dunmore Lang
on “Colonisation” —not as vivid as a
quotation from a colonist’s diary could
have been, but interesting enough.
Then, proving from the outset that this
anthology is not going to be too stuffily
respectable and laudatory, there is
Philip Durham Lorimer’s
Queensland! thou art a land of
pest:
From flies and fleas we ne’er can
rest;
Kanakas, Chinese and murderous
Blacks,
Frightful roads and outlandish
tracks,
Spinifex and desert sandy.
Horrid rum and wretched brandy ...
Passing on to a woeful but fascinat-
ing ballad by George Vowles about a
blackfellow who had a trip to Scotland
but
Nor rested he till to his heart
His lubra dear he prest —
“No more,” he said, “will I depart
From her whom I love best,”
and on to Tom Petrie on aboriginal
customs, then a most moving and
dramatic account of the shipwreck of
the Sovereign in Moreton Bay in 1847,
then to one of Ernest Favenc’s best
melodramas (about the French convicts
escaping from New Caledonia), the
pattern of the anthology soon makes
itself clear. The editors have set out
to present, more-or-less in historical
sequence, a representative and readable
selection of Queensland writing from
1859 to 1959: not limiting it strictly to
the highest literary quality but satis-
fied if it represents the State fairly and
interestingly.
For a centenary anthology that
seems fair enough; indeed, admirable.
A centenary anthology is surely the
appropriate place to remember the
lesser writers; whether, as a few of these
do, they strike us today as naive or
whether, as in the bush ballads and
popular verses such as Mary Flannay
Foott’s “Where the Pelican Builds,”
Mabel Forrest’s “Moonrise” and
George Essex Evans’s “Women of the
West,” they still seem good of their
kind and their period.
With writings of this kind to start
it there is, moreover, no lack of literary
interest. Simple as he was, Steele
Rudd in any selection from “On Our
Selection” remains humorous and mov-
ing and, in his humble way, immortal.
And if Randolph Bedford, though
much more ambitious and energetic, is
hardly likely to last so well, except in
anthologies, he is always intriguing to
this reviewer at any rate for the like-
ness he shows to Zola in his coarse-
ness, melodrama and force.
It is pleasant among the more literary
contributions to come across Brian
Vrepont’s lovely lyric “The Apple
Tree” once again; to recognise the
force of Colin Roderick’s picture of
Rosa Praed when she was talking to
ghosts; to read some remarkably good
poems by Muriel Armstrong Lewis,
Thea Astley and Roger Covell; to
renew acquaintance with Judith
Wright’s “Cicadas” and to realise
the depth and clarity of her
“Vision”; and to discover (in all
modesty) how astonishingly large a
part “The Bulletin” has played in the
development of Queensland literature.
From Bedford and Steele Rudd on to
E. M. England, Lex McLennan. H. M.
Green, W. N. Scott, E. Dithmack,
Margaret Trist, John Blight, John
Henderson, David Rowbotham, Val
Vallis, Vance Palmer, Henry G.
Lamond, R. S. Porteous and right up
to Thomas Shapcott, the latest promis-
ing young poet to emerge, all these
writers, and others, have been associ-
ated with this paper, and most of their
contributions here are reprinted from
it.
To criticise the selection for a
moment: a pioneer settler should have
been in to accompany Dunmore Lang.
James Devaney, E. M. England,
Thomas Shapcott and others could
have been better represented. It is
extraordinary to have represented
M. H. Ellis’s “Greenway” by a piece
of the foreword written by Morton
Herman; and there also seems to have
been some sort of muddle about
Llewelyn Lucas. Though it is interest-
ing to have P. R. Stephensen discussing
A. G. Stephens’s force of character and
catholicity of taste, it would have been
better to have included a piece of
Stephens’s own criticism.
Though there is something to be said
for displaying their prowess in pure
artistry, some of the writers, including
Vance Palmer, would have been more
fittingly represented by themes and
settings more specifically related to
Queensland; and, similarly, the literary
criticisms (A. K. Thomson is interest-
ing on Furphy’s debt to the worst of
Shakspeare's plots)' could also, with
advantage, have dealt with Queensland
writers.
Other points could be made; but,
take it all round, this is a worthwhile
anthology, well and faithfully put
together.
Two Women Novelists
Recently I have read two Queens
land novels, both by women, which
seem to me to make an interesting
contrast: Margaret Trist’s Morning in
Queensland and (written 80 years
earlier) Rosa Praed’s Policy and
Passion.
A red-blooded tale of political
intrigue, seduction in high circles,
revenge and romance in the bush,
“Policy and Passion” is highly
romantic, with two heroines —an
ethereal girl artist who dies of unre-
quited love and a sensuous beauty who
just misses a fate-worse-than-death
(which she has been assiduously court-
ing), in two chapters entitled “In
Peril” and “Saved.”
The great contrast between the two
is in sophistication. In “Morning in
Queensland” Grandma dismisses sex
as “all that nonsense,” the girl Tansy
airily accepts the facts of life as repre-
sented by a girl a little older who “goes
wrong,” and there is a laconic detach-'
ment in the statement of “Meredith’s”
attitude to her wandering husband
which reads strangely beside the palpi-
tating passion of Mrs. Praed. But the
descriptions of outback conditions and
scenery in “Policy and Passion” and
the queer minor characters are lively
and authentic; as are the political
scenes in the Queensland Parliament of
the day.
This is the book which, according
to Dr. Colin Roderick (“In Mortal
Bondage: The Strange Life of Rosa
Praed”) her publisher forced her to
“tone down, tone down, tone down,”
resulting in a bowdlerised version
appearing in print. Even so her books
were considered “not nice,” and were
kept out of the hands of young people-
If Rosa Praed had been a con-
temporary of Margaret Trist, free of
{Continued on page 58)


-r* »
r*-
•••*:•>
I
#
rv
m
sww >
y.:
■
t .
■M
mm
\f
V?
f'
r*
y
a
!/
ff
/ // i
“What makes
the locomotive go?”
You could say the combined power of nearly two thousand horses,
fed by electricity generated by a diesel engine.
But that is only part of the story. The Railways aren’t run on horsepower
alone. They are run, twenty-four hours in every day, every day of the
year, by a team of hard-working railwaymen and women, 51,000 strong.
They are drawn from nearly every trade and profession known to
industry anti‘’commerce —men and women whose skills are distributed
right throughout the State—not concentrated beneath a single factory roof.
Many of them, signalmen, gangers, fettlers, station staff and the like,
are called upon to carry out their duties in isolated places. Many of
them are third and fourth generation Australians whose families have
known no other than railway-service—a service to the people.
All are working continually and consistently for the progress and
prosperity of the State.
q:
To
CO
o
<o
*
n;
ai
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 8, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4191
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OEFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings {opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE LABOR OUTLOOK
'T'HE result of the Queensland elec-
A tion is said to be heartening to
the A.L.P., and it has high hopes of
winning the next State elections, even
if it has lost the one just past by a large
majority.
Hope is always a cheap commodity,
and it is a diet on which Labor has
been living for a number of years both
in the Federal and State regions. On
present prospects, except for Tasmania,
where the party would certainly be out
of power if it were not for its weird
electoral system, there won’t be a
single Labor Government in Australia
after the next N.S.W. poll unless Mr.
Heffron can contrive an even more
magnificent gerrymander in favor of
industrial seats, and locate his housing
schemes and construction-works that
go on for ever even more skilfully,
than the wily N.S.W. Premiers who
preceded him.
The Queensland result was a fore-
gone conclusion even though the Bris-
bane press professes to be surprised at
the fact that in the carve-up of the
Q.L.P. fugitive votes the A.L.P. gained
six seats and the Government only
three.
It was ominous for official Labor
rather than the reverse. The Q.L.P.
lost 17 per cent, or thereabouts of the
votes of the previous election, but of
these only 12 per cent, went back to
Labor; 5 per cent, went to the Govern-
ment parties. Thus the Liberals and
C.P. between them polled about 43.5
per cent, of the votes and the A.L.P.
only 40 per cent., with the Q.L.P.
holding the balance, outside independ-
ents, of round about 12 per cent.
It was inevitable that the Q.L.P.
would go to pieces after its first fine
frenzies.
If Labor has reason to be jubilant
it is because Dr. Evatt has gone to
another sphere rather than for any
other reason. Splinter parties within the
Labor movement in any case have little
chance of survival, since they cannot,
especially if they lean to the Right,
expect to have any support from the
big industrial unions. Even backing
from the A.W.U. cannot keep them
going for very long, especially since the
A.W.U.’s lines of employment are
largely seasonal and migratory.
\X7ITH Dr. Evatt out of the way,
’’ Q.L.P. followers in the high-
density Catholic electorates were not
subject to the same influences as at the
previous election.
With a strongly Catholic Federal
caucus leadership—only one of the
leaders and deputy-leaders being other-
wise, and he an appointment of expedi-
ency, according to the indignant Eddie
Ward —with a Duggan in command
in Queensland, and no sectarian
faction-fight with Dr. Evatt, it was
natural that the atmosphere should be
changed. But nothing can get over the
fact that with the Q.L.P. disintegrating
for want of background and because
its policy was too Rightist for the
unions of the big cities and towns,
almost 30 per cent, of its retreating vote
found itself closer in kinship to the
Liberals and C.P. than with the now-
Leftist Labor party, whose Federal
exhibition-pieces include Arthur Cal-
well, Eddie Ward, Dan Curtin, Leslie
Haylen and their like.
This is symptomatic of the times; for
it is undoubted that youth is trending
towards Liberalism and that the word
“Socialism” is losing its magic in the
general atmosphere of prosperity.
Formerly, to tack it on to any move-
ment was to brand it as good in the
minds of the hopeless or insecure. Even
the Kremlin Government was supposed
to be a very sun of hope for the toiler
because it bore the brand, even if it did
not hold the ingredients, of Socialism.
But with every youngster now able
to assure himself employment after a
cheap or free education at higher
standards, the present conditions have
been good enough for the current age
of the up-and-coming, and it is begin-
ning to find the time-worn vision of
Marx shabby.
a generation or so ago any rag
of a politician, a Jock Garden or
his like, could spellbind the stolid mass
of the Labor movement by merely
calling himself a Socialist. Both Hitler
and Stalin were well aware of this, and
rode to world favor on the magic
carpet of the Socialist tag, as did Mao,
who sees it as a product of the gun-
barrel.
Now the word is smeared with blood,
and only men of iron will and persist-
ence can succeed in keeping islands of
Leftism in existence —men like the
Communist leaders of the transport and
coal unions—and they have a difficult
fight to maintain their cold-war
against the “capitalists,” of whom the
average “working-man” of today is
rapidly becoming a miniature edition.
TT was said the other day that any
A man who persuades a woman to
accept him on the platform of Sydney
Railway Station can, if he is in the
normal position of the average worker
with a job, proceed to Circular Quay
(about a mile-and-a-half away) and en
route, even if he has only £350 in the
bank, acquire, per favor the time-
payment system, a houseful of furniture,
washing-machine, radio, motor-car,
TV-set and wedding-clothes with the
certainty of being able to pay for them
in the future.
He has no real anxieties about
employment, though housing is not an
easy matter. Even taxation is not a
big issue these days with the average
worker, and if he has any financial
difficulties or needs they can usually be
settled by his wife, who can be sure of
getting a job which will enable them to
pay for their car, or their TV, or their
holiday on the Gold Coast.
Leisure is no longer an issue, be-
cause most decent workers have as
much as they feel it comfortable to
have, and a great number of the
younger ones would sooner have a little
less, perhaps, and more money.
Socialism and its A.L.P. spearhead
have therefore little to promise that is
not already available under Welfare
State Liberalism. And the fact that the
Labor vote remains even as large as it
is at elections is probably due to the
increasing longevity of a population,
the middle-aged and older among
which long ago became punch-drunk
under the poundings on their ears and
minds of Socialist prophets of the
A.L.P. and still vote Labor from habit
or under the whip of the strong per-
sonalities of union-leaders.
The trends in Queensland seem to be
obvious. Those in the Q.L.P. who are
the victims of habit have reverted to
the A.L.P.. but the newer and more
enterprising element has moved in the
other direction. This it will continue
so as the A.L.P. is led by men
who have no common virtue, men
who include both those who are
well-to-do speculators and company-
directors and careerist opportunists
who have learnt their Socialism at the
desks of the civil-service bureaucracies
or as honest toilers at the Bar. Labor
itself has no room to move to the Right
—one inch to the Right all the ground
is occupied by Welfare State Liberal
policy.
The drift from Labor can follow
only two directions —towards Com-
munism, as with the time-servers who
form so large a section of political
Labor parties, or away from the old
Socialism to the new welfare concept of
free enterprise, which is a workable,
and (in times of prosperity) very
acceptable compromise.


BUZZED!


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Brainwashing "
The difficulties which the defence author-
ities of democratic countries suffer
through the existence of a free press and
free public opinion have been illustrated,
world-wide to smirking totalitarians in
the past few weeks in a way which must
make the Kremlin and Mao’s set-up in
Peking feel a warm affection for Western
editors.
There are two conceptions of freedom
of information. One is that it is part of
the way of life of free men designed for
the good of free men ; the other that it is
a licence to print anything that can be
found-out, whether it is in the interests
of the enemies of freedom or of readers
and listeners or not, and whether it is
presented with a responsible consideration
for accuracy or not.
It might seem logical that it is in the
interests of newspapers that wax fat on
the freedoms of the Western way-of-life
to protect their own by not giving
enemies vital information that they can
use, or that they should not weaken the
hands of their own Governments by
criticism and the dissemination of certain
types or news or half-news which fill
adversaries of the West with elation.
Yet all through the incidents of the
Summit Conference, press, radio and, last
buj not least, politicians of certain types,
have rushed to discover information which
Governments desire to keep private for
the security of their own countries and of
the very people who give it away on a
plate to the enemy.
The story of the “brainwashing” of
Australian Army officers is a case in
point. Somebody discovered that Army
officers and others likely to fall into the
hands of Communist enemies in the event
of war were being given security-training
so that they might not be shocked by the
Communist methods experienced by many
Australians and Americans captured in
Korea, -and would know what to expect
and how to counter it.
Every military organisation in the
world has been forced to bring this kind
of reality home to officers. That they
have not done so in the past has cost
dearly in lives and defeat through the
enemy's extraction of information from
men not conditioned to the methods of a
brutal and unscrupulous opponent.
It is a sensible and essential course —
just as sensible and not as hard on the
individual as the really hard commando
training which modern officers and
soldiers undergo. But to be fully suc-
cessful it is wise that the enemy should
know as little as possible about the matter.
Secrecy has little appeal to anybody
with papers to sell in these days of fierce
newspaper competition. The existence of
the course was not only disclosed but
disclosed in a distorted and sensational
manner, under the usual horror-label
which conjured-up pictures of Australian
officers being brainwashed in dank
dungeons till their mentalities were in
danger of cracking.
Of course, the politicians and psychi-
atrists, knowing nothing of details,
rushed in to add their condemnation.
Actually, the Australian scheme, which
is one of the best in the world, has been
in existence for 18 months, 135 officers,
including several padres, have gone
through it, free at any moment to walk
out of it. Not one has done so.
The only thing that can be said against
the Army in the matter is that it has
allowed itself to be lured, by defending
itself, into helping the sensation-mongers
to make as much capital as possible out
of what is a logical proceeding—one
which, if it is to be effective, should not
have its details revealed to the enemy it
is intended to foil. -
Study in Depths
So lively was the Meet-the-Press session
in Melbourne with Harry Pollitt, the
British Communist-party chairman, that
some timorous viewers feared at one
stage they might come to blows, but this
could have been expected, since one of
the interviewers was Denis Warner, who
has seen so much of Communism around
the world, and exposed it.
Warner assures The Bulletin he had
no intention of coming to fisticuffs with
Pollitt —“What! He's seventy, and has a
coronary!”—and Douglas Wilkie, the
other interviewer, was justifiably con-
tent to ask penetrating questions which
Pollitt in reply talked around.
The session was more than entertaining.
It was valuable. It demonstrated the
difference between the British and the
Australian Comrade, a difference that has
been apparent to those who have had
even a slight acquaintance with both.
This is the retention in the British Red
of some shreds of patriotism compared
with the Australian’s complete surrender
of nationalism and Australian interests.
It must have become apparent even to
the local dupes during the interview, as it
could on hardly any other medium, that
the British Communists are interested in
a British Communism, not a mere copy
of Russia’s.
Wilkie’s question about the difference
between the attitude of the two parties
after the war when Pollitt’s was quiescent
while Britain was making a big drive
for production and exports but at the
same time the Australian brotherhood
was waging industrial war must have been
the first intimation many of the Australian
Comrades had of the rift between them.
Pollitt denied a Moscow conference was
necessary to heal the dispute, claiming
it had been effected by correspondence.
To another question whether British
Communists looked to Moscow for in-
structions and training, Pollitt said the
British party took its policy from British
conditions. This is patently true on
many issues which do not conflict with
Russia’s. Where they do conflict there is
no doubt of the way the party would
bend, but Pollitt said enough to make it
clear that the Australian Communist
party must be at least one of the most
contemptible of its kind in the world.
The Red Wave
TriE great tidal waves from the Chilean
earthquake have been rolling across the
Pacific. They have characteristics which
make them more insidious and danger-
ous than the normal storm-wave.
The Red tidal wave has been moving
in the same way. Advancing with the
drive of a huge militarised national bloc
behind it, operating with deliberate
destructive intent, it is rippling across
the world this year, and wherever it hits
opposition or washes into some bay of
freedom somebody gets mortally hurt.
In Cuba, whither Khrushchev is going
to taunt the Americans within a few
hundred miles of their shores, in Indo-
China, in the Congo, in the African gold-
fields, in Egypt, in Syria, in eastern
Europe—look where mankind will, the
Red wave, ever advancing, is wreaking
its damage and death.
While it roars for “peace” Communism
sees to it that any insurgent can arm him-
self —those arms, are never made available
for the defence of existing order against
aggression, but always for offensive
erosion of the coastlines of the Western
civilisations that stand in the path of the
wave of world-revolution.
There is no doubt but that the speed
of the wave is accelerating since part of
it piled up in the north against the
Himalayas and left thousands of smashed
corpses and only the ruins of one of the
world’s most ancient and peace-loving
population wallowing in its bloodstained
backwash.
The savage abuse by Khrushchev of
General Eisenhower, the bullying of small
nations to make them let down their parts
of the wall of bases against Communist
aggression, the planned visits of Khrush-
chev and Chou to Cuba (an island-base
which would be of inestimable value to
the Red bloc for an assault on the
Americas, particularly on U.S. rocket-
bases at Cape Canaveral, only a few
hundred miles away), all are evidence of
widening force of the wave.
It has struck Japan with spectacular
effects: a Japan which has not forgotten
the fire-bombs and Hiroshima and the
patronising attitude of many of their con-
querors of the Occupation years.
The whispers of its approach to the
little ragged Indo-China countries —Laos,
Cambodia and South Vietnam—are be-
coming too loud to be ignored.
There is now talk of drawing back the
British Commonwealth’s Malayan bases
to Fremantle, the furthest possible point
to escape its full weight and fury if it
bursts southward to the fringes of Indo-
nesia—an Indonesia, armed with Russian
arms and aircraft which is, in effect, at
the moment daring the Dutch to defend
their own legal territory in New Guinea.
It is very difficult now to believe that
the two great Red nations are not
entirely in the hands of militarists who
are courting war deliberately and who
hold any elements in the U.S.S.R. which
might have abandoned the old policies


of world-conquest in the hollow of their
hands.
"Insecurity" in New Guinea
[From “Fuzzy Wuzzy”]
What is going to happen to Europeans,
mostly Australians, when Australian
Papua-New Guinea attains self-govern-
ment? (The year is still uncertain, but
the Dutch may have tried to accelerate
it by recent statements that they’ll get
out of West New Guinea when the native
peoples in our half achieve the independ-
ence we’ve promised them.) The problem
for Australian settlers, and investors, is
one which calls for balanced con-
sideration.
In the Legislative Council in Port
Moresby in February one of the
“unofficial” (non-Administration) mem-
bers said that Territories Minister Paul
Hasluck had admitted hearing the phrase
“a feeling of insecurity” in all parts of
Papua and New Guinea.
This, the member said, was prejudicial
to development. It should be known
in the Territory, and taught to the
natives, that when self-government was
attained a condition would be that all
private interests of the Europeans would
be maintained as previously.
This view was not accepted by the
Administration. The Assistant Adminis-
trator, Dr. J. T: Gunther, with the
subsequent endorsement of Administrator
Don Cleland, declared that the demand
for a Government statement was un-
realistic. What was needed was hard
work to ensure that when the day came
the people would be so grateful for
assistance, development and the sacri-
fices of war that they would invite the
Europeans among them to stay as
partners when they controlled their own
destiny, and would recognise the right
to retention of assets.
Gunther said the kind of decision to
be made would be determined by the
events which preceded it. In other coun-
tries conditions unpopular to the mass
had not been acceptable to the emerg-
ing nationalist-leader group. Threats and
cajolings between now and the day of
determination would only put people
on their political mettle. What was
needed now was less talking, and more
application to the job of developing the
Territory for all its inhabitants, especially
those who would be there in the future.
Incentive for Mining
[From Canberra]
The Commonwealth Government has
decided to continue the taxation conces-
sion granted to miners of all important
minerals produced in Australia.
This concession, granted under Section
23a of the Income Tax Act, exempts
from taxation 20 per cent, of the profits
earned by companies mining the ores, and
applies also to dividends paid out of
those profits.
National Development Minister
Spooner, when announcing the continua-
tion of the concession, gave some interest-
ing figures on mineral production and
exports.
He said that from 1942-46 the average
production of minerals in Australia was
valued at about £39 million annually
and exports at about £l6 million.
Last financial year the value of minerals
produced in Australia was £222 million,
and exports totalled almost £56 million.
The consensus of opinion was that the
exemption under Section 23a had been
largely responsible for this increase.
Senator Spooner said that the Govern-
ment’s decision was in furtherance of its
policy to encourage the development of
the nation’s mineral resources. The con-
cession had stimulated the expansion of
the mining industry and it should be even
more effecLve in the future in encourag-
ing exploration.
Australia, however, still does not give
its mining industry the encouragement,
tax-wise, that Canada does. This has been
emphasised by former S.A. Director of
Mines Dickinson, and by G. R. Fisher, of
Mt. Isa, as reported in B. 25/5/’6O.
Labor's Ailments
The A.L.P. finds itself in deeper and
deeper water. Every week appears to
bring it some new tribulation and only
debatable advantages, such as the break-
up of the Q.L.P. in Queensland. That
is a mixed blessing, seeing that previously
the anti-Evatt section was only a boil on
the carapace of the political party, but
now much of it has obviously penetrated
the living carcass of Mr. Duggan’s strange
party and become an internal cancer.
The by-elections which the Federal
Labor party will face shortly—the one
in Bendigo to fill Mr. Clarey’s seat
especially, since his majority was small
and much of his vote was personal-
present a bleak outlook. Balaklava, Mr.
Joske’s seat rendered vacant by his eleva-
tion to the Industrial Court Bench, is
a certainty for the Liberal candidate, and
any chance Labor had of taking Calare,
if and when Mr. John Howse leaves it,
will recede considerably if the State leader
of the Country party, C. B. Cutler,
should be the Country-party candidate.
Born in the Orange district, its State
member since his 29th year in 1947, com-
manding-officer of the 2/17th Battalion
during most of World War I, business
manager of the Producers’ Distributing
Society (Australia’s largest farmers’ co-
op.) and active in sporting and other
movements in the district, he will be hard
to beat.
And that especially with a leadership
on his opponents’ side which never opens
its mouth these days without adding a
cracked lip to its many sores and
infirmities.
Mr. Gough Whitlam is especially an
adept at opening his mouth wide enough
to cause it to split politically.
His latest effort on television, follow-
ing his outbursts on the Dalziel business,
was his repudiation last Sunday of Labor
policy on nationalisation, which is clear
and plain in its printed platform.
He said that he did “not altogether”
agree with Mr. Calwell, his leader, who
advocates nationalising radio and tele-
vision so that Big Brother can have his
thumb on policy over the air.
He says that “in the dissemination of
news and exchange of views you do need
variety or competition.” He thinks
monopoly in newspapers under public
ownership would be just as odious as the
private monopoly that he believes now
exists.
And the best that he could say for the
nationalisation plank in the party’s plat-
form was that “it was not a millstone
round the party’s neck....that Labor
could still win elections with this plank
in its platform.”
It has been trying hard ever since the
Chifley effort to nationalise the banks,
and with less and less success.
Labor men are beginning to say that,
imitating a distinguished duke who
resembled him very much physically, Mr.
Whitlam will one day dream in the
House of Representatives that he is a
Liberal and wake up to find that he is.
S.-e. Melbourne
So keen is the competition in Melbourne
to get flat-buildings erected in pleasant
inner-suburbs, chiefly South Yarra and
Toorak, that work on one block of nine-
storeys has begun in South Yarra with-
out municipal approval, according to
T. J. Buchan, who is a leading architect
and one of the City Councillors for the
area.
Except in a year or two in the early
1930’5, Melbourne has always been under-
supplied with flats, especially in compari-
son with Sydney, and their scarcity was
marked in the nearer, greener, suburbs ;
but inflation has now made it possible for
quite remarkable prices to be paid for
suitable blocks.
One-room bachelor-flats rent from
nine guineas weekly, and a small villa-
sized penthouse on a block of flats yet
to be built on a high location in Toorak
has been sold for about £25,000.
Much of the inner area of Melbourne
is industrial, and the south-east areas of
Toorak and South Yarra were “protected”
against flats, with the result that most
of the flat-building in the ’twenties and
’thirties took flace in St. Kilda and
farther south.
The lifting of some municipal taboos,
acknowledging the quick growth of Mel-
bourne, in time no doubt will give these
two suburbs, and those adjoining, some
of the sophisticated character of
London’s Mayfair, or Sydney’s Macleay
Street and Potts Point, in place of the
velvet lawns. Melbourne will then have
not a West End but a South-east End.
The present population of Melbourne
is nearly 1.8 million, and the metropolitan
growth rate is about 50,000 a year. In
1980 the population will be 2.5 million.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
At least one intellectual doesn’t believe
that ours is a materialistic age,
and he has a touching faith in the return
of 18th-century principles for the
encouragement of genius—the Young
Poet who runs an ad. in Melbourne “Age”
seeking, without embellishment, a Patron
to help with the publication of his
manuscripts.—“T.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Imperial 55”: The whole family and
a lot of friends had gathered at Kings-
ford Smith Airport to see him off to
America, and in the lounge of the Over-
seas Terminal were having a good look
at the huge aircraft which would bear him
away. The grandchildren were rounded-
up and had their photo taken with a
smiling grandpa ; a few minutes later the
family were gathered round the print,
suitably mounted. There was great excite-
ment, and requests for copies for the
others. A copy was rushed out to
grandpa on the aircraft so that he would
be able to show it to relatives overseas
who had never seen the children. Just
another miracle of the jet age, but a
very human and appropriate one for the
time and place.
“Viffefair”: A wardsman at the hos-
pital where I made brief sojourn was a
hard-working, conscientious bloke always
on the job, preparing a patient for an
op. here, helping a nurse bring another
“out of it” there, lending a hand some-
where else. He seemed so efficient that
I asked him if he had ever thought of
becoming a male nurse. His answer was
rather staggering: “Yes; matter of fact,
Matron wants me to; says, with my prac-
tical experience I’d get my ticket in two
years. But I’d lose money. If I work
overtime now I get paid for it. But if I
became a fully-qualified male nurse I’d
be under the same conditions as the rest
of the nurses —and they don’t get paid
for overtime.” Somewhere along the
“ She's making a mistake marrying him!"
years the lamp seems to have got a bit
off balance.
❖ *X* ♦>
“J.J.A.”: If one can buy. Japanese
rainbow-trout deep-frozen for 3s. 3d.
each (B. 18/5/ ’6O) it is because of a silly
regulation that forbids us to sell our own
rainbow-trout. They are one of the few
fish available for farm dams, but sale of
the finished article is illegal.
*:• * ►:«
“Ardoyne”: During the chariot-race
sequence at a Melbourne matinee of
“Ben-Hur” (B. 18/5/’6O) a high-school
girl, roused to indignation by Messala's
employment of his axle-blade to wreck
a competitor’s chariot, leapt to her feet
and shouted : “You stinker!” Approp-
riate and deserved: but it’s worth
recalling that in Lew Wallace's yarn
Ben-Hur is portrayed as equally unscrupu-
lous ; went into the race resolved to
maim his rival as well as ruin him
financially through wagers ; and having
informed .himself, through stable-
snooping, on the precise height of
Messala’s wheel-hub, at the last turn he
deliberately “caught Messala’s wheel with
the iron-shod point of his axle” through
“a cunning touch of the reins” that
apparently even the stewards didn't spot.
In short, the dirty work wasn't all on
one side. Box-office, I suppose, decided
that Lew Wallace’s revengeful Jew
wasn’t quite the type required for film
purposes.
♦+♦ ♦+♦
“Wusslean”: When our petty cash-
box vanished, to be found in a nearby
public park and dutifully handed over
to the police, no one worried unduly
over the loss of the tenner it had con-
tained. With the auditor’s assent, that
will be written off to profit-and-loss.
But the office staff would be glad if the
next light-fingered caller who lays hands
on the petty cash would help himself
to the private 1.0.U.’s instead of
scrupulously leaving them in the box with
the official vouchers.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Lyrel”: Talking to the garageman
about the free glasses, etc., with petrol
-—his only comment: “That’s the trouble
with business today. It’s becoming too
commercialised.”
+> *X*
“0.G.”: In an inner-western Sydney
suburb complaints were made about the
noise on cracker-night. One man found
a touch of relief in the murk: “Just
imagine what it would have been
like if the police hadn’t impounded that
forty-thousand quid the kids found in
the circus-gear.”
MARRIAGE-COUNSELLORS
“Marriage-counsellors, to qualify for Fedeial
subsidies, must be carefully instructed and
selected, said the Attorney-General Sir Garfield
Barwick: ‘lt is not enough for people to
have time on their hands and goodwill to
qualify them for working in this field.’ ”
Advising folk on marriages
Is no mere occupation
For those, Sir Garfield Barwick says ,
With time and inclination.
For Casanova spent his days
Instructing many wives,
But husbands found his little ways
Disruptive of their lives.
And Cleo gave Mark Antony
A long post-graduate course,
But to his wife it seemed to be
Mere grounds for a divorce.
You see, these marriage-counsellors
Made no inquiries whether
Their time and goodwill started wars
Or brought the foes together.
And it is those who wed in haste
Who really need the pleasure,
And ought to have the time to waste,
To repent at leisure.
N.S.VV.
S WILLIAM


Tn the days of my girlhood, when
a large white envelope was
handed to a nun of my acquaintance,
I heard her mutter: “Well, that ends it.
I won’t pray to that saint again, not after
this.” Sister Trier, as we girls christened
her, was nearing 70 and inclined to be
cranky, but we all admitted she was a
trier ; hence her nickname. One even-
ing when I was kneeling in the convent
chapel, pouring out my girlish hopes and
dreams, tottering footsteps sounded in
the doorway. Sister Trier had come to
pay her respects. In the fading twilight
paused beside me, and slowly began
going the rounds, genuflecting here,
pausing mere, her rosary beads slipping
through her fingers. I watched her as she
approached the statue of the saint she
had boycotted. She came abreast of the
statue, hesitated a moment, then humbly
bowed her head, and bending her knees,
piously genuflected, and straightened
her back again, as I strained my ears.
“Excuse me,” she politely murmured, and
passed on. Years later, I discovered the
cause of her wrath. She was a would-
be writer. —“Breezy Bertha.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Webbie”: Commonwealth Govern-
ment ad. in the Brisbane “Telegraph,”
May 17:
Please obtain your new Pension Order
book on Thursday Nth May, 1950. This
will avoid any delay in your next payment
on 2nd June, 1960.
As the old actors used to say, “Oh, God,
put back your clock and pay us all our
yesterdays!”
♦♦♦ *X* *X*
“Flo”: As a Bush Nurse in the Bris-
bane Valley in 1923 I nursed a mother
and new babe on a farm. When the job
was completed the couple presented me
with a sovereign. Said Dad, “We make a
habit of giving our nurse a sovereign—
so please accept it.” When I married
the following year I had that sovereign
made into monogram cuff-links as a gift
to my husband; in that way I was sure
we would always have the little treasure,
and so we have.
“865”: The last pay I received in gold
was when my brother and I left our cattle-
station jobs and enlisted in Brisbane in
March, 1915. Our first pay, in sovereigns,
we took home, and our mother collected
one from each of us, saying: “You boys
may marry some day, so I’ll return your
sovereigns when you come home.- You
can then have your wives’ wedding-ring
made-up of the gold.” We returned in
1919, eventually married, and our wives
are still wearing the rings made of that
gold.
* ❖ *
“Doynest”: For the record-addict—
the chap, like yours truly, who can’t
resist forking-out for just another disk
for his collection—the latest form of
temptation is the sampler-record.
Received one by post from an enter-
prising Melbourne firm: a 45 r.p.m.,
it comprised brief excerpts from a
dozen long-players, interspersed with
admiring comments and sales-talk,
and concluding with a polite thank-you
for allowing the heard-but-unseen sales-
man into my home.
❖ ❖ *
“Kate”: He’d been home with the
’flu for two whole days and was worrying
himself to a frazzle wondering how the
factory would go on without him—him
“I kept off the booze and the horses and put all my savings into sound
investments, so that one day I could enjoy the good things of life .”
with eight men under him! He seemed
very depressed the first night after he’d
gone back to work, so, after having fed
the brute, I tenderly inquired the reason.
Then he laughed. Not one of the eight
men had ‘missed him and he had to pro-
duce his doctor’s certificate to convince
them that he'd been away at all.
*** ♦♦♦
“Pandanus”: During the Tasmanian
floods a couple of policemen and a store-
keeper were swamped when their boat got
across the current in the main street, and
the non-swimming cop was being rapidly
swept away when a burly, boozy, red-
headed ex-sailorman plunged in and
towed him out. Not that he had any
regard for the law, but he “couldn’t let
the poor drown.” Up to his usual
capers a few days later, it was his luck
to get himself arrested by the same
officer. But Boozy wasn’t going to stand
for that. “You go to ——!” he roared.
“I’m not going to be seen walking down
the street with a like you! I’ll go
down to the police-station meself.” And,
in high dudgeon, he did.
❖ *X* ❖
“L.”: A young fellow of low I.Q.
at our post-office was told by the post-
master on a slack afternoon: “It won’t
be like this tomorrow. There’ll be two
weddings.” An hour or so later the
young fellow was seen licking telegram-
envelopes. “Getting ready for tomorrow’s'
rush,” he explained.
“D.1.F.”: Sign in the window of a
Newcastle (N.S.W.) pharmacy after a car
had crashed through the door in the early
hours: “Please Note. This is not a drive-
in pharmacy.”
❖ * *
“Eliza”: My sister hates eggs, boiled,
fried, curried or even in custards. We
thought she was going screwy when she
gave up drinking tea because it tasted
of egg, even though she tried all brands
of tea and scoured the teapot before
each changeover of brand. The night
I was there I had to agree with her that
it did taste eggy. “It was TV,” she
explained later. “You know Anta [a
young New Aussie lass] I had staying
with me? Well, she used to boil her
eggs in the kettle to save time to hurry
in and watch TV—my TV!” P.S.—
Anta left suddenly.
»> ♦> ♦J*
“Bo”: It is no easy thing for a man
to hide completely under his cloak with-
in the few seconds allotted him the
cadaver of the man he has just punctured
with a stiletto, as one of the chief char-
acters is called-on to do in Verdi’s one-act
opera “Tabarro,” which is about venge-
ance among bargemen on the Seine. But
in the current Trust production Neil
Easton manages it very well, despite that
his victim is as burly as he. I recall a
not -so - happy performance among
amateurs when indifferent casting gave
the role of the avenging barge-skipper
to a short, rather slight bloke, that of his
wife’s lover to a 13-stoner. Skip
managed the final form of censure well
enough, but when his guilty spouse cast-
up from inside the barge several seconds
before she should have he still hadfi't
had time to conceal the body under his
flowing cloak. He made frantic and what
he hoped were surreptitious signs for her
not to come around from the other side
of the barge-cabin, what time he endea-
vored to kick the yard or so of legs under


cover, made impossible by their awkward
position and the obvious necessity for
his burden not to co-operate. The lady
ignored the signals and came around,
then had to warble over the titters of the
audience as she pretended not to see the
legs stuck right out there under her eyes.
Finally, in despair, and patently all-in in
his efforts to hold-up the body, the
vengeful husband slung it down a full
minute or so before he should have,
and barged straight into his singing, put-
ting conductor and orchestra into such a
flap at being left about 20 bars behind
“How long have you been the decoy here, Julie ?”
that they stopped that way till the end,
mercifully not far off.
“Pip Tok” : That picture of an Elector's
Right (B. 18/5/ ’6O) reminds me that,
in the old pre-Federation days, many
voters disfranchised themselves by mis-
laying the essential document and being
unable to present it at the polling-booth.
Our town carpenter made sure of being
able to vote by pasting his elector’s right
to the door of his workshop ; he had
to take the door off its hinges and carry
it through the streets to the polling-booth
next election-daj.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Barra”: Beer by the pound (B.
20 /4 / ’60)? Ballarat (Vic.) had it by the
bucket; “Bob” Chinnery of the old
Devon and Corwall Hotel brimmed-out
sand-pails at a trey a time.
❖ ❖ *X*
“R. Ray”: Apropos insignia on bowls
(B. 25/5/’6O), an East Camberwell
bowler has his bowls labelled “1/6” —
Bob Tanner. Harry Watt’s bowls still
bear a black query on a white disk: “?”
Mine are engraved with a distinct “A,”
which makes me the only “A”-bowler in
the club, but has never yet induced the
selectors to include me in the A-team,
that select band of rather grim-faced
boys who play the game as a serious
competition and not as a pleasant pas-
time.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Ceg”: A glass-eater (B. 25/ 5/ ’6O) who
performed 35-40 years ago on a vacant
allotment opposite Dalgety’s in Bourke
Street, Melbourne, his open shirt dis-
playing an Adam's-apple about the size
of a large egg, used to lower a fair-sized
watch on a chain right down his throat;
members of his audience were invited to
listen to the watch ticking inside him.
Then came masticating a coal briquette,
swallowing the mass and following it with
a handful of dry sawdust. If you think
that’s easy, have a go. Next, small
tumblers were chewed-up and apparently
enjoyed, and for climax he offered to eat
a beer-bottle for a quid. I was never
lucky enough to see that done, but have
little doubt it would have been well
within his capacity. I was not altogether
surprised when he came to rest in the
Melbourne Hospital, where “something
wrong with his stomach” was the
diagnosis.
♦I 4
“W.P.T.”: The Melbourne suburb of
Ashburton must surely have the street
with the world’s shortest name: Y Street.
It’s that sort of shape.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.C.8.”: If there’s one branch of
film-making in which the French direc-
tors really know their stuff it’s attention
to detail; the Tati comic “My Uncle”
demonstrates it except in one of the
English sub-titles inserted for people
whose French is on a par with mine:
the feminine plural is spelt “womens.” At
another point a character mentions hav-
ing heard a car’s “breaks.” It’s consol-
ing, though, to a bloke who used to fancy
his French until he tried to follow French
as spoken by real Frenchmen in French
films. *
♦> ❖ ❖
“Bond”: “Fair Cow,” in his tilt at the
people of New South Wales, prompts me
to reply that the State has a heart;
Tottenham has the honor of being the
closest town to the geographical centre
of N.S.W.
*** * *i*
“Nor”: We are familiar with the sign
displayed on the back of many new cars:
“Please pass, running in.” Last week
I saw an old bomb with a sign on its
rear: “Can't pass ; run out.”
HE-MEN RESURGENT
“A Hollywood producer says TV-influence
has caused a decline in demand for indoor
romances and pretty-boy actors. The accent
is now on action, even violent, and the tough
outdoor types concerned less with romance
than with depiction of red-blooded characters
are coming into their own again.”
Time was when they’d seek
To hit box-office peak
With a fanciful passion-charged opus,
With a starlet who just
Couldn’t act, but whose bust
Was intended to stun and to dope us
He and she’d come to grips
Many times with their lips;
But those marathon labial clinchings
Were a Monty to lose
Out against a strong noose,
Whistling bullets and lashings of
lynchings.
The tender romance
That began at a dance,
Boudoir-ripostes, and mush at that
level —-
Over them the gods weep,
For they send us to sleep
And the dollar-intake to the devil!
Getting blood to the boil
Can’t be done now with goil
And with guy ; they’ve no time, now,
for saddie.
This can only be done
By a hombre with gun,
When bullet-proof hero fights baddic.
The marcel-haired chap
With the beautiful map
Who depicted a lover’s perfection,
Has been cut-down to size;
He’s been ousted by guys
Who can wear an old-leather
complexion.
The buss they impart
Isn’t kindred to art
Of the mincing and well-practised
lover;
But will any fan care
If they peck with an air
Which plainly says : “Let’s get this
over”?
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


SATURDAY-AFTERNOON
By FRED MORTON
Saturday afternoons during
the football season the
dressing- room was
always crowded. This
Saturday afternoon it was even
more so.
The cold, drizzling rains
sweeping inland across the wet
dunes at Lakes’ Entrance, over
the Snowy River Valley, across
Mallacoota and out to sea
again, drove the committeemen
and their entourage of hangers-
on, supporters and characters
just sheltering, into the shabby
comfort of the old weather-
board and corrugated - iron
dressing-shed.
Besides, the coon had been
hurt. He lay on a trestled
table, a team of anxious
trainers fussing over him. One
black leg, muddy-booted, sock
rolled down to the ankle,
showed q deep, ugly gash,
which streaked up inside
the calf. A little trainer in an
off-white boiler-suit poked at
the wound with grimy fingers,
examiningly. The coon winced
and moved his leg away.
“Hang on, Johnny. We’ll fix
her up in a minute,” the little
trainer promised.
He poured a bottle of iodine
onto a cottonwool pad and
daubed the open wound with
the healing poultice. A pained
shiver shuddered up the coon's
right leg and he winced and he
licked his lips with a kitten-
pink tongue at the stinging of
it. A few strips of plaster held
the pad in place. He was right
for another two quarters.
The trainer encouraged him
to try-out the mended leg. The
coon moved gingerly down
from the table and gradually
applied body-weight on to it.
As a final test he hopped
around the table on one leg in
a pained jig, like an enraged
gnome.
“I tink she’s orright, eh?”
he said; and the inquisitive
crowd which had watched the
operation and eventual cure
sighed, relieved.
See? The coon was the
champion full-forward, in the
Snowy Valley League. Any-
body around the Snowy Valley
from Buchan to Coringle could
tell you about Johnny Edwards.
You didn’t have to prompt any
of the abos. out at Nemerella to
tell you how Edwards could
kick goals from any angle.
“He could kick goals with
any leg, left or right,' - they
would go on gleefully. “Over
his head, running away from
deh goals, too, eh?” they would
add; and you would have to
listen to the story of how he
kicked 20 goals for Lake Tyers
against Nowa-Nowa. In the
rain. In bare feet.
Now he was hurt, and the
team was down by five goals,
and everybody was anxious to
see if he was right for the
second half. But he was right
now. He said he was.
nPHE umpire’s whistle shrilled
impatiently and the time-
keeper’s siren sounded the end
of the half-time break.
“All right, chaps,” the coach
ordered, stepping up on a chair.
He beckoned for silence.
“Quiet.”
“Yeah. Quiet.”
“Some ’ush please.” And
silence fell, eventually, on the
noisy dressing-room.
“All right, chaps,” the coach
began; “yez all know the pic-
ture.”
Players huddled around him
closely, staring at the floor-
boards intently, taking in the
advice. “We’ve been down be
five goals at half-time before
and still pulled the match off,”
he said, “and that’s what we're
gonna do today. Here’s how
we’re gonna do it.”
He carried on, gesticulating,
singling out individual players,
his voice rising to a high pitch
of fevered enthusiasm. Told
them why and how they had
to win in a mixture of tangled
rhetoric, “Sporting Globe”
cliches, and shocking diction.
Just as a thousand other
coaches had told a thousand
other teams in another
thousand matches before this
one. The umpire’s whistle
shrilled again, and the players
moved to the door, their
studded boots clattering on the
planks of the floor. They stood
back to let the captain out
first.
The team made its way to
centre-field, through a thin
drizzle. In the centre, field and
boundary, umpires waited—a
damp, dismal trio. Players
made their way to positions as
the opposition jogged out on
to the field.
The coon, with a noticeable
limp, trotted slowly up to his
position, a yard or two outside,
and directly in front of, the
goal-square.
From the first bounce, the
ugly pack that gathered
gave promise of what was to
be a crowded match for the
rest of the day
Ruckmen. awkward in the
wet, fumbled and slipped
around on the greasy field and
slurred through puddles as they
. • , , . 6 F • r ,, J
tned to get possession of the
ba " A ?u r ° P ,' P n ,u
rover had the ball up on he
coons forward line He led
ou , weaving, nding the rabbi -
killer punches of the burly full-
back. He marked the ball
easily as it came low, gathered
it to his chest with a deft glean-
ing. He went to take his kick,
still limping slightly, positioned
himself, loped slowly and
kicked. The ball went between
the two goalposts in a slow, in-
sistent spiral,
Dat s anudder caser, he
thought to himself. He figured
he should be about three-quid
U P by the end of the match.
“That’s another five deeners
we U have to give him. ’
The crowd in front of the
dressing-shed laughed as the
club president, wide-brimmed
bat and gabardine raincoat,
,he araount
1 T| ,s P° CKe . ? ,
„/, h . e , Co ™ had alwa >' s be . en a
E 0 11 "j 1 le P res ? :
Ever since the committee had
dec j ded 1o ive him another
this season Heckel was presi-
now *
. js y flve . no a es a
k ® provided, by try-
. ; bring the team frok the
*
(Continued on page 34)


POLITICAL POINTS
Soviet Defence Minister Malinovsky
seems to think that giving offence is
the best form of defence.
• •
N.S.W. Milk Board’s TV-advertise-
ment exhorting viewers to “crack a bottle
of milk” sounded rather ironic at the
weekend when a large number of Sydney
homes received no milk at all and the
rest were on half-rations owing to a
strike of milk-carters.
• •
Predictions of changes in the N. S.
Wales Cabinet (B. 1/ 6 / ’6O) weren’t far
wrong, though nobody tipped Lands
Minister McMahon for the Transport
post. Premier Heffron has passed Educa-
tion over to E. Wetherell, whose Con-
servation Department has been handed to
former Transport Minister Enticknap
Deputy-Premier Renshaw will run the
Lands Department in conjunction with
his Treasurership and Assistant Minister
Mannix has been given the Justice port-
folio held by Reg Downing since 1941.
Downing remains Attorney-General,
but the move is a victory for that section
of caucus which has been demanding the
separation of the two legal portfolios and
the return of one-of them to the Lower
House. The promotion of Mannix is not
calculated to add to the jpolitical happi-
ness of Billy Sheahan and Abe Landa,
both of whom are much senior to Mannix
in Ministerial experience.
• •
“There’s always something sinister
about redistribution in Victoria,” says
Sir Herbert Hyland, C.P. leader in the
Victorian Assembly. Why pick on
Victoria?
• •
Late counting in doubtful seats in the
Queensland election favored sitting
members. At the weekend E. J. Walsh,
Deputy-leader of the Q.L.P., seemed
likely to retain Bundaberg by a small
margin; W. Rae (Country party) was
increasing his lead in Gregory, and
M. J. Anderson (Liberal) seemed safe in
East Toowoomba.
• •
Khrushchev’s proposed visit to Cuba
looks like part of a Soviet plan to woo
Latin America. Cuba, in itself, is of no
interest whatever to the Kremlin, but as a
focal point for anti-United States activity
it could be invaluable. At his famous
press conference in Paris Khrushchev
praised Cuba and held it up as an example
to other Latin-American countries, some
of whose Governments “receive money
from their people but serve American
imperialism.” Cuba, he said, had shown
that it wanted to be master of the fruits
of its labor. “We are convinced that other
Latin-American peoples who are rising in
the struggle for independence will take
this road, too.”
• •
Unity-tickets will be one of the chief
topics at the annual conference of the
Victorian A.L.P. next weekend. Under
Federal conference decisions unity-tickets
with Communists are banned, but the
Victorian executive has been overworking
its blind eye in this regard. Calwell wants
a showdown, with a strong declaration
in support of Federal policy. With the
Bendigo by-election only a few weeks
off this is considered essential.
• »
If State railways had been subsidised
to the extent civil airlines are they would
have been out of their financial diffi-
culties long ago, Sir Wilfred Kent Hughes
said in the course of the debate on the
Air Navigation Bill. He claimed that
aerodromes cost the Treasury £9 million
last year, and that even with increased
revenue from the leasing of stalls at air-
ports the loss would still be £7 million.
This, he said, was equivalent to about
£3 a passenger.
Perhaps it might be an idea for the
States to make the Commonwealth a gift
of all their railway-stations, and pay
Canberra a small fee for permission for
their trains to use them. This would put
the railways on the same basis as the
airlines.
There’s a possibility that former
Queensland Premier Gair may run as a
Q.L.P. candidate for the Senate next year.
His own comment is that he hasn’t got
round to thinking of it yet but is confident
enough “to believe I would get a good
vote.” In the State election the Q.L.P.
polled 12.3 per cent, of the votes, but
contested only 57 of the 78 seats. On that
basis only a slight improvement on a
State-wide scale would be needed to win
a Senate seat.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: A Federal Labor caucus
committee’s suggestion that the N.S.W.
coal industry was stagnating was
effectively squelched by National
Development Minister Spooner, who
pointed-out that although employment
in the industry had fallen by about 7300
in the last eight years, the number of
registered unemployed was less than 160,
including 135 at Cessnock. The Senator
mentioned the development of an exten-
sive export-trade for coal, the establish-
ment of coal-gas works in rural areas,
and the current research into additional
uses for coal. On the question of
monopoly, he said he knew of no greater
one in mine-ownership than the State-
owned mines in N.S.W., and added that
these would have to go a long way before'
equalling the successful results of private
mines which had made possible lower
prices.
• •
Dominations for the Bendigo by-
election will close on June 23 and
polling-day will be July 16. Labor and
Liberal candidates are yet to be chosen,
but the D.L.P. is again putting-up W. F.
Drechsler, who polled 5619 primary votes
at the last election. On that occasion 87
per cent, of Drechsler’s preferences went
to Liberal candidate W. H. Snell.
“Bongo, bongo, bongo, HOW we want to leave the Congo!”


Alleged in Canberra that Whitlam,
who accused Dr. Evatt’s former
secretary of going through the Calwell
rooms and Leslie Haylen of harboring
an “anti-Labor propagandist” in the per-
son of the same Christian Socialist, has
been ordered sternly by his leader to end
his feud with both of them. The strange
thing seems to be that the deputy-leader
of the party should be able to vouch for
the fact that an anti-Labor propagandist
has been employed for years in Federal
Labor’s holy of holies... .and that no-
body seems to regard that as in any way
unusual.
• •
Vic. Transport Minister Warner is
sending to Britain a Railways officer
who has previously recruited for the
department. The Minister says the
officer’s mission is to get staff to enable
the department to run Sunday trains
again.
This is a comparatively inexpensive
gesture to show the A.R.U. that the
Government will sustain its resistance to
attempts to by-pass the Arbitration
Court on the service-grant issue. The
solidarity of Red-run maritime unions
in supporting the railwaymen has been
splintered ; and the more men recruited
abroad the fewer will ever again get the
£6 Sunday overtime, if any.
• •
Percy Joske, Q.C., and M.H.R. for
Balaclava since 1951, who would have
made a good Speaker, has been chosen to
take the place of the late Sir Edward
Morgan on the Commonwealth Industrial
Court Bench. John Howse, son of Sir
Neville Howse, V.C., Bruce’s Minister
for Defence, is also said to be quitting
politics. The Government will have no
anxiety about their seats —Joske’s absolute
majority in Balaclava last election was
over 9000 and Howse’s in Calare 6261.
A lot of the vote in Calare, however,
was strongly personal.
• •
Russian production of oil is expand-
ing rapidly, and shipments of oil from
the Soviet bloc to non-Communist
countries rose from less than eight-million
tons in 1957 to nearly 17 million tons
last year. Canada, Australia and New
Zealand have rejected offers of Red oil;
most of the exports are going to Western
Europe (mainly Italy) and to Egypt.
However, Russia has signed trade agree-
ments with Japan, India and Brazil —
and the effects on oil-producers in both
the Middle East and Indonesia may be
considerable.
• •
Indonesian protestations that it would
be an unfriendly act for Australia to
allow the Dutch aircraft-carrier Karel
Doorman and its escorting destroyers to
call at Fremantle are rather ridiculous.
No state of war exists between Indonesia
and Holland and there can be no question
of this country refusing warships of a
friendly nation access to its ports. Inci-
dentally, the Dutch vessels will proceed
from Fremantle to Hollandia, in Dutch
New Guinea, by way of the Bight, the
eastern coast of Australia and the
northern coast of New Guinea, and will
not traverse Indonesian waters.
• •
The Federal Uniform Divorce Act will
not come into force until October 1,
instead of July 1 as originally planned.
Reason, says Attorney-General Barwick,
is that the drawing-up of rules under the
Act has been a heavier task than was
anticipated ; also it is felt that the courts
and the legal profession should be given
more time to familiarise themselves with
the new Act.
• •
“Wusslean”: While the Victorian
Railways have been saving money by not
running trains on Sundays pending settle-
ment of the overtime dispute, commuters
who have had to adopt alternative means
of transport on Sundays have been out-
of-pocket. But their plight has not been
entirely overlooked by the Government.
When someone asked in the Legislative
Assembly what consideration was given
to holders of yearly, half-yearly and
monthly rail-tickets, in view of Sunday-
train cancellations, the Minister for
Forests (Mr. Fraser) replied that such
tickets could be surrendered, and
“travellers could revert to daily or weekly
return-tickets, according to their economic
position.” In short, if commuters don't
like it, they can lump it.
• •
Not much doubt now exists about the
successful passage of the bill to
increase membership of the Victorian
Legislative Council from 34 to 38 by
dividing the existing nine metropolitan
electoral provinces into 11: the C.P.
voted with the Government in the
Assembly and presumably will do so
in the Council.
Discussing the bill in the Assembly, Sir
Herbert Hyland said his party recognised
that it was unfair to ask a member to
handle 200,000 constituents, when C.P.
members found it hard enough to handle
22,000. This was a rather more liberal
attitude to Government legislation than
the C.P. usually shows. It may have
sprung from gratitude; no C.P. seats
have been carved-up in the redivision,
though the original proposal envisaged
inroads on the C.P.’s provinces.
• •
Tibet is supposed to be dead in its
Communist coffin, but it won't lie down.
Refugees reported heavy fighting there
last week.
• •
One of Israel’s ways of by-passing the
Suez canal and the Egyptian ban thereon
has been the building of a 16-inch oil
pipeline linking the Red Sea port of Eilat
with Beersheba. and joining with the pipe-
line leading to the Haifa refineries. This
will be completed this month, and will be
handed over in August to a group of
foreign investors, headed by Baron de
Rothschild, who put more than 20-million
dollars into. the project in return for a
49-year concession. Drilling for oil is
being undertaken in several parts of
Israel, •
• •
one-man-one-job motion was
turned-down by Federal caucus by
36 votes to 18. This may not be an
accurate reflection of the number of two-
or-more-jobbers in caucus, but by the
time all the lawyers, publicans, company-
directors and trade-union officials are
added-up the number must be consider-
able.
• •
“Judee”: Coalmasters are becoming
impatient at the apparent slowness of the
N. S. Wales Government in grappling
with the problem of deepening Newcastle
Harbor bar. They say coal trade will be
lost if speedy action is not taken. In
what is believed to be the biggest bulk
shipment from Australia, the Pana-
manian - registered freighter Andros
Master, with 23,000 tons of coal for
Japan, recently had to leave behind 6000
tons because depth at the bar at low-
water is only 25ft. 6in. Newcastle City
Council and other authorities are trying
to attract industries to the area, but coal-
owners say industrialists would be more
impressed if they could get big ships in
and out of the harbor without hazarding
them. Meanwhile the Public Works De-
partment announces it is carrying out an
investigation aimed at deepening the bar
to 32ft.
• •
Seato’s annual report noted that
“while the Soviet Union has adopted a
posture of peace and friendship China
has assumed a bellicose and aggressive
role at the expense of its publicly
announced ‘good neighbor policy’ to-
wards the Asian States.” The report
spoke too early. While China was
accusing the Indonesians of “murdering,
manhandling and insulting” overseas
Chinese, Moscow was threatening Nor-
way, Pakistan, Persia, the United States,
reprimanding Finland for allowing its
historic moving picture of the Finnish-
Russian war of 1940 to be displayed
in its own capital and bullying Tito for
“assisting imperialism.” Tito had urged
the Great Powers to forget prestige and
had said that the U-2 incident should
not have smashed the Summit con-
ference.
• •
r T''HE Soviet Union has come up with
yet another disarmament plan which
seems to be about the same as all the
others. At the same time Khrushchev is
sorrowing that President Eisenhower —
that perfidious host —refused to meet him
privately in Paris before the Summit
Conference. His invitation must have
been uttered in an inaudible whisper;
nobody heard it at the time. This suave
approach came on top of Malinovsky’s
threat to blast any base that loosed a
U-2 to spy on Russia. The Soviet Union
now appears to speak with two voices—
one of an unpredictable pantaloon, the
other with the voice of consistently
applied threat of brutal military force.


Personal
ITEMS
Appointed chief executive officer of
the R.A.S. of N.S.W., to succeed the
present director (Lieut.-General Sir Frank
Berryman) shortly after the 1961 Royal
Easter Show, W. N. Parry-Okeden was
born in Queensland and educated at
Toowoomba Grammar. In War II he
served with the 2/9th Bn. in England,
Tobruk, Syria and New Guinea, ending as
lieut.-colonel, with the D.S.O. Since
1946 he has been secretary of the Aus-
tralian Jockey Club.
• •
One of those old-fashioned gestures, a
staff banquet, was tendered George Caro
by the staff of Gollin and Co., the
Melbourne-based merchants, last week
after he had completed 50 years with the
company.
He left Wesley in 1911 and joined
Gollin’s, became a director in 1925,
managing-director in 1927 and chairman
in 1948.
When Harry Giddy, the chairman of
the Herald and Weekly Times, died last
year, Caro, as his deputy, took over the
post and also some of Giddy’s charitable
work. He is a director of Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital new buildings board and
the Walter and Eliza Hall Medical
Research.
As a youngster he was with the A.I.F.
from 1916 to 1918 and helped to organise
supplies for p.-0.-w., through Red Cross
branches, in the Far East in the last
war. He is a well-known Melbourne
golfer and a modest punter.
Mildara winery developed a special
extra-dry sherry for George Caro ; it is
now being successfully marketed as
“George type.”
• •
Five C.M.F. officers who have been
on a four-week operational tour of
Malaya spent some of the time with the
Ist Battalion, R.A.R., had three days in
the jungle with the battalion’s support-
company, and visited company-bases,
getting pointers on jungle-living and
methods of fighting in such conditions.
The party comprised Lieut.-Colonel J. B.
Roberts, in civilian life Clerk of Par-
liament in Western Australia; Major
W. H. Hyne, of Maryborough (Q.), who’s
in his family’s sawmilling business;
Major S. G. Lane, of Sydney County
Council’s electrical section ; Major N. D.
McCarthy, clerical officer in the S.A.
Attorney-General’s Department; and
Major R. J. Connolly, a doctor from
Hobart.
• •
“Morris the Tinker”: Dr. J. R.
Vickery, of Strathfield, Sydney, gets the
Institute of Food Technology's award
for the greatest contribution to research
in its special field during the past year.
First Australian to win this award, Dr.
Vickery does his research-work at the
C.5.1.R.0.'s Food Technology Labora-
tory at nearby Homebush.
• »
Stewart Lang, patrol padre of the Aus-
tralian Inland Mission in the Northern
Territory (one of Flynn’s mob) for more
than 10 years, has just become the Right
Rev. .1. W. Stewart Lang, Moderator of
the Presbyterian Church of Queensland.
OF “FLYNN’S MOB”
Born in Melbourne, Lang (pictured
here) is an Old Scotch Collegian who
completed his training for the ministry
at St. Andrews, Sydney, and served the
Presbyterian Church in N.S.W. (at Cess-
nock during the depression) and in Vic-
toria and Queensland before going to
the N.T. in 1950. He and his wife, with
their truck, books, magazines, organ and
“talkie”-projector, were a familiar sight
on uranium-prospecting camps during
the early 1950’5. In 1956 he spent five
weeks searching for the R.F.D.S. Anson
that went missing on a flight between
Tableland station and Derby with four
adults and a baby on board. When the
wreckage was found he conducted a
funeral-service from another plane flying
200 ft. above the burial-party. In recent
years his patrol has stretched from the
Gulf of Carpentaria to the coast of
Western Australia.
• •
“Lai”: One of Melbourne’s busiest
men while winter’s here is V.F.L. secre-
tary Eric McCutchan, who took over the
job in 1956 and has since done great
work for the Aussie Rules game, not
only in Victoria but in other States also.
He started with the V.F.L. in 1932 as a
junior clerk and, except for five years
away with the second A.1.F., has been
there ever since. In his younger days
he played cricket for Collingwood and
later captained and coached Ivanhoe.
In the off-season these days his sport is
golf ; with a handicap of two, he plays
with the Kingston Heath club in Vic-
torian pennant competition. He holed
out in one in the Australian Open at
Metropolitan in 1951—-the year Peter
Thomson won.
• •
K. J. Hedley, general-manager and
actuary of the Northern Life Assurance
Co. of Australia—he’s a Fellow of the
Faculty of Actuaries in Scotland and
immediate past-president of the Actuarial
Society of Australia and New Zealand-
left last week to attend the 16th Inter-
national Congress of Actuaries, due in
Brussels. He intends dropping in on the
head-office of the Northern in London
and branches of the Group in Calcutta,
New York, Toronto and San Francisco
before homing to Sydney.
• •
Executives and representatives of Mac-
Robertson Miller Airlines honored the
line’s chief pilot, A. L. A. Whitham, on
his arrival at Perth Airport after a friend-
ship-flight from Derby (W.A.). He’s the
first airline-pilot in Westralia to log
20,000 hours and to receive public recog-
nition for it.
• •
■*%
V.R.C. secretary Keith Morrison
having resigned on account of indifferent
health there’s a strenuous time ahead of
his successor, with the Centenary Cup
coming up. The V.R.C. has had only
four secretaries in its 96 years’ history.
R. C. Bagot, appointed in 1864, held
office until his death in 1881 (his two
daughters are still living in South Yarra).
The second secretary was H. Byron
Moore, who resigned shortly before his>
death in 1925. Then A. V. Kewney took
over until 1946, when Keith Morrison
was appointed.
• •
Off to the U.K., the Continent and the
U.S.A. on another of the business trips
that take him from his native Newcastle
(N.S.W.) every 18 months or so, Ralph
Goninan is general-manager of the big
Broadmeadow engineering concern his
father and uncle started at the close of
last century. A well-preserved and
distinguished-looking 52, with a repu-
tation of knowing how to look after his
staff, he learned the business the hard
way. Schooled at Newcastle High, he
began a five-year apprenticeship with the
firm when it was located at nearby Wick-
ham, his 48-hour working-week extended
by nightly attendances at Newcastle Tech.
His apprenticeship over, his father took
him to England to have a look at the
bigger workshops there before setting
him to work on the bottom rung of the
engineering ladder. From journeyman he
was transferred to the design and esti-
mating offices, then to a promotion as
assistant to the works-manager. He
occupied this latter post when, on his
father’s retirement in 1946, he became
g.-m. of A. Goninan and Co., Ltd.; it had
been flat to the boards on a three-shift


basis, seven days a week during War 11,
turning-out machine-tools and equipment
for the Army and Navy.
A councillor of the Metal Traders Em-
ployers’ Association and an original
member of the Institute of Industrial
Management (Newcastle branch), Ralph
Goninan is an expert engineer with the
capacity to think and act big. When
A.I.S. wanted an overhead travelling
electric-crane for its open-hearth works
at Port Kembla two years back, he pro-
duced one of 410 tons —the world’s
biggest until the Yanks (Bethlehem Steel)
came along with a bigger one. Currently,
and under licence from America’s Inter-
national General Electric Co., he is
tooling-up to introduce to the railway-
systems of Australasia the revolutionary
U 258 diesel-electric locomotive, said to
be the most exciting thing in diesels in
15 years.
• •
Colonel C. E. T. Newman, of Bellevue
Hill, Sydney, who called at The Bulletin
office last week to correct a par. about
the Campbells of Duntroon, should be an
expert on the subject, for he has written
a book about Robert Campbell, who
took-up the original grant of Duntroon
from the Colonial Government. The
book, called The Spirit of the Wharf, has
been backed by the Commonwealth
Literary Fund and is now awaiting pub-
lication. Robert Campbell, Sydney's
first merchant, had his wharf in the north-
west corner of what is now Circular Quay
and owned six acres of land around it.
In his time he did more than anyone else
to develop “The Rocks” for its reign as
a good residential area, before it became
the haunt of Griffo and Lawson’s
“Stousher” of a later day.
Colonel Newman, formerly of the
JOHNNY WALKER, Superintendent of
Technical Education in South Australia
for the last seven years, chairman of
the Apprentices’ Board and councillor
of the S.A. Institute of Technology, started
his working-life as a high-school science-
master, then was an inspector of schools.
In War II he was in charge of the Techni-
cal Training School and later of the
Commonwealth reconstruction-training
scheme.
Indian Army, is married to the daughter
of Fred Campbell, of Yarralumla —Mrs.
Newman was born on the property, and
lived there until she was 20. He and his
wife were married in St. Phillip’s Church,
Sydney, and Fred Campbell’s stipulations
on this occasion were that the wedding-
peal should be rung on the bells his uncle
John gave the church and that the word
“obey” should not be omitted from the
ritual of the marriage-service.
• •
The Bulletin congratulates Lewis
Luxton and the Shell Co. of Australia
on his appointment as chairman, the first
member of the firm’s Australian staff to
get the boss job. It is a hint to other
quarters.
The Luxtons are among the best-knoWn
Melbourne business and sporting
families, but Lewis is outstanding in his
sporting prowess. He rowed for Mel-
bourne Grammar, stroked Cambridge to
a win over Oxford, and, also in 1932,
stroked the British crew at the
Olympics.
He joined Shell the next year, and
was assistant g.-m. at 38 and managing-
director until his new appointment.*
He was deputy chairman of the
Olympic organising committee for Mel-
bourne in 1956 and remains a member of
the international committee. He won
the 0.8. E. for his services in the A.I.F.
in the Pacific.
• •
During his father’s absence abroad
Bruce Smith is acting as alternate director
in most of the companies of which B. O.
Smith is chairman—they include A. E.
Goodwin, Ltd., Grocery and General
Merchants, and Vanguard Insurance—
and he's acting as chairman of J. Con-
nolly. An “old boy” of “Shore,” and
a member of R.A.A.F. aircrew during
the last stoush, Bruce (35) is the son
part of B. O. Smith and Son, chartered
accountants, of Sydney, and is chairman
of Cemac, Ltd. (timber and plywood
manufacturers), and vice-chairman to his
father of New York (real-
estate co. with big plans for urban
development). In N.Y.I. the managing-
director is Tom Ripka, who hails from
Czechoslovakia and has a lot of overseas
and Australian experience backing him,
including terms as an engineer with the
Hooker-Rex and Civil and Civic
organisations.
• •
“Joanne”: Alderman Bill Northam, of
Sydney City Council, takes an hour or
two off each week to indulge in his hobby,
sailing, at which he has just won the
Boomerang Cup with his eight-metre
boat, Caprice of Huon. Aid. Northam,
who took an active part in reviving the
Sayonara Cup competition, bought the
eight-metre Saskia while in England,
refitted her in Sydney and sailed her to
Melbourne in 1955 to regain that Cup
from the Royal Yacht Club of Victoria,
and he successfully defended the Cup
when Victoria and Tasmania issued chal-
lenges for a series of races off Sydney
Heads the next year. He’s one of a
syndicate now interested in building an
Australian yacht to compete for the
Americas Cup.
HUBERT FERDINAND OPPERMAN,
pedalling as strongly in the job of
Minister for Shipping and Transport as
he did on the old bike.
D. S. Wishart, B.V.Sc., new Federal
president of the Australian Veterinary
Association, graduated at Sydney Univer-
sity, and in 1941 joined the Victorian
Department of Agriculture. He spent
1949 studying animal - husbandry
research in Europe, the U.S.A. and New
Zealand, and any expansion of that
research in Victoria these last 10 years
has been largely due to him.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 72, Maurice Emanuel Cantor,
a Judge of the N.S.W. Industrial Commission
from 1937 to 1957. Back in 1939, after a
hearing which lasted. 12 months, he announced
the steel-industry award which still acts as a
guide.
In Sydney, at 56, Eric Burnett Moses, better
known as “Eric Burnett,” former N.S.W.
concert-manager for the A.B.C. and father of
John Moses, p.-r.-o. for the Elizabethan Trust.
In Melbourne, at 38, Bill Morris, former
Australian Rules champion, winner of the
Brownlow Medal in 1948 and captain of the
Victorian team that easily won the champion-
ship staged at Brisbane in 1950.
At Dannevirke (N.Z.), at 80, Walter Dobson,
who held an N.Z. record for longest service
as a J.P. (54 years) and also as secretary, some-
time president, of the Chamber of Commerce
(47 years). He was 30 years secretary of
the local hospital and of the Fire Board,
deputy-mayor and ex-member of the borough
council, and also officiated as coroner.
In Adelaide, at 79, F. W. Hocart, who, as
City Council architect, designed the City
Markets, the first section of the City Arcade
and various notable buildings, and in the
Architect-in-Chief’s Department worked on the
plans for Parliament House. A past-president
of the S.A. Institute of Architects, he was,' in
his chief hobby interest, for 30 years president
of the S.A. Canary and Pigeon Society.
At Camden (N.S.W.), at 94, Charles Newton
Hannaford, a former Mayor of Campbelltown,
where he lived for over 70 years.


ABORIGINALITIES
A ttended the weekly open-air picture-
show at Clare on the River
Burdekin (N.Q.) in an unfenced area
where one could view from car, or truck,
or could provide oneself with a folding-
chair. The kids lay on rugs near the
front so they would be bedded-down
when too sleepy to see the show through.
“Get onto one of these steam-heated
jobs — they're terrific !”
Admission was by collection-box at 3s.
an adult, kids free. As there were four
adults in our party and 11 kids, we got
good value. The only fixed-capital
equipment is two poles and a cross-bar
to hang the screen on and a sft.-by-3ft.
shed to house the projector. After the
first short picture the projectionist was
heard over the amplifier with a measured
nasal drawl: “Youse blokes over there
in the long grass beside the butcher’s
shop, come on and pay your three-bobs.”
Later, four or five dogs staged a ding-
dong fight which became mixed-up with
the sleeping kids. I haven’t known a
balmier climate and have never met more
likeable people, or enjoyed a picture-
show more. —“Hel’n.”
“C. Coral”: What is the derivation of
“jackeroo”? I’ve heard several origins
given, but the late Archie Meston
(Queensland) claimed that it dated back
to 1838, the year the first German
missionaries arrived on the Brisbane
River. The name “jackeroo” or
“tchaceroo” in the dialect of the Brisbane
aborigines known as Churrabool was the
name of the pied crow-shrike, Stripera
graculina, one of the noisiest and most
garrulous birds in Australia. The blacks
said the white men (the missionaries)
were always talking, a gabbling race,
hence they called them “jackeroo” (equi-
valent to “gabblers”). Any other version,
please?
* * * *
“Bellfield”: That footballer who
snavelled a stray ten-bob note wafting
across the field (B. 4/ 5/ ’6O) was a bit
luckier than one of the lifesavers in a
March Past during a carnival at Bondi
some years back. Proudly leading his
club, chest expanded, head erect, knees
lifting high, he caught a glimpse of a
pound-note lying half-uncovered in the
sand. It was a moment for swift
decision: dive on the fiddly and ruin
the club’s chances of winning the March
Past, or spurn the filthy lucre under-
foot? Virtue triumphed. With noble
disregard of all human impulses he chose
the straight and narrow path of duty—
directly over the tempting quid. Virtue
is its own reward, but a less virtuous
team-mate marching immediately behind
promptly darbied the note and be
blowed to the club’s chances!
* * * *
“Far”: Why old-time builders used
bootleather - abrasive sandstone for
thresholds when tallowwood was cheap
and plentiful is a mystery. Not only is
it a timber which is improved in appear-
ance by constant contact with boot-
leather but it will last as long as the
house. I have one that shows very little
wear after nearly 40 years.
* * * *
“Fairf”: An addendum to David
Adams’s information on the Orphan
School Farm (B. 11/4/’60): On his
arrival in Australia in 1800 Governor
King was appalled at the number of
neglected orphans in the colony. He
immediately proceeded to find homes for
them, founding an orphan-school in
Sydney and another at Parramatta. In
1803 he carried his humane project
further by making grants of two large
areas which were to be subdivided into
small farms and leased, the income to
be used for upkeep of the orphan-
schools. One of the grants was in the
area described by David Adams; the
THE SONG OF WAO
[This verse is composed from a narrated
prose version, in English, by Charlotte Williams
of the Gindavul tribe, of an aboriginal myth.
It is from Woodenbong on the N. S. Wales
North Coast. I have also recorded, on tape,
the traditional song in its original form. It
is another example of a myth crossing the
continent. Albert Namatjira told me a myth
of his tribe (Tjilpa; Native-cat) which starts
at Port Augusta, S.A., travels the
Centre and up to Darwin. This was verified
at Darwin for me by Fred Waters (of organised
aboriginal strike fame) of the Larrakia tribe.
Darwin js in the Larrakia country. —R.R.]
Since, in another country,
my brother Djarring died,
I, Wao, cross the ranges
to their western side.
Two emus there are feeding;
they move away together,
two emus who inherit
the spirit of my brother.
O, that I could outpace them
and head them back at length.
Towards the west l chase them
with all my speed and strength.
Tired, my limbs seem tethered.
The morning-star is gone.
The emus, ruffling their feathers,
rise and journey on.
My country far behind me,
and still, day after day,
through sands that burn and blind me,
those emus walk away.
It is the glistening ocean,
the ocean in the west.
There, on the beach, those emus
sink down at last and rest.
There, as 1 walk towards them,
a man comes from the sea.
“Ah, Wao, leave those emus,”
he says, “and come with me.”
A path out to a mountain
in the sea we find.
A cavern there receives us.
The rocks close up behind.
Inside that hollow mountain
I stay for three days’ space.
I hear our Father singing. v
I do not see His face.
“Why were you walking, Wao,
through sands and forests’ loam ?
I called those spirit-emus.
Your Father called them home.”
The rock is cleft asunder.
I wake. The beach appears
deserted, and the thunder
of breakers fills my ears.
Walking towards the sunrise,
I, Wao, now must start,
Wao, who holds the song of
our Father in his heart.
This song, for which through deserts
my feet have worn and bled,
I bear now from the Island
of the Spirits of the Dead.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


LINEUP OF THE GIANTS


Orphan School Creek he mentioned runs
into the Prospect Creek (a tributary of
the Georges River) about 200yds. north
of the railway-bridge at Carramar and
approximately half-a-mile south of Fair-
field station. But there is another Orphan
School Creek not more than 20 miles
away. It runs through the Sydney suburb
of Forest Lodge, bordering the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children and
Pyrmont Bridge Road. It would seem
safe to assume that the other grant made
by Governor King was in this area, and,
like the grant in the Fairfield-Cabramatta
district, the creek which watered the
"Are you quite sure you've had previous experience in fruit-picking?"
Orphan School farms was called the
Orphan School Creek, and still bears that
name.
* * * *
“Judee”: A partnership at Lithgow
(N.S.W.), most of the members
former coalmining-men, has rebuilt a
motorworks with heavy steel trusses
from the old Steelworks Colliery, which
also provided Oregon timber used in the
new building; and more than 100,000
bricks, 37,000 from the Vale of Clwydd
Colliery’s stacks and boiler-house. Face-
bricks aren’t manufactured in Lithgow,
but 10,000 were obtained from Bathurst
Brickworks which, until 10 years ago,
used wood fuel, but then switched to
coal supplied by members of the syndi-
cate from their coalmine at Lithgow.
* # * *
“Crow Eater”: A new line introduced
to Canada by the Australian Trade
Mission is the stump - jump plough,
familiar enough in Victoria, S.A. and
other parts where the mallee - country
blocked the ordinary type. Actually, the
vast S.A. area of mallee had to await
the invention of the stump-jump imple-
ment before it could be adequately
developed. The stump-jump harrow, with
the production of which some of my
own family had a good deal to do, was
another asset to mallee-country develop-
ment. I don’t know whether the Cana-
dian buyers will have the same difficulty
with fixing the plough-seat, though, as
was experienced by a newchum English-
man I knew in the Victorian Mallee.
A willing worker, he was plodding be-
hind the plough when his farmer-boss
suggested he might as well ride, and
told him to bring the seat he’d find in
the shed. Having attached the seat,
Choom started the horses again, and for
the next few furrows his progress was
a succession of sudden upheavals, until
the boss spotted what was the matter.
He’d fixed the seat to the “jump”
section!
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: In 1898 kauri-logs were
sand-engulfed by floods at the mouth of
Tararu Creek (N.Z.). By 1930 higher
prices and scarcity encouraged their
excavation, and a Melbourne brewery
contracted for them to be sawn to 18ft.
lengths of 6 x 3. A gat his alba is a lovely
wood to brew beer in, but when the
coopers vatted the staves they proved
to have lost all bending-quality and frac-
tured at the slightest stress.
*** ■ #
“Ymar”: In addition to 50 awards of
500 cartridges each for lucky - number
duck - bands returned to the Victorian
Fisheries and Game Department,
1.C.1.A.N.Z. has given the department
a mobile two-unit “duck-laboratory.” The
chief unit —the laboratory-proper—has
heating, sinks, X-ray machine, refrige-
rator to preserve specimens, and other
standard equipment. The other—a one-
ton, four-wheel-drive towing-vehicle—
holds all the necessary gear for trapping
and banding ducks. With these a depart-
mental team can, whatever the weather
and however rough or swampy the
country, catch, sex, weigh and band
ducks, and with the X-ray fluoroscope
check any lead-pellets the birds may
carry as mementoes of other season’s
near-misses. From this data they calcu-
late statistics of shooting-pressures, pros-
pects and probable distribution of ducks.
The vehicles prominently display an
appropriate insignia—a flying black-
duck.
* * * *
“Argan”: You can take, too lightly
sharks that are seemingly innocuous or
apparently done-for. In Torres Strait
one particular kind frequently displays
his submarine shingle, but because he’s
known to be lethargic, with compara-
tively inoffensive dental equipment, he’s
treated contemptuously both by dress-
divers and by skin-diving natives work-
ing the m.-0.-p. beds. If, as.often happens,
he’s basking over a shell-deposit they
will unceremoniously nudge him aside.
But one Jap diver went a bit too far and
sunk his boot into the slats of a specimen
taking his siesta. Resentment of the
indignity resulted in a leg-mauling
demanding deft and extensive stitchery
at the Thursday Island Hospital. An
example* of the apparently done-for kind
occurred at Maroochy (Q.) when pro-
fessional fisherman Tom Durbidge had
his shoulder severely mauled by an eight-
footer that had been landed an hour
earlier and was actually hanging up on a
hook amidships. It required a gaff to
prise open the jaws.
* * * *
“Peanut”: A man who has been
cycling around our town for many years
is now hoofing it. While making a right-
hand turn he heard a screech of braxes
behind him. Out of the corner of his
eye he saw a big utility skidding across
the road to avoid him. The fright caused
him to fall from his bicycle and he
scampered for the nearest kerb. Recover-
ing his composure he tried walking across
the road with his cycle. Halfway across
he was almost sandwiched between two
more cars. A very frightened man, he
dashed for the shelter of the footpath.
Just as he got there the heavy hand of
the town undertaker clapped him on
the shoulder. “You all right, mate?” he
heard the body-boxer say hopefully.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: One of the features of
the railway between Cairns and Kuranda
(N.Q.), was, when I last travelled it, a
huge stone boulder almost overhanging
the line. Robb, who did the surveying,
had much acrimonious dealing with the
Government over his contract and the
removal of the boulder. He claimed the
pebble presented no hazard, and, in vin-
dication of his stand, forfeited several
hundred pounds rather than make a
re-survey providing for its removal. He
won his point, for that huge gibber, just
outside touching - distance of a passen-
ger’s hand, stood there for 50 years—
and may still be there for all I know.
It was known as “Robb’s Monument.”


I Tandbook on the care of goldfish
re veals that they can register “at
least 13 different kinds of emotions.”
These include anger, curiosity, selfishness,
pain, pleasure, fear, greed and so on.
But no one, it seems, has yet seen a gold-
fish laugh!—“Hilltop.”
* * * *
“North Esk”: A lady in n.-e. Tasmania
has adopted a wombat as a household
pet. It allows children to gambol with
it, curls up and amiably allows itself to
be used as hassock or leg-warmer, and
accompanies its mistress should she be
visiting nearby, waiting for her until she’s
ready to return.
* * * *
“Barcoo Rot”: The geographical
centre of Queensland, mentioned here
recently, is no doubt now marked by a
plaque in the grounds of the Blackall
Public School (as stated), but when I
was a pupil there the marking object
was a post, erected by Headmaster
Evans. It was a damp day, and he made
us all take our boots and shoes off and
march round and round that post to set
it firmly in the ground. I take it the
post rotted in time, and hence the plaque.
* * * *
“Ex-Quiz-King”: Westland Province
(N.Z.), having its centennial, includes
bullock - wagons, road - coaches, mining
grog-shops and fake dance-halls. There
was one big R.C. procession, and for
the guard-of-honor all the ancient, free
and accepted brothers came to light
offering their Masonic dress-suits and
gloves to outfit the occasion. A pub was
raided after hours by unimaginative
cops. One drinker claimed to be a
boarder. He was told they didn’t recog-
nise him as a local: “How long have you
been in this town?” The answer was:
“I owe them a hundred-and-four pounds
for board. Work it out yourself.”
CHINESE FOR LUCK
As well as one could assess the Oriental
age, Chinese prospectors operating
in the western N.S.W. alluvial-gold areas
from 1909 to 1914 appeared about
thirtyish. I wondered then as to their
port of entry or origin. I remain no
wiser. •
They “No savvied” any direct inquiry
and appeared genuinely hazy about capi-
tal cities and seaports on the Pacific
coast. They did know the River Darling
ports and couldn’t disguise their know-
ledge of the overland route to Darwin.
Whether they were descendants of the
1870 influx or were later migrants I’ve
yet to be told.
The Chinese were good alluvial diggers.
They had a nose for gold, but preferred
to .costean for it rather than do any
sinking. When they had to put down a
shallow vertical shaft it was always a
gem of a circular well with a side spiral-
path cut for removing mullock in skid-
barrows. The path would be trenched
down the outer circumference for a few
feet, and then the centre core would be
removed to the same level. The proce-
dure Would be repeated to depth, the
grade of the path remaining constant.
1 cannot recall a Chinese miner ever
using a windlass.
They were not interested in the big
shows with deep leads other than to set-
up their cousins as market-gardeners and
hawkers once there was a shanty-town
with which to trade.
Prior to the 1914 war I was sent down
from the Cobar line of lode, where the
American Bellinger was king, to engineer
a gold-show near the Macquarie at
Wellington. Exploring the district one
weekend I found where an eroding water-
course feeding the Mitchell Creek had
exposed a very promising indicator. The
odds were that in from the opposite bank
that indicator would have developed into
a series of rich veins, with the probability
of finding some really sizeable slugs. I
pegged the claim with the war hitting
the headlines, but speedily lost my
enthusiasm for the project when the
Mines Department demanded £7 to sur-
vey and register the claim. This sum,
being equal to a fortnight’s salary, made
a good argument for me to talk myself
into taking an overseas job at six-bob
a day.
In 1920 I wandered over my old
stamping-grounds and finished-up at the
Macquarie show. The mines were flooded
and derelict, and only the old fossickers
pottered about in the creek-beds. I found
one old fellow who remembered me.
“You were the chap what pegged a
claim up the creek a bit?”
“That’s right,” I said. “I suppose it’s
still there?”
He shifted his chew and spat accur-
ately at a lizard on a rock.
“Like hell, it’s still there! You go
and have a look. Two Chinks took
thirty-thousand quid out in six weeks.”
I confirmed the good strike, but reckon
the winnings might have got multiplied
with the years. The matrix still showed
where there had been some lovely
Oh, well, Chinese for luck!
OLD OPENCUT.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, P. H. Mdclems
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I 1 3 lines) 8TJ5327
Cables & Telegrams
EMDECELEX.” Sydney
SSS?
Mf
mm
»m sm.
m
-o y- ■'"'
w*Zvws.';’A
m
&**<&
%8m
<tf.y;:s-
Wm
?<>:><: .y.
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
amoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making/ combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia's
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Ang ore’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT. MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY .. ST AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
HOOKER GROWTH—AND FUTURE
T}ROM W. T. Russell, director,
L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation, Ltd:
We have read with interest The
Bulletin’s recent article comment-
ing on our deal with Mr. William
L. Buckland which amplifies what
we have already told our share-
holders in our circular of May 4,
and whilst your article is quite
factual so far as it goes, it fails
to mention that even without the
Buckland income our forecasted
present earning-rate is such that
we can look forward with con-
fidence to maintaining the antici-
pated 20 p.c. dividend, subject
always, of course, to a continuance
of the present political and
economic climate.
We are well aware of the need
for cheap loan-money for some of
our projects, and already we have
been able to raise by debentures
more than £3| million (50 p.c. in
excess of our projected June 30
capital) costing us an effective
interest-rate (after tax) of only
approximately 5 p.c., thus making
it obvious that we do not need
to earn on these projects anywhere
near the 32 p.c. referred to by
The Bulletin. The effective
earning-rate of other subsidiaries is
well in excess of 32 p.c., and in
the real-estate-agency company
alone (L. J. Hooker, Ltd.) sales
turnover for the year ending June
30 next will exceed £45 million,
as against last financial year’s
£l9l million (an increase of
130 p.c.).
The corporation’s earning-rate
will be further accelerated when
development assets' running into
more than £3 million, which are
at present non-revenue-producing,
are fully developed.
In conclusion, we think you
should have pointed-out in your
article that the method of financ-
ing the Buckland deal has limited
considerably the risk factor, and
not only will the acquisition have
a strong impact on the corpora-
tion’s assets structure, but will also
enable the building-up of substan-
tial reserves before having to meet
the increased dividend commitments
in 1967 and 1968, by which time
the pastoral properties themselves
may be expected to be earning
considerably more than at present
by reason of “ploughing-back” the
income for the next two or three
years in a bold development and
improvements programme.
In writing this letter, which we
hope you will publish, we have
In mind that our current activities
have assumed somewhat of a
national aspect and constructive
criticism will always be welcomed.
In his letter Mr. Russell,
on behalf of Hooker’s,
makes it clear that his com-
pany is confident of maintain-
ing the 20 p.c. div., even with-
out the Buckland income,
Subject always, of course, to
a continuance of the pre-
sent political and economic
climate.” Mr. L. J. Hooker,
in the press-release of May 4,
had previously indicated that
the 20 p.c. dividend would be
comfortably covered. Mr.
Russell also demonstrates
awareness of the need
for cheap money in some
Hooker projects by quoting
specific figures of what has
already been arranged in this
respect.
The Bulletin is pleased to
publish Mr. Russell’s letter for
the information and anticipa-
tions that it provides, and for
raising aspects not mentioned
by The Bulletin. This paper
is also well aware of the
financial skill, business enter-
prise, market-consciousness and
all-round energy and ability
with which the Hooker busi-
nesses have been conducted.
The Bulletin’s cautionary
comments in its issue of May
18, though citing Hooker
activities, were intended as a
general observation (empha-
sised in the final paragraph)
on problems which takeover-
companies with diversifying
interests might have to face in
the event of a changing eco-
nomic climate resulting from
an overbuilt metropolis.
Hooker’s would be in a better
position than most to see any
such situation developing and
to make provision against it
But they cannot entirely
protect themselves against the
collective result of actions, well-
judged or ill-judged, of other
companies in the same business
but not in the same stable.
The Bulletin’s remarks, in
short, were meant to be a
caution to overoptimistic share-
market investors in many ex-
pansive (and diversifying)
corporations in case there
should be a change in
the economic climate over the
next decade. In some instances,
too, the seasonal climate will
continue to be a factor, as it
always has been in the past.
N.S.W. Companies Act
A n amendment of the N.S.W.
Companies Act, as from
June 1, requires that com-
panies (other than banks)
inviting deposits or loans may
accept applications only upon
a form signed by the applicant,
who must have been issued with
a prospectus.
Section 138 provides that
every advertisement asking for
loans or deposits shall be
deemed to be a prospectus
unless it contains no more
than certain specified infor-
mation.
The Act also regulates the
offer of “interests” (that is,
“units,” “investment contracts,”
“bond contracts,” etc.).
Strata Development Corp.
Streets Ice Cream, y Ltd.,
having been taken-over by
Unilever at £5 10s. per £1
share, three of Streets’ former
directors and the secretary
got together and decided to
apply their experience and
energies to the establishment
of a million-pound real-estate
development, portfolio - invest-
ment and underwriting co.,
with initial emphasis on the
N.S.W. South Coast, where
Streets Ice Cream was founded.
The outcome has been the
flotation and oversubscription
of an issue of four-million ss.
shares by Strata Development
Corporation, Ltd., four of the
directors of which live at Wol-
longong and one at Narooma.
The prospectus says:
It is proposed that the co. should
acquire a substantial interest in
land and land-development on the
South Coast of N.S.W. All the
directors reside in and have a
special knowledge of this locality,
which is one of the most rapidly-
growing areas in Australia. The
greatest rate of growth has probably


PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Bean, V. J. Berner, W. L,. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Wales
ll should lalk tolhe
You s
There must be some opportunities for you
to build up export business. I’d suggest
you see the “Wales” they will be able
to give you information on new markets
and put you in touch with businessmen
overseas. They make exporting easier for
you, too, with assistance in many ways
you should get a copy of their booklet
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide”.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London
YOU CAN BANK ON THE “WALES’*
A5912C
been in the Wollongong /Port
Kembla area, which is now ahead
of Newcastle as a steel-producing
centre. Employment in the steel-
industry in Port Kembla has
doubled in seven years.... The
claims of other fast-growing areas,
such as Sydney, Newcastle and
Canberra, will be considered by
the directors. It is the intention
that the co. should operate over
a broad geographical field.
After mentioning that the
population of Australia is ex-
pected to rise from 10 million
to 124 million over the next
decade, and that the work-force
is likely to rise by 35 p.c., the
prospectus adds:
The economic background favors
a rate of expansion which will
eclipse the vigorous growth of the
last decade. This implies a sub-
stantial increase in the demand
for goods and services and for real
property.
Although the increase in popu-
lation has been rapid for the nation
as a whole, it has been accen-
tuated in the City of Greater
Wollongong. There are few cities
in the world today expanding at
such a pace.
The board believes the co
can “assist the expansion of
industry and commerce by
sponsoring the provision at
fair prices of good home-sites,
of homes, of home-units, flats
and shops and of service in-
dustries and by producing a
financial reservoir which will
not only be available for ex-
panding projects but will pro-
vide a means whereby the
shareholders can ensure a wide
diversification of investment
media through the one chan-
nel.”
By having a special interest
—and a residential interest —in
the N.S.W. South Coast area,
Strata Corp. should be in a
favored position to take advan-
tage of investment opportuni-
ties in that area. There is much
genuine growth around Wol-
lortgong-Kembla as opposed to
inflation and speculation in
some other glamorous <?r
“boomed” localities already
over-exploited. Altogether,
formation of a large corpora-
tion based outside the capital-
cities, with a strong and experi-
enced management, is a most
interesting and encouraging
venture.
On the board of Strata are
K. C. Wiseman (former chair-
man of Streets), Edwin Street,
M. W. Allen, William Simpson
and Samuel Waugh. The issue
has been underwritten by A. D.
Meares and Bishop, of Sydney
’Change.
Paxton’s Share-purchase
/Considerable interest and dis-
cussion have been aroused
by the “share-purchase
through life-assurance” scheme
launched by Robert Paxton
(Insurances) Pty., Ltd., of Syd-
ney, on May 12, in conjunction
with Transport and General
Life Assurance Co., Ltd., a
member of the Australian
Guarantee Corp. group of
companies.
The salient points of the
scheme are:
(1) The life-office grants a loan
of 75 p.c. of the value of the
securities deposited with it, so that
25 p.c. of the total is provided by
the applicant and 75 p.c. bought
with the loan.
(2) The 25 p.c. provided by the
applicant may be an existing
investment which may be any good-
class security acceptable to the
life-office.
(3) The 75 p.c. bought with the
loan must come from a list of
eligible stocks and shares —a choice
of over 170 securities.
(4) Interest is charged on the
loan at 7) p.c. p.a.
(5) The loan is repaid by the
maturity of an endowment-
assurance, no other repayment of
capital being required. The invest-
ment portfolio then passes, free
of liability, to the policyholder.
(6) The maximum loan is £lO,OOO,
the minimum £l5OO.
In buying securities under
the scheme its sponsors claim
two main taxation advantages—
(a) interest-payment on the
loan from the life-office will be
deductible from taxable in-
come; and (b) endowment-
assurance premiums (up to a
total of £4OO a year, including
premiums on existing assur-
ances) are eligible as tax-deduc-
tions.
Dividends on the shares are
payable to the assured, which
will be a partial offset against
interest and premiums payable.
If death of the assured should
occur before maturity, the as-
surance automatically pays-olf
the loan, and the investments
pass, free of liability, to his
beneficiaries. Funds to take-up
new issues will be advanced by
the life-office on the same terms
as the original loan.
Loans made to policyholders
will not exceed two years’ in-
come of the assured or £lO,OOO.
The whole scheme is interest-
ing. Its value partly depends
on how much tax-concession is
available to a policyholder-
investor who already has some
life-assurance, and partly upon
how his selected securities fare
over the term of the assurance.
They will not necessarily rise
in price at the rate seen over
the last decade.
Few first - class shares at
present yield p.c. (which is
the rate payable on the loan),
so for a period, until income
builds-up, a good deal will
depend on market-increment.
That, plus taxation advantages,
are the essence of the scheme.
Apparently the policies
offered are non-participating,
with premiums reduced accord-
ingly. There is no mention of
bonuses in the May 1 brochure.
No mention is made of what
happens in the case of a policy
lapsing through non-payment
of premiums. The life-office
would hold the investments as
security for the loan, and
apparently a settlement would
be made according to how the
value of the securities and


1959
1958
Year
L/\
K> OO
Ore Milled
— L*
N> OJ
K» O
Tons
00
Lead
'-J OO
Concentrate
50
Produced
Tons
77.0
76.8
Average
Grade
Per cent.
Lead
hJ
Average
sO o
Grade
—
Ozs. Silver
L* Os
UJ
sO -J
Containing
Recoverable
Lead, Tons
Containing
OO <J\
Recoverable
Lk> 4^
Silver, Ozs.
O
Zinc
— N>
Concentrate
Produced
o —
Tons
<-*J 05
Grade
1VI
— N)
Per Cent.
OC~Cri
Zinc
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
NEW BROKEN HILL
CONSOLIDATED LIMITED
The twenty-fourth annual meeting of the Company
will be held at 37 Dover Street, London, on Tuesday,
June 21, 1960. The following extracts are from the
statement of the chairman (Mr. L. B. Robinson), which
has been circulated in advance.
The low price level of lead
prevailing at the end of 1958
continued during the year, but the
price of zinc improved gradually
to finish in December, 1959, at
£95/3/10 for prompt delivery
metal, and the average London
Metal Exchange prices for prompt
delivery during 1959 were £7O/15/7
for lead and £B2/4/8 for zinc,
compared with £72/16/- and
£65/18/1 for these metals respec-
tively during 1958. Despite the
incidence of restrictions on sales
the higher zinc price, coupled with
satisfactory forward contracts and
a marked reduction in operating
costs per ton of ore, resulted in
a trading balance of £1,531,700,
compared with £1,037,063 for 1958.
Depreciation amounted to
£333,140, compared with £350,600
for 1958, and, aftgr other charges,
the profit before taxation amounted
to £1,190,847, compared with
£696,303 for 1958.
An interim dividend of 9d. per
share, free of tax, has been paid,
compared with 6d. per share, free
of tax, last year.
The directors are recommend-
ing that a final dividend should
be paid at the rate of 1/6 per
share, free of tax, compared with
lOd. per share, free of tax, last
year.
This gives a total free of tax
dividend of 2/3 per % share, com-
pared with 1/4 per share for
1958.
Production
For the second year in succes-
sion the Company budgeted for
an output well below the capacity
of the mine and the 10 per cent,
reduction in working time intro-
duced at Broken Hill in February,
1958, continued to operate through-
out the year under review. Never-
theless, increased productivity and
slightly higher overall grade of
ore and mill recoveries resulted in
metal production in 1959 being
higher than in 1958. The tonnage
of ore treated by the Company
rose by 11 per cent., the produc-
tion of recoverable lead by 15 per
cent, and zinc concentrate output
was 8 per cent, higher.
The details of production are as follows:
Lead Silver Zinc
Tons per cent. Ounces per cent.
Lead Lode 497,901 13.2 3.4 12.4
Zinc Lode 84,367 5.4 1.5 13.6
Total for 1959 .. .. 582,268 12.1 3.2 ' 12.6
Total for 1958 .. .. 525,492 11.8 3.1 12.7
The ore milled and concentrates produced in 1959 compared with
1958 as follows:
Ore Reserves
The ore reserves fully outlined and developed ready for stoping or
in the process of being stoped as at December 31, 1959, were
calculated at:
Lead Silver Zinc
Tons per cent. Ounces per cent.
1959 Lead Lode .. .. 3,000,000 13.0 3.4 12.5
Zinc Lode .. .. 1,100,000 4.7 1.2 13.2
Combined .. .. 4,100,000 10.8 2.8 12.7
1958 Lead Lode .. .. 2.600,000 12.7 3.1 12.8
Zinc Lode .. .. 1,000,000 4.9 1.1 13.2
Combined .. .. 3,600,000 10.5 2.5 12.9
Development
and Diamond Drilling
In the statement covering opera-
tions in 1956 reference was made
to the work of delineating the
boundaries of the large siliceous
zinc orebodies occurring in the
upper levels. These are now known
to extend laterally from our
northern boundary to at least 3500
feet south. The plan and cross-
sections accompanying this report
illustrate the results of some of
the work on these massive ore-
bodies and show the outlines of
the extensive high-grade zinc
sections which they contain. These
sections are of particular import-
ance since they provide means
whereby production of zinc con-
centrate could be increased with-
out correspondingly increasing the
output of lead concentrate. The
advantages of this flexibility of
production as between' the two
metals are apparent in times like
the present when the demand for
zinc concentrate is greater than
that for lead concentrate.
An examination of the details of
the drilling done on these siliceous
zjnc orebodies has revealed
between Sections 66 and 82, a
distance of 1040 feet, the existence
of some four millions of tons of
ore averaging 5 per cent, lead and
20 per cent, zinc, the opening up
of which would procure major
advantages if the present market
conditions for zinc concentrate
prevail. Consequently a pro-
gramme for the development of
this ore is being designed and,
subject to no adverse change in
the zinc price, stope production
is estimated to start in 1962 with
tonnages from development in
1960 and 1961.
Shaft Developments
The deepening of the Service
Shaft for operation to No. 25
Level is nearing completion and
good progress has been made with
the concreting of the shaft and
plat cutting on the intermediate
levels. This work has been carried
out to permit future mining of the
lead lode orebodies on Levels No.
22 <3240 feet) to No. 25 (3180
feet). Early in March the bottom
of the shaft was 65 feet below
No. 24 Level (3620 feet) and the
excavation of No. 24 Level plat
was nearing completion.
Lead and Zinc Markets
As regards the markets for lead
and zinc, I would repeat as on
former occasions the statement 1
am making to members of The
Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited. (See elsewhere in this
issue.)
L. B. ROBINSON.
May 2, 1960.
surrender-value of the policy
compared with the amount
outstanding on the loan.
Pyneboard at Oberon
On May 27 N.S.W. Premier
R. J. Heffron officially
opened the new pyneboard fac-
tory at Oberon, N.S.W.
The plant is operated by
Pyneboard Pty., a co. formed
by Colonial Sugar Refining Co.,
Ltd., Timber Industries Pty.
(an Oberon firm) and Fletcher
Manufacturing Co. Pty., a sub-
sidiary of Fletcher Holdings,
Ltd., of N.Z. C.S.R. has four
directors (including the chair-
man and the secretary) on
PyneboardY board of six. In-
vestment is estimated at
£400,000.
To begin with, Pyneboard
will employ 30 to 40 people,
the number possibly doubling
as markets are built-up and
output increases.
Welcoming the Premier and
other guests. Sir Edward Knox,
deputy chairman of C.S.R.,
pointed out that at least £60,000
will flow annually into the
Oberon district in wages.
The Premier praised C.S.R.
and its associates for their in-
vestments, and assistance in de-
centralisation of N.S.W. indus-
try. He pointed out that Pyne-
board Pty. will not only save
the Forestry Commission the
work of thinning-out the sur-
rounding State forests, but also
provide royalties estimated at
£175,000 over the next 10 years.
The Premier said that approxi-
mately four-million super-ft.
of pine-thinnings are now avail-
able around Oberon, Bathurst
and Orange, rising to about 20-
million by 1970.
The State Government has
approved “a substantial sub-
sidy” to cover the cost of
carriage of plant and equip-
ment to the site. “The Govern-
ment does not begrudge such
aid, nor the rich rewards to be
found here by those who have
the skill and capital necessary
for development.”
The Premier said that N.S.W.
now has 41 p.c. of the nation’s
factories and factory-workers
and 43 p.c. of wages and
salaries.
Pyneboard Pty. will use the
Behr process, adapted from
Germany. The value of pro-
duction in the early stages will
be about £500,000 p.a., rising
to £2-million in the future.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
ur
Vintage Wines
N S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
"THE MAGIC PUDDING" ON STRINGS
there are thousands of
kids who have followed the
adventures of Norman Lind-
say’s lanky pudding was shown
by the packed house at Her
Majesty’s in Brisbane, where
Peter Scriven’s Tintookies pup-
pets are trying to satisfy the
appetites of pudding - loving
children and quite a few of
their parents; judging by the
reaction at the first perform-
ances of this brand-new show,
magic pudding will be part of
the diet for children everywhere
this summer when the company
goes around the other capitals.
“The Magic Pudding” ismot
strictly a fairytale, but it shares
with the very best fairytales
the quality of immediately
claiming a child’s imagination,
and not letting go until the
characters have had their fun.
Genius though he is, even Walt
Disney has become increasingly
heavy-handed in translating
fairytales to the films, and one
would imagine that stage adap-
tation would be harder still.
From the moment the curtain
went up, it was clear that
Scriven had prepared his script
with the gentlest of touches,
and as the well-known charac-
ters came on they were just as
one remembered them from the
book. The puppets are large,
and they perform on a small
stage mounted in the centre of
the full stage. They can be
plainly seen from the back row,
even if the viewer has no
memories of the book to eke-
out the scene.
And what a pudding it was!
The voice was broad Australian
with some very genteel English
sounds mixed in like raisins.
Pudding stole every scene pos-
sible. His plate was worn on
top, his complexion was clearly
plum-pudding, and the two
skinny legs that stalked around
the stage had a talent for the
ballet denied to the more
bumble-footed puddin’-owners
and professional puddin’
thieves.
For these, Scriven has stuck
closely to the text —a sound
idea,, because Lindsay, like
Dickens, is highly dramatic in
the first place. Bill Barnacle,
Sam Sawnoff and Bunyip Blue-
gum were received like familiar
heroes by the children as the
three went on their travels with
the pudding supplying all their
rations.
The two puddin’ - thieves,
Possum and Wombat, were
never too evil a pair of villains,
and could not have terrified
even the smallest child. An
awkward part of the script
must have been to arrange
things so that the constant
gobbling of the liverish-tem-
pered pie would not seem too
cruel. (Like Prometheus, the
pudding is, of course, of the
cut - an’ - come - again variety,
each slice being immediately
replaced by another.)
Most of the children seemed
fascinated by the incidental
characters as much as by the
professional pudding men. The
timid Bandicoot with his melon,
the Rooster who wanted every-
one to meet “the missus,”
larrikin Kookaburra and the
Swagman Parrot were all done
with a skill that might have
made La Fontaine envious. No
doubt some toy-manufacturer
with an eye for business will
shortly be. at Lindsay’s door
asking about rights—certainly,
toyland has not for years seen
such a fine bunch of prospec-
tive citizens.
There was a pleasant musical
score by Hal Evans, but the
songs themselves did not im-
press as much as the little
orchestral interludes that set
the mood for each new scene.
Something might be done to
improve the balance of the
voices, which is not yet perfect.
Some of the choruses sound as
if the Don Cossack Choir
happened to be passing by, and
now and again there is a ten-
dency to sacrifice clarity of
speefch to quaintness of effect.
Otherwise the recorded voices,
led by Gordon Chater, are
cleverly done —and for the
pudding itself, quite memor-
able.
D.J.M.
“Madame Butterfly”
Tom Brown’s stylish produc-
tion of the Puccini opera for
the Trust Co.’s Sydney season
gained from simple yet effec-
tive sets and the pleasingly
varied kimonos designed by
Elaine Haxton. The producer
might, however, have broken
with tradition to the extent of
dropping the role of Kate
Pinkerton.
Simply because Puccini’s
librettist had the bad taste to
drag-in Pinkerton’s American
wife to sing two lines and
parade herself before his
Japanese wife for no other
apparent reason than to humili-
ate her —all redundantly, for
Butterfly doesn’t need this
visual evidence that she has
been overthrown —is no reason
to continue using her. The
Paris Opera long ago took the
logical step of eliminating her.
For the rest, it was Joan
Hammond’s opera. Not only
did she achieve true poignancy
in the closing stages, but in the
love-scenes of the first act she
projected gentle rapture finely.
And she didn’t make the mis-
take in the opening scene —as
too many Cio-Cio-Sans do—of
laying the shrinking - violet
demureness on with a trowel;
rather, she blended demureness
with a touch of coyness and
charmingly shy humor. Her
meticulously - pitched singing
always faithfully reflected the
varying emotions demanded of
it, and towards the end the
dramatic quality of her soprano
shone like a beacon.
Poor oid Pinkerton! The
only hero in opera who is also
his own built-in villain; an
American sailor of the love-
'em-and-leave-’em school. Had
the opera been set in 1960 in-
stead of 1910 the Bonze and
his herd of relations would have
come back carrying banners
inscribed “Go Home Yank!”
Instead of which, Pink’s face
is simply made red by the
silent contempt in which he is
held by everybody, including
the audience. It is also the
most thankless role in opera,
with the incumbent condemned
for a long initial stretch to
fiddle with a glass of whisky
and try to look at ease while
awaiting his bride, with only an
odd snatch of song to divert
his thoughts. Ken Neate put
the first-night audience in good
heart by misfiring with the
soda-siphon, thereby giving
U.S. Consul Sharpless a little
bath; he then settled-down to
his part in the gorgeous love-
music which closes the first act,
and achieved some splendidly
ringing high notes. But he
would have been more impres-
sive had his acting been less
like a string of well-worked
cliches.
Robert Allman raised a bari-
tone of nice quality to deliver
Sharpless’s homilies. Julia
Maylon, as the faithful maid
Suzuki, exuded sympathy and
used her mezzo-soprano clearly.
Gregory Dempsey bounced
around as the obsequious
marriage-broker Goro; John
Germain was a haughtily
superior Yamadori; and Clif-
ford Grant, as the Bonze, raised
denunciatory arms.
The offstage choruses were
very good, and the orchestra,
under Georg Tintner, did the
lush score proud, especially in
the “waiting - music” theme
which is used as the back-
ground for the gentle “Duet of
the Flowers” between Butter-
fly and Suzuki.
S.W.K.
* *> *t*
Musical Moliere
To put Moliere to music,
brighten him up, change him
about and put him on in Sydney
—at the Phillip Street Theatre,
where audiences are used to
topical skits and wisecracks —
is a pretty daring piece of
theatrical enterprise; and the
theatre might well reap its
reward, for it certainly makes
a very pleasant evening.
The production suffers, as
inevitably it must, from a little
remoteness. It does not quite
make contact with life. This


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 187$
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUOLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTEUSEN, Manager.
Branches in nil States Agencies in nil Country Centres
THERESA ADAMS
(“II Tabarro")
is partly because Moliere him-
self—at least in “The Miser,”
on which this musical is chiefly
based—is himself a bit remote :
misers fondling their bags of
gold are a long way from our
contemporary misers, who are
probably tycoons of takeover,
and the plot is as extravagant as
Flarpagon is mean. And it is
partly because the combined
exigencies of period, musical-
comedy and Moliere’s charac-
terisation force the actors ihto
caricature.
Caricature may entertain you,
as here it does; but all the time
you are aware of people trying
ardently to entertain you. It
cannot quite create the illusion
of reality; it cannot, carry you
away. And that is the reason
why the first evening’s most
genuine laugh came when Gor-
don Chater accidentally lost his
wig—and adroitly made the
most of it.
But, granted that faint un-
reality, which is offset anyhow
by the pleasure of seeing an
enlivened Moliere, it was all
done in the happiest spirit—
gay, a little naughty, reason-
ably if not overwhelmingly
tuneful. It was capable and
full of vigor.
There were no weaknesses —
nothing but strength—in the
cast; and if one singles-out the
polished and fluent bag-of-
bones of Gordon Chater’s
miser, and the length, verve
and occasionally extraordinary
noises of Sheila Bradley’s
madam, with a word for Wendy
Blacklock’s delightful squeak-
ings as the girl just out of the
convent, that is only because
VALDA BAG NALL
(“Sister Angelica”)
you can read the other names
for yourself on the programme.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Inherit the Wind”
Frankly based on the Ten-
nessee (U.S.) “monkey trial” of
1925, this latest arrival at North
Sydney Independent offers the
spectacle of a young teacher
being prosecuted under a
medieval State law for describ-
ing the theory of evolution to
his pupils; a crowd-pleasing
Presidential candidate (in the
actual case, William Jennings
Bryan) acting as prosecutor; a
home-town judge disallowing
all the defence-witnesses; and
a brilliant crusading defence-
counsel (actually Clarence
Darrow) who nevertheless con-
trives a technical victory by
calling the prosecutor into the
box and defeating him in open
argument.
Such material, with its
exemplary central struggle be-
tween rational inquiry and
blinkered emotionalism, might
suggest a play of considerable
depth and power; but co-
authors Jerome Lawrence and
Robert E. Lee have drawn-off
only the most obvious of the
drama with which it is loaded,
and in places they have even
managed to weaken it.
The trial-proceedings emerge
as a simplified set of black-and-
white exchanges, much in the
manner of the traditional court-
drama; there is a commonplace
and largely irrelevant love-
affair between the accused and
the daughter of a hell-fire
preacher; the prosecutor is
tritely assessed as a vain and
foolish but essentially sincere
man who must be conceded the
right to be wrong; a stock
journalist (obviously modelled
on the Late H. L. Mencken)
heaps facile sarcasms on the
sidelines; and the climax, with
the prosecutor dropping dead
after his humiliation, is pure
melodrama.
Material of great promise
is thus reduced to the scale
of conventional entertainment
NEIL WARREN-SMITH
(“Gianni Schicchi’)
Three singers from the Trust
Opera Co.’s current production
of “The Trittico." the group
of three one-acters by Puccini,
at Sydney Elizabethan.
with a predigested moral; and
although it must be said that
on this level it succeeds well
enough always drawing a
certain power from our shocked
knowledge that this, or some-
thing like it, actually happened
within living memory the
scale itself remains unsatisfac-
tory.
No such charge, however,
could be brought against Peter
Summerton’s production, which
efficiently uncovers the play's
merits and even rises into
occasional moments of real
force.
John Gray, for the prosecu-
tion, and Leonard Teale, for
the defence, were never less
than solid. George Viskich
and Benita Harvey made two
brave and frightened spirits
out of the teacher and his girl-
friend. Graham Rouse made
much, if not everything pos-
sible, out of the journalist.
And Paul Kathner’s stage-
design placed the courtroom
effectively against a Main
Street background.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“One More River”
Beverly Cross is not alone
among contemporary British
dramatists when, having skil-
fully established the main issue
of his play—in this case the
role of authority—he shies
away from it by “resolving” it
in psychological, as opposed to
dialectical, terms; thereby turn-
ing what could have been a
stimulating and unusual play of
ideas into an exciting but
rather meaningless drama of
character and incident.
Still, on its own level the play
has considerable merit, and
Irene Mitchell’s production of
it at the Melbourne Little
Theatre energetically brings
most of this to our attention.
It is a swiftly-moving account
of an ill-fated mutiny aboard
a cargo-boat anchored just out
of a West African port. The
characters and their predica-
ments are set down with
notable facility. We early
learn that the crew and the
bosun (Kevin Colebrook) resent
and distrust the new Mate (Carl
Bleazby), and it’s not long
before the bosun is being thrust
into a commanding role for
which he is obviously unfitted.
At about this point the play-
wright seems to be on the verge
of plunging into the question:
To what degree should the in-
dividual be expected to sacri-
fice personal interest to the
demands of authority? Or,
more particularly: Can the
point be reached where a crew




Not a Bank but Safe as a Bank
CUSTOM CREDIT
NOTES
4 years.... 7%
3 years.... 6’/a%
2 year5....6%
18 months*.sVa%
12 months.. 5Vi %
9 months.. 4 3 /«%
6 months.. 4Vi%
3 months.. 3%%
14 days' call 3’/a%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly
instalments, tree of exchange, on
the last days of June, September,
December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Custom Credit Notes has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
The Prospectus and Forms of Application
for Notes are now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 43 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone: FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVB
(Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,0001
CCN 50.560
may justifiably cease taking
orders from an unreasonably
tyrannical skipper? But from
here on, despite the chance
offered by an ingenious trial-
scene, virtually no attempt is
made to argue the problem out.
All is converted into psycholo-
gical palaver, and, since the
motives of each character are
revealed as suspect, the play is
unable to develop any sense of
values beyond the most par-
ticular and personal.
The all-male cast of 12, how-
ever, played with conviction
and intelligence against John
Truscott’s admirable set; and
the whole production had &n
authentic ring which, consider-
ing the pace and detail of the
play’s almost ceaseless action,
must have been very difficult
to achieve.
M.U.T.R.C. Change
For the past seven years
the Melbourne Union Theatre
Repertory Company has been
a fully professional concern,
but has been able to offer its
members only partial employ-
ment lasting for the seven or
so months that the theatre
operated each year. Now,
under the directorship of John
Sumner and with the backing
of the Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, the company
has at last achieved perman-
ent status. As from next
month it will be active in
Melbourne or on tour for the
full 12 months of each year.
Appropriately, the Council
of Adult Education is partly
responsible for this welcome
change—it has provided a
theatre (in Russell Street) for
the company’s use in the
months that the Union Theatre
is being used by Melbourne
University students.
In the past these “free”
months, apart from isolated
country or inter-State tours
(“Moby Dick - Rehearsed”
shifted to Sydney after its
Melbourne season earlier this
year), have meant that mem-
bers of the theatre have been
compelled to find temporary
employment elsewhere, gener-
ally in non-theatrical fields.
The company will present
three productions at the
C.A.E. theatre, commencing on
July 20, before transferring to
the Union Theatre in Sep-
tember.
Films
Experimental Film
Some time ago Arthur Boyd
exhibited at the Australian
Galleries (Melbourne) a series
of paintings which dealt with
the tragic relationship between
an aboriginal and his half-caste
bride. In mood and choice of
symbol the paintings bore an
obvious resemblance to the
work of Chagall, but had a
bizarre vigor of their own.
Now young Melbourne film-
director Tim Bursjall, with
Gerard Vandenberg as camera-
man, has fashioned an eight-
minute, 35mm. black-and-
white film out of these paint-
ings which, under the title “The
Black Man and his Bride,” has
carried off a silver medallion
in the experimental section of
the Australian Film Awards
for 1960 and has been used to
open Melbourne’s ninth Film
Festival.
It is a revelation of the
emotional power and harsh
beauty of Boyd’s paintings, and
of the potential of the film
medium to add an extra and
perfectly legitimate dimension
to an art form which, as in
this case, may be visually com-
plete in itself, but which from
a literal point of view can have
many levels of meaning.
The film itself achieves a
satisfying unity by means of a
logic of imagery rather than
reason, and here the editing
(perhaps Alan Harkness, the
film’s technical editor, must
take much of the credit for
this) plays an important role.
Burs t a 1 l’s accompanying
ballad —to the music of Karl
Ogdon, and sung by Don
Ayrton with unusual collabora-
tion from an unnamed guitar-
ist—is, however, too pedestrian
to fire the imagination with the
sort of urgency achieved by the
visual content of the film. It
hardly matters that the lan-
guage is rough and apparently
deliberately anti-poetic; what
does matter is that it fails to
convey the impression that
anything more significant than
mere words is lying beneath
the surface, ready to break
through.
Still, in view of the dearth
of imaginative films of its type
in this country, Burstall’s ex-
periment represents an en-
couraging pioneering effort,
and one looks forward to the
first public screening of his
more ambitious feature-length
film, “The Prize.'’
“Upstairs and Downstairs”
Of the more uproarious kind,
this British comedy squarely
hits the jackpot. Businessman
James Robertson Justice, a
widower, induces his son-in-law
(who works for him) and
daughter to get a small staff of
servants so that they can
entertain the many business
associates he wishes to im-
press. The variations played
on the servant-trouble theme
are many and ingenious, all of
them soundly comical and
presenting a good gallery of
characters—from the tippling
old maid with an enorm-
ous hound to the poshly-
spoken pair who bust through
the dividing wall into the next-
door bank.
The bearded Justice barks in
his staccato bass, Michael
Craig and Anne Heywood are
relaxed and likeable as the
handsome young-marrieds, and
Mylene Demongeot gets full
marks as a fascinating young
maidservant from Sweden who
quickly sets about mastering
her work and her boss’s men-
friends.
At Sydney Lyceum.
❖ ♦>
“Ten Seconds to Hell”
Any film whose motive-
power is the work of a bomb-
disposal unit in post-war
Berlin should generate a lot of
tension. This clumsily-made
piece doesn’t. Even the tick-
ing of an unexploded 1000-
pounder is so unexcitingly
presented that it seems less
interesting than finding your
lottery-ticket one off a tenner.
As two rivals for the one
girl, Jack Palance and Jeff
Chandler plod along un-
mercifully, and Martine Carol
supplies a touch or two of
unconscious comedy.
At Sydney Esquire.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
A major reorganisation of Metters, Ltd.,
the principal subsidiary, has been
“successfully accomplished.” Sales of
air - conditioning appliances almost
doubled during 1959. Sovereign Appli-
ances Pty., the main offender in the 1957
losses, was “highly profitable during the
year.”
Consolidated net profit edged-up by
£25,774. The ord. div. remained steady
at a modest 4 p.c. for the fourth succes-
sive year.
After balance-date the co. announced a
one-for-four (pref. or ord.) par issue of
£1,098,126 unsecured p.c. convertible
notes with a currency of seven years,
participating in any new issues. The
chairman said the notes would be offered
about June 24, 1960.
In 1927 the present parent co. was
founded to merge the activities of K.F.B.
Foundry, Ltd., and Metters, Ltd. During
the war the group mainly worked for
defence. In 1955 a thrust was made into
the TV, radio and refrigeration indus-
tries.
To-day the General Industries group
comprises six fully-owned subsidiaries,
one partly-owned [Metters (N.Z.), Ltd.],
plus a half-interest in Admiral of Aust.
Pty. The fully-owned subsidiaries are:
Metters, Ltd., factories in Alexandria
(N.S.W-), Mile End (S.A.) and Wembley
(W.A.), and Metters K.F.B. Pty., Foot-
scray (Vic.),
manufacturers of various agricultural,
commercial and domestic heating-equip-
ment, domestic metal-ware (stamped
steel baths, basins, sinks, gas-coppers,
etc.), hospital-ware, kitchenware, light-
ing and radio-towers, etc.; and
Sovereign Appliances Pty., Banks-
town (N.S.W.), air-conditioners, domestic
refrigerators and appliances;
Grimwood Electrical -Products Pty.,
Botany (N.S.W.), domestic and industrial
electrical heating-elements;
Ferro Precision Pty., Lidcombe
N.S.W.; and
Ferro Pipes Pty., Carrington (N.S.W.),
soil pipes and fittings.
Reorganisation of Metters subsidiaries
involved redesigning of basic products and
improving the production-rate through
installing modern equipment.
The Alexandria factory is now pro-
ducing a new-design standard sft: bath.
In Adelaide volume-production of stain-
less-steel sinks has been expanded. In
Perth “very satisfactory local contracts”
have been obtained for cast-iron pressure
pipes and soil-pipes. Metters K.F.B. in
Melbourne established a powered
assembly-line and is in full production
of low-cost stoves.
Referring to the Metters group, the
chairman of General Industries said that
“during 1960 our efforts of last year will
bear fruit.” No mention was made of
Metters’ contribution to last year’s con-
solidated earnings.
Sovereign Appliances Pty. was “highly
profitable”. A “record number” of refri-
gerators was produced. Sales of air-
conditioning equipment were almost
doubled. Manufacture of automatic dish-
washer-dryers was commenced with satis-
factory results.
Grimwood Electrical Products “had a
record year in 1959, both in sales and
profits”. The range of electric heating-
elements is increasing.
Ferro cos. continued to expand their
activities.
No income was received from Admiral
Pty., which is “passing through a period
of extreme competition”. Output and
sales of 23in. TV-receivers were said to
be high.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended February 29, 1960 (December 31
for the wholly-owned subsidiaries) was
£25,774 higher at £331,379:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
f —Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. , Ord.—, serves, serves.
£ £ p.e. £ £ £
1956.. 46,620 10 = 232,582 26,728 972,246
Ta staff fund, £91,617 .. ... 880,629
Loss. ,
1957.. 46,620 4 = 144,740 / 653,778
Stock-reserve disclosed, £635,000 ~ 1,288,778
Stocks written-down, £IOO,OOO .. 1,188,778
Tax overprovided, £2339 .. ... 1,191,117
Profit.
1958. 46,620 4 = 144,740 145,985 1,337,102
Note-issue expenses, £49,194 . . 1,287,908
Less goodwill on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, £47,096 . . . . . . 1,240,812
Tax overprovided, £2200 .. .. 1,243,012
1959. 46,620 4 = 149,060 109,925 1,352,937
Profit sale assets, £18,821 .. .. 1,371,758
Tax overprovided, £14,421 .. .. 1,380,179
From inner reserves, £24,148 .. 1,410,327
To staff fund, £73,843 .. .. 1,336,484
Add reduction intangibles, £7625 .. 1,844,109
1960. 46,620 4 = 149,060 135,699 1,479,808
This was after providing £124,439 for
taxation (down £29,161) and £293,088
for depreciation (up £29,869).
After satisfying pref.-div. require-
ments (£46,620) the profit was equiva-
lent to an earning-rate of 7.9 p.c. on the
unchanged average ord. capital, compared
with 6.9 p.c. in the preceding term and
a shade over 8 p.c. in 1958. The steady
4 p.c. ord. div. was covered almost
twice.
An £18,821 profit was made on sale of
fixed assets. Reserves also benefited by
£14,421 tax oVerprovision, £24,148 trans-
ferred from inner reserves and £7625 re-
duction in intangibles. To staff fund a
transfer of £73,843 “additional provision
for long-service leave” was made, leaving
total reserves and undistributed profits at
£1,479,808 (net of intangibles), supporting
a paid capital of £4,392,503 in 666,000
20s. 7 p.c. cum. prels. and 3,726,503 20s.
ords.
Loans on mortgage were £116,467
higher. Overdraft increased by £54,556
and creditors by £560,914 to a solid
£1,190,875. Deposits at call (a new item)
were £IOO,OOO.
Book-value of freeholds rose by
£163,226 to £1,911.486. Stocks were
£122,815 higher at £3,467,268. (Reserves
include a £535,000 stock-fluctuations
reserve.) Debtors were £743,684 higher
at £2,157,019 (including a £400,897 loan
to Admiral Pty.):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £666,000 £666,000 £666,000
Ord 3,618,503 3,726,503 3,726,503
Reserves .. .. 1,337,102 1,352,937 1,479,808
Mortgage .. .. 42,809 159,276
Overdraft .. 1,269,468 924,987 979,543
Registered notes.. 500,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Creditors .. .. 550,990 629,961 1,190,875
Deposits .. ..
Tax provision .. 259,643 301,840 278,436
Staff fund .. 100,000 101,507 167,753
Prov., warranty .. 8,500 25,875
Final divs. .. 168,050 172,370 172,370
Suspense .. .. 39,590 22,114
£8,469,756 £8,967,004 £9,968,553
Freeholds.. .. 1,685,597 1,748,260 1,911,486
Plant .. .. 2,007.103 2,123,676 2,193,889
Shares other cos., etc. 124,630 128,038 124,630
Loan assoc, co. .. 150,000 2 05,000 110,0 0 0
Stocks .. .. 3,171,211 3,344,453 3,467,268
Debtors, etp. .. 1,325,677 1,413,335 2,157,019
Cash .. .. 2,947 4,242 4,261
Suspense .. .. 2,591
£8,469,756 £8,967,004 £9,968,553
Theoretical working-capital remained
almost unchanged at £1,988,324. Net
tangible asset-backing worked out at 275.
lid. per ord share on the consolidated
figures.
The overall position of General Indus-
tries reflects some improvement. The
current term may prove a test to the
co.'s earning-capacity. Competition in
the TV-industry and in other sections is
getting keener, if anything.
The sharemarket remains cautious,
though not pessimistic. The latest quotes
(much the same as 12 months ago) are
21s. 9d. for each 20s. ord. The imme-
diate return is 3.7 p.c. on the basis of the
steady 4 p.c. div.-rate.
Burns Philp (South Seas) Co., Ltd.
T> egistered in Fiji in 1920, this well-
known island merchant and ship-
owner trades throughout the South Seas.
Biggest shareholder is the parent Burns
Philp, which has maintained a constant
two-thirds interest. Ties with the parent
are close, and its influence may be felt
both in accounts and procedures.
A steady if slow improvement in dis-
closed earnings took place over the last
decade of the co.’s 40 years on the share-
market. The div.-rate has been held at
10 p.c., maintained despite the capital-
increase in 1958 (by £250,000 to
£1,000,000 ; all accounts are in £ Fijian),
the first since incorporation.
Exotic and profitable as the South
Seas trade may be, B.P. (South Seas)
published accounts are unspectacular in
appearance and conservative in content.
If the post-war inflation is taken into
account, the. co.’s visible earnings have
remained fairly steady over the last
ten to twelve years. Quite a few shekels
have been disgorged almost annually
from the inner kitty, and the true profits
and earning-capacity of the concern are
hard to gauge. The co. has consistently
followed a conservative policy in regard
to disclosure, possibly influenced by diffi-
cult times in the non-too-distant past.
In the first 30 years to 1950 the divs.
averaged a modest 6.7 p.c., compared
with 10 p.c. in the past decade.
Nothing dramatic transpired in the
year ended January 31, 1960. Turnover
was not disclosed. Gross profit from all


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. AliliEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
sources amounted to £758,910 (down
£4,388).
Visible net profit benefited by a
slight reduction in expenses and was
£2752 higher at £163,035, after provid-
ing £73,850 for depreciation (down
£2112):
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. f —Dividends— ~ serves. . serves.
£ £ £ £
1954. .100,924 10 p.c. = 75,000 25,924 1,017,938
Unexplained addition, £11,384 .. 1,029,322
1955. .113,137 10 p.c. = 75,000 38,137 1,067,409
Unexplained addition, £23,738 . . 1,091,197
1956. 10 p.c. = 75,000 51,850 1,143,047
Unexplained addition, £20,031 . . 1,163,078
1957. .136,509 10 p.c. = 75,000 61,509 1,224,587
Unexplained addition, £8693 • • 1,233,280
1958. 10 p.c. = 87,500 54,862 1,288,142
Unexplained addition, £1177 .. 1,289,319
1959. .160,283 10 p.c. =IOO,OOO 60,283 1,349,602
Unexplained addition, £12,118 . . 1,361,720
1960. .163,035 10 p.c. =IOO,OOO 63,035 1,424,755
Taxation provision was not revealed
separately, but was included in total
operating expenses.
The disclosed earning-rate edged-up
from 16'p.c. to 16.3 p.c. on the unchanged
average ord. capital. The steady 10 p.c.
dividend absorbed £IOO,OOO. Reserves
benefited by £63,035 plus £12,118 unex-
plained additions from inner reserves,
and appeared at £1,424,755, supporting
a paid capital of £1,000,000 in 20s. f.-p.
ords.
There was little change in the balance-
sheet. Investment in Burns Philp (New
Hebrides), Ltd., a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, remained at £314,960. There is a
£537,912 book-debt owing to the sub-
sidiary (up £14,142). Creditors, provi-
sions, etc., increased by £21,327:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Capital .. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves . . .. 1,288,142 1,349,602 1,424,755
Owing to subsidiary 635,709 523,770 537,912
Creditors, etc. .. 1,162,408 1,199,020 1,251,738
Final div. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
£4,136,259 £4,122,392 £4,264,400
Properties, shipping,
etc 454.241 541,595 562,922
Shares subsid. .. 314,960 314,960 314,960
Investments .. 1,007,750 1,026,498 1,067,419
Stocks, etc. .. 1,457,626 1,305,281 1,345,407
Book debts .. 656,781 680,330 716,320
Cash .. .. 244,901 253,728 257,372
£4,136,259 £4,122,392 £4,264,400
Investments in other cos. advanced by
£40,126 to £1,345,407. Book-debts were
£35,990 higher at £716,320. Net tangible
asset-backing visibly worked-out at 48s.
6d. for each 20s. ord. unit.
Shareholders have a secure investment
in B.P. (S.S.) scrip. The rest depends
on the extent to which the board will
believe it possible to dole out a little
more of the good things of life.
On the past record extravagance is
unlikely, although a somewhat less con-
servative policy is by no means out of
the question.
The sharemarket seems to have taken a
hopeful view of the recent one-for-five
bonus-issue by the Australian parent.
There is a degree of mutual representa-
tion on the two boards.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
changed hands at 645. 6d. (Australian).
The immediate yield is 3.4 p.c. (allowing
for exchange) on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. div.-rate.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
'T'urnover of Permewan Wright last
term increased substantially and group
sales were over the £7-million mark.
Total sales of produce continued to
decline, but this was more than offset
“in other avenues”.
Reorganisation continued. Two
branches were closed (at Noble Park,
Vic. and Tottenham, - N.S.W.). “The
year has been one of consolidation of
recently acquired activities.”
Consolidated net profit increased by
£23,095, and the steady \2\ p.c. dividend
was fully covered
Permewan Wright, Ltd., Victorian-
registered station-supply and general
merchant, was incorporated in 1884
(taking-over a business founded in 1863),
and has been operating in the rural areas
of Victoria and N.S.W. The group has
now firmly entered the Melbourne metro-
politan trade.
The co. operates 28 stores in Victoria-
(including three in Melbourne and a
furniture-warehouse in Richmond), 16
in N.S.W. and one at Mount Gambier,
S.A.
Characteristic of last year's trading
were a continuing decline in sales of
fodder and other produce (except agri-
cultural seeds) and rising turnover in
general merchandising.
The co. anticipated the dwindling in
produce-demand and has been “actively
pursuing a policy of expanding in other
directions.”
Better rural trading conditions, result-
ing from the improvement of wool prices,
are reflected in increased earnings. Con-
solidated profit from trading for the
year ended January 31, 1960, was
£39,122 higher at £150,774.
After providing £44,348 for deprecia-
tion (up £10,185), paying all expenses
(including £65,070 note-interest) and
setting-aside £50,438 for taxation (up
£16,318), consolidated net profit for the
year was £23,095 higher at £100,628:
Parent and Subsidiary.
- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1955 . . 130,437 12 p.c. = 64,000 66,437 691,697
Unexplained addition, £1722 .. .. 693,419
1956 .. 103,927 12 p.c. = 84,000 19,927 713,346
Revaluation freeholds, £379,153 ..1,092,499
To contingency reserve, £10,900 ..1,103,399
To insurance reserve, £2840 . . ..1,106,239
Profit sale assets, etc., £2972 ..1.109,211
1957 .. 82,129 11 p.c. = 77,000 5,129 1,114,340
Reduction revaluation reserve, £4406.-1,109,934
To insurance reserve, £4970 .. .. 1,114,904
Profit sale assets. £4390 .. ..1,119,294
1958 .. 120,468 12ip.c. = 87,500 32,968 1,152,262
Profit sale assets, £8964 .. ..1,161,226
Reduction property reserve, £3910 ..1,157,316
To insurance reserve, £lOls .. ..1,158,331
1959 . . 77,533 12ip.c. = 87,500 1,148,364
From doubtful debts provision, £BO,OOO 1,228,364
Profit sale assets, £1758 .. ..1,230,122
1960 ..100,628 121p.c. = 87,500 ■ 13,128 1,243,250
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of almost 14.4 p.c. p.a. on the unchanged
average ord. capital, compared with 11.1
p.c. in the preceding term and 17.2 p.c.
in 1958, 11.7 p.c. in 1957, 14.8 p.c. in
1956 and 24.4 p.c. in 1955.
The steady p.c. div.-rate absorbed
£87,500. Reserves benefited by £13,128
and by £1758 profit on sale of assets.
The closure of the co.’s Noble Park
(Vic.) and Tottenham (N.S.W.) branches
resulted in trading losses which were
“more than offset by profit on realisa-
tion of fixed assets.”
Provision for doubtful debts was
reduced by £BO,OOO (transferred to
reserves) to £25,094, deducted from
debtors in the consolidated balance-sheet.
The amount currently set aside is regarded
“as a reasonable provision based on
experience of bad debts over the last
decade.”
Reserves are shown at £1,243,250,
supporting a paid capital of £700,000 in
20s. f.-p. ords. This gives a net tangible
asset-backing of 555. 6d. for each 20s.
unit.
The co. repaid £30,300 4j p.c. regis-
tered unsecured notes on September 1,
1959, leaving a balance of £269,700.
Deposits increased by £296,351 to
£944,756, Overdraft was a bit lower:
Parent and Subsidiary.
1955. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £700,000 £700,000 £700,000
Reserves . . .. 1,152,262 1,148,364 1,243,250
Notes .. .. 300,000 300,000 269,700
Deposits .. .. 171,327 648,405 944,756
Overdraft .. .. 332,639 408,182 377,001
Creditors, etc. .. 606,373 506,388 509,416
Tax provision . . 144,350 107,795 89,971
Final div 45,500 52,500 52,500
£3,452,451 £3,871,634 £4,186,594
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,049,255 1,198,723 1,265,580
Plant . . . . 238,125 290,839 323,120
Investments . . 500 500 590
Stock .. .. 1,171,704 1,209,229 1,268,635
Debtors .. .-. 912,742 1,101,004 1,324,020
Cash, etc. .. 80,125 71,339 4,640
£3,452,451 £3,871,634 £4,186,594
Book-value of freeholds, leaseholds and
buildings was £66,857 higher at £1,265,580
and of plant, rolling-stock, etc., £32,806
higher at £323,129.
There was a change in the manner
of presentation of debtors, bills receiv-
able and cash in the consolidated balance-
sheet. Together with current stocks,
these items increased by £156,317.
Theoretical working-capital amounted to
£623,651. Liquidity was satisfactory.
Still vulnerable to variations in rural
incomes, Permewan Wright may
strengthen its competitive position by
further expansion and careful diversifica-
tion.
Profits have fluctuated, but the div.-
record has been creditable. In fact, at
times the div.-cheques might have
appeared a bit straining on the co.’s
visible earning-kitty.
A possible take-over can’t altogether
be left out of the picture these days.
The 20s. ords. last fetched 40s. 3d. in
Sydney. The immediate yield is 6.2 p.c.
on the basis of the steady p.c. div.-
rate.


L
1
La fee
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £1,000.000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% p«f annum 2 y»w ,
6% per annum ] year
5% per annum months
o
I
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS
FOR EACH £lOO
EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
lATIC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
lATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
latec House,
N.S.W.
SY3O6TAB
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
United Motors (Holdings),
Ltd.
(formerly United Motors, Util.)
Adelaide-registered United
Motors, Ltd., sells new
and used cars, parts and
accessories, and provides
general service facilities. The
co. is one of four metropoli-
tan distributors of Holdens in
Adelaide ; it also handles the
Pontiac.
The Holden franchise was
acquired in October, 1958,
when the co. relinquished
metropolitan distribution of
the Vauxhall. The move
stopped a progressive diminu-
tion of profits since 1956.
In the year ended January 31,
1956, profits had risen to
record levels, and at £60,003
were equal to 133.3 p.c. on
capital. Twelve months later
they had fallen to £50,610
(112.4 p.c.). By 1958 they had
settled to £32,999 (73.3 p.c.),
and by 1959 to £28,357 (63
p.c.). Factors contributing the
decline were increased sales-
tax on new vehicles (as from
March, 1956, up from 16| p.c.
to 30 p.c.), more stringent
import-controls resulting in
reduction of Vauxhall alloca-
tions, and, paramountly, the
fast-growing popularity of the
then competing Holden.
Last term (a full Holden
year) profits soared to £51,778
(up £23,421):
United Motors, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Prft. , —Dividends— ■, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
138,359
’56..60,003 40 = 18,000* 42,003 180,362
Tax rebate year-ending- Jan.
’55, £1896 .. .. 182,25 S
’57..50.610 40 = 18,000* 32,610 214,868
Tax overprovided, £2711 217,579
’58..32,999 40 = 18,000* 14,999 232,578
Tax overprovided, £854 . . 233,432
’59..28,357 40 = 18,000* 10,357 243,789
United Motors, Ltd., and Subsidiary.
Added on consolidation, £231 244,020
’60..51,778 40 = 18,000* 33,778 277,798
* Includes 20 p.c. bonus div.
Ascertained after setting aside
£5700 (down £l2) for deprecia-
tion and £32,010 (up £15,010,
and closely in line with profits)
for taxation, the result works
out a greatly improved 115.1
p.c. on capital (£45,000, in
180,000 ss. ord. shares). Divs.
remained steady at 40 p.c. and
reserves, already substantial,
rose £34,009 to £277,798.
Today boom conditions
exist in the motor-trade. New
vehicles (excluding motor-
cycles) registered in Australia
during the four months to
April last total 91,548, and
include 35,638 Holdens, against
77,429 registrations in the four
months to April, ’59, includ-
ing 33,616 Holdens. The
Holden does not command
quite the same proportion of
the market as hitherto, but in
total its sales continue to
grow, and production remains
behind demand.
A holding - co., United
Motors (Holdings), Ltd., has
now been formed and a share
exchange, equivalent to "U one-
for-one bonus, effected —two
ss. ords. of the holding-co.
were exchanged for each ss.
ord. held in United Motors,
Ltd. The new shares, first
listed in April, came onto the
market at 20s. Before June
30 next, shareholders will be
invited to subscribe to a par
issue, one-for-one, on present
holdings (equal to two-for-
one on original holdings),
which will, when completed,
raise paid-capital of United
Motors (Holdings), Ltd., to
£ 180,000. Funds provided,
£90,000, will form the capital-
base of the lately-incorporated
and wholly-owned subsidiary,
United Motors Acceptance
Corporation, Ltd. United
Motors will, in future, handle
part of its own h.-p. business.
Hitherto the co.’s h.-p. busi-
ness has been placed with
outside finance houses.
Directors forecast 15 p.c.
divs. on enlarged capital, and,
calculating the theoretical ex-
rights price of the ss. ords.,
presently fetching 20s. on
’Change, at 12s. 6d. a share,
the immediate yield works-out
at 6 p.c. At balance-date, and
under the old set-up, the ss.
ords. were each buttressed by
355. lOd. net tangible assets.
The “new look” of the
United Motors organisation-
parent co., United Motors
(Holdings), Ltd. ; subsidiary
cos., United' Motors, Ltd.,


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE.
DEBENTURE STOCK.
SB3IO
«aae
annasv
5#
p.a.
4 to 10
year*
Currency
6 %
Interest
Per Annum
4-10 years
3 years
2 years
1 year
6 months
7 days’
call
L_j
i j
| | J C orpojratiionj Li rhit qd.MHB
iHeoj st|< (j AMBIDG e] HOulsE^^^[
| /f9GjoRGjE S T [sYDtjl E Y .n|. S. W. [PH O tjl E... j\ 55 \ 2
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange
CUMULATIVE DEBENTURE STOCK
8% per annum for 4-20 years
Compounded on yearly rests
Bankers to the Company and for the Issue:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING &
YUILL, 113 Pitt Street. SYDNEY. Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S.
SCORER & CO., T. and G. Building, Hunter
Street, Newcastle. Members of the Newcastle
Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Queensland : CORBIE
& CO., Union Trustee Chambers, 400 Queen
Street, Brisbane. Branches at Cairns. Towns-
ville, Rockhampton and Surfers’ Paradise.
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Trustees for Debenture holders: BANKERS’
& TRADERS’ INSURANCE CO., LTD.
PROSPECTUS
WITH
APPLICATION
FORMS
Applications can be accepted only on tlie
printed form attached to the Prospectus, a
copy of which has been lodged with the Kegi-
strar of Companies, Queensland.
AVAILABLE FROM:
Any member of the SYDNEY, NEW-
CASTLE or BRISBANE STOCK
EXCHANGES.
Any Office of the Company.
Any N.S.W. or Queensland Branch of
the Bank of New South Wales.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
15 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus with Application. Forms,
without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 8/6/’ 60
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
United Motors (Wholesale),
Ltd., and United Motors
Acceptance Corporation, Ltd.
—amplifies the group’s grow-
ing stature and spread.
Accounts will, in future, be
balanced on June 30.
Development and improve-
ment of freehold and lease-
hold properties goes on. Last
term the book-value of pro-
perties rose £70,064 to
£168,006 ; plant and equipment
went up £1469 to £20,128. A
£30,000 mortgage was taken
out on the Franklin-street
property:
United
. Motors,
Ltd.,and
United Motors, Sub-
Ltd. sidiary.
1958. 1959. 1960.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 45,000 45,000 45,000
Reserves .. 232,578 243,789 277,798
Mortgage .. 30,000
Overdraft .. 17,372
Creditors . . 23,139 40,344 58,858
Tax - provision 21,000 17,000 49,169
Final divs. . . 13,500 13,500 13,500
335,217 377,005 474,325
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. 94,678 97,942 168,006
Plant, equip-
ment, etc... 17,987 18,659 20,128
Subsidiary .. 22,508
Investments .. 2
Stocks 113,230 149,827 175,010
Debtors . . 44,027 87,334 84,889
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 65,295 733 26,292
335,217 377,005 474,325
Stocks and creditors rose by
£25,183 and £18,514 respec-
tively. Bank-overdraft was
eliminated, and cash built-up
to £25,559.
Stocks and Holdings
T>aid capital of Stocks and
Holdings, Ltd., is now
£200,000, in 400,000 ss. ords.
and 400,000 ss. deferred ords.
Last October a 3-for-l par
issue (plus another 16,000 ss.
ords. issued in addition to en-
titlements) lifted subscribed
capital by more than four
times, from £24,000 to
£lOO,OOO.
However, the co. was still
undercapitalised. Loans were
obtained from directors and
fresh funds sought on the
sharemarket. On April 8, 1960,
Stocks and Holdings made a
one-for-one issue of 400,000 ss.
deferred ords. at par, fully sub-
scribed. The new deferred
shares will not participate in
divs. out of profits prior to
June 30, 1963, but will rank
equally with the ords. in all
other respects.
The co. has in hand several
projects around Sydney and
Wollongong (N.S.W.) and has
recently extended its interests to
Surfers Paradise in Queens-
land.
Net profit for the half-year
ended December 31, 1959, was
equivalent to an earning-rate
of 56 p.c. on paid capital. This
compares with 46 p.c. on paid
capital for the year ended June
30, 1959 (see B. 16/9/’59),
although most of the new funds
could not have been fully em-
ployed yet.
Earning-prospects for the
second half of current term are
described as “very promising.”
The interim div. paid last
April was lifted from 6| p.c.
to 10 p.c., making the rate 20
p.c. p.a.
Turnover is rising. The co.
is now building “Gold Star”
cottages at the rate of 300 a
year. Up to the beginning of
1960, 1800 cottages are said to
have been built and sold by
the co. Primarily builders and
subdividers, the co. is expand-
ing into adjacent fields, and has
entered into the motel business
through a partly-owned sub-
sidiary, Contemporary Motels
Pty. The first 20-unit motel is
to be built at Tamworth
(N.S.W.).
Last February Stocks and
Holdings bought the Imperial
Arcade in Sydney. The co.
plans to spend about £1,000,000
(including the purchase con-
sideration) in developing the
arcade. Another project is a
shopping-centre at Wollongong.
Business in Blacktown, Seven
Hills, Liverpool, Cabramatta,
Bankstown, Gymea and Suther-
land districts (all near Sydney)
is said to be very satisfactory.
In addition the co. is building
home-units in Edgecliff and
Bondi, Sydney suburbs.
In May the equipment and
other physical assets of the
Tarjan group of construction
cos. was acquired for about
£lOO,OOO. The purchase does
not include Tarjan’s large
accumulated losses.
At their current price of 16s.
(ex-div. and ex-rights) for a
ss. ord. the shares are interest-
ing, in their class. The immedi-
ate yield is 6.2 p.c. on the
basis of the 20 p.c. div.-rate
which is expected to be main-
tained. Trading in deferred
ords. is about to begin.
The future depends a good
deal on the economic climate.
Competition is keen, and grow-
ing. Net tangible asset-back-
ing is Bs. 4d. for each ss. ord.


as supplied to
U.S. ARMY
TODAY
'MAGNIFICENT"
FOR ONLY
4?
N
«£*
a
m
-£lO'lo-
4 SWISS MADE
4 17 JEWELS
4 INCABLOC
4 LUMINOUS
4 GUARANTEED
4 SHOCKPROOF
4 WATERPROOF
4 NON-MAGNETIC
4 HEAT-COLD RESISTANT
4 SWEEP SECOND HAND
4 UNBREAKABLE CRYSTAL
4 UNBREAKABLE MAIN SPRING
A masterpiece of SWISS craftsmanship recommended
exclusively by leading JEWELLERS the world over, u rite
CYNE WATCH CO.
Swiss Watch Specialists
BOX 2098, G.P.0., SYDNEY
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
HP H E persistent growth of
organised crime is a worry
to both the judiciary and the
Home Office. While Britain s
reputation for law - abiding
citizens and a generally un-
tainted police-force is still high
by comparison with other
countries, there has been a
particularly unpleasant mani-
festation of gangsterdom in the
past year.
This is not —and there are no
signs of it developing into—a
vast Mafia-like organisation
extorting a rake-off from all
aspects of human error. But
the existence of local pockets
of determined and violent
gangsters is all too clear.
A recent murder in a Soho
club, linked with call - girls,
brought to public notice the
impotence of the police to safe-
guard witnesses. Here a
woman, an essential witness,
was too frightened to come out
of hiding, notwithstanding the
promise of complete protec-
tion. This was a well-publicised
but by no means an isolated
instance of what so embarrasses
the judiciary. A frightened
witness, himself perhaps in-
volved in the unsavory affair
in question, dreads an eventual
beating-up more than he res-
pects the severity of the law
or its promise to apprehend
and punish whomsoever may
threaten him.
Although these well-orga-
nised groups have always been
among us, they have previously
confined themselves to activi-
ties such as thefts of goods in
transit, car-stealing and race-
gang plunder—what are known,
generally speaking, as offences
of dishonesty.
The newer gangsters are the
bigger menace because they are
more difficult to track down
and because they are socially
the greater evil. Their line of
business is the “protection
racket.” It is known that
casualty wards in the big cities
occasionally have to treat per-
sons with broken limbs or
slashed faces —all the evidences,
in fact, of brutal man-handling
—but these victims rarely get
into the courts.
Undoubtedly this localised
reign of terror is the direct
consequence of the Street
Offences Act, which became law
last July and which has success-
fully fulfilled its object of
sweeping the prostitutes off the
streets. It is too early yet to
debate which is the worse —
open prostitution or vice swept
under the carpet —but the pro-
lific growth of drinking-clubs
(easily formed with a little
know-how and a ss. registra-
tion-fee) is significant. The
word “hostess” is innocent-
sounding and the clubs are easy
of access. They are also ready
game for the “protection” men.
Out of respect for the
genuine club working-men’s
and the like —previous Govern-
ments have been reluctant to
legislate, but Mr. Butler has
hinted that he may take action
by making registration more
selective.
Gaitskell Indomitable
There is no struggle for
leadership in the Labor party,
but there is a painfully obvious
leader’s struggle.
Others have thankfully with-
drawn from political life. Men
of great talent and capacity,
who looked upon politics as a
career (with, perhaps, an eye
on its biggest plums) rather
than a doctrinal persuasion,
have become disheartened and
found rewarding employment
in other fields; in several in-
stances the transition has been
marked by a virtual, if not
declared, disassociation from
Socialist thinking.
Mr. Gaitskell’s patience is
more than commendable. It is
indomitable. He must many
times have reflected upon the
interesting, lucrative and worry-
free occupations that are open
to him if he decides to leave
active politics. He must also
have wondered, like the rest of
us, whether the day might not
come when the choice would
be forced upon him through
deposition.
He fights on and has, in fact,
won an important round. His
own union, doubtlessly influ-
enced by Mr. Khrushchev’s
intransigence and the con-
tinual fall in Labor’s prestige,
have supported his defence
policy, and he has also won-
over the Parliamentary Labor
party. Events will show the
degree of momentum he has
gained. By the end of June we
shall know whether the execu-
tive and the T.U.C. have swung
over to him, and by mid-Octo-
ber, the verdict of the party
conference.
It is one of the toughest
struggles in party-political
history and it might well be
all-or-nothing for Mr. Gait-
skell. Insofar as his ultimate
objective—a strong, responsible
Oppositition party —is con-
cerned, he has many well-
wishers.
But what does this mean? It
means, ultimately, a complete
redrafting of the constitution,
not merely the embarrassing
Clause 4 but also a mandate to
the leaders to act according to
their dictates—in other words,
the unshackling of the tradi-
tional chains of union block-
votes and constituency emo-
tions.
Can this come about? Hardly
by normal processes, unless a
miracle should happen. The
alternative, an unholy row in
October, followed by an irre-
concilable split, is not beyond
possibility. If this should
occur, Mr. Gaitskell might find
himself in the unwanted pre-
dicament of having to start
from scratch. Such a task
could hardly be more exacting
than his present one.
lonescophilia
The biggest theatrical “draw”
of the year is at Sloane Square,
where Laurence Olivier, Eugene
lonesco and Orson Welles, in
that order, are packing the
Royal Court Theatre.
“Rhinoceros” is an apt title
for this preposterous, fantastic
but meaningful play, since all
but one of its characters turn
into that ungainly, unlovely
and uncivilised creature during
the action; and he, vain fellow,
dies in his effort to preserve
human shape.
What a weird idea for a
play! Why rhinoceros? Why
not something more beautiful,
more dignified, more edifying?
One suspects that M. lonesco is
showing-off a little by taking
a situation at the far extremity
of absurdity and turning it into
an intellectual exercise. He
does so with brilliant versatility
and consummate style.
Fantastic as the situation may
be, there is not so much of a
hint of fantasy in the treatment.
After two hours of pertinent,
single-minded and thoroughly
“well-made” play-writing you
feel, with the stubborn, fixated
Berenger, that it’s man who’s
the monster and that snorting,
herding and charging is the
true way of life.
Noticeably, the play does not
begin to grip until well into the
second scene, when the plot
takes shape. The author’s pro-
liferation of rhetoric in the
first scene has either lost force
in translation or is nothing but
verbosity. It is Olivier’s act-
ing which charges the play with
intensity, power and fulfilment.
As the tipsy clerk, Berenger,
he is gentle, diffident and retir-
ing. But as this strange pre-
dilection for “going with the
crowd” affects his associates, in
different ways and for quite
different reasons, he acquires
an unaccustomed will-power-
and an inspired strength which
epitomises the impotency of
mankind to stand up against
overwhelming odds. This sym-
bolism is, of course, utterly
pessimistic in conception, but
Berenger’s final agony is of the
same nature, and just as com-
pelling, as (Edipus’s!
It js a performance of such
might and finesse that others
in the distinguished cast (Joan
Plowright, Alan Webb, Miles
Malleson and Peter Sallis
among them) seem ordinary,
which they are certainly not.
Orson Welles’s production is
out of tune in the earlier scenes,
when many people have much
to say, and is, perhaps, straight-
forward rather than Gallic; but
it is not without subtlety and
there is at least one effective
surprise.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
TPhe double - tax agreement
-*■ between Australia and New
Zealand is of importance to
New Zealand holders of Aus-
tralian shares.
When it becomes law it will
alter their tax liability.
At present Australian divi-
dends are not liable for tax in
New Zealand. They are liable
for tax in Australia, but, in the
case of individuals, no tax is
levied if the recipient’s total
Australian taxable income is
not more than £lO4 a year.
From July 1 next, Australia
will levy a withholding-tax on
all dividends paid to non-resi-
dents.
The rate of tax will be 6s. in
the £, but it will reduced to 3s.
in the £ for residents of coun-
tries with which Australia had
a double-tax agreement. That
will now include New Zea-
landers.
The withholding-tax will be
the New Zealand shareholder’s
final liability for Australian
taxation.
He may, however, elect to
make a return of his Australian
income to the Australian Com-
missioner of Taxation and be
assessed for tax on the present
basis. If he does so, and if the
amount of tax assessed is
less than the amount of divi-
dend-tax withheld, the differ-
ence will be refunded to him.
Tax-liability
As at present, no tax will be
payable by an individual unless
his total taxable income exceeds
£lO4 a year.
The double-tax agreement,
however, will make all Aus-
tralian dividends liable for tax
in New Zealand.
Section 170 of the Land and
Income Tax Act exempted
from tax income derived from
any other British Common-
weath country and “chargeable
with tax” in that country.
Last year, however, the Act
was amended to exclude from
the operation of Section
170 dividends derived from
any country with which N.Z.
has a double - tax agreement.
It was noted at the time that
this legislation paved the way
for the taxation of Australian
dividends in N.Z.
It has not been stated speci-
fically, but, presumably, Aus-
tralian dividends will, in future,
be subject to tax in N.Z. on the
same basis as N.Z. dividends —
that is, up to a maximum of
7s. in the £, according to the
recipient’s tax rate.
In its official statement on
the signing of the agreement,
the Government said that the
double-tax agreement preserved
to the country of origin of in-
come the first right to tax, but
that, if the country of residence
taxed the same income, double-
tax would be avoided by the
allowance of a credit by the
latter country.
Offset?
In other words, it appears
that New Zealanders will be
able to offset against tax pay-
able in N.Z. on Australian
dividends any tax already paid
on those dividends in Aus-
tralia.
On the evidence at present
available, it looks as if persons
whose maximum tax rate in
New Zealand is 3s. or more in
the £ will have npthing to gain
by returning their Australian
income to the Australian Gov-
ernment and asking for an
assessment. They might as
well simply offset the 3s. in the
£ Australian withholding-tax
against their New Zealand tax
liability.
Persons on lower N.Z. tax
rates may stand to gain by
making a return of their Aus-
tralian income, but for some of
them it will be a complicated
and worrying business.
The Government has not
stated clearly when any change
in the N.Z. tax-liability of
Australian dividends will take
effect.
The double-tax agreement
will apply to the income year
1959-60 in both Australia and
New Zealand. But it seems
unlikely that any N.Z. tax will
be imposed on Australian divi-
dends paid before the date on
which the agreement actually
receives the force of law. A
commonsense reading of the
Act suggests that they are non-
assessable income till then.
Any attempt to impose taxa-
tion retrospectively would
arouse bitter and justified com-
plaint. Incidentally, the tax-
forms now being completed by
taxpayers do not provide for
the inclusion of Australian
dividends for 1959-60 as assess-
able income.
Share-switch
The imminent taxation of
Australian dividends is caus-
ing some N.Z. investors to
switch from Australian to N.Z.
shares. They are in the
minority, however.
Most N.Z. investors in Aus-
tralia are looking not so much
for dividend-income as for
growth.
An investor who accepts a
dividend-yield of 2 per cent, to
3 per cent, as many are now
doing, is not going to worry
overmuch if it is slightly re-
duced. He is obviously after
capital-gains, which, if they
come, can dwarf dividends,
and which are tax-free as well.
The effect on the big Aus-
tralian market of any switching
will, of course, be negligible.
But the increased demand for
N.Z. scrip, already in short
supply, is no doubt helping to
push prices up locally.
On average, New Zealand
share prices have risen about
10 p.c. since the beginning of
the year. They are now 39 p.c.
higher than a year ago and 47
p.c. higher than at the beginning
of 1959.
Dairy Surplus
It is estimated that at the
end of the dairy trading-year
on May 31 there will be a
surplus between £l3 million
and £l4 million in Dairy In-
dustry Reserve Account.
The size of the surplus will
allow the present deficit of
£5.9 million in the Dairy Indus-
try Reserve Account to be
wiped out and be replaced with
a surplus of about £1 million.
It will also make nearly £7
million available for payout to
dairy farmers.
Greater attention should be
focused on the Australian
market by the N.Z. Dairy In-
dustry, according to Mr. J. J.
Parsons, chairman of the Tara-
naki province of Federated
i Farmers.
Pointing-out that butter-
consumption was decreasing
in Australia and margarine-
consumption rising, Mr. Par-
sons said that since New
Zealand was Australia’s best
market for industrial products
the Commonwealth might be
prepared to import dairy pro-
ducts. The Australian dairy
industry, he continued, was
subsidised to the extent of £l3
million a year.
Forest Products
Forest products earn more
for N.Z. in export income each
year from each acre than do
farm products.
The highest agricultural ex-
port - earner, dairy produce,
brings in an approximate
national average of £2O an
acre, while newsprint, the
highest of the forest products,
returns £l3O from the same
area in the same period.
These figures were quoted by
the conservator of forests,
Rotorua, Mr. A. P. Thomson,
when he urged that the plant-
ing of a greater area in exotic
forest would benefit the
national economy.
At present, said Mr. Thom-
son, there was a glut in timber
supplies, brought about prin-
cipally by the fact that such
large areas were planted during
the same period. He did not
think, however, that position
would last for an extended
time, and by the turn of the
century, when the population
of N.Z. had doubled, there
could be a shortage.
Iron and Steel
The plans for New Zealand’s
iron-and-steel industry are still
a matter of confidential dis-
cussions, according to the
Minister of Industries and
Commerce, Mr. Holloway.
Replying to criticism from
the Leader of the Opposition,
Mr. Holyoake, he said: “For
the successful outcome of these
discussions it is not possible to
enter into any public contro-
versy at this stage. By the next
session of Parliament I hope
the matter of establishing the
investigating company for an
iron and steel industry will be
completely resolved.”


The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited
The eleventh annual meeting of the Company will
be held at 37 Dover Street, London, W.l, on Tuesday,
June 21, 1960. The following extracts are from the
statement of the chairman (Mr.L. B. Robinson), which
has been circulated in advance. These extracts mainly
concern Australian activities of the Consolidated Zinc
Group.
The voluntary restrictions on
the sales of lead and zinc metal
and concentrates by world pro-
ducers during the last seven months
of the year and the effect of the
import quota imposed by the
United States on these products
throughout the year made 1959
an anxious year. The average
London Metal Exchange price for
prompt delivery of lead during 1959
was only £7O/15/7, compared with
£72/16/- for 1958, but, fortunately,
this was more than compensated
by the increase in the zinc price
from £65/18/1 for 1958 to
£B2/4/8 in 1959. We benefited
considerably from the progress in
the modernisation and increased
capacity of our smelting plant and
also from licensing the Imperial
Smelting process to other smelters.
We can also report greater
efficiencies at the mine at Broken
Hill and at our other works. Due
to these factors, we are able to
show considerably increased profits
for 1959.
The Group profit before mining
royalty' and taxation amounted
to £3,969,759, compared with
£2,728,191 for 1958, an increase
of £1,241,568.
The Zinc Corporation Ltd.
showed an Improved profit, due
partly to the rise in the zinc price
more than compensating for the
decrease in. the tonnage of lead
and zinc concentrates sold during
the year and partly to a further
increase in efficiency at the mine,
resulting in an appreciably lower
cost per ton 5f ore treated. Con-
solidated Zinc Pty. Ltd. again
showed a steady increase in profits
spread fairly evenly over the various
activities in Australia. Titanium
and Zirconium Industries Pty. Ltd.
continued to deliver rutile and
zircon at favorable prices arranged
under contracts entered into in
earlier years.
The consolidated net profit for
the year at £2,663,267 shows an
increase of £1,045,391 compared
with 1958.
The directors recommend that
a final dividend should be paid
at the rate of 2/9 per share, com-
pared with 2/- last year, giving
a total distribution for the year
of 4/- per share, compared with
3/- for 1958. The balance carried
forward on the consolidated appro-
priation account at December 31,
1959, amounted to £1,090,254, an
increase of £5099.
The consolidated balance-sheet
shows a cash position of £8,083,835,
compared with £6,002,869 in 1958,
and these funds are held in
treasury bills, Government and
other short-term securities and
bank balances.
Lead and Zinc Mining
Following the pattern of the
previous year, the mine production
budgets of both the Zinc Corpora-
tion and its associated company,
New Broken Hill Consolidated,
were again based on an output
below their respective capacities.
In addition, the 10 per cent, reduc-
tion in working time, introduced
in February, 1958, continued to
operate throughout the year under
review. The outlook for the future
has been improved, however, by
the removal of restrictions on zinc
production at the Geneva con-
ference of the International Lead-
zinc Study Group in January of
this year and it has since been
possible to resume full working
time.
In 1959 the Zinc Corporation
treated a total of 667,660 tons of
ore for a production of 81,930 tons
of recoverable lead, 2,045,978
ounces of silver and 111,873 tons
of zinc concentrate, compared with
659,268 tons of ore for a produc-
tion of 79,098 tons of recoverable
lead, 2,033,955 ounces of silver
and 115,348 tons of zinc concentrate
in 1958.
In 1959 New Broken Hill Con-
solidated treated 584,530 tons of
ore for a production of 65,737
tons of lead, 1,785,540 ounces of
silver and 128,416 tons of zinc
concentrate, compared with 527,122
tons of ore for a production of
57,049 tons of lead, 1,498,434
ounces of silver and 119,103 tons
of zinc concentrate in 1958.
Zinc Smelting
In Australia the design was
completed of the lead and zinc
smelter operating the Imperial
Smelting process to be erected at
the Cockle Creek works of the
Sulphide Corporation. Construc-
tion is now well under way and
this new smelter is planned to come
into operation in the latter halt
of 1961.
Lead Smelting
Production of lead and silver
continued satisfactorily throughout
the year at the Port Pirie smelter
of the Broken Hill Associated
Smelters, jointly owned with North
Broken Hill Ltd. and Broken Hill
South Ltd. Sales of lead for the
year were, however, held at a
restricted level agreed voluntarily
by member countries of the United
Nations Lead and Zinc Committee.
Since the close of the year this
company has exercised an option
to acquire a licence for the Imperial
Smelting process and will erect at
Port Pirie a new smelting plant
to operate the process for produc-
tion of zinc and lead. This plant
will recover metal values from the
considerable tonnage of zinc-bearing
slag available on the Port Pirie
site, as well as treating concen-
trates from the Broken Hill field
and elsewhere.
Sulphuric Acid
AUSTRALIA.—Sulphuric acid
salej by Sulphide Corporation were
the highest yet achieved and
deliveries to industrial consumers
in the Newcastle area were 6 per
cent, above 1958. Construction
of the new 250-ton-per-day contact
sulphuric acid plant, which will
produce acid from sulphur gases
derived from sintering operations
at the new Imperial Smelting pro-
cess lead and zinc smelter, is well
advanced. In the period prior
to commissioning of the smelter,
this new acid plant will operate
on brimstone.
Sales of superphosphate by the
Corporation show an improvement
of 10 per cent, over 1958. This
improvement was a reflection of
more favorable weather conditions
in the pastoral areas and of
expansion of sales in bulk for
aerial spreading.
Other Chemical Products
Production and sale of isceon,
the fluorine-based chemical for
aerosol propellants and refrigerants,
rose sharply in 1959 and the
increased plant capacity brought
into operation in that year is.
already fully absorbed. The rapidly
increasing demand for aerosol pro-
pellants promises continued increases
in sales in 1960 and further plant
extensions are now in hand.
Production of hydrofluoric acid
increased by some thirty per cent,
on the 1958 level.
Rutile and Zircon
Production of rutile and zircon
by Titanium and Zirconium
Industries Pty. Ltd., from beach
sands at Stradbroke Island, Queens-
land, was at a lower level than in
1958 as a result of continued weak-
ness in the rutile market. The
long term prospects for rutile still
remain uncertain, but the zircon
market has strengthened.
Comalco—Bauxite
Commonwealth Aluminium Cor-
poration Pty. Limited (Comalco),
in which a 50 per cent, interest is
held by The British Aluminium
Company Limited, continued its
investigations into the establish-
ment of alumina and aluminium
production based upon the bauxite
resources at Weipa, in Northern
Queensland, and at Gove, in the
Northern Territory. Comalco’s
principal efforts were largely con-
centrated on the proving of power
resources suitable for the initial
establishment of aluminium smelt-
ing and for adequate growth in the
future.
Drilling and other field work
was completed at Wabo during the
year and our consultants expect
shortly to confirm a potential there
of about 800,000 kilowatts of con-
tinuous power. The indications are
that very low-cost power could be
delivered from a major develop-
ment of the site to a smelter on
the Papuan coast, but that the
project does not readily lend itself
to development in progressive
stages. y
The field work connected with
our investigation of the Blair Athol
coal deposit, as a suitable source
of thermal power, was also com-
pleted during the year.
The opportunity that cheap open-
cut coal offers in Queensland for
low-cost power generation is un-
doubted, but one of the problems
is to find means of securing the
advantage of these cost levels in
the initial stages of a smelting pro-
gramme before the industry has
reached major status as a supplier
of metal to local and overseas
outlets. We are, however, hopeful
that it may be possible to merge
our initial requirements for power
in that State with a power genera-
tion scheme which the Queensland
Government is" planning to base
upon another source of cheap open-
cut coal. At the request of the
Queensland Electricity Commis-
sioner the same firm of consultants
as are acting for us in connection
with the Blair Athol deposit are
investigating this possibility.
During the year we began an
investigation of the hydro-electric
potential (amounting to more than
600,000 kilowatts firm) of the
Manapouri-Te Anau Lake system
in the South Island of New Zealand.
Rights over this potential have
been secured by an agreement
signed between the New Zealand
Government and Consolidated Zinc
Pty. Ltd. since the close of the
year. Although investigations are
being undertaken by Consolidated
Zinc Pty. Ltd., the benefits of the
agreement will be available to
Comalco to the extent that power
may be required for its programme
of aluminium production. An
attractive feature of preliminary
Government estimates is that cost
of power from a limited initial
development would be just as cheap
as from the scheme when fully
developed. Arrangements are being
made for consultants to assess the
cost of generating power from this
lake system.
The test work which has been
proceeding in Holland on a scale
model of the estuary at Weipa to
determine the best location for an
access channel for shipping has
been completed. The results of
these studies are expected shortly
and it is hoped that in co-opera-
tion with the Queensland Govern-
ment this will soon b'e followed by
the first stage of harbor develop-
ment.
Although the magnitude of our
task has not lessened, I am happy
to say that' the results to date of
a number of investigations have
brought us appreciably closer to
(Continued on next page)


bottom of the ladder (they
hadn’t won a match in two
seasons) to premiership poten-
tial. He made the mistake of
building the team around the
coon. Everybody said so, any-
way. Heckel had a clear
memory of one particular inci-
dent stuck firmly in his craw.
There was no great drama.
The team was well out of the
final four and didn’t even look
as though it was going to get
anywhere near it. They were
playing at home, and as usual
someone had to get the coon
up from Lake Tyers. And as
usual committee - volunteers
were hard to find. Luckily
enough they were playing
Lakes’ Entrance that Saturday
and the Lakes team had to go,
past Tyers. They had it all
arranged. He’d be picked up
by someone from Lakes.
The coon got to the match
with the Lakes team, all right,
but so full he could scarcely
scratch himself. He'd got in a
car with some loose grog
around and that was the end
of him.
But that was the way with
the coon all the time. You had
to pamper him if you wanted
goals. He was always in for a
handout. A sugarbag of bread
and cake from the baker. Soup-
bones and sausage-meat from
Sooley’s Meat Emporium,
vegies from the Spag’s. If the
coon was around, a committee-
man couldn’t walk up the
street unless it cost him half
a quid. Somebody had to give
him something each time he
trained and Heckel had copped
the dollar-a-goal stunt.
T>y the end of the third quarter
there was a goal-and-a-
few-odd-points difference. At
the third quarter break players
were hustled into their huddled
camps. Supplies of orange-
quarters, liniment, chewing-
gum were passed from hand to
hand. A player hid a team-
mate from the view of the
spectators.
The coaches harangued again
and before the siren sounded
the team had positioned itself
ready for the last quarter. It
was on, right from the first
bounce. After five - minutes’
play two players limped off the
field. ,
The coon got another two
goals in fairly quick succession
and the team was ahead now.
About five-minutes of play left.
Two opposition players were
on him, one to see he didn’t
get a kick and the other with
instructions to do him —maybe
kick his injured leg, or knee
him in the groin.
Half-forward-flanker out of
the pack. Baulking, weaving
and a short pass to the centre-
half forward: a little rover
racing downfield takes a hand-
pass in a classic move of
champagne football. The coon
leads out, gets the ball, feints
in a blind turn, swings onto his
left leg and kicks another goal.
The ball had scarcely got
back to the centre again when
the siren sounded the end of
the quarter and the end of play.
Players hurried off the field.
In the crowded dressing
room all was jubilation, players
jostled each other in the
showers and pushed each
other against the rusted wall of
the lavatory. Supporters
entered into a frenzy of back-
patting.
Tn a corner, on his own, the
coon changed silently; took
his boots off deliberately, then
his socks, and dropped his
shorts to the wooden floor.
Without showering he started
to get dressed, self-consciously,
a dark-brown clash against the
pink-white buttocks and backs
that were moving around the
dressing-shed. He put on his
jungle-greens, but didn’t bother
to remove his football jumper.
Someone had given him this
two seasons ago. It was an
old club cast-off. Then came
his coat, a navy-blue, thin
pin-stripe effort, a relic from
his army-discharge days. He
packed his gear into a cloth
cycle-bag and towards
the door of the dressing-shed,
shouldering his way gently
through the noisy supporters.
“Hey, Heckel,” he called to
the president, who was super-
vising the sorting out of the
club football jumpers. “How
did I go today?” he asked.
“Ya get two-and-a-half quid
if that's wat ya mean.”
The president fished in the
pocket of his gabardine rain-
coat and brought out a ball of
crumpled notes. He gave the
coon what was owing to him.
“Heh. Heh. How about
next week, eh? Do I get a
game again?”
“If you can stay sober
enough.”
The coon stepped out into
the 5.30 Gippsland gloom.
“And keep away from the
korrumburra,” the president
(Continued on page 45)
the point of making a definite
start in the development of these
very considerable bauxite resources.
Rum Jungle
Uranium Project
Territory Enterprises Pty. Limited,
a wholly-owned subsidiary, has
now completed seven years’
management and operation of
the Commonwealth Government’s
uranium project at Rum Jungle in
the Northern Territory. No mining
was carried out, the treatment plant
operating on stockpiled ' ore.
Exploration was continued and
late in the year a new orebody,
the extent of which is not yet
defined, was located at Rum Jungle
Creek South.
Oil Exploration
Frome-'Broken Hill Co. Pty. Ltd.
continues to be the principal
avenue through which our interest
is maintained in oil exploration in
Australia. The most significant
activities occurred towards the end
of the year in the Portland-Cape
Otway area of Victoria, where a
seismic survey had led to selection
of a site for an exploration test
well near Port Campbell. In
November a drill stem at this
site produced a strong flow of
gas. However, flow rate and
pressure dropped away, indicating
that the hole had tapped a rela-
tively small and uncommercial
reservoir. Nevertheless, the results
have fully justified a decision to
undertake further seismic surveys,
with the object of determining the
most suitable location for a second
exploration well later this year.
Australian Head Office
The main contract for construc-
tion of the new Australian Head
Office of the Group in Melbourne
was let in October. Work on the
building, which will comprise 24
floors with parking space below,
is making steady progress and
should be completed in time for
occupation in the latter part of
next year.
Lead and Zinc Markets
Since my report to you at the
last annual general meeting there
have been two important develop-
ments in the lead/zinc outlook.
First I would like to refer to
the import quota situation in the
United States which, as you may
remember, caused producing com-
panies throughout the world much
anxiety. There has occurred,
however, in the meantime some
change of thought concerning this
matter and whereas some produc-
ing countries, in particular Aus-
tralia, have suffered from a severe
limitation on their right of entry
into the United States, other
producing countries have been
more fortunately placed and it is
now apparent that the opposition
to quotas by exporting countries
is no longer unanimous. On The
other hand, the strongest opposi-
tion has developed amongst the
U.S. custom smelters who have
been much embarrassed by the
physical restrictions on their free-
dom to purchase the most desirably
feed for their operations. As a
result demands have been made
upon the Administration in
Washington for a reversal of policy
and recommendations for an
increased tariff are now in the fore-
front to replace the import quotas.
A bill has been presented in the
House of Representatives propos-
ing greatly increased duties to take
the place of those at present in
force. The outcome of this battle
may be known shortly. Alternatively
the matter may be shelved until
after the Presidential election.
Secondly, a most interesting
feature has been the recovery in
zinc consumption, particularly in
Western Europe, and, as a result,
the voluntary restrictions on zinc
sales which came into force after
the United Nations meeting in
May, 1959, were lifted in their
entirety at a subsequent meeting
in Geneva in early February, 1960.
I am glad to be able to tell you
that since the lifting of these
restrictions the zinc market has
shown that present production and
consumption are reasonably in
balance and that the only imme-
diate problem still remaining is
the presence of sizeable stocks in
smelters’ hands in the United
States.
The position of lead, though not
so happy, gives some measure of
encouragement since the continued
restriction on sales has kept the
price steady during most of the
year and latterly the market has
even shown some sign of recovery.
The problem remains as to how
the stocks which are in producers’
hands, both in the U.S.A. and
outside, can be liquidated without
weakening the price structure. It
will be of major interest to see
the statistical review that will no
doubt be available for a possible
meeting of the International Study
Group early in September.
Directorate
Lord Baillieu has reached the
age of seventy years and special
notice has been given of the inten-
tion to propose at the annual
general meeting a resolution re-
appointing him a Director. Lord
Baillieu has been actively associated
with the group since 1924 when
he became a Director of the
National Smelting Company and
also of the Zinc Corporation.
He has been a Director of
Consolidated Zinc Corporation
since its formation in 1949. His
very wide experience in many
fields, both in the United Kingdom
and in Australia his homeland,
enables him to make a special
contribution in the conduct of
our affairs.
Captain A. H. Moreing, who has
also reached the age of seventy,
is not seeking re-election.
My colleagues and I have greatly
valued his counsel and the benefit
of his wide experience.
Conclusion
We are hopeful that further
opportunities will arise in this
country and in Australia to broaden
the base of the Group’s activities.
In the meantime, I feel that we
have good cause to be satisfied
with the development and improve-
ment in efficiencies in our present
revenue earning interests.
L. B. ROBINSON.*
3rd May, 1960.
Persons who would like a copy
of the full report are invited to
write to the Company at G.P.O.
Box 384 D, Melbourne.


In memory of Joe
By
JACK WOODWARD
The bar was very quiet,
even for a midweek
night. Almost solemn,
thought Charlie Cripps
as he peered over his glass of
beer at the few men about him.
He put down his glass and
plunged his hand into the pile
of prawns in a newspaper be-
fore him. They had long lost
their chilled, crisp entity in
the pulpy, repellent mass that
threatened to ooze through the
damp paper. They filled the
bar with that distinctive smell
of unchilled prawns, and in-
creased the look of distaste on
the face of the blonde buxom
barmaid as she approached
Charlie Cripps.
She didn’t know him and she
didn’t speak to him as she
gathered his empty glass. He’d
want another drink, for sure.
His sort always did. With a
glass brimful she approached
him and waited for a shilling
to appear on the bar top before
placing it before him.
She winced at the sight and
smell of the prawns. “They’re
a bit high, aren’t they?” she
complained.
“Not for prawns, they’re
not,” answered Charlie as he
pulled off another head and let
it fall on to the mounting pile
of shells and heads at his feet.
The woman spoke from the
till: “It’s a good thing the boss
isn’t here, or he’d tell you what
to do with those prawns.”
“Oh, he would, would he?”
said Charlie. “I hate people
who want to tell you what to
do with your things. You fight
for freedom, and what do you
find everywhere you go?
Someone trying to tell you
what to do with your things.
Where’s the freedom in that?”
He flung his challenge to a
heedless bar.
You could tell by looking
at Charlie Cripps standing
rather unsteadily at the bar
counter that he was uncom-
monly and uncomfortably well-
dressed in the blue-striped
suit with the short coat, the
shined tan shoes, the faded
blue shirt with stiffened collar
of brighter hue and a
black tie. The grey hat on the
back of his head was soiled
and shabby, and below it his
face was a slab on which were
etched the epitaphs of a hun-
dred hopes.
He was small and wiry, in
his late forties, and he faced
in turn each man in the bar
with a look of melancholy
resentment. It was the quietest
and most inhospitable bar he
had ever patronised. Not like
the ones he was accustomed to
on the south-side. No one
seemed happy in this pub,
thought Charlie, as he mixed
beer and prawns in his mouth
before swallowing expressively.
Solemnity was all right in its
place, but its place wasn’t in
the bar of a pub. Its place was
at a funeral. You needed it
there.
Take Joe’s funeral only that
afternoon. There, no one spoke
loudly and no one laughed.
Everyone looked clean, uncom-
fortable and pious. It was
small as funerals go. Charlie
didn’t think Joe had any next-
of-kin, but someone must have
arranged the burial and paid
for it. Joe hadn’t, for sure. A
couple of women there said
they were Joe’s sisters when
Charlie extended to them his
deepest sympathy. One of
them was alone and wept a
bit. The other didn’t seem to
mind burying Joe at all. She
had a scrawny, thin-necked
husband with no teeth, who
sat on Charlie’s hat in the
funeral-parlor and who had
grinned at him for the rest of
the time, even at the graveside.
Charlie called for another
beer, tore off the heads of more
prawns and thought of Joe.
It was at a time like this you
missed a bloke like Joe. Charlie
had declined a drive back to
the city from the cemetery in
the coach because he couldn’t
stand the sight of Joe’s grin-
ning, toothless brother-in-law,
so he’d walked to the nearest
pub to get the taste of the in-
terment out of his mouth and
to think about his mate, Joe.
There was so much in a pub to
remind him of Joe.
Cripps wrapped-up
the remaining prawns,
kicked the shells from about
his feet and looked around the
bar. Was there no one here
who knew his mate? No one
aware of his loss or willing to
share it with him? The two
young fellows on his right
wouldn't know his kind of
loneliness. The bloke opposite
was a snooty sort who wouldn’t
care about anyone but himself;
Charlie had a deep distrust of
men who drank by themselves.
The large group next to the
lone drinker seemed to have
worries of their own, and old
Henpeck who had just sneaked
in wouldn’t stay long. Obvi-
ously he was drinking to a
timetable.
The couple of blokes along
the bar from him were differ-
ent .. . He called for another
drink.
“You’re Mabel, aren’t you?”
he said as the barmaid
approached. He’d heard her
name spoken several times in
the bar.
“You’re bright! How’d you
guess?” she answered without
looking at him.
“I knew it was you as soon
as I saw you.”
“What do you mean?”
“I went to school with you.”
“Don’t be bloody silly!”
The big man a few paces
away laughed at the girl as
she turned her back on
Charlie, grinning over his
glass.
“Did he carry your books to
school, Mabe?” he said.
“How’s his rotten form!”
she sneered. “He’s old enough
to be my father, but not good
enough. ’Struth! Those
prawns! ”
“Who is he, Mabe?” asked
the big man quietly.
“Search me, Harry,” said
Mabel in a voice intended for
the whole bar to hear; “I’ve
never seen him in my life be-
fore, and right now I’d say I’d
never missed much.”
“Gawn,” said Charlie mov-
ing towards his bar neighbors.
“You have so. You must
remember me —at the old
school”
“I never went to school with
you or anyone within twenty
years of you. And as far as
I’m concerned you can get out
of here, prawns and all.”
“Aw, don’t be too hard oti
him, Mabe,” said Harry.
Charlie edged up to him,
encouraged by Harry’s con-
sideration.
“We buried Joe today, yer
know!” he said.
“Serves him right,” said
Harry without turning to the
bearer of sad tidings.
“Yairs, Joe’s gone,” said
Charlie slowly.
(Continued on page 44)


Greater Sydney—Than What?
Once again the advocates of Greater
Sydney are on the march. Last
year the annual conference of the
State A.L.P. issued instructions to
the N.S.W. Government to do some-
thing about this plank of Labor policy
before next year’s elections. So far
nothing overt has been done, but there’s
a strong feeling that there is a lot of
activity going on backstage and that pre-
sently the curtain will be rung-up on a
brand new scene which will prove to be
yet another revival of the old favorite
Amalgamations Unlimited, or Taking the
Local out of Local Government.
Greater Sydney has long been a darl-
ing dream of N.S.W. Labor. Away back
in 1931, when Jack Lang’s third Gov-
ernment was halfway through its course,
a bill with this objective was introduced.
But Lang’s team had other and bigger
troubles on its hands, and these over-
whelmed it before the bill became law.
Labor was out of office for the next nine
years, but the plan wasn’t forgotten, and
towards the end of the war the McKell
Government blew the dust off it and de-
cided that with a little refurbishing it
would be as good as ever.
There were, of course, formalities to
be observed before the plan for delocalis-
ing local-government in the 66 councils
of the County of Cumberland could be
implemented, but it was announced that
most of these municipalities would be
eliminated and others merged. Protests
from some of the threatened bodies led
to a request by the Local Government
Association for a royal commission.
In due course the three commissioners
issued their report. They agreed that a
reduction in the number of councils was
desirable, but when it came to drawing
a new map they differed to an extra-
ordinary degree. The chairman, Judge
Clancy, submitted a plan for 18 munici-
palities. R. T. Storey, mayor of Drum-
moyne, thought the reduction should not
go below 37, but S. Haviland, Assistant
Under-secretary of the Department of
Local Government, recommended eight.
The Eight-cities Plan
TPhe Government adopted the Haviland
A eight-cities plan, probably because no
one had suggested a six-, four- or three-
cities plan, but the outcry from all the
areas affected was so great that Labor’s
electoral prospects seemed in danger. The
plan was shelved until after the 1947
election. Once that hurdle was sur-
mounted out came the plan again, but
somehow it had grown into a 14-cities
plan.
Subsequently two of the councils most
vocal in their opposition to the prescrip-
tion were granted a reprieve, and the
proposal came before Parliament as a
16-cities plan. Labor’s majority got it
through the Assembly all right, but it
struck a snag in the Legislative Council,
which appointed a select committee to
carry-out searching investigations in the
areas to be affected.
This committee recommended a much
less drastic redrawing of boundaries, and
the plan finally adopted reduced the exist-
ing 60 municipalities and six shires to
34 municipalities and five shires. Thanks
to the indignation aroused in local-
government circles by the eight- and 16-
cities plans and the way in which the
McGirr-Cahill Government had tried to
impose them on the community, the full
effect of the scheme had been averted,
but the Government managed to salvage
a large slice of its Greater Sydney baby.
The new City Council took unto itself
the former municipalities of Alexandria,
Darlington, Erskineville, Glebe, New-
town, Paddington, Redfern and Waterloo,
every one of which carried with it a
staunch band of Labor voters whose
combined support was to make Sydney
City Council a strict Labor preserve.
To ensure that this vote wasn’t care-
lessly withheld voting at municipal elec-
tions was made compulsory. Without
that safeguard there was a possibility
that property-owners might rally and
accidentally regain control of the City
Council. Mr. Cahill’s explanation was
that compulsion was necessary “to see
that the electors are stirred from the state
of apathy that undoubtedly exists, and
are made to exercise the right to vote to
ensure that our existing forms of gov-
ernment will not be prejudiced.”
Ratepayers’ Poll Abolished
TTow genuine was the Government's
concern for the rights of electors
had already been revealed by its tak-
ing away from them the right to any
voice in the future of their municipalities.
This was done by removing from the
Local Government Act the sub-clause
which provided for a poll of ratepayers
before any revision of boundaries.
By 1953 it became clear that Labor
control of the Sydney City Council was
not enough ; what had now become vital
was some means of ensuring that the
right faction of the Labor party would
remain in charge. To ensure this the
ward-system, so long a feature of local-
government, was abolished in the city,
though retained elsewhere. Proportional
representation was substituted and the
A.L.P. executive cancelled all nomina-
tions for the triennial election of aider-
men and drew up a list of its own. Last
year new arguments had to be found to
justify a return to wards.
It’s On Again
HThere seems to be little doubt that the
■*- Greater Sydney Dream is once more
in the minds of the N.S.W. Government.
Premier Heffron and Local Government
Minister Hills have given evasive
answers to questions asked in Parlia-
ment, but Labor aldermen aren’t conceal-
ing their hopes. The rumors have led
the Local Government Association to
invite councils in the metropolitan area
for their views on the Greater Sydney
scheme and the eight-cities plan. The
former of these would mean that the
City of Sydney would swallow the
municipalities of Botany, Leichhardt,
Marrickville, Randwick, Waverley and
Woollahra. Under the eight-cities plan
Ashfield, Burwood, Canterbury, Con-
cord, Drummoyne, Hunter’s Hill, Hurst-
ville, Kogarah, Lane Cove, Manly, Mos-
man, North Sydney, Rockdale, Ryde
(part), Strathfield and Willoughby would
also be engulfed, while the rest of the
County of Cumberland would be divided
into seven municipalities.
The response of the metropolitan
councils to the association’s invitation
doesn’t give the impression that suburban
Sydney is eager to be tucked under the
wing of Sydney Town Hall. Quite the
reverse. Only from councils dominated
by Labor has there been anything but
opposition. Leichhardt, of course, is all
for it; Marrickville takes the attitude
that as the Government hasn’t said
anything about the plan it would be
presumptuous to accept the rumors;
Botany remains as silent as it was before
Captain Cook sailed into its bay.
Waverley (Labor councillors dissent-
ing) won't have a bar of amalgamation.
Neither will Woollahra and Randwick
and they are prepared to join forces with
Waverley in fighting any move to liqui-
date them. North Shore councils are not
affected by the lesser plan for Greater
Sydney, but the eight-cities plan would
mean their elimination and they are
heartily opposed to it.
The Real Goal
V/fETHODS advocated for fighting the
plan include a demand for a referen-
dum in the areas affected and a request
for an inquiry by an independent com-
mittee. The first Labor will always reject,
for the same reason that it removed the
provision from the Act —because it
knows the plan would never win the sup-
port of the people. The second would
not be so easy to avoid and the people
of the Mitchell region of N.S.W. showed
18 months ago that even as the law now
stands unwanted amalgamations can be
averted by a determined effort.
In the present uneasy state of the
Heffron Government, with its Cabinet
troubles and lack of an Upper House
majority, it is not likely to push the
Greater Sydney plan against sturdy
opposition, but the idea is always there
as part of the objective to make muni-
cipal government a matter of party poli-
tics, with paid aldermen. How far some
Labor men want it to go was revealed
by the comment of Alderman Moran of
the City Council who wants to see the
council's boundaries extended to include
the entire County of Cumberland —a
mere 1563 square-miles. What scope for
jobs for the bhoys! What an opening for
fruit-barrow concessions!


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Form
On already revealed form
Sydney horses can be ex-
pected to collect a good share
of the Q.T.C. Stradbroke this
coming Saturday and the Bris-
bane Cup on Monday. Selec-
tions :
• • • •
Stradbroke: In Love, 1;
Prince Lea, 2; Fine And Dandy,
3.
• • • •
Brisbane Cup: Melroy, 1;
Valerius, 2; Drumcondra, 3.
Third time proved it with
Melbourne gelding Mendlson,
runaway winner of last Satur-
day’s Canterbury Park Two-
year-old Maiden. The good-
looking youngster had started
twice previously in Sydney for
a second at Warwick Farm
and again at Randwick. This
time Sellwood was given the
mount, and the rest was easy.
Trained by N. D. Hoysted,
Mendlson is by Neapolitan
(imp.) from Mendl by Kinder-
scout (imp.) from Little Valve
by Cyklon (imp.), and comes
from the family which pro-
duced Nuffield and Murray
Stream.
• • • •
Evidently the four-year-old
Agincourt gelding Actin,
though unknown in Sydney
until he went out to win the
First Canterbury Maiden, had
shown them something in
training at Hawkesbury, for
he was the medium of a
plunge that brought the odds
tumbling fast from 100 to 1
down to eights. He only just
landed the money, Winning
very narrowly in the last few
strides from well - fancied
Prince Arn and Gay Student.
As Top Form had won at
his three previous starts at
meetings away from the city,
trainer Morrie Anderson—
enjoying a great spin at the
moment —must have been
both surprised and delighted
when he saw fours and a
shade better on offer on the
betting - boards. Top Form
soon took charge and wasn’t
again troubled in winning the
Canterbury Novice very easily.
Glenbeth, a prior-start winner
at Hawkesbury, ran well up to
form and could soon win her
first city race. Top Form
knocked several seconds off
the record time for the race.
Though the S.T.C. has reduced
the maximum number of
starters at this
barrier to 14, crowding still
regularly occurs. On Satur-
day stewards again told a
number of jockeys to keep
their mounts straight in future
when starting from the 7}
chute. That will never be
easy.
The going at Canterbury
was perfect, and Manrego’s
time in the Hurstville Handi-
cap (Welter conditions) was
close to the best for the race.
He is weighted on the limit,
"No, she's not just showing-off her mink—she REALLY
feels the cold!"
7st., in the Stradbroke. Hurry
By, backed to favoritism, was
in bother a couple of times,
and could soon make amends.
Diamond Vista returned to
good form in landing the six-
furlongs Tempe Handicap,
narrowly defeating the pace-
maker, Greater, with Grecian
Vale third. The winner and
runner-up were prominent all
the way, but Grecian Vale
gave them a big start from the
three-furlongs ; a first-class
effort. Country jockey H.
Molloy rode a confident race
on the winner, who hadn’t
won for more than a year.
Trainer T. J. Smith’s horses
are keeping up the good work
while he is in England buying
more horses on behalf of
various clients. Genelea added
her name to the list when she
easily won a midweek Warwick
Farm Two-year-old- Maiden.
She’s by Newtown Wonder
(imp.) from Silver Words by
Talking from Silver Wave by
Silverado (imp.) from Bravery
by Valais (imp.).
• * • «
At the same Farm meeting
New Zealand breeder-owner-
trainer G. S. Walton, who
seldom fails to win races when
he brings horses to Sydney,
landed a double with two-year-
old Good Decision and Girvan.
Good Decision is by Fair’s Fair
(imp.) from First Round by
Nightly from Knockout by
Winning Hit. Another to land
a double was Warwick Farm
trainer Ernie Fellows, who
expects to head abroad a few
weeks hence to take up a racing
position in England. His
winners were King Pharaoh
and Baroda Red, in the Novice
and the Maiden Handicap.
Baroda Red is by Gaekwar’s
Pride (imp.) from Elanora
(sister to Snowstream) by Mid-
stream (imp.) from Sweet An-
nabel by Magpie (imp.). A
good one in the Fellows stable
is the popular Brisbane Cup
fancy Melroy, third in the Syd-
ney Cup and already a winner
on his present trip north.
“P.0.M.C.”: A leading mathe-
matician engaged by “S. M.
Herald” to explain how the quick-
ness of horses deceives punters’
eyes jn very tight finishes (depend-
ing on the angle of their view)
told us nothing new —observers
standing right and left of the
winning-post always will express
definite opinions favoring the out-
side or inside horse respectively
as the winner unless trained by
experience to allow for the decep-
tive angle. This latter knack comes
only with time and intimate know-
ledge of any particular racecourse.
However, there was one famous
case at Randwick —the Polycletan-
David finish in the Metropolitan
of 1924 —when confirmed racegoers
standing close to and on both
sides of the winning-post emphati-
cally disagreed with the judge,
Dudley Smith, in his verdict for
Polycletan by a half-head. David,
always on the fence, had gone
to the front below the distance
and looked a certain winner when
Polycletan finished brilliantly wide-
out to cross the line right under
the judge’s nose. Newspaper
photographs, taken from both
angles and published next morn-
ing, suggested that punters had
been right for once. Even in shots
taken near the line and on the
right-hand side of it David
appeared to have won by at least
a long-neck. And money wasn’t
talking in this instance; David had
been backed by few but his owner,
Otway Falkiner, while Polycletan
started just about favorite.
• • . .
Nothing more has been heard
about the mooted closing of the
Rosebery racecourse, used over
recent years for training-pur-
poses only. Local trainers
would like to know what is
contemplated, and why the
S.T.C. doesn't give them an
idea of what’s cooking. Guess-
work puts the time for Opera-
tion Stop at anything up to two
years or more, but a much
earlier finish has been forecast.
Anyway, it’s going to be a
tough day for the locals when
something" does happen. Many
of them have spent a lifetime
there and own valuable stables.
In the recent wet spell trainers
who floated horses to Rosebery
from Randwick included Terry
Brosnan, Fil Allotta, Darby
Munro, Ted McMenamin and
Dick Roden, all of them, of
course, well aware of where
the best wet-weather course is
situated.
* * *
From Brisbane trainer Fred
Best’s stable, Taihape, ridden
by R. Maddock, landed the
second Fitzgrafton Stakes in
good style at Ipswich on Satur-
day. New Zealand-bred, the
gelding is by Gabador (imp.)
from Victory Light by St.
Magnus (imp.) from Hooting
Light by Colonel Cygnus (imp.),
and is related to Innesfell
(V.R.C. Oaks), while good
gallopers Flight, Electro and
Skyline all figure in the
pedigree.
* * *
At the English Derby meet-
ing Indigenous, a four-year-old
carrying 9.5 and ridden by
Lester Piggott, won the Tad-
worth Handicap over five fur-
longs in 53.6 sec., a world
record. As there is a stiff up-
hill climb to the finishing-line
at Epsom the time seems all the
more remarkable. Previous best,
54}sec., was made by Devi-
neress, also at Epsom, and had
stood for 27 years. By way of
effective comparison Australia’s
best is the 57fsec. by Todman
at Randwick in December,


oTcej/amlti or/it/e-
Me 77w7//ti c &/mce
"A
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
fV;A
S 3
as
vs
f*9>
N
♦
I
ft
****%«*> .: v^
&^SSwW^>Xs*l*>>lvX%-XwX*X , X*l*X‘l*l
'v&
White Label
Diwars Fini Skouh Whisky
»ohr> Dewar & Sons l*
'-CC.i-... f>£ SCOrLANP
Street scene, hong kong. Photo by Qantas.
White Label
Dewar's
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
DWII7
1956. The Derby was a
triumph for the English colt
St. Paddy (7 to 1), giving
Lester Piggott his third suc-
cess in the classic. Alcaeus
(second) and Kythnos (third)
were respectively ridden by A.
Breasley and R. Hutchinson.
There were 17 runners, smallest
field since 1947.
# * *
Nationals Prospects
Last week this page sug-
gested that Asprey and Grand
Reward might be a good
double for the Nationals. They
both ran at Caulfield on Satur-
day—in the M.R.C. Hurdle and.
M.R.C. Steeple—and each
finished second. Their National
prospects are still good.
Fair Counsel defeated
Asprey, and there was a mild
demonstration against him as
he came back to scale. At his
previous start Fair Counsel
had finished third, 45 lengths
behind Star De Feu, who ran
fourth to him on Saturday.
However, the previous run was
at Moonee Valley, and some
horses just can’t handle the
Valley circuit. Fair Counsel is
a five-year-old Faircourt geld-
ing, owned and trained by Bill
Murrell, who rates him a
National chance. Asprey
plugged on well behind the
winner, and with his light
weight he will see the National-
distance out.
The M.R.C. Steeple was a
beautiful race to watch. Mel-
bourne’s best ’chaser, Tranquil
Glow, was made favorite
despite his 11.9 and the fact
that dual-winner Grand Re-
ward was in the field. The
race was always between these
two, with both fencing per-
fectly. Tranquil Glow held
the advantage to the last jump,
where Grand Reward got on
terms with him. In the run
home the topweight had too
much pace, and scored by just
over a length. Last year Tran-
quil Glow ran second in the
National to Irish Sun, and he
is now at least as good. How-
ever, he will have a lot of
weight to carry for a long way,
and at the moment this page is
still confident of Grand Re-
ward.
4 There was a bit of a shock
for the public at Caulfield
when Wallingford ran un-
placed in the mile Murray
Handicap for two-year-olds.
Along with most people, this
writer had a very good opinion
of Wallingford, and finds it
hard to explain away his weak
finishing effort. He had 9st.,
and apparently is not up to
weight. The winning run of
Golden Acres was excellent.
Lightly raced last spring, this
chestnut rig has had three
starts this time up, for two
wins and a most unlucky third
behind his stablemate Jamec.
He found the mile on Satur-
day very much to his liking,
but whether he can get a dist-
ance is another matter. His
sire, Pamphilos (imp.), was a
good sprinter and has sired
many speedy horses, but his
stock do not usually stay.
Brian Courtney, for whom
things are going so well, trains
Golden Acres, who was ridden
by Geoff Lane.
Hyleena made it a good
double for Lane by taking the
six-furlongs Flinders Handicap
for three-year-olds with all the
brilliant speed that made her
the outstanding two-year-old
filly of her year. She has not
quite lived up to the promise
of her youthful form, but she’s
more than useful, and if she
goes to- Brisbane she will give
a good account of herself. The
placegetters put in interesting
runs. Prince Harold, unwanted
in the betting, came from no-
where for his second, and he’s
going to be worth watching in
a longer race. His breeding is
all stamina—by Comic Court
from Blodwen by Carpentier
from Chenda by Blank (imp.)
from Conara by Great Star
(imp.). Third horse, Queen Of
The May, has won a long
string of races in Perth, and


start the day right!
vit»y
C*.'*
Stt*
cb^2
this first-up run was very good.
She may go to Brisbane for
the Doomben Ten Thousand,
and could pay her way up
there.
Even allowing for the weak-
ness of the opposition, Mac’s
performance in the 12-furlongs
Springvale Handicap was still
remarkably good. He was
weighted at 10.2, and though
Kitchen’s full claim reduced the
poundage to 9.9 it was still a
thumping weight to carry in a
handicap, especially as only two
of the other runners had more
than 8.0. Mac treated his bur-
den lightlv, to run to the front
swinging for home, and go on
to an effortless win.
It is rather odd to think of
a four-year-old gelding who
scores his first win in a winter
Welter as a Melbourne Cup
hope, but Jim Pengilly has that
idea of Major Magnus, who
finally lost his maiden status
in the first Loddon Welter.
Pengilly bases his hopes on the
breeding of his charge —by Bob
Major from the St. Magnus
mare Shady Isle. Bob Major
was a good stayer in England,
and the St. Magnus stock have
proved their liking for a dist-
ance. It was'certainly a stout-
hearted effort by Major Mag-
nus, who came from a long
way back at the half-mile to
score comfortably.
Dave Whiteside still owns
Starry Eyes, winner of the
second Loddon, although he
has “sold” him twice. After
both sales the purchasers com-
plained that Starry Eyes was
lame, and Whiteside refunded
their money. There was noth-
ing lame about the way the
Smokey Eyes gelding dashed
around the field at the home-
turn to win easily!
* * *
Trots
After running fifth to Sun
Chief in a heat of the N.S.W.
Derby and breaking badly in
the final to lose all chance, the
Lawn Raider filly Negro
Dancer ran away with the
N.S.W. Oaks (for three-year-
old fillies) at Harold Park last
Friday night. Usually an un-
reliable beginner, Negro
Dancer danced out of the
barrier and set a blistering
pace to lead at the bell by
about 15 lengths from a very
strung-out field. At the finish
she still had six lengths to
spare from Osoroma, in race-
record time of 3min. 7sec. for
the llf furlongs. The pre-
vious record of 3.10 f was
made by another Lawn Raider
filly, Bangaroo Lass, in 1957.
This was the final night of
the season, and with 36 winning
drives Jim Caffyn won the
premiership—a hat-trick of
premierships, he having also
won in the two previous
seasons.
* * *
Other Sports
“Cyclist”: Adelaide's ama-
teur pedal-pusher Jim Nestor
must have ironbark in his
make-up. At 27 years young
in 1948 he pedalled his way into
Australia's Olympic team to
London. He bobbed-up again
for the Vancouver Empire
Games in 1954 and the Olym-
pics of 1956. Time seemed to
take its toll, for Nestor then
took to coaching some of South
Australia’s youngsters in the
art of road-riding. It was un-
usual to see him following
them (in a car). But the urge
came to ride again, so he oiled
his machine, and recently he
won the South Australian
championship (120 miles) for
the umpteenth time.
* * *
Australian tennis, despite
poor displays in the French
singles title, regained some
prestige when Neale Fraser and
Roy Emerson won the doubles
title, defeating Spaniards
Andres Gimeno and Juan Arilla
6-2, 8-10, 7-5, 6-4. Emerson,
after a lean spell, played brilli-
antly and was easily the best
player on the court. Fraser
also showed improved form and
should be at his top for the
Wimbledon championships.
“Amateur”: That reported
protest by Australia against
some European tennis-nations’
proposal to permit “authorised
players” to tour world circuits
made rather quaint reading.
The only thing new about the
idea is the term itself. Austra-
lia is reported to have
on the ground that “authorised
players” would be able to take
money in the open, like pro-
fessionals. Actually, in parts
of Europe there’s no secrecy
about payments to amateurs.
You can walk into the dressing-
rooms of tournaments in Italy
and France and see the prize-
list (in terms of money) adver-
tised. When I read a list a few
years back the regular payment
was 80,000 French francs
(£A100) for winning the singles
and about 30,000 for the
doubles, and took their
cut of the dough without chal-
lenge. There can be gold for
them there private tourers —
pardon, “authorised players.”
* * *
“Olympian”: These gradings
are from the “secret” list of
Olympic sport: 1, Herb Elliott
(Vic.); 2, Betty Cuthbert
(N.S.W.); 3, Pat Duggan (Q.);
4, Dave Power (N.S.W.); 5,
Alan Lawrence (N.S.W.); 6,
John Baguley (W.A.); 7, Tony
Blue (Q.); 8, Charles Porter
(Q.); 9, Helen Frith (N.S.W.);
10, Norma Thrower (S.A.);
11, lan Tomlinson (W.A.); 12,
Albert Thomas (N.S.W.); 13,
Merv Lincoln (Vic.); 14, Mar-
lene Mathews (N.S.W.); 15,
Gloria Cooke (N.S.W.); 16,
Sylvia Mitchell (N.S.W.); 17,
John Chittick (Vic.); 18, Keyan
Gosper (Vic.); 19, Dixie Willis
(W.A.); 20, Bevyn Baker (Vic.);
21, Norma Fleming (Q.); 22,
Anna Pazera (S.A.); 23, Brenda
Jones (Vic.); 24, Denis Tipping
(N.S.W.); 25, Warwick Selvey
(N.S.W.). The mystery in the
list is why should world-
recorders Thrower, Thomas
and Mathews and former
world-record holder Pazera be
listed below ordinary Austra-
lian champions?
* * *
“Veryl”: “Baffled” doesn’t
make the Soccer-ban position
quite clear (B. 25/ 5/’6O). The
international Soccer body
F.I.F.A. has not “outlawed”
Australia because “one Sydney
club has paid more than
£7OOO for migrant players ;
another is bringing out almost
a whole team this year.”
F.I.F.A. has suspended Aus-
tralia because another Sydney
club has refused to pay trans-
fer fees to Austrian club F.K.
Austria for six of its stars who
toured Australia with F.K.
Austria in 1957. (In all, eight
Sydney migrant players have
been “suspended” by F.1.F.A.,
including several selected in
the N.S.W. team for inter-
state games in Melbourne.)
This Sydney club brought
these six Austrians here under
the Commonwealth immigra-
tion. scheme, and claims they
are genuine migrants, and
therefore not liable to trans-
fer; but this view is unaccept-,
able to F.I.F.A. The whole
matter needs straightening out.
Meanwhile, any other Soccer
country which plays Australia
is also subject to “suspension.”
* * *
“Scribe”: Test cricket cap-
tain Richie Benaud and N.S.W.
Cricket Association president
Sid Smith were among the 200
at a dinner in Newcastle to mark
the 25th anniversary of R. M.
(Bob) Wilson as president of the
Newcastle District Cricket Asso-
ciation. Bob, who recently retired
after many years with Howard
Smiths, started playing the bat-
and-ball game in Queensland.
Arriving in Newcastle shortly
before War I, he played with three
district clubs before turning to the
administrative side of the game.
Over the years Bob has been a
pressman’s delight. He has never
uttered a great many words for
publication, but those that he has
spoken have always had significance.
Bob told those who attended the
dinner that he hoped to continue
for many years yet as association
president. And those who said
“Hear, hear!” really meant it.
* * *
“Soccerite”: Eddie Princi,
who did so much to inaugurate
club control in New South
Wales Soccer and to establish
the Federation, has gained an
Olympic “plum”—he’s been
appointed an interpreter at the
Games. Since adopting Aus-
tralia years ago, and taking
degrees in business at Sydney
University, Princi has made
several trips to Europe, mainly
on Soccer matters. For his
interpreter job he speaks six
languages.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUMMIT POST-MORTEM
Tp xtracts from the mass of
press comment on the
collapse of the Paris Summit.
Manchester “ Guardian ”:
“The motives for Mr. Khrush-
chev’s bullying are still
obscure, but whatever they
are the outlook is dismal.
“There are two possibilities.
The first is that Mr. Khrush-
chev is still in control of the
situation in the Soviet Union,
and that it is his decision that
he can gain more by bullying
than by negotiations. In that
event he is not likely to
change his mind in the near
future. The second possi-
bility fs even more alarming.
It is that Mr. Khrushchev is
no longer in complete control
of Soviet policy, that he has
had to bow to pressure from
diehard Stalinists in the Krem-
lin—perhaps acting in concert
with the Chinese. If that is
so, the West can presumably
expect that Soviet policy will
become even more intransigent
than it has been at Paris.
“In this morass of specula-
tion two rocks of reasonable
certainty stand out. No one
can now believe that the flight
of the U-2 was the real cause
of the present crisis. President
Eisenhower has announced
that there are to be no more
intelligence-flights over Soviet
territory, and in making that
announcement he gave the
only concession for which the
Soviet Union could reason-
ably ask. Mr. Khrushchev has
wrecked the conference
because he wanted to wreck
it, not because of his indigna-
tion against American spying.
The second certainty is that
the West can expect a fierce
psychological offensive in the
weeks to come, and that any
appearance of timidity or
divided counsels in the
Western camp will be ruth-
lessly exploited.”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“In his fight to transform
cold war into coexistence, Mr.
Khrushchev has steadily
accumulated [Russian] oppo-
nents : within the Praesidium
and Central Committee, in
China, and more recently
within the armed forces, who
are feeling the effect of his
switch from armaments to
consumer-goods. So long as
Khrushchev’s efforts were
reflected in tangible diplomatic
gains and lowered tension his
policy prevailed. But since
Camp David —which marked
the high-water point of his
success —criticism has been
growing.
“The delay in holding the
Summit, continued Western
refusal to discuss Berlin, the
increasing feeling that Eisen-
hower was a lame duck who
could no longer control even
the present, let alone dispose
for the future —all these weak-
ened Khrushchev’s ability to
London “New Statesman."
“IT’S ALL BECAUSE HE’S IN THE HANDS OF THE MILITARISTS.”
carry his colleagues and allies
with him.
“Khrushchev’s first reaction
to the U-2 flight was that the
Summit could be saved. He
expected Eisenhower to follow
normal usage and disclaim all
knowledge of the flight. But
when Herter and Eisenhower
were driven to accept respon-
sibility, Khrushchev’s position
collapsed. He could no
longer convince his colleagues
that there was a distinction
between the forces of peace —
Eisenhower —and the textbook
caricatures of Americans.
Hitherto he had gone on his
journeys with a virtual blank
cheque. This time he travelled
with a strict mandate —and
with an appointed guardian.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“On the surface, reports of
pressure within Russia on the
Soviet leader are hard to sub-
stantiate. There was no
lessening in the strength of
the tributes paid to Mr.
Khrushchev during his major
speech at the recent meeting
of the Supreme Soviet —in
which he first revealed details
of the U-2 incident. Similarly,
on the eve of this meeting a
number of important changes
were pushed through in the
membership of the ruling
bodies of the Soviet Com-
munist party which could only
have been at Mr. Khrush-
chev’s own instigation.”
London “Spectator”: “The
right way to solve the riddle
surely involves abandoning
our belief in the infinite and
invariably far-sighted cunning
of Mr. Khrushchev. Mr.
Khrushchev has demonstrated,
ever since his visit to Britain
with Marshal Bulganin, that
he is a man of strong, not to
say violent, impulse, that he
can work himself very rapidly
into a lifelike imitation of an
uncontrollable rage, and that
his desire for personal prestige
is apparently without any
limit.
“If, then, we start from a
rather more human view of
the Soviet leader, the situation
begins to make sense. For
what could he get out of the
Summit? He must have known
that no Western concessions
over Germany in general, or
Berlin in particular, would
now be forthcoming, and that
he could be just as truculent
and aggressive on the subject
outside a conference as inside,
and probably more so.
“There was no prospect of
agreement on disarmament or
anything else without real
concessions by the East, and
why should Mr. Khrushchev
make concessions when Presi-
dent Eisenhower was eating
humble-pie before him and
the Soviet space-ship was
circling the earth ‘in an ellipti-
cal orbit which takes it over
Moscow, Paris, London and
New York’?
“The prospect he faced was
of days or even weeks of
wrangling over increasingly
petty points, with him appear-
ing more and more obstruc-
tive as the debate continued.
Much better, he must have
thought, to stand pat on the
cards he had been dealt and
bid them to the limit at once.
“He knows that the West
is not going to start a war
and, one hopes, he knows that
he isn’t either. So he had little
to lose apart from some slight
alienation of sympathy in the
West. This is the last con-
sideration which would restrain
him, and anyway his sus-
piciously high-minded rage
with President Eisenhower
would in any case compel him
to ignore outside opinion.
‘And, against a possible
minor loss, he has positive
major gains to show for his
haphazard diplomacy. He has
now demonstrated before the
world and its leaders, East and
West, that the initiative is with
him. He decided on the
Summit, he led the West up to
it, he found when he got there
that he did not like the view,
and he led them down again.
And the Western leaders
meekly followed, because they
had by then got themselves into
a state in which nothing else
was possible. Without making
any concessions at all—almost


in lAc
Fnlure
im
Every year finds more and more visitors
coming to Australia. The number who have
arrived or will be arriving in 1960 has been
estimated at no less than eighty thousand.
Some, like Mr. Harmon S. Eberhard, President
of the Caterpillar Tractor Co., who was across here
from the U.S.A. recently, are business leaders
controlling world enterprises that are tied in closely
with Australia’s development. Others are people
intent upon seeing the country as tourists. A hearty
welcome to them all!
When I farewelled Mr. Eberhard at the airport
he spoke enthusiastically of Australia, and was firm
in his intention of coming back to see us again.
There must be many of similar kind purpose
among those who come to visit us from time to
time. And the next few years should see a dramatic
increase in their numbers.
The international transport services are
preparing to meet it. The airlines are expanding
in the use of fast jet aircraft. Soon there will be
larger and speedier passenger ships on the
Britain-Australia-Pacific run.
One of them, the Orient liner “Oriana,” of
40.000 tons, is scheduled to reach Australia on her
maiden voyage in December. The 45,000-ton
P. and O. liner “Canberra” will be following her
next year.
At the rate at which visitors to our shores are
increasing, and on established figures on the effect
of the turnover of travellers’ currency, the
Australian National Travel Association estimates
that the international tourist traffic by 1968 should
represent at least seventy-five million pounds a year
to the Australian economy.
It is for us to rise now to the steady realisation
of this bright hope by providing adequate
world-class hotel accommodation, good roads and
a high standard of service.
But the reward is not to be measured by
material advantage alone. The intangible and, I
believe, the enduring value of these friendly visits
to our country is in the human contacts they make
and maintain and in the impression they leave with
other people of our quality, resourcefulness and
sense of purpose as Australians.
without a meeting Mr.
Khrushchev has secured an
assurance from the Americans
that their intelligence-flights
will be suspended and not
resumed, and a split, not, it
is true, between the three big
Western allies, but between
the United States and those
smaller countries in which she
has established her bases.”
* * #
C. L. Sulzberger, in the
“New York Times': “Khrush-
chev evidently hopes that
after his latest war of nerves
he can reopen direct negotia-
tions with a new American
Government following our
elections. During the inter-
vening six to eight months—
the time he truculently set
—he expects to tighten his
grip around Berlin and test
the unity of Nato.
“This is a fair inference to
draw from his proclaimed
schedule. Six months hence
another President will have
been chosen. Eight months
hence another President will
have been inaugurated. If this
should be Nixon, Khrushchev
will probably try and resume
parleys with Eisenhower in six
months, ignoring the tradition
that a lame-duck President
cannot commit his successor’s
policies. If someone else is
chosen, Khrushchev will wait
until January for further
diplomatic contacts.”
* * *
Roscoe Drummond, in New
York “Herald Tribune”:
“There are certainly lessons
for all of us to learn from
this diplomatic circus and
fiasco. One lesson is that
those who felt the greatest
caution and resistance to
Summitry are the ones who
have been proved nearer
right.
“It is now doubly evident
that President Eisenhower
and Secretary Herter were
unwary when they began to
cut-back the conditions which
they once felt must be estab-
lished before a Summit. The
primary conditions were that
there should be thorough
preparation and a proved
prospect of .some agreement.
“What we have most feared,
we helped to bring about: a
Summit setting used exclu-
sively by the Soviets for
propaganda.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Amid
the gloom there was one
consolatory thought. The
deeper reasons that prompted
Stalin’s successors to. seek an
understanding with the West
have not vanished overnight.
These reasons were never,
particularly since the Soviet
Union achieved nuclear parity
with the United States, of a
nature to compel the Soviet
leaders to accept an uneven
bargain. The fear of an
atomic conflict and the grow-
ing appetite of Soviet con-
sumers made the search for
an agreement worth while.
Future efforts to mend the
detente cannot, however, be
on one side only. The Rus-
sians plainly bear the blame
for the Summit fiasco, but they
are not alone in bearing the
responsibility.
“The earlier, and vital, acts
of the drama have been marked
by Western mistakes, delays,
indecisions and missed possi-
bilities. It has fallen to Mr.
Khrushchev to play the villain
in the epilogue ; this is not
to say that he has written his
own part following only his
own whim, or that it should
be simply left to him to re-
write it now.
“From the nadir of Paris
the task of getting the Ameri-
cans and Russians to talk
again looks Sisyphean. Yet
it is the only course of action
if this conference-that-never-
was is not to mark a total
return to the cold war, but
is to be merely an interrup-
tion in the period of relaxa-
tion that began seven years
ago with the death of Stalin.”
Dragon's Teeth
the New York “Herald
Tribune”: “Like the
dragon’s teeth in the fable,
which grew-up into armed men,
military aid can have second-
ary consequences far from its
purpose. Where it has been
bestowed on anti-Communist
but illiberal regimes, and the
regimes have been overthrown,
the new Governments tend to
see American arms not as in-
struments in a larger design
but as props that keep the dicta-
tors from falling sooner.
“This has happened in Latin
America, and may happen
again, there and elsewhere. It
has not happened in South
Korea because the Koreans,
having experienced Communist
invasion, understand America's
larger design. But another dis-
quieting instance now turns-up
in North Africa, where not only
the Algerian nationalist leaders
(who have flirted with Com-
munism before) but also the
strongly pro-Western Presi-
dent Bourguiba of Tunisia are
reported to be turning toward
the East. The reason is that
brand-new American weapons,
either given directly to France


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO RUSSEL MARK ANTHONY
SCOTT.—TAKE NOTICE that ZOE
OLIVE SCOTT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1440 of 1960 on the ground
of desertion for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter 'an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the loth August 1960
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from S. J. BULL SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors, of 34 Martin Place,
Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO TERENCE ALBERT CONWAY for-
mer! v of 12 John Street Erskineville. —
TAKE NOTICE that EDNA JUNE CON-
WAY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3079 of 1959 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If )' ou
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 15th day of August 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from C. P. DIGNAM, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHRISTINE HAMILTON late
354 Wilson Street Newtown. —TAKE
NOTICE that LORRAINE COLEMAN
has filed a Petition suit No. 382/57 w
the Supreme Court of New South Wales
praying for a Divorce from her husband
RAYMOND COLEMAN on the grounds
of his adultery with you If you wd#
to be let in to defend the charge ) ou
may apply to the Court by the 29th day
of July 1960 and obtain a copy 01
the petition without charge frd®
MESSRS. J. A. MEAGHER &
COEK, Solicitors, of 255-257
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARM®’
Registrar.
or through Nato, are reportedly
being used against the Algerian
rebel forces.
“If the story is true the
French are within their rights
so to use them. But there are
ominous implications for the
future in the Algerian national-
ist communique which says
that ‘technically—materially—
we are fighting the United
States as well as France.’ A
sign even more unpleasant is
the fact that, for the first time
in its four years of independ-
ence, Tunisia is opening diplo-
matic relations with Russia.”
Subsidised Migration
London “Economist”:
“In 1957, during the
brief period of post-Suez dis-
illusionment, twice the usual
number of emi g r a nts left
Britain for the main Common-
wealth countries. Since then
the figures have returned to
their normal level of about
90,000 a year (to Canada, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, South and
Central Africa), plus 20,000
or so to the other Common-
wealth and colonial territories.
“A conference of interested
bodies, called together by the
Commonwealth Migration
Council, has now urged that
the Government should do
much more to encourage emi-
gration. For a start, they
would like the Government to
use the full million that is
allowed annually under the
Commonwealth Settlement Act
—not just the present average
of £150,000 a year. They want
Illingworth, in London “Daily Mail."
to see —by publicity, assisted
passages and guaranteed hous-
ing—an annual flow of at least
250,000. They support this
plea with the arguments that
Britain is overcrowded (it is
pointed out that in 1958 immi-
gration into this country caused
a net increase in adult popula-
tion), and that emigration to
the Commonwealth strengthens
ties of allegiance and trade.
“Most of the economic argu-
ments for encouraging emigra-
tion from Britain are mis-
guided. To say that ‘over-
crowding’ in Britain is eased
by the emigration of active
workers, who leave elderly rela-
tives behind in this country, is
a peculiarly muddled form of
Malthusian lack of logic.
Britain lost some valuable and
scarce skills by the net emigra-
tion of, for example, 1200
teachers in 1958. It has been
estimated that it costs about
£2OOO, in housing and other
public services, to settle each
new emigrant. Nor can it
seriously be argued that the
influx of, for instance, Italians
to the United States swung
Britain’s American trade over
to Italy.
“H o w e v e r, two principles
remain. Probably, Britain’s
ties with the Commonwealth
are strengthened by maintain-
ing the proportion of British
emigrants to Commonwealth
countries. Certainly, it has
always been an accepted part
of the standard of living of this
country that Britons who want
to start a new life in wide open
spaces should have a peculiar
imperial opportunity to do so.
These are principles to be
fostered, provided we are made
fully aware how much they
cost.”
Sydney Futures
Exchange
/"'Commenting on the opening
of Sydney’s Greasy Wool
Futures Exchange, Bradford
“Wool Record” notes that,
“leaving aside all considera-
tions of straight speculation, if
must be said that these new
facilities are really an exten-
sion of profit-insurance ser-
vices, since they will provide
the woolgrower with a way to
hedge any loss on his wool
that might otherwise occur.
And all insurance has to be
paid for in premiums which
come out of profits. So, in the
long-run, the Sydney Greasy
Wool Futures Exchange will be
paid for by the growers of Aus-
tralian wool, and it is right to
ask if they will get value for
money.
“The cost of a hedge of this
nature would be slightly over a
penny per lb. (Australian) for
the complete transaction. This
represents not much more than
one per cent, of the clean value
of typical Australian botany-
wool and cannot, therefore, be
considered excessive for the
relief afforded.
“In addition there is, how-
ever, the deposit of £lOO per
contract, and the finding of
this money could present some


SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
START TODAY
TAKE
C OIL C H lIS 0 N E
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from the intense pain of Gout —Rheumatism—Sciatica—
Lumbago Fihrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOWS. This special COLCHISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most cases is the
cause of the inflammation and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases, 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine'Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England —Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.),
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
difficulties. Flelp here might
come from the wool-selling
brokers who already perform
some of the functions of
bankers—for it should not be
overlooked that all wool hedged
on the Sydney futures market
will eventually go through the
normal selling-process just like
any other wool. On the face of
London “Daily Express.”
“INCREDIBLE! UNCIVILISED! IMMORAL!
THE YANKS ARE ACTUALLY SPYING!”
it, therefore, larger growers
should be able to derive some
benefit from the new futures
market.
“There is, however, at least
one imponderable in this con-
nection. The Australians arc
famous for being prepared to
take a risk. Will they, then, be
prepared to hedge in such a
way that the risk is largely
removed?”
East German Treaty?
Tn a London “Daily Tele-
A graph” article discussing the
possible meanings for the West
of a separate peace-treaty be-
tween Russia and East Ger-
many, Walter Farr notes that
“Mr. Khrushchev had already
given his own interpretation in
Baku shortly before the Sum-
mit. Such a treaty, he said,
Would mean that the Western
Bowers ‘will then naturally lose
the right of access to West
Berlin on land, water and by
air.’
“The West’s position is that
our rights in Berlin, including
the right of access, cannot be
extinguished by the signing of
a peace-treaty between East
Germany and the Soviet Union,
Failure to honor our pledge to
protect the 2i-million Germans
in West Berlin would seriously
weaken the Nato alliance. We
have never recognised the so-
called Democratic Republic’s
Government because it was
not freely elected, and we do
not intend to recognise it.
“A separate treaty would
bolster the East German Com-
munist regime, which is the
weakest link in the chain of
Russian satellites. If fully ex-
ploited it could start a danger-
ous war of nerves against the
11,000 British, American and
French troops in West Berlin.
We could be faced again with
the same explosive problems as
were presented by Stalin’s Ber-
lin’s blockade, and which arose
to some extent a year ago last
month after Mr. Khrushchev’s
‘ultimatum.’
“The immediate physical
effect of a treaty would be that
the Russians now manning the
checkpoints linking West Ger-
many and Berlin and the Air
Safety Centre, which controls
the air-corridors approaching
Berlin, would be replaced by
East Germans. Britain, the
United States and France would
have to decide whether, in
moving our traffic in and out
of Berlin to keep the Western
sector supplied, we could do
business with East German
officials.
“A possible compromise
would be to deal with the East
Germans controlling entry to
Berlin as agents of Russia. We
are already dealing with them
in such matters as trade, and
they are handling all West
German traffic.
“The real crisis would come
if the East Germans tried to
enforce another blockade by
using troops to halt our traffic.
If necessary they could call for
support from Soviet forces
which, Mr. Khrushchev has
emphasised, would remain
stationed in East Germany
after the treaty was signed.
“When this situation seemed
likely to arise a year ago over
the ‘ultimatum’ which expired
on May 27, 1959, there was
strong pressure in Washington
for sending a column of tanks
from West Germany to force its
way up the autobahn to Berlin.
Britain suggested an airlift,
which present thinking also
seems to favor.
“All three Western Govern-
ments are considering the prob-
lem, but apart from the agree-
ment to stand firm in West
Berlin there seems to be no
concerted plan.”
Various Voices
Herr Willy Brandt, Mayor
of West Berlin: “Berlin will
remain the lie-detector of in-
ternational politics. In Berlin
there is calmness and hope,
confidence and vigilance. We
are determined to stay masters
in our own house.”
* * *
U.S. Secretary of Defence,
Thomas S. Gates, jnr.: “The
United States enters these years
as a strong and great Power
with profound physical and
moral integrity. We have firm
and true partners. Together
with these allies and friends,
we testify to and guarantee a
new free world. The experi-
ment in liberty that created
this country has been proven.
Its progress and growth may
be under test, but its funda-
mental concepts are secure.”
* * *
Can ad a’s Prime Minister
Diefenbaker: “Members of the
[British] Commonwealth can-
not be expected to arrive at the
same conclusions to resolve
our differences. On this occa-
sion a major principle of the
Commonwealth must continue
to be the equality of all races
and peoples, in all parts of the
Commonwealth. Unless we
accept that as a basic prin-
ciple, instead of its becoming
a bulwark against the onrush
of Communism everywhere
in the world, the Common-
wealth’s mission will ultimately
be greatly diminished.”


“I’ve got no sympathy for
him,” said Harry’s mate, eager
to shake off the intruder.
“Joe was me mate for
twenty years. Will yer have a.
drink with me?”
“No, we’re going soon.”
“Just one, sport. One drink
with me in memory of Joe.”
Harry turned and looked
down at the little man, intend-
ing to intimidate him with his
bulk and his steady gaze.
Charlie Cripps met both with
a soft appeal and a sad smile.
“Just one, in memory of
Joe,” he said.
ttarry surveyed him for
awhile, then turned to the
barmaid.
“Hey, Mabe,” he called,
“three beers.”
“Three?”
“Yes. This one’s in memory
of Joe.”
“Who's Joe?”
“This bloke’s mate. They
buried him today.”
“Was he dead?” asked
Mabel.
Harry and his mate looked
at Charlie Cripps for confirma-
tion.
“Of course he was flaming-
well dead,” said Charlie.
“Well, what are you com-
plaining about?” she said as
she poured the three beers and
a small one for herself. “Here’s
to Joe,” said Mabel with a
sidelong glance at Harry, who
raised his glass with dignity.
“To Joe,” they chanted and
drank.
Then they were silent fot; a
while. Harry and his mate
waited hopefully, but Charlie
stayed. ,
“Joe would have liked that,”
he said as he wiped his mouth
with the palm of his hand.
“Will you have some prawns?”
“Cripes, no; take them away
from here,” shouted Harry’s
mate as they backed away from
the proffered parcel.
The paper split and prawns
spilled through his fingers on
to the floor at Charlie’s feet.
“What happened to Joe,
anyway,” said Harry.
“Heart, I reckon. Had it be-
fore. I seen him keel over in
a bar once. He fell away to
a shadow before he died. In
his prime he was a big bloke.
Tough as they come, too. You
know, he fought Red Hanlon
twice! ”
Harry put down his glass
and looked at Charlie with a
new interest.
“You don’t mean the bloke
who fought Red Hanlon
twice?”
“Yairs, that’s him, Joe
Shenks.* You knew me mate,
Joe Shenks?”
“Cripes, 1 saw him fight Red
Hanlon. What a right he
had! ”
“Wasn’t she a beauty, that
right!” said Charlie nudging
the big man excitedly. “I
taught him how to use his right.
He used to crouch too low
when he started-off, but I got
him to stand up and move into
them.” Charlie demonstrated
“Buy a button, sir?”
the upright stance he favored,
overbalanced and stumbled
against the bar counter.
Mabel spoke to the group
opposite. “Geta load of the
champ, will you? I’ll bet he
couldn’t beat dust out of a
doormat.”
“Joe wouldn’t train,” Charlie
continued on recovering his
balance. “That was Joe's
trouble.”
Harry said he looked good
the nights he fought Red Han-
lon.
“Yeah, he didn’t look real
bad, but he wouldn't train.
Drank too much, that was Joe’s
trouble. You know what?”
His voice grew confidential.
“I seen him go into the ring
five hours after he’d passed
out tight as a barmaid's
blouse.”
Harry and his mate laughed
loudly and called to the girl.
“Hey, Mabe, you gotta men-
tion.”
“Yes, you’re a figure of
speech, Mabe.”
TC|abel sprang into action.
IVI “What’s he saying about
me? I’ve never seen him be-
fore. As for him going to
school with me”
“It's all right, Mabel; he just
referred to you to illustrate a
point.”
“I’ll illustrate him with a
smack across the kisser if he
says anything about me. As if
I’d have been at school with
him, the silly old coot!”
Harry turned to Charlie.
“Yes, he was a good’un. was
Joe.”
Charlie tipped his hat further
back on his head. “He wasn’t
bad, but terrible careless in the
ring. He couldn’t be taught
nothing, you know. I always
said he was a bit lucky to beat
Red Hanlon twice.”
“Lucky be blowed,” said
Harry. “He won by a street,
and a bloke who could beat
Red Hanlon was no mug.”
Charlie drained his glass,
then pushed it back along the
bar top and draped his body
across in front of the two men.
“You know,” he said, and
paused for effect . . . “/ fought
Red Hanlon and beat him.”
“When?”
“Six months before Joe
fought him.”
' “Ar, Red wasn’t in his prime
then.”
“Not in his prime? When I
fought him? Don’t give me a
rush, mate. Red Hanlon was
at his peak then. He was never
the same after I beat him. He
was on the way out when Joe
met him.”
“Like hell he was,” said
Harry. “Who else beat him
around that time? Tell me
that.”
“They all did. Rusty Lane,
Billy Kidd, Jabby Tait, old
Snowy Watts —they all beat
Red Hanlon.”
“That was after Joe had put
him out of the game,” said
Harry.
“Aw, look, sport, Joe
wasn’t that good. He was me
mate, but he wasn’t a world-
beater. I know, 1 taught him
all he knew.”
“You weren’t his trainer!”
“I know I wasn’t. Rocky
Tone handled him. But I
learned him more than Rocky
did.”
“The crowds liked him,”
said Harry.
“Ah, yes, he was a good-
looking joker. Joe got the
press and the lucky breaks.”
“I've heard them shouting
their heads off for Joe many
a time.”
“Well, it’s the same in any
sport. Some blokes get the
breaks, others don’t.” Charlie
looked at his empty glass, then
back at Harry. “You know, I
fought Rusty Lane, too, in his
prime. Beat him, too, but I
was robbed of the decision.
Robbed I was. Everybody
said so.”
“Everybody except the ref.,”
added Harry’s mate.
“That’s right,” said Charlie
with vigour; “everybody.”
Oilent for a while, Harry
turned to Charlie and said
slowly, “What name did you
fight under?”
“Me own. Charlie Cripps.”
Harry and his mate looked at
each other. The smaller man
pursed his lips, simulating deep
thought. “I went every Friday
night for years,” he said, “but 1
don’t seem to recall the name.”
Harry shook his head. “Me
either.”
Charlie Cripps leaned across
the bar, and looked up at the
big man’s face, pleading.
“Don’t you remember me?
Charlie Cripps? About twenty-
three years ago it was. Maybe
a little more. Might have been
twenty-five or twenty-six —or
thereabouts. A few years before
the war”—
He fumbled with dates, with
place-names, trying to draw
recognition from the men.
“No,” said Harry very
thoughtfully and slowly. “Can’t
say I remember”—
Charlie breathed out heavily
across the bar. It seemed to
deflate him, to weaken him, and
he dragged himself along the
bar to the newspaper-packet of
prawns and unwrapped them.
Harry’s mate nudged him
and asked quietly, “Who the
hell’s Joe?”
“Never heard of him,” said
Harry quickly.
Mabel gathered the glasses.
“What’s happened to the
champ? Has he taken another
hiding?”
Charlie Cripps looked up


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOSEPH SMITH late of
Glenroi Heights formerly of Orange. —-
TAKE NOTICE that the said AGNES
SMITH has commenced a suit No. 4501
of 1959 against you in this Court and
is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appear-
ance at the above address on or before
the 9th August 1960 You may obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. SERISIER, HAWKE &
CO., Solicitors, 142 Lord’s Place,
Orange, or from their city Agents,
PETER G. KEARNEY & CO., Soli-
citors, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
called out after him. Korrum-
burra was an esoteric crack
enjoyed only by Heckel and the
coon.
TVlght or gloom or dusk or
’ whatever it is comes early
in the Snowy Valley during the
football season ... He walked
from the football ground down
to the main street.
Nobody saw him. He walked
outside a pub. Inside the
smoky public bar they were
singing the football club war-
cry ; sung only when they won
a match:
We are da premiers,
We are da team;
We can’t be beaten, that's
easily seen ;
At the end of da season,
you’ll know da reason
We are da premier team.
Everyone sounded pretty
high. There would be a party
at the big house. Niners, suck-
ing-pigs—the lot.
There was no chance of him
getting into the bar. He
couldn’t, anyway. Last time he
got inside the pub he got drunk
and spent three days in the
peter and three days chopping
wood for the sergeant’s missus,
which was even worse.
He went around the back of
the pub by the horse-troughs,
nearly knocked a drunk over
as he staggered out of the
urinal. The drunk mumbled to
himself.
When he knocked on the side
door the publican came out.
He pushed the wire fly-door
ajar and looked around him.
“Yeah, hang on, Johnny, I’ll
be back in a tick.”
Five minutes later, the publi-
can returned down the passage,
opened the wire door and
looked around.
He handed the coon a bottle
of Tawny Port.
The coon grabbed this and
quickly placed it in his cloth
cycle-bag, headed out of the
pub yard and down the main
street to the river. He made
his way down to the bridge,
walked across to the other side
of it, hopped through the
white-painted guide-rail and
stumbled along the bank
through the thick grass and
licorice-smelling weeds.
A hundred yards later he
came to the humpy. They
had carted him, his missus, his
furniture, the cast-iron double
bed and the rusted tick mattress,
everything, up from Tyers at
the beginning of the season and
fixed up a humpy for him. It
wasn’t in a bad position, pro-
vided the river didn’t flood.
She put his tea in front of
him. He ate the chops, peas
and potatoes, onion-gravy in
silence.
She said, “ ’Ow did you go
today, eh?”
He chewed thoughtfully for
a while, waited till his mouth
was full, and answered, “Not
(chomf) bad (chomf).”
The meal was finished and
she cleaned up, while he lay
on the bed and slaked long
from the bottle of Tawny Port.
They got ready for the pic-
tures.
About eight o’clock he
roused himself, pushed his
missus off the end of the bed
and headed up along the bank,
she in her Minnie Mouse shoes
following. They got to the
show when the newsreel had
finished and were ushered down
the front with all the other
abos. Before interval he was
asleep, the Tawny Port bottle,
empty, on the floor between
his feet.
from his prawns, along the bar
to where Mabel stood with the
glasses clasped before her,
laughing without a sound. To
Charlie it was a shiny, feminine,
tooth - filled version of the
scrawny mourner’s grin at the
graveside; heartless and out of
place.
Harry’s face intervened.
“Come on, mate; have an-
other drink. We can’t let Joe
down. Three, Mabe.”
Charlie wrapped up the
prawns again, spilling a few on
the bar. Harry held out the
glass to him, and he took it
without a word in his strong,
gnarled fingers.
“We owe it to Joe,” said
Harry.
Charlie drank half a glass
and was silent for a while.
Then he spoke: “We were
mates for a long time, Joe and
me. Joined-up together. Went
through it together. Came out
together.”
“He was a good soldier, too,
was Joe,” said Harry.
“How do you know what
Joe was like in the battalion?”
Charlie spoke suspiciously.
“Who’d know better?”
“Was you in the Ninth?”
“That’s right,” said Harry,
pleased with the success of his
deception.
“What company?” interro-
gated Charlie.
“H.Q.” answered Harry.
Charlie looked at him keenly.
“I don’t recognise you.”
“I’ve changed a bit since
then,” Harry said, patting his
waist. “But if you were in the
Ninth you’d know Harry King.
Sergeant Harry King.
“There was no Sergeant
Harry' King in H.Q. in the
Ninth,” Charlie said doubtfully.
T aughing lightly, Harry
- L ' drank his beer.
“Are you trying to tell me
I don’t know my name and
rank? Are you sure it was the
Ninth you were in?”
“Spare me days, sport, do I
look lame under the lid or
something? Of course I was
in the Ninth. B Company
Private Charlie Cripps. Every
bloke in the battalion knew
me.” He looked angrily at
Harry and his mate. “I was
with Joe when he won his
MM”
Harry put down his glass.
“Now, wait a minute, wait a
minute. Don’t give me that.
There was no one with Joe
when he got his M.M. He did
that job on his own.”
A flush of color grew on
Charlie's face.
“Of course he was out front
on his own. But who was
covering him? Who was right
behind him picking off them
Japs that came at him with
hand-grenades? Who was that?
Did yer hear who that was at
H.Q., mate?”
Harry looked at Charlie
calmly.
“I don’t doubt you did your
duty, like everyone else in the
platoon. But to try to imply
that Joe” —
Charlie’s voice rose to a thin
screech, and he beat his fore-
head with his fist.
“Did me duty! ’Struth! Me
duty! That’s what they’ve
called it ever since. Me bloody
duty! ”
He took a deep breath, raised
his head to the level of Harry’s
chin, and spoke quietly but
emphatically.
“I’m not trying to imply
nothing. I’m telling you I was
in the battalion with Joe.”
Harry interrupted him.
“I know Joe was. Every-
body knew Joe, even before his
M.M. But, really, I don’t seem
to recall”- —
Charlie Cripps moved un-
steadily down the bar and
gathered together his packet of
prawns, losing several in the
process. He turned slowly and
looked at Harry and his mate.
Harry pushed the glasses to-
wards Mabel.
“What’s wrong with the
champ? Is he hanging up his
gloves?” she said for all to
hear. ,
“Three, Mabel,” said Harry.
“You’re not walking out on
your mates, are you?”
“You’re not my mates,”
Charlie said through his teeth.
“Come on, one more in
memory of Joe. Here it is.'”
Harry held out the glass to him,
but Charlie’s eyes stayed on
Harry’s until some embarrass-
ment showed on the face of the
big man.
Charlie spoke petulantly,
without bitterness, but with a
telling emphasis.
“You drink to his memory.”
ly/ToviNG towards the door-
-1 A way, Charlie halted for a
moment at Mabel’s laugh. He
was feeling his way out of the
bar when a man in shirtsleeves
squeezed past him, entering the
bar.
Recognition halted him, and
he grasped Charlie’s arm:
“Charlie Cripps! Haven’t seen
you for years. What are you
doing out here?”
Charlie looked at him with-
out comprehension.
The newcomer dropped his
voice.
“Oh, sorry, Charlie old man.
I heard about it only this arvo.
You were his mate, weren’t
you? I’m sorry—rabout Joe, I
mean Won’t you have a drink
with me in memory of Joe?”
Charlie flung out his arm,
sweeping a look of amazement
across the face of his solicitous
friend and crashing his hand
against the glass door. The
newspaper-packet fell from his
arms, littering the doorstep
with prawns.
“Don’t mention that bastard’s
name to me! ” he shouted
hoarsely as he stumbled out
into the night


Between
Ourselves
ft
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAVIS GRACE COATES late of -71
Auburn Road Auburn.—TAKE NOTICE
THAT ARTHUR CHARLES JOSEPH
COATES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 397 b of 1959 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards It \ou wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney before the
Bth day of August 1990 and obtain a
copy of the, Petition without charge
from GOULD & SHAW, Solicitors, of 72
Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
No. 1245 of 1960
TO DONALD SYDNEY GRANT late of
109 Proctor Parade, Chester Hill. —-
TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA JUNE
GRANT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1245 of 1960 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by Bth August 1960 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from VV. A. MAYNE, Solicitor, of 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES - In Divorce.
TO JAMES PENDER STEWART
formerly of Bovvral in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that GW ENDOLYN PRISCILLA
STEWART has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4571 of 1958 on the ground
ot desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Macquarie Street Sydney by Bth
August 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from R.
FORBES-SMITH & CO., Solicitors, of
11 Belmore Street, Norwood. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IRIS FERGUSON late of 23 Derby
Street Camperdown New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN SAUNDERS
FERGUSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4280 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1958 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 16th August 1960 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. J. A. MEAGHER & I)E
COEK, Solicitors, of 2.55-257 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Red Robbie”
I’ll bet my deferred-pay that
“Ex-R.S.M.” (B. 18/5/’6O)
never served under “Red
Robbie” Robertson on active
service.
Robbie was one of several
brigadiers under whom I
served, and for all-round
military efficiency and leader-
ship his only equal may have
been George Vasey, against
whom I never heard one
harsh word.
I’m damn’ glad Robbie was
on our side! I wonder just
how far Rommel would have
gone if he'd had several senior
commanders of Robbie’s
calibre!
He was hard, and he could
be ruthless; but war is not
a game, and any commander
worth his salt will push his
country’s cause even at the
expense of a few hurt feelings
amongst his subordinates.
His only error may have
been in trying to bring his
troops to professional quality
too fast. Many of his decrees
regarding training, dress-
behavior, leave, discipline,
etc., were not popular, but
they got results, and nobody
can deny the efficiency of 19
Brigade—possibly the best-
conditioned and most-efficient
brigade to stoush in the
Desert.
If Robbie's strict disciplin-
ary edicts made his troops
fighting mad that’s exactly
why they were instituted. His
method was first of all to get
troops well-conditioned and
able to use their respective
weapons instinctively; then
mentally condition them so
that they were busting for a
scrap. I’d call that very sound
military psychology!
He was not given an actively
engaged command upon his
return to Australia —not be-
cause he had failed to get
results in the Middle East but
because he had the audacity to
cross swords with Blarney.
“If you Want a rise, Tomkins, say so!”
The few senior officers who
had the courage of their con-
victions where Blarney was
concerned ended their military
careers in comparative
obscurity. There may have
been an odd exception—indeed,
Robbie was one. His un-
doubted ability took him to
the top in Japan.
I don't know what caused
the ill-feeling between him
and Blarney. Possibly profes-
sional jealousy ; or it may have
been Robbie’s requisitioning of
A.S.C. transport in the Desert
to mobilise 19 Brigade and
race on to Benghazi. If it
was the former it was inexcus-
able ; and the latter move was
justified by its success.
I never liked Robbie as a
man, but I and every other
member of 19 Brigade would
have followed him to hell-and-
gone.—l9 Brigade (N.S.W.).
Traffic Signals
On reflection, “Peter Simple”
(B. 25/5/’6O) would realise
that N.S.W. traffic-signals are
sensibly placed on the left-
hand side of the road—except
when they’re overhead be-
cause of the 1 keep-to-the-leff
rule. If placed on the right-
hand, or driver’s side of ap-
proaching traffic, signs would
frequently be obscured by
traffic travelling in the opposite
direction.
Admittedly, it is possible to
miss seeing a sign so placed;
but, nine times in ten, only
because the driver is not suffici-
ently attentive in an area where
a sign is likely to be encoun-
tered. That’s why the law
accepts no excuse for such
oversight.
It might be worth noting
that the ultimate positions of
all traffic-signals or -signs in
this State are carefully worked-
out by specialists; and that
sometimes an established sign
or light is removed as little as
2ft. from its original position
to increase its efficacy.—
P.O.M.C. (N.S.W.).
Making Australian Drama
The good work done for
Australian theatre by Hugh
Hunt and the Elizabethan Trust
is very rightly commended
(Red Page 25/5/’6O).
As a practising playwright
practising in the sense that I
gain much more experience
than e m o 1 u m e n t —l would
suggest that the greatest needs
of aspiring playwrights are for
honest, constructive criticism
and for workshop facilities for
trying-out a play that is given
some hope by competent and
disinterested readers.
Organisations such as the
Elizabethan Trust, genuinely
interested in the development
of distinctively Australian
theatre, could do writers a ser-
vice by setting-up a panel of
competent critics and advisers
to whom plays could be sent
for constructive comment —
even if the most constructive
advice were that the writer
should go back to the farm or
the factory; at least this would
be authoritative, and there
would be no consideration
other than the ultimate happi-
ness and prosperity of the
aspiring author.
The best test of a play ami
the best instruction for its
author is to have it tried-out
on the stage, where it can be
changed and developed under
the most practical conditions;
but there are less expensive
and more freely available ways
of doing this than by putting
the play on at the Elizabethan.
Amateur drama-groups are
often under the same financial
pressures as commercial
theatres. The smallest of them
have expenses of hall-rent,


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in Canberra, Australia')
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
materials, stationery, royalties,
etc., which would total from
£3O to £5O for two nights; so
they mainly have to play safe
to get back their expenses.
If, however, amateur groups
were offered a subsidy of £2O
or so a night to try-out new
plays recommended by the
panel of talent-seekers, I think
many of them would be glad
to co-operate. It would make
their own work more interest-
ing—and they might have to
revise their opinions about
what their public wants. Some-
thing might even go back to the
Trust funds as a share of the
net proceeds!
Promising material could
thus be developed, more play-
wrights could be encouraged
and helped, the selection-com-
mittee could check its judg-
ment, commercial scouts could
take a look without being com-
mitted to anything, and genuine
theatre-lovers could immensely
extend the scope of their affec-
tions.— Aerogenes (N.S.W.).
Hume's Education
If any further evidence is
needed in the controversy as
to whether or not Hamilton
Hume was an educated man,
it may be found in this extract
from th e “Sydney Mail,”
February 23, 1921, written by
Mary Yeo:
Mrs. Andrew Hume, the
explorer’s mother, had come to
Australia with her brother, James
Kennedy, and his three mother-
less daughters, in the Sovereign in
1795. She was the elder daughter
of the Rev. John Kennedy, Vicar
of Teston, in Kent, and was named
after Hannah More, the authoress
who, it will be remembered, was
much interested in the education
of girls and in ameliorating the
conditions of the rustic popula-
tion. Perhaps it was this that led
Mrs. Hume to accept the position
of Matron of the Orphanage
Institution.
The Orphanage Institution
was founded in Parramatta by
Governor King in a humane
attempt to care for the
appalling number of homeless,
neglected orphans he saw on
his arrival in the colony (he
also founded an orphanage in
Sydney in the same year, 1800).
Mrs. Hume was the first
matron at Parramatta.
Three years later Governor
King had this to say of her
pupils and charges: “They are
making great progress in
reading, writing, plain work
and spinning, and will, with
proper regulations hereafter,
greatly benefit the morals and
manners of the present
inhabitants.”
Governor King, it may
safely be assumed, was an
educated man, and his praise
of the pupils’ progress must
surely be accepted as proof
that they had a proficient
teacher. Since it is conceded
that Hume was educated by
his mother, there seems to be
little ground to support the
contention that he was a man
of poor education. —B. A. Ker
(N.S.W.).
National Banking
The National Bank’s
“Monthly Summary of Aus-
tralian Conditions” provides
striking confirmation of the
contrast between bank-deposits
in Australia and Canada. It
provides a summary of real
national income per head of
population for each year, 1948-
1949 to 1958-59 in Australia,
the U.K., the U.S. and Canada,
together with the percentage
increases.
This shows that per capita
income has increased thus;
Australia, from £252 to £258;
U.K., £l9l to £228; U.S., $l5lB
to $1746; Canada, $912 to
$1125. Percentage increases
are: Australia, 2; U.K., 19;
U.S., 15; Canada, 23. In the
U.S., per capita income for
1958-59 was £772 11s.; in
Canada, within a few shillings
of £500; in Australia, £258.
In effect, the American
worker earns three times as
much as the Australian worker,
and the Canadian almost twice
as much.
Granted, the cost of many
food-items in the U.S. is sub-
stantially higher than in Aus-
tralia; but the American worker
can buy a car at a third of
what it costs in Australia, his
petrol and oil at a fraction of
the cost, his refrigerator, wire-
less, TV-set and tobacco much
more cheaply. And these items
now bulk large in the average
worker's budget.
Tt looks to me as if Austra-
lia, if it is ever to approximate
the standard of living in the
U.S. and Canada, will have to
pull its socks right up. Why
should Canada increase its per
capita income by 23 per cent,
when the best we can do is 2
per cent?
Perhaps the research depart-
ment of the Commonwealth
Bank will apply its energies to
finding out the reason. The
sooner the nation knows the
better. Or don’t we care? —
Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Queensland Roads
In B. 10/5/’6O “Myall”
states:
In February the Queensland
Government approached Federal
authorities for a £-for-£ subsidy
to build arterial highways, each Gov-
ernment providing £1,650,000
Immediately Queensland
approached the Commonwealth for
financial support it met with inter-
ference from southern interests.
An influential group of 20 primary-
producers’ organisations is agitat-
ing for a north-south cross-country
road to be built inland with Federal
aid.
The date of the Bourke meet-
ing had been tentatively fixed
months before the Queensland
Government applied to Federal
Parliament, and an executive
of the Queensland Country
Party knew this. Also, the
letter inviting U.G.A. of
Queensland and 13 other orga-
nisations to act as convenors
was written by T. M. Scott,
president of the N.S.W.


Graziers’ Association, on Janu-
ary 27 for reply by February
20. This is in the records of
the association.
A resolution covering the
scheme advocated at Bourke
had been carried by the asso-
ciation’s annual conference 12
months earlier; it had also been
conveyed to Canberra through
the N.S.W, Country Party at
that time, having been carried
unanimously at the Castlereagh
Electorate Council of that party
at Coonamble. No action had
resulted.
Donald Parkinson, who was
left high and dry by Queens-
land’s U.G.A. at the Bourke
conference —the meeting having
apparently been boycotted by
the Queensland Country Party,
of which he is an executive —
stated the case as represented
by “Myall,” without appreci-
able Queensland support, and
was unable to refute, in the
presence of the committee of
the Federal Inland Develop-
ment Organisation (unofficially
after the meeting) the statement
that Queensland's action to
construct the east-west roads
had been the result of the
move being made already
through the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association.
The Queensland Govern-
ment’s decision to act was taken
days before the Bourke meet-
ing.
The whole matte r was
brought to a head by the dis-
graceful state of affairs result-
ing in the yarding of thousands
of emaciated Queensland cattle
at Dubbo, Orange and other
centres—the full responsibility
for which must rest directly
upon Queensland Governments
of the past.
“M y a 11” states that the
Queensland Premier said: “If
we can't get help because of
interference from other States
we will build the roads our-
selves ...”
In this regard I quote Mr.
McEwen, Acting Prime Mims-
ter (“Hansard,” May 4): “I am
not aware from my observa-
tions that any money was spent
on roads in the Channel Coun-
try in all the years Queensland
had a Labor Government.”
Since the Chifley Govern-
ment’s provision of £1,700,000
in its last Budget the Federal
Government had made avail-
able £29,200,000 to Queensland
for road-construction in the
past five years and is providing
“You can go back to sleep — that's only the second act."
£45,600,000 for the next five
years.
The Acting P.M. made the
point that if the Queensland
Government goes it alone “it
will be going it alone with
Commonwealth money.”
Lest Queensland should
fear a selfish approach from
the south, here is the resolu-
tion forming the basis of
F.1.D.0.:
That this meeting endorses in
principle the development of Aus-
tralia’s inland and northern food
and agricultural resources:
1. By means of the construction
of the highway link from northern
to southern Australia via Mt. Isa,
the Channel Country and Bourke,
and by the early completion of
the Queensland Government's
£3,200,000 east-west lateral roads
development scheme, and that
adequate water be supplied by pipe-
line, where necessary for the full
length of the route, reticulated to
the adjacent stock-routes.
2. By the progressive diversion
inland of the excess floodwaters
of the North Australian streams,
to rejuvenate the inland rivers and
provide for regulated flooding of
the Channel Country.
Further, that this meeting impress
upon the Federal Government of
Australia, and the Governments
of the States concerned, the urgency
of the work from the aspect of
development and long-term defence,
and that a non-party political
organisation to be known as the
Federal Inland Development
Organisation be here formed to
take all steps necessary for the
accomplishment of these objectives.
If Australia is to survive, it
is time we wrote-off the petty
insularity which is the basis of
the present delaying-action in
Queensland. — Brereton P. P,
Lewis, President, F.1.D.0.
(N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 594
Across
I—Paw-paw1—Paw-paw chemical gives discomfort to the old man. (6)
4—He talks too much with the small piano snake. (8)
9 —lt helps one to digest misbehavior with vitality! (6)
10 —Some bowling—how’s the length?—too drawn-out! (8)
12— Shire will be needing to change this malignant
character. (9)
13— Gray in the layer’s role. (5)
15—They hold-up a store? (11)
16— Abyssinian vizier. (3)
17 — Meadow. (3)
18 — Fifty-one pounds required by
the morning place for spotting
a tree. (11)
23 —Who opens a theatrical enter-
tainment? (5)
25 — Started by rather ugly grazing
country—no hills! (4, 5)
26 — Sound sat among shocks. (8)
27 Saloon wrecked by this Latin. (6)
28— Australian novelist like this first
person is swarthy. £8)
29 What 7-down has to have to
become 17-down. (6)
Down
1 — Flora giving dad food. (7)
2 Growth of the parent ball of
the other parent. (9)
3 : —One louse to be one Jolson
letter at the outset. (7)
5 How a discussion on poetry
might be back. (7)
6 The star is disturbed by mina-
tory acts. (7)
7 Constellation gallicised the
love. (3)
8— About polite little fellows who
rule for the underage? (7)
11 —Cook heartened by him in
another case. (4)
14—Silly mirth rebel fell from the
clouds. (4-7)
17— and 29-across dropped
on a wildcat. (7)
18— —Measures confederacies. (7)
19 — Former queue you formed with
no upset mother. (7)
20 — Holly says one is above the
law! (4)
21 — -Morning to tow a pilgrim’s
bottle. (7)
22 Eastern city hurried Peter
Sellers. (7)
24 —He swallows a tree if wrecked. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 593


'
a
/
(as
/
fA
- r
C
in
n
,-«! I t*
*
at
SERVICE . . .
186,000 miles per second!
Rapid communication is the lifeline of modern business. Waugh & Josephson Pty. Limited
is one of the few private companies equipped with a time-saving Telex system. This direct method of
communication sends transcribed messages at the speed of light, and automatically types
them at the receiving end. The Telex links W & J's head office, each of its branches and interstate
Caterpillar dealers' offices into one close-knit organisation. This assures that wherever your
machine is in N.S.W. and whatever its need, the entire Australia-wide Caterpillar dealer network is at
your service. It's one of the many reasons why W & J is unmatched for after-sales service.
There isn't another organisation in the field that offers you—
★ BRANCHES AT SEVEN COUNTRY CENTRES ★ RESIDENT SERVICEMEN STRATEGICALLY LOCATED
★ SEVEN MODERN BRANCH WORKSHOPS ★ THE RIGHT TOOLS FOR THE RIGHT JOB ★ SPECIALIST
SERVICEMEN ★ STOCKPILE OF GENUINE CATERPILLAR REPLACEMENT PARTS ★ A FULL
90-DAY WARRANTY ON ALL SERVICE REPAIRS.
REMEMBER: Regular service is the
key to profitable performance. Why
not ring W & J and get a complete
inspection on your machine to-day?
CATERPILLAR
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES.
•CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRAXCAVATOR ora Registered Trademarks
af Caterpillar Tracter Ca., U.S.A.
Sold, serviced and backed to the hilt In N.S.W. by:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
WJ 231.115
YEARS A
CATERPILLAR
DEALER
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone
657; A/loree, 'phone 208; Bathurst, 'phone 2874.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FROM THE SHEEP'S BACK
By GERDA BREWER
A ustralians as a whole,
with the exception of
those who derive their live-
lihood directly or indirectly
from the wool-industry, are
apt to pass over fluctuation of
wool-prices. They fail to
appreciate just how far the
Australian economy is bound-
up with prices bid by the
buyers at wool-sales —by the
size of the annual clip and
the amount of money which
sales realise. The amount
available in London to meet
the bill for imports is much,
greater when there has been
a good season and keen com-
petition. between buyers.
Today Australia is enjoying
a period of prosperity for
which the wool-clip and its
prices are no doubt to a great
measure responsible. The
sales to April 30 were up
£BO million on last year.
Australia, with a sheep-
population of one-sixth of the
world figure, produces about
At the recent Osaka
Trade Fair in Japan at
least one-quarter of
the total display area
of the Australian pavi-
lion was devoted
entirely to the pro-
motion of wool. In-
cluded were samples of
raw wool, woven and
knitted goods and
printed fabrics, plus a
light-weight travel wool
wardrobe for a man
and woman. Also
featured were the
new wool - processing
methods of Siro-set,
Siro-nize and Siro-
moth.
The Elastrator Green
Rubber Ring is the
symbol of greater
safety, greater effici-
ency, and is the proven
method by which
Castrating and Tailing
of lambs and calves be
carried out. Elastra-
tor is humane, and
diseases associated with
old-fashioned methods
such as the “knife” are
considerably lessened.
one-third of the world’s wool.
One-half of the national
income of Australia from over-
seas exports comes from the
sale of wool.
Australia grows 55 per cent.
of the Merino wool produced
in the world.
There is plenty of suitable
country which has not yet
been used for woolgrowing ;
there’s gold in them thar
plains; gold which, unlike
goldmines, will not peter-out.
World consumption of wool
is increasing annually, and to
share in the prosperity other
nations have taken steps to
increase production.
Australia is blessed with
woolgrowing country which
produces the finest fleeces,
suitable for the best of under-
clothing and the finest materials
for women’s dresses. We
must, however, keep the figures
higher, and so meet overseas
production with a superior
product.
Have you ever stopped to
consider the amount of
scientific research, practical
application and “knowhow”
that go into the production up
to the “fleece” stage? For
instance, have you thought
about scientific feeding
designed to improve the fleece
or veterinary research to keep
the sheep healthy and free
from disease?
Processing
It is interesting to follow
the process wool passes through
from the time it leaves the
sheep’s back until it reaches
the shelves of a retailer or
the atelier of a world-famous
couterier.
After the shearer—today
he follows the sheds from
Queensland to N.S.W., Victoria
and South Australia by motor-
car —has taken the fleece off
the sheep’s back, the wool is
classed by an expert, baled
and sent to the salerooms.
Buyers of all nationalities then
bid for various lots, and even-
tually the wool is shipped to
the buyer’s country.
Up to this stage the wool
is called “greasy,” and the
first stage of processing is to
scour it. A scouring-machine
with four tanks removes the
majority of impurities and
leaves only seeds and burrs.
After the wool has been dried
it is “carded’"; that is to say,
the mass of loose fibres is
converted into a long con-
tinuous web known as sliver,
which looks like a sheet of
wadding.
The next process —combing
—separates long fibres from
short (“noils”) and collects
any burrs or seeds with the
“noils.” Combing also helps
to lay the long fibres parallel
in a twistless ribbon |in. in
diameter. After further comb-
ing and straightening in other
machines the wool is wound
into “wool-tops.”
After this, the mass of loose
fibre is converted into a
loosely packed, twistless thread,
and the wool is then put
through a number of machines
and drawn-off as a finer
thread, with a certain amount
of twist to increase its
strength.
The wool, ready for spin-
ning, now resembles fine
sewing-thread, though softer
and more elastic. Threads
are twisted together, and two
threads now become known
as “two-ply,” and so on.
After washing and being made-
up into bundles or bags, the
wool is now ready for dyeing.
This finishes the yarn, which
is then rolled-up, labelled,
wrapped in cellophane bags
and made ready for distribu-
tion through warehouses to
retail stores.
Retail Selling
The sales-assistant sells the
wool, aiming always to satisfy
various types of customers.
Some are experienced and dis-
cerning, knowing exactly what
they want, and therefore are
no problem to the sales-
assistant. Others are the exact
opposite ; do not know what
they require and simply say
they want some wool to knit
a sweater. Before attempting
to sell any wool to such cus-
tomers, a good salesgirl would
refer them to the girl at the
knitting-book counter, where
there are literally thousands of
designs from which to choose
the style of garment to make.
All that then need be done
is to decide on a color, and
the satisfied customer can
confidently leave the store,
equipped with wool, needles,
design, etc.
Home goes the latest pur-
chase, and the click of
knitting-needles becomes a
nightly sound, to a back-
ground of TV or radio, or
even a little natter. Eventually


111
With a Tilley Pressure-
Kerosene Domestic Iron
you can press anything,
any time, anywhere.
On your travels or at
home, indoors or out,
4 hours of easy-going,
heat-controlled
ironing on only 1/3
pint of kerosene.
No wires, no flex,
no trouble at all. The Tilley
Portable Iron is a first-class
engineering product. ...
and 100% British Made.
£7-2-9
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
REGD.
TRUST T I LLEY
for lighting and heating
(including, of course, pressing and pleating)
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
there comes the time when
the knitting is ready for
making-up into a garment.
When the garment is ready
to wear it would be well to
bear in mind the advantages
of wool.
Seven Wonders of Wool
It’s an excellent insulator.
Woollen garments trap a wall
of air between the body and
the outside air. This keeps
the body at an even tempera-
ture. Desert Arabs and
mountain - dwelling Mexicans
wear wool to protect them
against the extremes of heat
and cold.
It wears longer and keeps
its good looks. to
the hardest wear for the
longest time, subjected to
twisting, turning and stretch-
ing, it still retains its original
shape.
It tailors beautifully and
drapes well. Alive and
flexible, wool responds
instantly to shaping by ironing
and steaming.
It absorbs moisture. Wool
absorbs as much as 30 per
cent. of moisture before
becoming saturated. Natural
protection against water and a
preventative of chills, it is an
all-seasons’ guardian of health.
It is flame-resistant and will
not flare-up in intense heat,
which chars it, but will not
support flame. This is import-
ant in relation to children’s
clothing and blankets.
It keeps its shape, is perman-
ently crease - resistant and
wrinkle-free. Repeated dry-
cleaning has no effect on its
permanent resistance to
wrinkles.
It holds its color, dyes well
and resists acids, soiling and
perspiration to a high degree.
In addition to these
attributes, recently the
C.5.1.R.0. announced their
success in mothproofing and
permanent-pleating of wool
textiles.
With this great natural
wealth at hand, every Aus-
tralian should recognise and
promote Australia’s greatest
national asset, Wool.
Daylight for
Woolclassing
The Jimac wool people are
installing sand-blasted perspex
in their Sydney and Newcastle
wool-stores to provide extra
space for daylight classing. This
use of perspex follows trials
With various materials, includ-
ing fibreglass-sheet specially
imported from Germany during
the last two years.
The preservation of daylight
is of great importance in wool-
ch'ssing, as all wool is inspected
on the show-floor by buyers in
daylight. R. B. McMillan, of
the Australian Wool Bureau,
recently commented: “Daylight
is considered essential, and
morning light from a southern
aspect is considered necessary
also.”
In the trials, fibreglass—
even “clear” varieties pro-
duced a tinted light because of
resins in the basic formulations.
Fibres in their make-up also
had an effect on the light reach-
ing the classer. The perspex
let in maximum natural day-
light, while at the same time
filtering out the ultra-violet
rays—the heat —from the added
light.
The effect of sand-blasting,
or opalescence, is to diffuse the
light coming in. Clear materials
let in a direct shaft of light.
Even walking in and out of the
bright patches of light had an
effect on the classer’s assess-
ment of color and quality.
Pigs Need Dirt
“J.J.A.”: At my neighbor’s
a few days ago I pointed out
a dead sucker in the pen.
Biggest and best-looking pig
of the litter, its stomach was
still filled with its breakfast;
it was fat and there was no
apparent reason for it to be
dead.
“Lack of iron,” said the
farmer, and hurriedly opened
the pen-door for the piglets to
get into the dirt, cheapest and
best supply of iron obtainable.
These pigs had been on open
range until a fortnight before-
hand.
It’s merely an illustration
of how lack of iron strikes
without warning. A few
shovelfuls now and then take
all the danger away.
Turnips
“Pat O’Day”: The drought
we had lately on N.S.W.’s
South-west Slopes and Riverina
induced farmers round these
parts to use their paddocks to
full potential. At present many
of them are preparing their
land for turnips, which should
provide at least five months'
feed next year for sheep, par-
ticularly fat lambs. These
farmers hope to come into the
market with fat lambs and copy
methods which have succeeded
on N.Z.’s Canterbury Downs.
As much as 50 per cent, fodder-
crops are now being laid-down
in these parts.
Turnips are good for cattle
and pigs as well as for sheep in
the cooler 25-in.-rainfall dis
tricts around Gundagai, and
normally supply feed for late
autumn and winter, though in
some favored districts they may
also be used for summer-feed
ing.
The crop fits well into rota-
tion with cereals and long- or
short-term pastures. It is often
used as a breaking-in crop when
native pastures are ploughed
for the first time. Climate and
rainfall are on the side of
farmers in this neighborhood,
and their crops should be some-
thing to brag about.
Turnips—which, by the way
stand frosts well —are succu-
lent, containing over 80 per
cent, of water, with a high
sugar-content. Easily digested,
they keep sheep in good con-
dition through the winter, with
consequent better yields of
wool and a bigger lambing-
drop in spring. To offset the
liquid content they should be
fed in conjunction with cereals
or wheaten-hay, or with a run-
off into pasture: they are a
holding - crop rather than a
fattener. If stock are to be
fattened, crushed grain should
be added to the ration. One
acre of an average crop of
turnips will carry between 20
and 25 full-grown sheep for
three months, so long as some
hay is provided and there is a
good run-off.
The crop takes between six
and eight months to grow, and
successive sowing from Septem-
ber to December should supply
feed from March to the end of
July. Turnips will grow on
almost any soil, provided they
are given plenty of phosphate-
fertiliser. In high-rainfall dis-
tricts sandy soils stand-up best
to the heavy trampling of sheep
during grazing. Best fertiliser
is a mixture of equal parts of
super, and carbonate-of-limc,
at the rate of about 4cwt. in
7in. rows or 2cwt. in Min. rows.
Care needs to be taken in
preparing the seedbed; the


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON A
OSOLUVAfy •
A ptyltd .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STFREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
seeds being small, the beds
should be deep, and should be
fine, moist and firm on the top.
Ground should always have
been fallowed for three months
before the crop is sown, and
it’s usual to roll before drill-
ing.
Sow the seed either in with
the fertiliser-mixture or through
a special small-seed attachment
on the drill. Shallow sowing
being essential, disk-drills are
preferable to combines. Seed-
ing-rate varies from about 12oz.
an acre in 7in. rows to Boz. in
14in. rows.
For sheep the crop is usually
fed in “breaks” (areas par-
titioned-off by yard-fencing),
which ensures that every par-
ticle of. root and leafage will
be eaten.
Road-transport
“Sugu”: I agree with “K.
Mac” (B. 11/5/’6O) that
“I.H.G.’s” argument is special
pleading for air-transport of
cattle. But the development of
a road-train, consisting of a
primemover hauling six trucks
on a road costing only a frac-
tion of that necessary to make,
seal, and maintain a modern
highway may favor road trans-
port.
If such a road-train was
designed to carry 130
bullocks it would probably
weigh 120 tons and would need
to develop about 1000 h.p. to
reach any reasonable speed.
At present no engine and
transmission strong enough for
this exist. The machinery
must be designed, developed
and built, and cost to the pro-
duction-stage may well reach
£500,000 —an expenditure that
only the C o m mon wealth
Government could undertake
(there are in its departments
the men and the facilities for
the job). The production of
the road-train could well be
left to private enterprise.
If the road-train were fitted
with tyres like those recently
developed in America there
would be no need for sealed
roads. The low pressures of
these almost puncture-proof
tyres would allow the road-
train to travel equally well on
all kinds of surfaces: a bull-
dozed road would be all that
would be necessary.
Flow-flight
“B-herd”: Many observers
have watched with varying
degrees of fascination the
comings and the goings of the
honeybee.
To most people bees are fly-
ing and gathering honey, and
that’s that. To the bee-herder,
hurrying to the new stand to
learn the result of his earlier
guesswork, this happy conclu-
sion is denied. Experience has
taught him that bees fly for a
dozen reasons; if honey is one
of them, then it’s good news.
Before the truck-door slams,
he starts tracking-down the
reasons. The pollen-reason is
easy. There they are, with
bags bulging, bustling and
thrusting - in past the surly
guards. A blind man can tell
a pollen-flight.
Are they roaring out?
Circling? That’s the location-
flight; they’re not busy on the
honey. Every field-bee is in a
hurry to inspect and assess the
possibilities of a new site.
They leave the hive in a roar,
start circling, memorising every
blade of grass and every
gibber; higher and higher till
they know the land like the
backs of their antennae, hills,
v a 11 e ys, watercourses and
forests. There’s a lot of learn-
ing to be done in that flight,
and it’s a roaring, hurried one.
Maybe the shift was a flop,
and there’s not much flight. A
hive-cleaner may be dropping-
in after dumping a drone down
by the creek, or a guard on the
wing looking for someone to
move so that she can hit him,
or it may be just the mob of
water-joeys, who have to lug
the water anyhow, come what
may.
There must be something
restful about water-carrying;
you can watch the philosophis-
ing bees at any waterhole in
the bush. They buzz in from
nowhere, drop quietly down to
a bit of a sandspit, rest on
their haunches for a while, and
look out over the stretch of
water. Then they poke about
without much purpose for a
bit longer, and when they’re
ready to fill the tank they un-
furl the hose, drop it in and
spend anything up to ten
minutes pumping away, or fill-
ing-in time —it’s hard to tell
which.
Aftec a while they roll-up
the hose, stow it away and,
suddenly recalling what they’re
about, rise like a cargo-plane,
circle, then vanish.
At the other end of the haul
they drop-in just as casually.
No real bee-herd has ever mis-
taken the water-carriers for
the bread-and-butter jokers ...
The shift, however may not
have been a flop. The bee-
herder stops in front of a
strong hive, puts his big blucher
before the entrance, and
watches the laden homecomers
pile in the air. For a certain
time he blocks the traffic, and
he knows, because he has
watched it so many times
before, the number of bees
waiting to alight. Then he
observes the way they set-down,
how they carry their abdomens,
how far from the entrance they
drop, and how many miscalcu-
late their run. From this and
other things he can tell the
ratio of those that carry pollen,
even the ages of the foragers —
for it's a fact that bee-herds
can thus tell the ages of their
mob.
After five minutes he has
learned what he may have
travelled a couple of hundred
miles to find out —and without
lifting a lid. Just the same,
there’s not a bee-herder in the
world who can resist opening
one up if the bees have told him
about the flow. No wonder.
It’s worth a quid from a High-
lander’s pocket to observe the
f&t, white combs, the glisten-
ing nectar, like strings of
pearls in wax settings, and the
bees, fat and shiny like cows
on kikuyu and not a sting
raised in the lot of them.
That’s how it mostly is—the
story of the comings and goings
of honeybees.
"Useless" Land
“Wimra”: Twenty-odd years
ago William Ross brought his
family to a 600-acre property-
much of it pure sand—in the
Grampians (Vic.) foothills
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/5/’60)
Queensland can expect patchy rain in June, but better
falls are likely in the coastal districts, on the central high-
lands and Darling Downs and in part of the Maranoa.
Heavy falls, with flooding, are to be expected on the coast
s'outh of Mackay. Rainfall should be light in July, with
better falls in the same districts and about the Warrego
in August.
N.S.W. should have good June rains, light in the far-
western districts and along the Darling and heaviest in the
coastal districts, on the Central Tablelands and central-
western areas, and on part of the Southern Tablelands and
the South-west Slopes. Flooding is likely in the central
and southern divisions. Patchy rain below normal is prob-
able in July, with better falls in August.
Victoria is likely to have moderate patchy rains during
June, with better falls along the west coast and in East
Gippsland. There should be better rains in July, but falls
may again be patchy in August.
In Australia during June rainfall should vary
from light to moderate in the agricultural areas, but may
be poor in the interior. There should be fair July rains,
with moderate falls extending to the north interior.
Western Australia can expect moderate rain in the agri-
cultural areas and about the Gascoyne in June, with best
falls along the coast between Geraldton and Bunbury. There
are likely to be good rains about the Fortescue, but falls
look like being poor in the rest of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
... Right in the
Business Centre
You’ll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s “West
Eind,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 95 with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and 5
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia's Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
i country at Drung South.
J Cleared and developed, the
I property now has two modern
I homes on it —Ross’s own and
/ that of his son—surrounded by
trees and shrubs they have
planted.
Also, Ross has built-up a
profitable Corriedale flock, and,
as a side interest, has encour-
I aged birdlife on his dams and
' on a swamp on the property.
| Four years ago he made, on
j the “useless” sand, a first ex-
I perimental planting of 1000
pine-seedlings, primarily for
farm-shelter, but with a hope
of eventually producing com-
f mercial timber. Frost, rabbits
I and other pests seriously re-
duced those first pines; but he
replaced the frost casualties —
pines are frost-tender only in
their first year —erected wire-
netting fences against rabbits
.and, taught by experience, has
| made further successful annual
plantings. He now has 5000
pines, some already 20ft. high,
doing well on his “useless”
sand.
Potentially valuable pine-
(plantations, especially of quick-
( growing radiata, could, he
claims, thrive on thousands of
acres in the neighborhood
which now carry only useless
scrub and stringybark, and
harbor destructive kangaroos
and emus.
Pasture Improvement
' “North”: At Kaimkillenbun,
on the Darling Downs, in the
25-inch rainfall-belt, a green-
panic and lucerne pasture laid-
down in 1953 carried off the
blue-ribbon in the Royal
National Association's Pasture
Competition for 1958-59.
The original pasture won the
competition in 1954, just 12
months after being sown, so
the seven-year-old pasture is
actually improving with age.
Since the pasture-improvement
plot was sown annual summer
grazing - crops (Sudan - grass,
white-panicum, etc.) and about
50 per cent, of the winter-feed
(oats, barley, rye, etc.) have
been dispensed with over the
past five years, and all surplus
feed is baled and fed back
during the drier months.
Originally 12 acres were laid-
down, and this has been in-
creased annually, until today
135 acres are flourishing, with
further expansion planned for
the early 1961 season.
Contours planted with mix-
tures of green- panic and
lucerne, green-panic, Gayndah-
buffel and lucerne, and African
star-grass alone, are controlling
erosion effectively, while gully-
control and waterway-stabilisa-
“And as I said, it's only a hop, step and jump from
the station."
tion methods, using African
star-grass, are equally success-
ful.
The farmer believes that the
cheap natural greenfeed is far
more economical than grain-
feeding, and that a good fence
and commonsense pasture-
management are the key to
longevity.
Under good management
soil-fertility is improved, more
rainfall is absorbed, erosion
and troublesome weeds like
couch-grass and goat-head are
controlled —v it a 1 advantages
difficult to assess in terms of
pounds, shillings and pence.
Cotton
“Sam”: In the opinion of
R. L Logan, secretary of the
Namoi Valley (N.S.W.) Devel-
opment Council, cotton could
be grown successfully in the
surrounding district.
Two years ago the N.S.W
Agricultural Department estab-
lished an experimental farm
about 15 miles from Narrabri
to determine the suitability of
cotton and other crops in the
region. “The research carried-
out on this farm has established
that cotton is admirably suited
to this environment with sup-
plementary irrigation of one
acre-foot,” said secretary
Logan. “The Kee p i t Dant
would store 387,000 acre-feet
of water, which could be fed
only into the Namoi River
system. An expenditure of this
magnitude must be recovered
as quickly as possible. In view
of the successful experiments
and the knowledge that at least
50 per cent, of our cotton is
imported, it seems obvious that
a profitable cotton-industry can
be established.”
He added that many local
people who examined these ex-
perimental crops were so im-
pressed that it was decided to
import a cotton-gin costing
£lOOO to extract the seed-cotton
from the present crop.
Crosscuts
“A.C.T.”: The Common-
wealth Bank has allotted £570
in prizemoney for Papuan and
New Guinean exhibitors at
shows at Buin, Daru, Fins-
chafen, Goroka, Lae, Lorengau,
Madang, Kokopo, Sohano,
Soeeri and Wau, as well as
£lOOO for a small press to
print posters, pamphlets and
booklets for use in training at
the agricultural college to be
established at Vudal, near
Rabaul.
“Jock”: The “city” stock-
yards at Kiama (N.S.W.) have
seen their last cattle-sale, and
to mark the occasion the Dairy
Day Committee invited well-
known lecturers to speak in the
local cinema. When these yards
were in their heyday animals
from some of the South Coast’s
best milking-studs passed
through them—lllawarra Short-
horns, mostly, but Friesians
and other breeds were repre-
sented, too. The new yards are
12 miles out of town, on the
Sydney road.
Farm Hint
“W.A.T.”: To rid fowl-
houses of. mosquitoes, paint the
roosts with creosote, making
sure that it penetrates the wood.
One application will last about
three weeks.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Professional woman, retired,
seeks responsible resident post in
professional building, Sydney.
6985.
Copy of Cobbett’s Cyclopaedic.
Survey of Chamber-music, two
volumes. —6986.
Copy of Mud on the Stars, by
William Bradford Huie. —6987.
Copy of Training the Race-
horse, by W. O. Muggridge
6984.
Information Supplied
From R. H. Mackay: As a son
of the late Capt. John Mackay,
1.5.0., discoverer of the Mackay
district (Q.), I am in as good
a position as any to give some
facts additional to those which
appeared on the Service Page (B.
11/5/ ’6O).
He was born in Sutherlandshire,
and his education at Inverness Free
Church Academy included naviga-
tion, nautical astronomy and higher
mathematics. Voyages to Holland
and Baltic ports gave him sea
experience before he and his
family migrated in 1854 to Aus-
tralia, where they settled at Ness
Farm, in the Armidale (N.S.W.)
district. John worked on his
father’s property and carried-out
surveys for various New England
graziers, and overlanded with
stock; he also worked on his gold-
claim at the Rocky River field
and made a South Seas voyage as
a supercargo.
The survey he made of the
Pioneer River in 1862 was at his
own expense (he chartered the
Presto, which had brought him
stores, at £8 a day). It was in 1865
that my father really became a pro-
fessional seaman, and he held
commands under British, American
and French flags. He acquired
7000 acres of land in Fiji and
4000 acres on Puget Sound
(U.S.A.), and in 1884 married
Mary, eldest daughter of John
McLennan, of Invervainie, Armi-
dale. He had three sons: John,
K. H., and myself, and a daughter,
Mrs. F. L. Armstrong.
Information Sought
Recipe for hot wine-drink (as
distinct from punch) as dispensed
in winter in European countries ?
For one person, take \ cup
wine, \ cup water, 1 egg, 1 table-
spoon sugar, 1 or two cloves, 1
stick cinnamon. Boil water and
spices for 10 minutes, strain, add
the wine and heat again, but do
not boil. Add the beaten egg and
sugar, stir until creamy. If the
egg is omitted, the drink will be
thinner. For a large quantity,
measure ingredients pro' rata.
Recipe may be varied to suit your
own taste.
* * * *
Method of smoking fish ?
In theory the process is very
simple, merely the application of
smoke until the fish is thoroughly
dried and preserved. Successful
home-smoking depends on your
ingenuity in rigging-up the means
of doing the work. The fish should
be cleaned, split open with the
backbone on one side, and scales
left on if you wish. Tie them
up by the tail over a fire of thick,
clean smoke from some harmless
wood, using an upturned box to
cover the lot, with ventilation to
keep the fire burning smokily.
Time will depend on size of fish.
Smoke collected from a suitable
fire, and led into a small chamber
or large box by a wide pipe or
funnel can also be tried. Salting
before processing is a matter of
taste, but helps preservation.
* * * *
How to preserve and crystallise
ginger ?
The ginger should be young,
quickly grown and not leathery.
Scrub the pieces, scrape lightly
“And you be a good boy till Daddy comes home!”
and boil in slightly sweetened water
until sufficiently soft. Simmer
again slowly in a syrup made
from 2 cups of sugar to one cup
of water, boiled together for 5
minutes; allow the ginger to cook,
in this until the liquid has
evaporated, but do not burn. Take
out, place on clean white paper
and dry off in the shade or a very
slow oven. Roll in sugar and
store in airtight jars. If liked
in syrup, cease this boiling before
evaporation. Be certain you have
the right kind of ginger-plant, and
not roots of the ornamental kind
so commonly grown in gardens.
* * * *
(1) Method of tinning aluminium-
bronze ? (2) Method of bending
large - size stainless - sleet tubes
(manual only ) ?
From the Museum of Applied
Arts and Sciences:
(1) Tinning of bronze may be
performed with any proprietary
tinning (or soldering-fluid) on the
market. There are also proprietary
fluxes for tinning aluminium. This
is a difficult process and directions
with the flux concerned should be
followed closely.
(2) Bend i n g stainless-steel
manually is an almost impossible
task. Packing the tube with fine
dry sand and using a lot of heat
may work with smaller-diameter
tubes. The finish of the stainless-
steel may be lost during the applica-
tion of heat.
Brief Answers
P.W.8.: Ending the financial
year on June 30 is a practice
inherited from the Northern
Hemisphere, and the most probable
explanations are these: (1) There
the harvest is gathered around that
time (being mid-summer), with
national finances irrevocably bound-
up with that important event.
(2) December 31 being between the
Christmas and New Year festivi-
ties would make it an almost
impossible time for end-of-financial-
year stock - taking... .T.T.H.
(N.Z.): (1) Yes, any member of
the infantry would be entitled to
wear it. (2) They are available
in both silk and wool, the latter
the less expensive (approx. 10s.).
Write for particulars to W. Chorley
and Co., Ltd., 9 Hunter Street,
Sydney... .H.G.: Edward Bulwer
Lytton Dickens, son of Charles
Dickens, was elected to the N.S.W.
Parliament in 1889 as member, for
Wilcannia M.N.D.: Yiddish is
the language used by Jews in
Europe and the U.S., consisting
mainly of German (originally from
the Middle Rhine area) with
admixture according to local or
individual usage of Balto-Slavic
words and printed in Hebrew
characters... .G.T.: Burn-off paint
with blowlamp or use ready-made
paint-and-varnish remover; the use
of caustic-soda is not recommended,
as it will penetrate the wood’s
surface and adversely affect subse-
quent coatings of paint P.R.S.:
The term “salad days” refers to
one’s raw youth, and derives from
Shakspeare’s Antony and Cleo-
patra, Act. 1, Scene V....W.5.:
A tinsmith should be able to
repair it... .J.H.P.: The four
Australian banks that remained
“o p e n” during the crash
of the ’nineties were the
Bank of N.S.W., Bank of Austra-
lasia, Bank of Adelaide and the
Union Bank... .C.M.L.: The lines
are from Adam Lindsay Gordon’s
“T h e Dedication”....B.N.S.:
Anna Pavlova died at 46....H.Y.:
No; it is dehydrated-lime and
lump-lime which are the same....
F.D.C.: Rainbow-colors of the
primary bow, starting from the
inside, are violet, indigo, blue,
green, yellow, orange and red;
but as the colors overlap and
become diffused the outstanding
colors are vioiet, green, yellowish-
orange and' red. Colors in the
secondary bow are in the reverse
order, red inside, violet outside.
. ...8.N.T.: The abo. word
Gubbanoo means “on a rise”.... 1
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
alt MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
8.V.K.: Rather too roughly
put together; that theme demands
above all else treatment of restraint
and feeling... .L.A.: “Not in a
Thousand Years” was a singu-
larly apt title... .G.L.T.: Was it
necessary to describe in such tedious
detail the raising of that crop'.'
....W.K.8.: It would have stood
a better chance if you hadn’t used
all those exclamations with sledge-
hammer effect and overdrawn the
chief character... .T.Y.: Promising
incidents, but the story trails away.
J.H.P.: “The Haunted Plane”
never became airborne... .M. 8.0.:
You achieve a rich distinction in
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraph*
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
being the first to liken the setting
sun to “Juno planting a roseate
kiss on the brow of yon distant
mountain”.... V.R.S.; Fair enough
story, but handling of sequences
spoilt it; have another crack..-;
R.W.: “Joe’s Strawberry Patch
needed fertilising with ideas... •
F.D.T.: Too much padding in that
story of the cattle-trail. •••
H.L.0'8.: Microscopic writing,
single-spaced, with P.S. all ovei
the sidelines and explanatory notes
strung out everywhere, is a sure
invitation to have it bunged back
unread; if you haven’t a typewriter,
write clearly on one side of pap
only and double-space lines; ana
no comments, notes, etc., please-
. ...L.R.: Your vulture may h a P
one wing:—
The majestic wedgetail eagle soars
Aloft in the empyrean blue.
For possible victims his steely eye bores
A prisoner he’d be, if confined to a
zoo.
A lord of the air, he’s contemptuous
Of petty man and his puny gun.
What though his deeds are infamous,
- He was made that way since the world
begun.


THE HOLLIDAYS
“Play as you've never played before! Their bill comes to seventeen-thousand francs, and the steak diane Was a
little on the tough side."
New Recordings
SOME NOTABLE HEAVYWEIGHTS
A symphonic giant domin-
iites this week’s recordscape —
Beethoven’s Ninth (The
(Choral”), on an Ace of Clubs
ACLA 77). This unique
hybrid of the choral and sym-
phonic genres is given the
handsomest treatment, with
Ernest Ansermet conducting
'the Suisse Romande Orchestra
and Anton Dermota and Aus-
tralia’s Joan Sutherland among
the soloists.
Another great example of
Beethoven is his Triple Con-
certo, a Columbia release
(330 C 1062), also on morto.
Here is a collector’s piece, for
this lonely work —the only ex-
ample of the form extant—is
rarely performed. All requisites
are met here, David Oistrakh
being the violinist, Sviatoslav
Knushevitsky the ’cellist, Lev
Oborin the pianist, with the
Philharmonia Orchestra under
Sir Malcolm Sargent.
Yet another Brobdignagian
rvork on wax is the Brahms
Piano Concerto No. 1, from
Coronet (KLC 2693). This
curiously historied opus began
“fe as part of a projected sym-
phony, then was channelled
Jto a two-piano sonata before
finally ending-up in its present
* or m. Solidly if unpretentiously
it has Rudolf Serkin
as the crisply - fingered soloist,
with Georg Szell extracting
ample emotional power from
the Cleveland Orchestra.
Beethoven is back on another
Coronet in Early Quartets
(KLC27I6). These are his first
youthful essays in chamber-
music, the Quartets Nos. 1 and
2 of Op. 18. In delineating
these the Budapest Quartet
blend the two fiddles, the viola
and ’cello with notable purity
of tone, an intimate intercourse
of urbanity in the Mozart and
Haydn style.
In lighter vein is Opera Inter-
mezzi, put out by Columbia
(330CX 7516). This, as good
a selection as could have been
made of these ’tween-act diver-
sions and orchestral comments,
comprises introductions to the
3rd acts of both “Manon
Lescaut” and “La Traviata”;
the distillate of melodies
allotted Canio and Tonio which
go into the Entr’act in “Pagli-
acci”; the melodious Inter-
mezzo in Mascagni’s “L’Amico
Fritz”; the lowered-curtain
diversion in Franz Schmidt’s
“Notre Dame.” On the re-
verse is the “Royal Hunt and
Storm” from Berlioz’s “The
Trojans”; the noble Intermezzo
from Moussourgsky’s “Kho-
vantschina”; the celebrated
“Barcarolle” from “Tales of
Hoffmann”; and the evocation
of hot-blooded Spanish jeal-
ousy in Granados’s “Goyes-
cas.”
The odd incidence of a
Dutch tenor singing some ear-
catching Italian songs of more
recent vintage—and doing it in
the bel canto style to rival the
native-born—is recorded on a
Philips disk (P6OO 300 R) in San
Remo Song Festival. The
singer is Willy Alberti.
Ballet is represented on
other Philips pressings: Sabre
Dance, Gopak and Pavane For
a Dead Infanta (495 040 AE);
and El Amor Brujo (495 038
AE). These continue the
popular series, the covers of
which carry reproductions of
the original Degas paintings.
The more appealing is the
Khachaturian-Ravel, with the
“Sabre Dance” full of furious
life and the Ravel lament for
a dead Spanish princess an
evocation of subdued emotion
at its best.
*X* ❖ ❖
Musical Travelogues
Percy Faith has just been
making a personal-appearance
tour of Australia, but Bon
Voyage (Coronet, KLP 855)
isn’t the outcome of that. It’s
an orchestral run around
Europe with stopovers in
Germany, France and Italy.
“Morgen” is the German
contribution to the collection,
and the Paris portfolio includes
the popular “Mon Oncle,”
“Petite Fleur,” “La Vie en
Rose” and “Under Paris
Skies.” “Ciao, Ciao, Bam-
bina” is an enchanting little
number encountered on a
couple of recent disks; this
version has the usual Faith
polish. Other musical
souvenirs of Italy include the
lively “Piccolissima Serenata”
and “Arrivederci, Roma.”
The musical tour of the
Jonah Jones Quartet isn’t con-
fined to Europe. They go
Swingin’ Round the World
(Capitol, T 1237). Jonah is
one of the best trumpeters in
America and his team support
him well on piano, bass and
drums. This platter starts off
where Faith’s finished —with
“Arrivederci, Roma” —and it
takes in Madrid (a spot of
“Carmen”), London (Gersh-
win’s “Foggy Day”), Paris (in
April), drops a tear of regret
on the “Isle of Capri,” hops
down to Rio de Janeiro, thence
to “Shanghai,” giving forth
“Song of the Islands” en route.
For good measure Jonah
shelves his trumpet once or
twice and substitutes in throaty
vocal “South of the Border”
and Richard Rodgers’s “Man-
hattan.”
Too late for Coral Sea Week,
but useful to have around
when Sis brings home a
Yankee serviceman, Mitch
Miller’s Anchors Aweigh
(Coronet, KEP 228) carries the
marching songs of the U.S.
Army, Navy, Marines and-Air
Force. Bracing stuff, but be
sure to put the needle in the
right track for the right guest.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Candles were appropriately a decora-
tion at the Independent Theatre’s Ball
which celebrated the 30th anniversary
of the theatre’s opening with the
Viennese play “By Candlelight.” There
was also an unusual birthday-cake
decorated with the masks of tragedy and
comedy by Mrs. Farthing. The party
was held at the Rainbow Room of the
Australia.
Hostess Doris Fitton was in a short
dress of red draped jersey, Speaker Ray
Maher and Mrs. Maher were present,
and other guests included the Leon
Henrys, Dr. and Mrs. Des O’Shea, Mr
and Mrs. Ainsworth Harrison, Mrs.
Cardamatis, Elaine Montgomery, John
Alden, Diana Perryman, Alathea Siddons
and Richard Parry. After the theatre,
stars from “My Fair Lady” at Her
Majesty’s Bunty Turner, Richard
Walker, Helen Roberts and Ailsa Graham
—came along, together with Muriel
Pavlow and Derek Farr from “The
Gazebo” at the Royal.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. Maurice Kelly, having won,
“hands down,” the English Speaking
Union's scholarship for study abroad,
was guest-of-honor with his wife at the
E.S.U.’s luncheon last week. Mr. Harry
Twigden was in the chair and Mrs. R. A.
Cummings, founder of the scholarship,
was hostess.
Lavel University, Quebec (Canada),
has been chosen by Mr. Kelly for his
year’s study. He is at present senior
lecturer- in classics at the New England
University, Armidale. During his talk
at the luncheon Mr. Kelly gave some
amusing examples of similarities in the
ancient Greek way of speaking and our
own (for example, if a man was “well-
oiled” he was said to be “gravy”!) and
convinced his listeners that a study of
the classics helps us to see our own
age in its proper perspective. After his
talk, Mrs. N. Chaffer (whose husband
is the birdman, by the way) thanked Mr.
Kelly on behalf of the E.SiU.
It was interesting to hear that Mrs.
Kelly is that “Gwen Kelly” who has
written so interestingly for The Bulletin
of late. She has written one novel which
should be shortly in process of publica-
tion, and hopes to write another during
her year in Canada, where she will keep
house for her husband and two
daughters, Bronwyn (14) and Jillian (8).
☆ ft ft
There was a pretty little Japanese lady
wearing national dress at the Elizabethan
Theatre’s opening night of Madame
Butterfly. It was Miss Kinuyo Fujii, who
probably enjoyed the opera very much,
but must have been rather dismayed at
the very un-Japanese flower-arrangements
in the second act. Miss Joan Hammond’s
parents and her brother, who were
present, must have been even more
thrilled than the rest of the opera-lovers
present (the house was full—standing-room
only) by the beautiful singing of Joan.
# V V
Talking of the Sheep Show, one can
still see the “Century of Shearing” (com-
pressed into two weeks —the second one
now coming-up). There are also exhi-
bitions of a complete operation of a wool-
shed, bush-balladists singing away at
“Click Go the Shears,” “Waltzing
Matilda,” etc., and even dog-trials (real
dogs!). All on the sixth floor of a lead-
ing city store—David Jones’ Men's
Market Street store, to be exact.
This smiling face belongs to Mrs.
Elsie May Gorrell, who is one of the
entrants in the Red Cross Silver Bride
of the Year Quest. Mrs. Gorrell and
her husband, the Rev. Harold Gorrell,
of Arncliffe, celebrated their silver-
wedding anniversary in March. She was
nominated by the Bexley Red Cross
branch which, under its president, Mrs.
A. M. Stuckey, is working hard to make
Mrs. Gorrell the Silver Bride of the
Year. All the proceeds, of course, go
to Red Cross, which this week sent a
donation of £1000 to the refugees in
Chile. It is hoped that further donations
from all quarters will come into Red
Cross for this immediate and appealing
cause.
A “Man with a Mission,” Mr. John
Allen, was guest-of-honor at the sherry-
party given by the British Drama League
last week. The mission in this instance is
to study and instruct in drama in Aus-
tralia, the title being an official one for
certain groups who work for Unesco.
The party was held at the East Sydney
Technical College, in that wonderful
stone building which used to be a jail and
is now being transformed into a theatre,
with an aluminium ceiling, a polished
floor and a stage which may be moved
to either end of the auditorium or the
centre as wished. Some of the guests at
the party thought that the stage moved
during the performance, but that would
be rather much to expect.
Mr. Robin Bailey, star of “My Fair
Lady,” was also to have been a guest-of-
honor but, as he had succumbed to the
’flu, Mrs. Bailey came along instead and
made a very neat little speech. Her main
interest is historic buildings, and her work
in England involves accurate record-
making about them, so the venue of this
particular party was especially appro-
priate. Miss Evelyn Tildesley welcomed
the guests, who included her sister, Miss
Beatrice Tildesley, Miss Phyllis Shiliito,
Mr. and Mrs.. Leslie Rees, Professor and
Mrs. Robert Quentin, and the Misses Joan
and Betty Rayner.
☆ ☆ ☆
Talking to the Rayner sisters, one got
the impression that they were the ones
with a mission. Their Australian Child-
ren’s Theatre is a non-profit-making
organisation, and for over 20 years has
been travelling all over Australia and all
over the world. Their folk-songs and
glove-puppets are specially geared for
childish enjoyment, but they do not be-
lieve in making fairy-godmothers and
such as a means of getting people out of
their difficulties. “There must be a
fundamental truth in what you tell and
show children,” they say.
Apropos of this, has anyone noticed
that fairies are going, or have gone, out
of fashion? All the books for kiddies
these days feature small animals, or
animated trains, or little cottages which
come alive, or tug-boats or odd-shaped
space-men. Look for a good, old-
fashioned fairy with wings and a wand
and you’ll be disappointed. Pity, really!
☆ ☆ ☆
The Phillip Street Theatre’s new
musical, “Mistress Money,” opened
during the week to an audience as gay as
itself. There is -always an air of being a
private party at this charming theatre’s
openings, probably because so many of
those who have acted with it come along
to encourage and enjoy the players. Best
of all is the thought that the show is
composed by Australians who have been
given an opportunity by this theatre to
display their talents. Dot Mendoza is
the musician, Eleanor Whitcombe the
author and John McKellar the writer of
the lyrics.
☆ ☆ ☆
Congratulations to Mrs. .Tineas Gunn,
who during the week celebrated her 90th
birthday at her home in Hawthorn,
Melbourne. Mrs. Gunn says that there
are only two characters remaining alive
of her famous book, We of the Never
Never —herself and John McLeod, the
Silent Stockman. But all those other
characters introduced by her pen to
thousands of people are still alive in their
memories today, and will be for many
years to come.


MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended the annual Prince Henry’s Hos-
pital Ball at the Royale Ballroom and
during the evening Sir Dallas received
seven debutantes. They were Shirley
Fortune, Mary Boundy, Margaret
Vahland, Shirley Swift, Dorothy Willes,
Laurel Wilkinson and Glennis Foder,
and they were all frocked in white
embossed-organdie with bouffant skirts,
the bodices featuring portrait-necklines.
Lady Brooks chose a gown of magnolia
satin, the graceful skirt allied to a
bodice encrusted with gold sequins and
pearls. Also at the ball were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard
Evans, wearing a gown of blush-pink
brocade sprinkled with pearls and
rhinestones. The president of the ball-
committee, Mr. I. L. Schroeder, and Mrs.
Schroeder welcomed the official guests,
she wearing a cinnamon-brown chiffon
gown, the pleated skirt caught into a
harem hemline.
In the official-party were Miss A.
Morgan, Matron of Prince Henry’s;
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside (her choice
a bouffant gown of beech-brown tulle
with the long bodice glittering with gold
beads); the Hon. Simon Warrender and
his wife (the latter in a graceful white
satin-brocade gown, the strapless top of
which was edged with black velvet and
finished at the back in a large bow and
sash-ends); the hospital’s manager, Mr.
W. Cross, and Mrs. Cross; Colonel
Wallis ; Cr. O. J. Nilsen ; the president
of the hospital, Mr. Milton Gray ; and
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Everett (her bouffant
emerald-green-satin gown trimmed on
the bodice with jet beads).
☆ ☆ ☆
The reception-room at Majella, St.
Kilda Road, was gay with bowls of tawny
autumn-flowers for the reception given
for French conductor Georges Tzipine,
his wife and Canadian singer Lois Mar-
shall by the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra Subscribers’ Committee whose
president, Mr. J. Howard King, was
assisted by Mrs. King in receiving the
guests. Helping in the entertaining were
vice-president Mrs. Barbara Gilruth and
hon. secretary Miss L. Cairns-Lloyd.
Madame Tzipine chose a short full coat
of pale-aqua-blue satin with a black
velvet cloche banded with white satin
and finished at the back with a cascade
of black-tipped white ostrich-feathers.
Miss Marshall’s full-skirted frock of
white faille patterned in green leaves was
worn with a dyed-ermine jacket. Among
those at the party were French Consul
M. le Bas de Plumetot and his wife ;
the president of the French-Australian
Association, Professor Maurice Belz, and
Mrs. Belz; Mrs. Guy Bakewell; the
president of the Alliance Franpaise,
Professor Jackson, and Mrs. Jackson ;
Mr. and Mrs. John Casson and their
daughter Jane; Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Shepherd ; and Dr. and Mrs. Clive
Douglas.
☆ ☆ ☆
Thai visitors, Khun Boonyium
Meesook and his wife, Dr. Amphorn
Meesook, who are guests of the Com-
monwealth Government, were guests-of-
honor at a dinner-party given by Thai
Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs. Fader at
the Consulate in East St. Kilda. Those
invited to meet the distinguished visitors
included Senator Ivy Wedgwood and
Mr. J. K. Wedgwood ; the Minister for
Forests and State Development, the Hon.
A. J. Fraser, and Mrs. Fraser ; the presi-
dent of the Australian-Asian Associa-
tion, Sir Charles Lowe, and Lady Lowe ;
Brigadier - General and Mrs. Parn
Piskanok; and Professor and Mrs.
Smarn Muntarbhorn, of Bangkok. Mr.
Meesook, who was educated at Cam-
bridge and Manchester Universities, is
general-manager of the Thai National
Economic Development Corporation,
and a Rotarian. Dr. Meesook, a Harvard
graduate, is Chief of the Division of
Educational Information in the Thai
Ministry of Education.
Miss Doris Carter was a teacher with
the Victorian Education Department be-
fore joining the W.R.A.A.F. in 1941. She
was O.-in-C. W.R.A.A.F. in the Aus-
tralian contingent of the Victory March
in London in 1946, later taking charge
of child- and youth-migration affairs for
the Immigration Department at Australia
House. Then followed her appointment
as Director of the W.R.A.A.F., from
which she has retired as Wing-Officer to
take up her new post of general-secretary
of Melbourne Y.W.C.A., succeeding Miss
Eileen Woodward. Miss Carter was a
member of the Australian Olympic team
in Berlin in 1936, and also of the Empire
Games team in Sydney in 1938. From
1937-39 she was a member of the Vic-
torian women's hockey team, and was
manager of the Australian women’s
hockey team at the Melbourne Olympic
Games. She is also president of the Aus-
tralian Womens Amateur Athletic
Union.
In honor of Miss Doris Carter, Mrs.
J. B. Cordner and members of the
publicity-committee of Y.W.C.A. enter-
tained at a cheery luncheon in the board-
room. President of “Y,” Mrs. J. F.
Williams, Mrs. H. K. Hunt, Mrs. John
Carrodus, Mrs. Lindsay Hack, Mrs. L.
Berryman, Mrs. Nan Taylor, Mrs. T. W.
Easton, Miss L. Burton, Miss Mary
Lewis and Miss K. Givens were among
those who attended.
☆ ☆ ☆
When she was married at Wesley Col-
lege Chapel, Glenda Elice, only daughter
of Mrs. M. F. Merrin, of Sydney, and
the late Mr. G. R. Merrin, wore a classi-
cal gown of white parchment-satin which
featured two pearl-trimmed panels falling
from the shoulder-line to form a long
train. A half-circlet of the same material
held her full-length tulle veil, and she
carried a bouquet of orchids and roses.
Short bouffant frocks of white velvet and
satin were worn by bridesmaids Freida
Weitzel, of Brisbane, and Yvonne Jeffrey,
of Sydney, and they carried pink hya-
cinths and roses. The ’groom, Peter
Tyson, only son of Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Tyson, of Corrong, Hay (N.S.W.), had
Bruce Bennett as best man. Barry Smith
was groomsman. Reception was at No. 9
Darling Street.
☆■ ☆ ☆
As a money-spinner for the Royal
Children’s Hospital Building Appeal, the
Cherished Possessions Exhibition was a
winner. Held in the Myer Mural Hall
annexe, this exhibition was the work of
two members of Mrs. Henry Bolte’s
committee: Mrs. T. O. M. Edwards and
Mrs. Tom Graham, who persuaded more
than 300 well-known people to send their
cherished bits and pieces along for dis-
play. The Premier lent his Mexican hat
embroidered in pure gold, which was pre-
sented to him at the 1956 Olympic
Games ; Sir William McDonald, Speaker
of the Legislative Assembly, sent along
the wig which has been worn by a suc-
cession of Speakers for the past 50 years;
Joan Hammond lent false-eyelashes and
Herb Elliott a pair of running-shoes.
Lady Brooks exhibited a lovely silver
cigarette-case presented to her husband
by the Queen Mother when she was last
here.
Mrs. Harold Nathan’s exhibit was a
replica of the Coronation Chair ; Mrs.
Mark Clements lent a Wedgwood teapot,
sugar-basin and milk-jug made at the time
of the Queen’s Coronation. A beautiful
lace-handkerchief which had belonged to
Queen Victoria was Mrs. Vere Hunt’s
contribution. A child’s “pottie” of,
Meissen Dresden china reputed to have
been made for the Austrian Imperial
family came from Googie Withers. Mrs.
Maurice Nathan had an 1851 American
gold-dollar, Lady Coles a Royal Wor-
cester statue of the Queen (when she was
Princess Elizabeth) on horseback.
At the morning preview of the exhi-
bition Mrs. Henry Bolte presented the
president of the hospital, Lady Murdoch,
with a progress-cheque for £6097; which
had been raised over the past few months
by her committee. Among those at the
preview were Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, Mrs.
Frank Herman, Mrs. Alastair Mackinnon,
Mrs. Tom Carlyon, Mrs. Tony Luxton.


the Victorian prejudices—and she was
a writer essentially interested in sexual
conflicts —she might have been our
outstanding modern novelist. As it is,
the conventional euphemisms and
innuendoes she is forced to use give a
falsely salacious air such as may be
detected sometimes in the novels of
George Meredith.
By contrast. “Morning in Queens-
land” is like a breath of fresh morning
air; but there is no conflict, and there-
fore really no story, and little develop-
ment in time. Margaret Trist is a
natural short-story writer, with a
subtle, ironic gift for depicting people,
ordinary people, and making them
extraordinary and interesting.
Rosa Praed was a born novelist. The
material was there —a fertile imagina-
tion. narrative gift, dramatic instinct,
descriptive powers and those essentials
mboted by Conrad: the ability to
“make see” and to extract everything
possible from a scene. She knew the
back country, knew the natives and
their language, and had a wide know-
ledge of her own State’s fauna and
flora and a love of its untamed beauty.
It is a great pity. that, born when
she was and with such gifts, she should
have inevitably become an expatriate,
so that the books she might have
written became lost to Australian
literature.
Nancy Cato.
New French Playwright
Arthur Adamov’s Paolo Paoli (John
Calder) is a curious and interesting
play by a French dramatist who has
recently become prominent. The first
of his plays to be translated into Eng-
lish, its original production in Paris
aroused a considerable controversy,.and
it is said to have made a similar, if
milder, sensation when it was broad-
cast by the 8.8. C. though one
imagines that, while the French uproar
might well have been political, any
controversy in England would have
been started simply by listeners who
could not make out what it was all
about.
Even in this reading version it is as
well for a start to have the publisher’s
explanation that it is “a brilliant and
powerful satire on middle-class society
in the French Edwardian era. whose
shady business dealings and tangled
private lives it recreates with a touch of
lunatic fantasy”—with implications for
the present day —for, in the manner of
Annouilh, it is extremely fluid and
elusive.
Paolo Paoli deals in rare butterflies;
Florent Hulot-Vasseur deals in feathers
(for hats); Hulot-Vasseur buys the
butterflies and Paoli buys the feathers.
They try to trick each other in their
dealings, but, apart from some mild
comedy in this aspect, there is little
apparent reason why we should be
watching or reading a play about
feathers and butterflies and the two
businessmen. The Abbe Saulnier, who
is obliged for various reasons to have
dealings with the anti-clerical Hulot-
Vasseur. is a figure of disgrace whose
significance would be more readily per-
ceived in France than anywhere else;
and the tangle of love-affairs, when
Paoli’s wife offers herself to Hulot-
Vasseur for business reasons while
Paoli consoles himself with his maid-
servant, is conveyed so indefinitely that
it is not easy to determine that any of
it is taking place.
But eventually everything sorts itself
out, clearly and tellingly enough from
a Left-wing political viewpoint.
Newspaper headlines flashed onto a
screen make it clear that France
is moving, through a series of
financial scandals, to the brink of
World War I. Feathers and butterflies
represent the essential frivolity of the
middle-class businessmen; the Abbe
represents the corruption of the Church
in its alliance with big business; the
love-affairs —the maidservant is the
wife of a Dreyfus-like innocent convict
—show the sordor of the businessmen
in their personal lives; and the innocent
convict, who turns to Left-wing politics
and is again wrongfully imprisoned by
the machinations of Hulot-Vasseur and
the Abbe, is the only decent citizen
which the play permits itself to exhibit.
The play rests, really, on the bitter
comedy, which could be very effective
on stage and should be clearer there
than it is to read. The feathers and
butterflies might not be so effective,
unless in a highly stylised production
- —you really need to be able to see such
symbols largely and clearly, as you do
in Capek’s wonderful “Insect Play.”
The device of the headlines, though
facile, does help, by creating a mood
in the audience, to give depth and
meaning to the otherwise very light
dance of the action.
Shelley as a Scientist
So many people are perturbed these
days at the divorce between science
and literature that Desmond King-
Hele’s Shelley, His Thought and Work
(Macmillan), which devotes many
pages to Shelley as a scientist, should
be as welcome as it is topical. There
can, of course, be no doubts as to
Shelley’s interest in science; but King-
Hele will surprise many readers with
his revelation of how pervasive in his
poetry, and sometimes how precise,
that interest was.
Even in the early “Queen Mab,” for
instance, we find that Shelley was
analysing either atoms or microbes (it
is not quite clear which): —
I tell thee that those viewless beings,
Whose mansion is the smallest
particle
Of the impassive atmosphere,
Think, feel and live like man —
and if it is a little startling to be told
that atoms “think” (though not so sur-
prising for microbes), King-Hele, him-
self a scientist, is able to remind us that
The modern view [of atoms] is
curiously like his: each particle is
allowed a small range of uncertainty,
its behavior being governed by
probability-laws which degenerate
into the macroscopic laws of Nature
when the numbers of particles are
large.
This reviewer was particularly
intrigued to discover what King-Hele
would make of the exquisite “music of
the spheres” passage from “Prometheus
Unbound.” which considerably puzzled
Edmund Blunden in his magnificent
biography of Shelley:—
A sphere which is as many thousand
spheres,
Solid as crystal, yet through all its
mass
Flow, as through empty space, music
and light:
Ten thousand orbs, involving and
involved,
Purple and azure, white, and green,
and golden,
Sphere withirt sphere; and every
space between
Peopled with unimaginable shapes,
Such as ghosts dream dwell in the
lampless deep,
Yet each inter-transpicuous, and they
whirl
Over each other with a thousand
motions'. . .
Whether he was aware of it or not,
says King-Hele. Shelley could have
been looking inside an atom! —
We may take the “many thousand
spheres” or the “ten thousand orbs”
as individual atoms, each consisting
of concentric electron shells (“sphere
within sphere”). Stray electrons
(“unimaginable shapes”) drift
through the “space between” the
atoms. On changing their energy-
levels the electrons give rise to a
“flow’* of radiation, the “music and
light” of line three . . .
Nor. if it cannot be proved that
Shelley was actually thinking here of
the possible structure of the atom, is
it to be supposed that he was just
guessing, in ignorance of the scientific
theories of his day. There is. says
King-Hele, “a gravitational love-song”
between the Earth and the Moon in
“Prometheus Unbound.” Shelley links
gravitation with electricity, magnetism,
heat and light (“This brings him right
up-to-date”); and he refers (“with fire
that is not brightness”) to infra-red rays,


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
ST. HELENA STORY
Dame Mabel Brookes
The fascinating story of Napoleon and Betsy Balcombe,
the young girl who amused and provoked the Emperor
during his exile on St. Helena - • - 37/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
“the ‘dark heat-rays’ discovered by
Herschel in 1800.”
Thus, very interestingly indeed, King-
Hele is able to provide us with a new
approach to Shelley and, equally
interestingly, to demonstrate that the
poet, not only in his use of scientific
knowledge and terminology, but in his
clarity, precision and luminosity, de-
veloped what might fairly be called a
“scientific” style.
Otherwise, a standard run-through
of the life with a sometimes harrow-
ingly academic commentary on the
verses (“though the syntax could be
improved, the sentiment better con-
cealed and the adjectives pruned”—
why will the academics thus trample on
poetry with their blundering great
boots!) the book is not to be compared
with Edmund Blunden’s. Seeing
Shelley as a farmer and a Nature-poet,
Blunden dealt with the solidities by
which we can best apprehend him and
in which, inevitably, he was surer than
in his science. But King-Hele’s study
is, all the same, a useful companion to
Blunden and, as the dustjacket claims,
certainly another refutation of the
“ineffectual angel” viewpoint of
Matthew Arnold.
Labor-party History
The files, bewildering to the outsider,
of manifestos, union constitutions,
objectives, resolutions, etc., by which
Australian Labor is documented, have
been ransacked for The Australian
Labor Movement, 1850-1907 (Austra-
lasian Book Society), a memorial
volume to R. N. Ebbels; and might be
taken as an appendix to Radical and
Working Class Politics, A Study of
Eastern Australia, 1850-1910, by
Robin Gollan, Fellow in History at
the Australian National University
(Melbourne University Press).
Ebbels, according to a short memoir
by Professor Manning Clark, was a
young Australian Communist who had
visited Prague, Moscow and Peking,
who was thrown out of a truck in 1952
on the Hume Highway and died at
Gundagai hospital at the age of 34.
A committee has increased and
assembled his collection of documents,
and L. G. Churchward of the Depart-
ment of Political Science, Melbourne
University, has written an introduction.
Here one reads of forgotten magazines,
such as “The Tocsin,” “The Hummer”
and “The Silver Age,” and the consti-
tution of the Operative Plumbers’
Trade Society, Sydney, 1862: “That the
lowest rate of wages for all Members
of this Society shall be twelve shillings
per day.... That any Member having
been proven to have slandered or
spoken disrespectfully, as a Plumber or
Workman, of any Member, shall for
each offence be fined two shillings.”
Here also will be found the stories of
“The Great Strikes, 1890-94,” with the
burning of the steamer Rodney on its
way to Wilcannia to prevent the land-
ing of free laborers at Tolarno; how
the free laborers were marooned on a
small island until daylight, etc.; and
the rules of the Australian Labor Party
of 1891, of which No. 15 was “The
stamping of all Chinese-made furni-
ture.”
Gollan’s narrative covers the same
ground at once more clearly and with
more selective detail. From its docu-
mentation one observes once more that
the history of the Labor party is case-
history, its big stories of strikes and
legal decisions and awards heavily
underwritten by committee-decisions,
conventions, conferences —battles long
ago lose some of their excitement when
pike and claymore are replaced by the
vote at the meeting, and recommenda-
tions of the shop-committee and that
poor old Sunday-afternoon Domain
subject, Single Tax. About as lost,
however, as pike and claymore, is a
colorful weapon of the employers of
the 1890’s, when striking marine
officers were required to apply for re-
employment in such terms as: —
I respectfully beg to call your kind
attention to the fact of my resigning
from one of your company’s ships
on the 17th August, and having seen
the folly of so doing, I beg to be
reinstated in your company’s service.
I ask you kindly to reconsider my
case, having served 15 years in the
company's and your service.
Perhaps the best key to Gollan's
history is his last paragraph:—
As the Labor party’s policy
matured there was already develop-
ing a vocal and militant opposition
within the Labor movement. This
opposition has remained, and ten-
sions between the party and sections
of the industrial movement, varying
in intensity, continue to characterise
Labor politics. In fact, Labor policy
is the resultant of many forces. Of
these the two most important are the
realities of which politicians are
conscious and those that unionists
experience.
For there is a great deal to think
about in a phrase from Churchward’s
introduction to the Ebbels documents:
“A modern Labor movement is a pro-
duct of the development of capitalism’*;
and one observes from Gollan’s book
that by 1907:
Tom Mann had given up hope of
the Labor party becoming a Socialist
party. In 1908 he insisted that the
Labor members “behaved in no way
superior to capitalist members,” and
that the Labor party was no longer a
workers’ party but the party of the
middle class.
Reviewed Briefly
The Right People: Peter Forster
(Hutchinson). A pleasantly satiric
picture of varying codes in London’s
social strata, with emphasis on the
danger of getting out of one’s depth.
The hero, symbolically named Lem-
ming, is supposed to represent the
greater truth and sincerity of the artist
in contrast to the self-seeking of the
rich success-types with whom he is
thrown in contact, but, since he emerges
as a somewhat brash young man with-
out much moral fibre, he rather lets
the side down. Nonetheless, it is good
light entertainment. Satire really needs
more punch.
* • • •
Dangerous Harbor: William Hunts-
berry (Hammond). In a Honolulu
harbor, diving for a rudder dropped
overboard by a careless and beautiful
wench, the hero found a dead man.
The girl is the daughter of a gruff old
yachtsman who hopes to marry her off.
There is a photographer who specialised
in lewd photographs and had one of
the girl, and there is a wild woman on
a yacht who is in love with everyone
in general and someone in particular.
A night-club visit diversifies the action,
which mostly happens at night from
yacht to yacht.


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference- j
' , T> It
■y.
v<*V
O'
*6
99
1
d
Published by
21-
per single
copy
A review of :
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL
COMPANY
CONDITIONS,
ACCOUNTS
> '
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
'‘The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
“The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly/'
BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
