

The Bulletin
imm? “ © &wme mm
Wta nesday, March 23, i’tfp3
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSJ’API’it
Registered in Austr ilia for tianstnissioti bv post .1* :v newspaper.
<z/c%Y/amAd cA/itAe-
/A/: M>f/dti%Aoiee /
Dewars
The famous name to remember
in the History of
Scotch Whisky
•WMteWg*
It- &*&*£; Mil£ 1
5?/<je 2)&bOm


BOOK lIITN TER, Box 2671. 0.P.0.. Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
MAORI WRITERS
The recent publication of John Te
H. Grace's Tuwharetoa, a comprehen-
sive history of the Maori people of the
Taupo district, emphasises the marked
development among writers of Maori
origin.
In line with this book are other
developments in Maori writing. Pei Te
Hurunui Jones is already marked as
one of the leading translators of books
from Maori into English and from
English to Maori. He recently com-
pleted the translations of the MS of
traditional Maori songs and poems col-
lected by the late Sir Apirana Ngata.
Pei Jones has also completed the life-
history and songs of the poetess
Puhiwahine. and it is now being pub-
lished serially in “Te Ao Hou,” a
quarterly published for the Maori
Purposes Fund Board by the Depart-
ment of Maori Affairs.
Incidentally, it is this magazine,
established several years ago, that has
given a particular impetus to Maori
writing. Recently the quarterly pub-
lished a “Maori Writers’ Issue,” the
poetry in which is interesting—particu-
larly that from Hone Tuwhare: —-
Where are you going man where
The old man is deaf
To the child.
His stick makes deep
Holes in the ground
His eyes burn to a distant point
Where all roads converge . . .
The child has left his toys
And hobbles after the old
Man calling: funny man funny man
Funny old man funny
Overhead the sun paces
And buds pop and flare.
Another poet. Rowley Habib, writes
more in the European tradition: and
na Moko (S. M. Mead, head-teacher
of the Waimarama Maori School) con-
tributes one of his amusing “Tawhaki”
stories, some of which are to be printed
shortly in a primary school bulletin.
Another writer who has already won
his spurs is Harry Dansey. His contri-
bution to this Writers' Issue analyses
the emergence of distinct types follow-
ing the marital intermingling of the
two races.
In other fields the Maori writer is
making headway. Mrs. Arapera Blank,
a teacher at Hikurangi. secured an
important prize among a formidable
list of entries in the recent Katherine
Mansfield Memorial Award. And there
was the recent award of an Inter-
national Rotary Fellowship to Whata-
rangi Winiata; the amazing success
overseas of the Maori singer Inia Te
Wiata (he takes the leading role in the
American musical play “The Most
Happy Fella” to open in London in
May); and the emergence of the Maori
Ballet.
Incidentally, the pakeha historian
Eric Ramsden, who has already written
the life of Ngata, is now engaged on
the life and work of Sir Peter Buck,
the Maori scholar who gave us pos-
sibly the finest work of all, “The Com-
ing of the Maori.”
Pat Lawlor.
Napoleon Examined
James Kemble, consultant-surgeon
and urologist. Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons and a dis-
tinguished medical historian, examines
in Napoleon Immortal (Murray)
Napoleon’s family - history, health -
record from birth to death, private life
and personal habits. The book is well-
documented and the conclusions hardly
flattering.
Born in Ajaccio on August 15. 1769.
Napoleon had been conceived in the
throes of war—his parents were both
with the guerilla-forces led by Boswell’s
friend Pasquale Paoli. striving to gain
for Corsica independence from the
Genoese. Shortly before his birth his
mother was nearly drowned while
crossing a flooded river. The author
suggests—somewhat far-fetchedly—that
this prenatal experience may have given
him a permanent aversion to the sea
and so led ultimately to his failure to
cross the Channel for the invasion of
England!
His father. Charles-Marie Bonaparte,
died at the age of 39 from a form of
stomach-cancer while Napoleon was a
cadet at the military school at Brienne.
where he had been awarded a King’s
bursary.
Napoleon—he emerged 42nd among
the 58 lieutenants commissioned from
all the schools of France—was gazetted
at 16 and joined his regiment at
Valence:—
Small, beardless, pale, thin ... his
shoulders looked so narrow in his
uniform, which hung loosely as he
moved, about his neck a high
pleated cravat, long straight-hanging
locks hid his temples, his cheeks
were hollow, his mouth had an air of
seriousness ... He spoke seldom
and always briefly, his strong but
cross, irascible nature printed upon
his face all the signs of firmness as
well as those of obstinacy ... his
whole aspect was that of a medita-
tive and reserved young man, little
given to conversation, defiant yet
shy.
Paris and. later, the outbreak of the
Revolution, gave Napoleon —who had
meanwhile suffered from malaria and
neuro-dermatitis—his first taste of
ambition. Toulon, where he served
with the artillery of the besieging
republican troops against royalists and
English, earned him promotion (at 24)
to the rank of general, three wounds
and. as Kemble does not fail to record,
an attack of the itch, or scabies.
Back in Paris, after the Terror, he
fired his whiff of grapeshot and married
pretty, gay Josephine de Beauharnais.
a widow six years his senior, with two
children by her previous marriage.
Josephine’s infidelities worried him
less than her apparent lapse into
infertility. After he had become First
Consul and later had crowned himself
Emperor (having fought two campaigns
in Italy and one in Egypt), he proved
his own potency first with a young girl
employed in the household of his sister.
Princess Caroline Murat, who bore him
a natural son. and later, when he had
conquered the Prussians and entered
Warsaw, with Countess Maria Walew-
ska. who bore him another.
At the age of 40. says Kemble, the
Emperor became obese and started to
lose his mental agility. Froelich's
disease—deficiency of the pituitary
gland—is Kemble's diagnosis.
Then, in 1812. “Boney went to
Moscow." but on September 5. at
Borodino (50 miles out), was forced to
halt for two days, stricken by acute
bladder-trouble, possibly brought-on
by the severe winds and rain of the
steppes. This made it impossible for
him to ride, and the delay may have
led to his subsequent retreat and abdi-
cation.
When he escaped from Elba the
same disability or the pain of pro-
lapsed htemorrhoids made it impos-
sible for him to ride, says Kemble, so
he drove through France in a carriage
—a poor advertisement for his future
plans. He arrived in Paris
. ..a tired man. lacking both the
vigor of body and the power of
mind which were formerly his ; he
could not endure the same sustained
effort. After a few hours of work
he was overcome with lassitude and
would often sink into somnolence or
even doze right off. His sharp eye
and quick movements were gone, and
in their place were a shifting glance
and a lax flabby body.
Most curious of all is Kemble’s
chapter entitled “The Enigma of
Waterloo.” The author describes how.
during the fateful days of June. 1815,
Napoleon’s general debility was aggra-
vated by a local cause.
He suffered from an agonising attack
o Continued on page 74)


Hunting, Shooting, Fishing in Australia’s
' %
P /".I
m
SfP :
:
: : :
-
v %
*sJm-
- Z
**
KlP*®
NORTHERN TERRITORY
We Guarantee You
A Buffalo On
DARWIN SAFARI
GO
"East Of The Alligator"
For Your Next (or first)
HUNTING HOLIDAY
“Hurra for Breakfast." Hoy, from
tribe, with 151 b. Barramundi caught
from camp.
tiumvinguu
200 yards
Hunt buffalo, crocodile, pig, kangaroo, dingo, ducks, geese, quail
(in season). Fish for barramundi, Saratoga and other lagoon fish.
Enthusiasts with gun, rod or camera at NOURLANGIE CAMP
—all this only 120 miles east of Darwin in Arnhem Land,
where “Time Stands Still.”
Nourlangie has the best “bush comfort” traditional features.
Attractive two-bed cabins, inner-
spring mattresses, electric light, fans,
refrigeration, tastefully furnished bar
lounge, dining room, billiards, swim-
ming, horseriding and boating. This
Australian hunting paradise has been
described by American hunters Bill
Carpenter and Arthur Jones of Lousi-
ana and “Woody” Woodhill of Cali-
fornia, U.S.A., as the best, of the
world’s hunting camps and grounds
/:
Z
'
m
Allan Stewart,
Managing Director
they had ever seen. Guests are flown in by modern light aircraft
from Darwin to Nourlangie—so minutes’ flying time. If stay is
seven days or more guest is flown free. Darwin Safari supplies
in its all-inclusive tariff of £2O per day, clothing, guns, ammuni-
tion, fishing gear, native skinners, boats, horses, motor vehicles,
your white hunter, food, accommodation and refreshments.
«§l§
MM
■■ &=
.
MMm
■ -
.x;-
■ '
ft" '■
■■w
X-RAY cave paintings of Gunwinguu tribe wlio hunt
in Safari Country.
SEASON OPENS 11th APRIL, 1960.
LIMITED BOOKINGS
SPECIAL 6-DAY CENTENARY SAFARI
For the busy executive “who just can’t find the .time”
ask about these special safaris designed especially for
your needs.
Further enquiries to —
T.A.A. Holiday Service (All States); Government
Tourist Bureaus and your Travel Agent—
DARWIN SAFARI LIMITED
Federation House, Ash St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
AUSTRALIA. 8L2821.
Cables: “Alligator,” Sydney, Australia.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 23, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4180
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MONOPOLIES
TpHE question of “monopolies” is
A rarely viewed in proper perspective
in Australia. The word is not so much
a description as an offensive label like
“Fascist” and “Nazi,” bandied about
by the enemies of the free-enterprise
system as a term of abuse and always
carrying implications of dishonesty,
greed and oppression.
But since it has been adopted as a
major weapon of offence in campaign-
ing by the Labor party nobody has
ever been able to explain why, if a
private monopoly is evil because it
excludes the healthy factor of compe-
tition, bureaucratic monopoly must be
good.
In plain fact, the specimens of
Socialist monopoly—to which Mr.
Calwell in particular has said that Aus-
tralia is condemned once he can assume
power—which this country has to show
are enough to disturb any electorate.
The Sydney busmen, who hold trans-
port in the grip of union monopoly,
have become tyrants, utterly regardless
of the comfort and convenience of any-
body but themselves. They decide
when buses shall run, how long their
runs shall take, where they shall stop
and how many people shall travel in
them—and. indeed, what kind of buses
they are willing to drive, and anything
else that takes their fancy. And when-
ever they exhibit the power of
monopoly the Minister in control
apparently takes a holiday.
The monopoly of unions which are
most forward in preaching Socialism as
a cure for monopolies are of the most
autocratic kind. The Miners’ Federa-
tion was one (the dictator of all industry
for many years) and almost wrecked
the black-coal industry with its extor-
tions and persecutions.
Eventually the Chifley Government,
of which Mr. Calwell was a leading
adornment, was forced to take very
drastic action, which included the jail-
ing of some people associated with its
activities. It was not till that union
monopoly had been broken and the
right of free enterprise restored and a
flow of capital encouraged by intelli-
gent taxation concessions that coal
began once more to come into its own.
but not before N.S.W., the main centre
of coal production, had lost the inter-
state market for millions of tons.
'"THE monopolies of the Seamen’s
Union and the Watersiders’ Federa-
tions still exist, along with some others.
These are killing coastal passenger-
carriage and some freight-carriage, and
at the same time have forced the
shipping-companies into combinations
in self-defence. In the war with Gov-
ernment enterprise and unions, neither
of which seem to have any scruples,
the public interest runs a bad last.
Life in the shipping industry is a
thing of tooth and claw, a battle
fought out like a street scrap with all
comers. These include the Aus-
tralian Shipping Department, whose
ukase is necessary before anybody can
build or operate a ship inter-State or
overseas; the Waterside Workers,
which compels members to subscribe to
the funds of the Communist party, and
whose leaders are more concerned
with the affairs of Moscow than with
those of their members; and the Sea-
men’s Union, which seems to be trying
to wreck the major basic defence
industries in a campaign designed to
make carriage of ore and steel as
difficult as possible.
The Commonwealth Government
appears to have no intention of dealing
with those monopolies of labor which
produce more dangerous consequences
than anything resulting from com-
mercial and business abuses which they
propose to attack—whether “pies,”
“ties” or straight arrangements which
control purchase of primary products,
fix prices of wholesale and retail
products through various types of
combination, takeover and otherwise,
and sometimes restrict output and flow
of goods.
These are certainly matters which
need attention applied with a dis-
criminatory touch. There is un-
doubtedly, for instance, need for
control of hire-purchase in a more
direct form. There is little doubt but
that the cost of hire-purchase in the
form of interest, insurance rates, etc.,
is a substantial cost-of-living factor
in the modern world.
There is no doubt, also, of the
influence of regulation of prices, sales
and limitation of brands by the liquor
and hotel monopoly of the breweries
in some, and perhaps all, States on the
cost-of-living in view of the huge
expenditure on liquor. But at the same
time there is little likelihood that the
Commonwealth will be able to interfere
in a marked degree in any of these
matters.
So far, whatever legislation the
N.S.W. Government has at its disposal
all its actions seem to have been!
directed to enabling the transfer of
monopoly to the right highly scented,
quarters rather than to any effort at
control.
With other States like South Aus-
tralia engaged in fierce competition to
attract large slabs of overseas capita]
and with small populations whose!
wants in manufacture are more than
supplied by one concern in any one
avenue, the Commonwealth will havej
to tread very carefully if it does not
have to come down on State corns, j
VfERY little, it seems, can he'
done by Canberra in establishing]'
controls over price-agreements, whethei
of buyers or sellers, in consume!
markets.
Controls in any case need to be o
such an intensive and complicated 1 *
nature that they lay the foundations 1
for the still greater monopoly through
Socialisation. And experience of the 1 '
Egg Board in N.S.W., the variousl
Labor State retail enterprises of yon
in Queensland, and fruit-, fish- and
other -marketing schemes which strip
the dairyman and the ofange-grower,'’
allegedly in his own interest, of his rights
to sell his own produce, show where:
this sort of official busybodying leads
The likely attitude of the Federal
A.L.P., if given a chance, towards these l
matters, seems well indicated by the
summing-up of Roy Wheeler, M.P., of!
new Opposition-leader Calwell: —
The truth is that Labor’s new leader '
is a Socialist or nothin*;. He has been ,
proclaiming Socialism to the world for ,
years, and now, when he is elected '
A.L.P. Leader, he suddenly starts the
difficult process of hiding the fact.
The Leader of the Opposition just
cannot dice his Socialist lady-friend over-
night. No matter how he tries to dress j
her up in the New Look, her curves,
and vital statistics still proclaim her for
what she is. In fact, despite the Leader
of the Opposition’s valiant attempts, one
may say—“ Pardon me, madam, your
Socialist slip, is showing.”
Any organised move towards price-
control is merely a step towards
Labor’s Communist ideals, though
fortunately in present constitutional
conditions the Commonwealth cannot
move very far. Price-control is the
weapon the Calwells and the Wards
most yearn for.
Indeed, one of the few controls that,
the Commonwealth can exercise is by'
the encouragement of competitive'
private enterprise, through more dis-
criminating use of the taxation system.
Where that has been tried the results
have been salutary, as in coal in
producing expansion of production and
modernisation which has completely
altered the way of life and standards
of living on the coalfields, while
actually bringing prices down steadily
in an era of inflation.


THE NEW SAMSON, COMPLETE WITH JAWBONE OF ASS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Military Reductions
The outcry in the Federal Parliament
about the “sacking” of officers is typical
of that institution, in which the main con-
sideration is not whether an argument
is logical, but generally whether it will
harm the other political side.
Labor has consistently criticised the
Government for the manner in which it
has maintained the forces, and the
hackneyed argument which has been
emphasised since the Hobart conference
that the amount spent on defence could
long ago have solved the housing problem
without interfering with security has been
heard from the Labor benches every
session.
In fact, even during the abusive
criticism which went on last week, one
of the members of Mr. Calwell’s unhappy
cohort, Mr. Uren, voiced the opinion
that the allegedly wasted £l5O million
spent on National Training would have
achieved this desirable objective. It
would have built about 50,000 homes at
most.
Mr. Cramer was doubly embarrassed
by a leakage from his own party-room,
in which he apparently spoke out on his
reasons for the removal of those who are
being retired earlier than would be
normal, having regard to their ranks.
And the more raucous members of the
Labor benches made the Qiost of the leak,
Mr. Haylen devoting himself, as usual, to
personal abuse and insinuations of
“wholesale sacking” which had been a
“victory for the brass.”
Mr. Cramer is sometimes inept in his
handling of public relations, and it is
often easy to disagree with his measures;
but any attempt to reduce the top-heavy
military seniority which exists at present
is to be supported.
The Army still has hundreds of
officers whose experience and training is
out of tune with modern requirements.
This applies right up to the highest ranks.
It also has a large accretion of civilian
staff—-and in this it is not singular, for
the R.A.N. is probably a worse example
of this sort of thing—which has attached
itself limpet-like to the military estab-
lishment since the war.
The Army needs a thorough cleaning-
out, plus a fast elevation of young officers
of scientific and engineering attainment
and a general change which will do
away with the condition of affairs in
which headmasters of large public schools
are apt to dissuade bright boys from
entering a military career as a life-work,
because they are “too good for it.”
A little less quantity and better quality
seems to be one of the objectives of the
new Army Scheme, whatever its faults
in relation to civilian training. It would
be much better in the end to encourage
the training of young men under short-
term university schemes than to clutter-
up staffs and regular establishments with
ageing men who have little to do except
“see their time out.”
Two Hearings for One Wage
Returning more forcefully to its
previous advocacy of some reform of
wage-fixing methods to prevent future
inflation, the Institute of Public Affairs
Victoria says the division of the wage
into two distinct parts —the basic wage
and loadings or margins part —is purely
artificial and should be dropped.
There is today no logical reason what-
ever why the whole wage should not be
considered as one wage at a single inquiry
and adjustments made accordingly. There
should be no hearings by the commission
to fix a basic wage.
The Arbitration Commission should
announce its decisions in terms of a
percentage variation on existing awards
and not as a flat money-rise as in present
basic-wage determinations.
Assuming that the commission, after
considering the capacity of industry,
determined on an increase of two per
cent., all wages coming under the
Federal jurisdiction would then be raised
by two per cent.
A relatively unskilled man receiving
£l4 a week would get an increase of
ss. 7d. ; a highly skilled man on £22 a
week, Bs. lOd. This would have three
important advantages:
It would simplify greatly the wage-
fixing process. It would automatically
preserve the comparative position of the
skilled as compared with the unskilled
worker. It would lessen the danger of
inflation which must arise from separate
determinations on the basic wage and
margins.
The Australian practice of separate
hearings is unique. No other country
with a national wage-fixing authority
follows it; and New Zealand fixes a wage
for unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled
workers at the one hearing.
Spider and Fly
The texts of the two disarmament plans
presented at Geneva for discussion before
the Summit Conference indicate how
little hope there is of an arranged
permanent peace.
The Western plan was issued on March
15, and stated, as its ultimate goal, “a
secure, free and peaceful world in which
there shall be general disarmament under
effective international control and agreed
procedures for the settlement of disputes
in accordance with the principles of the
United Nations Charter” ; this to be
worked into an agreement “balanced,
phased and safeguarded” with the
measures for its application “observed
and verified by an \appropnate interna-
tional organisation.”
The initial move proposed is the foun-
dation of the International Disarmament
Organisation by progressive steps.
Co-operative launchings of space-
vehicles and the sharing of data through
the new 1.D.0., the collection of informa-
tion about present armed-force levels of
the various Powers based on declarations
by the Powers themselves according to
an agreed standard formula, and dis-
closure of military Budgets, followed by
the co-ordinated reduction or limitation
of normal force levels under 1.D.0. super-
vision are the preliminaries advocated.
The plan itself is comprehensive, both
as to the ultimate aim and the staging
procedure by which they will be obtained.
The Soviet offers came as a shock
They propose the cutting of U.S. and
Russian forces to 1,700,000 within a year
and those of France and the U.K. by
650,000. These remaining forces would
then be disbanded within 18 months or
two years, and all foreign bases
abandoned. And they propose to include
China in the agreement—a very knotty
point.
Then all nuclear and military installa-
tions are to be destroyed, along with
weapons.
All this looks magnificent, but it is
full of tricks and it is covered by a
proviso that Moscow shall have the right
to veto any “charges of Soviet
violations.”
This, of course, would make the whole
plan subject to Russian and not interna-
tional supervision, and the phasing pro-
posed by Moscow would see the Western
Allies withdrawn from Western Europe,
leaving it wide open before the U.S.S.R.
had made any real move to disarm,
either in the nuclear or the conventional
military fields.
It is a plan framed to catch the man-in-
the-street, but it is also an invitation to
the West to play fly in the Red spider’s
parlor, and cannot be accepted.
In fact, it seems to suggest that the
whole peace campaign emanating from
Moscow has been, as usual, a cynical
bluff calculated to turn Western peoples
against their Governments’ defence plans
and weaken their defences.
Life for Manslaughter
It is a long time since an N.S.W. judge
in a manslaughter case has been as out-
spoken in his remarks as Mr. Justice
McClemens was last Friday when he
pronounced sentence on Kevin Simmonds
and Leslie Newcombe for the killing of
Emu Plains warder Cecil Mills. Both
men were sentenced to life-imprisonment
for what his Honor said was the worst
case of manslaughter he had known-
more serious than many cases of
deliberate murder.
After detailing the nature of the
injuries inflicted on the dead man the
judge, referring to defence pleas, said
that there had been some talk about
justice, but
justice to Newcombe and Simmonds in
this case involves justice to Warder Mills
whose head was bashed, whose brain was
damaged, who was left lying on the floor
—as we saw from photographs—in what
was literally a river of blood. Justice
involves justice to his widow, justice
to every man, woman and child in this
community . . .
His Honor said there had been a lot
of maudlin sympathy manifested for
the two men, but he could not find one
redeeming feature in their case. It had
been suggested on behalf of Simmonds
that his not firing at Ranger Green
showed that he had a regard for human


life (and that it was therefore unlikely
that he intended to kill Warder Mills).
The judge said another explanation
could be that Simmonds knew that the
sound of a shot would attract searching
police to the spot. Moreover, the court
was concerned with what happened up
to the time of the killing, not what
happened afterwards. The two men, on
their own admission, had gone to Emu
Plains with the intention of breaking-in,
and stealing clothes, food and a revolver.
They had armed themselves with a
baseball-bat and a cricket-stump and the
warder had been struck repeated blows
from which he had died. Judge
McClemens said he could find not one
redeeming feature in the case, and in
imposing a life-sentence he did not intend
it as a 20-year sentence.
It has been urged on behalf of New-
combe that his part in the crime was
less culpable than that of Simmonds
and, on the evidence, this might seem
to be so, except for one important point.
It was Newcombe, not Simmonds, who
had been a prisoner at Emu Plains and
who knew the routine there. In evi-
dence he claimed he had had no inten-
tion of seeking a revolver there, only
food and clothing. In that case there
were thousands of places within easy
range of the Showground hideout where
experienced criminals like Simmonds and
Newcombe could have stolen food and
clothing without serious risk to them-
selves. But Emu Plains offered as well
the chance of getting a gun. And
because of that the man who carried
the gun on behalf of the community is
dead.
Hope for the Manufacturers
Manufacturers who are fearing the
effects of the virtual total abandonment
of import-licencing can take heart from
two statements by Minister for Trade
Jack McEwen last week.
Firstly, he stated categorically that the
Government would take every necessary
step to protect efficient manufacturing
industries from damage by imports.
Secondly, the Government would
quickly increase the size of the Tariff
Board to hear applications for assistance
to industry if the necessity arose.
Mr. McEwen told Parliament that
there was no doubt that the recent free-
ing of imports would sharpen competi-
tion amongst Australian industries.
However, it would be a complete negation
of what the Government had been striv-
ing for for years if it allowed the com-
petition from imports-to wreck efficient
Australian manufacturing industry.
McEwen was obviously referring to
the threatened competition from Japanese
imports, which is certain to flow from
the easing of controls on Jap imports.
All quotas on imports from Japan
have been increased by 20 per cent., and
these remaining controls will be lifted in
a short time.
McEwen is fully aware of the potential
threat from the Japanese manufacturers,
but with the review of the Australian-
Jap Trade Agreement coming up in May,
it can be taken for certain that Australia
—and in this case that means McEwen—
will ensure the essential safeguards are
retained in the agreement.
Mr. McEwen earlier told Parliament
the Tariff Board was keeping abreast
of applications before it for assistance to
a number of Australian industries. In
the past year it had dealt with a record
number of applications.
The Expensive Red
Although the Victorian railwaymen
still appear to have backed a loser in
their wrangle with the commissioners
about the payment of service-grants they
have won points in the more recent
contests.
The first was the publication of
facts about railwaymen’s pay, arising
from a mass-meeting of the men at some
centres, instead of the usual resolutions
couched in braggart language.
The wages-sheet they produced showed
that the take-home pay of a tradesman
was less than £3O a fortnight, of an
assistant tradesman less than £2B, and
of a laborer less than £27, for 80 hours.
Overtime, of course, increases this pay
substantially when it is worked, but for
some months the railwaymen, at the
direction of their Communist-union
bosses, have been refusing to work more
than a limited number of hours, and the
commissioners have retaliated by cutting-
down overtime at its costliest incidence.
On the second count, the commis-
sioners began to pay merit-money to
some railwaymen. The railwaymen claim
that this has been done in an effort to
split them, and, in the current all’s-fair
climate, this is not difficult to believe.
The more important fact is that the pay-
ments were made almost at the same
time as the commissioners laid down that
no service-grants could be made without
going to arbitration.
The third was a denial by Sir Arthur
Warner, who has been absent abroad for
most of the dispute, that he indicated to
the men that he would, as Minister,
persuade the commissioners not to
oppose their claims at arbitration.
The commissioners, of course, did
oppose the claim, and successfully, lead-
ing to the present strained position.
Whatever Sir Arthur Warner intended
to convey at the time, there is no doubt
the men believed there would be no
opposition to their claim.
Since the go-slow strike, on one hand,
and its go-slow lockout, on the other,
began, the unions have offered to accept
very much less than the original claim,
based on service-grants paid in other
Government departments, and it is
possible they may have won consider-
able public support if they had not been
Communist-led.
Jacky Brown, their secretary, is, as he
has been for more than a decade, quite
a luxury.
Dream of Freedom
The motion of E. J. Ward in caucus to
provide for the expulsion of members
of the Australian Labor Party who
indulge in sectarianism met with short
shrift when it came before caucus last
week
The party allegedly does not believe
in sectarianism in politics. Indeed, Mr.
Gough Whitlam, who seems to be run-
ning a dream Labor party of his own,
judging by his exposition of policy in
the Sydney press and on TV during the
week, said that he believed sectarianism
has “done harm to the party through
secret activities of some people,” but
“it is over now.”
At the same time, Mr. Ward moved his
wrathful motion —which one would have
expected every anti-sectarian to approve
—after having discovered that he had
been defeated for the deputy-leadership
because the managers of the voting
believed that there should be at least one
Protestant among four leaders. Mr.
Calwell ruled the motion out-of-order
on the ground that it was not in the
interests of the party that it should be
debated.
Then, when somebody moved dissent
from the ruling, Mr. Whitlam hastily
took the chair and ruled the motion out-
of-order on the ground that there was
no seconder.
It was obvious that nobody wanted to
hear Ward produce his evidence or to
have the question raised of what propor-
tion of the leadership and caucus are
Catholics.
This, however, is not the real signi-
ficance of the incident, which was
scarcely an advertisement for Labor’s
consistency. Its stand has always been
for “freedom of speech,’’ no matter what
the viewpoint of the speaker.
It fought tooth-and-nail for the liberty
of the Communist party to exist and
express itself, even though it declared
Communism to be a treasonable con-
spiracy. It fought for that right even
when the Communist party in war-time
was using its freedom to advocate the
cause of Hitler, to abuse the Australian
viewpoint and to work for the sabotage
of war industry and recruiting and help
the enemy.
It has always been heard crying for
“British justice” for Communists and sedi-
tionists who have found themselves in
trouble over urgings made to the danger
of the country.
But when somebody is likely to say
anything to embarrass or injure the Labor
party, there is no freedom whatever.
Even the lips of its leaders are forcibly
sealed, and they speak at their peril, as
E. J. Ward has discovered.
If he had spoken, on the known facts,
the embarrassment would not have been
in the calling to notice of the fact that
the leaders of the party were Catholic,
but in the revelations of the opportunism
and desperation that lay behind the whole
of the manoeuvres which constituted the
leadership—the attempts to deceive the
Catholic vote and woo the Democratic
Labor Party, the chicanery of the ballots
and the alliances of strange bedfellows.


TO CATCH THE BUS
[A suburban song.]
When up the road tick tock, tick tock,
The husbands march at eight-o’clock
To catch the bus to catch the train
To walk to town to work again
Oh where in each poor clicking toy
Is man who was a roaring-boy,
The king of beasts, the lord of fate ?
He earns his pay and is not late.
How much is left (left right left right)
When down the hill at fall of night
Some with groceries, some with beer,
All the heroes reappear?
From Hilltop View to Number Ten
The wives are waiting for their men
And like a lion or a mouse
Each shuts the door in his own house.
N.S.W.
MACHOOTS.
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
s he had received quite a
severe shock from her electric-stove.
What else had she had on? She was a
mite surprised. “Nothing else. Just
nylon briefs and bra. and a cotton frock,
same as now.”—“G.T.”
*** ♦♦♦
“Dicky”: Going home late from town
he was a bit startled when the headlights
showed the outline of a bulky woman
bending in the middle of the road to
retrieve a collection of bananas, toma-
toes, apples and various fruits and vege-
tables scattered across the road. He
slowed down cautiously as he
approached and saw the outline of a
utility, with someone in the cabin, pulled
to the side of the road. “Are you all
right? Need any help?” he called to the
outline in the cabin. A - beery voice
replied, “No, I’m all right, thanks mate.”
There was a thoughtful pause, then:
“But y’ can run over the Missus if y’
like.”
♦I 4 •£♦
“Uncle Toby”: I note in our paper
that a former railwayman living in
a Newcastle suburb has received a letter
from the department advising him that,
as he had completed 10 years of his
retirement, his superannuation payments
were to be increased by Id. a fortnight.
They didn’t mind spending sd. to send
him the glad news. This looks like one
of the occasions when office records must
have balanced to the penny, to use an old
banking expression. I only hope I’m not
wasting sd.
*> ❖ *
“Sister Ellell”: Here in S.A. the salute
to herald the arrival of the Royal Babe
was fired by Croweater cadets —a last-
minute assignment. Originally it was
to have been the privilege of the C.M.F.
troop. For some time beforehand they'd
practised steadily; new uniforms had
been issued, and they had been on call for
some days. When the all-clear came,
they were entrained for El Alamein for
their annual sojourn . . How niggly can
Ma Nature be?
❖ ♦> *X*
“Mugga Way”: Guest on a Saturday
afternoon in a Sydney suburban club
with sporting associations, I noticed that
every member wearing shorts also wore
long socks and shoes. I mentioned it to
my host, who told me the club rule was
for long socks with shorts, and no
sandals, even with slacks. He said the
rule was endorsed by several high-rank-
ing police-officers who were members,
and who had told the management that
there was never trouble in a club where
“This is the flash joint where that snobby Sue Underdale always comes
to get her photo in the papers."
there were strict rules about dress. I’d
like to know why.
A A
“Roomy”: Two brawny types, they
arrived delivering our new" solid-
myrtle double-wardrobe, slung it down
from the truck and propelled it up the
path on a trolley, and even up the one-
inch step into the hallway. Then they
asked where Ld like it. I told them:
J he fi rs tf oor A at ’ on the right.”
Yeah but where d you want it put ?
For now, see?” They shoved it a bit
nearer the wall where it still blocked
access to the stairs as well as to the
two bottom flats. “I want it put upstairs,
in the bedroom.” I was clueless as yet.
They exchanged pitying glances: “Look,
lady, we’ve done our job. Delivered
your ’robe. We ain’t removal-men! ”
Well, they removed themselves, and fast,
when I began talking. But the P.M.G.
gang smoko-ing over the way lipped their
fags and crowded, grinning, into the
hallway. That wardrobe went upstairs
shoulder-high like a carton of cornflakes.
I didn’t have a refrigerator, but no one
seemed to mind the beer being warm.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bardon”: We had a whip-round in
the family to pay my wife’s fine for jay-
walking in a Brisbane street, feeling that
we couldn’t do without her for the three
days’ jail “in default.” It recalled a
friend and myself years ago having our
names taken for a similar offence when
it was necessary to produce to the police-
constable a driving-licence to prove that
“J. Walker” was in fact my friend’s cor-
rect name.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Septulm”: Male hearts in 1914
London theatre audiences beat pit-a-pat
for the curvaceous Gaby; feminine
dittoes fluttered for the Boulevard-
accented Maurice—the team of Deslys
and Chevalier was a sure bill-topper.
Then Sous-Officier Chevalier (it’s his right
name) was captured by the Kaiser’s
troops and incarcerated with English
subaltern p.-0.-w. Armistice returned
him to his manager, who was extremely
disconcerted to get Maurice back with
flawless English as his new acquirement,
Maurice was instructed to reassume his
aberrated English pronto, lest his new-
fangled fluency put a dint in the entente
cordiale and their franc-roll.


We boys batch in a little old place in
Sydneyside Glebe. It’s better
than boarding, even though we share
it with the rats and fear the council or a
windstorm will demolish it. Dick wrote
asking for a shake-down over the week-
end. He was sick of milking and wanted
to see the ballet. We replied that we’d
arranged to go to Gosford, but the key
of the front-door would be under a stone
at the gate. Dick arrived and found no
key. “The b s forgot,” he said
amiably, and strolled round to the back,
where he managed to slip the lock of a
very small window, climbed halfway
through and stuck. For hours, so it
seemed, he wriggled and struggled ; then,
thinking he heard someone coming, made
a violent effort and fell through onto
the floor. When he had recovered suffi-
ciently, he walked through the house to
where the front-door stood . . . wide-open.
We had left it thus when we remembered
how tricky it was to unlock from the
outside. And, of course, we couldn’t
inconvenience poor old Dick. —•
“Tomenbil.”
♦** ♦♦♦
“Cece”: Latest hair-of-the-dog for the
morning-after: champagne-jelly in jars
from Denmark to spread on your toast.
* * *
“Pandanus”: She called the boy Hume
—surely both foolproof and school-
proof. But, no: at school they dubbed
him Perf-Hume. Stinking luck!
4* i* *S
“Zabra”: With the terms “black” and
“white” now being used for tea as well
as coffee, I often hear that a “cuppa” is
never black, but merely brown. I can
remember one that turned out blacker
than the strongest coffee. I was travelling
on a ketch in Spencer Gulf, and the tin
used for the sugar was a trifle rusty. I
like plenty of sugar, so into my cup
went quite a lot of rust as well. A
chemistry-minded friend tells me that
the tea and rust react to form a
black iron-compound ; the result was an
inky liquid that became progressively
darker until I couldn’t see the spoon
below the surface. I’ve heard that the
friend has since used the brew for filling
his pen.
<* ❖ ❖
“Stromlo”: A case of Bibles consigned
to Sydney from the U.S. has been lifted.
They weren’t cheap prints, and they
were the version used by one church.
Will shady characters creep up to manse
doors offering cheap editions? Or will
they be selling Bibles instead of watches
in the pubs round the ’Loo?
* *>
“Wusslean”: In a section of the Vic-
torian public service a “return” is made-
up each Monday showing the total
number of documents received during the
previous week. One Monday some months
ago the section-head was so alarmed by
what the “return” disclosed that he
promptly applied to his superior for
"No need to get all het-up about 'em, Ulysses—scientifically
they're only dugongs!"
additional staff, quoting the return as
evidence of the heavy pressure of work.
Impressed by the need for immediate
relief, the superior officer endorsed the
request as urgent and necessary. It
wasn’t until some weeks after the
reinforcements had arrived that the junior
clerk who compiled the weekly returns,
glancing casually through his day-book,
noticed that one week’s total had, in
carrying forward from one page to the
next, been inordinately swelled by
adding-in portion of the date.
♦> *•> ❖
“Becks”: So the “outdorium” (B.
16/3/’6O) merely means the backyard!
I'd held other ideas and couldn’t puzzle
out how tables, chairs, shade-umbrellas,
cane-lounges and barbecues could be
fitted into it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rangitaiki”: Hotel licensee was up
before the Beak on charges of selling
liquor after hours, exposing liquor for
sale after hours and opening licensed
premises for the sale of liquor after
hours. The police had found business
being conducted as if the hours were
normal. Three barmen behind the bar,
about 50 people in the bar and another
50 or 60 in the beer-garden at the back
of the hotel. Bung said he was just enter-
taining a few friends, but he pleaded
guilty and was fined. His lawyer had
done his best for him, saying that he ran
his business like a Sunday-school. Now
I ask you, what does that lawyer know
about Sunday-schools?
❖ *> ❖
“Signor Cranqui”: I am intrigued to
hear that Dunk Island was “deserted”
five years ago (B. 2/ 3 / ’6O) when an ex-
cosmetic tycoon from Melbourne hap-
pened upon it to wake it into the full
bloom of tourism. I doubt if Dunk has
ever been deserted since the pre-Banfield
era about 50 years ago. I was there in
the ’thirties, after Banfield’s death, and
three banana-growers were there doing
their stuff with the aid of an accomplished
abo. who entertained me with a session
of boomerang-displays. Later, until
1939, it was inhabited by Hugo Brassey
(nephew of the vice-regal Gowries), who
brought his newly acquired baroness-
spouse there. During the war it was


occupied by Service personnel, and after
the war was developed as a tourist-resort.
When I returned to Dunk in 1947 it was
cluttered-up with tourist-cabins, central
dining-hall (the Banfield residence), and
bar on beach. Ironically, the remains of
E. J. Banfield repose there under a hand-
some monument which bears words to
the effect that if a man does not keep
pace with his companions it may be that
he hears the music of another drummer,
and let him step to the music which he
hears.
♦l* *5
“Pip Tok”: That elderly acquaintance
of “Pat” (B. 2/3/’6O) who alleged that
Queensland girls “get that washed-out
look,” reminds me of an equally elderly
chap with whom I travelled from Mel-
bourne to Perth on my first trip west-
ward by land. He assured me that
Westralia was a fine place for men, but
hard on women, who, he said, soon
developed “that washed-out West Austra-
lian look.” He illustrated this hypothesis
by indicating three women travellers,
obviously mother, daughter and auntie.
“There you are,” he went on. “They
have it—a real washed-out look.” When
"I'll admit it's a bad beginning to a holiday — but, now We're here,
let's make the most of it!"
we changed trains at Kalgoorlie the
same three ladies entered our carriage,
just ahead of us. We were close enough
to overhear their criticism of the Westra-
lian railways. My friend’s face developed
a beetroot color when the eldest of the
trio declared, “They’re not a patch on
our Victorian trains!”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Dash Dotty”: “Sack” and his inter-
esting nicknames (B. 2/3/’6O) recalls my
first day at the Melbourne Telegraph
Office, to which I had been recalled at
the outbreak of World War 11. The
supervisor told me to take over Line
No. 12 from “Or-for-ever.” Torn from
the marriage ceremony, it was particu-
larly appropriate: he rarely spoke,
unless addressed, and his life’s motto
seemed to be to for ever hold his peace.
“Zake”: In the 200yds. stretch between
Sydney G.P.O. and Market Street I
passed five imitation “sex-kittens.” Each
of them, in the Bardot fashion, wore
her long hair as if it had just been
dried with the perimeter of a cyclone.
Each had used a wan lipstick lavishly to
make her lips as full and sensuous-
looking as those of their goddess. Each,
too, was trying with pathetic eagerness
to project the petulant pout which is the
Bardot’s sole piece of histrionic equip-
ment. Although you’d scarcely say their
efforts were successful, they all did
succeed strikingly in achieving one aspect
of the French star’s appearance: the
vacuous look.
*j*
“O-Twit”: Cleaning and repairing a
harmonium imported from England over
100 years ago I was amazed at the
infinite care and accuracy with which
each hand-shaped section fitted with its
neighbor. In these days of mass-produc-
tion one forgets the art and precision of
the craftsmen of yesteryear. No two
keys, rods, etc., though similar in
appearance, are exactly alike ; all fit
snugly in their prescribed position. For
40 years or more the instrument had
been in storage, and there was ample
evidence that it had been “at home” to
rats and mice on various occasions ; but
it is in excellent mechanical condition.
Only two of the 244 reeds need replac-
ing, apart from the fabric and felting,
which has rotted with age.
❖ . ❖ *>
“J.J.A.”: Living temporarily next to
a drive-in theatre I have been able to
make a study of the social habits of the
patrons. There are those who come
late, those who arrive or depart at all
odd times during the show, but the largest
class are those who, beginning about five
minutes before the end of the film, rev-
up their cars and blast off. Nobody ever
hears the end of the film for thousands
of horsepower snorting or spluttering.
These, I feel, divide into two classes:
those who believe film-endings are too
obvious to wait for —a fair assumption;
and those whose minds are so far ahead
of the film, that they finish the story
before the film does —no great mental
strain. Fortunately, as the drive-in uses
a loudspeaker system, I can study the
subject without undue cost. Indeed, from
my window I see Hollywood’s efforts
for their true value.
❖ ❖
“Alma”: Assimilation of the pretty
little Dutch girl into the pony-club was
really completed when the kids had an
outing of mainly gymkhana events.
After one race little Dutchie and her
vanquisher jogged off side-by-side on
their ponies, the newcomer thrusting out
her paw, leaning out of the saddle and
saying cheerfully, “Good on you, mate.”
♦> ♦> ♦♦♦
“Sistel Ellell”: Called to see a patient
recuperating after a carbuncle. His
young-hopeful sons informed me, “Oh,
yes, Dad’s better; we’ve been helping
him take down a tank, and he’s going
to pay us, too. Only he didn’t have any
change, so he's gone down to get some
at the pub.”
WEDDING-RINGCRAFT
“Counsel: ‘How long was it after your
marriage that your husband commenced
beating you?’
“Plaintiff: ‘About a week. But they weren’t
anything like the hidings I got later, when he
really meant them.’ ” N
He was such a considerate bloke
For he’d suffered the conjugal yoke"
A whole week ere deciding
With moderate hiding
Respect for her lord he’d invoke.
His patience was that of a saint
During those seven days of restraint.
If her jaw he had broken
As wedding-day token,
She might have had cause for
complaint!
For gradual correction he stood,
As a disciplinarian should;
So he started with chidings
That worked-up to hidings
Admittedly not very good.
A natural softness of heart
Made , blows rather mild at the start;
Benignly he reasoned
She’d stand better, seasoned,
The heavier punch he’d impart.
Here’s a man who, unjustly maligned,
Had probably felt he was kind
In bending her sniffer
Each time she would differ
From something he may have opined.
By degrees it would get her quite used
To being perpetually bruised.
When, in manner the sternest,
He’d sock her in earnest
Sincere, then, he must be excused !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


STEEL PIPE Needs No
Underground Protection
• yy,'. ✓ •s- srr'}?,™ „„ v *y" .<a>-• •*??**" s W w-9™ «/ w,- v
~*»fc ’ ' *J Jl§ ' ' "' ■ ■'■■■ 3
:x*^'
m
w : .
m
WW,
• >
mi
W ' ' : ■
•••.• ..:•••;•
:
m
. . ■
Whenever water
has to be conveyed—
there's no satis-
factory substitute
for STEEL PIPE
Before ordering, think of these advan-
tages that steel pipe has over other
types of piping.
★ Because it is not fragile or susceptible
to damage by stock or fire, it can be
laid above ground, thereby saving
cost of trenching.
★ Greater strength gives far longer life.
★ Steel pipe does not deteriorate iii
sunlight or with exposure.
★ Is not damaged by termites or
rodents.
★ Has much greater pressure capacity.
★ Steel pipe is easy to install, handle or
store without fear of breakage.
★ In-built structural strength and rigidity
permit overhead vertical and
building installations.
★ No other type of pipe is so
economical . . . so enduring . . .
versatile in its application.
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, shorter-lived types of piping!
FOR VALUE... GREATER STRENGTH... LONGER LIFE... INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong,
Launceston, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie «
SSA 2-59,


POLTICAL POINTS
When Lud Mayor Harry Jensen
attended New York’s St. Patrick’s
Day parade the sidewalks were thick wid
blarney. Governor Nelson Rockefeller
and Mayor Wagner both told him they’d
“love to go to Australia,” and the presi-
dent of the Rockefeller Foundation
allowed Harry to discuss the Sydney
Opera House appeal, though without
committing the Foundation for a dime.
As for the Martin Place land deal —well,
the most Jensen could report was “The
interest here is not as great as it was in
London.” What Sydney wants to know
was how great was it in London.
• •
West Germany is to denationalise the
Volkswagen car-plant and the British
Labor party decided to water-down its
pledge on nationalisation. The A.L.P.
still sticTs to it's legendary objective of
“the socialisation of industry, production,
distribution and exchange” without the
slightest degree of unanimity on what it
means.
On the socialisation front R. C.
Wheeler, Liberal M.H.R. for Mitchell
(N.S.W.), summed-up Labor’s direction-
less policy by saying that all the Opposi-
tion-leader could promise about it was to
name certain things such as banks, air-
lines, General Motors-Holden’s and
B.H.P. which he didn’t intend to
nationalise “at the moment.” Wheeler
said that if Calwell nationalised G.M.-H.
there would be no further worry about
the problem of its excess profits, because
there wouldn’t be any.
• •
The formation of a White Collar
Workers’ Union has its merits. Scientists
and skilled workers have been paid a
miserable wage against those paid to
unskilled wharfies and rouseabouts. But
the decision to ask for a 30-hour week
to begin with was a bad start. The
professional classes demanding profes-
sional pay should be the thinking classes
able to estimate where ‘ loaf gets a
country in the end ; but this union, like
most others, seems to have fallen into
the hands of Leftist spellbinders at the
outset.
• •
JJough Whitlam’s outline of policy on
March 19 in the Sydney “Herald” had
everything except the kitchen sink. The
only trouble was that it wasn’t the policy
of the A.L.P. as set-out in its platform.
And most of it was purely visionary.
The idea of competing in manufactures
with the South-east Asian countries on
a real basic-wage of £l7 for a 35- or
even a 40-hour week is moonshine.
By-elections for two House of
Commons seats last week gave the Con-
servatives an extra seat and the Liberals
encouragement for thinking their star is
once more ascending. In the Yorkshire
electorate of Brighouse and Spenborough,
won by Labor at the general election
last October by 47 votes, the combined
Conservative and Liberal candidate
Michael Shaw won this time by 666
votes. The other contest was in Harrow,
a Conservative stronghold. The Govern-
ment candidate, A. J. Page, won easily
enough with 18,526 votes, but Liberal
John Walbridge, with 7100, polled 1000
votes more than the Labor man.
• •
Tudge Fraser, chairman of the Vic-
** torian Licensing Court, has recom-
mended 10-o’clock closing for Victorian
hotels, with a break between 6.30 p.m.
and 7.30 p.m., as in N. S. Wales. He
has also suggested the issue of “tavern
licences,” for the sale of liquor without
the obligation of providing meals and
accommodation, and special “restaurant
licences.” This news should set the
lemonade-bottles flying thick and fast.
e •
In view of reports of Russian subs,
using Indonesian bases and of a build-up
of Western anti-sub. strength in the
south-west Pacific, an item of news from
Djakarta is interesting. It is announced
that a £stg3oo,ooo contract for anti-sub.
equipment has been placed by the chief
of the Indonesian Navy with a British
electronics firm. The gear is to be used
in conjunction with receiving equipment
already installed in Gannet-aircraft being
made in Britain for Indonesia.
• •
[From Canberra]
P.M.G. Davidson has come-in for more than
his share of criticism over increased postal and
telephone charges, but has gained a little face
from reports, somewhat unofficial, of steps to
hustle-up the Broadcasting Control Board’s
delay in hearing country TV-applications.
Davidson was never in favor of the increased
charges, but Cabinet overruled him. and loyalty
to his colleagues made him stand-up to some
of the most intense Ministerial criticism in
recent years.
Now, in face of the £6-million profit by his
department in’ the year ended last June —
before the new charges became effective —he
has again had to defend the charges and bear
the brunt of the criticisms for a decision
not his own.
On the credit side, it appears that as a
result of some discreet talking by the P.M.C.,
the Broadcasting Control Board may make
an interim report on TV-applications by
Easter.
If this is done, the A.C.T. and N. S. Wales
allocations, at least, may be decided quickly,
giving people in those areas a chance of getting
TV within 12 months.
Davidson has seen the senselessness of
waiting till all applications for every State
have been heard before reaching a decision on
any one State.
ANOTHER ERUPTION


One of the joys of leadership for Cal-
well is the certainty of getting on
TV nearly as often as he likes. Arthur
is a lively and entertaining interviewee,
especially when expertly dodging nasty
questions. He got into three telecasts in
the weekend after his election ; but he
couldn’t get out of one witticism at his
expense. “Australians should own 49
per cent, of G.M.-Holden’s,” he said.
“What’s this? A new angle?” asked an
interviewer. “Forty-nine per cent.
Socialism?”
• •
Fireworks are expected at and after
next week’s election of a replacement in
the N. S. Wales Legislative Council for
the late Bob King. The seven expelled
Labor M.L.C.s are putting-up T. L.
Quinn, a grazier from Mungindi, who
has resigned from the A.L.P. preparatory
to accepting nomination. Another Labor
M.L.C., G. B. Rvgate, says he intends to
vote for Quinn, and that he would have
voted against the abolition-bill, along with
the seven rebels, if he hadn’t been in
hospital at the time. State A.L.P. presi-
dent Campbell says that if he does so
he’ll automatically expel himself.
It seems that the Opposition will not
run a candidate, but will vote for Quinn,
in which case, all members being present
and firm, he should win the seat by 78
votes to 75. Labor still talks of getting
rid of the Council in quick time, but on
present indications the patient seems hale
and hearty.
• •
Red propaganda in West Germany has
increased considerably in recent months.
Last year, in Lower Saxony alone, more
than one million items of Soviet propa-
ganda material were confiscated, and
in the last three months more than 7400
sacks, containing more than half a
million items, fell into the hands of the
Luneburg section of the Attorney-
General’s department. All these items
had been smuggled in illegally.
• •
seems to have handed Latrobe
to the Liberals. His attacks on the
D.L.P. have resulted in that party decid-
ing to give second preferences to the
Libs., third to the Australian Republican
candidate and last to A.L.P. Calwell
attacked the D.L.P. before he won the
leadership and, for good measure, again
afterwards. The D.L.P. now describe
him as the prisoner of the Left Wing of
the A.L.P. Victorian executive.
In the absence of Casey’s prestige vote
the D.L.P. pref. could well be vital, but
Calwell has alienated it in order to endear
himself to the Left Wing.
• •
F. H. Campbell, head dictator of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P., has solemnly rejected
a plan for a united front with Com-
munism on subjects on which the two
parties agree, the secretary of the State
Communist party having pointed-out that
“the decisions made at the last annual
A.L.P. conference were exactly in line
with Communist policy.” Campbell said
that “the Communist party’s philosophy
and policy are anathema to Labor.”
But not its money or its methods of
getting it —witness the funds the A.L.P.
gets from the watersiders and its lack
of indignation at the treatment of the
Hurseys, who refused to contribute to
the A.L.P. via members of the Com-
munist Party Central Committee.
• •
If a royal commission is needed any-
where it is on the effects of Government
policy on rural development, which is
languishing pitifully behind the facade
of mushroom growth in great wens like
Sydney and Melbourne. The country in
' V N. S. Wales suffers regular increases in
transport-costs and failure to push-ahead
water-schemes such as the Hunter Valley
dams (some of them authorised 14 years
ago and still several years off com-
pletion). Country-party leader Cutler
claims on official authority that last year
60 country factories closed down, six of
them because of transport costs.
• _•
Sixteen members of the Opposition
party in Ghana have been sentenced
to 12 months’ imprisonment and (subject
to High Court approval) 12 lashes for
having caused disturbances during the
polling for the Ashanti Council last
October. Four women were each fined
£5O and two very old men bound over.
What a shindig this would have caused
if the sentences had been imposed by a
British colonial Government!
• •
“D.”: Victorian Liberals have
authorised Cabinet to prepare a bill to
include cash-betting on a State-wide basis
in an off-course tote-betting scheme,
giving the man in, say, Bendigo the
opportunity of a legal s.-p. bet on the
Melbourne races or on the Bendigo races,
too, if he doesn't want to go to the
course. Why the Liberals produced their
ill-fated credit-betting bill last year,
although the commissioner who looked
into it had recommended a cash-scheme,
has not been explained. The Country
and Labor parties are tipped to vote for
the new bill ; their combined opposition
to the credit-betting bill defeated it in
the Legislative Council.
• •
Tn an acute form the problem of the
aborigine has re-emerged at Nowa Nowa,
a small East Gippsland (Vic.) town where
angry resistance to the proposal of the
Aborigines’ Welfare Board to house three
families from the Lake Tyers settlement
haS appeared. The board says the only
alternative is continued segregation ; one
of the opposition says she has had
previous experience of living next to
natives whose weekend behavior was
disgraceful.
The Anglican Bishop of Gippsland, the
Rt. Rev. Garnsey, may have the solu-
tion ; he is working on a scheme for a
co-operative farm for the natives.
TVefence of Anthony Clifton-Brown,
the London financier who was fined
£20,000 for illegally transferring £17,870
to Monaco, which is outside the sterling
area, was that he was president of the
Monaco Bank which was suffering a
minor run and badly needed funds. He
had been thanked by the Government
of Monaco. The story got remarkably
little publicity. The man who saved the
bank at Monte Carlo ought to have been
the biggest piece of news since “Man
Bites Dog.”
• •
Premier Ben-Gurion of Israel has left
the U.S. encouraged to feel that America
would back any action which bolstered-
up his threatened little country’s arms
position in the face of Cairo's menacing
forces. It will need more than arms to
stop the Arabs if they achieve unity of
command, as they have of purpose. Even
Hussein of Jordan has announced that
“if the United Arab Republic is ready
to open the final battle against Israel
she will find us ready to rally to her
side.” Fortunately for Israel, Nasser
and Kassem both have preliminary
objectives—to swallow Jordan and per-
haps each other before taking a final
meal of Hebrews.
• •
Any hope that Yugoslavia is in the
Western camp seems to be killed by some
of Tito's latest goings-on, including
the arrest and trial of a bishop and
priests known for their opposition to
Communism, on charges of “currency
violation” combined with communica-
tions with Yugoslav refugees abroad.
Tito sits balanced on the fence, and for
all the West knows his whole pose of
enmity to Moscow could be a blind
and he the controller of its Balkan
spy-centre.
• •
One of the objectives of the Japanese
“co-prosperity” drive in the pre-war
and wartime eras was “all four corners
of the world under one umbrella.” For-
tunately, it didn’t come off, but Jap.
umbrellas are now making a dint in an
Australian industry. Trade Minister
McEwen has referred to the advisory
authority on the Jap. trade agreement the
question of whether Australian umbrella-
makers are likely to suffer serious injury
as a result of the agreement.
• •
/"\pposition criticism of the retrench-
ment of high-ranking Army officers is
about as hypocritical as it could be.
“Hansard” is full of Labor charges that
the Army is top-heavy and some of the
party’s ballot-box warriors, never miss an
opportunity to belittle senior officers.
The extremists give the impression that
they regard every soldier above the rank
of sergeant as redundant. Yet when the
Minister said it had become necessary to
retire 10 officers because no useful post-
ings could be found for them the storm
of simulated indignation was almost as
great as if someone had suggested reduc-
ing Parliamentary pensions, Almost!


Personal ITEMS
R. S. Porteous, otherwise “Stand-by,”
won the £lOOO first-prize in Brisbane
“Courier-Mail’s” centenary novel-com-
petition. His novel, Cattleman, is about
a cattle-duffer who becomes a wealthy
grazier; ahd it includes scenes from
World War I, in which Porteous served
with the Light Horse. His last novel,
Brigalow, was a popular Bulletin serial;
and he has, of course, written many
Bulletin short-stories. His own adven-
turous life, before he settled to a more
prosaic job with the Main Roads Board
in Mackay (N.Q.), included youth on
cattle-stations, seafaring, running his own
tourist-launch around the Barrier Reef,
and service with Small Ships in War 11.
• <9
“Christopher Penn”: N. Z. prelate
Mons. A. J. Mcßae has been elevated
by Pope John to the dignity of Pro-
thonotary Apostolic, which means he is
now a member of the Pontifical House-
hold. Not that he needs “elevation”
really—his 7ft. has for years placed him
as the tallest priest in the Southern
Hemisphere! The new honor, however,
will add even more to his stature, since it
entitles him to wear the mitre on
ceremonial occasions. N.Z., by the way,
has a whole race of clerical giants:
Archbishop McKeefry is well over 6ft.;
Bishop Joyce, of Christchurch, touches a
like altitude. plus breadth); and
Father Jeremiah McGrath, of Waverley,
challenges Mons. Mcßae by an inch or
two. Mons. Mcßae’s honor came with a
budget of six other N.Z. domestic
prelate elevations, following on Arch-
bishop McKeefry’s visit to Rome.
• •
A Bananalander born and bred, but
more interested in good grass and what
feeds on it than in fruit, Old Digger
and station-manager Duncan Mathieson
becomes, at 68, one of the three non-
official members of the Northern Terri-
tory’s Legislative Council. Apart from
a turn with the old 26th Battalion, he’s
been managing stations on the Diaman-
tina, in sou’-west Queensland and the
N.T. since he was about the age at
which they usually start learning, and
now he knows just about everything there
is to know of the pastoral game, and
looks the part. The N.T.L.C. is made-
up of six Government appointees, six
elected members and three non-official
members, and Duncan Mathieson,
nominee of the N.T. Lessees’ Association
and on the boards of some half-dozen
pastoral and grazing companies, repre-
sents the pastoral industry; the other
“non-officials” will speak for mining and
for other industries. The fact that
Duncan Mathieson is the N.T.L.C.’s only
non-resident member indicates what
fellow-pastoralists up there know and
think of their nominee.
G. D. Bassett, who got back from the
U.S. and Canada in time to take his seat
in the N.S.W. Legislative Council for the
current session, had been over there trying
to extend the marketing of Australia’s
primary products, particularly beef, and
was assured a good market would
continue for lower-grade beef used in
making smallgoods and processed-meat.
He saw the last shipment of 30,000 cross-
bred lambs which arrived in San Diego ;
they were still in quarantine, and he
G.D.B., M.L.C.
says, looked well and in excellent con-
dition.
Here pictured, G.D.B. has been for
most of his life with the Farmers and
Graziers’ Co-operative Co., Ltd., Sydney
—for the last 34 years a director, and
for the last 10 years rrianaging-director.
Member of the Legislative Council for
28 years, his other interests have included
the Graziers’ Association of N.S.W. and
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, with
a continued active interest in the land in
partnership with one of his sons, raising
sheep, wool, rams and lambs. With his
fellow - directors and managers of
Farmers and Graziers’, he lately came
out a winner in retaining Goulburn as a
wool-selling centre.
• • :
W. R. Gumming, of the Prime
Minister’s Department, secretary of the
Commonwealth Literary Fund and the
Art Advisory Board, is off to London on
April 2 as official secretary at Australia
House. He was director-general of
Princess Alexandra’s tour last year.
At 55, with a decade’s running-time
ahead of him, Patrick Hannaberry is
handing in his ticket as Commonwealth
Railways Commissioner. Son of a
Shepparton (Vic.) farmer, he hadn’t
dreamt of being an enginedriver when
he grew-up, but he took an engineering
course at Melbourne v University and
became a pupil-engineer with the Vic-
torian Railways in 1923. He was
appointed assistant engineer to the Com-
monwealth Railways in 1934 and chief
civil engineer in 1944. A health signal
has caused his retirement to a Queens
Road, Melbourne, flat.
To the foregoing, George Beesley,
expert on the iron horses and what
and who make them go, adds his
“all clear”: “P. J. Hannaberry’s 12-
year run as Commonwealth Commis-
sioner has been one of the best ever.
It has been marked by great advances
in the Commonwealth Railways. To
mention a few: the change from steam
to diesel ; the new standard-gauge line
for carrying Leigh Creek coal to the
South Australian power-house at Port
Augusta.; the modernising of rolling-
stock ; and the fivefold increase in
revenue, converting a yearly loss of
about £lOO,OOO to an operating profit of
about £2-million a year. Altogether his
record is on a par with that of E. M. G.
Eddy, who was N.S.W. Commissioner of
Railways from 1888 to 1897, and whose
work is commemorated by the Eddy
Memorial Fund, from which N.S.W.
Railways Department trustees award
scholarships to children of railway
employees. There are not many that a
railwayman would name in the same
class as Eddy, but Hannaberry would
certainly be one of that few.”
• •
“C.C.”: John Russell Prince, due to
take-over Perth’s Hale School next Sep-
tember, has had one curious line of
experience—association with old schools.
Now 36, he was a scholar of Winchester,
the oldest public school in England ; he’s
at present teaching physics and mathe-
matics, looking after athletics and
running one of the school's boarding-
houses at Australia’s oldest public school,
The King’s School at Parramatta ; and
he will next be head of Westralia’s
oldest public school, though by then
Hale will have been transferred from
its present site and housed in the West’s
newest public-school building. A Cam-
bridge M.A., who graduated with a first
in physics. Prince first. saw Australia
while serving with the air-arm of the
R.N. during War 11.
• •
“Pandanus”: Awarded the 0.8. E. after
43 years in the R.A.N., Commander
H. G. D. Oliver entered the Naval
College at Jervis Bay at the age of 13,
and completed his engineering courses at
the R.N.C., Greenwich (Eng.), and the
R.N.E. College at Keyham. He got his
brass-hat in 1939. Highlights of his
career include the 1927 Adelaide expedi-
tion to the Solomons in search of
Bassiana. As senior engineer he had to


belt the old Brisbane to the United
Kingdom shipbreakers in 1935. He was
Chief of Waterhen in 1937, and ran
Napier on the Tobruk Spud Run in 1942.
After being invalided home, he was Chief
of Shropshire for the Victory Cruise in
1946. Now, at 57, he retires to a
civilian job at Garden Island in Sydney
Harbor.
• •
On Sunday, April 3, a special service is
to be held at the Garrison Church of
Holy Trinity, in Sydney’s Argyle Place,
for the dedication of memorial doors
and porch with a bronze plaque, erected
by the Playfair family to the memory of
Thomas Playfair.
It is just over a century since Thomas
Playfair took his discharge in Sydney
after 15 years’ service in the Royal Navy
and established the firm which still bears
his name, and is managed by the family
group. The memorial faces the home
where Thomas Playfair—founder of
Flemington stockyards and Lord Mayor
of Sydney in 1885 —spent the happiest and
most successful years of his life.
• •
Les Such: Sketched below, Victor
Maxwell —real surname’s Maximoff, but
he changed it on joining the Criminal
Investigation Department of the Shanghai
International Police Force —was born in
Nijni Novgorod (Russia) in 1911, son
of the managing-director of the Anglo-
Danish Trading Co. The family moved
to Shanghai in 1923, and young Victor
matriculated from St. John’s College
there, made a short trip to America to
complete his education, then joined the
Far Eastern division of Callender's Cable
Construction and spent some years in
charge of cable-laying operations.
This wasn't exciting enough for him,
so he joined the 1.P.F., where skill at
languages—English, French, Russian and
several Chinese dialects —suited him for
the political section. He served with the
I.P.F. for eight years, mainly copping
FORMERLY, MAXIMOFF.
political assassins—and stopping, on the
job, a couple of bullets and a knife-stab
through the right hand. Outbreak of the
Sino-Japanese war meant the end of that
role, and he spent the next two years in
America, England and Europe. In 1938
he came to Australia and found what he
was looking for, spent the war years
making munitions in Newcastle (N.S.W.),
then managed Burns, Philp’s hardware-
section in Queensland from 1946 to 1954.
Now he's manager of Australian Tele-
phonic Electric Pty., Ltd., with social-
welfare work among migrants as a hobby.
• •
Eyewitness note on an unusual tribute
paid by the North Shore Regiment
(17th/18th Infantry Battalion) to their
C. 0., Lieut.-Colonel D. H. Wade-Ferrell,
M.C., during their final camp at Single-
ton (N.S.W.):
The last night of camp the troops formed-
up and marched in perfect order behind the
band through the battalion’s lines, giving the
C.O. “eyes-right” as they passed him. Not
one officer was on the parade, which was
arranged purely by the troops—and there was
not a man absent.
• /*
“Kune”: Though he has hung-up his
Navy sword after 41 years’ service,
Captain Frederick Norton Cook, D.S.C.,
remains on the R.A.N.’s emergency-list,
and he’s still in close association with the
mariner’s world in a staff job with Mac-
donald Hamilton, Sydney. Likeable, a
young-looking 55, he has had a brilliant
Navy career, lively moments of which
have included survivals from two enemy-
sinkings while seconded to the R.N.
(H.M.S. Royal Oak in Scapa Flow and
H.M.S. Curlew in Narvik Fiord), and
his command of the first combined
parachute-raid on German-held France,
at Bruneval, near Le Havre. He won
his D.S.C. in the Bruneval stunt.
Born in Invergordon (Vic.), Freddie
Cook joined the R.A.N. as a 13-year-old
cadet-midshipman at Jervis Bay Naval
College, where, also, he started quite a
career in Rugby Union—he was captain
of H.M.S. Renown’s team during
1932-34, with at the same time a place in
the Home Fleet’s side in England. In
fact he can claim this special distinction,
“I played Rugger for all my ships.”
Names of ships are always milestones
in any seafarer’s life, so here’s his list
of them: The old Adelaide (his first),
Brisbane, Tasmania, Swordsman, Can-
berra (he was flag-lieutenant to Rear-
Admiral Ford), Hobart, Arunta and
Bataan (his last). As well, the three R.N.
ships mentioned earlier, and he served
also in H.M.S. Repulse. Included in a
number of top land-based jobs he held at
different times, in Australia or England,
were boss of a commando base near
Portsmouth, Captain of the Port of
Sydney, and Naval Officer in Charge
North-west Australian Area (H.Q. at
Darwin), with also a term as Australian
Naval Attache in Washington.
• •
General Motors - Holden’s post-
graduate fellowships for one year have
been awarded to three students at the
University of N. S. Wales. B. R. Craven,
who graduated as M.Sc., will carry out
research in the wool-dyeing process;
P. A. Sullivan, who last year won the
Uni.’s medal in mechanical engineering,
will study the flow on delta-wing aircraft.
lan K. Gregor, another M.Sc., will extend
his chemical studies.
• •
Professor of Public Law at the Uni-
versity of Queensland, Ross Anderson
(sketched) had his Oxford B.A. and M.A.
degrees conferred on him in absentia
RHODES SCHOLAR, GUNS, PROF.
while in action in Borneo. Born and
bred in W.A., he graduated LL.B. with
first-class honors from the Westralian
University in 1938 and, as Rhodes
Scholar for that year, went to Oxford,
but returned in 1940 to join the 3rd Field
Regiment and serve as a field-gunner
throughout the war, except for 18 months
when seconded as air-liaison officer in
New Guinea. He was with the 2/7th
Field Regiment for Tarakan.
Admitted a barrister and solicitor in
Westralia in 1947, he practised in Perth
until moving to Queensland Uni. in
1949 as senior lecturer in law. In 1956
he was awarded a Nuffield Dominion
travelling-scholarship in social science,
did research in administrative law in
London, and two years later was visiting
Fellow at the Australian National Uni-
versity. As well as editing his present
Uni.’s law-journal, he has written very
soundly on Australian Constitutional and
Administrative law, and in the pastime
line is a former W.A. hockey rep.
* •
Into the Silence:
In Scarborough (W.A.), at 51. John C. Alver,
former boxer, racehorse-owner and lifesaver.
Appointed beach-inspector at Scarborough in
1956, he subsequently moved to Cottesloe, after-
wards going to the U.K. to demonstrate
Australian lifesaving-methods. As beach-
inspector he rescued more than 100 persons
from the surf.
In Sydney, John Murray Moyle, editor of
“Radio, Television and Hobbies 7 ’ since 1940,
and a senior member of the Institute of Radio
Engineers.
In Perth, at 82, old-time Westralian heavy-
weight champion Bert Bennett.


ABORIGINALITIES
rPHE doctor had asked me, as a
teacher of handicrafts in the hospital,
to try ter get native boys interested
in some craft to keep them out of
mischief. Until painting was suggested
they wouldn’t co-operate. Then they
became mildly interested, so I gave them
materials, mapped-out how they should
go about it, and left them to it. Next
day I was presented with the most
exquisitely executed drawings of their
island homes and occupations. One lad
had drawn men clad in lava-lavas doing
a traditional dance, a group of men
carrying bananas, and a woman cooking
the evening meal, and the other had a
lugger sailing out of the sunset. With
all my training I couldn’t have done as
well, and later I and others were glad
to buy paintings for ourselves and friends
from these gifted boys. They made such
a good thing of it that patients with
practically no talent began painting
madly. I bought a few to encourage
them. The craze caught, and almost
everybody in the ward was painting and
enjoying it. It was a form of expression
in which they could recall past pleasures
and ease their longings for their homes,
from which many had been away for
years. A very shy boy painted churches
and holy pictures, an old man painted
luggers and underwater divers, half-caste
boys specialised in cowboys, and the
toughest-looking character of all these
black patients delighted in painting roses
and the most delicate flowers. —“Trying
Yet.”
* * * *
“Pat Decroesus”: We were, to put it
mildly, puzzled when we fetched-up at
a nor’-Westralian station to find a 9ft.
dinghy tethered to a stockyard-fence.
The station-owner explained: In the wet-
season floods rowing was the easiest way
to getting from room to room in the big
rambling homestead. What had me beat
was why he hadn’t shifted the homestead
to a flood-free rise a little way off. Maybe
an annual spot of rowing was easier
than that, too!
* * * *
“North”: On St. Bee’s Island, 18 miles
north-east of Mackay (Q.), a colony of
koalas several hundred strong is thriving
and increasing rapidly. They are the
descendants of six does and a buck
captured at Cannon Vale, on the main-
land, and liberated on the island over 25
years ago, just after the last open-season
allowed, when an estimated 500,000 were
slaughtered for their skins.
* * * *
“Worim”: With due respect to
“DjungaLa Tom” (B. 24/2/’6O) and Pro-
fessor Wood Jones’s theory on coconuts
with “eyes,” my own experience doesn’t
support them. In New Guinea I had a
horse killed under me while riding
through a plantation, and on another
occasion a dry coconut scored a direct
hit on my topee, which alone saved me
from a broken head, or worse. If both
the professor and “D.T.” were to make
inquiries in the right quarters in Rabaul
they would find that there are several
authenticated cases of natives and at
least one of a white man being killed by
a falling coconut. If the nuts that killed
my neddy and stonkered me had “eyes”
they must have needed glasses.
* * * *
“Wilga”: The little grey quails hide
among crops and grass-tufts by day,
coming out to feed in early morning and
late afternoon. Fields of grain are
favorite spots, and during harvesting-
operations hundreds of them are dis-
turbed as the machines travel through
the crops. Otherwise, sitting tightly to
the ground, they’re invisible from a few
feet away, and birds-of-prey may fly
directly overhead without noticing them.
Foxes are also enemies, being attracted
by the birds’ scent, but at dusk quails
gather into bevies, to huddle together for
the night, and if they then don’t move
they give off practically no scent. Pro-
vided they sit tightly packed their upper
feathers form a “skin” to keep off frost
and to contain the scent of their warm
bodies. If one bird scares, or moves out
of position, the protective “skin” of
feathers is broken, and the scent floats on
the air to be picked up by any fox in
the vicinity.
* * * *
“Ymar”: Although it was 10 years
since the New Australian painter had left
that town for the nearby city of Horsham
(Vic.) a letter from Budapest addressed
to Imre Meszaros, Dimboola, Victoria,
Australia, reached him promptly, perhaps
because Dimboola endorsed it: “Try
Jimmy the Balt!”
“Yeno Ham”: On a trip to Queens-
land I was intrigued by hoardings, etc.,
plugging “peanut-paste.” Found it was
the peanut-butter eaten south of the
border ; dairyfarmers, who dislike sub-
stitutes, had put the damper on any
“butter” that did not come from their
cows—hence the “paste” label.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: In South Australia 1959 was
the driest year on record, the registration
being a few points under the rainfall of
the 1914 drought. But 1914 was far
worse in its effects. It opened with good
rains, but had hardly enough to damp the
dust after June, whereas last year there
was just enough spring rain for some
growth of pastures and crops.
Last spring had a marked effect
on bird-life. Many species
didn’t nest, among them the
bronzewing - pigeons. Since
Christmas, however, there
have been sufficient rains for
weed - growth on stubble-
paddocks ; those weeds are
now seeding, and the bronze-
wings are having an autumn
nesting. In one square-mile of
scrub, surrounded by open
farmland, I counted 30 nests
with eggs in them. The weed-
seeds are very tiny, but this
isn’t worrying the pigeons.
They are letting the industrious
little harvester-ants gather
them ; then the pigeons come
to where the seed has been
spread to dry around the
entrance to the ant-nests and
eat it.
“Wire-buster”: I reckon, “Womma-
doo” (B. 17/2/’6O), that I’m “the last
of the blades.” Thirty-seven years ago
last September I kicked the last of my
sheep down the chute, dropped the blade-
shears on the floor of a little woolshed
near Boorowa (N.S.W.) and got a job
in the local iceworks. My brother had
been “experting” in sheds for years;
coming home at the cut-outs with big
cheques, big talk and a certain glamor.
He’d followed the sheds out to Nyngan,
up to Moree, back to Young—all places
which, to us young-’uns waiting for
school to be over, sounded like names
on an overseas travelogue. Brother
always maintained, sadly, that it was
the shearers who collared the big dough
in the sheds ; so a shearer I had to be.
When I was 15 the shed on the selection
next-door to us opened—two shearers
with blades and an empty stand. I took
the empty stand one morning after




hiding my schoolbag in a hollow log
along the road. Four hours later I
booted one solitary old ewe, less most
of her wool and pock-marked with
bloody gashes and tar, down the chute
and set my mind to the higher things in
life. The kink I’ve had in my back for
the last 37 years stems from the four
hours’ work of that fateful morning.
* * * *
“Newguin”: Here’s another angle on
the clubs being formed among native
women in New Guinea villages. In
many districts the men have enthusi-
astically supported formation of the
clubs ; in some places taking the initiative
in seeking advice about them. In other
districts the men opposed clubs at first,
but changed their attitude when they
found that club activities improved the
“Huxley’s going on the road.”
standard of their homes and of general
village life —which, perhaps, is more
than can be said for those bridge-and-
gossip clubs in the villages of Toorak
and Bellevue Hill.
* * * *
“Fairf”: No need to go back half-a-
century to recall the clay-bed variety of
quoits (B. 17/2/’60); in 1924 the sport
had a brief revival in what are now the
outer-suburbs of Sydney but were pretty
much rural areas then. I remember a
quoit-pitch on an open paddock near
the then newly-built Merrylands Hotel,
and another at Fairfield on vacant land
near the Railway Hotel. Today that
same paddock is worth from £5OOO to
£lO,OOO a 50ft. block.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: There are at least two
exceptions to “Bass’s” contention here
that poison lurks in the flesh of any
scaleless fish. There is the catfish—
either the bifurcated-tail saltwater speci-
men or his eel-tailed cousin of fresh-
water-streams —and there’s the smooth-
skinned eel itself. Each of the three,
once the skin is peeled-off after dousing
in boiling water, makes good eating.
Apart from his forbidding appearance,
the saltwater cattie’s only drawback is the
hazard of being spiked with one of his
dorsal or lateral fins, which do secrete a
poison (they’re removed in preparing
him). A particular virtue of the fresh-
water-cattie is that even a 12-pounder—•
no rarity in western watersheds —is free
from the muddiness usually found in the
Murray-cod and yellowbelly once these
get past the 41b.-to-51b. stage.
* * * *
“Gympie”: A death-adder as thick as
a workman’s wrist and measuring 43|in.
was recently killed at Tin Can Bay, near
Gympie (Q.), which just shades the 43in.
specimen killed last August at Coondoo
Mountain, in the same district. David
Fleay, of the Burleigh Heads Sanctuary,
said the Tin Can Bay adder was the
biggest he had ever heard of. The
biggest he has in captivity is a 36-incher
weighing 2ylb. Anyone heard of one to
beat this latest monster?
* * * *
“M’Lou”: Tennis is such a family
affair in small Victorian Wimmera towns
that on Allan Reinheimer’s wedding-day
Murra Warra had to forfeit its match
because seven, all Reinheimers, of its
10-player team would be at the wedding.
* * # #
“Monty”: Subject of the lecture was
Malayan The instructor emphasised
that, during the Emergency, fighting
practically ceased when the monsoons
came down. “Any questions?” asked the
sergeant as the lesson concluded. “Yes.
Who are these Monsoons?”
* * * *
4 Fair Mac”: It would need a smart
bush-lawyer to sustain “Pieter Nuyts’s”
submission (B. 24/2/’6O) that the
naturalist who applied the Greek word
for “adder” to our spiny ant-eater was
endeavoring to point out the link between
the Australian monotreme and its
reptilian ancestors. Naturalists have
made quite a few bloomers in nomen-
clature. Even the conscientious and
painstaking Swede Linnaeus committed
the blunder of naming a species of bird-
of-paradise apoda (“footless”) on the
strength of Dutch seamen’s tales that the
bird lived its whole life on the wing,
with, as evidence, some skins from which
the legs had been skilfully removed.
* * * *
years ago, when cash was
scarcer than it is now, Dad used to
leave home between crops —or sometimes
in preference to risking crops —and take
work where it could be found while Mum
and I milked the few cows at home. He
worked on the construction of the rail-
way to Wonthaggi, and later on the dam
in Toomuc Valley, where the Victorian
State Rivers and Water Supply planned
to store water drawn from the Bunyip
River for, I think, Flinders Naval Base
and towns en route.
It was while he was there that a
neighbor sought to rent part of our small
block, so I got on my bike and rode the
30 miles to talk it over with Dad. I
found him at lunchtime; spotted him
sitting with a much bigger bloke across
a gully, both munching sandwiches, both
so deep in conversation that I was right
beside them before either looked up.
On being assured that the house hadn’t
been burnt down, and that all the cows
were still alive, Dad calmed down and
said, “Son, meet my mate, Tom Tierney,”
and a great hand wrapped itself around
mine. Not tall, he was nevertheless a
big man; heavy shoulders and deep
chest, pale-blue eyes above high cheek-
bones, but a soft, cultured voice and a
poet’s choice of words.
T.V.T. came place whenever
lie was in the district after that. They
would wander around talking of jobs
and books and verse—Dad was addicted
to spicing selected occasions with slabs
of topical verse —and birds. The blue-
wrens and thrushes and honeyeaters in
Mum’s garden were as much a part of
Tom’s visit as the books on the shelves
and the late yarn by the fire after tea.
In those days Tom’s lines were often in
the “Bunyip and Garfield Express” (my
uncle, Joe Kennedy—“Tarago” of many
a Bulletin par.—owned and printed it);
then Tom left the district, I left the State,
and for long years he was only a pleasant
memory, until through Bulletin associa-
tions contact was made again and a
reunion celebrated at the Bread and
Cheese Club. It was Tom Tierney who
later proposed my membership there —•
R. H. Croll supported it, and I am very
proud of that association —and now
through the club’s journal I learn that
T.V.T. has gone, following an operation
last August. It would be typical of Tom
that he’d want to slip into the Silence
without disturbing anybody.
He wrote of what he liked, and had
some success handling difficult forms.
I am not competent to discuss his poetry
as such. I only know that now and again
you meet a bloke who makes you feel
better for having known him. Tom
Tierney was just that.
WIPPEGONG.


NOTHING MATCHES
TODAY’S WONDER FUEL!
r
Boron high-energy fuel is today helping to power
advance-stage missiles through space at fantastic speeds
.. . speeds of more than fifteen times the speed of sound.
In Ampol Boron, this same high-energy element will
dramatically increase power and mileage in your car!
Ampol is the only petrol that gives you Boron.
Ampol Boron is an entirely NEW petrol. Fill your
tank and prove for yourself that your best buy is
Ampol Boron.
Boron high-energy fuels will power missiles and
Super-Jets of today and tomorrow to almost unbe-
lievable speeds!
• New Power! • New Smoothness!
9 New Pick-up! •Better Mileage!
fIMPOL
iIWJiUJ


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
★
I^ANDt
I-agrg
Australia’s
Better Brandy
Pot-Still
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
ST AC,PCS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. 9 WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
STREAMLINING THE TARIFF BOARD
Roy Wheeler, Liberal mem-
ber for Mitchell (N.S.W.),
from a back bench in the
Representatives last Thursday
made some pertinent comments
on current economic affairs
during the debate of the Oppo-
sition’s no-confidence motion
following the opening of
Federal Parliament.
“It may be said that the
economic government of Aus-
tralia is a five-way stretch ber
tween the Cabinet, the Arbitra-
tion Court, the Reserve Bank,
the Tariff Board and Parlia-
ment,” Mr. Wheeler said. “The
Arbitration Court is rapidly re-
placing Parliament as the prin-
cipal authority.
“Inevitably, because this is
not a scientifically constructed
system, but one which has
grown-up almost by accident,
the five forces often pull in
different directions at the sarne
time.
“Something must be done to
secure proper synchronisation.
“It is essential, too, to see
that the non-elected authorities,
which have become so im-
portant, are constituted so that
they can do their jobs effici-
ently. It is in the Tariff Board
that we see one of the most
glaring weaknesses.
“The recent removal of im-
port-restrictions was a bold
step against rising prices, but a
risky one. It might be com-
pared to an old-time surgical
operation in the days before
anaesthetics. These might be
successful and they might not,
but one thing Was certain—they
would be painful.
“This operation certainly
was. Theoretically, the Tariff
Board is on hand to provide
relief, but in fact it is so far
behind that it will probably be
a couple of years before it
arrives at some of the cases,
and the patient may die.
“Tariffs, of course, are a
much better way than import-
controls of providing protec-
tion, but speed is an essential
element of efficiency.
“Action by Cabinet could
meet an immediate problem,
but it is also desirable that the
Tariff Board should be stream-
lined to reduce fits permanent
time-lag.
“I suggest that, instead of the
present somewhat cumbersome
system under which the board
has several members and gets
its information by hearing evi-
dence from interested parties,
single commissioners be ap-
pointed each to take charge of
one group of allied industries.
“He could take formal evi-
dence and could consult with
Government economic advisers,
but he would also be able to
visit industries and wholesale
and retail outlets and make his
own inquiries. He could, in
effect, provide a continuous
“ Who are you —and what, may I ask, are you doing
under my bed ?”
tariff-revision service in his
own section.
“There would be need also
of a supervising commissioner
whose job would be to study
the reports of all the sectional
commissioners to endeavor to
secure uniformity amongst
them and to act as a liaison
with the Government on policy
matters.
‘These changes would speed
up action enormously, and
would also secure that Govern-
ment policy would be tailor-
made to fit each particular case.
Industry has become so com-
plex now that, aside from tha
time element, it is hard for a
single board to keep close
enough control anyhow.
“In my opinion, the Govern-
ment should concern itself now
in setting up a streamlined
tariff organisation to be ready
to meet demands which will
surely arise.
“The duty of this organisa-
tion should be to deal with
problems as they occur, im-
mediately and urgently, and
not give a decision after an
industry has been forced out
of business.”
Cheaper Now
At 255. 3d. last week, Amal-
gamated Wireless ss. shares
were 4s. 6d. below this year’s
highest price, which is a con-
siderable reduction in a 5s
share. At 905., the £1 con-
vertible notes were lower still
(they are convertible into four
ss. ords. on June 30, 1962, and
participate in cash issues, but
not bonus issues). Upon con-
version, A.W.A.’s paid capital
will still be under £3 million,
which is a modest capitalisation
for such a key industry. The
market’s present appraisement
is about £l5 million.
With a large parcel of shares
on the market, Herald and
Weekly Times (Melbourne)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
EMDECELEX,” Sydney
lE®
Will
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you
have built throughout a lifetime will continue to
function without dislocation and to the advantage
of your beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs —impartially and
permanently—at moderate cost, and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Cha'rleville.
CT25d
or ds. sold down to 425., then
recovered to 445., last week.
That is the cheapest they have
been for some time, and at
[east ss. under the top 1960
price. The shares have a re-
markable potential, including
big TV interests.
Gillespie Bros. Holdings, the
Sydney flourmilling, baking
and margarine concern, regis-
tered a fall to 19s. 6d. in its
10s. shares, which, ex last year’s
new issue, were up to 265.
recently. There have been
some substantial parcels of
shares on the market, and they
have caused a sagging at a
time when market support
generally has been weaker than
it was in January. Gillespie’s
shares, with a diversified back-
ing, seem to be of the “growth”
variety.
United' and South British
'T'he proposed merger of
* United Insurance Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, with South British In-
surance Co., Ltd., of New
Zealand, was almost as well-
kept a secret as the courtship
of Princess Margaret and Mr.
Antony Armstrong-Jones. And
equally properly, of course.
The announcement of the
proposed merger has left less
ground for speculation and
comment than the Royal en-
gagement.
United shareholders are
offered eight South British 10s.
(N.Z.) shares for each five
United-20s. shares, or, alterna-
tively, 955. cash per United
share.
The offer is conditional upon
acceptance by 60 p.c. of United
shareholders (an unusually low
proportion in cases like this),
and United directors recom-
mend acceptance.
United will continue to oper-
ate as a separate co., and its
agency arrangements with the
A.M.P. will not be upset.
George Lewis, Ltd.
A decline in the consolidated
of the George Lewis,
Ltd. (Sydney), group began in
1957 and went on until October,
1958. Since then there has been
evidence of gradual recovery.
Paid capital is a neat
£lOO,OOO in 400,000 ss. stock-
units, and on this consolidated
annual earnings of about
£20,000 net were averaged over
the three years to October 31,
1956.
By 1958 they had dropped to
£13,169. Last year they re-
covered to £14,221 after pro-
viding £7520 for depreciation
and £8046 for taxation. Both
allowances seemed adequate.
The net result shown was
equal to 14.2 p.c. on capital,
compared with 13.2, 16.3, 20.4
and 20.1 p.c. back to 1955. For
the sixth successive year a 12|
p.c. dividend has been paid,
though for the past three years
the disclosed cover has not
been high.
George Lewis, Ltd., controls
the cardboard-boxmaking and
printing subsidiary of Butter-
field and Lewis Pty. and the
printing business of Patterson
and Beck Pty.
Goodwill rose to £35,791 in
the accounts by 1952, but chair-
man George Lewis in the 1951
accounts said that “valuations
have been made of the fixed
assets of both subsidiaries, and
your directors are satisfied that
present-day values are con-
siderably greater than book-
values, and that the excess far
exceeds the value of intan-
gibles shown in the balance-
sheet.”
Since then the book-value of
“plant and machinery, fittings
and vehicles —at cost, Less
depreciation” has risen from
£47,441 to £91,756, but it now
has the addition (since the
1957 accounts) of “land, build-
ings,” as well, and makes a
rather untidy item in the books.
In the 1958-59 trading-year
the directors reported improv-
ing sales and conditions, and
were confident about the future.
Replacement of the co.’s plant
with up-to-date machinery is
continuing.
Offsetting the intangibles
item of £35,791 are reserves of
£47,900, as well as whatever
strength may stilt exist in the
undervaluation of assets as
estimated in 1951. Stocks,
debtors and outside commit-
ments have been kept at tidy
levels.
In attempting to judge the
position from the accounts
alone, the slip in profits appears
to have begun following the
acquisition of the building in
the 1957 term and the begin-
ning of the extensive outlay on
new plant. This could mean
that when plant-replacement is
completed profit-earnings may
pick-up further. The board,
which hasn’t much to say,
nevertheless seems to support
this view.
At Bs. 6d. the ss. ords. give
the interesting yield of 7.4 p.c.
Capel National Fund
Sponsored by the National
Bank and Melbourne
sharebrokers J. B. Were and
Son, Capel National Fund, Inc.,
is an unlimited public company,
the assets of which will be
mostly ord. shares in Austra-
lian listed cos.
“Open-end” companies or
mutual funds offer their shares
continuously and may redeem
them at any time.
To protect its shareholders,
Capel National’s articles of as-
sociation limit the incurring of
liabilities by the fund.
Par-value of the shares is a
shilling, but issue-price of the
shares and their price on re-
demption are based on the
current market-value per share
of the securities and other
assets held by the fund. Up to
April 20 shares will be avail-
able at 4s. Bd. a share, plus


I
Special
SCOTCH WHISKY
Guaranteed same quality throughout the world
Obtainable Leading Hotels and Clubs
: DISTRIBUTORS:
ELDER,SMITH & CO.,LIMITED
9-11 -O'CONNELL STREET; SYDNEY
(
S 3
r
4d. service-fee. A smaller ser-
vice-fee is charged on large
applications.
A management-fee of one-
eighth of one per cent, of the
average daily net asset-value of
the fund is chargeable against
income each quarter.
The investment policy of the
fund will be directed towards
long-term capital-appreciation.
Diversification of investment
will be aimed at, but shares
will not be bought in hotels or
breweries.
It will be the policy of the
fund to retain shares acquired
through rights and bonus-issues
arising from investments al-
ready held, and portion of the
annual income may be held for
reinvestment. But it is in-
tended to pay half-yearly divi-
dends out of surplus invest-
ment income.
The National Bank and J. B.
Were and Son, - together with
Capel Court Underwriting and
Development, Ltd., are the
shareholders in the manage-
ment co., C.N.F. Managers
Pty., Ltd.
Directors of Capel National
Fund are Staniforth Ricketson
(of J. B. Were), Sir Rupert
Clarke (National Bank direc-
tor), George C. Hill (chief
manager, National Bank), F. G.
Menzies (former Victorian
Crown Solicitor and now a
director of several cos., includ-
ing some in the Capel Court
group), and Allan Spowers
(chairman of Moran and Cato
and director of Capel Court
and other cos.).
The Domestic Meat-market
[By E. S. Playfair]
T'he domestic meat-market in
A Sydney this past summer
has been very disappointing
from the consumers’ point of
view. One would have antici-
pated that, after September,
prices of cattle, following the
pattern of past years, would
have been lower, but such has
not been the case. A steady
rise has taken place. Today
our cattle-markets throughout
the State are very high indeed ;
in fact, seldom have they been
as high.
Numbers in the Homebush
market are very much lower
than in past years, which
naturally creates keenness and
competition, resulting in
higher wholesale prices for
beef and consequently a greatly
increased price for cuts to the
public. One must remember
that Homebush sets the values
which influence country
markets.
Lamb and, td a smaller
extent, mutton, have been
markedly cheaper during
this period, although since
December they, too, have
increased considerably in price;
and, in fact, sucker-lambs have
practically disappeared. Sheep
have remained in good supply,
and, one feels, have rather
saved the meat situation.
Mffitton and lamb supplies have
been a useful substitute for the
shortage of beef, and have,
indeed, prevented beef from
rising even more.
Whether the beef-shortage is
caused by exporting overseas
or by our own seasonal condi-
tions is difficult to say. During
a period of the past six months
exports have been very cur-
tailed, and it would seem that
it is only because of higher
prices offering overseas that
any export has been possible
at all.
Graziers are buying cattle
for re-stocking at very high
prices and are causing a con-
siderable impetus in the various
cattle-markets. The foreseeable
future does not indicate a
plentiful supply of cattle, and
one must assume that condi-
tions. in the meat trade will
remain very difficult. Should
the supply of summer lambs
and sheep be reduced by rain
or drought an even dearer
period in the future must be
expected.
Associated Pulp
'T'he interim dividend of
A Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills, Ltd., Burnie, has been
declared at 4| p.c., the same as
the interim in respect of 1958-
59 and for the preceding year.
But the sharemarket apparently
took it as no indication that
the final distribution would be
the same as for 1958-59, when
6k p.c. was paid (making 11
p.c. for the year). Anyway, the
price of the £1 shares on
’Change has fallen back to
545., after reaching 665. 3d.
earlier in the year.
In announcing the 1958-59
results and higher dividends,
the board coupled it with a
statement that it was negotiat-
ing for a takeover of another
co. (which turned out to be
Masonite, since acquired by
the C.S.R.). Associated is in
the hardboard game itself, its
Burnie-board having grown
into a strong competitor of
Masonite.
Although its Burnie-board
seems to be selling widely and
profitably, on the papermaking
side A.P.P. has lately exhibited
some concern about future
trends. It was disturbed about
the impending increase of im-
ports of bonds, banks and art •
paper when tissue import-
licences were switched after
Bowaters and Apcel got into
tissue-production locally. Now
import-restriction has been
lifted altogether, and A.P.P.
has served an ultimatum on
pa p e r-merchants requesting
that they tie themselves to
Burnie (and its Ballarat art-
paper subsidiary) on conditions
which restrict the merchant in/
his purchases of “comparable'
outside papers to a maximum
of 10 p.c. of his Burnie sales
or 15 p.c. of his Ballarat turn-
over.
There has been considerable
resistance to the proposals, and
it looks as though the paper-
trade will be split into several
fractions as a result, with a
breakdown of the orderly
marketing that previously
obtained. Those who don’t
sign with A.P.P. will probably
form an association of their
own, and there will be other
line-ups..
Whether a price-war will
develop remains to be seen. It
also remains to be seen how
long import-control will be
suspended, and whether A.P.P.
gets more tariff-protection than-
is afforded now. But for the
present, anyway, the outlook is
less certain than it appeared to
be nine months ago.
Streets Ice Cream Takeover
A happy ending to a glamor- k
• ous career looks like being
the summing-up (for share-
holders) of the Unilever offer
of £5 10s. a share and £5 2s. 6d.
for each convertible note in
Streets Ice Cream, Ltd. Streets’
directors recommend accept
ance of the offer, whereas they
rejected the Peters Consoli-
dated Milk Industries terms of
eight Peters shares for each
Streets share or note.
In 1959 highest price for
Streets £1 shares was 705.,
lowest 595. 3d., and, for the £1
notes, highest 615., lowest 48s.
6d. In January this year the
shares sold up to 72s 6d., the
notes to 625. The Unilever offer
is therefore attractive.
Canberra Hotels
[From Canberra]
'T'he hotel business in the
A national capital is cer-
tainly booming. The five
licensed hotels, which have had
things all their own way in
recent years, will meet some
very stiff competition in the
coming 12 to 18 months.
One new hotel is almost
ready to open for business.
Another, being built by the
Rex-Hookej group, will be
opening its doors about Octo-
ber, while leases have been
allotted for five new fully
licenced motels.
The National Capital Devel-
opment Commission is also
shortly releasing two additional
leases for new hotels.


For a truly smart home . . . and
a lower building estimate... use
the world’s strongest
roofing material
M
I
r
BS
4
m
oRa
Your new house can be the showplace of the street
and yet be the lowest-cost home in the street!
A Lysaght roof makes all the difference, lending itself
readily to the most advanced modern designs, yet giving
you worth-while savings compared with competitive
materials.
Completely fire-proof . . . absolutely unbreakable
because Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for
roofing purposes. So easy to care for that you can
virtually forget about maintenance problems.
Decide now to investigate the facts and figures on the
beautiful, practical, economical Lysaght roof!
• Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Galvanized
STEEL
SHEET
Free—
low cost home
plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new
series of practical, low-cost
home plans, especially designed
to suit Australian conditions.
GI6SXC
HOME
PLANS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
NAME
ADDRESS -
STATE.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
ADELAIDE ARTS FESTIVAL
/'An Saturday, March 11,
Adelaide’s first Festival of
the Arts opened with a bang
and a glitter. The sky was
mostly overcast, but the brilli-
ance of all the rest—from the
glowing Turners unveiled in the
National Gallery in the morn-
ing to Lady Dunrossil’s gown
of gold brocade at the official
opening at night in Elder Park
on the banks of the Torrens-
more than made-up for the
weather.
Like the Queen Mother on
an earlier occasion, Viscount
and Lady Dunrossil travelled
by water from Government
House to Elder Park. Spot-
lights picked-up the Governor-
General’s white mane of hair
and his lady’s white-fox furs
and sparkling jewels while they
were still some distance away.
A fanfare of trumpets, a
burst of rockets, and it was on
—a fortnight of cultural events,
with more art-shows, concerts,
live theatre, opera and poetry
than Adelaide usually has in
years.
Opening Festivities
The opening night was
frankly festive —a swimming-
carnival, decorated boats,
water-skiing, a fireworks dis-
play and a great flight of
iridescent balloons.
The concert programme was
popular, including the Grand
March from “Aida” played
resoundingly by the combined
S.A. and Sydney Symphony
Orchestras. It was followed
by a brilliant fireworks display,
with the “Advertiser” Sound
Shell, before a blaze of light,
glowing like a pale-green, half-
opened oyster.
Canadian soprano Lois Mar-
shall rose splendidly to the
occasion in a magnificent white
crinoline gown. Though seem-
ing strained and nervous at
first, perhaps at the thought of
singing to such a vast crowd in
the open air, she won the
audience with her charming
aria from “Boheme” and her
dramatic Princess Turandot.
As a prelude to the opening
Lord Mayor Hargrave read a
telegram from the Queen
Mother: “Warmest wishes for
the success of the Adelaide
Festival of Arts. Elizabeth
R., Patron.”
By 10-o’clock, when the con-
cert was over and the lawns
Interior view of the Bonython Hall —setting for Hugh
Hunt’s production of “Murder in the Cathedral .”
were cleared for dancing to
two brass-bands, the sky cleared
and an almost full moon shone
on the Torrens. It always
amazes the citizens, every time
some big event is staged by the
Torrens Lake at night, how
this rather meagre and land-
locked body of water manages
to take on, through the simple
magic of colored reflections in
dark ripples, a glamor and
mystery it never manages to
achieve by day.
Even a festival could not
alter an Adelaide Sunday;
nearly everything was closed ;
but visitors streamed into the
city for the shows that were
open—the loan-exhibitions at
the National Gallery, the World
Architecture Exhibition on the
Parade Ground, and the deco-
rated city itself.
Festival pennons fly from
every bus and decorate King
William Street —which is lined
with a grove of temporary pine-
trees —and the entrance to the
Art Gallery is a mass of
colored flags and banners.
Loan Paintings
Greatest draw at the gallery
is the Tate Gallery loan of 16
Turners in several styles, from
early views painted between
1800-1808 to paintings in his
late style like “Venice After the
Ball,” where the half-glimpsed
figures are melting in misty
light.
In striking contrast are the
Mexican paintings upstairs.
There is more solid weight in
a single study of a hand by
Diego Rivera, in crayon and
charcoal, than in a huge canvas
by Turner. Besides the drawings
there are Rivera’s well-known
big oil “The Flower Seller”
(where again we feel physically
the burden of the weight of
flowers) and a lyrical small
mother and child, a Mexican
Madonna.
Martinez has the same earthy
solidity in “Woman with a
Basket on Her Head,” and
Montenegro's still-life of
quinces is startlingly real. Only
in Anguiano’s “Marihuanos”
is there a feeling of lightness,
caricature, a kind of wry
humor.
The sleepy country township
of Hahndorf in the Adelaide
hills was crowded on Sunday
afternoon for the opening of
a Hans Heysen exhibition at
the gallery. Sir Hans has not
held a one-man show for many
years, and here it was possible
to see his development from
early watercolors and still-lifes
to the later massive charcoal
drawings and paintings of the
Flinders Ranges.
“A True Feast”
Flowers, flags, processions,
poetry, drama and music,
music, music marked the first
week of a most successful fes-
tival. It was a true feast-
there was so much that you
could only sample the good
things here and there and wish
you had more time to take-in
the lot.
On Monday night the open-
ings of the S.A. Symphony
Concert and the new Australian
play “Goodbye to Number
Six” were delayed until nine-
o’clock so that patrons could
see the torchlight-procession
first.
It was well worth seeing,
apart from the spectacular
floats, for the marching-boys
and -girls with their flaring
torches, the mounted police on
their white horses and the
stirring skirl of the pipe-band.
There was excitement in the
air, in the warm starlit night
and the shapes of floodlit
buildings, in the twin carillons
tumbling a chime of bells from
the Bonython Hall towers, with
the pennants fluttering against
the stars.
For the first time in local
history people were turned
away from a symphony-
concert ; and the first night of
“Number Six” at the Union
Hall was booked-out. Unfor-
tunately this play, by Adelaide
author Alex Symons, did not
measure - up to expected
standards.
The long first act dragged
unmercifully, though this im-
pression may have been partly
due to first-night stiffness: the
actors —Geoff Sinclair, Anne
O’Shaughnessy and Robert
Moore, who play the opening
scene —lost much of their
woodenness by the last act.
The play exists uncomfort-
ably somewhere between the
real world and fantasy—a sort
of Australian “Peter Pan,” but
without the charm of “Peter”
because the fairies at the
bottom of the garden are all
sinister or unpleasant figures,
save for Carola (played charm-
ingly by 14-year-old schoolgirl
Pamela Western).
Nestrie (Anne Edmonds)
looked like a well-covered
nymph stepped straight out of
a Norman Lindsay etching.
Myra Noblett’s Mrs. Hither-
spoon was suitably chilling, but
the supernatural or fantastic
characters and their actions
failed to convince. There was
none of that involvement, that
feeling that anything may
happen and probably will,
which you get in a play like
“Waiting for Godot.” A clever
three-dimensional set, and the
production by John Edmund
made the best of the play,
which at least has the merit of


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
making people think and talk
about it.
“Murder in the Cathedral”
By contrast, “Murder in the
Cathedral,” the other main
dramatic offering of the week,
convinced so that it was with
a real start of terror that you
heard the murdering knights
hammering on the doors at
the back of the hall. The
„ setting was almost perfect ; the
medieval figures and their fea-
tures, the faces of women and
priests and the noble counten-
ance of the archbishop were
cut like cameos against the
sombre hangings.
Bonython Hall, though
Tudor rather than Norman,
lends itself to dramatic
audience - participation the
entries down the long aisle, the
speeches from the galleries, and
Becket addressing his sermon
from the lectern straight at an
audience which becomes his
congregation.
Robert Speaight, in the role
that he created, made it impos-
sible to imagine any other
Archbishop of Canterbury than
this dignified, benevolent,
spiritual figure.
The Knights and Priests and
Tempters were excellent. Only
the Women of Canterbury, with
their youthful and beautifully
made-up faces and twittering
cries, seemed wrongly cast.
These were not the doom-pre-
saging, poverty-stricken wives
of English yeomen, but a group
of polished actresses with well-
trained voices.
Shakspeare and Wolfit
Shakspeare unadorned by
props—as, indeed, he was
played in his own lifetime —
and without supporting players
attracted full houses at the
Regent Theatre, where Sir
Donald Wolfit gave three
recitals drawn from plays as
different as “Hamlet” and “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
He was ably supported by his
wife (Rosalind Iden), who pro-
vided the first Lady Macbeth
of world stature that Adelaide
has seen. For all the impres-
siveness of his reading, Sir
Donald was inclined to rush the
poetry sometimes to gain a
dramatic sweep forward of the
action.
The most interesting thing
about the festival is how every-
one is responding to the cul-
tural injection. Shopgirls and
hairdressers who avow they
have had no acquaintance with
Shakspeare or grand-opera
before are patronising both in
their hundreds.
“Salome” brilliantly opened
the opera-season at the Theatre
Royal, with Joan Hammond
taking six curtain-calls amid
tumultuous applause. She was
“our own” Australian prima-
donna in a production by the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust. At time of writing,
Glenda Raymond is to follow
in “Rigoletto,” then Joan Ham-
mond again in “Madame
Butterfly.”
Poetry by the Torrens
Poetry, though less pub-
licised and therefore not so well
supported, had its first really
public airing in Adelaide with
the lunch-hour recitals on the
Torrens banks on Wednesday.
Reading through microphones
to an audience scattered on the
sloping lawns, five poets, intro
duced by novelist Morris West,
drew spontaneous applause
from mums with children, city
workers and inter-State visitors.
Literary forums have been
well attended, as have the
evening readings at which dis-
tinguished guests like Katharine
Susannah Prichard, Nettie
Palmer and Marjorie Barnard
were present. Miss Prichard
reading from Coonardoo,
Judah Waten from Alien Son
and John Blight from his sea-
poems w 7 ere literary highlights.
A literary event was the play-
reading chaired by Nettie
Palmer at Adelaide University,
when we heard Louis Esson’s
“The Drovers,” Vance Palmer’s
adaptation of “Telling Mrs.
Baker,” and extracts from Dr.
John Bray's fine verse-play.
“Papinian,” read under studio
conditions by a panel of A.B.C.
actors.
The “fringe” activities have
been of high quality; from the
revues “Festival Faces” and
“We’re At It Again” to Patricia
Hacket’s and Dr. Mildred
Mocatta’s dramatised native
legends and the Book Show at
the Public Library backed by
Mrs. Hazel de Burg’s record-
ings of Australian poets.
Nancy Cato
❖ *>
Stage and Music
“Odd Man In”
Now at Sydney Royal after
runs in Melbourne and Bris-
bane, this bright French farce
for three players, in which
Derek Farr as a car-wrecked
interloper makes immoral ad-
vances to his wife, Muriel
Pavlow, while her stage-hus-
band, Noel Ferrier, bumbles
about as a tired businessman,
could only be as good as the
wife could be desirable; and
Miss Pavlow, as a cool little
English beauty with a hot little
heart already beating for an-
other man, is all of that,
whether in the pyjamas in
which she opens the play,
the house-frock in which
she receives the interloper’s
lying assurance that she has
given him all while doped
with sleeping-tablets, or the
white dinner-frock in - which
she decides, much to the
philanderer's dismay, to
divorce her husband and marry
the villain.
Light though the piece is, it
is not without its felicities—as,
for instance, its notice of what
women always say under the
influence of love, or the suble-
ties of suggestion by which
seducers hoodwink husbands
and turn the minds of wives
away from other interests; and
there is really good theatrical
invention in the scene where
the husband is boring the
visitor with lantern-slides and
the visitor is surreptitiously
making very rude hand-
shadows on the screen.
Ferrier makes an excellent
study of the stolid, far-from-
foolish husband; and the timing
—as, for instance, in the kiss,
interrupted by the husband,
that brings down a curtain-
gives the piece a French grace
and lightness possible only to
the best production and the
most cultivated acting.
R. McC.
* * ❖
Gioconda de Vito
When, with purposeful stride
and an expression of serious
intent, this Italian violinist
came onto the Town Hall plat-
form to give her only Sydney
recital, the thought arose that
she might perhaps bring to her
work much the same aggres-
sive playing, touched almost
with masculine strength, with
which her sister-violinist, the
late Ginette Neveu, made her
visit here a few years ago so
memorable.
The aggressiveness didn’t,
materialise, but every other
phase of string-playing did,
making it very doubtful if, of
her sex, there is a greater
violinist living. Much of her
playing, indeed, would put her
in the front rank beside Menu-
hin, Oistrakh, Heifetz and
Elman.
She began with the finest of
the Handel sonatas, the D
Major, No. 4. Purely classical,
it has an opening adagio of
rich and flowing melody.
Madame de Vito brought to it
a ravishing tone which she
continued into the third-move-
ment larghetto. In the fast
alternating sections an effort-
less technique was geared to a
deep interpretative awareness,
giving these contrasting
episodes their exact measure of
zestfulness.
Two other works of early
classicism, by composers who
were themselves master-violin-
ists, combined great lyrical
beauty with a searching test of
the executant’s technical equip-
ment.
There was Leclair’s Sonata
in C Minor, “Le Tombeau,” in
which the major technical diffi-
culties are in double-stopping.
The violinist here exercised an
easy mastery which she carried
also into the theme and varia-
tions of Corelli’s beautiful “La
Folia,” with a vital yet en-
trancing tone always evident.
Beethoven’s big “Kreutzer”
Sonato, with its bustling energy,
its top-speed filigree-work, its
tossing of principal subjects
back and forth from keyboard
to string, its bold outlines, its
near-virtuoso writing for the
violin and its splendid lyrical
episodes, found the executant
just as well equipped. Shining
above all was her sustained
ability to make her instrument
sing with glorious tone —
equally in the high reaches as
in the low string, where the
violin's songfulness is more
easily conjured.
Raymond Lambert, who so
often has proved himself a
sensitive and highly skilled
collaborator, excelled himself


OIL EXPLORATION
IN PAPUA
Report by Oil Search Limited to Shareholders
The following announcement has been made by Australasian
Petroleum Company Pty. Ltd.:
“Australasian Petroleum Company Pty. Ltd. announces that
the funds for the drilling of its lehi well will be provided
from a special issue of 1,600,000 preferred participating shares
of £1 each at par.
These shares will carry a preferred dividend of 25% until
£3,200,000 has been paid to preference shareholders; there-
after the preferred dividend will reduce to and continue at
18%. In addition, the shares will rank throughout for dividend
equally with ordinary shares.
Prior to the issue of the preferred participating shares,
steps will be taken to extinguish the liability of Vacuum, BP
and Oil Search for unpaid capital on outstanding issues.
The preferred participating shares will be taken up equally
by BP and Oil Search Limited.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. has advised that in view
of its considerable commitments, as already announced, for
its expansion plans in petrochemical, refining and marketing
facilities, as well as its other commitments in the search for
oil, it will not participate in the new issue. After the new
issue has been made the interests of shareholders in Australa-
sian Petroleum Company Pty. Ltd. and Island Exploration
Company Pty. Ltd. will be as follows:
BP 43.7%
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd. 41.3%
Oil Search Ltd. 15 %”
This satisfactory arrangement has been negotiated with
our partners and will result in Oil Search Limited subscribing
for 800,000 of these special preferred participating £1 shares
in lieu of an equivalent number of ordinary shares to which
we were committed under our agreement to bring our interest
to 15%.
After this issue, Oil Search Limited will have subscribed
approximately £4,800,000 in the whole venture of which
£BOO,OOO or one sixth will be in these preferred participating
shares and at the conclusion of the lehi drilling will have
approximately £1,000,000 in hand.
By Order of the Board,
Noel Walker, Secretary,
Oil Search Limited (Inc. in Papua),
20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
OS7
—nowhere better than in the
“Kreutzer,” where his exten-
sive work was marked by the
finest gradations of phrasing
and a tone-control which per-
fectly balanced that of his
principal.
“The Music Man”
A travelling salesman, one
Professor Harold Hill, arrives
in an Idaho township and
proceeds to earn his living in
the manner to which he is
accustomed —i.e., by selling
band-costumes and instru-
ments to local mums and dads
for their sons. River City, he
argues, needs a band to fore-
stall the wave of juvenile
delinquency that he feels is
imminent.
Convincing the town of this
proves a somewhat elaborate
process—in the fashion of
the Pied Piper the professor
has brushes with the local
dignitaries, forms -the women
into a classical-dance group,
and falls in love with the town
librarian. But when the time
comes for him to lead the
band in a largo by Handel it
is apparent that the good pro-
fessor knows nothing about
music, save how to make
money out of it.
There is talk of the tar-
and-feather treatment. The
good ladies’ dance-group begins
to look uncomfortably like a
lynch-party . . . but wait! The
boys arrive, resplendent in the
prof.'s uniforms (not a trace
of juvenile delinquency, inci-
dentally), and, after a fashion,
begin to play. Then, in the
good old manner of such tales,
all is love.
Thus the Mark Twainish
plot around which Meredith
Wilson has woven this musi-
cal comedy, currently packing
them in at Melbourne’s
Princess Theatre.
Unfortunately, “The Music
Man’s’’ thread wears a little
thin here and there, especially
when it comes to tunes. Often
it seems that Wilson and his
collaborators have all-too-
willingly fallen victims to the
erroneous principle of stick-
ing to a good thing at any
cost. This is most apparent
in such brassily appealing
pieces as “Seventy-six Trom-
bones.”
Overall there is also too
great a dependence on the
oompah enthusiasms of both
cast (headed effectively and
professionally by Ted Scott
and Carolyn Maye, both
Broadway imports) and audi-
ence, usually at the expense of
dialogue, comedy and story.
Nevertheless all the signs—-
especially those outside the
foyer, which say “House Full”
—suggest that in “The Music
Man” Garnet Carroll has a
hit on his hands. Whether it
approaches the quality of its
current Melbourne rival in the
field, however, is another
question altogether. To this
reviewer at least, percussion
seems a rather poor substitute
for “Pygmalion.”
A. S. J.
❖ *t* *
“Clerambard”
The North Sydney Inde-
pendent has distressed at least
one playgoer by following its
swift and vital probing of “A
View From the Bridge” (since
gone on a well-deserved tour)
(Continued on page 57)


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 808*
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R. H. ALLEN
l\ R. LEVY
M. B. Tj. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines) Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Waltons, Ltd. (formerly Waltons-
Sears, Ltd)
TyriCKNAMED the “gay divorcee” by
Sydney’s financial press, Waltons,
Ltd., is attracting plenty of attention on
the sharemarket.
The one-for-five bonus-scrip handout
and record earnings in the current term’s
first six months have pushed the ords.
to 17s. 6d. for the ss. units.
The immediate yield is 4.3 p.c. p.a.,
on the basis of the new p.c. div.-rate.
Although the div.-rate was reduced from
15 p.c. following the bonus-issue, the
total payout on ords. will be the same
as on the old capital in the previous year.
The last full year of trading under
the old Waltons-Sears set-up was satis-
factory, even if not spectacular. Turn-
over rose 12.3 p.c. during the year, with
average stock appreciably lower. The
volume of instalment-accounts with the
Waltons-Sears group exceeded £9,500,000.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended luly 31 was £13,700 higher at
£641,478, after deducting £1933 dividends
paid to outside shareholders:
Parent and Subsidiaries.t
t 1 ) i videii ds —-—,
Ist 2nd To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref.Pref.Ord. Total. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’55..432,062 10 6 15 287,929 144,133 1,279,033
To staff fund. £50,000 .. .. 1,229,033
Added capital reserves, £313,702 .. 1,542,733
Share premiums, £503,650 .. 2,046,385
Less added intangibles, £146,168 . . 1.900,217
’56..477,078 10 6 15 390,653 86,425 1,936,642
To staff fund. £35,000 .. .. 1,951,642
Less added intangibles, £29,914 .. 1,921,728
Added capital reserves, £1561 ~ 1,923,289
Share premiums, £130,225 .. .. 2,053,514
Debenture expenses w/off, £45,493.. 2,008,021
’57..578,072 10 6 15 471,234 106,838 2,114,859
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 2.074.859
Share premiums, £547,335 .. .. 2,622,194
Debenture expenses w/off, £42,723 .. 2,579,471
Less added intangibles, £114,754 . . 2,464,717
’58..627,778 10 6 15 533,699 94,079 2,558,796
To staff fund. £42,286 . . . . 2.516,510
Share premiums, £35,280 .. .. 2,551,790
Add reduction in intangibles, £2069 2,553,859
’59. .641,478 10 6 15 578,109 63,369 2,617,228
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 2,577,228
* After deducting intangibles, £707,721 at
31/7/'’s9.
t Excluding Waltons-Sears Credit Corporation.
The profit was struck after charging all
expenses, including £88,598 for deprecia-
tion (up £15,646). Taxation provision
was not disclosed.
The steady 15 p.c. ord. div.-rate
(changed to \2{ p.c. after the bonus-
issue) absorbed £548,463, making the
total payout £578,109. This was £44,410
more than in the previous term, on a
higher paid capital.
Reserves benefited by £63,369 of un-
distributed profits and by £35,280 share-
premiums and £2069 reduction in
intangibles (to £707,721). The co. trans-
ferred £40,000 to the staff fund, leaving
reserves at £3,284,949 at balance-date,
excluding funds of Waltons-Sears Credit
Corporation.
The earning-rate on the average ord.
capital was 16.7 p.c., compared with
18 p.c. in 1958, and 18.6 p.c. in the two
preceding years.
The subsidiary Waltons-Sears Credit
Corp. earned a £92,718 net profit in its
first full year of business. All its funds
“continue to be profitably employed.”
A considerable increase of retail and
mail-credit sales is anticipated this term.
Paid capital rose to £4,052,007 in
150,000 10 p.c. 20s. cum. first prefs.,
237,500 6 p.c. 20s. redeemable cum.
second prefs. (12,500 were redeemed
during last term), 11,217,030 ss. ords.
and 3,441,000 group “A” ss. ords.
(formerly held by Sears-Roebuck. and
Co., of U.S.A.).
The increase in “A” group ords. was
due to an earlier issue of £30,600 in ss.
units (at ss. premium) to Sears-Roebuck,
in accordance with options terminated
in November, 1959.
Consolidated balance-sheet (excluding
the subsidiary) indicated that somewhat
smaller funds were employed, but other-
wise the position didn’t change much:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Ist Pref. .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
2nd Pref. . . 250,000 250,000 237,500
Ord. . . 3,031,931 3,631,957 3,664,507
Reserves .. 2,669,895 3,226,300 3,284,949
Outside interests 46,128 45,560 35,500
Debentures, over-
draft . . 6,258,741 7,681,193 6,404,596
Creditors, etc.f 3,624,519 4,877,265 4,054,367
Due subsid. .. - 338,409 483,329
Final divs. . . 236,684 281,316 284,713
£16,267,898 £20,482,000 £18,599,461
Freeholds . . 3,262,156 3,786,415 3,809,376
Plant, etc. .. 724,485 918,128 907,017
Deb.-sinking
fund . . 169,589 225,216 290,529
Shares other cos. 64,176 57,491 31,194
Shares subsid. 2,000,000 2,000,000
Stock, etc. .. 2,203,003 2,855,757 2,718,489
Debtors . . 9,202,562 9,861,679 8,050,534
Cash . . .. 46,891 67,-624 84,601
Intangibles .. 595,036 709,790 707,721
£16,267,898 £20,482,000 £18,599,461
* Excludes accounts of Waltons-Sears Credit Corp.,
Ltd. f Includes provision for taxation and con-
tingencies.
The £1,276,669 reduction in debentures
and overdraft (to £6,404,596) and
£822,898 fall in creditors, etc. (including
provisions for taxation and contingencies),
were matched by £1,811,145 decrease in
debtors (now £8,050,534) and £137,268
drop in stock, stores, etc. (to £2,718,489).
Theoretical working-capital was £109,948
(excluding amounts due to Waltons-
Sears Credit Corp., but including deben-
tures not shown separately). Real
working-capital was considerably higher,
because the credit-subsidiary had
£5,851,021 in instalment-debtors.
The initial issue of the subsidiary’s
first - mortgage debentures raised
£4,456,000.
Including Waltons-Sears Credit Corp.’s
assets, the net tangible asset-backing
worked-out at £43 Os. 4d. for the 20s.
first- prefs., £26 17s. Id. for the 20s.
seconds and Bs. 4d. for the ss. ords.
Waltons is a major retailer with 49
branches, including large capital-city
department-stores, a chain of suburban
and country outlets, mainly concerned
with the merchandising of furniture and
household appliances, and stores of the
catalogue-sales type. Throughout, the
emphasis is on mail-order and credit-
retailing. These two aspects of the co.’s
business are plugged with particular zest
and vigor, and have helped to overcome
some of the characteristic difficulties
encountered by big retailers when con-
fined to the inner-city areas..
“Separation-by-mutual-consent” ended
the Waltons-Sears marriage late last
October, following differences on divi-
dends and capital-issue policies. The
former partner’s 3,441,000 ss. “A” group
ords. were offered to ord. shareholders,
three-tenths for one, at 11s. each. The
co. retained Is. a share for “contingencies
and expenses.” The sale was under-
written by J. B. Were and Son gratis.
In addition to the one-for-five bonus-
issue, the co. is offering 2,932,000 6 p.c.
ss. conv. notes, maturing July 31, 1965,
one-for-five at par. Books close on
April 4, 1960, both for the bonus-hand-
out and the conv. notes.
Proceeds of the note-issue (£733,000)
will be used in building a new store in
the Bankstown (N.S.W.) shopping-centre,
one of the vantage retail-spots in Sydney.
Earnings for the current first half-
year, ended January 31, 1960, were dis-
closed at £416,901, compared to £641,478
for the whole of 1958-59. Things are
beginning to move fast, and it may not
be long before Waltons, once\ again
single, rejoins the ranks of first-rate
growth-stocks.
Evans, Deakin and Co., Ltd.
HPHE comfortably - off, Queensland-
-*■ registered Evans, Deakin and Co.,
Ltd., runs a 48-year-old shipbuilding and
engineering business. Its shipyard, heavy-
and light-engineering plants and a struc-
tural steelworks, are centred around
Brisbane. In addition, a 25 p.c. share-
interest is held in the Queensland offshoot
of Commonwealth Engineering Co., Ltd.
(manufacturer of railway rolling-stock,
etc.).
The co.’s business has been profitable,
and shareholders well looked-after in the
way of dividends. At the same time the
inner kitty has not been neglected, and
Evans, Deakin is opulently padded with
reserves. Ploughed-back profits have


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SIDNEY. BE 5711-2-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Piione: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. IHH7U
greatly improved the earning-capacity,
although share-capital has remained com-
paratively small and almost unchanged
over the years.
“Highly competitive” trading condi-
tions continued to prevail throughout the
last financial year. The co. succeeded in
increasing its turnover, -trying to offset
the downward trend in profiTmargins. A
number of structural-steel and other
engineering contracts were completed
during last term. The ship-repairs section
was kept busy and completed a number
of ship-refits. Agency-sales of engineer-
ing plant and “specialties” were said
to have been well maintained.
During the year the co. received an
order for the supply and installation of
a 60MW turbo-generator for the Tenny-
son Power House, described as the
“largest to date in Queensland.” Whilst
the main equipment will be manufactured
by the co.’s associate, Brown Boveri and
Co., Ltd., in Switzerland, a considerable
portion of auxiliary items (condenser and
heat-exchangers) will be produced in
Evans, Deakin’s workshops.
Last year the co.’s shipyards launched
and delivered a 10,000-d.w.t. bulk-carrier,
m.v. Lake Sorrell. Another ship, the
5200-d.w.t. cargo m.v. Mundoora was
launched and is currently being fitted-
out. Two ocean-going tugs are “well ad-
vanced” and are expected to be delivered
shortly.
Net profit for the year ended lune
30, 1959, was £11,515 higher at £147,592
(104,490 net earnings on trading and
£43,102 income from investments and
fees, etc.):
r Dividends ■, Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1949 . . 60,968 10 15 16,825 265,260
1950 .. 63,532 10 & 5 22,788 306,004
Unexplained additions, £7376 .. 313,380
From inner reserves, £85,500.. 398,880
Reserves capitalised, £85,500 . . 313,380
1951 .. 69,180 10 & 5 15 34,450 348,110
Unexplained additions, £24,551.. 372,661
1952 .. 80,699 10 & 5 15 34,450 418,910
Unexplained additions, £36,893 . . 455,803
1953 .. 97,254 10 & 5 15 40,950 512,107
Unexplained additions, £61,161 . . 573,268
1954 . . 115,473 10 & 5 15 44,200 644,541
Unexplained additions, £85,702.. 730,243
1955 ... 138,374 10 & 6 17£ 50,940 817,677
Unexplained additions, £70,037 .. 887,714
1956 . . 148,171 10 & 6 17J 52,540 983,345
Unexplained additions, £99,697 . . 1,083,942
1957 . . 143,306 10 & 6 20 60,280 1,166,068
Unexplained additions, £30,337 .. 1,196,405
1958 . . 136,077 10 & 6 20 60,280 1,272,202
Unexplained additions, £23,387.. 1,295,589
1959 .. 147,592 10 & 6 20 60,280 1,382,901
* Excludes depreciation reserve, now £267,097.
The result was arrived at after writing-
off £48,761 for depreciation (down
£6108) and providing £131,000 for taxa-
tion (down £8000).
Even allowing for possible discrepan-
cies between the co.’s revenue-periods
and payments of tax on profits from
completed contracts, the tax-provision
seems still too high on disclosed net-earn-
ings. True profits must be much bigger
than stated. The co. has not shown any
write-backs of tax-overprovisions, but
has consistently added substantial un-
explained surpluses to reserves. Last
year another £23,387 was disclosed.
Div.-rate remained steady at 10 p.c.
and 6 p.c. on the p.c. and 5 p.c.
20s. cum. prefs. respectively, and 20 p.c.
on the ords. and special ords. Total
payout to shareholders was £60,280. Re-
serves were disclosed at £1,382,901, ex-
cluding £267,097 in depreciation reserve.
Visible earning-rate on the unchanged
average ord. capital was 53.2 p.c. (49.4
p.c. in 1958).
“Difficult” trading conditions didn’t
have any serious effect on balance-sheet
figures:—
Paid capital— 1957. 1958 1959.
Pref £100,060 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 254,545 259,935 263,400
Reserves .. .. 1,166,068 1,272,202 1,382,901
Depreciation .. 223,663 245,906 267,097
Creditors, etc.* .. 578,915 626,322 899,719
Final divs. .. 33,925 33,925 33,925
£2,357,116 £2,538,290 £2,947,042
Freeholds and plant 801,750 835,183 853,136
Shares .. .. 97,024 99,794 103,519
Stocks . . .. 835,623 839,398 1,026,566
Debtors .. .. 416,396 422,399 430,535
Cash, bonds, etc.. . 206,323 341,516 533,286
£2,357,116 £2,538,290 £2,947,042
* Includes tax provision, etc.
Creditors (including tax-provision etc.)
went up by £273,397. Stocks were
£191,770 higher at £533,286. Working-
capital was £103,677 higher at £1,056,743.
At balance-date the ord. and special
(employees) ord. capital increased slightly
to £263,400, pref. capital remaining un-
changed at £lOO,OOO. Each of the 229,265
£1 ords. was backed by £6 ss. of net
tangible assets.
Further substantial orders were re-
ceived for the current year, in addition
to the large contracts already in progress.
Two new ships will be built, a passenger-
cargo vessel for West Australian coastal
trade and a £1,000,000 “roll-on-roll-off”
ship for Adelaide Steam, the keel for
which was laid on March 16. Evans,
Deakin looks forward to another
profitably “difficult” year.
Buyers last offered £6 6s. for each 20s.
ord., but there were no sellers. The
yield is 3.3 p.c. on the basis of a steady
20 p.c. div.-rate. Special ords. are not
quoted.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
'T'he 45-year-old cattle and sheep-run
■*" owner had a reasonably good year in
spite of difficult seasonal conditions.
The Queensland National Pastoral Co.,
Ltd., holds over 9100 square-miles of
leasehold land in tfie far-west of the
Sunshine State and across the border in
N.T., and almost 46,000 acjes of free-
holds on Queensland’s east coast. The
co. is primarily interested in beef-cattle,
with woolgrowing as a secondary, but
still substantial, source of earnings.
Very dry to drought conditions pre-
vailed on the co.’s western cattle-
properties during the last quarter of 1958,
and up to May, 1959, when relief rains
fell. This dry spell brought heavy
mortality in Q.N.P.’s unbranded calves,
resulting in a total of only 11,470 being
branded during the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1959. However, this was an
improvement on the previous term, when
the net number of calves branded was
9461 (22,013 in 1957, which was a very
good year).
Due to adverse seasonal conditions,
deaths in the breeding-herds were also
above normal. Since the close of
accounts storms have occurred, but sub-
stantial rains are necessary to restore the
pastures.
The co. “turned-off” 12,395 head of
mixed cattle “at satisfactory prices” (up
3342 head). There were 73,017 head of
mixed-cattle on the books at balance-
date.
Gross profit from trading in livestock,
wool, etc., was £149,744 higher at
£487,852. Income from interest and divi-
dends was slightly lower at £19,048.
Station and administrative expenses were
considerably higher, rising by £114,003
to £366,923, including undisclosed tax-
provision. The co. wrote-off £40,054 for
depreciation (up £2369). Directors’ fees
absorbed £3OOO.
Net profit for the year was £31,024
fatter at £96,923. Steady 20 p.c. pref.
and ord. divs. amounted to £65,000,
leaving £31,923 for reserves:
f Di\ idends ,
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.* serves.
£££ £ * £
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1947 .. 54,165 15,600 4500 16,796 40,131
1948 .. 50,418 15,000 4500 14,116 54,247
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1949 .. 60,516 25,000 7500 12,633 66,880
12 p.c. 12 p.c.
1950 .. 98,110 30,000 9000 44,060 110,940
Unexplained addition, £5215 . . 116,155
1951 ..103,674 30,000 9000 46,023 162,178
Unexplained addition, £2547 .. 164,725
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1952 v 54,642 25,000 7500 3,577 168,302
Unexplained addition, £4668 . . 172,970
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1953 ..109,366 37,500 11,250 38,232 211,202,
1954 .. 94,016 37,500 11,250 18,398 229,600
171 p.c. 171 P-c.
1955 ..104,241 43",750 13,125 18,749 248,349
20 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956 .. 81,965 50,000 15,000 16,965 265,311
1957 . . 89,707 50,000 15,000 24,709 290,023
1958 . . 65,899 50,000 15,000 899 290,922
1959 . . 96,923 50,000 15,000 31,923 322,845
* After writing-off depreciation included in
profits, 1947-55.
Total reserves and undistributed profits
amounted to £322,845 on December 31,
1959, free of intangibles.
The earning-rate on the midget ord.
capital was 62.6 p.c. A better indication
of the co.’s earning-capacity was the
overall profit-rate on total paid capital,
which improved from 20.3 p.c. in 1958
to 29.9 p.c. in the last term.
Balance-sheet figures show the co. to
be bursting at the seams with liquidity.
Biggest movements last year occurred in
sundry creditors and provisions (£471,833,
up £57,065 —what are the “provisions?”)
and cash, bonds, etc. (£447,218, up
£64,243).
Paid capital was unchanged at £325,000,


General Motors
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED LOAN STOCK
Principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed by
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York.
9
0
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
'
PER ANNUM
6, JO, 15 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 Years, 6 Years, 10 Years, 15 Years. GMAC, Australia has the right to
repay earlier. Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out
in the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus and forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from: .
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by
The Anglo Australian Corporation Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney.
Brokers to the Issue,
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
Applications for Loan Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred
to and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
PI 38
in 250,000 6 p.c. 20s. cum. prefs. and
600,000 2s. 6d. ords., all fully-paid:—
raid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959,
preference .. £250,000 £250,000 £*250,000
Reserves ary ” 290,023 290,922 322,845
Overdraft .. 28,910
creditors, etc.* .. 4 5?A60 41 h Y-S
—.—
£1,132,483 £1,124,606 £1,184,678
Snt ol fitS 83® sIS srS
i,eases .. .. 246,094 273,205 289,358
stoSTetc. *4 6,0 r0 “fJSs 1 IJ;S5?
shares other cos. 105,654 106,526 108,187
rash° r 'iiomis " 436 oil 4 a 7 ’i s
£1,132,483 £1,124,006 £1,184,678
•* Includes provision for taxation and contingencies.
The prefs. enjoy priority as to capital
and have the right to participate with
ords. in any distribution above 6 p.c.
The co. has paid an identical div.-rate on
pref. and ord. capital since 1942.
The unusual proportion of the ord. to
pref. capital, and the extensive rights
enjoyed by the pref. shareholders date
back to the depression days. In 1932
]7 S . 6d. a share of ord. capital was
jettisoned to clear-up an accumulated
deficit of £525,000. At the same time
pref. shareholders gave-up £192,500 in
div.-arrears and had their div.-rate
reduced from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. •
Beef-cattle are still bringing high
prices. Last wool sales in Brisbane
closed with values firm on opening
rates, which were in sellers’ favor.
Similar conditions were reported from
Melbourne. At the Sydney sales there
was a good attendance of buyers from
the jj the (y ont j nent? Japan and East
Europe. If weather conditions are satis-
factory, Q.N.P. should have another good
year in the current term.
Perhaps spurred-on by a potential
takeover threat, and possibly also acting
from a pardonable desire to spread butter
thicker on scripholders’ bread, the co.
has announced an effective 1-for-l bonus-
issue of ords. as at March 11. At the
same time the nominal capital was raised
to £850,000 by the creation of 4,200,000
new 2s. 6d. ords..
The bonus-handout was made from a
£330,000 assets-revaluation reserve,
resulting from a recent reassessment of
the value of Q.N.P.’s freehold properties
(excluding fencing and structural and
water improvements) and the standing
timber thereon.
When the issue is completed paid-up
capital will increase to £650,000 (£250,000
in 20s. prefs. and £400,000 in 2s. 6d.
ords.), AH paid capital will be converted
i nto stock. The new div.-rate on bonus-
swelled capital is expected to be 174 p.c.
At the last sale in Brisbane the 2s. 6d.
ords. were rated high, each fetching
14s. 9d. offers from buyers but
no recent sales were recorded. The


INVITATION TO INVESTORS
Australian
Capital Fund
INCORPORATED
Issue of 1,000,000 Shares at Io'-
per Share (inclusive of service fee)
Second Australian Capital Fund Incorporated* has been established to
provide opportunity for financial interest in leading public companies
engaged in the expanding industries of Australia. A primary point of the
Fund’s policy will be to secure investments having the best prospects
for CAPITAL GROWTH.
Shares in the Fund may be readily sold for cash at current market
price at any time.
DIRECTORS:
W. lan Potter (Principal Partner in the firm of fan Potter & Co.)
H. G. Clarke (General Manager, The Commercial Bank of Aust. Ltd.)
J. F. Campbell (Former General Manager of National Mutual Life
Association of Australasia Ltd.)
3. M. Rodd (Solicitor)
Sir Arthur Sm it hers, C.B.E. (Former Director of Finance of the State
of Victoria)
Investment Consultants to the Fund
lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
applications must be made on the Form provided in printed
copies of the Prospectus/which may be obtained from:
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
Investors Services Pty. Ltd.
For the convenience of Investors, an order form for the
Prospectus is provided below.
*The Fund follows the successful pattern
of Mutual Funds in the United States and
Canada. Under specialised management, it
provides an opportunity for widespread interest
in the financial buoyancy of the country through
a single investment.
c» plTU 'im
INVESTORS SERVICES PTY. LTD.
128 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria
Please send me, without obligation, your free Prospectus
on Second Australian Capital Fund Incorporated.
NAME
(Block letters, please)
ADDRESS
STATE
9177
SECOND
M
m
AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL FUND
INCOR P O ft T f ?
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCIVAL DANIELL -SHARP late
of 426 Perry Street, Albury, New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN
VERONICA SYDNEY SHARP has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2287 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the Twenty-sixth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and sixty and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. H. D. McLACHLAN
CHILTON & CO., Solicitors, of 20
Bridge Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
yield on the basis of the fore-
cast 17| p.c. div.-rate is 2.9 p.c.
The 20s. prefs. last sold at
108 s., but few wanted to sell.
The immediate return is 3.2
p.c.
Net tangible asset-backing
(at balance-date) was £2 11s.
lOd. for the prefs. and 13s. 3d.
for the ords.
Central Victoria Dredging
'T'he co. holds goldmining-
rights at Guildford, New-
stead (Jim Crow), and Amphi-
theatre (near Avoca) in Victoria,
but the Jim Crow dredge was
abandoned in 1954 and opera-
tions in Amphitheatre ceased
in 1957.
Paid capital remained at
£390,000 in 780,000 f.-p. 10s.
ords. Somewhat smaller funds
were employed than in the
preceding term. Otherwise the
balance-sheet figures showed
little change, excepting a sharp
fall in book-debts:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £390,000 £390,000
Reserves . . .. 104,688 101,901
Loan Western Mining
Corp. . . . 28,200 9,300
Sundry creditors .. 1,664 912
Land - reconditioning
provision .'. 8,441 8,441
£532,993 £510,014
.Dredging leases, etc.. 73,794 73,974
Land, buildings, plant 180,322 173,060
Stores . . ». 48,494 48,494
Cash, etc. ' . . . . 3,228 2,961
Sundry debtors . . 18,543 1,416
Loss on realisations 208,612 210,709
£532,9’93 £510,614
There was little readily-
realisable asset-backing for
the 10s. ords., although
the formal liquidity was
high. Stores, deposits, pre-
payments, debtors and cash
together totalled £52,871. Free-
hold land appeared at the
“estimated realisable-value plus
cost” totalling £4496. Against
this there was £18,653 of ex-
ternal liabilities.
The year ended March 31,
1959, resulted in a smaller net
loss than in the previous term.
The co. lost £2727, compared
with £8929 in 1958.
In July, 1958, the co. re-
ceived £14,862 in settlement of
the loss-of-profits claim arising
from the sinking of the Amphi-
theatre dredge in 1957. This
amount, plus funds realised
from the sale of piping at
Amphitheatre, helped reduce
the loan from Western Mining
Corporation, Ltd., by £18,900
to £9300 as at March 31, 1959.
Western Mining continues to
hold about 58 p.c. of the co.'s
issued capital.
The co. retains its dredging
leases, arid the Jim Crow
dredge and buildings on the
property are reported to be in
a satisfactory condition.
Sellers are asking 7d. for the
10s. shares.


36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Make a safe and secure investment with ...
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.)
FINANCE COMPANY
This is an INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED INVESTMENT
per annum
10% for 3 years
9% for 2 years
8% for 1 year
FIXED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
EARN
BASED ON THE
SECURITY OF
CAREFULLY
SELECTED REAL
ESTATE
INVESTMENTS,
PLUS INDEMNITY
POLICY
• Interest is paid quarterly • The original sum
deposited' is returned in full at the end of the
term nominated • The depositor has the right of
withdrawal of capital in an EMERGENCY.
The repayment of principal and interest is
INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED by an
Indemnity Co. which issues a policy to each
depositor.
MAIL THIS COUPON FOR BROCHURE.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell Street,
Sydney. Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines) or Box 4790,
G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 23/3
MlO/A.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, March 14, 1960.
Import-licensing relaxations
affecting about 300 items
were announced by the Minis-
ter of Customs, Ml Boord.
It is estimated that the 1960
import-licensing schedule, with
the recent relaxations, will
allow payments for private
imports to approximate £240
million for 1960.
The latest relaxation pro-
vides for N.Z. to spend over-
seas to the fullest extent of its
estimated 1960 exchange earn-
ings.
One of the features of the
relaxation is that 31 items,
most of which have been on
basic allocations, have been
placed in the category which
allows importers to obtain
licences for the amounts
applied for. This group in-
cludes chicory, napthalene,
saccharin, pure silk, lisle and
cashmere stockings, uphol-
sterers’ materials, stereotypes
and electrotypes and certain
brushes.
The token scheme has been
expanded by the addition of
47 items, all of which were
previously prohibited imports.
For most goods affected the
token provision is 10 per cent,
of 1956 imports, but in a few
cases it is 100 per cent, of 1956
imports, and in other cases, 20
per cent, or 25 per cent, of
1957 licences.
Examples are: Roasted
coffee (excluding Nescafe, for
which a separate bulk licence
has been issued), chocolate,
coffee-essence, candles, an-
chovies, canned meats, Mar-
mite, Vegemite and similar
spreads, work-gloves, men’s
working socks, knitted woollen
underwear, men’s and women’s
cardigans, knitted woollen
outerwear, bathing - costumes,
rubber mats, hats and caps,
some footwear, hot-water bags,
building-board, motor-mowers,
metal window-frames or sashes,
roofing-material.
The largest group in the
amending schedule comprises
about 90 items for which the
basic allocations have been in-
creased, the increases ranging
up to 100 per cent. Some of
the major items are: Canned
fish, cigars, spirits, wines,
leather gloves, buttons, drapery,
haberdashery, sheets, towels,,
tablecloths and certain other
textile articles, hand-knitting
wool, children’s, maids’ and
youths’ footwear, grindery,
various leathers, chinawear,
glassware, clocks, toys, sport-
ing requisites and games, pro-
jectors, cameras, watches, wall-
papers, stationery, earth-mov-
ing machinery, food-mixers,
m e t a 1-working machinery,
baths, dress-shirts, coir mats,
gold- and silver-plate and metal
pipes.
For a group of about 12
items the original 1960 alloca-
tion stands, but an alternative
basis has also been provided,
the importer being entitled to
whichever is the more favor-
able to him. This group in-
cludes certain fruit-juices and
fresh fruits, nuts, fabric,
gloves, linoleum, some glass-
ware, most musical instru-
ments, non-precious jewellery
and electric razors.
In the “replacement-licence”
category 52 items have been
added to the 109 already in the
1960 schedule. These are the
goods for which existing
licence-holders are entitled to
licences on an import-replace-
ment basis, of up to 150 per
cent, of their 1959 licences, and
for which licences are also
available to new importers.
Some of the major items
covered are: Dried fruits (other
than apples), canned pineapple,
mustard, desiccated coconut,
rice, sago, tapioca, certain
drugs and chemicals, dyes and
dyeing materials, scientific in-
struments, fur skins, union
textiles, pianos, tractors, emery-
paper and cloth, periodicals,
electric motors, most tools,
tractors, sewing-machines, furs,
hatpins and hairpins, lenses,
artists’ materials.
A group of about 50 items,
for which no change is being
made in the published alloca-
tion, will qualify for additional
funds on individual applica-
tion.
Australia's exports to N.Z.
could increase from 15 to 20
per cent, following the latest
easing of import-controls, the
Federal Minister for Trade,
Mr. J. McEwen, said in Can-
bera.
Iron-and-steel Industry
A major company to find
whether iron and steel can be
produced economically from
N.Z. ironsands is expected to
be formed shortly. The State
is likely to have a majority of
shares in the proposed co.,
which will have a capital of
about £250,000.
Formed on consortium lines,
it is likely to be named the New
Zealand Iron and Steel Investi-
gation Company. It will carry-
out scout-boring and brid-
boring of various ironsands
and coal deposits, investigation
of sand-separation methods,
chemical and other tests, the
sending of samples and test
runs overseas for more testing
and, probably, the engagement
of consultants.
The Government will retain
the right to determine who shall
participate in any industry
proved feasible by the investi-
gations—an industry which
would require about £3O
million in capital.
The investigating company
will be a non-profit, private
limited-liability organisation.
Companies participating in
investigations will be con-
sidered in the formation of any
larger operating-co., if iron-
and-steel manufacturing proves
feasible.


BEEF-CATTLE
FEATURE
The Beef Industry
Poll Herefords at Eulogie (Q.)
“Country Life” photo
By SAMUEL HORDERN
A' fter decades of low
prices and frustration,
JL jL Australia’s beef-cattle
industry has at last
come into its own and is
currently enjoying its first and
most spectacular boom.
As recently as the early
1920’s bullocks were bought
for £1 or £2 in the Far North
of Australia and were flogged
for thousands of miles, to be
sold, as stores for fattening,
in the saleyards of Coonamble,
Dubbo, Wagga, Wodonga, etc.
In those days, prime fat, but
old, bullocks sold for £ls-£2O,
with beef at £2 per 1001 b.
Since the end of the last war
values have gradually increased
to an all-time high in 1959,
when good bullocks sold at
from £6O to £BO each, with
carcass-beef ruling at £lO per
1001 b. and being retailed at ss.
to 10s. a pound, according to
quality, cut and locality.
Present high prices must be
largely due to a world shortage
of beef, and we know that the
recent steep increase has been
activated by the demand
from the U.S.A. for large quan-
tities of low-grade beef, for
which they are prepared to pay
the rates applicable to our
better grades. On the other
hand, Australian cattlemen
have earned these good values
by responding to the oft-
repeated call to produce more
and better beef.
This exhortation has come
from successive British Food
Commissions and from the
Australian Meat Board, while
intelligent growers have them-
selves noted that old, mature,
teenage bullocks cannot com-
pete with the young and well-
finished types produced by the
Argentine, New Zealand and
the United Kingdom itself.
Moreover, they have found
that, by marketing their steers
at from \\ to 2\ years old,
they receive a much better
return than they did when
massive size and weight
demanded the retention of
their cattle till they were four,
five or six years old ; during
which time, with the same
grass, two or three times the


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
Bth April- 19th April, 1960
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1960 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1960 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
r 9
number of steers can be mar-
keted and sold for little less
than the big, old fellows.
Contemporary statistics are
convincing, and beef quota-
tions for any month this year
approximate to those for
September. The figures are
published each month on the
last page of the Australian
Meat Board’s journal, “The
Meat Producer and Exporter,”
and are based on the cattle
yardings for Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and
Western Australia. The consoli-
dated average per 1001 b. for
September was:
Yearlings. Light Bullocks.
3195. to 2405. lOTs. to 2135.
Medium Heavy Bullocks.
1675. to 181 s.
The trend for younger, and
better beef has been assisted
by several factors. First, the
C.5.1.R.0. and State Depart-
ments of Agriculture have
demonstrated the value and
economics of pasture-improve-
ment, and the lesson is gaining
greater impetus, year by year.
Moreover, prudent cattlemen
will devote much of their
increased receipts into making
their properties even more
productive.
An outstanding example of
the influence of pasture-
improvement on beef-produc-
tion is to be seen in New
England (N.S.W.), where the
winter is long, cold and bleak,
during which time the grasses
are stunted and not nutritious.
With the comparatively recent
advent of pasture-improve-
ment, top-quality prime young
cattle are now marketed, at top
prices, in every month of the
year.
Good beef-production has
been assisted greatly also by
the increasing tendency for
sheepmen (fat lamb) to use
cattle as mowers, to condition
their pastures for sheep ; and
now these cattle are often
showing a better return than
their fat lambs. Last, but not
least, beef-cattlemen are realis-
ing the influence of good blood
in the production of soft, early-
maturing and very profitable
steers, and are bidding freelv
for sires of the type that will
give them the calves they seek.
Unfortunately, other things
are necessary to ensure expan-
sion of production, and these
are factors beyond the control
of the individual producer,
or his relevant associations.
Earlier mention was made
of “cattle being flogged over
thousands of miles” in the
early ’twenties, and there has
been no improvement in live-
stock transportation-facilities
since those days. If Govern-
ments cannot afford to build
railways to solve the most
vital problem of the North,
then at least they must vote
funds to ensure the provision
of all-weather roads to en-
courage local enterprise in
finding a partial solution in
road-transport.
While good values persist,
this would be the means of
ensuring a steady and increas-
ing flow of young stores from
the North, and could also save
the lives of tens of thousands
of cattle in times of drought.
What of the future? Most
beef-producing countries con-
sume all the beef they grow,
leaving Australia in the unique
position of being the largest
beef-exporting country in the
world.
If this state of affairs is to
continue we must not be too
hungry in regard to price. We
hear that excessively high wool
prices will drive' consumers
into the arms of the artificial-
fabric producers, and we have
found already that many people
in Australia cannot afford beef
at Bs. to 10s. a pound and
therefore switch to mutton,
poultry and fish.
Also, the promise of a good
export-trade to Hong Kong
has been suspended, because
Eastern communities cannot
and never will be able to
afford prices of the order
currently ruling. The imme-
diate cause is the U.S.A.
market. For the first time in
history Australia’s beef exports
to the United Kingdom have
been exceeded by our exports
to the U.S.A. (For the
quarter ended October 31,
1959, U.S.A. imported from
Australia' 72,819,0001 b.
of beef, costing £10,907,000;
while the U.K. imported
72,588,0001 b. of beef at
£7,561,000.)
Therefore, if stability and
expansion are to be achieved,
the lesson seems to be that
we would be wise to take a
little less for our product.
Beef at £8 per 1001 b. is still
a good return and could ensure
expansion of both production
and markets.
POLL HEREFORDS
~VTew records were established
' during 1959 by the Aus-
tralian Poll Hereford Society
and the breed further strength-
ened its position in Australia.
Eighty-three new Poll Here-
ford studs were founded,
distributed as follows: New
South Wales, 30 ; Queensland,
18 ; Victoria, 13 ; South Aus-
tralia, 10; Western Australia.
6; Tasmania* 6,
During the year, 9224 calves
were registered with the society.
This beats the record set-up in
1958, when 8923 calves were
recorded. It is interesting to
recall that in 1954 studmasters
recorded 4745 calves, and 10
years before that, in 1944,
1376 calves.
At stud-stock sales at Sydney
and Brisbane Royal Shows 20
Poll Hereford bulls made better
than lOOOgns. and averaged
1735gns. At the Sydney sales 68
Poll Hereford bulls sold for
the record all-breed average in
Sydney of 603gns., and at
Brisbane 88 Poll Hereford bulls
averaged 600gns. At auction
also Poll Herefords made
highest prices at the Adelaide
and Melbourne Royal Show
sales. In private sales Poll
Hereford bulls sold as high as
4000gns.
Six shipments of Australian
Poll Herefords forwarded to
studmasters in t-he United King-
dom include Milton Sanak 9th,
a champion of the Sydney
Royal Show, purchased by
Colonel R. D. Q. Henriques,
of Cirencester, for 4300gns.
Lately two Poll Hereford
herds have been established
in Aberdeenshire (Scotland),
one of them at Kainellar
by Sandy Campbell, whose
family have bred Beef Short-
horns longer than anyone
in Britain, going back as far as
1847. Mr. Campbell in an in-
terview said it was the com-
mercial man’s demand for a
good beef-beast with a quick
weight-for-age gain that had
decided him to go into this new
venture. “Poll Herefords,” he
said, “were big, useful, strong
animals which should meet the
requirements of the commercial
breeder and feeder.”
There have been good sales
of Poll Hereford bulls in Eng-
land, particularly at the Read-
ing bull-sales. Private sellers
have experienced the same
strong demand, and a higher
price is being made by dehorned
Hereford steers in the tradi-
tional rearing-areas. Farmers
in the eastern counties who
normally fatten steers indoors
during the winter now demand
steers without, horns.


Beef-cattle in Queensland
By J. J. O'CARROLL
changes have taken
place in our Australian
beef-cattle industry since the
entry of America as a market
for beef. In the past 12 months
there has been a ready market
for all descriptions of cattle,
with record prices.
The American trade has pro-
vided an outlet for lower-
quality stock ; there has been
a good demand from the U.K.
for better-class cattle, and there
seems to be a ready market in
Australia for all lightweight
cattle that can be produced.
Beef was worth around 70s.
a 1001 b. at the end of World
War 11. The main market
under bulk-purchase was the
U.K.
Average prices for cattle on
the hoof for 1958-59 were:
Sydney, 171 s. 9d. a 1001 b.;
Melbourne 189 s. 6d.; Brisbane
1735. 6d.; Adelaide 1635.;
Perth 1735. 3d.
In the second half of 1959
good-quality steers and heifers
made up to 200 s. a 1001 b. in
Brisbane and virtually the
same price in Rockhampton
and Townsville, having regard
to freight differentials. The
market eased towards the end
of 1959, but still gave the
breeder-fattener a good margin
of profit.
This is in contrast with the
early 1920’5, when there was a
complete closure for a year
of exporting meatworks. Good
bullocks sold as low as £5 a
head on the Brisbane market
after the smash. A trainload
of Hereford cows from one of
the best Central Queensland
properties which netted Bs. 9d.
a head, and a line of nearly
1000 prime Hereford bullocks
in weekly drafts of around 150
brought net £4 Bs. a head.
Before the smash the grower
had turned down an offer of
£l7 a head on trucks. But
that is past history.
One important post - war
development has been the
marked tendency to market
dehorned or naturally polled
cattle at younger ages.
Generally, cattle are being
marketed at a year to 18
months younger than they
were 10 or 15 years ago, and
the American demand for
“hamburger” meat has got rid
of most of the nondescripts.
We stilt get from the far-
western cattle-country some
that are five or six years of
age, but there are not many
bullocks now being marketed
in Brisbane that dress over
7001 b. In the main they are
between three to four years
of age, with an increasing per-
centage in the yearling and 18-
months to two-year-old class.
Only a few years ago
Queensland cattlemen pro-
tested that they would never
be able to turn-off baby-beef
in quantity. However, results
of the 1959 Gladstone, Rock-
hampton and Townsville beef-
competitions have shown that
producers in more favored
areas can turn-off excellent
beef at two to three years of
age.
In southern Queensland, of
course, men like Jim Sparkes,
of Lyndley, Jandowae, Len
McLennan, of Cypress Downs,
Yuleba, and many others have
been regularly marketing stock
of this quality.
Until the American demand
threw prices out of perspective,
Len McLennan marketed a
consignment of chiller steers
every month of the year. He
got baby-beef grading for
upwards of 80 per cent, and
the balance was always first-
quality. They were marketed
in England as chilled baby-
beef and met a ready market.
Processors and consumers
today prefer the younger
animal even if it has less con-
what" the" “ d “SP
turnover in his stock. It is no
longer necessarv for him to
keen hi bu ke s for e or
keep his bullocks tor live or
tx years and really fatten
them to prime condition when
fhree years of ™e p a e ha W o°s n
three years of age perhaps in
“ btU' state, but
competitive with beef pro-
duced m other countries.
First - quality export - beef
tends to carry a little bit too
much fat for the local market
in Australia, and the consumer
in the U.K. generally prefers a
less-finished beast than the
first-quality animal.
Of course, there are excep-
tions. Argentine chilled beef
has been criticised for some
time past because it is over-
fat on present-day require-
ments, even though it is carry-
ing a very uniform and good
fat-covering. From what I can
see of it, the tops of our
second-grade export-cattle are
probably the most desirable,
providecF they are of good con-
formation and are young,
which means two to three
years of age.
QINCE the war there have b
3. „ +
.he “
Aus,r b a e ha Cattle *
A „ ot . t *~„a
Apart from the tendenc Y to
market s,ock at “Ses,
there has been pronounced
trend towards crossbreeding to
combat , h £ h
ca,tle - tlck ' The by
the Blue Star Line of north .
abou , servlce for the shi t
of chilled beef via f o r reS
strait is a progressive step.
B j s one c f misfortunes
c f the times that it happened
to coincide with the opening-
up G f the lucrative American
market and has not attracted
the patronage it would have
had j n other circumstances.
Australian chilled beef,
shipped by the north-about
route and landed in the U.K. in
about 40 days, has proved fully
competitive with beef from
other countries. If we are only
able to maintain a regular
service of beef of the quality
we have shipped by the north-
about route, the margin be-
tween Argentine chilled beef
and Australian chilled beef
“Country Life” photo
Milton Park (N.S.W.) Poll Hereford Bulls


*Get into w 001...
and let your body breathe
mm.
ww &/'■
w.
m
I
OUR
MARKETING
Know-how
ASSURES "ON TARGET"
FAf STOCK VALUES
You have applied a lot of knowledge and experience in many
directions to produce your stock. Constant attention to improvements
and pastures . . . Constant improvement to flock or herd through
planned breeding have given you stock of real value. To achieve fair
\
value in the sale ring still more know-how is required. This
is where A.M.L.&F. can best serve you. Our service in Stock selling
is unsurpassed because we have the sales know-how that’s needed.
Ajj§LEE|
AM 13494
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE,
LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND 1863)
122-126 William St., Melbourne • 4 Bligh St., Sydney • 129-137 Creek St., Brisbane
Branches and Representatives throughout New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland


POLL HEREFORDS
FOR
SYDNEY ROYAL
SHOW and SALES
JUDGING:
Monday, April 11, at 9 a.m.
SALES:
Tuesday, April 12, at 8.45 a.m.
■
H
m
»
M:
m
XU
202 ENTRIES—A SYDNEY RECORD
114 Bulls for Sale and 16 Females from Leading Studs
1959 Sydney Record Sales—
-68 Poll Hereford bulls made 40,975 guineas and
averaged guineas.
14 Poll Hereford females made 5425 guineas and
averaged guineas.
Sweeping Fat Stock Successes by Australia’s
Fastest Growing Beef Breed
New South Wales—Sydney, R.A.S. May Fat Stock Show.
Poll Hereford steers won six of 1 5 pasture fed classes on hoof and hook and in
addition provided the Champion Steer of all breeds which sold at auction for the
Australasian record price of £360.
Queensland —Brisbane, Royal Show.
There were 20 open classes in this record fat stock show. Thirteen of these classes
were won outright by Poll Herford entries. They were successful on hoof and hook
and won three championships out of four and three reserve championships out of four.
Victoria Portland.
There was a record number of 133 steers in this competition. A Poll Hereford steer
was judged the best live entry in the competition and was selected as the Champion
Carcass of all breeds. This carcass secured a record number of 79 points.
For further particulars contact
THE AUSTRALIAN POLL HEREFORD SOCIETY
179 Mary St., Brisbane. Phone 2 9958. Wire “Beefsupreme.”
should be narrowed consider-
ably.
Our main problem at the
moment is continuity of sup-
ply. We are not able to keep
our chilled beef on the mar-
ket every week so that buyers
tend to forget about Australian
chilled beef. The north-about
shipping-service inaugurated
by the Blue Star Line is par-
ticularly valuable, especially in
North Queensland to ports
such as Townsville and Cairns,
where it is cutting 20 to 30
days off their shipping-times.
In 1959 one of the features
of the marketing of beef-cattle
was the rapid growth of the
auction-system in Central
Queensland. Centres which
had rarely sold cattle at
auction began conducting
monthly sales. In fact, at one
stage in the middle of 1959
it was possible to follow the
auction-sales three or four
days of the week through
Central Queensland.
Yardings of 600 to 1000
head in places like Clermont,
Emerald and Alpha were com-
mon. Sales of Peninsula cattle
are also held at Mareeba and
for Gulf cattle at Hughenden.
Auctions have been regu-
larly held for many years in
the Miles-Roma-Wallumbilla
area, where big yardings of fat
cattle as well as stores are
submitted.
These sales represent “big
business” to the towns they
serve and they also involve
a substantial capital-outlay by
the agents. For instance, at one
large country centre a leading
agent just recently erected a
most up-to-date set of sale-
yards, which I believe cost
£25,000, and in another area
similar facilities have been
provided for an outlay of be-
tween £17,000 and £lB,OOO.
Moreover, the financing of
settlement of such sales at
today’s high prices makes
further large demands on
agents’ working - capital and
sometimes exposes them to
financial loss.
Southern Queensland has
always sold cattle by auction
to a greater extent than other
parts of the State because it
is more closely settled ; hold-
ings are smaller, and smaller
lots are turned off. Whether
a similar trend will develop
in the North remains to be
seen. Garbutt saleyards in
Townsville appear to be becom-
ing more popular; weekly
and fortnightly sales are now
held there, and most of the
local butchers seem to be
obtaining their supplies through
these yards.
Rockhampton yardings at
times have exceeded those of
Cannon Hill, and there is a
move now to establish regular
sales at Mackay.
The normal movement of
cattle in Queensland, particu-
larly to N.S.W. for fattening
purposes, has been retarded
to some extent in the last year
or two because of dry condi-
tions in N.S.W. at times and
because of the extraordinary
Queensland demand for stores.
There were periods last year
when N.S.W. fatteners were
just unable to compete with
Queensland store-buyers.
There is an increasing ten-
dency to bring cattle from
northern and central Queens-
land to southern Queensland
for fattening, and this seems
a most desirable tendency, as
the northern and central areas
at this stage of their develop-
ment are probably best suited
for breeding. If southern
Queensland properties can
take stores and unfinished
cattle from those areas and
turn them off as marketable
fat cattle it will be a good
thing for producers in both
parts of the State.
As far as the future outlook
of the industry goes, it
would seem that the supply
of stores may be one of the
major problems. Fatteners at
the moment are finding it diffi-
cult indeed to obtain supplies
of bullocks for fattening, and
unless we can achieve greater
integration of the northern
breeding-areas with southern
fattening-areas, it may be hard
for the fatteners to obtain their
full requirements. Cattle-num-
bers have, of course, decreased
to some extent in the last two
years and that, with increased
killing-capacity through addi-
tional meatworks and extended
capacity of the existing works,
has provided a greater market
and has meant greater demand
on the number of fats avail-
able.
As regards markets, there is
in Australia, and particularly
in Queensland, competition
from mutton and lamb which
must not be overlooked. In
past years lamb-consumption
increased at the expense
of mutton. Now lamb is be-
ginning to make some inroads
on beef-consumption, but with
increasing population there
should be plenty of room for
both.
So far as overseas markets


SUE
1860-1960
Thomas Playfair Proprietary Limited announce the comple-
tion of a century of service to the community by their firm
which was established by Thomas Playfair, formerly of the
Royal Navy, Mayor of Sydney 1885, Member of the
Legislative Assembly of New South Wales and founder of
the Flemington Stock Yards.
During the hundred years since his coming to Australia
four generations of the Playfair family have devoted them-
selves to the tasks of improving, and extending the sale of,
Australian meat.
Playfair’s is now the oldest-established firm of ships’
providores and meat suppliers in the Southern Hemisphere,
besides being one of the most modernly equipped.
Its members and their staffs celebrate their centenary
year with pride in past achievements and progress, and with
firm resolution to continue to play their part in the develop-
ment of the Australian meat industry and in building the
further greatness and prosperity of the nation.
THOMAS PLAYFAIR PTY., LTD.
SHIPS' PROVIDORES AND MEAT SUPPLIERS
Argyle Street,
Sydney.
Kilroe Street, Milton,
Brisbane.
al -e concerned, the main
danger is the Argentine, which
seems to have got over the
shortage of breeding-stock, and,
as well as getting much higher
local prices, is now able to
export increasing quantities of
top-quality chilled beef again.
It is possible that in the
next two or three years we
shall see heavy supplies of
Argentine beef on the U.K.
market, which could have a
serious effect on prices for our
beef.
On the other hand, there
seems to be a tremendous
demand for beef throughout
the world, and the main ques-
tion is whether the countries
which want the beef can pay
the prices we need here to be
able to export it.
In the latter part of 1959
we lost the Japanese market
temporarily to New Zealand,
which is able to export at
lower values than we can, but
there is an increasing market
there and in the East generally.
Price seems to be the main
problem, and again communi-
cation and costs are a very
important feature of this rela-
tionship. If we can improve
our communications and re-
duce our costs we should be
able to produce our cattle
more cheaply and take advan-
tage of all these markets.
Australia’s cattle-population
on March 31, 1959, totalled
16.3 million. Of these Queens-
land had 6.9 million, N.S.W.
3.7 million, Victoria 2.6 mil-
lion, Northern Territory 1.1
million, Western Australia 1.0
million, South Australia 0.6
million and Tasmania 0.4
million. We should surely be
able to carry many more beef-
cattle than that, and I feel
that the high prices that have
ruled in the past two years
will bring about a substantial
increase in beef-cattle numbers
before long, provided Queens-
land seasons are favorable.
Prices are the important thing.
High prices invariably lead to
an increase in production.
Premier Nicklin has said:
“A survey of the present beef-
cattle fattening - areas in
Queensland has indicated that
the application of existing
knowledge to cattle-properties
could result in an increased
turn-off of 750,000 fat cattle
over the 1,250,000 animals
slaughtered in each of the last
three -years.”
It' would be right to say
that until the last year or two
the industry was starved of
capital for opening-up new
country and providing fencing
and water improvements.
Without the bounty paid by
the Australian Meat Board
under the 15-year meat-agree-
ment in the years 1956, 1957
and 1958 beef-cattle pro-
ducers would have found it
extremely difficult to' carry-on,
particularly in northern and
central Queensland.
The bounty paid by the
board from funds gained
under the meat-agreement
proved most helpful. Now,
with the movement of prices
in the producers’ favor, many
cattlemen have surplus funds
which they are ploughing-
back into their properties with
a view to improving their
efficiency and increasing pro-
duction.
Another commendable de-
velopment is the scientific aid
the beef industry is now get-
ting, particularly in pest-con-
trol (ticks, pleuro, t.b., etc.),
in breeding (notably at Bel-
mont, Rockhampton), and in
pasture-improvement through
the new C.5.1.R.0. Division
of Tropical Pastures with
headquarters in Brisbane, and
also through the Queensland
Department of Agriculture
and Stock, which is carrying
out valuable work at Brian
Pastures, Gayndah.
There is no doubt that the
soil-scientist and the agro-
stologist will be successful in
finding new grasses and
legumes which will not only
give vastly increased carrying-
capacity but overcome the
problem of loss of weight
during the winter months. The
latter is one of the chief
reasons for the late maturity
of cattle in the North.


INTENSIVE FEEDING
IN BEEF-CATTLE PRODUCTION
By DR. M. C. FRANKLIN
William Mcllrath Fellow in Animal Husbandry
A/larked improvements in the
economic structure of the
beef industry of recent years
have led to significant develop-
ments in feeding and breeding
programmes in many cattle-
raising areas in Australia, both
in research and in applied
fields.
Many producers have shown
an increasing interest in the
question of supplementary
and, in some areas, complete,
hand-feeding.
This interesting change in
our approach to beef-cattle
production requires careful
consideration if it is to be
financially sound. Of course
it would be foolish to advocate
a hand-feeding programme in
our vast breeding-areas of, say,
Western Queensland or the
Northern Territory, but pro-
ducers who are situated in close
proximity to large consumer-
areas, like Sydney and Mel-
bourne, are justified, in special
circumstances, in giving serious
consideration to these newer
ideas on beef-production.
Even in these more inten-
sively settled areas, close to
high-priced markets, there are
many economic pitfalls, how-
ever, if one is overambitious
in a hand-feeding programme,
and each producer must con-
sider very carefully the pros
and cons of hand-feeding be-
fore embarking on such a pro-
gramme.
What are some of these prob-
lems? Let’s consider first the
matter of supplementary
feeding. A good deal of evi-
dence has been collected in
recent years which indicates
that, where supplementary
feeding is practised, the overall
result is often disappointing.
In many instances the supple-
ment has merely replaced some
of the grazing to which stock
have had access in the overall
ration, and unless the supple-
ment itself is of a much higher
food-value little benefit can be
expected.
It is difficult often to assess
with accuracy the quality of
grazing available from time to
time, and this makes the prob-
lem of the producer who
Shorthorns at Turanville (N.S.W.)
“Country Life” photo
wishes to feed a satisfactory
supplement—or his adviser —a
difficult one.
One is on much surer
ground in considering the prob-
lems of those who wish to em-
bark on a programme of
complete hand-feeding. The
problems are more clearly
defined, and the factors which
are likely to make such an
operation a success or a failure
can be assessed with a much
higher degree of accuracy.
Despite this, however, it is
surprising how many beef-
producers have been giving
very serious thought in recent
years to topping-off beef-cattle
by hand-feeding without appre-
dating fully many of the im-
portant points which can make
such a venture a success or a
dismal failure.
Too frequently an enthusl-
astic producer returns from
overseas visits overimpressed
with the magnificent facilities
found in so many beef-cattle
lots in the U.S.A., for example,
and anxious to see the same
techniques applied to our
industry here. Too frequently
one finds that such producers
have not put in proper per-
spective for our Australian
conditions store- and fat-cattle
prices, fodder and labor
requirements and the high costs
of equipment associated with
a complete hand - feeding
operation. Data on these and
other aspects of the industry
are readily available and
should be appraised very care-
fully before turning from a
grazing and crop-feeding
programme to the much more
expensive one of hand-feeding,
Let us consider some of
these problems. A good deal
of local information has been
collected in various parts of
Australia where cattle have
been completely hand-fed, and
it has been found that the
results obtained support
reasonably closely the basic
data on maintenance and pro-
duction requirements which
have been obtained in similar
practical studies carried out
overseas. This means that we
can consider objectively the


M LK &
3
amount of fodder which would
be required to completely
hand-feed groups of livestock
for definite periods.
There are other important
things, 'however, to be con-
sidered, such as general farm-
organisation, amount and kind
of feed available locally, sea-
sonal prices for different grades
of store-cattle and of those
same cattle after they are ready
for slaughter, the question of
“margin” between buying- and
selling-price, cash or credit
available to the operator, pos-
sible risks and uncertainties of
the operation, proximity to
satisfactory store- and fat-cattle
markets, possible effect of good
and adverse seasons on beef
prices and demand for stock,
influence of internal and over-
seas requirements and, finally,
special circumstances such as
the availability of low-priced
fodder, disposal of manure
from the feed-unit and the
demand for special grades of
meat.
General Farm Organisation
For success it would be im-
portant that the operation
could be fitted smoothly into
the general farm-organisation.
Careful thought would need to
be given to labor requirements
and availability, power, provi-
sion of suitable machinery
such as forage-harvesters,
hammermills and automatic-
feeding equipment, provision of
suitable food-troughs and hay-
racks, storage-facilities for
fodder and equipment, location
of suitable yards and pens,
water-facilities, suitable bail or
crush, loading-race, cattle-
weighbridge and so on. The
location of the unit would be
especially important from the
point of view of labor, soil-
type, drainage, ease of working
and trucking stock.
Fodder Supplies
A successful feeding-plan
aimed at taking stock to a
marketable condition must, of
course, be based on adequate
and cheap fodder reserves.
One of the big problems in this
connection in Australia is that
fodder reserves in many areas,
despite some improvement
lately in fodder-conservation,
are still totally inadequate to
guarantee stability in most pro-
ductive feeding-programmes.
Unless the producer is satisfied
that there is no risk of a break-
down in this part of the pro-
gramme he is well advised not
to embark on it.
Store- and Fat-cattle Prices *:
Seasonal price-trends are
particularly important. Some
men in Australia who have
completely hand-fed stock
during the final fattening stages
have been fortunate in being
able to obtain healthy store-
N.Z. Government National Publicity Studios photo
Mixed cattle on Winiata Station, Taihape, N.Z.
stock at very satisfactory
prices and dispose of the
finished animals on a much
higher-priced market. The suc-
cess of their operation has
often encouraged others, not
so fortunately situated, to be-
lieve they could do likewise.
During a visit I made to the
U.S.A. in 1952 1 found that
feed-lot operators there were
particularly conscious of the
importance of “margin” in
their feed-lot operations. For
example, if it is possible to
purchase store-stock at an esti-
mated cost of £7 10s. per
hundred-pound carcass-weight
and sell them subsequently for
£lO a hundred-pound carcass-
weight, the margin of £2 10s.
a hundred-pounds on their
estimated carcass-weight at
purchase may often mean the
difference between success or
failure of a hand-feeding pro-
gramme.
Age of Stock
It has been well established
in experiments and in practical
feeding-trials that economy of
feed - conversion is much
greater in young than in older
animals. The reason for this
is that maintenance require-
ments of young animals are
smaller, and, perhaps even more
important, the class of live-
weight-increase in the younger
animal consists mainly of lean
meat and water, requiring far
less feed to put on a 1001 b.
gain than in the case of older
animals where the liveweight-
gain contains a much higher
proportion of fat.
The relative amounts of feed
to put on gains at different
ages will, of course, vary
widely according to the con-
ditions. This problem has
been intensively studied in
cattle - feeding experiments
in the U.S.A., and the fol-
lowing brief statement gives
some idea of the relative
efficiencies of feed-conversion
for the different classes of ani-
mal. With calves of approxi-
mately 4001 b. liveweight it
took twice as much food to put
on lib. of gain at a liveweight
of 9001 b. than it did at the
beginning of the feeding-period.
Yearling steers, 6401 b. live-
weight, were using twice as
many food units per each lib.
of gain by the time their live-
weight had increased by 4501 b.
Fodder requirements for two-
year-old steers, 8401 b. live-
weight, had doubled by the
time they had gained approxi
mately 4001 b.
Cost of Fodder
The success or failure of any
feeding operation is tied closely
to the cost of the feed. It is
possible to make a reasonable
assessment of “break-even”
points for costs of fodder and
liveweight gains. By these
“break-even” points we mean,
of course, the level at which
the cost of fodder-conservation
over a definite period is equal
to the value of the liveweight
or carcass gain for that same
period.
A good deal of information
is available which allows us to
make a sound estimate of the
quantity of fodder- necessary
to maintain or put on addi-
tional liveweight gains in
cattle of various ages. If, for
example, good-quality fodder
can be produced on the farm
for, say, £3 18s. a ton —that is
approximately fth of a penny
a pound—when beef is £l2 1 Os.
a hundred pounds, a daily
liveweight gain of -fib. would
break even with fodder costs:
if beef is selling for £7 10s. a
hundred pounds, the corres-
ponding liveweight gain would
have to be approximately fth
of a pound. In practice, beef-
cattle on good-quality feed
should be able to put on at
least 21b. liveweight gain a day
or even better. In this example
the margin between break-even
gains and potential gains is
wide, and finishing-off cattle
on good-quality fodder at this
price could be a sound
proposition.
If, however, fodder costs,
say, £l4 a ton, or Ifd. a pound,
the corresponding break-even
points, when beef is £l2 10s.
or £7 10s. a hundred pounds
carcass - weight, would be
approximately 21b. and 31b.
respectively, and unless the
“margin” could cover labor and
other charges, plus an addi-
tional allowance for a reason-
able profit, beef-raising on
fodders at this and higher


Santa Gertrudis
Why
are Santa Gertrudis always in such great demand irrespective of
seasonal conditions?
Because
1. They mature earlier.
2. They have the meat in the correct place.
3. They are tick resistant.
4. They are heat tolerant.
5. They are good “doers” in any district or climate and under any conditions*
6. They transmit these outstanding characteristics to their progeny.
HERE IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO
Buy SANTA GERTRUDIS Bulls For Better Beef
And Use Them To
UPGRADE YOUR CATTLE
KING RANCH (AUST.) PTY. LTD. WILL OFFER 4 BULLS, AND PEEL RIVER LAND AND MINERAL CO
WILL OFFER 2 BULLS AT THE STUD CATTLE SALES ON THE SYDNEY SHOWGROUND ON TUESDAY 12th
APRIL, 1960.
Enquiries To
THE SECRETARY, SANTA GERTRUDIS BREEDERS (AUSTRALIA) ASSOCIATION,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Box 4317, G.P.0., Sydney. Phone: BU 4061.
OR
KING RANCH (AUST.) PTY. LTD,
Risdon, Warwick, Queensland.
OR
M. D. CULLEN,
Box 61 A, G.P.0., Brisbane.
prices could have disastrous
consequences financially.
There are, however, a num-
ber of properties in Australia
where complete hand-feeding
of cattle during the final
topping-off stages has been
practised successfully. On a
number of these properties,
where accurate records have
been kept, the owners have
made their data available to
me. In southern N.S.W., for
example, several years ago a
beef-producer was able to con-
vert his cattle-raising operation
from one where he had previ-
ously sold steers, approxi-
mately 22 months old, at store
prices in the autumn to one in
which he obtained approxi-
mately vealer prices by com-
plete hand-feeding for four
weeks during the cold, wet,
winter months. Normally,
under the grazing conditions in
that locality, one could expect
the animals to lose condition
or perhaps, at best, barely
maintain body-weight. By
complete hand-feeding gains
of approximately 21b. to 2|lb.
a day were obtained and a suc-
cession of truckloads of prime
beef were sold on the higher-
priced winter market.
In another instance, groups
of Devon-x-Shorthorn steers
were completely hand-fed on
Cartons of hard-frozen boneless beef being loaded into
a refrigerated vessel for the Continent.
hay and oats or on high-quality
silage and again sold when
beef prices were at their
maximum during winter
months when considerable loss,
of body-weight would normally
have taken place in the
environment in which they
were raised.
In this second example the
economic returns between the
cost of feeding on hay and
oats as against silage were con-
siderable. On the hay and
oats beef prices had to
approximate £10 a hundred
pounds to break even with
feed-costs, whereas, with silage,
excellent or very good profits
were obtained even when beef
prices were as low as £7 a
hundred pounds. The success
of this operation, however,
even when the cattle were fed
on hay and oats, was assured
because the operation was tied
closely to the needs of a rich
hop-growing area where the
farmyard manure produced
from the feed was an extremely
valuable adjunct.
A few feed-lots have also
been established in close
proximity to our larger Aus-
tralian cities, and their success
has been due mainly to three
factors: first, the ability of
owners to purchase store-stock
at very satisfactory prices and
so capitalise on “margin”;
secondly, the availability of
low - priced industrial by -
products which formed an
important part of the ration ;
and thirdly, closeness to im-
portant selling markets where
the cattle could be sold with-
out the loss of bloom so fre-
quently evident in stock which
have been trucked for long
distances.
In conclusion, the position
might be summed-up by saying
that the profitable feeding of
beef-cattle is primarily the
result of proper integration of
the selection of store-stock of
a suitable age and weight,
purchase of store-cattle and
their sale later as fat-stock at
satisfactory prices, provision
of cheap feed in adequate
quantities, and proper balance
in the feed-mixtures so that
the efficiency of food conver-
sion is high.


CONTROL
CATTLE
V
V.
J
V
f
fasim .46
/ A
/ I !•; • j|p))
<a
L
/
DDT, Dieldrin
or Diazinon
The Beef and Dairy Industry should keep these proven products
in mind for Cattle Tick and Buffalo Fly control! They have
proved both economical and effective in the control of these pests
and supplies are readily available from all Shell Chemical Agents
and Resellers. Your Agent or Reseller will also advise you on the
usage rate of these products and how to apply them effectively.
SHELL
m
AGRICULTURAL
CHEMICALS
Shell Chemical
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Victoria)
Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth * Hobart
An Affiliate of The Shell Co. of Aust. and' registered user of its Trade Maries. scsm/«


For sound, considered and experienced guidance on
MEAT EXPORT
consult
THE OLD FIRM WITH THE NEW OUTLOOK
P. E. SCRIVENER & CO. LTD.
Established 1924
LEADERS IN THE AMERICAN MARKET
Exporters to United Kingdom, Europe, Africa, Br. West Indies,
Canada, U.S.A., Malaya, Hong Kong, Philippines and Japan
A. H. COMBER Joint Managing Directors M. C. E. SHANNON
P. E. SCRIVENER & COMPANY, LTD.,
21 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Phone: 27,6601
Telex Syd. 302 Cables and Telegrams: SCRIV SYDNEY
The American Market
By HENRY COMBER
Tn the last few years the
U.S.A. has emerged as one
of the most important markets
for Australian beef. In 1959
Australia exported nearly
120,000 tons of meat to the
U.S.A., of which 100,000 tons
was beef. J
Although shipments this
year will undoubtedly be sub-
stantially reduced, the market
remains, and will continue to
be, an important one for Aus-
tralia. Now is a good time to
review briefly the more recent
history of this market and to
regard the prospects.
In spite of a very large
domestic output, the U.S.A.
has been for some time among
the four major importers of
meat, and the imports, of live
cattle are also '.of considerable
importance. In the year 1954
the U.S.A. imported some 4000
tons of boneless beef, increas-
ing in 1955 to nearly 9000
tons, in 1956 to 12,000 tons,
in 1957 to 42,000 tons, in 1958
to 128,000 tons, reaching an
all-time high last year of over
200,000 tons. Australia, of
course, was unable to take any
real advantage of this market
until late 1958, following the
lifting of the quota on lower-
grade beef. During the period
of increasing imports the major
suppliers to the U.S.A. were
New Zealand, Canada, Mexico,
Eire and latterly Australia,
which by now is, with New
Zealand, the major supplier
to that market.
The U.S. import require-
ments of beef reflect in large
measure the somewhat regu-
lar rises and falls in domestic
production. Since the war
there has been a marked
general upward trend in
imports, though there have
been periods when the upward
rate was arrested as local pro-
duction at times approached
demand.
In 1957 there was a sharp
increase in imports concomitant
with a fall in U.S. production
brought about largely by a
reduction in livestock numbers
because of drought and un-
favorable seasonal conditions,
and also because of lower
prices which discouraged out-
put. The reduction in output
led to a rise in prices, and this,
together with insufficient num-
bers, encouraged a further
marked increase in imports.
This trend continued strongly
in 1958 and 1959.
Apart from production-
cycle and -changes in the
U.S.A., perhaps the most
significant factor which has
increased the need to import
is the American rise in popu-
lation-estimated at about
three-million people a year
since 1956. It will be seen
that if the U.S.A. consumes
per capita about 801 b. of beef
a year, then its current annual
increase in population gener-
ates a demand for an addi-
tional 120,000 tons a year of
beef alone. Under certain
conditions the expansion of
herds to cope with this increas-
ing consumption demand may
take as much as five years,
especially after a period when
cattle-numbers were basically
insufficient at the outset, as
in 1957.
To consider Australia’s posi-
tion in relation to the import
requirements in the U.S.A. it
is necessary to consider pro-
duction trends there. The
United States traditionally
produces relatively more top-
grade beef than most other
countries and comparatively
less of the lower grades
Because of the develop-
ment of cattle-feeding in
America the percentage of
slaughter of fed animals in
relation to the total slaughter
has greatly increased, whilst
the production of utility and
commercial beef has relatively
declined. It is interesting to
note that the slaughter of cows
in the U.S.A. showed for some
years a general decline, falling
from about 40 per cent, in
1945 to 33 per cent, in 1956.
So it was that over these years
the percentage of manufactur-
ing grades of meat (being
mainly cow-beef) fell from


ANGUS
in
INTER-BREED COMPETITIONS
m
811
m
:• 3
m
§
m
m
| 1
r**.
S’?
Typical Angus Prize-winning
carcases at Smithfield.
REIGN SUPREME
ANGUS SUCCCSS AT SMITHFICLD (INGLAND)
Angus scored an unparalleled sequence of success in the
Inter-Breed, hoof and carcass classes at the 1959
Smithfield (England) Show.
Angus won every award open to the breed, with only
one exception—which went to a steer sired by an
Angus.
Angus (Commercial Cattle) at —
Perth, Adelaide, and Melbourne
1959 Royal Shows again gained the major prizes.
Commercial Angus in Queensland at Rockhampton,
Goondiwindi, Stanthorpe, Warwick, Mackay, Kingaroy,
Biloela, Ipswich, Emerald, Monto, Mundubbera,
Gladstone, Bowen and Dirranbandi Shows were on top.
Angus have won more K Waggon Competitions than
all other breeds.
America and the Argentine prefer
ANGUS
THE ANGUS CATTLE ASSOCIATION IN U.S.A. HAS
T’HE WORLD’S GREATEST MEMBERSHIP STRENGTH.
ANGUS IN THE ARGENTINE ARE NUMERICALLY GREATER
THAN THE TWO FOREMOST RIVAL BREEDS COMBINED.
Angus has a record entry at the Royal Easter Show. Angus Auction Sales, Tuesday,
12th April.
Watch for the Riverina and New England Angus Breeders’ Shows and Sales at Wagga
and Tamworth, 17th and 22nd June next. COMMERCIAL ANGUS A FEATURE.
Harold N. Sarina, Secretary,
ANGUS SOCIETY OF AUSTRALIA, 56 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY.
just over 42 per cent, in 1947
to 36 per cent, in 1956, even
though overall production in
that year was at a very high
level. Thus, even in a period
where the U.S.A. is not short
of top-grade beef, it can have
insufficient supplies of leaner
manufacturing beef. So it is
that beef imports into America
consist almost entirely of
lower-grade, leaner products,
chiefly in the boneless form.
Over the past few years the
U.S.A. has set out to ex-
pand its herds to overcome the
deficiency and to cope with the
increased demands of a rising
population. It is now evident
that the U.S.A. is approach-
ing a point of full recovery,
and it is possible that by the
end of 1960, or certainly 1961,
production will reach the esti-
mated tonnage required,
though there is certainly some
doubt that estimations have
allowed sufficiently for popu-
lation-increase or the encroach-
ment of growing towns and
cities on pastoral areas. It is
assessed that this year U.S.
meat-production will be up 4
per cent., and much of this
additional will be beef, esti-
mated up 3 per cent, at a
total of seven-million tons.
Again it must be expected that
a major portion of this increase
will be in top grades of beef,
and therefore, despite this
increase, there should be a
sizeable market for lean manu-
facturing beef to be supplied.
Australia may rightly expect
to get its share of this trade.
In the new conditions price
will of coilrse be the governing
factor. Up till now prices have
held comparatively well, and
though there were some periods
when prices for imported
boneless beef fell 3 cents to
5 cents a pound, these periods
were not usually prolonged,
and American prices have
been more than favorable
compared with other markets.
Before considering the for-
ward prospects in more
definite terms, it is well to con
sider consumption-habits and
-tendencies in the U.S.A.
Despite greatly* increased
supplies of pork at lower
prices the American consumer
has shown a marked prefer-
ence for beef, and consump-
tion of this product will rise
provided prices do not go high
enough to limit this tendency,
and this is unlikely during this
period of increasing produc-
tion. For some years now,
“ground-beef” has been one
of the main items consumed
in the U.S.A., and, if anything,
the consumption of this form
of beef is increasing. About
one-third of all beef is con-
sumed as ground-beef, and
this must of necessity be
derived mainly from lean
cattle. It is used extensively
in hamburgers, frankfurts,
sausages and in a variety of
meat-products, being relatively
cheap and with little or no
wastage. The tendency toward
even more casual eating-habits
will result in a growing use
of this type of beef, and with
the developing production of
top-grade beef there will also
be an increasing need for
supplies of lean beef to absorb
the fat trimmings from heavier
beef - carcasses. The major
portion of these supplies can
only come from outside.
Undoubtedly the demand for
lean, boneless beef from Aus-
tralia will continue, though
only a much lower price would
encourage the U.S.A. to pur-
chase requirements on the scale
of last year. Our prices will
need to come down in sym-
pathy with expected price-falls
in the U.S.A. due to increased
supplies of beef, whatever the
grades.
Should livestock prices here
continue at the present level,
then trade with the U.S.A. will
be restricted. There is little
doubt that meat-packers here
in Australia cannot process
beef to sell at U.S. prices
today and still make a profit
whilst livestock values remain
as high as they are now.
There is still less doubt that
U.S. buyers will not be
tempted into bidding higher
prices generally for imported
beef ; in fact, they will expect
to buy down,
Exporters to the U.S.A. are


BORGWARD
HANSA 1100
If En] S ©ISSfirO®K3 ®BQ
that's got the things
the others haven't got!
THE PERFORMANCE OF FRONT-WHEEL DRIVE
Horsepower means much more when it “pulls” instead of “pushing”
. . . amazing performance on cornering; no high drive-shaft hump.
Hansa’s powerful flat-four motor drives through 4-speed gearbox—•
synchronised on all gears.
THE FINISH OF "FULLY IMPORTED"
Panelwork, chrome and upholstery—every body detail—are impeccable
as continental craftsmanship can make them. Come and see!
THE EXTRAS OF "CONTINENTAL DE LUXE"
Heater, cooler, demisters; recessed and padded instrument panel;
divided bench-type seats with individual adjustment. De Luxe riding
comfort —with or without load.
THE LOAD-SPACE OF 3-WAY SEATING
Divided back-seat allows optional
load arrangements. Loading through
large rear door —up to 1,000 lbs.
capacity.
£lOO5 (plus tax)
D
D
A
u
MOTORS
19-129 William Street, Sydney. Ring FA 0944 for a test-drive.
Dealers in all country centres
not the highest bidders in the
Australian cattle-markets today
—there are other interests
maintaining pressure, and
unless there is some slackening
in these other directions then
trade with the U.S.A. must
decline. This prospect is dis-
turbing, when one considers thq
remarkable changes and
improvements made in the
meat-packing industry here in
response to the exacting
demands of the U.S. trade.
Whether or not Australia,
even with exceptionally favor-
able terms, could supply lean
beef in the quantities achieved
last year is open to question.
The more pessimistic opinion
maintains that over-killing last
year, together with unfavor-
able conditions in some areas,
has drastically depleted the
supply of this type of cattle.
The more optimistic view is
that these factors have not
seriously affected Australia's
large cattle-population, and
that a sufficiently favorable
price would encourage output
to the level of demand.
The impending U.S. tariff-
inquiry on lamb and mutton
imports, and the probability of
another encompassing beef,
suggests that agitation by U.S.
sheep- and cattlemen for a
quota-system or higher duty
has achieved results. Australia
and New Zealand, provided
concerted defensive action is
taken, might well expect to be
confident of the outcome of
these inquiries if the relation-
ship of imported beef to local
production in the U.S.A. is
accepted as the main pillar on
which the case rests, as indeed
it must. Imports were a bare
3 per cent, of total home-
production.
All things considered, Aus-
tralia may look to a healthy
continuation of trade in lean,
boneless beef to the U.S.A.
Conditions this year, however,
will obviously be increasingly
competitive, and therefore
effort, especially individual
effort, must be sustained at a
level higher than ever before.
Hygiene problems have been
largely overcome, and it is
now mainly a question of
demands of an exacting buyer,
marketing, of meeting the
Those Australian operators
who have taken meticulous
care to see that their product
has been properly prepared,
marketed intelligently, and
their brand respected and
soundly established, may expect
to participate further in the
American market.


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
warmray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
wm
m
mm
it
$
m
Model No. 3
Super Do Luxe
★ Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large
firebox for long
burning with-
out attention.
•jc Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in rooms
with or without
fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING!
Mode! No. 2A Standard
k Lights in seconds,
warms entire room in
minutes.
k No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
k Full view of blazing
fire through open or
closed front.
k Modem artistic cream
porcelain enamel on
solid cast iron.
k Heats over 5,000 cu.
ft.
k No dirty fireplaces to
clean.
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
L- -
Your . oAustrctiios -j
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
k
WARM RAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Waimray’s Amazing Efficiency is the
Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above), which
are built into the firebox. The air in the room
passes through these tubes continuously, thus
maintaining an even, all-over warmth.
* BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of
nearest agents.
W2Ol
THE UNITED KINGDOM BEEF MARKET
By F. A. BRODIE
'T'he British market has been
the sea-anchor which has
held the Australian beef in-
dustry from foundering in the
gales of depression through
the years.
A century ago we had an
overproduction of beef and
mutton. This surplus was
boiled-down for tallow and
fertiliser; its value was small to
the producer, but with the hides
and skins it was the beginning
of our export trade.
It did more ; it turned the
eyes of consumers in the United
Kingdom to this country as
a possible supplier of large
quantities of meat, and it
stirred imaginative minds to
solve the problem of transport-
ing meat in an edible or frozen
form. In the pioneering ship-
ment of frozen meat made by
T. S. Mort in 1876 the
machinery used on the s.s.
Northern failed on the voyage,
and Mort and some pastoralist
friends lost £lOO,OOO in this
and a second venture.
A shipment made in 1880
was successful, but in 1881
New Zealand proved that
it could slaughter, freight and
freeze at cheaper rates. Many
times since it has driven home
the same lesson.
An astonishing development,
considered in the light of
current events, was that J. H.
Geddes noticed that chilled
beef brought to 2d. —
something like today's margin
—more than frozen beef. He
experimented, and in 1894
made a shipment of chilled
meat, the voyage taking 62
days. Through defective
machinery the meat had to be
frozen-down as it neared the
end of its voyage, and it
wasn’t until 1934 that the
Queensland Meat Industry
Board, through the driving-
force of the late E. F. Sunners,
achieved success in chilled-beef
shipments. Development was
rapid until 1939, when all beef
was again shipped frozen be-
cause of the war.
In the last 60 years the Aus-
tralian beef-industry has only
had two sustained periods of
prosperity, and they were both
associated with war and post-
war periods when all imports
into the U.K. were in frozen
form. The reason is that
frozen beef keeps its condition
for two years or more, whilst
chilled beef has a very short
life. Our frozen beef, grade
for grade, measures up well
against that from other sources,
but conditions are all against
our chilled beef as compared
with short-hauled beef from
the Argentine. Extended ex-
periments have left unsolved
the riddle of de-thawing frozen
meat to look like fresh, and our
chilled-beef shipments have
made little headway since the
war.
TAue to our vast land and sea
there are real prob-
lems in co-ordinating the move-
ment of chiller grades of cattle
from the pastures to the U.K.
in spite of fast modern ships
now available ; these problems
must be tackled with more vigor
and less reliance on excuses
than in the recent past if we
are to achieve more in
the next century than in the
last.
There is a constant but in-
elastic demand in the U.K. for
about 100,000 tons of frozen
beef a year. We seem to have
a firm hold of slightly over 50
per cent, of this. The rest of
the U.K. demand is for beef
in the fresh and chilled form
And what a demand it is!
Some 1,150,000 tons, of which
the U.K. itself produces 820,000
tons. Fortunately for us Argen-
tina is shipping less than two-
thirds of its pre-war quantity,
but this cannot be expected to
continue, nor can home-pro-
duction be expected to decrease.
The U.K. is committed to a
policy of subsidising its ex-
ports by offering cheap food
to its work-force and so keep-
ing wages down. In Australia
it is said that a good price
brings cattle out of hollow-logs;
in the U.K. a “guaranteed
price” produces them in every
barn and pasture. The market-
prices are supported by a
guaranteed series of livestock
prices which vary weekly with-
in a range of about 141 s. 6d.
to 1745. stg. a hundredweight
live-weight and averages about
1655. stg. a live hundredweight
throughout the year.
There will still be seasonal
curtailments in home tonnage,
and when these happen in
association with decreasing
supplies from Argentina and a
strong consumer-demand there
will be, as has happened for
more than a year now, a satis-
factory market for Australian
supplies. But in the face of
constant pressure for home-
production, recovery of the
Argentine and entry of new
suppliers, such as Rhodesia, the
industry again badly wants men
of the vision of Mort and
Geddes.


PORT LINE
Regular service of speedy, Modern Cargo Vessels to United Kingdom'
and Continent for carriage of livestock, General and Refrigerated Cargo.
• Accommodation for a limited number of Saloon passengers.
m
m
WW-
For further particulars apply to
PORT LINE LTD.,
(Inc. in England)
50 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY 27 5301
or GIIJIJS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle and Hobart.
TASMANIAN WOOLG BOWERS’ AGENCY CO. LTD.
Launceston
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD., Townsville and
Rockhampton
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO., Cairns.
Beef Resources of the North
By J. H. KELLY
■yt7HEN considering Australia’s
beef potential (which I
judge to be at least 1,000,000 <
tons a year) one is forced to
look to the great, untapped and
underdeveloped beef resources
of Northern Australia, which
rest on a foundation of mon-
soonal summer-rainfall that
never fails.
From a twelve-year station-
by-station study of the beef
potential of Northern Australia
and of the problems related to
its development, I have reached
the conclusion that the greatest
single problem is that of the
movement of cattle from breed-
ing-areas to fattening-areas and
slaughtering-points. I believe
the answer to this difficult prob-
lem will lead to solution of
most other problems.
Development of the beef
potential of the North is
dependent on the provision of
suitable facilities for the move-
ment of cattle from the remote
breeding-areas of East Kimber-
ley, the Northern Territory and
the Gulfland peninsular areas
of Queensland to fattening-
areas which are mostly situated
close to the coastal slaughter-
ing-points—the notable excep-
tion is the Queensland Channel
Country in the extreme south-
western corner of that State,
Such development is also de-
pendent on the provision of
facilities that will permit the
better movement of fat cattle
to the remote northern outlets
of Broome, Derby, Wyndham
and Darwin and, perhaps, to
the remote river-outlets, partic-
ularly those in the Gulf of
Carpentaria,
The cattle-movement prob-
lem exists mainly in those areas
of the North beyond a radius
of 100 miles from existing
railheads or ports. It is in
these areas that the long-dis-
tance movement of cattle by
stock-route takes place—where
the need for movement on
wheels is most acute. Saving
a miracle or the use of such
an invention as the fantastic
“Hovercraft,” said to be capable
of lifting 200 tons—theoreti-
caily 400 bullocks—the answer
seems to lie in movement of
cattle in the remote northern
areas by new railways or roads
of a standard which would per-
mit the economic movement by
road of large numbers of cattle
over long distances,
But new railways equipped
with modern rolling-stock, well
ballasted, would cost something
like £40,000 a mile, and roads,
sealed to a width of 16ft.,
would cost around £lO,OOO a
mile, allowing for what has
already been spent in bringing
them up to the present inade-
quate standard. New railways
and good roads can come only
from heavy public investment,
and the question of whether
the public benefit flowing
economically from such an
investment could be justified
calls for very careful study.
Present Methods of
Movement
Most of the cattle-movement
in the remote northern areas is
by stock-route, over varying
distances, some being very long.
Taking, for example, move-
ment of store-cattle from the
remote north-western corner of
the Northern Territory to the
fattening-areas of the Channel
Country, cattle have to travel
a total of up to 1200 miles. On
the average, they have to be
three years old to stand up to
such a long walk.
If the trek were done in
one year, they would be on the
stock-route for nearly six
months. They would be badly
muscle-bound at the end of the
journey, and it would take a
year for them to recover from
this condition and another year
to fatten. They would then be
five years old or older, and
their carcass-weight might
average more than 8001 b
perhaps 9001 b.
Today the cuts from these
heavy carcasses are not in
demand either in the domestic
or export market. If, as is
sometimes the case, the cattle
in transit were staged at an
intermediate “depot-station” en
route, and they completed the
journey the following year, the
end-effect in terms of carcass-
weight and age would still be
the same, although the quality
might be somewhat improved.
A point of critical impor-
tance in the method of mov-
ing cattle over such distances
is the rate at which the old-
time competent drover is dis-
appearing from the scene.
This' rugged type of indivi-
dual, so often extolled in prose
and verse, was cast in the
mould of competence and
reliability. Literally he was
born at the game and grew up
with it. He possessed all the
skills of the finished bushman
and had that knowledge of
cattle which enabled him to
judge accurately their limits of
endurance in terms of scanty
feed and long waterless
stretches.
To gain some idea of the
importance of experience and
reliability in the handling of
big mobs of cattle on the stock-
route one has only to consider
the value of a normal mob of
1200 store-cattle, which at from
£2O to £3O a head would be
worth from £24,000 to £36,000.
This constitutes a big re-
sponsibility, which a cattleman
would not lightly hand to a
drover about whose compe-
tence and reliability he had
serious doubts. But, when the
old-timer goes, as is gradually
but certainly happening, what
will the cattleman do?
It is no condemnation of
younger men to say that they
lack the attributes of the older
ones. It is simply a recogni-
tion of a fact that is inescap-
able. For sure, the old-time
drover is on the way out and
the cattleman’s problem is to
find some suitable alternative.
The Alternative
In the absence of new’ rail-
ways or access to water-trans-
port, there is only one apparent
alternative, and that is road-
transport.
But here the question of cost
intrudes. The cost of droving
a big mob of store-cattle, say,
from Auvergne Station in the
Victoria River district of the
Territoiy, or from Rocklands,
near Camooweal, on the
Territory-Queensland border,
to a fattening-property on
Cooper's Creek in the Channel
Country, would work-out at
about ss. a head per hundred
miles. At a movement-rate of
an average of 60 miles a
week, this would not be greatly
in excess of the cost of main-
taining such a beast on the
station of its origin. At the
extreme distance, it would be
£3 a head, excluding an average
of about 3 per cent. loss.
On the evidence of charges
for the movement by road-
transport of fat cattle in the
Alice Springs district (455.-50 s.
a head), or fat cattle in the
West Kimberley area, of
around 30s. a head per hundred
miles, the cost of moving store-
cattle over a 1200-mile journey
at 30s. per head, would work-
out at £lB a head.
This would be economically


the one implement replaces farm bull-dozers,
cutters, rock pickers and forage harvesters!
Conditions “problem” land for high-class mowable
pasture—then mows and gathers the pastures.
IF YOU OWN A TRACTOR YOU NEED A 'TRITTER'
The Tritter has the same built-in ruggedness which made
the Graham Plow famous —Ask the man who owns one.
/
Y
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LTD.
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
188 JAMES STREET, TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND
VIC.: WELCH PERRIN & CO. PTY. LTD., P.O. Box 219 D, Melbourne
W.A.: ELDER SMITH* Box D 163, P.O. Perth MODERN TILLAGE, P.O. Box 98, Beverley
TAS.: J. E. PEDLEY, Deloraine, Tasmania
QLD.: BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD., 71-83 Boundary Street, Brisbane
N.Z.: REID & GREY LTD., Box 942, P. 0., Dunedin, N.Z.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
To Yeomans Pty. Ltd.
537 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Please send full details of the Yeomans
Tritter
TO
ADDRESS
MAKE OF TRACTOR
HORSEPOWER
I would like to receive your free publication
“Keyline Comment”.
Y52/FP


IT’S A POLL SHORTHORN. OF COURSE!
POLL
SHORTHORNS
ARE THE
ANSWER TO
BEEF
PRODUCTION
PROBLEMS
W
M.al 591 9V V
m mm Jilll
* V W "*Y
,yy "V".
MW s '"
V .
,
"*m
*W* ■ #$
'
'■ “:'■<
: ? «■ -...};
tm
"?H ■
■'" ,i ■. 'i>
MH
''■ ' • .
”9p'™
•Country Life” photo
DON'T JUST
BUY ANY
BULL
BUY A
POLL
SHORTHORN
HORNLESS - DOCILE - HARDY - AND BEEF PRODUCERS ALSO
Full Particulars.
THE POLL SHORTHORN SOCIETY OF AUSTRALASIA,
Box 4317, G.P.0,. Sydney. Phone: BU 4061.
out of the question. The move-
ment of store-cattle over such
lonn distances nn earth mads
long distances, on earth roads,
at present charges, can be ruled
out as uneconomic.
Railways have long been
, ° ,
spoken of as an important
means of solving the problem of
cattle-movement in the North.
That’s to an extent, though
not wholly, true. Certainly
closing of the gap between
Birdum and Dajarra (or Mt.
Isa) and extensions from Da-
jarra to Boulia, and from Quil-
pie to Wmdorah, to ensure bet-
ter use of the Territory breed-
ing resources and the fattening
capabilities of the Channel
Country, together with the
reconstruction of the Mt. Isa-
Townsville railway, would go a
long way to solving the problem
but not the whole way.
There would still be need for
a network of good roads for
a complete solution.
From a careful study of
road needs, I have worked it
out that the key-roads for
cattle-movement in the remote
areas of the North add-up to
about 4000 miles. Excluding
Birdum to Alice Springs and
Tennant Creek to Mt. Isa,
which are sealed-surface roads,
the remainder total about 3000
miles as listed in the following
schedule:
Fitzroy Crossing to Derby (W.A.).
The Lynd to Hughenden (Q.).
Nicholson to Wyndham (W.A.).
P unbar to Mungana (Q.). lop
spring to Newcastle Waters (N.T.).
Cooktown to Mt. Molloy (Q.).
Burketown to Cloncurry (Q.).
BouUa to Winton (Q.). Normanton
to Julia Creek (Q.). Monkira to
Quilpie (Q) Thargomindah to
Barringun (Q.).
If these roads were com-
pleted to sealed-surface stan-
dard and suitable loading-
points, with adequate holding-
paddocks, were located at
strategic intervals, the prob-
]em of long stock-route dis-
tances would be alleviated
substantially, and the turn-off
of store-cattle at a much
earlier age would be practi-
cable.
Additionally, the age at
which the cattle could be fat-
tened and the time taken in
fattening would be substan-
tially reduced. These benefits
would be a great boon to the
beef industry, and the benefit
to the national economy would
also be great,
But again, the question of
cost and benefit intrudes. The
standing charges on a public
investment of £3O-million for
such road-construction would
be approximately 10 per cent,
of the capital-cost annually,
made up of 5 per cent, interest
and 5 per cent, for mainten-
ance and periodical reconstruc-
tion. This could, of course,
be lessened if the capital-cost
were borne out of taxation on,
say, a five-year or ten-year pro-
gramme of construction.
Quite apart from the large
capital-cost of new railways,
the question here is whether
the public benefit would be
such as to justify such outlay
and standing charges. At this
stage, I could not attempt a
firm answer to this question,
On judgment, I think the cost
could be justified by the un-
doubted benefits that would
accrue to the beef-cattle indus-
try and to the national
economy. But my judgment
is not enough.
With the object of finding
the answer to this and other
important problems of opti-
mum development of Austra-
lian beef-production 1 propose
to undertake this year a broad
sweep of Northern Australia (I
believe it will be the biggest
ever attempted) and next year
of Southern Australia, in a
quest for up-to-the-minute
informa ion on Australia s beef
potential and problems of
achieving its development..
This, amongst other subjects,
will be covered fully m a book
entitled The Beef Industry
m Australia, on which I am
n °r
In the North this will take
the form of a station-by-station
survey of about 100 properties
which I have selected in order
to ensure a balanced coverage
of the northern cattle-areas.
Having already been over ail
of these tracks, and knowing
the cattlemen concerned, I
anticipate no difficulty in getting
the kind of information which
will enable me to give reliable
answers to the solution of
many problems, not the least
important of which will be the
problem of the movement of
cattle, with emphasis on move-
ment by wheeled transport,
j n considering the problems
G f development of the beef
potential it would be Well to
remember that, as regards
export-income, meat has been
a top earner ; beef represents by
f ar the greatest proportion of
meat-export income. 1 would
think that, in line with wool, the
economic outlook for beef-
production is very bright and
will remain so for as long as
it would be prudent to forecast
This bei j think th e
needs of de b velopment of the
beef indust to F much higher
levels of prod uction warrant
a f a j r s hare of the public invest-
ment on beef developmental
pro j e cts. After all, this industry
CO vers more than a third of
Australia’s land-mass, and the
(Continued on page 52)


HIGH-FLY ALL-STEEL/
SHEDS AMD GARAGES
J w
20ft. x 10ft. x 7ft. Steel
Framework: From £35-12-6.
GUARANTEED 25 YEARS
JMCff*
?LY
ROTARY
CLOTHES
HOIST
HIGH-FLY STEEL GARAGES, SHEDS, RURAL
AND FACTORY BUILDINGS
Made to any size—easily erected with unskilled labour.
HIGH-FLY TUBULAR STEEL TANK STANDS
A complete range of Tank Stands suitable for various tank
capacities. Standard sizes are available for prompt delivery.
Should you require a special size or have a particular
problem in your installation, we are in a position to quote
promptly for your requirements.
The name “High-Fly” stands for quality in all tubular steel
goods. Our Stock Ramps and Rotary Clothes Lines have long
enjoyed a first-class reputation throughout Australia.
Cattle Crushes £llO
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING & WELDING Co. Pty. Ltd.
45 Kent Rd., Mascot. Also 154 Bridge Street, Tamworth;
Piesley Street, Orange; Box 180, Charleville, Queensland.
2!Gw
LW
QUEENSLAND CATTLE
“Walkers” v. Farm Types
By M. H. ELLIS
The beginnings of the cattle
industry in Queensland
were concerned with traction
rather than with beef.
The original pioneers who
went towards the Darling
Downs were thinking in terms
of wool as a producer of
income rather than of cattle
to produce meat. Bullocks to
them were animals that would
pack goods over the Bulga
track from Sydney without
falling over precipices or
turning-up their hooves under
the strain of heavy loads
hauled over roadless territory.
Then as settlement spread
and meat and hides became
commercial objects, distance
was still the governing factor.
If the country was suitable for
wool, cattle weren’t bred on it
except as an accessory. But
they soon proved themselves
to be the forerunners of
settlement. You could take
cattle where you couldn’t take
sheep. They could be driven
with much faster speed and
surety than sheep over long
distances between water, and
they could be fed and main-
tained where sheep could not
always be fed and maintained.
It was in the late 1840’s
that cattle began to precede
the sheep into the Maranoa
and out to the Paroo and
Narran country in Queensland.
By the 1860’s hardy pioneers
were taking them over most
of the great northern colony.
In 1865 the first drove was
taken to Cape York by the
Jardine brothers and Charles
Scrutton from Carpentaria
Downs—42 horses and 250
cattle, and this make-up and
the nature of the adventure
branded the development of the
cattle industry with its
characteristic brand, and, in a
manner of speaking, did much
to hold it back.
To understand its influence
on modern beef trends right
up to the period of War 11, it
is necessary to understand both
the shortness of history and
the nature of the problems of
cattle-breeding in Queens-
land.
Both the Jardines, Frank and
Alex, pioneers though they
were, survived World War I.
Charles Scrutton lived till
1928. Harry Bracker, of
Warroo, director of More-
heads, friend of James Tyson
and king of the Enoggera sale-
yards, was the second white
child born on the. Darling
Downs (in 1841) and lived till
1936. Yet in the years immedi-
ately before the First World
War he was the leader of the
old-fashioned and most power-
ful school of thought in the
beef industry in Northern
Australia.
When cattle were first
brought to Australia the ideals
of those who bred them were
of the English farmer who
stalled and groomed and fed
his stock. But as soon as the
N.S.W. Blue Mountains had,
been crossed and the long
vistas of the west were
revealed, the new school began
to rise, and reached its highest
peak of influence with the
later days of the great gold-
towns and their ports.
The sheep industry was
more-or-less one of the
borderlands of civilisation, but
the cattle industry was applic-
able to cheap, sparse-carrying
pastoral lands where space
meant nothing, and it appealed
particularly to the horseman.
It was an industry of long
distances; also one of com-
promise in types.
Most of the early devotees
were big men who sat very
straight on their horses with
a lancer’s seat, a long stirrup-
leather and a great pride in
the lengths of their daily rides.


Of interest to
Cattlemen, Businessmen
and Others
who wish to relax with their families in the informal
and congenial surroundings which, summer or
winter, are unique to
mm
on the Central Coast of New South Wales, two
hours only from Sydney, with the ocean lapping
at the “cabin” doors.
Proud of our accommodation and unsurpassed
cuisine —full board —we invite you to pay us a visit.
Full particulars from
The Secretary, "KIMS," Toowoon Bay,
via Long Jetty, N.S.W.
The ideas with their cattle
were hardihood, good hides,
large bodies which would
carry a great slab of beef
irrespective of quality in a
single carcass, and muscular,
good-striding legs which would
carry their owners over great
distances without beef-eroding
strain.
“Good Walkers”
The highest praise that
could be lavished on a bul-
lock was that he was a “good
walker.” It made the differ-
ence between whether he got
to market or did not.
Before going to the block
at four- or five- or six-years-
old the unfortunate animal
from Monkira or one of the
great Gulf Stations or Fort
Constantine and the Selwyns
had usually spent the life of
the Flying Pieman, covering
long leads to water and grass,
driven to the railhead over
perhaps hundreds of miles of
unpromising country with only
sparse feed. Later it was pro-
duced to the market after
several hundred miles in
intense heat or intense
cold, on the roughest kind
of narrow - gauge railway,
in the roughest kind of tight-
packed trucks, with a minimum
of water and under the rudest
type of handling-conditions.
After War I it was still easy
to pick-out even the choicest
runs of Australian carcasses
in Smithfield market by the
stick-bruises on their hind-
quarters —this apart from their
large size, advanced ages and
general bush characteristics.
A very large proportion of
the station-cattle from the
more remote parts of the State
in those days answered to the
description given before a
royal commission to the Wando
Vale (or. was it Vanrook?)
stock after T. J. Ryan’s State-
station enterprise had acquired
them: “They looked like
lemonade-bottles on sticks.”
Mostly they were Short-
horns, for the Hereford had
the reputation of not being a
good walker and of scalding
in the regions of the north
and west. Anything with white
on it was almost taboo in
some regions.
The doddie was clearly
quite unsuitable for the dry
plains, and he was not easy
to drove—in fact, he was apt
to drove the drover, apart
from the fact that the breed-
ing of baby-beef was out of
the question.
The Shorthorn Age
The Shorthorn, indeed, was
the answer to the drovers’
prayer—large, docile, strong-
legged, calculated to carry the
biggest possible load on the
hoof and to get it to the
railway-station, “or the abat-
toirs, in a minimum number of
journeys.
This, too, was an important
factor when beef was apt to
be round 255, to 30s. per
hundred, with falls down to
20s. or less in depressed
periods. The fewer the
droving-trips which had to be
made, the less the overhead,
the less .the numerical loss and
the less the expense and
freight.
So what could be packed
onto one beast was never put
on two, especially in the days
before the frozen trade began
to develop and much of the
beef which was not eaten in
Australian towns went into the
salt-cask (there to remain
until it became like old masto-
don meat to feed the sailing-
ship crews which took coal to
South America and wool to
Europe).
Stud-cattle History
The stud - cattle business
began very early in Queens-
land. Only a year after the
Leslies settled on the Darling
Downs, John Deuchar founded
Glengallan with cows from the
Australian Agricultural Com-
pany’s Shorthorn stud at
Stroud, then the oldest with
recorded animals on the con-
tinent.
A bull was imported some
years later, said to have been
Marmaduke (14,897), a
Gwynne from Harvey Combe’s
famous stud.
If he did come to Australia
it certainly could not have
been in 1856, the year in which
the records suggest, since he
was still in England three years
afterwards in 1859.
However, Glengallan cer-
tainly did import Charlotte by
Lovemore, a cow whose dam
had won the gold medal at
Smithfield for Colonel Pennant.
She was a Booth-type animal.
Afterwards Glengallan bought
Baron Renfrew by Speculator
(13,775), Marmion by Bosquet
(14,183), all light and stylish
Bates Knightly blood, with
some cows which were from
the rival and heavier Booth
families.
By this time the stud had
been sold to Mr. Marshall,
who showed great enterprise in
his importations and great skill
in evolving a type of animal
suitable for the Queensland
conditions of the time.
It was astonishing how the
English cattle stood-up to
long-distance movement, a
sturdiness which was illustrated
in the imported Red Duchess
13th. One of her adventures
was a 1200-mile journey to
Nepean Towers, south of
Sydney, and back, to be bred
to Dr. Jenkins’s famous
Theodore, then the premier
bull of Australia.
This 1200-mile walk seems
to have had little effect either
on her or her daughter Lady
Theodora. She herself lived to
20 years old, and Lady
Theodora was never beaten in
a showring.
A beautiful, lengthy and big
cow, she was champion of all
breeds at Brisbane Show in
the 1880’s, conquering, among
others, the dam of the cele-
brated English Hereford bull
Lord Wilton. Her son, Theo-
dora’s Duke by Winsome
Duke, was winner of four
championships and won the
Breeders’ Cup' twice in suc-
cession at the show.
In 1876 Mr. W. B. Slade
joined Mr. Marshall in part-
nership. The Sydney Show
champion Royal Purple Ist was
bought for 1000 guineas from
E. B. Woodhouse, of Mt.
Gilead, and left some fine
stock. The ’eighties were
notable for the addition of
fashionable Butterfly blood, a
Rugia bull which won the
Brisbane Show championship
four or five times in the begin-
ning of the present pentury,
and Bolinda Duke of Derri-
mut 205th, champion of
Sydney in 1906, and some New
Zealand blood.
In its day, from 1876 to
1902, Glengallan was the
largest Shorthorn stud in
Australia and one of the
largest in the world—4o,ooo
acres of some of the best of
the Darling Downs, with 1300
acres of lucerne and 45 acres
kept for growing seed of the
main grasses with which the
enterprising owners experi-
mented. At its peak (1885-90)
it had 2000 pure-bred cows, of
which 600 had their pedigrees
recorded.
The great drought of 1902-3
saw the end of its supremacy,
but the Slades continued to
breed fine animals and to win
championships right up to
modern times.
Other studs which helped to
make the industry in the early
days included Cressbrook,
which was nearly as old as
Glengallan, and the first one
to be founded in the Queens-
land coastal country. David
McConnell, who came from
Port Phillip, took his cows
overland from Port Stephens,
where he acquired them from
the A.A. Company. They were
the first pedigreed stock to
cross the Dividing Range from
the Darling Downs to the
coastal country.
He appears to have been the
first Queensland studmaster to
import Scotch blood, which he
imposed on basic Oxford lines.
It came from Douglas of
Athelstaneford, a British
breeder with a great reputation
in his day, though he was only
a tenant-farmer.
McConnell imported a lot
(Continued on page 71)


Beef-cattle in N.Z.
By C. U. RUMMER
While sheep - raising and
dairying have long been
the backbone of New Zealand’s
pastoral industry, there is ready
evidence of the accelerated
progress of beef-production
over recent years.
A variety of factors have
contributed to this change.
The development of substan-
tial areas of new farming land
from its virgin state has resulted
N.Z. National Publicity Studios photo
Cattle-drive, South Westland, N.Z.
in the raising of more young
stock, these in turn playing an
important part in the cycle of
pasture-improvement up to
fattening standards. The
immediate past decade has also
seen rapid improvement in
aerial topdressing with chemi-
cal fertilisers, and this has
brought much land previously
difficult of access to substan-
tially greater production.
During 1959 the large area of
3,515,128 acres was dealt with.
In some areas more intense
campaigns for pest-control
have been a factor of some
consequence, as have improved
veterinary knowledge and
techniques contributing to
higher fertility ratios, as well
as fewer losses due to disease-
prevention and control,
Raising sheep and beef-cattle
have been traditionally corn-
plementary, one to the other,
although the emphasis has
generally been towards sheep.
Primarily the associated pro-
duction of wool and frozen
lamb—the last-mentioned an
export sphere of notable ex-
pansion since the development
of refrigeration—were the
fundamental reasons,
Cattle Areas
There are no cattle-raising
areas in the Dominion on the
scale of many Australian
stations. The N.Z. properties
are of comparatively small
extent, permitting closer super-
vision, an additional advan-
tage being that they are not
to the same degree susceptible
to seasonal changes.
Recent official records dis-
close that of the three-million
beef-cattle divided over both
Islands, those in the North
comprise no fewer than five-
sixths of the total. These are
spread over a little more than
12-million acres of primarily
pasture lands, more than
double the comparative area
in the South Island.
Sheep, on the other hand,
are much more equitably dis-
tributed, being in the propor-
tions of 25,000,000 and
21,000,000 respectively, figures
which tend to emphasise the
variations of rainfall. The
North, originally more densely
bush-covered compared with
the South’s large expanses of
native tussock and lighter
vegetation, has always enjoyed
a much denser cattle-popula-
tion, dairying as well as beef.
Provincially, in the Auck-
land territory embracing the
rich Waikato and Bay of
Plenty districts and through to
the East Coast (Gisborne),
would be found no less than
42 per cent, of the Dominion’s
beef-cattle. Wellington (22 per
cent.), Hawke’s Bay (16 per
cent.), and Taranaki (3 per
cent.) account for the North
Island’s share of 83 per cent.,
with the remaining 17 per cent,
located in the South Island.
It is not possible to get
reliable separate figures for
beef- and dairying-cattle earlier
than 1945, but in that year
the beef-census showed a total
of over two-million. The
latest statistics (1958) disclose
an almost 50 per cent, increase
to 2,915,000, while on a
reasonably safe estimate of
5 per cent, annual increase
since, the present total com-
fortably exceeds three-million.
It may have some signifi-
cance that, to keep pace with
increased grass-requirements,
fertiliser production over the
same period showed an almost
identical increase.
Breeds
Of the current figures earlier
referred-to, females two
years or alder are estimated
to account for 1,200,000. An
indication of the numbers
represented by purebred stock
can be gained from the fact
that 3315 female registrations
were made last year in the
Aberdeen Angus Society’s
herd - book. Taking into
account the number of young
stock not individually regis-
tered, although of pure origin,
and the number of older
females to annually provide
this number of heifer-calves
for one breed alone, the ratio
of clean-bred stock is quite
high.
Appropriately the strongest
numerical breed is the “All
Blacks,” or Aberdeen Angus,
with a more than three-to-one
advantage over the next most
popular, the Herefords. Short-
horns (7 per cent.) and the few
other breeds, including the
more recently introduced
Galloways, which are becom-
ing increasingly popular for
certain conditions, are as yet
well in the minority.
The two principal breeds,
both hardy and well adapted
to our conditions, are also
extensively crossed. The first
cross is deservedly popular,
resulting in an animal embody-
ing most of the desirable car-
cass features of each, as well
as sacrificing nothing in the
way of farming adaptability.
Generally quick and early
fatteners, this type has provided
a prominent influence in the
growing chilling trade.
Whereas in earlier years, to
fit in with farm-improvement


future of this big slice of Aus-
tralia is still largely dependent
on beef-production.
A word or two /on the
importance of the development
of northern mineral resources,
in the road- and rail-transport
context, would not be inappro-
priate. Along with cattle-
raising, it looks as though
mineral production will con-
tinue to be prominent in the
northern cattle-areas. This is
important when considering
transport-improvement needs.
An example is to be found
in the expenditure of up to
£3O-million on the reconstruc-
tion of Mt. Isa railway.
Although this is a key cattle-
railway, it is also vital to the
economic continuance of metal-
production from the great
siiver-lead and copper-ore
of Mt. Isa, which contain
vast reserves of ore as
yet untapped. It is certainly
not beyond the bounds of
possibility that other mineral
resources will yet be discovered
and exploited in areas which
would be served by the network
of roads which I have men-
tioned here.
Finally, 1 would say that the
sociological aspect of trans-
port development in Northern
Australia is one that should
not be overlooked. The time
has arrived when we should
cease to look upon Australia’s
remote North as the “Never
Never”.
"You take the lot or none."
techniques, many steers were
held till three-years and older
before fattening, advances in
pastures and management has
resulted in the fattening change-
over at a much earlier age.
The natural consequence has
been better-quality beef not
only to provide for the ever-
widening overseas export trade,
but at the same time resulting
in stimulated local consump-
tion.
Stud-breeding
The acknowledged aptitude
of New Zealanders as progres-
sive farmers, particularly in
the field of pasture-improve-
ment and over the whole range
of stud-breeding, has been just
as apparent with beef-cattle.
The Dominion’s sheep-flocks,
particularly Romneys and
Corriedales, have long enjoyed
world-wide prestige, as have
her Jersey and Ayrshire cattle,
thoroughbreds and trotting-
horses.
Although a comparatively
smaller sphere, advancement
in the beef-herds has been
almost as pronounced. It may
be a far cry back to when, at
the turn of the century, the New
Zealand-bred Hereford sire
Field Marshall (25801 b. live-
weight) was an outstanding
show-champion in Australia,
but about 14 years ago the
Aberdeen Angus became a big
influence in Australian breed-
ing, as he had earlier been in
New Zealand, and until
the imposition of an em-
bargo at the Australian end
in 1958 Dominion breeders
were enjoying a strong export
trade with the Commonwealth.
Blood ultimately tells in ail
phases of stud stock-breeding,
and our breeders are constantly
searching for animals which
will improve their herds. This,
combined with the many
natural advantages they enjoy
by way of comparatively
disease-free fertile land, and
temperate climate without
extremes, supports the view
that cattle-raising is as yet far
from its peak.
Production
Current production of beef
is approximately 250,000 tons
annually, which represents the
slaughter of over a million
animals. From the export
portion, around two-thirds,
approximately £N.Z.23,000,000
is earned in overseas exchange,
representing 35 per cent, of
the Dominion's total meat
income.
Local consumption of beef
per head of population has
been estimated at 1071 b.
annually, almost the equivalent
of the total of all other meats,
namely mutton 681 b., lamb
91b., pork (including bacon and
ham) 301 b., and poultry 31b.
Markets
Private-treaty sales between
grower and local or export
meat-buyers are conducted
mainly through the medium
of stock-agency firms, resulting
in direct delivery from farm
to freezing-works or abattoirs.
Centrally located saleyards
under the control of single or
group stock-and-station agents,
provide for auctions of the
many smaller or uneven lines
for the local trade.
Values are to a large extent
governed by the schedule
prices per 1001 b. offered by the
principal exporters, this acting
as a steady barometer of per-
head or “on-the-hoof” prices,
the usual basis for the butchery
market. Recently the Govern-
ment has announced its inten-
tion to impose price-control on
the local trade, and this could
have some effect on the volume
and value for home consump-
tion.
During the peak months of
the export killing - season
(December - April), freezing-
works and abattoirs employ
some 20,000 workers, a high
ratio of N.Z.’s population of
2J million. Closely linked also
are road and rail transport-
systems, waterfront workers
and many less directly
employed, such as the staff of
fertiliser-plants, those engaged
in aerial topdressing, drafters
and other stock members of
commercial firms. A substan-
tial proportion of this
employment deals with beef-
production.
Grassland
There can be no denial that
the economy and prosperity
of New Zealand is based on
grass-development. Notwith-
standing remarkable expansion
due to research into the
improvement of strains, yield-
ing more and better-quality
leafage, often adapted to a
wider range of farming condi-
tions, it has been estimated that
more than 90 per cent of exist-
ing grasslands are not yet fully
improved.
In a country already claimed
to enjoy the world's highest
farming return per labor-unit,
such added production would
undoubtedly have a tremendous
bearing on population-growth,
with resulting industrial
development in many direc-
tio n s. Diversification of
present farming is a most likely
trend, and with less labor costs
expansion of the beef industry
is a likely consequence, par-
ticularly if the markets of the
world continue to show prefer-
ence for this class of meat.
A decade or two ago beef-
production was described as
the “Cinderella of New Zealand
farming."’ Now there are
sound indications that this
aspect of our pastoral life is
sure, in the not too distant
future, to enjoy status on an
equal plane with those that
have held the spotlight in the
past.


start the day right!
F>Vh
IM
C
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Racing
The racing scene now
switches to Sydney, with, first,
the S.T.C.’s £lO,OOO Golden
Slipper Stakes on Saturday,
and then the A.J.C.’s big
Autumn Carnival to follow.
This autumn’s racing at Rand-
wick should, in fact, be the
most interesting and attractive
for many years.
For this coming Saturday,
to begin with, the S.T.C., for
its part, has an excellent pro-
gramme. It includes the nine-
furlongs £l5OO Rawson Stakes
(first weight-for-age contest of
the Sydney autumn round);
the six - furlongs £lO,OOO
Golden Slipper Stakes (for
two-year-olds); the seven-
furlongs £2OOO Railway
Quality Handicap (with a
line-up of the best sprinters) ;
and the 10-furlongs £3300
S.T.C. Gold Cup (expected to
be a guide to the A.J.C.’s
Sydney Cup).
Twelve months ago three-
year-old Bold Pilot won the
Rawson from Skyline and
Grenoble in the track-record
time of 1.49 9/10. Not many
races are run over the nine-
furlongs course at Rosehill,
and this one is generally a
race for good horses. Going
back through recent seasons, a
few of them have been Tul-
loch, Redcraze, Prince Morvi,
Gallant Archer and Tarien.
The Railway Quality and Cup
double should be keenly
watched, with both Doncaster
and Sydney Cup hopes having,
an outing, some of the Don-
caster prospects having their
final trial for the big mile.
It will be the last meeting
at Rosehill for several months.
A new official stand is to be
built, and meanwhile Rosehill
dates will be transferred to
other tracks.
• • • •
Almost any other trainer
except Rosebery mentor
Gordon Brown would have
long since despaired of ever
winning a race again with five-
year-old Turkestan, who won
the 1958 Epsom, and divvil
another race till he bobbed-
up in the Welter last Saturday.
Lately he’d been showing some
glimpses of form —only enough
to lure connections on a bit
further —but a couple of days
before the Canterbury win
he’d worked fast with Royal
Perception, expected by his
trainer, L. O’Rourke, to go
close to winning the Canter-
bury Cup (in the event, Royal
P. failed to get a clear run
at any stage). In the Welter
win Turkestan unwound a
powerful finish, well-ridden by
apprentice F. Hodder, who’s
attached to Jack Denham’s
stable. Turkestan is now to
have another go at the Don-
caster, with, on 7.12, only
121 b. above the limit.
It was 10’s bar one at the
line-up for the Canterbury
Two-year-old, and the odds-
on shot, Gemini Prince, duly
won it as easily as the betting
suggested he should. Aly
Khan, who at one ' stage had
been equal - favorite with
Gemini but drifted to 12’s,
started from the outside
barrier, and for a while showed
pace in keeping with his three
successive wins on Melbourne
courses. He couldn’t keep it
up, and finished in the ruck.
He could, perhaps, have bene-
fited from his first experience
of Sydney’s clockwise way.
Gemini Prince won so well
that he looks one of the real
chances in the Golden Slipper
Stakes. M. McCarten will
also saddle Wenona Girl in
that juicily endowed sprint
for the youngsters.
• . • • •
Peter Miers is Sydney’s
latest apprentice find. Inden-
tured to Rosebery trainer Kel
Suttle, he has, within a few
weeks, ridden his way right
into the spotlight by sheer
clever horsemanship ; most of
his mounts haven’t been high-
grade in either ability or class.
Able to ride at 6.12, Miers
displayed skill and quick
thinking to win the first divi-
sion of the Canterbury Ash-
bury Stakes on Macleay River
and the second division on
Quiet Life. His
heels riding was good to
watch.
• • • •
Randwick trainer Terry
Brosnan is on the crest of a
winning wave. He has landed
four races within about as
many weeks, three of them
with Dare Say and the other
with Golden Vogue. Dare
Say’s Canterbury Park Cup
win on Saturday (netting £1045
and a £lOO trophy) was the
Nilo gelding’s best to date.
Halfway through the 9\ fur-
longs he didn’t appear to hold
much chance of downing the
smart field, with most of the
17 others in front of him and
travelling well. However, Bros-
nan had told jockey B. How-
lett not to worry about the
early part of the race but to
reserve the six-year-old gelding
for a final dash. It worked
well, Dare Say finishing brilli-
antly down the outside of the
field to win the Cup easily
from favorite Weeamera and
outsider Compass in the race-
record time of 1.59. Brosnan
has his horses particularly fit
at the moment, and more wins
seem close. A stable in form
is one to follow.
• • « •
Though the Canterbury Fly-
ing field had dwindled to five
due to the presence of Mar-
tello Towers and Endure, the
race between that pair was
interesting. However, it proved
easy for the big grey, who was
always at odds-on. Endure
made the pace, and, though
beaten well, she could quickly
come-up with a win in the best
sprint company. Man of Iron
was running on well for third
money, and, as it was only his
second outing after a spell, he
should benefit from the run.
• • • •
Light Touch looked a good
thing beaten in the Second
Ashbury Stakes. She's a five-
year-old and yet to win a race,
but she has finished second
three times in recent weeks,
and on Saturday conceded
Quiet Life many lengths in the
final stages and was beaten
only half-a-head. She missed
the start and had only two
behind her after settling down,
and to get so close at the finish
in a field of 20 was a smart bit
of galloping.
• • • •
Trainer Darby Mpnro
missed-out with the much-
favored Beechley (downed by
Turkestan), but he had a
winner in Committed, who
came from a good way back
to land the money in the Camp-
sie Stakes. A three-year-old
by Judicate (imp.) from Bridal
Stream by Midstream (imp.),
Committed is raced by Mrs.
Munro, and, related to such
good ones as True Course,
Carry On and Cherie Marie, a
very promising young galloper
he looks, too.
* * *
At last midweek’s' Warwick
Farm meeting New Zealand-
bred Maori Fair, trained at
Randwick by Jack Green for
E. G. and Mrs. Cavanagh,
recorded one of the season’s
easiest wins in any Maiden
event for two-year-olds. Mulley
sat quietly on the free-striding
gelding to the straight, then
gave him a light cut or two
with the whip, and Maori Fair
ran home with a couple of
lengths to spare from Marquis
De Cortauld and King of the
Castle (both also N.Z.-bred).
Maori Fair is by Fair’s Fair
(imp.) from the imported mare
Kyme Wau by Way In. On
this showing he should be
worth following.
« • • «
The Novice Seven at the
same Farm fixture was for
fillies and mares of three-years
and upwards, and Surabey (late
Queen Vista) had it won before
the home-turn was rounded.
She scored by four lengths


Between
Ourselves
ft
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Missing Friend
GIBB, John James, son' of MATTHEW
JOHN 1 ' GIBB, late of Cootamundra, or
any person knowing his address, please
communicate C. A. VAUGHAN &
HAINS, Solicitors, Cootamundra.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED JOHN DALE late of 53
Gladstone Street North Parramatta New
South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that
IRENE CATHERINE DALE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3625 of 1959
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 16th May 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GIBSON, MACPHILLAMY AND
PHIPPARD, Solicitors, of 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LLOYD CLARENCE LUCAS late of
Booker Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN LUCAS has filed Petition No.
4235 of 1959 for Divorce on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
15th May 1960 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from .T. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.-—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROGER PATRICK BOYLE. —TAKE
NOTICE that SHIRLEY MAY BOYLE
has filed Petition No. 4355 of 1959 for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 15th May 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
from Panic and Waitful. A
three-year-old Port Vista (imp.)
filly from Belle Queen by Actor
(Fr.), Surabey had the excellent
prior form of three in a row
on northern country tracks; in
making it four she gave owner-
trainer Jack Ryan his first city
win for about two years.
* * *
“R.0.M.C.”: Besides putting
hirh back on his rightful
pedestal, Tulloch’s exciting win
over Lord recaptured Austra-
lia’s stake-winning title for the
gallopers, annexed by the pacer
Caduceus at the Inter-
Dominion carnival last month.
Tulloch has won £67,558 10s.
—a couple of grand more than
the grand little pacer.
Hs % *
Flemington Form
Nilarco made it three good
wins in a row when he took
the £BlOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes at Flemington last
Saturday in what to most spec-
tators looked like a triple
dead-heat. The photo showed
that he’d won by a short-
half-head (the smallest margin
used on Victorian courses)
from Dhaulagiri, with Lord
the same margin away third.
It was a wonderful race. At
the “two” Dhaulagiri seemed
to have stolen it when he
dashed three-lengths clear. It
was not until the last 50yds.
that Nilarco and Lord closed
on him, and right on the line
Bill Williamson drove Nilarco
in between. .
Nilarco’s programme in-
cludes the A.J.C.’s £lO,OOO
Invitation Stakes and Sydney
Cup. The A.J.C. handicapper
has given him the maximum
101 b. penalty in the Cup for
his St. Leger win last Satur-
day week, and he will now
carry weight-for-age in the
two-miler. Nilarco is a high-
class youngster, and, provided
he adapts himself to Sydney
conditions and the reverse way
of galloping, he may emulate
Sailor’s Guide, who won the
V.R.C. St. Leger and Sydney
Cup double in 1956.
• • • •
The three-year-old Adelaide-
owned filly Mintaway will be
another visitor to Sydney for
the autumn racing. Her main
target is the Adrian Knox
Stakes, but she may also run
in the Invitation Stakes. Last
spring Mintaway won the
Oaks, and she has come up
again in even better form. On
Saturday she won the A. V.
Kewney Stakes as she liked,
and ran the 10 furlongs in
2.2 f, not far outside the track
record of 2.2. Mintaway was
bred by her owner, R. C.
Stuart, and is by imported
Orgoglio and from Penrua by
Pennant (imp.) from Cairn
Rua by Melfort (imp.). She
is a really good galloper, and
looks the filly to beat in the
Adrian Knox. Even the Invita-
tion Stakes won’t be beyond
her.
• • • •
Most of the events at
Flemington had similar bear-
ing on the coming A.J.C. rac-
ing, and certainly Gabonia’s
good performance to win the
Leonard Stakes down the
straight-six will have an effect
on Doncaster discussions.
Everybody wanted to back
Anonyme for the Leonard,
and that colt shortened to
odds-on, but Gabonia beat him
comfortably. The result vin-
dicated Newmarket form.
Correct, who won the New-
market, had been beaten by
Gabonia at his previous run.
Gabonia did his early racing
in Sydney under Maurice
McCarten’s care, but he is
owned in Melbourne by rabbit-
exporter J. McCraith. An
impressive-looking black geld-
ing by Gabador from Lavonia,
Gabonia is nicely in the Don-
caster with 8.2, and he could
be a very dangerous horse in
the race.
Another Doncaster pros-
pect, Stormy Passage, guaran-
teed himself a trip to Sydney
by an easy win in the Fare-
well Handicap. Stormy Passage
is owned in Adelaide by R. A.,
J. D. and A. J. (jnr.) Lee, and
on this trip to Melbourne has
proved himself a galloper
above the ordinary. He won
the rich Alister Clark Stakes
at Moonee Valley in the same
“from go to-whoa” fashion as
on Saturday. A four-year-old
gelding by Sun Storm from
Crown Appeal, he carried 9.1
in the Farewell Handicap, and
he drops to 8.6 in the Don-
caster. There is this worry
regarding him: he likes hisi
own way in front, and if any-
thing goes with him he’s
inclined to give-up. However,
if he gets the chance to dic-
tate the terms of the Don-
caster, he will go close to
winning.
• • • •
Tony Lopes had been plan-
ning for a long time to
“spring” his colt Jovial John
in a suitable race, but he had
to wait until the distance of
the two-year-old events ex-
tended to a mile. Jovial John
had raced only once prior to
last Saturday—over four-
furlongs—and had finished well
down the track. For months,
since he has been back in
work, Jovial John has indicated
that he needs a bit of ground
to do his best, and the mile
Gibson Carmichael Stakes was
selected for his return to rac-
ing. Lopes expected long
odds about the colt, and in
a few isolated places a little
20 to 1 was bet. But most
of the “big” bookies had been
well advised,''and connections
had to accept 5 to 1 for their
money. Jovial John did his
part by coming from eighth
at the “two” to win by a half-
head. He looks a good staying
prospect. His sire, imported
Judicate, won twice over two
miles in England. His dam,
Cannelle, is by Delville Wood
from Delta’s dam Gazza, by
Magpie (imp.) from Tressova.
Although there were no
spectacular individual sales,
Wright, Stephenson and Co.
had good reason to be pleased
with the overall result of their
traditional two-day yearling-
auction. All told they disposed
of 190 yearlings for an aggre-
gate of 102,78 sgns. and an
average of 541gns. In 1959
the average was only 472gns.
The success of the Orgoglio
stock ensured a strong demand
for that sire’s youngsters, and
the crop of 13 brought a total
of 18,150gns. Top price of
the sales was the 2500gns. bid
by trainer Tommy Woodcock
for the Orgoglio filly from
Peak of Arran.
* *
Trots
Driven by veteran Jack
Watts, promising young pacer
Tacloban was lengths behind
the leaders near the end of
the Two-year-old Stakes at
Harold Park last Friday night,
but unwound a powerful burst
to win by half-a-length from
Fairbanks and Grose ,Vale.
Second in several previous two-
year-old races, Tacloban had
been slowly away in each of
them, as he was again in this
run. Harold Park stewards
suspended driver C. R. Elliott
for three months after finding
a tack in the end of his whip.
Elliott drove sensationally-
backed Carnegie in the last
race, the Picton Handicap, but,
in a thrilling finish, Craig
Hanover landed the money
from Lucky Laurie and Ray’s
Wonder, head, head. Carneg'e
finished fourth, but had suffered
interference in a scrimmage.
* * *
Other Sports
“Bob Ray”: Bris b a n e’s
“Sports Referee” of September
24, 1921, notes a game that
should have been worth seeing
—a Soccer match between
ladies representing North Bris-
bane (Maroon) and South Bris-
bane (Blue). They attracted,
too —the 10,000 crowd was the
biggest of the season. The
players were young and sturdy,
and their play wasn’t hard to
look at, either. Their “head-
work” was assisted by Tam
o’Shanters worn with short-
cropped hair, and great were


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight —Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to * The Bulletin or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
the cries of “Kick quickly,
dear! ” when a player was
pressed by the opposition.
The Blues were as beautiful in
defeat as the Maroons were in
victory, 2 goals to nil.
* * *
“Tin” (Lancs.): Britain's
harassed Soccer chiefs are
calling for a ban on the
televising of Soccer matches.
This is not merely because
they are losing cash cus-
tomers who find it easier to
stay at home than stand on the
terraces for a poorer view of
the game. The fact of the
matter is the “goggle-box” has
given them proof that British
footballers are lagging behind
the slick Spanish sides which
have been over here recently.
Fans are now aware that the
countrv which taught the world
football is some years behind
those Continental countries
in playing - technique. The
inch-accurate, defence-splitting
passing of such teams as Bar-
celona and Real Madrid, or
the aimless kick-and-rush of
most British teams? The fans
want the real thing. Even if
the game’s rulers implement
the TV ban it is likely the
cameraman will operate on the
Continent or even farther afield.
The “menace” of TV could
thus clear away the deadwood
and actually give British foot-
ball a new stimulus.
* * *
“Paul Pry”: The tendency of
some fast-bowlers to jump im-
mediately before delivering the
ball invariably reminds me of
a Victorian Sheffield Shield
bowler who played 20 years or
so ago. He had a most pro-
nounced leap, but it was diffi-.
cult to discern just at what
stage he delivered the ball.
Three of us had been discussing
it for some time when an
elderly spectator, seated a few
feet from us, weighed-in with
this profound finding: “I have
heard what you fellows have
had to say, and after watching
this man closely I have come
to the conclusion that his
delivery of the ball is simul-
taneous with his return to
earth.”
* * *
“Yachtsman”: The bringing
of crack American ocean-
going yacht Vim to Australia
“You may be interested in our new sports-model ."
was widely publicised as a first
step towards an Australian
challenge for the America Cup
—Vim to be studied: as a model
and a challenger to be then
built here. So far Vim doesn t
seem to spend much time at
sea, where only the best train-
ing can be obtained, but maybe
she’ll get there. Meantime
another possible Australian
starter has loomed up. Noted
South Australian yachtsmen
the Livingstone brothers are
said to be toying with the idea
of building a real racer, and
then getting used to it by sail-
ing the craft to America, the
only way they can challenge
under the rules.
* * *
“Recorder”: Austin Robert-
son, professional running
champ, and prominent cricketer
and Australian Rules foot-
baller in Victoria in the 1930’5,
subsequently became a news-
paper executive in Westralia ;
and now his son (also Austin)
is keeping the name going in
sport. At 16, Austin, jnr., was
the “baby”- of the Westralian
water-polo team at the Aus-
tralian championships in Mel-
bourne. He, too, plays Aussie
Rules, but prefers swimming
to his dad’s choice of running.
$ * *
“Athlete”: Modern training-
methods vary greatly from
old-time systems. Swimmers
paddle up to eight miles a
day ; cyclists ride hundreds of
miles a week. World mile-
record holder Herb Elliott
took-in a 98-mile walk through
mountainous country early in
the year to toughen his leg-
muscles. Nick Birks, national
hammer-throw champion, now
a jackeroo in the far nor’-west
of N.S.W., didn’t have a
hammer to use, so he took to
throwing heavy stones daily,
thus keeping his throwing-arm
in, while relying on station
duties for fitness. Another of
them, John Barrett, rising
N.S.W. half-miler, went to un-
usual lengths. He had an out-
rigger fitted to his car, and
Cec Hensley, his coach, drove
the car at 25 m.p.h., with
Barrett running inside the out-
rigger.
* * *
“Know”: Not long back
Sydney Rugby Unionite Ken
Thornett went to England to
work in the cold centre of the
Isles. He found Union was
non-existent where he worked,
so he sought permission to
play League with a foremost
English club. He was signed-
on at a nice fee. No doubt
he’ll be telling his brother
John about it. John’s a mem-
ber of the water-polo team to
the Olympic Games, but he’s
also a Union.international.
* * *
“J.R.”: To improve tennis
as a crowd-puller no new rules
are necessary—just a contrac-
tion of existing rules. Let the
bulldozer type put all his eggs
in the one basket—the single
serve. Why deuce? Why the
two-games margin to win?
Poor attendances show what
people think of watching the
shamateurs in State tennis.
International rivalry alone
draws them to Davis Cup
matches. Refusal to take share
of pace and go-slow tactics
killed track-cycling 50 years
ago; and what did anchor-
cannons, spot-stroke, in off
the red, and finally kiss-
cannons do to billiards?
* * *
“X”: Touching on “throw-
ing the ball”: Old-timer Iron-
monger (Vic.) would have
gone to England but for his
delivery being jerky and
doubtful. Eddie Gilbert (Q.),
the aboriginal express bowler,
also would have represented
Australia abroad but for his
delivery being questionable.
He bowled terrifically fast,
often in bare feet. Throwing
the ball means crooking the
elbow: at point of delivery it
means keeping arm around the
elbow straight.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated, by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Sprowston Mill, by Harrison.—
6957.
Some Southern Homes, by Nesta
Griffiths.—69sB.
The Fugitive Art, by T, C.
Worsley.—69s9.
A Homestead History, by Alfred
Joyce.—696o.
A book on golf by Harry Vardon.
—6961.
Is Digging Necessary ?, b’y P. C.
King.—6962.
To buy or hire set of German
Linguaphone records. —6963.
Any of the works of Mrs.
Jane Marcet, 19th-century popu-
lariser of science, especially her
Conversations on Chemistry and
Conversations on Political Economy.
—6964.
Does Anybody Know?
Whereabouts of heirs of the
following poets or of any of
these poets still living: Frank
Hudson, author of The Song of
the Manly Men; Jim Grahame
(J. W. Gordon), author of Under
Wide Skies; “8.D.G.” (David B.
Geddes), author of poem Horse
Bells.- —6965.
Information Supplied
(From D. J. Golding): Inquirer
6947 (B. 2/3/’6O) asks for a copy
of Elbow Room, author unknown.
Sorry I haven’t a copy, but the
book was written by Max Adder,
an American author, who also
wrote Out of the Hurly Burly and
other works, about 1890-1900.
Information Sought
How to prepare snuff ?
All oddments from the
shredding of tobacco-leaf, per-
sistently “green” leaves or mid-
ribs will make snuff. Dry com-
pletely, grind finely and screen the
powder through fine gauze. Place
the screened powder in a |lb.
tobacco-tin about Hin. deep. Add
i teaspoonful baking-soda, \ tea-
spoonful salt and a few drops of
coumarin essence to flavor. Then
pour in enough strong boiled tea
to make it a trifle sloppy, mix well
and place the tin on the stove (or
in an oven) to evaporate all -the
moisture, stirring frequently to
avoid scorching. Grind finely and
sieve through fine gauze. Keep in
an airtight container.
How to pickle cucumbers by the
brine-dill method ?
The dill-seeds used in pickles are
similar to caraway-seeds, and are
probably unprocurable outside
Europe. They are not necessary,
but if you can get them, add a
few to the following reliable recipe.
Cucumbers should be young and
tender. Slice them and place in
a glass or earthenware basin.
Sprinkle well with salt and let
stand all night. Next day drain
them, put in a jar and pour boiling
vinegar which has been Foiled with
some whole pepper and bruised
ginger over them to cover. Keep
“They DID say it Was fast-growing"
in a warm place for about an
hour, pour off the vinegar and
spices and boil again. Pour over
the cucumbers, and cork or tie
down. Ready in a few days. If
vessels are sterilised properly
(using heat for this) there should
be no mould. Store in a cool
place.
* * * *
Hints on the stacking of silage ?
Choose a well-drained site handy
to the feeding-area. Put in strong
posts to form the frame of the
stack and to keep it in shape as
it settles. A stack 12ft. x 10ft.
and 15ft. high will hold from 25
tons to 35 tons according to the
fodder used. The posts should be
17ft. or 18ft. long, as they need
to be sunk at least 2ft. in the
ground. For a stack this size
12 to 14 posts will be needed,
connected with wire around the
top to keep the stack in shape.
If using maize, sorghum or any-
thing with heavy stalks, be sure to
stack all the stalks one way in alter-
nate layers to keep air out. If
you have lucerne, clover, cowpeas
or soft grass, mix them in while
stacking. If the fodder is a bit
dry, damp it down with a watering-
can as each layer is put on. When
the stack is complete, top it with
an even covering of heavy logs.
Important to compress the stack
well to keep air out. Silage made
this way will be ready for use in
about two months. It is a mistake
to “rush” ensilage into the stack.
A towering stack will settle con—
siderably overnight. The more air-
tight the stack, the less chance of
combustion. Keep piling it on
until there’s no noticeable sub-
sidence in 24 hours. Estimate the
size of the silage-stack from the
size of the paddock—usually an
acre of lush grass occupies approxi-
mately 12cu.-ft. Stack in thin
layers.
Brief Answers
“Don”: The 30 m.p.h. speed-limit
was gazetted on December 22, 1937.
....E.J.: The booklet “Citizens,
Look to Your Schools” was written
by the education-editor of the
“Deseret News,” Salt Lake City,
Utah (U.S.A.), and would probably
not b'e available in Australian book-
shops. The headquarters of the
Mormon Church in Australia might
have, or obtain, copies, but you
could get one by applying direct
to the “Deseret News”.... A.N.:
If you’re taking this small native
bird from N.S.W. to Queensland
only you don’t need a permit. All
other States stipulate a health-
certificate and permit. Make the
cage comfortable with a cloth roof
and two or three cloth-covered sides
to stop draughts and dissuade
strangers A.A.R.: Mary
Bishop’s Let Sleeping Cats Lie is
published by Hammond and
Hammond, and should be avail-
able from big book-stores....
N.G.: Route of the 1960 BP
Rally will take in nearly 2000 miles
of back roads and unmapped
tracks in N.S.W. and Vic. The
field this year has been limited
to 100 cars. Entrants will be
grouped in classes according to
engine-capacity—class A, up to
lOOOc.c.; class B, llOlc.c. to
1300c.c.; class C, 1301c.c. to
2000c.c.; class D, over 2000c.c.
L.J.C.: Unlikely that any home
treatment can cope with the
deteriorating effect of the wire-
netting; you could try several coats
of clear brushing-lacquer. Best
treatment seems to be to cover
with a fitted sheet of good-quality
polythene, but the metal of the
netting is antagonistic to all these
materials... .S.E.: Your N.S.W.
stamps—ld. red shield, 2d. blue
queen, J)d. green queen—are prac-
tically valueless. They are usually
included in packets of Australian
States, sold by stamp-dealers for
Is. or 50....J.E.: The idea sounds
good. You shouldn’t have any
trouble finding useful information
on his life, career, etc. The
Australian' Encyclopaedia, for
instance, has a long article on
him... .D.J.H.: The stamps are
worth no more than face-value.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be.
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
M.F.: There was some nice
simple description early in the
piece, but it gradually got more
flamboyant and unbelievable....
H. : Despite (or because of) your
“excessive interest in correct
phraseology” the story is du11....
I. : Since it’s all about Estonia,
why not send -it there?....
R.V.D.: Doesn’t break any new
ground... .F.N.: The office-boy
was the only one who speculated
on the outcome of that meeting.
....S.J.: There might well be
some cake under all that icing
. ...A.0.E.: Hide it somewhere.
.. . .T.E.: Condemned to the basket
for the term of his unnatural
life... .C.P.: Zoos have been
observed more effectively before
....M.O’G.: So have prospectors
. ...8.R.: The little girl who says
“Learn charity, man,” will have
to look elsewhere... .S.S.: Well,
your handwriting is attractive....
P.T.: It shows some feeling for
lightness of touch and truth of
observation, but it's tqo cluttered
Try to reduce the superfluities....
D.M.: The Religious Editor was
cautiously amused... .J.H.: Yes,
autumn is with u5....E.W.: The
lift-driver got jammed between
floors... .K.T.S.: Obstinately
forced rhymings....W.B.: Exact
significance of your generous use
of quotation-marks escapes us.
....Mrs. T.: Local color good,
characterisation not... . 0.C.:
Inspiring to learn that “One
can never hope to derive more
than beer-money from writing
poetry.”... .L.R.: Auction it.


with an astonishingly left-
handed treatment of this
“comedy-fantasy” by Marcel
Ayme.
The play tells of a tattered
French count who forces his
impoverished family to knit
sweaters for a living and eat
the stray cats and dogs he
enthusiastically slaughters for
the table. A miracle wrought
by the ghost of St. Francis of
Assisi turns him into a militant
protector of all God’s crea-
tures, and he decides to marry
his son to a prostitute instead
of to the homely daughter of a
local bourgeois climber and
turn his whole family into
wandering saintly beggars.
Some meaningful fun could
probably be tapped from the
misunderstandings caused by
this distant relative of Quixote,
but only through acting of
considerable wit, precision and
flexibility —acting in the truly
Gallic style. Apart from Cedric
Flower’s fanciful sets, however,
Doris Fitton’s production spent
most of its force on the bawdi-
ness and eccentricities of the
play, almost entirely overlook-
ing the other elements with
which these could be mixed—
the sentiment, the airy philo-
sophy, the nail-file satire on
bourgeois and clerical values.
With the whole conception
so misguided to begin with, it
would be merely depressing to
draw-up a charge-sheet against
the actors for their many fail-
ings of accent, timing and
emphasis.
If one seems to have taken
an unusually harsh view of
this production it is out of
concern for a company which
has for long been a stronghold
of non-commercial theatre in
this city. In the years when
Sydney had all too few serious
theatres one was grateful for
almost everything the Inde-
pendent chose to put on.
But in these days of the Trust,
the Ensemble, a crop of
energetic little-theatres and
television the Independent,
for its own sake as well as ours,
really must keep its standards
higher than this.
J. A.
Artbursts
Jon Molvig
At the Rudy Komon Gallery,
in Woollahra (Sydney), Jon
Molvig is showing a collection
of powerful oils —mostly
abstracts, and, though the
gallery is a little off the beaten
track, the exhibition will repay
enterprising travellers.
One’s first impression is the
artist's controlled power—firm-
ness of paint, evenness of tex-
ture, sureness of design. And
it is exhilarating to observe an
abstract language unfettered by
calculated prettiness or clever-
ness. Not, of course, that the
paintings aren’t cleverly
arranged in terms of design:
“Crucifixion,” a dark-brown
scattering of planes with the
figure woven into the centre, is
exceedingly clever—and satisfy-
ing as well.
Several of the large pictures
are equally attractive: the
swirl of grey movement in
“Lovers”; the “Nude,” with
washerwoman body; and the
faintly disturbing “Twilight of
Women.” In fact, the only dis-
appointments in this rich show
seem to be in the smaller paint-
ings—such pieces as “Desert
Nocturne” and “Strange Gar-
den” have a comparatively
slight appeal, although
“Moon,” an extraordinary fan-
tasy in brilliant reds and blues,
is charming, and would decor-
ate a well-chosen wall.
Films
“Auntie Mame”
Rosalind Russell brings
enormous zest to the role of
the warm-hearted, daffy and
irresponsible Mame in this
bright, well-paced and beauti-
fully decorated screen-version
of the famous stage-play. Her
swirling entrances with her
teeth clenched on the end of
a 16in. cigarette-holder of
wondrous ornamentation is in
the true grand manner, and
her flair for disorganising every-
thing she touches finds Miss
Russell at her dithery best.
The whole thing is a chuckle
from start to finish, punctu-
ated by an occasional roar as
Mame transfers her enthusi-
asms (temp.) from cult to cult
as she goes her way blithely
through each change of cir-
cumstances.
In a supporting cast of
smooth efficiency Coral Browne
stands out as Marne’s famous-
actress friend addicted to
passing-out at parties when the
going gets a bit rough.
At Sydney Century.
*t* *l* ❖
“Pm All Right, Jack”
This is a glorious crack at
the union-management rela-
tions “enjoyed” by British in-
dustry, perpetrated by the
Boulting Brothers most irre-
verently, with hearty kicks in
the slats at both go-slow red-
raggers and the financial
wizards who on occasion find
that a strike can be profitable
when some jiggerypook with
an export-order is involved.
The script is rich with wit, the
situations are chockful of
humor, and there is a cast
tailor-made for the works.
There is Peter Sellers, a de-
light as the demagogic shop-
steward ; Terry-Thomas as a
works - manager with oily
manners who tries to run with
the hare and hunt with the
hounds ; and lan Carmichael in
his usual role of the two-left-
hands chap with a flair for
getting into bother and messing
everything up.
At Sydney State.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“ I'm afraid I've forgotten the Way. Do you think a coupla bob a head would fog my memory?”


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
At a late-afternoon reception given by
the Council of the British Commonwealth
Societies in the clubrooms of the Vic-
toria League, U.K.» High Commissioner
Sir William Oliver and Lady Oliver were
guests-of-honor; they were received by
the chairman of the Council, Mr. Bruce
Mcßrien, and league vice-presidents
Mrs. Robert Hamilton and Mrs. Frank
May. Lady Oliver’s sheath-frock of
oyster-grey delustred-satin was worn
with a tiny black circlet finished with a
cascade of black veiling. Mrs. Hamil-
ton’s black French-crepe frock featured
a yoke of inset black lace. Mrs. May
wore a slim-fitting frock of peacock-
blue lace and a tiny matching cap.
Those present included U.K. Senior Trade
Commissioner H. F. Stevens and Mrs.
Stevens, U.K. Information Officer R. I.
Hall and Mrs. Hall, Lady Kent Hughes,
Mrs. Claude Couchman, Mrs. John
Casson and her daughter Jane, Mr. and
Mrs. Stanley Ridley, Sir Clifden and
Lady Eager, Sir Horace Robertson, and
Sir Kingsley and Lady Norris.
☆ ☆ tic.
With her committee, Mrs. W. K.
Burnside organised the highly successful
Fashion Spectacular for Prince Henry’s
Hospital, held in The Bamboo Room
of the Chevron. Allied to gowns from
the salon of Alouette were jewels from
the house of William Drummond valued
at £70,000, furs from Seymour, and hair-
styles designed by members of the Haute
Coiffure Fran9aise. The jewels were
bfought >to the Chevron by armored-car,
and security-men kept a strict eye on
the fortune worn by the mannequins as
they paraded down the catwalk and
among the 300 guests. The highlight of
the afternoon was the appearance of
Maurice Chevalier, who, gay and
debonair, accompanied a* pretty manne-
quin down the catwalk and nonchalantly
fastened about her neck a diamond-
necklace worth several thousand pounds.
The hair-styles were first shown in Paris
at the St. Laurent restaurant last week.
Inter-State members of the Haute
Coiffure Franfaise d’Australie (among
them Raymond, of Sydney) and local
members introduced the styles. Those
who attended included Lady Holyman,
Mrs. David Raeburn-Browne (Rose-
wood, N.S.W.), Mrs. Lindsay Field
(Wagga, N.S.W.), Miss Morgan (Matron
of Prince Henry’s), Mrs. E. Phillips, Mrs.
R. Palmer, Mrs. Arthur Wilson, Mrs.
Gray Staley, Mrs. T. Grant Major, Mrs.
F. H. Wright and Mrs. Ronald Marriott.
* ☆ ☆
With the ending of the University
vacation the International House Auxili-
aries Building Fund has commenced its
work for the year. First function will
be a dinner-dance at Stanmark, 441
Inkerman Road, East St. Kilda, on
Saturday, April 9. Mrs. A. V. Jackson
is president of I.H. auxiliaries, and Mrs.
Lisle Pym heads the committee organis-
ing the dinner-dance. Tickets are £2 15s.
inclusive, and bookings and tickets may
be obtained from Mrs. D. W. T. Lee
(WA 4888) and Mrs. Denis Mirams
(20 3324).
Maria Palfia was formerly principal
dancer with the Budapest Opera Com-
pany and gained her teaching-diploma
at the Vienna Opera School. After their
marriage in Switzerland she and her hus-
band, Alex Palfia, migrated to Australia
two years ago, and their small daughter
Monica was born here. Maria is one
of the two leading ballerinas in the
Budapest Hungarian Company which
has just been formed, and which will
give its first professional performance
at the Prahran Town Hall on Saturday
next, March 26, with another on April 2.
Bookings are at Myer’s and Brash’s.
Maurice Chevalier proved he could be
just as amusing off stage as on when he
replied to the speech of welcome
by Lord Mayor Bernard Evans at the
civic reception given for the famous
entertainer. Mrs. Evans covered her
white-and-cinnamon-brown leaf-patterned
silk frock with a full coat of cinnamon-
brown faille ; with it she wore a brown
fascinator trimmed with velvet leaves.
In the official party were Sir Frank and
Lady Tait; the Consul for France, Mons.
Le Bas de Plumetot, and his wife (she
in blue-and-white-printed silk frock and
navy white-hail-spotted fascinator); and
French Vice-Consul L. Vorms and
Madame Vorms.
Lady Thomas wore a suit of midnight-
blue silk-shantung and a navy fascinator
trimmed with white daisies; Mrs. Ref
Smith added to her brown, beige and
white printed-silk frock a toque of cream
silk petals ; Mrs. Louis Sallmann chose
a deep-brown silk-taffeta frock trimmed
at bodice and hipline with matching
guipure-lace and a small flower-hat.
* ☆ ☆
The 10-year project of rebuilding the
Royal Women’s Hospital has been under-
taken by the all-women members of the
Board of Management. When completed
the hospital will have cost over £7m., of
which the board will have to raise £l|m.
A scale-model of the hospital was on
view at a luncheon at the hospital hos-
tessed by the president of the board,
Mrs. Oscar Bowden, who gave these
facts. Attending were the past-president
of the board, Miss Kathleen Syme ; Mrs.
Leo Curtis (the new president of the
hospital’s auxiliaries); Mrs. Arthur
Prytz, vice-president of the hospital;
former board-president Mrs. E. Corn-
foot ; Mrs. Herbert Brookes ; Mrs. Karl
Kumm ; Lady Selleck ; Mrs. S. Burston ;
Mrs. Black, a Canadian living in this city;
and auxiliaries-organiser Mrs. Sullivan.
£ ☆ ☆
“The Long and the Short and the Tall,”
a grim play with an all-male cast about
jungle-warfare in Malaya, opened to a
packed house at the Little Theatre. The
production was by George Fairfax, and
John Truscott was responsible for the
setting—a deserted tin-miner’s hut. In
the audience were Mr. and Mrs. John
Sumner, Sheila Florance, the Peter
Randalls, Mr. and Mrs. Kurt Geiger,
Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Davies, Mr. and
Mrs. Lindsay Meredith, Mrs. Hal Percy,
Mrs. Elizabeth Fitzgerald, Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Lampe and Mrs. George Gardiner.
☆
David Silk was host at an informal
luncheon to mark the opening of Ciro’s
as the city’s latest luncheon-rendezvous.
There were over 100 guests to enjoy the
delectable food, among them Lady
Selleck, Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, Mrs.
Rupert Steele, Mr. and Mrs. L. Bennett,
Mr. and Mrs. W. Banks (president of
the Whernside Auxiliary to the Royal
Melbourne Hospital), Mr. and Mrs.
John Carrodus, Mr. and Mrs. Ray
Joseph, Mrs. Norman Lynch, Jane
Hennessey, Elizabeth Mildred, Barbara
Zinnow and Jan Newman.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-speaker at the Victoria League’s
afternoon-tea party, at which Lady Casey
was guest-of-honor, was Miss Mary
Cecil Allen, who leaves in the Orsova on
April 23 to return to the U.S. Miss
Allen, who is a well-known Australian
artist, spoke on “Life in an American
Art Colony.” Among those present were
Mrs. John Scarborough, who with her
architect husband was responsible for
the newly decorated League clubrooms ;
Mrs. Frank Menzies; Mrs. J. Carlisle
Taylor; Lady Grimwade; Mrs. Frank
Hobhill Cole; Mrs. lan Connell ; Mrs.
John Casson; and Mrs. Walter Cass.


Guests were welcomed by the senior
vice-president, Mrs. Guy Bakewell, and
vice-president Mrs. Robert Hamilton.
SYDNEY
The appearance of the Dave Brubeck
Quartet at the Stadium brought quite a
number of people to that place who don’t
usually go there.
Sometimes in the past (recent) elder
citizens such as This Letter have been
caught in a traffic-jam at Rushcutter Bay
and have observed the wild willy-willy of
teenagers that is a Stadium audience for
rock-'n’-roll, and have been filled with
wonderment. - Said audience looks more
like something out of a puppet-show, or
a packet of breakfast-food than an
assembly of real people. Types range
from barefoot, black-shirted bodgies, to
supercilious damsels with ostrich-type
dresses, stilt-heels and dangling ear-rings.
But this Brubeck audience was quite
something else. About 90 per cent,
youthful, sometimes bearded, wearing
tapered slacks and bulky pullovers,
Bermuda-shorts and sox or black sheath-
dresses, narrow ties and mustard waist-
coats, cotton dresses with a knitted
cardigan, they paraded every type of
modern teenage fashion, except the
bodgie, beatnik-brand.
They are seriously interested in jazz,
and shudder at the mention of rock-’n’-
roll. Even some of the Dixieland-
addicts, who like their jazz “hot,” acclaim
Brubeck as “the most” because he is a
real musician.
An evening spent with such an audi-
ence was a revelation of the intense
vitality that goes into the appreciation of
music of every kind in this city. Besides
this, the special atmosphere of Rush-
cutter Bay at night, the brilliant lights,
the balmy evening, the trees and the
shadows of the park, the recollection of
the music, contributed to an unusually
interesting evening.
* ☆ *
St. Patrick’s Day was celebrated dur-
ing the week by the Aisling Society of
Sydney with a buffet-dinner at the St.
James Hotel, the gathering being charac-
terised by the usual Aisling warmth of
gaiety and goodwill. Everyone missed
Father McNally, the president, who is
ill, but Mr. James Meagher, in his
absence, delivered as felicitous an ora-
tion on the Apostle of Ireland as one
could hope to hear on a summer’s day.
Mary Hegarty and Ena Sullivan were
gracious hostesses to the 85 guests, who
included the Hon. Ray Maher, M.L.A.,
and Mrs. Maher, and chief among the
singers (who included nearly everyone
in the room) were Mrs. Pat Longstaff,
Mr. Michael Walsh and Mr. Michael
Sheahan.
☆ ☆ ☆
For 16 years now designer Beril Jents
has been staging annually a mannequin-
parade in aid of the Deaf and Blind
Children. Quite a commendable feat,
all must agree. This year, and week, the
parade was held in the Rainbow Room
at the Australia and was patronised by
about 450 fashionable ladies. Mrs. Bill
White, president of the women’s com-
mittee for the D. and B. C. Society,
welcomed one and all, and Bettina Welch,
featuring a glamorous upswept hair-do,
was the compere. A special picture of
the parade remains in the mind —young
Valli Jents (10 years of age) in a straw-
berry-pink topcoat collared in brown
mink, carrying a mink-muff and wearing
long black stockings, “the final common-
sense touch in keeping warm.”
Dark-haired Marlene Horsell, the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Horsell,
of Croydon, is currently very busy with
rehearsals for the Sydney University
Players’ Production of Brecht’s “Good
Woman of Setzuan.” Marlene, who has
played in Genesian productions of “Our
Town,” “The Dragon” and “Skin of Our
Teeth,” is playing the lead in “Good
Woman of Setzuan,” the second of three
plays being presented by the Players
during March and April. Photo by
Max Shepherd.
A Canberra wedding of particular
interest to New Zealanders was that of
Patricia Cornell, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. F. E. Cornell, of Canberra, to
Lieut. James McKinney, son of Mr. and
Mrs. P. J. McKinney, of Wahihi Ohine-
muri (N.Z.). Patricia, attended by Anne
McKinney (N.Z.) and Suzan Apps
(Canberra), wore white spotted-nylon
with an obi-sash of white satin, and
carried pink roses which picked up the
color of the bridesmaids’ dresses of pink
nylon spotted with white. The bride-
groom, who graduated from R.M.C.
Duntroon, 1959, was attended by Lieut.
Tony Lannach-Jones (N.Z.) and Lieut.
Grahame Grimesdale (N.Z.). At St.
Christopher’s Pro-Cathedral, where the
wedding took place, fellow Duntroon-
graduates formed a guard-of-honor.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Theatre Royal was alive with
laughter on Saturday night when the
amusing and frivolous “Odd Man In”
had its Sydney opening. First-nighters
who enjoyed the show included Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Brady, Mr. and Mrs. Selby
Davidson, and Mr. and Mrs. Don Service.
Though most people wore their party-
clothes, it was interesting to note that
there were not more than three or four
full-length dresses in the audience.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Floral Art Festival is being held
this week (March 24-26) in the lower-
ground floor of the Town Hall. In aid
of the Blind Book Society, it incorporates
the autumn show of the Royal Horti-
cultural Society, and includes flower-
arrangements, table-settings (by 15 con-
sulates), and special flowers flown from
London, Malaya and Zurich, and lotus
from India.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-of-honor at the P.E.N. Club’s
party held at the new Mosman home
of Mr. and Mrs. Olaf Ruhen was Mrs.
Grace Hogarth, editor of Constable’s
juvenile department. Mrs. Hogarth, who
is here on a flying business-visit during
which she will visit all the Australian
capitals as well as Wellington and Auck-
land in New Zealand, is an American
by birth and education, but has been
associated with the publishing business
in London since 1936. She has written
three novels under the name of Grace
Allen, and numerous books for children.
She herself is the mother of two children,
David and Caroline, now 21 and 20
respectively.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Day Before the Boat Race” is
the date set for the Scots’ College 0.8. U.
Ball this year ; that is, Friday, April 8.
It will be held at the Trocadero, and
heather sent out from Scotland will
decorate the official-table. This heather
is sent each year by an old lady, Mrs.
Robertson, now aged 92, who lives in
Aberdeen. She has been doing this since
she first sent some out to be sold for
a Spitfire-fund during the war-years. It
has, like the school pipe-band, become
a tradition and is always looked for on
the tables at the ball. The guests will
be received by Dr. and Mrs. G. W. R.
MacDonald, and the headmaster, Mr.
A. E. McLucas, with Mrs. McLucas, will
be the chief guests. Old Boys who wish
to go along again this year may get their
tickets from the college.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sheep wearing floral crowns formed
part of the decor for the fashion-show
arranged by the Villawool Committee
of Torch Bearers for Legacy at the Rex
Hotel. Mrs. Frank Eagle welcomed Mrs.
Lionel McFadyen, who had earlier in the
week presented a cheque for £75,000 (no
less!) to Legacy, the record sum raised
by Torch Bearers in one year,
☆ ☆ ☆
The Commonwealth Players, an aspir-
ing young Sydney group, are putting on
“Murder in the Vicarage” this week.
Later perhaps, when they’re more experi-
enced, they’ll put on “JVlurder in the
Cathedral.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AUSTRALIA: A JAPANESE VIEW
The following article was
written by Mr. Kimpei Shiba,
editor of the “Asahi Evening
News,” on his return to Japan
after a recent visit to Aus-
tralia with a group of Japanese
newspapermen who were guests
of Qantas Empire Airways.
The article is here reprinted in
full.
nTHE first question a Japanese
friend asked me on my
return from Australia was,
“How was the anti-Japanese
feeling there?”
I had to tell him there was
no such thing. In fact, Aus-
tralia is as free from racial
prejudice as France or even
the Hawaiian Islands, and
that’s saying a lot.
That seems an unexpected
contradiction, for Australia is
one of the few places in the
world today which still has a
“white” policy. Entering that
country reminded me of my
visit to General MacArthur’s
official residence in the early
days of the Occupation. It
looked cold and forbidding
from the outside, and it was
next to impossible for a
Japanese to enter without an
invitation, but once you were
in, it was like being in your
own home.
“Even-tempered”
I found the Australians to be
about the most even-tempered
people on earth, and the most
undemonstrative, except when
the horses come down the
stretch at the races. The ex-
pression on the face of the
average Australian man makes
one think that he has just
learned that he has lost a £lOO
wager.
Outwardly, he gives you the
feeling that he is the kind of
person who doesn’t bother
others, and doesn’t want others
to bother him. This is decep-
tive. Actually, the average
Australian, I found from per-
sonal contact, is the kindest,
friendliest and most hospitable
and helpful person you can
meet. Outwardly, he looks a
bit glum. Inside, he is 18ct.
solid gold.
To a visitor from Japan, Aus-
tralians appear to resemble the
British people at times, at
others the Americans. Their
affection is definitely for
Britain, and the Queen is
almost as dear to their hearts
as she is to the people of the
United Kingdom.
However, the topography
and climate, particularly of
Sydney, resemble that of
Southern California, which
results in many American
manners and customs being
adopted.
The most popular TV-shows
are American westerns. Eighty
per cent, of the movies, most of
the popular records, magazines
London “Observer.”
LEAP YEAR.
and other influences come from
the United States.
The editorial make-up of the
“Sydney Morning Herald” is
British, but the advertising lay-
out is definitely American.
The paper’s bulky, multi-
page classified-advertising sec-
tion is identical with those in
the “New York Times” and
“Chicago Tribune.” There is
nothing even remotely like it
in England.
British Traditions
Just as in London, Sydney’s
buses are double-decked, and
the better people dress for
dinner. They also go in for a
lot of British pomp and circum-
stance on special occasions, like
the departure of the Governor-
General.
But an Australian, like an
American, might ask a total
stranger to call him by his first
name after a couple of drinks,
whereas this might take years
in England, if ever.
Still, at the peak of the heat-
wave, when the temperature
rose to 108 degrees, I saw a
guest come into the lobby of
the Wentworth Hotel with his
coat hanging on his arm, and
sit down. Presently a hotel
attendant came and whispered
something to the man, and he
quickly put his coat on. Only
a people steeped in British
traditions, it seems to me,
would abide uncomplainingly
by such a custom under the
circumstances.
Outdoors, however, every-
body removed his coat, and the
streets resembled those in the
United States in midsummer.
This caused one newspaper to
publish an editorial on the sub-
ject. “It shouldn’t need a
temperature of 105 degrees,”
the editorial read, “to drive
men into adopting the more
comfortable and more sensible
dress habits which women
adopted long ago.”
The American Flavor
Sydney resembles San Fran-
cisco far more than it does any
British city, especially in the
better residential sections in
the hills, where there are tall
eucalyptus-trees. In the busi-
ness centre also, there are so
many American-type advertis-
ing - signs and ultramodern
office-buildings that you can’t
help but imagine yourself being
in an American city.
Speaking of buildings, in
proportion to population and
capital-resources, Australians
are among the world’s foremost
builders, and most of their
modem structures are archi-
tectural masterpieces.
I was asked, on my return,
whether I had any difficulty
with Australian pronunciation.
I encountered no trouble,
especially in Sydney, where
about a quarter of the citizens
were born elsewhere, many in
Europe.
In Australia, “No Parking”
signs read, “No Standing.” The
country away from the coast-
line is known as the “outback,”
forest land as the “bush” and
a ranch is called a “station.” If
you’d like to “spend a penny,”
it means you want to “powder
your nose” or go to the wash-
room.
Near King’s Cross in Sydney
I met an Australian with a
Texas accent, and something
like the following conversa-
tion ensued:
“See that lion there?” he
asked.
“No. I don’t see any lion.”
“That white lion there.”
“No, I don’t . . . oh, you
mean that white line?”
“Yes,' the white lion.”
A dyed-in-the-wool Aussie
could say something that
sounds like, “To die the piper
tells how to mike a kike with-
out biking it,” which is decoded
into, “Today the paper tells
how to make a cake without
baking it.” But this is an ex-
treme example, and I cite it
here purely as a hypothetical
case.
“In Love with Sydney”
The word “thrill,” which has
become trite and hackneyed,
was meaningless to me until I
saw Sydney from the air.
I have frequently heard it
said that if a contest were to be
held to select the world’s most
beautiful city, Sydney would
be among the first three in
almost any list, the other two
being Buenos Aires and Paris.
I have never visited Buenos
Aires, but as between Paris and
Sydney, now that I have been
in the latter city, I would give
it the edge because of its spec-
tacular Harbor.
I fell in love with Sydney
even before I set foot in it.
Below the Qantas Electra on
which I was a passenger, I saw
a Disneyland-like city of red-
tiled roofs amidst d*ark-green
foliage, and then, as the plane
swung around, went out over
the sea and approached the
Harbor, I was thrilled by the
magnificent panoramic view of
blue water and skies, green
trees and red roofs, and in the
distant haze the majestic
Bridge.
The Biggest Race
Australians will gamble on
anything. One of their favor-
ite stories is of two men who
went into a bar and saw two


Ruih in ihc
rnlunc
When the representatives of twelve nations met
in Washington last November to agree on an
Antarctic Treaty they were deciding something that
will influence profoundly the role Australia is to
play in this quarter of the earth.
The treaty “neutralises” the South Polar
regions and opens them to scientific observation and
research, without touching the claims of Australia
or other countries to Antarctic territory. The
human benefits from that co-operative arrangement
should be long and fruitful.
But a more immediate effect of the treaty is
that it should lead, before long, to the establishment
of an international airfield on direct route between
Australia and South America. The United States’
Antarctic Expedition leader, Admiral George
Dufek, has reported the suitability of an ice-free
site at Marble Point, near McMurdo Sound.
The air distance from Sydney across Antarctica
to Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina, is six
thousand four hundred nautical miles—a mere
“hop” in these days of jet-propelled travel. It is
nearly two thousand miles shorter than a
trans-Pacific flight to South America through Tahiti.
One result of a direct air link across Antarctica
will be to bring Australia into closer relation with
the South American countries. This, in fact, is
already in process. Agreement in principle for an
exchange of diplomatic missions between Australia
and Argentina followed fast on the decision to
draw up the Antarctic Treaty.
Contemplating this wider dispersion in
international communications then, we can see
Australia being brought further in to a central
position between Asia to the north, Africa to the
west, and the lower half of the American continent
to the east and south.
In other words, the balances of direction and
distances are changing quickly and dramatically
for our country.
And it is for us to rise to this situation,
energising our Australian effort to meet a future
in which the Antarctic Circle will be added to our
national gateways.
specks on the wall which they
mistook for flies. The men bet
on which fly would move first,
and spent half the night drink-
ing before deciding the flies
weren’t in the mood to race.
The biggest race Down
Under, in my opinion, how-
ever, is not between flies or
even horses, but between sheep
and science—which is to say
on whether or not chemically
produced substitutes will put
pure wool where pure silk is
today.
My money, based on Japan’s
experience with the silkworm,
is on science, but most Austra-
lians appear to favor their
Merinos.
New Nato Force
Editorial comment cfn Nato’s
decision to set-up a mobile
nuclear-armed task-force com-
posed of British, French and
U.S. troops unified under a
single command:
“Yorkshire Post”: “The need
for a mobile force of the type
now envisaged is widely recog-
nised. Britain in particular,
with her commitments in many
parts of the world, will run
grave dangers if she does not
make sure that she can con-
centrate adequate strength at
very short notice at any point
where serious trouble threatens
her vital interests. If the neces-
sary provision can be made in
association with her Nato part-
ners, so much the better.”
The same: “The newly pro-
posed Nato mobile force com-
mends itself as one more means
of ensuring that the West can
take prompt action to meet the
menace of war wherever it
arises. By being prepared at
a moment’s notice to stamp-out
any minor fire that might occur
in some remote part of the
world, we shall be better able
to prevent the major conflagra-
tion which all dread.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Such a force might be des-
cribed as a little deterrent. It
would be visible proof of
Allied solidarity in emergency,
the quality in Nato about which
most doubt is now being ex-
pressed.
“A number of questions are
raised by the project; in par-
ticular, how can a force be
described as ‘integrated’ and
‘ready’ if its component bat-
talions are kept in their national
brigade - groups? Could not
Nato’s mobile reserve be kept
and trained in one place?
“Indeed, the idea prompts
other ideas. It is high time
that all members of the alli-
ance admitted to each other
that the major military threat
to their position is likely to
be made outside the area under
General Norstad’s command.
Too often people talk of
supporting Nato, when they in
fact mean supporting the
Supreme Commander in
Europe
“This obsession with Central
Europe, however justifiable
politically, is militarily danger-
ous. The Atlantic Alliance
should look to its flanks, and
this idea of General Norstad’s
may be a sign that a fresh look
is being taken.”
# * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “Is
this the first venture towards a
force representing ‘the fourth
nuclear Power?’ Has the
decision to make Nato the
fourth nuclear Power, with
collective control of the
weapons already been taken?
All that can be said is that, if
this be so, the disadvantages do
not diminish under cover of so
superficial a kind of ihtegra-
tion as this appears to be. The
practical advantages, political
no less than military, of keep-
ing the control of nuclear
weapons in as few hands as
possible, and preferably in
American hands, are over-
whelming.
“On the one hand, 15 nations,
if they all ‘played ball,’ would
have to take a unanimous
decision to use such a joint
weapon. On the other hand,
it is easy to imagine that one
alone among them could pro-
voke war for all. In a serious
crisis national Governments
would sit on all weapons in
their territory. Nuclear dis-
armament would be a matter
of negotiation not essentially
for two countries but for a
round dozen. Where integra-
tion and a greater effort is
needed is in conventional
defence. Most of the members
of Nato have failed to provide
their share of ground-forces.”
Latin America
"Crom a report by the Diplo-
matic Correspondent of
London “Time and Tide”:
“The conclusion of the sugar
deal with Cuba was the third
major barter-credit arrange-
ment to be negotiated in Latin
America by Moscow within
the past 18 months. There
have also been many smaller
deals. This one-hundred-
million-dollar Soviet credit,
which has earned Mr. Mikoyan
the title of ‘Cuba’s new sugar-
daddy’ indicates a significant


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N Z.
reorientation of the Cuban
economy away from the United
States and other Western coun-
tries.
“The Soviet Union is to
become an important supplier
of basic commodities for Cuba.
This agreement appears to en-
visage the arrival in Cuba of a
considerable number of Soviet
technical experts. It is also
being said in Havana that
Fidel Castro has agreed to co-
operate with the Soviet Union
in the controversies over the
underdeveloped nations in the
United Nations.
“The Chinese have launched
bitter attacks against the tour
of President Eisenhower. Daily
broadcasts in Spanish beamed
across the Pacific remind Latin
Americans that the United
States is ‘Enemy No. I.’ In
a well-co-ordinated plan the
Russians trade while the
Chinese push the ideological
advance.
“Special training-schools for
Latin Americans have been
established in Peking, and care-
fully chosen intellectuals from
the Western Hemisphere are
being offered ‘all expenses paid’
visits to China in order to see
for themselves that Peking’s
way of dealing with similar
problems should become the
way of Latin America. Luis
Carlos Prestes, Brazil’s Com-
munist leader and one of the
most prominent men in the
Communist movement in South
America, has recently returned
N.Y. "Herald Tribune.”
BUSY LITTLE LITTERBUG.
from a briefing - session in
Peking.
“Latin America would still
prefer to have help from the
United States and the West,
but unless the challenge is
taken up, not only by President
Eisenhower but by a united
West, Russia and her cohorts
could well become deeply en-
trenched in the economic affairs
of the countries on America’s
doorstep.”
Dragnet Digest
Dean Ache son, former U.S.
Secretary of State, in London
“Daily Telegraph”: “If the
interests of both the U.S.S.R.
and the Western allies were to
be mutually benefited, an
important segment of agree-
ment could lie in that type of
armament-control which would
shorten the reach of the
nuclear Powers and produce
between the Urals and the
Atlantic forces adequate,
indeed ample, for defence but
not sufficient for aggressive
adventure.
“Along some such lines as
this, rather than in Soviet pro-
posals aimed to separate
Western Europe from North
America, lies the best hope for
useful negotiation at the
Summit.”
* * *
“New York Times”: It still
seems unthinkable that Nasser
would risk war at this time.
Indeed, his pyrotechnics are
evidently directed not only
against Israel but also, and
perhaps even more, against
Premier Kassem of Iraq, in a
contest for Arab leadership in
which hostility to Israel is the
foil.
“But his constant show of
military strength and freely
publicised troop - movements
toward Israel, added to his
continued defiance of the
United Nations on Suez and
his warning to the United
States, Britain and France to
drop their guarantees of Middle
Eastern borders and armistice-
lines, permit no complacency.
The threat to peace is there,
and the time to act is before
the peace is broken.”
* * *
Baltimore ( U.S i,) “Sun”:
“France’s colonial history has
been untroubled by one
nemesis of British colonies —
the color bar. The French
attitude has been that if a man
speaks French and is an edu-
cated human-being he is
French —in that way the French
Empire resembled the Roman
Empire. Most of the [French]
Community’s lively young
leaders —from the Moslem
Arab Premier Daddah of
Mauritania to the Roman
Catholic priest Abbe Fulbert
Youlou, who is Premier of the
French Congo have been
among the thousands of young
Africans who have received a
completely French education.
“Their countries are now
progressing rapidly toward
independence in a loose alliance
probably along the lines of the
British Commonwealth, but
they seem in no hurry to cut
their, ties with France. The
only country to do so, Guinea,
is moving towards a rapproche-
ment with Paris. Mali, Mala-
gasy and the other republics
which become independent
shortly seem assured of con-
tinued French support and
economic aid. In the whirl
which is Africa, the balanced
progress of the [French] Com-
munity is remarkable."
* * *
Marguerite Higgins, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “There are
many obvious reasons why
Mr. Khrushchev could profit
from disarmament. But in this
devious world it would be re-
miss not to report that Wash-
ington still suspects that one
thing Khrushchev wants dis-
armament for is to test his new
‘disarm in prosperity’ theory
in the hopes that it. won’t
work. For if, after all, a great
economic crash should occur
in the West, the Communists
would certainly expect to be
around to pick up the pieces.
And how else could tChrush-
chev realistically hope to see
the fulfillment of his predic-
tion that America's grand-
children will one day be living
under Communism?"
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
only practical and realistic
approach to the [disarmament]
problem is a programme of
step-by-step progress toward
balanced armament-reduction
under effective inspection and
control able to prevent surprise-
attack. As Secretary Herter
pointed out, the United States
has made numerous proposals
to that end, and so have all
Western Powers. If these pro-
posals have as yet led to noth-
ing it is solely because the
Soviets continue to sidestep
control for themselves to main-
tain their Iron Curtain. But
that makes the Western pro-
posals neither invalid nor ‘old
hat,’ as the clamor for con-
stantly new Western proposals
would suggest.”


Prometheus said:
“This is strictlq
for the birds!”
&
M
F i
A mild comment in the
circumstances. Chained to a rock
with vultures pecking at him the
prospects of a comfortable and
carefree old age seemed pretty dim.
These days, of course, people arrange with the A.M.P. to
guarantee that on retirement the money will be there to enable them
to really enjoy a carefree comfortable old age
Get your A.M.P. man to tell you about
group or individual retirement plans.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Chairman: CECIL H. HOSKINS • General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £450,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to


SALVAGE
By R. WAYLING
As the steam-tug Millie
pulled into her berth at
the Port Jackson
Lighterage Company’s
depot, Sam Ward stuck his
head out of the wheelhouse
and yelled above the noise of
steam that was blowing from
the Millie's exhaust-pipe:
“What d'yer say?”
The yardman standing on
the wharf cupped his hands
around his mouth. “Mr. Chap-
man wants to see you, Cap-
tain,” he repeated.
Sam climbed down from
the wheelhouse, stuck his head
in the engine-room doorway
and yelled, “Joe!”
“Yes?” floated up from the
engine-room.
"Don’t shut her down yet,”
Sam called. “I’m going up to
the manager’s office.”
Fifteen minutes later Sam
waddled back to the Millie.
Charlie, the deckhand, was
standing on the after-deck
talking to the fireman while
Joe the engineer leaned against
the engine-room door. They
eyed Sam expectantly as he
came along the wharf. It was
4 p.m. and another towing
job would run into overtime.
Mr. Chapman was an
efficient manager and he kept
the overtime down to a mini-
mum. What little was offering
usually went to the company’s
other tug, Billie ; not that Mr.
Chapman practised favoritism,
but because, mostly, of the
conniving of the Billie’s crew.
Only this very afternoon
had they beaten the Millie
back to the depot by half-an-
hour to get the first overtime
that had been offering for
three weeks —a garbage-punt
to be towed 10 miles out to
sea. And the day before, the
Billie had got in first for
bunkering and had taken all
the nice pieces of coal and left
them the slack.
But as Sam stepped on
board the Millie his broad
grin seemed to dispel some of
the gloom that had settled over
the Millie’s crew when they
had seen the Billie towing the
garbage-punt down the harbor.
We’ve got a long night
before us,” said Sam as the
fireman and deckhand gathered
around the engine-room door.
“We’ve got to go around to
the bunker-wharf and fill-up.
And while we’re taking the
coal aboard, Charlie, you slip
up the road and get enough
grub for tea.” Here he paused
and smacked his lips. “And
breakfast,” he added.
“Huh, huh,” Charlie
nodded, his mouth open with
concentration.
“Then,” said Sam, who liked
to keep the tasty bits for last,
“we pick-up that houseboat
lying at the end of the wharf
and deliver her to Newcastle.”
“Blimey!” said Fred the
fireman.
Sam pulled out his watch.
“It's twenty-past-four- now,”
he addressed Joe. “Chapman
wants us back here by ten
tomorrow morning, so let’s get
going.”
At 5.30 the Millie cast-off
from the wharf with the
houseboat lashed alongside.
The fireman and the deckhand
went below and had tea.
At the Sow and Pigs shoal
Sam called them out and rang
the telegraph for “Slow.”
Then the long towline was
hooked-on and the lashings
that held the houseboat to
the tug were cast-off. The
towline snaked off the Millie’s
deck as the houseboat dropped
astern ; then, as the strain
came on, Sam pushed the
telegraph down to “Full” and
they proceeded to sea.
Charlie came into the wheel-
house as they rounded North
Head.
“Keep her north by east a
half-east,” said Sam. “I’ll go
down and get my tea.”
“She’s as flat as a pancake
out here,” Sam remarked to
Joe as they sat down to a
feed of fish-and-chips. “Should
be back for a ten-o’clock start
tomorrow all right.”
“I’ll be pretty tired come
five-o’clock tomorrow night,”
Joe said gloomily, who,
despite 15-hours’ overtime,
had to have a growl.
“Oh, we should be able to
get a bit of sleep on the way
back,” said Sam. “Tell you
what we’ll do,” he added as
he pulled a fishbone out of
his mouth, “we’ll let the fire-
man and the deckhand turn
in when we leave Newcastle
and then they can bring her
down from Norah Head to
Barfenjoey while we catch a
couple of hours’ sleep.”
“See anything of the
Billie?” asked Joe.
"Passed her coming through
the Heads,” said Sam. “If I'd
have been a bit closer I'd have
told them to pull their heads
in, they were sticking out that
far. Bet they don’t feel so
smart now, eh?”
"What time d’you reckon
we'll get to Newcastle?”
"She's doing a good eight
knots,” Sam said ; ~‘l reckon
we’ll be on our way back by
two-thirty.”
And Sam was dead right.
At 2.30 a.m. the Millie cleared
Nobby’s and, free of the tow,
pushed south through a flat
sea at 10 knotsr.
At 5.00 a.m. Norah Head
was abeam and Sam called the
watch below.
"She’s going like a race-
horse,” said Sam as Charlie
came into the wheelhouse.
“She should be down to
Barrenjoey at seven-o’clock.
(Continued on page 69)


Shipping and Beef-export
By B. FOGGON.
Chairman, Oversea Shipping Representatives’ Association
Australia’s future progress
depends on the develop-
ment of its export industry,
which in turn depends on the
ready availability of vessels to
ship its goods to other parts
of the woild.
This applies particularly to
our beef-export trade, which
requires special refrigerated
ships running on close sche-
dules throughout the season.
Despite the many difficulties
associated with the delivery
overseas of frozen and chilled
beef, Australian exporters
have been well served with
shipping in the past, and con-
tinued efforts are made by the
shipping interests to meet their
requirements and improve ser-
vices as the trade expands.
First Shipment in 1879
The first shipment of re-
frigerated meat from Australia
was made in 1879, when a con-
signment of 40 tons was sent
from Melbourne on the s‘.s.
Strathleven. It arrived in Eng-
land two months later, with the
meat in perfect condition.
This success followed many
years of costly experimenting
with refrigeration - machinery,
largely financed by the great
Sydney businessman and
philanthropist, Thomas Sut-
cliffe Mort.
Since the St r a t h 1 e v e n’s
momentous voyage, huge sums
of money have been spent on
the development 6f refrigera-
tion techniques for cargo-
vessels, and many millions of
pounds have been invested by
shipowners to provide adequate
fleets of the specialised refriger-
ated vessels required to serve
the particular trade of the
various exporting countries.
A big proportion of these
vessels are used in the beef-
trade from Australia to the
U.K. and to an increasing
number of overseas customers.
Frozen-beef Demand
By far the largest proportion
of beef shipped in these vessels
has been of the frozen variety,
i.e., sides of carcasses or car-
tons of boned cuts, frozen to
a temperature of 14 degrees F.
This type of cargo is com-
paratively easily stored and
handled, and, provided the
temperature is kept fairly con-
stant, the quality of the meat
is retained indefinitely.
However, while frozen meat
comprises the bulk of Austra-
lia’s beef exports, it has no-
where near the appeal of chilled
meat among overseas con-
sumers.
Chilled meat consists of
selected sides of beef which
are reduced in temperature to
a little below freezing-point
(about 30 degrees F.). These
chilled sides must be hung in
Chilled beef hanging in locker.
special refrigerated compart-
ments where the temperature
is kept constant. For the long
haul from Australia it is
possible to prolong the keeping-
period by injecting into the
chamber CO2 gas to help main-
tain the quality of the meat.
Chilled beef, properly pro-
cessed and .handled, and deli-
vered within two months of
killing, is a far superior table-
meat to the frozen variety, and
is barely distinguishable from
freshly killed beef.
As can be imagined, chilled
beef requires a great deal more
preparation and attention than
the frozen variety, and the
success of its sale overseas
depends on the availability of
fast, properly fitted-up vessels.
The handling and stowage of
chilled beef make it a more
costly export than frozen beef
and calls for close co-operation
between all sections of the
trade, from the grazier through
the exporter and shipping-
companies to the consignee on
the other side of the world.
However, because of the
demand for this type of beef
and its possibilities in the ex-
port field, much has been done
in Australia to encourage this
trade.
Chilled-beef Drive
Regular chilled-beef ship-
ments to the U.K. began in the
early 1930’s and reached a peak
of 28,269 tons in 1937-38.
World War II virtually stopped
this trade, and it was slow to
revive under the economic
strain of the immediate post-
war years.
However, during the 1950’s
a combination of factors —the
chief ones being the rise in
living-standards in Britain, a
setback to Argentina’s beef-
industry and a growing surplus
of good-quality beef in Aus-
tralia —caused a sharp upturn
in our chilled-meat shipments
to the U.K.
In the 12 months’ season
ended August 31, 1955, our
exports amounted to only 1567
tons. The following season
this figure had risen to 7034
tons, and the next season,
ended August 31, 1957, the
post-war record figure of 8925
tons of chilled beef was
reached.
The development of this
trade, on which meat authori-
ties believe the future prosperity
of the industry may largely
depend, owes much to the co-
operation of the overseas ship-
ping industry.
Representatives of the ship-
ping-lines meet regularly with
exporters and representatives
of the Australian Meat Board
on a Chilled Beef Planning
Committee, to discuss and
arrange details to ensure the
efficient handling and market-
ing of chilled beef.
During recent years, with an
improvement in the industrial
position on the Australian
waterfront, a better turn-round
of ships (which it is hoped may
continue) has been achieved,
and thus the forward planning
of programmes has become
more reliable. However, as
exporters normally require
very small quantities of chilled
beef loaded into each vessel in
comparison with the ship’s total
space for cargo, it is obvious
that the loading of other types
of cargo must be planned as
well. This involves vessels
calling at other ports in Aus-
tralia, which naturally keeps
the chilled beef “in the re-
frigerator” for a longer period
than would be the case if
vessels could sail direct after
having loaded the chilled beef
at the vessel’s last loading port.
Most chilled beef comes
from Queensland, where the
ships commence to . load; they
then proceed via main ports —
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
or Fremantle —where the bulk
of wool and other cargoes is
available.
“North-about” Service
A striking example of the
efforts of shipowners to foster
Australia’s chilled-meat trade
with the U.K. was the in-
auguration of a “north-about”
service.
One of the drawbacks against
Australia’s chilled-meat trade
making a big impact on the
U.K. market has been the
length of the voyage-time—
sometimes up to 50 or 60 days
—between when the meat was
loaded in Queensland and when
it was discharged in Britain.
The Blue Star Line decided
to provide a fleet of refrigerated
vessels which would make the
Queensland ports their last
calling places in Australia
before proceeding “north-
about” via Torres Strait to
Britain.
The service began in June,
1958, with four vessels, speci-
ally built for speed and draught
requirements for all Queens-
land ports, at a cost exceeding
£7-million. Five sailings were
made in 1958, and the voyage-
time was reduced to as short
as 28 days from Townsville
(Continued on page 73)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
First Powered Flight
Stanley Brogden repeats
some comnion fallacies in his
article on the first sustained
aeroplane flight in Australia
(B. 9/3/’6O). As I pointed out
in a Bulletin par. a few years
ago, in a newspaper-article and
in the International Encyclo-
paedia, revised edition (1958),
Houdini did not make the first
flight.
At Bolivar, a few miles north
of Adelaide, at dawn on the
morning of March 17, 1910,
Fred Custance took-off in the
Bleriot monoplane No. 37,
bought by Adelaide business-
man F. H. Jones in France the
previous year. Custance made
a number of circuits of a
paddock, landed after being
smin. 25sec. in the air, gave the
little group of onlookers an
excited description of what it
felt like to fly, then took-off
again.
But this time, when he tried
to level-out at 50ft. he pushed
the control-column too far
forward; the plane dived to-
wards the ground, and Cus-
tance pulled back on the stick
a fraction of a second too late.
The undercarriage hit the
ground, buckling, and the
monoplane tipped onto its
nose, smashing the propeller.
Next day at Digger’s Rest
(Vic.) Harry Houdini made
three flights in a Voisin bi-
plane, the longest of 6min. 37
sec.
I was a boy of 10 at the time,
keenly interested in anything
to do with planes, and 1 have
a clear memory of the two
events being reported in the
newspapers. A check of the
files, when writing my encyclo-
paedia article, showed that my
memory wasn't at fault.
But the files also revealed the
surprising fact that, within a
few years, everyone seemed to
have forgotten how the young
motor-mechanic, Fred Cus-
tance, had made the first flight
on March 17, 1910, and gave
the credit to Harry Houdini
for the flight on March 18. To
this day the A.8.C., in its
quiz-sessions, still mentions
Houdini as the first to take up
a plane in Australia, although
1 have written in to correct it.
In saying that this plane was
responsible later for a child
losing an arm Stanley Brogden
has fallen into a trap which
also caught me. Another man
named Jones also brought a
Bleriot monoplane to Adelaide
and took it up on a demonstra-
tion-flight from Cheltenham
racecourse. But whereas only
a little group had gathered to
watch Custance make that first
flight a huge crowd assembled
to see Jones give his demon-
stration.
When Jones came in to land,
the crowd surged forward in
spite of the efforts of the police
to keep the runway clear, and
a boy was pushed into the still -
spinning propeller, which cut
off one of his arms.
When writing the stories of
those first flights for a news-
paper I took it for granted
that this Jones was the same
man as the owner of the plane
which had made the pioneer
flight. He wasn’t.
Stanley Brogden is right,
however, when he deplores the
lack of memorials to mark
“It’s the big City fire — how’s that for realism?”
spots in Australia connected
with the pioneering of aviation.
There is a simple one at Stan-
well Park, near Sydney, to
mark the spot where Lawrence
Hargrave performed those ex-
periments with his box-kites
which helped the Wright
brothers in America to build
the first plane to fly.
Some 10 years ago the Uni-
versity of Sydney adopted my
suggestion that their Chair of
Aeronautical Engineering be
named in honor of Hargrave,
but I have never been able to
get as much as a notice-board
erected at the spot where Fred
Custance made that first Aus-
tralian flight at Bolivar (S.A.).
—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
“Nazi and Jew”
The editorial “Nazi and Jew”
(B. 13/1/’6O) contained some
serious inaccuracies.
It referred to foreign Jews
pouring “over the borders of
Poland into Germany during
and directly after the inflation
of 1924,” and to the “millions
of Jews who were more at
home and more respected in
Germany than any other racial
Hebrews in the world.”
According to the official
German census, in 1871 there
were 512,253 Jews, or 1.25 p.c.
of the total population, resid-
ing in Germany. In 1925 there
were 564,379 Jews or 0.90 p.c.
of the total population, and by
1933 the number of Jews living
in Germany dropped to
500,000.
The 1925 census also dis-
closed that of the 564,379 Jews,
76,000 were from Eastern
Europe, a considerable number
of whom had either been
prisoners-of-war or forced
laborers brought from Poland
during World War I and per-
mitted to live in Germany. By
1933 this number had. con-
siderably declined.
Contrary to The Bulletin’s
statement that thousands of
ruined Berliners saw their
businesses bought by these “in-
vaders,” they were mostly small
traders, and a considerable
number were receiving relief
from Jewish-aid societies.
The inflation did not help
them. It helped principally
those “aryan” German in-
dustrialists and bankers like
Krupp, Thyssen, von Siemens,
Bosch, Vogler and Flick to
buy-up ruined businesses, thus
increasing their hold on the
German economy, which they
largely controlled and still do.
By 1933, Krupp, Thyssen
and Vogler, the armaments and
steel magnates, between them
cont r o 11 ed capital-interests
valued at £7OO million (stg.j
Bosch, the dye-trust king, conj
trolled capital valued at £5,1
million, and the “aryan” Ger
man bankers Schroeder, Finds!
Abs, Pferdemenges and Reinf
hart dominated the German*
banks. These men later conf
stituted the Economic Council
of Hitler’s Germany—the conj
trolling economic body of tha
regime. Ernest Plat a
General Secretary, Jewish)
Council to Combat Fascism
and Anti-Semitism (Vic.).
“Origin of Species”
As “Ben Backslider” acknow
ledges (B. 17/2/’6O), the Origij
of Species is outdated. It is
outdated because its defective,
argumentation attaches to the
factor of natural selection—!
function it cannot possibly dis
charge and has not been ob (
served to discharge. In 1951
at a scientific conference in
Birmingham, Professor J. B. Sj
Haldane confessed: “I regret!
to inform you that natural!
selection has not been observer
to cause evolutionary change,’]
The extent to which evolu-
tion has occurred
occurs and the real factors in-
volved are still under dispute.
There are- bewildering varieties
of opinion among those whit
do accept evolution; and “Bew
Backslider” is wrong in saying
that it is “now universally
accepted in scientific circles.”
Here are a few of its oppon-
ents over the past 30 years:
Vialleton, anatomist of Mont-
pellier University; Fleischman,
Professor of Comparative An-
atomy at Erlangen; Heribert
Nilsson, Swedish plant-geneti-
cist; Dr. W. R. Thompson,
F.R.S., of the Commonwealth
Institute, Ottawa; ornitholo-
gists Dewar and Chance; Pro-
fessors Lefevere and Lemoine


is THtti M MtHMfSSY / M J H t HOUSf?
- '/i
Everybody looks up to
HENNESSY
COGNAC BRANDY
h*
A
!sA
ft*
<s
Hlk
an d entomologist Thomas in
G. K. Hebbert and
F, L. Grant Watson; G. B.
O’Toole and Professor E. P.
Kelley in the U.S.
This does not exhaust the
list, to which I add the great
naturalist J. H. Fabre, an ob-
server at least as patient and
notable as Darwin himself.
Nilsson in 1952 published
as his life’s labor a book of
1500 pages devoted to answer-
ing in the negative the question
it posed: “Is the theory of
evolution tenable today?”
Nilsson says: “We are forced
to this conclusion: that the
theory of evolution has not
been verified by experimental
investigations of the origin of
species.”
W. R. Thompson is very
telling in his introduction to
the latest edition of the Origin
of Species in the Everyman
Library, where he puts his
position so: “Since no one
has explained to my satisfac-
tion how evolution could
happen, I do not feel impelled
to say that it has happened.
I prefer to say that on this
matter our information is in-
adequate.”
Any one of the men I’ve
mentioned is sufficient to over-
throw “Ben Backslider’s” uni-
versal affirmation. In any case,
truth is the ultimate criterion,
not numbers. — Martin Haley
(Q.).
Charles Darwin has prob-
ably suffered more than most
scientists from critics who have
misread, misunderstood or mis-
represented him.
For example, Martin Haley
(B. 24/2/’6O) attacks the con-
cept of “the pitiless war within
each species”; but that is not
what Darwin said. He wrote
that the “struggle for survival”
(a very different thing from
war) was fiercest between in-
dividuals of the one species.
He did not suggest that, in
general, each was out to kill
his fellows —in many cases the
reverse is the truth—but that
members of the one species,
having identical needs in the
way of food and amenities
such as nesting-sites, constantly
tend to outrun the resources
available to them and that in
this contest the weakest must
go to the wall.
Anyone who has observed
wild or domestic animals knows
this to be so. To adapt one of
his illustrations to our own
country: a pair of magpies
raises two broods of young a
year, averaging about four to
a clutch. I don’t know how
long the maggie’s reproductive
life could be; I’ve had indi-
vidual birds under observation
for four years, but the limit is
probably much higher. How-
ever, taking four years as the
limit, that means that one pair
could produce 32 offspring.
Yet the population remains
more or less stable, so that on
the average only two of these
reach maturity. Many die in
the nest because their stronger
fellows grab most of the tucker;
others are taken by crows,
hawks or goannas, and here the
parents’ aggressiveness counts
for a lot.
After leaving the nest few
actually die of starvation, but
those that don’t get a fair share
of the limited food available
grow weak and listless, their
senses are dulled and their
reactions slowed (the classic
symptoms of malnutrition),
and they fall an easy victim to
their foes.
The s&me may be seen
among our own species. In
India, for example, the com-
pletion of a large irrigation-
project does not raise living-
standards in the area. It
raises the population to a
point where all are again on a
bare subsistence-level, and the
resultant high mortality keeps
it at that point.
There is evidence, too, that
the aboriginal tribes of our
inland bred-up in a run of good
seasons and were decimated in
droughts. Of course, luck plays
a part, but in general the
strongest and the best adapted
to their environment have the
best chance of surviving.
There is no denying, of
course, that Darwin made
serious mistakes in working-
out his theory. The most im-
portant was probably the
assumption that the small
variations between individuals
with the same hereditary
and environmental background
were the same thing, on a small
scale, as mutations, and that
they were the raw material of
evolution.
This part of his theory we
have had to discard entirely;
we know the individuals are
quite different things and
that neither gives a satisfactory
explanation of evolution. But
we have not yet found any-
thing else to put in their place,
though we may be close to a
breakthrough.
It would be a fair-enough
summing-up to say that no
really impartial scientist now
doubts the basic postulate of
Darwin’s theory that all forms
of life have evolved from a few
primeval forms or from one;
that nobody can accept Dar-
win’s explanation of how this
took place; and that nobody
can suggest a better one.
Darwin himself never re-
garded his theory as atheistic.
That charge came from his
opponents such as Bishop Wil-
berforce, who could not see
that what he was defending
was not Genesis but only his
own interpretation of it. —
Magnoon (Q.).
Aust.-Japanese Children
That was a very noble sug-
gestion of H. A. Lindsay’s
(B. 24/2/’6O) that we bring
back Australian - Japanese
children. As he says, the
cross between European and
Japanese produces a fine type
of human-being; but the
Japanese know this —or at least
half of it. They found it out
in the Bonin Islands. Perhaps
a synopsis of what happened
there will explain it.
The Bonin Islands—or Oga-
sawara Jima, as they are now
known —lie about 700 to 800
miles south of Japan. They
were discovered by a British
warship about the middle of
the 19th century. They were
uninhabited, though they had
a delightful climate. The
British commander went
ashore, raised the flag and took
possession of the group in the
name of the British Crown.
Before the British ship had
returned to England and the
formalities of annexation were
put through, an American war-
ship found the islands and
also took possession of them.
Arguments arose between
the two Governments,
but when it was found
that the islands had no coal,
no mineral-deposits, nothing of
any commercial value, the
dispute died down and Britain
was left in control. Both
Britain and the U.S. sent out
colonising parties, probably
of Utopia-seekers prepared to
live an easy life in a pleasant
climate.
Then Admiral Perry, of the
U.S.N., did his famous “Open-
ing of the Door” act and
brought Japan back into the


world. Japanese ships were
soon out and about; fishing-
fleets were spreading out into
the Pacific. The Bonin Islands
were ideally situated and were
first ports of call for fresh
fruit, vegetables and tropical-
island produce.
A few Japs asked permission
to settle there. They were
welcomed; they were so well
behaved and polite. More
came, and a Japanese colony
arose. The Japanese Govern-
ment informed Britain that the
islands were part of the old
Empire before the Seclusion,
and Japan would like to have
them back. Britain was then
well established in the Far East
and had little use for the
islands. The R.N. was train-
ing the Japanese Navy; big
commercial transactions were
going through. It would be a
nice gesture. The islands were
ceded to Japan. Renamed with
the ancient Ogasawara Jima,
they became part of Japan.
1 he Bamboo Curtain gently
descended, and little was heard
of events in the erstwhile Bonin
Islands.
The fate of the Bonins
created a little interest in the
dubs and hotels in the Far
East around the turn of the
century. The Japanese were
alleged to be doing some cross-
breeding experiments. A book,
The Bonin Islands, was written
on the subject, but it is hard to
find a copy nowadays.
The Allied troops have now
done all the cross-breeding
they need, and for the great
mass of children left in Japan
the situation is grim. In a
country where the buying and
selling of children is legal no
stigma is attached to a deserted
mother selling a child she could
not feed. And on the “basic
wage” for females in Japan she
wouidhave little to spare.
Nothing prevents big in-
dustrialists from buying-up
hundreds of these children,
keeping them in barracks and
putting them to work as soon
as they are old enough. They
are not slaves as long as they
are paid a “wage.” As State-
less persons the law would
prevent them from wandering
about the country at will.
Japan, we are now learning,
is fighting hard to regain her
place in the industrial world.
She must have cheap labor to
compete. It is not likely she
would throw away such an
opportunity.—H. W. Forres-
ter (Q.).
Race Space
Judging by the space they
allot it, newspapers in all States
regard flat- and hurdle-racing
as our number-one sport. But
is it?
A “Royal” Randwick meet-
ing sometimes attracts as few
as 28,000 people—a sad com-
mentary on support for the
“sport of kings.” And when-
ever a comparison is made (it
often isn’t) with the same meet-
ing in the previous year
- w W
attendance-figures are seen to
be down.
Every sport must have a
reservoir, a crowd-potential
What’s the turf’s potential?
Not extensive, I’m afraid
How many young fellows di
you see streaming back frorr-
(in Sydney) Randwick, Canter-1
bury or Warwick Farm meet-
ings? Not many. The
followers are mostly greyheads
or middle-aged folk ; the
youths enthusiastically keep 1
away.
I’m no barracker for thet
trots, but more often than;
not a Harold Park (Sydney)
meeting gets its 25,000 spec-j
tators a night—this a few hours
after Randwick, with all its
new and attractive features,
has been all out to attract a,
few thousand more. The
final night of Sydney's last
Inter-Dominion trot-meeting
pulled-in 53,000 people, and
police had to turn many away.
Yet how much newspaper
space do the trots get?
What about football, especi-'
ally in Melbourne, where it’s
more of a religion than a
sport? A 50,000 crowd at a
match is almost commonplace
and goes virtually unrecorded,
x As an old pressman who has
seen the decay for years, I.
feel there’s an imbalance in
newspaper treatment of sport
—an undeserved bias in favor
of the “sport of kings.”—
Jock (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 583
Across
1 Very thorough old man, in providing another with
financial support, gives Pennsylvania this month with
a regal character. (11)
6 —Smoke out of sheer weariness. (3)
B—Majestic8—Majestic composition of Elgar. (5)
10— A team of tall chaps? (9)
11 — A team of fat chaps? (9)
12— Crane loading mother-of-pearl. (5)
13— The king gives leadership to such
Belgians. (8)
14 — Woman copper. (5)
17—Ronald’s novel is George
Gordon. (5)
19 —Blueblood square I’m chang-
ing. (8)
22 — The Latin beyond Paul orphaned
backward art. (5)
23 — American putting a hard
porcelain-like shell on game
linen arrangements. (9)
24 — Girlie confused nothing like this
character of church music. (9)
25 — Name’s changed at the home of
one qualified to conduct a
wedding ceremony. (5)
26 Used to be cut-back. (3)
27 — No. U.S,A. spirit could be sigh-
ing. (11)
Down
1— This makes a section through
a cone pop around oil of
Arabia. (8)
2 Spot information about the rac-
ing board. (7)
3 Nudists introducing Ada to little
creatures. (8)
4 I run-out Kelly when pressed. (6)
5 Antique eggs are scrambled is
befitting a titan. (11)
6 Just if the state is pretty
good. (4, 9)
7 Gave evidence of growing older,
but King George had a look. (6)
9 —Roll Grace’s sty among such
fair creatures. (7, 6)
15— Parent vehicle on one course for
an Italian fop. (8)
16 — A lot of water colour? (3-5)
18 —Circle electric stoves? (7)
20— A squabble about the mink and
the ermine achievement of the
plough. (6)
21 — Game companion of 18-
down. (6)
25—Moustache on a big bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 582


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SULLIVAN
rt? PTYI.TD U
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
That’s the next lighthouse,” he
added, knowing that Charlie
W as all at sea once he got out-
side of Sydney Harbor. “Keep
her south-by-west, and call me
when the light is abeam. Keep
the land in sight,” he added
as he climbed down the ladder
to the main deck.
Unfortunately for Charlie
the land promptly got
out of sight owing to a mist
that settled over the shore and
he felt uncomfortably alone
in the world with a void on
one side and a dim, wide
horizon on the other.
This was no good to Charlie.
How was he to know when
it was seven-o’clock without a
watch? The only way to tell
when she was down to Barren-
joey light was to see the light.
And hadn’t the old man told
him to keep the land in sight?
And so, after half-an-hour of
running into nothing, Charlie
edged her in towards the land,
and it wasn’t long before the
Millie was running through a
mist which quickly turned to
fog. Charlie was scared then.
He put her back onto south-
by-west and called Sam.
“Damn,” said Sam as he
glanced at the compass and
then at his watch which
showed 7.05. “Just when we
were making a good passage,
this had to come down. Chap-
man’s got us booked to take
two coke-punts up to the gas-
works at ten-thirty. He’ll be
tearing his hair if we show-up
late.”
He stood outside the wheel-
house peering into the grey-
ness ahead. “This is no good,”
he said worriedly when his
watch showed 7.30. “We must
be down past Barrenjoey, the
rate we’ve been tearing through
the water. Go down and call
the engineer. Tell him I’m
going to ease her down. Make
some coffee.”
When Charlie came up with
a cup of coffee Sam put the
telegraph to “Slow.”
The Millie immediately
dropped to a walk and, except
for a slap, slap, at the bows,
there was a ghostly silence.
“Go up in the bows,
Charlie,” said Sam. “And
keep a sharp lookout. Some
of the Newcastle colliers
might be dodging about.”
Charlie went for’ard and was
lost to view in the fog.
“’Struth!” said Sam. “You
can cut it with a knife. Think
I’ll haul her in a bit, out of
the traffic-lane.”
He spun the wheel to star-
board and steadied her onto
south-sou’-west.
After half-an-hour on that
course he came out of the
wheelhouse and called out into
the blankness ahead: “Keep
your ears open, Charlie. I’m
going to give a blast on the
whistle. You might hear an
echo off the land.”
Sam pulled the whistle-string
and the Millie gave a screech
that made Sam jump.
“Thought I heard something
then,” called Charlie.
“You’d be deaf if you
didn’t,” said Sam sarcastically.
“I mean an echo,” said
Charlie in an injured voice.
“Don’t be daft,” said Sam.
“We can’t be that close to
the land already.”
He pulled the whistle-string
again.
“Yes!” Charlie called ex-
citedly. “Right ahead!”
Sam spun the wheel to port
and slammed the telegraph to
“Full Astern.” The slap at
the bows ceased as the engines
throbbed astern. Then “Stop”
on the telegraph, and there was
silence.
'T'he fog had thinned out a
little and Sam could see
Charlie now. He could also
see a dark blob on the star-
board side which he knew to
be land.
“There’s something white
right ahead,” said Charlie.
“Looks like a ship.”
“Ship be damned,” said Sam
irritably. “We’re the only ship
that’s likely to be this close in.”
Charlie was still peering
ahead. “There it is,” he called.
“Something white on a beach.”
Sam climbed out of the
wheelhouse and walked for’ard.
He could faintly see what
appeared to be a ketch about
the size of a pearling-lugger.
“Ahoy!” yelled Sam.
Joe and the fireman came
for’ard.
“What's up?” asked Joe.
“Ship ashore,” said Sam.
“Must have run ashore in the
fog. Ahoy!” he yelled, and
when no reply came back Sam
was puzzled.
“They must have abandoned
her,” he said.
“Can’t we haul her off?”
asked the fireman.
“Be salvage if we could,”
said Sam speculatively as he
looked at his watch. “It’s only
an hour after high-water.”
“Can’t hear any surf on the
beach,” said Charlie.
“We’re in the shelter of
Long Reef ; that's why,” said
Sam.
“Besides, it’s been as flat as
Sydney Harbor for the past
week. Put the boat over the
side and I’ll go and have a
look at her.”
They got the small boat over
the side and Sam hopped in.
“Bend two heaving-lines
together,” he told Charlie,
“and give me one end. If I
think we can haul her off I’ll
haul the towline aboard.” He
pulled towards the ship with
the heaving-line trailing astern.
Ten miilutes went by and
the fog got thick again and
blotted out the ship. Sam’s
voice came floating back to
the Millie.
“There’s nobody aboard
here,” he called. “She’s aban-
doned. Bend the towline on
and I’ll haul it aboard.”
Ten minutes later Sam
stepped aboard the Millie.
“She’ll come off easy,” he
grinned. “I reckon she’ll be
worth about one-thousand
pounds salvage.”
Sam climbed into the wheel-
house, put the telegraph-
handle to “Slow Ahead” and
spun the wheel to port. The
Millie swung slowly around
until her stern was facing the
shore and the towline became
taut. Then Sam rang “Full
Ahead,” and the tug’s pro-
peller thrashed the water.
Presently the Millie started to
move slowly through the water
with the ketch in tow.
Sam glanced at the compass.
It was pointing north-east.
“I’ll let her go up the coast
a bit before hauling her round,”
he told Charlie as the deck-
hand came into the wheelhouse.
“Then we’ll be sure of clear-
ing Long Reef.”
Half - an - hour later the
Millie was again heading south.
Joe came into the wheel-
house.
“What time d’you reckon
we’ll tie-up?” he asked.
Sam glanced at his watch.
“We must be past the reef
now,” he answered. “We’ll be
tied-up about eleven-thirty.
This fog will fizzle-out any
time now.”
“I’ll be glad when five-
o’clock comes,” said Joe. “I
can hardly keep my eyes open.”
“When Chapman sees the
prize we’ve brought in,” said
Sam, “he’ll give us the rest
of the day off.”
“Like hell!” said Joe as he
climbed down the ladder.
A few minutes later the fog
lifted and Sam was surprised
to see Long Reef about two
miles ahead.
“Stone the crows!” he
exclaimed to Charlie. “We
must have pulled that boat
off Palm Beach!”
HThe Millie passed through
Sydney Heads at 1 p.m.
and, after hauling the
ketch alongside, proceeded
triumphantly up the harbor.
As they rounded Bradley’s
Head a fast launch ran along-
side and a uniformed figure
hopped aboard the Millie and
climbed up to the wheelhouse.
“What the . . Sam stopped
as he saw the police badge.
“We've had a report that a
ketch was stolen from Mackerel
Beach in Pittwater,” said the
sergeant looking sternly at
Sam. “This one alongside
seems to fit the description.”
“But . . said Sam, swal-
lowing hard.
“The owner of the ketch
reports,” continued the ser-
geant, “that he beached her at
high-water this morning for
the purpose of scrubbing her
bottom, and while he was away
having breakfast”- ——
“But . . .” said Sam weakly.
“Just pull into Neutral
Bay, Captain,” said the
sergeant sternly.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DAIRY ECONOMICS
“Ruddigore”: Tell R. A.
Price (B. 10/ IJ ’6O) there’s
more to increasing the effi-
ciency of the dairy-industry
than correcting the mistakes of
the duds.
Many dairyfarms are like
small businesses; their output
is limited and their overhead
too great for them to have any
future. But, unlike the owner
of the small corner-shop, who
can close his doors, cut his loss
and get a job somewhere else,
the small dairyfarmer struggles
on, working himself and his
family long hours for a small
net return.
Today these small farms are
uneconomical. The reason is
plain. They were subdivided in
the days when costs were at
rock-bottom, labor was plenti-
ful and ridiculously cheap and
cows were milked by hand.
This was the day of the horse —
which on a bellyful of grass
could plough enough ground
to keep the cows in feed
cheap kerosene-lit homes and
no modern luxuries like motor-
cars and refrigerators. Today
The cause of death of
many lambs in the
Goulburn district of
New South Wales has
been identified by the
Department of Agri-
cu 11 u r e’s Veterinary
Research Station of
Glenfield as being
Goitre.
In an effort to locate
the cause of the disease
samples of soil, pasture
and water are now
being analysed.
Lamb losses generally
associated with old-
fashioned methods of
castration and tailing
may be considerably
reduced by the speedy,
scientific Elastrator
Rubber Ring method.
Australian producers
favour the Elastrator
method because Elas-
trator is the proven
method.
these farms cannot earn enough
net income for the farmer to
enjoy the modern standards he
is entitled to. Costs have risen
out of all proportion, and the
farm is not large enough to
absorb them,
Years of use have brought
these farms land-management
problems costly to solve. Soil-
“Must’ve blown-in from the Pacific .”
erosion is one. On larger
farms this can be checked by
rotations of grass and cultiva-
tion or by contour-banks.
Depleted soil-fertility can be
restored by fertilisers or by
putting the ground under
pasture or legumes.
On a small farm you can’t
always do this. Spelling culti-
vation-paddocks is out of the
question, because every inch
of soil must be worked to pro-
vide a subsistence-level of in-
come. Heavy applications of
costly fertilisers or the con-
struction of contour-banks to
control erosion bumps costs up
higher thanjever.
The owners, of course, are
not all duds ; some are very
practical men. If they were
on a larger property they
would be rated very successful.
Many inherited the land and
have been unable to save
enough to buy neighbors out;
others were tied to an uncon-
genial job and saved hard to
put down a modest deposit on
a small farm Many bought
into the land with no pre-
vious farming experience ;
some had not the slightest idea
what was involved in manag-
ing a farm. By the time they
realised that their farms were
too small to ever have an
economic net - production
potential it was too late to do
anything about it. They paid
dearly for the privilege of
being their own masters.
All the extension-advisers in
the world can’t help them. The
expert has the “know-how,” but
the farm is too small to take it.
There’s no escape from the
grim routine of farming every
acre every year. And that’s the
best way to ruin any soil, even
if it’s as rich as bagged fertiliser.
Some argue that because
these farms are small the
owners can expect only a small
income. This is sound up to a
point. But there comes a
time when machinery has to be
replaced and modern labor-
saving devices to cope with the
additional burden of old-age
and children leaving home are
required.
Seldom has enough been
saved to purchase these out-
right ; the only recourse is
bank-overdraft or hire-pur-
chase. Because the bank-
manager can see that the farm
is too small to take any more
capital-loading, and he is not
inclined to commit his bank
any further, it’s usually hire-
purchase, with regular prin-
cipal-repayments and a heavy
interest-bill as well.
The problem of the small
dairyfarm is most difficult to
solve. It's not an economic
problem alone. If it was, the
remedy would be obvious;
buy-out the small farmer and
integrate his land with other
farms to form larger, more
economic units having greater
diversification, management
and output potential.
As for larger dairyfarms, I
fully agree with R. A. Price
that the greatest need is more
information about the eco-
nomics of farm-management.
In the past, advice was handed
out because such-and-such a
practice seemed right. Today,
many of these schemes won't
stand-up to economic exami-
nation. If it costs an extra £1
to do something different or
additional to what is being
done now you have to get at
least an extra £1 back to make
it pay. With some of the
schemes that used to be put
forward you didn’t even get
15s. back.
Because farming is becoming
a highly specialised business,
farm-economics will play an
increasingly important part in
the progress of the rural com-
munity. A study of farm-
economics can show whether
or not it pays to do some-
thing—but it can’t do it.
Farm-economics won't help the
small farmer much, because his
routine is so fixed that he can’t
diversify to take advantage of
modern methods of farming.
These are the farmers who need
a good stiff injection of sub-
sidy every year to keep them
going. Without it they would
have to walk-off tomorrow.
Farm Hints
“Salopian”: Smut - damage
can be controlled effectively by
treating seed-oats with a mer-
curial pickle before planting.
Dress seed with the pickle at
loz. to 2oz. a bushel. Seed
already carrying smut can be
used for sheep-feed.
“Denco”: When building
watering-troughs for sheep
make sure the water will not be
out of reach of lambs. If
troughs are high, build up the
earth against them so that the
whole flock can reach the
water.


of Douglas’s blood, which he
topped-off, to give it scale,
with Booth cattle from the
Ambler herd in Yorkshire. His
stock, however, changed hands
in 1885 to Dangar and Bell,
of Noorindoo, and he turned
to Herefords.
His was an experimental
6tud with too much mixture
of blood, and this apparently
was its downfall, despite
expensive importations. How-
ever, its experience was not
lost on other breeders.
Bracker and Warroo
Warroo was the pioneer of
the western studs, and Harry
Bracker will ever be a name
to conjure with among cattle-
men. Son of the old German
sheepmaster, who brought out
the Bettington sheep in 1828
and went to Queensland to
take-up Rosenthal for the old
Aberdeen Company, he became
the bosom-friend of James
Tyson, ranged the wild country
as far as the Fitzroy and the
Mackenzie in the north and
the Cooper in the west. He
was a superb horseman who
could ride anything with a
hide on it and a whipper of wild
teams without peer.
He was first known as a
mere boy pushing cattle into
the wild Dawson country, and
founded the Warroo stud with
his brother, buying stock
lavishly in the south and some-
times stripping the Victorian
markets. In 1883 he bought
1000 bulls in Victoria, and, in
2\ years during that decade,
another 1600.
His buying of stud sires
ranged over the whole country.
A.A. Co. blood, Angas blood
from South Australia and
Clark Irving’s cattle from
Tomki all went to make his
types, which in turn fixed the
types of many a Queensland
beef-producing station.
In later days he topped-up
with Derrimuts, but his great
stand-by and admiration were
the Baldwin cattle from Dur-
ham Court, in New Eng-
land, bred with Scottish sires
mainly from the famous old
Lawson Cow. These were the
love of his old age and his
array for the battle which
changed the type of Queens-
land cattle round the years of
World War I and replaced the
old ideals of the advocates of
“walking qualities” and great
size. It said much for him
that in the end he became a
convert to the new ideals.
Lyndhurst v. Yandilla
The battle of the types
focused round the Brisbane
Show championship contests
between Charles McDougall’s
Lyndhurst Stud and Arthur
Lomax’s Yandilla. Lyndhurst
was founded under the
advice of Bracker with heifers
from Bienvenue, Singleton,
Angas stock, some New Zea-
land blood and finally Bald-
win’s Spicy Peer, whose off-
spring Lyndhurst Royal Peer
made his first appearance at
the Brisbane Show in 1909 as
a youngster.
He was an enormous, long
bull, abnormally high in the
leg by modern standards, but
the beau-ideal of the Old
Timers, a walker if ever there
was one, and the right kind to
produce big Monkira-type
bullocks.
He was, moreover, the last
great champion of his kind,
and his battles with the con-
tender entered by the sup-
porters of the younger school
of breeders, Arthur Lomax’s
Grand Duke of Clifton, were
followed by the lining-up of
Australian specifications for
meat-producing animals with
those of the old world of
small holdings and farm feed-
ing.
The Lomax stud history had
begun with the importation of
the bull Mars in 1839. The
stud had been developed first
at Wirrah and then at the old
Gore station of Yandilla,
where, as at Warroo and Lynd-
hurst, the Baldwin cattle ruled
until Arthur Lomax took-over
and flouted the popular preju-
dice against white cattle by
bringing up A. J. Webb’s
Lindenow Duke of Derrimut
33rd, winner of the Melbourne
Show, which worked at
Yandilla only a year or two,
leaving behind a magnificent
get of females. Then Lomax
bought Grand Duke of Clif-
ton by Lindenow Duke 40th
from A. J. Simpson of Hamil-
ton and the fight was on with
Lyndhurst.
Grand Duke was of moder-
ate size with massive chest,
splendidly carried head, great
spread of rib, and beautifully
fine bone, a symmetrical and
gracefully carried body set-off
by a long, graceful tail that
almost reached the ground. He
was a lustrous deep roan with
a white saddle, full of spirit,
gay in the ring -and prolific as
a sire—one year he got 114
calves before winning the
Brisbane Show championship.
His contests with Lyndhurst
Royal Peer generated great
heat and argument, for the old-
timers were fighting for their
theories as well as their large
and docile favorite. For many
years Lyndhurst Royal Peer
was the victor, and it wasn’t
until 1918 that Grand Duke
wore the sash, just two years
before the Yandilla stud was
dispersed on the death of Mr.
J. R. Lomax.
Long before that, however,
the sale-ring had given its
verdict, and Queensland
breeders, like those in other
States, had begun to look for
sires that would breed blocky,
Scotch - type early - maturers
that would produce stock to
compete with Remington’s
baby beef from the Argentine
at Smithfield.
Meanwhile, with the coming
of the Tocal cattle and the
establishment of the big Mc-
Connell and Hill studs, the
early prejudice against the
Hereford had disappeared and
the red-and-whites had become
prominent on the tableland
country and had shown that
they were good doers even in
the hot, dry north-west and
the country of the Flinders.
Land of Revolution
Today Queensland carries
more than half the beef-cattle
of Australia —more than twice
as many as any other State. It
is again in the van of revolu-
tion with its experiments with
the polled breeds which had
their birth in the work of
Queensland studmasters, or at
least border-breeders like C. A.
Munro. The polled-cattle in-
dustry, in the two main breeds,
began to reach practicality
with the importation of Ameri-
can polled Herefords by James
Sparkes, of Lindley, near
Dalby, who for many years
had been a front-rank Hereford
exhibitor at the Brisbane
Show.
Finally, in 1952, after half-
a-century of debate about the
merits of Indian crosses and
many experiments with the
zebu which had paid few divi-
dends, came the era of the
Santa Gertrudis from the King
Ranch. The breed and its
cognate types have still a long
way to go to prove themselves
under Australian conditions,
but they are certainly gaining
ground, though their ultimate
success will depend on the
ability of breeders and the
C.5.1.R.0. to stabilise an im-
proving type or breed suitable
for the outback under all con-
ditions.
With more and more closer-
settlement in an age of
improving beef-markets and
high prices, beef-cattle can now
be raised on improved country
in Queensland in a manner
that would have been impos-
sible even a generation or so
ago. Yet the outback will
always remain cattle-country,
producing the bulk of Aus-
tralian beef, and the ghost of
the walker suitable for wide,
open spaces will always haunt
it, no matter how pastures and
water and transport to market,
on the hoof or in carcass, are
improved.
At this stage Queensland
cattle-types are as a whole a
compromise between the old
walkers and the modern
quick-maturers, with a trend
towards the latter which tends
to accelerate with the increas-
ing provision of water-supplies,
pasture - improvement, enclo-
sure and transport by motor-
vehicle and air.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/3/’60)
Queensland is probably in for poor rain during April,
apart from a continuation of heavy falls in north-coastal and
Pensinsula areas and some moderate rain in part of the
central- and south-coastal districts. Reasonably good rains
are likely in the south-east area during May, with good
rains in the eastern half of the State in June.
Rainfall is also likely to be poor in N.S.W. during April,
apart from some moderate rain on the coast, but there
should be general rains in May, heavy along the coast and
on the Southern Tablelands and South-west Slopes, with
some serious flooding. There should be good rain in June.
For Victoria, light to moderate patchy rains during
April; good general rains in May.
South Australia’s agricultural areas and West Coast
district should receive moderate rains during April, with
falls light in the interior. Good general rains can be expected
in the agricultural areas in May.
Poor rainfall is indicated for most of Western Aus-
tralia during April, but there should be moderately good
rains in the south-west agricultural areas in May.
LENNOX WALKER.


Australia’s Marginal Country
By A. S. SINGLE (Vestey’s)
'T'he development of Aus-
tralia’s pastoral areas may
be said to have suffered to
some extent because the dis-
covery of the continent by
Captain Cook started from
Botany Bay, on the east coast
of the southern portion of
this great land-mass. Settle-
ment spread over the selec-
tive areas which had most
favorable climatic conditions.
It was the southern half of
Australia that attracted all the
earlier land-seekers, and within
that area our great cities
developed. The northern half
was neglected for many years,
and even today it is compara-
tively sparsely settled, particu-
larly that huge area north of
the Tropic of Capricorn.
If the early explorers who
touched our northern coastline
had hoisted their flag the
whole pattern of our settlement
might have changed.
It can be claimed, if a survey
is made of the closely settled
pastoral areas of Australia,
thdt we are on a level of pro-
duction that can be considered
economically satisfactory. The
evolution of settlement in the
southern half of Australia has
largely followed Government
policies of cutting-up the bigger
improved properties and
making more and more areas
available to the landseeking
population. It may be con-
sidered that we have all the
attractive country under occu-
pation.
The prosperity of the primary
industries with present price-
levels of products on a high
scale should direct atten-
tion to what might be done to
develop our marginal lands
which, hitherto considered use-
less or of no economic value,
have remained unoccupied.
Experts say there is as
much as 340,000,000 acres of
unimproved land in good-rain-
fall areas awaiting develop-
ment. All States and the
Northern Territory have
“possible” but scattered areas
each demanding special study
as to its usefulness.
In N.S.W. alone it is esti-
mated that there are 75,000,000
acres awaiting development.
Of this area, thousands of
acres are within easy range of
markets and in no way
remotely situated. Other States
have many acres in accessible
locations, but admittedly much
of the marginal country in
Australia is in the low-rainfall
areas and is waterless, the very
big areas being situated in, or
adjacent to, central or northern
Australia.
These areas, unfortunately,
are remotely situated, and
settlement is sparse. Climatic
conditions do not make living
there comfortable. As well as
building-up the quality of the
land, amentites to encourage
North-South Road (Stuart Highway), N.T.
people to live under such con-
ditions are obviously necessary.
Perhaps it would be as well
to define or describe marginal
country.
This doesn’t comprise useless
mountain-rock, or certain
classes of sand-formation in
our desert-country, but may
comprise in low-rainfall areas
clay, silt or broken-rock coun-
try, each with some subsoil
allowing the growth of natural
scrub, shrubs or spinifex.
Much depends on where the
land is situated, but, generally
speaking, most of these areas
are waterless. There is one
area in North-west Australia
which grows an edible soft
spinifex. This, with water-
points, carries a big number of
sheep, but most of it is, of
course, light-carrying country.
However, there is the advantage
that the spinifex does not
require any degree of certain
rainfall
In high-rainfall areas, such
as along the coast, marginal
country may be swampy areas,
for instance, possibly in places
heavily timbered, necessitating
clearing and draining and then
repasturising.
Marginal country may not
only refer to completely un-
developed country, but also to
partly-developed land where
economic returns from the
production may be hazardous,
This is demonstrated in some
zones where mixed farming is
carried-on with indifferent rain-
fall, the composition of the
soil being poor and in need of
scientific research ; or there
are coastal areas where dairy-
ing or grazing is tried on sour
swampy areas. Such country
is in wide evidence on much
of our eastern coastline; or
again, there is the sandy type
of country with salty seepage
growing coarse sour types of
grasses unpalatable to stock,
such &s is found on the Western
Austialian coast.
Another type of marginal
countiy can be classified in the
area where rabbits or other
pests have devastated the land,
leaving it barren with a very
low stocking-capacity, making
it as a working proposition un-
productive and unattractive.
Now let us look at the use-
fulness of the various types of
marginal country and what can
be done to improve its pro-
duction and bring it under
settlement. But, first of all,
the question can be asked: Why
has not this land been brought
under general review in years
past?
The general answer would be
it was not an economic
proposition to spend money
unless it was known that it
would provide an economic
return under settlemen t.
Further, the development did
not interest Governments or
financial institutions; therefore,
it was not easy for landseekers
to borrow money offering the
land as security.
The picture today is a very
different one, for over the past
few years the level of research
has reached a very high
standard. Additionally, th e
value of primary products has
been rising. These factors
have brought the marginal
country under review.
We look back to a few years
ago when prickly-pear and


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearly Subscription . - 22/6
and a few days more from
South Queensland ports.
The condition of the chilled
beef carried in these new ships
was greatly improved and its
price on the U.K. market
jumped above that of the
Argentine product.
Cargo-space “Wasted”
However, despite these im-
proved facilities for the chilled
beef trade, many thousands of
cubic-feet of valuable refriger-
ated cargo-space suitable for
chilled beef is still not being
used on the vessels provided
for it.
In 1958 Blue Star’s “north-
about” vessels had a capacity
of 6232 tons of chilled beef,
but only 3674 tons was loaded,
leaving a “wastage” of 2558
tons. In 1959, a further five
“north-about” sailings were
provided with a similar capa-
city, but only 2916 tons was
shipped, with a “wastage” of
3316 tons.
' There is therefore very much
more suitable space in vessels
serving the Australian trade
overall than there is chilled
beef to fill such space. Many
ships which could carry chilled
beef are not programmed to
load in Queensland because
the quantity of chilled beef is
simply not available for ship-
ment.
The Blue Star Line’s “north-
about” experiment has been a
costly one with expensively
equipped vessels leaving ports
with half their cargo-space
empty. While this position
continues there is little incen-
tive for other shipping-lines to
provide a similar service.
Exporters have their prob-
lems in increasing the quantity
of chilled-beef exports from
Australia, but it is clear that
if and when bigger quantities
are sold overseas there will be
no shortage of properly
equipped vessels to carry them.
Boom in U.S. Market
The outstanding feature of
Australia’s beef industry in
recent years has been the sky-
rocketing of exports to the U.S.
In 1956-57 our total meat ex-
ports to the U.S. amounted to
only 2500 tons. In 1957-58
beef shipments alone to the
U.S. totalled 6100 tons; and in
1958-59 the figure jumped to
no less than 57,300 tons!
The reason for this pheno-
menal increase arises from
severe droughts in U.S. cattle-
raising areas for several years
before 1958, whi,ch forced
America to import large
quantities of third-quality meat
for use in the manufacture of
processed meats and ham-
burgers. Because of the diffi-
culties being experienced by
Argentina’s beef industry, that
country was unable to supply
all the needs of U.S. importers,
who then found it necessary to
explore the Australian and
New Zealand markets.
The sudden demand for re-
frigerated vessels across the
Pacific called for a new
approach by the shipping-com-
panies. Vessels normally used
on the U.K. trade were diverted
to the North America run,
while a new line —the Crusader
Line —was established at the
beginning of 1959 to meet the
demands of the trade to the
U.S. West Coast.
The result has been the suc-
cessful shipment of many
thousands of tons of dollar-
earning beef, which it is to be
hoped has earned Australia a
permanent place in the U.S.
meat-market.
Quest for New Markets
A further boost to our meat-
exports has come from the
tourist-resorts in the British
West Indies, which previously
imported a large quantity of
their special cuts from the U.S.
When that traditional source
of supply failed, they, too,
turned to Australia and New
Zealand, which resulted in in-
creased tonnages of frozen beef
being shipped to Jamaica and
Trinidad.
Shipping-companies have co-
operated in the continual
search by Australian exporters
for new markets for our frozen
beef, a recent example being a
test-consignment to Saudi
Arabia which may build up to
a regular trade.
In an effort to reduce costs
and overcome many of the
problems associated with the
beef-export industry a Joint
Meat Loading Committee, con-
sisting of representatives of
exporters, the shipping com-
panies and the Australian Meat
Board, was formed over two
years ago and has operated
with considerable success.
Improved methods of load-
ing and stowage have been
introduced. Exporters and
the shippisg-companies jointly
have sought to integrate their
respective operations to enable
better delivery to be given to
their customers on the other
side of the world.
Shipping-companies have
played their part in providing
an efficient link between Aus-
tralian exporters of beef and
their customers, mainly in the
United Kingdom. They will
continue to do their best to
provide the service meat ex-
porters require, in conjunction
with their service to other ex-
porters of the produce of
Australia,
rabbits laid-waste very many
thousands of acres, but with
the introduction of the cacto-
blastis, which destroyed the
pear, and myxomatosis, which
almost wiped-out the rabbit-
pest, these lands have been
brought into heavy production
Settlers have followed the ad-
vice of scientists, and, through
research, have sweetened the
soil, introduced new pastures,
improved water-facilities, and,
in general, enhanced the pro-
ductive-capacity of what were
useless areas. It is well known
amongst landowners that scien-
tific help in all branches of
primary industry is now avail-
able.
The Commonwealth Scienti-
fic and Industrial Research
Organisation has particularly
been responsible for advancing
through their experiments a
build-up with corrective prac-
tices, the tuition being given by
extension-services through
State Government departments,
universities and other bodies.
All such help aids in assuring
economic working of the vari-
ous types of marginal country.
An experiment which has
been brought to a very success-
ful stage, promoting consider-
able settlement in what was a
dry, arid area, centres around
the efforts and the finance pro-
vided by the Australian Mutual
Provident Society with its land
scheme at Keith (S.A.). The
soil was analysed, trace-
elements were introduced, and
native pasture was replaced
with introduced grasses of high
prote n value.
Today our national economy
demands that we build-up our
primary production, not only
to suoply our internal demands
but as well to keep up an
export-level to provide overseas
credit.
We have huge funds estab-
lished to promote research in
marketing wool, meat and
wheat. Additionally, we have
extension-services from Gov-
ernment departments, univer-
sities, etc., striving to improve
our pastures and take care ol
disease, whether it be in plants
or stock. With these functions
available, surely research js
warranted to develop and settle
our marginal land.
C. S. Christian, well known
as the C.5.1.R.0.'s authority in
charge of its soil- and plant-
research, in a recent press-
article mentioned what research
can achieve in making the
marginal land in northern
Australia a productive asset.
Mining and oil-exploration
will cover many of these mar-
ginal areas, especially those in
remote locations. Perhaps
some successful strike will, as
happened with Mt. Isa, pro-
mote wide district settlement.
It seems that mining and the
pastoral industry must go hand-
in-hand to develop the areas
which lie in close proximity
to heavily populated countries
to the north of Australia,
where there is the prospect of
marketing all that North Aus-
tralia can produce.
When reviewing development
and potential resources, careful
examination is necessary as to
the lines of communication and
transport available. These
facilities must be the responsi-
1 ° a ° verniT j en s
cerned, and they claim their
attention
Australia is a young country.
Its potential in land-develop-
ment is becoming known to
the whole world. It is looked
upon as a great food-producer,
with wo-rth-while country un-
developed; therefore let us try
and make our marginal coun-
try an attractive investment.
There are big numbers of
New Australians anxious to
make a start on the land; let
us encourage them to use their
effort and knowledge to im-
prove the quality of these
areas.
It is said that young Aus _
tralians are losing their pioneer-
... F ,
8 sp!nt; surely they only
n u eed . encouragement to leave
* he c j ties and ’go west as their
forefathers did. Cannot we
give attractive land-titles and
terms—arranging, if necessary,
financial assistance—to settle
the right type of people on
selective areas of what is now
undeveloped marginal country?


of prolapsed piles. Unable to ride, he
spent most of the day of June 18 seated
at a table or on foot, and at three-
o’clock that afternoon the pain was
so great that the Emperor had to leave
the battlefield and go back to the
Caillon farm to apply “liquor plumbi”
to the seat of his trouble.
Napoleon died at 51, of stomach-
cancer; and the book, after keeping its
medical eye on him at St. Helena, where
he wouldn’t take exercise or medicine,
concludes with three separate reports
on the post-mortem examination of his
remains.
Hamilton Hume
Stuart H. Hume, who is president
of the Goulburn (N.S.W.) Historical
Society and who has been known to
write ballads about trout-fishing for
“The Bulletin,” says in his foreword
to Frank O’Grady’s No Boundary
Fence (Angus and Robertson) that the
characters in this historical novel all
once lived—even the aborigines Jacky
and Duall and the ferocious bush-
ranger named Scotchy; and if the novel
thus has the approval of a member of
the Hume family—S. H. Hume is a
grandson of the explorer’s brother
Rawdon—there must be something to
it. It is also true, as S. H. Hume says,
that there are a Hume Highway and
a Hume Dam and it is time we knew
something about Hume.
But S. H. Hume also says that
readers familiar with the history of
the Southern Tablelands “will have
difficulty in noting just where facts
make their exits and entrances” and
that this book is for those who like
their history “seasoned with plausible
fiction and bound with the purple
ribbon of romance”; and the present
reviewer must confess that, in the
midst of all the seasoning and the
ribbons, he hadn’t a clue as to what
was fact and what was purple poppy-
'cock.
It is undoubtedly a fact, for instance,
since it is in all* the history-books, that
Hamilton Hume in his youth made
friends with an aboriginal boy, with
whom he explored the country near
Bong Bong and Berrima; but whether
or not he resolutely claimed the boy
as “me mate”—when the explorer is
supposed to have been well educated
by his mother—is another matter.
Jacky, as “me mate,” never seems
quite real.
It is also a fact, since S. H. Hume
affirms it, that the explorer had an-
other aboriginal companion, Duall;
but whether or not this strange,
mystical person really popped out of
the wildwood, miles from his natal
territory, to come to Hume’s rescue
on all possible occasions of peril, and
whether all the aborigines chatted to
each other so freely in smoke-signals
as they do in this novel, must again
be matters of some doubt. Similarly
with the hair-raising adventures with
the revengeful bushrangers which, for
no particularly logical reason, O’Grady
has chosen to wind-up the explorer’s
career.
The important thing to learn about
Hume, whether in a novel or a
biography, is, surely, what adventures
he had with Hovell on their famous
journey from Lake George to Corio
Bay; but all we get of this great feat
is a few paragraphs of conversation
as Hume, on his return, tells the story
to his mother and his sweetheart. His
journey with Sturt in 1828, when they
discovered the Darling River, is dis-
missed even more briefly—in a single
sentence of two lines. Except for one
vague and soothing hint, nothing is
said about the disputes between Hume
and Hovell which, though S. H. Hume
says they are “best forgotten,” might
well make the most dramatic or most
amusing human episodes in a novel
on the explorer’s career.
One must not, of course, ask too
much from a light, popular novel;
but what this story needs, if it is to
succeed on any level, is direction, a
theme. O’Grady has based it, vaguely,
on Hume’s courtship and marriage
but there is not enough in that to hold
it together; and, though there may be
readers who will enjoy it as a romantic
ramble in the bush, it is likely that
he would have done very much better
to have made it a straightforward)
biography.
Two from "Punch"
Museum Press has put out two books
whose contents lately appeared in
“Punch.” Man in Apron and Others:
is a small collection of “Larry’s”|
ingeniously simple and wordless
cartoons, most of them involving that
big-nosed and lantern-jawed husband
who, left to do for himself, plays golf
with eggshells; mops his brow with
the dough he has been rolling; lashes
a pig to the plate-rack above The stove
and roasts it over the burners; sets the'
table like a knife-thrower; charms the 1
boiling spaghetti with a gas-jet flute;
sets his watch in a jelly, and so on.
Outstanding among the “Others” are
the man and wife who crouch in a
tree to watch their neighbors’ TV; the
garden-hater who lays concrete in his 1
window-box; and the boxer whoi
distracts an opponent with a glove-
puppet. It is the sort of humor that
will travel wherever there are modern
kitchens.
The humor of the various contri-
butors to The New Book of Snobs,
the second of “Punch’s” efforts tor
bring century-old features up to date
(the other being Atkinson and Searle’s
SOUTH COAST LEGEND
“h was in a cottage, down by Mystery
” ay - '
Remember those men with maps who
landed here
Pushing the boat with her ragged sails
away,
And on, on into the bush with a clinging
T ear ’
Until thin trees closed round them like
a cage, .
And wallabies danced a ghostly dance in
the fog
And the grey-winged leaves swept down
to still their rage,
As they fought the iron world they came
to log;
So they vanished. Five weeks men with
skinny hounds
Paced back the traces, but all they saw
was these :
A rope, a cap; and far, far echoing
sounds,
Like the cries of drowning men in the
phantom trees.
« a l-i
And in the cottage I slept,” the old hand
“a ask n
And felt my lids fly open to the light,
To see those men, blue, thin, their
clutching dead
Hands reaching out across the lip of night.
“Into the lamp’s bleak glow. And l
heard them say
With parched mouths pressed against the
icy pane
That they needed shelter, for some race
that had gone away
Long before the blackmen came, were
here again,
“Haunting old hunting grounds for the
giant kangaroo,
V ast, weed-clctd, their mighty limbs
sweeping the leaves,
Gaze forever thrusting through the
evening blue,
Over creeks where the wind like a dying
creature grieves . . .
“So the dead men spoke, with compass
and gun and map.
And I turned them away ...” Finishing,
the old hand stood
Leaving my house. / heard the shutters
clap
Like thunder, the sea roaring. And l
knew it good.
N.s.w.
CHARLES HIGHAM.


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
“New Mayhew”), travels less well.
The articles on the City (George
Schwartz), holidays (Lord Kinross),
pets (Macdonald Hastings) and modes
of address (Stephen Potter) mean little
in this country, apart from the wit
iof the writing. The studied good-
temper of some of the contributors in
the face of so many-edged a subject
amounts almost to complacency. But
fortunately there is no fixed approach;
the editors' seem wisely to have let
each writer have his head. James
Laver neatly avoids narrowness by
making his item on clothes into a
provocative thumbnail history. J. B.
Priestley is bluff and homespun about
literature. Francis Williams, on the
press, is one of the few with bite as
well as polite wit. And there are some
scattered passages to remember —for
example, from Philip Hope-Wallace
on theatre: —
Every time....a critic pumps-up
enthusiasms he does not feel, a
genuine theatre-lover dies.
And from Paul Reilly on design:—
Snobbery has been and could be
again the most vitalising catalytic
agent in everything to do with the
house But it can be this rich
ingredient only if consciously
pursued. In its passive, submissive
guise it is the perfect cover for
rapacity or sloth on the part of
everyone from the factory to the
shop and on into the parlor. And,
regrettably, that is its most common
role today —the aimless perpetuation
of stock images and established
values whether or not they make any
sense or contribution.
Michael ffolkes’s stylised drawings
are nicely complemented by
Thackeray's original title and initial-
letter decorations.
How Sleep the Brave?
In Richard Pape’s Sequel to Bold-
ness (Odhams). he retraces some of the
adventures of the best-seller, “Boldness
be my Friend,” travelling the world
to meet the survivors of his wartime
secret-agent adventures, notably Mrs.
Mona Leonhardt, the Canadian married
to a Dutchman, who was imprisoned by
the Gestapo, sentenced to death, sent
to work in Germany, and who escaped
with a Dutch countess and walked
through the retreating Germans into a
Canadian unit.
There is also the story of the Dutch
farmer and schoolmaster who were
both shot for aiding Pape and his com-
panions, and of men like Yeatman, the
New Zealander who took part in a
four-man change of identity that helped
to cover the escape of Mieteck the Pole
to do still-secret feats as a leader of
Polish resistance against the Germans.
To the time of printing Pape’s first
book Mieteck was presumed dead.
Later, in 1956, with the end of the
Stalin regime. Mieteck was released
from the Arctic Circle —some men get
even suffering souped-up in incredi-
ble doses: Mieteck’s reward for bravery
against the Germans was 12-years’
imprisonment in the cold at the top
of Soviet Russia, where his feet were
frostbitten, he lost an eye. and part of
his body was paralysed. Pape had a
moving reunion with him in England.
But the most moving reunion in the
book was with a secret agent they had
all trusted in Amsterdam, a big man.
always warning them against betray-
ing one another. Here again, it was
not until after publication of Pape’s
first book that Pape learned that this
big secret agent had broken down
under Gestapo questioning and
betrayed their whole circle: he was
the reason why five were shot, seven
imprisoned and one died of starvation.
Seeking the betrayer, with intent to
do him harm, Pape eventually caught-
up with him, broken and impoverished,
and all he did was tell him he forgave
him. This made Pape feel a lot better,
as it should make everyone feel a lot
better who should say, “There but for
the grace of God
TRADITIONAL SONG
When I was child and days were all
I laughed and teased and called you
names
and though you used to plead and call
/ would not let you share my games.
At last and last, December comes.
When I was boy and days were all
! laughed and swelled to see our names
entwined in chalk upon the wall,
and longed to have you share my games.
At last and last, December comes.
When / was youth and night was all
1 writhed in bed and joined our names
as in your gales I dreamed to fall;
though you had never shared my games.
At last and last, December comes.
When 1 was grown and night was all,
/ learned and eased and cried Love's
names
and in my heart I heard you call
how you had let me share your games.
At last and last, December comes.
At last and last, December comes.
Now we are grown and night takes all,
1 have forgotten all your names.
It is too late now to recall
we never learned each other’s games.
At last and last, December comes.
q.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.
Reviewed Briefly
The Children’s Book of Make and
Do: Gert Lindner (Phoenix). A well-
illustrated (some in color) book of
kindergarten and slightly later con-
structions: a cardboard railway-station,
doll’s house and shop; printing color-
designs with potatoes; elementary
sailing - boats; paper - folding; Red
Indian wigwams, bows and arrows;
parlor tricks; elementary puppets; clay-
modelling; decorating Easter-eggs with
wax. poster-paint and acid; paper cut-
outs; straw-plaiting; printing on cloth,
etc. Translated from the German, the
text is simple enough for children to
take in themselves, and the illustrations
are evocative and finely reproduced.
♦ * m *
A Potter in Japan: Bernard Leach
(Faber). “Japan.” says the author, “is
like a mask with two faces. War and
Peace —the Sword and the Tea-bowl.
. I have been mainly concerned with
the latter.” It is a book based on
travels in Japan in 1952 by an expert
in pottery who is also interested in the
other arts and crafts and in the attrac-
tions of Japanese village life. Written
in diary form, it would have been
better reconstructed and distilled, but
nevertheless gives an unusually inti-
mate and knowledgable picture.
* • • *
Double Dealers: Edited by
Alexander Klein (Faber). Con.-men.
business frauds, jewel-thieves, counter-
feiters, criminal lawyers, spies, etc., by
some of the best and liveliest of
contemporary writers: Alva Johnston.
Saul Bellow, etc., in the “Saturday
Evening Post,” the “New Yorker,”
“True,” “Time.” “Argosy,” “Harper's.”
etc. Here are the enthralling stories
of Koretz, who embezzled millions;
Mrs. Walburga Oesterrich. who had a
“built-in lover”; Arthur Barry, the
jewel-thief, a more amazing escapee
than Simmonds; Becker the Dutch-
man, perhaps the greatest of counter-
feiters. whose slush was indistinguish-
able from real money; Bessie Mount,
the bordello proprietor, who achieved
honor in her town until it was found
she was a man; “Prince Mike”
Romanoff (the New York orphan
Harry Gerguson), who made his name
as a princely Hollywood restaurateur
because everyone knew he wasn’t; etc.,
etc. There’s something about success-
ful criminals that enables one better
to understand success everywhere.


« \
. -v.-'
m
s
&S& 9
■•"■
\M
DJ
4*Ci
i \
7- vLI '
: S
HI
mb
o
Slj&gjra
*v
%
■
<
v/
i
WM
k
*&£^£xv,v
_V>. )
A tractor
no sum
...money for fuel, repairs,
oil, time and labour spent in
maintenance and service—and
money you lose when yoier
tractor’s off the job. You’ll
save money on all these, with
BP
*
TRACTOR OIL :
UNIVERSAL
■’••• ■ v '• -■ "
BP ENERGOL T.O.U is the
only oil designed for use in the
engine, transmission and hy-
draulic system of your petrol,
kerosine or diesel engined
tractor. It is also the only oil
suitable for all-year-round use.
This means a saving on storage and
handling. It eliminates the danger
of using the wrong oil in any of
your tractors.
BP ENERGQL T.O.U is free
flowing when coid, yet holds its
viscosity (thickness) under ex-
treme heat.
Wear is eliminated because your
engine is properly lubricated
under all conditions. It starts
instantly when cold, saving battery
strain, eliminating delays.
BP ENERGOL T.O:U resists
oxidation and corrosion, with-
stands the effects of T fuel
dilution.
This means a cleaner engine and
longer engine life, full strength
lubrication always and fewer oil
changes . . . especially with
kerosine tractors. -
Prompt deliveries of BP ENERGOL T.O.U are
available from your local agent .
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The
Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
CB4O
