

?Y APPOINTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEfi
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD.. PERTH. SCOTLAND
m
M
4
m
%
m
k,:-
m
i
mm
/
m
%
.
m
i
White Label’
C (p/a44ic c/)/em/
f OF SCOTCH WHISKIES
Your Friendliest Guest
Dewar's
S&mot&ScAwne
IN SCOTCH WHISKY
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
'DWI24,
The Bulletin
Special Christmas Issue—Three Short Stories
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
December 14, 1960
Price 17-
1 t a in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


The Red Page
THE INCREDIBLE "ORION" HORNE
By DOUGLAS STEWART
Always Morning: the Life of
Richard Henry “Orion” Horne. Cyril
Pearl. Cheshire. 40s.
A little, stocky, bald-headed man.
five feet two inches tall, decorated with
straggling auburn locks and a long
curling moustache that dangled under
his nose like a pair of bell-ropes.
“Orion" Horne w'as one of the most
amazing and most amusing characters
in the London literary world in Vic-
torian times. One of the most amazing
(and amusing) things he did was to
come to Australia with the idea of
making his fortune on the goldfields;
and thus Cyril Pearl, who familiarised
himself with Victorian England in
“The Girl with the Swansdown Seat”
and with Australiana (of a kind) in
“Wild Men of Sydney.” has found him
an ideal subject for his latest biography.
Perhaps because he found “Orion"
Horne so delightful a character, per-
haps because practice has clarified his
style and outlook as well as his com-
mand of period, the book is. in fact,
easily the best Pearl has written.
Previously he has seemed like a
journalist striving towards biography;
now he emerges fully-fledged as a
biographer with a book that would do
credit to any first-class practitioner of
his art. whether here or abroad.
It is a book that falls naturally into
three sections: Horne in London.
Horne as a literary man. and Horne in
Australia: and in each of these aspects
Pearl displays him with equal brilli-
ance. The one thing he is not able to
do is persuade us to read Horne's epic
“Orion” in its monumental and appal-
ling entirety. It sounds like bad
Shelley in Pearl’s account of the plot
—and Shelley himself wrote quite
enough bad Shelley for anybody. It
looks like bad Shelley, with a dash of
bad Keats, in the generous extracts
Pearl quotes in the appendix; and that,
for this reader, will suffice.
But at least it is instructive—and
must add considerably to our respect
for this almost forgotten poet —to see
how favorably the epic was received in
its day. Carlyle, Browning. Elizabeth
Barrett Browning. Dickens, everybody
took Horne with the utmost seriousness,
and Edgar Allan Poe offered as his
“deliberate opinion” that “in all that
regards the loftiest and holiest opinions
of the true poetry "Orion' has never
been excelled." So. too. with the other
epic poems and the constant succession
of unsuccessful and unplayable poetic
dramas that poured from Horne's tire-
less pen: if one doesn’t exactly want to
read them they seem, like Southey’s
neglected epics, both creditable and, in
their way. impressive.
It is pleasant to think of Horne, in
his celebration of the steam-engine, as
one of the first forward-looking, scien-
tific poets of the Industrial Revolu-
tion, paving the way for Auden.
Spender and Day Lewis; and it is quite
astonishing to be forced to consider
him. as Pearl obliges us to. not only as
one of the originators of the Voyager
Poem in Australia (he wrote an epic
on Burke and Wills which contained
some good. hard, exact descriptions of
the landscape) but also as the first of
the Jindyworobaks. This was one of
the recitatives from his lyric masque.
“The South Sea Sisters." which was
A choice for
Christmas
performed in the Exhibition Building
at the Melbourne Intercolonial Exhi-
bition of 1866 with a grand chorus of
300 voices:—
From creek of Woorooboomi —boo!
And sheep-run Woolagoola—goo!
Come Dibble-Fellow dancing in fog!
All over Mount Wooloola—yah !
And earth-holes of Worondi—wah!
Till he vanish in the yellow' Wog-
Wog!
Moreover, if these pieces seem hardly
more than curiosities, some of Horne’s
writings do seem worth reprinting. His
criticism (in “A New Spirit of the
Age”) is often very sound, whether in
his praise of Dickens or in his estimate
of that formidable poem “Sordello”:
“To some it will appear to be a work
addressed to the perception of the
seventh sense, or a class of faculties
which we do not at present know we
possess, if we really do possess." And
some of the descriptions of Melbourne
in the goldrush days which he wrote
for Dickens's “Household Words" w'ere
as vivid as Dickens's own journalism;
which is saying something. Horne’s
first night in a Melbourne lodging-
house:—-
ft was full of stretchers—some
thirty of them—with blankets, or
rugs, or other rough covering by w 7 ay
of bedclothes. Nearly all were
occupied, and the men for the most
part sound asleep, though it was
barely mne-o dock... .Scarcely a nv
ol them had their clothes oft' but !
noticed two exceptions—one of a
man who had evidently taken off
everything but his boots (which
clung no doubt from the wet) and a
beaver-skin cap tied under his chin •
the other displayed a pair 0 f
immense legs from beneath his dirty
blanket, decked in a pair of scarlet
stockings... .A large gold watch
with a gaudy chain was hung upon
a nail near one of the sleepers’
heads, and a massive gold chain and
seals were dangling over the edge of
a quartpot (the watch being safe and
softly lodging in the beer dre»s
inside).
But it is Horne the man rather than
Horne the writer with whom the bio-
grapher must chiefly concern himself;
and Horne, full of “more than mortal
energy" as he described himself, was
enough to concern—and enchant—any
biographer.
The story which this reviewer likes
best, for some odd reason, is the simple
revelation by Henry Vizeteily. his
printer, that Horne had such a “mortal
dread of wet feet" that he always carried
a pair of socks in his pocket which he
would “change quite unconcernedly in
our counting-house while he was wait-
ing for proofs." But that is Horne at
his very mildest. There was the time
when he joined William Henry Ireland,
the forger of Shakspeare, in horse-
whipping Sir Hudson Lowe for having
been unkind to Napoleon at St. Helena.
There was his engaging habit of pour-
ing water on his bald head at dinner
and rapidly making love to heiresses,
as described by Elizabeth Barrett to
Robert Browning;—.
Oh —poor Mr. Horne! Shall I
tell you of some of his offences?
That he desires to be called at four
in the morning and does not get up
till eight. That he pours libations
on his bare head out of the water-
glasses at great dinners. .. .That he
throw's himself at full length with a
gesture approaching to a “summer-
set” on satin sofas. That he giggles. ,
That his ignorance on all subjects is
astounding. ... He has a mania lor
heiresses. He has gone out at hall-
past five and “proposed” to Miss M
or N with fifty thousand pounds,
and, being rejected, come back to
tea and the same evening "tell in
love" with Miss O or P with forty
thousand—went away for a few
months and, upon his next visit, did
as much to Miss Q or W on the
premise of four blood horses— aS |
a prospect now of a Miss R 01 S—
with hounds, perhaps.
Cyril Pearl does not seem to> be ;
wholly satisfactory on the m° ‘ j
which induced this talented
exuberant midget to migrate trom :
centre of London literary hte o i
goldfields of Victoria. Certain "even I
excitement of gold was in the air, ,
(Continued on page - 57 1


a
vrf*'
w
ten
Pandora said:
"While there’s life
there’s hope”
She had plenty on her conscience!
All the evils which afflict the
human race had just escaped her box. Only hope
a delicate creature that needs a lot of
nurturing remained.
It isn’t enough merely to hope everything will
be all right. Call in your A.M.P. man and with
his help make sure it is.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Chairman : C. G. CRANE • General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD, c.m.g.
* Very *■**■*• member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £450,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to member*.
Z 1278


The Bulletin
DECEMBER 14, 1960
Vol. 81
No. 4218
INDEX
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
The War for Angus and
Robertson .... .... .. 6
Political Points .. ... ... ... .. 20
Uncabled Additions
Control of Nuclear Tests 41
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities ............ 51
Personal .. .... 18
Service and Information .. .. 56
Society .. ... ... ... ... ... .. 8
FEATURES
How to be a Country Editor 22
Tahiti or the Bush .. .. .. 40
Modelling for Lindsay ... .. 50
FICTION
Party 42 and Mrs. Brewer, by
Hal Porter .. .... .... 10
Double-Entry, by Emmett
O’Keefe ............ 14
Hitch-Hike, by John Orrell .. 16
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Schweppinvestment .. .. 34
Wild Cat Pages ; ... 23
MAN ON THE LAND
Profile of an Egg 45
Surface-irrigation Methods .. 47
Farming from the Air .. .. 48
OPINION
The Other Fellow’s Mind .. 53
REVIEWS
The Red Page
The Incredible “Orion’
Horne .......... .... 2
Shows ... ... .. .. .. .. .. 26
SPORT
Legal S.P. for N.S.W., by John
Schofield ............ 31
WOMEN
Thai Silks. Lines of Service 29
NEXT WEEK
PROFILE ON
SIR ROLAND WILSON
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.


THE MAGIC PUDDING
“A good thing it’s a cut-and-come-again pudding!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The War for Angus & Robertson
Only the 30 Years War can provide
adequate parallels to the 12 Months
War that has split asunder the old
publishing house of Angus &
Robertson Ltd. and flung it and its now
more than -£2 million assets into the
centre of the bitterest struggles for power
in the history of Australian book pub-
lishing.
In both wars there have been the same
sudden swopping of sides by the leaders
of the rival parties, the same sudden
promotions, demotions and dismissals of
the lieutenants, the same reversals of
fortune as the victor of one week is the
vanquished of the next, the same groping
for outside allies. Prominent Australian
writers such as D’Arcy Niland, Colin
Simpson, Olaf Ruhen and P. R. Stephen-
sen have been brought into the struggle
by one side or the other. The war will
finally be settled in Sydney on Friday,
at the Annual General Meeting of share-
holders to be held, appropriately enough,
in History House.
The war began when Mr Walter
Victor Burns, a shrewd, bold, likeable
New Zealander with a successful career
in textiles and gardening seeds behind
him, but at that time no special interest
in publishing, saw amongst other things
the possibilities in Angus & Robertson's
real estate assets. Confronted with a firm
whose head office in Sydney is in the
heart of the city but is only one storey
high at the back, Mr Burns planned a
20-storey modem service building with
a bookshop on the groundfioor and travel
agents, hat and frock shops, beauticians,
jewellers, architects, doctors and dentists
on the other 19.
He became a director in November,
1959, and Managing Director in March,
1960, this second appointment being
warmly supported by Mr G. Ferguson,
now his principal opponent. At that time
the firm was under the Chairmanship of
Mr A. R. Ritchie, an old-world, benign
gentleman who liked to start his work
before the others got into the office. The
principal executive was Mr G. A. Fer-
guson (a grandson of the founder, George
Robertson) who controlled the firm’s
publishing. Mr Aubrey Cousins ran the
firm’s printing at Halstead Press, and Mr
E. Williams looked after the firm’s retail-
ing. Also on the Board were the com-
pany secretary, Mr Douglas Delucey
and the preference shareholders’ repre-
sentative, Mr Dundas Allen. Though
they were all conservative in policy they
knew they ran the biggest publishing,
retailing and book-printing firm in the
country and were not ashamed of it.
But Mr Burns saw a lot to be ashamed
of. It soon became obvious that the New
Man who had been welcomed as fresh
blood was going to spill some.
Particularly distasteful to him were the
publishing and retailing policies. The
publishing department, he insisted, did
not make enough profit, produce enough
quick-sellers, and had a deadening grip
on the retailing wing. Books, he pro-
claimed, were merchandise, like soap, to
be manufactured and sold as quickly as
possible; the profit motive should be
the mainspring; market surveys the
guide.
As a first step he sacked, or encouraged
to resign, almost half the publishing de-
partment (12 out of 30), and imposed strict
Budget Control on the remainder so that
no unprofitable books were to be pub-
lished. '
To boost retailing he made it a separate
subsidiary with its own directors and
initiated a series of takeovers to increase
retail outlets. In quick succession he
took over Robertson & Mullens in Mel-
bourne, including its subsidiary J. Ewins
in Ballarat (£90,000), Albert’s in Perth,
(£72,000) and Swains (£107,200) in
Sydney. To show his low opinion
of the old order he personally sold
in one coup the 5000 unsold Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedias that were
moving too slowly from the shelves to the
American Grolier Society, and ordered a
vast clearance sale of £300,000 worth of
old stock. (There were bargains galore
for rival booksellers.) To clear the old
building for the new skyscraper, he
took over H. E. C. Robinson map-making
and road guide business in George St
(£5250) together with a leasehold of its
property and moved the publishing de-
partment into it, and then the Wilks
Company’s building in Castlereagh Street
(£130,000) and started to move the sest
of the firm into it. (This last was a
cash deal, the other takeovers were
transacted with shares.) To top it all he
sold the old order’s pride and joy, the
London publishing house (£35,0005tg.).
It was losing money and publishing too
many duds by English authors, he said.
When Mr Ritchie, two other directors
and the company secretary resigned from
the Board, and were replaced by two
Burns supporters, Mr Arthur Hordern
(who became chairman) and Mr T. C.
Read, the Burns Revolution seemed suc-
cessful and complete.
By then the basic split was clear anyl
beyond repair: the retail wing were
pro-Burns, the publishing wing anti-
Burns. The anti-Burns party saw it as a
cultural struggle (book-lovers v. book
merchants) but when criticised for show-
ing no interest in spiritual values, Mr
Burns retorted he was more concerned
with poverty-stricken authors (aqd dis-
grunted shareholders).
. But suddenly the biter was bit. First
Mr Hordern resigned because of ill-health
and was replaced by Mr Norman Cow-
per. Next Mr Ferguson, leader of the
anti-Burns faction, won the support on
the Board first of Mr Cousins, then of Mr
T. C. Read (a former Burns ally), and
finally of Mr Swain who had become a
director and one of the biggest share-
holders after the takeover of his store
but who was usually considered to have
retired to his Killara garden. Together
in October they deposed Mr Burns as
Managing Director.
The Ferguson party was jubilant. The
skids seemed under Mr Burns. Yet
by early December the Burns party was
also jubilant: Mr Burns had been con-
ferring with Mr Ferguson’s temporary
ally, Mr Swain, and last week the Chair-
man received a letter from Mr
Swain saying that he and Mr Burns had
agreed to support the same ticket in the
election to the five vacancies on the
Board, caused by the retirement of Messrs.
Ferguson, Cousins, Swain, Read and
Hordern. (Only the last two are not
standing for re-election.)
HThe ticket includes A. N. Swain himself,
•*- E. R. Kent of Albert’s in Perth,
A. S. Havyley, a Sydney accountant
reputed to be a'takeover expert, B. E.
Iliffe, a prominent A. & R. wholesaler
raised by Mr Burns from manager to
director of the wholesaling subsidiary, and
A. R. Rudder, Manager of Swain’s book
department. Against this retailers’
ticket the Ferguson Party is running G.
A. Ferguson, Aubrey Cousins, Dr Colin
Roderick, Gerald Packer and N. Routley.
The Burns ticket has the support of
some of the longest blocks of share-
holdings (up to 40 per cent.), but small
shareholders have a big say in the com-
pany. The Burns party think they are
home and hosed.
Their big card is the last balance-sheet
(up to June 30, 1960) which shows a net
profit of £61,888, the highest in the com-
pany’s history, an increase of 40.8 per
cent, on the previous .year. Assets have
been increased by £815,156 to 2 million
The Ferguson party’s strongest card
is the statement by the chairman, Mr
Norman Cowper, that Mr Burns’s deci-
sions have been “impulsive,” have caused
“unnecessary resentment,” have brougn
about loss of profit in the printing an
publishing subsidiaries, and led em " i
ployees, customers and-authors to l° s
confidence in the management an
prospects of the company.” In his opini
there is no doubt whatsoever that
main causes of the present troubles
the actions of Mr W. V. Burns.” AltnoT
there are many partisans in the s , T pr
(34 A. & R. authors signed a leu
attacking the Burns policies) the
legal belligerents are the
And for them the better offer see
come from Mr Burns.


In view of the public importance of the Angus and Robertson War ,
We are publishing these policy statements of the two opposed parties.
The Ferguson
Policy
The main objects for which I Have been striving during
the last year are these:
1. That the Firm will continue publishing, in the
true sense, and not merely manufacturing reading
matter. This does not imply merely the publication of
high-brow books which few people want to read. The
Firm’s publishing record over the years gives ample proof
of the publication of many popular books, some of them
of no particular literary merit, which have made profits
as well as justifying their publication in other ways.
But, equally, my view of real publishing is that it does
not avoid the issuing of a book merely because relatively
few people will want to read it. A book’s influence on
the community is not in direct ratio to its sales.
2. That the Firm’s word will remain its bond —as it
has been for the last 75 years. In other words, when an
oral commitment to do anything has been given in the
Firm’s name, by a responsible member of the Firm, that
it shall be carried out without question. To do anything
short of this, apart from the obvious moral issue involved,
will inevitably result in disastrous loss of goodwill.
3. That the Firm will remain an independent and
wholly Australian-owned company. The importing of
British or American capital into industries dealing in food,
clothing or automobiles may well be in the national interest.
An industry dealing with ideas is entirely different.
4. That the Firm will continue to develop thoroughly
fnodern book-printing facilities comparable to anything
abroad. As far as I am concerned, Halstead Press, which
we have built up for almost 40 years, is not expendable.
5. That the Firm will continue to perform a service
to the community by operating high-class bookshops. A
bookshop, in the real sense, is not synonymous with a
mere place where books are sold.
6. That the Firm will foster the export of Australian
books to other English-speaking countries. This is an
absolute article of faith with me, not only from the national
point of view, but because of its practical bearing upon
our survival as a significant publishing house. The
British slogan, “export or die,' 5 ’ can well be applied to
Australian publishing. We need other markets with the
consequent increase in our printing runs to keep our costs
down—and our authors happy. The greatest piece of
damage done to A. & R. this year has been the temporary
destruction by Mr Burns of our London publishing house.
7. That the Firm will once again offer encouragement
G A. FERGUSON
and security to the staff in a har-
monious atmosphere free of intrigue
and fear. A. & R. has always
been a happy place. This year
many good people . have endured
much worry and frustration that
were entirely unnecessary. Only
loyalty to a long tradition and a
deep-seated esprit de corps en-
couraged them to stick it out.
8. That the Firm, in pursuing
the aims set out above, should do
so at a fair profit to the share-
holders. A. & R. has been in
the past a good profit-earner, and
in the hands of people seized with
a proper appreciation of its respon-
sibilities to the community and to
the staff it can continue in an even
bigger way in the future to be a
most valuable asset to its owners.
G. A. FERGUSON
The Burns
Policy
The stormy petrel does not
create the storm, but rides
it. That has been the posi-
tion of Walter Vincent
Burns at A. & R. He has not
caused the dissensions. These were
caused by opposition to the
policies of development which he,
as Managing Director, applied.
Publishing everywhere has had
W. V. BURNS
to cope with the “paperback revolution” and with tele-
vision. What has been happening in other countries could
not fail to have an impact in Australia. W. V. Burns
attempted to modernise A. & R. The resistance to his
efforts caused the “storm.”
Whether his party wins or loses at the election of a
new Board of Directors for A. & R., the policies which
he introduced will need to be applied, if the Old Firm
is to survive, expand further and adapt itself to the modern
situation.
Insofar as the internal dissessions at A. & R. have an
analogy in politics, W. V. Burns has been leader of the
Progressives, and G. A. Ferguson leader of the Conserva-
tives ; but I believe the Burns Policy can better be put
into effect under the guidance of Mr Burns than of his
opposition.
T\[- V. Burns has been primarily responsible for the
tremendous reconstruction of A. & R., which has
so greatly increased the company’s assets. Being a large
shareholder, his concern is essentially with the share-
holders’ interests. His opponents have had virtually
nothing new to offer. Their policy has been to attempt
to put back the clock to the pre-Burns era, in which
smugness and complacency prevailed.
W. V. Burns is a man of wide experience in many
fields of business. In his opinion, the company under its
old policies was headed for financial disaster. The measures
which he took tt> set a new course were so drastic that they
aroused the consternation of the “hereditary directors.”
Now the shareholders will decide whether he, and those
who stand with him, will be given an opportunity to
continue their policies of modernising A. & R., or whether
the firm’s future will be placed in the hands of Directors
who have apparently no declared policy except to look
backwards to the “good old days” of paternalistic publish-
ing, conducted for prestige rather than for profits.
As for the interests of authors, despite the complacency
of the Old Regime, the situation at A. & R. in the
pre-Burns era was so bad that any change could only
have been a change for the better. Few of A. & R.’s
authors were earning a living from royalties. Most of
Australia’s best-selling authors were going to other
publishers.
Publishing for “prestige” rather than for profits had
become a fetish. The publishing activity was being carried
on for the benefit of the publishing staff, rather than for
the benefit of the shareholders or of authors and the
reading public. It was not carrying reading matter to the
masses of the Australian people. Prices of A. & R.’s books
were too high, their editions too small, and their reader-
interest too restricted, in general, to appeal to the great
majority of book buyers in the Australian and New
Zealand home markets ; and very little was being done
to market Australian books in overseas countries. The
cause for complacency in this state of affairs is difficult
to grasp ; but that complacency did exist.
P. R. STEPHENSEN


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Christmas with
the Down-and-outs
The first big social event of the
Christmas season was held in
Sydney on December 5. Practically
everybody who was nobody was there.
It was Christmas dinner for 300 at the
Salvation Army home for derelicts.
“We always have it early to get it
over with —and anyway it gives them a
chance to get what’s going elsewhere
over Christmas,” said the Commander as
the first sitting of 100 men shuffled in
from the wet street. ,
They were generally old, beaten and
ill-dressed. Most were alcoholics, in
various stages of intoxication. In front
of each man as he sat down was a bottle
of soft-drink and a brown-paper bag
containing an orange, a handful of nuts
and a few sweets.
“We don’t normally let them in here
if they’re drupk,” said one of the Army
officers indulgently, his practised eye
watching for the lurch, the push, the
raised voices that would mean trouble.
“But it’s Christmas, isn’t it?”
A row of top Salvation Army brass
sat eating at a table at one side of the
yellow-lit, gloss-painted room, vaguely
decorated with streamers. Some of the
men might have been reminded of child-
hood Christmases, so long ago, but they
did not look up as they sat down.
They began eating quickly. Some still
had on their old raincoats. There was
little talking, and no laughing.
The meal, which was free, consisted of
cold lamb and salad, Christmas pudding
and custard, and cake. One detail about
the silently chewing figures set them off
immediately from any similar gathering
in, say, Britain, with its comprehensive
health-scheme: more than half the men,
even including the younger ones, had no
teeth.
After 10 minutes the plates were empty.
There was some hymn-singing and
prayers, not very well supported. The
diners appeared anxious to be off with
their bag of extras.
As the next sitting began filing in, the
Commander directed them with that
kindly brusqueness that social-workers
adopt with alcoholics.
“There isn’t any kind of ticket
system for this,” he said. “If a man is
hungry enough to want two Christmas
dinners, he can have two.”
“You may have been a fighter, but
I’m a better man than you are,” said an
old man fiercely, as he passed a former
boxer and reformed alcoholic, who was
laying out fresh plates of food.
“Christmas Day?” said the Com-
mander. “It’ll be business as usual. A
full house of four-hundred in the dor-
mitories. All out of the building by
nine so we can clean up. Back at half-
“Lunch-whistle, Alf. I'll be back at two."
past three. I don’t think there’ll he mo
Christmas cards sent here. Their relS
generally try not to let-on where thev
here’’” 8 ° there instead of
A rotund man graciously wiped hie
mouth, staggered slightly and headed for
the door.
“How was it?” he said. “Better after
than betore. Next year? I don’t know
if 111 be here. One never knows does
one?” ’ oes
❖ ❖
Lights, Meters
and Tickets
r TnE inner city of Brisbane does not
A need any special Christmas illumina-
tions this year. It is lit up like a Luna
Park already. At almost every corner
traffic-lights command people in red,
green and amber circles and in words
and arrows to stop, go, slow down, walk
or stop walking. About the only thing
they do not say is “Take me to your
leader.”
The process of interfering with Bris-
bane’s traditional traffic ways began
when Deputy Premier Morris—who is
also Minister in charge of traffic—im-
ported Mr K. Leitch from the south
and made him State Traffic Engineer.
Having conquered the city, Mr Leitch
is now planning an intrusion into the
privacy of the suburbs. Fifty sets of
motorist-pedestrian regulators are to be
set up at busy suburban intersections for
a start.
Lord Mayor Groom has protested
against the defacement of the city by
traffic-lights, although the point comes
curiously from him. It was his Adminis-
tration that permitted the introduction
of 2000 parking-meters with accompany-
ing direction-stands, .making the gutters
of Brisbane one of the most valuable
stretches of real-estate in town. Police
Commisioner Bischoff’s enforcers now
despoil gleaming car-windscreens with
pink and yellow £l-fine tickets at every
expiring click of the meter.
Linked with the lights and the meters
is a new system of one-way streets and
multitudinous white lines that drive the
motorist round the bend with Govern-
ment geometry. As in most other cities,
Brisbane’s traffic authorities are going
through the kind of anxiety - state in
which it becomes more and more clear
that the best way to solve city traffic
problems is not to have any traffic at all.
♦> *i+ ❖
Town on a
Treeless Plain
For years the South Australian Housing
Trust has lived in a miasma of se
satisfaction in that it created the fanj
satellite town of Elizabeth, the only
scale project of its kind carried o
Australia. Visitors are hauled ott,
and all, to admire it; 16,000 P P ’
largely English migrants, sing hsu q{
munity praises. The grand cl i m .
a Civic Centre is nearing comp


; o one would dream of questioning the
Lries of Elizabeth.
fhen a publisher, Andrew Farbinyi,
L along and had his doubts. To
, io lve them he flew his author, architect
lobin Boyd, to Adelaide to inspect
Lbeth ; and although his book, “The
Australian Ugliness,” was nearly through
j e press, Boyd rushed back to Mel-
!9urne and incorporated a devastating
plysis of Elizabeth into his text.
According to Boyd, Elizabeth is poorly
jed—“on the flattest of treeless plains.”
Ijs “a horizontal slice of pure Australia
J 60.” Above all, Boyd was shattered
the pitiful absence of trees. Just as
le rabbit has wrought havoc on Aus-
trian pastures, so the cement bunny
Us to have done the same thing for
tlizabeth. Boyd’s final diagnosis is
liber sad: the horrors of Elizabeth are
ie products of attempts to beautify. The
Australian ugliness worries him nowhere
Lr so much as the Australian prettiness,
lid he may be right.
♦J l
Cases From
(mdergarten
h households all over Australia the
' world revolved for the last two
ronths around the kindergarten
pristmas party. For some reason head
achers like to begin Christmas prepara-
ins in late autumn, which means that
pie children —who have no idea of time
Christmas every day for some
I days or so before anyone else starts
ting about it.
A quick round-up of mothers revealed
Hollowing case histories:
One little girl sang a carol 22 times a
lay with this peculiar chorus:
And the snow lay on the ground
And the white sheets flapped around . . ,
Another little girl who was to have
j® n the part of Mary in the school
was discovered by the elocution
per in the washroom weeping and
Nesting: “I don’t want to be a virgin,
don’t want to be a virgin!”
A third little girl was constantly
Parsing her speech to Santa Claus.
® year at the party when she was
% three she was too terrified to talk
'.him. She remembers this shameful
Kident, and this year she is going to
“Why do you walk so carefully
1 those big boots please I want a wash-
machine.”
+*♦ ♦♦♦
Naming of a
Christmas
|° other Australian city throws itself
t s ° enthusiastically as Melbourne into
Ce lebration of the great commercial
■ IVa i of late December. And even
.Wanted to, no other city has so many
s overhead offering to carry decora-
sj ‘ even if it had all those tram-
ice 6° ot^er at Y has such a changeable
‘ mber to torment whatever is hung
“Do you have petrol ?"
Thus the Melbourne Christmas is
unique. Its shopkeepers, like any others,
decorate their windows with devotional
symbols appropriate to the season:
plastic snow and silvery tinsel, while the
sound of carols and sleighbells from
concealed speakers speed normally slow-
moving stock on its joyous way. But
here the devout display doesn’t stop at
the shop-window. The spirit of goodwill
to all men creeps out and drapes itself
overhead in every shopping street.
It was a brilliant idea, some eight
years ago, of the trader-backed City
Development Association to turn the
hideous, übiquitous spiderweb of Mel-
bourne's tram-wires to aesthetic advan-
tage. Now the City Council has adopted
the practice. Twice a year, at Moomba
and Christmas, the wires are strung with
light-hearted symbols of municipal
gaiety.
Christmas decorations used to be
ephemeral, fragile, indoor things of
folded crepe paper and thinnest glass.
It was not easy to find things of the same
carefree quality that could withstand the
battering of Melbourne’s most change-
able season when blustering winds and
cold rain are likely to switch in minutes
to a bleaching sun.
Technology has now come to the rescue
with plastic spun on wire frames. The
process is the same as that used to make
those popular white pumpkin lightshades,
but here the metal frame is no simple
ball and the colors are fluorescent, glow-
ing green and super scarlet. The shapes
include king - size representations of
Christmas-tree bells and balls. In Collins
Street there are green doughnuts with
red currants (wreaths of holly?) and in
Bourke Street there are white cones
(trees?) with stencilled decorations. These
include a candle held in an old-time bed-
time saucer with a ring handle, the
symbolism of which is elusive.
Street decorations for important occa-
sions are a nice idea. There is nothing
wrong with Melbourne’s Christmas that
a third-year student of design couldn’t
correct.
But this is not all the outdoor delight
of the Melbourne Christmas. The big
stores have, after all, the most altruistic
approach to celebrating the great
religious festival. Central Bourke Street’s
big three have excelled themselves this
year. Coles’ fa9ade has become a giant
toyland scene with animated gnomes and
a real waterfall. Foy’s has dragged out
its familiar 50ft.-high Father Christmas.
Fie looks a little as if he spent all last
winter on a marathon binge, but is still
able to bend his wicked skinny finger
in a repulsive come-hither gesture.
Myer’s as usual does practically the same
thing as the others, but does it with a
sense of style. The result is a different
thing altogether.
Myer’s has windows dressed in magni-
ficently lush and enchantingly vulgar
fairy scenes, and its verandah sprouts
stylised trees made only of steel and
white lights. This is the only case where
any talent in design has been introduced
to control the wild extravagance in color
and infantile symbolism. It is an object-
lesson to the others, whose innocent,
sentimental heads clearly have never
entertained the idea of employing pro-
fessional designers to direct their
Christmas Featurist festival.
THE WAY OF ALL FLESH
“The theory that the average level of human
intelligence is steadily declining is supported
by Professor P. B. Medawar, Professor of
Zoology at the University College, London, and
co-winner of the 1960 Nobel Prize for
Medicine.”
In mirrors, in a public place,
In paintings or in books,
The more you see the human face
The sillier it looks.
And now remarks, for all to read,
Professor Medawar:
The longer human-beings breed
The sillier they are.
So long has this been going on
That there is cause to fear
Future humans will be gone
Upon arrival here.
Already it may well be true:
The best plan seems to be
That I refuse to tell on you
And you to tell on me.
What loss could humans then incur ?
The world might be much nicer
If everyone were sillier
And no one were the wiser.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Short Stories
PARTY 42 & MRS. BREWER
By HAL PORTER
I don’t know Sydney very well. The
greater part of my fevered forays
there are spent in an ague of terror
on a pedestrian-refuge I can’t
remember why I’m on, or soothing my-
self in the public bar, very Edwardian,
of Aaron’s Hotel. Otherwise, I inhabit
taxi-cabs en route to yet another party
. . . somewhere.
See me then, about eightish on a
Sunday evening so recent that I am sur-
prised to be already de-alcoholised
enough to control a pen, sliding out of
a taxi-cab . . . somewhere, some suburb
somewhere. There were three other men
with me, though they seemed more
because of Da-vid’s banjo. We were just
late. We had been lost, long enough for
it to be droll and almost long enough
for it not to be, in vertically lofty streets
swanking it as avenues. The house was
so new that I felt paint-splashed shoes
still to be in the garage—there could
have been no time for corks and string
to overrun kitchen-drawers.
As we entered, I perceived, nearly not
in time, that it was not a gathering to
enter rather vividly with portable witti-
cisms : the room—the lounge-room —-
self-consciously contemporary (one stub-
bornly wall-papered wall), was self-
consciously chock-a-block of personali-
ties as unseeably jumbled together as
general-store kitchenware. There was
an air of bath-water . . . sub-tepid .
gurgling down the plug-hole. On the
wallpaper I could see, Belshazzar - like,
intimations of the . near speech-riddled
future: “Ladies, and gents, and others!
Now, let’s have a little bit of shush ... ! ”
T ndicatively, the hostess, a doggedly
brisk secretary when normal, was called
Dot. She wore, of course, a pleated skirt
that could not swish and whip about.
Her husband, an s.-p. bookmaker, was
—it goes without saying—called Frank.
There would be, I also instantly knew,
a belt of husbands called Frank —the
sort of Franks whose wives buy their
shirts and . . . and . . . ties. Over Dot’s
newly-bingled hair I saw them in their
glimmering worsted trousers, trousers
with an abundance of buttoned pockets.
It was as patent as massacre that some-
thing supremely dreadful had happened,
early, so early, too early: there was a
surfeit of out-of-tune gaiety. Men, and
the unmarried women with fingernails
lacquered pallidly, were laughing Ha, ha,
ha! with their eyes focussed elsewhere
and nowhere. The married women, with
fingernails lacquered darkly, talked with
earthy verve, and immodest clarity, of
detergents. I am, I thought, going to
die of boredom. I deserved, of course
(I also thought), no more.
You see, I had been being off-the-chain
(hang the expense!) for six weeks,
in Sydney! This was my forty-second
(you get it?) and final party. The next
day I would be returning to South
Gippsland, behind Wilson’s Promontory,
to be a sobersides among the peat, the
blackboys, the black cockatoos always
flying north with rain at their tails, the
surely false-eyelashed Jerseys and the
high-heeled Berkshire piglets.
In my visitor’s guise of Simple
Country Boy I had flamboyantly over-
enjoyed the six weeks. I had, among
other things, spent four hours in Dar-
linghurst lock-up, punched a drama
critic, broken a rib, told-off an editor,
conversed with a negro, four Com-
munists and a lesbian, drunk half-a-
bottle of South Australian whisky during
a rococo performance of “Love’s Labour’s
Lost,” been turfed with skill and taste
out of the Journalists’ Club, and . . .
I was staying in Elizabeth Bay, down-
stairs from King’s Cross, in a sort of
underground palace coated with Ficus
stipulata. It contained chandeliers from
Murano, a bathroom bigger than a
kitchen, a kitchen smaller than a bath-
room, and seeming acres of entertain-
ment-inducing parquet like a shot-silk
chessboard. Sky-high camphor-laurels,
which once edged the drive of Elizabeth
Bay House, daintily dropped an odd leaf
“It was easy to suspect her face of, at
that moment, much unused mobility'.”
or two to impel perfectly, circular ripples
d la Disney, on the surface of the
swimming-pool. One of my forbearing
hosts was a psychic A.B.C. producer with
the mien of an intellectual koala-bear a
Whistleresque tongue, all the Belafonte
recordings, a cat called Mrs. Woffington
and a 24-carat heart. The other host
was a well-heeled, middle-aged playboy
called Da-vid who twangled his little
banjo in the only room I’ve known to
subdue a television-set. Life-sized God-
desses of Mercy closed their golden eyes
with repulsion on the top of vast carved
lacquered and gilded chests and tall-
boys—impressive with whisky—South
Australian or Scotch!
We three, plus Laurence, an actor
awash with a Sunday of gin-and-milk,
were all discreetly middle-aged, two
bachelors and two divorces, and as
disenchanted and potentially sparkling as
a quartet of Bemelmanses. We had been
driven to this forty-second party by a
Singapore Chinese university student,
driven to wherever the party was . . .
Cammeray, Collaroy . . . somewhere
fairly perpendicular with a view of other
vertical suburbs’ electric lights, and their
reflections in some area of liquid—a lake,
or harbor, or something.
This Oriental taxi-driver, with whom
I had been coincidentally lost for an
hour the night before (the forty-first) on
similar perpendicularities near Beauty
Point, was called Peng Chin.
Until we entered the house, I con-
sidered Peng Chin a sure-fire entrance
topic. This topic, burgeoning like a
jacobean tapestry as we climbed a mil-
lion concrete steps to the house, died its
sudden death in the opened door. Half
a visual sniff, and one thought —I repeat
—I am going to die of boredom.
However and however, one had not
foreseen—how could one? —Mrs. Brewer,
the hired help.
TTi-Jinx’s Melbourne Cup a week over,
Dot was doing the grand on Franks
rake-off. A buffet meal, eighty-guest-
sized for forty-odd, was set out more
heart-rendingly and lavishly than > n
women’s magazine illustrations. Tlmre
was more than a touch of Mrs. Beeto
in the cairns of prawns and °y sters ’ !,
the ham, the chickens, the turkey, a
the subsidiary delicacies.
Mrs. Brewer had been engaged, 1
learned, to help prepare and arrange
succulences, to pass out plates and
and, more brutally, to wash-up and
away. She was cachet. After the c ■
ing-up she would put on a brow
hat of navy-blue felt and (surely) P
off on an old bicycle. , on .
Not so. By the time Peng, alter
suiting his map often on the b
precipices, had nosed out V j(
Frank’s eyrie, Mrs. 'Brewer ha ,


erC) dramatically rocketed from the
link’to the height of Nazidom.
“God!” said Dot, wild-eyed parlor-
maid at what she had considered her
nwn door. “Oh, God, thank God, you’ve
got here! LH kill her; I’ll kill her!”
“We imagined she spoke thus fervently
0 f some time-honored murderee: a
mother-in-law or a busybody aunt.
“That w 'toman. My char. She’s drunk
aS a wheelbarrow. She's let us have two
_ W(h _-drinks each before we eat. And
no more. She’s taken charge of the
bar. We can’t move her.”
She seemed to feel her neck scorching.
She raised her voice, and swished her
pleats as though she still possessed
rights.
“Here they are, Mrs. Brewer. They’re
terribly sorry to be so late. Their taxi-
man got lost.”
We had said not a word. Da-vid
dropped his banjo and said, “Witch!”
“Shut up,” hissed Dot. “ ’Fyou want
a snort, for God’s sake, charm, charm,
charm.”
Then, “Come on, boys,” she trilled
with the most fictitious enthusiasm, “and
meet our Mrs. Brewer.”
She led us, like a cinema usherette,
through and past the standing Franks
and the sitting wives and women who
gave us, like long-entombed miners at
sight of rescuers, glances of positive love.
We reached Mrs. Brewer.
The long, Laminexed counter that cut
1 off the kitchen from the living-room
cut her off from the world of flibberti-
gibbet mortals. Madame Defarge her
very self, she was alone, fiercely im-
perious, sacrosanct. She and her
domestic sanctuary were beyond rape of
any kind.
In the manner of one sponsoring
gormless serfs to a Celtic warrior-queen,
Dot began a spirited, near-hysteric
litany of introductions.
Mrs. Brewer closed her eyes as against
a silly willy-willy. I had a blood-
curdling impression of inner eyelids
moving horizontally across the eyeballs
as the outer eyelids contemptuously
descended. Dot faltered. Mrs. Brewer
spoke.
One at a toime, love,” she said
nasally, malcontentedly, but with eyeless
Power. “One ... at ... a .. . toime.
Please.” Oh, the perfect lady. She
vouchsafed her eyes. “Do you moind?”
The Do you moind ?, despite its in-
ubitable Queensland accent, was)
eivered as offensively as the English
e iver it, and threw in a smile as false
s her teeth. Mrs. Brewer was drunk.
d °t wheelbarrow-drunk; but firmly
at the idee-fixe, no-shenanigans
an f where life was real, life was earnest,
administration was all. She, Mrs.
cn.,n? r ’ was l°gi c ’s king-pin, and alone
save.
short, stocky-short— nuggety
te »j! hark. Something about her sug-
reaiK tae f° r tune-telling gipsy, but she
foil , resem hled nothing so much, par-
cocky a h° u t the eyes, as a mature
easv e^.' s P an i e l with an obsession. It was
tw. 0 suspect her face of, at that
With ’ muc ß unused mobility,
n i t delving, I can remember see-
nlY two other women in my life with
“Dad doesn't believe in breaking with the past too suddenly."
her quality of unhaggling directness.
One was an Italian matron in a little
bar in Cremona where an American
millionaire’s alcoholic son and I, doing
Italy in a Fiat 500, were drinking grappa
and avoiding buying veesky-sodah for a
German prostitute in a dress of a hounds-
tooth pattern so large that it blinked
blackly and whitely as one looked.
The matron, who was perhaps the
owner’s passing-by sister or sister-in-law,
was feeding one of those Belgian milk-
cart dogs with ice-cream to amuse us into
spending more lire on more grappa, when
a brawl began between two nasty little
Italian men. Nasty little eyes protruded
—four. Nasty little knives appeared—
two. Everyone scattered, jabbering
operatically, knocking over chairs un-
necessarily, for effect. The prostitute
screamed with Teutonic verisimilitude.
Handing me the ice-cream and, so to
speak, the dog, the matron reached a
Michael Angelo arm over the counter
for a broom. With the handle she
chopped, she hacked — crack ! crack!
crack-crack-crack ! (da capo ); Punch
killing Judy. The two men knifeless,
she picked up and threw the knives
through the door, replaced the broom, and
returned to dog and ice-cream with no
more than a faintly scented smile which
said, “Thank you for looking after Toto
while I was busy.”
The other woman, I recall, was called
Bunny Something and, dressed in
cheesecloth and beads as Cleopatra at an
Artists’ Ball in the St. Kilda Town Hall
some summer in the ’thirties, lifted a
helmet from a policeman’s head, walked
the length of the hall with it, and calmly
disappeared, unhurriedly and for ever.
The third was Mrs. Brewer, to whose
suspicious and alarming facade Laurence,
the actor, was the first of us to be (the
word is hand-picked) presented.
She absorbed Laurence’s status, and
him, with a damp and dampening
gaze. He gave her, steadily, a famous
look. The suspense was killing. No
one would have been surprised if she
had barked.
After three years: “Wotillut be, love?”
she said, unsmiling, but mollified to
melting-point.
“Gin-and-tonic. If I may. If you will
be so kind. Please. My dear,” said
Laurence, as on carnal knowledge bent,
throbbing like a motor-launch, and un-
leashing a smile of some brilliance.
“May I beg a fairly strong one?” He
augmented the smile from sufficiently
to quite brilliant. “My heart ... a little
dicky,” he improvised, setting his fingers
(slender, sensitive, et cetera ) on his dove-
grey waistcoat, and releasing a light
cough.
“Wotchew want, love, is a noice dirty
big brandy,” said Mrs. Brewer, her
spaniel eyes having appraised and esti-
mated. She had put her right hand
on the Laminex, and was judicially tap-
ping on its . glazed and toad-back
mottlings with stubby left-hand fingers,
in the proper one of which was embedded
a time-smoothed wedding-ring circa
1911.
“Brandy!” The pouches beneath
Laurence’s eyes momentarily relaxed in
dismay. He could, obviously, have
kicked himself.
“Laurence, honey,” said Dot, toothily,
showing strain and an inclination tear-
wards even though in a model lacy
blouse and too much mascara. “Do
listen to Mrs. Brewer. She knows. Have
a brandy.” For God’s sake, let’s get it
over! was understood.
“Huh!” said Mrs. Brewer instantly
scuppering the idea of brandy. “Huh!
Women! Stuck-up! Ear-rings too
toight. And nag, nag, nag.”
As offhandedly and confidently as a
blindfold knife-thrower she whizzed a
curare-dart glance, bull’s-eye, at Dot, and
reached for the gin-bottle, meantime
tossing sidelong, “You better get those
ear-rings off, me girl.”
No one, but no one, had ever called
Laurence anything except Laurence, yet:
“Oi seenya on the telly, Laurie, love,”
said Mrs. Brewer sloshing out three-
quarters of a goblet of gin. “Oi seenya.
You’re a gennulmun.” She poured, care-
lessly competent, about a tablespoon of
lemonade on the surface of the gin.
“Drinkitup, love. It’ll warm the


cockles. But don’t. . She began to ad
conspiratorially, leaning forward to give
the impression of whispering, but speak-
ing loudly: “. . . don’t give none to that
thing in the green. Him all mockered-up
in his corjaroy pants!”
The mild, mildly artistic young man,
with his green cumbering pullover and
medievally-pointed shoes, gammoned not
to hear, but went Picasso-pink under his
organised cow-lick, sipped in a poised
way at his empty tumbler, and dropped
a sophisticated mot into the grassy
coiffure of the skittish widow perched
elfinly on a Port Said pouf.
“Corjaroy, but! A tonk, that’s what.
If me hubby was aloive”
“Mrs. Brewer,” said Dot, just able to
keep to the social rails, and meticulously
gracious, “please excuse. I’d like you
to meet Mr. Jack, of the A.8.C.,
who”
“Some people, Laurie,” said Mrs.
Brewer, sparing no more than an oblique
though envenomed dart, “some people
are prolly so drunk that they don’t know
no better. Manners! Interrupting, but!
And won’t take advice about ear-rings
and inflamed lobes and cancer. Drink-
itup, Laurie, love.”
“Mrs. Brewer,” said Laurence, per-
ceiving his duty, and smiling back as far
as wisdom-teeth. It was the best acting
or, at least, the most magnetic I’ve seen
him do. It approached the classic. A
second before, he had started from his
devil’s potion of gin as from a bowl of
hemlock. Now his eyes were melting
with ardor in the direction of Mrs.
Brewer’s three-haired mole, and his voice
was saccharine as a chocolate laxative:
“Dear Mrs. Brewer . . .”
“Reet,” said Mrs. Brewer, licking a
finger to wipe along one tousled eye-
brow. “Call me Reet. Rita Jessica’s
me full name. But friends call me Reet,
but. You call me Reet, Laurie love. Me
late mister useta call me Reet.”
She licked an opposite forefinger, and
spittled the other and higher eyebrow.
“The old basket, me late,” she said
ruminatively, with a touch of dislike.
“T 3 eet,” - said Laurence in the tone of
“ one deeply purring, Do-lor-es, my
be-lov-ed, “Reet, ducks.” Was he getting
too far into character? “My friend Mr.
Jack —of the A.B.C. —is dying to meet
you. Reet.” And he added, for better
measure, “But!”
Mrs. Brewer emitted a clear and
involuntary hiccough. It surprised her.
“Beg yours, love,” she said.
“Gherkins! ”
But brandy, being gherkins, revealed
her unfaltering grasp of the situation,
and: “Any friend of yours love,” she
said and turned her mole, her dog-eyed
gipsy face and groomed eyebrows
towards her waiting subject. “Pleasta-
meetcha,” she said, “Oi lissen to ‘Green
Paddocks’ on the woireless. It’s” . . .
She considered. She admitted. “. . . It’s
very true to loife. You’re a gennulmun.
Wotillut be, Jacko, love?”
It was in this manner that the four
of us —Laurie (love), Jacko (love), Davie
(boy) and Hal (-pal)—received each our
ration of two terrifying drinks. As we
got them down (mine was a quadruple
whisky with an accidental addition of
gin) we could not have fawned more on
wicked duchesses than on Mrs. Brewer.
The world awaited us and its buffet
meal. The women had dropped deter-
gents for children drinking kerosene.
The men seemed to have got into a
stalag-prisoners’ huddle, perhaps planning
a tunnel under the counter. Dot had
gone, with brave straight back and sub-
dued skirt-pleats, to the lavatory to fore-
stall cancerous lobes, to cry, to restore
cried-off mascara and purge herself of
filthy language.
“And don’t, moind you,” we were
warned, “give nothing to that thing in
the green. Or” —her eyes became small
as sweet-pea seeds as they sighted another
enemy—“to that bit he’s earbashing.
Deliquids! Lairs! ’•’
• That Bit wore a quantity of black hair
arranged like a busby from beneath which
a diminished, floury poker-face con-
fronted humanity with unmoving
Japanese eyes.
“If me late hubby was aloive, he’d do
him, but, the little tonk.”
“What,” I said (oh, brightly ; subject-
changing) “was your husband’s name,
Mrs. Br Reet?” I hoped for Frank,
to prove something my second drink was
making me think I thought.
She didn’t quite turn on me.
But, “Mr. Brewer,” she said, non-
committal, with sinister flatness. Her
eyes some female insincerity,
a side-glance mentally and visibly: she
hadn’t liked Mr. Brewer. “He's passed
on. Old basket. Trouble with his tubes.”
Tubes? We put our brows into
furrows.
Tacko, love, told me later that he saw
" a very involved ants’-nest in section.
I favored the disembowelment of a dead
horse I’d witnessed as a boy at Seaspray
in Easter, 1930.
“Oh, not to worry, not to worry,” said
Mrs. Brewer as one saying, “Hiroshima!
A bagatelle!” and as though we looked,
we and our furrows, as if we were
unduly, unnecessarily and neurotically
worrying.
The widow of the late Mr. Brewer
stimulated herself: her inner clock had
struck a serious hour.
“Drinkitup!” she said, addressing us
each severally and with maternal severity.
“Drinkitup! Drinkitup! And you, too,
bozo, drinkitup! Quick-smart! That
woman’s left it all to Reet. Cancer of
the lobes, that’s what the poor liddle
thing’ll finish up with.”
To our fascination she began to pound
on the Laminex with a soda-siphon. The
hubbub of factitious joy faded. Into
this abatement she shouted, as from a
far-off hilltop, “Come and get it!”
They came to get it, shuffling rather,
laughing somewhat and somewhat
showily and with much ease, and
mingling in a sort of factory-canteen
queue.
Mrs. Brewer regarded this immoral
pattern with deep distaste. She bided
her time. She struck.
“Ladies first!” she cried. “Think,
you’re Russians, eh? Ladies first! Do
you moind . . . gennulmun ?”
The brutes, the roughnecks, the
animals, the bronged Anzacs who’d for-
gotten their courting-days, sidestepped,
sincerely abashed though wishing not ♦
show it; the women became f,nn t 0
sarily elated and decidedly showed*?
Mrs. Brewer took up a handful of fork'
and then remembered that she was aft
all, a general. ’ uer
“Me heart,” she said, attempting faint
ness, and placing the handful of fojll
on her Roman matron bosom “Davie
boy . . . Jacko, love . . . Hal-pal
You come around here with me You’re
gennulmen. The plates and forks Me
hear ! ! , J Y he u re ’ S , m .f, brandy? A noice
quiet liddle brandy 11 set me to roights.”
CJhe began, the ghost of Hamlet’s father
° to drift off. She sat on a low stool
by the refrigerator, screening her
goddessliness from the common gaze
with an open cupboard door. As we
turned to our task of handing over plates
and forks there was the sound of fluid
descending from bottle to tumbler, and
the voice of the all-knowing and ever-
watchful: “One plate per person. One
fork per person. Oyster-shells to go in
the . . Brandy washed that one out
of hearing.
As we handed over plates and forks,
as it were from the altar, we and the
guests exchanged many a merry quip.
But how censored! How underlined with
winkings and shruggings and smiles of a
certain sort! How censored even these
silent gestures!
Dot appeared again, bereft of tears
and with cold-cream-shiny lobes, having
learned of life, as her guests had, that no
matter how closely they had electric-
shaved or how constricting their new
girdles were, no matter how heedfully
they walked on social eggs, they were,
right there and then, no more than
visitors in a world of runaway pantech-
nicons bull-dozing into the bird’s-eye
maple bedroom, a world of burning
toast, enamel bed-pans, hangnails,
influenza and unsuccessful permanent
waves. Mrs. Brewer, heart or no heart,
brandy or no brandy, was the objectifica-
tion of this intrusive world, the bitch
goddess, the schoolmistress with sour
stomach, the rude salesgirl, the malicious
mother-in-law, the tram-conductress
handing on her headache, the one who
hamstrung you when you were about
to caper to “The Spring Song.” Even in
her retirement Mrs. Brewer was a force;
gurglings and glassy clinkings from be-
hind the cupboard-door testified to her
reality.
She was, moreover, resurrectible.
Indeed, just as the young man in the
green jumper was about to take his pla e
Mrs. Brewer slammed the cupboard-doo
shut and revealed herself. She was
immortally shicker. She swayed like
more squat foxglove, sadder and swar y-
She doubtless saw more of each o
than each was. The young man,
posed too centrally, retracted the gu
leprous hand that had been abou
tarnish the rim of a plate.
“You!” croaked Mrs- Brewer.
Facing the Angel of Death the y
man was courageously steady, bu
pullover seemed suddenly bluer
green. . have
“You!” She appeared to wish


u f r igidaire-handle let go her hand.
j- ears suddenly streamed down her
hecks. She was understood to say,
“Shorry, love . . . shorry . . . Call me
Reet. Only a boy. Only a chuvenile
deliquid. Reetie’s been rude. Oh, Oi
thinking . . . Laurie, love . . .” she
sa jd, uprooting herself to take, like a
toddler, a few bandy steps towards Mr.
Jack, producer, A.8.C., and, laying hands
upon his Harris-tweed sleeves, to
implore : “Laurie, love, givim a noice
liddle brandy, the poor boy. Letum
allhava noice . . . lid-dle ...”
In a manner gymnastic and stylised,
w ith some flexibility, no noise, a bottle
clasped to her diaphragm, Mrs. Brewer
descended towards, sank to. the higmy-
colored floor and passed out.
As in a republic founded on the
assassination of a despot, there were
immediate and disgraceful confusions,
there was undisciplined and pointless
drama. There were cries, bumpings-
into-others, orders and counter-orders,
even some immediately-rebuked incivili-
ties of gloating.
“Oh, poor old dear !” cried Dot and a
number of women with chicken-greasy
mouth-corners, and they entered the
temple where the priestess lay, the
brandy-bottle welded to her hands,
curled up like a crayfish.
With conscious tenderness and a
clattering display of warm humanity, and
a sense of burying and praising Caesar in
me, she and the undetachable bottle were
carried to the bedroom, laid on the
candlewick quilt and, when her worn
little bunion - moulded shoes were
removed, concealed beneath an eider-
down, the bobble-edged bedside-lamp was
turned out. People tiptoed.
The party now adopted shapelessness.
We four were thrown out of the kitchen.
Frank recaptured manliness and poured
drinks competently as though that were
the thing. Owners of orchid-colored
fingernails began asking for drinks that
needed slices of things in them. Owners
of ox-blood fingernails washed plates or
one-upped each other’s tales of hepatitis.
Dot, renewed into hostess, showed some
guests who lived in old houses how doors
opened (and shut), how drawers slid out
nnd slid back, how cupboards worked
J nd what shelves were for.
Presently a young man who could
hove been Ern, for people called him so,
a man young enough to wear a bandeau
°f acne on his inch-and-a-quarter of brow,
Professionally remotely exercised a con-
Ce rtina below his dreamy but disdainful
grimace. One felt that, should the
Zeners’ wariness have faltered he would
ave executed, masterfully and brilliantly,
the Warsaw Concerto” and, to
founded and oceanic applause, torn off
ls lubricated brush-back wig and
Ern-mask.
Ihe mood was, however, otherwise.
°‘ ces cr ied out for sadder musici And
der. The y earn j n g melodies of thirty
J n ea , rs Wer e wailed with much attention to
and h Loneliness, broken dreams
s i * lear ts and vows, depressed their
| l s a nd discouraged drinking.
w ° reckless creatures, man and wife,
who had won a Charleston competition
in 1927, called for madder music. His
bald head and glossy, huge, silver-grey
behind, and her skinny varicose-veined
legs spastically flailing, nothing
except recall “I Wonder Who’s Kissing
Her Now?” and “All Alone” and
“Melancholy Baby.”
Everyone was well on the way to ask-
ing Ern for “Won’t You Buy My Pretty
Flowers?”, “She Lives in a Mansion of
Aching Hearts,” and “It's Only a Beauti-
ful Picture in a Beautiful Golden
Frame.”
“All passion spent,” said Da-vid from
a corner of his mouth.
“All dreaming done,” said Mr. Jack
from a corner of his.
“Let us telephone for a taxi-cab,” said
Laurence, ventriloquisticaliy not moving
a muscle.
“Peng Chin! ” I said. “The ball is
over. Let’s get lost outside rather than
here.”
I knew that, somewhere in the cigarette
smoke and melodious dirges lurked the
man with more eyebrows than hair who
was aching to spring into prominence
through the merest second’s gap and . . .
He sprang.
“Little Grey Home in the West” had
sadly guttered out; there was a pause ;
there was the tiny sandy man like a
football-club secretary.
“Hey!” he roared. “Hey, ladies and
gents. And others.” No one did any-
thing. “Now, let’s have a little bit of
shush. I would like . . .”
We had our hands on the telephone.
“ A w, don’t be auntie,” said a hoarse
and heavenly voice. “No bloody
speeches, but. Do you moind?”
I seemed to hear “High School Cadets”
being played, masterfully and brilliantly
and loudly, by six angelic brass bands.
It was Madame Lazarus. It was dat
ol’ devil She. It was life. 'lt was Mrs.
Brewer.
She blinked at the door. She surveyed
disorganisation. Her geiger worked. She
“Every Saturday night the same."
licked two forefingers and burnished her
eyebrows.
“Gawd, you’re a broight lot of so-
and-so’s,” she said. Slowly, very slowly,
she crossed her eyes and said, “Poor
old Reet can’t get her shoes, on, but.”
It was royalty proclaiming, “Our crown
has shrunk. So sorry. Nevertheless, on
with the levee.”
She uncrossed her eyes, cried out,
“Drinks on the house!” raised her skirts
above the knees of her lady-harrier’s legs
with hairs flattened like scales beneath the
nylon, and began a delirious witch-
doctor’s prancing while she shrilly sang
“Kneesup, Mother Brown, Kneesup,
Mother Brown . . .” Her face, as it
bounced, was radiant rubber with enough
permutations and combinations of
expression to outlast anyone anywhere.
I’ll swear her ears moved contrapuntally
but wittily.
Da-vid grabbed his banjo. Mrs.
Brewer’s warped suspenders were more
exhilarating than skiing. We forgot tele-
phones and Peng Chins.
At last, with a roar, the party began.
Ern dropped his disdain ; his brow shot
up an inch. That Bit opened her eyes,
which flashed like . . . like stars! She
smiled ! She had teeth! White! The
thing, the tonk, the mild young man in
the green pullover, advanced prancing
towards Mrs. Brewer. “Knees Up,
Mothah Brahoon,” he sang ; “Knees Up,
Mothah Brahoon ... !”
It was a gaudy, a lively, an orgy, a
bawdy, a rort. It was far and away the
best of forty-two.
I cannot clearly understand how Reet
(bull) and Hal-pal (toreador) and Hal-
pal (terrified spinster) and Reet (bottom-
pinching Latin) managed to break three
Noritake bread-and-butter plates by
4.16 a.m., when one would have been
more than enough. But, since I’ve had
to buy six to replace the three, Dot and
Frank are three plates, two hangovers
and a successful party up.
That’s only natural.
It was Mrs. Brewer’s party.


DOUBLE-ENTRY
By EMMETT O'KEEFE
With folded arms he stood by the
open door. His belly was large
and his face was red ; as red and
as round as the sun slipping into
the west. Two slender arms of braces
reaching down his shirt checked red and
brown grabbed his trouser band. Two
boots stuck out from his trouser legs ;
boots red with dust of a western brand.
Above him on the wall, seeming to
sprout from his head of fiery hair, was
his coat-of-arms: a shamrock; and
higher still on the same facade was
painted his name and his trade: Patrick
Murphy. Licensed to sell Spirituous and
Fermented Liquors.
This giant monolith of a man, seem-
ingly carved from some igneous rock,
stirred. The deep-blue eyes had focussed
a swirl of dust, as yet an indefinite
movement, ’way out on the road that fled
over the hills till it pierced the setting
sun.
That magic cloud of dust! His mind
moved on. That skipping, dancing cloud
was coming to him from over the hills ;
from out beyond the sun ; from a far-
off land ; a green, damp, dewy land with
veils of mist, where fairies and lepre-
chauns played with a red-haired boy.
He watched it coming closer, ever
closer, a magic cloud for sure ; now a
swirling cloud of brown with a bright
blue core; and, as he watched, this
nebulous thing took shape. From out of
the cloud a fairy carriage came careering
down the street, a carriage of resplen-
dent blue, to stop with a roar before him.
From the carriage four wraith-like
figures tumbled, stamping and slapping
the dust from their cloths.
The first wraith spoke. “Hey! Paddy,
wake up ; here’s four of your best credit
customers dying of thirst and you decide
to go to sleep on the job.”
A fellow-wraith said, “Cut it out,
Eagle ; you know he gets tired holding-
up the pub counter with his belly all
day.”
Eaglebeak Dawson glanced behind.
“That’s the worst of a one-pub town,
Jonno ; no service and no opposition. It’s
enough to make a man sign the pledge.”
“Why’s he call his flaming pub the
Green Shamrock?” said Baldy Ellis to
Big Steve, bringing up the rear. “You
ever heard of a pink shamrock?”
“No,” said Big Steve, “but I’ve heard
of a purple one. This here shamrock
of Paddy’s started-off being a purple one
until Paddy started watering it with his
beer” —
“Too right he waters his beer,” shouted
Jonno.
“That a flaming shamrock he's got
painted on the wall?” asked Eaglebeak.
“Looks like that oxalis-weed to me. They
grow lawns out of it down in South Aus-
tralia. I seen it when I was on me
holidays in Adelaide last year.”
Paddy came to life. “Don’t you be
insulting to shamrocks, now”—
Big Steve interjected. “Quit talking
so much, Paddy. How about getting in-
side and attending to some of your best
customers. C’mon, fellers, let’s get
started.”
T>addy allowed his regulars to drink on
A credit, and for accounting purposes
he used a slate.
He never was much good at figures, so
he provided each group of drinkers with
a slate on which they wrote down each
drink they bought. At the end of a
session the onus was on them to provide
the written evidence of how much they
had consumed as a group. The indi-
vidual consumption was their affair, not
Paddy’s.
“Drinks are on the house today,”
announced Baldy. “Paddy’s celebrating.
1 was talking ter Lousy Jackson, the s.-p.
bloke, -and he said Paddy won fifty quid
at the races today. Give him back his
slate, Eagle. We don’t want that. Don't
know why we been using it.”
Paddy shoved his florid face across the
counter. “The fifty quid’s for me old
mother back home,” he said.
“Cripes, you got a mother,” said Jonno ■
“she must be a hundred-and-fifty.”
Paddy thumped the counter and the
glasses leaped in the air. “Don’t you be
insulting to me old mother, now”—
“Look what he’s doing to our beer!”
Big Steve shouted. “Spilt it all over the
counter, and we’ve already wrote it up
on the slate.”
“All over the slate, too,” yelled Jonno,
“rooning his flaming account-books.”
He grabbed at Paddy’s bar-cloth. “Give
us your cloth, Paddy, before the flam-
ing stuff eats through the counter.”
Paddy, slow to react, watched as Jonno
mopped the counter and wiped the
slate dry. Jonno handed him the slate:
“There you are, Paddy; nothing like
starting-off with a clean slate.”
Paddy looked blankly at the blanker
slate ; then he went into action.
“Lot a thaving cows,” he roared; “rob
me old mother, you would! ” He grabbed
the nearest glass and slammed it upside
down on the counter. His challenge
thundered round the bar and up and
down the street. “Oi’ll foight any man in
the bar!” he bellowed.
No one accepted the challenge. No
one spoke. An inert silence had settled
down ; a silence suddenly broken by a
voice from the open door.
“Paddy holding a wake in here?” it
said. “Just happened to be passing-by,
so I thought I’d join in.”
“Doc Pearson! ” said Eaglebeak,
quickly glancing behind. “Just in time,
Doc,” he added, glad of the relieved
tension. “Paddy’s having a seizure.”
The observant eye of the medico
quickly assessed the situation.
“Now, what have you boys been up
to?” Doc Pearson asked.
“The thaving cows won’t pay fer their
drinks, Doc,” Paddy informed him.
“They rubbed their bill off the slate,
Doc. Oi remember how many they had,
though: four schooners each.”
“We’ll pay him, Doc,” said Jonno, now
somewhat abashed ; “we was only hav-
ing a bit of fun. Here’s your money,
Paddy, safe as a bank.”
“Well, that settles that,” said the Doc,
and, anxious to change the subject, added,
“How you been keeping, Paddy? Better
drop up to the hospital some time
have that blood-count $e were talking
about”
Doc Pearson had a professional interes
in Paddy’s plethoric appearance, -y®
mumbled, half aloud, half to himseu,
“Probably polycythaemic.” ~
“Polly-what, Doc?” questioned Pado),
who had caught the unfamiliar word- w
“Polycythaemia. . . Forget it, Paddy-


Baldy Ellis shouted, “That’s that flam-
ing parrots’ disease, ain’t it, Doc? You
keep away from Paddy, Eaglebeak.
Eagles get that, too, Doc?”
“Lot a galahs round here’ll get it
lirst,” grumbled Eaglebeak.
‘Wef it f*4lerc ” thp rw caul
Well so long • must be getting along
iow See you later Paddy” § §
“Wait on, Doc. We’re coming now,”
Baldy yelled after him. “See you neit
time, Paddy. Have your slates ready.”
“Oi’m not having slates next toime,”
Paddy called after the departing group.
“Oi’ve been learning that double-entry
book-keeping. Next toime it’ll be double-
entry, and yer won’t thave me then.”
yy,i wuu i uiavc ,'
lne group exploded in laughter. You
ear that, fellers ? Paddy s having double-
book-keeping!"
the laughter was lost in the distance.
atrick Murphy pondered. It was
today night, he had until Monday
, a solution to his problem.
,
Jmddy moved about the bar as Monday
afternoon wore on. Monday was
ray a busy day, just the usual stragglers
“ av . ellers passing through. It would
fl H Sler SOon ’ though, as the men
toi tne stations descended on the town
“wash away the dust of the day’s hard
:pk . .
(oic f heard the sound of familiar
their cornin § through the door. In
alee came four familiar figures.
I kl § h to, Paddy, set ’em up ; four of
e best,” called Jonno ; “and you’d better
°k em up, Pad.; we ain’t been paid
te Friday. Hope you got your double-
ready.”
j deliberately filled four schooners
slowly placed each one down on the
J? er -
•8 Steve nudged Baldy Ellis with his
ace s Pb’t in a wide grin.
? id(l , enfer em U P in your books,
| 0 ,y> Before you forget. Don’t see no
s around, anyway.”
Paddy pointed to two buckets stand-
ing in the corner. Then from under the
counter he produced four large potatoes
which he threw into one of the buckets.
“There yer are,” he proudly
announced ; “four spuds mean four
drinks —big ’uns for schooners, and little
uns for middies —and any man who
wants fancy drinks kin pay for ’em on
the nose.”
The few cash-customers at the other
end of the bar stopped with drinks in
mid-air as bursts of laughter rocketed
around the pub.
“You’ll do us, Paddy,” shrieked Eagle-
beak.
‘Good ol’ Pad!” shouted Baldy.
“Hope you got plenty of spuds under
the counter,” yelled Jonno.
Big Steve joined the chorus: “You
won’t want no double-entry buckets for
us, Paddo. We're only drinking big
spuds.”
The drinks went down and the spuds
came up. The one bucket was nearly full,
now—-and then a strange thing happened.
As the new accounting-system had be-
come accepted and business had settled
down to normal, Paddy, plying his trade
at the other end of the bar, had not
noticed Jonno, after a whispered conver-
sation with his mates, quietly slip out the
front door; nor had he noticed his
return.
Jonno returned with company: an old
black goat that lived in a paddock just
down the road. Jonno, with his newly-
found friend, quietly rejoined his group.
Then he gave the goat a smack on
the tump that aimed it at the buckets
standing in the corner.
“There you are, boy; there’s a feed
for you.”
"Daldy spluttered in his glass as he
watched the spuds disappearing.
“Old Billy must be the best spud-drinker
this side of the Black Stump,” he gurgled.
Big Steve admonished him. “Shut-
up, or Paddy’ll hear you.”
Paddy ambled up the length of the
counter to see if the glasses needed re-
plenishing. He glanced at the buckets in
the corner, from one of which protruded
the rear end of the goat. He dived
below the counter and came up armed
with the biggest potato in all creation.
Paddy took quick' aim and threw, and
bucket and goat went clattering in the
direction of the door.
“You thaving lot of cows!” Paddy
roared. “Which man of you brought
that goat in here to rob an honest
publican?”
Jonno spoke-up for the gang. “Honest,
Paddy, he ain’t no mate of ours —he
wasn’t drinking with us.”
Baldy, staring with mock amazement
at the bucket lying on its side, noted:
“That old goat’s gone an’ et all the
figures off Paddy’s double-entry books.
Say, Paddy, how are you going to know
how much we owe you?”
The expected clap of thunder didn’t
come. No lightning struck. As a man
they slowly turned and looked, and
Paddy’s face shone serene ; and as they
looked a smile began to grow; it grew
and grew, an ivory arc in that round,
red face, and the twinkling eyes began
to dance, two sapphires set in the flaming
sun at noon.
Paddy’s bulk slowly sank below the sur-
face of the counter and then it slowly
rose ; and each hand grasped a bucket,
one empty ; one all but full. The buckets
he lowered to the counter.
The publican addressed the group in
rich, stentorian tones: “There you are,
now —me second set of books ; and all
up to date.”
The drinkers stared with open mouths,
and no words came. In all the bar,
Paddy alone seemed blessed with the
power of speech. As he deliberately
placed four more potatoes in the bucket
his voice rolled on:
“And that’ll pay for the spuds your
mate et!”
THE HOLLIDAYS
“How is it on your end —got a smile yet ?”


HITCH-HIKE
By JOHN ORRELL
He stood on the roadside, the gay
overnight-bag between his feet
contrasting sharply with his
faded overalls and dusty beret.
The cars sped by. He expected them
to. With experienced eye he watched
the procession of homing speedsters race
along the highway. At the crossing they
slowed, but he ignored them. Station-
sedans, Royals, Customlines. Even the
faint whine of a Volks failed to interest
him.
Presently an ancient Land /Rover came
into view. He lifted the overnight-bag
and gave the thumb-sign. The Land/,
Rover pulled to a stop.
“How far?” the driver, work-stained
and dust-grimed, queried.
“Bottom of the Range,” he replied,
already half-into the tray.
“Take you as far as Kuranda ; here,
hop in front.”
“Thanks.”
Tossing his bag into the tray, amongst
a collection of axes, saws and oil-drums,
he climbed in with the driver.
The Rover picked-up speed. “Should
make Kuranda by sundown,” the driver
said ; “you should get a lift easy enough
from there.”
“Hope so,” he said, “but I doubt it,
after dark. Can’t blame the drivers,
though. Lot of hitch-hikers on the road
now.”
“You work around here?” The ques-
tion was simply to make conversation.
“Fitter at the mill. Temporary.
Cracked an hour's overtime tonight and
missed my usual lift. Car’s in dock in
Cairns and I have to get home this week-
end to pick it up.”
Westering sun slanted lengthening
shadows as they passed Mareeba. Dark-
ness was on them as they topped the
rise before Kuranda.
The driver said, “I’m thirsty; keep
one down?”
“Can do! But no session—l have to
get along.”
“Just a couple, then.” ;
They passed the roadhouse and went
through the small village to the hotel.
'T'wenty minutes later he was by the
roadside again.
The cars still passed. No one stopped
for a lone figure dim in the darkness.
After half-an-hour he decided to walk.
Eight miles, and most of it downhill.
Should take about two hours. Joan
would be worrying and the kids would
be demanding to wait up until he got
home, but it couldn’t be helped.
Down the hill to the bridge. Up the
rise to the scrub-lined road . . . Black as
sin now ; even the road obscured by the
all-enveloping darkness.
He looked up. A line, less black than
the surrounding sable, indicated where
the tree-tops met. Road-centre. Keeping
his eyes aloft he steered by the faint
mark.
Suddenly his shadow, clear-cut and
lengthened, spread before him, fore-
shortened, and was gone. The big sedan
roared on, its twin tail-lights glowing
red and diminishing.
He heard them coming, and identified
them all before they passed.
On to the straight patch, now ; cleared
land either side before another patch of
stygian scrub. A new sound behind him.
“Triumph-twin,” he said to himself, and
kept walking.
The motorbike passed him, slowed as
the rider executed a sharp turn, and
drew up beside him.
“How far, mate?” The voice sounded
young and confident.
“Going as far as the bottom of the
range. But I have a bag and you’re
pretty well loaded.”
“T h a t’s nothing. Carried two
sheilahs on the tank and one behind
before this. Hop on.”
He placed the bag before him, between
the rider’s back and his own midriff, took
a grip on the loaded saddlebags with
his knees and gripped the bar of the
carrier with his right hand.
The bike jerked forward with a
of power. They were doing fif tv w?
they reached the scrub. ore
A fter two sharp turns the rider turned
1 -*■ his head. u
“Wind-up?” he shouted. He had heard
the sharp intake of breath at each of the
turns. ne
“Got a wife and a couple of kids at
home, you know,” he shouted back
“You’ll see ’em,” the rider returned-
and opened the throttle.
Perilously the bike leaned at every
turn. Grimly he hung on. They were
nearing the Lookout, with the four half-
turns ahead. It was possible, in day-
light, to avoid making one turn at this
stretch. With a clear view and no
traffic a skilled rider could go straight
ahead for a quarter of a mile by cutting
the corners.
“I hope he turns,” said the man to
himself.
The bike gathered speed— seventy
now —and went straight on. Lights ahead
silhouetted the roadbank, but the rider
ignored them save to dip his own head-
lights.
A rush of air signified that the car had
passed. A sudden swerve and a shower
of gravel showed that they were past the
Lookout and on to the stretch under
repair.
Down the Snake-stretch, dizzily lurch-
ing at each bend, glimpses of light
showing the nearing city through the
thinning scrub . . . Past the Whip, that
double-hairpin which had already
claimed three lives this year, and then
past the Pioneers’ Memorial, on to the
straight.
He tapped the rider’s shoulder.
“Drop me ,at the Mossman turn-off,”
he said.
Gears changed, and he was thrown
against the rider’s back. The bike
stopped and he got off.
“Thanks!” he managed to say.
The rider glanced at his wrist-watch.
“Ten minutes,” he said proudly; “not
bad for eight miles with a passenger!
Be seeing you!”
The bike roared on into the night.
He sat down by the side of the road.
Slowly he rolled a cigarette ; lit it; drew
the satisfying, nerve-settling fumes deep
into his lungs ; luxuriated in the stillness
of the tropic night and the pleasure of
sheer immobility.
Then, picking up his bag, he started
to walk the last mile home.
Lights blazed a welcome in the cottage.
Children shrieked: “Daddy s
home!” .
Joan, busily spreading his eve ” lI y
meal on the table, looked up with
smile of welcome, which changed to
look of concern.
“What happened?” she said, Are y
feeling ill?” n .
On the road a motorbike,
bound, roared its way into the nig •
“Did the garage ring-up about
car?” he asked.
“You can pick it up in the mor »
she answered. “Now come an
supper ; it’s almost nine-o’clock.
He got up. ~
“Thank goodness! ” he said.


MY UNCLE and
MISS JAMISON
BY ADRIAN
WINTLE
I don’t remember much about my uncle
Except that once, when we were staying
at his farm,
I unlatched the door of the fowl-pen
And the chooks ran riot in his orchard ;
Which, while I thought of it all as fun,
Rather angered my uncle ...
But they were good days ;
The mornings crisp and clear,
The bucket of water at the back step
Topped with a frozen glaze ;
And the pine-trees, out the front, bedded
In sharp-smelling spikes
Like sentries guarding the dirt track
Along which Miss Jamison cantered.
One Christmas, we gathered dark pine-
cones
From the three trees; we painted them
silver,
Built-up the log-fire in the living-room,
Spread colored paper and balloons.
And when Miss Jamison arrived
I gave her a riding-whip
Which pleased her very much.
Two days later, the horse contrived
At a clip from the whip, to toss poor Miss
Jamison.
I seem to recall that my uncle was more
than upset;
But, then, I don’t remember much about
him
Except for the fowlyard part.


PERSONAL
"Doctor Wednesday”
The Rev. Gordon Powell —
Sydney’s “Dr Wednesday”—is a
handsome, compelling man of 49
whose congregations at St.
Stephen’s are said to be the largest in
Sydney. Although theologically more
orthodox, his methods combine the
preaching fervor of Billy Graham and
the cheery, positive-thinking approach of
Dr Norman Vincent Peale, both of whom
he admires tremendously.
His Wednesday lunch-hour inspira-
tional service is believed to be unique.
Some 1300 people file into the handsome
Macquarie Street church each week to
hear him tell them: “Relax . . . relax
and let the strain go out of you. Let
the strain out of every muscle in your
body. Give yourself over to your God
. . .” For those who can’t find room in
the overfilled church there is the base-
ment with its first-in-Australia closed
TV-circuit system. The same sermon is
televised for a Sunday replay to 150,000
people.
Powell is something new in orthodox
Christian Australia with his Tonic Cards
giving positive thoughts to drive out
neurosis-breeding tensions and his five
books which have now sold more than
100,000 copies here.
Asked what he thought of the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury’s visit to Rome,
Mr Powell said he was “not against it
if it brings better understanding between
churches, but I don’t think it can lead
to anything more.” He grinned wryly.
“Not unless Rome changes a great deal.
And the areas of co-operation are rather
limited in many ways, although that is
changing, perhaps.
“Some time ago I had to go and see
Dr Mannix about mixed marriages. The
Catholics won’t allow them. Mannix ex-
plained that very clearly. He said: 'We
simply are not allowed to. And if they
happen, then the children must be
Catholic.’ Well, my position was a little
different to that. I didn’t and don’t agree
with mixed marriages because they lead
to that sort of trouble, and people should
be warned about them, but I don’t adopt
his dogmatic position. He was a very
clear-minded old man just the same.
Does he still wear that cassock with all
those buttons? I wonder how long it
takes him to get them done up?
“Anyway, we agreed that there could
be co-operation between Catholics and
non-Catholics in Alcoholics Anonymous,
for example, and I do think that the areas
of co-operation are widening. Some
years ago I was standing on the front
balcony of this church watching a
Eucharistic procession. I was interested
and absorbed in it and didn’t think
anybody would notice me. To my sur-
prise I got a letter from one of the
priests praising me for my interest and
remarking that it was wonderful that
I did not scorn it or show disapproval.
Nowadays if I or any other clergyman
watched such a thing it wouldn’t be a
matter for comment at all.”
TTE broke off to look at his watch.
“I must go downstairs and watch a
TV-session I had filmed. Would you like
to come.” Down in the St. Stephen’s
basement was a set whose pictures floated
intransigently out of focus while Mr
Powell fiddled patiently., Suddenly he
came into view with a charming, young
blonde interviewer. He watched absorbed
while he answered her questions on the
screen. She delivered a short spiel about
his new book “The Innkeeper of Bethle-
hem,” giving every appearance of being
unfamiliar with either the place or the
events that occurred there.
Reverting to an earlier conversation
about censorship, the interviewer asked
Mr Powell why he took so strong a
view about the legal decision to release
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover” —a decision
which, he says, marks a black day in
English history. “Because it is crude
and filthy,” he remarked uncompromis-
ingly. “In fact, the best remark I heard
about it came from a steward on the
Orontes who said he thought the book
unnecessary. I think he’s right. You can
get all the clinical details from a book
on sex.”
Had he read the book? “Only the
objectionable bits. I have heard crudity
in my time as an Air Force chaplain,
but nothing like this.”
Did he object, say, to “Ulysses” on
the same grounds? “Yes. I haven’t read
that either. But on censorship of filth
I sometimes wish we could join forces
with our Catholic friends. Anyway, I
think that Lawrence wrote ‘Lady Chat-.
terley’s Lover’ as an excuse for his own
sinful life. He encourages adultery in
defiance of the Ten Commandments. I
think that there should be an effective
protest. I have written to Sir Allen Lane
telling him that I will never buy another
Penguin book as long as I liye. Not that
SENATOR WRIGHT
Courts, not Parliaments.
he’ll care much about that, I suppose.
But what would be effective is if Church
bookstalls stopped selling Penguins. That
might have an effect. I genuinely think
something should be done.”
• •
A. and R.’s
Chairman
IVTorman Lethbridge Cowper’s family
. is as much a part of Sydney as Angus
and Robertson, and for good measure
he married a daughter of Hugh Mcßae.
It was no surprise that he emerged as
chairman of A. and R. in the present
conflict.
For a man who is probably held in
greater esteem than any other of his
legal colleagues, Mr Cowper cannot be
accused of avoiding the controversies of
public and commercial life. This 64-year-
old senior partner in the Sydney legal
firm of Allen, Allen and Hemsley had
his most recent test of public controversy
when he sat on the committee which
recommended substantial increases in
Federal Parliamentarians’ salaries. When
the “Sydney Morning Herald” put on its
performance about the salaries increase
Mr Cowper wrote a letter to the editor
telling him it was the “Herald” that was
causing much of the outcry. An earlier
public foray occurred when he became
involved in a struggle for the control
of Howard Smith, Ltd., the ship- and
colliery-owners and a major shareholder
in the B.H.P.
• •
Those Two
Rebellious Senators
f
Senator Reginald Charles Wright
the 55-year-o!d reluctant rebel w °
vote-switching on the car sales-tax 1
gave the Senate more publicity than
has had for years, may go on
trouble. He has the idea that the e
is a House of review, in whic “i c ult
alignments do not matter a
doctrine to maintain in the Y
and one that may get him into


lithe year 1961. But Senator Wright
is used to trouble ; he has been causing
-it since he entered the Senate in 1950
.-after a three-year stretch in the Tas-
manian Parliament.
His diversion from Parliamentary
‘trouble is trouble in the courts. He was
briefed by the University of Tasmania in
the Orr case (where Orr’s principal backer
» ; as his brother, Professor Douglas
fright, of Melbourne University). He
was also counsel for the Hurseys through-
out their long battle with the Waterside
porkers Federation. He thus won the
two legal that have been the main
source of publicity for Tasmania in
recent years 'there is method behind this.
iSenator Wright believes that the rights
of the individual are better protected in
courts these days than in Parliaments. ■
A Wright speech can still pack the
Senate. Chubby-faced, his hair falling
oitto his forehead, Wright talks inter-
minably in a nasal, metallic voice. His
filibustering to delay the Uniform
Divorce Bill caused the Senate to sit on
1 Saturday morning. When he had
finished, attendants had to move the piles
of reference books that imprisoned him
before he could get out of his seat. His
M target is said to be the Crimes Act
Amendment Bill.
• •
|)hen Senator Wright’s colleague in
rebellion, Senator lan Alexander
uristie Wood, dissented from the 1955
SENATOR WOOD
Fire-breathing Sentiments.
Senate Select Committee report on the
development of Canberra, he said that
the Canberra town plan was a geometri-
cal system of French origin created so
that the French kings, by stationing their
guns on the pivotal points, could shoot
down the streets to quell rebellious mobs.
He went on to say that Burley Griffin’s
design was “un-Australian and im-
perialist” and called for another which
would express a truly democratic out-
look. These fire-breathing sentiments
were indigenous in North Queensland at
the time of Wood’s birth, 1902, but they
were a little unexpected coming from a
commercial - airline and travel agent
whose 12-year mayoralty (1940-52) of
his birthplace earned him the title of
“Uncrowned King of Mackay.” Bachelor,
teetotaller, non-smoker, Senator Wood
presents an ascetic front to the world with
just one chink in it: one of his recreations
is studying tropical plants.
• •
The Surprising
Dr Ross
When The Bulletin editorially
attacked N.S.W. Australian Rail-
ways Union secretary Dr Lloyd Ross in
its last issue and pointed to the hot-seat
he was in, it did not occur to anyone
that he would ring up and order 1000
reprints. But that is what he did.
This should not really have been sur-
prising. Bespectacled, 59-year-o!d Dr
Ross is a packet of surprises. Not only
is he a competent union secretary (at
present engaged in leading the N.S.W.
transport unions’ savage industrial
attacks); he is also an accomplished
journalist, a former Government official
arid a sensitive scholar.
For his Doctorate of Literature he
wrote a thesis (unpublished) on the Aus-
tralian Labor movement. Besides
numerous articles he has published a
book on William Lane, and he is now
completing “The Life of John Curtin and
His Tidies.” In fact, he recently took
a month off from the N.S.W. transport
foray to live the life of a scholar in
Canberra and polish off his book.
Before becoming secretary of the
N.S.W. branch of the A.R.U. in 1952
(for the second time) Dr Ross worked
for the Melbourne “Herald,” writing on
political and industrial affairs; arid
before that he worked in the Department
of Post War Reconstruction. He is
not naive where Communist - party
manoeuvres are concerned. He was a
member until he resigned when the Com-
rades decided the war against Hitler was
a boss’s war.
Of this diversity of interests, his friends
say: “At 59, Lloyd hasn’t yet made up
his mind what he is going to do with
his life.” But that is one way of staying
young at 59. On his role in the present
transport troubles some are less kind.
With the sardonic quality you get in the
Trades Hall one of them said: “If Lloyd
doesn’t look out he will be writing the
last chapter of his book.”


POLITICAL POINTS
'T'he out-again-in-again saga of the
motor-car sales-tax had its ironic side-
lights. There was the staunch alliance
of the A.L.P. and D.L.P., although both
made it clear that the partnership was
only temporary, and would not affect the
controversy over preferences. Then there
was the anomaly of Labor using its
Senate numbers in an attempt to defeat
the will of the Reps, on a money bill,
although it has always maintained that
in fiscal matters the Lower House should
be supreme.
•This was more or less the principle
Senator Wright invoked to justify his
second thoughts on the bill. Abstaining
from voting on the second presentation
of the bill he had opposed earlier, he
said his views on the legislation were
unchanged. He still thought the in-
creased tax was wrong, but he felt that
Senate’s authority to alter a bill should
only be exercised “for special reasons
to maintain a fundamental principle, as,
for example, “the preserving of life-
insqrance companies from control and
from compulsory loans to the Govern-
ment.”
The Senate had recorded its views on
the sales-tax increase, but now that the
Government had said it could not accept
the Senate viewpoint, the Senate’s proper
course was to yield.
Senator Wood didn’t share Wright’s
view. He again voted with the Opposi-
tion and, with Senator Wright abstaining,
the measure was carried 29-27.
• •
N.S.W. Health Minister Billy Sheahan
can’t be accused of being afraid to
change his mind. Within a week of
visiting Callan Park and reporting that
everything in the garden was lovely he
was apparently asking Cabinet for a
royal commission. In appointing Justice
McClemens as a Royal Commissioner
Premier Heffron said that this was being
done because Cabinet thought it “reason-
able to accede to Mr Sheahan’s request.”
An intriguing point is whether it would
still have been thought reasonable if the
report of Dr Bailey, medical superinten-
dent of Callan Park, had not been pub-
lished in the meantime.
• •
li/fENziEs’s comment on the Common-
wealth Security Organisation—he said
he believed there was a concerted cam-
paign to attack it and four or five Opposi-
tion members were chronically lending
themselves to the campaign—was long
over-due. Some Labor M.Ps. seem to re-
gard security as a dirty word and their
reaction to it is almost pathological.
Plastic pennies are being considered
by the Royal Mint. For Australia
an elastic pound is the more urgent need.
• •
Next Commonwealth Prime Ministers’
meeting will open in London on March
8. Macmillan, who talked this over with
the other P.Ms. while in New York,
wants an exchange of views on East-
West problems and disarmament before
the Summit-meeting he hopes will take
place not long afterwards.
• •
Mr Nehru sums-up the situation in
the Congo (after being asked who was
responsible for the life and honor of
Indians in the embattled republic): “One
would assume that the Government of
the country is primarily responsible. One
would imagine that the United Nations
Force is also responsible. I confess I can-
not say at the present moment who is
responsible, or who is effectively so,
because the Congolese Government is an
unusual type of government and the
Congolese Army is a very unusual type
of army, which does not like individuals.
The U.N. Force for the moment does
not seem to be very effective.”
• •
nPHE touch-and-go Higinbotham (Vic.)
by-election, with the Liberal, D. L.
Chipp, likely to win on D.L.P. preferences
by a majority of around 1000 (against a
Liberal majority of 9805 at the general
election), may be regarded as another link
in the chain-reaction which started with
the Federal M.Ps.’ salary-rises in early
1959. These were followed by the 15s.
basic-wage lift in mid-1959, the margins
increases at the end of the year, then
sharp rises in the price of steel and other
commodities, the lifting of import-
restrictions, greater credit-restriction,
heavier company-tax, over-importing and
loss of funds, then the desperate and
Socialistic expedients of raising sales-tax
on cars to 40 p.c., the disallowing certain
interest-payments for tax purposes and
the imposition of compulsory loans on
life-offices and superannuation funds.
The big lifts in salaries of judges of the
High Court a day or two before the by-
election (however justifiable the increases
may have been in a different political-
economic atmosphere) were also inoppor-
tune.
Prime Minister Menzies can hardly
console himself with the thought that
opposition to the Government’s form of
dealing with inflation —after that inflation
has largely been created by Govern-
mental bodies—exists only in Sydney.
Higinbotham is very definitely in Victoria.
• •
T.A.A. landed the first helicopter on
the new Yarra heliport last week while
a ding-dong row between Ansett—Mel-
bourne City Council —Board of Works
clanged on about who refused Ansett
permission to construct another heliport
on its Swanston Street premises. Ano*#
and T.A.A. will be joint users of th
Yarra heliport, charging 30s. for a seven
or eight-minute hop to Essendon
In the row about the Swanston Street
heliport, both the council and the board
flatly deny refusing Ansett permission
to build it; but there is no doubt one
or both did.
• •
Australia’s trade-deficit for the five
months July - November was £l3O 8
million compared with a surplus of £l6 8
million for the same period last year
Exports during November were valued
at £77.6 million and imports at £90.1
million, leaving a deficit for the month
of £12.5 million. In the previous Novem-
ber there was a favorable balance of
£12.7 million.
There is one bright spot in this picture
—the November deficit was the lowest
for the five months. Monthly deficits
since the beginning of the financial year
have been: July, £22.3 million; August,
£42.5 million ; September, £22.8 million;
October, £30.7 million ; November, £12.5
million.
e •
TToward Beale, Australian Ambassador
to Washington, is about to take ex-
tended leave in Australia —just at the time
when Kennedy is selecting his Cabinet and
other advisers, and framing policies. It
is being said in Canberra that no “career”
diplomat (as distinct from the political
appointee variety) would have thought
or dared to leave such a post at such
a time.
• •
Official figures support the Federal
Treasurer’s assertion in Higinbotham
electioneering and on TV in Melbourne
that a great deal of overtime is being
worked “at fancy prices.” A Labor and
National Service Department survey
found that 67 per cent, of all factories
and 34 per cent, of all employees were
working overtime, the average working-
week for all factory employees, including
overtime, was 42| hours and for em-
ployees actually working overtime 47{
hours.
• •
F. E. (“Joe”) Chamberlain’s emergence
as a strong guy in the A.L.P. is quite
abrupt, and has followed the disappear-
ance from the political scene of Dr
Evatt. He is reputed to have been only
a minor figure in the campaign, which
put up Dr Evatt as the fall guy, to curt)
the growing strength of the industrial-
groups.
The chief supporter of Dr Evatt aS
the übiquitous, inevitable Senator ra
Kennelly, and up in Lygon Street m
Melbourne now they say the wily Senaio
is working to heal the breach with t
D.L.P. The offer of the pact, on tne
eve of the Higinbotham campaign
had the imprint of being instigated )
the master-politician in the Senate.
Still, it was strange to find Serm
Kennelly denouncing Senator Wrig >
the second Senate debate on the car s
tax bill, for changing his mind.
privilege, apparently, is something
feels he should have on his pat.


Dr Ross Thinks Aloud
[extend my thanks to The Bulletin for
Ijts editorial, “Doctor Ross’s Dilemma”
December 7, 1960), in which it
ijjts out to understand sincerely and
Objectively the problems that face the
State Secretary of the Australian
■Railways Union.
I have two main criticisms —it under-
istimates the dilemmas, and it exag-
jjrates the Communist issue.
Thinking aloud, I ask again the ques-
ts that have faced me since 1954:
Dow can the transport industry be saved,
[the administrators refuse to face the
Lblems of increasing staff shortages and
declining morale? What avenues are
"open to a union which has offered co-
operation in meeting the problems, but
jfhich discovered that constructive
methods of labor relations are answered
with administrative cynicism, disbelief,
sometimes illiteracy?
If there are serious staff shortages
which the department, in turn, denies
tsist, acknowledges and attempts mea-
sures which fail, postpones action in the
belief that a minor depression would
solve its problems, and finally throws up
is hands in despair—what can a union-
Itader do, when daily the employees grow
restless at the consequences of staff
by demands that they be given
lie opportunity to show their determina-
ion? They know that resignations occur
jbecause colleagues are resigning for higher
ages. If such is the situation that has
ieveloped over years—not recently in the
fire-eating times,” as The Bulletin sug-
gests—suppose he concludes both that the
authorities are refusing to face the labor
problems, that Communists could gain
influence over employees because of this
refusal, and especially that railway
workers want this issue to be waged
industrially.
I have put The Bulletin’s interest in
Communist policy in a subordinate posi-
lion, because I believe that the great
majority of railway employees are con-
ned only with the industrial issues, and
•fiat Communist influence wiff grow only
non-Communists, whether administra-
tes or union officials, fail to tackle in-
dustrial issues fearlessly, persistently.
The monthly Bulletin No. 226, Septem-
", 1960, of the Commonwealth Bureau
“•Census and Statistics shows the average
""nimum weekly wage paid to sixteen
®dustrial groups for a full week’s work,
eluding overtime and penalty payments.
Railways are fourteenth on the list.
The average for all groups is £l7 12s.
per week.
The average for all Australian Railways
*l7 25., or 10s. per week less than
e average for all groups.
Jhe Railways figure for New South
ales is £l7 7 S> 4$ The all-Australian
toe is £l7 2s.
When the average is taken it is acknow-
]• a large number must receive less.
: 1S ls strikingly illustrated in the follow-
“ figures for New South Wales:
sf rs £l6 9s. Od.
nation Assistants, Cl. 2 .. 15 18s. 6d.
Assistants .. 16 Bs. Od.
Th
nese are gross figures and do not
allow for fares, superannuation, insurance
and taxation.
These classifications represent the
lower-paid groups and comprise the
majority of employees in all States. It will
be seen that the
Fettler received 18s. 4d. per week less than
the average;
Station Assistant, £1 6s. lOd. less than the
average;
Tradesmen’s Assistant, 19s. 4d. less than
the average.
'T'here are three sets of facts to which
A any commentator or critic must always
return in this discussion:
(1) There are thousands of railway-
workers who take home less than £30-
a-fortnight pay.
(2) There is a serious and continuing
staff shortage in the industry.
(3) The constructive and peaceful
solutions of the labor problems of the
industry have been rejected by the
authorities.
Well —what did we do?
Looking ahead and anticipating the
influence of staff shortages, we years ago
proposed schemes of co-operation for
the purpose of improving the efficiency,
safety, and finances of the industry. We
were prepared to co-operate so long as
the employees shared the gains. Then,
we took to the Arbitration Court a case
that occupied months of research and that
attempted an exhaustive investigation
and study of the field of labor-relations,
>yith special reference to the railway
problems.
The Conciliation Commissioner did not
give a decision on this mass of evidence,
because he said the issues, including the
union’s view on staff shortages, were the
concern of management.
Staffing was a question for the manage-
ment, he said, and he did not intend to
impose on management his views on the
merits of the union’s solution of this
problem.
But this question of staff shortages is
at the heart of the whole matter.
Negotiations and deputations continued
without avail. The problems remained,
so the A.R.U. decided that job-action
must be taken, partly because our union
was in danger of splitting, partly because
only by job-action could we draw public
attention to the serious aspects of the
labor .problems of the industry.
do we do next? We do not want to
” cause the defeat of the Labor Govern-
ment ; we will resist advancing the poli-
tical aims of the Communist party. We
must hold our union together. We do
not want to drive people from using
public transport and we do not like
injuring the public. But we must win
claims which you acknowledge to be just
—at least in part.
To do this requires qualities of patience,
restraint, solidarity, determination —and
ingenuity. The applications The Bulletin
will know in due course —they will not
justify the fears in its editorial. But I add
this final thought:
It may be because the A.R.U. in
New South Wales has recognised the
serious aspects of the situation that
Government and department are tempted
to exploit our sense of responsibility,
instead of tackling the problems.
LLOYD ROSS.
“Hey! You've taken the Wrong bag!"


How to he a Country Editor
By RON HARRISON
Come seven or eight years ago I came
across a notice which is fairly com-
mon in newspaper offices all over the
world—the one which says “You don’t
have to be crazy to work here, but it
helps!” The first time 1 saw it I was
just a country hack, so I was suitably
impressed. Not until some six years later
did I realise that the country journalist,
and particularly the country editor, who
has to combine that job with advertising
manager, job printing canvasser, circula-
tion manager, mechanic, diplomat,
general manager, proof reader, layout
man, and half a dozen other positions,
was the one who really was crazy.
The hazards of horsewhipping, such as
faced the Nyngan newspaper editor some
months ago, are not as ever-present as
they were, but apart from that, the job,
for a man who wants to turn out a good
paper with outmoded machinery, not
nearly enough staff, hardly enough
money to get along on, and a close-knit
community of tradespeople, church
people, sporting people, farming people,
and just plain people, is little short of
slavery.
Some country editors (I was one) are
foolish enough to let themselves be given
the title as well as the work of manager.
That puts them right out of the zone of
protection given, however fiimsily, by
the A.J.A. and the Industrial Court.
Even if they remain only editor, a clause
in the award provides that if they are
paid the rate for the next higher grade
of country paper, they “need not sign
a time book.” Which means, of course,
that for an extra three or four pounds
a week they can be compelled to work
enough overtime to justify the payment
of 13 or 14 pounds. The idea of a 40-hour
week to most of them is just a thing
they’ve read about in their history books
or their metropolitan papers. Excepting
that they don’t get any time to read either.
Although we are all willing to admit
that sometimes reporters do make slips,
or sub-editors are careless in their
handling of copy, or some editors do
insist on news being “slanted” one way
or another, or some proprietors poke
their noses in where we wish they would
keep out, working on a country weekly
teaches a journalist that most claims of
misreporting are due to the fact that
most people (and especially aldermen
and councillors) don’t know what they
want to say when they get up, and can’t
remember what they said when they sit
down.
The difference between city reporting
and country reporting is that in the
country you are, dammit, living with
them all the time. If they don’t like
what you reported of them or said about
them, they know you well, and bail you
up in the street and tell you so. You
can’t even get away with lack of criticism.
One large, overpowering dowager in my
last place of slavery insisted on singing
at every potty little do, although her
voice was unmelodious and tuneless.
After attending one of these things (a
C.W.A. annual meeting, or something
like that), I manfully overcame the
nausea her usual performance had in-
duced in me, and carefully refrained
from any remarks at all. She bailed me
up in the street the day the paper came
out.
“You needn’t have made it so obvious
you didn’t like my singing,” she told me
indignantly.
With completely unsimulated surprise,
I replied, “But I never said anything
about it!”
“No,” she said, “that’s just the point.”
You work such long hours when you
do get to the editor’s chair that you take
your sleep when and where you can
find it. I once went with the council on
a visit to a sister municipality some 80
miles away, completely disgusted the
Mayor by sleeping all the way there,
all the way round a tour of the municipal
installations, and all the way back.
Another time, the local travel agency
arranged for me to go on a 50-mile
trip in a new coach the bus company had
put on. Once again I disgraced myself
by falling asleep before the coach got
out of town, and not waking up again
until it was coming back in. But, since
the journey would not have interested
my readers very much anyway, I was
able to turn in quite an enthusiastic re-
port about the comfort of the coach.
You have to tread warily as far as
religious affiliations are concerned, and
you quickly learn that bigotry is not by
any means confined to any one sect—
they’ve all got them. The paper I was
running had the distinction of being con-
demned from three pulpits in three dif-
ferent denominations within a few weeks,
in spite of the fact that I belonged to
no denomination and tried to give all
of them fair space. I even offered the
different parsons space for their sermons,
but had to drop that because those who
were too lazy to send the stuff in com-
plained that the others were getting all
the publicity....
In local politics, especially when they
are not cut and dried, you can get into
all sorts of trouble, as the Nyngan affair
proved. One local bigwig never showed
any outward sign of bad temper or
resentment when the newspaper dis-
agreed with him or printed the views of
someone he didn’t like, but I could
always tell when he was displeased with
us. He would be just a little more pom-
polls than usual, and when he spoke to
me he turned his face towards the nearest
wall, as if he could not bear to look
at mine.
The two biggest headaches for a
country editor are the people who want
things put in, and the people who want
things left out.
Once, I had the “put it in” and the
“keep it out” people at me together.
A local firm had split up, partly through
family reasons, partly through differences
of opinion on how the business should
be run. The differences culminated in
a court case. The morning of the case,
I had two telephone calls. One was from
one party, who threatened to take his
advertising away from us if we printed
anything about the case, the other from
the other party, who threatened to take
his advertising out if we did not report
the case.
We reported the case, as we always
did, whoever was involved. The party
who wanted it reported took extra adver-
tising to compensate for that which was
taken out by the other party—and the
other party was back within six months.
Most of the people who wanted court
cases kept out of the paper were com-
pletely altruistic, according to their
stories to me. They never asked for sup-
pression for themselves, but always be-
cause of the effect publication would
have on their poor widowed mother or
their sister who was close to death in a
Cairns hospital, or their, wife. Sometimes
even their poor little innocent children.
Never for themselves... .Of course, the
case was always reported.
Whether you remain a country editor
(I’m talking of country weeklies and
bi-weeklies, not dailies) or not depends
about as much on temperament as on
how long you can keep working terrifi-
cally long hours for what is only reason-
ably good pay. With the right tempera-
ment, hours aren’t all that important,
especially if you don’t mind, and your
wife and children don’t mind, that you
have very little home life. If you enjoy
brushing shoulders with the people abou
whom you have to write all the time ana
if you enjoy being yourself quite f re '
quently in the public eye as The Edito
of Our Paper ; if, like a politician, y°
thrive on public recognition, if y° u a
gregarious by nature and love par i e
and barbecues and the social life ( eV
if you know that you’ve only been
vited to make sure it gets in the P a P e J ’
if you enjoy being a kingmaker (e
if the king is only the chairman o
shire council) —you’ll probably stIC
for a long long time, perhaps tor ’
and if you leave it, you’ll prpbably
back to it. . i
If not —well, I’ve thoroughly ; en^ s >
the last year of obscurity in a ci y
room, and I work a little less (
hours a week. Peace, it’s wonder u •


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Humes, Ltd.
m Humes, Ltd., register is suddenly
I placed among the more accessible
Itocks on ’Change with scrip more attrac-
|e a t present prices. Humes has un-
joubted growth potential. The 20s. ords.,
itching up to 90s. last September before
lie market slump, are quoted around 575.
id. today (the co. has just completed a
jo-for-five par issue) ; yield, then a
lender 3.1 p.c., is now 4.9 p.c.
Incorporated in 1920, Humes, Ltd.
[ten the Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd.],
developed the now-famous patent for
jntrifugally - spun reinforced - concrete
pipes. Today the co. is the largest manu-
licturer of concrete, welded-steel and
;oncrete-lined pipes in the Southern
Hemisphere, controlling, along with its
subsidiaries, a network comprising more
llan 70 factories scattered throughout
Australia, Malaya, Singapore, N.Z. and
jfiji. Main subsidiaries include Hume
Industries (Far East), Ltd; Hume
Industries (N.Z.), Ltd. ; Standard Steel
|!ty.; Hume Industries (South Seas),
ltd., Suva ; Dominion Wire Works Pty.;
aid W. R. Hume Pty. Humes Industries
(Far East) has additional interests besides
its three wholly-owned factories in
Malaya and Singapore —a 50 p.c. holding
iißheem-Hume (Far East), Ltd., manu-
facturer of steel drums, hot-water services
md air-conditioning equipment.
In addition to traditional activity,
ming-out pipes and various concrete
products, the group undertakes general
engineering work, fabricates light struc-
W-steel used in building construction
®1 has asbestos-mining interests in
South Africa and N.Z.
Dominion Wire and W. R. Hume were
r°th taken-over last term, the cash
K| }uired, plus funds necessary for work-
"S capital, coming in from a placement
( f 112,500 20s. ords. at a premium of
\k 6d.
In last August, after close of the
founts, the co. announced plans for
formation of a large-scale £3,000,000
organisation, Wunderlich Humes Asbes-
!° s Pipes Pty. (to be jointly owned with
Wunderlich, Ltd.) to manufacture and
® ar ßet asbestos-cement pipes for use in
ater-supply ? sewerage, etc., and as elec-
; ric *l and telephone conduits —factories
“ loe established in Melbourne and
Sydney; production to commence late
1961. This move was followed up, in
October, by takeover of Viking Indus-
trial Plastics Pty. (Mordialloc, Vic.) —
fabricator of corrosion-resisting chemical-
equipment—for 21,650'205. ords. The
co. then annexed (in November) Martin
Stoneware Pipe, Ltd:, and its subsidiary
Bendigo Pottery Pty., manufacturers at
Ballarat (Vic.), of salt-glazed earthenware
pipes, etc., and terra-cotta tiles and
bricks.
All cos. in the Flume group are
primarily contractors, and although sub-
stantial stocks are carried, the major
volume of business results from tenders
lodged in competition with firms
carrying-on similar activities. Demand
for pipes, etc., is largely governed by the
amount of finance available to Govern-
ment and semi-Government authorities
and to a lesser extent by the needs of
private enterprise.
Group sales continued to grow last
term, running to a record £16,458,432
(up £2,183,432).
The “Far East” subsidiary failed to
maintain previous performance, but this
was anticipated. Singapore tax-rates were
stiffened by a 33| p.c. increase in 1958.
Consolidated pre-tax profit, rising by
10.6 p.c. (largely a reflection of increased
business attaching takeovers) to reach
£1,239,369, was the highest yet. Net
profit, £658,463 (up £17,536), and written
after “a substantially increased provision
for taxation” £580,906 (up £100,942) and
depreciation £559,278 (up £76,632), was
the third-highest ever achieved. It repre-
sented an earning-rate on ord. capital,
after allowing for prefs., of 28.1 p.c.,
as against 28.7 p.c., 29.9 p.c., 34.6 p.c.
and 28.2 p.c. back to 1956:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
i —*• Dividends —^
June Profit. Pref. —Ord.—To Re- Re-
-74 p.c. serves, serves.f
„ £ £ P-c. £ £ £
1957. .584,802 27,188 16 268,000 289,614 3,195,014
Less increase in intangibles, £1864 3,193,150
Reserves capitalised, £418,169 ..2,774,981
Surplus revaluation of shares in Hume
Holdings (N.Z.), Ltd., £124,000 2,898,981
Interests in other cos. vv/off, £4900.. 2,894,081
Tax overprovided, vv/back, £22,078.. 2,916,159
Written-off, £6200 . . . . . . 2,909,959
Unexplained reduction, £123,999 ..2 785^960
1958.. 603,383 27,188 154 298,937 277,258 5',063,218
Less increase in intangibles, £69 . . 3,063,149
Surplus sale of assets, £llO9 . . 3,064,258
Written-off, £6200 .. .. .. 3,058,05 S
From provision account, N.Z. sub-
si diary, £10,833 3,068,891
1959.. 640.927 27,188 14 299,250 314.489 3,383,380
Less increase in intangibles, £175,149 3,208,231
Share-premiums, £262,500 . . 3,470,731
Surplus sale of assets, £29,109 . . 3,499,840
Written-off, £lB6O .. .. ..3,497,980
Unexplained addition, £7OO .. ..3,498,680
1960. .658,463 27,188 14 315,000 316,275 3,814,955
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting intangibles, etc., now £196,466.
Dividends accounted for £342,188. Prefs.
received £27,188, and ords., by virtue of
a continued 14 p.c. distribution, took
the other £315,000 —the div.-rate, which
had stood for four years at \l\ p.c., was
dropped to 16 p.c. in 1957, to 15+ p.c.
in 1958 and to the present level in 1959.
Undistributed profits, £316,275, went to
reserves, which, augmented by a capital-
gain of £29,109 from the sale of excess
assets plus Government bonds, and
£262,500 received by way of share-
premiums, rose to £4,011,421 (up
£606,724) subject to increased intangibles,
up £175,149 at £196,466.
Growth has been financed, in large
measure, from retained earnings, but
share-issues have been frequent: a one-
for-two par issue in 1949-50, a one-for-
two bonus in 1950-51, a one-for-three
par in 1951-52, a one-for-four bonus in
1957-58 and the just-concluded two-for-
five issue at par (books closed October
26, 1960), lifting paid capital, ord. and
pref. combined, to £3,634,150 (pref.
capital is held in “A” and “B” p.c.
cum. shares, 112,500 “As” and 250,000
“Bs”). At June 30 last, balance-date,
ord. equity aggregated £2,250,000.
Movements in fixed assets reflect the
considerable expenditure undertaken by
the group in the implementation of its
modernisation and expansion pro-
gramme :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref. .. £362,500 £362,500 £362,500
Ord. . . 2,137,500 2,137,500 2,250,000
Reserves . . 3,084,466 3,404,697 4,011,421
Outside interests 896,316 896,398 908,766
Notes . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage . . 625,620 598,340 581,685
Overdraft .. 514,047 832,475 768,096
Creditors .. 1,552,697 1,557,975 1,886,171
Provisions for
insurances and
other contin-
gencies .. 118,371 106,452 104,759
Tax provision.. 516,232 487,154 596,727
Suspense acct. 68,216 87,363 33,383
Final divs. .. 195,281 163,219 171,094
£11,071,246 £11,634,073 £12,674,602
Freehold land,
etc. . . 660,507 707,113 774,810
Buildings . . 2,245,069 2,376,321 2,458,653
Plant, fittings. . 2,141,259 2,508,469 2,822,952
Asbestos deposits 68,819 07,928 64,023
Shares in other
cos. .. 223,170 222,420 218,820
Stocks on hand 3,586,493 3,408,372 3,515,973
Debtors . . 2,009,165 2,139,073 2,448,820
Cash, etc. .. 115,516 183,060 174,085
Intangibles .. 21,248 21,317 196,466
£11,071,246 £11,634,073 £12,674,602
Finances are very comfortable.
So far in the current term sales and
profits of the parent co. approximate
those made during the same period of
last year, but higher aggregate figures
are expected when the final reckoning
is struck. Steel shortage is, however, a
major problem. Sales and profits of the
“Far East” subsidiary are expected to
improve.
Funds will be required to finance the
parent’s programme of capital expendi-
ture, and equity interests are almost
certain to be called upon to provide much
of the necessary cash.
Whether, however, the new share-issues
will be at par or at a premium is another
matter. Chairman Mr C. N. MacKenzie,
commenting on the November two-for-
five par issue, said, “The premium
method was not regarded as suitable on
this occasion but that may not always
be the case.”
At balance-date the 20s. ords. had a


ii!
PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LTD.
£300,000
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
NOW OPEN
LONG TERM
SI
PER MM
FOR
3 to 8 TEARS
11
PER ANNUM
for 2 YEARS
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURE STOCK OF 2 YEARS AND OYER RECEIVED
ON OR BEFORE 31st DECEMBER, 1960, HAVE THE SPECIAL
RIGHT OF PARTICIPATION
r IN THE FUTURE ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES BY
WYNYARP HOLDINGS LIMITED.
SHORT TERM
0 &?% P er annum for 12 months 0 per annum for 6 months
• 6%-per annum for 9 months £ 4£% per annum for 3 months
Applications will be accepted only on the application form
attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited.
• Project Development Corporation Limited, 291 George St., Sydney.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Colin A. Gray, Chairman; E. S. Clementson, Managing Director; H. S. Clementson
E. A. Fenton, H. Hawking, B. G. Hely.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE
William Tilley, Hudson, Evans & Co., (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
BROKERS for the issue in VICTORIA 6 7
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.)
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
291 George Street, Sydney.
Please forward a Prospectus with Application Form to
NAME
ADDRESS.
tangible asset-backing (book-values) of
£2 13s. lid.
Pope Industries, Ltd.
/'Ance Pope’s leading profit-spinner, the
television division had proved a
“heavy burden on the profitability of
last year’s trading, partially resulting
from the previous year’s operation.”
The TV section incurred “heavy
losses,” due to the “lack of rational
marketing within the industry as a whole,
and also as a result of a deliberate policy
of digesting losses currently and paving
the way with controlled clean new-model
stocks for more stable marketing in
1960-61.”
First established in a Croydon (S.A.)
garage in 1925, Pope Industries, Ltd.,
was reorganised as a public company in
1945. The group manufactures refrigera-
tors, washing - machines, TV - receivers,
stereophonic sound - systems, electric
motors, rotary lawn-mowers, garden-
sprinklers, air - conditioning appliances,
kitchen- and laundry-wear, refrigerator-
fittings, garden-tools, hardware, etc. The
original lines, such as sprinklers, irriga-
tion-equipment, hand-tools, etc., still
form an important part of Pope’s
business.
There is an integrated electronics divi-
sion operating at Belmore (a Sydney
suburb). Useful overseas affiliations and
connections include technical partner-
ships with Borg-Warner International
Corporation (electrical appliances and
air-conditioning) and Motorola Inc.
(TV-sets). Last term new branch facili-
ties were established in Victoria, Queens-
land and Tasmania.
Competition is intense, especially
in TV and electrical appliances sections.
“As distinct from previous years, a
vigorously applied policy of obsolescent
stock-liquidation over the whole range
of company products was effected prior
to June 30.” This enabled Pope to start
the current term with “a well regulated
and controlled stable marketing policy.”
TV losses and strong competition re
duced last year s earnmgs. Consolidate
net profit for the year ended June -S?
r?S7’ooo aS f? 6 ' 578 <O V S p ' c '> C
£257,209 after providing £lspi 4 f 1
depreciation (up £18,765)
£29 d 224) £ : 1 i 4 ’ 400 f “ ‘ aXati ° n
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends . To Re- „
June, Profit. Pref. ( Ord. ? serves „ R .
5 p c ' fetves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1956.-201,907 9,000 59,500 133,407 8 09 r«
Unexplained addition, £7 . sno’aii
6& 7 p.e. •• 802 ' 644
1957.. 101 27,483 10 = 78,200 90,418 893
Capital profit, £789 .. .. ’
Added intangibles, £22,383 .. " 07P,?:
1958 - 251,19 1 26,2 0 0 1 0 = 86,6 00 1 38,391 1 009
Tax overprovided, £16,969 .. Uo2(i’B2B
Assets revalued, £125,000 .. .) l’lsi’sog
Contingency provision transferred, ” ’ ’ 8
£95,000 .. .. .. ..1 246 898
1959.. 38,163 10 =102,114 163,510
Capital profit, £36,086 .. ~ 1,446)424
Less, added intangibles, £1774 .. 1,’444)650
Less, net reduction reserves, £9205 1’435 44i
1960-257,209 43,700 10 =126,700 86,809 1)522)254
* After deducting difference between book and par
values of interco. holdings.
After paying the pref. divs. (£43,700),
this represented an earning-rate of 16.9
p.c. on the higher average paid capital,
compared with 26 p.c. in the two previous
years, 21.6 p.c. in 1957 and 40.5 pc
in 1956.
The steady 10 p.c. div.-cheque
(£126,700) was well covered. Reserves
received £86,809 and also benefited by
£36,086 capital-profit on sale of assets.
There was an unexplained reduction of
£9205. Reserves were also reduced by
a £1774 rise in intangibles, and were dis-
closed at- £1,522,254.
During the year Pope made a call of
2s. 6d. a unit on the 1959 ords. bringing-
in £139,524. This was followed by a one-
for-four issue at par., raising paid capital
to £2,392,333 (including 180,000 20s. cum.
6 p.c. prefs. and 470,000 20s. redeemable
cum. 7 p.c. prefs.):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £400,000 £650,000 £650,000
Ord 866,0 00 1,2 60,000 1,742,333
Reserves .. - . . 1,009,859 1,410,338 1,522,254
Debentures, etc. .. 795,300 971,390 1,020,230
Notes . . . . 349,000 349,000 1,349,000
Deferred loan .. 85,000 85,000 65,000
Overdraft .. .. 682,731 953,553 366,431
Creditors . . . . 1,05 2,806 1,7 88,7 5 6 2,284,585
Tax provision . . 116,220 155,124 124,260
Long-service leave,
etc 154,281 HO,BIB
Final dividends . . 56,400 78,306 85,5a0
£5,413,316 £7,855,748 £9,320,461
Freeholds, lease- ..
holds, plant, etc. 2,321,705 3,253,596 3,338,4
Shares, etc. .. 20,000 29,750 I yf
Stock . . . . 2,052,326 3,268,081 4,509,304
Debtors .. .. 1,015,813 1,245,165 1,307,60«
Cash, etc. ' .. 3,472 59,156 IOMg
£5,413,316 £7,855,748 £9,320,467
Long - term borrowings increased. Urn
secured notes were £1,000,000 higher a
£1,349,000. Bank accommodation was
£587,122 lower. Creditors rose by
£495,819 and book-debts by £112,441-
Stocks increased by £1,241,281 ®
£4,509,362. This is a solid jump, taking
into account the write-down of obsoie
stocks
An extensive development progranimie
was carried out during last term. A
range of air-conditioning equipment a
new lines of refrigerators and elec
motors were introduced.
Market conditions remain very
petitive, although sales are reporte
be rising. The group is striving to
trol mounting costs, which last y ea r
offset the benefits of a higher tur


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of The Sydney Stotk Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE
33 BUGH ST., 20 O'CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. 2-0137
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
67-5089. 67-5080. 67-1257.
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking," Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale.
A. L. NEViTT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. XV. C* DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mntoal Life Building,
SSI Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No, ISB7W
The combined impact of imports and
je current economic squeeze has led
|0 of 200 employees from
Pope’s factories in S.A.
The co.’s long-established diversifica-
,jon policy proved useful last term, when
py profits dwindled, but demand for
irrigation-equipment increased following
lire drought in parts of S.A. The co. has
jcreditable earnings and dividend record.
The ss. ords. look attractive on the
jampened market. At the last sale in
Sydney they changed hands at 6s. 9d.
junit. The immediate yield is 7.4 p.c.
on the basis of the steady 10 p.c. div.-
rate. The 20s. prefs. were last traded
at 20s. 6d. a unit.
j Net tangible asset-backing works out
L[ £6 os. sd. for every 20s. pref. and at
! S , 4d. for each ss. ord. unit on the
ilasis of consolidated accounts.
.
David Syme and Co., Ltd.
r ast term was highlighted by the
£141,440 write-up of freeholds,
accompanied by a one-for-four gift-issue,
which lifted paid capital to £1,650,000,
including 400,000 5 p.c.-6 p.c. 20s. cum.
frets.
Victorian newspaper publisher and
proprietor, David Syme and Co., Ltd.,
is the owner of the Melbourne “Age.”
Other interests include “substantial”
parcels of shares in General Television
Corporation Pty. (operating Melbourne’s
GTV Channel 9) and in 3AW Broadcast-
ling Co. Pty.
Revenue from classified and display
ivertisements continued to grow. A
use of £347,000 over the previous term
was reported. During twelve months to
June 30, 1960, advertising columns
increased by 7222 to 69,833. The num-
ber of individual ads published last
term was said to be 1,407,982.
Expenses and costs continued to rise.
Cost of newsprint was £54,070 higher at
11,348,993. Salaries and wages increased
hy £155,432 due to award and other rises.
increased dividend was received from
General Television Corporation Pty.
Net profit for the year ended June 30,
%0, was £39.174 higher at £447,926
fc providing £98,368 for depreciation
fop £12,875). deducting a steady £60,000
for increased cost of plant-replacement
setting-aside £326,000 for taxation
fop £53,500):
, ( Dividends To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. f— —Ord. serves, serves.*
5 p.e.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
H *U92,221 20.000 8;= 80,000 92,221 502,096
Profit sale fixed assets, £421 . . 502,517
89,590 20,000 6 = 60,000 9,590 512,107
Loss sale fixed assets, £llB6 .. 510,921
‘W 286,633 20,000 10 = 100,000 166,633 677,554
. Loss sale fixed assets, £1233 .. .. 676,321
“09.408,752 20,00 0 10 = 100,00 02 8 8,7 5 2 9 6 5,0 7 3
Profit sale assets, £243 .. .. 965,316
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 715,316
Asset revaluation, £141,440 .. 856,756
Ita 1 6 n.c.
™47,92(1 24,000 10 = 125,000 298,926 1,155,682
‘Reserves subject to goodwill (£150,000) at
L 30/6/’6O.
e lax provision looks generous at
“Would you prefer to Watch some other programme, Mr. Johnson?”
current co. rates, allowing for the £60,000
transfer to plant-replacement provision.
The rights attaching to 400,000 20s.
prefs. were varied to enable the payment
of an extra } p.c. for every 1 p.c. de-
clared on ords. in excess of 8 p.c., and
pref. shareholders collected a 6 p.c. div.
(£24,000). This left the ord. earning-rate
on the bonus-swelled average capital at
33.9 p.c. compared with 38.9 p.c. in the
previous term and 28.7 p.c. in 1958.
The steady 10 p.c. ord. div. absorbed
£125,000, leaving £298,926 for reserves,
which also benefited by £243 profit on
sale of assets and £141,440 revaluation
of freeholds. Total reserves and undis-
tributed profits were disclosed at
£1,155,682, plus £lBO,OOO provision for
increased cost of plant-replacement,
subject to £150,000 intangibles.
The second stage of building operations
at David Syme’s Collins Street head-
quarters in Melbourne was completed,
and the final work on demolition and
rebuilding of the old frontage has com-
menced, scheduled for completion in the
next two years.
“The Age” will then be housed in a
modern, air-conditioned, “limit-height”
building. In addition, the purchase of
the seven-storey “Invicta House,” with a
60ft. frontage to Flinders Lane at the
rear of the Collins Street property, was
completed last July after the balance-
date. A contract was also made to
acquire “The Age” Chambers from the
David Syme Estate for an undisclosed
price.
Long-term borrowings were higher.
The co. issued £200,000 7y p.c. unsecured
notes maturing 1966. In addition there
is a new £140,000 h.-p. liability on
purchase of property, repayable by
annual instalments of £28,000 during
1961-65:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000, 1,250,000
Reserves .. 677,554 965,073 1,155,682
Plant - replacement 60,000 120,000 180,000
Notes . . . . 200,000
Overdraft - .. 416,477 114,298 77,330
Hire purchase lia-
bility . . . . - -- 140,000
Sundry creditors. . 193,379 205,513 544,558
Income-tax pvov.. . 220,202 275,086 328,515
Final div. .. 70,000 60,000 76,500
£3,037,612 £3,139,970 £4,352,585
Freeholds . . .. 978,054 1,130,611 2,084,798
Plant .. .. 663.613 806,357 880,583
Stocks .. .. 616,518 373,918 513,015
Debtors .. .. 399,527 448,713 489,964
Investments .. 211,360 209,735 209,735
Cash .. .. 18,540 20,636 24,490
Goodwill .. .. 150,000 150,000 150,000
£3,037,612 £3,139,970 £4,352,585
Sundry creditors, stocks and book-debts
were higher. Bank overdraft was re-
duced. Formal liquidity appeared
tightish.
Prospects continue favorable, though,
if Sydney experience is any guide, classi-
fied advertising may have fallen-off since
the credit-squeeze really began to pinch.
At the last sale in Melbourne the ss.
ords. fetched 245. a unit for an immedi-
ate yield of 2.1 p.c. on the basis of the
steady 10 p.c. dividend distribution. The
20s. prefs. changed hands at 225. a unit.
Net tangible asset-backing is 9s. 9d.
for each ss. ord.


Shows
ABORIGINAL ART—TWO VIEWS
N,T. Blacks Learn Bark Painting
Tribal aborigines of the Northern
Territory have successfully entered the
art business, judging by the red “sold”
stickers going up shortly after the
ART
opening of their exhibition of
bark paintings and carvings
in the “Aboriginal Tradi-
tions” show at the Terry
Clune Galleries, Sydney.
Something quite new in aboriginal
painting are the two sft.-square, bold
and rhythmically powerful re-transcrip-
tions on masonite of rock and ceremonial
paintings from Port Keats. Painted
neither in the “X-ray” nor “cross-
hatching” traditions of Arnhem Land,
they are partly representational and
partly symbolic, owning affinities with
Central Australian traditions.
When, in 1954, I visited the isolated
Port Keats Mission and asked the
aborigines there for bark paintings, I
was told that they had never made them.
I showed the aborigines examples and
demonstrated the technique of bark
painting (using the juice of a tree-orchid
to fix the colors), and they made re-
transcriptions of rock and ceremonial
paintings for me on bark and other
materials. Bishop O’Loughlin, of Dar-
win, who commissioned Parisian artist
Karel Kupka to paint the aboriginal
“Madonna and Child” for the Catholic
Church in Darwin, is apparently
encouraging these traditions —which were
suppressed at the time of my Port Keats
visit.
Delightful motifs and designs of
“turtles and clouds,” “catfish and
brolgas,” “snake, porcupine and ants,”
“caterpillars and trees,” “crocodiles,”
“emus,” “stingray” and “wild honey,”
also painted sculptures of ducks, fish
and turtles, comprise the subjectmatter.
The exhibits come from Milingimbi,
Oenpelli and Port Keats, on the initiative
of Karel Kupka, who collects for the
Basle Museum, Switzerland, and who, on
a previous visit, arranged for the missions
to send their best work to Sydney.
Whether it is labor, knowledge, talent
or skill, everyone in our civilisation
must have something to sell. This exhi-
bition is an important and serious attempt
by all concerned to provide a way for
our tribal aborigines to participate in
our economy.
Roland Robinson.
Ashtrays Better Than Bark?
On leaving the Melbourne National
Gallery’s exhibition of aboriginal art, the
reviewer found in a nearby cafe two white
attempts to imitate black artistry—a
china ashtray and a small, circular table-
mat. The designs inscribed on these were
like those on bark in the exhibition, also
their coloring ; even their texture. They
were copies as straight as the manufac-
turers could make them.
Now the arrangers of this exhibition,
the State Art Galleries of Australia, in-
form us in their well-produced catalogue
that for the first time the paintings have
been chosen for their aesthetic rather than
their anthropological value. We are
invited to examine the exhibits simply
as works of art, even to the point of
forgetting their authorship. This is an
approach which becomes necessary if our
interest in the cultures of other peoples
is not to drift into the pigeonholes of mere
academic curiosity.
The question we might ask is whether
this art has only a limited, disembodied
meaning for us because our culture has
roots stretching back into quite different
soil. Has aboriginal art a meaning apart
from the mythologies, the esoteric sym-
bolism, the tribal associations which are
clearly embodied in it? Can we look at it
in much the same way as we look at ab-
stract art, forgetful of literal and visual
relationships to anything to be found out-
side the world of the painting?
To answer such questions we might
return to the white man’s imitations.
These were in all likelihood made with
only the vaguest notions of their tribal
connotations. That constitutes one dif-
ference between the original and the copy.
The other difference, the one that we
are interested in here, is the aesthetic.
Can we, in comparing the two, detect the
aesthetic difference between original
design and copy? If we cannot then
the principles on which the exhibition is
based would seem to be no longer valid
for us, and we must resume the old
historical approach.
The reviewer must confess that gener-
ally he found it most difficult (it was
a rather disillusioning experience) to be
certain which possessed the higher degree
of visual quality, the original or the
copy. He even found himself doubting
whether there was any significant dif-
ference at all.
Maybe further visits to this perplexing
and haunting exhibition will solve the
problem ; and maybe not.
A. S. Jorgensen.
Adelaide Art Shows
There is a clean, fresh show, Melbourne
Prints, at the Royal S.A. Society of Arts
which gives a good idea of the delectable
variety to be obtained from the media of
the graphic arts. Lesbia Thorpe creates
simple illustrations, bold and decorative,
using the forms of nature as articles of
design. Robert Grieve, on the other hand,
especially in his black and white work,
evades any clear statement of nature in
order to take up a hint and develop it into
a suggestion of character isolated in space.
His cat and owl are particularly send
Barbara Brash lays on color with the
notable effect in the show, in senaraf
blocks in “Lighthouse” and in P " a ' e
™ ls i, in ‘‘ Peaco A” J h = « enera l standard
of all the work is highly competent and
pleasant, although Noel Counihan while
certainly competent, is too blatantlv
social-realist. y
It was fitting that the show was oneneH
by Paul Beadle, Principal of the SA
School of Arts, as he has done a great deal
to revive interest in print-making in S A
The School’s new course in graphic art is
in the extremely capable hands of TJdo
Sellbach, who had a notable exhibition
some time ago in Adelaide, and already
there are signs of first-rate work emerg-
ing from such young artists as Barbara
Hanrahan.
At John Martin’s there is an equally
clean show, this time of little oils each
on lOin. by 6in. panels distributed to
artists all over Australia by the gallery
director, Vi Johns'. It is chastening to see
what can be packed into a small space at
a time when it is fashionable to paint by
the square yard. Lloyd Rees is the sur-
prise of the show, letting a new freedom
and a new range of color break through
his usual rather monotonous style.
Jacqueline Hick has a masterly study of
people on the beach by an umbrella, brash
as summer ; she also has a very amusing
defrocked version of the Mona Lisa.
Max Ragless has a chalky stretch of the
Murray, and Phyl Waterhouse some excit-
ing bare hills in Tasmania. There are
some swift and sympathetic sea-scenes
by Robert Campbell, Director of the S.A.
National Gallery, and some easy-going
landscapes by William Dargie. James
Cant offers a close view of some of his
favorite undergrowth, but with more
color than usual, and an unfamiliar
name, Alicia Sutton, makes one want to
see more of her work. This does not
apply to the two boudoir-scented Adrian
Feints.
Geoffrey Dutton.
FILMS
“Look Back in Anger”
Now that Kingsley Amis can write
nostalgic articles about what it was like
to be an Angry Young Man, the British
cinema, which has never been quite
contemporary, has discovered the market-
potential of the Anguished Protest.
Following the success of “Room at the
Top” we have seen “This Angry Silence,
and can look forward to seeing “The
Entertainer” and Alan Sillitoe’s “Saturday
Night and Sunday Morning,” while at
this moment we are being shown the
most famous of the Angries’ productions,
“Look Back in Anger.” ,
One should have nothing but unstinte
praise for this film because it has a
the ingredients of success; Osborne
powerful script, good acting from every
body and in particular from R iclia ■
Burton in the role of Jimmy P° rter >
especially intelligent direction from y
Richardson who was responsible to
original stage production.
The film’s style differs markedly
that of “Room at the Top.” I ts nl


j s far more that of the small group of
documentary-makers who called them-
selves The Free Cinema and who were
making short, observational films at about
the same time that Osborne was writing
‘Look Back in Anger.”
Richardson has the same impassive
camera work in this film, and the influence
of such Free Cinema productions as
“Momme Don’t Allow” and “Every Day
Except Christmas” is obvious.
Where the film does triumph is in
depicting the relationship between Jimmy
and Allison and Helena. It introduces us
jo Ma Tucker and makes Jimmy’s reac-
tions more understandable. In its exposi-
tion of the story of Jimmy Porter and
his three women the film surpasses the
play.
But this is not enough. The story
aside, we have to ask ourselves: Why
Jimmy Porter? Both the film and the
play put this question. It is expected that
we should find evils in society to explain
such desperation.
The play didn’t have to show us these
evils; the outside never intrudes on the
grubby set, except when Daddy comes
to collect Allison. But the film felt the
need, and it is here that it fails.
At Melbourne Athenaeum.
' A. S. J.
“Spartacus”
Spartacus was a union leader when
being “crucified” didn't mean losing your
seat on the central committee ; you were
actually nailed to one of the crosses
lining the road to Rome.
But this is n anticipating by 3| hours
(it will still save you reading Howard
Fast’s novel) the story of Spartacus the
gladiator, as whom Kirk Douglas led
a break-out strike from the training
establishment of Peter Ustinov and
marched with his fellow unionists over
the technicolor, setting free slaves as
they went, to Brundisium and the sea.
There he turned to fight a Roman army
under the haughty Laurence Olivier, was
beaten, and with other survivors was
crucified on the roadside, the grief
of the English slave-girl, Jean Simmons,
with whom he had been Roman in the
gloaming while Tony Curtis recited Latin
Poetry by the campfire.
It is a well-integrated story, and
although one wouldn’t give 12 million
dollars for it oneself, one must admit
mat it has about 12 million dollars’
worth of everything. You can be shocked
at Ustinov playing Peeping Tom when
“ e has introduced the slave-girl into the
gladiator’s cell, and later you can peep
Ourself when gladiator and slave-girl
Pair-off on the march. You can disap-
prove the blood-lust of gladiatorial sports
"'(file at the same time you watch Douglas
Wl th a sword fighting a negro with net
and trident. Technicolor plays as curious
r *cks: the shambles of women, children
an d slaves after the big battle makes as
Pretty a picture as the marbled Senate.
, Then again, if you don’t like spectacu-
ar battles with huge casts of extras, or
yl-constructed detail of gladiators’
quarters, there are seven stars
fighting to outshine each other, like
Olivier playing the ice-cream faced
patrician, and Laughton, conspiring with
a snigger against him, while Kirk Douglas
drowns in blood, sweat and tears, and
young John Gavin, as young Julius
Caesar, takes in both the Roman and the
Hollywood field and bides his time—but
the best of all the principals is Ustinov.
He even photographs best; his anima-
tion, his flesh-tints, his beard, in a scene
at a table with Laughton, were like some-
thing by Titian.
At Sydney Forum.
R. McCuaig.
“Eugene Onegin”
The Russian film of Tschaikowsky’s
opera on Pushkin’s verse novel, about the
city sophisticate who nobly rejected the
advances of a young country girl, and
was rejected himself when later she
became the wife of an aristocrat, is ven-
triloquised, and although the miming is
excellent, and the story is beautifully
told in color-film (“Sovcolor”), with
English translations of bits of Pushkin’s
dialogue printed on the film, there is
always that loss of immediacy.
Medvedev as Onegin, in his Byronic
coat and hair-style, is admirable in the
scene where he tells the girl (Shenge-
laya), in her high-waisted muslin frock,
that it just isn’t reasonable ; but it is only
the unnamed actor who plays the French
dandy, Triquet, singing the simple song
of adoration for Tatyana which inter-
rupts the quarrel between Onegin and
Lensky, who completely carries you
away with his quaint warmth and charm ;
real or dubbed, he is an extraordinarily
fine actor.
The music, sung by superb voices
(Vishnevskaya, Avdeyeva, Kibkalo,
Grigoriev and Ivan Petrov) is so raised
and lowered and subordinated to the
storytelling that it is hardly noticeable
except in the big waltz-scene, and in
Lensky's aria, which takes him out of
his room to his duel with Onegin and
his death in the snow. In some of the
concluding close-ups technicolor, which
seems capable of suggesting anything
but nature, suggested Manet. All in all,
however much was lost, the story
remained, one of the world’s greatest,
simple, profound and moving.
At Sydney Gala.
R. McC.
MUSIC
A.B.C. Messiah
Stylishly as Sir Bernard Heinze
conducted the A.B.C.’s annual Sydney
Town Hall “Messiah,” the Hurlstone
Choral Society and the soloists seemed
slow. Parallel with the easygoing sweet-
ness of the Sydney orchestra’s innumer-
able strings one heard the cackle of last
week’s Cell Block “Messiah’s” two or
three ferocious fiddles, and Roslyn
Dunbar producing astonishing roulades
from that slender throat. It was like
coming home from a night-club to supper
with grandma; one left murmuring:
Break, break thy strings, thou lutenists of earth;
Thy musics touch me not —
Meaning that for anyone who heard the
Dene Barnett “edition” from the old
scores, Handel’s “Messiah” will never be
the same again.
R. McC.
NEW RECORDS
A Chorus of Love: The men of the
Robert Shaw Chorale, with Robert Shaw
conducting (R.C.A. L 16261). A batch of
traditional English, Scottish, German,
Italian, French and Spanish songs in-
tended to show that love’s grand in any
language. Also that it's lively, jolly, sad,
mad, bad, tearful, hopeless and despair-
ing. One doesn’t usually think of “Auld
Lang Syne” as a love-song, and “Vive
V amour’’ and the Czech “Stodole
Pumpa,” strictly speaking, are drinking
songs, but there can’t be any argument
about “Turn Ye to Me,” “L’Amour de
“Bring that back!”


SPECIAL OFFER
A Christmas gift combination that cannot fail to please
your male relatives and friends
A Subscription to
PLUS
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS
TUCKER”
&
i.y
5
r
'*r—
X?
ESS
Every NEW one-year gift-subscription to THE BULLETIN entities the
donor to a copy of “Time Means Tucker” AT HALF PRICE—S/-.
We will post the book (post free) to the recipient of your BULLETIN gift-
subscription, together with a Greetings-card announcing both gifts. (Please add
a memo to the subscription-form if the book is to be posted direct to donor.)
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for months’
subscription to THE BULLETIN. Add 5/- to subscription rates (see below) if
a copy of “Time Means Tucker” is also to be sent to recipient (see details above).
RECIPIENT
Address
DONOR
Address
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C’wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d. British
C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a
Christmas gift an appropriate Greetings-card
will be sent direct to the recipient announcing
your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD:
Moyr “Passing By,” or even Yeafc’c
“Down by the Sally Gardens.” And for
love on the all-embracing scale thenA
‘Green Grow the Rashes, O” w ith
Rabbie Burns claiming that “the sweetest
hours that e’er I spend are spent aman»
the lasses, O.” s
Mozart Piano Concertos, K 595, K4S6-
Ingrid Haebler with the Vienna
phony Orchestra under Christoph von
Dohnanyi (Philips GL2I). On her tour
of Australia last year Ingrid Haebler
due to return in 1961, brought intelligence
and a limpid tone to music more brilliant
than profound. She points-up the
rhythmic gaieties which offset the melan-
choly episodes of the K 456, and so treats
the andante of the K 595, composed in
the last year of Mozart’s life, that the
wings of death seem to beat about it.
The Musical World of Lerner and
Loewe: Starlight Symphony Orchestra
under Ornadel (M.G.M. E 3781). Really
the musical world of Loewe, as the
recording hasn’t a single Lerner word in
it. Vienna-born Frederick Loewe was
composing music a dozen years before
Lerner was born; at 13 he was the
youngest solo-pianist to have played with
the Berlin Symphony Orchestra ; at 15
he wrote a song-hit that sold a million
copies ; but he had almost given music
away when he met 25-year-old radio-
scriptwriter Alan lay Lerner in 1943.
The music in this M.G.M. album is from
their four hit-shows, “Brigadoon,” “Paint
Your Wagon,” “My Fair Lady” and
“Gigi,” which have made Loewe and
Lerner as famous as Gilbert and
Sullivan.
Dances by Brahms and Dvorak:
Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra under
Von Karajan (Deutsche Gesselschaft,
LPM18610). Eight Hungarian dances by
Brahms, and five Slavonic dances by
Dvorak—he never did better than the
No. 10 —-all 13 harmonically splendid,
melodically and rhythmically entrancing,
played with a bubbling and bounding
ebullience.
Winifred Atwell Plays Fifty More All-
time Hits: (Decca LKA 4361). On
concert-grand and honkytonk Winnie’s
nimble fingers have played so many
pieces that it is hard to believe she could
find 50 popular songs that she hasn’t
already recorded. But an honest
appraisal of the bill of fare forces the
admission that every item on the list was
in its time a hit; and that a large propor-
tion of them still are. The singers repre-
sented (most of them several times over)
include Gershwin, Rodgers, Jerome Kern,
Cole Porter, Ivor Novello and Noe.
Coward.
The Golden Touch: Frankie Carle
(R.C.A. L 10932). The veteran jazz-pianist
takes his orchestra, with occasional
singers, through a dozen old favorites,
several of his own compositions, such as
“Falling Leaves,” “Roses in the Ram
and “Sunrise Serenade.” From further
back come “Missouri Waltz” and
You Were the Only Girl”; more recent
numbers are “Deep Purple,” “Diane
and “Penthouse Serenade.”


Women
PHONES...SILKS...BLINDS
lines of Service
Nothing makes a P.M.G. man madder
j an to be told what a wonderful tele-
tione service America has compared
jith Australia. “There is scarcely a
srvice anywhere in the world which
L’t be matched here,” they say.
People just don’t know about them,
feat’s all.”
Take the Particular Person call, for
[stance. Most people know that you
ian put in a call for a special person,
or a small extra fee. But it is not
merally known that the P.M.G. will
low that person round the country for
on if necessary. You phone him at
[amworth. He has gone to Glen Innes.
le call follows him. If he has gone
irough to Inverell the call goes, too.
fhen you finally catch up with him the
I.M.G. will only charge you the trunk-
's to the point where you talked to
k This detective work is not often
tcessary. But it is there if you want it.
It is well known that you can send a
iegram from a phone-number. It is
swell known that you can also send a
fegram to a phone-number.
Most people have used the early-
norning phone-call service at some time,
lir-crews, actors, TV-people and doctors
se it extensively. But you can also ask
le P.M.G. to call you at some time
ithe future. Just put in a call for, say,
p.m. on Deceipber 15, to remind you
fan anniversary, or maybe to impress
visitor ; the P.M.G. does not ask your
pson.
These calls, incidentally, are always
trified; so if your enemies think of
'iking you at three in the morning they
®not do it this way.
People in films seem to have wonder-
f kinds of telephones—in their cars, in
Nr baths, at tables in cafes. We have
here, too. Phones in cars and
>ehts are part of the mobile radio-
phone service. The P.M.G. does not
Nall them, though—they must be
Nght from an electrical firm —but it
«cks and supervises the standard of
fipment. Jack Davey always had a
»ne in his yacht. Several doctors have
’Jones in their cars to all the hospitals
which they are honoraries.
As for portable telephones, they are
commonplace' here, and the extra
r rviCe costs little. The phone is carried
> °ne room to another and plugged
0 Points. (In the films one seldom
i ts the waiter or valet doing this ; hence
e ®agic effect.)
Pecial “deaf-aid” phones are available
volume-controls. They may be
H °ttipanied by a signaJ-Jight in place of
a ringing bell or in addition to it. These
neon-type lights are used in the Sydney
Stock Exchange.
For the blind there are braille-dials,
fitted free. They are not much used,
however, as it is not difficult to learn to
dial by touch, especially with the super-
sensitive fingers of the blind.
You can install a device (for about
£150) which will answer your telephone
automatically. Instead of a discouraging
ringing of the bell one hears: “This is
Dr Blank’s residence. The doctor is
engaged, but will be available at 4.30”
or whatever message the doctor wishes
to dictate. A new model is being
developed which will also record a
message from a caller.
On all the latest techniques in switch-
boards Australia is right up to the
moment. The high executive does not
have a number of phones on his desk
for direct lines to his officers ; he has
one phone and a switch. Advice is given
on suitability of switchboards for special
needs, and P.M.G. instructors will teach
switchboard operators how to use the
boards.
P.M.G. officers say that 90 per cent,
of trunk-line calls are supplied on
demand under the present system. But
a long-range programme is being intro-
duced to make automatic dialling pos-
sible throughout Australia. This year
direct lines were established between
Sydney, Hamilton (near Newcastle) and
Windsor (N.S.W.).
An American woman, asked what tele-
phone services her country supplied that
she missed here, replied: “None that I
can think of. But perhaps there’s a little
more courtesy there.” Maybe that sums
it up.
☆ ☆ ☆
Thai Silks
Because of their vibrant, subtle colors,
the silks of Thailand are providing
inspiration for many of Australia’s top-
quality interior - decoration schemes
today.
The colors are created in the weaving
of the silks, an art which has been cul-
tivated in the cottages of Thailand for
many generations. Though the yarns are
dyed—formerly with vegetable dyes,
now with chemical dyes from Germany
—it is the mingling of the various colors
on the loom that makes up the final hue.
The Thailanders have developed this
art to such an extent that they could
match in color any pattern given to
them. Even if a lock of hair were sent
to them they could produce a silk exactly
to match.
The mingling of several yarns to make
up a single hue produces a sheen on
the silk which gives interior decorators
several starting-points in working out a
scheme for a room. A heavy gold silk
can be seen in some lights to have a
base of deep-sea blue, a green to contain
yellow and gold, a pink to have been
excitingly combined with orange.
Though products of a cottage industry
hundreds of years old-?—in some parts of
eastern Thailand even the poorest people
normally wear silk —the silks on sale in
Australia today are not low in price.
They range from around 655. a yard,
40in. wide, to £4 a yard.
They vary in weight also —from the
lightest (used for dresses), through
medium weights (for suits, curtains and
cushions) to the heavy, tweedy types
suitable for upholstery. They wear well
(the thread of the heavyweight is singu-
larly strong) and can be washed. But
their sheer individuality and vitality of
color warn that they are luxury articles.
Thai silks were introduced to the West
by an American, James H. W. Thomp-
son, who, finding all the Thai looms idle
after the war, organised the industry,
imported silk from the mulberry-tree
estates of Laos and put the fabrics on
the American market.
The texture of the silk, with its uneven
surface and thickened threads (achieved
by the use of bamboo combs), had not
been highly regarded up to this time.
Formerly all silk had to be smooth, fine
and delicate in texture —the result of
using steel combs and long threads of
silk reeled unbroken from the cocoon ;
then Thai silks introduced the interest of
a slightly rough texture, now quite a
commonplace of fashion.
Thai silks were first introduced to
Australia by interior-decorator Marion
Hall Best about 10 years ago after a visit
to Bangkok. Today she uses them
extensively and boldly in her designs.
Her own living-room features full-length
curtains in a golden color contrasted
with a settee in plaid.
But it was a Dutch migrant couple,
Mr and Mrs J. B. Belzer, who six years
ago first put the silks on the Australian
market. They imported them under
licence and now sell them at prices
ranging from 595. to 68s.
☆ ☆ ☆ \
The Loiv-doivn
“Pull the blind down” has been the
natural thing to say when one wanted
privacy, to shut out the light, to make the
room look cooler, to show home-movies.
Few people have ever said “Pull the
blind up”; yet that is surely more logical.
Ceilings are Bft. high, people seldom
more than six ; so all the space above
their heads is wasted, as far as privacy
is concerned, by pulling the blind down.
Blind manufacturers seem just to have
wakened-up to this. New American
blinds seen in Sydney during the week


V■ . ,
m
TURN PROBLEM LAND INTO
PASTURE IN ONE SEASON
(use Tritter as a crop collector, too!)
T-Tpty* i c : 1 . • ,
Men on the land say: “Yeomans Tritter
Here is the three-in-one farm implement that gives mighty service
is the best basic investment since the tractor was invented!”
i”°of Ground f i?vel Tr inH r 0n f S J° pin ? land ? s well ? s flat P asture la nd. It harvests cleanly to within
t ot ground level, and feeds dirt-free fodder into a huge self-emptying basket.
c
o
G
V/v>
■m
Banks of
heavy axe
hammers have
a flywheel
effect
enabling
small tractors
to do heavy
jobs
CLEARING SCRUB: Tritter with chute
and basket removed is definitely the
most effective way of getting rid of
blackberries, tee trees, saplings and
noxious plants. It can be adjusted to
clear land down to ground level, and
inhibiting regrowth . . . leaving soil
ready for cultivation and pasture-
sowing.
PULVERISING STUMPS AND STONES:
Fritter is a wonderful land conditioner
smashing small stumps and roots . . .
actually turning stones into soil. If
you live in a shale or sandstone area
Yeomans guarantee the Tritter will
pulverize shale and stone to dust . . .
it will even eliminate 18” sandstone
boulders!
YEOMANS
537 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY PHONE: MX 2515.
117 CAMPBELL STREET, BOWEN HILLS, BRISBANE.
VIC. Welch Perrin & Co. Pty. Ltd. P.O. Box 219 D Melbourne
W.A. Elder Smith, Box D 163, P.O. Perth.
TAS. J. E. Pedley, Deioraine, Tasmania.
S.A. Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-35 Currie Street, Adelaide.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
To: Yeomans Pty, Ltd.
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Please send full details of the Yeomans
Tritter
To:
Address
Tractor make
Horsepower
I would also like to receive your free publi-
cation ‘Keyline Comment.’ g 14/12/’6O
are called “Bottoms-up,” and are geared
to screen those new floor-length glass
windows only as high as you need them.
Something on the same principle worked
the old-fashioned striped-canvas blinds
on the verandahs of beach-houses. But
these new holland-blinds are lighter and
run more easily. They tie-in, too, with
the modern tendency to make furniture
more and more low-slung. The most
advanced interior decorators are now
using divans not more than 6in. from
the ground ; sprung cushions are placed
on these, and many-colored scatter
cushions heaped on top. They look
attractive in homes where the Japanese
motif is used and are very popular with
children, pups, kittens and the like. For
the elderly, creaky and stiff of joint they
have eye-appeal only.
☆ ☆ ☆
Tax Anomaly
No discussion of women’s rights,-
wrongs, status, etc., ever covers all the
facts; but there is one particular discri-
mination which generally escapes atten-
tion. This is the difference in tax-deduc-
tions allowable to widows and widowers.
If a widower needs to employ a house-
keeper he is allowed, quite rightly, a tax-
deduction. But a widow cannot claim
deductions for money spent on plumbers,
carpenters, electricians, for the small ioh
that a man in the house disposes of emit!
easily. 4 ie
Most men seem to take it i n their
stride to change washers on taps, mend
fuses, attend to window-sashes, ’ solder
guttering. Most women are helpless in
the face of such tasks, and generally make
matters worse when they do attempt them
To call in a skilled tradesman for a
small job costs a disproportionate amount
of money. Moreover, a widow seldom
has the contacts to tell her where to go
for the best work, or the knowledge to
make sure that it is done economically
Surely it is time her position was
reviewed?


SPORT
Off-course Betting for N.S.W.
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
crooner or later legal starting-
price betting will be intro-
duced in New South Wales.
If a Labor Administration
does not bring down the enabl-
ing legislation a Liberal Gov-
ernment will.
Many racing officials are
convinced of this, and feel that
the day is not too far distant
when a Government will tap
this rich source of revenue.
It is a bonanza if a satisfac-
tory method of channelling a
percentage can be discovered.
Estimates of the extent of
illegal off-course betting vary
considerably, but Sir Alan
Potter, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Jockey Glub, should be
jn a position to make a good
guess.
Sir Alan recently pointed
out that bookmakers’ turnover
at Randwick and Warwick
Farm was £26,873,000 and
betting on the Sydney Turf
Club courses brought the total
to £50,000,000 annually. He
said that official figures were
not available for off-course
betting, but estimates were that
it was from seven to 10 times
the amount bet on the courses.
What a pipe dream! Ruling
turnover tax is 2} per cent.;
levied on £500,000,000 that
would drag out £12,500,000 —
110,000,000 for Government
coffers and £2,500,000 for the
racing clubs.
That is, of course, if the
turnover is as great, and if a
scheme can be worked out to
ensure that tax is paid.
Racing could well do with
revenue from illegal betting,
claiming it is high time the
batteners” on the sport
should be made to contribute
to its upkeep.
South Australia, Western
Australia and Tasmania all
have had some experience with
tempts to extract racing
revenue from the off-course
Operators. Results have been
varied. Victoria is on the eve
tapping this turnover by
* a y of off-course totalisators,
similar, in a way, to those in
New Zealand.
The tip is that the N.S.W.
■ ° v ernment will await events
11 Victoria, and that any move
J legalise betting in N.S.W.
1 1 be preceded by a select
Mr JOHN SCHOFIELD.
Australia's premier Turf
writer, will now he con-
ducting a weekly racing
feature in THE BULLETIN.
Mr Schofield writes from
a personal knowledge of
horseracing covering every
aspect of it in Australia
and New Zealand, and
overseas. Noted as an
outstanding authority on
thoroughbred breeding, he
is as widely recognised as
a keen judge of form. He
writes from first-hand acquaintance with the leading
studs, the training tracks, the race tracks; knows the racing
game from the drop of the foal to the weigh-in after the
Cup. One of the few who also know it from the official
side as well as from the press-box and the public stand, Mr
Schofield will be writing regularly on live Turf topics in
The Bulletin for race followers everywhere.
committee inquiry at which
all angles will be investigated.
Legislation to wrest revenue
from off-course betting in
England is on its way. It is
estimated that stakemoney in
England is £2,500,000 each
year and that 4500 horses race
for it, at a cost to owners of
£4,500,000.
Stakemoney for the whole of
Australia is between £2,500,000
and £3,000,000 each year, and
roughly 10,000 horses race for
it, so the gap between costs
and what can be won without
the hazards of betting is pro-
portionately every bit as big
in N.S.W. as it is in England.
New Zealand racing clubs
would be in a parlous state
were it not for the revenue
from off-course betting. In the
last financial year the racing
clubs there would have been
£675,000 in the “red” but for
the payments from the taxa-
tion on the £24,000,000 betting
turnover through the Totalisa-
tor Agency Board’s stations in
the various towns in the
Dominion.
It will be a great to-do when
things begin to move. In one
corner will be the Government
—the one and only certain
winner, since it cannot possibly
lose. In another the racing
clubs, confident of some share
of the spoils but not altogether
certain of the price they will
pay if off-course betting should
be so attractive that racecourse
attendances will drop. In a
third corner will be the off-
course bookmakers, anxiously,
no doubt, seeking to protect
their interests against moves
that are bound to be made to
limit betting to the totalisator.
And on the sidelines will be
the punter —that poor fellow
who is going to pay the lot,
whichever corner gains or
loses!
A Winner a Month!
Hill - Smith,
South Australian business-
man and chairman of the
Port Adelaide Racing Club, is
. widely known round the
yearling sale-rings in Australia
and New Zealand.
Not that he is a rash buyer
of horses ; very much to the
contrary. He is a keen student
of pedigree and performance,
and, above all, a sound judge
of conformation.
And the reward? an
average of one race won for
each month of the 20 years
his colors have been on the
Turf!
The 249th winner came in
Adelaide recently, through the
agency of True Label, who
won the Sydney Reid Handi-
cap.
Faced with the difficulty of
securing acceptable names for
his horses Mr Hill - Smith
turned a few years ago to the
family vineyards for inspira-
tion.
Winemaster was the name
given one horse ; Toastmaster
for another, and since then
allied names have been be-
stowed. Hence True Label.
Four New Sires
"Oloodstock salesman John
13 Inglis went on a spending
spree at the December sales
in England, and among the
results are four new stallions
for N.S.W. studs.
The December sales repre-
sent the strongest bloodhorse
market in the world, to which
buyers are attracted from all
horse-breeding countries, not
excluding Russia.
The new stallions are: Red
Gauntlet, for Tom Flynn’s
Oakleigh Stud in the Widden
Valley ; Epistle, for Kia Ora
Stud, Scone; Reactor, for
Austin Frauenfelder’s Wood-
ville Stud at Tamworth ; and
Supreme Courage, for Percy
Brown's Randwick Lodge
Stud, at Singleton.
This group of stallions is
particularly attractive, and per-
haps the most interesting
feature of their purchase is
that Epistle is the first real
sprinting stallion that Kia Ora
Stud has had on its strength.
Kia Ora, which ruled as
leading stud in Australia for
years, has always featured the
staying horse. At one time
Channel Swell (imp.) was there
and was regarded as a sprint-
ing sire, but in fact Channel
Swell got horses that could
run a distance.
Epistle is by Palestine from
Mazarinade by Mazarin from
Neandria, by Nearco, and is
the winner of one race at five
furlongs and three at six fur-
longs.
It is a very good family ;
Mazarinade won six races her-
self and her first four foals are
winners. Grafted on to the
stout pedigrees of the Kia Ora
mares, results should be highly
interesting.
Red Gauntlet was one of
the most brilliant of the three-
year-olds in England in the
season just ended. He is by
Nearula, the son of Nasrullah,
from Red Shoes, a daughter
of Bois Roussel, the sire of
Delville Wood (imp.), several
times leading sire in Australia.
Nearula is dead, but in his
short stud career he showed he
was capable of carrying on the


line of his great sire. Nearula’s
dam, Respite, is half-sister to
Oceana (imp.), the dam of
Todman and Noholme, and, as
Oakleigh Stud adjoins Baramul
Stud, where Todman stands,
there is ready opportunity for
an experiment in in-breeding,
should it be considered advis-
able.
Bois Roussel has been lead-
ing sire of brood mares in
England for the past two years.
His daughters produced the
classic winners St. Paddy, Can-
telo and the peerless mare Petit
Etoile.
Red Gauntlet’s dam, Red
Shoes, comes from the same
taproot as did Absurd (imp.)
and Chief Ruler (imp.), who
were outstanding stallions in
New Zealand some years ago.
She is a sister to Boxwood
(imp.), the sire of dual Doom-
ben Cup winner Earlwood.
Her grand-dam was by Dona-
tello 11, her next dam by
Phalaris, and her next by Sun-
star, and each of those stallions
joined with Bois Roussel as
being at one time or another
leading sire of brood mares.
Supreme Courage is by
Supreme Court from Hymette,
by Djebel from Kudos, by
Bonny Boy, and has won at
from seven furlongs as a two-
year-old to two miles as a six-
year-old.
His fifth dam, Kasbah, won
the French Oaks and produced
Kizil Kourgan, who won that
race also, as well as the Grand
Prix de Paris.
Kizil Kourgan became dam
of Ksar, the sire of the fabu-
lous stallion Tourbillon, who
in turn sired Djebel, so that
Supreme Courage has strong
infusions from the line, both
in direct female descent and
through Djebel.
Kizil Kourgan, by the way,
had a son in Australia, Kenil-
worth (imp.), who played a
big part in breeding here,
siring, among many others,
Kennaquhair and Wolaroi.
Supreme Courage represents
the male line of Hurry On,
which has been greatly ex-
ploited by New Zealand
breeders and neglected in this
country. It is a staying line,
but Supreme Courage has the
virtue of a pedigree that also
suggests brilliance, so he
should give good account of
himself at the stud.
Reactor is by Blue Peter
from Dornoch, by King
Legend from Colombelle, by
Colombo. He won at two
years, three years and four
years over distances of from
6f. to Um.
Good form as an early
three-year-old caused the
stable to try Reactor as a
stayer in the Derby, and it
was agreed he was one of the
best-looking horses in the field.
He is bred on lines regarded
mainly as likely to produce
stamina, but two very brilliant
horses, Sovereign Path and
Lindsay, have come from this
line.
Reactor’s dam, Dornoch, won
five races and is half-sister to
Lindsay, who was rated the
best two-year-old filly of 1958.
Cup Trainer Back
Tack Fryer, who trained the
** Melbourne Cup winners
Wotan and Skipton, intends
getting back into harness after
a spell of four years.
Fryer is 73 and has trained
horses sincere was 16, coming
from New Zealand to settle in
Melbourne nearly 30 years
ago.
No one took a great deal of
notice of him when he arrived
with the brothers Gaine Car-
rington and Peter Jackson, but
it was not long before he was
centre-stage among trainers.
The two horses were owned
by the Smith brothers, who
sold Gaine Carrington and
leased Peter Jackson to Mel-
bourne bookmaker Jack
Phillips.
Gaine Carrington the fol-
lowing year won the Caulfield
Cup and Peter Jackson the
Moonee Valley Gold Cup,
indicating that the Smiths had
not made the best of bargains
in disposing of their interests
in them.
Three years later the Smiths
were back in Melbourne again
with another horse, Wotan,
about whom very little was
known, except that he was a
son of the brood mare Left,
who had produced both Gaine
Carrington and Peter Jackson.
This time there was no ques-
tion of a sale, and Fryer was
given Wotan to train, a job he
did so efficiently that the horse
won the Melbourne Cup,
creating a record of 3.2 \\ for
the two miles —subsequently
reduced by Comic Court and
Evening Peal to 3.19£.
Wotan started at 100 to 1,
and to all and sundry that
meant the stable had not
profited very much from the
win. But the late Gus Cahill,
who later became one of Mel-
bourne’s senior insurance
executives, had a different story
he loved to relate. On Cup
Day he was given a parcel of
money in small notes and cer-
tain instructions which he
carried out to such good pur-
pose that the Smiths went
home with what in those days
was a small fortune.
Fryer came from Hawera in
New Zealand, a town that has
produced a number of widely-
known racing identities, among
them the jockeys Keith Voitre,
Hector Gray and Maurice
McCarten (now the successful
Sydney trainer).
Another of the clan, Mrs. J.
Fugle, is an owner in Sydney,
winning recently with Game
Trail, the first horse she had
ever pwned, although in her
73 years she has always been
interested in horses.
Shortly from Hawera will
come Oreka, winner of the
last New Zealand Cup, who
will do his future racing here.
Weekend Winners
Melbourne trainer Brian
Courtney bought Modulus at
auction last Friday for
1500gns. but found on Satur-
day morning that the client for
whom he had acted was not
as keen on the proposition as
he had been.
It happens like that many
times, but on this occasion
there was some embarrass-
ment, and Courtney decided
that he would have to race
Modulus himself.
Then, at 11.30 on Saturday
morning, two other clients of
the stable, Mr. and Mrs. P.
Hyams, stepped in and took
the horse at the price. Their
reward came less than three
hours later, when Modulus
won the £7OO Somerton Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley, for
which he was favorite.
Modulus is by Rumplestil-
skin (imp.), a new sire in Vic-
toria. He quickly showed his
speed by racing through to
beat his two-year-old rivals for
the early lead. Then he carried
on to be clear into the straight
and withstand a challenge by
Keyboard to win by half a
length. Closest of the others
was Full Blast, three lengths
away.
It was Courtney’s lucky day
-—another of his team, P r [ nC ®
Rose, starting at 100 to 1, hea
Smogol and Hydro's Image m
the Glenbervie Handicap.
Prince Rose had failed so
many times in recent mont
that it was decided to t y
him over hurdles, but Sam *
day’s form may result in


x&e.
% %'
in its gift pack
wo
one
Scotch
stands
out .
It’s the best Xmas gift ever!
A bottle of smooth, blended-to-
perfection VAT 69. Specially
packed for the festive season
in this colourful Black Watch
tartan box. VAT 69 presenta-
tion pack will solve your Xmas
gift problems, and it costs no
more!
iil
69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
«n 47
_ INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office: ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines).
H. G. CRAY, Manager.
being kept to flat racing for
a time, at all events.
* * *
Return to form by Great
Blaze at Canterbury Park on
Saturday suggests that trainer
Terry Brosnan missed out
when he did not nominate the
gelding for the Villiers Stakes,
to be run at Randwick at the
Christmas meeting.
Great Blaze was formerly
trained by T. J. Smith for
the family partnership Dr
T. S. Punch and L. A. and
E. T. Punch, and was regarded
as a Welter horse, even though
he did win one Flying.
In the Gladesville Handicap
at Canterbury Great Blaze beat
two speedsters, Endure and
Kaoru, in a head-and-head
photo finish. He did it in such
style that there is no doubting
his chance over one mile at
Randwick in top-class com-
pany.
However, the stable is well
satisfied with things, and will
take as they come the races
for Great Blaze.
Brosnan is the son of Tim
Brosnan, who trained the old
champion Lough Neagh, and
is one of Australia’s most
widely known horsemen of the
old school. Tim is in retire-
ment in Brisbane, but Terry
continues the family tradition
among horses. He certainly
turned out Great Blaze look-
ing bigger than the gelding
has ever looked in training, yet
muscled-up to stand the hard
finish against Endure and
Kaoru.
* * *
No one worried very much
when Wallgar opened his win-
ning account in Brisbane in
the winter, even though he
heat the then glamor sprinter
Fine and Dandy in the Light-
ning Handicap at Eagle Farm.
But it was a different thing
when Wallgar proved that the
Lightning success was not a
fluke by winning the Strad-
hroke Handicap, on the same
Lack, to bring his record to
e 'ght wins from 17 starts.
Wallgar is now being set
w the Christmas Handicap
at Cheltenham, S.A. On
Saturday he had a trial for
|hat race when he won in
Welter company at Moonee
Valley, clearing away over the
s 'x furlongs to win as he liked.
Wallgar is by Ungar, a
lor mer top-class Victorian
s Pnnter by Lawmaker (imp.),
l nc * did his early racing in
toowoomba (Q.).
$ ifc sfc
Trainer T. J. Smith believes
e two-year-old On the Move
tJ develop as a stayer. On
old tt won the Two-year-
Handicap at Canterbury on
Saturday, beating the favorite,
Star Occasion, in a hard finish.
On the Move is by Rush
(imp.), who stood at Wood-
lands Stud, but who is now at
Segenhoe Stud.
States' Round-up
Tt looks as though Chestillion
A has the West Australian
Derby at his mercy.
Run on December 26, the
race is the last of the State
Derbys.
Chestillion’s last perform-
ance was to win the Strickland
Stakes in Perth, a weight-for-
age race run over nine
furlongs.
The good mare Queen of
the Nile made the pace, and at
one stage was well clear of
Chestillion, but the colt ran
her down when the time came
and won really well.
* * *
Sydney stewards are now
telling racegoers of the
inquiries being held at the time
on the course.
Tradition was broken by the
publication of the stewards’
reports in the racebook—re-
ports relevant to horses with
engagements that day.
Now the holding of an
inquiry is announced over the
course amplifying system.
* * *
Tulloch is taking shape
again after his short spell fol-
lowing a successful spring
campaign.
Probably he will next race
in Melbourne, where he will
contest the St. George Stakes
at Caulfield on February 25
and later the Queen Elizabeth
Stakes at Flemington.
Success in these would bring
his stake winnings, now
£86,733 10s., to within striking-
distance of the £lOO,OOO target
at which owner E. A. Haley is
aiming.
* * *
Former top-ranking jockey
Noel Best has won his first race
as a trainer with Albion Rose’s
winning at odds-on at Doom-
ben.
Best is the son of Fred Best,
one of Australia’s most effici-
ent and popular trainers, whose
stables in Brisbane are the
Mecca of all racing people
when they go north for the
winter carnival.
Noel was always bothered by
the problem of increasing
weight, and this limited his
opportunities in recent years.


Business, Robberym Etc.
Schweppinvestment
/~\ne of the impressive things
deduced from the figures
presented in the Schweppes
(Aust.) flotation is the number
of Schweppes bottles which
appear to be knocking around
Australia.
In the prospectus bottles are
discreetly referred to as “con-
tainers.” And customers’ de-
posits on “containers” at June
30 last totalled no less than
£217,019.
At threepence on the bottle,
this would indicate no fewer
than 17-million bottles in
backyards, fridges, shops, pubs
and so on throughout the Com-
monwealth and Pacific Islands.
Then there are the bottles not
in customers’ hands but at the
Schweppes factories.
The actual book-value of the
bottles (pardon—“containers”)
is £810,037, after writing-off
depreciation, which in this con-
text no doubt includes bottles
broken.
Ochweppe, a Swiss, set-up an
aerated-water business in
Bristol, England, in about
1790. A royal warrant was
granted to J. Schweppe and
Co. in 1836, and the U.K.
business was formed into a
public co. in 1897.
The first overseas branch of
Schweppes started production
in Australia in 1878. Aus-
tralian activities were incor-
porated in a N.S.W.-registered
proprietary co. in 1952. It was
converted into a public co. on
October 31, 1960.
Paid capital of £1,500,000
in ss. shares is held entirely
by Schweppes (Overseas), Ltd.,
of London. Now, out of these
6,000,000 ss. shares, it has
been decided to make a public
issue of 1,344,900 stock-units
at ss. 2|d., plus brokerage and
stamp-duty, through J.. 8. Were
and Son, of Melbourne
’Change. The placement has
been guaranteed, free of
charge, by Were’s. No appli-
cant is to be allotted more
than 1000 stock-units.
49 years ago, on
December 14, 1911, the
Christmas issue of The
Bulletin had a front-page
cartoon by Ashton Murphy. It
depicted an outback bar. Jn
the manner of the times it was
“gagged” as follows:
[IN ALL WESTERN TOWN-
SHIPS SCHWEPPES SODA, WITH
WHISKY, IS SIXPENCE EXTRA.]
Barmaid (to gentleman who has
tendered a shilling for the drinks):
“Another sixpence, please, for
Schweppes.”
Gentleman : “Schweppes—’ere!
Who the hell’s Schweppes? Who
asked him to have a drink?”
Now the Schweppes business
is almost a tradition in the
English-speaking world. Its
soda-water, tonic-water, ginger-
ale and lime-juice have a repu-
tation going back into the
distant past, and there are
nowadays a host of other lines.
But it excels particularly in the
aerated waters mentioned, in
which it has a strong grip
among hotels and fruitshops,
apart from grocers, milk-bars
and refreshment-rooms. It
meets solid competition in
the fruit-juice field, but no one
can match it when it comes to
the soft-stuff that goes with the
hard-stuff.
Schweppes have factories in
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth and Welling-
ton (N.Z.). These turn-out
aerated waters, fruit-juices,
cordials and milk-bar syrups.
A subsidiary, Schweppes In-
dustries Pty., Ltd., at Alex-
andria, Sydney, processes
essences and fruit-juices. Capi-
tal Cordial Co. Pty. manufac-
tures for Schweppes in Can-
berra. Rowlands Pty., of Mel-
bourne and Ballarat, are
another subsidiary; so is
B.C.D. and Piesse (1959) Pty.,
of Perth.
Schweppes products are also
bottled by franchise in various
parts of Australia and N.Z.
/Capital was raised from £1
million in 1959 to mil-
lion in 1960 by the issue of
£500,000 of bonus scrip follow-
ing a revaluation of freeholds,
plant, investments and good-
will by £583,051.
In relation to present capi-
tal, average net group profit
over the past three years was
slightly over 11 p.c.
For the 1959-60 year alone
group profit was 12.9 p.c. on
capital.
Half-yearly divs. at the rate
of 7 p.c. p.a. are expected to
be paid.
Net tangible backing, on
present book-values, is equal
to 6s. Bd. for each ss. stock-
unit.
Business has expanded ten-
fold since the end of World
War 11, and during the cur-
rent year a 25 p.c. increase is
budgeted for in respect of
aerated waters, 15 p.c. in fruit-
juice cordials. Although ex-
pansion on the scale of the past
decade is not expected in the
immediate future, development
is still pushing forward, and a
long-term loan of £375,000 has
been arranged with the TJK
parent company. ,JS ”
The present offering 0 f
Schweppes shares represents an
opportunity to acquire what
looks to be a sound invest-
ment with the remunerative
yield of £6 Bs. 9d. per cent
even if schweppervescence in
capital-growth is not antici-
pated in the immediate future
A 7 p.c. div. could be com-
fortably met from the average
earnings of the past three years,
with adequate margins for re-
serves, and prospects of an
increase as recent expansion is
consolidated and licensing of
bottlers is extended.
Undulating Sharemarket
TTps and downs are now the
weekly characteristic of
Australian sharemarkets.
Against long-term prospects of
continued growth in our in-
dustries, with corresponding
expansion by the companies
participating, there are the
nagging doubts about short-
term problems and the flabby
manner in which the Federal
Government (without construc-
tive help from State Govern-
ments) aims to cope with them.
Nowadays there appears to
be one law for Canberra and
another one for the rest of the
economy. “I’m all right, Jack,”
seems to be the philosophy of
the Treasury whatever hap-
pens.
The sharemarket should also
be concerned about the fact
that, prior to the slump in
security prices, quotations on
the Stock Exchanges in
many cases went to too-high
speculative levels. A readjust-
ment was overdue there apart
from any overall problems
that may have developed in
the economy.
Ups and downs can be ex-
pected in the market for some
weeks, perhaps months. A
normal market —as opposed to
a boom market or a slumping
market —has periods of fluc-
tuation several times a year.
Apart from fluctuating, the
present sharemarket, away
from B.H.P. and some par-
ticular stocks, is a qu iet
market. Some shares a fe
almost inactive.
Until the overseas trading
position and Federal Govern'
ment measures to cope wit
the balance-of-payments P ro *
lem become clear, the share-
market is likely to remain
indefinite in shape, with n
clear-cut policy indicated 1°
investors except that of buying
for holding particular stoc
of merit at bargain P rlC
(when they occur) and n
relying on market “tone.


Another “Wales” Service
Gift Cheques
The gift you buy may not be just right. But a
“Wales” gift cheque is always right it’s
“everybody’s cup of tea”. It’s the nicest way of
giving money. You can get them for birthdays,
weddings, Christmas, Mother’s Day, and for
general occasions. They are available at any
branch of the “Wales” whether you have an
account or not. The cost is only Is. 3d.
(including stamp duty) plus, of course, the
amount you intend to give. You can bank on
the “Wales”.
*
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED in new south wales
WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
FIRST BANK
IN AUSTRALIA
A6029C
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines) BL 5327
Cables and Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
193 Summer St., Orange.
Orange 4054.
117 Pitt St., Sydney.
BP 1855 (3 lines).
48 Fitzinaurice St., Wagga Wagga. Wagga 2436.
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “KETEP,” Sydney.
g Fowler at 10s.
Splitting the £1 shares of R.
Fowler, Ltd., the Sydney-
based pottery and sanitary-
ware manufacturer, so far has
bad no appreciating effect on
the sharemarket.
In fact, the £1 shares went
aS high as 595. this year. Last
week the ss. stock-units sold
at 10s., equal to 40s. on a £1
basis—a drop of 19s.
Last term the co. had a
record volume of sales, stimu-
lated by the boom in home-
building, commercial building,
hotel-building and motel-con-
struction. But competition,
from both overseas and local
sources, affected selling-prices,
and profit for the term was
down slightly at £89,706 (com-
pared with £92,229 in the pre-
ceding year).
The net result was equal to
14.1 p.c. on increased average
ord. capital. The 10 p.c. div.
was paid without difficulty.
Net tangible backing, on a
very conservative book-valua-
tion, works out at 11s. 9d. per
ss. unit.
New plant and new designs
have helped Fowler’s competi-
tive position, and it is firmly
placed to cope with present
severe price-cutting, which is
unlikely to continue indefi-
nitely from overseas manufac-
turers. (The balance-of-pay-
ments problem will see to
that.)
Indicative of the potential of
R. Fowler is the fact that it
has arranged to supply sani-
tary-ware to the Chevron
Hilton Hotel at King’s Cross
and the huge A.M.P. building
at Circular Quay, Sydney.
H and 5? Credits. Ltd.
Balance-sheets of H and S
Credits, Ltd., now avail-
able in the prospectus of an
issue at par of £500,000 of
registered first-mortgage de-
benture stock (10 p.c. p.a. five-
seven years, 8 p.c. three years),
give information hitherto not
available to investors in the
deposits and other securities of
ibis enterprise, which was
originally centred in New-
castle.
Paid capital of the parent
co - at June 30 is shown at
£380,027. In the consolidated
accounts capital appears at
£322,027, with minority in-
terests in the subsidiaries at
£203,821. Group shareholders’
funds are put at £606,541.
Group balance-sheet figures
show the biggest asset to be
land, buildings and real-
estate development (at cost),
£1,246,367.” Group fixed assets
are in at £1,426,387 altogether,
deluding £126,084 in “marine
vessels”; there are investments
of £111,282; stock figures at
£373,363 ; debtors, loans, etc.,
at £1,117,612; and there is
£71,791 in intangibles.
Short-term and long-term
liabilities amount to £2,224,914,
and there are current liabilities
and provisions of £229,996.
Net tangible assets of the
parent co., available as security
for the first-mortgage deben-
ture-stock, in a separate state-
ment by the co.’s auditor, are
put at £2,222,108, after includ-
ing half the proceeds of the
proposed issue. In respect of
the present issue, this will
represent a cover of £444 for
each £lOO of debenture-stock.
Under the present trust-deed,
and under present tangible-
asset figures, the total amount
that may be raised under this
mortgage-debenture issue is
£1,900,135.
Profit for the year to June
30, 1960, before tax, is shown
at £101,413, equal to double
the maximum interest payable
under the present £500,000
issue.
Sam Harp, chairman of H
and S Credits, says that trad-
ing in property was a major
contributor to last year’s profit.
Much of the proceeds of this
debenture-issue are to “be de-
voted to the continuing de-
velopment of the company’s
properties.” Home-unit con-
struction is expected to bring
in quick returns ; subdivisions
slower results. The group has
£126,084 invested in the ship-
ping industry, but exactly
where isn’t clear.
During the present year the
co. aims to take greater
interest in holiday - resort
development, the public be-
coming “increasingly leisure-
conscious.”
Mr Harp says that “sub-
sidiary companies taken-over
during the course of earlier
years in a run-down and badly-
managed condition have been
reborn, since, during the
1959-60 year, every subsidiary
ran at a profit.”
In the 1956-57 financial year
and subsequently H and S
acquired Buzacotts (Q.), Ltd.,
and Bloch and Gerber, Ltd.,
both of which had heavy
accumulated losses. Reasons
for acquisition included the
gaining of certain taxation
benefits. Later on Martin
Lapin Pty. (retail clothing) was
acquired, and then the Finance
Company of Queensland, Ltd.
A “substantial interest” is held
in Leonard Spencer Pty., a
carpet-wholesaler.
Including the results of
companies acquired (inter alia )
because of accumulated losses,
net profits of all subsidiaries,


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601
K. J. Hedley, General Manager
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
★
tovNDtj
aftsss
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGne
Pot-stiii brandy
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... go
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the _skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
perfection of
distinguished
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGIIGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
before tax, were £28,302 for
the year to June 30, 1960. The
combined net result in 1958-59
was a loss of £26,954, and in
1957-58 a loss of £133,507.
The group has home-unit
projects under construction at
Kirribilli, Bellevue Hill and
Mosman in Sydney, and at
Wollongong. A satellite pro-
ject is planned at Mt. Druitt,
and there are subdivisions at
Cash’s Crossing (near Bris-
bane) and at Mermaid Beach
(Q.) and on the N.S.W. south
coast.
Latest development has been
the offer of mortgage deben-
tures for Lennons Broadbeach,
Ltd. A counter-offer has been
made by Federal Hotels, Ltd.,
of Melbourne.
H and S Credits has not yet
established sufficient balance-
sheet background in the large-
scale projects now engaging its
attention for the investor to
have any real guidance other
than the figures for 1959-60
now presented. Operations
during the present year should
give a clearer view of the
future prospects of the enter-
prise, especially as the group
will be operating under eco-
nomic conditions not calcu-
lated (by the Treasury and
Reserve Bank) to be so buoyant
as in 1959-60.
Japanese Floating Fair
Japanese exporters exhibited
** a wide range of industrial
and consumer goods at the
well-organised Japanese In-
dustry Foating Fair on board
the m.v. Aki Maru.
Heavy equipment, machine-
tools, electrical industrial
appliances and agricultural
machinery were the strongest
features.
The durable consumer-goods
section was dominated by-
cars, combi-vans, motor-bikes
and scooters. Other interesting
items were transistor - radios,
private and commercial TV-
equipment and telecommuni-
cation equipment.
In a special category were
fish-finding radars, small office
tape-recorders and an ingeni-
ous Japanese-English teletype-
writer, retailing in Japan for
about £650.
P. and O. (Australia)
'T'he P. and O. Steam Navi-
gation Company has
formed a fully-owned Aus-
tralian subsidiary, P. and O.
Company of Australia Pty., to
oversee the general interests
and the results in the Aus-
tralian sphere of the P. and O.
group as a whole.
The second principal func-
tion of the new co. will be to
“advise on and to progress any
lines of development and in-
vestment in Australia itself
Which may seem appropriate.”
Head-office is in Sydney.
P. and O. Company of Aus-
tralia Pty. will not own or
operate ships. The responsi-
bility for ship-management
and operation, including such
matters as traffic, fares and
freight-rates, will remain with
P. and O. Orient Lines of
Australia Pty., and with the
representatives in Australia of
other shipowning members of
the group.
The all-Australian board of
the new subsidiary will receive
complete information on the
workings and results of all cos
in the P. and O. group operat-
ing in the Australian trade.
On the board are: J. H
Ashton (chairman), Sydney •
J. M. Baillieu, Melbourne ;
J. D. Bates, deputy-chairman!
P. and Q— Orient Lines of
Australia Pty., Sydney; H. N.
Giles, Elder, Smith and Co.
Ltd., Adelaide ; T. R. Groom!
Brisbane ; B. Foggon, director!
P. and O. —Orient Lines of
Australia Pty., Sydney; W. E.
Lee, chairman, Birt and Co.
(Pty.), Sydney ; N. D. Pixley,
M.8.E., chairman, P. and o.
Orient Lines of Australia Pty.,
Sydney, and P. E. Trevella,
Union Steam Ship Co. of New
Zealand, Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, December 5.
HThe electors’ decision to
change the Government
gave the N.Z. sharemarket a
mild lift. But it didn’t last long.
A series of sober statements
on the economic situation by
the Prime Minister elect, Mr
Holyoake, caused a prompt
check.
Mr Holyoake has promised
early remedial measures to
counter inflationary pressure
which has been building up
over the last year.
What can this mean but a
continuation, maybe even' a
tightening, of the credit-
squeeze?
The incoming Government
may have other measures in
mind, too. But, whatever they
are, the short-term implications
for the sharemarket are
“bearish.” Long-term, how-
ever, a firmer hand on rising
costs will be of advantage to
business generally.
The most important thing is
that investors will feel safer
from specific attacks of the
sort they have suffered from
Mr Nordmeyer over the last
three years.
The burden of dividend-tax
placed on investors by the
Labor Government is likely to
remain for ever, but there is
some hope now that the
extortionate rate of company-
tax may be eased.
At present most companies in
which investors are interested
pay 50 per cent, of their net
profits in tax, and then share-
holders pay up to 7s. in the
£ on that portion of the remain-
ing 50 per cent, which is dis-
tributed to them as dividend.
Members of the incoming
Government have spoken
strongly against this unjust, dis-
criminatory tax, and share-
holders will be looking for
action same time within the next
three years ; it might be too
much to expect it in the first
Budget, traditionally a tough,
straightening-up one.
Borrowing Policy
An early announcement
about the official loans pro-
gramme seems likely. The
Government is pledged not to
use Reserve Bank credit, and,
if it doesn’t want to increase
taxes, it will have to borrow
more without much delay-
Some large amounts are due
for repayment next year. _
A reference by the Prm ie
Minister elect, Mr Holyoake,
in his victory-speech to concer


Dtl
ESTABLISHED 1883
M
sit & Investment Co. Ltd.
Registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Financiers Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest Payable
Quarterly
Free of Exchange
5-10-15-20
Years
PER ANNUM
5
i*
4*
6-
2^
s
7
6 MONTHS 9 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 2 YEARS 3 YEARS
4 YEARS
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman) T. H. Martin Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Kindersley House, 20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
84 William Street, Melbourne, and at Armidale, and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie Street, Canberra
(Members of Sydney Stock Exchange)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA:
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN QUEENSLAND:
Charles Elliott & Son (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
S. C. Ward & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
South Australia, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO., LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES.
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
about the run-down of over-
seas funds suggests that the
Government will be cautious
about permitting further re-
laxation of import-controls
meantime.
If the October trend in the
run-down of overseas funds
continued it would obviously
cause concern to the incom-
ing Government and the whole
country, said Mr Holyoake,
amplifying his election-night
remarks of a few days later.
The run-down had been
£12,200,000 in October this
year, compared with
£11,500,000 in October, 1957,
the month before the previous
National Government had been
defeated.
Inflation
Official reports showed that
considerable inflation had been
developing which would have
to be dealt with by the in-
coming Government, Mr Holy-
oake said. The report showed:
(. I ) The volume of money in cir-
culation was £359 million, an
increase of 11 per cent, on a
year ago.
(2) Bank overdrafts had increased
from £l6B million a year ago
to £lB9 million, a rise of 13
per cent.
(3) Overseas funds had fallen and
it was estimated there would
be a deficit of £l5 million to
£2O million at the end of this
calendar year.
W The net Government indebted-
ness to the banking system has
increased to £96 million ; an
increase of £2O million, or 27
per cent., in the past year.
(5) Prices in New Zealand had
risen in the last few months
and the All-Foods Index for
October was 3 per cent, above
that for October, 1959.
Falling Market?
Asked if the new Govern-
ment was not in fact coming
in on a falling market for New
Zealand exports, Mr Holyoake
said it was true butter was
not good and wool was down
on last year. It was the off-
season for meat: Lamb did
not sell before Christmas, and
the prospects for it and other
meats seemed reasonable.
There could be no question
°f tax-reductions till the in-
coming Government had pre-
sented its first Budget and it
w ould be quite wrong now to
speak of specific tax amend-
ments, said Mr Holyoake.
He said he knew of no
mason at present why the Bud-
Set should not be presented
nhout the normal time, July
°r so.
He would be starting talks
soon with the heads of some
departments, the Treasury be-
m§ high on the list, about
he general economic situa-
h°n and prospects, the current
position of Government


—--
*M4# s
% /
A »to
H
«
in
4 **
<**r
Registered
First Debenture Stodc
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Trustees for Debenture Stockholders:
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
WHERE TO INVEST
• Any H. G. Palmer Showroom.
• Registered Office:
321 Chapel Rd., Bankstown. UY4035.
• Any branch of Australia & New Zealand
Bank Ltd.
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
• Underwriting Brokers: Bernard Curran &
Co., Queensland National Bank Building,
27 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Applications will be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
To: H. G, PALMER (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED, 321
Chapel Road, Bankstown.
Please send one copy of prospectus to:
NAME #
ADDRESS
finances and all the implica-
tions thereof.
Dominion Breweries’ Capital
Dominion Breweries has
announced long-awaited plans
for capital changes.
After the ordinary and pre-
ference £1 shares have been
split into ss. units there will
be a three-for-16 cash-issue of
ordinary shares at 100 per cent,
premium, followed next August
by a one-for-seven bonus-issue
of ordinary shares. Preference
as well as ordinary shareholders
will participate in both issues,
and the bonus-issue will be
based on holdings after the
cash issue.
The directors say that trad-
ing is very buoyant and they
are fully satisfied with the in-
crease in profits which has
followed utilisation of assets
not fully profit-earning last
year.
Tasman Pulp
A big improvement in Tas-
man Pulp’s earnings was, of
course, expected, but the seven-
fold rise is gratifying. It is
not the amount of the profit
that impresses so much as the
rate of increase, a significant
indication of the company’s
potential.
Profit of £1,139,999 (£984,000
more than the previous year) is
not subject to tax, because of
past losses. If it were taxed
it would be reduced by half
to £569,500, which would repre-
sent an earning-rate of 9.7 per
cent, on capital of £6 million.
The provision for deprecia-
tion this year was £398,000 less
than for 1958-59, and the im-
provement in earnings derived
from mill operations is there-
fore approximately £586,000.
Substantial increases in pro-
duction were achieved during
the year. Newsprint production
was 84,300 tons, an increase of
11J00 tons over 1958-59, and
the production of pulp for
sale, at 49,400 tons, was up by
6800 tons. Sawn timber pro-
duction increased by 20 per
cent, to a total volume of 55
million board feet.
The demand for the com-
pany’s products remained
steady, said the chairman, Sir
James Fletcher, but conditions
in the Australian market for
newsprint were becoming in-
creasingly competitive.
There continued to be sur-
plus newsprint - capacity in
North America and Europe,
and there were no indications at
present that this surplus was
likely to decrease in the near
future.
“The expansion programme
at Kawerau is progressing satis-
factorily,” he said, “and the
directors are confident that
this year’s favorable results can
be maintained.”
Con. Zinc Aluminium
Consolidated Zinc p ro
prietary, Ltd., officials hope to
have their £l6O-million
aluminium-plant in Southland
working by 1965.
They may now need Ben-
more power for only a year, till
1966, by which time they’ ex-
pect to be producing their own
from stations based on Lakes
Manapouri and Te Anau.
By 1966 they will be pro-
ducing in N.Z. a first-stage out-
put of 120,000 tons of alumi-
nium annually, with their own
hydro-electric power. This
according to the Minister of
Works, Mr Watts, should yield
£2O million a year in overseas
exchange which would repre-
sent half of the recent annual
trade in butter or a third of
that in dairy produce.
The Myer March
'T'he credit-squeeze hasn’t hit
- 1 - the Myer giant in Mel-
bourne. Chairman Tolley and
m.-d. Ken Myer, following the
announcement of a one-for-
two bonus-issue and the pro-
jected £2l-million merger with
Farmer’s (of Sydney) now
announce £ 10-million expendi-
ture on capital works in Vic-
toria and Tasmania.
The Chadstone shopping-
centre, recently described in
The Bulletin, having done so
much better than expected,
another, costing £7 million (a
million more) will be built,
probably near Preston, the one-
time northern outer-Melbourne
suburb ; and two new buildings
will go up on Myer land near
the city shop.
One of these will be a
specialty shop for women, and
this may partly explain Sir
Frank Richardson’s high bid,
on behalf of Cox Bros., for
the model shop, Georges,
which he eventually got.
The Myer interests are also
looking for further effective
locations for regional shopping-
centres in N.S.W. They have
bought 60 acres at Bass Hill-
Myer’s are having very good
years in Adelaide and Bris-
bane, and may eventually buy
an interest in Boans, Ltd., the
big Perth shop.
Myer’s intentions in Hobart
are to modernise and rebuild
the two old shops of Brownells,
Ltd., in Liverpool Street, and
Johnstone and Miller, * n
Murray Street, which form an
arcade. Hobartians have won-
dered for years why
Brownell, Mr Johnstone and
Mr Miller never got together
on this themselves.


%
/
/
Th
w
L
m*
SJWW^
-V iZI-c^
-*,g
Increase your income
securely
Main business of H & S Credits Limited is secured in the fields of
Land and Property Development, General Finance, Industry, Retail
Stores and Shipping. The Company confidently proposes to continue
pursuing a programme of planned and profitable diversification by
constantly applying funds to actively promote these functions so vital
to the country’s continued growth and security.
Applications are now being accepted for an issue at par (£100) of £500,000 REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
with rates, terms and asset backing offering an excellent combination of security and profit.
10% p.a. 5-7 years.
Interest will be paid quarterly free
of exchange and calculated from
the actual date on which the
application money is received at
any branch of the Company. The
minimum amount of Debenture
Stock that may be applied for
is £lOO.
9% p.a. 4 years.
8% p.a. 3 years.
Applications for Debenture Stock
will be accepted only on the
application form contained in the
printed Prospectus, which is
obtainable from—
H & S CREDITS LIMITED
SEND FOR THIS
INFORMATIVE
PROSPECTUS
IQ
S is~s
TO: H & S CREDITS LIMITED
Ist FLR., RENOWN HOUSE, 163 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
Please send me, without obligation, printed
Prospectus for your 10% First Mortgage Debenture
Stock.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 14/12


Tahiti or the Bush
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
All going well, John
Canning, of Manly,
will be heading out of
Sydney Harbor for
Tahiti in his trawler in late
March or early April.
The diesel-powered trawler is
a 41-footer, lift. sin. in the
beam, drawing 4ft. sin. It has
a cruising speed of about seven
knots and a top speed of
around nine-and-a-half knots.
There is a small auxiliary sail,
but this wouldn’t be a great
help if the engines failed, far
from land.
So far as John knows the
voyage has never been made
by a powered craft of this size
—although, of course, it has
under sail. But, in any case,
he isn’t greatly concerned about
this aspect. If his trawler is
the first to make the trip under
its own power, well and good.
But the idea is not to be a
“first,” or to break records.
There is no tight schedule.
A stroll, so to speak, across
the Pacific, pausing to have a
second look at this port of call,
pushing on from another, as
the mood strikes the skipper
and his three-man crew. Some-
thing, he points out, you can’t
do on a cruise in a liner.
Lord Howe Island, Noumea,
Suva, Tonga, Aitake in the
Cook Island group, Bora Bora,
then some 125 miles to Tahiti;
with, perhaps, detours to
smaller islands on the way.
But he hopes to make Papeete
by July 4 —which, of course, is
quite a day in French territory.
Since Tahiti is not only French,
but Polynesian, a people with
a highly developed sense of
carnival, it seems likely that
July 4 in Tahiti is a day-and-a-
half.
People like John Can-
ning somehow give the
impression that they believe
the traditional rhythms of
Polynesian life will survive the
tourist traffic. They don’t say
so directly, but that seems to
be what they think. I hope
they are right. It is a good
thought, implying that what is
sound and healthy in a culture
will last, despite superficial
tarnishing. Perhaps, when the
wave of tourism has rolled over
us, something firm and autoch-
thonous will remain here, too.
This will depend largely on
how the trawler performs on
the trip to Tahiti. He’ll have
time to consider in detail the
next phase of the adventure in
Tahiti, but the general idea is
a round trip, going through
Panama and coming back
through Suez, then hugging the
Asian land-mass and turning
south.
All of which is rather surpris-
ing, coming from a man who
looks and talks exactly like an
average Sydney businessman.
He isn’t, of course. Average
Sydney businessmen —or trades-
men or professional men, for
that matter don’t seriously
consider an adventure of this
kind.
I met John Canning about
six months ago, through some
people over from Rauratonga,
in the Cook Islands. He is 58,
tanned, leanish, of medium
height, neither talkative nor
taciturn. I had met him several
times, mostly at the Polynesian
Club, before he mentioned the
trip to Tahiti; and then, if I
remember rightly, someone else
told me about it first.
He has a laundrette and dry-
cleaning business at Manly,
where he has lived for two-and-
a-half years. He was in the
hotel trade for seven years, and
before that had a service-
station, taxi and drive-yourself
service at Newcastle. He has
been around the world a couple
of times, as a passenger.
The tan is probably from
fishing. Before he got caught-
up in planning for the big trip,
he used to go “outside” in the
trawler at weekends. Apart
from this strictly amateur fish-
ing, he’s had experience of
commercial fishing. He bought
the trawler five years ago, when
he had a hotel at Lauriton, on
the N.S.W. North Coast, as a
business venture.
When he came to Sydney he
brought the trawler with him.
It is now at Mosman, being
re-fitted for the trip. A fairly
expensive procedure. For ex-
ample, the engine has been
completely overhauled, at a
cost of £960.
Fuel and other stores have
to be calculated carefully,
taking into consideration stor-
age space and safety margins.
For instance, the boat bums a
gallon and a half of diesel fuel
an hour; a 44-gallon drum
gives a run of approximately
24 hours. But to give a safety
margin, say 20 hours . . .
There are other calculations,
involving a second safety
margin, beyond my mathe-
matical skill. They are still
subject to testing under open
sea conditions, with a load on,
as soon as the boat has been
re-fitted. Around Christmas
there will be another trial, to
Lord Howe Island —a two-day
run —and back again. Going
or coming, John would like to
strike some rough weather, to
see what happens.
The crew, too, has to be
finally selected. Although
there hasn’t been much talk
about the voyage, there have
been a number of volunteers.
But all sorts of factors have to
be considered. Skills (one will
have to be a navigator, and a
good one), health, tempera-
ment (four men will be rubbing
shoulders in a small boat in
the tropics), and, not least,
money.
At first glance the money
item doesn’t seem much. A
modest sum towards food (but
not fuel), money for smokes
and to spend in port. But
working it out in terms of
supporting a family for a con-
siderable period with nothing
coming in is a sobering experi-
ence. Again, even those who
can afford it may find that
their wives are not willing to
let them go.
However, there are several
likely starters. In the mean-
time John is giving this, and
a formidable mass of logistics,
a lot of thought. There must
be no last-minute hitches . . .
“I’m nearly sixty,” John said,
when Tasked him, some little
time back, about the trip. “I
feel if I don’t do it now, I
never will.”
Fair enough, so far as it
went. But it seemed to leave a
few questions unanswered . . .
Before I could ask them, he
was away, dancing an island
jig with Lorna, his wife.
Since this was at the Polynesian
Club it was nothing out of the
way. Lorna was on the floor
and, while we were talking, the
music changed to something
Polynesian. Lorna \{oU
heartedly abandoned her part
ner, danced a few steps by her'
self, then beckoned to John to
join her.
Lorna, by the way, i s a
superb dancer —any sort- 0 f
dancing. John isn’t in her
class, but a long way above
mine, and he knows the island
routine. The music switching
again, John came back to the
table and Lorna went back to
her partner.
We went into it more
thoroughly the other day, at
Manly: at the Canning flat’ on
Ocean Beach; in a station-
wagon ; at the shop, while
washing - machines agitated;
and finally, more satisfyingly’
over a beer at the Pacific Hotel.’
The change of scenery was
because plans to inspect the
trawler had been .upset by wet
weather. John had promised
to have some laundry done and,
Saturday afternoon and all, he
was tied to the machines. We
spent a bit of time abusing the
weather.
When did he decide on the
voyage?
“The thought,” John said
carefully, “started in early
August.”
The thought continuing, he
started to consider details.
There was no special reason for
going in a trawler —it just
happened that he had a trawler.
He explained something of
the difficulties. There must be
enough fuel to get you there,
with a margin of* safety. But
fuel took up space.
He said he would have liked
to meet the American who
sailed to Australia recently, on
his own. That would be some-
thing—the test of loneliness.
There wouldn’t be that —severe
—test on this voyage. But he
would really like to have a yarn
to the American about details
of his route. The big jump,
for the trawler, would be from
Tahiti to Panama . . .
Had he had any open-sea
experience, on a small craft?
No, John said, only off the
coast, for a couple of days, in
the trawler.
Then well why? What
started it all?
John put it this way. When
he went to Tahiti in 1957 the
trip around the islands had
been too short.
“I liked the islands, liked
the life, liked the people—
their naturalness, friendliness,
general outlook on life,” l* e
said.
He lit a cigarette, switched
off the washing-machine. “S°>
this seems a good way to g°
there.”
Perhaps the explanation was
there in the Polynesian Club all
the time.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CONTROL OF NUCLEAR TESTS
Maintaining that the U.S.
made a grave mistake
when it suspended nuclear
tests two years ago and that
tests should be resumed with-
out delay, David Lutyens
points out in “Time and Tide”
that the moratorium was
intended as a step towards end-
ing the arms race but has
achieved nothing in that direc-
tion.
Lutyens dismisses the theory
that enough is already known
about fission- and fusion-
bombs and that only minor de-
tails remain to be cleared-up ;
also that the U.S. has a stock-
pile sufficient to saturate any
target. Moreover, it is tactical
nuclear weapons the West
needs most “if only because
these alone can stop the con-
centration of superior enemy
forces and within a limited
area allow us to fight on equal
terms.
“It will no doubt be objected
that to turn any limited war
nuclear would immediately
cause it to spread (by what
the Americans now call ‘escala-
tion’). But is this really so?
The way to control a war is
to limit not the destructiveness
of its weapons, but the aims of
its protagonists and the geo-
graphical areas in which they
fight. Nor should we forget
that it entirely suits the Rus-
sian book to play on our fear
of escalation, just in order to
stop us using the tactical
nuclear weapons which they
know full well to be to their
disadvantage.
“In fact, of course, it would
be against their interests as
ours to encourage
escalation, for if they really
did want a global war they
Would do best to start one
unexpectedly when our guard
was down.
“For all these reasons the
Present test-ban is working
against the security of the
West, even on the assumption
ifiat Russia is not cheating.
Whether or not she is, nobody
among the general public can
know. What is certain is that
she has every motive and every
Opportunity for doing so.
Today, with no adequate
system of inspection—and it
"'ill be seen in a moment that
Probably this can never exist—
a totalitarian country un-
embarrassed by a free press or
mquisitive local population,
Catl test in complete secrecy a
weapon as powerful as that
dropped on Hiroshima. The
opportunity to test even larger
rocket-borne weapons in outer
space is also wide open.
“Any realistic approach to
disarmament must start from
the premiss that no worth-
while progress will ever be
made in an atmosphere of dis-
trust. Neither side will be pre-
—London “Daily Express ."
“OF COURSE I’LL TELL THE GENERAL OF YOUR
OFFER, MONSIEUR MACMILLAN. BUT HE’S
ALMOST IN SPACE ALREADY.”
pared to yield on any point
that crucially affects a par-
ticular advantage it already
possesses. To believe other-
wise is to ignore history and
commonsense. In this case the
distrust cannot be removed
until each side is certain that
the other has destroyed its
existing stockpiles, and is no
longer in a position to develop
and manufacture new weapons.
The problem of existing stock-
piles has never been squarely
faced, and is clearly insoluble.
Now, in addition, most experts
are pessimistic about the
chance of even policing future
tests. v
“Bombs exploded in the
atmosphere are no problem.
The radioactivity which they
disperse, though almost cer-
tainly harmless to health, is
quite enough to reveal the
nature and date of the explo-
sion. Given a modest number
of strategically placed detec-
tion-posts and appropriately
planned aircraft-flights, one
could probably police atmos-
pheric explosions down to the
level of one kiloton. Under-
water tests can also be ‘heard’
fairly easily, because water is
a ‘quiet’ medium with a low
level of background interfer-
ence. But this is only half the
problem.
“The earth’s crust, in con-
trast to the sea, is extremely
noisy. Seismographic signals
from underground explosions
are therefore easily lost against
the background of constant
minor earthquakes. What
makes things far worse is that
the shock-waves from under-
ground tests can easily be
muffled. The simplest method
is to use an underground
cavity. The air inside acts as a
cushion, and it is not difficult
to reduce the shock to the
earth’s crust by a factor of
300. By filling the cavity with
other suitable substances, this
factor could probably be in-
creased to several thousand.
“There is little doubt that,
in the future, methods of con-
cealment are likely to improve
far faster than methods of
detection. The reason is
simple. Concealment is a rela-
tively new field, whereas detec-
tion is based on seismology, a
science in which the easy
advances have already been
made. Even today, in order
to police underground explo-
sions, down to the 20-kiloton
level, it has been estimated
that 600 detection-stations
would have to be set-up in
Russia alone. And the
neutron-bomb, for example, is
probably in the one-kiloton
bracket.
“Finally, there is inter-
planetary testing. The method
here is tp use a rocket-borne
device containing both war-
head and telemetering equip-
ment, which at the appropriate
moment are made to separate
by a few miles. The detection
package then ‘observes’ the
warhead explode. Weapons up
to 500 kilotons could prob-
ably be given concealed tests
in this way. The best method
of policing them would be via
the actual launchings, but the
Russians have consistently
refused to allow this. In fact,
it is fair to say that so far
there is not one shred of evi-
dence that Russia is genuinely
interested in improving
detection-methods in any way.
“The conclusion to which
we are reluctantly driven is
this: Weapon-tests can never
be policed by purely physical
techniques—at least in the
foreseeable future. (The best
we can do is to fall back on
traditional intelligence
methods, being careful to
remember that they failed to
predict either the first Soviet
A-bomb or H-bomb.) Yet the
whole premiss of making a
test-ban the first stage in dis-
armament was that it would
have the advantage of being
subject to purely objective
physical controls. This pre-
miss is now destroyed.
“More generally, to think
that disarmament will bring
about a quick reduction in


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
14 Spring Street, SYDNEY ... - 27-3444
ldB Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
international tension is to con-
fuse cause and effect. Dis-
armament will come only after
mutual distrust has first been
dissipated by other and slower
means. Foremost among these
is personal contact between
peoples, and here science can
play a wholly constructive role.
The world is now so small that
more and more scientific pro-
jects—the study of the oceans,
food-supply, climate-control
and so on —are best carried
out on an international scale.
The International Geophysical
Year could be only the first of
a series of such enterprises.
“Until these begin to have
their effect we must somehow
learn to ‘live with the bomb.’
We must even be prepared for
a temporary increase in our
military effort, in order to
build a position of unques-
tioned strength from which to
extend the hand of friendship.
We cannot build or maintain
such a position without first
resuming nuclear tests.”
SINGAPORE POLYTECHNIC
Department of Engineering
Applications are invited from
suitable qualified persons for the
following posts in the department
of engineering to commence duty
on or about the Ist of July, 1961.
(a) Senior Lecturer ( Electrical ) :
to take charge of the Electri-
cal Section —should possess a
degree in Electrical Engineer-
ing and/or Corporate Mem-
bership of a Professional
Institution and have had con-
siderable industrial experience
and preferably some teaching
experience.
(b) Lecturers and Assistant Lec-
turers in Electrical Engineer-
ing: with a degree and/or
Corporate Membership of a
Professional Institution. Appli-
cants should have had
experience either in Power
Distribution and Generation
or in Electronics and Tele-
communications.
(c) Lecturers and Assistant Lec-
turers in Mechanical and
Production Engineering: with
an Engineering Degree and/or
Corporate Membership of a
Professional Institution —for
Marine Engineering a First-
Class M.O.T. Certificate is
required. Applicants should
be able to teach at least two
of the following subjects:
Strength of Materials,
Hydraulics, Applied Thermo
Dynamics, Theory of Machines,
Machine Tools and Metro-
logy, Metallurgy, Engineering
Science, Engineering Design,
Advanced Mathematics, Engi-
neering Drawing, Naval Archi-
tecture, Marine Engineering,
Workshop Technique and
Practice.
(d) Assistant Lecturers or Instruc-
tors: with a good Trade
qualification, and/or Member-
ship of a 'Professional Institu-
tion to teach some of the
following: —Gas and Electric
Welding, Motor Vehicle Work,
Machine Shop Engineering,
Fitting and Turning, Sheet
Metal Work, Forging, Trade
Science and Calculations,
Machine Drawing, Radio
Servicing Telecommunications.
SALARY SCALES
Senior Lecturers: $1,250 x 50-
> $1,550 per month.
Lecturers: $l,lOO x 40-$1,300 per
month.
Assistant Lecturers: $750 x 30-
930/960 x 35-1,100 per month.
Instructors: $4OO x 25-600 per
month.
1 M$ = 2/4d. sterling approxi-
mately at present.
The point of entry in the above
Salary Scales will depend on quali-
fications and experience.
Further information and applica-
tion forms available from the
Principal, Singapore Polytechnic,
P.O. Box 2023, Singapore.
Applications close on 15th
January, 1961.
Integration in Kenya
XX7Tra only three months left
before an African
majority takes command in the
Kenya Legislative Council, the
Nairobi correspondent of Lon-
don “Economist” reports a new
mood of urgency about start-
ing moves towards integration
“while it may still appear that
these are being done virtuously
and voluntarily”:
“Nairobi City Council has
removed racial festrictions in
its new housing estates, and it
is expected that integration
in the Government - aided
secondary schools will be
accepted in a public statement
by the council of chairmen of
the school boards. Only a few
non-white schoolchildren will
apply to enter the six main
Government schools in
January; but they may be
sufficient to turn aside the
wrath of African members
who will be asked to vote the
annual subsidy of £1 million
towards these schools in next
April’s Budget.
“The Kenya Regiment, at
present a European territorial
formation, is also likely to be
—N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
“WHO ARE YOU CALLING A PAPER TIGER?"
integrated soon, for the same
Budgetary reason. But the
hardest task of integration in
Kenya is the removal of racial
and tribal barriers in land-
tenure. Nevertheless, notable
advances' have been made
rprentlv
,
The Agriculture Amend-
ment Bill, which opens the
former White Highlands to
yeomen and peasant settle-
ment-schemes, was hastened
through all its Parliamentary
stages, and white farmers of
all political shades were the
most enthusiastic advocates of
more speed yet. This mood
had been set earlier in the
month at the conference of the
Kenya National Farmers’
Union when a respected
Nakuru farmer, who tried to
persuade the meeting to de-
plore the whole idea of
peasant-settlement that would
taint the highlands, was
attacked from all sides by
white farmers who swore by
the agricultural skill of Afri-
can smallholders.
“By election - time in
February the Government will
be busy buying-up land in the
highlands in blocks of as much
as 60,000 acres—which is
thought a convenient size for
development in subdivisions.
“The reorganisation of the
highlands, though the most
dramatic move, is only the first
step in solving the problems
of the uneven dfstribut on and
development of Kenya s land,
The Masai, grazing their cattle
over wide plains with
only four people to the square-
mile an d disdaining the chores
of cultivation, will have to
c ome to terms with the
Kikuyu, who outnumber them
2 5 to one, and will have to stop
calling on Britain to honor the
letter of a 50-year-old treaty,
Other .tribal divisions in the
west and north-west will have
to be submerged, a more diffi-
cult task than breaking the
barrier into the highlands,
“Equally important, develop-
ment inside Kikuyuland itself
can be increased ; the effects of
the land-consolidation scheme
have not yet been fully felt,
and ambitious plans to P‘P e
water f rom t h e Aberdares into
tbe Nyerri district should soon
benefit agricultural, produc-
tjon old plans for‘irrigating
parts G f Nyanza Province from
Lake victoria to promote rice
and sugar production are also
being dusted over.
“Here lies a chief hope for
peaceful progress. With the
rac i a l sacrosanctity of the high-
lands yielded, Africans are be-
ginning to look more broadly
at Kenya’s land problems and
how to develop every p° sSlb
acre.”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
GOOD MEDICINE
FOR
DISSATISFIED
INVESTORS
Learn what we, in our
professional judgment,
would suggest to meet
your personal investment
needs.
JUST SEND THE COUPON
BELOW.
For free information or enclose
£5/5/- for 12 months’ letter
advisory service.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY
BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME
ADDRESS
Phone .
A Run on the Dollar
i fteß two or three decades
/V of digging bigger and better
: vaults at Fort Knox to house
’the world’s gold the U.S. now
jjjflds itself in a position where-
!(he flow is reversed —and to
such a degree that its reserves
! are being drained away at a
j r ather alarming rate.
That much of the drain is
due to the enormous foreign-
aid programmes America has
initiated in order to help other
countries rebuild their eco-
nomies does not alter the fact
that the U.S. now faces balance-
of-payments problems of its
own.
The dimensions of the prob-
lem are shown by President
Eisenhower’s announcement
that the U.S. will cut its spend-
ing abroad by $lOOO million a
year. As seen by “New York
Times” the situation ,can be
simply 'Stated:
“For most of the past decade
we have been living beyond
our current income in relation
to the rest of the world. Taken
together, our purchases of
goods and services abroad, our
tourist expenditures outside this
country, and our export of
capital—both through private
investment and Government
—London “Daily Mail.”
THE CRACK IN THE WILLOW PATTERN.
—have exceeded our receipts
horn abroad.
“The result has been what
we economists call a deficit in
roro balance of payments,
followed by an' outflow of
S°ld. Even now we still have
far the largest gold stock in
the world. Yet obviously the
drain could not be permitted to
go on indefinitely, especially
since the continuing deficit was
raising questions abroad about
the future of the dollar.
“The President chose to con-
centrate the entire burden of
belt-tightening upon Govern-
ment activities overseas and
persons related to those activi-
ties. The freedom of private
individuals or enterprises to buy
foreign products or travel
abroad or invest in foreign
nations was left untouched.
“Clearly, far more than the
President’s emergency measures
may be necessary in the months
ahead. We must try to in-
crease our receipts of foreign
exchange by exporting more,
by attracting more tourists here
and by reversing the present
outward flow of short-term
private capital. Moreover, we
need to consider more than
immediate economic advan-
tage when as buyers and in-
vestors we choose between
decisions that will increase the
outflow of dollars and decisions
that will minimise it.
“The savings that need to be
made are not so great on a
national scale that they can-
not be made voluntarily if all
of us understand our respon-
sibilities. The alternative might
be some unpleasant further
measures that would affect the
private as well as the Govern-
ment sector of our economic
life.”
New York “Herald Tribune”
says that the outflow of dollars
in the last three years has been
at the rate of $3OOO million a
year, not through trade-deficits,
but through private investment
and Government spending in
other countries: i
“This has meant the accumu-
lation of large amounts of
dollars in European Treasuries
above the normal reserve
requirements. The last -reces-
sion and the prospect of a
new one, the possibility of re-
newed inflation and various
other factors have led Euro-
peans to exchange their dollars
for gold. This in turn has
caused a drain on American
gold reserves to a point where
mass redemption of dollars
held by foreigners could cause
a severe crisis.
“Woven through all this are
the supremely important ele-
ments of confidence and expec-
tation. When the price of gold
on the London free market
rose sharply recently it meant
there were people, not many,
but some, who were devaluat-
ing the dollar by paying more
than 35 of them for an ounce
of gold. It is easy to exag-
gerate this particular incident,
but simple talk about dollar-
devaluation has already done
harm.
“The President’s action will
dispel one widespread inter-
national misapprehension. This
is that there would be a two-
month vacuum between Elec-
tion Day and Jan. 20 during
which no step in defence of the
dollar could be taken.
“The action itself is sensible.
Its most dramatic effect, the
repatriation of 284,000 military
dependents, may involve per-
sonal hardship, but the United
States has tended to be over-
protective of the comforts of
its soldiers in recent years.
“Other moves can be made if
necessary. The West German
Central Bank and the Bank of
England have recently reduced
their interest-rates, and, al-
though the short-term rates in
Europe are still more attrac-
tive than they are in America,
this will work in the direction.
of keeping dollars at home.
“Another step is to expand
exports and to compete with
imports in the home market.
Still another is to encourage
other industrial countries, par-
ticularly West Germany, to
carry a much bigger load in
the development of Asia and
Africa.
“The gold-and-dollar situa-
tion is something to be
seriously concerned about, and
the new Administration will
have to tackle it as a pressing
order of business. There is,
however, no need for self-
indulgent gloom. We should
not forget that the strength of
a currency depends funda-
mentally on the strength of the
economy behind it. On this


Ftuffli in Uie
Future
\
0
.
The large intake of British and European
migrants in the past fifteen years has already
had its clear effect on the growth of our
national character.
This is a natural development, and its
influence is likely to be still more evident as
immigration continues. The breadth of outlook it
is bringing among us is to be counted in the gain,
apart from the actual numerical strength it is
adding to the population.
What is happening now in Australia really
runs in close parallel to the history of the United
States of America, the continental area of which,
excluding Alaska, is almost exactly the size of
this country.
In population we stand where the United
States was in the 1820’s, before their big migration
drive was begun, and nearly thirty years before
the Californian gold rush was to send the
waggons rolling westward in dispersal of the
growing numbers.
But there is this difference between the
experience-in-youth of the two countries: it is our
good fortune to have come up to the present
quickening stage in our national life with the benefit
of technical knowledge and constructional aids
that were unknown when people were pioneering a
new land one hundred and forty years ago.
Australia will mature to greatness as surely as
America has done, and the process will be swift,
because time and circumstance combine to present
us with this opportunity in the setting of these
remarkably vital years.
The social trends arising from large-scale
immigration are incidental to the fact of this
growing, this evolving of an even more distinctive
character as Australians.
Historically our foundations are British. Our
civil institutions are soundly established, we have
everything to inspire us, and whatever comes in a
cultural blending from without must lend colour
and strength to the pattern we are weaving within.
It is what we make of Australia through our
multiple effort —and in the making, become—that
will matter in the story of which this century is a
most exciting chapter.
point there is ample justifica-
tion for reassurance.”
The New York correspon-
dent of London “Economist”
discusses possible remedies,
emphasising that, as the country
with the leading international
reserve currency, the U.S. must
not adopt exchange-controls,
but it “must look to cutting
those payments which it can
control.” The “tempest will
probably be weathered suc-
cessfully,” but:
“What measures might the
U.S. authorities follow if a
crisis were to develop? De-
valuation is exceedingly un-
likely, simply because devalua-
tion is unwarranted in the
absence of a fundamental dis-
equilibrium in the present
dollar-parity. Political factors
are also relevant. A dollar-
devaluation would hardly be an
auspicious debut for the new
Kennedy Administration.
“The United States is also
unlikely to declare a gold em-
bargo, in effect making the
dollar exchange-rate a free
rate. Any initial decline in the
price of the dollar in terms of
other currencies would provoke
a self-aggravating decline.
“Nor is the United States
likely to adopt the classical
monetary solution of a high
interest-rate, as England did
with the lift to a 7 per cent,
bank-rate in the late summer
of 1957. The situations are
not comparable.
“Could the United States
make use of the resources of
the International Monetary
Fund, and do this without pre-
cipitating a massive speculative
movement? In fact the ice has
already been broken by what
is in effect a gold-loan of $5OO
million from the Fund, and the
Fund has an additional $2.5
billion of gold. If this is not
enough, the United States could
draw pounds, marks and francs
from the Fund.
“At home, export-promotion
must be pursued with vigor.
Abroad, countries with ade-
quate reserves must be induced
to eliminate remaining restric-
tions on dollar-payments and
must pick up a larger share of
the tab for aid to under-
developed countries.
London “New Statesman”
expects the problem to be
solved rapidly and “without
due grief” as far as the U.S.
is concerned, but says it is a
different matter for Britain:
“Whatever moves America
makes we are sure to suffer. If,
after all, Germany is finally
cajoled or bullied into meeting
support-costs, we too must in
logic contribute to the $2OO
million which it costs the U.S.
to station forces here. If the
U.S. financial contribution to
Nato goes down, ours must nre
sumably increase. If u.S ex'
ports are expanded—i n a
ging world-market—ours must
inevitably decline. If u s
tourists are obliged to spend
less, we shall be the principal
victim. If gold flows to New
York, it must leave London
We Lave been the chief bene-
ficiary of the ailing dollar •
if it is restored to health, sterl-
ing must take to its bed. What-
ever Kennedy gains on his
swings, Selwyn Lloyd must lose
on his roundabout.”
Dragnet Digest
Edward Crankshaw, in Lon-
don “Observer”: “I have never
believed that Mr Khrushchev
was an absolute boss, as Stalin
was (although he came very
close to being one in 1958 and
1959). He did not win his
fight with Malenkov and Molo-
tov single-handed; he was
helped by others, many of
whom had reservations about
him and backed him less be-
cause they were pro-Khrush-
chev than because they were
anti-Malenkov. Lately these
have been gaining ground as
opposed to Mr Khrushchev’s
own creatures.
“A good deal of Mr
Khrushchev’s personal be-
havior since last April when,
at Baku, he began to hedge
about the approaching Sum-
mit can be explained only by
the assumption that he is shar-
ing supreme power with
others.
“It becomes clearer every
day, for what it is worth, that
the others are Mr Suslov and
Mr Frol Romanovich Kozlov,
with behind them party-bosses
such as Mr Aristov and tech'
nocrats such as Mr Kosygin.
r- * *
London “Financial Times:
“What the Government now
seems to be working for is a
European Customs Union with
special provisions safeguard-
ing the interests of the Com-
monwealth and the low-taritt
E.F.T.A. members. Mr Heath
said at Strasburg in September
that Britain could not accept
the Rome Treaty in its present
form. If these words mean
anything, they suggest tmu
subject to certain amendmen s
the Rome treaty would e
acceptable.
“If this is the correct inter-
pretation the
should say so. Certainly Minis
ters should remember ma
weekend constituency s P eeCft v
are also read abroad, and any
impression that the ’ ot
Government is divided is a
going to help in talking t 0
Six.”


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Profile of on Egg
The typical Australian egg
weighs ounces,
comes from a White
Leghorn just under two
years old, takes half-a-pound
of wheat to produce and is,
like the population, predomi-
nantly white. In all other im-
portant respects it is like its
cousins overseas, containing
73.6 per cent, water, 12.8 per
cent, proteins, 11.8 per cent,
fats, 1.0 per cent, carbohydrates
and 0.8 per cent, minerals.
These minerals number 30,
ranging alphabetically from
aluminium to zinc. Of the 96
known elements, 35 have been
indentified in the egg, making
it one of the most complex
artifacts ever produced by un-
skilled labor.
The egg also has a certain
stark beauty of form. “If
required upon pain of death to
name instantly the most per-
fect thing in the universe, I
should risk my fate on an
egg,” wrote T. Higginson in
1863.
Our knowledge of the egg’s
secret nature is comparatively
recent. It was not until the
middle of the 19th century that
great curiosity developed con-
cerning the internal structure
of the egg, whereupon it was
subjected to painstaking dis-
section and microscopic exami-
nation.
Next, early in the present
century, came chemical analy-
sis, when researchers roamed in
bewilderment through the com-
plexities of the egg’s simple
and conjugated proteins,
lipids, lipochrome, pigments
and fatty and amino acids.
The disclosures of the bio-
chemists attracted attention to
Ibe egg as a rich source of
e xperimental material and pro-
dded workers in the pure
sciences with opportunities
lo search for general funda-
mental truths” (Romanoff,
fdexfs, and Romanoff, Anas-
lasia, Cornell University, 1949).
, Theoretical scientists became
mterested in the egg as an
system, composed
mke a political party, the asse-
rtion with which comes
readily to mind) of inter-related
parts.
In the end the egg, after
thousands of years of esthetic
and practical regard by artisis
and architects, came under
close scrutiny in the course of
research in biochemistry, bio-
physics, embryology, bacteri-
ology, medicine and nutrition.
“Thus,” points out Roman-
off, A., and Romanoff, A., “as
the various branches of science
merge and become more inter-
dependent, an increasingly
great co-ordination of effort is
made possible in approaching
the unsolved problems which
the egg still presents.”
/"\ne unsolved mystery is this:
Why can some people
throw an egg over their house
on to the lawn without breaking
it, and not others?
The question has recently
been aired in Britain in the
correspondence columns of the
“New Scientist.”
The original correspondent
reported that although he had
safely cleared the 30ft. roof
of his house with an egg (this
was about the time of the
Olympic Games), and found
it unharmed on the lawn on the
other side, when he simply
rolled it off his hand onto the
grass from a height of 3ft.
6in. it broke.
Readers hastened to confirm
or deny (mostly deny) the
validity of these findings, add-
ing in the process small but
useful contributions to the
growing volume of funda-
mental truths about the egg.
(One man’s experiments were
held up by the disappearance
of his projectiles, until he found
that his eight-year-old bull-
terrier bitch was waiting on the
other side of the house and
eating the eggs as they fell
from the sky.)
Perhaps the most valuable,
and certainly the most thought-
ful, contribution to this corres-
pondence came from H. G.
Morgan, of Dawlish.
“The physical structure of
the egg,” he wrote, “clearly
demonstrates that it is designed
for atmospheric flight, with pre-
cautions against damage under
conditions of abrupt decelera-
tion.
“This is perhaps an evolu-
tionary relic of the period when
eggs were laid on the wing,
before the present decadent
habit of nest - building
....
failure Wl fh . an e Bg
dropped from 3ft. 6in. is amply
explained by the fact that, with
such a short drop, there was
insufficient time for tho egg to
assume its correct flight orien-
tation. This failure is hardly
surprising, for what bird would
ever lay an egg sideways from
a meie 3ft. 6in..
Another great unsolved
problem about the egg is the
question of how' to determine,
from the outside, its freshness,
It is, incidentally, perhaps not
widely realised that an egg can
be too fresh for some purposes
—hard-boiling and cake-mak-
ing, for example.
A too-fresh hard-boiled egg
is practically impossible to
peel. This is because the mem-
brane lining the shell (mem-
brana testes) adheres strongly
to the membrane which fits
snugly round the contents
{membrana vitellina). Exten-
sive research in the United
States has so far failed to find a
method of peeling hard-boiled
eggs mechanically.
In cooking and baking, where
an egg’s essential egginess, or
incomparable powers of bind-
ing, aerating, clarifying, emulsi-
fying, coloring, thickening,
coating and stabilising come
into full play, an egg should
never be used until it is three
days old.
TTo avoid the risk of rushing
A into a souffle with under-
age eggs, a quick test can be
run with the Haugh Interior
Quality Calculator, invented by
an American refrigeration-
engineer.
The suspect egg is weighed
in grammes, then broken onto
a sheet of glass. A micrometer
is used to measure the height
of the white at a point halfway
between the yolk and the edge
of the thick, or middle dense,
white (as differentiated from
the outer liquid white, the inner
liquid white and the chala/i-
-ferous white, wherever that is).
The height in thousandths


l>Aoof.
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
HP
"SOT*
fm
mm
mmm
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d OlBce and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
of an inch, taken in conjunction
with the weight, gives a reading
on the scale in Haugh Units
(which vary from 110 for a very
fresh egg to 1 for a very stale
egg indeed).
The final unsolved mystery
about the egg is, of course, the
price—but that belongs in an-
other section. Perhaps “Busi-
ness, Robbery, Etc.”
Corriedales
for Export?
nPvvo important Peruvian
sheepbreeders recently
visiting Australia and N.Z. have
been greatly impressed by the
type and quality of Australian
Corriedales.
The two visitors, Dr Alberto
Latest reports from
Britain indicate that
last season was the
highest for wool pro-
duction, for over 25
years. The report went
on to state that the
weight of the wool clip
was 82.9 million lb. It
was also tabled in the
report that this was a
4 per cent, increase over
the previous season,
and a 43 per cent,
increase over the 1950
total. Bearing in mind
these figures, the report
says that Britain is now
Europe’s largest wool
producer.
To minimise lamb
fatalities, more and
more graziers are using
Elastrator. Elastrator
for safe, dependable
and humane castrating
and tailing is recom-
mended by discerning
graziers everywhere.
Elastrator Green Rubber
Rings cut fatalities to
a minimum, thus ensur-
ing constant production
and increased returns.
Chaparro and Senor Calla,
between them own more than
180,000 Corriedales and nearly
13,000 head of cattle.
Dr Chaparro is vice-presi-
dent of the Peruvian Parliament
and general-manager of a
farming company with five
holdings in central Peru. Senor
Calla is administrator of a
ranch with head-office in Lima.
“I believe that Australian
Corriedales can be used to help
build the quality of our sheep,
particularly in the fleece,”
Senor Chaparro said.
“About 60 per cent, of our
flocks are Corriedales, and run
at altitudes of up to 15,000
feet. The sheep have to be
hardy. The grazing there is not
nearly as good as what I saw
in Australia.”
He said that Peruvian hold-
ings were large, average being
about 2,500,000 acres, with a
carrying-capacity of about a
sheep to 2\ acres.
The two breeders came to
Australia at the suggestion of
the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd.
They inspected properties in
N.S.W. and bought Corrie-
dales here and also at the
Christchurch (N.Z.) Royal
Show on their way to Australia.
In recent years buyers from
several South American States
have bought in Australia, and
it is a market which could be
encouraged.—“Zorok. ”
Storage of
grain-sorghum
is becoming
an increasingly important
crop in Queensland. It is
valuable at home as stock and
poultry fodder, and a flourish-
ing export-market has been
established in the U.K., India
and Japan.
A summer crop, it can be
sown from about October to
January, and therefore fits in
well when dry winters mean the
failure of wheat, oats and other
cereals. The crushed grain
is valuable as a supplementary
food in topping-off bullocks in
dry conditions and excellent as
silage—the acreage sown for
silage is extending into areas
previously regarded as too dry
for any success.
Short-term storage is essen-
tial, because of the general
nature of seasonal feeding,
especially for ewes and lambs.
What is more important,
though, in districts where grain-
growing is associated with
stock-raising and where there
may be long droughts, is the
ability to hold grain for long
periods and so give graziers a
convenient and cheap means of
storing good-quality fodder.
A demonstration in Queens-
land’s Central Highlands has
lately shown that dry, mature
grain-sorghum can be safely
stored in galvanised-iron silos
for up to three years.
Two 500-bushel silos were
filled in May and June, 1957,
and the grain was held in
storage until this year. The
grain was fumigated with car-
bon-bisulphate every three
months, at the rate of 61b. each
treatment, to prevent damage
from weevils, and the surface-
grain was dusted with B.H.C.
powder at intervals to control
grain-moth.
At the end of three years’
storage the grain was quite
sound, had kept its color and
passed as fair-average quality.
Insect damage was only slight,
so evidently insect-control mea-
sures were effective.
When grain-sorghum is
stored in a silo its moisture-
content must not exceed 12
per cent. If grain is clean and
quite dry when stored the mois-
ture-content remains constant
about this level and condensa-
tion is no problem.—“ Alpha.”
Pure
Cotton-seed
At present there is a lack of
uniformity in much of the
lint produced by Queensland
cottongrowers, especially j n
strength and staple-length. This
often lowers the grade and
reduces the grower’s return.
Pure seed will correct this
variation, so a scheme super-
vised by the Cotton Marketing
Board and the Queensland
Department of Agriculture has
been evolved to produce seven
commercial varieties of cotton,
with the aim of helping cotton-
growers to improve their lint.
Approved farmers will each
grow one variety of cotton in
isolation. At all stages of
growing and harvesting crops
will be inspected by field-
officers. Strict rules have been
laid down to preserve the purity
of the seed and its freedom
from weed-seeds and burr. Pro-
ducers whose crops are grown
in accordance with the rules
will receive a bonus of £3 an
acre.
Precautions will be taken at
the ginneries to prevent the
seed of different varieties being
mixed. Delinted seed will be
tested for viability, the maxi-
mum germination permitted
being 70 per cent.
The commercial varieties to
be grown are: Miller, Empire,
Lone Star, Triumph, Arkot,
New Mexico, Acala and Row-
den. But the Agricultural
Department is also building up
stocks of at least 12 new varie-
ties, and if the tests prove any
of these to. be satisfactory for
Queensland conditions, pure-
seed supplies will be increased
for general distribution.
In the long term this scheme
will raise the standard of
Queensland lint and increase
the security of cottongrowing
as a farming venture.
ton.”


£*»**;»
fed j
A
X
P
A
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
Obtainable in 4 oz. t 8 oz.,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM AND GENERAL STORES
ANYTIME ... ANYWHERE
Always be well groomed with a ...
LORD RIAM
battery operated
SHAVER . . .
SAFE,
DEPENDABLE
In PLANES,
TRAINS, BOATS
. . .In your CAR or
OFFICE, CAMP-
ING or CARAVAN-
ING, the LORD
RIAM will shave
you perfectly at the
touch of a button.
Made in Switzer-
land . . . fully guar-
anteed rugged com-
mutator motor . . .
self sharpening
cutters. Two 1.5-
volt torch batteries
guarantee months
of easy shaving.
It!
■
y
m
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
You’ll be glad
you did.
Complete with
batteries.
PRICE ONLY
92/8
POST FREE.
CUT OUT POST NOW
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mesire Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money order
enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and, address in block letters.
Surface-irrigation Methods
Surface-irrigation is replac-
ing spray-irrigation where-
ver land can be prepared so
that the water does not flow
unevenly and erode the
paddocks.
This doesn’t mean that land
must be dead flat. Unless
there is a suitable grade, water
will gather and bog the soil,
especially in high-rainfall dis-
tricts, where most of the rain
comes in two or three months
of the year.
There are two methods of
surface-irrigation: border and
furrow.
In the bbrder method the
land must be divided into
strips by small check-banks
built in the direction of the
slope of the paddock.
In the furrow method the
furrows can run down the
slope on relatively flat land,
but if the paddock is steep they
should be angled across the
slope to reduce the velocity of
flow, with the degree of angle
depending on the type of soil.
The modern tendency to
level paddocks by removing
large amounts of soil from one
place and building-up hollows
in another is not always sound
practice. Fertility of the soil
is greatly reduced when the
topsoil is removed.
It is true that some soils are
very deep—rich, volcanic, red
soil is one example. But even
here fertility will be tem-
porarily lowered when the top
layer is moved elsewhere.
Shallow soils could be im-
poverished for years.
For this reason surface-
irrigation is limited to areas
where the least land-treatment
is needed. The cost of exten-
sive levelling, with depletion
°f fertility, is hard to cover,
even with irrigation.
]Uost machines used to pre-
,l pare land for surface-
irrigation are relatively inex-
pensive. One of the handiest is
ihe Johns Leveller, from New
Zealand, made by joining two
hardwood boards at right-
angles. Usual size of each
'hoard is 10in. x 3in., with total
length of 16ft. Smaller lengths
W be used, but it’s not wise
lj° use boards less than 12ft.
lon g. The horizontal board is
“ Se d to control the implement;
® e vertical board acts as the
Header - blade. The cutting-
"Urface is fitted with a steel
Plate. The leveller is con-
[olled by a handle fastened to
. he middle of the bottom
°ard. Amount of soil gath-
reu and width of spread are
§ulated by this handle.
It has been said that the
Johns Leveller can be danger-
ous behind a tractor, but any
such fault would mainly be
due to the draw being too
short. The chain attachment
should suit the particular
drawbar, and different lengths
of chain may be needed for
different tractors. The Johns
can also be fitted for three-
point linkage, which makes
work much easier.
Any practical farmer can
make a leveller on these lines,
fitting a steel plate from an
old dray-tyre on the cutting-
surface.
A small four-wheeler land-
grader is also useful in prepar-
ing paddocks for surface-
irrigation, but unless there’s a
lot of work for it, hiring such
an implement generally works-
out cheaper than buying one.
P'or large areas an automatic
leveller cuts down work
and time. These implements
can be obtained in sizes rang-
ing from 60ft. down to 20ft.,
with blades up to 10ft. wide.
This type works by pivot-
action. When the machine
strikes a rise the blade bites
into the ground and collects
earth, which is carried along
by the leveller. When the
leveller strikes a depression the
soil is spread evenly over the
area to level it off.
These machines need a large
tractor to pulK them. They
are expensive, but cover the
ground rapidly apd are ideal
for large projects involving
hundreds of acres. They are
particularly suited to districts
where there are machinery-
pools.
The main thing, however, is
not the implement but the soil.
If the paddock is too uneven
the cost and resultant decline
in fertility may make the work
uneconomic. On the other
hand, surface - irrigation is
generally cheaper than spray-
irrigation. There’s none of the
work of shifting pipes over
boggy ground ; evaporation is
reduced to a minimum; and
plant-transpiration is lower
with flood than with sprays.
Many farms with limited
water can make good use of
surface-irrigation, provided the
soil is suited to it. The mini-
mum area that'will make it an
economic proposition will
depend on the type of farm.
On a dairyfarm a smaller area
used for whole-milk produc-
tion for the city trade will pay
as well as a larger area used
for producing cream.
BILWON.


Kstab'ished 1868
Contractors t<r Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON
OSUILIVAN yj
PTY LTD ' f/ J
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GIJTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
eU,. Makers of Classifiers,
Mater Filters, Steam Valves,
etc
1000 Different Whole World
Stamps 17/6 or 500 Different
For 8/6. Both Post Free.
R. C. Walker,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Member Australian Stamp Dealers’
Association.
Farming from the Air
than 3,000.000 acres of
Australia are now being
seeded, topdressed, sprayed or
dusted from aircraft. It was
this fact that brought together
at Wagga (N.S.W-) 80 dele-
gates to the third annual
symposium of the Australian
Agricultural Aviation Associa-
tion to discuss exactly what this
means in terms of men,
material and money.
In terms of men, Mr C. A.
Flood, president of the Western
Australian Aerial Agricultural
Operators’ Association, was a
little gloomy. There had been
27 accidents in his State in the
last year. Most of them were
minor, but some incurred
severe damage, including com-
plete write-offs.
Most of the accidents were
not caused by contravention of
air-navigation regulations, but
by poor airmanship. Pilot-
training was now going reason-
ably well, he reported, though
some trainees were still unsuit-
able.
The trouble was that, apart
from the five hours of low
flying required by the Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation, operat-
ing companies had no standard
syllabus. However, the com-
panies recognised the limita-
tions of pilots who take out
agricultural endorsements at
aero clubs and they were now
trying to produce more com-
prehensive courses of instruc-
tion.
On accidents, Mr Carl
Heimer, an American visitor,
said that cable-cutters were
built into aircraft used in low-
flying jobs in America. These
release a plane from power- and
telegraph-lines—a major cause
of accidents there as well as
here.
In terms of material, Mr
R. A. Sherwin, assistant-
director of the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics, reported
that in Queensland the main
activity was seeding, in N.S.W.
it was pasture work, in Victoria
and South Australia it was
pasture work and crop-spray-
ing, and in West Australia it
was mainly crop-spraying.
At present more than 46
per cent, of the aircraft work
is done in N.S.W., where, in
the nine months ended March,
1960, 1,340,000 acres of pas-
ture were treated, chiefly by
spreading superphosphates.
The aircraft cover an average
of 100 acres for each hour’s
flying-time. Often the farmer’s
only contribution is providing
markers and writing the
cheque. This type of thing
appeals particularly to farmers
who find it hard to get satis-
factory labor at the right time.
In terms of money, Mr Sher-
win reported that if wool prices
continued to follow the recent
trend, improvement in new pas-
tures would probably be cur-
tailed, partly because of lack
of funds and partly because
of the doubtful profit to be
gained from this kind of invest-
ment.
The best chances of expand-
ing the area of improved pas-
tures probably existed in the
high-rainfall areas, where good
response could be expected
from seed and fertiliser broad-
cast from aircraft at relatively
low cost. Often this type of
land has been recognised as
having a good pasture potential
only in the last few years.
Where properties had not
changed hands lately land
values had not been inflated as
much as when pasture potential
had been recognised earlier.
“While prospects for wool
are not encouraging,” said Mr
Sherwin, “it is nevertheless
reasonably clear that topdres-
sing of pastures will continue
as the means of maintaining
and even increasing the volume
of work production.
“However, producers will
obviously be exploring means
of lowering their costs. They
can be expected to welcome any
economies which the aircraft
industry can pass on.”
TV/Cr B. R. G. Woodfield and
IVA Mr R. C. Wade, both
from the Victorian Department
of Lands and Survey, dealt
with the aerial poisoning of
rabbits. They explained that
normally rabbit-baiting fills in
the slack period for aerial
operators that falls between the
end of topdressing and the start
of spraying usually from
April to September.
In Victoria rabbit-baiting
was zoned by the Lands De-
partment last December after a
meeting between officers of the
Department and the Aerial
Agricultural Operators’ Asso-
ciation. Zone boundaries con-
form to Lands Department
inspectors’ districts. This
means that the local inspector,
who is responsible for mixing
1080 poison, has only one aerial
operator to deal with and each
landowner knows his local
inspector.
In hot, dry weather baits
shrivel within a few days. But
they can remain toxic, though
dehydrated, for any length of
time. However, a shower of
rain will reconstitute them, and
this i's the danger period to
stock.
If stock have been put back
baits should be inspected after
any shower of rain because
they still contain 1080 poison.
In cold, wintry weather baits
decompose more quickly and
the danger to stock is less, but
normally stock should not be
put back under four weeks
after a poison drop.
Total stock losses due to acci-
dental poisoning by air-drop in
the year were 107 sheep. Con-
sidering that more than 100,000
acres were poisoned by air-
drop, the ratio of loss of stock
to rabbits killed seemed
justifiable.
"V/fR S. Lloyd, of the Bureau
of Meteorology, explained
that although basic weather-
forecasts, together with a know-
ledge of cloud types and
sequences, assisted pilots in
their general assessment of
weather conditions, they did
not have the complete picture.
What the pilot is concerned
with is the weather over small
areas in limited depths at par-
ticular times.
For a Tiger Moth the varia-
tion of temperature alone dur-
ing the day can reduce the
safe take-off load by 2001 b., or
the weight of one bag of super-
phosphate.
The Bureau was working out
a course to be included in
future pilots’-rating examina-
tion to give them a chance to
make detailed observations of
local weather.
Mr W. B. C. Mackie, of
Commonwealth Fertilisers and
Chemicals, Ltd., reported on the
use of bulk, superphosphate
depots for aerial topdressing
in Victoria and the Riverina.
With the co-operation of the
Victorian Railways it was now
possible for his company to
erect at rail-sidings about 30
bulk storage sheds in the main
grazing-districts of western,
central and north-eastern Vic-
toria and in the eastern
Riverina and parts of Gipps-
land.
Where these sheds existed, his
company could deliver bulk
superphosphate from railhea
to farm at about the same price
as for cartage of bagged super"
phosphate. The farmer cou
thus save practically the m
cost of containers and have t
fertiliser ready for the aircia
when required. , c
In a survey of development
in Victoria, Mr R- aC ,3
complained about the apa
of some Government depa
ments to agricultural avia i


n
\MM
&
mV. poC
*i£
l*Ti
,s«’
►Sii
|IC»
.«»»
»t 0
it'iS
,I' IV
0>»
-sss-
cM
)\C*N
TYv.c
KOO*
Sco
mti
oJ
RlO4
The gift that says
GOOD TASTE and
GOOD LUCK
There’s no finer thought than to give your friend*
the smooth mellow enjoyment, the good taste,
of White Horse Scotch Whisky,
sfc You’ll be giving Good Luck, too . . . for
the famous White Horse Lucky Charms
are back. You’ll find one on every
large bottle. White Horse
this Christmas, in the <
attractive Gift Pack. 3
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
j fl his State. He said: “Whilst
w contract with many Govern-
ment authorities and semi-
government institutions we
receive no assistance whatso-
ever in the way of advice or
practical help. We want to have
some type of aerial liaison-sec-
lion established within our
Department of Agriculture.
“Surely it is time we were
recognised as an industry of
primary importance to agri-
cultural production.”
Feed-let Fattening
in experiment with feed-lot
& fattening of cattle, now
being tried at Ayr (Q.) by the
management of the Kalamia
Sugar Mill, could do much to
solve the problem of over-
production on sugarcane-farms.
At present many thousand
tons of cane are ploughed-
under every year, but if lot-
feeding is successful much of
this will be converted into beef.
The Kalamia Mill trial aims at
determining the best feeding-
techniques under the American
system of concentrated cattle-
feeding, and to decide whether
feed-lot fattening is an eco-
nomic proposition for cane-
farmers.
The experiment began last
May, with two age-groups of
cattle, each of 50 head. Each
yard in which they are held is
100 ft. by 65ft. allowing each
beast 130 square-feet of space.
Each beast in the first group
(2fyear-olds) is fed the daily
ration of 101 b. molasses,
meatmeal, 3oz. urea, 41b.
crushed grain-sorghum, and
(01b. roughage consisting of
stand-over sugarcane.
Each in the second group
(18-month-old cattle) receives
71b. molasses, 21b. meatmeal,
3oz. urea, 41b. crushed grain-
sorghum, and 401 b. sugarcane
roughage.
So far results have been pro-
ving, and the experiment may
help many growers to supple-
ment their incomes, and boost
oeef-production throughout the
coastal strip from Bundaberg
to Cairns.—“ North.”
Crosscuts
With the aim of raising the
standard of entries, the R.A.
H.S. of South Australia
has decided that all light-horse
competitors in the 1961 Ade-
laide Royal will be required to
submit a performance-sheet for
each horse entered. The
Society wifi decide which nomi-
nations shall be accepted, and
competitors will be noti-
Ued of their decision as quickly
as Possible.
Wedderburn (Vic.) shearers
J. and M. Crisp and M. Letts
are claiming a Northern Vic-
torian record for shearing at J.
Rollinson’s estate, Inglewood, a
total of 2047 sheep in five days.
The trio’s daily tallies were 383,
396, 401, 483 and 384.
“Ymar.”
A cold snap after shear-
ing around Horsham (Vic.)
greatly increased the local
demand for brandy, which,
mixed with milk, has been
found the best restorative for
badly chilled sheep.—“Emel.”
Farm Hints
Whether a cow milks*
slowly or fast depends
largely on the teat-orifice. Any
hardening of tissues round this
orifice usually causes the animal
to fidget and a leg-rope is often
needed to ensure an uninter-
rupted milking, whether by
hand or machine. Resultant
loss of time and production
can usually be overcome by
applying a softening agent,
like an ointment with vaseline
base, after each milking.—
“O-Twit.”
For home-made cement,
grind about 4oz. resin and loz.
brickdust together, add loz.
beeswax and melt in a clean
tin, stirring it thoroughly all
the time. This mixture is good
for resetting the handles of
tools that have become loose
in their sockets. —“Yeno.”


Modelling for Lindsay
By JAMES ROBB
u in, come in,” said
| Norman Lindsay as
V I hesitated in the
doorway of his
studio one morning in 1930.
“You’re the pirate-type I’ve
been searching for.”
From a wardrobe he pro-
duced a buccaneer costume,
which I donned. Armed with
a blunderbuss and cutlass, I
stepped up on the dais and gave
a variety of poses with appro-
priate actions and facial ex-
pressions—blood-curdling leers,
wild laughter, bravado, fear
and horror while Lindsay,
seated at his easel, made rapid
charcoal sketches.
When the last drawing was
finished Lindsay, in great glee,
jumped to his feet. "Damned
fine, Robbie! Damned fine!”
he said, and thereupon ap-
pointed me chief cutthroat for
all his future buccaneer-paint-
ings. Thus commenced a work-
ing partnership which lasted
for IQ years.
Lindsay at that time was in
his fifties ; of slight build, quick
in speech and action and with
a boylike charm, he looked
thirty. He had a prominent
aquiline nose and neat pointed
chin ; a lock of hair (the fore-
lock that Melba loved to tug)
like a miniature mane occupied
the centre of his forehead;
with these features and the
merry twinkle in his eyes, he
resembled a jovial faun in one
of his pastoral paintings.
JHI L E Lindsay prepared
morning tea I looked
round the studio. On the walls
were canvases aglow with the
color and romance of the East:
There was a composition in
passionate color of a desert
caravan laden with rich mer-
chandise, jewels, cloths of silk
and gold; dark-eyed houris
toying with ropes of pearls;
sheiks, mounted on richly
caparisoned camels, Arab
horsemen, slaves and asses
laden with the spoils of war.
In a large canvas Don Juan
stood surrounded by smiling
charmers. There was a scene
from the court of King Charles
with beautiful ladies in gleam-
ing silks, courtiers in frills and
laces, and poodle dogs; the
King, with a slightly bored air,
listening to the complaint of
one of his mistresses.
There were watercolors de-
picting life in many of its
aspects, from a story of tender
love to a fight to the death
between hate-maddened rivals.
A large oil-painting —an
arcadian subject with nymphs
and satyrs dancing round a
jolly old Bacchus- —might have
been inspired by a line from
Marlowe :
My men, like satyrs grazing on
the lawns . . .
Defore commencing the
brushwork of an oil-paint-
ing Lindsay made a careful
pencil-drawing of the composi-
tion on the canvas; he could
then go ahead without having
to make alterations at a later
stage.
If the subject was an episode
from pirate history I rehearsed
on the dais my part as Morgan
or Blackbeard or whoever was
the principal figure in the com-
position, while Lindsay, on the
floor, viewed me from all angles
and with an occasional request
for a more ferocious expression,
more tension in a certain
muscle, etc. He then mixed
his palette quickly and began
to paint.
T Ind s a y worked to a
schedule. From seven to
nine in the morning he would
write ; at ten, when the model
arrived, painting was com-
menced, the first sitting lasting
until noon. Painting was re-
sumed after lunch and con-
tinued until four. He then took
a leisurely stroll through the
Botanic Gardens or down to
Circular Quay to see the ships.
The hours from seven to nine
p.m. found him either at his
typewriter or stepping a mast
on one of his model ships.
On Saturday he relaxed, and
his studio-door was wide open
to those sincere students of
painting or writing who came
for help in their problems. He
gave generously of his advice
and with practical demonstra-
tion put many of his callers on
the path to success in their
various crafts.
A picturesque caller at the
studio was an English
remittance-man, a self-styled
colonel of the Guards. His
preamble seldom varied, and
was delivered in a fruity tone
of voice.
“My dear Mr Lindsay,” he
began, “this is frightfully em-
barrassing . . . really . . . most
humiliating for one in my
position . . . the fact is, my
er, quarterly cheque from my
dear Uncle the Bishop of
C has not yet arrived
and . . . and ...”
“And,” interjected Lindsay
with a smile, “a temporary loan
is indicated.” And pressing
some coins into the “colonel’s”
hand he led him to the door.
Lindsay had a deep sympathy
for the underdog. The hungry
vagrant who knocked at the
studio-door to beg the price of
a “tea-an’-toast” breakfast was
never refused the necessary
coppers, but woe betide the sup-
pliant who called when Lind-
say was painting.
The only time I ever saw
Lindsay in a rage was one
morning when he was about to
start work on a new and large
composition. With a final
critical glance at my pose he
placed the first touch of color
on the canvas. There was a
knock at the door. Lindsay
dropped the palette, turned
around as if released by a
spring and, grasping his large
brush as if it were a dagger, in
three rapid strides he reached
the door, flung it open and with
a shout of “To Hell!” quickly
slammed and locked it.
Tn Lindsay’s service I gradu-
ally acquired a little skill at
acting, and on one occasion I
had even to change the color
of my skin.
A wealthy art-collector com-
missioned Lindsay to paint a
single figure, a pirate of most
villainous aspect, nude to the
waist and in a threatening atti-
tude with a blunderbuss in his
right hand. My normal skin-
color was a light tan ; Lindsay
desired a deeper tone of brown.
As artificial aids such as colored
liquids were abhorrent to him,
I decided to sunbake.
I went to the bush, found a
secluded spot and lay down in
the nude on a flat rock. Every
day for a few hours I revolved
slowly like an ox on the spit
until every inch of my body
received the sun’s rays. On my
return to the studio at the end
of three weeks Lindsay was
delighted with my tan; his
gratitude was sufficient recom-
pense for the grilling I had
undergone.
Like all true artists, Lindsay
welcomed criticism from the
model. Having finished a large
oil depicting the landing of a
band of pirates on a tropic
isle, he sat down with a
cigarette and asked me what I
thought of the painting. My
eye came to rest on a palm-
tree in the foreground ; there
was something wrong with it
according to my recollection of
palms in the South Seas: the
leaf-scars around the trunk
were too formal, too evenly
spaced. The point was a trivial
one, but it aroused Lindsay’s
interest. He paid a visit to the
palm section of the Botanic
Gardens, and on his return he
scraped out the offending trunk
and repainted it.
A detail of anatomy in a
figure-painting once provoked
a criticism from a doctor-
friend of Lindsay's. The doctor
said that a small, fleshy mound
on the forearm near the wrist
did not exist in human ana-
tomy. Lindsay promptly got me
into the pose I had adopted for
the painting ; with a firm grip
on a blunderbuss, I brought
my hand up and back towards
the wrist, and to the doctor’s
surprise the' small mound of
muscle appeared.
nPHE last time I saw Lindsay
■*- was at a birthday-party
arranged in his honor by a
band of women writers and
artists who had benefited from
his help. They came from all
States with presents ranging
from sheepskin rugs to boxes
of cigarettes. As each one
entered she rushed to embrace
Lindsay. I have never seen a
man kissed so many times; no
sooner had he emerged from
one smothering embrace than
he was engulfed in another.
There was no painting that day.
I look back on the years I
worked with Lindsay as some
of the most pleasant in my lif e -
After 10 years of almost daily
association with him I t oo *-
with me the impression of a
man who has discovered t“ e
secret of perpetual youth, w o
has the exploring mind tha
garners knowledge and wisdo
from deep study, travel an
association with his fellow-m
—a mind too busy ever to gr
old and musty.


ABORIGINALITIES
Strange Adventure of Gentleman Jack
By TOM RONAN
f\77 HEN I first hit Sydney
\V/ one of the places I
W wanted to find was
th e White Horse
Hotel. My taxi-driver took me
to the Theatre Royal, where I
obtained the mystifying infor-
mation that: “We’re doing G.
and S. just now. Then ‘The
Student Prince.’ Then ‘The
Vagabond King,’ and then
good old ‘Rose Marie.’ ‘White
Horse Inn’ is well down the
list.”
In fact, I never did find the
place, or anyone who could
tell me where it used to stand.
The night-porter at my pub
went so far as to assure me
that he was Sydney-born and
■bred, and no pub of that name
had been in the city in his 50-
odd years. This, of course,
was rank blasphemy. Any
bagman north of west of
Bourke knew that such a place
did once exist, and that in its
greatest years it was kept by
Larry Foley, and among its
clientele were numbered the
most eminent collection of
fighting men the world has
ever seen in one place around
about the one time.
If you inquired into the ques-
tion west of the Queens-
land border you would get
more detailed information.
You would be told that one
of the lesser stars in a galaxy
that included Jackson, Slavin,
Fitzsimmons, Griffo, Goddard
and Jim Hall was one “Gentle-
man Jack” Malloy, and, more-
over, that he was identical
with old Deaf Jack Malloy,
who came puffing and blowing
•nto the depot store one
evening.
“Young feller,” he almost
gasped, “I’ve had a terrible
tale. For God’s sake give me
a bottle of beer! ”
He was broad-shouldered
and barrel-chested, with arms
almost to his knees ;
baldish, red-faced, with a
dominant nose, blue eyes, a
jaw like an anvil and the con-
tradictory kindly mouth of his
s °rt of Irish.
Whether he had fought in
Sydney was never actually
Proved. But in his prime he
certainly had a record in the
Push. In fact, among the elite
°f the Billabong, Alec Moray,
tan pastoral inspector for
Vestey’s, was less highly re-
garded as the man with the
bl §gest job in the northern
cattle industry than as the bloke
who had once lasted seven
rounds with Gentleman Jack
Malloy.
'T'hat first time I met Jack
A he bought a few items in
the store, then asked for the
loan of a pen. He produced
a crumpled cheque-book smell-
ing vilely of plug tobacco,
grunted and wheezed for a
full minute, held the pen like a
carving-knife, and handed me
the cheque.
I wasn’t used to bagmen
who operated bank-accounts,
and my suspicion must have
shown on my face. Jack
resented this, demanded a
receipt, and, though he had
spoken of camping about until
old Mat got back from Darwin,
packed-up and left.
He met Mat in the narrowest
and most echo-laden stretch
of the Jasper Gorge. The con-
versation between the pair,
each of them deaf, must have
gone something like this:
“Who’s that young feller
you’ve got in the store, Mat?
He didn’t like the look of my
cheque.”
“What’s that? What’s that?
Don’t shout at me, Jack. I’m
not deaf. Who? Oh, that’s
young Tom. Old Jim’s son.”
“Well, I’ll be damned! I
thought he was some city urger
you’d picked-up. He looked
like it. And for the Lord’s
sake, Mat, don’t roar at me —
I’m not one of your damned
blackfellows. I think I better
go back and apologise to the
young feller for not introduc-
ing myself.”
He did, too.
Old Mat, with fresh buggy-
horses and Rollo the boy to
help him along, naturally got
home before Jack had pushed
his leg-weary old bagman’s
mokes over the stage, and I
was given a lecture on cheques ;
how and whose to accept.
“In a country like this, where
there’s no cash in circulation,
you just have to cash any-
body’s. But use your judg-
ment. These coves with ready-
made writing-satchels, gold-
mounted fountain-pens and
flourishing signatures should
be limited to a tenner. A bloke
like old Jack, who carries his
cheque-book in a dilly-bag
with his razor and takes longer
to sign his name than it takes
you to get out his order is
good for any amount. You
could sell him a thousand-
pounds’ worth of stuff if he
wanted it.”
“You don’t mean to tell me
that old Malloy would have
a four-figure bank-account?”
Mat banged the table with
his walking-stick, rattled the
pannikins and upset the sugar-
tin.
“You’ve missed the point.
A man like Jack Malloy would
die before he wrote «out a
cheque for a thousand unless
there was well over nine-
hundred and ninety - nine
pounds ten in the bank.”
Tack turned-up next day, and,
** in the intervals of helping
Mat re-fight the ’ninety-four
strike, spent a lot of time yarn-
ing with me over the counter.
He told me about his trip to
China and Japan en route to
California to see his sister, and
about the goldmine in Pine
Creek, where he was going to
settle-down in his old age (he
was only 72). But even the
most tactful question about
where he had been before he
turned-up in Western Queens-
land in the early ’nineties
would be met with a sly
chuckle: “I was like you,
young feller, a quill-driver.
That’s how J ruined my
hands.”
He would spread two enor-
mous paws on the counter, the
knuckles of which had been
knocked back almost to his
wrists.
But on this particular even-
ing Old Jack looked his years.
He gulped his beer, and his
hand was shaking.
“An awful time, young
feller, ever since Monday
week.”
His voice was high-pitched
and harsh —not with the minc-
ing falsetto of so many big
men, but as if Joe Goddard
or someone had knocked his
Adam’s apple into the back of
his throat and he had been 40
years trying to cough it back
into place.
“Yes,” he continued, “I was
out after my horses. While
I was taking the hobbles off
I twisted my ankle. I tied-up
my bareback horse and limped
around looking for a rock I
could use to mount from.
When I found one I sat down
in a clump of shade to fill the
old pipe. I heard something
rustle, and here’s seven-foot of
brown-snake just about to kiss
me. I couldn’t get up, so I
had to grab him with my left.
It’s natural for me to use my
left. I have to keep my right
for signing cheques and writ-
ing to my best girl.
“Well, Mr Snake swings
across the back of my neck
and wraps himself around my
right arm. My loose horses
are walking away. Old Baldy
is singing out and pulling back
on his bridle trying to follow
them, and I’m still tangled
with the snake.
“My left ankle is so sore
I can’t put any weight on it,


FOR ALL TRAVEL INFORMATION,
ACCOMMODATION AND RAIL,
ROAD, SEA OR AIR BOOKINGS!
■ •
CAU
*■ a a
VIC TOUR
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU IS AT YOUR SERVICE
272 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63 0202. Civic Centre, Deakin Ave.,
Miidura. Charing Cross, Bendigo. Bright’s Building, Moorabool St.,
Geelong. 34 Lydiard St. Nth., Ballaarat. 18 King William St.,
Adelaide. 28 Martin Place, Sydney. International Terminal,
Essendon Airport.
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
Jim
* i
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in' 1 and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
and unless I can make the
beggar let me out of the half-
nelson he’s got on me I’m in
a fix. And every second he’s
getting stronger and I’m getting
weaker.”
“How did you manage it,
Jack?”
“What’s that? Speak up,
young feller. No, don’t shout.
I’m not deaf like poor old
Mat. Well, I’ll tell you what
I did.”
He bared a set of teeth,
tobacco-stained jand uneven,
but as strong and as sharp as
a shark’s.
“I bit him. Yes, I dragged
his head past my mouth and
sunk my teeth in behind where
I had the grip, and held on
like a bulldog until he let go.
Then I used my right hand
to get myself up off the rock,
and threw him away. I was
a bit worried that he might
have come at me, but he bit
once where my tooth-marks
were and then kept going.”
“So you came out of it all
right then, Jack?”
“All right be damned! I’ve
almost starved to death.
Everything I’ve tried to eat or
drink or even smoke from then
until you handed me over that
bottle of beer has tasted of raw
snake. For the Lord’s sake,
young feller, give me another
bottle! ”
* * * *
TTwo willy-wagtails built their
nest in a wilga-tree over-
hanging the fowlyard, where,
despite our daily comings and
goings, they hatched three
young ones. The little blokes
were almost ready for flying-
lessons when a heavy storm
destroyed both them and their
home. The parent birds built
another home, this time well
protected by the thick grape-
vine. Tragedy was swifter this
time. There were only two
eggs in the nest when some
marauder killed the little hen,
smashing both nest and eggs.
The disconsolate remaining
partner is still with us. He
shows no signs of taking
another mate and just as dog-
gedly sails into any bird that
comes near as he did when he
was protecting his spouse and
staking their claim to the area.
—“Alma.”
* * * *
AT the top of the 5000 ft-
. Macquarie Pass
(N.S.W.), on the railway-line
from Moss Vale through to the
coast, stands one of the
smallest railway-platforms I’ve
ever seen.
The board carrying its name,
Ocean View —and you can see
the ocean from it —extends
almost the length of the grass
grown, neglected platform'
There is no township there at
all, and the only outside build-
ing in sight is a milking-shed
just across the road.
There seems to be no justi-
fication for the station’s exist-
ence, and it does not appear
ever to be used —except by
pigeons, who have desecrated
the inside of the small waitine-
shed.
The line itself, incidentally,
appears to be in for its greatest
use ever, with the recent open-
ing of the new port at Port
Kembla, through which it is
planned to tranship much of
the export produce of south-
western N.S.W. instead of rail-
ing it to Sydney.
Keima.
* * « *
Tn the days before myxo. hit
the warrens I saved myself
an unsavory chore with the
aid of the station-store scales.
Two tough, sunburnt blokes
from a 10-mile fencing-contract
chatted the Trump for a job
to fill in six weeks or so before
going to Adelaide for the Show.
He told them there were a
“few rabbits out at Morgan’s
Tank.” They could fence-off
the tank area and put out tins
of poisoned water. Two-quid
a thousand for pairs of ears,
meat thrown in, and they could
keep the skins —winter-skins
at that.
There were a couple of
catches in it, though. All car-
casses to be burnt not closer
than a mile from the tank, and
skins for the market to be
pulled off before sun-up, be-
cause otherwise the fur comes
adrift.
The blokes took off in their
truck with a load of rations,
wire for stretching-hoops and
poison. About seven weeks
later they arrived after smoke-
oh one afternoon just as the
Trump was starting for the
camp at Gilgwapla, 30 miles
out. He signed a cheque and
with a wicked glint said to me,
“Fix ’em up.”
On the back of the truck
was a heap (king-size) of ears
threaded on wire-rings. Then
the thinking-gear ticked. So
I put it to the rabbit-tycoons
(station wages then 525. and
keep) to weigh the rings of
skins against one which I would
count. Agreed. Total count
and weights correct; 44,000
pairs of ears. Reduced 1°
vulgar money, £BB for ears,
and the market-value of two
tight wool-bales of the P lC *
of the skins ; say, £l5O.
bad for a “few” rabbits.
NorQU e -


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Agriculture up Top
The Forster Committee’s
leport on agriculture in the
Northern Territory has not yet
been published in full, but a
summary has been released to
[he press.
The personnel of the com-
mittee must command respect
-Dr Forster and Dr Williams
lire agricultural scientists of
'note, and Mr C. R. Kelly,
M.P., is a practical farmer.
All the same, there are two
items on which many Terri-
torians will differ markedly
from the committee’s con-
clusions.
The committee states that
the establishment of export-
tiling facilities at Darwin is
the only way to get a per-
manent increase in the cattle-
tarrying potential of the Top
End.” Why Darwin? , One
of the chief reasons for the
Vestey fiasco was that there
is no holding country within
miles of Darwin, so when a
trainload of cattle arrived a
militant trade-union could say:
“Pay us what we demand, or
drive your cattle into the sea! ”
And it did, frequently.
Granted that today trade-
unionism in the Territory is
much saner in its outlook, there
are still quite a few active
'Communists in Darwin who
are capable of reintroducing
jthe 1918-19 tactics.
I wholeheartedly agree with
need / for export-killing
facilities in the Top End, but
the place for them is Katherine,
not Darwin. The climate is
hotter, and there is plenty of
holding country along the
river. Further, unless the
hfanton Dam can be ampli-
fy Darwin is going to be
Mighty short of water before
otl g- Katherine has an un-
ited supply.
The other item is irrigation.
Me report says: “Any idea of
ho development of the Tern-
ary on a grand scale by irriga-
-11011 is far from reality.” That
Jopends on what one calls a
grand scale.” If the Murrum-
%ee Irrigation Areas and
those along the Murray are
jjhssified as “grand schemes,”
r n I submit that the poten-
laf of the Victoria, the Roper
I the Katherine is greater
sail anything we have in
southern Australia. Any one
of the three in a normal “wet”
makes Old Man Murray look
like a bush creek. I have been
along the Victoria in the begin-
ning of the “wet,” long before
the great bulk of the water
came down, and was staggered
by the flow.
Dams and irrigation-canals
would be costly, and perhaps
difficult to construct, but
human ingenuity has tackled
far bigger problems. Until a
really expert hydraulic-
engineer with experience in
major irrigation-schemes has
inspected the Victoria, Roper
and Katherine, and has fur-
nished a comprehensive report,
doubts must remain about
accepting the committee’s
report on this particular aspect
of development.
I believe it would pay hand-
some dividends if the Federal
Government appointed some-
one who has handled really
big irrigation projects to make
a comprehensive report on the
three rivers I have mentioned.
—D. C. Tilghman (N.S.W.).
Traffic Laws
I trust there will be second
thoughts about some of the
proposed amendments to the
N.S.W. Motor Traffic Act.
Higher maximum fines for
certain types of offences may
help curb irresponsible drivers
and make the roads safer for
the ordinary law-abiding citi-
zen ; but I feel that education,
rather than penalties, is the
logical way to reduce road-
accidents.
I question the justice of
punishing drivers who break
the speed-laws unless the
breach endangers other road
users. To fine a motorist for
travelling at, say, 35 m.p.h. in
a 30-mile limit when there is
no other traffic about is rank
injustice. Its certain effect is
to embitter the person fined
and probably encourage in him
an even greater disrespect for
the law when he next gets the
chance to flout it with im-
punity.
But it is the proposal to em-
power police to issue tickets
for on-the-spot fines that really
deserves second thoughts.
Admittedly it would save the
time of the police and would be
a convenience for offenders
who intend to plead guilty ; but
what about the borderline cases
where there is doubt about the
degree of offence committed
and where payment of a fine
would smear an otherwise clean
record?
Although such persons can
elect to have their cases heard
by a magistrate, I fear that
when issued with a ticket many
Will pay the fine for fear that
attendance at court might
bring an even heavier penalty,
Not every motorist booked
is issued with a summons. In
many cases senior police-
officers decide not to prose-
• ,• „ r , • Y
cute in v,ew of the driver spre-
vious good record. Even where
a motorist is brought to court
magistrates sometimes exercise
then discretion on similar lines.
In a recent case within my
experience an understanding
magistrate elected not to record
a conviction against a woman
driver whose explanation of her
offence sounded reasonable to
him. Had the woman been
given an on-the-spot ticket 1
hnve no doubt she would have
paid the fine and had her
licence endorsed.
The Government’s appetite
for easy money from the
motorist has been whetted by
the vast sum which flows in
annually from parking-fines.
Treasury officials are probably
already rubbing their hands in
anticipation of the additional
collections they will handle if
the proposed amendments be-
come law The N.S.W. Govern-
ment will do a grave injustice
to many drivers if it decides to
make traffic-policemen prose-
cutors indires and inries all in
cuiors, judges ana juries all m
one. Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
Seaplanes and Bushfires
The rich pastoral area be-
tween Yass and Gundagai is
one of the most hazardous
bushfire districts in N. S. Wales,
L was for many years a joint-
secretary of the Associated
Yass . Bush Fire Brigades con-
trolling eleven brigades, and
ter one big fire I suggested to
* e^l iSOr L B t Ush Fire P™?
“ t ? y n dn . ey a seaplane be
stahoned on the waters of the
Burrenjuck Dam and fi led w.th
scoops filling water into tanks
£or irect £ lication to the
front and flan P k P s of flres
when j submitted the idca
t 0 , he chairman of the bride
the late G Merrim * hs .’
said . .. Send s it on to tb
b and see thdr reaction
j think it js practicable and
will ultimately H be done but
unfortunately you are ’ years
ahead of your time.” How
right he was. About 25 years!
The advisory council jn
Sydney said the idea was ~i m.
practicable,” and I always felt
that tbey r boU g bt j bad suffered
a “touch of the sun.”
Now it has happened.
i n the “S. M. Herald” of
4/11/ ’6O R. P. Leek, Deputy
Fire Protection Officer of the
N.S.W. Fire Commission,
v^rote: — -
j n Canada, float-planes, equipped
with scoops and water-tanks above
their floats, have been used for
c a * s ,£ e " *, r “ e s^s ta 0 ", e?
the surface of a lake or reservoir.
When over the fire, # the pilot
releases the water, and can refill
the tanks ra P ldl y without coming
to a stop xhis method could be
used in the Snowy Mountains and
“Just another takeover!”


start the day right!
m
uW OIHC
F*
s c^^i
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
EVERY
INFORMED
PERSON
READS
THE OBSERVER
Price
1/6 Fortnightly
From All
Newsagents
ii? other areas where suitable
stretches of water are near.
It can be said that aircraft have,
up to the present time, been used
only to a limited extent in associa-
tion with the control of bushfires
in Australia.
However, the time is not far
distant when they will be called
upon, as they are in other countries
of the world, to take a more active
part in the detection and suppres-
sion of uncontrolled fires, the
greatest menace to our agricultural
and forestry economy.
Seaplanes are being dis-
carded for ordinary purposes,
but they should be ideal for
Burrenjuck, the Snowy Moun-
tains dams, Hume Weir, Warra-
gamba and Keepit Dams and
other impounded waters, and
would be invaluable in saving
pastures, stock, fencing and
buildings. They could fly
from dam to dam wherever the
danger is greatest. Based on
Sydney Harbor for main-
tenance, they could fly quickly
to help quell any fire within
easy reach of suitable dams or
rivers.—H. H. Bridge (N.S.W.).
Proper Penalty
At Goulburn (N.S.W.)
Quarter Sessions a 23-year-old
Sydney man of excellent
character was jailed for two
years by Judge Fitzpatrick for
culpable driving, to which
offence he pleaded guilty.
Police evidence was that the
offence was committed while
the man was driving from Mel-
bourne to Sydney with four
companions. They had stopped
regularly for drinks, though the
driver claimed he had had only
four middies. While trying to
take a curve on the Hume High-
way near Bowning, at a speed
which other drivers whom he
had passed had estimated as
from 75 to 80 m.p.h., his car
crossed over to the wrong side
of the road, colliding head-on
with a car coming from the
opposite direction. The second
car was as far over on its
correct side as it could go and
had almost stopped. The hus-
band of the woman driver of
this car was killed.
Defending counsel laid great
stress on his client’s excellent
character, and said that the
offence was, in fact, only “an
aggravated traffic offence.”
The judge, however, refused
to treat it as such. He said
the accused was a normal, hard-
working young man who had
abided by the law of the land
in every respect except one.
Since getting his driving-
licence in 1955 he had had half-
a-dozen traffic convictions,,
mainly for speed, and had twice
been warned by the Depart-
ment of Motor Transport that
he risked losing his licence.
The second time was a “final”
warning, and had been issued
just before this offence.
The N.S.W. Government is
considering introducing stiffer
penalties for traffic-offences, in
the hope of reducing road
deaths. A few jail sentences
of this nature might be a use-
ful deterrent.
As I have heard several
judges and stipendiary magis-
trates comment, it is no con-
solation for the victims of road-
accidents or, in the case of
fatal accidents, their surviving
relatives, to know that they
have been knocked down by
men “of unimpeachable
character.” — Keima (N.S.W.).
Wider View for Senate?
In recent years the Senate
has displayed an increasing
appreciation of its role in the
political scene. Its committees
have done a great deal of use-
ful work in informing Parlia-
ment and the public on a
variety of topics, and in many
cases its members have dis-
played a gratifying degree of
independence of thought
(although this latter manifes-
tation has been a pain in the
neck to the Whips).
Some Senators are now can-
Vcissitig a possible extension of
methods. The powers of tS
committees for summonS
witnesses outside the
service are limited, and it t
being suggested that the Senate
sitting as a whole, might be
prepared to hear the public
presentation of ideas or sue-
gestions on various subjects
national and international. ’
The voice of Asian countries
on such matters as Colombo
Plan aid, trade and cultural
relations and other matters
might thus be heard with good 1
effects on Parliament and pub-
lic. Admittedly, some pressure-
groups might try to push use-
less or undesirable barrows, but ]
the Senate would remain the
master of its own business, and
its members should be shrewd!
enough to check any such r
tendencies.
The idea is at least worth!
considering.— Charles Mee-
king (N.S.W.).
■ 'in
/
f
Diet and Health a
In discussing diet, “Maitri” a
(B. 23/11/’6O) raised some®
interesting questions without p
laying down the law. Having
very positive ideas on diet I[ (
can’t claim the same detached
attitude. C(
I maintain that as we are S |
largely made of protein wej,
must eat it if we want to sur- | a
vive efficiently. G. B.
was a living skeleton, in %
wheelchair at the last. Hej n
would probably have lived ce
even longer, and certainly far
better in his declining years, j 0
but for his fanciful notions
involving slow starvation. ( 0
Man cannot live by bread j B
alone (I rarely bother with the st|
stuff), and neither can he live m
on vegetable-juices, Dr Bar-
bara Moore notwithstanding. Ik
gave her away when I read hoW | a
she took in “cheese, eggs, and its
milk”—all first-class sources of [e
protein. g 0
It is just as simple as this.
If we deliberately eliminate
good protein from our did, J( .
we will die, although it |j (
take some time. We’re going L
to die, anyway, but we can ;
live longer and enjoy life n w e
eat properly. , set
There’s no need to pick a n % 0
choose. Just don’t eat « rU ?"jtk(
bish, and don’t deny your body L
proper materials for replace L
ment. Rubbish, in my vieW ’|
includes white bread, sU § a |oi
pastries, gravies, sweets, sol
drinks, cakes and puddingy ]
heavy sauces and all the too
some garbage that a man k
firmly turn his back on w L
he nears 50, preferably 1 flsut
before. As to the grog Q . the
tion—well, I haven’t been \
to give this up myself, bu 0 p
“She’ll Do Me”
The “Red Page” review of
the Mark Vizzers book “She’ll
Do Me” (B. 30/ll/’60) says
that the “author... .at any rate
seems the genuine article, a
Dutchman who .... came to
Australia from Sumatra . . . .”
That is true. Mark and I
were colleagues for several
years on a Brisbane commer-
cial-radio station. He was a
natural teller of tales, who
wrote short-stories and broad-
cast them with a rare sense
of drama.. Mark was some-
thing of a rebel against “the
ordered state.” Women found
him charming.
Vizzers speaks near-perfect
Mayfair English, with scarcely
a trace of accent: and, for
the record, his name is pro-
nounced “Viss-eers,” with the
accent on the second syllable.
Actually it’s spelt “Vissers.”
He writes from his own ex-
perience. Mark did not follow
“Nino Culotta.” His book was
born when the whiting were
biting off Sandgate (Q.) ’way
back in pre-war days. He dis-
cussed the idea in those times,
before volunteering for the
A.I.F.
A good cobber ; a lover of
life ; a tri-linguist—I wish his
“She’ll Do Me” all the success
it seems destined to win.—
Terence Lambart, J.P.,
F.R.G.S. (Q.).


"Let's have imothef*
little Hennessv{"
Wf
m
p
r )W u
rt
<• i,
VV \ >
'v » \,?i
If*
"»!•
HENN
Cb&qnajC, Bt^oyxciij
Is there a Hennessij in the house?
SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
TODAY A
TAKE
|c|o|l|c|h| i |s|o|n[E|
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from the intense pain of Gout —-Rheumatism—Sciatica—
Lumbago Fibrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOWS. This special COLCIIISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most cases is the
cause of the inflammation and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases, 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England—Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.),
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
moderation it hasn’t killed any-
one yet.
The enormous range of good
[ O od and wine left after this
culling-out cannot be described
JS unsatisfying. Even fats, in
moderation, are quite accept-
able. Some people thrive on
ihem, but they must be good
fats. As, for instance, the
blubber beloved of Eskimos.
can’t eat blubber, as it’s a
bit hard to procure, but the
message is clear. There’d be no
future for an Eskimo on vege-
table-juice. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
British Migrants
Most Britons migrate to this
country because they desire
a new way of life —basically,
I think, because they still have
a modicum of the British
pioneering spirit, which years
of the Welfare State have been
unable entirely to crush. At
Australia House they are in-
formed of all the opportunities
available in the undeveloped
areas if they are willing to
stork. What, in effect, hap-
pens?
Ninety-nine per cent, are
found work in the five
heavily populated areas on the
coast, where, apart from the
standard of living and the
drinking-laws of the local popu-
lation, life is very similar to
that encountered in a city any-
where else in the English-speak-
ing world. The odd one per
cent, go “bush” and, generally
speaking, make a very good
job of it.
Today in the Northern Terri-
tory British migrants are found
fin every and any job—cattle-
station managers, head stock-
®en, ringers, mechanics and in
business. These men (and
ssomen) made it because they
pd an independent spirit. I
■estimate 50 per cent, of the
remainder would also make
B°od in the outback if, when
ihey first arrived, they were
sent to country jobs. They are
f°f—and Australia’s migra-
h°n policy is suffering as a
result.
f If you are going to take
People out of a highly organi-
sed Welfare State you must
some of their thinking for
rr ei ti when they arrive in their
.few country. Otherwise, like
,p ee P, they tend to congregate
, 111l 11 one corner, until they are
.forcibly mustered and sent else-
j*here.
• Idost of these migrants arrive
t^ re at a cost of £lO or there-
lpouts to themselves, and _to
r that after paying this
■ jj® they owe no obligation to
! guest country is ridiculous.
W. start could, and in my
Pinion should, be made by
sending trial batches of new
single migrants bush ; but keep
the sexes equal.
I came here 12 years ago,
and was lucky enough to be
sent to a Darling Downs pro-
perty. Now I manage a Terri-
tory cattle-station. As a Lon-
doner the initial choice was
hardly mine, but I’ve loved
every minute of it, and so
would thousands of others if
they were gently directed on
first arriving here. — Station
Manager (N.T.).
Poker-machines in Clubs
Poker-machines will con-
tinue in N. S. Wales for the
simple reason that they swell
Government revenue each year
by over £1 million. A change
of Government would therefore
be unlikely to bring any altera-
tion. Something could be done,
though, to reduce club mem-
bers’ losses. An enactment
along the following lines should
be worth consideration:
1. In every club a special
room should be set aside for
the machines, distinct from the
bar —no drinks to be served
therein.
2. Machines to be out of
action on Sundays.
3. An investigation should
be made with a view to con-
trolling club trading-hours,
which could well be decreased.
4. Some form of curbing
credit-facilities to club mem-
bers would also have a salutary
effect.
I could easily enlarge on the
reasons for these proposals, but
a little clear thinking should
quickly reveal the general idea.
However, it must be realised
that the enormous revenues
from the machines have pro-
vided wonderful bowling-clubs,
golf-clubs, etc., and without
this source of income many
clubs would go out of busi-
ness or become very second-
rate shows. Club members
now enjoy conditions outside
and inside the club-rooms
which could not be had without
the bandits. Cheap meals,
excellent drinking-conditions
and other amenities are pro-
vided indoors at a nominal
annual subscription. I don’t
agree that they represent a class
monopoly ; bowling-club mem-
bers, for example, include men
from all walks of life —well
over 100,000 of them in N. S.
Wales.
In my own club the machines
are withdrawn from use on
three days of each week, and
ample revenue for carry-on
purposes is obtained on this
basis of restricted play.—
C.B.M. (N.S.W.).


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARd! C B.E.
A C. MAITLAND 0. S. PETTERSEN*
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
Missing Friend
TO RICHARD
Mt. Isa Mines
DICKSON formerly
ITIL. XSil IYIIUCS Ltd. Mt. I ga w -
Queensland but now of parts u 'jK ..g
Mechanical Draftsman. —TAKE
JOYCE DK®££
gs fo ; Tt
against you on the ground “ ds
sertion during three- years ana up
UNLESS you enter an Appearand
the Office of the Prothonotarj or
Supreme Court at Melbourne «
before the Seventeenth day _of 1 gajd
1961 and file an Answer I,l ,;“ ve n'th
Office on or before the Twenty •
day of January 1961 the su
that your wife
has commenced proceeding:
you on the
may be ordered to pay costs. ;
WAY. PEARCE & KINDS i cun
WAY, PEARCE
Collins Street, Melbourne,
the Petitioner,
proceed in your absence ai £ T psE-
costs.-?/ 379
Solicitor 3
for
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of the “Shorter Oxford
Dictionary” and T. M. Ronan's
“Vision Splendid.” —34.
Words and author of the poem
“The River of Life.” —35.
Information Supplied
The Par-3 golf-course:
Though it is not a substitute for
a proper nine-hole or 18-hole full-
length course, the Par-3 has the
advantage of being compact and
of being available for night-golf.
In the United States these courses
have been established for many
years, and their numbers are still
increasing rapidly. Apart from
night-golf many of the U.S. courses
offer driving-ranges and profes-
sional coaching, and they are
proving a very successful commer-
cial enterprise.
In Australia, Adelaide has already
gone ahead with the development
of the Par-3, and considering the
overcrowding of municipal courses,
many - municipal councils are likely
to follow their example. Going on
the U.S. figures, they would be
able to take green-fees each season
for about 18,000 rounds for a nine-
hole course and about 30,000 rounds
for an 18-hole course.
* * * *
Engineering Scholarships
The Federation of British Indus-
tries, London, in co-operation with
the Australian Government, is
offering scholarships providing
practical training in the United
Kingdom for selected Australian
engineering graduates and diplo-
mates. General and specialised
training with leading firms will be
arranged for successful applicants
in most branches of engineering,
though some difficulty has been
found in placing chemical
engineers.
Two classes of scholarships are
offered. The first (Type A) is for
recently qualified engineers and
final-year students with no more
than two years’ practical or indus-
trial experience. During the two-
year scholarship period, commenc-
ing towards' the end of 1961,
scholars will not be paid by the
firm for which they are working,
but will have their return fares
paid and a maintenance allowance.
The other class offered (Type C)
is for more senior engineers who
have had at least three years’
industrial or practical experience
and are under 35. Fares are not
paid for such scholars, but they
will receive a maintenance allow-
ance.
Application - forms may be
obtained from The Executive
Member, Australian Selection Com-
mittee, F. 8.1. Overseas Scholarship
Scheme, P.O. Box 189, North
Sydney, N.S.W. Detailed informa-
tion about training in the U.K.
can be obtained from scholars who
have already participated in the
scheme. Contact should be made
with Mr. J. R. Robinson, c/o
Country Roads Board, Exhibition
Building, Carlton, N. 3, Victoria,
or with Mr. E. Cowcher, 11 Mookt
Street, Miranda, N.S.W.
Information Sought
When were the New South Wales
police first allowed to carry arms ?
An incident known as “The
Bridge Street Sensation” was
responsible for the police being
armed. In February, 1894, three
men suspected of having burgled
the Union Steamship Co. were
questioned by two policemen who
were on duty in Bridge Street,
Sydney. A fight developed in which
the police were bashed with iron
bars. Reinforcements managed to
arrest two of the criminals, but
the third got away and was never
captured.
The men arrested, Charles Mont-
gomery and Thomas Williams, were
convicted of wounding with intent
to murder and sentenced to death.
Despite considerable opposition
and controversy they were hanged,
and the police were armed as a
protection.
* * * *
When was the British Press
Council established ? What are its
functions ?
It was established as a result of
the findings of a royal commission,
appointed in 1947 to inquire into
the control, management and owner-
ship of the press and news-agencies
and make recommendations based
on its findings. The commission
recommended that a voluntary
Press Council be established, and
a constitution was drawn-up for
such a council on July 1, 1953.
The objectives, as stated in the
constitution, are: (1) to preserve
the established freedom of the
British press; (2) to maintain the
character of the British press in
accordance with the highest pro-
fessional and commercial stan-
dards ; (3) to keep under review
any developments likely to restrict
the supply of information of public
interest and importance; (4) to
promote and encourage methods
of recruitment, education and
training of journalists; (5) to
promote a proper functional rela-
tion among all sections of the
profession; (6) to promote technical
and other research; (7) to study
developments in the press which
may tend towards greater concen-
tration or monopoly; (8) to pub-
lish periodical reports recording its
own work and reviewing from time
to time the various developments
in the press and the factors affecting
them. 6
From when does the settlement
at Fowlers Bay date ?
Fowlers Bay (about 80 miles east
of the head of the Great Australian
Bight) and Fowlers Point, which
contains it, were viewed from the
sea in 1627 by Pieter Nuijts, and
examined in 1802 by Matthew
Flinders in the Investigator; he
named them after his first-lieutenant,
Robert Fowler.
During the first half of the 19th
century the bay was frequently
visited by whalers and sealers. In
1840 E. J. Eyre made a depot for
his stores at the head of the bay,
in preparation for his trip of
exploration along the coast to
Western Australia. Subsequently
the site was proclaimed a port, and
named Port Eyre. In 1890 a town-
site was dedicated on Fowlers Bay
as Yalata (shellfish), the aboriginal
name for the area, but in 1940 it
was renamed Fowlers Bay.
Brief Answers
A.H.: Author of “The Prize
Poem” was Randolph Bedford....
L.E.M.: The side-rake for clearing
land (B. 9/11/ ’6o> has been
patented by the inventor, Mr R. H.
Clark, of Wolesley (S.A.), who
built the first model. After the
model had been thoroughly tested
in clearing 300 acres of land, its
manufacture as a commercial ven-
ture was undertaken by a Horsham
(Vic.) firm, Bolwell and Johns....
R.M.: Lords Cricket Ground has
nothing to do with the House of
Lords, the name being that of one
of the founders. The belief that
the connection exists was perhaps
best illustrated by an incident in
World War 11, when a prisoner-
of-war in Italy received a message
saying that he had been elected
to Lords. He was, in fact, elected
to the M-C.C., but Lords was
substituted for the initials in case
the Italians suspected a code mes-
sage. Assuming that one of their
prisoners was a peer, the Italians
granted him and his friends special
privileges, not being told, of course,
of their mistake J. 8.: About
15 per cent, of the journalists in
New South Wales are women, the
greater proportion of them being
employed on social work, prepar-
ing copy of interest to women.
. ...L.F.W.: The interest on the
bonds would probably be classed
as income, and income from shares
would certainly be so. The current
market value of shares would not
necessarily be used to determine
means and, depending on the type
of share, it should be possible to
persuade the department that a
particular market value was not the
true value.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
R.Y.: You are not the onlj
one to suffer: —
H.B.T.: The storm was better
than the “hush that went before'’,
Shep Peartown: Box on:—i
Note: Pears are rated highly f
ductive of energy as well as bewS
combination of elements with the elf
bility of neutralising acids in the W
that are productive of fatigue.
“I am a poet.”
was his startling revelation.
“I did not know it.”
Said ‘politeness’ from high station.
“Would you like,”
(Eagerly) - “To read some?”
‘Politeness’ ever polite,
“Love to read what you’ve done.”
“Here they are!”
(Produces great wad.)
“Oh ! Goodie.. .Ta !”
(Botheration on the sod.)
“What do you think ?”
hopefully he asks.
“Wonderful (They stink!)”
his face a smiling mask.
ODE TO A PEAR
[“Ex-Olympic boxer, Peter Read,
winner of the middleweight champion-
ship of Australia on 4th November,
I960, is reported to use pears in Ms
diet when training.”]
Have you any doubt
What this is all about
You should be well aware
This ode is to a pear
T’was eaten in his lunch
To give him extra punch
To win another fight
He takes an extra bite
To strengthen his left-hook
Another pear he took
His right-cross follow through
That took another two
When he’d won the fight
Quite modest and polite
He broadcast o’er the air
Thank you to the pear


Dickens thought of making the trip.
Certainly Hprne thought he would be
back in London with a fortune within
jayear. Certainly he was hard up and
bitterly disappointed at the financial
failure of his literary efforts, particu-
larly his plays. But would he not also
k a ve been more than a little moved to
! depart because of his unfortunate
imarriage to Catherine Foggo (not an
j heiress), whose frigidity he was after-
wards to discuss so frankly with
Browning?
At any rate, he got here; and instantly
proceeded to provide Cyril Pearl with
io much lively and captivating material
that one does not know which incident
to select to illustrate him at his best:
whether landing forlorn and confused
in the rain; or, having abandoned the
thought of actually digging for gold,
undergoing his hair-raising adventures
in charge of a gold-escort; or collecting
the diggers’ license fees in his capacity
as an assistant Gold Commissioner
land resolutely (and sympathetically)
confronting a “little Eureka” at
Waranga; or, as a magistrate, dispens-
ing his remarkable “poetic justice” to
the astonished diggers; or taking his
revenge on Hotham for dismissing him;
or standing (unsuccessfully) for Parlia-
ment; or swimming, apparently in the
nude, in a tank outside Captain
[Penny’s swimming-ship at St. Kilda,
.“with about a thousand people looking
'at him. and admitted to the sight at
, eighteen-pence and two-and-sixpence
ahead.” But, on the whole, maybe
I the best moment to meet him, and leave
him, is
The last time Henry Gyles Turner
saw Horne.... in Bourke Street,
Melbourne, on a busy Saturday
; night. Turner told Professor Ernest
Scott that Horne, “a frisky little
figure in a wide-awake hat,” from
which his long locks floated, was in
“an ecstatic condition of lyrical
inebriety” as, guitar in hand, he
danced down the middle of the road,
singing gaily to his own accompani-
ment. The citizens of Melbourne, .
j said Mr. Turner, were “much
• amused.”
The citizens of Melbourne, and any-
a "'here else in Australia, will be much
* [mused, and edified, by this excellent
_ 3l °graphy.
The Handkerchief
When he went to the war, she kept
A handkerchief that had the smell
Of smoke and sweat and him as well
And with this toy she slept.
He’s out all weathers in the wet.
The night they got him, what he said —
Dropped in the barrage, good as dead —
Was, “Pull the clothes up, sweet.’’
She married and at seventy years
Left her heirs an oilskin bag
With sundry trinkets and a rag
That smelt of sweat and tears;
Nor did they guess the joy and grief
Illicit in that handkerchief.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
The Supplicant
1 remember you as warmth in that
freezing island
Flung like an ugly charm in seas of
slate.
1 see your windy city scourged by winter,
The street, the hedge, the house, the
door: l wait.
For what ? All’s done, all’s known. One
must be silent,
Said Wittgenstein, whereof one cannot
speak.
—For a letter in the loved, lost hand,
affirming
That hearts though temperate may
bleed and break.
1 wait a hemisphere away. I see you
Nightlong in troubled dreams, in
dreams by day.
Warmth, ease, friends, fame: l wait
behind their fagade.
Am nothing. Life’s a hemisphere away,
Speaking to others: children, husband,
strangers;
Turning to all the unsorrowing go.ld-
brown eyes
Through which your naked spirit flashed
and tore me
From my old orbit to untempered
a skies.
All was foreseen but this: your wound-
ing silence.
1 ask the bread of words, am given
stone.
Out of the world of sense, of flux, the
spirit
Wrestles the world of thought, of word,
its own.
The body can be set to work, or given
To this or that one, rocked from love
to sleep.
But the spirit lives by words; in suffer-
ing darkness
Cries for a thought to hold, a word to
keep.
Do you still walk each day to meet your
children
Coming from school along the road
that led,
Once, past my house ? Still spin the
rattling ash-seeds ?
Knit colored socks, play Mozart, bake
sweet bread ?
And the seasons, have they scored some
disenchantment
On throat and hair and brow and
choir-boy face ?
Tempered intemperate sidelong looks,
and gestures ?
The body that was mine so brief a
space ?
The house, the door, the room : how l
remember
That samurai whose servant held a
sword,
Hung in a frame of blond wood at your
bedside.
Ah, once l had no need to beg a word.
A hemisphere away, a ghost beside you
Begging a word to set my spirit free.
Time’s humbled thief, l wait. Speak
peace, assure me
That in your kingdom you remember
me.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS GEYER.
Two Nature Books
\ ‘This wonderful world of insects,”
jjys John Child in the foreword to his
Australian Insects (Periwinkle Press),
: ls not in Outer Space; indeed it is
; ar more interesting than any of the
p-e worlds.” But what if the space
Jorlds are crammed and crawling with
‘myriad new types of insects?
, n is a point which the naturalist
lo uld consider, before being rude to
Outer Space. However, Mars is still
some distance away, and in the mean-
time, as Mr. Child says, there is a bug
or a beetle under every stone, all well
worth investigating;—
Some have organised armies to
protect them, slaves to work for
them.... Some live under water,
some under ground, some in raw
petroleum. The giants among them
are many thousands of times as large
as the smallest, but often the smaller
ones feed on the giants, sucking
their body juices while they move
about. Most of them are expert at
running, jumping, swimming or fly-
ing, but some live to a great old age
(50 years or more) in practically the
one spot.
Designed to “give the student of
insect life an introduction to more than
100 of -the common and easily recog-
nised families of Australian insects,”
this little book should serve its purpose
admirably. All the lerps, froghoppers,
long-horned locusts, caddis-flies, click-
beetles, mealy-bugs and poultry stick-
fast-fleas that one can think of are duly
present, described in clear text and
illustrated in clear drawings. If the
colossal bent-wing swift-moth and the
gorgeous Large Citrus butterfly hardly
display their full majesty when reduced
to quarter life-size, it is something to
have the two color-plates in which they
are represented; and something to have
the whole book, for there is nothing else
on the market, so far as this reviewer
knows, so handy in form and useful as
a guide for the young (and older) bug-
hunter.
David Fleay’s Living with Animals
(Lansdowne Press, Melbourne) is a
scrappy little book, without any per-
ceptible form or plan; a series of


jottings from a naturalist’s notebook,
and even as such in need of condensing
and enrichment. And yet, swallowing
its weaknesses, it is delightful.
One reason for that, and for the
scrappiness of the text, is the photo-
graphs which fill much of the book and
one of which, of a couple of fluffy
white dusky-gliders caught with their
big eyes staring at the flashlight, is
nothing short of exquisite. There are
some very nice views of the spotted
tiger-cat, which seems to have paid for
its nasty, carnivorous habits (they will
even eat their own wives) by develop-
ing a very ugly-looking face. And there
are some young barking-owls crouch-
ing under their mother’s wing, a dingo
feeding her pups, a taipan hatching
from the egg, a charming baby platypus
and a rare view of the planigale, which
is the smallest of our marsupials, with
seven of its young clinging precariously
to its fur.
But the letterpress also has its value
as a store of curious information: how
David Fleay took three baby platypuses
to America and fed them, for a start,
on 10,000 earthworms, 2500 meal-
grubs and 550 crayfish; how he got
savaged by the dingo in his West Bur-
leigh fauna-reserve on the Gold Coast;
how he caught a seven-foot taipan and
how he bred taipans in an incubator;
how, when the giant goura-pigeons
were taking it in turn to sit on their
solitary egg the non-sitting bird always
carried a twig to the other, as in a
relay-race, to indicate that it was time
to change places; how Les Herbert, of
the Hotel Burleigh, bred a “rooby,”
which is a cross between a whip-tail
wallaby and a grey kangaroo (the
mother, when the “rooby” first fell out
of her pouch, cuffed its ears and hopped
off, though later she was persuaded to
accept it); how bandicoots have been
known to eat chickens, how Fleay was
loved by an eagle, and how the Holy
Cross toad, which lives through
droughts in the inland by turning itself
into a living, if comatose, waterbag,
never drinks water but soaks it up
through its skin.
Australians in London
The Catherine Wheel. Elizabeth
Harrower. Cassell. 21s.
This third novel by an Australian
writer is set in London—the cold,
gritty, rather cheerless London of bed-
sitters, precarious finances, grinding
study and determined ambition that
will be familiar to thousands of Aus-
tralians who have been students there
as is Clemency, its heroine.
Not only the setting is grim and
miserable: the story, told in careful
but clumsy and irritatingly mannered
prose, is of Clemency’s disastrous love
for Christian Roland, a poisonous,
fascinatingly handsome fellow for
whom Clemency’s irreverent country-
men have an excellent name that never
sullies these humorless pages.
Halfway through reading the book
one wonders what is the matter with it.
The names? Clemency, Christian,
Quentin? Not really. The prose?
Here are two random, adjacent para-
graphs, a fair sample nevertheless
In his face intention was written •
long ago he had discarded responsi-
bility for himself, now he had an
inclination to bestow himself on
me....
Umm, I thought, boggling slightly.
Nothing ever happened for the right
reasons. A display of power-
power to keep him out of trouble-
counted more than most things, after
all.
Well, the prose is a hurdle and
the sentence-to-a-paragraph mannerism
palls, but it does not seem to be the
source of one’s boredom. The lack of
humor? But in the genre to which this
novel belongs humor is frequently
absent. For the book does belong in
a class of novel that is rapidly estab-
lishing a tradition for itself, and therein
lies the clue —Miss Harrower’s fault is
in presenting her sorry story from the
wrong viewpoint.
“The Catherine Wheel” belongs to
the group of books written by women
and essentially concerned with the inti-
mate relationships of lovers. It is a
“contemporary” group whose most
brilliant practitioner was Colette-
after her one thinks of Rosamund Leh-
mann, Simone de Beauvoir . . . Earlier
women who wrote of love and manners
could never be thought of as belong-
ing to it, even peripherally—not Jane
Austen or the Brontes or George Eliot,
for the characters in these books have
almost absolute social freedom in con-
trast to their residual emotional j
dependence. (Colette’s Edwardian
courtesans qualify because of their elec-
tion for the demimonde.) The prime
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 621
ACROSS
I—lllness1 —Illness which appears to spring from allergy to Irish-
men, but not to the colleens. (9)
s—Convict5 —Convict with a peculiar rifle. (5)
B—lnter-State8 —Inter-State liquor! Why, it’s German! (5)
10 — Strip of timber seafowl who are slovenly? (9)
11 — Pillows we hit could be fancy. (4, I’, 3,4)
14 —Hope there’s money in it. (3)
16— Extra reduction of the great
Australian adjective by you. (3)
17— -Don’t do it in chorus! (7)
18— The Pied Piper’s piping was in
the nature of being such a
Tartar composition on the
piano. (3, 4)
20— One interrupting the doctor, she
being the spirit \yho delivers
men of their dreams. (3)
21— When the sun goes female. (3)
22 Husbands of 10-across, if in the
12-down category, would be gym.
equipment. (8, 4)
26 What makes a chimney-corner
catch fire in a camp near
Sydney? (9)
27 — The angel I humbugged too much
for a biblical personage. (5)
28— Lindwall and ix namesakes? (1-4)
29 Economist isn’t the myth in the
first chapters of Genesis
though. (4, 5)
Down
1 — Why Burke’s a reformed
river. (10)
2 Lawyers go into this ban on
Shirley. (6, 3)
3 A sort of silk rent around an
American naval unit. (7)
4 Mackay is to knock her lass
about. (7) ,
5 Widowerhood gave him a supply
of salt —and plenty ! (3)
6 A charge for using some wood
down near the footlights. (9)
7 Plant in a hurry. (4)
9 —Scrap line. (3)
12—They score more than the better
half? (4-7)
13 —Not over clean —rather low, in
fact, but not to be avoided in
the bush. (10)
15—Elizabeth executed an artist in
this N.S.W. town. (9)
19 — Air lump affected a flower. (7)
20 — The middleman is in the middle
of the shade. (7)
23 Screw into such staffs. (5)
24 Pole may come to this at last;
some might wear it near the
pole. (3)
25 — High among recent Flemington
winners, this adverse influence
has a fishhook in ten. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 620


HOOKU I'N'TER, liov 2(>71, (i.P.0., Sydney.
A service l'<rr readers. Tiial dillienlt to
obtain volume, let us find if. for you --fiction,
text bo,ok, biography, history, etc. Moderate
lee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
rule of this order of fiction demands
that the women characters most con-
cerned should be seen whole —whether
they; exploit or are exploited does not
matter, only the total account does.
They may be as deathly un-amused as
Simone de Beauvoir’s women in “The
Mandarins.” but even if the book is
tilled out with interminable political
discussion, as that one was, the ecstasies
and miseries of women have to remain
its most important events.
Here Clemency tells her tale in the
first person and is far too mixed up
and self-centred to depict herself or
her feelings in the round. She provides
an endless account of Christian, but
the reader soon has his measure and.
not being confused by love for him.
finds further catalogues of his infamies
and deceits, and disclosures concerning
his warped childhood and deprived
youth, merely redundant.
If the viewpoint was that of an out-
sider. or of one of Clemency’s rather
nice English friends, or even of his
middle-aged mistress who has left
husband and children to follow his
dubious star the book might be
redeemed and given interest. As it is
the girl, a character of some potential
interest, is only a rather violent voice.
When the book ends she is ill. disillu-
sioned. heartbroken but quite incon-
clusive—the outcome of the ■ events
described is left inexplicit, and fair
enough, but the reader is tantalised by
being unable to add anything to it for
I himself and cannot even venture a
'guess at her future. Will she be tough
enough to survive? Goodness knows.
Nancy Keesing.
Boom in N.Z. Writing
Nineteen-sixty might go down in
N.Z. literary history as “its finest hour.”
Heading the list is the achievement of
Sylvia Ashton-Warner. netting thous-
ands of dollars for the film rights of
Nr two first novels, the second of
which. Incense to Idols, is receiving
mounting praise from English and
American critics.
lan Cross made London headlines
W| th his second novel, recently
reviewed on the Red Page. Noel
Hilliard (Maori Girl) has had praise
[reaped on him by British reviewers,
find Maurice Shadbolt's perceptive
tjenius as a short-story writer in his
•he New Zealanders has run him into
?second edition. Although now writ-
er in Australia. Olaf Ruhen and
fUthrie Wilson have each added
(excellent books.
I This accounts only for fiction pub-
j, £ d overseas. Andrew Sharp, secre-
:ary of ,the State Literary Fund, has
jrphasised his worth as an historian
p me Pacific in The Discovery of the
lslands (0.U.P.). Locally it was
year of achievement with so many
books at the year’s end that they may
be referred to only in passing. Doctor
Agnes Bennett (W. and T.. also pub-
lished in London by Michael Joseph),
an engaging account by Cecil and Celia
Manson of the recently dead 88-year-
old worker for the health and happi-
ness of her compatriots; Watson Rose-
vear’s Waiapu (Paul’s Book Arcade), a
well-documented story of the New
Zealand diocese of Williams’s fame;
Married and Gone to New Zealand
(Paul's. plus 0.U.P.). important
extracts from the writing of pioneer
women, edited and annotated by
Alison Drummond; Fatal Lady
(Paul’s), a novel by two well-known
New Zealand writers. Mary Scott and
Joyce West; Jean Boswell’s Ernie and
the Rest of Us (W. and T.), whose
children are so real that, if they were
not so interesting, one would feel like
closing the book just to keep them
quiet; Robin Muir's Word for Word
(Pegasus Press), a lively unsophisti-
cated yarn about the publishing game
in New Zealand.
In poetry the chief item of interest
has been the appearance of Allen
Curnow's Penguin anthology of New
Zealand verse, compiled with typical
Curnow monopolistic astringency.
Pat Lawlor.
Idriess Again
The Wild North. lon L. Idriess.
Angus and Robertson. 225. 6d.
In this collection of stories, gathered
in the course of a happy life —in lonely
bush-camps or at sea, as a prospector
or a Light Horseman, fossicking,
digging and writing pars for “The
Bulletin”—lon Idriess sets out to des-
cribe “a period in the world’s history
fast vanishing from under our very
hands.” Most of the tales are about the
Cape York Peninsula, with excursions
to Thursday Island. Arnhem Land and
Western Australia and—surprisingly,
from the title —a few from further
south, a couple of yarns from the
Middle East in War I and one from
Gallipoli.
The stories are slight and produced,
as the author describes them, “rough-
shod as 1 scribbled them at the time.”
But they are unusual and never dull.
From the tale of Wang Tu Sheng,
an illegal immigrant from New China,
landed from a Japanese pearling-lugger
almost on the tip of Cape York with
the intention of walking 300 miles
south to Cooktown to seek his fortune,
here is a description of disillusion-
ment; —
He halted quite shocked at the
broad mouth of the Escape River.
He stared for an hour at that sheet
of water ominous in its green depths,
its history, too. He could not swim—
what use, any way? He saw a
triangular fin cLave the water. He
did the only thing—followed up the
river seeking a crossing.
It was five days before he crossed
the river and followed down the
opposite side, listening for the song
of the beach. He cried a little when
he saw the sea again . . . And the
cost of his exhaustion was a gain
of five miles. Had he only known it,
he had not travelled 12 miles, as
the crow flies, since he started.
Whether the subject is grave or gay
the author always writes with good
humor; he knows his subjects and has
evidently enjoyed spinning the yarns as
much as most people will enjoy read-
ing them. The little sketch-maps at the
head of each story are an excellent idea
and the photographic illustrations are
well chosen, but the design of the book-
wrapper is hardly descriptive of the
contents.
R.G.
Reviewed Briefly
The Eye and the Heart: Carlo
Coccioli (Heinemann). A long novel
written with great intensity by a con-
temporary Italian writer. It is “the story
of an unusual and tragic love, sanc-
tioned neither by Church nor society"
—in short, a study in homosexuality.
* • • »
And I Shall Be Healed: Edeltraud
Fulda (Heinemann). The autobio-
graphy of a girl who in 1950 was cured
at Lourdes of an illness which
developed in 1937 and which was
diagnosed as “Addison morbus, an in-
curable disease of the adrenal glands.”
Miss Fulda gives a detailed account of
her illness and of her varied fortunes
at the hands of the medical profession
in Italy and Austria, concluding with
the affirmation by Cardinal Innitzer.
archbishop of Vienna, that her cure
was recognised as a miracle.
* * • *
Twice Lost: Phyllis Paul (Heine-
mann). Not absolutely successful, but
a most interesting novel—partly
mystery story, partly a work of strongly
creative imagination. The disappear-
ance of a child from a small English
village troubles the minds of all those
directly or indirectly concerned, so that
life for them becomes continually
shadowed by strange intimations. It is
not skilfully constructed, but disturb-
ing and exciting.


£L
I**-**'*
>
■JS--
r /
U]
, ' ***;-\ \
**m
m
«st': ::«:SS»
-
•••■" ■ ,■
m
mm
c..
mm
I |TIC iVIMSN
* A ND KNOWS
• -•- •: _ • - „ _
■ ' ~-v• --. • r- ‘ : %.«
n.reisNOs^ory
substitute tor
Steel Pipe is simply a way to carry
things almost without exception
the best way.
Steel Pipe carries gas, chemicals, oil, wires,
cables, voices and WATER.
From almost every point of view: strength, long
life, versatility, ability to withstand pressures,
exposure and economy there is not, and
never has been, any satisfactory substitute for
steel pipe.
So, for agricultural needs, in particular, specify
STEEL PIPE wherever water has to be conveyed.
STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . ECONOMY .
EXPOSURE PROOF . . . GREATER PRESSURES
. . . VERSATILITY
EXPOSURE PROOF
GREATER PRESSURES
1
YDS (DISTRIBUTORS)
SSAI.6O
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle,
Wollongong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs
AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie
