

The Bulletin
Interview With a Gunman —page 34
Wednesday, January 20, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
“ What’s keeping us apart, Senorita?"


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to Write and a love for
expressing yourself in words, you can learn to
write Successful Short Stories, Articles, Written
Sketches, ltadio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £2oo.’’
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the amount
of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
-■— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON . —— -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of youn Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(SB 260)
AGE
BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE SPANISH ARMADA
It is a great pleasure to read The
Defeat of the Spanish Armada (Cape),
by Garrett Mattingly, Professor of
European History at Columbia, for
the book is not only readable enough
to be a Book Society choice but is
also an exact and scholarly account of
a battle that was one of the founda-
tions of Anglo-Saxon supremacy.
Unless the Spanish Armada had
been defeated there would have been
no United States of America, no Aus-
tralia. no England as we know it.
Professor Mattingly puts the naval
campaign into its right context as the
first great international crisis of modern
history, and shifts the emphasis from
England to the Continent, showing how
the action of ambitious adventurers in
France and Spain balanced the hard,
professional buccaneering of Drake,
Hawkins. Frobisher and Norris. He
shows this action as the greatest naval
engagement ever fought until that time
and explains that both commanders
must have been wondering all the time
how to employ their forces to the best
advantage.
The English won because their ships
were better built and armed —though
the standard of gunnery seems to have
been low in both fleets. The story of
tiny English ships opposed to vast
Spanish galleons is untrue. English
fighting-ships were just as big as the
Spanish, though their castles, bow
and stern, were lower and their deep
waist decked-over to make more space
for broadside guns.
The elements were on the side of
the English— not for the first or last
time. A great storm blew-up and
scattered the Enterprise of Spain after
the English fireships had driven the
Armada from Calais harbor.
Possibly, too, the English were
better led. Both fleets were groping
for the advantage like swordsmen
taking each other’s measure. The
English were just learning the effect of
firing a broadside at pointblank range,
while the Spaniards were striving to lay
their ships alongside and board, hoping
that the mass of soldiers they carried
would overwhelm the English seamen.
First one gained the advantage of the
wind, then the other. It was the dis-
persal of the Spanish fleet that made
Parma break-up his invasion-camp at
Dunkirk.
The value of Professor Mattingly’s
research lies in the vivid portraits he
draws of the main characters. The
Duke of Medina Sidonia emerges as a
man instead of a nonentity. In fact,
he shows himself to be the finest type
of fighting officer, though no seaman,
as he explained to King Philip when
he first reluctantly accepted the com-
mand. Always ready to put his flag-
ship about to help his subordinates,
Medina Sidonia would have preferred
to die sword in hand on his own quarter-
deck repelling boarders, but instead
accepted his duty and led the shattered
remnants of his fleet back to Spain and
disgrace. He and his captains Recalde
and Oquendo, who both lost their lives
in the action, are almost the heroes of
this story. The duke, from his sickbed,
blamed his failure to take more ener-
getic action on his inexperience. It is
arguable whether any man could have
done better than he did. Unless he
could have cut-off the Ark Royal and
her two companions early in the action,
it’s hard to point to any mistake he
made which affected the course of the
campaign. His other decisions were as
sound as his personal conduct was
courageous.
The English Lord Admiral. Howard
of Effingham, did not suffer in reputa-
tion as much as Medina Sidonia, but
men muttered in England, too. that
the high command had bungled the
affair and that the Spanish fleet should
have been utterly destroyed. Drake
alone gained the credit for having
saved England.
Meanwhile in France Henry of Guise
fell to the swords of the gentlemen-
guardsmen of Henry of Valois, a direct
casualty of the Armada campaign.
Henry of Valois died seven months
later, assassinated by Jacques Clement,
and passed on his kingdom to Henry
of Navarre. In Spain Philip II
accepted the defeat of his Enterprise
with Christian humility. In England
Queen Elizabeth I was not a whit
dismayed.
Professor Mattingly describes all this
in a faultless book which any his-
torian might have willingly spent his
life in writing.
THE REFUSAL
But what you are is all that you have
been
and all you see is all that you have seen.
The world you have, the self you think
/ am
is self you are. What you propose is not
concerned with me. Oh God / wish it
were !
but you cannot invent me. I am here.
All this is true of you, is true of me.
1 cannot make you self / want to be.
The worlds we made around us to dis-
guise
the selves we were convince us, even us.
They save us now from what we might
have been,
and torture us with promises not seen.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.
Bill Sykes
Although his name is spelled a little
differently from that of the hulking
brute in “Oliver Twist.” the fact that
the “representative” Australian convict
in Alexandra Hasluck's Unwilling
Emigrants (Oxford University Press) is
called, of all things. Bill Sykes, is
almost enough to make one suspect
that this book is another of those half-
fictional. half-authentic histories which
make our early literature so profitable
a ground for research and scholastic
combat; and so too is the fact that the
letters of Myra Sykes (it should have
been Nancy), on which the book is;
based, are written in four different
hands.
But. thoroughly investigated and
admirably documented in the text and*
appendices. Bill Sykes and his wife
existed all right; and it is some relief,
since Mrs. Hasluck insists on treating
him as the “prototype” if not of all
Australian convicts at least of all those
who were exported to Western Aus-
tralia, that he doesn’t seem to have)
been too much of the hulking brute.
In fact, he was almost the classic 1
innocent convict, the victim of oppres-|
sion and poverty, sent out for no more
than stealing a loaf of bread or —in j
this case—poaching; only he happened
to get mixed-up in a murder, which is
never exactly an innocent form of
activity.
He was one of a gang of poachers
(Continued on page 58)


jQ
Achilles said:
“Bi| Hector I
I’m no heel/'
An ill-timed boast! At the siege of Troy he
put paid to Hector’s account. But an arrow
in the heel, his only vulnerable point,
caused his own death not long after.
Not many of us are without our Achilles heels vulnerable
points which can be covered by life insurance and which,
sometimes, require an expert to locate them.
Ask an A.M.P. man to check over the vulnerable points with you.
There’s a deep satisfaction in knowing you have them covered.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members
P 2618


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 20, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4171
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : 'Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE ARMY IN 1960
tpHE Russian tests of nuclear weapons
A in the Pacific should add new
spirit to the debates on defence in
Federal Parliament in the coming year.
Not that anybody appears to have
much interest in defence except a few
hundred officers and a few thousand
men who believe that the security of
their country is vital.
Fewer and fewer of the younger
generation are ready to venture into
the crude fastnesses full of rocks and
ticks in which defence exercises are
normally conducted when they can lie
on a crowded beach with a bikini on
one side and a transistor radio on the
other.
Earlier in this century the Australian
services were nearly wholly volunteer,
plus a magnificent band of enthusiasts
in the Staff Corps and R.A.A.
Governments encouraged them, and
Australians at large regarded them as
an elite to whom the country owed an
obligation, which it did, since volun-
teers. till compulsory service came in,
largely paid for their uniforms, their
forage, their horses and often for their
weapons and ammunition. Regulars
lived penuriously.
Today only a few would think of
spending their own money on defence.
High taxation and more expensive mili-
tary measures and equipment have put
it out of the question, and the 40-hour
week has altered the conception of
what a soldier-volunteer ought to do
in his own time.
It is doubtful whether it will ever
again be possible to restore the old
volunteer atmosphere, since the Welfare
State has taught the young in State
schools that all virtue and benefits flow
from Governments.
The Governments of the past decade
have given the Citizen Forces a trial,
even if not a completely fair and full
one. and they have received compara-
tively little encouragement.
They introduced National Service
Training at a time when the United
States, the U.K. and New Zealand
were operating it on a far larger scale,
the men called-up mostly being com-
pelled to serve not merely on their own
soil but abroad and even on active
service in distant spots like Malaya
or Korea.
Yet there was an unholy howl in Aus-
tralia from industry about its sacri-
fices through national training and
tears from softhearted conscientious
objectors in the political Labor wing
about the hardheartedness of applying
youths to warmongering exercises and
compelling them to live amid the com-
parative comfort of the huts of Holds-
worthy.
A large proportion of the would-be
trainees did their best, with the aid of
their families and sometimes of their
employers’ doctors, to pass their
responsibilities on to somebody else.
The physique of Australian youths of
serving age, if doctors’ certificates of
the time could be believed, too often
suffered a serious deterioration round
the age of 18, followed by a flood of
remarkable recoveries.
TT was obvious from the beginning
that the National Service scheme
would be killed largely by passive
resistance.
The routine was in the main deadly
and soul-killing; the gain in warlike
qualities nil save for a newly won
ability to understand an order in plain
English and obey it in a reasonably
orderly way.
The Federal Government can
scarcely be blamed. It took office
after a long period of Labor rule
during which the Prime Ministers had
frankly left it to the A.L.P. juntas,
riddled through with Leftists and Com-
munist supporters and always eager to
buy the women’s vote at any price, to
decide what the policy should be. It
had to carry-out its new plans with
war-tired senior officers, overworked
and, frequently harassed by overseas
commitments and flanked by a horde of
civilian staffs which in some parts of
the defence services made the regular
military core look like an old log on
which the honey-bees swarmed.
It speaks wonder for the enthusiasm
of what volunteer and “amateur”
citizen soldiers there .are, men and
officers alike, that they had kept the
units of the Citizen Forces alive, that
they have persisted in their work, and
that they are now showing themselves
gluttons for punishment by bursting-
out in indignation at the immolation,
under the new scheme, of citizen units
up to a century old. These have been
carrying-on as best they could under
Regular district commands whose
policies vary with the attitude of whom-
ever happens to be G.O.C. towards
dtizen soldiery and with the personality
of the civilian member of the Military
Board. Their fortunes have been
subject to the state of the employment-
market and the changes in the nature of
the population in the area in which a
unit has its home.
It is heartbreaking for those who
have toiled to build a unit such as
the 17/18 Battalion, C.M.F., of North
Sydney, inheritors of glorious traditions
from two wars, to be told on the eve of
a centenary celebration that the axe is
to be sharpened for them.
To see the successors of the great
battalions of Villers Bretonneux, like
the 34th, lined-up before a political
execution-squad, their only independent
mourners gentlemen of the Federal
caucus whose tongues look the size of
potatoes as they push them into their
cheeks before becoming raucous on the
question, is sheer tragedy.
It is also the worst kind of public
relations from the Defence Depart-
ment’s point of view, and represents
an abject surrender to the defeatists.
OASICALLY, as the kernel of defence
organisation, the three-year scheme
adopted is sound and sensible, having
regard to the fact that the Australian
forces are designed to be one corner of
a world scheme. It is idle to attack
the new shape of units and formations
and the replacement, for instance, of
divisions which have served so well
as convenient formations by the new
“pentomic” shapes. These shapes
must conform to those of our greater
allies and facts must be faced. The
new weaponry is designed for the new
units.
But the fact remains that while this
first-line hard core is the kernel of
everything, it does not invalidate the
virtue of having a widespread second
line of citizen-soldiery who are capable
of pulling a trigger and doing in an
organised way in case of invasion
what the partisans and guerrillas did
so effectively to the scientifically
armed Germans in World War 11.
No thinking military student would
ever deny, even in the atomic age.
that man is the ultimate weapon, that
reserves win battles, and that one
skilled reservist is worth two
unorganised and untrained ones.
The Federal policy in respect of the
much - depleted, but in training
strengthened. C.M.F. seems to be
utterly contradictory. At a time when
the C.M.F. is being cut to the bone
the Government has suddenly decided
to build-up and encourage school-cadet
corps which should be the main
recruiting - grounds for the C.M.F.
battalions.
Yet for years it has failed to do
just that, though had it done so the
result might have revolutionised the
picture of both the C.M.F. and the
National Training scheme.


"BLAST THOSE RUSSIANS!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Russia to Cut Forces"
There has been no more striking instance
of how the “capitalist” press rushes to
propagate Communist world-propaganda
than the reception which it gave the
announcement of Khrushchev on
“defence” to the Supreme Soviet.
He previously had made a series of
speeches of which the gist was that
because of its huge advances in nuclear
weaponry the Soviet Union could blow
the world to atoms with its H-bombs ;
and seeing that it is known that he has
100 launching-sites against the seven in
Europe possessed by the Western Powers
there at least seemed to be something in
his claim. v
Over the past 20 years the U.S.S.R.
has built-up a reserve of men, under 45,
who have had two years’ military train-
ing, numbering about 16 millions, apart
from those on actual service. Russian
reserves, unlike those of the United
States and the European countries, have
no free will. In civilian life they are
just as regimented and subject to
command as if they were actually in
flniform.
Khrushchev then announced, parallel
to his “world peace” campaign, that he
proposes to give a major demonstration
of his powers of aggression in the
Pacific just to show the other leaders
taking part in the Summit Conference
what they can expect if they do not
agree to his “peace” terms.
Here again there is obviously a good
deal of truth behind his claims, for it
is known that he has subordinated every
other consideration to building a con-
quering force, naval, air and atomic,
that can beat the world into a jelly,
including a bombing-force which claims
the power to destroy cities completely
at a blow, and a submarine-force of
hundreds of vessels, atomically armed,
designed to carry nuclear destruction to
the ends of the earth.
All of this is obviously not merely a
defence precaution, but one to which
everything else has been subordinated in
the U.S.S.R. ever since World War II
with the object of forcing Communism
on the world.
The priority of defence has gone so far
in absorption of adult labor that it has
been necessary in the past two years to
conscript millions of Russian adolescents
of both sexes to grow food and get in
the harvests, a measure which is opera-
ting absolutely beyond doubt because
the ukases of Khrushchev himself have
been published throughout the press of
the Soviet Union.
Not satisfied with this, all physical
training of youth from the cradle
upwards is on a military basis under a
national plan of which the slogan for
youth is: “Be prepared for Labor and
Defence.”
A badge is issued to those who qualify
for a special course, and in all senior
grades at the schools there are com-
pulsory courses in the mechanism and
use of personal weapons —rifle, pistol,
grenade—along with drill as regular com-
pulsory school subjects.
The training of youth is in the hands
of a body which is called the “Voluntary
Organisation for Co-operation with the
Army, Air Force and Navy,” service with
which is about as voluntary as seven
years in Pentridge or Boggo Road.
Yet in the face of all this the daily-
press headings to Khrushchev's statement
to the Supreme Soviet were: “Russia to
Cut Forces by One-third.”
The fact is that Russia has never
yet cut its forces and has no intention
of cutting them. It is merely altering
the system under which training is
carried out and is transferring training
from the official Army of the Govern-
ment to the Army of the Communist
party.
As Government forces are cut down
the amount of military training required
of civilians and youths under party
schemes is extended. One military
journal last year remarked that the young
men not being drafted for military ser-
vice because of the formal reduction of
forces “must obtain outside the Army
the knowledge and skill that are needed
for defence of the homeland.”
The party makes certain that youth
will “volunteer” for the rigid training
campaigns by making it, inter alia, im-
possible for any youth to engage in
organised sport unless through the
defence organs of the party.
Colwell's Westward Wooing
When Deputy Opposition-leader Calwell
visited Perth recently on his Calwell-for-
leader trip he had something to say about
a uniform railway-gauge. Fie told Wes-
tralians that a standard-gauge line from
Fremantle to Kalgoorlie was a “must,”
and he visualised overseas ships making
Fremantle a “turn-round” port, unload-
ing all their cargo there for forwarding
to the eastern States by rail. The idea of
this is that it would enabje vessels to
make five trips a year to Australia
instead of four as at present.
Calwell no doubt assumed that this
proposition would appeal to the people of
Westralia For that matter, most people
in the eastern States would probably
make the same assumption. They would
not necessarily be correct. Some Wes-
tralians are far from attracted to the
uniform-gauge scheme.
C. H. Simpson, M.L.C., a former
Minister for Railways, is one who won’t
have a bar of it.
Simpson’s argument is that, far from
benefiting W.A., a standard-gauge link
between Fremantle and Kalgoorlie would
“rob the W.A. Railways of £2 million
a year in revenue” and would bring no
benefit to any W.A. lines. As for making
Fremantle the terminal port for ships
from the U.K. and Europe, he says that
Fremantle port is already taxed to
capacity and it would cost many millions
of pounds and take many years to pro-
vide the necessary berthing and storage
facilities to handle 10 times the present
tonnage. In any case, he doesn’t believe
shipping interests would accept Fremantle
as a “turn-round” port. If any port
were to be chosen as the sole port of call
for all overseas ships it would most likely
be Melbourne or Sydney, as the over-
whelming proportion of imported goods
would be consigned to the eastern States.
The question of rendering superfluous
the berthing and storage facilities of
Melbourne and Sydney if Calwell’s “airy-
fairy plan” were adopted would also
have to be considered. The Victorian
and N.S.W. Governments would no doubt
have interesting views on that subject.
Simpson suggests that Calwell should
also ask his Melbourne constituents what
they think of his plan for robbing their
port of work by railing imported goods
from Fremantle.
Co-ordinated Transport
The plans of the Australian Roads
Advisory Council for the next decade
have been announced by the Federal
Minister for Transport (Senator Palt-
ridge), and they envision an expenditure
of about £750 million during the period
by the Commonwealth, States and local
authorities.
The sum sounds large in anybody’s
reckoning, but actually it represents an
expenditure of £7 10s. a head of popula-
tion each year, which, in terms of beer
and hire-purchase, is mere peanuts.
The pity is that so much of it will go
in closely settled areas and on harbor
bridges and other aids to intensification
of city population.
Moreover, any plan covering 10 years
which may seem good now may be all
out of plumb by the time a decade of
booming development and population-
increase has gone by, especially since the
emphasis on the nature of development
is changing rapidly, and will change even
more in the light of modern chemical
and mechanical progress.
With the development of new types
of fast sea-ferry transport and of air-
carried cargo, perhaps by helicopter, and
of hovercraft, 10 years may make an
enormous change in the kind of road
that will serve the purpose of a young
and growing country.
The only thing at present that stands
in the way of all bulk-haulage being
done by air is cost, and the possibilities
in this direction have to be looked at.
The road seems more and more likely
to be something which will primarily
survive amd develop in closely knit areas
given over to secondary industry.
Modernised railways and cargo-air-
craft, in an age in which already sheep
and cattle in bulk are economically mov-
able by air in preference to droving, will
presently tend to do away with the need
for long-distance roads except for tourist
purposes.
It would be interesting to discover,
before any specific plan is adopted, what
the amount proposed to be spent on
long-distance highways, always a


tremendous liability for upkeep when
under heavy traffic, would mean to air-
freightage in terms of subsidy to reduce
rates.
One of the troubles about Australian
transport-planning is that, like the
defence services, the thinking is done
in rival closed compartments —railway,
roads, air, sea. This precludes general
co-ordination to get the best and elimi-
nate the inferior modes. The ideal would
be to have an effective Australian
National Transport authority which
would plan proper integration of the
systems to the best advantage. ,
But bringing peace with Communism
is a light task compared with getting
such a body to work as one man and
not turn into a Donnybrook,
Street-cafes and Chinatown
Melbourne’s street-cafes are to stay
open for business, despite attempts by
police to close them down.
For some reason (known only to the
police hierarchy) the proprietors of the
city’s four sidewalk-cafes were told by
police to clear the footpaths of tables,
chairs and sunshades within 14 days —
or else. The proprietors didn’t like the
order —and the public liked it even less.
Chief Secretary Rylah was right with the
public (and the City Council).
Mr. Rylah told the police to lay off
and not to enforce the order until they
had discussed the issue with the City
Council.
After a talk between council and
police officials, the Town Clerk, F. H.
Rogan, announced that the police had
agreed to the cafes remaining in business.
And to make sure the police got the
message, Premier Henry Bolte greeted
the decision with these words: “A
sensible decision... . It saves the Govern-
ment from amending legislation to allow
sidewalk-cafes to operate....”
Up to now these footpath-cafes have
been among the few bright spots in an
otherwise dull city.
But a much gayer Melbourne is
promised now that the Chinese com-
munity has decided to turn Little
Bourke Street into a regular tourist
Chinatown.
Little Bourke Street, long the head-
quarters of Melbourne’s 2000 Chinese
citizens, has become shabby with the
years. Now its buildings are to be re-
modelled and painted to give it a China-
town look.
Plans are also being prepared for a
multi-story building for the narrow
street. It would become headquarters
of Asian councils, importers and ship-
ping-lines.
The man who sold the idea of a Mel-
bourne Chinatown to the Chinese com-
munity is Bob Gardner, secretary of the
City Development Association.
The C.D.A. fathered Melbourne’s
Moomba festival.
The new Chinatown will be launched
on the night of January 28 (Chinese
New Year) in a blaze of color, noise and
fun. Colorful archways will be erected
across the street and buildings will be
decorated with Chinese lanterns and
banners.
There’ll be a huge 40-man Chinese
dragon, fireworks, an open-air concert
(staged on a car-park) and lots of fun.
Is Federation Dying?
The Senate seems more and more likely
to be the main subject of review when
the report of the Joint Committee on
Constitutional Review comes to be dealt
with by the Federal Parliament.
If the suggestions of the committee
are accepted there will be a sharp drift
from the basic principles of Federalism
and towards unification.
There is little doubt that most
members of the current Parliaments at
Canberra are at least underground unifi-
cationists, even if most of them don’t
dare to say so. And this, of course, is
the reason why there has been so much
unanimity between the committee
reviewers irrespective of party that it is
“now necessary to facilitate the main-
tenance of continuous sound democratic
government in the light of the changed
conditions since Federation.”
The Senate exists ostensibly as the
guardian of State rights. Casual
vacancies in the Senate are filled by State
Parliaments. The Constitution Act pro-
vided that State Parliaments might make
laws for determining the times and places
of elections of Senators and that the
Governors of States might issue the writs
for State elections.
The rights of the Senate have been
very closely guarded so that the majority
of the House of Representatives cannot
override the Senate without the greatest
difficulty.
The number of members of the House
of Representatives is governed by a two-
to-one ratio. A majority in the House of
Representatives cannot force the hand of a
Senate when it rejects a bill passed by
the Lower House or amends it in a way
the Lower House will not accept, until
a double-dissolution or a general election
has occurred and the Senate in the new
Parliament has again proved obdurate
in the face of an electoral mandate and
has once again turned-down the bill.
All this is meant to safeguard the
Senate’s powers as the watchdog of the
States, but the Review Committee dwells
on nationalism rather than Federalism
and remarks that the history of dead-
locks between the two Houses is usually
due to “conflicting national parties.”
It now proposes to abolish all the
safeguards which exist and provide that
the numbers in the House of Representa-
tives be no longer tied to those of the
Senate, thus making it possible to have
a Lower House so large that it could
outvote the Senate in any joint meeting
even if all the Senators stood solidly
together. At the same time it proposes
to fix the maximum number of Senators
from each State at 10 and the minimum
at the original six.
With regard to deadlocks, it is pro-
posed that if a law (a) is rejected or not
passed by the Senate within 90 days in
a form approved by the House of Reps.,
( b ) is passed a second time by the House
of Reps, and again not passed in accept-
able form by the Senate within 30 days,
the Governor-General has the choice of
giving a double-dissolution under condi-
tions similar to those in the original Con-
stitution or calling a joint sitting of both
Houses to decide on a majority basis,
provided at least one-half of the mem-
bers for each State in at least half of the
States is in the majority.
With the two-to-one proportion prin-
ciple excised from the Constitution it is
certain that the House of Representa-
tives itself would be in a position to
assure this through weight of its own
members in ordinary circumstances and
with proportional-representation still in
operation.
Taxation and appropriation bills need
only a simple delay of 30 days by the
Senate to cause a deadlock.
The power to decide on a joint sitting
under the amended law would specifically
be in the hands of the Government, and
all doubts about the Governor-General's
right of freedom of action would cease
to exist.
The recommendations for the expan-
sion of “concurrent” powers operated by
the Commonwealth ; the alteration in the
methods of creating new States; and
particularly the proposed alteration of
the provisions of Section 128 for altering
the Constitution, so that a vote by the
majority of electors, plus a majority of
States, is no longer needed, but only a
majority of electors, plus half the States,
all help to pave the way for replacing
Federation with an all-powerful Com-
monwealth.
The States may have lost their influence
to a large extent, and without doubt this
country is overgoverned and overpopu-
lated with civil servants ; but if there is
to be a change in the Constitution of the
nation from Federalism to a unified
nation with everything centred in Can-
berra, it should be made frankly and
with avowal by the Federal Parliament
of its exact intention ; not by piecemeal
whittling away of rights of the States
whose status in the Commonwealth is
fixed by a fundamental agreement.
Wool Futures
[From Clive Hall, O’Connell Street, Sydney]
In B. 13/1/ ’6O there appeared an article
[by K. V. Chapman] concerning the
Sydney Greasy Wool Futures Exchange
in which there were items which were
inaccurate.
I refer here to column 4, page 50,
item 3 —“ Deliverable Types.” At this
stage finality has not been reached on
wools suitable for delivery on the Sydney
Greasy Wool Futures Exchange.
Item 4: “Official Appraiser”: No
appraisers have been appointed by the
Sydney Greasy Wool Futures Exchange
to date.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
WHILE attending the vice-regal garden-
party during the farewell visit of
our Governor-General I recognised in a
chic young lady among the guests a
former A.W.A.S. corporal attached to
our unit. After some war-time remi-
niscences, she told me that she was now
married and the mother of three ; then
as an afterthought: “Would you,
Colonel, care to be presented to the
Governor-General? My hubby is one of
his aides.”—“Colmac.”
♦*4- +s*■
“G.T.”: A gay, uninhibited pair who
have moved into our street quickly
charmed most of us older fogies. Their
next-door neighbors, our street's most
sedate and conservative couple, when
asked to baby-sit, were ready and eager
to oblige. Thanking her neighbor next
morning for this service, our Bright
Young Thing explained that they had
been celebrating their wedding anniver-
sary. Asked where, she replied that they
had done a round of the pubs, adding,
“Haven’t you ever done that?” Although
shaken, our middle-aged friend rallied
beautifully. Her: “Well, no. We’ve just
never thought of it,” was probably the
understatement of the decade.
❖ *i+ ***
“Perseverando”: I only asked her
where she worked and this is what she
wrote: “I don't work at Bottom or
Bittome, but at Bitterne, the village where
I go to church, and you must have passed
through it to get to Southampton. We
call it a village but it is now a very busy
shopping-centre with its supermarket,
super - Woolworths, super - cinema, and
super-everything-else which is super
including a super traffic-jam about a
mde long every mght and every mom-
mg and sometimes during the day. Some-
how the place still has a village atmo-
sphere evfn when there are cats zoom-
ing through all day and great lorries
thundering along at night, together with
police-cars, ambulances, fire-engines, a
pair of mad doctors in estate-cars which
they inefficiently handle, and. to top the
lot, the curate on his scooter.
++<. ♦+<. +♦«.
“Barra”: Recently extinguished, the
City Brigade Hotel, Ballarat (Vic.), was
unique for many years in retailing bulk
Guinness stout. Half of Erin’s black-
jack mixed with local XXX made a rare
quaff at a tanner a pot.
“D.D.”: Closure of the Theatre Royal
has left Brisbane without a permanent
home for vaudeville. As the Royal
closed, Her Majesty’s began a season of
super-vaudeville headed by Will
Mahoney.
**♦
“Siosal”: With due disrespect to “Bell-
field” (B. 6/1/’6O), Forby Sutherland
was not “the first Englishman buried on
Australian soil,” though he did achieve
that unsought distinction for the east
coast. Seventy years earlier one of
Dampier’s men died while H.M.S. Roe-
buck was anchored in Shark Bay (W.A.),
and the log of the ship's master, James
Hughes, duly recorded the event in
August, 1699: “Yesterday in the after-
noon died Mr. Goodwin our cook ; this
morning buried him.” Dutch burials in
Australia were well in advance of those
of Englishmen ; at least one product
of Holland was killed by abos. in the
Gulf Country in 1606, and lots of others,
both men and women, were massacred
by mutineers on the Abrolhos Islands
in 1629.
❖* ❖ .
“0.W.W.”: While a wedding-party
was in progress in a Wellington (N.Z.)
hotel some of the guests were plastering
the honeymoon-car with: “Look; no
hands,” and “Please pass. Huddles ruin
cuddles.” Presently out came the happy
couple. Showered with confetti, they
hurried into their car —-parked four-
down from the decorated job! I bet the
bloke who owned it would display more
feeling than the dumb-struck guest-
artists.
*> ❖
“Mugga Way”: When Sydney’s
director Of parks was seeking permission
to plant 100 desert-ash trees along both
footpaths of Martin no Sydney
newspaper would have dared to use the
headline which appeared over the item
in a Tasmanian newspaper: “Collins
Street of Sydney?” In Melbourne, where
it is still a sore point that Martin Place
is one foot wider than the major Mel-
bourne streets, the project wasn't men-
tioned.
❖ *> *z*
“Postscript”: McGregor’s joke-block
re visiting wife telling jailbird husband
that his office wanted to know if he was
ill (B. 6/1 / ’6O) recalls that our Govern-
ment department lately employed a
highly-qualified chauffeur who (it now
transpires) had served a short sentence
for joyriding during his previous annual
recreation leave. His superiors weren’t
any the wiser until he went a step further
and was charged with stealing the next
car he “borrowed.” This has put hint
inside for 12 months, awakened his
previous conviction (much to our head’s
unbelief), and cost him a very cushy job.
A STOCK COMPLAINT
“The heatwave inland was helping to keep
meat prices high, a retail butchers’ spokesman
said. The hot weather was discouraging stock
movements.”
On the farm and on the station
Lambs and pigs and bullocks cry:
“We don’t want to cause inflation
Keeping butchers’ prices high.
“Sydney people have our pity,
Charged so much for what they eat,
And we’d hurry to the city
But for this confounded heat.
“In the cool we’ll journey seaward,
In the autumn come to town,
Not to let you think that we would
Let our friends the butchers down.
“Welcome us without formality
Into every Sydney home
So well known for hospitality,
Never, never more to roam !’’
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Frank L. Thompson, managing-director
of Matthews Thompson of Sydney,
who have inherited the papers of Cobra
bootpolish, sends some unpublished
verses by “Kodak” (Ernest O’Ferrall),
found when turning-up ancient files. The
famous “Chunder Loo of Akim Foo”
advertisements, drawn by Norman and
Lionel Lindsay, were written by
“Kodak”; and even in those days of
featherweight taxation poets were at bay,
as evidenced by letters on Bulletin
letterheads to Messrs. Blyth and Platt.
Here is one, dated March 12, 1919:
Gentlemen. —The Deputy Federal Income
Tax Commissioner is clamoring on my
doormat for an absurdly large sum —by
March 17—an unkind cut! Will you add
one more to your list of kindnesses and
help to revive my fainting bank account
quickly with a cheque? I send you my
thanks in advance. Yours sincerely,
(signed) Ernest O’Ferrall.
Help must have been swift, because
on March 15 O’Ferrall sent the following
ode of gratitude:
Gentlemen! (Salaam!)
“Judee”: Boy Scouts at Belmont
(N.S.W.) have hit on a better money-
spinner than bob-a-job. They induced
the management of nearby John Darling
colliery to permit a public inspection of
the pit, one of Australia’s most
mechanised mines. The charge was ss.
a person, and staff-members acted as
guides. Equipped with safety-helmets
and lamps, the visitors inspected the
Victoria seam 900 ft. underground and
saw mechanical coal-loaders and other
units in action.
+J- hJ«
“Sevenelms”: Nice to read of
"Effbe’s” gifts to Chinese at their New
Year in Singapore (B. 30/12/ ! 59), be-
cause in Borneo I always felt that the
lavishness of the reverse traffic at
Christmas-tide was a bit overwhelming.
Christmas Day at any British manager’s
bungalow was heralded by the concerted
arrival of all Chinese towkeys he did
“But, Miriam—this thing is bigger than BOTH of us!”
business with, each with myrmidon
bearing a basket of stereotyped gifts-
six tins of 555 cigarettes, two bottles of
Black-label whisky, one pineapple-chop
ham, and one decorated Christmas-cake.
The cake of the doyen towkey was cut to
complement the liquid hospitality, which
was for each a full tumbler of neat
brandy chased pronto with a full tumbler
of champagne. With polite “Kom lee
fat choy’s” departed the reddest-faced
rubber-legged bunch of respectable,
grave-miened businessmen ever seen en
masse.
■tj*
“Matilda”: Two large tomatoes some-
times make up the pound, such tomatoes
as were sold in the not-far-distant past
at Is. 6d. a lb. 1 wonder how many
people who bought at 4s. 6d. a lb. during
the holidays would have paid at the rate
of 275. a dozen?
“H.A.L.”: Formerly in Adelaide
transport of prisoners used to be in
an ordinary two-horse cab, a police-
sergeant sitting beside the driver and
two smart-looking troopers on grey
horses riding behind with drawn swords.
I was on a train bound north when
this equippage passed along the road
from the jail. An old boy in the carriage
chuckled. “Many a time I’ve been in
that cab,” he said. A severe-looking
man in the corner seat said something
about “nothing to be proud of.” The
old chap stared, then inquired: “You
ever been honored with an armed
escort?" The s.-l. fellow snapped: "Of
course not!” "Then shut up!” said the
old offender. “Only the bloke who lives
there,”—he pointed towards Govern-
ment House—“and blokes like me, are
thought worth it!”
* * *
V
"H.S.C.”: Those recent paragraphs
here about Judge Mocatta recalled
two incidents where his Honor
didn't rule the roost. Standing on New-
castle railway-platform talking to the
stationmaster, a cool customer of 6ft.
2in., I glanced along a train moving out
and saw most of a body attached to a
florid face hanging out of a window.
I said: "That's Judge Mocatta. He
seems to want something.” When within
earshot he shouted, “What do you mean
by putting me in a carriage like this?”
The stationmaster said, “Next time you
travel make up your bloody mind which
train you want; I’ve got something else
to do besides chasing after you!" The
face turned from florid to purple and the
train was almost out of sight before his
head disappeared into the carriage again.
I was told that he had been booked in a
reserved compartment by a train leaving
at 5.15, but as the sessions ended earlier
than expected he decided to travel by the
Flyer, of corridor carriages only, and the
best possible had been done for him.
In the second case he was travelling
on the southern line. Just as the train
was leaving Moss Vale a man got into
his reserved compartment and pulled
out his pipe. He was met by a blast
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Ver-ee much
Obliged to you
Cheque now in
For right amount
Polish up the
Bank account.
Chunder mutters
At your door
“Less insolvent
Than before!”
Bear and Dog
Kick up a row :
“Buy some meat
And gumleaves now!”
Yours,
Kodak.


of: “What do you mean by coming
into my reserved compartment?” and
“Don’t smoke in here; it’s a non-
smoker.” “Go and bag your head!” the
intruder said. The judge shouted:
“I am Judge Mocatta. Here's my card.
I’ll report you at the first stop”—which
was Goulburn, the intruder's destination.
He hopped out quickly, and when pass-
ing the stationmaster handed him the
card and said, “A man got into my
reserved compartment at Moss Vale,
smoked in a non-smoking compartment
and was offensive to me.” Shortly after-
wards his Honor walked up to the
stationmaster, breathless, and said, “I.
am Judge Mocatta.” He was told:
“Judge Mocatta has just left the station.
Here's his card. He complained that
someone had entered his compartment,
Honestly, Sweet, to me you're always the same sleek little number
you Were in nineteen-thirty !”
which was a non-smoker, and smoked
and was objectionable. Was it you?”
More cards had to be produced before
the stationmaster could be convinced.
The old chap certainly could bark, but I
believe it was worse than his bite.
*** +x+ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Most weekend bellringing
vendors have good jobs during the week.
Most sell ice-cream, but others sell lollies,
chocolates, potato-chips, soft-drinks and
even cigarettes. This business is getting
so big that it’s not unusual to have a
dozen ringing the change down the one
street on Sundays.
❖ ❖ *?
“Mugga Way”: Melbourne’s new Tea
Centre, the second in the world to be
established by the Ceylon Tea Bureau
(the first is in London), did well out
of the pre-Christmas shopping-rush, and
in its first few weeks averaged sales of
1200 cups of Ceylon tea daily, with
dishes of Ceylon curries and sales of
Ceylonese handicrafts. The centre also
publicises the country’s tourist attrac-
tions and is fighting-back against espresso
coffee by publicising the quality-tea of
one of Australia’s best customers for
flour.
*** ++<■ 4*
“Quartercut”: “Talbingo’s” 1910
advertisement on a fence-rail (B.
30 /12/’59) smacks of anachronism.
Influenza and pyorrhoea as popular
curable maladies came almost a decade
later, only barely preceding 8.-0., the
bunny-hug, halitosis, Clara Bow and
athlete’s foot. Advertised cures for con-
stipation and perspiration broke into
popular print about 1905. Mr. Beecham’s
jalap-based spheres modestly made no
panacea claims and just mentioned that
their value exceeded their market-price
by 2000 per cent.
❖ ❖ *>
“Spinifex”: When I was stationed at
Parramatta round about 1912 we had on
the strength a Constable Constable;
while, down Wollongong way, they had a
Sergeant Sergeant. Earlier in his career
Sergeant Sergeant had been Constable
Sergeant ; and later on Constable Con-
stable became Sergeant Constable.
❖ * *
“Will C.“: Over the years (25 to my
knowledge) the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment has distributed a really legible
calendar to railway-stations, State
Government departments and business-
houses. This year’s includes school
vacations. The present one is shown as
ending January 31, the next being May
13 to 23 inclusive; then August 26 to
September 12, and finally December 16
into 1961. Like all calendars it also
shows that there will be 11 public holi-
days, with an extra one for bank officials
and insurance people on the first Monday
in August.
“Bo”: Our garage bloke is prepared to
place his hand on a stack of motor
manuals and solemnly swear that this is
dinkum. An imposing dowager drove in
for a couple of gallons of juice and
demanded the concomitant services:
check of water, oil, battery, windscreen-
wipe and tyre look-over. Garageman
unscrewed the dust-caps on the wheels
for the final chore, to find that the tyres
were already carrying full pressure. When
he announced this, and asked the
routine: “Will there be anything else?”
she came back with: “Yes, please replace
the air in all the tyres. The old stuff has
been there nearly a month, and it must be
stale by now!”
STRANGE SOURCE OF
VITALITY
“The dire predictions made by the medical
profession from time to time about the dele-
terious effects on women's health caused by
the wearing of high heels haven't eventuated.
Women are healthier and more vigorous than
in any previous era.” — Woman’s magazine.
Watching perambulating Eve
The medicos, with gloomy eye,
Couldn't but seriously believe
She’d be a cot-case by and by.
Though tenuous heel
Lent leg-appeal,
It was, they felt, an evil token.
Her frame, they knew,
Was all askew,
Her arches bent, if not quite broken.
She’d suffer more (they deemed) from
fits
Than starts, due to the nervous strain
Of balancing on two trey-bits
Of leather. With the knotted vein
Must also go
Onset of slow
Collapse of knobs and shanks and
chassis.
Instead of straight,
She’d find her gait
Would take a haywire turn, quite jazzy-
These could lead to unbalanced bean
On neck taking an undue stress
A brain affected that might mean
(If such she happened to possess).
Yet, wobbling on,
Milady’s gone
On walking, even though it’s hintin’.
In fact, those stilt-
Heels, though they tilt
Her, keep her on her toes, that’s
certain !
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


FACING BOTANY BAY
By OLAF RUHEN
The pother about convicts
is always getting a run
in the Australian press.
The discussion is
attended, however, by so few
new thoughts that when an
American editor of my
acquaintance asked me the
cause of Australia’s preoccu-
pation with her convict begin-
nings I was unable to give him
an answer. I can’t understand
it; and I certainly can’t give
an answer suitable for a
citizen of the United States,
where convict beginnings are
more deeply rooted and convict
ancestry more widespread than
in this country.
The American, not unaware
of the circumstances, has never
regarded them as important.
They have never inhibited him
from carrying his country on
to an indisputable greatness ;
this in spite of the fact that
his awareness of history is far
more acute than our own.
There is little doubt . that
our preoccupation with con-
victs has been harmful to our
national development. When,
during the 'fifties of last
century, the British Govern-
ment made some efforts to
have Federation accepted by
the Australian colonies, not the
least of the opposition was
engendered by the snobbery of
Victoria and South Australia,
based on the proposition that
they had never been convict
settlements. Other reasons were
a jealous protection of local
trade, natural enough in States
which had, in every instance,
seaport capitals; and the
opposition between Victoria’s
Protection policy and the
sturdy New South Welsh addic-
tion to Free Trade.
But the snobbery must not
be overlooked; and there is
little doubt but that it held
back development. It played
its part in the stupidity of rail-
gauge differentiation, for ex-
ample. It was completely un-
justified. There were tough
and vicious criminals amongst
the convicts, certainly, though
apparently the only ones to
leave descendants were con-
victed, almost' to a man, for
stealing no more than a loaf
of bread, and that while wife
and children were starving.
But Victoria and South Aus-
tralia were part of that New
South Wales to which con-
victs were sent; and later the
various gold-strikes and a host
of other influences spread the
transportees around the
country ; there was no bar to
their movement. And even
New Zealand, conscious to this
day of an alleged superiority
in this matter, was subject to
an influx of men as tough and
unruly as any nation has ever
seen, both before official settle-
ment, when outlaws found the
Shivery Isles a safe, if un-
handy, sanctuary, and after the
discovery of gold, when even
the free-ranging Bully Hayes
joined the company of rogues
thither-bound.
The great and glorious
Queen Elizabeth laid the
foundations of transportation.
It would never have affected
Australia had America not
made her Declaration of In-
dependence. And it is probable
that the British settlement of
this country would never have
been undertaken' but for a
"Furthermore, you must promise me not to conduct wild
rock-’n’-roll parties in your room."
combination of these two
factors.
Transportation, of course,
as it affected Australia, is
merely banishment. Some con-
victs were released immediately
on arrival here; a majority
were confined for a short time
only. And banishment was
expressly abolished by Magna
Charta. This part of the Eng-
lishmen's prerogative, however,
like many another privilege
that read well, was honored
more in the breach than in the
observance; self-exile saved
many a neck ready for stretch-
ing ; and the authorities came
to make the opportunity for
self-banishment available in
place of a more legal punish-
ment. In 1597 Queen Eliza-
beth’s second-last Parliament,
in passing the Vagrancy Act,
put an official sanction on
banishment as a punishment,
though whether the law would
have stood a test case is open
to doubt.
In the worst reign in Eng-
lish history, Charles the
Second used banishment to
deal with mosstroopers from
Northumberland and Cumber-
land, with people who persisted
(twice or oftener) in attending
illegal prayer-meetings, with
rogues, vagabonds and “sturdy
beggars.” There was no ex-
pense involved ; the guilty
departed under their own
steam to America or the
Indies. But in the reign of
George I, the monarch who
couldn't speak English, a con-
tractor was appointed to
deliver these convicts to
America. This was about 1718,
the year of the War with
Spain, the heyday of the
South Sea Bubble. The con-
tractor’s profit came from the
sale of convicts to planters and
others; the punishment in-
volved slavery as well as
banishment.
For 58 years following, con-
victs estimated at 1000 a year
were sent to America. Joined,
later on, by ah infiltration from
the West Indies, they formed
no inconsiderable part of that
country’s population. In 1776
the Declaration of Independ-
ence stopped the flow, and
England, as a temporary ex-
pedient, established the hulks
on the Thames, at Chatham
and at Portsmouth. The
temporary expedient lasted
until 1857, and in a slightly
altered form (the Gibraltar
prison, modelled on the lines
of a hulk) until 1875. The
hulks must have been fright-
ful, though politicians, almost
indistinguishable in their atti-
tude to veracity from the
prison-visiting politicians of
today, visited them in 1832 and,
ignoring the unchecked associ-
ation of prisoners, reported
that the inmates were “well-
fed, well-clothed, indulging in
riotous enjoyment by night,
with moderate labor by day,
so that life in them is con-
sidered ‘a pretty jolly life.’ ”
In 1787 transportation to
Australia began, but, partly be-
cause of the distance and the
expense involved, the numbers
of prisoners transported fell
below those commonly sent to
America by a considerable
figure. The average transported
o Continued ori page 45)


POLITICAL POINTS
Australian Labor Leader ?
• •
Khrushchev’s cut in Soviet armed
forces seems to have been achieved on
the principle of the gentleman who
mixed his horse-and-rabbit pie in the
proportion of one horse to one rabbit.
If the supposedly known facts about
Russian nuclear power are correct all
he has done is to remove a bit of the
rabbit from the mixture.
• •
Cattle-stealers used to be hanged, and
even now the law takes a pretty dim view
of the pastime. But there’s one type of
cattle-crook who, in the opinion of G.
Freudenstein, Country-party member for
Young in the N. S. Wales Assembly, is
able to get-away with too much. This
is the crook who buys stock at a sale or
in the paddock, resells it and fails to
pay the original owner, whose only
remedy is to take action under common
law. Freudenstein wants to see the law
amended to provide severe penalties for
acts of fraudulence by buyers failing to
pay for stock bought at auction, or
through stock-and-station agents.
• •
Disquiet is growing in the U.S. over
the fear that rocket- and nuclear-
installation staffs are still honeycombed
with secret Communists. The failure of
missiles seems too frequent to be the
result of. mere blundering by some of
the world’s leading nuclear scientists and
technicians. And deliberate sabotage of
naval ships is beyond doubt. Recently
the degaussing system of the new
nuclear cruiser Long Beach was sawn
through in three places and the atomic
submarine Nautilus suffered similar
damage plus fires and broken pipes while
undergoing routine overhaul at Ports-
mouth, New Hampshire, last October.
• •
Harold Holt and Henry Bolte will
probably be having a few strong words
to say to their public-servant advisers.
The Victorian Cabinet decided to make
it compulsory for motor-cyclists, motor-
scooter riders and pillion-passengers to
wear helmets. Immediately a motor-
cycle-racing official pointed out there
was a “harsh \2\ per cent, sales-tax”
on these helmets. Bolte thereupon said
he would ask Holt to remove this tax,
and Holt replied that he’d look into it.
Several days later a Taxation Depart-
ment official told the press there was
no sales-tax on ordinary safety-helmets!
Only a certain type used by racing-
cyclists carried sales-tax.
• •
Khrushchev intends to visit Afghanis-
tan either on his way out or back from
Indonesia next month. New Delhi is
also in the itinerary. About the only
ruler of a great Power who doesn't seem
to be visiting is Mao, who is still cie
facto leader of China, whatever the
world is told. And although he sits in
his burrow saying nothing he’s no Brer
Rabbit. The rumble of his threats is
heard all through South-east Asia.
• •
Hospital finance is a big problem in all
States. Recently a conference of Health
Ministers recommended that each Minis-
ter should ask his Government to con-
sider higher fees. South Australia will
introduce higher charges on February 1
and Victoria is expected to follow suit.
N. S. Wales Health Minister Billy
Sheahan has a different plan for coping
with rising costs. He is considering
making treatment in public wards free.
Where’s the money to come from? Why,
the Federal Government, of course.
• •
There won't be any protests about
Russia’s firing a long-range missile into
the mid-Pacific. If the experiments are
continuous and there is regular interrup-
tion of air- and sea-routes it may be
another matter. Certain it is that every
new Red encroachment southward is a
matter for unease in Australia—the
Communist party’s control or otherwise
of Indonesia must be resolved soon. A
huge Russian fleet is athwart our com-
munications with the United States. The
Russians are engaged in scientific investi-
gation in the Antarctic —and, having
regard to their habits, their science will
certainly have a defence basis.
• •
N.S.W. coal-production fell slightly
last year—15,670,000 tons, compared
with 15,850,000 in 1958. The fall was
fully accounted-for by the declining
figure for opencut output ; underground
production increased by 108,000 tons to
15,238,000 tons. Sales exceeded produc-
tion by 595,000 tons and stocks were
reduced by 340,000.
Overseas exports totalled 772,800 tons,
with Japan the biggest buyer (502,000
tons), and Noumea (145,000), Argentina
(84,000) and Korea (22,000) next in
importance.
• •
A Town for Sale. About 40 miles
from Sydney by pipeline, slightly more
by road and rail ; comprises 469 cot-
tages, hostels, post-office, town hall,
churches, school, service-station and
shops; electricity, water and sewerage
laid-On ; good sports oval and recrea-
tional facilities; nine miles of roads,
sealed, kerbed and guttered ; may be
bought on walk-in-walk-out basis, as a
whole or in sections. The town in ques-
tion is Warragamba, built by the Sydney
Water Board to accommodate workmen
and their families during the construc-
tion of the dam. With the completion
of that project it will be up for sale
towards the end. of this year. Full par-
ticulars are given in an attractive book-
let obtainable from the Water Board,
341 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• . •
Latest piece of brutal “mistreatment”
of a Soviet citizen was the arrest in
Washington of the wife of a Soviet
naval attache who was charged with
stealing meat in a market. She pleaded
diplomatic immunity and the- Soviet
Embassy held its own inquiry. Verdict:
Another capitalist plot.


Vic. Premier Bolte has had his portrait
painted —and it will be an entry for this
year’s Archibald Prize. Artist is 23-
year-old Bruce Fletcher, who trained at
Melbourne’s National Art Gallery under
William Dargie, himself seven times an
Archibald Prize-winner.
• •
When a Brisbane radio-announcer
decided to liven-up a New Year’s Eve
party by announcing himself as a
detective-sergeant and arresting some of
the guests he made two unfortunate mis-
takes. First he went to the wrong house,
and, secondly, his first victim was a senior
investigator in the Customs Department.
The sequel was a police-court charge
and a £5 fine. But the most unkindest
cut of all came from his own solicitor
who, pleading that the whole thing was
a practical joke and that his client had
no ulterior motive, described him as
“a semi-comedian on the air.”
• •
Canberra's population went up by
almost 5000 in the year to the end of
last September, an increase helped con-
siderably by Defence Department trans-
fers from Melbourne. The total popula-
tion four months ago was 43,973. This
growth will pose some problems for the
Government, including the granting of
a “full” member of the House of Repre-
sentatives when the adult population
reaches that of a Tasmanian Federal
electorate. It will also underline the
need for more industry in Canberra,
because even the fast-growing and expen-
sive Federal Public Service won’t be able
for ever to absorb the school-finished
children.
• •
The 24 Glasgow students who last
week crammed themselves into a Baby
Austin are believed to have been making
an attempt to qualify for admission to
First Year Maths lectures at Melbourne
Uni.
, • •
When the Senate meets again, Westra-
lia’s Dorothy Tangney will have some
unkind words to say about the P.M.G.’s
Department—and its new speedy mail-
delivery service. The Senator might have
been £7OO better-off if an envelope she
posted in a Perth suburb at 3 p.m.'on
December 30 had been delivered in
Melbourne the following day—as she
claims she was assured it would be.
The envelope contained a “winning”
entry in the Melbourne “Herald’s”
“Wealthwords” competition, which
carried a prize of £2OOO, but unfortu-
nately for Senator Tangney, it took
seven days to reach Melbourne—six
days after entries in the competition
closed. Meanwhile, two other people
had been awarded the prize.
• • ••
Queensland Liberal-party secretary C.
Porter said last week that the two
Government parties (Country-party and
Libs.) would choose joint-candidates for
six Assembly seats —Haughton, Hinchin-
brook, Mackay, Maryborough, Towns-
ville North and Townsville South. The
candidates will be jointly selected by the
two parties, but if successful, will decide
which party they will sit with in the
House.
• •
The Town Clerk, Municipality of
Parkes (N.S.W.), writes:
Your article (B. 6/1 / ’6O) intimates
that the giant radio-telescope being con-
structed by the C.5.1.R.0. is being built
at Forbes (N.S.W.), and I advise that
this statement is incorrect as the telescope
being built by the C.5.1.R.0. is, in fact, in
course of construction in the Parkes dis-
trict and situated north of and in close
proximity to this town and in no way
can it be construed that such telescope is
being built at Forbes.
Apparently some Forbes-loving grem-
lin sneaked into the printing-press and
sabotaged that par. It is hereby admitted
that the giant radio-telescope is to be
parked at Parkes, not Forbes. But if
the rivalry between these two towns
is as strong as it used to be the citizens
of Parkes had better see that it is well
chained-down!
• •
Yugoslavia and Poland seem to be on
the verge of a rift due to the fact that
highly placed Poles have developed a
habit of shifting to Yugoslavia. If Poles
prefer the conditions in Tito’s empire
to their own, things must be pretty bad
in Poland.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: There are some contro-
versial issues in the Federal Govern-
ment’s decision to bring the Canberra
University College (hitherto nurtured by
Melbourne University) and the Austra-
lian National University into association
as one university, with an overall
governing body, one series of degrees,
and a common administration. Those
issues should be publicly and thoroughly
discussed during this year, but there
will be no dissent from the view ex-
pressed by the Prime Minister that during
the present marked and nation-wide
pressure for more universities care
should be taken to devote the available
resources to the best advantage from
an Australia - wide point of view.
Menzies said it would be difficult to
justify the creation of two universities
in Canberra at a time when the creation
of a second university in Sydney was
incomplete and when that for Melbourne
was largely at the “paper” stage.
The P.M. lifted the velvet glove a
trifle when he remarked that, with the
co-operation of Melbourne University in
extending its C.U.C. legislation to the
end of 1960, it would be possible for
the scheme of association of the A.N.U.
and C.U.C. to be formed without undue
pressure, “though it must be brought to
finality in good time.”
• •
In the six months ended December
31 wool-sales aggregated 2,403,789 bales,
an increase of 288,322 on the corre-
sponding period for 1958-59. Increased
sales and higher prices brought the wool-
cheque for the six months to £179.8
million, an improvement of £54.6 million.
• •
R.S.L. recommendations for future
observance of Anzac Day in Melbourne
have been sent to the Government. They
suggest that “the march” should begin
at 8.10 a.m. and that hotels and places
of amusement should open at 1 p.m.
Normal holiday sporting meetings are
recommended, subject to registration and
permission. Racing - clubs should con-
duct Anzac Day meetings, earmarking
the profits for R.S.L. welfare-activities.
Cabinet is expected to endorse the pro-
posals.
• •
Alderman J. E. Houghton, mayor of
Redcliffe (Q.), and a member of the
Country party for 28 years, has
announced that he will contest the new
Redcliffe seat at the State election as an
Independent. The C.-P. candidate will
be chosen by plebiscite on February 20
and if Houghton nominates against him
he will be liable to expulsion from the
party.
First-past-the-post is the rule in
Queensland elections so Houghton’s
action will split the anti-Labor vote.
A.L.P. and Q.L.P. candidates will also
contest Redcliffe, but the Libs, will stand
aside and let the C.P. carry the Govern-
ment banner.


Personal
ITEMS
Australian Olympic Federation chair-
man Sir Harold Alderson is to represent
Australia at the Winter Olympic Games
at Squaw Valley, California, next month
—first time Australia will have an official
representative of the national controlling
body at the Winter Olympics. In a life-
time association with amateur sport Sir
Harold has attended numerous Olympic
meetings in Australia and overseas ; he
was one of the men responsible for the
move that resulted in the 1956 Olympics
being staged here.
• •
Jn Sydney for a short visit, Reginald
Ash is London g.-mr. of the National
Bank of Australasia. He’s been in London
nearly nine years; before that he was
manager for N.S.W., headquartered in
Sydney. He and his wife head back to
England again at the end of this month,
meanwhile making some inter-State
visits.
• •
Ross Meehan, T.A.A. manager in
Townsville (Q.), has been appointed to
the airline's top overseas post as manager
of the London office, where he will re-
place D. D; Laurie, who’s been there
for the last five years. Meehan, who’s
45, served with the R.A.A.F. in War II
and joined T.A.A. in June, 1946, as
assistant traffic-superintendent in Mel-
bourne. He became Melbourne airport-
manager before taking-up his Towns-
ville post nine months ago.
• *
Awarded the C.M.G. in the New
Year’s honors-list, Walter Scott is
governing-director of W. D. Scott and
Co. Pty., Ltd., an international firm of
management - consultants with head-
quarters in North Sydney. Now world-
president of the International Committee
of Scientific Management (C. 1.0.5.), due
to meet in Australia for the first time
next month, he led the Australian dele-
gations to its meetings at Stockholm in
1947 and Sao Paulo in 1954.
Scott’s reputation as a management-
consultant had led Governments to invite
■him to a number of honorary posts ; for
instance, among other things, he’s been
deputy-chairman of the N.S.W. Board
of Area Management of the Ministry
of Munitions and chairman of the Motor
Car Production Advisory Committee,
and at present he’s chairman of the Aus-
tralian Decimal Currency Committee,
deputy-chairman of the Industrial Design
Council of Australia and a member of
the Australian Productivity Council.
Apart from his business interests —he’s
on the boards of nine companies—Scott
has published five books and various
technical papers.
Herewith Edgar Julius Stockman,
holder of International Aviator’s Certifi-
cate No. 6576 from the Royal Aero Club
of Britain —and that’s going back a fair
way.
Born near Bagot’s Wells (S.A.) in 1887,
Stockman went to Argentina in 1907,
came back to Australia for a few months
in 1913, joined the British Army in 1914,
served as an officer in the Border Regi-
ment until he could get into the Royal
Flying Corps, and was a captain, flight-
commander, at the finish. Then he went
back to Argentina, worked there with
Agar, Cross and Co., Ltd., importers of
agricultural machinery, and eventually
EDGAR STOCKMAN
became manager. In 1927 he started a
Corriedale stud-flock as a hobby, and
after he retired took to running it as a
full-time occupation. It’s called the
Kurrajong Corriedale Stud Flock, num-
bered 49 and located at Bahia Blanca,
500 miles south of Buenos Aires. The
name comes from the 17 kurrajong-trees
he planted there to remind him of Aus-
tralia.
Stockman was here having another
look at Australia last year; he called
at The Bulletin just before he sailed
for Argentina. He bought a couple of
Corriedale rams, which he's taking back
with him —one from J. B. Macfarlane
and Sons, of Cudal (N.S.W.), another
from R. E. Wettenhall, of Ceres (Vic.).
Fifty-two years—because his 1913
visit was too short to show much—have
made a big difference to Australia,
Stockman said. His first visit was to
his birthplace, Windmill Farm (now
York Vale), three miles from Bagot’s
Wells. He said that, owing to the
drought, sheep were selling at Is. a head
when he got there. When he last remem-
bered it, Bagot’s Wells had a resident
stationmaster, a blacksmith’s shop,
school and post-office. Now all that re-
mains is the school, still a school, and
the post-office building, no longer a post-
office. The whole importance of the
district has declined. On the other hand,
he found the cliffs above Sydney’s sea-
side Manly, where he used to wander
picking flannel-flowers, now so covered
with buildings that thereabouts was
entirely unrecognisable.
• •
“Maestro”: Returning to Sydney this
month as celebrity conductor for the
A.8.C., Charles Mackerras is American
by birth (1925), his father having then
been on post-graduate work there. The
young Charles came to Australia as a
two-year-old, at 20 went to London, won
an Arts Council scholarship in conduct-
ing, later became assistant-conductor at
Sadler's Wells, and for two years con-
ducted the 8.8. C. Concert Orchestra.
He’s related in descent to “the father
of Australian music,” Isaac Nathan, who
came to Sydney in 1841 as organist and
choirmaster at St. Mary’s Cathedral.
• •
Forty-six years ago Norman Cavanagh
began lighting the kerosene-lamps in Mel-
bourne cable-trams, and he kept them
burning so brightly he retired the other
day as supervisor of the conductors’
school ; he had. of course, been grip-
man, ticket-examiner, inspector and sub-
instructor in the meantime.
He has been turning-out conductors
and conductresses for the last dozen
years or so. 16,000 of them in all, and
reckons the girls are easier to teach
than the boys because they are more
interested. It takes nine or 10 days to
turn-out a connie ; the fortitude in
handling the peak-hour crowds grows
over a similar number of years.
Tramwaymen reckon Norman
Cavanagh is the last man to have begun
in cable-trams and worked through all
the jobs.
• •
“Jock”: Lord Halifax, noted British
Foreign Secretary between wars, who
died in New York the other day, achieved
more fame as a statesman than as a
soldier. But he was a diplomat as early
as 1916 in France, when he expected
a visit from top brass in the forward
zone. He was Major Wood then, and
to make a good impression he scurried
round and found some whisky and a
keg of beer in a village. The beer was
so vile that the C.O. told the mess-
sergeant to get rid of it. The visit went
off well, and when the C.O. asked the
sarge later if he had destroyed the beer,
he was astonished to learn it had been
drunk. “It was 0.k.,” said the n.c.o. “If
it’d been any worse, the men couldn’t
have drunk it ; if it’d been any better,
they wouldn’t have got it.”


Taking command of the Orient Line’s
40,000-ton Oriana, Captain Clifford
Edgecombe is a former cadet of H.M.S.
Worcester. A junior officer with the
New Zealand Shipping Co., Ltd., and
the Nauticus Steamship Co., Ltd., and,
in his spare time, a sub-lieutenant in
the R.N.R., he joined the Orient Line
in 1934 as a fourth-officer and became
a captain in 1955. Since then he has
commanded the Otranto, Orontes, Orion
and Orsova. In War II he had com-
mand of H.M.S. Oak, a minesweeper,
and won three commendations for mine-
clearance work before it was all over.
• •
F. A. Mclntosh, of Woodside Park,
Berry (N.S.W.), has been appointed to
the official panel of judges of the
Ayrshire Cattle Herd Book Society of
Great Britain and Ireland —only Austra-
lian ever to have been appointed to this
panel. President of the N.S.W. branch
of the Ayrshire Cattle Herd Book Society
of Australasia, he has judged at Royal
Shows in New Zealand and all Austra-
lian States except N.S.W., where he has
been a regular exhibitor at the Royal
Easter Show for many years. In 1947
he was one of two dairyfarmers selected
to go on a trip sponsored by the N.S.W.
Government to the U.K. and the U.S.
to purchase stud-stock. In 1954 he went
to Scotland again on a private mission
to buy Ayrshires for his Woodside Park
Stud and the Denbigh Stud of Mclntosh
Brothers, at Narellan (N.S.W.).
• •
“Q. Ree”: In Fiji we have three
radio “hams,” and the most experienced,
Peter Alexander, joined American Dr.
H. W. Meredith in chartering a vessel
in Suva to go to the Tokelau Islands,
where they operated for a week so that
enthusiastic “hams” all over the world
could make contact with these islands.
While they were at sea Peter Alexander
transmitted with the help of a small
generator on the deck of the Maroro.
LEO PLUNKETT POWER, Brisbane
solicitor, who’s a past-president of Tatter-
sail’s Club and formed Tatter sail’s Racing
Club, of which he was first president.
Well known to agricultural journalists
as organiser and “front man” on R.A.S.
tours preceding Easter Shows ever since
these tours were started, Norman Moore,
Shell’s p.r.o. for N.S.W., has just been
appointed State staff-manager. He’s
succeeded as p.r.o. by Frank Bird, who
for the last 4y years has been in charge
of Shell’s Westralian public-relations. A
Westralian himself, Bird was educated
at Hale School, Perth, where his public-
school record of 10.6 for the under-16
100yds. still stands. He also won the
100yds., 220yds. and broad-jump in
each of the two years of his war-time
course at the R.M.C., Duntioon (setting
a record of 22.45ec. for the 220). As a
professional athlete, he won the 75yds.
sprint at Cobram (Vic.) from a handi-
cap of 4yds., in 7.2, and he’s been a
prominent league footballer for Perth
Club. Bird started on the Inky Way
as a cadet on the “West Australian” in
1944, worked as a journalist overseas
and was a leading sports-writer with the
Melbourne “Sun News-Pictorial” for six
years before he joined Shell. Since tele-
vision started in Westralia he has com-
pered “Sport at Seven” each Saturday
evening over TVW Channel 7.
• •
“Kune”: Appointed Australian tractor-
sales manager for the Ford Motor co.
here, Lionel List is a Maorilander who
has come up the hard way. Born at
Hastings, he arrived in Australia in the
depth of the depression and kicked-off
selling color-portraits in Queensland. His
first break was as maintenance-man on
road-transport for Shell, and by the time
the war came he was Queensland sales-
rep. on its tractors and other heavy-
equipment side.
Joining the R.A.A.F. as an engine-
fitter, List was seconded to the R.A.F.
in the Middle East and went through
every rank except corporal to end as
flight-lieutenant with D.F.C. in 230
(Sunderland Flying-boat) Squadron.
After the war he went back to Shell,
left for the machinery game proper, and
finally joined Ford in 1954 as Queensland
sales-manager for tractors and equip-
ment. An old-boy of Pukekohe Tech,
(outside Auckland) and of King Country
Rugby Union he’s still (at 49) a keen
follower of the code, with a spot of
fishing as another spare-time interest.
• •
When the curtain goes up at Sydney’s
Theatre Royal next Friday night
(January 22), William Rees will see the
results of the most exacting assignment
he has had as permanent producer for
J.C.W. —stage-traffic in William Gibson’s
comedy-drama, “Two For The Seesaw,”
being confined to two people.
This latest of the Firm’s plays will be
presented as an all-Australian affair;
the players in it are home-grown Diana
Perryman and Grant Taylor.
Rees has the right backing of ex-
perience for a job that challenges
ingenuity: he’s been mixing production
with acting since, at 16, he came from
his native Wallsend (N.S.W.) to gain
his introduction to theatricals from Scott
Alexander at the Old Kent Street Theatre
in Sydney.
After more experience of Sydney
stages with Doris Fitton he left in
1936 for Hollywood, where he worked
for M.G.M. for about three years before
getting a Broadway part with Vincent
Price, Hilda Spong and the late Elissa
WILLIAM REES
Landi in “The Lady Has A Heart.”
Turning to production with his own
stock-company he notched successes with
“Susan and God” and “Family Portrait,”
among others. Coming back to Aus-
tralia in 1947, he again teamed with Miss
Fitton in “Antigone” and “Death Of A
Salesman,” after which he joined the
Firm, to produce such notable successes
as “Janus” (with Jessie Matthews), “All
For Mary,” “Double Image” and “Not
In The Book.”
• •
First head of the new department of
applied mathematics and theoretical
physics at Cambridge University, Dr.
G. R. Batchelor was born in Melbourne
in 1920, graduated at Melbourne Uni.
in 1940, was elected Fellow of Trinity
College, Cambridge, in 1947 and a
Fellow of the Royal Society in 1957.
He’s also held a Readership in fluid
mechanics, and, as well as editing Cam-
bridge monographs on mechanics and
applied mathematics, has edited the
“Journal of Fluid Mechanics.”
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 60, Nevil Shute Norway,
the novelist who wrote as “Nevil Shute.”
Bom in London, educated at Shrewsbury
Schools and the Royal Military Academy,
Woolwich, he served in War I as a private
in the Suffolk Regiment, then completed his
education at Oxford. Before taking to full-
time writing he worked on the construction
of rigid airships and twice flew the Atlantic
in R.lOO. A lieutenant-commander in the
R.N.V.R. during War 11, he came to live in
Australia in 1950 to escape the penal rate
of English income-tax and petrol-rationing.
In Sydney, at 60, Commander Rupert Basil
Michel Long, 0.8. E. R.A.N. (retired), who
was Director of Naval Intelligence during War
II and organised the now famous Coast
Watchers.


ABORIGINALITIES
Two things I’ve done in quantities:
counted sheep and rolled cigarettes.
I was so accomplished at rolling
cigarettes and so used to counting
sheep, it was as nothing at all, during
a big count —and that meant anything
over 10,000 —to get out the tobacco, peel
off a cigarette-paper, pinch the needed
amount of weed, roll a cigarette and
call the tally without any pause or break.
And many of those counts were checked
later. It was almost as natural as
breathing to smoke the thing while I
was counting. But one little item always
did beat me: 1 couldn't light that
cigarette and keep counting. I had to
stop the run, light the thing, go on with
the smoke and let ’em go. 1 thought
of that lately when 1 saw a blind man,
waiting for a train, light his cigarette.
He had a sensitive touch, which I
lacked. He felt with his little-finger —
and I was reminded of the actions of the
tail of a turtle when she is laying her
eggs—a foot-rule and a pair of eyes
combined. The blind man could measure
things to a split inch. Another thing
which blocked the count with sheep was
a sneeze. Cough, hiccough, any other
thing at all and I wouldn’t miss a sheep.
But when I felt a sneeze coming on,
and if that count had to be correct, it
needed some lively movements to stop
the run ahead of the expulsion of breath.
—“Tally.”
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: The North Island of N.Z.
is certainly an unlucky beat for Bullen
Bros.’ Circus. During the 1957-58 tour
the circus lost a valuable elephant ; at
Napier a bear chewed a lad's hand, and
the town's numerous bodgies staged a
“He always likes to do it the hard Way."
losing battle with circus-hands. During
the present tour a bear badly mauled
a trainer in a King Country town, and
put another in hospital the following
evening. A trapeze-artist was taken to
hospital after a fall a few nights later,
and in New Plymouth two of the Flying
Cordellos were stunned by a mid-air
collision. Minor misfortunes include
shows cancelled owing to high winds, and
an elephant accidentally treading on a
child’s foot.
* * * *
“Dileabach”: The neighbor’s lad was
building his first stack, and about 4ft.
from the ground he was obviously in
difficult straits. His sheaves had too much
pitch, his centre was too high, and things
were slipping. “Let’s drive slower going
past,” 1 suggested, “so we can get a
proper look at what's wrong.” “No fear,”
says our stacker, who was riding with us.
’“Drive like hell going past. He might
come out and want me to fix it for him. ’
* * * *
“R.G.W.”: I’m no student of the
dynamics of the alleged “Top Forty,”
but 1 doubt whether “Mackville,” in
his recent par. here, was right in
claiming he’d heard an Aussie composi-
tion catted “The Battle of Coota-
mundra.” I have heard “The Battle of
Kookamunga,” and, while ignoring the
slurred diction of most breakfast
announcers, 1 must say that I’m amazed
that its content could be mistaken for
Australian. Not even J. V. Marshall
would write about sparks flying from
sticks rubbed together ; and even then,
in the allusion to certain licentious
pleasures—“we’ll set the woods ablaze”
—an Australian would surely have used
the less lyrical but more appropriate
“bush.” A city type myself, I must
admit that the only specific thing I know
about the Cootamundra region is that
it’s the location of the next Australian
Jazz Convention, but I’m positive the
U.S. Marines haven’t an outpost in the
area!
* * * *
“Bass”: Two things I don’t savvy —
why the dove is the symbol of peace,
and why Noah sent out such a bird to
search for land. The dove’s about as
cantankerous and quarrelsome a bird as
you’d find, and it’s not a particularly
strong or long flyer. The cormorant’s
the bird he should have used. A strong
flyer and a wonderful diver, it could
have picked-up a meal here and there,
and travelled much farther than a dove ;
and, although it might have been absent
longer, if it didn’t strike land it would
FLY-FISHING SONG
Sing of Parson’s Glory and the Pope’s
Pink Lady,
Peverill o' the Peak and Coch-y-Bondlw.
Lhud sing cuckoo.
The moth and the mammoth and Leslie
Lure Yellow,
Black Gnat, Blue Dun, and March
Brown Male.
I’ll tell you a tale.
Sing of Twilight Beauty and a Ginger
Nymph,
Love’s Lure, Mrs. Simpson, and Craig’s
Night-time.
Now it’s wet and dry fly-time.
Hardy’s Favorite and the Taihape
Tickler,
Ferriss’s Fancy and the Great Red
Spinner.
She’ll he a winner.
Taupo Tiger and Nimmo’s Killer,
Tup’s Indispensable and Kakahi Queen,
Let the moon not be seen.
Motukarara and Waipahi Red,
Tamiti, Maluku, Maori Chief, Tonga.
[Ye'll wait no longer.
Claret and Mallard and Purple Grouse,
Dark Sedge, Spa Special, Green Drake,
Sing ho for stream and lake.
Red Heckham Peckham and Hairy Dog,
lnvicta, Ichthibotus Hudsoni.
We’ve lots of fish to fry.
Zulu, Demon, Butcher and Deadly Dick,
Dad’s Favorite and Wickham’s Dangler,
I’m the Compleat Angler.
N.Z.
D. M. SOMERVILLE.


TOP-SECRET


come back to the one dry spot it knew.
A cormorant’s feathers don’t repel
moisture like a duck’s, so it has to dry-
out fairly often or become waterlogged,
and if it came back after a long flight
Noah would have known there wasn’t
land within a far radius. But apparently
the cormorant wasn’t given its due in
those days any more than it is now.
Even its names are libellous its genetic
label, Phalacrocorax, means literally
“bald-crow,” and “cormorant” itself
means “sea-raven.” I suspect we despise
it for the same reason we dislike Reynard
—we can’t eat it. The Vikings had a
truer measure of its worth. They
carried cormorants on their long,
haZardous voyages into the Atlantic and
Arctic Oceans. Periodically a bird
would be released and followed as far
as possible. If it didn’t return the
voyagers kept heading the way it was
going .when last seen. Come to think of
it, though, Noah might have been work-
ing on a shrewd knowledge of human
nature. He probably reckoned that if
"He's a plainclothes man.”
there was a spot of dry land in the
ocean there’d be a sportsman on it
waiting to knock the first shag that
showed-up.
* * * *
“Old Gippsland”: Nipponese broiled-
eel sampled at Yokohama is akin to
superior Murray-cod, and is grilled over
charcoal, then simmered in soy-sauce
and served in a lidded box to ensure
heat- and flavor-retention. It can be
hard to track-down even with an English-
speaking guide, because the letter “L,”
twice-prominent in “broiled eels,” clashes
with a Japanese Ungulate hurdle, but
if you get within reach of it the operative
word is unagi.
T asked the hand on my son-in-law’s
station what he thought of the Dar-
win drover marrying a gin. “Well,” he
drawled, “I ain’t against mixed marriages,
but I think it should be done gradual. I
mean, whites should begin by marrying
Mf-castes first. - Buderim.
* * * *
- B ’long Badu”: Pacific Islanders
regard blood-letting as a universal cure-
aj] Qn Saiabai Island, not far from
Dutch New Guinea, I saw a snake-
bite victim, who showed every sign of
recovery after orthodox white-fella treat-
ment, literally bleed to death after all-
over butchery by the local purri-purri
man, who was scornful of the “Gub-
mint” medicine-man. On the same
island an official relief-party during a
severe malaria epidemic found almost
every member of the population sliced
from head to toe under the native
practitioner’s prescription, designed to
“let all the bad blood out.” Though
the officially-sponsored village headmen
had on hand supplies of quinine and
atebrin, in the use of which they had
been trained, the drugs had been jetti-
soned for the magic-merchant’s bleeding-
measures. My experience is that in
times of crisis primitive people will
discard white-man medicine for that of
the sorcerer.
❖
“R. A. McC.”: Touching on the men-
tion here of the number of teeth worn
by woollies, 1 don’t think you could
get any recognised sheepman today who
would guarantee a sheep’s age by its
teeth. There is nothing more unreliable.
My father had a stud when I was a boy,
and two of his top stud-ewes lambed the
same night. The lambs ran together and
were treated in exactly the same way
till they were 16 months old. when they
were taken to the Show and entered as
under 18 months. One of them had his
four teeth well developed ; the other
still had his lamb’s teeth. They were
equally well grown, and in all other
respects appeared quite normal. Mr.
Sioan, of Mulwala (N.S.W.), told me
that on one occasion buyers of their
annual draft of sale-rams of 20 to 24
months old (usually .referred to as “four-
tooths”) could not find one ram in the
lot showing four teeth. I was for 15
years with the late A. B. Triggs, and
think I am right in saying that during
that time he had more sheep than any
other man in N. S. Wales ; they were
scattered over a very wide area, and,
because teeth were such an unreliable
guide to age, we made it a hard-and-fast
rule that “teeth” must never be men-
tioned in a contract.
* * * *
“Amcee”: Where there isn’t a vet. the
local country doctor usually helps out,
and one day ours rang the hospital and
asked me to give 500 units of anti-tetanus
serum to a dog. As we don't learn about
the pooch’s anatomy, 1 was .doubtful
about the besl place to give the injection,
but settled for its shoulder. My main
problem, though, was whether to desensi-
tise it, and, if 1 did, how could I see if
there was any reaction? I decided to
shoot the full dose in and hope for the
best. Doc. had done a good job in
suturing up the pooch’s side, which had
been torn by a stump, and apparently
my bold step had no adverse effects,
because Spot was soon back on the job
working as well as ever. Now, does
anyone know if dogs are (or can be)
allergic to anti-tetanus serum?
HORSES OF THE MOUNTED
POLICE
/ saw them from a tram
That bore its load
Of peak-hour pilgrims
Down St. Kitda Road:
Six silver horses
Ridden two by two
Along the hazy
Autumn avenue,
Alien as creatures
Of another day,
Splendid as unicorns
And strange as they ;
Breasting the waves of sound,
, Trucks, trams and cars —
You’d think they had been pastured
In the stars.
Stabled in story,
Named in undying rhymes,
Something not quite belonging
To our times;
Sired by Fable
Out of Enchantment mares,
Threading the commonplace
All unawares,
Indifferent to the city’s
Go and come :
Six tall police-horses
Peacefully pacing home _
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


NOTHING MATCHES
TODAY’S WONDER FUEL!
r
m
m
Boron high-energy fuel is today helping to power
advance-stage missiles through space at fantastic speeds
. . . speeds of more than fifteen times the speed of sound .
In Ampol Boron, this same high-energy element will
dramatically increase power and mileage in your car!
Ampol is the only petrol that gives you Boron.
Ampol Boron is an entirely NEW petrol. Fill your
tank and prove for yourself that your best buy is
Ampol Boron.
Boron high-energy fuels will power missiles and
Super-Jets of today and tomorrow to almost unbe-
lievable speeds!
• New Power! oNew Smoothness!
• New Pick-up! •Better Mileage!
IS EXCLUSIVE TO
AUSTRALIAN
OWNED


11
<*'
**v^&£^s*\
i\ ',» *"• '♦■
>*• %
• •'
A happier choke for every occasion .
MGOVeS WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
.glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH. BURGUNDY, CLARET.
HOCK. RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
cmd ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
m
BETTER BRANDY... ST AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
JOHN DARLING: DIV. AND BAKERIES
cut in the div. of John
Darling and Son (Aust.),
Ltd., from 8 p.c. to 5 p.c.—an
interim of 3 p.c. and final of
2 p.c., compared with one
final distribution of 8 p.c. in
the preceding year—was un-
expected, even though the
board had mentioned a lower
margin of profit when making
its interim report.
The drop in the div. brought
a sharemarket fall from 18s.
to Us. 6(J m the price for
0 r' 1 ar V 1 ® s ‘ s ares
In mid-January last year the
board emphasised its policy
of expansion, but regarded
1958-59 as a year of consoii-
dation, and, given unchanged
trading conditions, looked for
increased profits during the
term which closed on Sep-
tember 30 last, for which only
preliminary figures are yet
available.
Before allowing for increased
depreciation (up £34,989 at
£91,577), and lower taxation
(down £20,347 at £56,162),
trading profit was actually
£11,848 better at £283,452. But
the greater overall appropri-
ations left the net figure £2894
lower at £135,713, and a
further £25,000 earmarked to
cover increased cost of plant-
replacement cut into the
amount available for dividends,
Nevertheless, it would appear
that a deliberate policy of
“plough-back” during a period
of great expansion in the co.’s
bread-baking offshoots was a
factor in the cut in the divi-
dend, which called for £56,450,
after £17,622 to the prefs.
The CO-> a Victorian and
n.S.W. flourmiller and maker
of stock . foods had an early
reverse with one of its bakery
“vestments. Austral Bakeries
in which it holds a 49 p.c.
interest (valued at over half-a-
million) had a fire on August
2, 1958, about a month after
John Darling came in. This
dislocated business for the
1958-59 year, and the div. from
the Austral Bakeries group
dropped from 6 p.c. to 3 p.c.
A factor in the reduced profit
°f the Austral Bakeries group
was a higher* rate of depreci-
ation on a greater book-value
of fixed assets—the allowance
rose from £22,620 to £64,899.
Through the Austral Bakeries
Pty. group John Darling has
a 49 p.c. interest in Bentleigh
Bakery Pty., Brighton Bakeries
Pty., Caulfield Bakeries Ptv.,
Edithvale Bakeries Pty., Hen-
nessy’s Ormond Bakery Pty.,
Mordialloc Bakeries Pty.,
Sandringham Bakeries Pty.
and Southern Bakeries Pty.
In N.S.W., through Cannon-
gate Pty., at the beginning of
1959 John Darling controlled
eight bakeries in Sydney’s
western suburbs, with another
one planned at Seven Hills,
Other interests were acquired
in Narrabeen Bakeries Pty. and
rTN.“ub^a ry A ii
Wingham Bakery Pty. An
animal-food subsidiary in Vic-
toria is Clark King Pty.
There has been widespread
.. .. , a •„ .
activity by flourmillers in me
purchase of bakeries >n recent
years and finance is one of the
problems. In the case of John
Darling it appears to be a
matter of time for digestion of
its acquisitions. Flourmilling
itself has its ups and downs,
but by going into the bakery
business millers hope to stabi-
lise and expand their local
markets for flour, and to rely
less on unprofitable exports,
At their depressed price of
13s. 6d., Darling’s 10s. shares
offer possibilities for three- to
five-year holding.
Austral Bakeries (Holdings)
Principal subsidiary company
A of Austral Bakeries (Hold
ings), Ltd., is Austral Bakeries
Pty., Ltd., which owns all other
subsidiaries within the Austral
group. Of the £699,600 ord.
capital (in £1 shares) of Austral
Bakeries Pty., 51 p.c. is held
by Austral Bakeries (Holdings)
and 49 p.c. by John Darling
and Son (Aust.), the flour-
millers.
On July 1, 1958, John
Darling bought 291,256 £1
ords. in A.B. Pty. for £470,864,
and later took-up 51,548 addi-
tional £1 ords. at par. A.B.
(Holdings) at the same time
took-up 53,652 £1 ords. at par.
A year ago the set-up was
that A.B. (Holdings) held
356,796 ords. (in its books at
£470,401) and John Darling
342,804 ords. (cost, £522,412).
This position does not appear
to have altered since.
The original Austral Bakery
was located in Windsor, a Mel-
bourne suburb, and was
acquired by the Hennessey
family in 1932. Following
transfer of operations to Haw-
thorn Road, Caulfield, in 1938,
and extensive developmental
activities in 1945, a number of
bakeries have been acquired,
reaching 10 in number by the
end of 1955.
Upon conversion of Austral
Bakeries group into the present


Cep* Ycrk
QUEENSLAND
★
_
NEW SOUTH WALES f
★
"From
Cape York
S
to
Portland"-
U N To N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Alfoury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Koekhanipton and C'harleville.
UT23C
A.B. (Holdings) in May, 1957,
net tangible backing behind
each ss. share in A.B. (Hold-
ings) was 3s. 7|d. This was
after deducting value of bread-
rounds, estimated then at
£104,763. An annual div.-rate
of 12| P-C. p.a. was anticipated.
The holding-co. started-off
with a paid capital of £300,000,
of which £144,005 was issued
as vendors’ consideration and
£155,995 was taken by the
public at par.
An objective of the group,
after the introduction of public
capital, was to concentrate
baking in a central factory at
Clayton. This move had just
been completed when, on
August 2, 1958, a fire at
Clayton destroyed the whole
of the administrative offices
and threw the factory out of
gear. Then, following the “ex-
tensive developmental” tie-up
with John Darling, diversifica-
tion of activity found the
Clayton factory “geographically
too far distant from the eastern
suburbs in which the co. is now
substantially represented,” and
it was decided to spread baking
to two additional factories,
though following a general
policy of closing-down indi-
vidual bakeries and concentrat-
ing at central points.
In December, 1958, the board
told shareholders that the
various moves and consolida-
tion would not be completed
mueh before the end of the
1958-59 financial year, and that
a satisfactory yield on the
co.’s funds would not be
possible for 1958-59. The
chairman added: “I feel, there-
fore, that a degree of caution
is warranted in assessing the
company’s immediate prospects,
as the full benefits of the
various plans outlaid to you
will not be completely forth-
coming until the financial year
commencing July 1, 1959.”
At the next annual meeting
on December 3, 1959, chairman
J. J. O’Loughlin again warned
shareholders to be cautious in
assessing immediate prospects ;
he could not forecast results
for the current year until bene-
fits of the co.’s consolidation
plans were obtained and sales-
promotion results were weighed
against the costs involved. To
meet intense competition in
the bread industry, a wide
radio-, television- and news-
paper-advertising campaign
had been undertaken. Results
were encouraging, but it was
a costly programme, and
though turnover was up
profits were “only similar to
those enjoyed in the last half
of 1958-59”.
Fuither losses would have
to be incurred on the disposal
of assets of taken-over bakeries
rendered surplus by concentra-
tion of baking in central fac-
tories.
For the term to June 30, 1959,
after allowing £64,899 (up
£42,279) for depreciation and
£17,543 (down £928) for taxa-
tion, consolidated net profit of
Allied Bakeries (Holdings),
Ltd., and subsidiaries was
£6OlO lower at £41,004. The
decrease was much more than
accounted for by the bigger
depreciation allowance. In
addition, the group made a
loss of £16,908 on disposal of
fixed assets.
An interim div. of 3 p.c. was
paid, calling for £19,246. No
final distribution was made.
The Austral Bakeries group
is obviously going through the
thick of the difficulties of its
new manufacturing and
marketing programme, involv-
ing considerable finance (the
book-value of bread-rounds
jumped from £115,213 to
£231,170 last year), and it
will take some time before one
is able to measure the success
of its bold development plans.
But unless it is particularly un-
lucky—or unless Melbourne is
going to insist on being
different from other places in
Australia and the rest of the
world —the plan should pay-
off in the long-run, as it has
done in the United Kingdom
and in N.S.W.
John Darling, partner of
Austral Bakeries (Holdings) in
the venture, has stressed from
the beginning that its bakeries
ventures are a long-term pro-
position, and apparently it has
the experience of its largest
shareholder, Spillers, Ltd., of
the U.K., to refer to in this
regard.
It is interesting to note that
the total paid capital of
Austral Bakeries (Holdings) of
1,356,794 ss. shares, if valued
at the current market of 6s. 6d.
each, is worth £440,956, and
represents a 51 p.c. interest in
Austral Bakeries Pty., plus
other assets and reserves. Yet
in 1958 John Darling was pre-
pared to pay £522,412 for a
49 p.c. interest without any
trimmings.
It is possible that John Darl-
ing looks for advantages in the
tie-up other than mere invest-
ment benefits, such as saving
in costs resulting from bulk-
delivery of flour at central
factories. Nevertheless the
comparison between 1960
market valuation and 1958
John Darling assessment is
interesting, to say the least.
Lennons Group Suspended
JpOLLOWtNG a statement by the
1 chairman of Lennons
Hotel, Ltd., D. A. McNab to
the effect that his board would
not disclose the terms or the
C/%IIWJ . t u, * i a
source of the takeover offer
( unsolicited ) they recently
rejected, the Stock Exchanges
of Brisbane, Sydney and Mel-
bourne decided to suspend
quotation of the shares of the
q I ine snares or me
Lennons group. Suspension
of trading will be enforced
until such time as the directors
of the Companies inform their
shareholders of the terms and
source of the offer.
This show of determination
b / the Stock Exchanges follows
' he /“ olul '°" Passed at the
Australian Associated Stock
Exchanges Conference in
September, 1959:
where
the board of directors of
a company has reached a decision
on a takeover offer and the details
have not been made available to
shareholders and the Stock Ex-
changes, the trading in the shares
should be suspended until such
a hme as the terms are disclosed,
Lennons has become the test-
case of this policy, although


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. UrQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES,. P. H. MULLENS
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell
Telephone
BWBI7I <?, lines) 8LR327
Street, Sydney
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX." Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members , of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: JLinwar, Sydney.
haphazard suspension of
Adelaide Steam’s shares was
made during the H. C. Sleigh
offer. A firm stand by the
Associated Stock Exchanges on
this point may force the
Lennons board to disclose in-
formation to the shareholders,
who as owners of the company
have the right to know.
Possibly, in future, to evade
the new Stock Exchange ruling,
companies which are the subject
of takeover negotiations will
ask the takeover-company to
resort to that old legal nicety,
°® er a |l °ff er ’ instead
an actua ° er -
A.M.P. New Business
t n the A.M.P. Society's
A new annual premium-in-
come rose to £5,830,000, an
increase of £715,000 on the
figure for the previous year,
More than 98 p.c. of the
society’s new business was
written in Australia and New
Zealand.
New business for the year
totalled £238 million —the
highest new-business figure
ever for any mutual life-office
in the British Commonwealth.
This figure, an increase of
£32.8 million over the previous
year, established 1959 as the
sixteenth successive year in
which the society's new busi-
ness was a record.
In a year of greatly intensi-
fied competition. including
competition from overseas life-
offices now set-up in Australia,
a total of 150,189 policies were
written by the A.M.P. during
the year.
Of these, 103,335, amount-
ing to £227.3 million, were in
the Ordinary department, and
46,854, assuring £10.75 million,
in the Industrial department.
(Continued on page 25)
THE NEW HOLDEN
Among the more interesting
changes introduced in the
new Holden are the following.
New type AC dry-element air-
cleaner with long, forward intake-
silencer. Advantages are: easy
and cheap replacement of the dry
elements and elimination of wash-
ing.
Increase to 2fin. width in the
leaves of the half-elliptic rear
springs which provides for bush-
ings to give longer life. The loca-
tion of the upper control-arm
bumpers has been improved.
New attachment of front-suspen-
sion shock-absorbers to eliminate
damage by stone-throw.
Various gearbox changes, includ-
ing widened and strengthened
gears in the second-speed train ;
and fitting of double-row main-
shaft ball-race at rear of box for
increased transmission-life, par-
ticularly under arduous operating
conditions such as taxi-work and
back-country travel.
Gear-shift tube and selector-
lever attachments redesigned for
increased operating-life and im-
proved accessibility.
Redesign of clutch to provide
a better pedal ratio. Pedal effort
reduced by approximately 20 per
cent.
Overall improvement in braking,
main detail improvements being:
An increase in brake-lining width
to Ifin., giving a total lining area
of 112 j square-inches instead of
96.6. Better pedal ratios to give
reduced brake-pedal loads. Better
balancing of front and rear brakes
by modification of wheel-cylinder
sizes.
New rear-wheel bearings incor-
porating an oil seal on each
flanged axle-shaft. Bearings are
lubricated by hypoid oil and give
added protection and longer life
under arduous operating condi-
tions.
Larger-capacity battery of 9-
plate, 50-amp.-hour type. Gives
more reserve power and an appre-
ciable increase in parking-time
lighting on previous 7-plate 38-
amp.-hour battery.
Minimum ground-clearance (run-
ning) now increased to 7.38 inches
for the station-sedan and unchanged
at 7.33 inches for the sedan, coupe-
utility and panel-van.
Improved engine-cooling through
balanced new shaping of grille
air-intake and sealing-off top of
radiator to force maximum air-
flow through radiator core, com-
bined with use of new, higher-
output fan.
Some Comparative “Standard
Wheelbase
Overall length
Overall width
Overall height
Track (front and rear)
Compression ratio
Bore and stroke
Displacement
Rating
B.H.P. Max. Gross
Torque Max. Gross
Rear Axle Ratio
Transmission Ratios —
Top Gear
Second
First
Kerb Weights —
Standard Sedan
Special Sedan
Standard Station-sedan
Special Station-sedan
Panel-van
Coupe-utility
Sedan” Holden Specifications.
1958-59. 1960.
105.0 inch 105.0 inch
175.96 inch 181.54 inch
66.90 inch 67.03 inch
60.92 inch 59.87 inch
54.5 inch 54.5 inch
7.0 to 1 7.25 to 1
3 x 3.125 inch 3.062 x 3.125 inch
76.2 x 79.4 mm. 77.8 x 79.4 mm.
132.5 cub. inch 138.0 cub. inch
2,172 c.c. 2,262 c.c.
21.6 h.p. 22.5 h.p.
72 at 4,400 r.p.m.75 at 4,200 r.p.m.
110 at 1,400 120 at 1,400
3.888 to 1 3.888 to 1
1 to 1 1 to 1
1.59 to 1 1.59 to 1
2.99 to 1 2.99 to 1
2,389 lbs. 2,473 lbs.
2.412 2,494
2,517 2,605
2,533 2,627
2,415 2,559
2,393 2.479
In the capital cities prices
for the new Holdens, ex G.M.-
H. assembly-plants, are:
Standard Sedan, £llO6
13s. lOd.
Special Sedan, £1169
4s. 4d.
Standard Station - sedan,
£l2OO 9s. Bd.
Special Station - sedan,
£1263 Os. Id.
Coupe-utility, £lOOB 3s. 3d.
Panel-van, £lOl9 11s. Id.
General Motors - Holden’s
say the new Holden took three
years to plan and develop, and
the cost of designing, tooling-
up, etc., ran into £7,850,000.
More than 630,000 Holdens
have been made since 1948.
Current daily production is 502.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
'J
\i * J
Wa
f
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Mumba Jumba and the
Bunyip"
Notwithstanding the per-
vasive smell of chocolate, the
constant fear of a minor ice-
cream war breaking out in the
seats behind one (and perhaps
all over one), the sounds of
sticky fingers being sucked, the
squeals of fear and shouts of
approval, the kids who always
chose a critical dramatic
moment to leap up in front
and obliterate one’s view, the
kids who dug one in the ribs
at the most inopportune
moments and the kids all
around who just couldn’t stop
fidgeting, the present battle-
stained writer is still able to
report that he came through
two hours of “Mumba Jumba
and the Bunyip” (Melbourne
New Theatre) in a sound-
enough condition and with the
impression that in creating this
children’s bush-musical Peter
O’Shaughnessy and his associ-
ates have achieved something
really worth while in the way
of juvenile entertainment.
What a relief to miss the
usual Puss-in-Boots, Jack-and-
th e - Beanstalk pantomime
formulas! And how pleasant
to find one of this country’s
most able and fiercely inde-
pendent actor-producers (“King
Lear,” “Waiting for Godot,”
“Pygmalion,” etc.) teaming-up
with the similarly noted painter
Clifton Pugh in a theatrical
venture of this kind!
“Mumba Jumba and the
Bunyip”—a worthy sequel to
“The Bunyip and the Satel-
lite,” put on independently by
O’Shaughnessy two years ago—
was commissioned by the
Children’s Theatre Guild, a
non-profit-making organisation
formed recently in the com-
mendable hope of “providing
permanent high-class theatre
for children.” The Guild need
have no qualms over this, its
maiden production.
Briefly, “Mumba Jumba and
the Bunyip” (with scene set
delightfully by Pugh's imagi-
native backdrops) concerns a
bushland animal-community
living under the fear of an
aboriginal witch-doctor who
puts into operation his evil
talent for blotting out the sun
in order to leave the earth in
darkness and abduct a little
black girl and a white girl.
All the elements so essential
to theatre of this kind are
present: fantasy, suspense, un-
“Pressr!"
forced comedy, homeliness ; all
bound together by a simple,
persuasive morality.
Today, perhaps more than at
any other time, there is an
urgent need to protect and culti-
vate that precious sense of
wonder and fantasy which
TV’s goggle-eyed children seem
to be in real danger of losing.
“Mumba Jumba and the
Bunyip” does this admirably.
A. S. J.
<«• *i* *>
Chekhov Centenary
As Herbert Holman points
out on another page, this is
the centenary month of the
birth of Anton Chekhov, and
no big London theatre has so
far paid tribute to the great
Russian by putting on one of
his plays. It would be
astonishing, however, if that
city allowed the whole year
to pass without a tributary
season of some kind.
It would not be so astonish-
ing if Sydney let the occasion
pass, for it is seldom indeed
that a Sydney theatre of any
size or standing produces
Chekhov —or, for that matter,
any of the other modern
classics: Ibsen, Pirandello
(except for a very occasional
“Six Characters” in one of
the little-theatres) and Strind-
berg.
It is hard to see the reason
for this strange neglect. Ad-
mittedly, all these playwrights
are doubtful box - office
material and extremely difficult
to produce well —especially
Chekhov. But such reasons can
hardly be advanced by com-
panies which profess to serve
the cause of theatre as a vital
art.
Nearly all of the best modern
playwrights stem in some way
or other from those named
above. A country in search
of the highest dramatic
standards and a style of its
own can hardly neglect to study
them in motion from time to
time, along with the work of
their followers.
While waiting for our next
look at Ibsen, Strindberg or
Pirandello, may we hope that
someone is taking hold of the
Chekhov occasion with plans
for a production of “The Three
Sisters” or “The Cherry
Orchard”?
❖ ❖ *X*
And since suggestions are
being handed around, here is
another:
Albert Camus died in a
motor - accident this month.
Wouldn’t it be a fitting tribute
to the passing of this fine
writer (he has said a lot to
many Australians) to produce,
some time during the year, one
of his much-neglected plays—
“Caligula.” “Cross Purposes”
or “The State of Siege”?
❖
“Reedy River"
Dick Diamond’s more-or-less
Australian musical-play is
having a return-season at Syd-
ney's New Theatre. In sheer
musical terms it still has many


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking end Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SU!
I->'Am
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL <Si COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Tele grams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
pleasant moments. “Charley
Mopps,” where they toast the
man who invented beer, is as
bright as ever ; and a sort of
religious fervor marks the sing-
ing of such songs as “The
Ballad of 1891,” full of wicked
squatters and gallant shearers.
Instrumental support is divided
between guitar and piano. The
guitar is fine.
Artbursts
Ralph Balson
Two things immediately
strike you at Ralph Balson’s
exhibition of abstracts in
Farmer’s (Sydney) Blaxland
Gallery: the largeness of in-
dividual canvases and the
general regularity of design.
These paintings are so much
of a muchness —each one care-
fully, sometimes even self-
consciously, designed that
initially it is hard to discover
one or two which might be
taken as outstanding examples.
Canvases like No. 9 (none of
the paintings carries a title),
alive in its dense coagulation of
white dots; or the thick-
textured No. 33, beginning and
ending in mid-air and throb-
bing with eruptive force; or
the soft, chequered fullness of
No. 20 —these, painted with
restraint and a feeling for
fineness of color and design, are
pleasant.
They show, above all, a
purposeful approach to ab-
stract technique—only rarely,
as in the prancing No. 13, does
Balson forsake his ordered
calligraphy and some of
Sydney’s angry young ab-
stractionists might well spend
a coolly profitable half-hour
looking them over.
The exhibition is open until
January 27.
❖ *t+ *
Mabel Hawkins
Mabel Hawkins’s abstracts at
the Macquarie Galleries (Syd-
ney) may be divided into two
groups: flat-surface paintings
and paintings where surface-
texture provides the dominant
interest.
The second group contains
several reasonably fresh works:
“Colorado,” “Incrustation”
(some admirable sea-shells here)
and “The Turbulent Sea”
probably the nearest to com-
pletely avoiding gimmickry.
“Bianco” looks rather like
dried caramel ice-cream.
In her flat-surface work Miss
Hawkins spoils some of the
charm of “Carnival” —a small,
tidily arranged but restless
piece—by including compara-
tively slight paintings, of
which the large “Summer in
New York” is a notable
example. An attempt at dif-
fusion in “Flower Piece” pro-
duces a rather watery effect.
Miss Hawkins’s strength at
present appears to be in tex-
ture-work.
Films
“The Mirror Has Two
Faces”
Irony is the keynote of this
strongly-knit and beautifully-
told French drama in which
Andre Cayette a realist
director whose strong point is
the merciless portrayal of
human weaknesses and foibles
—goes straight to the heart of
a very human problem.
A middle-aged schoolteacher
who weakly allows himself to
be dominated by a possessive
mother seeks to escape this
thraldom in marriage. His
view-mat. advertisement brings
a prompt response from the
parents of an ugly duckling
whose naturally vivacious dis-
position has been smothered
under the sorrow of her looks.
His mean-souled nature asserts
itself after marriage, and for
10 years they lead a humdrum
life.
Then plastic-surgery gives the
girl beauty, and her per-
sonality burgeons. But her
husband, hugging old-fashioned
notions about the menace of
pretty women, bitterly resents
the change. He has become
used to a drab-looking woman,
and that would have done him!
So he sulks and practises petty
viciousness to the point where
his wife is driven into the arms
of the man who had always
loved her but had fallen for
her pretty and worthless sister.
The denouement has pathos and
the usual Gallic logic.
Cayette wins superlative per-
formances from his principals.
Michele Morgan is wonder-
fully subtle in her changing
from the drab drudge who had
patiently resigned herself to
going through life unadmired
to the woman who develops
serene self-assurance from
facial symmetry. But even her
work is shaded by that of Bour-
vil in his portrayal of less
admirable human qualities, and
of a man totally unable and
unwilling to adjust himself to
changing patterns of life.
At King’s Cross (Sydney)
Metro.
“A Dog of Flanders”
This gentle- essay in senti-
mentality—concerning a Dutch
boy who divides his love be-
tween an aged grandfather, a
dog and sketching—is some-
thing that no dog-lover could
resist.
Old Yeller, the burly, placid
hound that Walt Disney used
in his film of that name, is
the ill-used tyke who is
rescued from his villainous
master by grandfather and boy,
enriches their lives and plays
a large part in getting the boy
a chance to realise his ambition
to become an artist.
Donald Crisp is philosophical
as the old boy, and Theodore
Bikel does a neat job as a
painter at variance with his
muse and his mistress ; but it
is Yeller who earns the
histrionic laurels. A shrewd
pooch, if ever there was one.
The Dutch rural settings are
charmingly photographed.
At Sydney Embassy.
*> ❖ ❖
“Quiet Flows the Don”
( Part 2 )
This, the middle part of the
Russian film-trilogy based on
Sholokov’s novel, has less to
do with the basic human emo-
tions that occupied so much of
the first film (released last year).
True, there are strong passions,
but relationships between the
men and women are always
pushed aside by the urgency of
political matters.
The period covered is from
the onset of the revolution in
1917 through the Kerensky
Administration and up until
the Red Army was beginning to
assert its superiority over the
White Guards. The emphasis
is on the confusion into which
the Cossacks were thrown by
their divergence of loyalties
and their inability to discern
which way the political cat was
going to jump.
The fiercely earthy nature of
these Don Cossacks, their in-
sularity, their intense love of
their flat country along the
banks of the great river, the
grinding poverty which impels
them eagerly to accept revolt
against the Tsarist regime, and
the nationalistic pride which
spurs them on to fight the Reds
whom they suspect would
strip them of autonomy—all
these emerge clearly and force-
fully. But the human passions
come less from love-making
than from bereavement, with
the tides of civil war sweeping
along the river.
The hanging by Cossacks of
a leading Red agitator sparks a
series of skirmishes between
Reds and Whites in which a
member of the novel’s central
family is victim. The harrow-
ing scenes of family grief
which this causes and the
orgiastic feast afterwards are
highlights in a film which
vividly portrays the iron-hard
Russian winter and the
peculiar Russian character.
Everywhere there are swirl-
ing masses of humanity
and a multiplicity of leading
characters—so many, in fact,
that their functions, and the
sides they are on, are some-
times difficult to discern. The
war-scenes seem to reflect a
crudity of command, with a
general air of uncertainty pre-
dominating. But the peasants’
ceaseless struggle to win a
meagre living and the Cos-
sacks’ willingness to fight,
drink, dance or sing at the
drop of an astrakhan hat,
remain the salient features of
a film which is slower-paced
than its predecessor, but
through which the color-
cameras move with artistic
integrity. . The acting is, all
round, easy and natural.
At Sydney Gala.


Of the total new-business
increase £lO million was group-
term business.
This year the A.M.P. has
converted all New Zealand and
United Kingdom pounds to
Australian currency in the
accounts for the first time.
M. C. Buttfield, general
manager of the A.M.P., re-
ports that the young A.M.P.
Fire and General Insurance
companies in Australia and
N.Z. are making steady pro-
gress, have paid off their estab-
lishment costs and have started
to be profitable.
Discount Corporation of
Australia Pty., Ltd., the short-
term money-market dealer in
which the A.M.P. has a two-
thirds interest, is also operating
profitably.
Tying-up Loose Ends
T ondon financier and in-
dustrialist Sir Aynsley
Vernon Bridgland, at present
visiting Australia, is critical of
our businessmen. He said Aus-
tralians leave too many loose
ends in proposals seeking
British capital. And that was
why they found it so difficult
to get British business-houses
to invest here.
Sir Aynsley said the British
investor didn’t mind taking
pot-luck, but only up to a
calculated point.
He said his main mission
here was to teach Australian
businessmen the knack of
tying-up an investment scheme
so that it would appeal more
to the investment-managers of
big institutions in Britain.
Sir Aynsley, who is 66, was
born in Adelaide. He entered
business as a civil engineer.
He left Australia 30 years ago.
He is now chairman of a
group of 35 British companies
covering a wide range of
industries.
Placer and S. & M. Fox
VXfOLLCLiFT Pty., Ltd., which,
through Canadian Ex-
ploration Ltd., Vancouver
(8.C.), is a wholly owned sub-
sidiary of Placer Development,
Ltd., has exercised its option to
buy all the shares in the S. &
M. Fox group of companies
which own and operate col-
lieries, trucking and. engineer-
ing establishments in N.S.W.
The collieries comprise Wol-
londilly and Wollondilly Ex-
tended mines in the Burra-
gorang Valley and the South
Clifton mine on the South
Coast field.
The engineering-works are at
Greenacre, near Chullora,
from which the main trucking-
fleet operates.
New Recordings
A Disk for Playgoers
The catalogue of spoken-
verse recordings grows
steadily and admirably.
Coronet’s Ages of Man
(KLC 2692) is an exciting addi-
tion, for on it Sir John Gielgud
reads from Shakspeare. Not
that this is the first time —far
from it —but it is the first
Gielgud recording which
doesn’t confine him to a single
mood or play ; the first to give
in one place an impression of
the great range of his art.
Ages of Man is a selection
from a one-man show which
Gielgud has lately done with
enormous success in England,
France and the U.S. (but not,
worse luck, here), and which
itself is a selection from George
Rylands’s anthology of Shak-
spearian comment on man’s
youth, maturity and old-age.
Beginning, inevitably, with
“All the world’s a stage,” it
ranges through “Romeo and
Juliet,” the early comedies, the
sonnets and the histories to
“Ctesar,” “Lear” and “The
Tempest.”
Gielgud’s voice has often
been likened to a musical
instrument. Kenneth Tynan
has described it as “a thrilling
instrument that commands the
full tonal range of both viola
and ’cello” —adding, however,
that “brass is absent,” and sug-
gesting that this is why Gielgud
doesn’t give us a Henry V, an
Antony (Cleopatra-type) or a
Macbeth.
He is right, of course, though
he might have conceded Sir
John a muted horn or two and
a whole woodwind section.
But few critics appreciate
Gielgud more than Tynan
does ; perhaps he simply didn't
want to overwork the
metaphor. It can be over-
worked, if it hasn’t been
already. It suggests that
Gielgud has a sublime gift and
little more, and overuse of it
shifts attention from what is
more central and important in
the actor —his great emotional
and intellectual insight ; his
ability to hold together in one
short speech all the skeins of a
character or a situation or both
while weaving a complex
emotion through them.
It also tends to overstress
his limitations. True, it is diffi-
cult to imagine Gielgud as an
adequate Macbeth, Antony,
Henry V or Othello. His tem-
perament and equipment seem
too fixed in complexity to allow
free passage to the elemental
passions required. Nor is it
easy to imagine him as a
complete Lear —although on
the present record he does the
old king’s death in a way to
constrict anyone’s throat. But
wherever Shakspeare calls for
deep reflection, lyricism, wit
or the intricate emotion,
Gielgud is one of the great few
who can follow him on his.
amazing journeys into the
human heart and mind. Con-
sidering what an enormous
area of Shakspeare this covers,
Gielgud’s limitations seem
small indeed.
To listen as he traces out
Richard ll’s shaky defiance of
Bolingbroke, the snap of his
resolution and his terrible in-
turned descent into despair and
abdication is to know the
whole man in a moment of
truth—an experience which
somehow carries over into
the later speech of that same
Bolingbroke when, as a sleep-
less old Henry IV, he nears
death with many forebodings.
In Hotspur’s description of
an encounter with a fop after
a battle and in Clarence’s
description of his nightmare in
the Tower you have, as well as
the character, the dominant
emotion —Hotspur’s exaspera-
tion, Clarence’s intimations of
disaster—suggested in every
finest shade and held in a firm
narrative line.
There are many interesting
differences of detail between
this Clarence piece and the one
on the complete Richard 111
recording—fewer pauses, a
little less shudder in the vowels,
fascinating contrasts in pace.
And the differences between
the Hamlet speeches here and
those on earlier records are
even more pronounced.
Gielgud is obviously one of
those actors who never cease
approaching parts afresh.
It would be pointless to go
on naming the extracts —there
are 16 in all —and struggling to
describe the art that has gone
into them: the pointing and
shaping of individual lines,
words, even single vowels ; all
the products of years of think-
ing and playing through the
roles. Enough to say that no
playgoer in this country—
where it is a long way between
chances to hear Shakspeare
finely spoken on a stage —
could fail to find special
pleasure in this record.
TINPLATE CONTAINERS
[From the report on the Australian packaging industries by the
Industries Division of the Department of Trade.]
/~\ver 90 per cent, of the tin-
plate consumed in Aus-
tralia is used in the production
of containers. These are of
two types:
(a) The open-top can, which
has become the most widely
used container for processed
foodstuffs. It is supplied to the
canner with a loose end with
which the can is sealed after
it has been filled.
( b) The general-line can,
which includes all other types,
such as fancy cans for cos-
metics and confectionery,
those with slip-over covers for
shoe-polish, lever-lid cans for
paint, oil-cans with screw
necks and caps, aerosol cans,
cans with plastic spouts and
caps, and hinged-lid tins for
biscuits and tobacco.
General-line cans differ from
open-top cans in that they are
designed to meet specific pro-
tective, handling and merchan-
dising requirements, and so are
made in a much wider variety
of styles and designs than
open-top cans.
They are used for both
food and other products;
open-top cans are used almost
wholly for processed foods. In
addition, general-line cans do
not usually require a mechani-
cal operation to open them, the
can being constructed so that
the lid can be removed and
replaced and the contents con-
sumed gradually.
Structure of the Industry
There are about 47 plants,
including branch factories, in
Australia which make tinplate
containers. A number of other
companies fabricate articles
other than containers from tin-
plate.
The major can-manufac-
turers produce both open-top
and general-line cans; most
other can-makers concentrate
on general-line cans. The three
largest can-makers, and their
branch factories, are:
Containers, Ltd. Camper-
down, St. Marys, Cabarita and
Bathurst (N.S.W.); Thornbury
and Fitzroy (General-Line


CUSTOM CREDIT
NOTES
Term Kate of Interest
4 years.... 7%
(and over)
3 years.... 6Va%
2 year5....6%
18 months .. 5V*%
12 months .. 5V«%
9 months .. 4 3 A%
6 months .. 4’/4%
3 months .. 3 3 /«%
14 days' call.. 3Vst%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly
instalments, tree of exchange, on
the last days of June, September,
December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Custom Credit Notes has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
The Prospectus and Forms of Application
for Notes are now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
and
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Australia’s Leading Finance Company
(Assets exceed £70,000,000)
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
%V.V.%V.VAV*%
CCN.13.119
Group), Footscray and Kya-
bram (Southern Can Group)
(Vic.); Cheltenham and Berri
(S.A.); and Quoiba (Tas.).
J. Gadsden Pty., Ltd. Five
Dock (Gadsden-Hughes, Ltd.)
(N.S.W.); West Melbourne and
Coburg (Vic.) ; South Brisbane
(Qld.); Albert Park (S.A.) ;
Fremantle (W.A.); Hobart
(Tas.).
Queensland Can Co., Ltd.
West End, Moorooka and
Townsville (Northern Manufac-
turers Pty., Ltd.).
J. Gadsden Pty., Ltd., and
Containers, Ltd., both have
affiliations with overseas com-
panics. The former is associ-
ated with American Can Com-
pany, U.S.A., and Containers,
Ltd., with Continental Can
Company, Inc., U.S.A., and
Metal Box Co., Ltd., U.K.
In addition to general-line
and open-top cans produced in
each of the States in which it
has plants, Containers, Ltd;,
manufactures aerosol cans at
Camperdown (N.S.W.); im-
pact-extrusion and deep-
drawing as well as aerosol-
valve manufacture are carried
out at Thornbury (Vic.); and
at Quoiba (Tas.), the compapy
has equipment to produce an
inner aluminium seal for food-
cans. E. J. Adkins and Co.,
at Welshpool (W.A.), is a
closely allied company.
J. Gadsden Pty., Ltd., pro-
duces open-top cans and a
range of general-line cans at
its plants in every State of Aus-
tralia. It also manufactures
beer-cans and crown-seals at its
Melbourne (Vic.) factories.
[Gadsden’s also make plastic
bags and multi-wall paper
sacks, as well as Rothmans
cigarette-packets.]
The scattered nature of the
activities of Containers, Ltd.,
and of J. Gadsden Pty., Ltd.,
and, to a smaller extent, of
Queensland Can Co., Ltd.,
arises in some degree from
the difficulty of storing and
transporting their products.
Many of these companies’
plants are located at food-
processing centres, so that open-
top and other cans are immedi-
ately available to canners. For
example, the Southern Can
Group of Containers, Ltd.,
manufactures open-top cans at
Kyabram to service the Goul-
burn Valley fruit-producing
area ; both Containers, Ltd.,
and J. Gadsden Pty., Ltd.,
operate plants at Berri to
supply the Riverland area in
South Australia.
On the other hand, James
Robertson Pty., Ltd. [now in
the J. Gadsden group], at
Annandale (N.S.W.), has pre-
ferred to confine its output to
a single plant and to truck its
production inter-State by road.
Specialisation at the one plant
has the advantage of fuller use
of excess capacity which is
available from time to time,
longer production-runs and the
avoidance of duplicating more
expensive equipment, such as
can-printing machinery.
Other companies operate
single plants which produce a
variety of cans to order.
Some food-processors, such
as H. J. Heinz Co. Pty., Ltd.,
at Dandenong (Vic.) and the
Shepparton Preserving Co.,
Ltd., have plants to make
open-top cans for use in their
own factories. Nevertheless,
food-processors generally tend
to ally themselves with one or
other of the large can-makers,
as they have found that can-
making is a highly specialised-
field of manufacture.
The larger companies manu-
facture their own screw-caps
and lids for general-line cans,
and have their own metal-
printing facilities. Smaller
companies tend to sub-contract.
Raw Materials
Until local manufacture
commenced in 1957, Australia
relied entirely on overseas
sources for supplies of tinplate.
Following the start of tinplate
production in Australia, im-
ports fell from 140,000 tons in
1956- to 89,000 tons in
1957- In recent years Aus-
tralian consumption of tinplate
for cans and containers has
grown from about 117,000 tons
in 1955 to almost 133,000 tons
in 1958.
Tinplate was first produced
by B.H.P. in conjunction with
Lysaght’s Works Pty., Ltd.
[now John Lysaght (Australia)
Pty., Ltd.], at both companies’
Port Kembla works. Produc-
tion of hot-dip tinplate com-
menced in August, 1957, and
reached its full-capacity output
of 75,000 tons a year in June,
1958. The plant is being ex-
panded to produce an addi-
tional 35,000 tons a year and
so meet the full Australian
requirements of hot-dip tin-
plate ; the four new tinning
lines to be installed will be
producing by the first quarter
of 1960 ; the first began opera-
tions in March, 1959. Aus-
tralian hot-dip tinplate has met
with wide acceptance among
local container-manufacturers
and canners because of its high
quality and lower price com-
pared with imported plate.
The Broken Hill Pty. Co.
proposes ultimately to erect an
electrolytic tinning-plant at
Port Kembla. At present, how-
ever, hot-dip tinplate is much
more widely used in Australia
than in the U.S.A. Here it now
constitutes about 76 per cent,
of total consumption, whereas
in the U.S.A. about 90 per cent,
of the tinplate produced is of
the electrolytic type. Electro-
lytic tinplate is cheaper to pro-
duce, the process giving higher,
production rates and closer
control of coating weights. It
is quite satisfactory for many
products such as detergents.
On the other hand, if the
electrolytic tinplate is to give
the same shelf-life for food
containers as hot-dip tinplate,
internal lacquering is neces-
sary. The general use of elec-
trolytic tinplate in Australia
may depend largely on its cost,
including the additional ex-
pense of lacquering, compared
with the cost of hot-dipped tin-
plate. A further consideration
is the need to improve tech-
niques in handling the electro-
lytic tinplate.
The Market for Cans
Markets for open-top and
general-line cans have ex-
panded greatly since the war.
On a per caput basis, however,
tinplate consumption in Aus-
tralia was only 31.11 b. a head
of population in 1957, com-
pared with 71.81 b. a head in the
U.S.A. Of course, not all of
the tinplate would be used in
the production of cans. Even
so, the disparity is more
marked than the figures would
indicate, as about 50 per cent,
of foodstuffs canned in Aus-
tralia is exported.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3144
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
John Mcllwraith Industries, Ltd.
The acquisition of J. Wadham and Sons
Pty., Adelaide brassfounders (for
160,000 10s. ords. and £lO,OOO cash), in
September, 1959, and of Hobart Plumb-
ing Supplies Pty. (for 45,000 10s. ords. at
355. premium a share) at the end of
last year, brought the number of John
Mcllwraith Industries’ subsidiaries to 15.
The business itself was founded more
than a hundred years ago, converting to
a public co. in March, 1951. Dividends
were maintained at the unfailing rate of
\l\ p.c. up to 1957, when 13-f- p.c. was
paid to shareholders. The div.-rate was
again raised to 15 p.c. in 1958 and
remained steady last term.
The John Mcllwraith Industries group
is one of the largest manufacturers of
builders’ and plumbers’ supplies in Aus-
tralia. Its products include sheet-lead
and lead pipes for acid plants, plumbers’
brassware, baths, sinks, basins, hospital
equipment, electric stoves and stovettes,
stainless-steel sinks and washing-machines.
The co.’s leadworks and brass-foundry
are located at Richmond (Vic.). Other
manufacturing-unjts are at Coburg,
Dandenong and Geelong in Victoria, and
in Sydney and Brisbane. Merchandising
branches operate in all the States.
A new factory is being built at Coburg,
where the co. intends to consolidate* its
Victorian manufacturing activities, includ-
ing steel and hardware.
When this stage is completed the group
will erect new premises to house the
brass-manufacturing section, at present
operating at Richmond. This will permit
expansion at present impossible on the
crowded Richmond site. Investment in
plant during the last year increased by
£49,832, mainly due to the purchase of
special-purpose machines necessary for
the improvement of the co.’s competitive
abjlity. In addition, a site of 23 acres
was bought in Sydney for future expan-
sion.
The year under review was marked by
intense competition, which continues to
prevail in the current term. But the
chairman, as usual, strikes a note of
quiet optimism, stating that the group
“has demonstrated in the last few years
that it can meet difficult conditions
successfully,” and that it “can look
forward to another solid year of con-
solidation.”
For twelve months ended June 30,
1959, sales were higher than in the pre-
ceding term, and consolidated gross
trading - profit increased by £52,182 to
£853,975.
Consolidated net profit was £30,223
higher at £485,256, an increase of 7 p.c.
over the previous year’s earnings. This
was after providing £77,306 (up £7998)
for depreciation and setting aside
£282,262 (up £12,370) for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends ~ serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1954. .304,237 12J p.c. = 168,630 135,607 476,682
Goodwill written-off, £6OOO . . . . 470,682
Unexplained addition, £l2 .. .. 470,694
1955. 124 p.c. = 168,630 222,224 692,918
1956. .366,793 124 „ ~168,630 198,163 891,981
1957. 13§ „ ~185,493 185,853 1,076,934
Share premiums, £260,623 . . . . 1,337,557
Goodwill written-off, £225,000 .. 1,112,557
1958. .455,033 15 p.c. = 223,240 231,793 1,344,350
Assets revaluation, £153,834 . . 1,498,184
1959. .485,256 15 p.c. = 227,586 257,670 1,755,854
* Subject to intangibles, £413,414 at 30/6/’59.
The earning-rate on average ord. capital
went up from 30.6 p.c. to 31.9 p.c. (27.5
p.c. and 27.2 p.c. in 1957 and 1956). The
steady 15 p.c. dividend (absorbing
£227,586) was covered more than twice.
Reserves received £257,670, and also
benefited by £153,834 assets-revaluation,
following the write-up of the book-value
of Sydney freeholds during last term.
Total reserves (including £153,834 assets-
revaluation and £260,623 share-premiums)
were disclosed at £1,755,854, subject to
£413,414 intangibles.
It appears that the directors have been
able to strike a happy. balance between
generous div.-cheques and financing
expansion through retention of earnings.
Balance-sheet figures disclosed an ample
theoretical working-capital (£1,122,789)
with current ratio of almost 1.7 to 1:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital ..£ 1,349,043 £1,517,240 £1,517,240
Reserves . . . . 1,076,933 1,344,349 1,755,854
Outside interests. . 2 / 2 2
Overdraft . . .. 75,125 257,543 328,692
Loans . . . . 419,277 460,881 439,690
Creditors . . .. 316,029 351,494 412,881
Tax provision . . 273,971 321,268 314,071
Final div. . . 101,178 113,793 113,793
£3,611,558 £4,366,570 £ 4,882,223
Land, buildings .. 693,176 808,447 1,109,959
Plant, etc. .. 418,772 560,899 609,372
Investments .. 17,562 17,562 17,562
Stock .. .. 1,255,300 1,645,204 1,757,305
Debtors, etc. .. 729,078 920,354 973,693
Cash .. .. .628 690 918
Intangibles .. 497,042 413,414 413,414
£3,611,558 £4,366,570 £4,882,223
John Mcllwraith has grown consider-
ably over the past 10 years. Expansion
is spread-out over the group’s interests
in all States, with particular emphasis
on the stainless-steel side of the business
in recent years. In the past decade of
growth, paid capital increased by only
about ij times.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at 18s. lOd. a 10s. unit on the consoli-
dated accounts.
The sharemarket seems to share the
directors" confidence in this energetic and
growing enterprise, valuing the 10s. ords.
at 455. to yield 3.3 p.c.
Takeover of J. Wadham and Sons Pty.
and the recent acquisition of Hobart
Plumbing Supplies Pty. have lifted paid
capital to £1,619,740 in 10s. f.-p. ords.
Hilton Hosiery, Ltd.
nrip-TOEiNG onto the hosiery market in
A 1936, Hilton Hosiery Co. Pty., genesis
of nowadays-known Hilton Corporation,
Ltd., quickly sought-out and found the
ladder to success. At first the co. con-
fined itself to manufacture of unbranded
lines, but, with the passing of 22 years,
the long-legged luxury of Hilton’s hosiery
has become a symbol of glamor and
quality not only in women’s eyes but in
those of men, too, throughout Australia.
In 1939 radical changes took place in
policy. Hilton stepped-out in its first
branded stocking. A nation-wide selling-
organisation was established, and, though
supply trailed demand over the war years,
foundations were laid for subsequent
expansion.
With the end of hostilities, Hilton
shot forward, shedding benefits all round
to customers and shareholders alike. Ex-
pansion was rapid. In 1947 Hilton
Knitting Mills Pty. and Mignon Hosiery
Pty. merged, and Hilton Hosiery, Ltd.,
came into being. The ensuing years saw
the acquisition of Little Lady Lingerie
Pty., Charmaine Hosiery Mills Pty. and
Yoffa Hosiery and Knitting Mills Pty.
Last term the group surprised by taking
over P. C. Miller Forgings Pty., an
unprecedented move which added
diversity and stature to an already com-
plex and virile enterprise.
Thus Hilton presents itself as one of
the largest hosiery- and lingerie-manu-
facturing businesses in Australia. The
main factory strength is centred around
Melbourne. Products and activities in-
clude women’s hosiery and ankle socks,
lingerie, children’s socks, yarn-processing
and, lastly, steel-forging.
The hosiery industry is highly sus-
ceptible to the vagaries of consumer
demand, which has in recent years been
declining there has been a general
reduction of consumer-expenditure on
clothing. In women’s hosiery the
reduction has been complicated by a


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
'v
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 I*itt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
strong trend in demand from full-
fashioned to seamless hosiery.
Reflecting these tendencies, Hilton’s
profit slithered last term from £270,087
to £203,125 (down £66,962) after setting
aside £124,669 (down £30,866) for tax
and £180,556 (up £20,439) for deprecia-
tion. Actually, group sales, excluding
the forging division, showed a 7 p.c.
increase, but profit-margins were reduced,
due to greater costs in a highly competi-
tive market.
In the hosiery division the
fashioned section experienced rising costs
and falling selling-prices. However, rival
cos. disposing of unbranded lines at prices
below cost constituted the main menace,
and yet Hilton managed to maintain
more than its share of the higher-quality
stocking market. Installation of seamless-
hosiery machines is progressing satisfac-
torily, and factors which have been
adversely affecting profit-margins in this
section are now showing a downward
trend as output increases.
Competition in the lingerie division
was more intense, but management antici-
pates better sales in the current year.
Additional garments have been intro-
duced and promise brighter prospects.
New plant was installed in the yarn-
processing division. Development and
production of new yarns in the textured
nylon and terylene fields brought good
results.
The forging division, whilst not con-
tributing materially to last year’s result,
is presently getting under way, and in
the first two months of the current term
production was up 30 p.c. on that of the
two preceding months:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, —Dividends— N To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
30, £ £ £ £ &
6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956 .. 251,108 6000 90,958 154,150 872,120
To staff fund, £7500 .. .. 864,620
Increased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £53,590 918,210
6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1957 . . 259,266 6000 113,382 139,884 1,058,094
Loss sale fixed assets, £15,000 1,043,094
To staff fund, £7500 .. .. 1,035,594
1958 . . 270,087 6000 113,382 150,705 1,186,299
Tax overprovided, £15,044 .. .. 1,201,343
Increased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £56,993 1,258,336
Goodwill written-off, £12,130 . . 1,246,206
1959 . . 203,125 6000 134,818 62,307 1,308,513
After pref. entitlements —there are
100,000 6 p.c. cumulative £1 pref. shares
—profit worked-out at 29.2 p.c. on Ord.
capital, as against 46.6, 44.6, 53.9 and
56.2 p.c. back to 1955. Ord. shareholders
collected the usual 20 p.c. div. Reserves
rose £122,214 to £1,308,513, including
£62,307 undistributed profits, £15,044 tax
previously overprovided, £56,993 repre-
senting the increased difference between
par value of and cost of shares in sub-
sidiaries, and £12,130 goodwill written-
off.
Since Hilton appeared on the public
lists, equity shareholders have collected
two handy - sized bonus - issues, 33-for-
100 in 1950 and two-for-three in 1952.
More recently Hilton undertook an issue
of convertible notes, one note at par for
every 12 ss. ords. held. The notes, of
face-value 205., have a currency of seven
years, with conversion on the basis of
eight ords. for every three notes held
after six years have elapsed.
Fixed-asset investment is up and so,
too, is working-capital:
Consolidated Balance-shhet.
Capital—- 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 566,907 566,907 674,095
Reserves . . . . 1,058,094 1,186,2.99 1,308,513
Outside interests.. 25,875 25,875
Fixed deposits .. 297,450
Overdraft.. .7. 322,126 448,208 .335,307
Creditors .. .. 158,243 137,395 170,235
Staff fund* .. 90,500 102,803 107,560
Tax provision .. 183,084 168,737 124,669
Final divs. .. 59,691 59,691 70,409
£2,565,120 £2,795,915 £3,188,238
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . . . 650,933 591,550 712,882
Plant, etc. .. 706,859 751,488 871,355
Stocks .. .. 835,851 956,622 977,108
Debtors .. .. 349,347 484,125 626,895
Investments .. 10,000
Goodwill . . .. 12,130 12,130
£2,565,120 £2,795,915 £3,188,238
* Includes long-service provision.
Last traded on the Melbourne ’Change
at 15s. 6d., the ss. ords. have an effective
yield of 6.4 p.c. and can be considered
a not unreasonable buy when viewed
against Hilton’s record. Net tangible
backing for the ords. is 14s. 9d. and for
the prefs. £2O 16s. 6d.
Wilcox Mofflin, Ltd.
of the biggest exporters of sheep-
skins in Australia. Wilcox Mofflin
owns fellmongering and wool-scouring
plants in N.S.W. and W.A., and a large
tannery near Sydney.
The co. is also engaged in the culti-
vation and distribution of farm-produce
and seeds, and the manufacture of
veterinary products. The main sub-
sidiary, Govan Industries Ply., produces
agricultural machinery and implements.
Wool and sheepskin markets declined
steadily for the first six months of last
term. Overseas clients were reluctant
to place orders for shipment. Trading
by the co.’s local industries was
adversely affected by the impact of lower
wool prices.
The wool-scouring plant at Sydney
showed a loss due to fall in demand,
but the operations of Fremantle (W.A.)
fellmongeries proved profitable. Tannery-
production was considerably expanded
to cope with large export-orders, result-
ing in “a very satisfactory increase in
profits.”
Wilcox Mofflin does not disclose its
consolidated accounts, and its figures
refer to the parent co. alone.
Of the co.’s subsidiaries, Govan Indus-
tries Pty., engineers and manufacturers,
earned a profit during the year under
review. Pesticides, Ltd. (Adelaide), for-
mulators and distributors of pesticides
and agricultural chemicals, incurred a
loss, caused by the serious drought con-
ditions prevailing in S. Australia.
On the whole the co.’s 42nd year of
trading was marked by an impressive
recovery. Previous term’s £30,314 loss,
brought about by adverse seasons, was
wiped out. The year ended June 30,
1959, resulted in a profit of £61,096:
To He- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 71,091 10 p.e. = 55,000 16,091 219.449
1952.: 40,123 5 „ „ 27.500 12,623 232,072
1953.. 59,255 8 „ „ 44,000 15,255 247,327
1954.. 60,536 8 „ ~ 44,000 16,536 203,863
1955.. 64,315 8 „ „ 44,000 20,315 284,178
1956.. 68,074 8 „ 44,000 24,074 308,252
1957.. 63,418 8 „ „ 44,000 19,418 327,670
Loss.
1958.. 30,314 - Nil 297,356
Profit.
1959.. 61,096 8 „ „ 44,000 17,096 314,452
The result was arrived at after pro-
viding £49,516 for depreciation (up
£11,802) and setting aside an undisclosed
amount for taxation.
The earning-rate on average ord.
capital was 11.1 p.c. (loss in the previous
term, 11.5 p.c. in 1957 and 12.4 p.c. in
1956).
Shareholders received an 8 p.c. div.-
distribution, absorbing £44,000. Reserves
benefited by the remaining £17,096, and
were shown at £314,452. There are no
intangibles.
The co.’s accounting policy is to
regard goods sold to overseas buyers as
current stock until shipped and paid-
for, against letters-of-credit. Because of
this* overdraft and stocks bulk large in
the balance-sheet, dominating all the
other items.
The higher volume of business was
reflected in the £110,734 rise in bank
accommodation (to £1,128,990). Stock
went up by £387,581, but debtors were
£117,756 down at £1,397,389:
1957.* 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £550,000 £SSQJ)OO £5,50,000
Reserves .. .. 327,670 297,356 314,452
Mortgage .. .. 65,061 61,003
Overdraft .. 1,112,050 1,018,256 1,128,990
Creditors, etc. .. 458,667 284,333 351,137
Suspense a/c . . 4,102
Advances by sub-
sidiary . . 1.051 284
Final dividend .. 22,000 44,000
£2,474,489 £2,216,057 £2,449,866
Freehold, etc. . . 412,429 430,469 429,940
Plant . . . . 327,060 321,009 296,899
Shares subsidiary 18,699 13,871 20,801
Shares other cos. 19,749 19,896 1,128
Stock. etc. . . 1,384,256 1,009,808 1,397,389
Debtors . . . . 309,506 418,469 300,713
Cash .. .. 2,790 2,535 2,996
£2,474,489 £2,216,05'7 £2,449,866
There was little variation in other
items. Theoretical working-capital was
satisfactory at £176,687, excluding the
£61,003 loan on mortgage from current
liabilities. Net tangible asset-backing
worked out at 7s. lOd. for each ss. ord.
unit.
Freehold, plant, etc., are shown at
conservative book-values.
At thp last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched ss. Id. each, to yield 7.9 p.c.
on the basis of an 8 p.c. div.-rate.


NAME
SSWS
in
life
ASSURANCE
bid established, sound and progressive, the
“Metropolitan Life” is a completely Australian financial
institution, providing a variety of attractive policies to
suit every purse and purpose.
You will find the “Metropolitan” representa-
tive to be a friendly and courteous advisor.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld. 1595)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter ond Bligh Sts., Sydney
(INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 1934 52)
in which 40 % of the capital is owned by
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
4 'O per annum
YEARS
TT
O per annum
and
YEARS
Applications will be accepted for investment of £5O or any multiple thereof
in any or all of the currencies. Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
reserves the right to repay earlier. For conditions of repayment, including
premiums, see the prospectus.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form attached to the prospec-
tus. Copies of the full prospectus obtainable
from:—
OFFICES OF THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
OFFICES OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
UNDERWRITTEN BY THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION PTY. LTD.
Hardie Trading, Ltd.
Long established in Australia
and New Zealand as a
manufacturer and merchant,
the group operates through six
subsidiary and two associated
cos.:
Spartan Paints Pty., maker of
paints, enamels, varnishes, ete.
Operates factories in all States ex-
cept Tasmania.
Li. Horseroft Pty., largest pro-
ducer of dry-tleaning and indus-
trial-laundry machinery in Aus-
tralia.
James Hardie Trading Co. Pty.,
manufacturer of car-polishes, rub-
bing compounds and adhesives.
Also carries on a merchandising
business similar to that of the
parent eo.
Proud Bros. Pty., manufacturer
of foundry-facings.
Australian Bobbins Pty. (half-
interest), largest Australian manu-
facturer of wooden bobbins for the
textile trades.
Peco-Hardie Pty. (minority in-
terest), formed in association with
Projectile and Engineering Co. Etd.
(U.K.), to produce injection-mould-
ing machines previously imported
by Hardie Trading.
In N.Z. there is Hardie
Trading Co. (N.Z.), Ltd., act-
ing as a selling-agent for the
group’s manufacturing interests.
It is also a vigorous distributor
of industrial raw-materials and
machinery.
The group’s latest acquisition
is Colours and Chemicals Pty.,
taken over last July for 9522
20s. ords.
Hardie Trading group
handles merchandise such as
paints, industrial chemicals,
allied raw-materials, dyestuffs,
textile-mill supplies, tanners’
machinery and supplies, plas-
tics and foundry facings.
In 1958 the share-premium
reserve, out of which share-
holders had collected four suc-
cessive annual 1-for-lO bonus
handouts, was exhausted. How-
ever, holders of Hardie’s scrip
can’t complain.
Earnings have risen steadily
since 1953. Last year’s turnover
was said to be 1 p.c. lower
than in the previous period,
mainly because of reduced im-
ports of certain bulk materials
yielding a comparatively low
return. However, the group's
own manufacturing activities
proved more profitable, and
this resulted in an improve-
ment in the overall business
position.
Operating consolidated net
profit before tax for the year
ended June 30, 1959, was
£42,664 higher at £517,369.
Income from investments was
slightly lower at £7041. After
paying directors’ and auditors’
fees, transferring £23,939 (up
£1198) to staff fund, setting
aside £74,082 (down £1342)
for depreciation, providing
£196,599 (up £29,402) for taxa-
tion and allowing £2500 for
minority shareholders, con-
solidated net profit increased
by £11,360 to £223,758:
Hardie Trading Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
■t — : Dividends- , Re-
Jne. Profit.* Prer.^— —Ord. N serves.t
5 p.c.
SO. £ £ p.c. £ £
’54..150,640 7503 124= 57,999 784,116
Res. capitalised, £46,400.. 737,716
Profit sale assets, £4556 . . 742,272
From tax-provision, £8425 750,697
Unexplained addition, £ll4 750,811
’55..175,525 7503 124= 63,799 855,034
Res. capitalised, £51,040.. 803,994
Profit sale assets, £7559 811,553
From tax-provision, £1732 813,285
Unexplained addition, £ll3 813,398
’56..172,992 7503 124= 70,180 908,707
Res. capitalised, £56,143.. 852,564
Tax overprov’d, etc. £8055 860,620
Profit sale assets, £4166 .. 864,786
’57..197,032 7503 124= 77,197 977,118
Res. capitalised, £61,758 915,360
Profit sale assets, £3296 .. 918,656
Tax overprovided, £13,772 932,428
’58..212,398 7503 12|= 84,917 1,052,406
Profit sale assets, £4563 .. 1,057,059
Tax overprovided, £7652.. 1,064,711
’59..223,758 7503 15 =101,900 1,179,066
* After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and contributions to staff fund,
t Subject to intangibles, £181,514 at
3 0/6/’59.
After satisfying the unchanged
pref.-div. requirements the
showing on average ord. capi-
tal was £216,255, equal to
31.8 p.c. (31.3 p.c., 33 p.c. and
29.4 p.c. looking over the three
years back to 1956).
The well-covered dividend


Closes
Saturday!
THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
s</4% LOAN
Government-Guaranteed
For 6, 10 or 20 years
Principal and interest are unconditionally guaranteed by the
N.S.W. Government, and the Loan is an Authorised Trustee
investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
NEW CASH: Subscriptions are invited for 6. 10 or 20 years.
CONVERSION: Holders of securities in Loans No. 52
(matured 1,/l/’6O) and No. 86 (maturing l/2/'6O), who
convert to the new Loan, secure higher interest without any
interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT TODAY
At any office of the—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
• Or through a Stockbroker;
• Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lAN POTTER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. G. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
291 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312161 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
was raised from to 15
p.c., absorbing £101,900. Re-
serves benefited by £114,355
(more than half of the net
earnings), and also by £4563
profit on the sale of fixed assets
and £7652 tax overprovided in
the previous term.
This brought disclosed re-
serves to £1,179,066, subject to
£181.514 intangibles (un-
changed) at balance-date:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref. £150,060 £150,060
Ord. . . 679,331 679,331
Reserves . . 1,052,406 1,179,066
Outside share-
holders ... 51,250 51,250
Mortgage .. 13,782 13,782
Overdraft . . 252,351 63,320
Deposits . . 95.509 95,574
Sundry creditors 788,524 877,852
Tax provision,
etc 167,317 196,719
Pinal dividend.. 88,669 105,652
£3,339,202 £3,112,009
Freeholds .. 623,569 689,699
Leaseholds . . 249 249
Plant, etc. . . 238,374 239,31 1
Shares other cos. 22,700 22,700
Stock . . . . 1,359,468 1,382,965
Debtors . . 905,711 893,687
Cash, etc. . . 7,617 2,484
Intangibles .. 181,514 181,514
£3,339,202 £3,412,609
The balance-sheet indicated a
shift to higher liquidity, with
overdraft decreasing by
£189,031 to £63,320. Sundry
creditors increased by £89,328.
Debtors were down by £12,024
to £893,687, but stocks were
up £23,497 at £1,382,965,
reflecting the small reduction
in sales. Current ratio worked
out at 1.8 to 1. Theoreti-
cal working- capital was
£940,019, excluding £22,700
investments in other cos.
During the year the Mel-
bourne warehouse was trans-
ferred to a new building in
Kensington (Vic.). Book-value
of freeholds went up by
£66,130 to £689,699. Total
visible expenditure on capital-
assets amounted to £141,149.
Calculated on consolidated
accounts, the net tangible
asset-backing was £l2 3s. 6d.
for each of the 20s. 5 p.c. cum.
prefs., and £2 9s. 4d. for the
20s. ords.
After the close of accounts
Hardie Trading announced a
scheme to convert its prefs. to
ords. Pref. shareholders are
getting two 20s. f.-p. ords. for
every five prefs. held. In
effect this means eight new
ss. ords. for five 20s. prefs.,
because the co. has already
subdivided its stock into ss.
units.
Hardie Trading looks confi-
dently into the future, making
full use of technological
advances and putting new pro-
ducts on the competitive
market. The co. recently
released Spartan King plastic
for use on masonry, brick,
asbestos-cement and plaster.
The selling-campaign for this
new paint is currently under
way.
There are indications that
Hardie Trading is scanning the
horizon for suitable takeovers
through share - exchange.
Nominal capital was doubled
to £2,000,000 to provide the
necessary reserve of unissued
stock for this purpose.
At the last sale in Melbourne
the ss. ords. fetched 18s. 5d.,
making the yield 4.1 p.c. on the
basis of the 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Golden Plateau, N.L.
ID ate of development at the
Golden Plateau, N.L., gold-
mine, Cracow (Q.), was
stepped-up last year. But profits
fell. Exploration so far has
failed to uncover grades (or,
for that matter, quantities) of
ore ranking with discoveries of
earlier years. Profits, which
have declined since 1957, will
continue to fall unless higher-
grade ore is revealed.
At June 30. 1959, estimated
ore reserves were 67,500 tons
(75,500 tons at June 30, 1958),
and average value was
7.69dwts. gold (against
9.21dwt.). Last term 35,506
tons of ore (32,500 tons) was
treated for a recovery of 15,278
(16,727) fine ounces of gold,
plus 15,336 (12,611) ounces of
silver, and mining revenue
slipped £21,555 to £244,188.
Costs per ton of ore milled rose
from 935. Id. to 101 s. 2d.,
leaving net profit from mining
£30,043 lower at £70,236.
Income from investments,
£3590 (£3814), took overall net
profit to £73,826 (down
£30,267).
Profits for the year weren’t
enough to cover the usual div.,
but accumulated reserves
bridged the gap, and share-
holders were handed 2s. per
share. Capital stands at
£114,083, and is in 212,000
f.-p. 3s. 4d. shares and 630,000
contribs. paid to 2s. 6d. In
all, divs._ took £84,200.
Sellers last asked 12s. 6d.
for the f.-p. scrip. The shares
were quoted as high as 235. 3d.
in 1957.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Thk boom on the Stock Ex-
change roars upward un-
accountably. There was none
of the customary slackness be-
fore Christmas, and, during
January, when the half-yearly
tax-demands normally cause
the market to slacken, industrial
share prices have persistently
risen.
People are naturally asking
when the bull market will end.
It is now nearly two years old.
Since February, 1958, the
“Financial Times” index
(ordinary shares) has risen from
154 to 339. And, since the com-
ponents are not all “growth”
stocks, the appreciation for a
well-chosen portfolio may well
be considerably more than this
120 per cent.
It was easy to make money
in 1959. Will it be just as easy
to lose it in 1960? Investment-
advisers are cautious. They
note warnings given by the
Chancellor and the governor
of the Bank of England. They
point out a deterioration in the
balance -of - payments and
foreign - exchange reserve
figures but do not consider the
check to be other than
temporary.
Government policy, too, is
likely to be corrective Higher
interest-rates are favored and
a rise in bank-rate is probable.
It is thought that, for political
and social reasons, the Prime
Minister and the Chancellor are
very disturbed at the enormous
capital-gains that have been,
and are being, made. On these
grounds alone, the April
Budget (which will soon be
taking its first shape) may well
include some discouraging pro-
vision.
Against this, the heads of
industry are full of confidence
in their New Year forecasts,
there is still a good deal of
slack in the economy not yet
taken up, and the Government,
it is understood, considers that
the nation's prosperity is real
enough for a substantial pro-
gramme of capital-expenditure
on roads, schools, hospitals
and houses to be initiated.
So the investment-adviser is
caught between two groups of
opposing forces, of which the
more encouraging is the
stronger. The criterion seems
to be the habitual tendency of
market-opinion to over-com-
pensate. Share-values are not
only discounting higher profits
and dividends in 1960 but also
in 1961 and 1962 ; and, while
the yield on War Loan is 54
per cent., on the ordinary-share
index it is 3| per cent. More-
over, while U.K. shares were
undervalued by comparison
with American and Con-
tinental stocks, recent heavy
buying from those sources has
probably cancelled-out that
advantage.
The Small Investor:
A Profile
The Acton Society Trust,
with the co-operation of stock-
brokers and unit-trusts, has
conducted an investigation into
the small investor. Of 13,200
questionnaires sent out, 2760
were returned and, since 1160
did not meet the criteria, only
the remaining 1600 could be
analysed.
Although this “sample” is
rather on the small side, the
pamphlet reveals some interest-
ing facts and attitudes.
The typical small investor is
more likely to be a man than
a woman. He is probably on
the fringe of the working/
middle-class and left school at
16. He has done well since
the war and his wage (£l7) is
above the national average.
Before investing in unit-trusts
or stocks and shares he has
opened a bank-account, taken
out life-assurance and indulged
in conventional forms of saving.
He is a householder and is
unlikely to have taken pro-
fessional advice about his first
investment, although he may
have discussed the subject with
friends or have studied the
financial press.
His first investment was
£75, to which he has added
further sums amounting, in
total, to about £lOOO, and he
plans to invest £lOO every year.
The greatest obstacle, appar-
ently, is neither the lack of
money nor a prejudice against
share-ownership but a feeling
that he is wading socially out
of his depth. (“Brokers should
be more accessible. The first
time my knees were knocking.*’
—Chargehand, aged 40.)
Several people felt this em-
barrassment at dealing with
stockbrokers (some, too, with
bank-managers) and considered
there should be facilities for
buying shares over the
counter “with the minimum
fuss” at special security-offices
with qualified managers.
There seems to be a case
not only for a “retail” exten-
sion of stockbroking, but also
for stockbrokers being allowed
to advertise, as they do in the
United States, where, it is
learned, a sample inquiry
showed that 65 per cent, of new
investors were influenced to-
wards investment by reading
stockbrokers’ advertisements.
But it is clear that the per-
son of modest means is just as
hesitant about approaching
Throgmorton Street as he is
about walking into a Bond
Street jeweller’s to buy a watch.
He is embarrassed when not
dealing with his “own kind,”
and evidently feels socially ill-
at-ease with a stockbroker. If,
in fact, he is to be won over
as a client (and some unit-
trusts are spending a lot of
money and effort to this end)
the silk-hat will have to give
place to the trilby, and stock-
brokers —or, in due time, their
agents —will have to change
their approach.
Outstanding “Rosmersholm*
Away from the Old Vic
and Stratford -on - Avon,
modern theatre-audiences show
little interest in the classics.
Else how could managements
overlook the Chekhov cen-
tenary this month? (The Vic
is to honor James Barrie, born
a few months later, by reviving
“What Every Woman Wants,”
but nothing is heard of a
tribute to Chekhov.)
Yet the English Stage Com-
pany, whose policy is rather
to foster a new tradition than
to preserve an old one, is
responsible for a revival of
Ibsen’s “Rosmersholm” which,
after packing the Royal Court
Theatre, has now reached the
Comedy This production is
of such quality that-the rest of
our theatrical fare by com-
parison varies from the
mediocre to the shoddy.
The interpretation, both by
the producer (George Devine)
and leading player (Peggy Ash-
croft) is remote from that which
the author might have intended.
Viewed historically, the pro-
duction is inconsistent, even
wrong. And Dame Peggy’s
Rebecca West is no “new
woman,” remorselessly search-
ing for power through eman-
cipation. She is determined, in-
hibited, patient and frustrated
but noble in spirit and essen-
tially womanly at heart. This
runs counter to the plot, especi-
ally in the behind-the-scenes
nefariousness —one cannot be-
lieve that a woman so intelli-
gently reasonable could poison
Beata Rosmer’s mind into
suicide ; nor, indeed, in the
final expiation of guilt by
dragging Rosmer with her on
to the same mill-race.
Yet it is well that a histori-
cally-correct production has
been avoided. The issues of
Norway in 1885, seen through
Ibsen’s turbulent social and
political conscience, seem to-
day not only quaintly old-
fashioned but also ridiculously
below the level of the high
tragedy he brings to them. This
gifted company of six play-
down the theatricality (symbolic
weirdness, passion-tearing and
so on) and make an intellec-
tual exercise of what is left.
The result is superb and, like
a performance of a great work
of music, impossible to appre-
ciate on one hearing alone.
Probably Rebecca West is as
difficult a part to act as Lear,
but Peggy Ashcroft achieves a
unified and very real person. It
is an “inner” interpretation,
entirely from the mind and as
distinct from her Hedda Gabler
as Desdemona is from Ophelia.
John Rosmer is a better-defined
character whom Eric Porter
plays quietly and with superb
effect. Mark Dignam, as the
busybody and dramatist’s aid,
Kroll, maintains a spiky insist-
ence which never verges into
caricature ; Alan Dobie does,
with permissible grotesqueness,
as the fallen tutor, Brendel;
and John Blatchley makes a
decorative appearance as the
hard-bitten editor, Mortensgard.


SHOCK TREATMENT
By R. WAYLING
IT is said that many a loud
and dominant voice hides
a timid heart and it could
be said that Captain Salter,
master and owner of the three-
masted topsail-schooner Susie
Tucker, had the loudest and
the most dominant voice on
the New Zealand coast.
But who could tell about his
heart? It was encased in a
massive frame with a bull neck
and long, hairy, ape-like arms,
and his ferocious countenance
and bull-roaring voice was cal-
culated to put the Indian sign
on anyone who disagreed with
his command, thereby eliminat-
ing immediately any necessity
to resort to physical violence.
Stories around the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand coasts
were countless as to his prowess
at knocking his crews into sub-
mission, but this was purely
the growth of imagination.
It had been said that Salter
had at one time grabbed two
12-stone Swedes by the hair
and, one in each hand, had
lifted them up like a couple of
cats, shaken them violently,
and dumped them over the
ship’s side.
This allegedly happened the
day before arriving in port, and
was just another one of Salter's
ways of dodging payment for
crews, but although he indulged
in the practice of lowering his
running - expenses by hazing
his crews so that they would
desert in the port opposite to
where they signed-on, it was
pure sailors’ talk about the
two Swedes, probably because
Swedes once signed-on were
hard to get rid of; and
although Salter looked like
an iron man in a wooden ship,
he would need to be a super-
man to perform some of the
feats of strength attributed to
him by sailors in boarding-
houses and ships’ forecastles.
This was in the palmy days
of sail when men were men and
women were glad of it, and
speaking of women, Salter felt
inferiority in their presence,
due mostly to his restricted
vocabulary through using an
excessive amount of lurid
language aboard his ship.
Therefore he shunned their
society and seldom went
ashore, except to transact
“When I give an order,” Salter continued, “they've got to FLY!”
business, but stayed aboard
tinkering with clocks and
watches and dispensing with
the services of a watchman.
TO epairing timepieces was
Sa 11 e r’s hobby, and
although thick-fingered he was
remarkably adept. His compass
was adjusted to the nth degree
of error ; his sextant, 30-bob
af a pawnbroker’s in lower
George Street, was now so
finely adjusted that Salter con-
sidered it equal to any new
instrument to the value of £l5.
But most beloved of all was
the ship’s chronometer.
When Salter had bought this
fine timepiece, its condition
was such that a five-bob watch
could have been rated to show
a better Greenwich Mean
Time, and for a chronometer
to be of service in finding the
correct longitude it should
show correct G.M.T. or have
a constant rate of loss or gain.
The instrument was so
important in establishing
longitude that some ships car-
ried three against the remote
possibility of one failing. They
were wound religiously at the
same time each day, so as to
keep the rate of loss or gain
at a minimum.
But keeping track of the
Susie Tucker’s chronometer-
rate had been a headache to
the second-mates who had had
the misfortune to be shipmates
with it. It had been so erratic
that it was impossible to guess
whether it was losing or gain-
mg from one hour to the next.
On one voyage across the
Tasman, South Head Light
had hove into view When their
sights by chronometer had
shown them to be 60 miles off
the coast.
Salter, being a man of pre-
cision, had decided to rectify
this discrepancy, and after
three weeks of tinkering the
chronometer was replaced in
its case with no parts left over
and its erratic wanderings
reduced by half. This did not
satisfy Captain Salter, and after
another three weeks of trial
and error he was able to make
the instrument behave by wind-
ing it, according to the tempera-
ture, at midnight each day.
He placed a thermometer
on the chart-room bulkhead
above the chronometer and a
list 0 f temperatures and key
w i n ds, and claimed that if
these instructions were carried
out to the letter the chrono-
meter would show exact
Greenwic h Mean Time at any
i ns t an t
, . ~
Had thls be^ n so ’ lt wo V ld
Probably have been seen today
in the Technological Museum,
but the fact remains that
Salter did improve his chrono-
meter a 100 per cent., and woe
betide the second-mate who


'White label"
...freely available!
At last the years of short supply are over!
‘‘White Label” is now available every-
where. Whether you ask for “Dewar’s” or
“White Label”— you will always get this
wonderful Scotch Whisky with the mellow
flavour the choice of discriminating
people for over a century.
£*****;s
ay
white Label"
Dewar's Fine Scotch Whiski
John Dewar & Sons V
"White Label”
Dewar’s
Scotch Whisky
“it never varies ’
Guaranteed wholly distilled,
blended and matured in Scotland.
DW.SS
mishandled this valued instru-
ment when he came on watch
at midnight.
Second-mates, according to
Salter, were not much
above the status of bos’ns, and
seeing that the Susie Tucker
was on the nose to seamen
on the coast, it was seldom she
carried a good able seaman, let
alone a bos’n. A new second-
mate soon found that he was
expected to do more than his
share of hard work among the
hoboes who didn’t know a
manila from a marlinspike.
On one voyage across the
Tasman with a load of white
pine and a crew of New
Zealand farm-hands, Salter
had come up on deck during
a southerly blow in the second-
mate’s watch and inquired
why the hell sail had not been
reduced.
“Can’t get them out,”
replied the second-mate. “The
man at the wheel is the only
one that isn’t seasick.”
Salter glared at the second-
mate for a moment then
roared: “Get that jelly-bellied
bunch of hayseeds out and get
the sail off her!”
The second-mate promptly
went for’ard. In 10 minutes
he was back on the poop.
“Can’t shift them,” he ex-
plained. “They’re helpless.
What more can I do?”
“What more can you do!”
Salter roared as he stepped to
the wheel and grabbed the
spokes. “You’re relieved,” he
said to the helmsman. “Go
with the second-mate and get
all sail off her except the jib
and spanker! It’s up to you,
mister,” he shouted to the
second-mate, “whether you get
that bunch of stiffs out or not! ”
It took the two men three
struggling hours to get the
sails in, and when the second-
mate staggered aft, Salter
roared: “Take the wheel,
mister. I’ll show you what l
can do!”
Salter grabbed a belaying-
pin and went 'for’ard. In six
minutes the crew were stagger-
ing out on deck, but there was
no sign of violence having been
used.
Salter came aft again, a leery
grin on his face:
“Set the lower tops’l, mister ;
then hoist the mains’l and reef
her down!”
The second-mate moved to
obey. '
“Did you hear me?” Salter
scowled.
“Yes,” the second - mate
answered somewhat surprised.
“Yes, what?” .
The second-mate swallowed
hard and made a mental note
to clear out in Sydney.
“Yes, sir,” he replied.
When he came off watch at
4 p.m. he was tired and dis-
gusted with the Susie Tucker.
He had worked like an A.B.
throughout the watch while
Salten stood by with a man
at the wheel.
His mind was in a turmoil.
He had signed-on in Hokianga
and he still needed three-
months’ sea-time before he
could sit for his mate’s ticket.
Maybe he’d better stick it out.
He needed the money ; and
besides, jobs weren’t plentiful.
He turned-in as soon as the
evening meal was finished, but
it was some time before he
could go to sleep, and it
seemed only minutes later that
he was being called to go on
watch again at midnight.
Tt was still blowing hard from
the south-westward and the
Susie Tucker was bucking the
seas, close-hauled on w.-n.-w.
“Well, there she goes,
mister,” said the mate. “I got
a sight of Canopus an hour
ago through a break in the
clouds and put the position on
the chart. You’ve got seventy-
five miles of water in front of
you, so you’ve no need to
worry if you don’t get a sight.
Don’t think you’ll get one
anyway. Here comes the rain.
Good-night.”
The only watch that Salter
kept was six-till-eight, morning
and night, and this morning
when he arrived on deck the
second-mate had no intention
of waiting up for breakfast
at 7.30. He’d had a cold, wet,
miserable watch, and was now
ready for his bunk.
Salter came out of the chart-
room and said: “I see the
mate got a sight last night and
by dead-reckoning we’ve only
made eighteen miles to the
westward of that position. Get
some rags on her, mister!”
The second-mate had break-
fast at 8.30. He was thor-
oughly disgusted. It was hardly
worth while changing his
clothes to turn-in. He was due
on again at noon.
While he was using his
remaining strength upon the
slab of steak in front of him
and brooding over the unfair-
ness of Salter, that worthy
gentleman appeared in the
saloon doorway with a face
the color of the ensign.
“You knock-kneed rubber-
headed ape!” he roared at the
second-mate. “Do you know
that the chronometer has been
stopped for the past three
hours?”
It suddenly dawned on the
second-mate that he had for-
gotten to wind it.
“Damn and blast you!”
yelled Salter as he grabbed the
edge of the tablecloth and
upended the contents into the
second-mate's lap. “Get out
of here!”
The second-mate sprang to
the companionway, and if
Salter could have caught him
just then, one of the future
stories of the Captain’s ferocity
might have been told with
truth.
When Salter reached the
{Continued on page 44)


Interview with a Gunman
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
You telephoned for an
appointment; so you
are expected. The lady
takes your name and
vanishes. You light a cigarette
and ease the weapon—your
notebook —in your hip-pocket.
You also check on the ball-
point pen.
A man appears at the door
of an inner office, asks you to
come in. You do, observing
him keenly. Fiftyish (you’re
wrong, you discover later),
medium-height, clean-shaven,
wearing the Sydney, summer,
version of a city gent’s outfit.
Polite, but not effusive.
You look for some sign of
the man’s absorbing interest,
or passion, for some indica-
tion of his deadly skill; in vain.
There is no focal-point, like
Stan McCabe’s eye. You saw
Stan standing at the door of
his George Street sports-store
this morning, so he’s fresh in
your mind. There is some-
thing in his eye that reminds
you of his cricketing heyday.
You’ve noticed the same
something, a quickness, in the
eyes of other top sportsmen,
and have come to set store by
it. The eye you meet across
the desk is steady, but other-
wise unremarkable. You are
talking to a businessman of
bafflingly normal appearance.
You console yourself with the
thought that Bill Prior has done
a drawing of him, so he’s on
paper. ,
You explain the object of
the visit. He is helpful, but
a bit puzzled where to start.
He shows you an old minute-
book. You talk around the
subject a bit.
’you have already noted the
absence of anything un-
usual in the outer office. This
is true, too, of the inner office,
with the exception of the
pictures on the wall, which
indicate sporting tastes. Finally
you mention them.
“That bitch,” says Mr.
Anderson, “was in a class of
her own. They bred dogs for
six years to try to beat her.”
His full name is Albert
Clyde Anderson, and he is
president of the New South
Wales Gun Club. He is also
a past-president of the Sport-
ing Gun Dog Association.
Most of the photographs on the
wall are of an English-setter
bitch, which was probably the
best gun-dog Mr. Anderson
has owned. One photograph
shows Mr. Anderson being
presented with a trophy at
Narellan, 27/5/1933. On that
occasion, at the field-trials
there, his dogs won three cups
—best English - setter, best
pointer, and winner of the
open field-trial.
You hadn’t known about the
dog-breeding activities. Yes,
Mr. Anderson says, he still
breeds dogs—but not on the
same scale.
ALBERT CLYDE ANDERSON
The New South Wales Gun
Club is an old club, you
understand —is it the oldest in
Australia?
. Mr, Anderson can’t say for
sure. He’s heard claims for
that honor on behalf of a club
in South Australia. Certainly
it is the oldest in N.S.W. And,
as the entries in the minute-
book indicate, some interesting
names are associated with its
beginnings.
The ink is faded ; the hand-
writing, when you get used to
the flourishes of the period, is
clear. What looks like an “S”
is really “L,” Mr. Anderson
explains: ‘'‘J’ve been through
it pretty thoroughly and
worked that one out.”
HThe first entry concerns a
-*• meeting at “The Royal
Hotel” —otherwise unidentified
—on May 6, 1880, at which it
was decided:
That the following gentlemen,
with power to add to their number,
be appointed a Provisional Com-
mittee to draw up a code of rules,
inspect the ground offered by Mr.
Lord and make all other necessary
arrangements for formation of the
club and report same to another
General Meeting.
R. L. Tooth, G. Lee Lord, I.
Hamilton, C. C. Skarratt, Dr.
Hodgson, Dr. C. Belisario, A. G.
Smyth, F. Smart.
(Signed) C. C. Skarratt, chair-
man.
On 28/5/1880 Mr. G. L.
Lord presented a block of
ground at Mascot for shooting-
purposes. So the inspection
must have been satisfactory.
The first executive was
appointed 1/6/1880. R. L.
Tooth, president; C. C.
Skarratt and Walter Bradley,
vice-presidents. All but one
of the old names are on the
committee, and there are four
additions: H. M. Faithfull, F.
Thomas; O. Friend and A.
Harcourt.
You read on: 11/8/1880:
Shoot postponed on account
of Randwick races ; 14/9/1880,
Shoot postponed on account
of wallaby-drive at Goulburn.
Then —16/8/1883 —shed built
to accommodate 12 horses and
12 buggies. The New South
Wales Gun Club was well on
its way.
Mow, out at Booralie Road,
Terrey Hills, members have
what Mr. Anderson describes
as “The best set-up in Aus-
tralia—in the Southern Hemis-
phere, really.” Over 40 acres
of shooting-ground and “assets
worth over forty-thousand, I
reckon.”
And now, of course, they
drive out the 14 miles or so
from the city in cars and blaze
away at clay-pigeons; in the
old days they shot live pigeons.
In fact, until comparatively
recently, this, and all the other
clubs scattered throughout the
country, shot live pigeons.
Mr. Anderson himself won
the last State live-pigeon
shooting-championship—on the
day the Japs bombed Pearl
Harbor.
Mr. Anderson also plays
golf ; and when he was 17 he
won a Victorian cycling-
championship—a senior cham-
pionship, although he was a
junior. So he has the uncom-
mon distinction of having won
two championships, in differ-
ent States, in different sports.
CJHOOTING pigeons, live or
clay, strikes you as a fairly
expensive sport.
You ask Mr. Anderson about
this, and he agrees. Cartridges
cost £1 to 255. a box.
“You used to get four boxes
for seven-and-six,” Mr. Ander-
son says, perhaps sadly.
How many would you use
in a—er session? . “You
could use five or six boxes a
day in a shoot.”
Then, of course, there are
the guns. Even before the war,
you remember, a good English
gun was worth a lot of money.
You ask Mr. Anderson about
guns, and he tells you strange
things, such as the price paid
in England for a gun by a
man just back—£lloo.
Mr. Anderson has had as
many as five guns at a time.
(This, perhaps, is not so
unusual. Your grandfather,
you remember, kept a similar
armory, and he wasn’t a com-
petitive shooter. He just went
shooting, as you go for a
walk.)
Mr. Anderson says he now
has “Two good guns—a Bos-
well and a Churchill.” Before
these, a Purdy. The names of
fine English guns fall with a
sort of solemnity in the room-'
Purdy, Boswell, Churchill,
Holland and Holland, Cogs-
well and Harrison . . .


If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
With shotguns Mr. Ander-
son is conservative. Despite
the vogue of under-and-overs,
he sticks to hand-made side-by-
sides.
He explains that clay-pigeon
shooting in Australia has
broadly followed American
trends. There, guns with one
barrel under the other are
popular, and many locals, par-
ticularly younger ones, are
using them here.
The idea is that the shooter
gets better alignment —one line.
But in Mr. Anderson’s opinion
this doesn’t apply in trap-
shooting. There is no time.
“It’s just point-pull.” Likewise,
with such refinements as paint-
ing the sight.
His present guns cost around
£l3O pre-war. “You could
put that money into a gun,
knowing you could get it
back.” He estimates the cur-
rent value at between £7OO
and £BOO each.
Also, you have heard a crack
shot could knock-up the price
of a good gun in a year or so.
You mention vague memories
of match-shooting in the bush,
at which quite sizeable sums
changed hands. They spok»
of it around race-time.
Mr. Anderson nods. Matches
were often held on the race-
course, after picnic-races.
There had always been prizes
and trophies, and fairly high
stakes, in pigeon-shooting. To
go back to early times —here it
is in the minute-book—June
19, 1880, the club’s opening
match. The trophy was pre-
sented by G. Lee Lord and
won by H. E. Lord, who, on
lune 12, 1921, presented it to
the club. It'is there, among
dim pictures of the founders,
at Terry Hills ; a coffee-service
in a glass case.
Nowadays, besides cash
prizes, they give away Volks-
wagens. Mr. Anderson men-
tioned a Volkswagen car
which was offered as a prize by
the Newcastle Club. And you
see in a copy of “Australian
Clay Pigeon Shooting News,”
published in Melbourne, that
Hay Club had the same make
of car as a prize at its Easter
Carnival.
It is an old copy—April,
1957—offered by Mr. Ander-
son because it gives details of
the International Shoot, held
that year in Queensland.
The magazine gives par-
ticulars of various champion-
ships, for £lOOO total of
prizes. But the big event is
the international one, in which
British Commonwealth teams
compete. The Australian team
consists of the 30 highest
scorers in the national d.-b.
championship. Scores are
cabled to London.
In 1958 Australia won. The
highest scorer in the Australian
team wins the high-gun trophy.
Bill Rutty, from Wollongong,
was 1958 high-gun winner.
Ninety-nine kills out of 100
(clay) birds.
T eafing through the maga-
zine, which is the official
organ of the Australian Clay
Pigeon Trap Shooting Associa-
tion, you are struck by the
number of clubs in N.S.W.,
Victoria and Queensland —-
Tasmania, Western Australia
and South Australia have
FRED HUDSON
smaller quotas ; New Guinea
and New Zealand one each.
The issue is, of course, out-
of-date —Mr. Anderson men-
tions new clubs—but it seems
a fair guide to the spread of
the sport. These clubs (includ-
ing the N.S.W. Gun Club)
are all affiliated with the
A.C.P.T.A., which has head-
quarters in Melbourne.
You know, of course, that
air-crew were given clay-
pigeon shooting-practice during
the war. It seems the sort of
sport almost anyone would like
—if cartridges weren’t so ex-
pensive.
You refer to Mr. Anderson’s
reputation as a crack shot, and,
surprisingly, he denies it.
“Not with clay-pigeons,” he
says. “I’d class myself well
down the list at the club.
Plenty of young chaps ahead
of me.”
Does age make much differ-
ence?
He hesitates. “It does —in
keenness. Yopng chaps go out
there regularly, they’re very
keen, in good form all the time.
At my age —I’m sixty-three—
I can’t work up that much
enthusiasm. Not for clays.
They seem, somehow —dead —
after the live birds.”
Mr. Anderson is wistful
when he talks about the old
days. Trips into the. country
-—Hay, Grenfell, Yass. Names
of great shots: Donald Mc-
Intosh, who “lived off the
gun” at Monte Carlo for years.
Bill Downie, from Melbourne,
who won the triennial cham-
pionship at Monte Carlo (the
big-money centre of trap-
shooting) in the 1930’s—»“A
remarkable performance for a
man with one arm and one
eye.” Stalwarts of the game
like Charley Massey, of
Yass ...
It’s all in the point of view,
of course ; but certainly “living
off the gun” has a fine sound.
Living, you take it, extremely
well.
Is shooting, at this level, a
matter of continuous practice?
No, Mr. Anderson says.
Once it’s there —“in your mus-
cular memory”—you don’t for-
get. You can even lay off,
“not touch a gun for eight
years, as I did once,” and come
back to form. Concentrated
shooting will then give the fine
edge to form.
Despite his denial of top
class with clay-pigeons, Mr.
Anderson admits that he was
the only Sydney man to shoot
60 straight at Southport (Q.).
Also, in Melbourne, he was
one of three in a field of 166
shooting for the £lOO event
who cut the £lOO.
His explanation: the compe-
tition was sufficiently exciting
to sustain interest, particularly
before the trips; he “trained
hard.” He is also inclined to
give a lot of credit to his guns.
He thinks other, more con-
sistent, shooters might have
done better with side-by-side,
custom-built guns current
trends notwithstanding . . .
TTe talks about outstanding
A -*- shots, past and present.
One of the current crop is Fred
Hudson, a back-marker and a
club committeeman, and you
begin to think about writing
the article. There’s the matter
of a title —the name of the
dub won’t do: “Talk With
a Gun” sounds impersonal.
But, of course, he is a gun—
as you speak of gun-shearers.
And he has handled plenty—a
man who handles guns, a gun-
man. There’s a sinister sug-
gestion, but that’s a matter of
incorrect usage. And, after all,
there’s something sinister about
guns—from a certain view-
point . . .
You glance at that glamor-
ous bitch, Princess Alexan-
drene, familiarly called Tess,
the English-setter. One side
of the picture, dogs, and keyed-
up with excitement in the grey
morning, looking for ducks on
a misty lagoon. You haven’t
done much, but can feel the
pull. On the other hand . . .
It’s a complicated matter,
and hardly your business. Or
is it? Maybe man’s natural
bloodthirstiness needs to be
canalised into socially accept-
able channels. Maybe our
fox-hunting, kangaroo-driving,
pigeon-slaughtering ancestors
had something—better than
blowing the world to bits. And
you do eat meat. On the other
hand, you’ve never enjoyed
cutting a sheep’s throat. May-
be you’re just a sissy.
Each to his weapons. You
sheathe yours in hip-pocket and
inside coat, say good-bye.
You’ve been most courteously
received, and perhaps you have
learned something. If you
have it won’t be the first time
preconceived ideas have taken
a beating at an interview.


Inflation, Wages and Costs
It is rather remarkable that after
close on 30 years out of active
politics Viscount Bruce should find
himself a centre of controversy in
Australian politics.
The cause is the advice he gave Aus-
tralia in a TV-talk on the eve of his
departure from Melbourne last week. In
this he named inflation as this country’s
chief immediate enemy and suggested
means of fighting it. He urged the
Government to start a nation-wide cam-
paign to acquaint the people with the
danger and to emphasise that the vital
thing to do is to keep the cost-of-living
level and. to maintain the value of the
currency. Positive steps • he suggested
the Government might take included in-
creased taxation, a curb on hire-purchase,
compulsory saving and possibly a change
in methods of wage-fixing.
Reaction to the former Prime Minis-
ter’s advice naturally varied. The chair-
man of the Melbourne Stock Exchange
said that the payroll-tax and sales-tax
should be abolished to keep down costs
so as to allow manufacturers to export
more goods. At the same time the people
should be told that this would probably
mean an increase in personal income-
tax. He thought Australians would be
“big enough” to understand the aims
behind such a move. (Bruce had ex-
pressed a similar faith in the ability
of Australians to “take it.”)
The chairman didn’t go into details,
but the estimated revenue from sales-tax
and payroll-tax this year is £203 million.
The estimate for personal income-tax
is £431 million, so if the revenue lost
by the abolition of the first two taxes
is to be recouped from income-tax the
personal rates will have to be increased
by getting-on for 50 per cent. The public
would have to be pretty big to accept that
without protest.
Opposing Views
TyyffELBOURNE Chamber of Commerce
-*■*•*■ president F. G. May also put in a
word for abolition of payroll-tax, but
saw no need for a compensatory rise
in income-tax rates. His argument was
that tax-relief would stabilise prices by
boosting productivity. In Canberra the
director of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures, R. W. C. Anderson,
stressed the importance of increasing
productivity while stabilising costs ; he
rejected higher taxes and restrictions on
h.-p. as possible weapons.
On the trade-union side Albert Monk,
president of the A.C.T.U., dismissed
Bruce’s proposed remedies, without
really giving any answer to them other
than saying that Bruce was just as much
out of touch with Australian conditions
and outlook as he was in 1929, and im-
plying that the Bruce-Page Government
had been responsible for the depression
(“Australians could not easily forget the
depression which followed Lord Bruce’s
period of Government”). J. Tripovich,
secretary of the Victorian A.L.P., also
dismissed Bruce's diagnosis and prescrip-
tion as out-of-date, and H. J. Souter,
secretary of the A.C.T.U., said Bruce
should hhve addressed his remarks “to
the monopolies which he represents.”
Amplifying his remarks just before he
sailed, Bruce stressed that the task of
fighting inflation was one for every-
body:—
The trade-union leader should exhort his
people to show restraint in pressing for
higher wages and shorter hours. The
employer should individually press his
fellow-employers to reduce prices wherever
possible rather than raise dividends. All
should combine in urging on the people
the necessity to save.
“Capacity to Pay”
r T'HE Institute of Public Affairs Victoria
issued a prompt statement support-
ing fully “Lord Bruce’s timely warning
that drastic measures might have to be
adopted to protect Australia's economic
future.” In particular it urged a re-
examination of the wage-fixing system,
warning that unless it was changed there
was the prospect of a continuous infla-
tion of prices and costs.
It pointed out that the basic wage had,
been increased last June, and that mar-
gins had been raised by up to 28 per
cent, in November, but that no sooner
had the margins-judgment been given
than the trade-unions announced that
they would apply almost immediately
for a further increase in the basic wage
this year.
Remarking that since 1956 the Arbitra-
tion Commission had reviewed the basic
wage each year on . the basis of the
capacity of the economy to pay and
that productivity had come to occupy a
large place in its deliberations, the I.P.A.
said that the rate of increase in produc-
tivity in Australia is “probably little
more than one per cent, a year”:
Wages in Australia are increasing at a
rate far in excess of this. Over the last
decade money-wages have more than
doubled. While wages over the long term
rise faster than productivity, nothing is
more certain - than that price - inflation
will result.... Every increase in the basic
wage reduces the relative value of margins
and lessens the incentive for the wage-
earner to improve his skills.
So long as there are two separate wage-
determinations —one for the basic wage
and one for margins—the I.P.A. claims
there will always be a danger that the
total wage-rises may exceed the capacity
of the economy to pay. This danger is
greatly increase'd under the present policy
of an annual review of the basic wage.
The I.P.A. considers it would be better
if both applications were heard con-
currently so that the Commission could
bear in mind the total increase in wages
which the economy could support. It
feels, moreover, that the time has come
to abandon the basic-wage concept and
to substitute a system whereby all wage-
rates are reviewed at a single inquiry, the
Commission giving its decision in terms
of a percentage variation on existing
awards and not as a flat money-rise, as
at present.
“No Such Bird”
Tt is certainly a fact that the basic
wage has long been a fictional term
and that as far as the “basic-wage
earner” is concerned, there “just ain’t
no such bird.” The Arbitration Com-
mission has itself admitted this, though
in more judicial language. Every wage-
earner has a margin of some kind over
the basic wage. The general classifica-
tion of wage-earners is skilled, semi-
skilled and unskilled, with the fully
qualified tradesman at the top of the
scale. But the tendency of wage-move-
ments since the war has been to improve
the position of the unskilled man relative
to the skilled.
In 1954 the Arbitration Court, in
considering margins, admitted that the
skilled worker’s position had deteriorated
in comparison with the unskilled man
and that the real value of margins had
fallen. It said that
unless there is a compensatory rise in
productivity in real terms it is apparent
that, generally speaking, a levelling-up of
minimum living-standards must involve
some levelling-down of higher standards.
Every upward move of the basic wage
has had this effect and rare adjustments
in marginal payments (including the
latest and largest) have only partly re-
stored the balance. If as a result of
higher costs produced by the 28 per cent,
rise in margins the trade-union move-
ment is successful in getting a further
basic-wage increase, the relative value
of the increased margins will be again
reduced.
Productivity the Answer
hphe Court’s implication that wage-
increases must be tied to produc-
tivity to have any real value is sound,
but it doesn’t seem to have been fol-
lowed. No real measure of productivity
has been established. Albert Monk
rightly reminded Lord Bruce that the
basic wage is now based on capacity
to pay, but Albert and his A.C.T.U.
seem to think that capacity to pay rises
automatically with every rise in prices,
following them with the same inevit-
ability that price-rises follow wage-
increases. Where productivity is men-
tioned at all it is only to claim that
it has increased and that therefore
higher wages are justified. There is no
positive attempt by the A.C.T.U. or the
Labor movement to preach that greater
productivity will make it possible for the
economy to pay higher wages.
Bruce’s call to all sections of, the
community to guard against inflation is
sound. So is his homely definition of
inflation as “the depreciation of the value
of the money you have got, with the
result that it will buy less.”


start the day right!
W OIHC
PA”
tfVi»?
SHA
C
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A!Great Trainer
When Dan Lewis lately
passed on he was thought of
by most racegoers as a great
trainer who led in many
winners, particularly of dis-
tance races, but for awhile
some 50 years back he tried a
spot of bookmaking. It
wasn’t long, though, before he
said to Bert Bowser, a close
lifelong friend now in his
eighties and still a regular
punter at Sydney meetings:
“This is no good, Bert. I’m
going to give it away and train
the horses instead of betting
against them.”
Bert also was a fielder at the
time ; he has lived about 60
years in Newcastle, and nowa-
days travels the 104 miles from
there every Saturday and on
most other occasions when
there's a meeting in the Syd-
ney metropolitan area.
“Back in 1916,” said Bert,
yarning at Randwick last
Saturday, “Dan and I struck
the Epsom - Metrop. double
for a tidy packet at long odds.
1 told Dan I could pick the
winner of the mile—Panacre —
and he said Quinologist could
win the Metropolitan. Panacre
duly won at fourteens from
the favorite, Polycrates,
and Colugo, and Quinologist
the second leg at fifteens from
the unlucky Polycrates and
Cetigne. Quinologist had won
the Trial Stakes on the open-
ing day, but our double had
been taken some time before
the Randwick meeting. Percy
Maher won the two races on
Quinologist and declared seven
pounds overweight in the
Metrop., riding at seven-three.
Seven over wouldn't be
allowed these days.”
Lewis was a natural
humorist, but that didn’t stop
him from being also highly
superstitious. Like other
stables, his had the usual pet
or two—Dan’s a pet goat. An
old-timer had told him that
when a goat was wandering
round the stables horses would
be free of illness and disease.
Whether the goat or Dan s
good care was responsible, it
was a special merit in his
gallopers that they were hardly
ever at all off-color, and he
trained hundreds.
Dan had another odd
“assistant”—his famous black
bowler hat, which was pro-
duced on big race-days when he
had a Cup or main-handicap
runner engaged. Whether or
not that helped also, supple-
menting the good influence of
the goat, Dan trained no
fewer than five Sydney Cup
winners, always wearing the
hard-hitter. His Cup winners
were Proctor, L'Aiglon, Con-
tact, Akuna and Crucis. The
day Proctor won the two-miler
in 1947 the Lewis stable landed
a treble, the two other winners
being Wilcuma and Victory
Lad, all three ridden by Bill
Briscoe, who these days is
doing well as a trainer in
Brisbane.
Mention of Victory Lad (vyho
also won the All-Aged Stakes at
that meeting) recalls that Dan
didn’t make many purchases of
yearlings, and when he did he
went for the cheaper lots. He
bought Victory Lad for Mrs.
C. Ives for 180gns., and the
horse won about £15,000 in
stakes. Dan was a very modest
punter; he would regard one
of his horses as an exceptionally
good thing if he went to £5O
on it. One speciality of his was
to secure from other trainers
gallopers that had led fields,
but had then knocked-up. Dan
would put them aside for some
months, then get them ready
for longer races, and in this
way he had many wins. Apart
from his five Sydney Cups, he
landed the Melbourne Cup with
Foxzami, the A.J.C. Derby with
Concerto, the Metropolitan
with Polycletan, and both the
Doncaster and Metropolitan
with Speciality.
Throughout his long career
Dan Lewis was one of the best,
one of the most honest and
most highly regarded of Sydney
trainers.
A. G.
Sydney Horses
James H. Ashton, of Mdla-
molong Stud, Mandurama
(N.S.W.), bred Rockanrullah,
stylish winner of the First
Three-year-old Maiden at last
Saturday’s A.J.C. meeting at
Randwick. Injury caused with-
drawal of the colt from the
1958 Randwick yearling-
auction, and also delayed his
introduction to racing. By
Rock And Rye (imp.) from
Banrullah (imp.) by Nasrullah
from Bannlaw by Son-in-Law,
he’s now trained by McCarten,
who also won the opening
race—the Two-year-old Handi-
cap—with odds-on favorite
Wenona Girl (unbeaten in three
starts). Wenona Girl will be
taken to Melbourne for the
autumn racing. On Sydney
displays she should make it
definitely interesting for the
best of the Victorians. On
Saturday she had the day’s
easiest win.
Connections of the latest
Sydney staying find, Sir Del-
ville, may set the four-year-
old for the Sydney Cup, and
then for this year’s specially
rich Melbourne Cup. Sir
Delville has the right breeding
to see out two miles. He be-
longs to the family which pro-
duced noted performer and
sire Heroic, who earned
£38,000 in stakes (21 wins).
Sir Delville has won at his
last three starts —in Novice,
Encourage and, at latest outing,
in open class. He figured in
a close finish in the Henry
Lawson Handicap at Rand-
wick, defeating Treasured Link
a long head, with Ulandra a
similar distance away and
Boorala a head further back
fourth. Sir Delville is by Del-
ville Wood (imp.) from Ana-
stacia by Le Grand Due (Fr.)
from Miss Eastern by
Chivalrous (imp.) from Miss
England (half-sister to Heroic)
by Sea Prince (imp.). He was
bred at the Kia-Ora Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.).
• • •
Alan Morrisby, best known
in racing as a former trainer,
now races Gemstone, winner
of the Second Maiden for
three-year-olds at Randwick.
In his training days one of
Morrisby’s best was Sir Neith.
Gemstone is by Brimstone (E.)
from Grand Diamond by Le
Grand Due (Fr.) from Double
Diamond by Double Remove
(imp.).
Notching his first Australian
win, New Zealander Tawhiao
came from the rear of the field
at the home-turn to take the
Adam Lindsay Gordon Handi-
cap in fine style. For the third
time in succession Permel was
runner-up. Both the winner and
Permel are greys, and Permel
had followed another grey,
Boorala, to the winning-post at
Canterbury on January 2.
• • • •
N.Z.-bred three-year-old colt
First Draw scored an
easy and very impressive
Maiden win at the midweek
Canterbury Park meeting. By
Faux Tirage (imp.) from Belle
Amber by Genetout (Fr.,)
from Anbeau by Beau Pere
(imp.), he was bred by Dr.
R. H. Bettington, of Napier,
is related to A.J.C. Derby
winner Main Topic, and is
raced by Mrs. M. McCarten
and daughter Cecily, with
McCarten training him. Bought
by McCarten for Isoogns. as
an Australian art-union prize,
the colt was won by T. B.
Kearns and is being raced on
lease.


Feature of last Saturday’s
Wellington (N.Z.) two-miles
Cup, worth £lO,OOO, plus a
120gns. gold cup, was the
breaking of the Australasian
time-record by four-year-old
mare Jalna, who won easily
from Sparkler and Great Sensa-
tion. Her time, 3.18, was the
best ever this side of the
Equator. The previous fastest
—3.19, run in 1958 —was
credited to two other New
Zealanders, Yeman and Llanis-
fair, and was also recorded at
Trentham. Australia’s best —
3.l9^—was made in the Mel-
bourne Cup by Comic Court
and later equalled by Evening
Peal. World’s best —3.12f —
is credited to a horse named
Valerius at York (Eng.) in
1936. As York’s next-best is
3.19|, that seems a bit puzzling,
to say the least. Best for
America is 3.20-f. Jalna, by
Count Rendered (imp.), was
the best three-year-old filly in
New Zealand last year.
* * *
At Moo nee Valley
In the five-furlongs Calder-
meade Handicap for two-year-
old fillies at Moonee Valley
last Saturday (when the tem-
perature soared to 105 deg.
before the day was out) Elated
was trying for her fourth win
in a row and Grasse was look-
ing for a hat-trick. Grasse,
who had beaten the good colt
Milverton at her previous start,
finally wore the other filly
down in a tough tussle, to win
by a neck. A Meadow Mist
filly from the English mare
Slippery Elm, and raced and
bred by V.R.C. chairman Sir
Chester Manifold, Grasse was
ridden by Jack Purtell, and that
made the difference against the
inexperience of young Ray
Hill, whose only metropolitan
wins have been on Elated.
Winner of the other two-
year-old race the Niddrie
Handicap—Mojave is one of
the big crop of Landau
youngsters raced by V.R.C.
committeeman E. A. Under-
wood, who imported Landau.
Again the only runners seri-
ously supported, Mojave and
Caburn, fought out the finish,
and again the third horse was
raced by Fred Astaire (in the
other race his filly Far Out, and
in this event his Star Kingdom
colt Anything). Mojave has
had two wins and two placings
from his last four starts, all in
good company ; Caburn has
been equally consistent, but not
so lucky—his last four runs
have yielded four minor plac-
ings! Caburn is a Hydro-
gen gelding and will probably
show his best form later in the
season in longer races.
There was an extraordinary
bit of riding at the Valley,
which fortunately came off;
otherwise the crowd would
have been in a nasty mood.
With an outside draw, former
Westralian jockey J. Miller
rode warm-favorite On Guard
out of the barrier with the
whip in the 10-furlongs Mag-
dala Welter and kept at him
until he hit the front turning
out of the straight. Thereafter
On Guard had to do it the
hard. way. He had to beat-off
Mandingos, who went with him
for six furlongs, and then with-
stand a strong challenge from
the good mare Quitos. Quitos
took the lead from On Guard
close to home, but under
further hard riding the Night
Guardian horse fought back to
win by an inch or so. Ridden
in that fashion, and carrying
9.9, On Guard left no doubt
that he has finally found the
form that induced his owner,
H. R. Butcher, to give £9500
for him last year. Courage,
plus ability, will win On
Guard a really good race in
the autumn.
Ron Hutchinson got more
pleasure from the winning ride
on La Josephina in the
Bolinda Handicap than from
any success in a long time. He
wanted to ride a winner on
his last day as a farewell-
present to his many supporters
and as a good-luck omen for
himself. He is now off
to ride for Irish trainer Paddy
Prendergast. Hutchinson re-
called that Jack Thompson
rode a winner on his last day
in Australia before going to
Ireland in 1950 to ride for the
same trainer.
What a good colt My Peak
is! On Saturday he had his
first start since running third
behind Noholme in the w.-f.-a.
Linlithgow Stakes on Novem-
ber 5, but Brian Courtney
turned the colt out in superb
condition, and he gave a
sparkling display to win the
s|-furlongs Argyle Handicap
from end to end. He is a
punter’s delight, My Peak —he
just wouldn’t know how to run
a bad race. If Victorian
horses are to offer much resist-
ance to the Sydney stars in the
autumn, he will be one of the
local hopes. A run worth
remembering in the Argyle w r as
Heart’s Content’s fast-finishing
third. This four-year-old mare
showed a lot of promise as a
youngster, but Saturday’s was
her first public outing for
nearly a year. She warrants
support in her next couple of
runs.
A daughter of the French
horse Pan II from Portoba by
Manitoba, Pantouffe scored the
second win of her carrer in
the second division of the Kal-
kallo Handicap (three-year-old
fillies). Impressive part of the
win was the strong finish, with
its promise of success over
much more ground than the six
furlongs of Saturday’s race.
-* * &
The Trots
At Harold Park last Friday
night Southern Van convinc-
ingly won the Handicap (13fur.
98yds.) in the record time of
3min. 34sec., beating Maestro
Melody’s 3.42 by eight
seconds! From the 12yd.-mark
he was forced three-wide for
two laps, gradually forcing his
way to take the lead at the
bell. He has broken records
in his last three runs, winning
seven of his last nine outings.
He is, of course, well favored
for the Inter-Dominion, as also
of course is Sibelia, who, in
winning the A. G. Hunter Cup
on the Melbourne Showgrounds
the same night, got over the
14 furlongs in 3.44 j, a new
track record. New Zealander
Caduceus, however, is still a
clear-cut favorite for the Inter-
Dominion, first heats of which
commence on Saturday week,
January 30.
On Saturday night at the
Bathurst (N.S.W.) track the
Western Districts Trotting
Association staged the second
of the season’s classics; the
Debutante Stakes for two-year-
old fillies, with Victorian filly
Inspangle landing the final
from Sister Ivy and Carmel
Therese in 2.24}, 3}sec. slower
than Opal Chief’s time in the
Debutant Stakes the previous
week.
He
Other Sports
In a mainly high-scoring
Shield game on a batsman’s
wicket N.S.W. beat S.A. out-
right by an innings and one
run, N.S.W., 3-524; S.A., 345
and 188. Batting stars—N.S.W.,
Flockton 264 not-out, Thomas
120 not-out, and good knocks
by the other three batsmen,
Craig, Madden and Booth. For
S.A., 93 by reliable skipper
Col Pinch and 81 by hard-
hitting Neil Dansie, with 35-
year-old Shield newcomer
Mutton and ’keeper Ducket
each getting past 50. Best
bowler, N.S.W. left - arm
spinner Martin (4-112 and 5-67)
“Veryl”: In mentioning that
Ray Flockton’s 264 not-out for
N.S.W. against S.A. was the
highest Sheffield Shield score
since the war, several Sydney
sports-writers said the pre-


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d? Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
vious best was Arthur Morris's
253 for N.S.W. against Queens-
land in 1951-52. Wrong. Pre-
vious best was S.A. opener
Gavin Stevens's 259 not-out in
a second innings against N.S.W.
at the” S.C.G. in December,
1958, which helped him on to
top Shield batting averages for
1958-59 and into the team for
Pakistan and India when Jim
Burke dropped out.
“Kabara": One of the
Indian Combined Universities’
batsmen, Sood, was dismissed
in the Universities’ first innings
“c Jarman, b Grout.” Not the
first time on a cricket-tour that
two Australian ’keepers have
thus combined. In England in
1956 Len Maddocks opened the
bowling against Gloucester-
shire when several of Aus-
tralia's new-ball bowlers were
out sick. With the last ball of
his second over, former Test
opening-bat Emmett edged a
ball to Langley. Maddocks
finished with 1-4 off three overs,
and as he bowled no more on
that trip he actually took the
Australian bowling honors for
the tour.
t'fi tjc sj;
“Mugga Way”. Melburnians
were delighted at Jack Kramer’s
farewell-comment: “This is the
greatest sporting city in the
world.” (Some of them, of
course, regarded the adjective
“sporting” as redundant.) Jake,
who’d been losing on his Aus-
tralian pro.-tennis tour, com-
peted in Melbourne against
rain, Christmas and TV, and
raked in a gross £13,000 in six
nights, leaving a handsome
margin which more than com-
pensated for poor results m
Perth and Sydney.
* * *
“Australorp” (St. Helens,
Lancs.): At time of writing,
English critics continue to
give the highest of praise to
young Reg Gasnier’s outstand-
ing performances during the
Kangaroo Rugby Leaguers
tour. London “Daily Mail’s”
Jack Wood has rated him one
of the sportsmen of the year.
In an end-of-the-year sports
round -up on the 8.8. C.
Northern - Home Service
famous “Owzat?” specialist
George Duckworth and com-
mentator Alan Dixon agreed
that Rugby League football in
England badly needed an influx
°f Australian personalities like
Gasnier, Harry Wells and Brian
Hambly. They believed this
was the only solution to the
problem of dwindling gates. It
has been said that English
clubs would pay £20,000 for
Gasnier.
“Mitron”: Despite heat-
wave and near heat-wave con-
ditions, Brisbane and Ipswich
Soccer clubs are in full train-
ing for the Ampol tournament
beginning on February 19.
Hitherto serious training had
not been attempted before the
end of February, so this
enthusiasm could point to a
boom season ahead.
* * *
“Sam”: Melbourne boys
high-schools apparently have
a wider range of sport than
those of Sydney. Thus, the
headmaster of Box Hill Boys
High, in his 1959 speech-day
address: —-
Matches in cricket. football
(Australian Rules, Rugby, Soccer),
lacrosse, tennis, baseball and
basketball were played with a
certain measure of success against
Melbourne High School, Univer-
sity High School, Northcote High
School, and Camberwell High
School. As a result of these games
23 boys were chosen in inter-State
or other representative teams. Our
basketball - teams won three
premierships A-grade, B-graae
and Under 16 Friday-night com-
petition. Our Rugby-team was
undefeated.
Some Sydney high-schools have
Soccer as an alternative foot-
ball code to Rugby Union, but
none plays Australian Rules.
No N.S.W. boys’ school, to my
knowledge, plays basketball,
though it is popular in girls’
schools, and it must be many
years since any school in
N.S.W. has played lacrosse,
which seems to have died out
among N.S.W. adults also (it
was played by a few men’s
teams in Sydney in the 1930’s ;
All Saints’ College, Bathurst,
had a lacrosse-team as early as
the 1870’s, and it was also
played at one time at Fort
Street, Sydney).
# * *
“Unionite”: By the way
things are shaping there should
be some rare old Rugby Union
in South Africa this year. The
New Zealanders due to tour
there are already training, and
to top them off there’ll be five
matches in Australia en route.
And, just to even things, Scot-
land will send a side to South
Africa to give the Springboks
vital warm-up matches before
the All Blacks arrive. The
Tests will virtually decide
which is the best Union-playing
country in the world. At
present N.Z. holds that honor.
* * *
“Athlete”: Now giving it
away for good, Hector Hogan
was unbeaten in Australian
100yds. championships from
1952 to 1958. He shared the
world record for 100yds (9.3)
and the world record for 100
metres (10.2). And he started
as a sprinter more-or-less by
accident —he broke both ankles
playing basketball and took to
running to help strengthen
them!
* * *
“K.R.”: In a Marulan-R.S.L.
match in the Goulburn (N.S.W,)
A-grade competition a batsman
was given not-out after snicking
a ball and being caught behind.
The batsman then said to the
‘keeper, “Bad luck!” and was
evidently heard by the ump., who
then asked the square-leg umpire
had he heard anything. That
official nodding, the ump. at the
b'owler's end then issued marching-
instructions. The latter umpire
later admitted that he had not seen
or heard anything when the .stroke
was played. Even though the bats-
man was out, it's a moot point
whether he could have been given
out that way. The square-leg
umpire can't pronounce on a
caught-behind ; it could have
been a rap on the pads that he
heard. While the batsman perhaps
should have “walked” from the
start, it must be remembered that
a batsman has no redress when
he’s given out and he knows full
well that he didn’t touch the ball.
* * *
“Plunge”: As a direct result
of the great increase over the
last couple of years in the
number of first-class swimming-
pools in Sydney and in N.S.W.
country centres the country
section of the N.S.W. Amateur
Swimming Association is ex-
periencing an embarrassment
of riches. Country chairman
Jim Brophy reports that the
number of entries for country
championships has increased
from 520 to 1100 and the
number of races from 115 to
240 within five years. It has
become impossible to conduct
the country championships in
six sessions, and accordingly
this month’s carnival at Griffith
has had an extra three sessions
added.
* * *
‘‘lnquirer”: A main reason
why Australia’s cyclists per-
form so well in international
sport is that the controlling
authorities recognise only the
national champions in endors-
ing bike-pushers for world
championships, and then insist
on them being race-fit. Aus-
tralian Association secretary
Bill Young has notified poten-
tial Olympians that they will
have to undergo a training-
programme calculated to make
“iron” men of them. They'll
need to be. Eight riders, all
champions, will be chosen, and
a team of four that will ride
in the road-events wiil also
compete in the 4000-metres
track pursuit-races. Which
means that in a week the four
will have eight tough races
against the best! The riders
must maintain a speed-schedule
which Young will set, and he’ll
follow them in a car on special
trials. If they can’t maintain
the schedule then they won’t
be nominated for Rome.
* * *
“Thredbo”: Helped along
considerably by New Aus-
tralians, there are now close
on 75,000 skiers in Australia.
The value of their buildings
on the Thredbo, Perisher and
Victorian fields is about
£1,500,000, and a lot of equip-
ment is now Australian-made.
Incidentally, the Kosciusko
Alpine Club, founded in 1908,
is the sixth-oldest ski-club in
the world.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOUTH AFRICAN BOYCOTT
P ditorial comment on the
movement for a one-month
boycott on South African goods
in Britain:
John Dugdale, in London
“New Statesman” : “The boy-
cott movement aims at protest-
ing specifically against the
treason-trial and the banish-
ment of African leaders, the
extension of the ‘pass’ system
to African women and the low
wages paid to Africans. It is
backed by Christian Action,
who are making themselves
responsible for its organisa-
tion. Meantime, the London
Co-operative Society and a
number of other co-operatives
have asked their members to
refrain from buying South
African goods, while the Labor
party and the T.U.C. have both
come out in support of the boy-
cott.
“The campaign is not
designed to bring South Africa
to its knees by economic
pressure—though it is quite
possible that it may help to
raise the appallingly low
standard of African wages,
since employers are naturally
sensitive to the boycott and
can act without consulting
their Government. It is a moral
protest by individual men and
women, and is due to take
place during March.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“About the proposal as such
there is room for honest differ-
ence. The boycott, if it is to be
limited, cannot do much
damage to South Africans and
might well provoke reprisals.
On the other hand, many
people may think it is the only
way of making any effective
protest. They would look to
its moral not its material signi-
ficance, and accept any hard-
ship which might result to this
country as a probable conse-
quence. Did not Lancashire
undergo its distress nearly 100
years ago in support of what
it believed to be the moral right
of the North against the South
in the American Civil War?
Yet this parallel is misleading.
The American Civil War had
already started when Lanca-
shire made its mute protest.
“A deliberate challenge to
the South African Government
from this country, however
organised, might well be inter-
preted in South Africa as just
one more sign of meddlesome
ignorance. The more sincerely
meant, the more disconcerting
and unexpected to its organisers
might the results then be. It
is one thing for the Churches
in South Africa to protest
against apartheid and live with
the consequences. The same
protest is quite a different affair
when it comes from thousands
of miles away.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scots man” :
“The T.U.C., it may be noted,
says that the aim of the boy-
cott would be to express ‘per-
sonal revulsion against the
racial policies being pursued by
the Government of South
Africa.’ This is a different
matter from an official boycott
which the trade-unions could
enforce by instructing their
members not to handle South
African goods. The T.U.C. are
wise in making this distinction,
because the boycott is a
weapon that must be used with
discretion if it is not to do
more harm than good.
“If individuals think, as
many people here do, that
South Africa's racial policy is
an affront to the democratic
principles which the Com-
monwealth is supposed to up-
hold —that it is wrong, unjust,
and likely to be disastrous in
the long-run—they are entitled
to make as strong a gesture of
disapproval as they can. That
is a matter for personal
decision, but it would be a
mistake to urge similar action
by the Government.”
* * #
“Yorkshire Post” : “But even
a modified boycott might well
do grave damage. What is
more, it might injure the
Negroes whom it is sought to
protect and might seriously
threaten the interests of the
people in South Africa who are
strongly opposed to their own
Government’s apartheid
policy.”
Nazi Resurgence?
comment on the
recent expressions of anti-
Semitism and pro - Nazism
in West Germany:
Manchester “Guardian": “Are
we faced with a Nazi resurg-
London “Daily Mail.”
MEASLES AGAIN.
ence in Western Germany? The
question is bound to be asked
whenever there are anti-Semitic
outrages in that country. It
must be asked because anti-
Semitism was the hallmark of
that hateful doctrine which
brought death and destruction
not only to European Jewry
but to half the world. But,
equally, we must retain our
sense of proportion.
“The conditions in which the
Nazis flourished do not exist
today. Before they could come
to power in 1933 they needed
two things above all: wide-
spread despair born of a pro-
longed and hopeless economic
crisis ; and the active sympathy
and encouragement of people
in positions of power. Today
Western Germany is more pro-
sperous than ever before, and
her authorities have reacted
vigorously against the perpe-
trators of the latest outrages.
‘What more do you want?’
some Germans may ask.
“The answer is that there
exists a widespread suspicion
that the Nazi disease is dormant
rather than extinct. That sus-
picion is constantly nourished
by the fact that so many ex-
Nazis have managed to survive
in official positions—as judges,
police-officers, civil servants,
teachers and editors —or have
been allowed to creep back.
These are the men who have
erected that ‘wall of silence'
around the disastrous Hitler
period because they themselves
were implicated in its crimes. - ’
* # *
“New York Times”: “There
are some indications, includ-
ing frequent visits of the
Cologne offenders to Com-
munist East Germany, that
Communists are behind some
of these incidents. This would
be in line with present Soviet
tactics. The Soviets smile on
most Western leaders but
attack West Germany and espe-
cially Chancellor Adenauer as
‘revanchist,’ ‘militaristic’ and
in effect Nazi-ruled, and neo-
Nazi and anti-Semitic outrages
could well serve their purpose
of discrediting West Germany
at this time.
“For this reason the West
must remain on guard not only
against any Nazi revival but
against any Soviet scheme to
frighten it into ostracising
Germany.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph":
“What is significant about the


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER t SONS LTD.
a
£*
\
/
t
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.IS4.It
recent desecration of a syna-
gogue in Western Germany is
not the act itself but the prompt
and passionate condemnation it
has aroused from all sections
of the German people. This
will not surprise anybody who
has travelled in Western Gee-
many since the war. There
can really be no doubt that an
London “News Chronicle.”
THE FACE IN THE CRYSTAL.
overwhelming majority of the
population, both high and low,
detest and fear expressions of
anti-Semitism. With the murder
of six-million Jews on their
national conscience it would
be very strange if it were other-
wise.
“But disgust with Germany's
past record of anti-Semitism
should not permit us to ignore
the radical change in the
present mood. "No other
country in the world punishes
anti-Semitism, even of the
mildest variety, so severely.
There is less latent or overt
anti-Semitism in Germany
than there is here [Britain].”
* * *
London “Economist” : “Herr
Meinberg, the chairman of the
German Reich party, to which
the Christmas delinquents be-
longed—he has now expelled
them and closed the Cologne
branch down—-has produced
the most ingenious explanation
of their action. They were,
he says, agents provocateurs
sent by the Communists to
worm their way into his party
and disgrace it.
“Now, it is true that Bonn’s
East German enemies are the
obvious beneficiaries of this
repulsive incident; any evi-
dence to support their picture
of the German Federal Re-
public as the torchbearer of
Nazi reaction is grist to their
mill. However, the explanation
will not wash. The East Ger-
man Communists believe their
picture of Bonn to be true;
they would not think it neces-
sary, nor would it be in their
character, to waste agents on
the work of making it come
true. Further, that a virulent
anti-Semitism of the kind
that can lead to such an action
—does survive in West Ger-
many. here and there, does not
admit of doubt; only its extent
and its importance are open
to dispute.”
....
Jhe mme . .« obviousl the
behavior of the two young
and of a few other ' who
think like them, has done much
harm Can it also do good?
Possibly, if it encourages the
\y eS f Germans to question the
habit that grows among them
0 £ making anti-Communisin
th e so j e crder j on 0 f political
respectability; if it spurs them
t 0 i oo k a g a j n a j their educa-
tional system and at the history
that is taught in their schools ;
jf j n general, it causes self-
questioning and is an antidote
to political smugness.
‘’For it is smugness that is the
real evil of West German
politics of the present day, and
that gives shelter to more
noxious weeds. The British,
for their part, have no cause
to be smug either ; imitators of
the juvenile delinquents of
Cologne have appeared in
Notting Hill already.’
"On the Beach"
npnE first screenings of Stanley
A Kramer’s film “On the
Beach’’ have aroused comment
abroad—chiefly in the U.S.—on
t he sc j e ntific basis of the late
N ev U Shute's story of the end
0 £ W orld following a large-
senile nuclear wsr
Could the events described in
the novel and the film happen?
Earl Übell, in the New York
“Herald Tribune,” claims “the
answer is that while it is
possible to exterminate the
human race it couldn't possibly
be done as it was in the movie”:
“As a matter of fact, an all-
out saturation nuclear war
involving the major Powers
would be far more grisly than
the silent affair shown on the
screen. Furthermore, the
human race’s gritty effort to
cling to civilisation after such
a big nuclear war would be
much higher drama than the
quiet sentimentality of ‘On the
Beach.’ ”
The film shows Melbourne
awaiting the arrival of a
deadly radiation-cloud which
is creeping steadily southwards
after a nuclear war has
destroyed all life in the
Northern Hemisphere. The
Bulletin’s Melbourne reviewer
has noted that in it “Kramer
avoids what most people
thought he would include:
scenes of panic and despair
and destruction ; the horrible
effects of radiation (there is
not one death or any evidence
of critical illness); and the
suggestion that anyone would
crack morally under the
strain.”
Übell holds that “it just
can't happen that way,” and
he quotes. Dr. Frank Shelton,
formerly of the U.S. Defence
Department, as saying that the
film “is probably pure fiction
from a world-wide fallout
point of view”:
“Even Dr. Linus Pauling,
Nobel Prize chemist and a
constant critic of the [U.S]
Administration's atom-bomb
policy, admitted to this reporter
that 'On the Beach’ couldn’t
happen, although he had been
inaccurately quoted to the
contrary recently. He said,
however, it was possible to
extinguish all life with nuclear
weapons.
“A hydrogen-bomb with the
explosive force of 10-million
tons of T.N.T. (what a
weaponeer calls a 10-megaton
bomb) rains lethal radioactivity
on a ‘local’ area of 1500 to
2000 square-miles. Dr. Paul-
ing says that if you spread


8000 such bombs rather evenly
throughout the world and set
them off by surprise at once
you could cover the land-area
with rays deadly to all exposed.
“Within a few hours —or, at
most, weeks —everything would
cool off again. The residual
radioactivity trickling down
from the atmosphere over the
decades would probably in-
crease cancers and birth-im-
perfections, but it would be
far from immediately lethal as
it was in ‘On the Beach.’
“To raise the background-
level to lethal proportions in
the Northern Hemisphere you
would have to explode 9-million
megatons of hydrogen-bombs.
To extend this lethality to the
Southern Hemisphere the
number exploded in the north
would be between 20-million
megatons and 30-million mega-
tons. Nobody thinks this
technically possible.
“All this assumes that no-
body does anything to survive.
Even in Dr. Pauling's huge
surprise-attack, simple base-
ment-shelters would reduce
local fallout deaths by two-
thirds. Even in an unlikely
multi-million-megaton war the
unattacked areas could store
clean food and water, enclose
themselves, take chemicals to
flush the radioactivity out of
their bodies. There would bt
survivors; how many is a
question.
“Needless to say, a large
‘reasonable’ nuclear war of
4000 megatons wrnuld spell
death for at least 100-million
persons. The ensuing social
disorganisation might be far
more disastrous than the radio-
activity, leading to famine
(New York would be helpless
without a food-supply from the
outside), pestilence and loot-
ing. A city like Melbourne
would turn into a human
jungle rather than remain the
quiet, orderly place shown in
Mr. Kramer's picture.
“The long-term effects of the
radioactivity—the cancers, the
birth-defects these could
exterminate the human race by
attrition over the decades or
throw men back to an
aboriginal state. To para-
phrase Dr. J. Robert Oppen-
heimer. it would take a great
act of faith to call the remain-
ing creatures human.”
Population Control
Tn a letter to the “New York
Times,’’ Warren W. Eason,
Assistant Professor of Eco-
nomics at Princeton University
(U.S.), notes that “comparing
statements by Soviet social
scientists at the World Popula-
tion Conference (1954) with
those of the Roman Catholic
Bishops, in the matter of popu-
lation growth and economic
development, a number of
basic similarities appear":
“A strong criticism of birth-
control, on essentially moral
or humanistic grounds ; a
denial of its acceptability even
if the aim is to raise the per
capita standard of living of
underdeveloped countries ; the
view that only by increasing
the productive forces of the
country effectively can and
should the per capita standard
of living be raised.
“I should like to comment
on the implications of the
Soviet position.
“As an expression of genuine
Manchester “Guardian.”
HERE COME THE SIXTIES.
sentiments there is probably no
reason to doubt the Soviet
stand against birth-control nor
the belief that their methods of
industrialisation can generate
rising per capita productivity
from an ‘underdeveloped’ base
under any conceivable condi-
tions of population grow th.
“The fact remains, however,
that the Soviets have experi-
enced anything but a popula-
tion ‘explosion.’
“For the following reasons
the [Russian] population has
grown on an average by less
than 1 per cent, a year since
the beginning of rapid industri-
alisation (1928) compared to
2 per cent, before:
“Deathrates increased and
birthrates decreased temporarily
in 1931-1934, due largely to
difficulties over collectivisation
in the countryside. Population
losses from World War II
aggregated 45-million unborn
or untimely dead. Birthrates
since 1950 have been about
one-half the pre-industrialisa-
tion level, and the population
increase therefore is also less,
despite low' deathrates.
“These developments cer-
tainly reflect in part unique
and exceptional circumstances.
Nevertheless, if pre-industriali-
sation rates of growth had been
maintained or exceeded the
population would now be over
300 million compared to an
actual 210 million.
“Even under such circum-
stances the Soviet method of
industrialisation might have
succeeded in raising per capita
production quickly. But con-
sidering the difficulties actually
experienced, for example, in
raising agricultural productivity,
one can easily imagine a some-
what different pattern of in-
dustrialisation, not to mention
a different ‘population policy,’
if the higher rates of popula-
tion growth had prevailed.
“As it is, ‘policy’ and ‘prac-
tice’ with respect to population
now represent something of a
paradox. There is the declara-
tion against birth-control and
the long-standing programme
of benefits to mothers with
many children. At the same
time contraceptives are avail-
able for purchase, and abortions
may once again be obtained
in Soviet hospitals.
“Most important Soviet
parents are restricting the size
of their families —to include,
in urban areas, one or two,
possibly three, but rarely four
or more children. This repre-
sents a demographic and
sociological development of
considerable magnitude,
paralleling closely (but com-
pressed in time) the earlier ex-
perience of many presently in-
dustrialised countries.
“Soviet parents express the
view that they want to have
only as many children as they
can raise with a modicum of
attention to their general wel-
fare within the family circle.
This suggests, among other
things, that if the standard of
living of Soviet citizens should
continue to rise, and especially
if the housing-shortage is allevi-
ated, it would not be out of the
question to foresee larger
families and a higher birthrate
in the future.”
A Wrong Move
Along with a number of
other British papers, Lon-
don “Economist” considers
President Eisenhower's New
Year announcement that the
U.S. will not continue its
voluntary suspension of nuclear
tests “a wrong move'’:
“It is bound to cost his
country the loss of some good-
will, and one can hardly see
any counterbalancing advant-
age to be gained. Presumably
the idea is to put pressure on
the Russians to stop dragging
their feet at the Geneva talks
on test-suspension, which have,
admittedly, proved painfully
slow: but it is not yet time to
despair of reaching agreement
there.
“It is very doubtful whether
the American announcement
represents an effective form of
pressure. The Russians know
just how unpopular the first
nuclear Power to resume test-
ing will make itself (they have
indicated pretty clearly that
they will not allow one or two
minor French bangs to pro-
voke them into resuming and
thereby enabling the Ameri-
cans to follow suit).
“They can scarcely believe
that the United States will be
imprudent enough actually to
use the freedom it has now
given itself. They are probably
confident that, if it did, its
political losses would be
greater than its technical gains.
So they are not likely to be
much impressed.
“The impatient men in the
Pentagon and the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission will not,
for their part, be long mollified
if theoretical freedom to get on
with their fascinating experi-
ments turns out in practice to
mean that they are reined-in
just as firmly as before. And
elsewhere in Washington—par-
ticularly in some sections of the
State Department, and in
Senator Humphrey’s sub-com-
mittee on disarmament —there
must now be rueful reflections
on the likelihood that the new
move may make the Russians
less, rather than more, willing


Obtain almost immediate relief from the pain of swollen joints, fingers, toes, wrists, ankles, knees and elbows
which won’t respond to ordinary treatment.
For SWOLLEN AND INFLAMED JOINTS Take
ARTHRITIS
GOUT
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
m
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
ARTHRITIS
GOUT
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
Stop them getting worse. They will if not treated now! Take this special COLCHISONE treatment right away. There
are no unpleasant after effects. They are easy to take and harmless. Large Economy Size 30/-, generally sufficient plus reserve.
Small Size 17/6. Purine Food Chart with every bottle.
Obtainable from every Chemist in Australia.
Australian Distributors: CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.), 232 COMMONWEALTH STREET, SYDNEY.
to let an international inspec-
torate get a foot in their door
—which is, after all, the main
object of the Geneva talks.”
Dragnet Digest
Edward Crankshaw, in Lon-
don “Observer”: “On my last
visit to Russia early last year
nothing emerged more clearly
than this. The very young can
see very well that the idealistic
side of Leninism has no place
at all in the minds and lives of
the great majority of the
middle-aged men, also survivors
of the purges, who hold most
of the governing party-posts.
Further, they find Mr. Khrush-
chev's emphasis on material
values barren in the extreme.
What interests them is not the
technique of revolution, or
spreading the gospel to the
world, or even bringing plenty
to the Soviet Union (none of
them seem to realise quite how
much they owe Mr. Khrush-
chev in this matter), but social
justice and ideas of brother-
hood.
“But the younger ones are
indeed ready to hold a dogma
and carry it to the limit. At
the moment, however, they
have not got one. For the time
being, the place of ideas is
taken by disguised prejudices
and intellectual convention,
and these have only a negative
force.”
* * *
Christopher Hollis, in Lon-
don “Spectator”: “Few people
in Britain, I think, doubt that
General de Gaulle’s ambition
to equip his country with
nuclear weapons not because
he has any sane use for them
but simply as a matter of
prestige is both dotty and
dangerous—dotty in itself and
dangerous because it is all but
certain that other nations will
follow his example,. and the
ultimate danger of a world of
nuclear Powers needs no em-
phasis to those who have read
or seen On the Beach. Yet how
can our Government say any-
thing in criticism of General
de Gaulle’s policy when he is
merely following in our foot-
steps? How can our Opposi-
tion say anything in criticism
of it when it was Lord Attlee
who first committed us to this
policy of ‘atoms for prestige’?”
* * *
Chicago “Daily News”:
“The British Information Ser-
vice has calculated that in the
1954-58 period Britain gave
military and economic aid to
other nations that cost $22 for
each man, woman or child in
Britain. For the United States
foreign aid in the same period
cost $5B per capita.
“For Russia and the entire
Sino-Soviet bloc such outlays
have amounted to 8 cents per
capita, in total only 5 per cent,
of the Western aid. Soviet
assistance, moreover, has been
mainly in the form of repay-
able credits.
“Plainly this is one race in
which we have far outdistanced
Russia. However, since the
theory is that such foreign aid
helps to keep the recipient
nations from going Communist,
perhaps the most remarkable
thing about the record is that
the Russians contributed any-
thing at all.”
* * *
Arnold Toynbee, in London
“Observer”: “The most striking
single change in the world
within [the last] decade —or,
rather, within the 12 years be-
ginning in 1947—has been the
progressive political emancipa-
tion of non-Western people
that had been temporarily
under Western colonial rule.
The decisive event here was
the emancipation of India,
Pakistan, Burma and Ceylon
in 1947. We are now up
against those tough cases —all
in Africa—in which a minority
of Western settlers has been
injected into a non-Western
population. Algeria, Kenya,
Central Africa, South Africa
are going to be harder nuts to
crack than Guinea, Ghana,
Indonesia or South Vietnam.
“So long as these intractable
problems of intermingled races
remain unsolved, we may ex-
pect to see the Asian and
African peoples maintain a
united anti-Western front. The
increase in their/ combined
political power is registered in
the increasing importance of
their vote in the United
Nations Assembly. Their vot-
ing strength there is out of pro-
portion to their aggregate mili-
tary and economic power. But
voting strength is bound to
appreciate in value in a world
where international trans-
actions have to be settled by
persuasion instead of by force,
for fear of precipitating an
atomic world war.”
•S' •{•
London “Financial Times”:
“During the 1950’s the world
swung politically to the Right.
Even in Russia the tone of the
present Administration is far
from radical; in Britain and
the United States moderate
Right - wing Administrations
obtained power in the early
1950’5, held it again in the mid-
decade elections, and enter
the 1960’s stronger than they
were 10 years ago. In both
countries this trend seems well
established, and it is accom-
panied by a weakening of the
political influence of the trade-
unions and a strengthening. of
the enlarged middle-class.
“This political complexion
may remain, but the present
strong pattern of personal
leadership is bound to change.
We know that President Eisen-
hower is to retire in January,
1961. The remaining group of
Adenauer, de Gaulle, Macmil-
lan, Khrushchev, Nehru and
Mao Tse-tung does now
dominate the imagination of
the world, but it is scarcely
possible that all of them
should still be in power in 10
years’ time. Apart from de
Gaulle and Nehru none of them
appears to be Constitutionally
indispensable, but all of them
enjoy a quite unusual hold on
public opinion and confidence.”
* Jfc *
London “New Statesman”:
“The Indian villager has not
yet learnt to say that ‘man is
the master of things.’ Nor
does the Right Wing of [the
Indian] Congress wish him to
believe this. The Brahminical
attitude to working (so often
reinforced by Oxford) is still a
handicap, in spite of the scien-
tific and technical colleges that
have recently sprung-up in
India.
“In these matters President
Eisenhower cannot do much to
help. National characteristics
alter but slowly. Nehru's
scientific bent and personal
example have begun the
change, but the most potent
agent of progress may well be
Communist China. The threat
to India's frontier may have
something of the effect that
the Spanish threat had on 16th-
century England. If America
provides capital and the
Chinese continue to ‘mobilise’
an angry India, Eisenhower’s
dream of a prosperous India
may become a reality.”


Between
Ourselves
«
fik
Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
deck, the second-mate was
racing for’ard.
“Stay there!” yelled Salter,
shaking his ham-like fist.
“Stay there, you squirt of
bilge-water. That’s where you
belong! ”
The incident immediately
solved a problem for the
second-mate. The first dry
land would be good enough for
him.
A ll hands, except the mate,
cleared out in Sydney and
Captain Salter showed a nice
profit on the voyage.
The chronometer was set
going again to correct G.M.T.
from the time-ball on Observa-
tory Hill, but the rating had
somehow been upset when it
was allowed to run down,
and it was again erratic.
Salter worked on it while
the vessel was discharging. He
wanted to avoid sending it
ashore for repairs: an admis-
sion of failure. He anticipated
the satisfaction of final
achievement, and it was neces-
sary to have it right before
returning across the Tasman
Sea.
The cargo was discharged
on the fifth day and still the
chronometer was behaving
badly.
On the following day Salter
returned from the coal-agent-’s
office in O’Connell Street and
said to the mate: “Round-
up a crew, mister. As soon
as we get ’em aboard we’ll
clear for Newcastle.”
A crew was duly rounded-
up from the boarding-houses
around the waterfront. Two
had been to sea before.
“Can’t get hold of a second-
mate,” said the mate, who dis-
liked the prospect of the added
work entailed.
“We’ll pick one up in New-
castle,” said Salter. “The place
is lousy with them. Let go.”
The Susie Tucker had taken
the last truck of coal and the
crew had battened down and
washed the coal-dust off the
deck. It was 9 p.m., and they
were standing-by in the fo’c’sle
waiting to be called, when the
tug arrived.
The ship was still without
a second-mate, and although
Salter didn’t much like the
prospect of watchkeeping,
there was a fair wind blowing,
and he wasn’t going to waste
another day.
The chronometer was now
losing only half-a-second a
day, and as he sat at his desk
making final adjustments to it,
he was well satisfied.
So absorbed that he failed
to hear the timid knock on
the open door of his cabin,
he looked up at the second
knock and his face cracked into
a grin. Maybe second-mates
weren’t so scarce after all.
“Come ini” he boomed, and
as the man walked into the
flare of the lamplight, Salter
was able to perceive by his
nose that he was a boozer.
He was a slight, weedy
individual. In his hand he
held a piece of parchment-
script which said: “Master,
Foreign - going Square-
rigged
He handed it to Salter and
said, “I was”
“Tug’s alongside, sir!” the
mate called down from the
companionway.
“Aye, aye!”
Salter invited the weedy
individual to a seat, and placed
a bottle of brandy and a glass
on his desk.
“Will you excuse me a
moment? Help yourself.”
The man smiled and reached
for the bottle, and Salter
disappeared up the companion-
way.
The crew were out waiting
the order to let-go. The mate
was standing by the wheel.
“We have our second-mate,
mister,” said the Captain.
“When I call through the sky-
light, you can cast-off.”
“Aye, aye, sir!”
Qalter knew the law about
shanghai-ing. He pre-
ferred his crew to be duly
signed-on the ship’s articles
before leaving.
“Rare brandy you have here,
Captain,” said the weedy
individual as Salter returned
to his cabin. There was a
trace of Irish brogue in his
voice. He reached for the
bottle again and looked up
at Salter inquiringly.
“May I indulge ... ?”
“By all means,” said Salter
as he opened the ship’s articles
and dipped a pen in the ink.
He waited until the weedy
one had poured the drink, then
proffered the pen.
“If you will,” said Salter,
pointing to a space under a
column of names.
“Ah, the Visitors’ Book.
Certainly.”
The weedy one took the
pen, sipped his drink and
scribbled: “Patrick Joseph
O’Flattery.”
Salter looked up at the sky-
light and nodded to the mate,
whose face was shining
through it.
“We’re sailing right away,”
said Salter, looking down on
O’Flattery.
“In that case,” replied
O’Flattery with a broad grin,
beginning to rise, “I shall not
delay you”
Salter pressed him back into
his chair: “You will not have
time to get your gear, Mister
O’Flattery, and I’d like to have
a word with you.
“I’d like to impress upon
you right now” —he blotted the
signature—-“that I expect strict
discipline on my ship. We
have a green crew and we
usually make sailors out of
them in one trip—or else . .
Here he paused to grin, his
piggy eyes mere slits.
“When I give an order,” he
continued, the grin disappear-
ing like a shadow, “I don’t
want ’em to walk—neither have
they got to run.” He poked
his face closer to O’Flattery’s
and roared, “They’ve got to
fly
“But”
“Shut up!” said Salter with
a scowl. “You, as second-
mate, have got to make ’em
fly, and you’ve got to keep
hopping to do it!”
fidgeted and
showed signs of irrita-
bility.
“Look here” he began.
“I’m talking!” thundered
Salter.
He opened the lid of the
chronometer-case lying on his
desk and carefully replaced
the chronometer in its gimbals.
“Now, mister second-mate,”
he continued with a leery grin
as he gave O’Flattery the title,
“it’s your job, as you know,
to look after the chronometer.
But this is a special chrono-
meter. I have made it one
of the most accurate time
pieces afloat, and it needj
special care.
“It has to be wound, by you
every day when you come oi
watch at midnight. Not jus>
wound,” he autied forcibly
his jaw protruding and his fad
hardening, “but wound accord!
ing to the instructions paste
up alongside the thermomete
in the chart-room. So man;
half-turns of the key, accord,
ing to the temperature'
Understand?”
There was a pause, ant
Salter, seeing that o’Flatter)(
was more surprised than inr'
pressed, decided to round-ofi
the interview more impressively,
“Understand this,” he said
slowly as he raised his hairy
fist. “I care no more for a
man’s life than I do for that
fly’s!” x
And he brought his fist'
down with a crash upon a fly
that had settled on his desk.
His hard stare changed to a*
leery grin as he watched the
effect of this display.
After a few moments' pause,,
O’Flattery grinned slightly aiw
rose from his seat.
He said, “Well, Captain, 1
hardly know what this is all
about. You see, I was just,
returning after delivering a suit
to that vessel lying ahead, and
I picked that certificate up at
the foot of your gangway.
“It looked important to me
and I thought there might be;,
some small reward —you know
—a drop of brandy or some-
thing . . .”
Here a mischievous grin
spread across his face as
Salter replaced the cork in the
bottle.
“You see, Ca p t a-i n,”
O’Flattery continued, “I’m a|
tailor, not a sailor. But, after
all, Captain”—he broke into
a rich Irish brogue as the grin*
spread wider across his face—
“ye’re a man afther me own
heart—for I care no more for
a man’s life than I do for that
damned owld alarum-clock U
And with a swipe he put his
fist through the face of the,
chronometer. ’
When the Susie Tucker was
100yds. from the wharf;
the mate refused to take any
more of the responsibility f° r
taking the schooner out of the
port. He went below to call
the Captain. f
He immediately hurried on
deck and ordered the tug
take the Susie Tucker back to
the wharf.
When the doctor arrived h £
pronounced life extinct.
“Heart,” he explained to tlf
mate. “Even a slight shod
sometimes kills them.”


ENTERTAIN IN STYLE
AT THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
<ZT2~;
# 5 Magnificent Banquet
Rooms
• Superb Service
• Excellent Catering
The friendly helpful advice of The
Hotel Metropole’s experienced staff
will make your party planning a
distinct pleasure. You’ll find just
the atmosphere you want in one of
The Hotel Metropole’s superb
banquet rooms including The
Elizabeth R00m... .Princess....
Philip... .Windsor and York. All
have been newly decorated in strik-
ing modern colours and tastefully
furnished! Yes, the Hotel
Metropole is fast becoming the
smartest and most fashionable
Hotel in Sydney! Cocktail party,
coming-of-age party, wedding recep-
tion or business function —the
comfortable, relaxed atmosphere, the
superb catering and service and
magnificent setting make your party
an occasion to remember at The
Hotel Metropole.
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Largest and
Mast Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
yearly until 1816 was only 474.
Thereafter the tally rose
steeply until it reached 4920 in
1834. Transportation was not
finally discontinued until 1868,
though N.S.W. took no more
convicts after 1840, and Tas-
mania none after 1852.
It could be argued with some
justice that these later trans-
poses, on the average, were
guilty of more serious crimes
than those who came earlier,
and that the Australian in-
heritance, therefore, is blacker
than the American. And that
the actual number of convicts
received here probably was in
excess of the total sent across
the Atlantic. But my conten-
tion that in America convict
beginnings are more, deeply
rooted, and convict ancestry
more widespread, is based on
the fact that the transportee
was in America three or four
generations before he was in
Australia ; and consequently
now has a much greater multi-
plication of descendants.
I think, however, we should
worry about the convicts of
our times more than about
those of history. There is
probably not one of us who
does not have some criminals,
acknowledged or not, within
measurable distance on the
family-tree. Few of us, in fact,
can trace our antecedents far ;
those who can will not find
them free of taint, even should
they belong to Royalty or one
of the other great families. The
circumstance is simply of no
consequence.
What is to the point is that
the crime-rate in America to-
day, viewed either from a
standpoint encompassing all
crime, or another taking note
of only the more serious crime,
is far and away higher
than that of Australia. It
is far and away higher, as I
was assured by a member of
the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation in the Washington head-
quarters of that great institu-
tion, than that of any other
country in the world, including
Soviet Russia. Yet nowhere in
America will you hear it
seriously held that America's
convict beginnings had any in-
fluence whatever on her sub-
sequent development.
. The current crime-wave
there, involving adolescents, I
am tempted to attribute to the
absurdly high school-leaving
age. In New York, this stands
at 18; the large and fully-
developed louts still attending
school have little to occupy
their time or their energies;
and such lessons as they care
to absorb tax neither their
strength nor their mental
capacities.
It is pitiful to see them,
school - books clutched in
hands, being led across streets
by women officers, who hold
up the traffic for them. For
the remainder of the afteroon,
and late into the night, they
may be seen playing baseball
on precisely the same streets
and avenues, heavy with
traffic, or ganging-up in door-
ways. These pursuits seem to
hold more attraction than mak-
ing use of the many parks and
playgrounds available to them,
“ Let's give her a whistle and see"
or pursuing the free entertain-
ment so abundantly available
in New York.
Such lads are not permitted
to work except, with special
sanction, in holiday - time.
Whether this is for their bene-
fit or that of the unions 1
would not know. I do know,
however, that their time is
unoccupied, and as I learnt
long ago from old Isaac
Watts, “Satan finds some mis-
chief still for idle hands to do.”
Some of the worst of the
delinquents are definitely not
descended from convicts. The
colored ones amongst them
are not, nor are the Puerto
Ricans. Some of the latter
attend the schools and are
barred from work even though
their command of the language
is so inadequate that their
lessons do not advance them.
This is a problem that is being
tackled in New York with
intelligence. But in the mean-
time such lads are released on
the general labor-market at 18
with no more erudition than
they had at 12 years of age,
with a habit of idleness, and a
history of dissimulation and
of mischief.
That is a digression. The
point I am really making is
that both America and Aus-
tralia had convict beginnings,
but only Australia holds them
detrimental, or influential in
any way. Dame Mary Gilmore
in a letter to the “Sydney
Morning Herald” said: “The
poorest convict who came to
this country helped make Aus-
tralia. Their blood and their
tears were as much a part of
that making as the spades and
axes they used for clearing and
tilling the land that fed begin-
nings. They should be remem-
bered and thanked, not blotted-
out and forgotten.”
For the pioneering work
they did, perhaps. But not for
their recorded convictions,
though these had far less
impact on the country than
the snobbery of the free settler,
which came later. Convicts
went to both the Northern and
the Southern States in America,
and made no measurable
common impression on the
widely differing character of
the two territories. While
America remains conscious of
the fact that convicts aided
her beginnings, she lends them
less significance than the
political and religious refugees
that arrived. Well, we’ve had
them, too.
The great thing that aided
the growth of the United
States was a communal vision.
We unfortunately have had
no statesmen capable of mak-
ing such speeches as those
which will forever give inspira-
tion and leadership to the
American; our written Con-
stitution expresses no such
ideals as have carried the
American nation to greatness ;
and while we are possessed of
beliefs and ideals, while our
national pride and our national
ability are second to none, we
have been inarticulate. If any
great speeches have been made,
they are not to be found, as
America’s inspirations are,
wherever there is a reason or
an excuse, in the school-books,
on the monuments, on the walls
of public buildings, in sanc-
tuaries where troops stand on
guard to enhance their signi-
ficance, carved deep in endur-
ing marble or moulded in
bronze, repeated without end
in declarations and attesta-
tions, made an essential
feature of ceremonies ranging
from school-leaving to citizen-
ship, and dear in their
familiarity to every citizen.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Those Slogans
Outside of West Germany —
and probably to some extent
even inside that country —the
sudden spate of anti-Jewish
slogans in country after
country would seem to be
Communist-inspired.
In several countries where
slogan-writing has been re-
ported there has never before
been any pronounced anti-
Semitic feeling; nor are ex-
Nazis likely to be conspicuous
in any of them. On the other
hand, no slogan-writing was
reported from several countries
in which many former Nazis
have taken refuge.
The apparent spontaneity of
the slogan-daubing points to
world - wide organisational
facilities. Who are more likely
to have these facilities than
the Communists?
In view of the coming
Summit, at which Germany will
be a major topic, it would be
to Russia’s advantage to foster
Allied suspicion of the West
Germans’ sincerity in their
professed abhorrence of
Nazism. — Kanimbla (N.S.W.)
Group Teaching
Tell “Western Ped” (B.
30/12/ *59) that the diffi-
culty about group - teaching
is not essentially “to per-
suade teachers to adopt this
procedure,” but rather to get
them to understand that edu-
cational research is going on
in Australia and that group-
teaching is one of its not-very-
recent “discoveries.” (Inciden-
tally, the system has possibly
greater potentialities w'hen
applied in secondary schools,
where at present it is almost
unknown.)
The first essential is that the
groups should be voluntary
associations. This necessitates
distribution of slips of paper
on which pupils write —con-
fidentially the names of
those they’d prefer to' work
with, in order of preference,
and also the names of
those with whom they would
not like to work, in order of
derogation. The teacher then
has to evaluate these prefer-
ences by means of a tabular
assessment and compose the
groups accordingly.
Such a system cannot, of
course, take the place of ordi-
nary classroom teaching, but it
is a remarkably useful adjunct.
By means of it boys learn to
work co-operatively instead of
in cutthroat competiton for
marks and places.
In English, for instance, the
problem of why Hamlet put off
killing the king could be dis-
cussed most profitably in group
fashion, each group presenting
arguments in support of which
“Kind of early this morning, aren't you ?”
every member has contributed
a certain amount of research.
English essays can be pro-
duced in a similar way, with
groups offering intelligent criti-
cism of each other’s efforts. In
this way no boy in the class
lapses into professional school-
boyism ; each is part of a co-
operative whole.
The essential technique of
group-teaching is to be seen
effectively in the work of Alco-
holics Anonymous. The Com-
munists also employ it in their
“cell” organisation. Further
back in time, the greatest
teacher of all made very effect-
ive use of it in the short years
of his teaching life. —Sir (Q.).
Communist Defeats
Rollo Gillespie’s remark, in
his review of Brigadier Richard
Miers’s book Shoot to Kill
(Red Page 30/12/’59), that “so
far Malaya has been the only
part of the world where Com-
munists have been met in open
fight and beaten conclusively”
was incorrect.
The Communists and their
allies were beaten decisively in
the Spanish Civil War of
1936-39. They were on the
defensive practically the whole
time, proving unable even to
prosecute effective guerrilla
operations behind the
Nationalist lines. The battle-
front was extensive ; the
Nationalist lines of communi-
cation were long and slenderly
guarded, most of the man-
power being needed in the
fighting-areas. Despite this,
and the mountainous nature of
much of the country, the
Nationalists had little trouble
from guerrillas.
And after World War II the
Greeks, helped with materials
and finance from the U.K. and
the U.S., successfully overcame
a determined and ruthless
Communist guerrilla campaign,
backed by neighboring Com-
munist-dominated countries.—
Farinmail (N.S.W.).
Darwin Likes Its Trees
“Pieter Nuyts” (B. 16/12/’59)
might be interested to leant
that, in contrast to develop-
mental works in other parts of
Australia, trees are not wil-
fully destroyed in Darwin. In
fact, the N.T. Administration,
Commonwealth Works, pri-
vate home-builders and con-
tractors all seem to have an
infinite regard for even the
scraggiest specimens of native
flora.
Something like a thousand
new houses, most of them for
public seryants, have been
built in Darwin in the last few
years. Private building is go-
ing on at a great bat; so is
road-making and erection cf
power- and telephone-lines.
To provide building-sites for
private homes whole new
subdivisions at the seaside
suburb of Nightcliff and else-
where have been laid out, with
bitumen-sealed streets, con-
crete-channelling, footpaths and
sewerage. But the building-
blocks have not been cleared;
wherever humanly possible the
bush trees have been left stand-
ing, even if they are only
scraggy saplings. It is pleasant
to see new homes, most of them
of very modern design, standing
amid bright green-foliaged iron-
woods and grey-green blood-
woods and woollybutts.
The tendency to leave trees
standing goes to what some
people might call extremes, it
being common to see a £5OOO
house built under leaning
(possibly ant-eaten) trees of
considerable girth. The chok-
ing of roof-valleys with leaves
is considered a minor irrita-
tion in return for the shade the
trees afford.
At least one Darwin shop has
a huge woollybutt growing up
through the 4ft. overhanging
eaves of its gable roof the
roof obviously having been
made to fit around the tree’s
trunk.
v If a sizeable cyclone ever hits
Darwin again, as it did back
in 1937, the main damage to
buildings will probably come
from falling trees. In fact,
even after every storm mark-
ing the breaking of the “dry”
and the onset of the “wet’
there is usally a toll of
smashed outhouses, fences,
phone-lines and even parked


in ihc
mmm
Australia Day flags will be flying next Tuesday,
the anniversary of Governor Phillip’s formal
proclamation of a British colony at Sydney on
January 26. 1788.
Arrival of the “First Fleet” has passed into
acceptance as the event on which to centre our
national day. Some citizens, with an equal regard
for history, say it could be as fittingly observed on
April 29, the date on which Captain Cook landed
at Botany Bay in 1770; or on the date in August
of the same year when he proclaimed Eastern
Australia a British possession on a small island off
the northern tip of Queensland.
More important than any mark on a calendar,
however, is that we should keep the day in a spirit
of dedication and thanksgiving. The purpose of any
national day is that it should stir a profound love
of country. It is a day for pride—the proper pride
which rises from achievement rather than from
race, and which in its best expression is very close
to humility.
One thought we might entertain on such an
occasion is that other navigators—Dutch. Spanish,
Portuguese, French, intrepid voyagers all of them
—also came early to the oceans around us, and by
chance were denied a timely sighting of the eastern
shore on which our heritage was founded.
It should remind us of the warm welcome we
owe to the migrants of these and other countries
who come to live among us now.
There is much to claim our corporate
remembrance on Australia Day: the toil and
sacrifice ihat have gone into building this
Commonwealth on the British foundations, for
instance. But the day demands more than salute
to the honourable past, more than rejoicing in the
prosperous present.
The future, with everything it holds in prospect
for our country, requires that this shall be a day
on which to renew the pledge of our individual
lives and labours in Australia’s cause. And action
flowing from that pledge should match in generosity
the gift that Providence has placed with us.
cars when trees fall in back-
yards and on roadsides.
Gardens are laid-out around
houses in the shade of big
trees, which in some streets
almost hide the houses. In the
proposed construction of one
of Darwin's back thorough-
fares provision is said to have
been made for a little bend- in
the edge of the street-align-
ment because of the existence
at that point of one of Darwin’s
most venerable banyan trees.
Evidently planners in other
areas which consider themselves
much more “civilised” than
Darwin would do well to copy
this appreciation of local flora.
—Arafura (N.T.).
Up With Taxes
Higher taxation is probably
the most unpopular means of
fighting inflation ; but I agree
with the view lately expressed
by Professor Baxter (University
of N.S.W.) in a TV-interview,
that it is also one of the most
effective.
Higher taxation will not only
help to restrain reckless private
spending ; it will provide con-
siderable funds out of which
developmental works can be
undertaken. Works paid for in
this way are no longer a drain
on the community, as is the
case when they are undertaken
on loan-funds with interest-
charges added.
It used to be a parrot-cry
during the war, when overtime
was essential in the national
interest, that wmrkers were no
better off because their higher
earnings were eaten-up by
taxation. To a great extent
that was true ; it is also true
that today a substantial por-
tion of the estimated £lO million
which it will cost the Federal
Government to pay higher
margins to the public service
will flow back to the Treasury
in taxation ; but I have yet to
meet the person who does not
relish getting his (or her) hands
on extra salary or wages, even
if taxation takes nearly all the
increase back again. Higher
earnings give a sense of per-
sonal affluence. Even the pay-
ment of higher taxation is
something to boast about!
It is futile, in my opinion, to
try to beat inflation by urging
people to save more. They
simply won’t do it. When
goods are scarce people with
money to spare will pay higher
prices for them ; when goods
a re plentiful, they will buy in
greater quantities. Let workers
generally receive the higher
earnings, but damp-down their
spending by higher taxation. In
that way inflation will be kept
in check. Peter Simple
(N.S.W.).
Educational Inadequacy
“Sir’s” comments on out-of-
school coaching (B. 30/12/’59) ■
are sound enough, but it's
regrettable that he was unable
to make them without casting
a slur on N.S.W. public-school
teachers..
He grudgingly admits that
the headmaster who attacked
the outside coaches has a
university-degree (“of some
sort”!) and that he received
some teacher-training, even
though this training took
place in a school disguised as
a “college,” as distinct from a
“true collegiate foundation.”
A college is merely a “collec-
tion” —usually of students —-
and the term is therefore as
appropriate as any other to
designate an institution for the
training of teachers.
The headmaster concerned
might not have a teaching-
licence, but he certainly has a
teacher’s certificate, which is,
I suppose, much the same
thing. I received my certifi-
cate after I had gained a
university-degree—a Diploma
of Education—and completed
a year’s satisfactory teaching
in a secondary school.
In any case, does the Gov-
ernment need to issue a licence
to a public-school teacher
whose work is regularly in-
spected by a Government
officer?
I gather that the headmaster
proposed that coaches be
licensed or registered in much
the same way as public
accountants or tax-agents need
to be registered in N.S.W. This
device to protect the public
might well be applied to
coaches, for it is unfortunately
true that many of them hood-
wink the public at 30s. an
hour.—B. E. D. (N.S.W.).
Civil Servants’ Perks
Westralian journalists are in-
censed at the growing demands
of public servants for payment
for news-items. Frequently a
reporter making a legitimate
request for information which
only a Government department
can supply is met by an offer
from a civil servant to supply
the information in the form of
an article—to be paid for, of
course —or else there’s a certain
amount of hedging with the
obvious object of getting an
offer.
The issue hinges on the
ownership of information
which is the result of research


conducted by a civil servant in
the course of his employment
and entirely at the public ex-
pense. Does that new know-
ledge belong to the State —i.e.,
the public—or is it the property
of the researcher?
An analogy exists in the case
of an industrial chemist em-
ployed by a private firm. Any
new knowledge gained in the
course of his research is held,
rightly, to belong to his em-
ployer ; and any such em-
ployee attempting to peddle the
information would be liable
to dismissal and, perhaps,
criminal action.
The same should apply to
civil servants. A university
student gains a degree and
accepts a position in, say, the
Agriculture Department. He
has a certain amount of routine
work and some opportunity for
research; and eventually he
may be engaged wholly on re-
search. This is necessary if he
is to become fully competent;
but he is being paid, usually
well, for work which may be
wholly unproductive. If it is
productive, either through his
genius or by accident, the fruits
of his work rightly belong to
the people who paid for it.
The young scientist himself
is rewarded in many ways. His
reputation is enhanced ; pro-
motion, if not immediate, is at
least assured ; and he may be
sent overseas, again at public
expense, for further study and
“ He’s practising for the Stadium again."
research—which almost inevit-
ably leads to further promotion
or the opportunity to apply for
a better position elsewhere.
Taken all round, he’s being
given every opportunity to gain
more knowledge; he’s being
~ f , .
paid for the time he spends
learning ; and if he succeeds
in learning he’s promoted.
Surely the knowledge he gains
belongs to the public which
made its acquisition possible,
and no further payment should
be required to ensure its publi-
cation.
Payment is not being re-
quired in every case, of course ;
but the complaint is catching.
The A.B.C. has made matters
worse by adopting the practice
of paying civil servants for talks
given in the course of their
work and with the purpose of
relaying information they have
gained to the very people who
have paid for it. This costs the
A.B.C. thousands of pounds a
year and precludes, or reduces
payment for, other talks and
items of a more general or more
cultural appeal.
If a civil servant feels that
certain information should be
withheld, and his objection is
supported by the head of his
department, he may be justified
in withholding it, provided it
can be disseminated suitably
in official publications. He may
even argue that, however much
the public is entitled to the in-
formation, there is no case for
a privately-owned publication
to profit by it. But when the
demand for payment is made
on a public institution such as
the A.B.C. these objections be-
come invalid.
I’m opposed to any increase
in the civil service, but there
seems to be a case for an office
through which all departmental
news could be channelled, and
to which newspapers and the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 574
Across
I—Chinese1 —Chinese rendering of 1-down for a Menzies member
1 cast off when soothed. (10)
s—Bird5 —Bird 1 encore in Italy. (4)
9 —Damaged a tin insect with ego against its meaning. (4)
10 —Many danced under this small box-office alternative
backing a vehicle to heaven. (10)
12 —Go madly, for this is how government business is
done. (14)
14— Scotch may be broken down
by this turf article. (4)
15— A church seaman meeting an
influential Algerian. (5)
17—A Tivoli comedian or a Stratford
tragedian. (4)
19— Change in a set direction. (4)
20— No longer its departures. (5)
21 — The Irish opposed a lubra for
dishonest gain. (4)
24 —June’s literary effort? (4, 2,3, 5)
28— Grand times are to be had
with these illustrious thinkers
who are supposed to think
alike. (5, 5)
29 Harry who had a theme fruit
within a mile. (4)
30 — A parent—the daddy of them
all? (4)
31 — Stressed back and Gallicised part
of a dinner service. (7, 3)
Down
1— nourished flourmill offal when
served up. (10)
2 A b’it of advice on poetry from
the other side of the world. (9)
3 Rage in the way with the alter-
native thousand. (5)
4 Removal to a great distance is
necessary; it’s introducing Lenin
to me. (9)
6 Herb (so sweet) disturbs the
bails. (5)
7 Pen which is no good for
corresponding with a correspond-
ing kiss boundary to Hades. (4)
8— She suggests 30-across is just
under 1000. (5)
11 —A Swedish copper mine’s output
before smelting. (3)
13—Cutting to measure? It caused
trouble in the Army in
1914-18. (6, 4)
16 —Don’t fight on the skating
rink! (3,6)
18 —Wurlitzer kicks bucket fabrics. (9)
22 — Minced steak or fish. It can
go on foot. (5)
23 — The French moved one of the
world's biggest birds. (3)
25 — -Who opens a show? (5)
26 — Conceals leather to be a New
Guinea explorer. (5)
27 — A Royal George displayed upon
a neighborhood of the Taj
Mahal. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 573


A.B.C. could make daily re-
quests. Any information sup-
plied would have to be free
of charge, and employees in
the department would be for-
bidden to ask or accept fees
for any departmental work.—
Galyute (W.A.).
Pilots’ Troubles
I don’t know what sea-pilots
dream about in their bunks at
night, but 1 can say with some
authority that many of them
suffer from nightmares during
the day, when they have to
bring ships through the Heads
and up Melbourne’s Port
Phillip Bay—and these night-
mares are getting worse.
The trouble comes from
small fishing- and pleasure-
craft (the two are not synony-
mous) whpse occupants seem
to delight in getting themselves
into all the places where they
have no right to be.
A person wishing to drive a
car must first pass a driving-
test ; likewise with aircraft. But
any mug with absblutely no
knowledge of handling a boat
or its engine is free to push off
with a load of trusting friends
or relations and get himself
into ail kinds of bother —usually
a sandbank or some other trap
for amateurs. Rapid falling in
the barometer and other signs
mean nothing to him. Port
Phillip is a large sheet of
water, full of menace for the
confident but inexperienced
boatowner. Narrow-shaves in
the South Channel and South
Channel Cut often occur when
small boats try to get alongside
large steamers and liners just
for the fun of waving to those
on board. Around the Hovell
Pile is another popular place
for small boats to anchor —
right in the track of inward-
and outward-bound vessels.
Not long ago a disabled
launch was picked-up by a large
liner making for Port Mel-
bourne, and the near-hysterical
women passengers were given
soothing draughts while their
launch was hauled up on one
of the liner’s lifeboat-davits.
Arriving at the pier the liner
had to berth on the side from
which the dangling launch was
suspended. Berthing under cer-
tain conditions can be tricky
enough without such added
refinements.
These small craft and their
inexperienced “skippers” are a
constant source of worry, and
often expense, to shipowners.
The time has come when some-
thing will have to be done about
them. No doubt the inevitable
regulations and policing of
them will come in due course,
but in the meantime pity those
pilots!—Ceg (Vic).
British Commonwealth
Frank Sturge Harty's argu-
ment that under modern mili-
tary conditions the world-wide
character of the British Com-
monwealth gives it an advan-
tage over more concentrated
States like the U.S., Russia and
"In this game there's always a danger to the sitter from
flying rock."
China (B. 23 /12 / '59) would be
sound if the Commonwealth
were still as it was in the
1930’5.
In the ’thirties the Com-
monwealth was pretty solidly
behind the Motherland, and
when World War IT broke out
every Commonwealth country
except Eire went to war with
Germany. Nowadays the sup-
port of most of the Asian and
African territories that have
been granted self-government
or are in process of getting it is
very uncertain.
India under Nehru favors a
policy of neutralism. Most of
the new States are weak politi-
cally and are more likely to
get worse than better in this
respect. Their military strength
is negligible, whereas before
World War II the Indian Army
was one of the most effective
fighting-forces in the world.
The Governments in office
or likely to be in office in some
of these countries are un-
friendly to Britain. Their
leaders have relied for in-
fluence upon whipping-up the
cry of “colonialism.” People
who have it drummed into their
ears that the country which
granted them self-government
was an exploiter and oppressor
are not likely to favor close
co-operation with that country.
Britain’s skill in technology,
finance and science is as great
now as it was in the past, but
its people seem to lack the
will to make sacrifices in the
national interest that is neces-
sary if their country is to con-
tinue to be a great force in
the world. They are too con-
cerned with extending the Wel-
fare Slate, with easy living and
greater leisure. Under modern
conditions Britain cannot have
these things in greater abund-
ance and have national great-
ness too.
Latterday reliance on oil as
basic fuel for transport, in-
dustry and defence is a further
source of weakness. Much of
Britain’s oil-supply is drawn
from unstable, unscrupulous
Middle Eastern countries that
could easily be overrun by
Russia 1 in the event of war,
and some of which a're liable
to be suborned to divert
supplies in time of peace. Rela-
tively little oil is produced in
the politically reliable European
dominions.
One would have thought that
any British Government worth
the name in the past 30 years
would have made the economic
extraction of oil from coal a
number-one requirement of
scientific research.
As late as World War I
coal, produced mainly either
at home or in staunchly loyal
Dominions like Australia and
Canada, was the mainstay of
British economic and naval
power.— Terry the Tory
(N.S.W.).
Territory Water
Thanks to “G.R.8.” (B.
23/12/’59) for amending my
item on Territory water. As
I lived on the western escarp-
ment of the Darling Range for
some years I ought not to have
confused it with the Stirling.
However, my rough estimate
of £3 million for the suggested
supply to the Tennant was not
based on the cost of the Gold-
fields Scheme ; I did not know
what that cost was when I
wrote my piece.
My estimate was calculated
on the basis of figures I had
prepared for a supply from
the Darling River to Cobar,
after allowing for the extra
distance (it is just 100 miles
from Bourke to Cobar) and the
extra cost of all public works
in the Territory (roughly 20
per cent, on those prevailing
in Western N.S.W.).
Even a cost of consider-
ably more than £3 million to
provide a permanent water-
-supply for Tennant Creek and
its mines would be well
worth while. There are the
growing settlements along the
Stuart Highway to be con-
sidered, and some of these are
growing rapidly—Elliott, for
one. The Tennant field looks
like having a long life, and
both mineowners and their
employees are worth more con-
sideration than they have
hitherto received.
When I compiled the Cobar
estimate I was town-clerk at
Bourke. Cobar was chronically
short of water, and 1 put up
a scheme to amplify the local
supply at Bourke and give
Cobar a guaranteed quantity.
However, the people down that
way seemed to get cold feet
—perhaps they were scared
they might have to pay more
rates —so the scheme fell
through. However, if the mines
ever reopen there, as they may
well do, something of the sort
will have to be done eventually.
Since Broken Hill obtained
water from the Darling at
Menindee the whole place has
been transformed. Only those
who have lived for any length
of time in the hotter parts of
Australia realise what a
tremendous difference ample
water makes to their way of
life.—D. C. Tilghman (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FROM THE NETHERLANDS
By “CAER CARADOC”
T'd just settled-down to read
•*- London “Punch” and had
reached Ronald Duncan’s
column: “The English farmer
is the most conceited animal on
earth; his arrogance is only
matched by admirals of the
Navy. There is some justifica-
tion for the latter, but little
for”
At that moment, precisely,
Dave looked-in from Queens-
land, so we sank a couple of
rums and got talking about
modern trap-shooting and the
price of wool. After a while
the talk veered towards farm-
ing in general.
I told Dave what I had been
looking at, and asked his com-
ments. He replied: “It’s all
very well to run farmers down.
No one can generalise, though,
and miscall a lot of men who
are doing their best.”
Unperturbed, since I was
quoting, I went on: “ ‘lf I
were Minister of Agriculture I
would subsidise English
farmers to travel abroad. A
weekend at The Hague would
Disastrous floods in
Uruguay last year
killed between 1 and 2
per cent, of the total
number of sheep in
Uruguay (about 24
million). Because of
post-flood conditions
many of the surviving
animals have been
attacked by disease and
parasites. It is feared
that the quality and
yield of wool in the
new season will suffer
accordingly.
Sheep health is vital to
growers, and Australian
sheep owners are for-
tunate to have available
the Elastrator method
of castration and tail-
ing. ■ Elastrator Rubber
Rings are humane —
lambs cannot suffer the
agonies of the “knife”
—and are less likely to
become affected by
fly-strike.
show our horticulturalists that
they were a lot of slovenly
crofters compared with the
Dutch.’ ” These were Ronald
Duncan’s words.
“Perhaps there is something
to be learnt by the English,” I
added. “After all, the Dutch
“And it's called Walkabout —NOT safari!”
have tamed a much less fertile
country than the Old Dart —-
and they have made themselves
self-supporting as far as
primary products go. What’s
more, they are now making
new land from the sea. It
seems to me that they’ve got
something. The problems
seem”
Dave is quick on the draw.
He thumped the table and
bursf-out: “Australian farmers
could learn something from
these coves, then, or I’m a
Dutchman.”
By chance, four booklets
from the Netherlands Informa-
tion Office had arrived on my
desk a few days before, so I
got them out and we spent the
evening looking through them.
I offer a summary of our con-
clusions.
The first pamphlet: The
Enclosure of the Zuiderzee is
published by the Zuiderzee-
polders Development and
Colonisation Authority, of
Zwolle, Netherlands. Written
in English and well illustrated
with photographs and maps—
as all the booklets are —this 34-
page manual gives a technical
account of dike-building, and
describes how the North-
eastern Polder was reclaimed
and settled between 1937 and
1942 and the Eastern Flevo-
land Polder between 1950 and
1957, so that a total of 135,000
acres of new land was won
by the Netherlanders by these
certainly peaceful means.
Towns have been built there
and populations settled; but
the most important fact is that
farms have been established
from what was originally the
bottom of the sea —and, each
time, some 3000 candidates
apply for one of the 150 hold-
ings that the Netherlands Gov-
ernment makes available every
year.
At present work is in pro-
gress to convert Markerwaard
into farmland—there’s another
149,200 acres there and
Southern Flevoland (99,000
acres) is the next target.
Apart from the fisherfolk
who have been rehabilitated,
these new works are estimated
as able to provide permanent
accommodation and employ-
ment for about 300,000 per-
sons in the farming industry
and its associated trades.
The reclamation of the Yssel
Lake seems to be well planned
and quite possible within the
next generation. No wonder
the Netherlanders take as their
motto: “A living nation builds
for the future.”
Next booklet is entitled The
Dairy Herd of the Netherlands,
published by Fonds Voor de
Nederlandse Veefokkerij and
sponsored by the Dutch
Ministry of Agriculture, the
Netherlands and Friesian Herd-
book Societies and the
Veterinary Service.
A substantial part of the cul-
tivated area of the Netherlands
is suitable only for permanent
grass. Low elevation, high
watertable and a peculiar type
of soil have combined to make
dairyfarming a prominent part
of Dutch agriculture. The
industry had been developed
from early days, and since the
turn of the century it has
spread to the sandy regions of
the eastern and southern pro-
vinces by virtue of artificial
fertilisers, which have con-
verted infertile soils into milk-
producing pastures.
The Netherlands national
cattle-herd numbers 1,500,000
cows in milk or calf and
120,000 head of fattening-
stock. Dairy-cows are evenly
spread over the country, but
beef-production is concentrated
in the south-west and along
the big rivers in the centre.
Practically without excep-
tion cows are milked twice
daily at regular intervals,
normally by hand., This is be-
cause most dairy-cattle are
held on family farms, where
there is enough labor available
for hand-milking Lately milk-
ing-machines have been intro-
duced, and at present about 22
per cent, of the milking-herd
is machine-milked.
The booklet deals with
grassland - management, im-
provement of the herd, milk-
recording and its administra-
tion, herdbook societies, arti-
ficial insemination, export of
breeding-cattle and technical
details of Government surveys.
The third booklet is pro-
duced by the Netherlands
Cattle Herdbook Association
(abbreviated in Dutch : N.R.S.
N ederlandsehe Rundvee-
stamboek). It’s written for the
information of foreign breeders
and explains the manner in
which the N.R.S., founded in
1874, tries to promote pure
breeding and improvement of
the three Dutch breeds of
cattle: Black-and-White, Red-
and - White (Meuse - Rhine -
Yssel), and Groningen.
The N.R.S. is an open herd-
book ; that is to say, the regis-
tration is not exclusively
limited to cattle whose parents
are already in the registers.
Female cattle of officially
unknown pedigree may also be
entered if they have success-
fully passed an inspection on
conformation. From time
iimmemorial the Netherlands
have imported no cattle, so
breeders have concentrated on
the same breeds ; therefore
this open register presents no
difficulty as regards cows. Bulls
of unknown pedigree are, how-
ever, excluded from registra-
tion, and members of the
N.R.S. make exclusive use of
pedigree bulls. It should be
noted that the province of
Friesland has its own herd-


ABOUT COCKROACHES
OLAZINE kills the dirty^ 1
ROACH
Over a million jars have
been sold.
NO SPRAYING NO
SMELL.
Just Put on Paper
or in Bottle Tops.
As Supplied to
Dep’t Army and U.S.A. Navy.
CHEMISTS & STORES
SYDNEY.
3/1 per Jar,
4/- Post Free.
from
fioo
..JIS LAST PARTY
TASTY SUPPER-HASTY DEATH
NICOL CHEMICAL CO. PTY. LTD., Brisbane.
book association—the Friesian
Cattle Herdbook Society—
which keeps its own register
but co-operates with the
N.RS.
The aim of the N.R.S. is to
breed economically productive
cows with a high lifetime-
record of production. The
standards accepted are:
Preferrent Bulls: judged on
the milk-production of their
female progeny (this distinc-
tion, introduced in 1916, is
rare).
Advanced Register Cows:
those with good conformation
and a better-than-average
milking capacity, with high
butterfat content.
Preferrent Dams: those
which have themselves attained
good milking - results and
passed-on their qualities to
their direct descendants.
Government Premium Bulls:
fulfilling the requirements fixed
by the Government in concert
with the two herdbook
societies.
There are some excellent
color-photographs in this book-
let showing fine examples of
the ideal types of cattle of the
four Dutch breeds.
The fourth handbook des-
cribes Dutch auctions. It
is The Auction System of
Horticultural Marketing in the
Netherlands, published by the
Central Bureau of Horticultural
Auctions. This particular
pamphlet has run into a second
edition, due to the demand
for it from countries engaged
in market-gardening.
The system started in 1887,
when Dutch market-gardeners
found it difficult and unprofit-
able to market their goods in
a haphazard way. A certain
grower, arriving with his barge-
load of cauliflowers at the
quay of an inland harbor one
day found it better to auction
his produce than to sell it to
dealers or hand-over the lot
for sale on commission. This
started it.
Auctions really became
established in 1896, and since
then have spread all over the
Netherlands on a co-operative
basis.
The 72-page booklet des-
cribes the whole system and
gives the export-grading rules
of all forms of fruit and vege-
tables in accordance with the
Netherlands Agricultural Ex-
ports Act, 1938. This section
of the pamphlet is most im-
portant and is written with
great precision. It is worth
the study of all Australian
market-gardeners—unless they
wish to join Ronald Duncan’s
mob of “slovenly crofters.”
There was a fifth booklet,
too, which Dave and I studied
at considerable length. This
had nothing to do with farm-
ing, except in an indirect way.
Entitled Australie in Vogel-
vlucht, and written in Dutch, it
is evidently the handbook
given to prospective immigrants
to Australia. Beautifully got-
up, with 12 photographs show-
ing Australia at its best,
it gives a bird’s-eye view
of this country by means
of question and answer. I
don’t exactly understand what
the correct translation of
Hoeveel huwelijken worden er
ieder jaar gesloten ? may be,
but it seems to mean some-
thing sensible, because the
answer is carefully tabulated.
A picture of a man building
ships looks a little out of place
over the title Sheepsbouw in-
Brisbane unless you speak the
bat. But the book certainly
gives the answer to any Nether-
lander thinking of emigrating.
Down to Earth
“Trebor”: “R.H.G.” (B.
16/12/’59) assumes that be-
cause he has 100 ft. of soil be-
neath his feet soil-erosion is an
overrated problem. In many
parts of Australia the parent
rock is not half as many inches
below the surface, while on the
other hand I could show him
plenty of gullies on arable land
which have cut 20ft.-30ft. to
bedrock in a few decades.
There are two salient flaws
in “R.H.G.’s” argument.
Firstly, in a historical sense,
“R.H.G.” is custodian of his
land for only an infinitesimal
fraction of tinie. Losses are
cumulative. A few inches, or
even feet, lost in his lifetime
may not seem much, but in
the course of centuries they
spell disaster.
Secondly, there is the more
immediate effect which reacts
directly on his pocket. The
surface horizons of a soil
contain practically all the
organic matter, most of the
soil-nitrogen, all of the
elements brought up from
deeper layers by the plant-
roots, most of the applied
fertilisers residual in the soil,
and 99 per cent, of the bene-
ficial micro-flora. The value
of these can be measured in
£ s. d., and their loss, together
with the loss of a soil-mantle
well structured and permeable
to water and to plant-roots, is
far more serious than the loss
of a layer of inert soil-particles.
True, good soil can be
created from apparently
“barren” earth, but that has
been going on since the Garden
of Eden certainly long
before the “discovery” of the
magic nostrums by the authori-
ties quoted by “R.H.G.” What
he fails to appreciate is that
there is no patent formula
which will, immediately and
without cost, restore eroded
land to full production. Still
less has anyone devised an
economic method of turning
rock into soil.
Soil-conservation and soil-
development by wise land-use
practices go hand-in-hand.
Measures advocated by depart-
mental officers are designed to
prevent erosion, remedy it
where it has occurred through
past misuse, and at the same
time build-up soil-fertility and
-production. Anything less is
inadequate.
Road Trains
“North”: The motorised
cattle-transport from Cooktown
to Mareeba railhead in North
Queensland will greatly help
graziers in the inland of Cape
York Peninsula. A road-train
100 ft. long, consisting of a
diesel-powered prime-mover
and two trailers, it can travel
the 200-mile route in about
eight hours, compared with
eight weeks on droving-treks.
As another road-transport
advance, a Canberra firm of
stock - transporters propose
using a fleet of diesel-electric
“off-road trains” to carry
stock from Queensland’s
Channel Country and Far West
to railheads or fattening
country in eastern localities.
An official has been touring the
outback looking for suitable
routes.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(7/1/’60)
Northern Queensland will probably have heavy rains
during February, with flooding on the coast from Mackay
northwards. Rainfall is likely to be moderate in southern
Queensland, and light in part of the Maranoa and the far-
western and far-south-western districts. Go'od general rains
should be experienced in March.
Rainfall should be patchy, varying from light to
moderate, in N.S.W. during February, apart from isolated
heavier falls in part of the central-western districts and
South-west Slopes. Patchy rains may continue, but heavy
rains and severe flooding are likely in May.
Moderate to good rains are indicated in most of Vic-
toria during February, although the Mallee and Wimmera
may have only light to moderate patchy rains. Rainfall may
be poor in March and April, with good seasonal rains in
May.
South Australia should receive light to moderate patchy
rains during February, apart from heavy storm-rains in the
central districts. Good seasonal rains are likely in May.
Western Australia should receive good rains in Feb-
ruary, though only light falls are likely in the Gascoyne
and Eucla districts. Reasonably good rains should continue
in March.
LENNOX WALKER.


The trains, first of which
will be in operation by next.
June, will be imported from
the U.S. and will be capable
of travelling over stock-routes
or tracks away from made
roads. Each of these huge units
consists of a diesel-electric
prime-mover and up to 10
cars powered by individual
built-in electric-motors, with a
generator delivering power to
the wheels. The cars are
mounted on 10ft.-high rubber
wheels, and bruising of cattle
will be prevented, because the
power-system gives even for-
ward movement.
The prime-mover, which
may be quickly uncoupled, is
fitted with a blade so that a
track may be made over wash-
aways and other obstacles.
Whatever course is steered by
the driver the cars follow
exactly the same path, no
matter how difficult the route
may be. With a maximum
speed of 20 m.p.h., the unit
can climb steep hills and
traverse sandy and marshy
areas without difficulty.
Although no definite esti-
mate of cartage can be given
at present, calculations for
good and bad conditions show
a cost-range of from 2d. to
lOd. a ton-mile.
Shelter-belts
“Wimra”: If the right
varieties of trees are planted
in shelter-belts they can be
used also for supplying fire-
wood, timber and fence-posts.
In the Victorian Wimmera
farmers can obtain varieties
suited to all conditions from
the State Forest Commission’s
nursery at Wail.
At the nursery the seedling-
trees are early transplanted into
individual tubes of thin sheet-
pine, rolled, held together by
rubber bands, and packed
solidly in shallow concrete
troughs so that watering and
handling are made easier.
When packed this way, there
is no root-disturbance or set-
back when they are planted-out
elsewhere.
It's best to fallow the area
selected in order to conserve
soil-moisture. Securely fence
it against rabbits, and, having
carefully planted the trees,
cultivate until they are well
established.
It is advisable to keep
records of growth ; and, in
this, failures are as illuminat-
ing as successes. Since there
is considerable variation within
species, it helps if farmers who
find they have an unusually
shady tree, or one fitted for
some specific purpose, call
forest officials’ attention to it,
so that the new variety can be
propagated in the nursery to
help others.
Firefighting
“Pieter Nuyts” : The loading-
ramp described by “R.H.G.”
(B. 16/12/’59) was advocated
by W.A. firefighting bodies a
few years ago. I discussed it
with some farmers in a district
where big areas of uncleared
land offer severe fire-hazards,
and we agreed that, while such
a ramp might look well and
be thoroughly practical, it isn't
the sort of thing many farmers
could knock-up with materials
they have around the place
and in the limited time at their
disposal.
There are hundreds of
farmers in W.A. still battling
for a living, working 16 hours
a day, without the resources
of a Road Board at their
disposal. They’re the blokes
my article was directed at, and
I’ll take a shade of odds they’ll
find my suggestion more prac-
tical than “R.H.G.’s” and at
least as quick. In giving two
minutes as the time taken to
load the tank onto the truck
1 was speaking in terms of one
man. Two men who knew
what they were doing would
have it on in less than a
minute and “R.H.G.” wouldn't
better that.
I can tell “R.H.G.” of
another critic —a Sapper lieu-
tenant, who inspected a 25kVA.
generating-plant I’d mounted
on a platform of railway-
sleepers. He offered to bet a
fiver 1 couldn't get that set on a
truck inside 15min. (It was
powered by a V 8 motor and
weighed approximately the
same as 200 gals. of water.) 1
couldn't take him up because
in a trial-run that morning
three of us had loaded it in
45sec. ; but 1 brought my team
up and this time we clipped
another five seconds off it.
That lieutenant was a first-
class civil-engineer, and 1 learnt
a lot from him. I like to think
he also learnt something from
his sergeant.
Soldier Settlement
“C.A.A.”: The soldier-
settlement project opened* by
Premier Bolte in Heystesbury
Forest (Vic.) is the largest
undertaken in Australia.
Eventually 75,000 acres will
provide 400 farms for dairy-
ing, beef-cattle and fat-lamb
raising, with holdings varying
from 180 to 200 acres.
Begun in 1956, the scheme
realises a 50-year-old dream of
local pioneers, who remember
when the area, then trackless
forest, was first surveyed at
the turn of the century.
Although various plans were
put forward, the rapidity with
which Victorian Governments
rose and fell —not to mention
the effects of two world wars—
kept practical steps in abeyance.
The story of the project is
the now familiar one of rela-
tively poor soils in good-rain-
fall areas—3oin. to 36in. here-
responding to the application
of lime, trace-elements and
fertiliser. Although it carries
some big stands of timber, the
soil is generally light and
sandy.
Profiting by C.5.1.R.0. ex-
periments over the past eight
years, 3lcwt. lime to the acre
was drilled with a seed-mixture
of 41b. Colac rye-grass, 21b.
cocksfoot, |lb. phalaris, l|lb.
Mother white-clover, lib. Mt.
Barker sub.-clover, lib. Yar-
loop sub.-clover, Palestine
strawberry-clover and lib.
Montgomery red-clover. This
was followed by a heavier lime-
dressing of one ton to the acre
applied by special lime-spread-
ing machinery.
A second drill, attached
behind the first, applied two
bags of super, and 71b. of
copper to the acre. It was
found that this method of sow-
ing, with two drills, resulted
in the recommended quantity
of pasture-seed being reduced
by half.
This dual-drill operation pre-
vented the super, being in con-


Noiv in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
■. -b/
4 \|
I**
8?
W\
k.. ;
v._
.f".
K?
JL~
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy /copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free )
Amount enclosed
tact with the seed, and by
placing seed below the surface
saved it from the effect of
minor rainstorms in late
summer and autumn, so that
it could germinate immediately
enough rain fell. It also
allowed sowing to start in mid-
summer and continue through-
out the autumn.
Development of the area
caused headaches. Suitable
agricultural-plant wasn't avail-
able, so specially - designed
implements were used to harrow
the ground and spread the lime.
Sticks and stumps were picked
up by hydraulic heavy harrows,
while big smudgers heavy-
duty rail-lines attached to
straight logs about 30ft. wide
broke-up the ploughed land
when it was rough.
It is a feather in the cap of
the Soldier Settlement Com-
mission, 'because costs have
been low during a period of in-
flationary pressure. It is
claimed that if the farms were
up for sale on present values
they would return every penny
spent on bringing them into
production.
Rsverina Wheat
“R.G.”: The champion crop
in the Riverina zone of the
1959 wheat-competitions con-
ducted by the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of N.S.W. was
entered by F. Irvin, of Cor-
rumbone, Barellan, and repre-
sented the Barellan P. and A.
Association.
The judge, J. G. Ballantyne,
farm-manager of Wagga Agri-
cultural College, described the
crop as outstanding. An attrac
five show-crop of high yielding-
capacity. it had ripened a well-
filled grain and was free from
any serious defect. For the
variety. Glenwari, seed-purity
was most satisfactory. Sown
on dark, self-mulching soil, it
had received enough rain and
natural run-off water to grow
and mature well. The use of a
land-leveller against the natural
unevenness of this type of soil
had also helped materially in
producing such an even crop.
Second place went to H. J.
Heckendorf and Sons, of Top
Reeds, Kywong, via Nar-
randera, representing the Lock-
hart P. and A. Association.
This was a crop of Sabre grown
on dark, heavy-textured land
on a flat near the Murrum-
bidgee River. Dense and well-
grown, it was late in ripening
and had been slightly affected
by hot weather.
Third place went to J. L
Regan and E. C, West, of The
Retreat, Barmedman, represent-
ing the Barmedman P. and A.
Association. This entry was a
crop of Bordan, grown on
typical heavy “Bland” soil.
Thirteen associations entered
crops for the competition.
Nine different varieties were
inspected, and it was remark-
able that non-recommended
varieties filled the first two
places. The most serious defect
was damage caused by root-rot
diseases. Only one crop
showed serious stem-rust infec-
tion.
Fruit-fly
“Strumata”: Using an insec-
ticide called Rogor 40, N.S.W.
entymologists have obtained
100 per cent, kills in several
fruit-fly trials. This spray was
invented in the U.S.A. about
10 years ago but later discarded.
It has since been used effec-
tively in Italy against the olive-
fly, which is as great a menace
to olives as the fruit-fly is to
fruit, and which acts in a
similar way.
The fruit-fly was first noted
at Toowoomba (Q.) in 1870. It
could not be identified when
specimens were sent to Eng-
land, and w'as named the
Queensland fruit-fly. It has
since spread throughout the
eastern States and South Aus-
tralia. It attacks almost every
variety of fruit and many
different kinds of vegetables,
including tomatoes, chokos,
pumpkins and other vine-
vegetables.
At present Victoria and
South Australia spend about £3
million a year on control of the
fly ; Queensland and N.S.W.
spend a great deal more.
Present methods of control
are baiting with lures or spray-
ing w'ith D.D.T., the insect
being destroyed by contact with
the insecticide. Rogor 40 is
sprayed on the half-grown fruit,
which absorbs the preparation,
and when the fly lays its eggs
they come into contact with the
spray and are rendered infertile.
The fruit is not injured in any
way.
Rogor 40 is also effective
against red-spider, aphids,
mites and red-scale, all serious
pests of fruit and vegetables.
A regulation is to be passed
by the various State Govern-
ments making it compulsoiy
to spray all fruit-trees, with a
heavy fine for non-compliance
Given the co-operation of all
fruitgrowers, commercial or
“backyarders,” the fruit-fly
should then be exterminated in
only a matter of a couple of
years.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words and author of Caper
Sauce. Words of rhyme contain-
ing lines “I can strike a line
through scrub or pine.”—692s.
Copy of The Bulletin
“Reciter.” Also, copy of Henry
Lawson’s While the Billy Boils.
Am interested in any other Lawson
books. —6924.
Does Anybody Know?
Something about the history ot
the homestead on the property
Karoo, situated on the main road
between Lithgow and Bathurst? —
6923.
Information Sought
A friend in South Africa says
there are very few blowflies in that
part of the world, and attributes
it to vultures, which clean-up all
carrion. Would it be feasible to
introduce vultures for this purpose
in Australia ? Has this ever been
considered by the C.5.1.R.0. ?
(From A. J. Nicholson, chief of
the Division of Entomology,
C.5.1.R.0.): It isn't true that there
are so few blowflies in South Africa.
The blowing of sheep occurs there
almost to the same extent as in
Australia. Prime culprit in both
countries is Lucilia cuprina, a
smallish metallic-green blowfly.
The two countries have few or no
other species of blowfly in common,
and it is possible that the impres-
sion of lack of blowflies in South
Africa could be due to the absence
of species invading houses to the
extent that the Australian browrt
blowflies do.
Introduction of carrion-eating
animals and birds was considered
in the early days of blowfly-research
in Australia. The approach was
not pursued, due possibly to a
thoroughly understandable wariness
of further introductions following
experience with the rabbit.
Carcass-destruction would probably
lessen the numbers of household
blowflies (many of these originate
in carcasses too small to attract
vultures), but it would do little to
reduce the numbers of Lucilia
cuprina, the sheepman’s worst
enemy. It breeds principally in
strikes on living sheep. The activity
of the maggot of the less important
species in carrion severely limits
the numbers of Lucilia cuprina
breeding there.
* * *
Some information on electric-
rays ? Where are they principally
found?
Electric-rays, also known as
torpedoes or numbsfishes, are
members of the family Narcoba-
tidce, which includes a considerable
number of species armed with
organs for producing electric dis-
charges. These are embedded in
the soft flesh on each side of the
head, and are composed of some
hundreds of vertical, hexagonal
cells filled with a jelly-like sub-
stance, the ends of which are in
contact with the integuments above
and below. The discharge has all
the properties of electricity. It is
produced voluntarily, serving both
to scare-off would-be attackers and
to stun and kill prey. A specimen
of a common Australian species
(Hypnarce monopterygium ) was
seen to deliver 50 successive dis-
charges in about 10 minutes. This
species is plentiful in shallow waters
on all coasts south of the tropics,
and is more than 2ft. long. Two
others occur in deeper waters; and
a small species ( Narcinops
“ Don't you think they're carrying this disarmament
business to extremes ?”
tasmaniensis ) is represented in
almost every trawler-haul on the
south-eastern coasts of Australia.
* * * *
General information on Richard
Taylor, N.Z. politician ?
Born in London in 1835, and
arrived in Auckland by the Heather
Bell in 1846. Five years later he
left for the Victorian goldfields,
but, returning in 1857, served in
the Maori War and undertook
several Government contracts.
From 1869 to 1886 he was engaged
as a general contractor in Christ-
church, where he was elected a
member of the Sydenham Borough
Council (1884), of the Christchurch
Drainage Board and of the Waima-
kariri River Board. He became
member for Sydenham in the
House of Representatives (1886-
1890) and later member for Christ-
church City, but was defeated in
1893 and 1896. After some years
of retirement from public life he
died on August 26, 1919.
* * * *
Some hints on growing aspara-
gus ?
Choose a sunny site. Dig a
trench a spade-width, Ift. deep,
and put 4in. to 6in. organic-
manure in the bottom. Give this
a heavy dressing of blood-and-
bone and cover with a couple of
inches of soil. Plant one-year-old
asparagus-crowns in July (or
August in S.A.) every 18in., and
cover to a depth of 3in. or 4in.
As soon as the top-growth shows
above ground fill the trench with
soil or organic matter. Allow the
plants to develop fully, and in
autumn, when the tops yellow, cut
them off at ground-level and in
winter dig the beds lightly and fer-
tilise. About a year after planting
vigorous spears will come through.
They can be cut lightly. Each
autumn the top-growth should be
cut and each winter the beds dug
and fertilised. When the plants
are fully established the spears can
be cut over a period of about 12
w'eeks, beginning in August.
* * ♦ *
Exact location of Lake Harry?
It is in arid country about 50
miles east of Lake Eyre South in
South Australia. It is approximately
six miles long (north-south) and
three miles wide, and the Birdsville
Track passes along its western,
shore. There is now no settlement
in the area, but in 1895, following
the sinking near the lake of an,
artesian-bore that yielded 120,000
gals, of water a day, an experi-j
mental planting of date-palms was
made. The water did not suit the
palms. The lake was discovered!
and named by G. W. Goyder ini
1860.
* * * *
(1) When was the first Forestn
Act passed in N.S.W. ? (2) Whal\
measures exist for general forestry -f
management today?
(1) In 1909. This provided for
a Forests Department with a 1
director of forestry and the dedi-
cation of not less than 5,000,000
acres as State forest. (2) In 1916
it was replaced by a new Act,
which vested the control of forest-
policy and the management ot,
forests in three commissioners,
who were empowered to spend on
forestry operations 50 per cent, ot
the forest-revenue. In 1924 this
Act was amended to reduce the
number of commissioners to one.
In 1935 another amendment
brought the commissioner under
the control of the Minister of;
Forests, and in 1949 the Act was 1
again amended to provide for the
appointment of two assistant-
commissioners, whose duties were
to be allotted by the Minister for
Conservation. In the appointment )
of the secretary and the chief
forest-inspector, the Act provided
that preference should be given to
persons holding a degree or diploma >
from a recognised forestry-school.
* * * *
Where does the term “shouting" j
come from ?
It is authoritatively dealt with in i
the Australian Encyclopaedia, in'
these lines: “Shouting,” the prac-
tice of standing treat —originally for
liquid refreshments only, but these
days covering a host of actions—
appears to have developed in the
days of the gold-rushes, when j
carousing diggers shouted for atten-
tion in bar-rooms. Numerous j
early examples are quoted in j
Morris's Austral English (1898). f
The “shouter” is the antithesis of j
the “Jimmy Woods.” In January, 1
1882, an anti-shouting society
was formed in Sydney. It was
stated at the initial meeting that |
shouting had “first been brought j
into practice in the early days of
goldmining and had been produc-
tive of great evils.” Although,
according to a newspaper report, (
the society had the sympathy (re-
ceived by letter) of the Governor.
Lord Loftus, and a former Chief
Justice, Sir Alfred Stephen, it
seemingly didn’t prosper.
* * * *
Some details of the South Pacific j
Commission ?
It is an advisory and consulta-
tive body set-up by the six Gov-
ernments responsible for the ad-
ministration of island territories in
the South Pacific region—Aus-
tralia, France, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, the U.K. and thd
U.S.A. Australia and New Zealand
invited the other Governments tn
a meeting in Canberra, at which
the Agreement Establishing the
South Pacific Commission was
signed on February 6, 1947. N
was ratified by all Governments on
July 29, 1948, and the South
Pacific Commission began its work
in 1949. Member-Governments


handle the cost of tne commis-
sion. Australia paying 30 per cent.,
France and the U.S.A. each 12|
per cent, and other Governments
15 per cent. each. Originally the
area of concern to the commis-
sion was, wholly south of the
Equator, but in 1951 the area was
extended to include the Trust Ter-
ritory of the Pacific Islands and
Guam, administered by the U.S.A.
Islands of concern to the commis-
sion extend from Netherlands New
Guinea in the west to French
Oceania in the east, and from the
Marianas, Guam, the Carolines
and Marshalls in the north to the
Cook Islands and New Caledonia
in the south. This is an area of
about 12,000,000 sq.-miles—roughly
four times the area of Australia —
but only three per cent, of it is
land.
* * * *
What is the distinction between
primates in the Roman Catholic
Church and in the Church of Eng-
land?
In the Roman Catholic Church,
primates are bishops of certain
sees which anciently had attached
to them the positive of vicar of
the Holy See. They have, how-
ever, no primatial jurisdiction. In
the Church of England, the title
belongs only to the two arch-
bishops: the Archbishop of York
bears the title of Primate of Eng-
land, while the Archbishop of
Canterbury is the Primate of All
England.
* * * *
When was . the Theosophical
Society formed? Where are its
headquarters, and what are its
aims?
It was founded in 1875 at New
York by Colonel H. S. Olcott
and H. P. Blavatsky. In 1879 they
transferred to India. It is a world-
wide religious and philosophic
organisation, operating through
national societies or sections in
about 60 countries, each with its
own general-secretary and terri-
torial organisation. International
headquarters, where the president
resides, are at Adyar, in the muni-
cipality of Madras, India. The
three declared objects of the
society are: (a) To form a nucleus
of the universal brotherhood of
humanity, without distinction of
race, creed, sex, caste or color;
(6) to encourage the study of
comparative religion, philosophy
and science ; and (c) to investi-
gate unexplained laws of Nature
and the powers latent in man.
Brief Answers
8.N.: Unable to help with that
one. The historical society in your
town should be able to give some
details... .F.L.: The term appears
to have come into use in the late
1880’s. Not definitely known
whether it’s Australian in origin:
it may have derived simply from
“whirly-whirly,” as used for a
type of whirlwind... .8.G.: In
coast areas, such as yours, sow in
February in a deeply-broken soil
generously topped with super. For
best results, keep the swedes
moving. Frosts improve both tex-
ture and taste... .H.W.R.: The
State Library (W.A.) was estab-
lished in 1887. It is now the refer-
ence division of the Library Service
of W.A. Besides providing the
normal services of a reference-
library for the metropolitan area it
extends its service throughout the
State, through local public libraries
. ...N.H.: Impossible to say, with-
out knowing every detail of the
case. See a solicitor... .D.M’.B.:
The leaf should be shredded very
finely for cigarettes. A convenient
method for either cigarette- or
pipe-tobacco is to press the leaf
into a* block or slab for three
days before shredding. A shred-
ding machine is worth buying, to
ensure even cutting. To produce a
flake-type tobacco, a slab lin.
thick should be made. After three
days’ pressing cut the slab into bars,
wrap with a good pliable leaf
and press again (for appearance of
the finished flake), and slice with
the shredding-machine or with a
knife H.R.T.: The Wahoo is a
large, mackerel-like tropical fish,
largest Australian specimens of
which weigh about 361 b. A fine
fighting fish, it is usually caught
in Australian waters by trolling.
The species was discovered at the
Paumotu Archipelago by Cook in
1769 on his first voyage to Aus-
tralia... .T.E.: You’ll find a good
account of that battle in J. E. Mac-
donnell’s Valiant Occasions, pub-
lished by Horwitz, 400 Sussex
Street, Sydney... .D.N.: Where
there is no other feed, and the
feed being given has more than
about 5 per cent, protein,- there is
no need to take protein-content
into account, except that the higher-
protein feed will give better wool-
production. All the grains, good
pasture-hay, lucerne-hay, clover-
hay, pellets, etc., contain over 6
per cent, protein. Cereal-hay,
generally with about 5 per cent,
protein, is the only common feed
with less than 6 per cent, protein.
.... W.J.S.: Webster’s defines
“pension” as “a boarding-house,
lodging-house or boarding-school,
especially one in continental
Europe.”... .N.H.: Stir 251 b.
bonemeal, 151 b. fine salt, 21b. each
of sulphate-of-iron and yellow-
sulphur together. Next, dissolve
2oz. of potassium-iodide in water
and pour over the dry ingredients.
A large tablespoon of the mixture
should be given daily, beginning
immediately symptoms of mineral
deficiency become evident. The
addition of a little molasses will
make it more attractive. If many
milkers are suffering, put the lick
out in troughs D.T.: “Folk-
lore” is a term used to denote the
beliefs, traditions, legends, customs
and superstitions of a people. It
was first suggested b’y W. J.
Thoms, F.S.A., editor of Notes
and Queries, in 1846... .R.G.J.:
MS. should be typed with double-
spacing. Send, with stamped self-
addressed envelope enclosed, to
“The Editor.” Stories are paid fox
on acceptance 1.H.J.: Sorry,
but the Miles Franklin Award
competition is no longer being
run H.E.M.: Pyrethrum is sate
and effective, but the stronger
chemicals should be avoided.
Stores catering for the needs of
poultry and cage-birds usually
stock suitable insecticides. Keep
your bird supplied with a clean
shallow bath of water every day,
but don’t leave it in the cage to
become soiled: supply sand, grit
and sow thistle... .A. 1.8.: No
charge for inserting “Wants” in the
Service Page.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Move a little to the right and I can get you ALL in!”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appeat on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.C.": A bit of “The Stock-
man’s Dilemma”:
E.W.J.: Forget about C. J.
Dennis and let’s" see if you can be
funny on your own M.A.J.:
The final stanza is charming; the
rest never quite reaches it....
Tanda: Glad to hear about the
ants J.D.C.: The usual drought-
poem, but not a bad 0ne....
W.E.J.: If you are really an old
swaggie and had your life saved
by your black-and-white mongrel
when it killed the tiger-snake we
will eat your hat D.R.: When
you can write as crisply as that,
why waste it in a parody? ... .P.S.:
Imagery doubtful, but they’re nice
rocks... .R.M.G.: What’s biting
you? J.S.H.: Your ability to
write verse will hardly affect your
prospects as a journalist, since even
the “Herald” leaders are usually
written in prose; but at any rate
you do seem to show some sort of
promise... .J.N.: Both well said
but not as well as they’ve been
.aid before. Try condensing.
The stockman, Ben, dismounts at last,
“Prepare I must a camp.”
He shares his frugal-like repast
With his new-found friend the tramp.
“Which way lies Bendigo? My lad
I'm off to strike some gold—
There’s lots of fortune to be had
By hard work there I'm told.”
“And to be sure, I’d ride there too
If mustering were not near.
But the only gold I’ll find it’s true
Is by the sale of these scraggy steer.”
And so, as darkness falls anew,
Their swags the two unfold—
The stockhorse hobbled—made secure—
Some friendly yarns are told.
And then at dawn, the bush alone
Reveals no swaggie to be seen—
Ben, his w-allet gone, in angry tone
“Damn, then, it was no dream!”


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The first U.S. guest-of-honor at the
inaugural Coral Sea Week celebrations
in 1950, Admiral A. W. Radford, is
back on a visit, accompanied by Mrs.
Radford. They were welcomed at a
private luncheon given in their honor
at the Australia by the council of the
Australian-American Association, whose
president, Sir John Latham, extended
the glad hand. Guests included External
Affairs Minister R. G. Casey (the asso-
ciation’s vice-president) and Mrs. Casey
(president of the women’s group).
Admiral and Mrs. Radford were also
entertained at afternoon-tea at the Town
Hall by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans),
when U.S. Consul W. Ryan and Mrs.
Ryan, Mr. and Mrs. Mark Clements and
Sir John Latham were among those
invited.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two-hundred women —including 100
from other States —attended the biennial
conference at the University Women's
College of the Australian Federation of
University Women, of which Miss
Margaret Telfer, Registrar of Sydney
University, was the outgoing president.
Having disposed of the heavyweight
debate-subject, “Moral Values In A
Scientific Age,” conference sought relaxa-
tion in social activity. Miss Molly
Kingston, president of the Victorian
Women Graduates’ Association, received
guests at a reception at the Lyceum
Club ; there was a theatre-party to “My
Fair Lady,” and a call on the Lord
Mayor at the Town Hall, the concluding
function being a dinner at the University
Women's College. Among those who
attended the conference were Mrs. E. B.
Freeman (Queensland), Mrs. G. H.
Briggs (Sydney), Miss R. Gibson
(Adelaide), Mrs. H. Kretchmar (W.A.)
and Mrs. R. N. Wardle (Canberra).
# V
During last week’s heat and humidity
thoughts were inevitably directed to
friends still enjoying the seaside. Down
at Portsea Mrs. Constance Day is holi-
daying at her house, Lazy Days, with her
son Neville and daughter Deanna ; recent
guests there were Mr. and Mrs. Derek
Hartley (Kyneton) and their daughter
Susan. Lieut.-Col. John Woodhouse, his
wife and daughter Robin are at the
Nepean Hotel, while staying nearby with
his husband’s father is daughter Rose-
mary (Mrs. Roy Ricker) and her family.
Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens, with son
Peter and daughter Faye, are at the
Portsea Hotel. Leveda Lynch spent some
of the holidays at Portsea with her
brother and sister-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.
Peter Lynch, while brother Paul lived on
board his yacht anchored just off-shore.
Mr. and Mrs. Theo Scales are with their
family at Portsea, as are Mr. and Mrs.
Steve Martin and Dr. and Mrs. Tom
Crankshaw.
Attractive, vivacious Joan Harris, who
appeared as the coy heroine in “Sweeney
Toddhas the role of the half-caste wife
of the colored stockman in the current
production of Vance Palmer’s “Prisoner’s
Country’’ at the Union Theatre. The
station-owner’s ex-p.-O.-w. son is played
by Frederick Parslow, to whom Joan has
just become engaged. He also played
opposite her in “Auntie Marne."
One of the pleasing things during the
heatwave was drinking Greek beer with
multi-millionaire shipowner Anthony
Chandris at a party on board the Patris
at Port Melbourne. This beer —quite
innocuous, as it contains only two per
cent, of alcohol —rejoices in the extra-
ordinary name of Fix! Mr. and Mrs.
Chandris, who have a penthouse in Lon-
don, a 200-acre estate near Guildford
(England), a house in Athens and apart-
ments in Monte Carlo and New York,
are friends of Greek shipping-tycoon
Aristotle Onassis and Greek-born
soprano Maria Callas. Anthony and his
brother Dmitrius operate 31 ships. A
pleasant, unassuming young man,
Anthony will return to Australia in
August. Receiving the guests with Mr.
Chandris were Captain L. Xenios, Greek
Consul Cromus and Mr. and Mrs. Z.
Economu. Guests included Mr. and Mrs.
A. Tolley, Mr. and Mrs. H. I. Fader,
Mr. and Mrs. R. F. G. Fogarty, Mr.
and Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mr. and Mrs.
Basil Logus, Mrs. Peter Leibholz and
her daughter Jane (who has just obtained
her B.Agr. degree and a scholarship to
the University of Iowa), Mr. and Mrs. T.
Grant Major, Mr. and Mrs. S. Garns-
worthy, Sir Albert and Lady Coates and
Mr. and Mrs. George Stogdale.
# *
In the amusing play “Odd Man In,”
which had its" premiere at the Comedy
Theatre, Muriel Pavlow wears a stunning
three-piece pyjama-set in pink satin in
the first act, and later a delightful white
silk frock patterned in cornflower-blue
flowers, the skirt short and full, the
bodice cut with a deep rounded neckline.
For the final act she wears a short full
frock of white organza with one red rose
set at the waistline. There were a
number of white frocks in the audience.
That worn by Googie Withers (who was
with her mother) was a short sheath
patterned in an allover design of gold
beads ; Mrs. Bill Gluth’s had a guipure-
lace top ; Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham’s faille
sheath frock had a gold-beaded design
on the strapless top ; and Mrs. Ronald
Marriott’s had a sash of gold satin. Mrs.
Ted Campbell was attractive in a pastel-
pink frock. Mrs. Leo Guest’s black-and-
white check-patterned frock was con-
trasted with a pink sash. Her daughter,
Jan Gillian Pain, wore florals. Sandra
Pizzey’s red-and-white bayadere cotton
frock carried a pattern of black and
gold Chinese characters. Mrs. E. L. G.
Cresswell’s unusual frock was of
midnight-blue chiffon trimmed with gold.
☆ ☆ ☆
Royal Melbourne Hospital and the
St. Vincent’s Hospital auxiliaries, under
the leadership of Mrs. R. W. Chambers
and Mrs. Leonard Buxton, have arranged
a gala-night for the Princess Theatre on
Monday, March 7, when “Music Man,”
with Broadway stars Ted Scott and
Carolyn Maye, will be the attraction.
Lady Brooks is patroness of both
auxiliaries, and she and the Governor
have been invited to attend. As this
function will take place during Race
Week festivities, country folk are advised
to book now. Mrs. G. J. W. Leeson
(Royal Melbourne Hospital) and Mrs. W.
Phelan (St. Vincent’s Hospital) are in
charge of reservations.
SYDNEY
This is the kind of weather that makes
Sydneysiders more grateful than ever
for their waterways and beaches. Middle
Harbor never looked more beautiful than
it did during the weekend, brilliantly
blue, decorated with yachts, dinghies,
launches, fringed with little w'hite
beaches, backed by bushland—a joy to
behold!
Sailing on the bays, reclining on' the
sands, diving through those sparkling
combers at the ocean beaches seems to
have ousted other social activities in
Sydney at the present season. But there
has been much to talk about. Let’s talk.
First, there was the news of the
wedding of Lady Pamela Mountbatten,
at which Princess Anne was one of the


bridesmaids. It was somehow comfort-
ing to know that things can go wrong
even at these most exalted gatherings,
just as they do at our own little affairs.
When the lights failed at the wedding,
Earl Mountbatten, with great presence
of mind, seized a huge candelabra and
led the way to the champagne. He must
have been an impressive sight.
There were two fashion-points to be
noted at the wedding. One was that the
bride’s satin dress was banded at the
neck and wrists with white mink. Re-
member, the Shah of Persia’s bride wore
mink round the train of her dress. This
is likely to set a fashion. But don’t sub-
stitute rabbit if you plan to keep your
wedding-dress. Any owner of an old
moulting B.A. hood will tell you that.
Another fashion-point was that the
fichus on the little bridesmaids’ dresses
were lined to keep their arms warm. This
is quite a suggestion for bridesmaids who
want (naturally) to look glamorous at
winter-weddings but who don’t want to
shiver all through the ceremony.
The next talking-point of the week
was the prospect of having rockets shot
from Russia across the Pacific. Space-
travel is in the. air, if you’ll excuse the
pun. The thing that strikes this Letter
about space-travel is that it sounds so
spacious, but is actually so confining.
The farther you go the less room you
have to move. A girl can walk down
to the beach at Coogee in a bikini, but
a man going to the moon must be all
bedecked with wires and tubes and what-
not. She walks in the free air. He is
shut up in a cylinder. There seems to
be something wrong somewhere.
Talking about free air, there is quite
a brouhaha at present about the pro-
posal to turn part of Centennial Park
into a golf-course. Actually it is not as
bad as it seems, because the part to be
taken-over is “undeveloped” and would
be vastly improved by comely greens and
fairways. Nobody seems to use it at
present except mounted policemen
practising.
Yet there is a danger that the nature
of the park may be changed. At present,
on the days when there are races at
Randwick, the paths are cluttered with
racegoers’ cars. If golfers’ cars are
added the place may soon see parking-
meters dotted around the sward.
Another danger is that unsuitable
buildings may be erected in the area.
Already that section of the park which
was taken for playing-fields for Sydney
Boys’ High School has an obtrusive
red-brick-and-tile building on it, quite
out of harmony with the atmosphere of
the surrounding park. Don’t let this
happen to the south-west corner!
And now for a more light-hearted
topic, the latest news in make-up. From
London we hear that the effect to strive
for is a “glistening wide-eyed natural
appearance.” Simple folk may think that
this may be achieved by innocence and
e ye-drops. But no! What you need is
a new frosted eye-shadow and nail-
varnish in shades of lilac, green, blue,
silver or gold, with glittering spangles
°n the eyelids and through the hair.
The newest gimmick in painting the
lips (which are also frosted) is to flick
the lipstick up at the corners of the
mouth to give the “lively” look. We’ll
wait till the circus comes to town to get
instruction in this technique.
☆ ☆ ☆
As to hairdressing. We were intormed
during the week that Miss Elizabeth
Arden has created a new tint which is
mixed individually by each hairdresser
to suit his client. If her hair is inclined
to be reddish, all red tints are taken out
of it, and brown or silver ones added
to produce “a natural color.”
So you see, the natural look is coming
in from all sides. But it doesn’t seem
to be necessary to go to the lengths that
Ingrid Bergman did when, it is reported,
“she went to a social function in New
York after walking in the rain. She wore
no make-up, a raincoat over a peasant-
skirt and blouse and her hair was wind-
blown and damjS. But at the party she
attracted all eyes like a magnet, putting
the other women in the shade, though
they were made-up and dressed to the
hilt.” The mean thing! What a shabby
trick to play to get attention!
Pretty Marie Saxby sets off next month
for a holiday in England and on the
Continent. Only daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. N. H. Saxby, of Kogarah, Marie
plans to spend 10 months abroad,
widening . her knowledge and horizons.
A member of the Elizabethan
Younger Set in Sydney, she will naturally
be particularly interested in seeing what
the theatre in London has to offer. Her
photo is by Norton Trevaire.
It looks as though St. Valentine’s Day
is to be “quite a thing” this year. The
cards available are elaborate and varied,
but it is the humorous ones that will
probably bring St. Valentine back into
favor.
These show such things as an old
harridan saying coyly: “I can’t give you
anything but love,” or a grim-looking
woman in Canadian Mountie uniform
proclaiming: “I always get my man”
(a foolish thing to say though, girls),
or a picture of two stone-aged types
captioned “You cave-man, you! I like
your style!” The cards are not notable
for their good taste, but they’re funny
and that’s what will make them popular.
That brings to mind the present vogue
for “Insult cards” which the teenagers
slip on to one another’s desks, or even
the boss’s, if he’s good-humored. They’re
like visiting-cards, very beautifully
printed, and they say such things as.
“Come in, we were expecting you. Every-
thing is going wrong today,” or “I was
born this way. What's your excuse?”
or “Well, I spend eight hours a day here.
You don’t expect me to work, too!”
These, and the St. Valentine’s cards,
are good fun so long as they don’t get
any worse.
☆ ☆ ☆
And here’s a little note from the
Black and White Ball Committee, which
gets to work early in the year. On
Friday, February 5, Henriette Lamotte
will show her Autumn collection of hats
and some exciting overseas fashions
during a luncheon at Caprice Restaurant.
The donation is £4 4s. per-person to aid
the Royal Blind Society, and bookings
are limited to 100 guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a New Year’s wedding for
Valerie Woodward' and Vincent Fish-
burn, who were married at St. Joseph’s
College Chapel on January 2. Valerie
is the elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
D. P. Woodward, of Goulburn (formerly
of Junee); Vincent is the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. C. Fishburn, of Picton.
The bridesmaids, Margaret Sutherland
and Noeleen Woodward, wore green and
white brocade, and among the 60 guests
who attended the wedding-reception at)
Jonroe were Mr. and Mrs. R. Blatch
and Mrs. J. Abbott (Mittagong), Mr. and
Mrs. A. Howard (Gunnedah), Mr. and
Mrs. W. Dowling (Mittagong), Mary
Ferrario (Junee) and Gwen Wilde
(Wollongong).
☆ ☆ ☆
Spending their honeymoon abroad
and planning to make London their home
for the next three years are Helen and
Marshall Neal, whose marriage was
celebrated at St. John’s Church of Eng-
land, Ashfield, early in the New Year.
Helen, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
H. H. Crakanthorp (Picton), was
formerly a music-teacher at Taree High
School. Her husband is the youngest son
of Mr. and Mrs. S. H. Neal, of Taree.
The bridesmaids were Janice Neal and
Marilyn Crakanthorp, and there were 80
guests at the reception at Jonroe, includ-
ing Mr. and Mrs. Harold Neal and Mrs.
Vic Neal (Wingham), Mrs. Gover
(Taree), Dr. and Mrs. M. Johnson
(Picton), Judith Scott (Picton), Mr. and
Mrs. Pat Burton, Nancy Norris, Joan
McGown (all of Canberra), and Mr. and
Mrs. Andrew Tom (Parkes).


who prowled the fields by night around
the village of Greasbrough, near
Sheffield in Yorkshire, and one night
while they were dragging an 80ft. net
across a field for rabbits they were
surprised by Mr. Henry Jubb’s game-
keepers, Mr. Jubb being a well-to-do
retired solicitor. One of the game-
keepers was, in turn, surprised by being
clubbed to death.
Though several of the gang were
convicted and transported for the
crime, there seems to be considerable
doubt as to who actually struck the
fatal blow or blows —they were all
laying-into the unfortunate keeper as
hard as they could —and, judging from
what was said at the trial and from
the suppressed indignation in Myra’s
letters (“Woodhouse has ben for
giving hiself up severl times when he
has been in drink”; “I feel it as much
as you do to be very hard to be where
you are and Woodhouse at liberty”)
the "real villain may have been Robert
Woodhouse, a member of the gang
who turned informer.
Guilty, partly guilty or just unlucky,
Sykes was convicted and—though the
coroner who investigated the murder
had expressed his detestation of the
game-laws—sent out to Australia with
penal servitude for life.
All this is extremely interesting, and
so is the romantic discovery of Myra
Sykes’s letters, preserved by the con-
vict in a kangaroo-skin purse which
was found in a crevice during the
demolition of the old police-buildings
at Toodyay, 63 miles north-east of
Perth, in 1931, and thereafter preserved
—chiefly through the efforts of Paul
Hasluck, against opposition from a
research-secretary who wanted to
destroy them —by the W.A. Historical
Society. But, since little is known
about Sykes’s subsequent career in
Australia and little, beyond her letters,
of his wife’s long struggle in Yorkshire,
it is surprising that Mrs. Hasluck has
contrived to write, not a short histori-
cal monograph, but a full-length book
about the couple.
“Unwilling Emigrants” is, indeed, a
book concocted —and admirably con-
cocted, too —out of almost nothing. All
that Mrs. Hasluck really has to go
upon is a single note-paper sheet of a
diary which Sykes wrote on his voyage
to Australia and preserved in the
kangaroo-skin purse; one letter written
by a farmer to Sykes about a contract
for labor; one letter written by one of
Sykes’s sons; one letter written to him
in prison by a revoltingly pious friend
or perhaps a brother-in-law; and eight
short letters from Myra. Even Myra’s
are not all her own, since she called-in
scribes to help her, and Mrs. Hasluck
is not quite right in maintaining that
“All through the letters can be heard
Myra’s own voice.” There is all the
difference in the world between the
formality of the “educated hand” end-
ing a letter with,
Remaining with best love and
wishes for your welfare. Your
affectionate wife, Myra Sykes,
and the scrawled, illiterate, infinitely
touching, direct messages from Sykes’s
wife and family: —
Dear farther do pleas to writ to
is i Sends 100 kiss for you thirza
Sykes... .a kiss will xxxx. . . .Ann
Sykes sends Dear xxxx father i
send a 100 kiss for you... .Alfredd
sens kiss kinds love to you.
Mrs. Hasluck, or her publisher, has,
too, a little reduced the impact of the
letters by printing them in a very
narrow type-measure (merely because
they were originally written on narrow
notepaper) and by failing to do a little
editing and elucidation of them, if only
in the form of an accompanying
“translation.” In places they are almost
as obscure as Chaucer in the original;
and if the intention in the way they
are set out is to make them look like
verse, that is a mistake. They have
to be run-on into prose before you can
read them, and, oddly enough, it is
only the scrap of Bill Sykes’s diary
which, here and there, falls into a
cadence that reminds one of Pound
and Eliot —it is pleasing to think that
there may be a deep spiritual affinity
between poets and poachers:—
the outlandic Ocan the tropic
the medary Island the cannary
Island the peak of tinereff
along the coast of affrecca
and other peak mountains
8 days brees . . .
With these minor reservations there
remains no question about the appeal
of Myra’s letters. They are the most
heartrending things. One night’s
poaching—and how better could
young coal-pit trammer spend his even
ings, relaxing in the green fields ani
bringing home a rabbit for his family
—one unlucky accident or outburst c
brutality, and there is Bill Sykes tor
from his wife and family and trans
ported to Australia never to see thei
again (for when, twelve years later, h
got his ticket-of-leave he seems to hav
been too dispirited or estranged to sen
for them); and so we have: —
John and Emma send their love
to you... .we have wished scores of
time you was comeing in to the house
we should syuse you to deth.... you
must not delay riteing if you can it
will ease my mind if you can....
and:—
I dont douted but that you have
rote a many letters that I never heard
tell of I wonce was thee years and
had not had a letter.... .your rela-
tions said that you was Dead I went
to Rotherham townshall and asked
if they knew wheather you was dead
or not one of the police sade he
heard you was desd.... I put the
chealdren and myself in black for
you my little Tirza went to the first
place in deap black then I heard
that your sister Elizabeth had got a
letter from you.... Dear Husband
cant express myself to you but I
hoap to see you wonse more seeted
in corner....
But how, then, when this material
is as slight as it is touching, has Mrs.
Hasluck contrived to spin it out into
a book?
That she has done very cleverly,
without ever giving the impression of
forcing it, by writing a history of the
convict-system in Westralia: whicl
involves, quite legitimately, the story
of how the convicts worked on build
ings, on roads or in the forests; how
they were treated, how they behaved:
how the bushranger Moondyne Joe got
out of jail; how John Boyle O’Reilly
and afterwards the other Fenians
escaped to America; how the explores
Giles came riding in on camels from
Adelaide and frightened the life out
of the station-horses; how gold was
discovered—though one of the condi
tions of the convicts’ tickets-of-leavc
was that they musn’t go near the gold-
fields: and distantly but discernibl)
through all this moves poor Bill
Sykes, rarely writing home, nevei
getting into trouble, sometimes plaus-
ibly located in the general convict-
scene, sometimes personally on view
at road-mending or well-sinking, scrub-
cutting or fencing; constantly beint
convicted for drunkenness after he go
his ticket-of-leave; and at the last, u
the searing heat of December, 1890
being found ill and helpless, alone witj 1
his dog in a railway maintenance-man’s
hut, from which he was removed W
hospital, where he died. He left a do!
which was sold for £1 4s. 10d., a
THE TRITONS
Let there be light! Then the second
miracle occurred:
There was color. And Dewar and Pearson
Fishing since four o’clock, saw the Word
Revealed; saw its wonder, though the
reason
Escaped them, still. “Red Emperor,
Peter ! ”
And Peter Dewar responded with “Coral
trout”
And so they began the slaughter
Of the reef fish, and the rout
Of any compassion was final with the
Venal loveliness of the fish rising
On their lines from the depths of the sea.
Douglas Pearson prizing
The Red Emperor most, both covetous
Of a catch that no one but tritons could
amass.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


ONCE THERE WAS A WAR
John Steinbeck
John Steinbeck’s on-the-spot portraits of the war will evoke its human side for a new
generation and strike a note of nostalgia for both those who were there and those who
lived through it. His deep-seated sympathy with the ordinary man gives them a
permanent interest. 20/-
WILLIAM KEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
which was sold for £1 and the
kangaroo-skin purse which —with a
nice piece of research added to it—has
given us this very readable book.
"Click Go the Shears"
Touching the old bush songs, I came
across something interesting the other
day. Staying with my mother, who is
84 and has lived in Chichester, a
beautiful cathedral town in Sussex, for
the past thirty years but had her child-
hood and girlhood in London, I began
humming the tune of “Click Go the
Shears.” whereupon Mother pricked up
her ears and wanted to know how I
came to know it. She said it was a
song she had known when she was a
girl but hadn’t heard since.
Under persuasion she gradually
remembered a few lines of the song she
knew, which 1 give below—for what
they are worth. There may be a clue
to something in this fragment. Mother
maintains the song was very old when
she heard it as a child: —
High in the belfry the old sexton
stands,
Clasping the rope with his thin bony
hands ;
Yes, yes, they come, and with tidings
to tell,
’Tis the ( ) standard-bearer,
Ring, ring the bell!
Ring the bell, watchman, ring, ring,
ring!
Yes, yes, the good news is now on
the wing ;
See here they come and with tidings
to tell,
Glory, glory Alleluia!
Ring, ring the bell!
It looks as if “Click Go the Shears,”
both words and tune, might originally
have been a parody; as, of course, were
so many others of the old bush songs.
Peter Middleton
22 Nassau Road. Barnes.
5.W.13, London.
Novel of the Murray
Although Nancy Cato has called her
second novel Time, Flow Softly
(Heinemann), “a story of the River
Murray,” it is essentially the story of
Philadelphia Gordon, whose earlier
adventures were the theme of “All the
Rivers Run.”
Delie, as she is called, stands full-
centre of the spotlight throughout, and
all else, the river, the people who live
and work on it, the trade and traffic in
the early years of the century, the
vicissitudes of the seasons, even life
itself, are but reflections of her
opinions, attitudes and ideas.
This has a narrowing effect on the
book, for the author’s strength lies in
her love of the river and her know-
ledge of its history. Delie’s experiences,
growth and development are identified
with the movement and flow of the
great river, and a shifting of emphasis
to show Delie in a truer perspective
might have produced a story of some
power.
As it is. “Time Flow Softly” has
romance and adventure, a glimpse of
the art-life of Melbourne at the turn
of the century, some pictures of bird
and animal life in the Murray Valley
and the interest of an unusual,
thoroughly Australian setting.
Cook Book
William Wallace Irwin, whose
“Garrulous Gourmet” brought him a
certain fame, is an American rancher
who has spent 40 years in Paris; he
has put out a new book of essays in
cookery. Gambols in Gastronomy
(Angus and Robertson).
As a book of everyday cooking in
the French manner it could be, as his
constant interpolations of “my
darlings” and other inanities suggest,
helpful to young ladies with beasts to
feed, though one misses from it the
delicacy and high ecstasy of that
masterpiece of French provincial
travel and French provincial cookery,
“Bouquet de France.” Irwin has
three beef-stews, for instance: Langue-
doc with wine, Normandy with cider
and Flemish with beer; but he at no
point suggests the vast increase in
happiness conferred by marinating the
beef 24 hours before cooking.
Nor does he so much as hint at the
bloom added to a bechamel sauce by
warming a slice of onion in the cream
before adding it to the thickening;
moreover, he makes his bechamel of
milk, and not of thin cream, or cream
thinned with milk.
On the other hand, his Chocolate
Truffles add a wicked suggestion of rum
to the delicate concoction one had from
“Bouquet de France” ... If, in the
long run, he tends to simplify, coarsen
or Anglicise the French art, this may
make many dishes more accessible to
Australian amateurs: he is knowledge-
able on Welsh Rabbit, Yankee
Strawberry Shortcake, Mint Julep,
Turkey Stuffing, Mayonnaise, Chowder
(New England, New York and Fish),
Risottos, Skate (Stingray) with Black
Butter; there is an essay on herbs,
their growth and use, and one on
“Making Mutton Marvellous” —if you
like fighters for lost causes.
The book is so nicely got-up as to
be appetising in itself, the names of
the dishes hauled-out in the margins
and decorated by Claire Simpson with
tiny drawings (Soupcons de Simpson)
of pots, pans and bowls far more
beautiful than the reviewer ever
dreamed of cooking in.
Reviewed Briefly
The Valadon Story: John Storm
(Longmans). Biography of the French
woman painter who was connected
with the end of the Impressionist
movement, and thereby acquired a
certain capacity for draughtsmanship
and a pleasing sense for color. She
lived on into the Post-impressionist
movement, and her work steadily
deteriorated in its atmosphere of stale
wine, drugs, smouldering cigarette-
butts and sexual perversity. The book
amounts to over-adulation of a minor
artist.
* * * •
Chance and Providence: William G.
Pollard (Faber). One of that long
series of books on the science-versus-
religion controversy which Fabers have
published, given special interest because
Dr. Pollard, besides being a Christian,
is the executive director of the Oak
Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies. He
believes that he has “really and truly
found the only possible way to recon-
cile Biblical providence and scientific
causality.


ST [EL PIPE Needs No
Underground Protection
mm
: «
••'::
: m
m.-i
,
* .
gpi
Whenever water
has to be conveyed—
there's no satis-
factory substitute
for STEEL PIPE
Before ordering, think of these advan-
tages that steel pipe has over other
types of piping.
★ Because it is not fragile or susceptible
to damage by stock or fire, it can be
laid above ground, thereby saving
cost of trenching.
★ Greater strength gives*far longer life.
★ Steel pipe does not deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure.
★ Is not damaged by termites or
rodents.
★ Has much greater pressure capacity.
★ Steel pipe is easy to install, handle or
store without fear of breakage.
★ In-built structural strength and rigidity
permit overhead vertical and
building installations.
★ No other type of pipe is so
economical ... so enduring ... SO
versatile in its application.
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, shorter-lived types of piping!
INSIST ON STEEL
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
Branches: Alt Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong
Launceston, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
.SSA 2-59,
