

The Bulletin
Queensland Land Laws —page 36
Wednesday, February 24, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
R enisle red -in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHUNTEB, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
UNORTHODOX PROFESSOR
I met Lord Cherwell (formerly
Professor F. A. Lindemann) for one
of those fleeting conversations which
can happen only in the anterooms of
great men. My chief had told me to
fix a time convenient to the professor
for his visit to our London head-
quarters, and, at the last moment, had
been called away on an imperative
matter of State. “Look after Lord
Cherwell until I come back, Rollo.
I shan’t keep him waiting more than
fifteen minutes. Apologise, explain the
circumstances, and enjoy his conversa-
tion, which you’ll have to go a long
way to beat.”
A fair introduction, though I’d
already heard a lot about Lord Cher-
well and looked forward to meeting
him in the flesh. But A.D.C.s to high
commanders can’t avoid a streak of
cynicism. They meet many great men
and, seeing them sometimes as suitors
or complainers, find that these giants
do not always reach their expected
stature. So I awaited our visitor with
an open mind.
Once he came into the room, though,
I fell under his spell. Here was a man
of complex nature, but there was no
hiding his powerful intellect. Good-
humored, witty, perfectly groomed,
handsome, curiously diffident to a junior
officer of no special distinction, he
was nothing like what I had expected.
A professor of physics and an intel-
lectual, certainly—but a man of the
world, and evidently courageous and
spirited into the bargain. I could see,
too, that he wasn’t a man to make an
enemy of—sensitive, obstinate and (1
judged) revengeful. Not at all the sort
of man you’d meet every day of the
week, he was at once attractive and
repelling. He spoke unaffectedly and
not always audibly, but as if to an
intellectual equal. This was extra-
ordinary and flattering to a simple
soldier.
Sir Roy Harrod’s personal memoir
The Prof. (Macmillan) offers a com-
plete explanation of the character of
this strange and formidable man, who
was Sir Winston Churchill’s trusted
adviser for 30 years but remained
almost unknown to the general public.
Sir Roy makes it dear that he is not
attempting a biography of Lord Cher-
well. (One is now being written by
Lord Birkenhead, son of Professor
Lindemann’s early friend, F. E. Smith,
later first Earl of Birkenhead.)
Sir Roy Harrod knew “The Prof.”
intimately for over 35 years, first at
Christ Church, Oxford; then during
War II in Churchill’s private statisti-
cal unit, then again at Oxford after the
war. He apologises for certain pas-
sages of the book, which, he says, are
more autobiographical than biographi-
cal. But the two men were never far
apart and, especially during the war,
were personally involved in the same
work as senior and subordinate.
Harrod ultimately resigned from S
Branch because of personal disagree-
ment over Lord Cherwell’s ideas of
command. He records the circum-
stances with restraint and the utmost
fairness.
Lord Cherwell could not have been
an easy man to serve under. He had
never been orthodox. Who else could
have carried-off his oddities of voca-
tion and diet —he never touched meat,
or even the yolks of eggs, and was a
teetotaller—among the dinners and
house-parties of the greatest hostesses
of his day, and still be admired by
debutantes? Or wear a bowler-hat
in Adelaide, and get away with it?
Perhaps, on one side. Lord Cherwell
was a snob. Sir Roy Harrod repeats
a tale that Cherwell told against him-
self:—
He and [the Hon.] Edward
Marjoribanks had entered a pro-
vincial town and drawn-up beside
a policeman. Edward asked if he
could inform them of the best hotel.
The policeman extended his chest
and said solemnly, “Now, sir, that
all depends; do you mean the best
hotel or the most expensive hotel?”
“The most expensive hotel,” the Prof,
chipped-in before Edward had time
to reply, much to Edward’s disgust.
That was one side of an extraordin-
ary character. But on the whole,
though, it is a misleading aspect. If
he was a snob, it was because he was
proud of his inherent qualities.. “He
thought no one his superior,” says
Harrod, “or, indeed, even his equal,
save for only two or three individuals
—the Churchill, the Einstein.” Mean-
while, “There is no doubt that he took
trouble to court people of the world ”
The other side was his abiding belie!
that there was something about him
unacceptable to others. “On Monday
I have to give a lecture,” he wrote. “I
pity the audience.” And the same
theme dogged his conversation.
Lord Cherwell lived a life remote
from “the masses” and, when he
wanted to know the reaction of the
common man to a certain state of
affairs, he would go to 10 Downing
Street to ask the Prime Minister’s
private secretary! He was against any
form of egalitarianism, and his remark
to Evan Durbin in defence of the
inheritance of money or possessions,
without penal death-duties, is classic:
“Those who succeed in getting what
everyone else wants must be the
ablest.” He was
.... heavily armored against all
encroachments, ensuring comfort,
valeted, cosseted, quiet in his manners
except when personally provoked,
avoiding the possibility of predica-
ments and carefully prepared for
dealing with those that might with-
in a narrow range arise, avoiding
personal contacts not previously
sponsored, and, he hoped, guaran-
teed by the Christ Church Common
Room, the Clarendon Library,
Churchill, or rich hostesses....
The character of this unusual man,
as told by Sir Roy Harrod. is worth
study by anyone interested in the rami-
fications of human nature. The book
is fascinating, too, because it throws
light on aspects of Churchill’s wartime
policy which are beyond the scope of
official war-histories.
Rollo Gillespie
AMONG THE FARMS
May He who sent His only Son
To torment on a cross of wood,
Look twice on animal and man
Caught in the narrow ways of blood.
The moonlit fox who hunts by night
The lambs that dance these frosted hills,
Hunts first from need and appetite ,
Then for his own delight he kills.
I knew a man with violet eyes,
A countryman who loved his ewes
And swore, by God, he’d put him wise,
And when the fox was in his noose,
He stripped the russet pelt for prize
And set the living creature loose.
A.C.T,
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Bertrand Russell Again
Of his new illustrated history of
philosophy. Wisdom of the West (Mac-
donald), Bertrand Russel! says that it
“is an entirely new work; though, of
course, it would never have appeared
had not my ‘History of Western
Philosophy’ preceded it.”
The pleasure Russell gives the
inexpert reader is the compliment he
pays him of simplifying philosophical
theories without losing them in a maze
of metaphors meant to be helpful. One
wouldn’t say that you could read this
history “like a book”; it is so tight
that you would have to study it care-
fully, section by section; and if you
missed a section you would be at a
disadvantage when Russell is detailing
the criticism by later philosophers of
their predecessors. At the same time,
it makes a superb introduction to the
line of philosophers stemming from
(Continued on page 58)


If
I
aft
BANKING & FI N A N CE
tnmiHME
Et
-7/
P R O f E R.T Y
cSs'
rr
/ft*
A#
a*
,_- /
r"««
'S’
4
imam
i
O (M j
■cr
m
FOR THE
on the
[AND
high standard of effici-
e n c y their 2 0 0
Branches and 120 years
of Service to the Pas-
toral Industry ensure
that your needs can be
readily filled.
<D
There is an
Branch within telephone
distance of your home . . . Elders are equipped to handle
all aspects of Business for the man on the land.
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Feb. 24,1960
Vol. 81—No. 4176
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
IN INDONESIA
journeyings of Communist
A leaders and the shape of their
manoeuvres have assumed a pattern of
intimidation which is an hors-d’oeuvre
to the Summit Conference, due in May.
They seem to be engaged in an
enveloping movement, or movements,
combined with the task of putting a
pincer on India and other South-east
Asian countries. In a word, Khrush-
chev and Mao are engaged in trying
to enfold the whole of Asia, down to
Australian shores, in their loving arms.
It is difficult to dissociate from
Communist activity the manner in
which obstacles crop-up at every turn
to delay settlement in Cyprus and cer-
tain African dependencies of the U.K.
At least the slogans which accompany
these difficulties are Communist-
manufactured, and apart from this,
anyway, the pattern is clear.
In Egypt a nest of Communism has
been pushed down to a controlling-
point on the Nile, which has been
bought by giving Egypt a completely
uncommercial contract under which the
Aswan Dam can be built. If the Com-
munist set-up there is of the usual type,
Russia will soon have the power to
control Egyptian water-supply for a
number of years, and therefore will
have a hand on the throat of Egypt.
A little further east, where Kassem
ostensibly has been fighting the Com-
munists, it transpires that behind the
scenes Russian experts have been
resurveying Iraq with a view to estab-
lishing vast irrigation-works there on
the Tigris and Euphrates, again on an
uneconomic basis. But this would
achieve the purpose of filling Iraq with
Russian agents and giving Russia a
foothold.
The linkage with Iraq, giving the
Russians access, and residence,
would trend towards turning it
and Egypt into satellites. At
the same time, a cunning game which
had its origin in Communist activity
when Nasser and Kassem began to be
intimate, is played to prevent the Arab
movement from becoming solidified.
One of the apparent mysteries of the
Middle East in the past 14 months
has been the manner in which a rift
has developed between Cairo and
Baghdad, each of the two dictators
suddenly deciding that he was the man
who would wipe out Israel and become
the leader of the Arab peoples in
general.
Nasser has been served notice that
he is no longer undisputed top-dog
in the Arab world. Meanwhile,
Kassem is saying loudly that he is,
and that he proposes to rescue
Palestine and restore it to its rightful
owners. And be blowed to Nasser.
The shift of the centre of influence
in this not-so-tidy operation is
explained by the fact that it is easier to
control Iraq from Baku than Egypt,
with which Moscow must move warily
because of Nasser’s relationships with
the United Nations. Also the changes
in Iraq due to the revolution, of which
the possibility was not foreseeable at
the time of the Suez crisis in 1956,
has an enormous advantage from the
Kremlin’s point of view.
Control of Iraq as a satellite means
an outlet to the Indian Ocean. It
would secure control of Iraqi oil, which
would mean also the deprivation of
the West of that oil. And it would
isolate Persia, which is the “naked
underbelly” of Russia itself, and open
a door to attack on Russian oilfields.
Finally, it would let-down a barrier
across communications with Europe
of all the East and bar-off India on
the West as a squeeze in the pincer-
movement which was envisaged as
part of the Russian conquest of Asia
20 years ago, and close-off the Afghan
and Indian land-routes to Mecca.
TZHRUSHCHEV’S journey, following
Chinese operations on the Indian
and Burmese borders, has implications
which fall neatly into the right sockets.
The curtain is being let down on India
from the north, and even Nehru
knows it and has come to the point
at which he refuses absolutely to
negotiate further and stands on his
rights, with an increased Army to
indicate his earnestness.
The joint game of China and
the U.S.S.R. seems to be to
keep everybody guessing at their
relationships, but to leave the suspicion
which the Western daily press can be
guaranteed to grab and magnify into
a belief in its truth: that Moscow dis-
approves of Peking’s predations and
can be relied on to oppose them.
A more minute examination of their
joint-and-several policies, their railway-
construction and the nature of their
trade, shows that they are almost at
one, and that all their moves are being
made in concert to nullify the defence-
measures of Nato and Seato.
In India the border intrusions of
the Chinese, and the adventure of
Kerala, which was in itself part of an
envelopment plan, have discounted
anything that Khrushchev can do to
cement friendly relationship with India.
In a democracy a party which
achieves power generally carries out
its own policy while in office, but leaves
the way open for the electors to choose
another party and plan of administra-
tion at the next elections.
A totalitarian Government’s aim,
however, is to destroy the whole
structure and system of democracy as
a first measure when it achieves power,
so that it will be utterly impossible
for any kind of Government other than
Communism to exist or to function if
it does.
The desperate and hurried measures
taken by the Communists in Kerala
soon advised the whole population
of what was happening, and firm steps
were taken by the electors themselves
before the real damage was done.
TZHRUSHCHEV’S tour has not been
a success in India. He has even
had to defend his right to preach the
world-revolution there, a matter which
hitherto he has taken for granted. His
gay delight at the changes allegedly
wrought by a few bribe projects in
engineering, which might later be of
use for Russian military purposes in a
conquered India, have been received
sombrely even by the Leftist Indian
press.
His visit to Burma, where a “soft”
and almost compulsory agreement on
border rights has been signed with a
menacing China, seems to be a little
more successful. The shadow of
Burmese insurgents in the north hangs
over the festivities, along with the
knowledge of the pressures, the Com-
munist murders, the terror which reigns
along the fringes of the countries of
Indo-China right to the verges of the
Sea of China.
There remains Indonesia. It is his
great hope. Insurgents from Ambon
have put abroad the suggestion that his
visit, ostensibly for the absurdly
improbable purpose of laying a cultural
foundation-stone or two, is really
designed to establish Russian missile-
defence in the southernmost part of
Indonesia or Ambon, which is largely
in rebellion.
This would bring militant and armed
Communism right onto the doorstep
of Australia. It has been denied ; but
in Indonesia the position is unstable,
and Soekarno so tortuous of mind that
his grandmother might well have been
a corkscrew. He might be up to any
game to save his skin, which con-
tinues whole only because the Army
prevents the Communists from
swallowing him..


BOWS-AND-ARROWS VERSUS JET-PROPULSION


PLAIN ENGLISH
Menzies on Inflation
The most-publicised immediate counter
to present inflationary trends announced
by Prime Minister Menzies at the week-
end was a move “to a position in which,
as nearly as possible, imports will be
unrestricted except by the Customs
tariff.”
A most refreshing announcement.
This is something which has been hoped
for by the majority of Australians
for twenty years. Freedom in trade
and travel is a desirable state of affairs
for citizens of any country. But we
should realise from the beginning that
a continuance of ability to buy abroad
at will depends largely upon a con-
tinuance of adequate exports supported
by favorable seasons and prices and upon
maintenance of an inflow of overseas
capital-funds somewhere around the level
of the last two or three years.
However, merely freeing imports, even
subject to tariff, does not make costs
automatically self - regulating, especially
when wages are maintained by an indus-
trial award and export prices are not.
And transport costs —railway or ship-
ping-will in no way be reduced by an
inflow of imports. Yet transport costs
are one of the fundamental problems in
our whole economy.
Mr. Menzies has also said that in
1960-61 the Government’s aim is to “do
all in our power to avoid any deficit
finance.” This is an admirable aim,
especially if it involves economies in the
Government sector, and does not merely
mean that additional taxation will be
imposed on that part of the economy
which is already bearing the burden of
two major wage-increases that were im-
posed by the Arbitration Commission in
1959 and which from now on will be
meeting keener competition from over-
seas imports.
Through the central bank the Govern-
ment’s aim is to restrain the growth of
excessive liquidity. This is a necessary
action in an economy that is still subject
to a variety of controls resulting from
high-cost production in a country
depending greatly on selling to com-
petitive world markets. But there are
decided limitations upon what can be
achieved by monetary controls in the
face of industrial legislation and arbitra-
tion awards.
The most important statement by the
Prime Minister —he himself placed it
No. I—was that it was the intention of
the Commonwealth to intervene in the
basic-wage case before the Common-
wealth Conciliation and Arbitration
Commission. In this matter it is to be
hoped that counsel for the Common-
wealth puts the facts and implications
of greater industrial productivity, as a
factor in reducing costs, more adequately
and more eloquently than the Prime
Minister himself, or any of his col-
leagues, have thought fit to do, at
Budget-time or any other time, over the
past vital 10 years.
Princes and Powers
Moscow, listening to the broadcasts of
the events surrounding the Royal birth
in London, and Washington, equally
attentive, must envy the British system
of monarchy.
No other country has anything like it
to offer in the way of public-relations.
In an age of democracy, when a great
proportion of the world’s population
affect to despise monarchs, it is a curious
phenomenon that the right kind of king
or queen is worth 20 elected leaders, since
they inherit their jobs without political
pasts hanging round their necks and
without being capable of being thrown
down by electors every three or four years.
Even at its worst the British monarchy
has served its purpose in modern times.
The Royal family of Britain and Aus-
tralia are different from other Royal
families in that they have never defined
their own duties. They are the servants
of the whole Commonwealth, trained to
incessant work throughout their lives.
They are, in fact, the hardest-working
family in the world, their presence
wherever they go the symbol of the power
and authority and goodwill of the Realm,
which in a last analysis is the people of
British nations whom the monarchy
represents.
In view of the incessant calls on
Royalty, apart from the fact that the
Throne is now trebly insured for con-
tinuance, the Royal parents have good
reason to be thankful for the advent of
another member of the family at the top
of the line of accession.
With the increasing swiftness of travel,
steady rise of population, spread of
culture which calls for the patronage of
Royalty and more and more functions
to be patronised, an extra trained
hand will no doubt be very welcome at
the Palace as the Queen and her Consort
begin to feel the weight of years.
Their duties will certainly increase
with the growing power and status of the
nations of the British Commonwealth,
calling for more intimate representation
in their capitals by the delegates of the
Crown.
Who knows but that there may have
been born at Buckingham Palace not only
a new Royal Prince but the Royal
Governor-General of Australia of 1990?
The Enigma of Khrushchev
Comrade Khrushchev, during his
wanderings in the Far East, is posing
the usual questions about his sincerity,
and his behavior leaves a doubt as to
whether he can ever have heard the
word.
On the eve of his departure from
Moscow he sent a special and detailed
message to Mr. Macmillan congratulating
him on his birthday.
He recalled their meeting in Moscow
a year ago, of which, he said, he “pre-
served the most pleasant recollections.”
He noted “with satisfaction” that “the
direct exchange of opinions we had then
has proved fruitful and useful.” He
added:
It is sufficient to say that since then
the idea of holding talks and meetings at
the highest level has received general
'recognition.
This will scarcely receive “general
recognition” in the United States, where
the claim is that when Mr. Macmillan
went to Moscow he was brushed off
like a fly and that the ideas of a Summit
Conference only became practical when
President Eisenhower took a hand. Com-
rade Khrushchev will be pleased at that.
His message was probably composed at
a moment when he was not unmindful
of how useful it would be to irritate
relations between the U.K. and the U.S.
He “did not know whether you [Mr.
Macmillan] share my opinion, but I am
inclined to consider that the inter-
national situation which has formed
provides an opportunity, if we all strive
for this, to achieve new successes, to
disperse the clouds in the political sky
of our planet.”
He is not doing much to disperse the
clouds in Indonesia, and neither are the
Indonesians. Those excitable people
appear to regard his visit as an oppor-
tunity to get Russian support for the
seizure of West New Guinea.
They had awaiting his arrival a guard-
of-honor for him consisting of half-
naked natives armed with bows-and-
arrows who were represented as West
New Guinea patriots. Other guards in-
cluded one of Communist youths in
“semi-military uniform.”
All the time the talk has centred
round subjects calculated to disturb the
peace —incitement to Indonesia to go
ahead with its seizure of “Irian,” attacks
on “colonialism” aimed specifically at
the British, inferential assurances of help
for anything which Indonesia or any
other country allegedly freed from the
clutches of the West may do to liquidate
“colonialism” for ever.
Nothing, of course, is being said of
the large sections of Indonesia in which
the inhabitants are bitterly opposed to
the present Government and only held
down by force of arms. And nothing
was mentioned about a strange operation
which was actually going on under the
nose of the rejoicing visitor and did not
seem to attract attention.
The Indonesian Government’s current
manifestation of “anti-colonialism” con-
cerns the Chinese traders. These, who
have had most of the business of inland
cities and villages of Indonesia for
generations, have been told to get out.
About a thousand of them “got out”
on a Dutch liner a day or so before
Khrushchev arrived, seen-off by a naval
guard armed with rifles and fixed
bayonets.
Three ships sent by the Chinese Com-
munist Government were waiting in the
offing to take away another 2000 or so.
It remains to be seen whether the ban
on rural trading applies to Russians.
Khrushchev’s speech to the Indonesian
Parliament this week should make
interesting reading. Perhaps he will
explain how to reconcile his warm com-
pliments to Mr. Macmillan as a pro-
moter of peace with his speeches calcu-
lated to promote strife round Indonesia


a nd war with the custodians of West
Mew Guinea.
CIOS Twelfth Congress
The twelfth International Congress of
Scientific Management (generally known
as CIOS, for Le Comite International
de l’Organisation Scientifique) was
opened in Sydney Town Hall on Monday
night. The congress, a triennial affair,
is being held in two parts in Sydney
and Melbourne. Attending are more
than 250 delegates from the 29 member-
nations and about 1400 leading Austra-
lian business executives. The Governor-
General is the patron-in-chief, and the
Governors of N.S.W. and Victoria are
patrons.
Monday night’s opening session was
attended by the Governor of N.S.W. The
Governor of Victoria will be present
at the official opening in Melbourne
next Monday night, and the Prime
Minister will deliver the opening address.
Discussions in Sydney will centre
about “Management Methods in the
Next Decade”. Melbourne’s topic will
be “Management in a Developing
Country.” Delegates will visit the
Snowy Mountains scheme next Friday
afternoon.
CIOS, founded in 1926 and perma-
nently based on Geneva, is an indepen-
dent, private international organisation
concerned with improving industrial
management through scientific research.
It is keenly supported by both private
enterprise and Government authorities.
Main work is done by the national
working committees in member coun-
tries. Selection of Australia for the
venue of the congress reflects the rapid
growth of Australia’s international and
business prestige.
Among the distinguished speakers
delivering papers are the Earl of Verlam
(chairman of the British Institute of
Management), Sir George Nelson (chair-
man of the English Electric Co.), Dr.
W. J. de Pous (Netherlands Economic
Affairs Minister), R. L. Garner (presi-
dent of the International Finance Corp.
and vice-president of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment), J. S. Bugas (vice-president of the
Ford Co.), and Dr. J. R. Killian (chair-
man of the Corporation of Massachusetts
Institute of Technology).
The vast amount of preparatory work
was carried-out by the host, Australian
Institute of Management, assisted by
many business and industrial leaders.
A feature of the congress is simul-
taneous translation of papers into
English and French, »the two official
languages, from Spanish, Portuguese,
German, Dutch and Italian.
Melbourne's 39 Per Cent.
An analysis of population-trends, based
on data compiled by the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics and
brought out in brochure form by Mel-
bourne “Herald” Research, shows that
Victoria continues td lead in population-
increase, and Melbourne’s growth almost
equals Sydney’s and Adelaide’s com-
bined.
In the five years to June 30, 1959,
Victoria’s population reached 2.8 million,
an increase of 362,000 and 33.7 per cent,
of the Commonwealth’s total population-
growth; with the N.S.W. figures 3.7 mil-
lion, 332,000 and 31 per cent, respectively.
Percentage-increases in the other States
were S.A., 11.5; Queensland, 11.4;
W.A., 7.4; Tasmania, 3.1; N.T., .4;
A.C.T, 1.5.
Melbourne’s gain was striking. The
increase was 253,000 to 1.7 million, and
39.4 per cent, of the total increase in
capital cities. The other respective in-
creases were: Sydney, 191,000, 2 million,
29.8 p.c.; Adelaide, 78,000, 562,000,
12.3 p.c.; Brisbane, 64,000, 567,000, 10
p.c.; Perth, 40,000, 389,000, 6.3 p.c.;
Hobart, 13,000, 109,000, 2.3 p.c.
As in most States the most rapid
growth in population is in the areas
that were regarded pre-war as outer
suburbs, and now are classified as estab-
lished suburbs, the current outer suburbs
and marginal suburbs.
Collingwood, Fitzroy, Hawthorn, Mel-
bourne, Port Melbourne, Prahran, Rich-
mond, South Melbourne, St. Kilda,
Brunswick, Caulfield, Malvern and
Northcote have all lost population,
although those who lived farther out
pre-war were regarded by inner-suburban
satirists as in some jeopardy from hostile
natives. The loss would have been
greater in the inner areas if the building
of flats had not been speeded.
The recent amendment to the uniform
building-regulations permitting a more
economic use of inner land by building
more flats with less open space is ex-
pected to increase flat-building and check
the drift of population to the outer areas.
Nothing, apparently, will check the
growth of Australian cities at the pro-
portionate expense of the rural popula-
tions. In the five years, Melbourne’s
share of the Victorian population
growth was 70 per cent.
By June this year, Melbourne’s popu-
lation is expected to be 1.8 million, by
1965, 2.1 million and five years later,
2.5 million.
Schooling Responsibilities
[From Charles Meeking]
In several countries, including Australia,
many people have begun to show
interest in what is loosely termed
“education” only since visible proofs
have been given of Russian technological
achievements. Now we hear talk of
greater emphasis on science, on school-
years of at least 200 days, and school-
days of seven hours or more, plus
homework.
Whose job is it to see that the educa-
tion authorities, mostly in the State but
partly in the Federal sphere, do a well-
informed and competent job to benefit
the nation, the pupils and the parents?
It’s our job, and no one else’s.
It is true, of course, that a good many
people, with little or no justification,
consider themselves experts on educa-
tion. Their claims often stem from good
or bad memories of their own schooling.
Experience of “education” can lead
to views on the subject well worth con-
sidering, but it is necessary always to
remember that increasing attention is
being paid to it on high levels in many
countries, and that some expert opinions
are worth discussing before major deci-
sions are made by either administrators
or parents.
In the United States, with its tradition
of education, at least in the lower grades,
being largely or wholly a community
and local affair, there are many discus-
sions in progress. Newspapers make a
feature of articles by education editors
and well-known authorities.
One current publication, issued in the
U.S. State of Utah, is worth studying
by Australians, not merely because the
State itself has many similarities to the
Australian scene but also because the
educational problems resemble ours in
many respects.
The booklet, Citizens! Look to Your
Schools, is a reprint of a series of read-
ings by Lavor K. Chaffin, education
writer of the “Deseret News,” the major
newspaper of Salt Lake City. The dis-
cussion series was conceived and planned
by editors and officials of that news-
paper, a local TV-station and the Uni-
versity of Utah Extension Division. It
is stressed that no attempt is made to
propagandise a point of view. The read-
ings, it is stated, “represent an honest
attempt to present both sides of every
issue. ■' They represent no one person’s
convictions, not even the writer’s.”
This background makes them worthy
of study here, in view of the similar
problems we are encountering. The
titles of the chapters indicate the scope
and value of the arguments. They are:
What Should Our Schools Accom-
plish? What Should Our Schools Teach?
How Shall Our Schools Provide for
Individual Needs and Interests? Should
Our Schools Be Concerned With the
Pursuit of Excellence? What Do We
Expect From Our Teachers? How Can
the Quality of Teaching Be Improved?
What Kind of School Buildings Do We
Want? Who Should Control the
Schools? How Shall We Pay for Our
Schools? Where Do We Stand and
What Lies Ahead?
That is a stimulating list of subjects.
It is neither possible nor desirable to
summarise the arguments, but the
thought which has been devoted to them
suggests that Australian citizens need
some such kind of jolting into awareness
of the importance of the problems dis-
cussed.
The final sentence sums it up, for
Americans and for Australians. “As
citizens,” it says, “it is your responsi-
bility, and your privilege, to help shape
the future of education in your own
community, in the State and in the
nation.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
When the children of Captain’s
Flat (N.S.W.) Central School
wrote to No. 16 R.A.A.F. Air Observa-
tion Post Flight, based in Canberra, the
authorities decided to furnish the infor-
mation sought by air. The flight’s com-
manding-officer (Squadron-Leader H. K.
McLoughlin) flew a Cessna 180 over the
school and dropped a message-bag fair
in the middle of a concrete “compass” the
pupils had sunk in the playground as
part of a geography project—they had
been asking for distances and bearings
of capital cities and places of interest in
relation to Captain’s Flat so that this
could be marked on the compass.
—“Joanne.”
+*♦ +*+
“Mugga Way”: Journalists in Aus-
tralia are under a variety of occupational
stresses, some brilliantly indicated in
John Fountain’s story, “Late Final
Extra” (B. 10/2/’6O). Many of the more
outstanding older men have found the
strains intolerable and moved to public-
relations or other jobs. Young men are
not attracted by the low rates for cadets
and the dismal prospects. The job hasn’t
the olddime glamor, hours are irregular
and, on morning papers, unsuitable to
young men rearing families, and condi-
tions are often uninviting. The daily news-
papers reflect the declining average
quality of their literary staffs, the occa-
sional piece of brilliant reportage standing
out like a lighthouse. It's time the pro-
prietors stopped thinking for a moment
of their ceaseless struggle for advertise-
ments and personal prestige and gave
some thought to the building- up of sound
reporting and editorial staffs, working
with some assurances of security and
under the least possible pressures beyond
the unavoidable daily deadlines.
+♦♦ *X* ❖
“Imperial 55”: Our office has a system
of forms. Application for Holidays,
Notification of Absence, Phone Messages
of Absence and so on. After the heat-
wave, Absence through Sunburn was
frequent. The bosses growled about self-
inflicted injury and just-as-well-they-
aren’t-in-the-army-now. The forms are
a bit of a nuisance, but the staff-officer
has a few laughs ; one boy was away with
a “Soare Throat,” and another because
of a “Funrel.”
A. A A
V V V
“Kerba”: Any sober man ever seen
a tram going along Wattle Street, Sydney?
I did. Furthermore, it turned down
William Henry Street, another tramline-
less thoroughfare. To complete the crazy
picture, two passengers were sitting on a
seat in the vehicle, reading newspapers
in oblivion of the amusement they were
causing. Why was the passengers’
conduct comical? Why does it look so
funny to see passengers in a vehicle borne
on another conveyance?
“G.C.X.S.”: Taking-up my first
teaching-appointment in a high-school in
one of Sydney’s outer suburbs, I
countered a too-talkative class with a
homework composition on “My Future
Occupation.” One 14-year-old boy felt
he’d like to be a schoolmaster. After
dishing-back to me some of my own
precepts, such as “you’ll never get any-
where in life if you don’t work hard,”
he donned his literary boots:
Even though it takes a long time to
become a schoolteacher, in the long run it
is better because you’ll never be out of
a job and you have good hours. A lot
of my schoolmates thinks it’s a square’s
job. But it is better than any other because
it’s sitting-down all day. The only diffi-
cult job is punishing the class for missbehav-
ing. The teacher doesn’t know whether
to punish the boy or the hole class. The
decission is left to the teacher.
The deepest thrust of all, allowing for
my condemnation as a square, was the
sitting-down-all-day piece. I’d been
slavishly, and in very hot weather, fol-
lowing the principle given to every young
teacher: never sit down to conduct a
lesson!
* * *
“Cue”: One of Sydney’s biggest TV-
retailers who spends lavishly on all media
of advertising apparently has little faith
in the pulling-power of TV-personalities.
One of his full-page advertisements in
the Sydney press featured a radio disk-
jockey encouraging would-be viewers to
“test-view for free in your own home
tonight.”
♦:« ♦> *
“Beam”: Could she please have an
appointment to have her teeth checked
and polished because she was going away
to the country and wouldn’t be back for
six months? She could. The dentist,
making conversation, inquired her reason
for leaving. Oh, she was getting married.
Husband being sent to the country? Oh,
no, he lived there. What did he do? A
grazier. Carefully he polished the bride’s
teeth, and sent her off for once without
a bill, waving aside her offer of payment
with: “My wedding - present.” He
watched her as she went out the door,
shook his head and murmured: “How
do these girls from the city get hold of
graziers? That’s the second this week!”
"A lemon!"
JUST BY GETTING IN
“When N. S. Wales Trotting Club was caught
unawares by a 50,000 Saturday-night crowd at
Harold Park the president, Mr. A. R. Cusick,
said, ‘We closed the gates at 7.45 p.m. after
gate-officials told us that anyone else admitted
to the grounds would be murdering their
money.’ ”
It’s murder on a racecourse,
So I’ve heard it said,
To put your money on a horse
That is running dead ;
But somehow it sounds funny,
The new-created sin
Of murdering your money
Just by getting in.
Some photo-finishes, I’ve heard,
Have petrified a meet,
And punters have been massacred
When favorites were beat;
But who could be the bunny
A-doing-in his tin
(Or murdering his money )
Just by getting in?
But those who run the Sydney trots
Were seriously upset
So many people came, that lots
Could hardly place a bet:
Their view of life is sunny ;
They think the punters win,
And merely murder money
Just by getting in.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Our town’s one and only Sweeney
Todd, who means well but makes
a helluva mess of hair, moved from his
dilapidated old premises to a new estab-
lishment up-town. There was a stranger
in the chair when I walked in. “Thank
God,” he was saying fervently as
Sweeney shaped up to him, “there’s a
new barber in the town. That so-and-so
down the bottom end absolutely muti-
lated me.” We all studiously avoided
looking at poor old Sweeney. —“G.T.”
❖ ❖ +♦*
“Ex-R.A.N.”: “Ships in Churches” (B.
3/2/’6O) made very interesting reading,
but I wonder if “C. Coral” knows the
chapel at the Garden Island Naval Dock-
yard, Sydney? This quaint church, a
partitioned-off corner in a rigging-shed,
has been going since about 1910, slowly
gathering most of the necessary furnish-
ings, latest of which is a new electronic
organ. All the windows are of stained-
glass, most of them commemorating past
ships of the Australian Fleet. The bell at
the door is a naval relic, the pulpit is
built in the shape of a ship’s prow, and
its railings are made of good old-
fashioned naval rope. Most unusual
feature of all for a church is the gallery
from which the services were followed by
prisoners in the days when Garden Island
had its own lock-up, now fortunately a
part of history.
++<■
“Lyn”: I swallowed the bait and the
hook as well when yarning with a
ffiend ... It seemed my friend knew a
butcher who had a pet cat. It was prowl-
ing round the shop when it spied a saucer
of petrol which someone had left on the
floor. Puss drank the petrol and zoomed
through the shop like a guided missile
and into the house behind, the butcher
following a close second. Round and
round the living-room it raced, said my
friend, and then, suddenly, it stopped and
lay still. “Dead?” I queried sympa-
thetically. “No,” said my friend ; “run
out of petrol.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Teacha”: My school cricket-teams
took advantage of my temporary absence
from the park to knock-off, pack-up and
set out for home. Returning to the pitch
I found the remnants of the junior
Bradmans—five or six of the original 30,
two struggling with the kit. When I pro-
duced my pen and started taking names,
would-be truants returned from every
corner of the park until we were almost
back to complement. I was debating
whether I should impose my favorite
extempore punishment, a grammar-
lesson, in the open-air, when one of the
exculpated drew my attention to three
boys playing in the creek nearby. I
marshalled my men, about 20-strong, in
two straight rows and, with the two boys
who owned bicycles riding beside us, we
set out on a route-march to the creek.
The guilty ones heard the marching feet
too late. They looked-up and cowered:
we were upon them. Hauled from the
banks of the lily-pond, they were verbally
"Rodney , are you quite sure you re not just maddened by my perfume?
This ‘Temptation is pretty potent stuff!"
thrashed in front of their grinning mates.
Poor little blighters! I used to do the
same sort of things myself.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Joan”: Judge Mocatta and the
reserved compartment (B. 20/1/’6O)
brought back to me an experience of my
early twenties in the Adelaide-Mt.
Gambier daylight train, which had small
compartments opening off the station.
Just as the train was due to depart I
opened a door and fell in, depositing my
case on the rack, to discover that the
only other occupant was a man. On the
window was a white ticket: “Sheriff.
Reserved.” I grabbed my case to depart
as he jumped up and said: “You needn’t
go. You can stay here.” He seemed most
eager. I took one look at him and
thought of the seven tunnels with no
lights, and dived out, just in time to
hurl myself into another carriage as the
train started.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ailsey”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) Stadium,
where stoush has been dealt out for more
than 20 years and, in recent years,
rock’-n’-roll and jazz concerts have been
held, is to become an international-
standard ice-skating rink. A Sydney
syndicate will spend £20,000 in conversion
work to accommodate 1000 skaters.
*> *** *>
“C.A.L.”: On a crossing where five
years ago desultory groups of pedestrians
once dodged Perth’s traffic a points-man
now directs hurrying throngs across the
thoroughfare because of the growing use
of suburban railways, from the record
low of 9i-million in 1954 to the record
high of 13i-million in 1959. Bus patron-
age is declining weekly. Contributing
factors are the lower fares charged, more
comfortable travel, “park -n - train”
facilities at suburban stations and more
frequent and faster services. The Rail-
ways Commissioner says population-
increase in areas served by rail has been
only 16| per cent, in the last five years,
when the railways have gained 47 per
cent, more passengers.
i* *j«
“Ceg”: When “Pudden” (B. 27/1/’6O)
laments having been named “Harold,”
I think of a friend called “Fauntleroy.”
I used to imagine that his mother had
been reading all about dear Little Lord
Fauntleroy, but he explained, with some
bitterness, that she had got the wretched
name from the lid of a corset-box.
❖ * *
“8.J.L.”: Husbands who can’t dispose
of door-to-door salesmen (B. 3/ 2/ ’6O) are
no rarity. A burly pedlar of medical
books deposited himself in a lounge in
the afternoon and was still there when
the husband came home. Hours later
husband and wife bought the book to
get rid of him. Years ago my mother
bought oddments from a travelling van
hawking the wares of a well-known Aus-
tralian firm, all necessary kitchen goods
at competitive prices. But Dad always
complained of “Go-getters taking Mum
down.” He went out to “deal with the
chap himself,” and came back with a
guinea’s-worth of horse-tonic. After a
week trying to starve the stock into sub-
mission the old chap gave up and sank
his boot into the bag. Sometimes the
boot is on the other foot. A tenacious
chap called next door when Ned was
painting his steps. After telling him
several times to go Ned grabbed the


paint-tin and snarled, “You deaf, feller?”
The chap bolted. Last week a man was
asking 40gns. for an encyclopaedia for
children. He ignored my smart crack
that my kids could walk to school the
same as I had done. A clever yarn-
spinner, this fellow. Told of a farmer
down the road who was right up to his
“Could y' spare thirty-bob for cream-soup, oysters, fricassee of chicken
and mushrooms and Peach Melba?”
overdraft but, when he rang the bank-
manager, was told immediately that an
extension would be granted to buy these
valuable books. Offered me terms, too.
Showed me a list of housewives who had
signed-up. Next day he took the list to
the accountant of a town firm for
confidential recommendations. The
accountant, after a brief giance, tossed
the list back: “If you can get cash from
most of that lot then you’re a better man
than I am, Gunga Din.”
+X+ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Rke”: Fellow-worker’s grouse for
years has been that his wife insists on
a ten-o’clock lights-out. When she went
home to Mum for a week we expected
him to celebrate with seven midnight
sessions. Not him. Regular ten-o’clock
curfew as usual, inspired either by habit
or conscience—he doesn’t know himself.
& & &
“J.W.”: Those awful police-uniforms
(B. 3/ 2 / ’6O) are the last word in refined
torture. They seemed confined to
Sydney. Western Australia provides pale-
blue shirts, sun-helmets and a duckboard
for the traffic-cop to stand on. Mel-
bourne’s glamor-cops, who make heads
turn in the winter in their beautifully-
tailored uniforms, are suitably fitted-out
in summer. Only Sydney lags behind.
During the hot spell I noticed a woman
police-officer making for the shade of
a nearby tree: the poor girl looked
done-in, and no wonder—heavy uni-
form, high-collared blue shirt complete
with tie, felt-hat and high, laced-up shoes.
Even her stockings were sensible— the
kind no girl wants to wear.
♦l* & ♦>
“Wusslean”: It was easily the best
screwdriver I’d ever handled ; 15in. long
with a toughened shaft that wouldn’t
bend, and a handsome plastic handle that
wouldn’t twist in your grip. It had
adorned the workshop wall so long that
I’d come to regard it as my own. The
other day a maintenance chap called
to repair the washing-machine. “When
I was here twelve months or so ago, I
didn’t leave a screwdriver behind, did I?”
he asked casually. Mrs. Wusslean said,
obligingly: “Oh, yes; I’ll get it for
you.” The quid it will cost to replace is
going to come out of her housekeeping-
allowance.
London hospitals will allow
members of the Federation of Spiritual
Healers access to patients, like clergy-
men ; they may visit and treat any case
provided they have the permission of
the doctor-in-charge. This seems like a
change in the attitude of the
whose opposition to all forms of faith-
healing has hitherto been fairly rigid.
Civil - ambulancemen agree that with
shocked accident-victims reassurance is
an essential part of first treatment.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”: She had been very naughty,
was being ignored by her family, even
having to eat her meal at a small table
in a corner of the room. Her mother
placed her dinner in front of her with-
out comment and received an ultra-
polite “Thank you.” The family was
indulging in the usual mealtime give-
and-take when the voice of the erring
one saying grace surprised them: “0
Lord I thank Thee for spreading a
table for me in the presence of mine
enemies! ”
* * *
“Tom Trout”: I knew some Continen-
tals drink wine as we drink beer, but
it was still unexpected to see the citizens
of Pamplona, in Spain, the day before
the yearly fiesta of San Fermin, queue-
ing in the wineshops to have king-sized
two-gallon bottles filled —from a pump!
❖ * ❖
“Mo-church”: Latest in drive-ins is
a church in the Dolomite Mountains of
Italy, alongside a major highway, where
passengers in 1500 cars can follow the
service through the church’s glass walls.
»J 4
“Bo”: I expect our hoteliers and
restaurateurs to follow pronto the lead
of their U.S. brethren by launching
vigorous “eat-out” campaigns, with
colored fountains and free psychiatric
treatment for diners as lures. The colored
fountain would probably be more useful
to the restaurateur than the diner, who,
his eyes dazzled by the polychromatic
display, would be unable to tell whether
he could see the bottom of the cup
through the coffee, or if he was getting
chopped-up raw cabbage instead of
lettuce. But the splashing of the foun-
tain would have one beneficial effect;
it would help drown the soup-ingestion
symphony. And I would simply love to
relax on the restaurant-psychiatrist’s
couch while he went into his gyvo and
explained that my violent dislike for the
steak that had been put before me prob-
ably stemmed from pre-natal influence
due to my mother having been frightened
by a very elderly steer. He might even
suggest that I could be as batty as he is
for eating at the joint at all!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Margaret”: Whether it’s against the
rules or not, our inspector of schools
gained nothing by disclosing a child’s
i.-q. The little school could just scrape-
up the minimum daily attendance, and
the inspector considered the teacher
would be more profitably employed at
My wife can thread a needle
Without the slightest pause —
But see her try to thread our car
In through the garage dause !
VICTORIA.
BICKY.


the large, short-staffed school in nearby
Merinotown. Hoping to forestall pro-
tests, the inspector sent for the Y.’s —-
the most articulate members of the
little school’s p.-and-c. association—and
pointed out the advantages of sending
their son to board in Merinotown to
attend the large, well-equipped school.
As a trump-card, he revealed the child’s
i.-q., which was very high indeed. The
Y.’s opened their eyes wide. “Oh, thank
you, Mr. B. We had no idea. In that
case perhaps we should make sacrifices
. .” Mr. B. purred slightly, and the
school was duly closed. The parents
counter-attacked with every weapon they
could lay hands on, led by Y. using
all his political influence. The school
was reopened, and, thanks to an influx
of new pupils, seems assured of staying
open —despite the absence of Master Y.,
who, on the strength of his i.-q., has
gone off a couple of years earlier than
planned to the G.P.S. for which he’d
been entered from babyhood.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“0.W.W.”: During War II a soldier
cobber booked-in at a Wellington (N.Z.)
guest-house, long since closed down. The
blonde at the reception-desk declared:
“You pay thirty-five bob in advance for
bed, breakfast and extras.” Friend shook
his head. “I don’t want any extras,” he
replied. The dame winked, and coyly
came again: “/ am one of the extras,”
she said.
<j<-
“Mana”: From the clubhouse veranda
we watched, over the rims of our
tankards, four of our most serious mem-
bers playing up the 18th fairway. All
were playing badly, and there was a hint
of sulphur in the heat-haze as they
approached, sour-faced, sweating, and
taking it in turns to carry some flesh-
pink material with long, dangling laces.
One of the four, old Max, had lately
been ordered to wear surgical corsets.
Somewhere about the 10th he’d retired
behind a tree, to emerge brandishing,
and commenting upon, the hampering
garment. He couldn't fit it in his golf-
buggy, already over-full of clubs, and
none of the others wanted to be saddled
with it permanently, so each passed it
on as his turn came to play. Not till th
fourth pot had been sunk on the 19th
did any of the audience dare to laugh.
❖ +> ❖
“Pat”: During the hour she occupied
the adjoining table in a city restaurant,
she treated her two youngsters to a
high - pitched monologue on table-
manners: “Don’t wave your knife and
fork about, Jane.” “That’s too much
at once, Jimmy.” “Sit up straight, can’t
you?” “Don’t stare so!” She . . . left
a cigarette smoking while she ate, left
a hurdle of parcels and packages in the
waitress’s path, and buffed her nails,
powdered her face, and combed her hair
while the youngsters ate their ice-creams.
“Yakipan”: Moorabbin (Vic.) coun-
cillors have voted themselves gold
identity - badges to be paid - for out of
ratepayers’ money. While one of them
was about his council business he was
not recognised by a ratepayer who, it
is alleged, becoming annoyed with the
unrecognised councillor’s “trespassing,”
threatened “to pull his nose.” Several
bodies of ratepayers have protested at
their money being wasted on badges, so
some of the councillors have stated that
they do not want to wear the badges
in their lapels but to carry them on their
key-rings, to be produced only when
necessary, as identification. Some coun-
cillors have said that they will refuse to
accept their badges.
♦> *>
“Tom Trout”: Useful information
usually missing from foreign phrase-
books is how to talk understandably to
dogs. Not that it worried me much in
Spain, where dogs seem to be small and
lean and unusually timid, darting into
cafes for a quick scavenge around the
floor, and off again if you so much as
blink at them. Why, I don’t know, as
I never saw any Spaniard take the
offensive against them. Apart from that,
the dogs seem to prefer the mahana
philosophy of life. But in France dogs
tend to be large and energetic, with a
ferociously unfriendly bark or a
boisterous playfulness which equally
made me want to put my tail between
my legs and scoot!
A. A.
V V V
“Ceg”: Haven't had much experience
plastering the backs of honeymooners’
cars with appropriate signs (B. 20/1/’6O),
but on the political side ... It was during
the bank-nationalisation election cam-
paign that the Honorable Member’s car
disgorged its occupants outside the lead-
ing hotel in a central-Victorian city and
was then parked in the hotel-yard while
the politicos had their frugal meal. They
were all Labor, fat, with the usual issue
of chins. All were in rare good spirits.
We decided that the chance was too good
to miss, and improvised a placard urging
electors to vote for Menzies and Co.,
with a telling slogan against bank-
nationalisation thrown in. When the
car was brought round to the front-door
we were delighted to observe that our
handiwork had not been removed. The
Labor boys who had been present at
the luncheon crowded round with their
farewells, and it was not until the car
moved forward that the placard was
noticed. Their frantic yells went unheard
as the car headed for Melbourne.
* * ❖
“Artie”: The chemist was handed
a prescription, and upon reading it, he
was puzzled by the initials, “A.D.T.” As
new antibiotics are coming on the market
almost every week, he rang the doctor
for confirmation. The g.-p. said, “Yes,
the ’script is correct, it’s for Mrs.
So-and-so, my pet hypochondriac ; give
her any damn’ thing.” A mixture of
orange syrup, water and a little bicar-
bonate was dispensed.
❖ *t+ ❖
'T'here are some hurt feelings up
King's Cross way, following “A’s”
par. (B. 10/2/’6O). The majority of
businesses in this area are family ones,
owned by people who are proud of their
standing in the community. When the
older people retire the younger ones take
over. They are well-educated, nice-
mannered people, and I find it difficult to
credit that any one of them would use the
expression they are credited with, even if
they learned it ffiom the customers.
The abusive lady must have been a
ring-in, a visiting celebrity or a lottery-
winner making a splash—we get them,
but they never last. Our Cross matrons
would never dream of talking stoush.
They would await a suitable opportunity
and drop something heavy on some-
body’s toes, and they would be “ so
terribly sorry.” I know —I’ve lived in the
Cross for 30 years.—“ Jane Williams.”
ENDEAN


POLITICAL POINTS
Arthur Calwell’s joy over the elevation
of his leader seems to have been pre-
mature. The Left-wing unions, and
especially the Victorians, are plumping
for Reg Pollard. At a meeting at the
Sydney Trades Hall somebody contri-
buted the remark that Pollard “would
have a better chance of winning a
Federal election than Mr. Calwell.”
Which shows what some people think of
Calwell’s chances.
• •
Calwell says the Hunter and Latrobe
by-elections will be fought on the issue
of inflation. The Government is cer-
tainly vulnerable on that issue, provided
the attack comes from someone capable
of dealing with the problem. Nothing
Calwell has ever said or done suggests
that he is such a man. A few years ago
when a threat of inflation similar to
the current one was being discussed, he
told a Melbourne audience not to save
their money but to spend it because it
would only be worth half as much a
few months later.
Then, as now, Calwell had his eye on
the next election, and his irresponsible
advice suggested that he cared little about
the effect of inflation on the people, but
regarded it as an ally which might help
him defeat the Menzies Government.
He’s still thinking along those lines and
forecasting a Labor victory next year
unless the Government can restrain “the
all-devouring forces of inflation.”
• •
Rather morS responsible were the
remarks of Liberal M.H.R. for Went-
worth Leslie Bury, who said that wages
and salaries were rising out of proportion
to the true rise in productivity and that
Governments were more scared of small
pockets of unemployment than the rapid
rise in prices and wages. Bury claims
that the Arbitration Commission made a
“blunder towards inflation” in granting
the margins-increase last November and
that if the members of the Commission
had realised the full implications of what
they were doing their decision would have
been a different one.
Bury’s views on finance can’t be
laughed-off. Before entering politics he
was an executive director of the Inter-
national Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.
• •
The widow of prison-warder Cecil
Mills, who was murdered at Emu Plains
prison-farm last October, has been
awarded £4OOO compensation. Had the
unfortunate man been killed in a car
accident instead of in the course of his
duty his widow could have brought a
third-party action from which she might
have got a verdict for five or 10 times
that amount.
• •
At a wine-luncheon to acquaint journa-
lists with the importance of Australian
wine, the president of Sydney Show, Sam
Hordern, disclosed that after the wine-
tasting, which begins this week, members
of the R.A.S. council get what is left
of the competing bottles. They have
also figures to disprove the popular
notion that the 30-to-40 p.c. increase in
sales of table-wines is because of New
Australians: Old Australians, they say,
are beginning to lap wine up.
• •
Due to the influence of Clyde
Cameron, it has been reported from
Canberra, members of the A.W.U. will
no longer have the privilege of voting
in preselection ballots on the facsimile
ballot-papers printed in the Queensland
“Worker.” The purists of Labor’s con-
trolling junta and Cameron are horrified
at the thought of the abuses that can
arise out of this practice. As it has only
been in vogue about a lifetime, it seems
strange that Cameron didn’t smell it out
before, especially as he was formerly a
high official of the union.
• •
The New Citizens’ Council formed
by New Australians who were
shocked at some of the affilia-
tions of Australian Labor and who
have been assailed fiercely from all
sides for forming their organisation, has
been forced to withdraw its application
for registration as a union. It had been
criticised even by Immigration Minister
Downer, who, however, did not criticise
the causes which led to the formation
of the body. If the organisers of the
movement had applied for affiliation with
the Communist party they’d have had
backing from all sorts of quarters.
• •
The Victorian Railways go-slow strike
seems to be petering-out since the Rail-
ways Commissioners made good their
threat to stop Sunday services, ostensibly
to meet unions’ demands on the curtail-
ment of overtime. Bus-drivers promised
to give the railwaymen half-hearted
support by refusing to man additional
buses on Sundays, but at the same time
they made no secret of what they
thought of the strike.
This was disheartening, but not nearly
so discouraging as the loss of that £6-a-
week Sunday-overtime.


Premier Bolte has suggested that it
will be a bad thing if either Calwell or
pollard is chosen as Federal Labor leader,
as both are too old. In the eyes of
younger Labor men, who aren’t quite
ready to make a bid for the job them-
selves, that’s a very good reason for
choosing Arthur or Reg. Their age
is a guarantee that they won’t hang on
to the job too long.
• •
Queensland Liberal candidates for the
State election have been given a course
in the techniques of campaigning, with
particular emphasis on methods tried
out in recent elections in Britain and the
United States. Thirty-eight candidates
who attended the two-day school in
Brisbane will now be released to try it
out on the electors.
• •
Professor Arndt, of Canberra Uni-
versity College, suggests an annual
review of basic wage and margins based
on “a broad interpretation of the capa-
city of the economy to pay.” This inter-
pretation would consider the average
growth of productivity, allowing for
longer-term trends but ignoring year-to-
year fluctuations and giving little or no
weight to changes in the cost of living.
Arndt says that one reason why
margins-decisions have had such devas-
tating effects on prices and costs is that
they have been made at too long inter-
vals.
• •
Ottawa has announced that Canada
“has no enemies.” Times seem to have
changed since the days of the Gouzenko
revelations, when the traitorous agents of
one enemy went to jail for their crimes.
• •
At least one neighbor of Menzies and
Holt in Melbourne and Canberra, Sir
Wilfrid Kent Hughes, M.H.R. for
Chisholm, has no illusions of how the
demoralising inflation is affecting Federal
and State finances. In a Melbourne
lament, the former State and Federal
Minister says the States are getting
poorer and Federal finances are growing
stronger. This, he says, is because
Federal surpluses have not been distri-
buted among the States in accordance
with the Constitution. They have been
tucked away in trust-funds such as the
Loan Consolidation and Investment
Reserve Fund which pays off Federal,
but not State, debts, with the net result
that within eight years the Federal Gov-
ernment will have written-off the whole
°f its debt, including war loans, and the
States will be carrying the whole of the
national debt.
Kent Hughes has over-simplified the
position a little, but this explains the
equanimity with which Canberra accepts
another little slide on inflation, with its
consequent increase in taxation-revenue,
except, of course, in the weeks when by-
elections are in the offing.
• •
If, as Primary Industry Minister Ader-
ntann says, the harbor authorities are
refusing to instal incinerators to dispose
of ship’s garbage, then those authorities
will bear a heavy responsibility if such
garbage brings some new and serious
human, animal and plant diseases to this
country. Perhaps the quarantine and
port controllers could share in such pro-
jects which are essential and urgent.
• •
With the exception of sixpenny city-
sections, all Melbourne tram-fares were
raised unexpectedly, by up to threepence,
to coincide with the date of the rail-
increases in fares and freights from
March 6. Not a cry of protest reached
the newspapers, possibly because Mel-
burnians are too stunned at other, more
irksome, recent burdens.
• •
Herbert Hays, who died at Devonport
(Tas.) last week at 90, was elected to
the Senate for Tasmania in 1922 and
remained a Senator until 1947. He was
a member of many Parliamentary com-
mittees and Chairman of Committees
from 1932-35. Before his election to the
Senate he represented Wilmot in the Tas-
manian House of Assembly for 11 years
and was an Honorary Minister in Sir
Walter Lee's Government, 1916-22.
• •
“Bulle”: A forthright old lady, talking
of Lord Casey, said to me, “If I were
Casey, I wouldn’t take it! If a man
is worth being made a peer, it should
be a real peer!”
There was anger and opposition in
the House of Lords when, in 1856, the
first life-peer was created. He was
Sir James Parke, a judge of the Court
of Exchequer, who was created Lord
Wensleydale. It was argued that “the
dignity of the peerage was always an
hereditary dignity; that the blood of
the holder was ennobled.” The House,
under the leadership of Lord Lyndhurst
(who stated that the creation of a life-
peerage was an ancient but wholly
obsolete usage), passed a resolution not
to receive Lord Wensleydale ; nor did he
receive - the summons to sit and vote.
The difficulty was ultimately solved by
the decision that, while a new peer is
created by Royal letters-patent, a life-
peer must also be made so by statute.
• •
Nasser, who is usually noisily com-
municative, had one bit of unpalatable
information last week which he tried to
keep quiet—three discontented Syrian
Ministers had resigned from the Cabinet
of the United Arab Republic. But his
attempt to withhold their resignations
long enough to make it appear that he
had dropped them in a reshuffle failed
miserably.
• •
For the fifth year in succession the
British aircraft industry in 1959 set new
figures for exports of aircraft. Exports
totalled £stgls6 million, bringing the
total for the past five years to £stg6oo
million and the total since World War II
to £stg942 million.
• •
“Actin’’: When U.S. Ambassador
Sebald told a gathering in Melbourne
that the U.S. was facing serious
problems because of its huge overseas-
trade deficit, he added that it was trying
to reverse the drain, not by cutting
imports, but by increasing exports.
Unhappily, Australia has had early
evidence of this. There has lately been
a flood of extremely poor-quality U.S.
goods, ranging from “pulp” magazines
to glassware poorer than anything from
pre-war Japan. The reactions of buyers
have yet to be demonstrated, but it may
be feared that there will be little difficulty
in selling the rubbishy magazines.
• •
“D.”: Sheriff's officers popped the
wrong Italian into Melbourne’s Pent-
ridge jail when they seized Giancarli
Pellizzoni for contempt of court because
bangings, loud singing and music con-
tinued from a nightclub after a Supreme
Court order had been made that they
should be abated. They should have
arrested Giancarli Palazzoli, but
Pellizzoni’s friends had to get a writ of
habeus corpus to get him out. Court
officials and police in Melbourne make
valiant attempts to pronounce the names
of the increasing number of New Aus-
tralians turning up in the courts,
although some of their efforts, especially
with Slav names that seem to consist
chiefly of “z’s” and “w’s”, without a
vowel to ease them out, sound peculiar.
• •
As a result of the Loan Council request
to the Federal Government, Treasurer
Holt has announced that the Govern-
ment will support a £4-million increase
in the loan-allocation for local-govern-
ment and semi-government works. No
increase will be made in the borrowing-
programmes of the States, fixed last
June at £220 million. Holt said, in effect,
that the Commonwealth could not agree
to increasing the loan-programme
because any increase would come not
from the loan-market but from Com-
monwealth revenue and the Budget was
already in deficit.
• •
“Stromlo”: It should soon be possible
to land instruments on the moon, and
perhaps on some of the planets, but
scientists are gravely concerned at the
possibility that when we do so, some
microbes carried from the earth may
contaminate sterile areas where the
missiles land, or plague some existing
and non-adaptable forms of biological
life there. Most earth-dwellers won't
worry about a few of their germs reach-
ing Mars —but all nations will be con-
cerned at the thought that a space-
vehicle (and occupant) able to return
from such a visit might bring back some
virulent microbes now unknown on
earth.


Personal
ITEMS
Appointed Chief of the General Staff
to succeed Sir Ragnar Garrett on July 1,
Lieut.-General R. G. Pollard has been
G.O.C. Eastern Command since August,
1957. During War II Pollard was with
the 7th and 9th Divisions in the Middle
East, Papua (where he won the D. 5.0.)
and New Guinea. Since then he has had
experience in command of the Australian
component of the British Commonwealth
Forces in Korea, on all branches of the
staff—he was Director of Military Opera-
tions and Plans, Deputy Adjutant-
General and later Quartermaster-General
—and as military representative with the
Minister of External Affairs and military
adviser to the Prime Minister at the 1953
Commonwealth Prime Minister’s Con-
ference in London. He was awarded the
C.B. in last year’s Birthday Honors.
• •
Having an elder-statesman peer around
without official duties to weigh him down
will obviously hold advantages.
Angus Jones, managing-director of
Vacuum Oil, who is also president of the
Melbourne division of the Australian
Institute of Management, announces the
setting-up of an Indo-Pacific Council of
the International Council of Scientific
Management.
The member-nations will include India,
Japan, Indonesia and Australia. And who
would be better or happier to preside
as chairman of the inaugural meeting
than the man who has accepted, Lord
Casey?
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Some 30-odd years ago
a promising junior in the Navigation
Department, Melbourne, told his chief,
the redoubtable Captain J. K. Davis, that
he wanted to resign. Davis advised him
not to relinquish a secure job and
prospects of promotion for the hazards
and uncertainties of cycling. Uncon-
vinced, Hubert Opperman did resign.
After cycling triumphs all over the world,
and a spell in the R.A.A.F. during the
war, he eventually beat J. J. Dedman
for the Corio seat in the House of Repre-
sentatives, and has held it ever since.
He's been Liberal-party Whip for some
years, and has now been appointed
Minister for Shipping and Transport.
This brings the Navigation Department
under his control ; so he can be said to
have gone the full cycle.
• •
In Melbourne to sign his new book,
Life with the Aborigines, for readers,
Bill Harney, the N.T. identity, has been
advocating a weak beer specially brewed
for aborigines He says there is no
chance of their renouncing grog because
they have no amenities, and when they
have the money they buy some liquor
and have a party, as do a large number
of city-dwellers. The supply of liquor
to natives is a large-scale racket; only
the agents are caught, and when they are,
others are hired.
• •
Herewith Pete Ogden, who at 27
manages 28,000 head of cattle on a
million acres in the Kimberleys. The
property was pioneered by the Duracks
and owned by them until 1950. It’s now
owned by the Peel River Land and
Mineral Co., and operates under the
PETE OGDEN
name of Connor, Doherty and Durack.
Nearest town is Wyndham, 150 miles
away, where Ogden, wife and year-old
daughter embarked in a 4000-tonner for
a recent trip to Sydney.
Born in Quirindi (N.S.W.), Ogden went
jackerooing at Caldervale, near Charle-
ville (Q.), then to Argyle and Ivanhoe
(W.A.), back to South Galway (Q.) as
head stockman, then became manager of
Rockhampton Downs, 100 miles east of
Tennant Creek. Two years ago he got
his present job and is now breeding Santa
Gertrudis.
• •
Spending this week in Sydney is Rufus
T. Burton, a leading Standard-Vacuum
executive in New York, but most of
his three weeks’ visit to Australia will
be spent at Vacuum’s Melbourne head-
quarters. He is regional vice-president
for Australia and New Zealand in the
U. and has taken over the big job only
in the last year or so, but is making his
third visit to Australia in that time.
Vacuum’s £12.5-million petrochemical
plant now being built at Altona, a
Melbourne suburb, is expected to operate
next year, and the backroom boys in
the industry expect the Australian petro-
chemical industry to develop more than
me petrol industry. That is enough to
keep any executive hopping.
• •
“0.D.”: It’s interesting to learn (B.
6/1/’6O) that Peter Ryan is writing a
biography of Sir Redmond Barry, the
judge who sentenced Ned Kelly. I knew
Sir Redmond’s sons. Nicholas and
George had a property in the Goulburn
Valley (Vic.), and Fred ran a pub at
Murchison East. A sister, Mrs. Nolan,
had several sons, one of whom, Redy, did
some work for The Bulletin in the early
part of this century.
• •
A group of American agricultural
experts is now visiting Australia to
consult with business and educational
leaders and Government officials. The
party includes representatives of the
U.S. Federal and State Co-operative
Extension Service and of the Foreign
Agricultural Service. Its members are
studying foreign-trade developments and
market requirements for agricultural
commodities in Asian and Pacific areas
Members of the group are: John 0.
Dunbar (Purdue University), Rupert B.
Johnston (Mississippi State University),
John W. Mamer (Connecticut), Arthur
Mauch (Michigan), Everett E. Peterson
(Nebraska), Luther J. Pickrel (Min-
nesota), Robert W. Wilcox (Idaho),
Raymond C. Scott and Quentin M. West
(U.S. Department of Agriculture).
In addition to Australia they will be
visiting Pakistan, India, Malaya, the
Philippines, Hong Kong and Japan to
discuss developments in agricultural pro-
ductivity, internal marketing and distri-
bution and U.S. market-development
programmes.
• •
“G.S.” farewells a comrade:
The Army lost a loyal and valuable officer
with the death of Brig. A. E. L. Morgan,
“Pierpont” will be remembered not only from
his Light Horse days but by the many thousands
of young men who passed through his hands
during the three years he commanded the
N.S. Training Brigade at Ingleburn and
Holsworthy. Efficient to a high degree in every-
thing he did, his whole life was completely
dedicated to the ideal of service. There are
many today who have cause to thank him
for sympathetic assistance in difficult personal
problems.
• •
Sir Roy Harrod —his memoir of Lord
Cherwell is reviewed on the Red Page
—has been Tutor in Economics at Christ
Church, Oxford, since 1922 and Nuffield
Reader in International Economics in
the University since 1953. He became
joint-editor of the Economic Journal
in 1945 and is a councillor of the Royal
Economic Society. It’s not surprising,
therefore, that most of his published
work has dealt with his special subject


—lnternational Economics (which came-
out in 1933, was revised in 1939 and
1957), Policy Against Inflation, The
Dollar and The Trade Cycle are his best-
known. He wrote a scholarly biography:
The Life of John Maynard Keynes.
Though this does not stray far from
the dismal science in its subject, it
gives a remarkable picture of the social
and political events of Lord Keynes’s
time, which has made it as interesting
and valuable to the general reader as to
the specialist. lie has now followed that
up with his memoir on “The Prof.”
Harrod was a member of the
United Nations Sub-committee on Em-
ployment and Economic Stability from
1947 to 1950 and of the International
Monetary Fund, 1952-53. And, of
course, in “S” Branch he studied such
mundane matters as soldiers’ trousers.
• •
Over from Perth to attend a con-
ference to which he had been invited by
the Department of Trade, Hugh Dunn,
of Hugh Dunn Plastics, called at The
Bulletin office. He specialises in
making plastic maps which are printed
with ink containing a special additive
to make them permanent.
Dunn (here sketched), who was born
and raised in Perth, worked with various
Government Departments Mines,
Forestry and Lands Survey—until just
over a year ago. It was when he was
distributing publications for the Depart-
ment of Lands Survey that he hit upon
the idea of producing a large plastic map
of Australia, showing the industrial and
commercial activities of the Common-
wealth, with its cultural and educational
facilities and communications also
marked. He now plans to take this map
to Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, the
U.S.A., Canada, the U.K., the Continent,
South Africa and Ceylon, and hand it
to heads of Government departments
and other nominated people in business
or other activities, as a form of inter-
national publicity for Australia. The
cost of the journey is being met by
sponsors of the scheme.
HUGH DUNN
Victorian Harbor Trust chairman
Aubrey Duncan Mackenzie (B. 13/1/’6O)
went out of office, at a civic reception
given him by the Lord Mayor, on a
characteristically controversial note with
the suggestion that exporters “who now
pay nothing for the services they receive
in the Port of Melbourne’’ should be
levied to. help pay for accommodating
the large (40,000 ton) ships now building
for the England-Australia run.
• •
At the 1938 Royal Easter Show, the
Hereford cattle-section was judged by the
late Percy E. Bradstock, a noted English
breeder. This year his son, Tom F.
Bradstock, of Free Town, Tarrington,
Hereford (Eng.), is coming out to judge
the Herefords.
• •
Passed the 90th milestone in Perth,
John Bathgate, veteran Methodist lay-
preacher, claims to be the oldest active
preacher in Australia. Still vigorous in
the pulpit, he has been stimulating con-
gregations for 70 years, and proposes to
carry on as long as he is able. Born
at West Maitland (N.S.W.), he moved to
Westralia in 1915, and was mayor of
Subiaco from 1943 to 1949.
• •
At a Rotary Club “do” at Mayfield
(N.S.W.), in which eight international
students were farewelled, Jim Helu, a
native of Tonga, sang “Come Back to
Sorrento’’ —not in his own language or
English, but in Italian! Helu, who has
been studying at Sydney University, is a
self-taught singer of Italian opera.
• •
A. E. Rupert, “interlocking director”
of the Rothmans group of cigarette-
manufacturing companies, has returned
to London after spending a fortnight in
Australia. While here he was busy with
discussions, inspections of factories and
conferences. A graduate in chemistry at
the University of Pretoria, he‘s a director
of each of the Rothmans companies now
manufacturing cigarettes in the United
Kingdom, Canada, South Africa, New
Zealand, Northern Ireland, Eire, Fiji,
Malta and Holland, and spends nine
months every year travelling throughout
the world. Last year he was airborne for
more than 73 days.
• •
Managing - director of Magnecord
(Austr.) Pty., Ltd., and chairman of
newly-formed United Motels, Ltd.,
Maurice Dale Chapman (born Adelaide,
1910) was schooled at Prince Alfred
College (Archibald Prize-winner Ivor
Hele was a contemporary), started work
as early-morning announcer for the
“Advertiser” broadcasting-network and,
after 12 years, became manager. In his
spare time he flew with the R.A.A.F.V.R.,
then went into Army signals ; so, at the
start of War 11, he found himself in
charge of the signals organisation in the
City of Adelaide C.D. scheme before
he could get away in the A.I.F. signals
to Noumea and New Guinea.
Later an N.B.C. war-correspondent,
he wrote and published a couple of
novels after the war, won the first award
given by the Australian Federation of
Broadcasting Stations for an educational
dramatic script, and became manager of
MAURICE CHAPMAN
Sydney’s 2CH. Taking to business,
Chapman (pictured) went to America as
a director of Magnecord International,
returning to Sydney as managing-director
of Magnecord (Austr.). Now this com-
pany is building the air-ground tape-
recording equipment with which the
R.A.A.F. is to be fitted-up, and is also
developing equipment for telemetering
guided-missiles and for uninterrupted re-
cording of a station’s complete dawn-
to-close programme. United Motels,
Chapman’s other company, operates a
couple of motels in the Snowy Moun-
tains region, and is building another at
Manly (N.S.W.). Chapman is also on the
board of the Snowy Mountains Develop-
ment Company.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Mrs. Ann Eadith Isabel Vallack,
president of the Women’s Pioneer Society
(Australasia).
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 68, Captain Bernard
V. Portman, M.C. and bar. Born in Sydney,
he served in the First World War with the
A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in France. In Hitler’s
war a weapons-training instructor in Auckland,
later in the Army Education section in the
Pacific. Retired last year from N.Z. Forestry
Dept.
In Sydney, at 66, Colonel F. U. J. Tinkler,
Custodian of the Cenotaph, treasurer and
director of the N. S. Wales R.S.L. Club and
member of the Anzac House Trust board of
management. He served on Gallipoli and in
France during War I, and during War II
commanded the 2nd Divisional Signals, and
was later C. 5.0., 2nd Army. He won the
0.8. E. and M.C. and was thrice “mentioned.”
At Proserpine (Q.), Leslie Willis Beresford
Clark, co-founder of the Cairns Aerial
Ambulance Service, and a former Cairns and
Rockhampton ambulance-superintendent.


ABORIGINALITIES
A n annual avian miracle in western
Queensland —so regular is it, in
fact, that most people take it for granted
and don’t notice it —is the appearance
of the waterhens. You won’t see one
in 20,000 square-miles ; then the “wet”
will arrive with a bang. There’ll be a
rush of wind at night, the raucous call
of a lost soul, and in the morning the
country will be freckled with black
bodies on red legs, twitching tails,
scarlet beaks. They run and fly, fight
and play, dive and swim, live on the
fat of the land where the grass is green
and where soft-shelled animals are
breaking into the world. Then, after a
couple of months, when aquatic herbs
grow harsh, when outlying waters com-
mence to dry, the morning shows no
hens anywhere. Who gave them the
rallying-call and what directs them
remains a mystery. —“Flight.”
* * * *
“Metax”: The Van Diemen’s Land
Co., closing its head - office at Burnie
(Tas.), was formed in England in 1825
and granted 350,000 acres in the Speck’s
far north-west to grow wool. Burnie
was named after a V.D.L. Co. director,
William Burnie, in 1827, and settled by
chief - surveyor Henry Hellyer without
the permission of his manager, Edward
Curr, who at first favored a site near
the Inglis River rather than near the
Emu River. The head-office was first
at Stanley, but moved to Burnie in 1884.
Now the co. owns only 64,000 acres,
most of which is the Woolnorth estate
between Marrawah and the north-west
tip of the island. All land held around
Burnie has been sold, and the office has
become unnecessary. Smithton will be-
come the headquarters for continuing
the development of Woolnorth for cattle.
* H= * *
“Yakipan”: I have not served with
Gurkhas (B. 6/1/’6O), but while p.-0.-w.
in Singapore I came to admire and
respect them. Being a Japanese-speaker,
one of my duties during our first year
of imprisonment was to accompany the
parties of Australian and British troops
who were used by the Japanese as
ENDEAN
errand-boys to collect the meagre rations
from the Nip stores. During these trips
into Singapore we oftep came across
working-parties of Gurklias. They were
as ragged as we, but never failed to give
us a grin and a shout of welcome,
together with “V for Victory” signs and
“Thumbs up.” Occasionally among our
troops would be hidden one of their
British officers in the hope that he might
have a few words with them in their
own language. Our Japanese and Korean
escorts never dropped to what was going
on. The Gurkhas held proudly aloof
from their captors, refusing all invita-
tions to “co-operate.” For this many
of them received severe bashings, but
their loyalty never faltered.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Last year Hindus in Fiji
celebrated their Festival of Diwali,
which commemorates the return of three
of their gods after an absence of 14 years
in the jungle, where they strove for
peace and killed an evil god. The three
gods returned at nightfall and homes
were illuminated in their honor. The
festival has been celebrated for centuries
and is often known as the Festival of
the Lights. We drove to Tavua, past
the cane-workers’ homes, and the nor-
mally dark valley twinkled with lights
everywhere. Even the humblest homes
were brilliant with banks of burning
candles outside. We stopped where the
whole hill around a house was covered
with lights. The head of the house came
down with a plate of sweetmeats for us
to eat. “This is our happiest day,” he
said. “This is the Indian Christmas.”
*,* * *
“Bell”: When floodwaters cut-off
many properties from the township in
our Queensland district a wireless-flash
announced that a plane would fly over
during the day to drop Red Cross
emergency-rations to any homestead
which had a sign on the roof. The plane
duly dropped supplies, but it missed one
outlying home where two boys had
painstakingly written their sign with torn
sheeting: 51b. flour, lib. tea, ylb. tobacco.
# * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Apparently the
Department of Native Affairs in New
Guinea hasn’t heard of the old gentle-
man who, when asked if he believed
in clubs for women, replied, “Yes, our
cavemen ancestors had the right idea.”
At any rate, village women’s clubs are
now a feature of the Territory, and
there’s a training-school in progress at
Popondetta for leaders. The club-
movement is claimed to be highly
SEA-WALL
They built a wall —
I don’t know why. It wasn’t needed
at all
Except l suppose it was a gesture
The ocean’s so damn’ complacent —
Maybe they hoped to ruffle it with their
rocks and cement,
Or maybe the business with Canute still
rankled,
And they hoped to show the progress
of mankind.
Well, the ocean didn’t seem to mind.
Of course, they weren’t very brave;
They built it way back up the beach
Where only an occasional wave
Could reach.
It stood like that a decade or so
Till they thought the ocean had let their
challenge go,
Then a cyclone came in on the year’s
highest tide
And smashed their silly wall.
I don’t know whether they cant learn
Or whether they hope to teach the ocean
But they’ve built it again.
Whenever I go back
1 always look
To see it gone:
But this year
It’s still there
With dry sand round its feet,
So maybe they’ve got the ocean beat.
QUEENSLAND.
R. G. HAY.


IV ukß HAcf-A-PozetA Hunter. £ve<?.
C£o AND HAL.(=-A'PO2.eN SouTH AuSTRAC./AT«/
PR y white - .
r KNOW TOO MUCH ABOUT*
y’R. REPS and INHCTGS, MATF. OuT l
CAN RSCOMAieNP OUR. OIP fftUlTy Sxtra
S'weeT S > HeRR/ ; our. Full-Bop* £P Purple
Pc?oa~ / ANP OUR. Rich BrowN OIP
Sweer Muscat/ 7 /-
A _
I yjr isn’t that a bottle
OF VINTAGE CLARET / CAN
see up There 7* 7/
*r
l iwn't uks setur/ ye«_
THUS, HssuS . A^yuf\y } I'C’s
fZ£AL OLp STOCK. , y CAN
have «r Ar half - pfuce »
6>crr THey rsckpn if you
&PJE.AK. 'THIS' CLAfZBT STUFF
POWN WITH t£MONAPg
jr y s Q(JiTe pfunkabue .


successful, but a lot of New Guinea
women must be different from their white
sisters. An official report by A. A.
Roberts, Director of Native Affairs,
says the membership of the women’s
clubs usually includes all the women of
a village, so that in their activities the
normally conservative older women and
the younger members who more actively
desire change “work in harmony and
thus achieve a balance between what
could be ultra-conservatism and over-
enthusiasm.” This, he says, also ensures
that in matters affecting community life
as a whole the women can present an
opinion representing the views of all the
“Anyone home ?”
women of the village. It would be in-
teresting to have some comments on this
from women’s clubs in the villages of
Toorak and Bellevue Hill.
* * * *
“Black Range”: Those two aboriginal
youths who allegedly ran 100 miles in
23 hours to escape the cops (B. 27/1/’6O)
set no record. Ranji, an aborigine of
Sandstone (W.A.), was charged with
murder after a scuffle with a tribe at
Lawler. Acquitted, he was returned to
the mulga, but in true official style was
dumped at Lawler —right in the heart
of enemy territory. He lay doggo till
dark, then lit-out for Sandstone, an out-
post of which, the Eight-mile, he reached
before day-shift next day. He’d covered
about 100 miles in 14 hours approx.
Quizzed about the run, Ranji said he’d
“run a little, walked a little, nothing,
sleepum.”
* * * *
“Phoenix”: A Brisbane suburbanite
was trimming his ornamental pine-tree
Mien a couple of wasps, narked at the
disturbance of their roof-tree, sank a
brace of red-hot needles into his arm.
Whereupon the vengeful householder
grabbed a rolled-up newspaper, lit it,
and held the torch under the nest. It
burned beautifully; so did the tree;
the fireman made a close save of the
house. All of which should caution
wasp-stung tree-trimmers not to become
exacerbated to the point of arson before
making sure that the vegetable isn’t dead'
and dry inside, as this one was, and that
in any case the firestick is an extreme
hazard in a tree already heavily im-
pregnated with turpentine.
* * * *
“Joanne”: New service-stations have
something to answer for. One being
built at New Lambton, in the Hunter
River country (N.S.W.), has removed
a landmark Sneddon’s Camellia
Gardens, corner of Regent and Vic-
toria Streets. In the ’seventies ex-
storekeeper Thomas Sneddon, a Scot,
established the garden by clearing the
virgin bush and carting-in soil—a horse-
and-dray qob. Afternoon-tea at Sned-
don’s was rated a social event at the
turn of the century. Captains of sailing-
ships in port at Newcastle visited the
place in hansom cabs, and they took
cuttings from the 60-odd shrubs to many
parts of the world.
* * * *
“Pieter Nuyts”: The hedgehog “a
creature indisputably of the porcupine
family”? Come off it, “Fair Mac” (B.
27/1/’60)! The porcupine is a rodent,
of the order Rodentia ; the hedgehog is
included in one of the nine families of
the order Insectivora. Thus about the
only relationship existing between the
two is their common inclusion in the
class Mammalia, to which the echidna
also belongs. As for calling the spiny
anteater “echidna” —what else can you
call it? That’s its genetic name, so
obviously it must be correct. If the name
is inept the scientist sorry, the
“naturalist who should have known
better” —who named it must accept the
blame. But these types are notoriously
canny, and some may possess a know-
ledge comparable with “F.M.’s”. It’s
even possible this particular chap knew
that the Greek word he was using meant
viper, and that he sought to include a
reference to the little monstrosity’s
unique position as one of the two existing
links between reptiles and mammals.
* * * *
“Mackville”: Yes, “Click Go the
Shears” is indisputably a parody (B.
3/ 2 / ’6O), and probably a Pitt Street
shearer’s song at that, since no less an
authority than “Duke” Tritton will con-
firm that the blade-shearers used wooden
“knockers” to ensure that the tongs did
not dick. But most bush-songs were
parodies, anyway. Even such a classic
as “Wrap Me Up in My Stockwhip and
Blanket,” which is almost universally
accepted as being more Australian than
the boomerang, owes its tune to an old
English cavalry-song, the opening lines
of which go “Wrap me up in my old
stable-jacket, and say the old buffer lies
low.”
* * * *
“Djungala Tom”: If the late Pro-
fessor Wood Jones was right, Ted
Scorfield’s cartoon (B. 20/’l/’6O) of the
Russians and their coconut-bombs would
lose its point. In his Unscientific Essays
the prof, pointed out that coconuts never
hit men in their fall because they have
eyes which “enable them to see what is
below when they make their plunge to
earth.” His theory was that on palm-laden
islands millions of nuts fail each year
yet always avoid a direct hit. Once a
boy was killed by a nut —but it had been
tossed over the garden-fence. When
ripped from its husk, this lethal nut was
found to be a rare one —without eyes!
* * * *
“Maitri”: Warnings of bushfire-
danger are a feature of the South Aus-
tralian countryside, and not without
reason ; it wouldn’t take much to turn
those parched paddocks and scrub into
an inferno. Homely and folksy, but
certainly to the point, here are four of
the warnings I jotted-down: “Don’t bite
the land that feeds you”; “A dropped
match; a blackened thatch”; “One
piece of tinder and the country’s a
cinder”; and “One flaming match ; no
flaming trees.” It was interesting to find
that fires in the open are not forbidden
for months at a stretch as they often
are in N.S.W.: instead, every day, by
newspaper and radio, you are informed
whether you can light fires or not. More
often than not you can.
* * * *
“Janus”: Our N.Z. district had two
fire-brigades, the Municipal and the
Volunteer, and, the rivalry being keen,
fires were much sought-after. The
arrangement was that first there had
undisputed possession of the fire unless
help was needed. Once they dead-heated
to the scene: Municipal declared Volun-
teer had cheated by rushing across a
vacant section; Volunteer said Muni-
cipal had left some equipment behind
in their hurry and weren’t going to
borrow Volunteer hoses. The argument
went almost as furiously as the fire, till
a bystander yelled, “All right, boys, you
can relax now, the house has burnt
down! ” After that a merger was
arranged.
* * * *
I'm disgusted at reports of the
activities of illicit fishermen in
the Snowy Mountains district who
are invading the trout-streams with
set-lines, nets and spinners, and taking
the fish that rightly belong to the licensed
anglers. This poaching must be ruth-
lessly stamped-out. I suggest that all
offenders caught should be transported
to England for life. —“Currency Lad.”


mm
m
m
m
mm
WEEKLY!
4
i
»
j :n ■
■
'
• e •
• »
so e « * e 1
m ® ■ » nJEI °i °
|>|« HHf 9 i c
B » a « Bssßß o J 4
* o I o “If 8 I o
• •’A osoHolo
_. *—A » ■•
•*
0 8 8 0 8 1 08
0 « «
80
■ H
« ■
• »
K. .: O •
99 0 •
O *
o
8 _ •
o •
s*I’- 1 ’-
ANY MOTORIST CAN WIN!
ALL YOU DO:
Look at a list of numbers on any
Ampol Service Station
IF YOUR CAR NUMBER IS ON THE LIST
YOU WIN!
NEW WINNERS LIST UP NOW
...NEW LIST EVERY WEEK!
fIMPOL


MULLENS & CO.
k. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Moldens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines! BT r,:j?7
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDKCELEX.” Sydney
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-3-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: ‘‘Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
Business, Robbery, Etc.
FEBRUARY-MARCH "SHAKES"
TThe short, rather violent,
“shake” that took place in
Australian sharemarkets last
week was primarily attributed
to possibilities of anti-inflation
measures from Canberra that
would chop through the eco-
nomy as unselectively and in-
equitably as a rotary-hoe, with
industry paying both the in-
flated wages and increased
taxes.
Whatever caused the share-
market setback, it was overdue,
anyway. The game of investor
exploiting investor through
soaring equity-share prices is a
rather silly business, especi-
ally in view of the low yields
available from comparatively
static company earnings and
dividends.
It was the tall poppies on
’Change which were chiefly
affected —8.H.P., C.S.R., Roth-
mans, 1.C.1., A.C.1., and so on.
But recovery was on the way
by the end of the week.
Away from specific causes,
February and March are always
likely to be tricky months in
Australian sharemarkets. “The
ides of March” have become
so much a tradition among
investors of long-standing that
nobody quibbles very much if
a market setback occurs in Feb-
ruary or March ; it is a recur-
rence of an annual malady, but
slightly variable in the time of
its onset and the strength and
duration of its attack.
TThe Bulletin has noted this
February-March malady
since 1935, when President
Roosevelt, alarmed at the unan-
ticipated velocity in the rise in
prices following the devaluation
of the dollar in January, 1934,
threatened to up-value the
dollar to check speculation. In
1936 it was the action of the
Bank of N. S. Wales raising its
deposit-rates at a time when the
Commonwealth Bank was
endeavoring to establish an
open market for Treasury bills
—this torpedoed the central
bank’s plan, and it did not 1
return to it until 23 years later
(in 1959). For the next three
years the February-March set-
backs were mostly the result of
the activities of Hitler and
Mussolini in Europe.
In post-war years these
down-turns have been inclined
to come out of a clear blue sky
and not to last very long. They
have come to be associated,
conjectural!v. with a shortage
of investment funds following
“I’m a goner if they recognise me horse!"
the issue of annual income-tax
assessments. And that is
probably as good a reason as
any.
A dditional factors operating
in the sharemarket during
February and March this year
have been, and will be, the
weakening of support for in-
dustrials in New York not-
withstanding the earlier talk of
the “golden ’sixties,” and the
uneven market in London
following a number of develop-
ments, including a market-scare
that followed a TV-show.
But the chief factor, as said
before, is the extremely high
level to which shares have gone
in Australia regardless of yields
offering. Leaving out excep-
tional cases, yields of around
2 p.c. are, market-wise, very
vulnerable.
On February 12, too, We
had C. F. Cobbold, governor of
the Bank of England, remark-
ing:
As to the boom in equity shares,
I have already expressed some dis-
quiet, which I still feel. The great
problem is that there is too much
money chasing too few first-class
shares. I am certainly not going
to hazard a view whether prices will
rise, or fall or whether the recent
yield-basis is justified. I do, how-
ever, see some danger, particularly
to the small investor, in the preva-
lent mood that one only has to buy
a few equities and one is certain
to make money.
Mr. Cobbold added some
remarks about “overstrain of
the economy” and “threats to
the stability of prices,” and he
warns that the authorities
would not hesitate to take
further restraining measures if
they deemed them necessary.
of last week’s meeting
of Federal Cabinet, called
to discuss methods of coping
with any inflationary excesses
this year following the margin-
rises and previous lifts in the
basic wage, was the factor
which ultimately triggered-off
a sharp setback in share prices.
The market was afraid that
something resembling the 1951
Budget might be contemplated,
or a “Little Budget,” as in 1956.
It is justified in feeling
alarmed at the prospect of any-
thing like that at this stage.
Higher taxation or restricted
credit will not of themselves
solve the problem. Before the
eight economists issued their
manifesto preceding the 1956
“Little Budget” The Bulletin
commented that “Inadequate
productivity'has become almost
a cliche when describing the
fundamental weakness in our
economy, but it is a cliche that
we shall have to bear with if we
are to cope with the realities
of the situation.”
“High costs and inadequate
productivity,” the commeat
went on, “are the two sides of
the same coin. We can toss the
coin about as we will, but one
side or the other comes up in
every case. What is needed is
a new type of industrial cur-
rency, with increased produc-
tivity on one side 'and lower
costs on the other.”
It is a type of currency, how-
ever, which the Menzies Gov-
ernment has shown little more
alacrity to introduce or en-
courage, through taxation or
arbitration policy, than any
other Government.
Tractors involved in the dizzy
climb in share prices to
their recent peaks have been
the shortage of equity shares
following the resort to debt-
finance made necessary by
taxation policy ; overseas
interest in our industrial shares
(also partly the result of taxa-
tion anomalies) ; institutional
buying of equity shares where
previously the habit was to
invest in Government, local-
government and mortgage and
debenture securities; takeovers;
and fears of continuing infla-
tion.
One result of this climb in
equity-share prices has been a
drop in yields of first-class
industrials to the point where
they have become utterly miser-
able. A 2 p.c. return from any
medium-term or long-term in-
vestment is, by itself, unjustifi-
able. But not only have in-
vestors been persuaded to buy
shares offering that immediate
return; they have, in addition,
been convinced that, even if a
doubling of that return does not
seem practicable in the foresee-
able future, some other investor
will be prepared to give them a
higher price before long and
they, will get out with a
“capital-increment” before the
day of market reckoning (or
reaction) catches them.
But in such an investment
policy it is implicit that some-
one in the end must get caught


★
I&andl
fiRANDt
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia's
Better Brandy
STAGHGS
SfjENTI
Pot-stiii BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
No Outstanding Bargains
In last week’s sharemarket
setback there were no
special bargains offering. Big-
gest falls were among the gilded
topliners, and they had been
riding for a fall anyway.
One of the heaviest relative
falls was in A.W.A., and at
265. 9d. the ss. shares could be
bought about 3s. below this
year’s highest price. The im- ’s
mediate yield is just under 3
p.c. The £1 notes, convertible
into four ords. on June 30,
1962, looked the better buy at
945., assuming that there are
no bonus- issues" before that
date. They participate in issues
for cash.
Australia’s Oil Chances
[From F. B. Menadue]
r THE article by “Old Opencut”
on “Australia’s Oil Out-
look” (B. 10/2/’6O) provides a
refreshing dose of optimism
when it declares that definite —
though limited —areas favor-
able for the retention of vast
anticlinal pools of oil exist in
the Far North.
As well as the conference of
oil-search companies that he
suggests, we need a conference
of geologists and experts to
summarise the results of ex-
ploration to date, and examine
theories and opinions in the
light of them.
From a careful analysis of
the opinions expressed by
various experts from time to
time, including those of the
late L. Owen, it now appears
evident that, compared with
other countries recognised as
oil-producing, Australia’s
geology is very distinctive, and
certain oil characteristics do
not exist.
But in the light of the result
of the finding of oil in parts of
these great oil-producing
countries that, also, are quite
distinctive from the parts
hitherto classed as the oil-
bearing ones (for example,
Alberta), and of the finding of
oil in England and the Sahara,
prejudice, pedantry, premature
and immature judgments must
not be allowed to unduly in-
fluence the search for oil in
Australia.
Associated Securities, Ltd.
Tn announcing a one-for-five
A bonus-issue to present
shareholders, the board of
Associated Securities, Ltd.,
Sydney, also revealed that it
has been agreed that the British
Wagon Co., Ltd., to the extent
of 60 p.c., and the Royal
Bank of Scotland, to the extent
of 40 p.c., will take up, at
20s. per share, 2,150,000 new
shares in Associated Securities.
The new issue will represent
40 p.c. of the new capital-
structure of Associated. These
shares will be paid for on
March 31, 1960.
The British Wagon Com-
pany was established in 1869
for the purpose of financing
railway rolling-stock. It has
diversified its interests, and is
now one of the le : ng hire-
purchase companies in the
United Kingdom, specialising
in the finance of industrial
equipment, motor-vehicles and
agricultural machinery, and
has assets approximating
£A25,000,000. The Royal
Bank of Scotland and its
associates own 40 p.c. of its
shares.
The Royal Bank of Scotland
was incorporated by Royal
Charter in 1727 and heads a
group of banks in the United
Kingdom, including Williams
Deacon’s Bank, Ltd., and
Messrs. Glyn Mills and Com-
pany. The total assets of these
three banks amount to over
£A500,000,000.
It has been agreed that the
British group shall nominate to
the board of Associated two
directors, R. A. Dyson, chair-
man of the British Wagon
Company, and D. F. Landale,
chairman of the Royal Bank
of Scotland. Raymont Moore,
the well-known Sydney ac-
countant so much in the news
during 1959 as a director of
cos. making bonus-issues,
will be appointed to the board
to fill the vacancy caused by
the death of S. J. Gandon.
In making this association
Associated board feels that it
will bring into force powerful
influences from the United
Kingdom which will raise the
status of Associated in Aus-
tralia in obtaining necessary
funds on the market. Under
existing conditions the current
dividend of 15 p.c. is expected
to be maintained on the
increased capital.
The new paid-up capital of
Associated will be £1,343,409,
the increase comprising
£134,318 in making the one-
for-five bonus-issue and the
issue to the British Wagon
Company and the Royal Bank
of Scotland of £537,500.
After making the bonus-issue
and the payment of the interim
dividend, reserves will be
£646,196. With the addi-
tion of the 15s. a share
premium, totalling £1,162,500,
the reserves will mount to
£2,258,696.
Turnover and net profit for
the six months ended
December 31, 1959, have been
an all-time record.
Wool-futures Exchange
CJydney Greasy Wool
Futures Exchange, Ltd.,
a co. limited by guarantee and
non-profit-making, proposes to
start operations on May 11.
First directors of the
exchange are C. M. Hall
(chairman); E. G. Davis (vice-
chairman) ; P. V. Creagh ; J. K.
Coombe; and R. Moniez.
Rules and regulations of the
exchange are now in draft
form and should be printed
within four or five weeks.
Samples of the standard wool
of the exchange, which is
C.W.C. Type 78, will be avail-
able for distribution in the next
two or three weeks.
The exchange has received
86 applications for associate-
membership, and many of these
applications are from overseas
countries. A list of all
associate members will be pub-
lished in the first week of April,
and those wishing to be
included in this list should
lodge their applications with
the exchange before the end
of March.
The deliverable types of
wool amount to 72, covering
over lj-million bales of greasy
wool.
Floor - members of the
Sydney Greasy Wool Futures
Exchange are R. G. Bailey and
Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. (Sydney);
K. V. Chapman and Co. Pty.,
Ltd. (Sydney); A. Dewavrin
Futures Pty., Ltd. (Sydney);
Dreyfus and Co. (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd. (Canberra); Clive Hall
Pty., Ltd. (Sydney); Wm.
Haughton and Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) ; Herbaux and. Masurel
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd. (Sydney);
Kreglinger and Fernau (Aus-
tralia) Pty., Ltd. (Sydney);
Lempriere (Australia) Wool
Futures Pty., Ltd. (Melbourne);
W. P. Martin Whittingham
Pty., Ltd. (Sydney); J. W.
McGregor and Co. (Sydney);
G. H. Michell and Sons, Ltd.
(Hindmarsh, S.A.); Nichols
(Futures) Pty., Ltd. (Sydney);
Simonius, Vischer and Co.
(Sydney); Wilcox Mofflin,
Ltd. (Sydney).


465,000
customers buy
electricity from
The Sydney
County Council
every day and
night every
week of the year
The Sydney County Council supplies elec-
tricity throughout an area of 536 square
miles with a population of one and a half
million people. It is one of the largest and
most rapidly expanding public utilities in
Australia.
Switch your savings bank 3%
over to by investing in the
S.C.C. Loan.
a
ydney
ounty
e
I ouncil
5i%
• Full security.
• No speculation risks.
• Assured return with full
repayment of capital in 5, 10 or
20 years Iwhichever term you
choose).
• If you are a holder of maturing
4|% S.C.C. securities in Loans 54
or 56, now is your opportunity to
convert them to 5^%.
It’s easy to make
this investment
Just call at the nearest office of the—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank • Aus-
tralia and New Zealand Bank Limited
• Bank of New South Wales • The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited.
Alternatively, 'phone your stockbroker or
call at the S.C.C. offices.
CASH AND CONVERSION
LOAN
Loan underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
5C221.6Q
A COUNTER TO INFLATION
'T'he Federal Cabinet has
been meeting to discuss the
inflationary prospects in Aus-
tralia during the 1960 s and
possible methods of combating
rising costs and prices.
There has been talk, un-
officially, of credit-restriction
and tax-increases later on to
balance the 1960-61 Budget.
But the most obvious first
step, in order to curb price-
inflation following wage-push
cost-inflation, would be to
reduce the rates of sales-tax,
as was done in Britain a year
ago, with the result that prices
in the U.K. actually fell during
1959.
Another obvious step would
be to abolish payroll-tax.
These moves would directly
aid productivity and help to
keep prices down against the
upward surge of arbitration-
induced wage-costs.
They would also tend to
restrict the growth of an in-
hibiting and non-productive
civil service.
To the average citizen, civil
servants of the administrative
kind are like jails and lunatic-
asylums—just enough of them
is plenty. (On the other hand,
there aren’t enough of the
scientific and technical type.)
To impose additional income-
taxation or to restrict credit
in order to correct an infla-
tionary condition which is
largely the result of arbitra-
tion-commission awards is a
measure of expediency lacking
in economic justice or common-
sense.
It would strike at business
initiative, shake true invest-
ment confidence, impair pro-
ductivity, reduce the rewards of
investors, and drive company
managements further towards
debt-finance instead of asking
shareholders to put-up more
capital themselves.
This practice of financing
development by increasing debt
instead of increasing capital is
largely responsible for the fan-
tastic position on the Stock Ex-
change, where some topline
stocks are being bought to show
the buyer a yield as low as 2
p.c.
Emergency taxation and
credit-restriction in order to
combat wage-push inflation
would result in more power to
the arm of the civil service,
more restrictive controls. It is a
certainty that there will be no
real economy, restriction or
retrenchment among the civil
service as a result of any policy
of restriction that is aimed at
affecting the productive side of
the economy. Where industry’s
job of raising productivity is
made harder through restric-
tion, the numbers of unpro-
ductive civil servants will ex-
pand.
Dr. Coombs, governor of
the central bank, has said that
there is too great a reluctance
among employers to absorb
wage-increases through higher
productivity and efficiency, and
too great a readiness to pass-
on the increased costs. He
mentions that price - fixing
arrangements and gentlemen’s
agreements in particular in-
dustries have made this policy
easier, while takeovers have
made it easier still.
It is perfectly true that there
is a growing tendency towards
monopoly in Australia, em-
phasised by the recent wave of
takeovers, and already clearly
noticeable in the daily-news-
paper industry; but Federal
Government policy has abetted
this trend, not hindered it.
The undistributed-profits tax
on private companies has a
special penalty in it for the
small and independent man as
opposed to the big combine.
The civil service has no
particular grudge against
monopolies. It is in the same
boat itself. And the Socialists
in the civil service are usually
in favor of monopolies. Mono-
polies, ultimately, are politi-
cally vulnerable, especially in a
o Continued on page 55)


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
u
I
f
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Giselle”
Because it has a dramatic
human story to tell, even if it
is thoroughly weather-worn,
“Giselle” is one of the most
compelling of all the ballets ;
and one of the remarkable
things about it is how, having
exhausted its story in Act I, it
nevertheless provides an even
more piercing drama in Act 11.
The prince has duly seduced
the village maiden. .She has
obligingly lost her wits and
died. It ought to be finished.
Instead of that, there is a kind
of cold hell contrived, in which
the seducer and the hapless
tale-telling Huntsman are very
beautifully and vindictively
punished by the Wilis —a most
solemn warning to all never to
seduce a village maiden.
It is indeed a compact and
profound little drama ; but, be-
cause of the tombs and the
ghosts, an atmosphere -of
morbidity, it is not altogether
attractive. The charm of the
white ballet here becomes icy
and macabre.
For some odd reason the
Borovanskys got the opposite
effect at Sydney Empire and
made the whole thing light,
lyrical and charming. Most
likely it was an accident, even
a failing, that gave this happy
result.
The lighting, the set, the
music and the Wilis all failed
to achieve the proper gloom
and ferocity in the second act,
so that it became simply a
dance of love between the
prince and the maiden. But
since both of these Robert
Pomie and Kathleen Gorham
"-danced superbly, as they had
all through Act I, it was the
most graceful, if not the
deepest, “Giselle” that this
commentator remembers see-
mg. And, since there was no
lack of depth in Pomie and
Kathleen Gorham—a pair who
have everything in looks, tech-
nique and sensitivity that great
dancers require—it was also,
as a dance of doomed lovers,
moving.
„ When “Giselle” is morbid,
Graduation Ball” is the ideal
piece to offset it. Here, if it
wasn’t needed so urgently, it
fittingly continued the essential
lightness and liveliness of the
evening: with Ron Paul and
Paul Grinwis full of humor as
the old headmistress and the
general continually being
caught-out in grotesque atti-
tudes of love-making, and
Garth Welch very gay and
active as the most amorous of
the cadets.
❖ ❖ ❖
Mackerras and Lympany
In the second concert of the
A.B.C.'s Festival of 20th-
century Music, at Sydney Town
Hall, British pianist Moura
Lympany played Rachmani-
noff’s Third in D Minor. But
first there was Elgar’s “Intro-
duction and Allegro for
Strings,” with much to admire
both in Charles Mackerras’s
conducting and in the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra’s playing.
< Lost in the graceful sweetness
of the principal theme, one
could not help noting that,
although in his first concert
Mackerras tended to stress
broad outlines, he demonstrated
in the Elgar a careful and
singularly detailed approach.
Elgar uses a concertante
group —in this case Ernest
Llewellyn, violin; Donald
Hazelwood, violin; Robert
Pikler, viola ; and John Painter,
’cello—much in the way such
a body was used in the 18th-
century concerto grosso. The
difference is in definition:
Elgar allows the group to
make tender periodical com-
ments ; elsewhere it combines
with the supplementary strings.
Although the group of soloists
were occasionally submerged
in the eager full body of
strings, the piece was very well
done, and Mackerras didn’t let
any of the rolling phrases
escape their share of accent.
Listening to Miss Lympany
in the Rachmaninoff, it soon
became too. easy to overlook
the brilliant balance maintained
by Mackerras. The dark
mysteries of the initial octave
theme shortly move to typical
bravura-writing based on
chordal patterns. It is sheer
virtuoso stuff, moving from
peak to peak with all too few
cool valleys. Miss Lympany
moved through it with pre-
cision and power, but there
seemed to be a certain shortage
of feeling for inner context.
The double-octave synco-
pated part, however, was
thrilling, and the vigorous solo-
passage just before the gentle
second theme had to be heard
to be believed. It may be an
indictment of the Town Hall
piano to acjd that several of the
fast bass-passages sounded
muiky.
The fir.st movement of
Hindemith’s “Noblissima
Visione,” an arrangement
from a ballet based on
the life of St. Francis
of Assisi, seems to have merely
incidental interest; but there is
a fine climax in the “March,”
and in the accompanying
“Pastorale” an extended and
subtly charming coda. The
concluding “Passacaglia” is
very tightly written each
entry of the short theme is
virtually cemented to the next.
The orchestra here was in
top form, and in Ravel’s
“Spanish Rhapsody” was at
almost the same level.
The most surprising thing
about the third concert of the
series was that the Five
Orchestral Pieces by awe-
inspiring Schoenberg (“Pre-
sentiments,” “Things Past,”
“Colors,” “Peripetie” and
“Obbligato Recitative”) were
not surprising to anyone who
had taken - in Debussy’s
“Images.” Aaron Copland’s
“Quiet City,” a rewrite of some
night-music he did for a film,
retained the reassuring famili-
arity of film-music; it was
written for strings and the
lovely milky flow of John
Robertson’s trumpet in alterna-
tion with Kathryn Schramm s
cor anglais. It was rather attenu-
ated, as was Gershwin’s
“American in Paris,” a weird
medley compared with his
“Rhapsody,” which neverthe-
less gave us the rare instance of
Ernest Llewellyn, the concert-
master, playing a small
schmaltz solo on his violin —but
hep, dad, real hep.
Moura Lympany burnt all
her extraordinary energies into
the fire and color of Khatcha-
turian’s D Flat Concerto, a
cheerful flare-up of Balkan
melody, easy to listen to after
the “Little Suite for Strings”
by Schoenberg’s Greek pupil,
Nikos Skalkottas —three grey
paintings on a grey wall which
certainly did not give-up their
meaning at a first hearing.
Altogether, the Mackerras
concerts are giving a new con-
ception of music to Sydney
audiences ; lighter, maybe, but
very truly more in key with
our times.
♦♦♦ ♦> *t*
Chopin, aetat 150
Isador Goodman’s recital at
Sydney Town Hall to mark
the 150th anniversary of
Chopin’s birth proved that
Chopin and Goodman were
still going strong.
In the B Flat Minor sonata
the funeral march was most
impressive. Where so much
could go wrong, where it might
drag and trail off into bathos,
the second theme dripping with
rubato sugar, Goodman not
only set a firm pace but held
it so inexorably to the beat that
the procession had passed into
the rushing winds of the last
movement before the listener
had a chance to weary of it.
Unfamiliar with the op. 10
Studies as a whole, one fol-
lowed the playing through the
listed numbers / and ended-up
with one over ... so, naming
no names, one can say that in
the cavatina from which they
arranged the popular ditty, “So
Still the Night,” Goodman the
concert-pianist gave back to
Chopin what Goodman the
Entertainer’s friends had
stolen: the Lord giveth and
the Lord taketh away.
The butterfly study, and
especially an echo-study in
which phrases were repeated
as from a distance, demon-
strated Goodman’s miraculous
softness and precision.
Among the Ballade,


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Mazurka, Scherzo and Polon-
aise after the interval, the most
appealing was the D Flat
Nocturne, played with the
chastening effect time has on
Old Masters, both Chopin and
Goodman—a serene perform-
ance in which technique
brought to perfection allows
the work to express itself with-
out the additions of poetry and
romantic fire brought to
Chopin by younger performers.
In this Goodman’s age agrees
with his times. If the bloom
wears - off Chopin's more
romantic pieces, it stays on his
more abstract, less emotional-
ised studies, and the pure line
of his nocturnes comes all the
way home to a generation to
which much may be forgiven
when it is remembered that it
worshipped Mozart.
A. A
V V V
“Ecstasy on Ice”
Limited as are the possi-
bilities of ecstasy on land, they
are even more limited on ice.
When the exquisite American
Gloria Nord and the beautifully
proportioned Australian Pat
Gregory had sailed around the
ice-rink at the back of the Syd-
ney Tivoli’s stage, and shown
how they could bring-up sharp
and twist like dazzling tops,
they had practically exhausted
the solo possibilities.
As a hula-girl in an Arctic
Polynesian paradise with a
sumptuous waterfall, Miss
Nord and partner Reg Park
added the charm of flirtation
with a twisting and turning
bare midriff ; and Bob Whight,
while moving on skates, lifted
Peggy Whight through some of
the movements of an adagio-
dancing team without dropping
her except on purpose. Johnny
Ladd and co. found ice-
buffoonery a little harder.
Perhaps the most satisfying
use of ice was the underwater
scene, with skaters moving
smoothly inside large and
realistic fishes, and an outsize
octopus letting down tentacles
from the flies, hanging onto
which the cast circled the rink
in a blaze of glory.
The face of American
comedian Pat Henning lends
truth to his assertion that if
the audience doesn’t applaud,
the management beats him
after the show. It is a mortified
face and an apprehensive act;
at scandalous points in his
stories he steps back and looks
furtively into both wings before
continuing. Some of it might
have come from a study of
Robey ; he is a comedian of
such rare warmth and charm
that the audience accepts even
his tricks with handkerchiefs,
whips and bows-and-arrows.
But no excuses need be made
for his long and involved story
of the bald uncle who grew his
“I’ve been Waiting for the station to start.”
eyebrows over his head, or his
imitations of film-stars’ charac-
teristic sounds.
Latona, Graham and Chadel,
the tumblers, fell over each
other to amuse the public
better than anyone one has seen,
except for a two-man-and-a-girl
piano act of last year ; and the
female Kempinski, balancing
and whirling on top of a long
pole balanced on the male
Kempinski’s shoulder or fore-
head, was almost as breathtak-
ing as the recent balancing-turn
on metal rings.
Desmond Lane' blew the
hardest and piercingest of
clarinets and did miracles with
a tin-whistle he said was just
an ordinary tin-whistle —put
through the Tivoli’s micro-
phone, which could make a
march of sugar-ants sound like
the changing of the guard.
The dressing of scenes and
cuties rich and colorful, the
balance between ice and stage
well maintained, it was as
good a show as they've done.
*i* ❖ ❖
“Obbligato”
Louise Louvin was a beauti-
ful woman; her elder sister
Maria was not. Louise wanted
love; ugly-duckling Maria
likewise —perhaps more so —
but because she felt that with-
out beauty she could not have
what she and Louise both
wanted she developed a high
degree of cunning and resorted
to other means.
Jane Hinton Gates wrote this
play (based on the French
novel Une Ombre, by Paul
Vialar) around Maria’s gro-
tesque efforts to experience
beauty and, as a consequence,
love, through her sister. Of
course Maria fails, destroying
her sister’s chances with dash-
ing young Jean Vannier in the
process.
It is a tragic theme, unfor-
tunately reduced to the level
of mere melodrama in this
case by the playwright’s senti-
mentality and inability to
endow her characters with
enough life to make their frus-
trations seem either convincing
or important.
The real problem of the play
—despite what Miss Gates
would have us believe —is a
society which so often ruth-
lessly ranks women according
to their looks, paying little
heed to the helpless suffering
that this senseless valuation
causes among physically unfor-
tunate women.
“Obbligato” could thus be
described as Tennessee Wil-
liams romanticised and de-
intensified.
However, the Melbourne
National Theatre production
by Bunny Brooke (who also
plays Maria, perhaps a little
too mechanically) is by no
means without merit. The
staging and, in particular,
John Truscott’s costumes could
hardly have been bettered;
and among the well-chosen
cast Judith Thomson must be
noted for a brave attempt at
the part of Louise. Miss
Thomson brought to the role
not only considerable beauty
but a distinct feeling for
character.
♦♦♦ *** ❖
Melbourne Union Theatre’s
excellent production of “The
Entertainer,” by John Osborne,
will be reviewed in these
columns next week.
Artbursts
Peter Laverty
Peter Laverty, exhibiting at
David Jones’ (Sydney), can be
added to the list of middle-of-
the-road abstractionists; as
with Robert Curtis and, to a
certain extent, Ralph Balson,
a thread of thematic distinc-
tion, coupled to a strong sense
of arrangement and color, runs
through his work.
He has some very good
moments in the gouache sec-
tion: “Hill End,” in warm
autumnal colors ; “Trees on a
Hill,” with black stumps curv-
ing spikily up the hillside;
“Mountain Landscape with
Trees,” which looks rather like
an abstract treatment of the
Battle of Waterloo ; and the
green “Receding Lake, Inland”
are all charming in their firm
lightness.
In watercolors there is an
appealing “Tree,” spidery and
delicate (an extension of this
idea, “Tree Forms,” is not
quite so successful) ; a slight
but colorful “Barrier Reef”;
and, while on such subjects,
“Sea and Reef,” in which the
water is hard to find, if a noble
row of washing isn’t.
There are some good mono-
types, most notably the green-
and-brown “Island in Rain”;
and the drawings echo the
basic delicacy—and slightness
—of the paintings.
♦Jt- nje +J+
Art Competitions
The sixth Hunter’s Hill
(N.S.W.) municipal art-exhibi-
tion will be held from Monday*
April 4, to Sunday, April 10-
A total of 190 guineas is


fS't' iwic
Fd-iluf+e
Timing is important in every department of
human progress. And now when times are
prosperous, I believe we should be acting on the
favourable hour to assure for Australia a better
and more even spread in its development.
Frankly, it means looking at the weaknesses
as well as the strengths. And wisely so: faith in
our future requires more than blind optimism.
The particular point I have in mind is the
need for decentralising the national effort.
In the spectacular post-war rise in population
the numbers in most of the capital cities have
grown at a greater rate than those in the nation
as a whole. Except for some notable instances
where conditions of local resource have made for
a marked attraction of population, other centres
have come up at a considerably lower rate than
the national average.
The reasons for this are understandable.
Much of the new investment is being directed to
urban industry, and the additional labour force—
both native and migrant—naturally looks to
established enterprise for its employment.
It has been estimated that by 1970 there should
be twelve and a half million people in Australia.
Assuming that the post-war trends in centralisation
continue, all the capital cities by then will be at
least one-third larger than they are today.
Already the strains of providing them with
transport and other services are showing, especially
in Sydney and Melbourne, which between them
carry nearly forty per cent, of our entire population.
It is a complex problem. Climate, distance,
accessibility, costs, are among the many factors
governing dispersal in density.
But we face the alternative: we do decentralise,
or the large cities become larger and their servicing
becomes more difficult and costly—at the expense
of areas that provide the nation’s basic wealth.
By all means let us have a balance as between
primary and secondary industry. But first let us
make sure that the true scales for a long and lasting
expansion are firmly in -our hands.
offered for prizes in oils
(60gns.), watercolor (40gns.),
sculpture (20gns.), ceramics
(lOgns.) and oils and water-
colors by Hunter’s Hill resi-
dents (30gns. and 20gns.). The
judges will be Douglas Dundas,
George Lawrence, G. K.
Townshend, L. Dadswell, P. F.
Rush worth and Mrs. G. K.
Townshend (ceramics). Clos-
ing-date, March 24. Details
from the Town Clerk, Hunter's
Hill.
Entries for the Sydney Royal
Easter Show art-competitions
(in which prize-money totals
£1700) close on March 16.
Films
“Middle of the Night”
Paddy Chayefsky, script-
writer of such finely observed
studies of lower-middle-class
New York life as “Marty” and
“The Bachelor Party,” here
slips further down that slope
of banality, stylistic mannerism
and glib advice-column atti-
tudes which showed so un-
comfortably between the many
memorable episodes of his last
film, “The Goddess.”
On the surface his approach
is the same as in his early films,
but beneath it one hears the
whirr and click of the
machinery that takes over when
a writer’s concern is less with
his material than with what his
audience has come to expect of
him.
True, there are moments of
rare perception in this account
of an ageing, widowed manu-
facturer’s love of his young
receptionist-model, but they are
nearly all in the scenes dealing
with the hurt and angry reac-
of the respective families
and friends —the near-poetry of
the fumbling quarrel between
the manufacturer’s daughter
and her husband; the girl’s
mother discussing her with
friends in their shabby-genteel
apartment; the sketch of
the old salesman who
married a woman he did
hot love and now tries to rub
some feeling into his numb life
by boasting of casual affairs
he never had with girls young
enough to be his daughter.
In other words, the film, like
all Chayefsky's work so far, is
at its best when turning-over
the minutiae of kitchen and
living-room life in search of its
hidden poetry ; but even here
Chayefsky seems far too
determined to engineer those
minor shocks of recognition
Which made him famous.
The main theme, however, is
hopelessly weighted with
platitudes, and, despite Frederic
March’s deep soundings into
the manufacturer’s character,
it never rises far enough above
the prepacked “insights” of
glossy fiction to suggest, like
the work of the Italian neo-
realists with whom Chayefsky
has been compared, a comment
on the society it springs from
or, more importantly, on life
itself.
It is not helped, of course,
by the counterfeit “method”
acting of Kim Novak as the
receptionist, or by the direct-
ing of Delbert Mann, which,
clinging timidly to the “dis-
creet” camera-work and group-
ings that seemed so fresh in
“Marty,” gives these the
appearance of worn conven-
tions.
At Sydney Gala.
♦♦♦ ♦♦+
“The Wreck of the
Mary Deare”
A moderately exciting film
about a first-mate (Gary
Cooper) who assumes control
of his ship after the skipper
engineers a plot to founder
it. He kills the captain; and
the ship, with only himself
aboard, is wallowing uncon-
trollably in a hurricane when
a salvage-tug approaches to
investigate.
Charlton Heston boards the
ship, and can’t return to his
tug because bad weather forces
the little craft to keep a safe
distance. Cooper and Heston
purposely founder the ship,
and the rest of the story deals
with Cooper’s attempts to
justify his behavior —the cargo
of aeroplane-engines had been
replaced with pieces of rock,
and the dead captain had
planned to founder the ship
to collect the insurance.
There are weaknesses in the
script. By the time you get to
the inquiry-scene, with a lot
of icy British interrogators
quizzing Cooper, it seems
pretty obvious that the tight-
lipped captain is on the right
side of the fence. The first
of the film’s three divisions —
where the ship is discovered —
is, by comparison with the
other two sections, dispropor-
tionately long. And the court-
room section, which is sketchily
developed, might easily have
been extended to give a more
closely reasoned series of
arguments.
Cooper’s acting keeps a nice
balance between bitterness and
a kind of hesitant humor.
Charlton Heston relies too
much on lavish gesture and
accent. Emlyn Williams, in a
brief appearance as an eminent
legal man, is just right.
At Sydney St. James.


Army Reorganisation
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
"VZou’d need to be bold and
farseeing to risk the fore-
cast that Australia can rely on
becoming a component in some
international police-force to
ensure its future security, or
that the defence of the Com-
monwealth could be left to the
generosity or self-interest of
outside Powers, while we main-
tain only the minimum forces
ourselves.
These matters are, of course,
decisions that must be taken
by the Government. But they
must have weighed heavily in
the minds of the military
planners who worked-out the
present scheme of Army re-
organisation.
The answer they have pro-
duced, put briefly and in its
simplest terms, aims at inte-
grating the Regular Army and
the C.M.F., so that an expedi-
tionary force —“fire-brigade”
is the modern cliche—can be
sent at short notice to any point
within our area of responsi-
bility where the Communists
threaten to close their eastern
claw.
The idea is reasonable ; but
before it can be judged as the
best possible answer there are
certain conditions that need to
be satisfied.
First, of course, an expedi-
tionary force should operate
from a firm . base. In other
words, the primary aim of
Australian defence —security of
the mainland—should be estab-
lished beyond question before
the “fire-brigade” goes out.
Secondly, reinforcements for
any expeditionary force should
be provided from Australia
without prejudicing that pri-
mary aim of defence of the
mainland. Experience in the
South-west Pacific last time
showed that the rate of 100 per
cent, reinforcement was hardly
enough in a protracted cam-
paign, even without heavy fight-
ing.
Thirdly, Australia is not in
the position to throw away the
services of a single trained
soldier. In the past the Com-
monwealth’s security has rested
on the ability of its citizen-
forces to produce trained
leaders of all grades. Around
these leaders wartime citizen-
volunteer armies have been
formed. S"eed in mobilisation
is the essence of the contract
in any future war. Therefore
some means must be devised
of calling citizen-forces to the
colors with the least delay and
smallest disruption of industry
and at the lowest cost to the
country’s economy.
The present reorganisation
may be able to fulfil these three
essential conditions in “cold”
war and give time to set the
machinery going to produce
adequate forces for a “hot”
war. But in the mind of any
thinking soldier there must
exist a reasonable doubt
whether either the Regular
Army or the citizen-force is
used in this new scheme to
fullest advantage.
The difference between
regular and citizen troops does
not lie in skill-at-arms, or
physical fitness, but in avail-
ability. Compact, cohesive,
trained for instant movement,
a regular force-man for man
the most expensive—is suited
for attack.
Citizen-forces vary in com-
position. They may be militia,
volunteers, conscripts, or a
cadre-force designed to fill-up
the ranks of a regular army.
In the past Australian Imperial
Forces and the Citizen Military
Force have been primarily
volunteer in origin. (The C.M.F.
has been augmented by
National Servicemen, but will
revert to its volunteer-composi-
tion now that National Service
has been abolished).
The question is whether, in
present conditions of world-
strategy, it would not be wise
to change Australia’s traditional
citizen - volunteer army to a
citizen-conscript army.
'T'here’s an example in Israel
■*- which might be applied to
Australia’s future defence.
Israel is a small compact State,
with land-frontiers on three
sides, constantly threatened by
powerful and aggressive neigh-
bors. It’s a growing country
which must defend itself itself,
but cannot waste one penny in
defence-expenditure. At first
sight, Australia seems different
—a continent, surrounded by
sea and not in present danger fo
attack. But Australia’s settle-
ment is compact, and it, too, is
a growing country that can’t
afford to waste defence-votes.
The sea does not provide such
an adequate means of defence in
these days of air-transport. And
who knows when the Chinese
will decide to move against
the Commonwealth? There’s a
lot to be said for studying the
example of a country at present
right up against it, particularly
as that example has shown un-
paralleled success.
There’s a lot, too, to be said
for a citizen-conscript army,
which can operate in conjunc-
tion with a regular force, but
should be quite separate. This
force is not at all suited for
aggression. But it has a vital
role to fulfil, which would be
lost, in my opinion, if it was
integrated with regulars.
Take the example of Israel.
In October, 1956, Israel, with
a population of two millions,
had mobilised an army as big
as any Australia evidently en-
visages and within two days was
winning battles.
The Israeli Army, which is
possibly the most efficient in
the world, is a citizen-conscript
force made-up of businessmen,
farmers, taxi-drivers, dry-
cleaners, bank-clerks, sweet-
shop-proprietors, barbers,
butchers, rich men, poor men
... in fact, every man of
military age who lives in Israel.
It’s not a militia, so it is
disciplined. It’s not a citizen-
volunteer army, so it does not
divide the nation into those
who wish to escape their duty
and those who would like to
monopolise the right to bear
arms. It’s not a cadre-conscript
army designed purely to fill out
the Regular forces.
In the Israeli nation, military
service is a normal duty for
all young men and accepted by
the citizens in the same way
that compulsory schooling is
accepted in Australia.
Recruits are given a short
period of basic-training in their
regiments, which are all drawn
from local areas, and then they
serve a number of years in the
same regiment. All command
is given to citizens, but ranks
are kept low: brigades in the
Israeli Army are commanded
by colonels, divisions by briga-
diers and at the top of the
house is a solitary major-
general. A very small regular
cadre is attached to each h.q.
Such a force is economical,
because rates of pay do not
have to compete with industry.
It doesn’t need to mobilise, or
be paid or fed until the emer-
gency arises, apart from
recruit-training, camps and
parades. It could be very large,
based always on the localities
where it is recruited.
This is something like Lord
Kitchener’s original idea of
the Australian Army—Bo,ooo
men, served by 350 regulars
(administrative staff-officers and
instructors).
Combined with the present
A.R.A., such a force might
answer all the conditions speci-
fied. The Regular Army,
relieved of the task of training
and administering National
Service and C.M.F. units, could
revert to its proper role and
form a Ist Division capable of
acting as a “fire-brigade” at a
moment’s notice. The citizen-
conscript force would provide
reinforcements for this and act
also in defence of the* main-
land. No Australian’s service
need be wasted or lost, because,
if a man was not wanted, he
need not be called-up ; but he’s
ready all the same, and trained
for war when the time comes
for him to go.
As regards speed of mobilisa-
tion, listen to this from Secrets
of Suez. (Merry and Serge
Bromberger):
Israel mobilised on October 25.
The architect would get a phone-
call at his office. The citrus-farmer
would get a telegram. The barber
was called from his bed by a knock
at the door.
“Here comes the sergeant,” he
said to his sleeping wife.
Like every Israeli reservist, he
had his rifle and a sketchy uniform
in his wardrobe. Students called
from class found a lorry waiting
for them. Drivers were stopped at
street-corners and given a card
indicating their rendezvous-point ..
In camps the columns were form-
ing-up, the taxi-driver came with his
cab, the bus-driver brought his
bus . . .
That seems the answer for
Australia —politically unpopu-
lar, perhaps, but at least it
ensures survival and that
surely is the aim of even the
most avid and self-seeking
politician.
It demands universal service
and training from the time
boys go to their secondary-
schools, full use of civilian
skills, organised citizen-units,
cutting-out of all “frills” and
the minimum of parades as
long as men know their task
and can do it. It also leaves
leadership, training and
administration of the citizen-
conscript army to citizens,
backed by a minimum of regu-
lars, and frees the Regular
Army for its proper role.


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. lu. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 —(10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BYV 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills, Ltd.
Despite recent large-scale development
in the Australian paper-industry,
reliance on overseas supply remains con-
siderable. But productive capacity is
being stepped-up on all fronts, and with
it the range of products turned-out.
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd.,
was the first commercial undertaking
to successfully manufacture high-grade
paper (fine printing- and writing-paper)
entirely from eucalyptus wood-pulp.
Production, long contemplated, began
eventually at a most opportune time. Aus-
tralia was on the brink of World War
11, and a gap, which otherwise would
have been painfully evident, was largely
bridged by utilisation of indigenous hard-
woods.
Now from mills at Burnie (Tas.),
Ipswich (Queensland), Sydney (N.S.W.),
Melbourne and Ballarat (Vic.), the co. and
its subsidiaries turn-out a variety of fine-
coated-and laminated-papers, blotting-
paper special wrappings, wallboard
(the manufacture of hardboard from
wood - fibre is a natural sideline
to the making of pulp and paper
from Australian hardwoods) and
sawn timber. Last term the group
set new production records, lifting output
of paper 27 p.c. from 51,752 tons to
65,535 tons, Burnie-board 78 p.c. from
51 mil. sq.-ft. to 91 mil. sq.-ft., and sawn
timber 32 p.c. from 3,700,000 super-ft.
to 4,900,000 super-ft. At the same time
bleached eucalypt-pulp production was
increased to 35,176 tons (up 2186 tons).
Production of paper was only slightly
ahead of sales, which rose by 11,091 tons
(21 p.c.) to 63,673 tons:
✓ — Production
Wood-pulp. Paper. Burnie- Sawn Sales
board. Timber. Paper.*
Year to Air-dry Mil. Mil.
J’ne 30. Tons. Tons. Sq. Ft. Super-ft. Tons.
1956 . . 34,980 53,855 45 2
1957 .. 32,644 51,374 45 2.4
1958 . . 32,990 51,752 51 3.7 52,582
1959 . . 35,176 65,535 91 4.9 63,673
* Sales figures unavailable in 1956 and 1957.
During the year the recession in over-
seas pulp- and paper-industries continued,
and there were further falls in the prices
°f paper competitive with the group’s
Products. Nevertheless, continued buoy-
ancy on the home market, coupled with
effects of import-licensing, brought
increased demand for A.P.P.M.’s output,
and turnover went ahead to break all
previous records (up £3,000,000 at
£14,900,000). Directors do, however,
anticipate keener competition in the cur-
rent term. Relaxations of import-
restrictions in the last six months are
viewed with concern, and A.P.P.M. is
now endeavoring to “tie” paper-distri-
butors to it on term-contracts.
Paper-manufacturers in Australia are
gearing themselves for steady, long-range
progress. Last year the A.P.P.M. group
spent £1,300,000 on expansion, modern-
isation and general development —all
machines operate on a seven-day basis —
at the same time announcing plans for
a £4-million expansion programme to
cover primarily the installation of a new
(No. 10) paper-machine at Burnie, which,
in addition to manufacturing wood-free
papers, will be capable of making
magazine-printing papers. At present
nearly all magazine-papers are imported.
A.P.P.M. has been exporting fine
papers for a number of years, and its
overseas sales are now in the vicinity of
3000 tons a year.
One glance at A.P.P.M.’s profit-table
is sufficient to indicate the group’s latest
and most rewarding effort:
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. ' —Dividends , serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1956.. 468 9 p.c. = 637,006 406,462 1,331,981
Plus reduction intangibles, £297 . . 1,332,278
Doss sale assets, £22,250 .. .. 1,310,028
To staff fund, £9485 . . . . 1,300,543
„ forest roads w/back, £57,281.. 1,357,824
„ forest roads amortisation provi-
sions w/back, £34,256 .. 1,392,080
„ provision for amortisation of
mining assets, £15,000 . . . . 1,377,080
Adjustment shares in subsids., £7731 1,369,349
Unexplained addition, £3490 . . 1,372,839
1957.. 931,225 9 p.c. = 637,006 294,219 1,667,058
Plus reduction intangibles, £992 . . 1,668,050
Loss sale assets, £7922 .. .. 1,660,128
Sundry provisions w/back, £18,238 1,678,366
To provision for amortisation of min-
ing assets, £lO,OOO . . . . 1,668,366
Adjustment shares in subsids., £l2B 1,668,494
Unexplained reduction, £144 .. 1,668,350
1958.. 9 p.c. = 669,959 368,927 2,037,277
Plus reduction intangibles, £2067 .. 2,039,344
Loss sale assets, £11,281 .. .. 2,028,063
To provision for amortisation of min-
ing assets, £6OOO .. .. 2,022,063
Adjustment shares in subsids., £4 . . 2,022,059
1959.. 1.517.290 11 p.c.= 939,665 577,625 2,599,684
* After deducting intangibles (now £489,350) from
reserves, and excluding depreciation reserve, etc.
( £6,291,232).
L&st term pre-tax earnings advanced by
£901,874 to £2,440,790, and net earn-
ings increased by £478,404 (46 p.c.) to
£1,517,290. The higher profit was written
after providing £923,500 (up £423,470)
for taxation and £912,874 (up £185,505)
for depreciation. Raised to 11 p.c., the
div. was covered with £577,625 to spare,
earnings equalling 17.8 p.c. on capital,
compared with 14 p.c., 13.1 p.c. and
14.7 p.c. back to 1956. The div.-rate,
raised from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c. in 1952, was
lifted to 9 p.c. in 1955. Reserves were
increased by £562,407 to £2,599,684 and
exclude intangibles £489,350 and depre-
ciation reserve £6,291,232 (up £949,871).
During the year the book-values of
freeholds, land, etc., and buildings and
plant were increased to £1,199,441 (up
£94,831 on the value at previous balance-
date) and £16,942,609 (up £1,205,815)
respectively:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957.* 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £7,378,208 £8,163,714 £8,542,404
Reserves . . 1,667,058 2,037,277 2,599,684
Outside interests 9,821 5,587 4,607
Debentures,
notes .. 2,882,540 2,846,482 2,807,082
Deposits .. 1,117,611 300,820
Depreciation .. 4,672,273 5,341,361 6,291,232
Overdraft .. 2,661,584 2,596,283 2,418,832
Creditors .. 584,253 640,876 972,929
Tax provision. . 575,674 630,688 949,789
Final divs. .. 3,53,892 372,199 555,256
£21,902,914 £22,634,467 £25,442,635
Freehold land,
etc.f .. 1,032,339 1,104,610 1,199,441
Building's and
plantf .. 14,321,478 15,736,794 16,942,609
Stocks, etc. . . 3,766,045 2,987,161 3,153,155
Finished stocks -775,798 724,932 1,203,315
Debtors . . 1,844,749 2,003,567 2,764,614
Shares in other
cos. .. 2,500
Cash, etc. .. 162,505 77,403 177,001
£21,902,914 £22,634,467 £25,442,635
* Includes £300,360 application moneys for new
issue shares allotted after June 30, 1957.
t At cost.
In his address of Oct. 28, 1959, chair-
man W. D. Brookes said “it is probable
that next year the company will be seek-
ing additional finance to meet in part the
capital-expenditure occasioned by the
new expansion programme’’—the new
£4-million expansion programme.
(Another £2O-million plant is to be
established at Latrobe later on.) Capital
stands at present at £8,542,404, all in 20s.
ords. In 1954-55, 836,704 £1 ords. were
issued to shareholders at par (one-for-
eight) and in 1957-58 1,464,556 £1 ords.
were issued, again at par (one-for-five).
After the close of last accounts
A.P.P.M. made an unsuccessful bid for
Masonite Holdings, Ltd., which was a
competitor in the market for Bumie-
board. Masonite Holdings was in the
end acquired by C.S.R.
So far the current year has seen strong
demand for A.P.P.M.’s main products,
paper, coated-paper, hardboard and
timber, and sales levels achieved last year
are being maintained. But recent easing
of import-restrictions, plus increases in
the basic wage, are causing the co. some
concern. It is possible that demand will
slacken in the closing phases of the
present financial year.
At 655. 6d. the £1 ords. would return
3.4 p.c. from an 11 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible asset-backing at lune 30 (con-
solidated accounts) was 265. Id.
S.A. Portland Cement Co., Ltd.
TThe co. had another good year. Heavy
A investment in new plant over the past
decade considerably improved S.A. Port-
land’s productive capacity and is paying
dividends in an increased volume of
business. The accelerating growth of
South Australia’s industrial potential is
reflected in a steady increase in demand


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
21)7 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address; “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
for cement and cement-products. Expan-
sion of private home-building is another
important factor in widening the State’s
cement-market. Preliminary official
statistics of houses commenced and com-
pleted in Australia during 1959 show a
rise indicating that the favorable trend is
likely to continue.
The increasing use of cement in road-
making by soil-stabilisation methods
“should help maintain per capita con-
sumption for the State at 8.09 bags.”
This figure is said to be the highest yet
reached in Australia. The co. certainly
appears to be in a vantage-position to
profit by the economic growth of South
Australia.
Prospective developments which will
require large quantities of cement in the
immediate future include three new
townships (at Hallets Cove, Whyalla and
LeFevre Peninsula), Murray River
bridge-works, the State’s expanding steel-
works, the oil-refinery and the hydro-
electric project.
A “record tonnage” of cement was
produced by the co. during the year ended
June 30, 1959. It is hoped to maintain
this rate of output until the new kiln
comes into operation and further raises
S.A. Portland’s productive capacity.
Trading-profit was £19,356 higher at
£328,963. A steady £125,000 was set-
aside for depreciation. Tax-provision
was £15,000 higher at £72,000.
Net profit for the year was £4356
higher at £129,463, equivalent to 23.7 p.c.
on the average paid capital:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. I —Dividends \ serves. serves.
SL £ £ £
1954.. 67,122 7$ p.c. = 34,184 32,938 204,593
Capital profit, £5412 . . . . 210,005
1955.. 75,062 8 p.c. = 36,463 38,599 248,604
Tax overprovided, £583 .. .. 249,187
Capital profit, £485 .. .. .. 249,672
1956.. 87,826 10 p.c.- 45,578 42,248 291,920
Revaluation fixed assets, £297,500 . . 589,420
Capital profit, £1166 .. .. 590,586
Tax overprovided, £1264 .. .. 591,850
1957.. 94,140 10 p.c. 46,718 47,422 639,272
Tax overprovided, £8245 . . . . 647,517
Capital profits, £1194 . . . . 648,711
1958. 10 p.c. = 54,694 70,413 719,124
Tax overprovided, £2678 .. .. 721,802
Capital profits, £2212 .. .. 724,014
1959. .129,463 10 p.c. = 54,695 74,768 798,782
Profits shown above include minor unexplained
additions to reserves.
This compares with 23.4 p.c., 21.9 p.c.
and 19.5 p.c. looking back to 1956, after
adjustments for consistent tax over-
provisions.
Dividend was steady at 10 p.c., absorb-
ing £54,695. Reserves benefited by
£74,768, plus another £2212 capital-
profits. Ploughed-back profits have long
been an important element in the co.’s
expansion. Shareholders were last
invited to contribute to the co.’s capital
in two 10s. calls in 1952. The second call
was made in 1957. There is an assets-
revaluation reserve of £297,500 plus
£53,801 in share-premiums. A tidy little
nest exists for a bonus-issue, if takeover
threats become acute.
The co.’s growing capital-needs were
stressed by a £136,736 increase in 7 p.c.
20s. convertible notes (to £273,473).
Total debenture-capital was £573,473,
exceeding the unchanged paid capital by
£26,528. In addition, there were £113,919
sundry creditors.
Shares held in other cos. remained
steady at £25,756. The co. said this
“relatively large” investment was due
“partly to an increased provision for
debenture - redemption” and partly
because payments for new plant now on
order were less than anticipated.
Additional limestone-bearing land was
acquired in the Angaston district, but
this was not reflected in last term’s
accounts Most of the remaining build-
ings at the Brighton works were sold “at
a satisfactory price.”
This, together with the massive depre-
ciation write-off, in excess of allowable
tax-deductions, explains the small
drop in the book-value of fixed assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £545,073 £546,945 £546,945
Reserves .. .. 639,272 719,124 798,782
Mortgage .. 5,767 5,510 5,264
Debentures .. 300,000 436,737 573,473
Overdraft . . 154,546
Creditors . . .. 121,832 111,364 113,919
Due to subsidiary 23,000 23,000" 23,000
Tax provision . . 75,000 57,000 72,000
Final dividends .. 23,929 27,347 27,347
£1,888,419 £1,927,027 £2,160,730
Land, buildings,
plant .. 1,338,755 1,297,525 1,284,419
Shares .. .. 25,756 25,756 25,756
Stock .. .. 254,944 241,797 255,028
Debtors . . .. 148,842 175,030 178,714
Cash, bonds .. 120,122 186,919 416,813
£1,888,419 £1,927,027 £2,160,730
The silos and the clinker-shed at Brighton
remain for sale. No unimproved land
was disposed-of in the area. Liquidity
was considerably improved by a £229,894
jump in cash and bonds following the
raising of fresh debenture-capital and
sale of assets. Theoretical working
capital amounted to £614,289. Net
tangible asset-backing worked out at
495. 4d. for each 20s. ord.
S. A. Portland and Adelaide Cement
(its sole competitor in the State) should
not be short of orders even if the rumored
Commonwealth Government’s anti-
inflation moves make finance tighter.
Industrial expansion would not be halted.
Sharemarket is very enthusiastic about
the co.’s scrip. The 20s. ords. are hard
to come by and buyers have been unsuc-
cessfully offering 665. a unit in Adelaide.
The immediate yield is 3.1 p.c. on the
basis of the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate. Con-
vertible notes fetch almost as much,
changing hands at 61s.
Buckingham’s, Ltd.
T ast year was very trying for this
major retailer. The parent co.’s
profit was £79,495 lower at £44,645.
This was further reduced by “losses
occasioned in a subsidiary co.” Con-
solidated net earnings weren’t enough to
cover a 5 p.c. ord. dividend on the
unchanged capital, and reserves were
reduced by £56,977.
However, the sharemarket appears
confident that a recovery is on the way,
pricing the ss. ords. at 6s. Options
fetched Is. Id. each. Buckingham’s
has discontinued the less profitable
trading-lines and the results for last
August and September are said to be
encouraging.
Improvement was not apparent from
the figures for the year ended July 31,
1959. The position is complicated by
£351,000 of options to take-up ord.
capital maturing shortly. This could
make an improvement in the div.-rate
a bit harder.
Consolidated net profit tumbled by
£104,164 to £14,844. The result was
struck after providing for all trading
expenses, and setting-aside £46,992 for
depreciation (down £9010) and £12,598
for tax (1958 provision undisclosed):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1954.. 115.294 5938-10 p.c.= 70,200 39,156 532,104
Assets revalued, £200,000 .. .. 732,104
Special provision for collections,
£7539 739,643
1955.. 5938 12jp.c.= 87,750 58,713 798,356
Pre-acquisition reserves, £10,969 .. 809,325
Net increase provision for collec-
tions, £10,7 07 .. .. .. 820,032
1956.. 98,349 5938 lUp.c.= 78,975 13,436 833,468
Net increase provision for collections,
£14,170 847,638
1957.. 5938 10 p.c.= 70,200 35,864 883,502
Special prov. for collections, £51,902 935,404
1958.. 008 5938 10 p.c.= 88,100 24,970 960,374
Net reduction reserves, £19,325 .. 941,049
1959.. 14,844 5938 5 p.c.= 46,558 903,397
* Subject to £79,728 intangibles at 31/7/’59.
After satisfying the steady pref.-div.
requirements (£5938) the earning-rate on
average ord. capital fell from 12.7 p.c. to
a token 0.95 p.c. This compares with
15.1 p.c. in 1957 and 13.1 p.c., 20.8 p.c.
and 15.6 p.c. back to 1954. Improvement
in trading in the first two months of this
year and generally better prospects must
have influenced the board to declare a
5 p.c. dividend for the year (10 p.c. in
1958). The ordinary-div. cheque
absorbed £46,558, and reserves had to
be drawn upon (including £19,325 from
the special provision for collections).
Several things contributed to the drastic
drop in profits. The co.’s trading-
programme for its TV and home-
appliances sections was faulty. Expected
turnover failed to materialise. “Sales
did not come up to those anticipated
and consequently profits were not forth-
coming.”
Buckingham’s fashion-lines proved
another weak link. A “thorough over-
haul” was made of the accumulated
unsold fashion-stocks which had to be
“marked-down to a considerable extent.”
These two setbacks had so reduced
“the overall mark-up that gross profit
was not sufficient to adequately cover
operating-costs.”
The co. had also experienced trouble
with its h.-p. arrangements. It was


©
REGISTERED FIXED
DEPOSIT NOTES
High return and sound security! Your
money is invested in first mortgages
on homes, real estate and selected
hire purchase. Check the advantages:
• 10% for 3 years and over, 9% for 2 years,
B£% for 1 year, 8% for 6 months,
on 14 days’ call.
Renewal Interest Rate gives added benefits.
Invest with the company, or through the
Brokers to the Company, Messrs. Ralph W.
King & Yuill, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
through your own Broker.
Send for Application Forms and
latest Balance Sheet.
CREDIT CORPORATION
Park House,
15 Park Street,
Sydney
BM 6945
necessary to discount h.-p. agreements
with an outside co. due to a condition
of the deed covering Buckingham’s,
unsecured notes, stipulating that share-
holders’ funds would not fall below
40 p.c. Most of h.-p. profits by-passed
the co., making it dependent on retail
profit which had shown downward
tendencies.
The co.’s chairman said that unprofit-
able stores are being closed or converted
to better-paying lines. Buckingham's
stores at Wollongong, Ashfield and Parra-
matta were turned-over to the co.’s busy
“Curzons” chain.
The consolidated balance-sheet shows
that somewhat less funds were employed
than during the preceding term. Loans
on mortgage were reduced by £31,733 to
£237,067. Creditors, tax-provision, etc.
dropped by £378,155 to £1,741,406:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid captial—- 1957. 1958. 1959.
pref £118,750 £118,750 £118,750
Ord 702,000 931,167 931,167
Reserves* .. .. 883,502 960,374 903,397
Mortgages .. 242,100 268,800 237,067
Notes .. .. 351,000 351,000 351,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision .. .. 1,270,523 2,119,561 1,741,406
Provision unearned
income .. .. 81,163 73,391
Staff fund .. 22,821 20,433
Final divs. .. 38,069 49,527 49,527
£3,628,765 £4,900,775 £4,405,705
Land, buildings .. 851,845 1,142,512 966,630
Fixtures, fittings .. 518,592 544,099 603,726
Shares .. .. 1,934 27,788 38,171
Stock .. .. 789,553 1,122,768 985,826
Debtors .. .. 1,370,007 1,967,279 1,717,389
Cash .. .. 13,005 15,271 14,235
Intangibles .. 83,829 81,058 79,728
£3,628,765 £4,900,775 £4,405,705
♦lncludes reserve for collections, £139,749 at
July 31, 1959.
Book-value of land and buildings was
£175,882 lower at £966,630, probably due
to the sale of several stores. Fixtures,
fittings, etc., were £59,627 up at £603,726.
Stocks were £136,942 down. Debtors
fell by £249,890 to £1,717,389. Liquidity
appeared satisfactory, with working-
capital at £581,854. Net tangible asset-
backing worked out at 9s. sd. for each
ss. ord. on the consolidated accounts.
Most cos. in troubled waters, especi-
ally retailers, look attractive takeover-
baits. Buckingham’s is no exception, and
during last term several offers were made
to acquire the co.’s scrip. Acknowledg-
ing that talks did take place, it was
emphasised that “no basis was found
that would be of mutual advantage.”
Discussions were said to have never
reached “a point where any proposition
could be placed” before the co.’s scrip-
holders. #
A lot depends on whether the trend
to improved sales and earnings notice-
able early this year will continue.
Buckingham’s once-strategic position in
Oxford Street in Sydney is today a
liability from a major retailer’s point of
view.
The co. reached-out a bit over-eagerly
for a slice of the TV-pie and slipped
rather heavily. It was over-optimistic
both about the turnover and the admini-
stration of consumer-finance, but seems
to have profited by its experience.
On the other hand, such popular lines
as the Curzons chain are doing encourag-
ingly well under conditions of brisk com-
petition. The odds seem to favor a
comeback by Buckingham’s through hard
and consistent effort, but spectacular
rises in profits and scrip-values look out
of question.
The immediate yield is 4.2 p.c. on the
basis of the reduced 5 p.c. div.-rate.
Appleton Industries, Ltd.
PJormed in Queensland in 1948, Apple-
ton Industries, Ltd. (formerly N. V.
Appleton Pty. merged with Naco Trading
Pty.), is a manufacturer of louvre-
windows and shades, steel and aluminium
window-frames, steel-frame buildings,
hot*water systems, remote - control
window-opening devices, plastic sinks,
etc.
The co. has a considerable export-
trade, enjoying success on overseas
markets. A louvre - assembly offshoot
operates in the U.K.
The year ended June 30, 1959, was
marked by a struggle against rising raw-
materials and labor costs which ate into
profit-margins. Sales for the year are
said to have been satisfactory, but higher
costs kept the net earnings a shade below
previous term’s level.
Consolidated net profit was £2440
lower at £170,200, after paying £4500
directors’ fees, writing-off £41,526 for
depreciation (up £438), providing
£123,264 for taxation (down £10,951) and
contributing £15,644 to staff fund (up
£2429):
Appleton* Industries and Subsidiaries.
Dividends .
Pref. Re-
J'ne, Profit. 6 p.e. , —- —Ord. serves.
£ £
’60.. 48,178 10p.c.=16,000 19,088
Surplus on sale of assets,
£l2 19,100
’61.. 98,959 1 0p.c.=18,497 99,562
’52.. 62,766 10 „ „ 20,000 142,328
Surplus on sale of assets,
£341 142.669
’53.. 69,497 10p.c.=20,000 192,166
’54.. 55,564 2194 10 „ „ 20,833 224,703
Assets revalued, £119,754.. 344,457
Reserves capitalised,
£250,000 .. .. 94,457
’55..151,530 2850 10p.c.=r37,500 205,637
Capital profit, £129 .. 205,766
’66..111,770 2550 10p.c.=50,000 264,986
Capital profit, £1766 .. 266,752
*57..167,938 2250 10p.c.=50,000 382,440
Capital profit, £55 . . 382,495
’58.. 172,640 1950 10p.c.=50,000 503,185
Capital profit, £7O .. 503,255
Loss sale assets, £8176 . . 495,079
’59..170,200 1500 10p.c.=50,000 613,779
After satisfying pref.-div. requirements
(£1500), last year’s profits represented an
earning rate of 33.7 p.c. on the average
ordinary capital, compared with 34.1 p.c.
in 1958, 33.1 p.c. in 1957 and 21.8 p.c.
in 1956.
There was a capital-profit of £7O, but
the co. made an £8176 loss on the sale of


36in.
Si
m
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
k Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THERESE POOLE late of 3 York
Street Bankstown. —TAKE NOTICE that
BRIAN TYER POOLE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3934 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
(19) (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend .V 011
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 2nd day of May i 960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. McDONELL & MOFFITT,
Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
factory premises at Alexandria
(N.S.W.) which became redund-
ant with the development of
the Revesby plant.
During the year the co.
acquired (for an undisclosed
cash price) Cooper Louvre
Gissing Pty., of N.S.W., and its
operating-subsidiary, F. W.
Gissing Pty.
The new subsidiary’s
accounts (showing an undis-
closed loss) were not included
in the consolidated figures
owing to a difference in
balance-dates.
The co. ceased the manufac-
ture of Cooper louvres and sold
the subsidiary’s plant at
Camellia. Gissing’s glass-
factory at Newtown will con-
tinue operating as a unit of
the Appleton group. The co.
feels confident that the sub-
sidiary will show a profit in the
current term.
Appleton Industries con-
tinues to expand its productive
capacity. The covered area of
the Revesby factory is being
doubled. The additional space
will be used for manufacturing
of conventional steel-windows
of standard and custom-built
types. Production of Naco-
Teleflex remote-control operat-
ing-gear was transferred from
Brisbane to Revesby, to facili-
tate the intake of parts from
external sources in the Sydney
area, and improve the distribu-
tion of finished items in
N.S.W., Victoria and S.A.
In Brisbane new buildings are
being put-up next to the exist-
ing factory premises. A £50,000
electro-zinc automatic plating-
plant imported from U.K. was
installed during the Christmas
holidays. The latest type of
anodising-plant is being fitted-
in.
The steel-frame, steel-window
and glass divisions were con-
siderably expanded.
The co. has purchased land
adjoining its premises at
Woodville (S.A.) “with a view
to entering into the manufac-
turing field.”
Production facilities at the
Appleton works at Slough
(U.K.) were improved. The
co.’s London factory became
one of the first Australian
firms to supply the European
Common Market, which is no
mean achievement. The co.
encountered difficulties in ex-
porting to West Indies, because
of the recent import-restric-
tions in that country. To over-
come this trade-barrier, an
agreement was made with its
distributors to erect assembly-
plants at Kingston (lamaica)
and Port-of-Spain (Trinidad).
The two new units will
assemble louvre-window parts
supplied by the Brisbane
factory.
These capital developments
were not yet reflected in the
balance-sheet:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £530,000 *£520,000
Reserves .. 503,185 613,779
Overdraft .. 125,460 149,183
Creditors . . 193,004 218,475
Tax provision.. 134,500 123,000
Final div. .. 25,000 25,000
£1,511,149 £1,649,437
Freeholds .. 278,949 264,511
Plant, etc. .. 228,843 247,941
Shares other cos. 449 107,793
Stocks . . .. 738,314 759,510
Debtors .. 264,119 269,194
Cash . . .. 475 488
Intangibles ..
£1,511,149 £1,649,437
* Includes £ 20,000 prefs. redeemable
on 31/12/’6O.
Paid capital remained un-
changed at £500,000 in 10s.
f.-p. ords. In addition, there
were 20,000 20s. 6 p.c. cum.
prefs., redeemable at par in
two instalments by December
31, 1960.
Overdraft was £23,723 higher
at £149,183. Creditors
increased .by £25,471 to
£218,475. The £107,344 jump
in investment in other cos. was
due to the acquisition of
Cooper Louvre Gissing, which
was not included in last year’s
consolidated accounts.
Liquidity was satisfactory,
with theoretical working-
capital at £513,534 and current
ratio a shade under 2 to 1.
Net tangible asset-backing was
225. 3d. for each 10s. ord.
The first quarter of the cur-
rent term resulted in “satis-
factory trading.” At the last
sals in Brisbane the 10s. ords.
changed hands at 38s. The
immediate yield is 2.6 p.c. on
the basis of the steady 10 p.c.
div.-rate.
Texas Australian
Exploration
'T’exas Australian Explora-
tion, Ltd., is being formed
for the primary purpose of ex-
ploring for oil and gas in Aus-
tralia, either on lands now held
or on concessions to be
acquired. The co. will “gener-
ally conduct an integrated oil-
business.”
Authorised capital is
£5,000,000 in ss. ords. The co.
will offer 2,000,000 ss. ords. at
par to Australian investors for
cash in about a fortnight, after
initial formalities are com-
pleted. This will be equal to
almost 50 p.c. of the initial
paid-up capital. The co. intends
to maintain this proportion of
Australian capital in any future
share-issues an encourag-
ing step. Listing will be sought
on all Australian ’Changes.
American backing for the
new venture comes from Texas
American Oil Corporation, of
U.S.A., which will hold the
balance of the issued capital,
with Texas Australian techni-
cally a subsidiary.
In exchange for shares in the
Australian co., Texas American
Oil is handing-over to it an
85 p.c. working-interest in five
producing oil-wells in Texas
(with proven reserves of
1,039,309 barrels), plus a 30
p.c. gas-royalty interest in three
other oil-wells.
In addition, the Australian
co. is taking-over petroleum-
exploration licences in the
Murray Basin and the Great
Artesian Basin of N.S.W.
(3,200,000 acres and rights to
acquire 6,400,000 acres) and
rights to an application for a
licence for 6,400,000 acres in
the Northern Territory.
There are two novel features
in this venture which make it
an interesting proposition.
Firstly, Texas Australian Ex-
ploration, Ltd., will have an
immediate monthly income of
about £1340 from its eight
wells in Texas. This is said to
be sufficient to cover the co’s
operating-costs.
In the second place, the co
intends to give outsiders as
many part-interests in drilling,
wells as possible. This would
increase an investor’s stake in
the search, and also help spread
the risks If oil is struck, Texas
Australian intends to go into
the pipeline business.
Speaking to The Bulletin,
Nash J. Dowdle, president of
Texas American Oil and a
director of Texas Australian,
said that the co. could earn a
profit by looking for oil
through selling part-interests in
wells. He emphasised the co.'s
policy of widely spreading
search-programmes, instead of
concentrating on sole owner-
ship of a few empty wells.
Texas Australian’s first drill-
ing-attempt will be made in the
Murray Basin. Preparations
will take from six to 12 months.
The co, will not acquire its own
rigs, but will use contractors.
Mr. Dowdle praises the
Commonwealth and State
Governments for their co-
operation and says that tax-
concessions to oil-search cos. in
Australia were particularly
attractive to American oil
interests.
Future profits will not be
taken out of Australia, but will
be distributed in divs. or
ploughed-back into business.
The idea is an interesting
one, and the approach is both
fresh and promising. Success
depends on whether explora-
tion results will be sufficiently
encouraging to attract other big
oil-interests. Striking oil in
commercial quantities would,
of course, be the ultimate jack-
pot which every oilman is
striving for.
Also on the board are A. S.
Bingle, N. L. Cowper (both
Australians), and J. H. Bartley
and L. E. Innerarity (senior
executive directors of Texas
American Oil).


Make a safe and secure investment with ~.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.)
FINANCE COMPANY
This is on INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED INVESTMENT
per annum
10% for 3 years
9% for 2 years
8% for 1 year
FIXED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
EARN
BASED ON THE
SECURITY OF
CAREFULLY
SELECTED REAL
ESTATE
INVESTMENTS,
PLUS INDEMNITY
POLICY
• Interest is paid quarterly • The original sum
deposited is returned in full at the end of the
term nominated o The depositor has the right of
withdrawal of capital in an EMERGENCY.
The repayment of principal and interest is
INDEPENDENTLY GUARANTEED by an
Indemnity Co. which issues a policy to each
depositor.
MAIL THIS COUPON FOR BROCHURE.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O’Connell Street,
Sydney. Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines) or Box 4790,
G.P.0., Sydney,
NAME
ADDRESS
B/24/2
•V/OIW
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, February 15, 1960.
“T believe 1960 will be the
1 best year we have known
jn the history of N.Z.,” said
the Prime Minister, Mr. Nash,
the other day.
He was expressing a view
which has gained wide public
support.
The first two months of the
year are usually quiet on the
Stock Exchange. But this year
buyers have been scrambling
for shares. The volume of
trading has soared to an all-
time record level, and so have
prices.
On average, prices have
advanced 5 per cent, this year,
36 per cent, since the boom
began last April.
Investors do not lack authori-
tative support for a bullish
attitude.
According to the governor
of the Reserve Bank, E. C.
Fussell, N.Z. is now nearer to
economic and financial equili-
brium than at any time since
the war.
In a recent speech he made
these points:
For New Zealand, and the
countries with which it does
most of its trade, the recession
is over.
The stage is set for a period
of expansion and high activity.
The potential spending-power
of the community will be
higher in 1960 than ever before.
Inflation will again be the
danger to guard against.
The Price of Wool
A statement by the London
“Financial Times” that there
was reason to believe that the
price of wool would continue
to decline for a whjle cast a
faint shadow over the general
spirit of optimism.
However, reassurance was
quickly forthcoming. There
was no evidence that the slight
easing of wool prices was the
start of a general decline, the
chairman of the New Zealand
Wool Board, H. J. Wardell,
said.
“The main feature of the
market for N.Z. wool this
season has. been its stability,”
he added.
“AH the indications are that
w hile narrow fluctuations may
continue the present level of
prices may be reasonably
e xpected for the rest of the
season.”
Lamb
The chairman of the N.Z.
Meat Producers’ Board, Mr.
John Ormond, considers that
meat-exporting companies are
unduly pessimistic about lamb-
marketing prospects this year.
Criticising the schedule of
prices paid to N.Z. farmers for
lambs, he said that the margin
between those prices and meat
realisations in London seemed
unreasonably high.
It was a fact that many of
the early lambs bought by
operators from the producers
this season had shown a profit
to the buyers of 15s. a head,
he said.
This may be true, but it is
understandable that the meat
companies should want to
make-up as quickly as possible
for the big losses they suffered
last year. N.Z. Refrigerating
lost £276,959; Canterbury
Meat £175,482; Southland
Meat, £100,849.
Balance-of-payments
New Zealand’s overseas
exchange transactions for the
year to December 31, 1959,
resulted in a surplus of £21.9
million, compared with a
surplus of £13.1 million the
previous year.
The 1958 surplus was
achieved with the aid of net
official overseas borrowing of
£44.1 million, but in 1959 the
surplus was achieved in spite
of Government investment
overseas of £11.9 million net,
and official debt repayment of
£11.6 million made up as
follows: Repayment of Com-
monwealth Bank advance,
£7.4 million; repayment of
one-year credit in the U.S.A.,
£3.6 million; repayment of
other overseas loans, £600,000.
On current account there was
a surplus of £36.9 million,
compared with a deficit of
£33.5 million in 1958, and a
deficit of £39.4 million in
1957. It was the first year
since 1953 in which a substan-
tial surplus on current account
was recorded.
The net overseas assets of
the banking system rose by
£32.5 million from £55.1 mil-
lion on December 31, 1958, to
£87.6 million on December
30, 1959.
TV
Television-manufacturers are
reported to be disappointed
with the limit set by the
Government on the number of
picture-tubes which can be
imported this year.
They have been told what
the number is, but have been
asked by the Government to
keep it confidential meantime.
It is understood that it is
16,000.
Earlier the Radio and Tele-
vision Manufacturers’ Federa-
tion had sought approval of a
licensing formula which might
have resulted in 18,000 to
20,000 television-receivers being
made in the first 12 months of
production.
It proposed an initial alloca-
tion of licences sufficient for
each manufacturer to import
2000 tubes. When he had used
half of the first allocation the
manufacturer would be eligible
for another import licence.
This plan was designed to
ensure that manufacturers
who were producing sets
which the public wanted to
buy could keep production up.
It now seems that no manu-
facturer will be able to obtain
more than 2000 tubes in the
year.
Fifteen firms are seeking
import-licences. The federa-
tion is attempting to find a
formula for the distribution of
licences within the industry.
The president of the federa-
tion, M. Kimble, said it
appeared that in fixing a lower
limit than was expected, the
Government was concerned at
the effect which television-
manufacture might have on
other allied industries and had
adopted a policy of “start
slowly.”
An undertaking has been
given to the Government that
within 15 to 18 months the
major companies will begin
production in N.Z. of all major
components, including the
picture tubes, which at present
are wholly imported. At least
two, if not three, of the prin-
cipal manufacturers plan to
make picture-tubes.
Finance interests are also
awaiting informa ti on.
Expected new hire-purchase
business means that about £3
million of new capital will
have to be raised to enable
retailers to purchase stocks.
At present no company can
raise more than £lO,OOO a year
(Continued on page 55)


THE FEINT
By
ROY THEODORE
Cass had put it to him in
the pub two days after
the Palmerston fight
and because it had been
a good win it was easy to say.
Cass said, “You going to
stay in the fight business,
but?”
He’d finished his drink
before answering. He’d heard
other blokes say a few grogs
played hell with their fitness,
but it never worried him. After
a session he’d train just the
same, sweat a little more, but
he was as good as ever. It
didn’t stick to him or make
him slow.
He finished his drink, think-
ing about the Palmerston win,
and it was easy to say, “Long
as I keep winning I’ll stay in
it, but as soon as they start
hitting me too much I’ll get
out.”
Now, suddenly, with four
rounds gone, it wasn’t so
simple. It was the cut on his
head and the heat that did it.
It seemed to sap him. He lay
back on the stool, stretching
his stomach, and one foot
wasn’t completely on the
canvas and the whole leg
started trembling. He firmed
weight on to the foot and the
trembling stopped.
Dillon was squeezing more
collodion on the head-cut.
Then he sponged around the
boxer’s lips. The boxer was
big, yet light, and you knew
that when he rose he would be
an easy mover. He was good-
looking. He had that tan that
draws some of the ladies’ bets.
Dillon was talking softly,
lips near the boxer’s ear. The
boxer hated that; it all looked
so B-grade-film and desperate.
He half-listened. He knew it
wasn’t just the head-cut and
the heat that had got him this
time.
It was smart to get out
while you were ahead. There
wasn’t all that money in box-
ing in this country and if you
weren’t at the top you were
better off out, making a steady
crust.
But he could lose this one
very, very easily—and what
then? Get out the way he’d
said? That’s where he was
fuzzy.
With the bell he went out
to meet Kirby again, and he
was thinking, “This is the first
time my legs haven’t moved
easily ; they feel soggy.”
Kirby was squat and rocky,
the tough kind. The way he
was trying to get in close to
work at that head-cut was like
a bad actor, thought the boxer:
as though he not only wanted
to work on it, he wanted the
dumbest fight - follower to
appreciate what he was doing.
He held Kirby off. Neat,
stabbed lefts. Points . . . but
this one wouldn’t be a points-
decision.
He knew Kirby’s history
well a southpaw who’d
swung to orthodox. Kirby had
a trick of swinging back some-
times and he did it now ; the
right-lead missed but lay for
a moment across the other’s
glove and Kirby moved in and
swung the left heavily into the
stomach.
It hurt.
back to his corner
the boxer was aware
again of the slight tilt on the
top right side of the ring. It
was a rotten stadium ; he hated
that tilt.
Everyone knew about it and
if you came straight out and
went to the high corner you
had the slightest advantage
over your opponent. He never
did it himself. Everyone
always knew what you were at.
Dillon was talking again.
The boxer stared sourly at the
chattering faces along the side
of the ring.
“You’ve got to keep dodging
those big ones of his; and
wait for that feint, then go
in.”
“Did you ever get twelve
straight pro.-wins up, Dillon?”
thought the boxer.
Twelve wins, and two draws
to Kirby. Every time Kirby
hit he hurt, and he seemed to
hit when you couldn’t give.
His punch was so hard and
fast you didn’t have time to
roll.
There was blood coming
from the boxer’s mouth now,
and Dillon sponged at it. The
second —yellow-white greasy-
stranded baldness like all the
seconds the boxer could
remember —flapped a towel
heavily.
As he went out again his
arms were tired. They really
were. In his gym.-work he
did a lot of shadow-boxing
with a hammerhead in each
fist as a weight, but his arms
were tired already.
The feint. That’s what he
had to wait for, and he was
watching for it. Another of
Kirby’s tricks that looked
spectacular. He would feint
low with his left, very low,
then drive in a right-cross to
the head. But it wasn’t the
usual feint. He always did it
as he was bouncing in fast.
He did it with his arms
dangerously wide apart, but he
counted on you becoming con-
fused a moment by the sprawl
and the speed, and he caught
you.
All you had to do was stay
calm and jab hard down the
centre with your left, then
follow it in, and the trick
would turn inside-out on him.
Kirby came in on that
bouncy slide of his and there
was the feint.
But in that fraction of time
while the boxer was steadying
and finding balance the feint
stayed a punch and slammed
into his ribs when it should
have pulled short. The
counter-punch lost sting and
was smothered against Kirby’s
right, and then Kirby stepped
up fast again and let the right
go.
The boxer dropped, and as
he took the eight-count he
knew clearly he was too scared
of Kirby to fight well. Kirby
hit too hard. Even when he
lost he marked people.
He got up and Kirby rushed,
landing two more heavy ones.
The bell went with the boxer
still kneeling.
“You’re not doing too well,
mate,” said Dillon.
“I’m blind, and you tell me
I can't see,” thought the boxer.
He’d lost all control of his
breathing now. That didn’t
usually happen so early, either.
He could go 10 sometimes and
still drag in air the way he
wanted. Now he gulped and
his head was sore. If he
stopped one of those punches
in the teeth he reckoned the
teeth would just bust off.
He’d had 14 fights and he
hadn’t been marked yet, and
he’d been able to scoff away
from that unhappy silence of
his father’s.
“Look, Dad —I’m still mak-
ing money and they can’t
touch me! Isn’t that good
enough for you?”
But when he did get plast-
ered his father would say it,
put it in words: “Give it up
and work the place with me,
son ; I need some help.”
'T'he bell went, and he didn’t
move until he felt Dillon
tugging at the stool.
“I don’t want to go out!”
he thought. “I want to quit.”
He stood near his corner,
letting Kirby come to him, and
he thought he was ready, and
Kirby feinted and he wasn’t
ready. He didn’t know
whether it was a feint or not.
It was, though, and it tricked
his guard down and the right
slammed against his head. He
stayed on his feet and tried to
clinch, but Kirby jumped back,
propped and sank in his left
and right.
This time they clinched, and
if Kirby had been able to


shake him off the boxer would
have dropped, but he managed
to stay there long enough to
draw in air again.
He took some more heavy
blows after that until the
yellow light above the ring was
starting to bounce its yellow-
ness in patches so that one
moment he was almost in the
dark, then he was in a flood
of light. But he stayed on his
feet and Kirby came rushing
in again, missed with his right,
and the short jab caught him
high on the cheekbone and he
dropped.
It was so unexpected. The
boxer still found it unreal as
they held his arm up.
Yet he was already thinking
how it must have looked. The
first one who’d taken any
interest in his boxing, the ser-
geant, had called him a natural
boxer. Probably this looked
natural; he’d let Kirby rush
in and swing, then chopped
him down.
He was tired and sore, but
he thought this as the referee
held his arm up. Kirby was
still unconscious.
“I’d like to know exactly
how long he’s out,” thought
the boxer.
At the party he’d been
invited to the following
night, Joe met him at the door
with a noisy, bear-hug wel-
come.
“Before I left home I could
have picked he’d do just this,”
thought the boxer. He looked
slightly embarrassed, yet not
so Joe would notice, or Joe’s
wife, behind Joe with another
couple, offended.
Going down the lighted hall
he caught a side-glimpse of
himself in the full-length
alcove mirror. He had the grey
suit on, and it had been cut by
the tailor who had been Bos
Murphy’s trainer. It fitted
snugly, without padding or
bulges.
He’d had it on when he went
under the ropes to shake with
the winner of the Brady-
Stevens fight and he’d heard
someone at the Press bench
talking: “That’s a boxer’s
build for you.”
He undid the top button and
U'd up the lower one and the
®at took on a fraction more
drape from his shoulders to
the tuck of his waist.
h was early, and the party
emitted a little politeness-
fush and rose to its feet as he
entered the big room. Joe was
es ide him with an unwel-
ome arm across the boxer’s
As some of them
milled about and shook his
hand he was like two people,
one having his hand grasped
and the other standing off to
watch.
There was too much smoke
in the room already. The
boxer didn’t smoke.
Joe said, “You had us
worried a while there the other
night.”
He laughed. “I wasn’t
exactly a ball of calm myself.”
But his voice left a firm
little quiet under the words so
that the admission robbed him
of nothing.
The party got back into its
old shoes and he was in a
group with Joe and Dillon and
a few of the other men. In
a while someone would come
over and drag him across to see
some of the new women. He
would go quietly, ready to
show modest pleasure when-
ever one of the women said
she had seen him fight.
Dillon was saying: “That
Kirby is certainly a puncher.
If they ever teach him to box
with it he’ll be a corker.”
Joe turned to the boxer:
“What did you really think
when he put you down? Did
you think you’d get him after
that? Really, I mean?”
He thought, then shrugged.
“It was a surprise all right.
Going down, I mean ... I
was a bit worried because I
hadn’t figured that feint out
right. But after that I was
pretty sure I’d get him if I
was careful.”
It was some time before
someone took him over to the
two girls standing together and
it went very much as it always
did, until the one with the
measuring brown eyes said,
“You almost collected it that
time he knocked you down,
didn’t you?”
She asked it as a query, but
one to which she didn’t expect
a denial.
“That was just a bit we
hadn’t rehearsed well enough.”
She laughed. “I could see
that pretty clearly.”
He stretched his modesty as
far as he thought he should.
“It was his last fling, any-
way.”
The brown eyes seemed to
measure the stretch precisely.
“Lucky for you, wasn’t it?”
“I’ll bet she comes from the
Uni.,” he thought. “They got
that I-see-through-it-all air.”
TTe’d been drinking beer
steadily (he liked to have a
few at the start of a party),
and now he accepted a whisky
from Joe.
“Is that how you train?”
asked the girl.
“What’s training?”
(“See? I don’t even take it as
seriously as you seem to.”)
She shrugged and turned to
the girl with her. (“I was only
making conversation anyway;
let’s drop it.”)
He was drinking more than
he usually did. He was with a
bunch of the men again, and
they were back on to the fight.
“I’ve never seen anything
like that feint of his, though,”
said someone.
(“Damn that feint!”) “It’s
not the feint that’s dangerous.
It’s nothing. What’s dangerous
is not knowing whether it is a
feint or not. But after he’d
done it the second time, then
I had it worked out.”
“You did?”
“I knew I had him from then
on if he tried it again. Just
had to watch his face or his
feet, not his hands.”
“Yeah?”
“That was it, all right. Had
to watch his face. Or his
hands.”
He looked around as he
spoke. The girl was still on
the other side of the room. He
was glad of that, damn her.
“It’s not that I expect to be
glorified,” he thought. “Not
that, at all. But surely you can
discuss something like this
naturally. Smug smarty-pants
piece.” ,
The liquor was working on
him now. He split up into two
people again at a stage when
he found himself demonstrat-
ing with someone just how the
feint worked. He talked
quickly to cover that feeling
of watching himself.
“Drive low with your left
and keep it coming towards
my ribs,” he instructed.
The other partygoer did this
and the boxer chopped down
on it, swayed his head to the
right and drove with his own
left at the man’s face, stopping
a fraction away from it, hold-
ing the pose.
“See? You can’t treat it like
a normal feint. You trap it
before it can do any damage,
then get in fast with your left
to his head. Turn the whole
thing round on him, like.”
He saw the girl watching.
The stand-off part of him said,
“You look good with your
shoulders opened out and your
hands that way, don’t you?”
and he dropped the pose
quickly and turned back to his
glass.
“I don’t know what it is,”
he thought. “I’m just not in
the mood tonight.”
Usually he’d quit a party
about midnight. A quiet good-
bye and a wave. They prob-
ably talked after he’d gone. . .
“Nice chap ; never any trouble.
Not the usual sort, is he?”
He wanted to go now, but
didn’t want to leave. He
didn't want them talking. He
wished he’d said less and
hadn’t put on that feint
demonstration. Hell, that was
hammy.
{Continued on page 45)
ONE MAN’S MEASURE
His land will not be measured in fingered five-pounds
Brought from the back of beyond to behind the counter,
Gone from the calloused stubs to the soft flip of fingers
Dabbling in notes, like ducks in mud.
The measure of his land is more music than money:
Out of fabulous nothing, out of the still bush
And his memory, come the ring of axe, the roar
Of tree against tree, and the startled birds of the morning.
The birds began the sunrise, but each day navigated
Ended in the deep, still reaches of the night.
No cannon for his doldrums, but an accordion
To sing him songs of his dreaming.
More than words or want of wealth, the dreaming
Held him, sent him empty-handed out
To shape his wilderness like a man his music, like a boy
Who tried to pluck rabbits from a hatful of nothing.
But he plucked more than he bargained, house and wife
And four grown daughters, only one at home,
Playing the piano this evening of his return,
Each note cancelling his mortgage out of mind.
N.Z.
BARRY MITCALFE.


The Red-and-white Bullock
The town was on the
stock-route leading to the
railhead 50 miles farther
south. It owed its birth
to the lure of gold, its struggling
continuity to the fact that it
was a centre for the surround-
ing stations. *A Road Board
office, post-office and police-
station gave it the status of
town. Nothing else did.
The rest was a shabby collec-
tion of corrugated-iron build-
ings clinging dejectedly at
irregular intervals to the wide
red main road and a few dusty
side streets. There was a
school. This looked like one of
the Government’s old origi-
nals, sprung from the colonial
days. The general store —very
general—was a stockpile of
necessities and junk presided
over by Fong Lee, upon whose
parchment face at least 60 dry
seasons had graven their lines.
A desultory agency business was
conducted behind the imposing
facade of a cobweb- and dust-
decorated single-room building.
Darky O’Dea’s butcher-shop
completed the shopping-centre.
Of course there was a hotel,
the focal point and social
centre, the raucous hub of the
town. Thirsty drovers, itinerant
and residential ne’er-do-wells,
as well as the respectable work-
ing-class elements and the sta-
tion upper-crust found their
social life and beer as they
rubbed shoulders at the bar.
The occasional wedding solem-
nised in the courthouse at the
police-station was feasted and
toasted in the hotel. Sometimes
the dining-room was converted
into a dance-hall. Gala night
of the year was the annual
Race Ball. Because the beer
flowed all the more freely
social events were always wel-
comed by the management.
jROR this reason the manage-
ment always welcomed
Darky O’Dea. He was good
entertainment and the boys
stayed longer when a few beers
loosened his tongue. He was
part of the town, one of its
main characters. Source of its
amusement, source of its gos-
sip, he was ever a sure thing
for a bit of diversion from the
sultry monotony of that out-
back town. .
In addition to giving him
his name, .Darky’s Irish for-
bears had seen to it that he
received a fair share of the
By LEITA TURNER
Irish art of being agin the
government. He expressed this
particularly in being agin the
large hand of the law.
The police were the only
people in the town who
didn’t appreciate Darky. Not
that this lack of appreciation in
any way dampened his enthusi-
asm. Rather did it stimulate
him to greater zeal; he took
an unholy delight in outwit-
ting the unfortunate representa-
tives of the law. No effort did
he spare to taunt the police
and evade the law. And so he
preserved an unstained record.
Unofficially his record was
legendary and the bar of the
sprawling hotel was the place
to study it. Darky would lean
against the counter, wipe the
froth from his untidy mous-
tache, and entertain the boys.
Sometimes he would choose his
gold-smuggling career. Interest
in this never flagged because,
believing that variety is the
spice of any man’s career,
Darky was liberal with his
embellishments and deviations.
Then there were always tales
to tell about home-brews and
stills practically under the large
nose, but always out of reach
of the large hand, of the law.
Clandestine two-up schools and
s.-p. activities were his special-
ties.
The town never stopped
laughing about the time when
Darky was arrested for being
drunk and disorderly. At that
stage the reigning sergeant was
humorless and held in little
esteem and less affection. Tt
w'as New Year’s Eve. Now,
the finest way for any police-
man to see the old year out and
the new year in when stationed
on the outer rim of civilization
is to close his official eyes. Not
so this unloved sergeant. He
kept them wide open, and so
poor Darky found himself in a
cell. The town was sad.
Within 24 hours he was back
in the bar dispelling the gloom
with a great tale of how he had
persuaded the sergeant to for-
give and forget. Darky's powers
of persuasion equalled his
ability to entertain. Few could
resist him, and the stolid
sergeant hadn't a chance. I Q
no time that representative of
the law was filled with such a
feeling of well-being and satis-
faction that he relaxed on his
official pedestal sufficiently to
produce a large bottle of
Scotch. Together they sat upon
the narrow cell-cot and shared
the whisky.
The sergeant was a morbid
drunk, and Darky worked
accordingly. Before long the
man was made acutely aware
of his past sins. Unhappily he
shed great repentant tears on
the cement floor between his
large flat feet.
So repentant did he become
that he apologised to Darky
and sent him home freely
pardoned. The sergeant
finished the night in his own
cell and Darky preserved his
record unstained.
TYarky’s butcher-shop was a
profitable concern despite
the limited number of
customers. Normally a butcher
would have found it hard to
make a profit in such a small
town, but not Darky O’Dea.
He had his own methods of
securing his living.
In his shop there was always
a good supply of meat on the
hooks. However, very few
people sold their stock to him.
Only a man enjoying the popu-
larity Darky did could hope to
run the butchery along such
doubtful lines. He was a fair
man and spread his illegal
activities, being careful not to
tread too hard too often on the
same roes.
The police didn’t approve his
business methods. Their sus-
picion amounted to a tradition.
It was passed on whenever a
change in the constabulary
occurred, but never could they
catch Darky red-handed. Try
as they might they were never
in the right place at the right
time and all their efforts were
just so many more targets fo r
the Irishman’s humor.
A drover provided them with
what they thought was a perfect
trap. The man was travelling
a mob of bullocks through to
the railhead and* had to leave
one behind, paddocked in the
town reserve. It was a prime
(Continued on page 45)


'a L
V
V
/a
V
V
Vs
ftf
V-
Q
Icarus said:
“Gosh!
U/hat a time
to start melting”
High over the Aegean Sea under a hot sun and the wax sticking
his new trial flight wings together couldn’t take it.
Happy landings? Not a chance! Some things can be left to
chance some can’t. There’s no need to leave the future
financial security of an income-earner’s dependants
to chance the A.M.P. is there to guarantee it for you.
Talk to your A.M.P. man about “Dependant Protection Plans/*
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
-GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members
P 2608


Closer Settlement the Keynote
Queensland's Land Laws
Five of the 11 Ministers in the present
Queensland Cabinet are practical
farmers, so it is not surprising that
the most outstanding legislative
achievement of the Nicklin Government s
first term of office has been its overhaul
of the Land Acts.
In this task the Government was greatly
assisted by the report of W. L. Payne,
president of the Queensland Land Court,
whom it appointed to review the whole
system of land-tenure and to make recom-
mendations for improvement.
Over 90 per cent, of the State's 430-
million acres is still under Crown control,
360-million acres of it being held under
various types of pastoral leases, so the
importance of equitable land-laws and
enlightened administration of -them
cannot be overstressed.
Explaining the new legislation in a
pamphlet, “Progressive Land Settlement
in Queensland,” Minister for Public
Lands A. G. Muller says that Queens-
land’s rural progress depends not on
larger holdings but on prudent sub-
divisions into economic units intensively
developed and used. “Our land policy
is designed to accelerate land-develop-
ment and to increase rural production
immensely... .Production from the right
use of land can be multiplied again and
again. Sound land-laws and administra-
tion can do more than, anything else to
multiply the productive wealth of the
State and its population-supporting
capacity.”
Stressing the contribution of the small
farmer to the development of Australia,
the Minister says that his Government's
land-policy is closer settlement wherever
possible. “But all new' land-settlement
must be on economic-sized areas. The
area of each holding must be such as
to give the new settler a reasonable chance
to succeed and prosper”. . .
The ultimate aim of Crown-lands adminis-
tration is the maintenance of an ever-
increasing rural population of resident land-
holders working economic-sized areas and
giving employment to rural workers under
prosperous conditions.
The Payne report emphasised that
security of tenure was an essential to
proper development of Crown lands, and
the Land Act 1959 was framed to remove
uncertainties from the minds of lease-
holders. The “main objectives of land-
administration” are set-out in the body
of the Act, with the assurance that they
will be “the permanent objectives for
many years.”
Conversion of Tenures
TTnder the old Act settlement-farm
leases in brigalow - scrub country
(with a maximum area of 4500 acres)
were held on leasehold up to 35 years.
Development was slow because it
required an expenditure of £8 to £lO an
acre and finance on that scale was not
available on a terminable lease. The
Payne report recommended conversion
to permanent tenures and the Act provides
for this. These settlement-farm leases
and also all grazing selections up to 5000
acres may be converted to freehold or
perpetual lease at the option of the
holder.
Each type of tenure possesses certain
advantages. Freehold price will be deter-
mined by the Land Court and based on
unimproved value at current market
rates. Payment may be spread over 20
years, without interest, and land-tax will
not be levied for 20 years. Perpetual
leases will pay rent at the rate of 2j per
cent, on unimproved value, with periodi-
cal reassessment. They will pay no land-
tax.
Brigalow Belt
TThe brigalow-belt of scrub country,
about 200 miles wide and stretching
600 miles from Collinsville to Goondi-
windi, on the N.S.W. border, comprises
something like 23-million acres, about
two-thirds of it undeveloped.
Part VI of the Act introduces a new
form of brigalow-lease covering lands
from 5000-10,000 acres in area. Leases
are for 40 years, with a priority right
to a living area on expiration. There
are no Crown rights of resumption with-
out compensation, and security of tenure
is guaranteed throughout the 40-year
term.
Brigalow-leases will be subject to per-
sonal residence for five years: thereafter
the condition of occupation will apply.
The maximum area to be held by.one
person or company is 10,000 acres, but
if an undertaking is given to speedily
develop the land at high cost and to
maintain a number of persons thereon,
this may be increased to 20,000 acres.
The idea behind this is that such holdings
might be valuable fattening depots for
outback pastoral country and that on
the expiry of the leases a substantial part
of the fully-developed land would be
available for closer settlement.
It is recognised that in the vast area
comprised in the brigalow-belt there will
be some parts which, though capable of
development, may not be suited to the
tenure of these special leases. Such land
may be leased in larger areas under
pastoral leases or pastoral-development
leases under appropriate conditions to
bring it into full production.
Pastoral Tenures
Tn stating his Government's policy on
pastoral tenures the Minister says that
the pastoral lease is a pioneering tenure
and was never intended to be anything
else. In the early days it was the only
appropriate tenure, but it is now quite
unsuitable in the good-rainfall areas and
is appropriate only in the more arid out-
back where large areas must be worked
to give any return. Where more inten-
sive development is possible pastoral
holdings must make way for more pro-
ductive settlement.
Recognising that the pastoral industry
has provided the bulk of Queensland's
exports and has kept the State solvent,
the Minister says that it must be pro-
tected, encouraged and expanded. But,
“some pastoral lessees have done excel-
lent service in developing their lands and
helping to make them suitable for closer
settlement, others have been content to
utilise the land solely for their own
advantage and give little community
service.”
In future it is provided that the term
of such leases shall be determined
“according to the expenditure likely to
be incurred on the development of the
land”:
The Government will not renew pastoral
leases, either wholly or in part, where the
land is capable of development, unless the
lessees are willing to make a substantial
contribution to community progress by the
performance of specific improvement con-
ditions which will be attached to their
holdings. The lessees’ experience and co-
operation will, however, be enlisted in
determining the specific improvements that
are best suited to the circumstances of
each case.
Security of Tenure
As the Payne report pointed out,
development has in the past been
hampered by the lessees’ lack of security
of tenure. Under the old law one-quarter
of the lessee’s holding was subject to
resumption, without compensation, at.any
time. This short-sighted and unfair pro-
vision has been removed from the Act.
No land may be resumed in the first 15
years of the lease ; after that, up to one-
third may be resumed. The purpose of
this is to allow the lessee to reap some
reasonable reward from the full holding
before any of it can be taken from him.
n An attempt has been made to put
rentals for leaseholds on a more equitable
basis. Rents are to be “fair and
moderate and such as prudent persons
would willingly pay.” They will be
based on unimproved values and where
that value has to be deduced from sale-
prices of comparable developed land
allowances must be made for replace-
ment-cost of improvements, less deprecia"
tion ; the time it would take for the
improvements to be completed and
become effective; the added price a
prudent and experienced person would
give for a developed holding.
Rents on new perpetual leases will be
2\ per cent, of unimproved value ; rents
on old perpetual leases will remain at U
per cent.
The avowed aim of the legislation is
to give the pastoralist a fair deal, but
to provide for progressive subdivision
for closer settlement. The Payne report
considered that if its recommendations
were accepted rural production could be
increased by at least £5O million a year
in five years. If this estimate is anywhere
near the mark, this decade should see
Queensland taking a “great leap
forward.”


Between
Ourselves
■—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
At Moonee Valley
South Australian gelding
Stormy Passage goes into the
records as winner of the 1960
Alister Clark Stakes at Moonee
Valley, and deserves his niche
for a sustained display of
speed ; but a lot of credit is
due to Geoff Lane, surely one
of the best riders Melbourne
has known in post-war years.
From his outside barrier-possie
Lane quickly got the lead and
rode a masterly race in front,
having a break of at least eight
lengths with half the 10 fur-
longs covered. Nobody seemed
anxious to lead the chase after
Stormy Passage, and eventually
Frank Treen, on Dhaulagiri,
had to make the first move.
Dhaulagiri responded like the
good colt he is, and chased
the leader all the way to the
line, but Stormy Passage had
the race won before the chase
started. La Josephina came
home well, third. Irony of the
race was that Lane normally
rides Dhaulagiri, but was
unable to make the colt’s
weight. Stormy Passage is raced
by the Lee brothers, for whom
Comic Court won the same
race exactly 10 years ago.
The performance of almost every
runner in the Clark Stakes was
interesting as an autumn pointer.
Dhaulagiri can be marked as a
definite V.R.C. St. Leger chance.
Mac and Prince Dahomey, who are
sharing favoritism for the Austra-
lian Cup, could not pace it with
Stormy Passage, but finished-on
well enough. Nilarco was not
suited by the Valley track, and will
do better on the roomier stretches
at Flemington and Caulfield.
No trainer could ask for a
more consistent breadwinner
than five-year-old Gay Saba.
In very good company in the
six furlongs less 20yds. Wood-
lands Handicap a four-months
break did not stop him from
winning comfortably. Good
as Gay Saba is, he could not
get near Todman with the 10.2
he * must carry under the
peculiar conditions of the
Futurity, but he would be a
definite Newmarket chance.
Mention was made here a
couple of weeks ago of Sun-
dial as a hurdler to remember.
Sundial won again at the
Valley, but all who took the
short odds about him can thank
Ron Lindsay for a remark-
able piece of riding. Sundial
was going to win by the length
of the straight coming to the
second-last jump, but he
bungled that obstacle badly,
and only a cross-country hoop
of Lindsay’s skill could have
retained his seat. And after
that Sundial only scrambled
through the last hurdle ; so, if
he’s to be a National hope,
Fred Hoysted will need to
give him many hours in the
bullring.
There was a very odd cir-
cumstance about Grandor’s
“Care to try it out?”
win in the second Woodlands.
On the way to the post Hun-
garian-born Peter Bakos
realised that there was some-
thing wrong with the pressure
under his knees, and called
the clerk of the course to
inform him that a lead-bag was
missing from his gear. On the
clerk’s instructions Bakos
brought his mount back to the
saddling-paddock, and “Bon”
Hoysted, deputising for his
father, Fred, found the missing
lead-bag in Grandor’s stable.
Just as well, for Grandor led
almost throughout to win the
race effortlessly. A three-year-
old gelding with the grey coat
of his sire, the defunct Meadow
Mist, Grandor was bred by
Sir Chester Manifold, chair-
man of the V.R.C., but is
raced by Sir Samuel Burston,
chairman of the Moonee
Club, in partner-
ship with H. W. Parbury, a
member of the Valley commit-
tee.
• • • •
If ever a horse looked a
“paper certainty” it was Joss
Sticks in the Sydenham Trial;
at his previous start he had
finished third in the w.-f.-a.
Blarney Stakes behind Wool
Man and Prince Lea, and the
gulf between a w.-f.-a. event
and a Valley Trial would be
hard to span. The four-year-
old gelding duly landed the
money, and now appeals as an
Australian Cup chance, a doubt
being whether he can manage
the 2 miles l\ furlong of the
Cup. He is by Woodburn from
Fiorenzo, who has been a most
fecund mare; the trainer of
Joss Sticks, Bill McNabb,
currently has five of her pro-
geny in his stable! Her best-
known offspring are White
Hills and Kosciusko last-
named can’t manage a distance,
but White Hills was runner-up
in last year’s Melbourne Cup.
Anyway, Joss Sticks seemed to
have had enough at the end
of the 13-furlongs Trial.
* • • •
Two-year-old fillies were
catered for at the Valley in the
two heats of the Hollymount
Handicap over 5i furlongs. In
the first division consistent
Grasse won well, and has now
won four of her last five starts.
Bred and raced by Sir Chester
Manifold, she is by Meadow
Mist from Slippery Elm, a
mare imported by Sir Chester.
In England Slippery Elm was
owned by Lord Rosebery.
Grasse is a very honest filly,
and Sir Chester is hoping she
can win the Merson Cooper
Stakes next Saturday week.
She should run well, but with
an experienced rider runner-up
Lady Novak should turn the
tables on her.
The second heat of the
Hollymount went to Lady
Major, whose form had been
building to a win. Raced by
C. M. Burns, who bred the
filly, she is by the English horse
Bob Major, from Magnify by
St. Magnus from Katonah. She
impresses this writer very
much. With the combination
of staying and sprinting blood
she gets from her sire and
dam, she may make a noticeable
mark on the Australian Turf.
* * :i!
Sydney Horses
Backers had every reason to
thank George Moore for their
win on Prince Benalla in the
Two-year-old Maiden at last
week’s “twilight” meeting at
Randwick. In a masterly riding
exhibition Moore held his
mount to the rails practically
from the start in the field of
20, fairly took the paint off
the rails rounding the home-
turn, and at that only beat
Satinette a long neck, with
Malihina third. Both minor
placegetters drew outside
barrier possies. Bred in New
Zealand, the winning colt is
by Khorassan (imp.) from Lady
Benalla by Pink Coat from
Jarretieve by Clarenceux
(imp.). Lady Benalla has
thrown several winners.
(These “twilight” meetings at
headquarters are, by the way,
proving a good line for the
A.J.C.)
• • t •
N.S.W. breeding certainly
received a wonderful boost
when that great sire Star King-
dom was brought here from
England. His products include
such outstanding gallopers as
Todman, Kingster, Skyline,
Fine and Dandy, Gold Stakes
and Endure, and yet another
was added to his long list of
winners when the filly Mercy
Star—from Mercy by Confes-
sor (imp.) from Jembra by
Medieval Knight (imp.)—won
the First Maiden Handicap at
last week’s A.J.C. meeting at
Randwick, completing a double
for trainer Fred Allsop, who


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Ik Divorce.
TO MILTON MICHAEL SUPPLE late
of 8 Lawson Street Fiveways Padding-
ton.—TAKE NOTICE that CLARE
ROSEMARY SUPPLE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3438 of 1959 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 2nd May
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. F. RICHARD-
SON & CO., Solicitors, of 333 George
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAXWELL HENRY PEARCE
formerly of East Esplanade Manly in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOSIE RUBY PEARCE
has filed a petition for divorce No.
3694 of 1959 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
jvish to defend you may enter _ an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building, Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 2nd day of May 196-0 and obtain
a copy of the petition free of charg*e
from MESSRS. DAVID S. DIND & CO.,
solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANGUS BREMNER late of 69 Ilifife
Street Bexley.—TAKE NOTICE that
DORIS MAY BREMNER has filed a
petition for divorce No. 4434 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 9th of
May 1960 and obtain a free copy of
the petition from JOSEPH H. Mc-
DOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4
Castleredgh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To KEVIN HENRY REDWIN late of
Concord Road Concord. —TAKE NOTICE
that ANGELA MARGARET REDWIN
has filed a petition for divorce No. 3238
of 1959 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 4th day of May 1960 and obtain a
free copy of the petition from JOSEPH
H. McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD JOHN DALY formerly
of Riverwood. —TAKE NOTICE that
ETHEL MARIE DALY has filed a
petition for divorce in Suit No. 3419
of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 9th
May 1960 and obtain a copy of the
petition without; charge from MESSRS.
JOHN D. NORTON RICKARD &
SYMONDS, solicitors, of 67, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
had landed the Rome Handi-
cap with Chipperfield. Mercy
is a half-sister to Sheba, a
smart Randwick winner.
Second Maiden winner Feder-
ate carries the familiar red
jacket and white cap of D. G.
and P. G. Tait, for whom the
three-year-old Royal Empire
(Fr.) gelding is trained by Fil
Allotta.
• • • •
Two “old boys” of the Turf
showed the younger ones how
to gallop at Rosehill. In the
Flying seven-year-old Heroic
Victory landed the money —if
only just from Adolph
Basser’s smart three-year-old
Happy Kingdom, who’d scored
at his three prior outings, while
the aged country-trained Never
Mist, who has been going
round in N.S.W. and Victorian
country districts since early
1955, led over the final mile
of the other leg of the main
double, the 10 - furlongs
February Handicap. Present
owners, J. W. and W. Clinton,
have won nine races with
Heroic Victory. In Saturday’s
surprise win (at 50 to 1) he
was ridden particularly well by
Peter Miers, one of the lightest
apprentices in Sydney. It was
the aged Hua gelding’s first
win since last March —and
that win was at Kembla
Grange.
• • • •
Three-year-old World Tour
had a couple of unplaced starts
in New Zealand before coming
to Sydney. First run here was
in a Randwick Novice Three-
year-old on December 19,
when, at 100 to 1, he finished
second to Pride’s Castle. Next
run was a third to Green Rose
at Rosehill on February 13,
when favorite at 5 to 4. At
his third outing—also at Rose-
hill—the Marco Polo II (imp.)
gelding cantered-in with last
Saturday’s Graduation Stakes
at 9 to 4 on. An acceptance of
only half-a-dozen starters for
a £lOOO race (four prizes)
seems a poor response, and the
S.T.C. might think about revis-
ing programmes in relation to
this event, which is seldom
attractive. The winner’s dam,
Foxwood, was got by Fox-
bridge (imp.) from Hazelwood
by Day Comet (imp.) from
Waterwood by Seaton Delaval
(imp.). Though World Tour’s
form has certainly been con-
sistent, Saturday’s win was
nothing to go on —the field
could hardly have been weaker.
Having her third start since
being put into training at Rose-
hill by part-owner Morrie
Anderson, Primrose Lane won
the start of Saturday’s Two-
year-old Handicap and led all
the way, with five lengths to
spare at the finish over the
favorite, Winnipeg, and Flash
Time. Royal Emblem was cut-
out at the start and did well
to earn £5O for fourth placing.
Primrose Lane (whose pedi-
gree and a tip for her early
win were given here last week)
is raced by Bill and Phil Tyler,
of Puen Buen Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), and could prove a
first-rate speedster. Her time
—1 12.8 for the six furlongs—
was close to the race record
made by the speedy Gold
Stakes in June, 1957. Flash
Time, having his first run for
a few weeks, is a powerfully
built colt, who should soon
win his first race for owners
Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Polhill.
It won’t be out of their turn:
so far he has scored four
minor placings.
• • • •
Cliff Clare, who had won
three races on Gold Reply,
went to the Newcastle meeting
last Saturday and won two
races. The Rosehill mount in
the First Parramatta Stakes
then went to Sellwood, but all
his vigor couldn’t get Gold
Reply any closer than third
to outsider Vista Rose and
Val Yvette. Gold Reply
was a short-priced favorite, but
there wasn’t any bet of note
against the winner, who com-
peted at a maiden’s weight, 7.7.
A four-year-old by Port Vista
(imp.) from Gloria Rose by
Monogram, she had finished a
good third to Portnda at the
same track a week earlier.
Perhaps Val Yvette, who
seemed to be going easily in
front until the closing stages,
would have done better if she
had been held-up earlier.
George Mulley, having his
first ride since September 10,
1958, and only granted his
licence again a day before the
Rosehill meeting, didn’t have
to use much vigor to win the
Second Parramatta Stakes on
favorite Beechley, trained by
Darby Munro. Beechley
looked the winner no matter
who had the mount —a ready-
made favorite on his good
second to the flying Sonar
King in a Canterbury Gradua-
tion Stakes at his prior start
on February 6. A three-year-
old, he’s now due to tackle
open company, and is in the
right trim to soon win a
Welter.
Highrabou, winner of the
Rosehill Welter, had scored in
similar company a week
earlier, so the sevens on offer
against her seemed generous
odds. Reason was Morning
Star, withdrawn from the Fly-
ing and all the rage for the
easier-looking race, but only
capable of a second, though
given every chance by appren-
tice G. Howard. Highrabou
has downed strongly fancied
runners at each of her last
three starts. Local trainer J.
Gibson has had the mare in
his stables only a matter of
weeks, so he’s done a particu-
larly good job with her.
A provincial winner prob-
ably worth keeping an eye on
is the Judicate (imp.)-Future
Fame two-year-old colt Tully
Star, winner by four lengths
of a Maiden Juvenile Handi-
cap at the latest Gosford
meeting. The colt is a half-
brother to Famed—winner of
the Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield
—and is also related to
Shannon and Bernbrook. The
dam is by Channel Swell (imp.)
from Murmur by Midstream
(imp.) from Idle Words by
Magpie (imp.). Another good
sort of Maiden winner at the
meeting was the oddly-named
Turtle Brand, a Pan II (imp.)
colt from Queen of All by
Newtown Wonder (imp.).
“Sawtell”: One of the N.S.W.
Southern District’s smartest sprinters
is the sjx-year-old mare Patrician
(by White Ensign-Bonnie Hua);
with successes at the last three
Canberra meetings, she has strung-
up a sequence of six wins, carry-
ing b'ig weights. Just for good
measure, her half-sister, Alpine
Blue (by Avalanche), made it a
family double at the most recent
meeting. In the same area, Tumut’s
recenf Centenary Cup meeting went
off very well, despite some rain,
the Cup going to local horse St.
Asten (by Smokey Eyes), piloted
by Sydney apprentice Eric Green,
* * *
The Trots
With continuous rain after
the first couple of taces at
Harold Park last Friday night
the spirit of the 17,291
customers was further damp-
ened when Sydney pacer Ross-
lawn won the 1 H-furlongs In-
vitation Stakes at 15 to 1,
downing a field which included
five that had contested the
Inter-Dominion final; among
them, Apmat and Fettle. Vic-
torian Maestro’s Melody
finished very fast to gain
second money, with Apmat
sustaining a fine run from a
hopeless position to get third.
Leading driver Jim Caffyn led
all the way to land favorite
Call Up an easy winner in the
first heat of the N.S.W. Youth-
ful Stakes, and was behind
third-placegetter Idealist in the
second heat, won by Soho
Rose ; heavily-backed War Ace
broke badly at the start and
finished fourth. The four
placegetters in each heat will
contest the final on Friday
night..
* *
Cricket Records
Outstanding feature of the
Queensland-W.A. Shield match
in Brisbane, which fizzled
on the last day after Queens-
land had won on the first
innings by 122 runs, was
Queensland and Australian
’keeper Wally Grout’s world-
record eight wickets in W.A.’s


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON A
O SULLIVAN
•2*i »*
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
first innings. Other features —
centuries by Reynolds (151) and
McLaughlin (111) of Queens-
land,- and a fighting 105 by
W.A. skipper Meuleman ; five
wickets in an innings by
Strauss (W.A.) and John Mac-
kay (Q ); and the fact that it
was the last first-class match
for Ray Lindwall.
Grout, who had to wait for
some time to establish himself
in the Queensland team and
then took some further time to
earn Australian selection, is
staking a claim among the
greatest Australian ’keepers.
The previous record number of
victims for a ’keeper in a
first-class match stood at
seven —held by several “back-
stops,” including two Aus-
tralian Test men, Queenslander
Don Tallon and Ron Saggers
of N.S.W. Grout also holds
the record for the greatest
number of dismissals in a Test
innings—six catches in the first
Test against South Africa in
1957-58 —while against Eng-
land in 1958-59 he equalled
Tallon’s record, set in 1946-47,
of 20 dismissals in a Test
series.
Ray Lindwall was one of
the greatest fast-bowlers of all
time. A keen student of
cricket, he had a perfectly
rhythmical run-up to the wicket
and was a master of swing, so
that even after he had lost a
lot of his great pace he was
still a most feared bowler. His
batting had gone off in recent
years, but he was a Test
century-maker, and had played
some fighting knocks. He had
appeared to be finished as a
Test bowler after the 1954-55
series, but bowled with his old
fire to earn selection for the
third time for touring England
in 1956 though he broke-down
while over there, and again
appeared to have come to the
end. He was passed-over for
South Africa in 1957-58, but
dramatically won his place back
in the team for the fourth Test
against England in 1958-59,
and then toured India and
Pakistan. He played in 61 Tests
in all, and took 228 Test wickets
(record for an Australian, but
short of Bedser’s world-record
236) and made 1500 runs. He
had led Queensland since the
start of the 1955-56 season.
And as a winter sideline, Lind-
wall was one of the best Rugby
League fullbacks in Sydney
football around the mid-1940’s
“Lyle”: Star Fijian batsman
Harry Apted, who at Bega scored
“Watch out for your skull! They've put a dam in at Adaminaby !"
his side’s first century on the current
N.S.W. tour, and who has done his
share in other games, including the
picnic-atmosphere defeat of an
N.S.W. XI last weekend, injured his
right arm in a childhood accident;
it’s several inches shorter than his
left —and apparently he’s none the
worse for that. In fact, batting left-
handed, he says his shortened right
arm, far from being a handicap, is
a decided advantage in playing
defensive strokes. Also an able
left-hand bowler, he reminds of one
or two others who have similarly
done well at a sport in which a
good pair of hands would seem
necessary. At Sydney’s Fort Street
High there was in my time there
a boy in the Ist XI named Collins
who played well in spite of his right
arm not being much good to him,
and who subsequently played for
Petersham Ist Grade. Moreover,
at school he was also a good wing-
threequarter. A more famous case
was St. John, Queensland’s one-
armed fullback of the early 1900’s,
who could also play wing-three-
quarter, figuring in that role for
Rockhampton against Harding’s
touring British Rugby Union side.
In one N.S.W.-Queensland match
in Sydney St. John marked bril-
liantly a kick by V. S. Futter in
the face of a rush of N.S.W. for-
wards. He also won the tennis
championship of Queensland! A
friend who used to play in the
Sydney Hardcourt Tennis competi-
tions said one of the best players
he had encountered was one-armed.
“How did he serve?” I asked. “Put
the ball on his racquet, then whipped
it up quickly, and served before it
could roll off,” he told me. “And
he served excellently.” St. John’s
technique was apparently different.
One who had seen him play said
he would hold the racquet under
the stump of his amputated arm,
throw the ball up, then grab the
racquet and strike as the ball fell.
“Bob Ray”: The “points”
system in Sheffield Shield cricket
has one unfair aspect—the team
that trails on the first innings but
wins outright gains only six points,
while the opposing team gets four
points for its first-innings lead;
yet if a team leads on the first
innings and also wins outright it
obtains the maximum 10 points.
In Test-matches, irrespective of
who leads on the first innings, it
is the outright result of each match
which determines the result of a
series. Surely, then, an outright
win is worthy of full points to a
team that fights back after being
behind on the first innings in the
Sheffield Shield series.
“Stumped”: In the present
Sheffield set-up one State can win
the Shield by winning four matches
outright, even though it loses out-
right the four remaining games!
It gets 40 points for the four wins.
But another State —playing con-
sistent cricket —which wins all
eight matches on the first innings
gets only 32 points.
* * *
“F.”: Canberra’s town-
planners are including in their
A.C.T. beautification scheme a
2000-mfetres rowing-course with
first-class boat-houses, and in
the Australian Rowing Coun-
cil there’s already talk of
staging national championships
on the picturesque lay-out. It
could, in fact, become a main
Australian rowing-centre in
the years ahead.
*‘ * *
“L.S.D.”: The struggle
various States have been
weathering in raising enough
to send their rowing-crews to
the King’s Cup Regatta at
Launceston (about £lOOO for an
eight and £5OO for a four) recalls
that the W.A. Association lost
heavily over staging the Cup
in Perth last April. More than
40,000 spectators saw the classic
event, but evidently few paid.
When takings were counted it
was found that the average pay-
ment was 2{d. for each person.
Afterwards it took the associ-
ation three months to raise
enough to wipe off a debt of
£2OO.
* *
“Athlete”: A note from Jim
Greene, San Francisco:
Why wouldn't the Amateur
Athletic Union of Australia permit
Herb Elliott to come across for
the indoor meeting in January?
Elliott is regarded as a grand Aus-
tralian sportsman, and Americans
can’t understand why the Australian
officials stop him from running
outside their country... .We had a
sensational high-jumping interlude
when 18-year-old negro John
Thomas leaped 7ft. ljin. for a
new indoor world-record. His
coach, Ed Flanagan, tells me
Thomas is to be kept “in wraps”
until the Olympics, when Flanagan
expects him to topple 7ft. 3in.
Greene added that the Ameri-
can Athletic Union planned to
send a national team to Aus-
tralia in 1961.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EYES ON CUBA
YVJ inding-up a London “Time
’ ’ and Tide” article about
Russia’s increasing interest in
Latin America—“while carry-
ing-on an open trade-offensive
Moscow is also pursuing a 100-
million-dollar campaign of sub-
version and propaganda aimed
at neutralising Latin America
by turning her anti-American”
—E. Heskell Smith notes that
at present “Cuba is the focus
of all Latin-American eyes”:
“As one leading South
American diplomat put it,
‘Whatever happens in Cuba
will affect all of us.’
“While Washington and the
rest of the world have been
hotly debating whether or not
Fidel Castro is a Communist,
the Communists have gone
ahead quietly and have estab-
lished a beachhead in Cuba.
They have leapfrogged the
Atlantic and are now firmly
entrenched within 90 miles of
the U.S. itself.
“Today the Cuban economy
is in the hands of Ernesto
Guevara, an Argentinian and
a trained Communist, who
played a part behind the scenes
in the pro-Communist Govern-
ment of Guatemala. Formerly
he worked with revolutionary
movements in both Peru and
Bolivia. The Cuban Army is
in the hands of Raul Castro,
who in 1953 was in Hungary
and Rumania and of whom
a Soviet diplomat said: ‘He is
a Communist.’ The wives of
Raul Castro and Guevara have
recently attended a Communist-
sponsored women’s congress in
Chile.
“The similarity between the
moves in Cuba and those taken
by the Communists in Guate-
mala in 1952 in order to gain
power is striking. In Guate-
mala, having secured a Com-
munist as Deputy Chief of the
National Agrarian Department,
the Communists proceeded to
install their agents in two-
thirds of the key-positions.
The Cuban Land Reform
Institute is now being run by
three well-known Communists
who are appointing their own
party-members to important
posts.
“The Cuban Confederation
of Workers, which withdrew
from the anti-Communist Inter-
American Regional Organisa-
tion of Labor, is now attempt-
ing to form an alternative labor
organisation which will become
a third force among labor
organisations in the Americas.
This new set-up, which is
already Communist-manipu-
lated, aims at persuading the
trade-unions to assume a
neutralist policy in Latin
America.
“Premier Fidel Castro has
told the Cuban people that they
must spy on all Cubans who
oppose the regime and must
report them to the police.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
“EXCUSE MY STARDUST.”
Militia units are being organ-
ised under Communist leader-
ship and are being given
Communist indoctrination.
“The Soviet Exposition of
Industry, Art and Culture was
in Havana for 15 days. Cuba
is threatening to sell more sugar
to the U.S.S.R. It would
.indeed appear that Castro and
Guevara are hoping that the
U.S. will cut Cuba’s American-
subsidised sugar-quota, in order
that they may foment an ‘inter-
vention’ issue throughout the
hemisphere. Washington has
done well to resist demands
that this action should be taken
as a reprisal for the seizure of
American property in Cuba.
“The future of the United
States naval base which is
located at Guantanamo Bay
meanwhile remains in doubt,
since Fidel Castro has several
times hinted that he will
demand its removal. This
naval base guards the narrow
sea-lane approach to the
Panama Canal. In Panama
itself mounting worries beset
the Americans, while the vocal
Communists never cease to
repeat the demand that the
Canal should be taken over by
the Panamanians: ‘What
Nasser can do we can do
better.’
“The U.S. faces a stupen-
dous task in Latin America —
that of giving not only econo-
mic aid of which the creation
of an Inter-American Bank is
the first step, but imaginative
and understanding leadership
if she is successfully to counter
Russia’s increasingly daring
raids on her own backyard.”
Meanwhile, what is the U.S.
doing? According to New
York “Herald Tribune”
columnist Walter Lippmann,
President Eisenhower, although
perplexed by Fidel Castro’s
frequent anti-American out-
bursts, is for the present con-
tent to sit them out, seeing the
situation as one in which “it
is better to do nothing than
to do the wrong thing.”
The President and his
advisers, Lippmann notes,
appear to be well aware that
their policy on Cuba will;
involve U.S. relations “with all*
the progressive popular move-
ments in this hemisphere” and
that Castro might even be try-
ing to provoke U.S. interven-
tion in Cuba “in order to
rally his own people and to
arouse mass support in the
whole hemisphere.” .
Lippmann therefore regards
the attitude of the President
and his advisers as “surely the
wisest and most responsible
that is possible in the circum-
stances” ;
“They have understood that
much more is at stake than
some property and that hard
words are just hard words
There is at stake our ability
to convince our American
neighbors and the world out-
side that we are not the enemies
but are indeed the friends of
the liberating, democratic and
progressive movements of oui
age.
“To convince our Latin-
American neighbors of this will
be, I take it, the President’s
mission in his coming trip to
South America. We should
understand that this is by all
odds the most difficult trip he
has yet undertaken, and that
the risks, the political risks,
are very considerable. These
risks would almost surely
become prohibitive, owing to
popular resentment in South
America, if in his Cuban policyi
the President had even flirted
with the idea of intervention
or economic coercion.”
De Gaulle Alone
Oome editorial comment on
the granting by the French
legislature to President de
Gaulle of the power to rule by
decree for one year:
Manchester “Guardian”:
“The backwash of the
Algiers revolt seems to be do-
ing away with the paradox on
which President de Gaulle’s
rule was founded. He was
called to power by an earlier
revolt most of whose leaders
had not in the first place
intended to bring him in, did
not share his ideas, and —some
of them—were former Vichy
sympathisers and at bottom
hostile to him. As national
arbiter he had the ostensible
backing both of these men and
of the old ‘Parliamentary’
parties; whatever he did hej
seemed bound to upset one or
other part of this seemingly
united following. This has now
happened. The Algiers extrp
mists and their friends it


prance have shown their hand,
and the President now seems
determined to root-out their
influence where it has pene-
trated the Army and the
Administration.
“The fiction of unity among
incompatibles may have served
a purpose, but it does so no
—London “Evening Standard."
“ALORS, I THINK I CAN DEPEND ON EVERY
ONE OF YOU ...”
longer. The result may be
healthy. President de Gaulle
should be able to speak out
more clearly. He has never
said things that he did not
mean ; but now that some
ostensible supporters have
come out as conspirators
against him he need no longer
refrain from saying what he
does mean. In the Govern-
ment the result will, from all
accounts, be the departure of
one or more Ministers. This
means that the President will
acquire some declared oppo-
nents, of whom M. Soustelle
at least is far from negligible.
But if he was ever to bring to
a head the Algerian problem—-
which, as he has said, ‘obs-
tructs the whole future’ of
France—he was bound to stop
being the benign father-figure.
He had to act, and action
meant splitting-up a unity that
was kept in being only by its
ambiguity.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“Temporary dictatorship, which
this undoubtedly is, has
a way of becoming permanent.
M. Debre’s assurance that the
special powers will not be
abused is nugatory, since there
is no criterion for the use of
these powers but what the
Government, and in the last
resort General de Gaulle,
thinks necessary. What they
think necessary is by definition
{tot an abuse. What is needed
is not so much power, for
under the Constitution the
Government had ample power,
but decision and determina-
tion. The fact is that the
Government, though well
aware of the Right-wing plots
in Algiers and Paris and of
their military link-ups, took no
serious action against them.
“Apart from actual plots,
they allowed groups of officers
to spread doctrines of which
the least that can be said is
that they were anti-Republi-
can. So unable or unwilling
were they to enforce their
professed policy that their
public indignation was re-
served not for those who
frustrated this policy but for
those who revealed the true
situation —for example, in the
notorious matter of the use of
torture. Those accused of the
murder of prisoners have
never been brought to justice.
The consistent practice of the
Government has been to cover-
up rather than root-out the
scandals that undermined law,
order and liberty. The regime
has been hamstrung by its
origins in a plot against the
last Republic, in which some
of those who are now Minis-
ters participated along with the
leaders of the recent insurrec-
tion.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tri-
bune”: “There is a consider-
able distinction between dicta-
torship and the kind of deci-
sive government one can
expect from de Gaulle. The
Parliamentary functions are in
abeyance rather than aboli-
shed. Basic French liberties
are untouched. It is the
Republic which was saved, and
it is the Republic which now
arms itself against further
dangers.”
London “Spectator” : “The
lesson of the Algerian uprising
was, or should have been, that
his [de Gaulle’s] authority in
France itself is nearly com-
plete ; he could easily have
taken the opportunity, there-
fore, to make his Administra-
tion more, not less, democra-
tic. By choosing the other path
he has increased the chances
of chaos should he fall victim
to an assassin—a possibility it
would be dangerous to ignore ;
and he has virtually ensured
that anybody who is politically
minded in France has no alter-
native except to oppose the
Government—clandestinely, if
necessary.
“There have, admittedly,
been cases of autocrats
establishing themselves, as de
Gaulle has done, and then
seeking to make their country
fit for democracy—Cromwell,
say, or Ataturk (though the
way things have been going
lately in Turkey hardly
encourages the belief that he
laid the foundations very
securely). But there is nothing
to indicate that de Gaulle
regards this as his task. He
seems to imagine that his suc-
cessor will be another man of
destiny now, presumably,
living in decent obscurity until
the time comes, but ready to be
instantly recognisable as the
man of the hour.”
New Asian Policy?
Tn the course of an article in
•*- the U.S. quarterly
“Foreign Affairs,” editor
Hamilton Fish Armstrong
offers some thoughts on pos-
sible improvements to the
United States’ present system of
alliances in South-east Asia:
“It is perfectly clear that
even if Seato did not exist
there would be more than
enough historic claims and
counter-claims to keep the
region from all at once pre-
senting a picture of harmonious
co-operation and solidarity.
The point at issue, however,
is whether the existing system
of alliances may not have
retarded the settlement of some
local conflicts and stimulated
new ones.
“Going further, we may
speculate whether in the long-
run a more stable premise on
which to base our [U.S.] policy
would not be to try to make
all of the States our friends
without asking any of them to
be our allies. In realistic terms,
it is doubtful whether we need
as military allies any of the
States that joined us in Seato.
Any great war in which we be-
came involved would be fought
principally in other theatres
than South and South-east Asia
and for purposes to which the
nations there would probably
make only peripheral contri-
butions, given the lightning
speed of nuclear operations.
And in a local war what we
would need, and what if they
were attacked they would
hasten to supply, would be
freedom of movement and per-
haps the co-operation of some
guerrillas.
“Since the Asian nations that
joined us in Seato did so
mainly because they thought it
added to their security, our
problem is to find an occasion
to replace that form of security
—London “Daily Herald
GALE WARNING!


with one which does not
antagonise the others.
“What we should look for,
it seems to me, is a relationship
in which our help in time of
need will not depend on our
previous commitment to certain
allies which promise in turn to
give us aid, but will be given
in response to a collective
appeal by independent States
which have not been asked to
abandon their reliance on non-
alignment, non-involvement,
basic neutrality or however it is
they choose to describe their
position outside the immediate
stresses of the cold war.
“The development of some
such relationship would have
been a completely vain hope
yesterday, and it may still seem
like one today ; but it may not
be out of the question to-
morrow. China may force her
neighbors against their will to
consider defensive expedients
which formerly they would
have rejected out of hand.
Our planning should take the
new possibilities into account,
and our policies should aim to
facilitate their realisation. It
would be a great step forward if
our readiness to bring military
assistance to the Asian States
to deal with aggression could
be freed from charges that it
is self-serving, ‘colonialistic and
aimed at involving them in ad-
vance in the cold war.
“The straightforward pro-
cedure, of course, would be for
the States of South and South-
east Asia to band together
eventually in a defensive pact
wholly their own. Members of
the United Nations could —and
the United States certainly
should —pledge to support this
sort of an organisation in the
event it required and requested
outside help in a crisis. A legal
basis for the arrangement exists
in Article 51 of the U.N.
Charter and the Uniting for
Peace Resolution of November
3, 1950.
“It would not be legal con-
siderations, however, which
would trouble neutralist leaders.
From the start they have gone
on the theory that all pacts
are by nature aggressive, the
invention and tool of imperi-
alistic powers, and it will be a
wrench to adjust to any other
concept. But Peking may spur
them to take a fresh look. If
so, they may see that since they
do not either individually or
collectively have the capacity
to act ‘imperialistically’ there
could be nothing remotely
aggressive or unfriendly to-
ward any outside Power in
joining to resist foreign sub-
version and discourage foreign
aggression.
“At present each neutralist
State in Asia stands alone;
and, in accordance with its own
interpretation of duties under
the U.N. Charter, each can
count on receiving in an emer-
gency exactly what it has
promised to give other neutrals
in like circumstances polite
condolences.”
The Disenchanted
T ondon “News Chronicle”
' lately published these
extracts from a letter by author
John Steinbeck to Adlai
Stevenson:
“Mainly, Adlai, I am
troubled by the cynical
immorality of my country. I
do not think it can survive, on
this basis, and unless some kind
of catastrophe strikes us we
are lost.”
“A strange species we are.
We can stand anything God
and Nature can throw at us
save only plenty. If I wanted
to destroy a nation I would
give it too much, and I would
have it on its knees —miser-
able, greedy, sick.”
These statements, com-
mented t h e Manchester
“Guardian” a few days later,
“strike a note which is being
heard more and more
frequently in the United
States.” Specific criticisms
vary, notes the “Guardian,”
but “there is at least one
common theme running
through nearly all of them:
America is being made rotten
by wealth”:
“But are the critics right?
It may be presumptuous for a
foreigner to dispute what they
say. But one can at least
wonder. In his letter Mr.
Steinbeck drew a flattering
contrast between the decency
of rural Sussex and the de-
pravity of his countrymen.
But could he not have found
the same decency, of the same
sort, in rural Vermont? One
often hears the complaint that
the idealism of the New Deal
is dead. But is not Governor
Stevenson himself as good an
example of it as President
Roosevelt was?
“There is no denying that
the United States still faces
many difficult problems—-
different from, but not neces-
sarily less serious than, the
problems of the past —and that
many of them are the direct
result of prosperity.
“The disparity between
private opulence and public
squalor, which has been so
bitterly attacked by Professor
Galbraith [in his Affluent
Society] ; the growth of vast,
bureaucratic empires, which
have had such a sinister light
thrown on them by Professor
Wright Mills ; the difficulty of
preserving the quality of
popular culture in an age of
—London “Daily Express .”
“AH, IF ONLY WE HAD BLACK SKINS ..."
mass entertainment, of which
Professor Schlesjnger has
recently spoken—all these are,
to some extent, the children of
affluence. But if these
problems exist, we should not
forget that they have also been
brilliantly analysed, and that
the same society which pro-
duced the problems also pro-
duced the analysts.
“It may be true that
America in the 1950’s has been
less of an inspiration to the
rest of the world than she was
in the ’thirties and ’forties.
But after all, the New Deal
and the assumption of world
leadership amounted to a
revolution in old ways of life,
and still more old ways of
thought. No country can
expect to live for ever at the
fever heat of revolution: every
Cromwell has his Charles 11.
But some at least of the revolu-
tionaries live on, disturbing
the new complacency by their
mere example. Perhaps,
indeed, the best reason for
believing that the old America
is still there is that so many
people say that it is not.”
Lend-lease Debt
From the “New York Times” :
“The new negotiations on
Soviet Russia’s lend-lease debt
have collapsed again after only
four short sessions. They were
broken-off by the United States
as a matter of self-respect
because the Soviets not only
continue to welsh on the debt
but also try to use it to exact
more money in the shape of
long-term credits under a
favorable trade-agreement.
“Total lend-lease shipments
to Soviet Russia during the war
amounted to $lO,BOO million.
Of this sum the United States
wrote-off all materials con-
sumed by the war but asked
for payment for some $2600-
million worth of goods left at
the end of the war for the
Soviet civilian economy, scaling
even this amount down to
$BOO million. This is apart
from ‘pipeline’ goods delivered
after the war on which the
Soviets do make payments.
“As for the bulk of the lend-
lease aid, however, the Soviets


5,;.',.
UA
•-sr
r>.,
fl
Mellow to the last wee drop...
White Label”
Dewar’s Scotch Whisky
Because of its consistently high
quality and supremely mellow
flavour, “WHITE LABEL” has
earned the world-wide reputation
of being unvarying in character.
Now freely available and yours for
the asking. Whether you say
“White Label”, or simply “Dewar’s
please”, you can be sure of
getting the blend favoured by dis-
criminating people for over a
century.
White Label
Dewars Scotch Whisky
“it never varies”
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
/White Label*
Diwars Fihc Scotch Whis**
John Dewar & Sons
DWS2
first minimised it, then de-
nounced it as a ‘weapon of
American imperialism’ to
‘enrich American billionaires.’
And when they did consent to
discuss repayment they began
with an initial offer of $l7O
million, finally raising this sum
to a ‘maximum’ of $3OO million
in answer to the already-
reduced American request.
“The Soviets boast of being
the most powerful country in
the world, but when it comes
to paying debts they plead the
lack of dollars.”
Various Voices
General Nathan F. Twining
[Chairman, U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff ) : “The only way we
can deal with this fellow
[Soviet Russia] is not to tell
him how deficient we are to-
day ; we are prone to do this
at times, because it gets us
more money. It is the demo-
cratic system, and I am not
bucking it, but I think it is very
dangerous. We [the U.S.] have
great strength, we are a power-
ful country, and I do not think
we should downgrade our capa-
bilities as a nation to the
Russians.”
* * *
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“It is a basic principle of
our modern Commonwealth
that we respect each other’s
sovereignty in matters of
internal policy. At the same
time we must recognise that,
in this shrinking world in
which we live today, the
internal policies of one nation
may have effects outside it.
We may be tempted to say to
each other, ‘Mind your own
business’; but in these days I
would expand the old saying so
that it runs, ‘Mind your own
business, of course, but mind
how it affects mine, too.’ ”
Dragnet Digest
Christopher Hollis, in
London “Spectator”: “The
greatest danger at the moment
seems to be the parrot repeti-
tion of the slogan that uni-
lateral disarmament never leads
to peace. It may have been
true in the past when people
were not in the last resort afraid
to use their weapons, but it
will be a disaster if a mere
slogan is today made a sub-
stitute for rational calculation
of the best way to use our
resources.
“I have no especial love for
Mr. Khrushchev, and if he is
intending to use-up resources on
the production of an orbital El-
bomb which can only have an
advertising rather than a
military value, he is foolish.
But there seems no real evi-
dence that he is doing so. Apart
from that, his armament policy
seems entirely sensible in his
own interests.
“He does not think that the
West will attack him. He
does not think that there will
be a war in Europe. Who can
doubt that he is right? On the
other hand, he has ambitions to
extend his power in Asia and
Africa. He cannot bring those
countries under his influence
by bombing them. It is indeed
to his interest to keep sufficient
armed forces to be able to.
exert pressure at certain critical
moments, should it prove neces-
sary, and that he has been care-
ful to do. But in general his
battles will be economic rather
than military.”
• • • »
The same: “The need of the
West is not to have an enor-
mous total of armaments, but
to have their armaments so
co-ordinated that they are able
to carry out any limited opera-
tions which may be required—
which is far from being the
case at present. The fatal
mistake would be if, out of
mere bemusement at the slogan
against unilateral disarmament,
they refused to give-up the
things that were useless to
them simply because there was
not absolute evidence that the
Russians have given them
up too.
“If the Russians oppose con-
trol, it may be that it is not that
they want to stop us seeing
what they have got so much as
they want to stop us seeing
what they have not got. If the
Russians want to destroy us
they can just as if the
Americans want to destroy the
Russians they can. Each would
probably also destroy himself
in the process. For that reason
it is unlikely to happen, but
the grim fact is that it could
happen. We ought not to
forget it. Nevertheless, there is
grave danger that, in trying to
guarantee ourselves against an
improbable destruction, we
may lay ourselves open to a
certain defeat.”
* * *
“U.S. News and World
Report”: “President Eisen-
hower likes a farm-plan that he
is told will pull the rug out from
under the Democrats. The plan:
Use surplus wheat, corn and
cotton to pay farmers for
taking land out of production.
Instead of getting cash for
putting land into a ‘soil bank,’
farmers would get commodities.
Four out of five Republican
Congressmen from lowa are
reported to be enthusiastic
about the plan.”


He Redly Churned Them Out
Our First Successful Novelist
By H. A. LINDSAY
IF the number of books pub-
lished, their popularity
with the reading public
and the financial returns to
the writer are a guide, then
Australia’s first really success-
ful author was Guy Newell
Boothby.
He was born in Adelaide in
1868, and during the first five
years of the present century he
►occupied a position similar to
that of Edgar Wallace 25 years
later and of the world’s leading
thriller-writers today.
When Boothby died in Eng-
land from pneumonia at 37 he
had written nearly 50 novels in
10 years. One of Edison’s
inventions made this staggering
output possible. Long before
Edgar Wallace was supposed
to have pioneered the use of
the dictaphone by authors,
Boothby was dictating his
thrillers into a phonograph and
passing the wax clyinders to a
secretarial staff to be tran-
scribed. He would then revise
the rough drafts and pass them
back for fair-copies to be
typed.
Sales of his work as serials
to magazines, followed by
huge editions in book form,
brought him an income of
£20,000 a year in a period
when money was worth five
times what it is today ; and his
method of working left him
plenty of spare time for social
engagements and for his
hobbies of breeding racehorses,
dogs and exotic fish.
Tloothby’s novels were, as the
London “Times” said in
his obituary, “frank sensa-
tionalism carried to its furthest
limits.” The character which
won his huge reading-public
was Doctor Nikola, who
resembled Mephistopheles in
appearance, possessed hypnotic
powers similar to those of
Mandrake, and studied witch-
craft and the occult.
Similar sinister figures
appeared in Boothby’s other
novels. One, “The Woman of
Death,” was obviously beauti-
ful, although she always wore
a mask, and had such power
over men that her followers, to
prove their devotion and enter-
tain the rest, would duel over
her to the death with swords.
Yet, as is the case with so
many successful writers of
thrillers, Boothby did not set
out originally to be a master
of sensational writing. Grand-
son of Judge Benjamin
Boothby, whose arrogance,
partiality and obstructionism
led to his removal from the
S.A. Supreme Court Bench in
1867, and son of Thomas Wilde
Boothby, M.P., Guy Boothby
at twenty was writing short-
stories which appeared in
London magazines and won
praise from Kipling.
His first novel, In Strange
Company, was published in
London and was praised by dis-
cerning critics. But it was not
popular with those who make
or break an author —the
reading-public.
He also tried his hand at
plays. The first, “Falsely
Accused,” was performed in
1888 in Adelaide’s Albert Hall
by a cast of amateurs. The
critics dismissed it as immature
and melodramatic. His one-act
operetta, “Dimple’s Lovers,”
was staged at a party at
Government House in 1890.
In the same year his comic-
opera “Sylvia” was staged by
an amateur cast at Adelaide’s
Theatre Royal. Today its dia-
logue and lyrics seem a
mediocre imitation of W. S.
Gilbert; but the music, com-
posed by Cecil James Sharp,
won praise from the critics.
Devoting nearly a column to a
review of the premiere, “The
Register” advised all who could
appreciate good music, well
sung, to see this show. Unfor-
tunately, a copy of the score
cannot be found today.
Boothby came close to suc-
cess as a playwright with “The
Jonquille,” set in the time of
the French Reign of Terror.
Kyrle Bellew’s knowledge of
stagecraft gave great aid to the
presentation. It opened at the
Theatre Royal on August 15,
1891, and was so popular that
a repeat-performance was given
on October 29 of the same
year.
TAuring this period Boothby
had been employed as
secretary to the Mayor of
Adelaide. In 1891, accom-
panied by his brother Ben, he
set off to tour the East on a
total capital of £47 16s. B^d.
They had to travel steerage
or work their passages as sea-
men, but they saw Ceylon,
Malaya, Java and Thursday
Island. In Cooktown they
decided to travel overland to
Adelaide by buggy and horses.
After a couple of narrow
escapes from death by thirst
they returned to their home-
town.
An account of these wander-
ings, titled On the Wallaby,
was published in London by
Longmans in 1894. Even today
it can be read with interest,
profit and amusement, for
Boothby had a keen sense of
humor. But again it was a
book which few people read.
In 1894 Boothby set off for
London, determined to find
there the opportunities which
were non-existent for an author
in Adelaide. He discovered
that the London outlook was
hopeless for an unknown play-
wright. The market was
glutted with serious writing,
but, as is still the case today,
there was an insatiable demand
for crime- and adventure-tales.
Boothby soon found that his
recent trip, coupled with his
fertile imagination, enabled
him to use an exotic back-
ground in the way of Eastern
temples, opium-dives, pearling,
goldmining and the sea.
A few years later a journa-
list who had known him in
Adelaide called on him in Eng-
land and found him living at
Winsley Lodge—a spacious
mansion in Watkins Road,
Bournemouth —with a wife,
three children and a domestic
staff including coachman, gar-
dener, butler, cook and house-
maids, as well as some
secretaries.
The visitor asked Boothby
why he had written no more
serious books or plays. The
reply was: “I made nothing
that way —so now I give the
reading-public what they want.
As you can see, in return my
readers give me what / want!”
But Guy Boothby was not
fated to enjoy this affluence
much longer; he died on
February 26, 1905. His pass-
ing was mourned by hundreds
of thousands of readers and by
a firm of publishers who had
lost a record money-spinner.
A T a time when TV-producers
and publishers of paper-
backs are combing the world
for material worth reviving, it
might be asked why the works
of Guy Boothby have been
passed over. Reading a _ few
of his once-popular novels
soon supplies the answer. He
used all the props which are
condemned today sinister
Chinamen, unknown poisons,
secret knowledge, etc. —with a
lack of convincing explanation.
One migljt just as well try to
resurrect the tales in which
Dick Donovan or Deadwood
Dick used to figure.
Some years after his death
Boothby was attacked by
learned critics. Here was a
man who had shown himself
capable of good work and who
had prostituted his talents by
pandering to popular taste!
Apparently he should have
been content to live in poverty
and obscurity, writing, novels
which might be hailed as
classics after he was dead and
gone.
But, as Boothby himself
would probably have pointed
out, such critics themselves are
seldom very willing to forgo
anything for the sake of art
and literature.
No Flowers by Request
Both priest and laborer, self-
interred,
Here for. a summer’s day I have
Lowered myself into my grave
To wait the coming of the
word,
While in the bough a singing
bird
Sang to her three green eggs
above,
Having misread the time or
love
Wishing that he might be
preferred ;
Till at her joyful enterprise
Grief faltered and forgot his
phrase,
Lichen filled in the limestone’s
lies,
My dusty tongue took-up her
praise
And the quick heart from fear
and time
Released, sat brooding on a
rhyme.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
After the bottle of whisky
was finished he’d switched
to brandy and now it swirled
back up on him. The fumes
of it were in his nose and his
head was going round and he
thought, “If I close my eyes on
this lot I’ll be sick.” As soon
as he thought that he had to
turn quickly and head for the
back door.
He was violently sick on the
lawn. It left him weak and
he slumped against the leaning
lavatory-wall. There was a
sudden scuffling inside and he
backed off hurriedly. A middle-
aged woman emerged, looked
quickly at him and away, and
went into the house.
He would have liked to go
down the side path and leave,
but he felt he had to go back
in. Quickly. He imagined her
voice: “There I was inside there
and there’s this damn thump
and I thought it was going to
tip over with me inside and I
got out and there he is lean-
ing all over and sick as a dog! ”
He headed back. “I wish
I’d never come,” he thought.
He felt wretched.
“No, I should have come
and told them I’m through
with boxing,” he thought.
“Kirby showed me it all: I
was dead lucky to beat him
and he’s only a second-rater.”
He paused with his foot on
the bottom step.
“I’m twenty-eight and I can
just scrape in against a second-
rater and I’ll never get any
better and other blokes will hit
me just as hard as Kirby did
and the sergeant was wrong
when he said I was a natural
fighter.”
“That’s the truth,” he
thought.
He felt comically half-sad
because he knew it was the
truth and he should have cared
about it, but he didn’t.
When he got inside the
woman wasn’t talking. She
was on her own and as their
eyes met she gave a sympathe-
tic little nod and half-smile
and no-one else seemed to have
noticed he’d left the room.
They were clustered around
a stranger.
T~\illon looked over and saw
him, and brought the
stranger across.
“You know him, don’t you,
eh? I told you he was at the
fight yesterday.”
Yes, he knew.
The stranger—well, not a
stranger now —was talking,
and they were in a corner
beside the flaking American-
leather sofa with just Dillon
beside them.
“I’ll admit I was impressed
with the way you went early-
on. And you got a fair record,
boy. Just as I was telling
Dillon here, only one thing
bothered me frankly, you
didn’t seem to. have enough
real fire, boy.”
The boxer was trying to
strip the fuzz from what he’d
been thinking about on the
back step. It was pretty impor-
tant.
“I was off-color to hell
yesterday,” he said. The fuzz
had furred up on him as soon
as he stepped back into the
light.
The stranger eyed him
shrewdly. “I want a team to
take to Aussie and you and
Dillon here might both fit in
well . . . But just that one
thing’s worrying me.”
The boxer took his time.
“Y’see —with Kirby, well
he’s only a second-rater. What
did I want fire for? I don’t
want to blow my own trumpet
—I hate that —but I just had to
put out enough to take him,
didn’t I? There’s no medals
getting all over-heated doing
it.”
He put his empty glass
down easily, just the way a
man would who doesn’t waste
any of his energies.
He pointed a lazy finger at
Dillon.
“Whatever you fix up with
him about Aussie will be o.k.
with me. He’s my brains out-
side the ring.”
He moved away, not to any
part of the room particularly,
just moving, his back to Dillon
and the other man.
He looked good and easy
from the back when he was
moving. Big, yet light and
graceful, all kinds of confi-
dence and power wound up in
him.
red-and-white bullock, but it
had become too lame to travel.
It was just the right bait in
the right place. Sooner or later
Darky would rise to it.
Constable Saggers was de-
tailed to watch the red-and-
white bullock. Every day he
saddled his horse .and rode
out of town to the reserve.
Every day he reported that the
bullock had not vanished in
O’Dea’s direction. After a few
weeks it became a routine ride
and, considering the heat and
flies, almost a worthless waste
of a good policeman’s energy.
Saggers grew heartily sick of
the red-and-white bullock.
/''VN a day more wilting than
most he rode the paddock
and received a reward almost
as good as a gallon of cold
beer. The bullock had
vanished! Not a sign of it!
He swung his horse towards
O’Dea’s slaughteryard. At last
the butcher had taken the bait.
Instead of being his butt the
police would have him where
they had been trying to get
him for a long time.
Darky’s slaughteryard was
nothing pretentious, the main
structure being a tree with the
required horizontal branch.
When Saggers arrived the red-
and-white bullock had been
hauled up to this, and Darky
was busily flaying the hide.
Half-a-hundred crows and
thousands of flies
provided music
while he worked.
The trooper was
hardly able to be-
lieve his luck. He
sat his horse,
savoring the scene
to the last drop.
It was all and
more than he had hoped for.
Darky continued expertly to
disrobe the beast. He seemed
quite pleased to have an
audience.
“Well, Darky,” Saggers said
at last, “so you’ve taken the
red-and-white bullock from the
reserve. I thought you were
too smart for that sort of
thing. I think you’ve got some
explaining to do.”
A wicked gleam matching his
glinting skinning knife showed
in Darky’s blue eyes. He didn’t
pause in his work.
“Just you be having a look in
that coat of mine by the tree,
Constable. You’ll be seeing a
receipt for this beast in the
top pocket.”
Saggers dismounted. He felt
just a little disturbed. The
stench of blood was beginning
to interfere with his stomach,
but so was a certain feeiing
that perhaps something had
gone wrong with the trap.
He found the receipt and
checked the brand. All was in
order just as Darky had said,
but the brand was different. It
was not the same as the one
on the bullock left by the
drover.
“Where is the bullock that
was in the reserve paddock?”
“Him?” Darky went on peel-
ing off the hide. “You’d be
eating that one last week.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
To comment on the “Per-
sonal Item” (B. 3/2/’6O) about
J. H. Kelly, who is inspecting
the beef-cattle industry in the
North, I think that the industry
in Australia is both backward
and wasteful.
The real problem with the
beef-industry is the low rate of
production. Nowhere in the
North, taking good seasons
with bad, is the rate of produc-
tion better than 80 acres to the
beast. The largest cattle-station
in Australia, Macumbah, east
of Oodnadatta, with 14,000
square-miles of country, carries
only 9000 head of cattle —about
1000 acres to the beast.
In 1908, when I was at
Humpty Doo, I saw what we
used to call the Zebu-cross
cattle. They were rather shy,
but always fat and tick-
immune. .When I said to the
old cattlemen, “They are the
cattle for this country,” they
used to laugh and say “They’re
too small.”
They were, too, in those
days, but the Yanks were smart
enough to evolve a new breed
from them —Santa Gertrudis—
and we now import them back
into Australia. They are popu-
lar and are doing well over all
of that sour long-grass tick-
country. At first the Santa
cattle had all the beef on their
forequarters, and Australians
like the beef on the hind-
quarters ; but with judicious
crossing the Santa cattle, with
now only a strain of the Zebu
in them, are growing in popu-
larity everywhere.
It will cost millions to
improve the beef-cattle industry
and raise the rate of produc-
tion, for the industry will have
to gradually change over from
grass-feeding to fodder-raising
the beef-cattle.
The first improvement should
be fences, which are now
verging on the useless because
of pests. It is estimated that
there are a million wild donkeys
in the North. Thousands of
brumbies, wild camels and in
places buffalo, break fences,
and fences cost about £2OO a
mile in that country; Most of
the Inland is seriously deficient
in trees for posts.
We need fences to improve
the rate of production. All
cows should be speyed at about
seven years of age: they are
past their breeding prime, and
speyed cows make wonderful
beef. Also, I could name
scores of places all over the
cattle-country where we could
have local schemes of irriga-
tion, with dams, weirs and
turkey-nest tanks to grow
fodder to fatten the weaners.
Some of the best cattle-country
in Australia is in the driest
area in a 7in.-rainfall belt.
The largest waterhole ,in Aus-
tralia is in the driest area —
the big Callidgewara waterhole
at the junction of the Georgina
and Mulligan. It is 18 miles
long. Weir that waterhole and
there would be another 20ft.
of holding capacity to irrigate
all those beautiful black-soil
river-flats. In the North there
are the Katherine River, the
Victoria, the Fitzroy and the
Ord.
Grass-fed cattle are not
ready for market before three
years, and then generally aver-
age about 6001 b. dressed.
Fodder-raised cattle are ready
at two years, and average up
to 8001 b. It is not an exaggera-
tion to say that with all the
aids of modern science and
mechanisation we could
improve the rate of cattle-
production to a beast to the
acre.
And why not kill the cattle
on the spot and turn the offal
and waste product into fer-
tiliser to topdress the soil? If
we want to capture the Asian
beef-market, we will have to
improve the methods of beef-
production. Each squatter
ought to make some slight im-
provement every year, taxation-
fre e. Michael Sawtell
(N.S.W.).
Darwin’s Centenary
One notable fact about the
Sartre comment “K.A.R.”
refers to (B. 10/2/’6O) is that
it was given to the world in
Australia in 1947 in an essay
contributed to “Meanjin”: “It
is possible that some-day the
belief in Evolution will seem
the greatest folly of our
century.” The French atheist-
existentialist was then at the
height of his prestige, and I
fancy his “Meanjin” appear-
ance has been his sole contri-
bution to Australian literature.
As “K.A.R.” reminds me, a
“Current Affairs Bulletin”
(August 17, 1959) was devoted
to Darwin’s centenary. But it
is a mere 12 pages and though
the pamphlet is entitled
“Darwin’s Origin of Species,”
that book is hardly dealt with
at all, and Darwin himself
beyond a few conventional
bows, gets little direct treat-
ment.
No attempt is made to assess
Darwin's contribution to
natural science. What is done
and done quite well, is: («) the
pamphlet gives the historical
background to 1859 by treat-
ing of Buffon, Erasmus Darwin
Lamarck, Lyell and others'
(b) it deals with the climate of
opinion that so readily and un-
critically accepted Darwin’s
main idea, though presented so
illogically ; (c) it shows the
great influence Herbert Spencer
then had upon the dissemina-
tion of evolutionary ideas at a
time when he was hailed as “the
most capacious intellect of all
time whose genius surpassed
that of Aristotle and Newton”;
and (d) it demonstrates the un-
fortunate impact Darwin’s
ideas about the Survival of the
Fittest had in the social field by
buttressing up 19th-century
Liberalism, laissez-faire and
that competitive nationalism
which largely was responsible
for World War I.
All this is unexceptionable;
but the author made one serious
slip, which was to put Prince
Peter Kropotkin among the
Darwinian “reformists.” Not
so. Kropotkin, a fine naturalist
and a lucid and engaging
thinker, failed entirely to find
among animals belonging to
the same species that bitter
struggle for the means of
existence which Darwinians
considered so important a
factor in evolution.
He saw what he called
“Mutual Aid,” and under that
title wrote one of the most
trenchant criticisms of Dar-
win’s ideas —especially in the
social field, where Kropotkin
stressed co-operation.
According to this Russian,
the pitiless war within each
species postulated by Darwin
had not only not been proved,
but conflicted with observable
fact. In the Origin of Specks
itself, Kropotkin asserted truly
enough, “the struggle between
the individuals of the same
species is not illustrated under
that heading by even one single
instance: it is taken fo*
granted.’’
The searching criticisms such
men as Kropotkin made of
T. H. Huxley for his repre-
senting primitive man as a
sort of tiger or lion, deprived
of all ethical conceptions and
indulging in the Hobbesian
war of each against all, have
had their effect.
In our day we have two
Huxleys, both keenly interested
in religion. Aldous preaches m


You cant see
:"-V ' ■" - • *••• ': Jf- •
the bank
in this picture..
hut it’s there /
£
o
m
i
m
m
(■T^4
The C.B.C. is “In the picture” of almost every
industry in Australia. It provides modern banking
facilities, including those of the C.B.C. Savings
Bank, for all engaged in industry and for every
member of their families.
Ask you nearest branch of this Bank to explain
how these facilities and services can help you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
favor of a perennial philosophy
which he conceives to be the
common denominator of all
religions. Anything less like
evolutionism would be hard to
imagine.
Julian sees man as the god
right on the point of evolving
now, after having progressed so
far. I ike his ideological sires,
he builds up towering and
fantastic hypotheses upon what
is quite unproven. He is being
given less and less credence by
strict and critical scientists.
Professor C. D. Darlington
said in 1957 of Julian’s latest
book: “Here he is in a new
world with laws of his own
making. Here he is in his
character as a prophet ... the
prophet of trans-humanism.
Writers on Evolution have de-
veloped vivid imaginations . . .
They can tell us just how a
forearm developed into a
wing, or fins into legs. And
not the least extraordinary part
of the whole affair is that many
of them sincerely believe the
tales they tell.”
That Julian Huxley at the
Chicago celebrations in Dar-
win’s honor should have left
out (as “K.A.R.” mentions) of
a Darwin quotation an im-
portant reference to the
Creator is quite understand-
able. Julian has long since
cast himself essentially in that
role. He has evolved into it,
and doesn’t stand for anyone
taking his name in vain, not
even Darwin. — Martin Haley
(Q-). '
Australian-Japanese
Children
Scores of Australian Ser-
vicemen had children by
Japanese mothers Most of
these unfortunate youngsters
are having a very poor time,
and pleas to have them brought
to Australia have failed. It
would, I feel, be very good
from a business and national
point of view to have them.
The cross between European
and Japanese is the best of all
human types. Some human
strains don’t produce a good
cross. The use of the term
“half-breed” to indicate an un-
desirable comes from the fact
that a union between the mer-
curial French temperament and
® sullen, morose type of North
American Indian is liable to
Produce offspring often in
trouble with the law. The
dour Scots strain, on the other
hand, mixes fairly well with the
Indian.
The frequently-mentioned
?°od types produced by unions
between Europeans and Poly-
nesians, however, should not
be considered in this connec-
tion, as they are not racial
crosses the Polynesians are
descended from the same Indo-
European stock as we are.
No crossing of human racial
types produces such remarkably
good results as does the
Japanese-European one. Studies
carried out by geneticists in the
U.S.A., where there are scores
of thousands of half- and
quarter-caste Japanese, show
that these people are exception-
ally law-abiding and hard-
working. They are hardy and
virile physically ; an astonish-
ingly high proportion of them
have brilliant mental gifts. Aus-
tralia affords a few examples.
Some of the people most pro-
minent in our scientific, pro-
fessional and cultural circles
had a Japanese parent or
grandparent.
It would be wise, in the
genetic sense, to bring those
children of Australian fathers
and Japanese mothers to Aus-
tralia. As a business proposi-
tion, it has everything in its
favor. We are bound to have
increasing cultural and trade
connections with Japan. Those
Australian-Japanese children
have now been through the
primary-schools and they have
grown up as Japanese. If
their education were completed
in Australia, within a few years
many of those children would
become extremely useful in
business and governmental
circles for liaison work with
Japan.
To bring them would not
only give them a better chance


in life, it might also prove to
be a profitable investment.
H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Training of Teachers
The bond system of training
teachers for the Victorian
Education Department has
come under fire since a couple
of students broke the terms of
their agreement.
A lot of sentimental non-
sense, written presumably by
people with little first-hand
knowledge of these bonds, was
published in the daily papers.
Why doesn’t the department
open its training to people who
wish to be trained, but have
no desire to be bonded? Such
a set-up would eliminate the
malcontents, whose main object
at present is an expensive
training on the ratepayers’
money with the possibility of
dodging service at the end
of it.
Teaching is still a vocation
to many and, bond or no bond,
we will still have recruits of
good calibre who don’t bite
the governmental hand that
feeds them. — X-ped (Vic.).
Group Teaching
I notice that “Sir” (B.
20/1/ ’6O) states parentheti-
cally that group teaching has
possibly greater potentialities
when applied in secondary-
schools. Most teachers who
have had experience of group
work or have seen it in action
would agree.
It could almost revolutionise
teaching in secondary-schools,
and would be one of the best
methods of preparing students
for university work. All uni-
versities are worried about the
high failure-rate of first-year
students.
One of the reasons men-
tioned is the —to the student-
startling contrast between the
methods of the secondary-
school (where his thinking is
done for him by his teacher)
and those of the university
(where no one seems to worry
what he thinks or what he
does —scholastically, anyway.)
Group methods in the
secondary-school would en-
courage his social development
and poise, giving him confi-
dence in expressing himself and
in being prepared to meet and
accept criticism of these
opinions, not from his teachers
but from his class-mates. It
would also show him the need
to listen to and ponder over
the opinions expressed by
others —again, not just those of
his teachers.
In addition, group-teaching
develops good study habits.
The student gets practice in
searching out information from
reference-books and in pre-
senting this information orally
or in writing to the group.
All these points are of para-
mount importance when it
comes to studying at a uni-
versity. However, group
methods apparently cannot
completely replace the old
formal type of education. A
true balance would have to be
struck between the two.—
Western Ped (N.S.W.).
Physicians and Patients
Old-time G.P.s must envy
their successors their age-
pensioner patients.
The old-time doctor was
generally a friendly sort of man
with a good working-know-
ledge of his patients and their
family background. Much of
his work was done for nothing
and much of it for lodge-
patients who paid very small
fees. Today practices are
worked more as business-con-
cerns.
These days many doctors
seem to have quite large panels
of pensioner-patients whom
they visit regularly, as often as
once a week, whether they have
been asked to call or not. Old
people generally tend to
regard this sort of thing as
kindly attention on the doctor’s
part, and willingly sign the
forms pushed in front of them.
Should one of these doctors
make a call and the pensioner
is out, he calls again later when
the patient is at home, and
two forms are then signed.
Often no treatment is called
for.
To the taxpayer who has to
foot the bills it is no mystery
that many doctors should have
two or more cars. The good-
will of such practices is highly
valued. “No surgery, no mid-
wifery, and no weekend work”
are the selling features—and,
of course, no bad debts.—
Appendix (Vic.).
“Look and Say”
It is hard to say whether
Queensland children will be-
come better readers and
spellers, now that the “Look
and Say” method is to replace
the phonetic (or phonic)
method of teaching reading (B.
10/2/’6O).
“Nes” and others may wel-
come the innovation, but they
may change their minds after
a few years. Standardised tests
have shown that the average
Queensland pupil is a better
reader than his opposite
numbers in other States, all of
which, 1 think, have used
“Look and Say” methods for
several years.
The phonic method, intro-
duced about 1900. is a simpli-
fied form of phonetics the
science dealing with speech-
sounds. The pupil is drilled on
the usual sounds of vowels and
consonants and learns to fuse
them into words.
“Look and Say,” which re-
quires that the shape, pattern or
configuration of the words be
memorised, is over 3000 years
old. The Chinese have been
memorising their cumbersome
picture - characters for that
period. Supporters of this
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 579
Across
I—Command neatness. (5)
4 —They’re related to the pumpkin fezzes. (9)
9 —Emperor has a way of holding dad. (7)
10— Composer of drive. (5)
11— Babies transported by such a faculty shown by a military
leader. (2-5)
12 — Service angle looking dissipated. (7)
13 — One kind of 8-down who
practises on the mouth of the
swan. (9, 6)
16—1 a pulley chemist? (Ana-
gram.) (15)
19 —Girl fibs with wit. (7)
22 — Has foul arrangements made
with very little money. (4-3)
23 — Arizona plants legislation in
101. (5)
24 — Withdraw with respect to a
religious publication. (7)
25 — Alarm seed with Hugo’s
gipsy. (9)
26 — It gets up. (5)
Down
1 — Fruit which a convict might hope
for at the end of a sentence in
Africa. (6, 4,5)
2 Inexpensive real estate? (4, 5)
3 Pop is over age, according to
journalists’ jargon. (9) .
4 Managed to take a seat after
tea during the crossing. (7)
5 Back about poetry. (7)
6 Sacks put up a spur in letter-
ing. (5)
7 A Menzies man and I give a
reason why the police may not
arrest us. (5)
8— Blow! It bankrupts a literary
magazine. (9, 6)
14 — Lout Oscar bashed in the
kisser. (9)
15—Charms the humanity of Baba
in the middle. (9)
17 — Most of the bowlers who bowled
to Bradman would scarcely be
surprised if he was this. (7)
18 — To some brave chap with a
certain delicacy. (7)
20— Behold! It’s first Latinised with
a stand-in. (5)
21 — Where’s the mongrel’s breakfast
after breakfast? (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 578


method claim that English is
not a phonetic language, that
I “the cat sat on the mat” kind
1 0 f reader-text is monotonous
and that we see words as whole
| units.
1 But 87 per cent, of our
I w ords follows fixed rules for
pronunciation and spelling. The
old reader-text is no more
monotonous than the inane
repetitions of the “Look and
Say” books (“oh, oh! come,
come! look, look!”) and there
is no evidence that children of
six or seven years see whole
words as units.
The evidence which supports
this method is based on
Cattell’s experiment on adults
| in 1885 and Gates’s 1925 study
of readers of two months’ stand-
ling. The profits derived from
the sale of special reader-texts,
with controlled vocabularies,
also helps its popularity in
certain quarters.
I There is no doubt that the
method is useful as a motiva-
tional hors d’ oeuvre, but as a
' complete system of teaching
reading to all children it has
i proved to be inferior to the
I phonic method. —K.A. L.
(N.S.W.).
(Traps
We live in an area so both-
iered by bandicoots that we
have to lay traps to protect our
vegetables and fowl-pens.
Each morning we find either
Uhe paw or snout of a small
[animal in our traps. We don't
like the thought of inflicting
suffering, so I asked the local
l store to get us some wire-cage
(traps that catch the animal so
, that it can be drowned and
not mutilated. The store got
[them —£2 15s. each, and not
( big enough to let a bandicoot
get in, although they might be
[good for rats.
Squarish wire-cage traps
could be bought once, but
nowadays they are available
only from America. Why
can’t somebody such as the
(S.P.C.A. have traps manufac-
tured and sold at a price
ordinary people can afford?
The bandicoot is the host for
the cattle-tick; without the
bandicoot, the tick could be
eliminated. Or perhaps the
Agricultural Department could
<l° something about humane
J nd reasonably priced traps?—
(Anti-Cruelty (N.Q.).
I _____
Trade with Japan
I wonder how many people
tvere really astonished when
they read the allegations made
t° the Tariff Board that under
h e r trade-treaty with this
“I remember the time when it Was the HORSE that
shied at the cars!"
country, Japan has been guilty
of “low trading practices?”
Even before World War I
Japanese traders had been
faking the trade-marks and
copying the designs of other
countries.
For better or worse we are
tied-up with the trade-treaty ;
but that is surely no reason
why the Federal Government,
merely because it sees an
opportunity of saving money,
should have accepted a
Japanese tender to supply
rolling-stock for the Common-
wealth railways. This will put
Australian workmen out of
jobs, both directly and in-
directly, just as surely as the
flooding of our market with
Japanese textiles.
There isn’t a great deal of
difference between buying
goods from a low-wage country
like Japan and allowing
Japanese workmen to come to
Australia and produce goods
for us at lower prices simply
because they are content to
accept lower wages and work
longer hours. Japan has a
population of about 90 million
people against Australia’s 10
million. Bearing in mind her
heavy purchases of wool which
are made, not for sentimental
reasons but because she can’t
do better anywhere else, it
would be extraordinary, to say
the least, if we were able to
buy as much from her as she
buys from us.
Japan is slowly insinuating
her way into Australia’s affairs
again, and the Commonwealth
Government’s decision to
award a substantial contract to
one of her big industrial firms
will spur her on to new r efforts.
There was a suggestion some
time ago that Japan wished to
be allowed to tender for a big
contract on the Snowy Moun-
tains scheme, but Australian
sentiment appeared to be
against it. How does it happen
then, that less than a year later
she is allowed to carry-off a
contract for railway rolling-
stock?—M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Longer School Hours
Good to know that longer
school-hours have the support
of Dr. W. C. Radford,
director of the Australian
Council for Educational Re-
search. He thinks that, within
the next 10 years, upper-
secondary-school students will
have their school-week ex-
tended by eight hours and their
Christmas vacation reduced to
three weeks.
At first thought, it seems a
long time to wait for such a
commonsense change ; but Dr.
Radford has no doubt con-
sidered the strong opposition
his views will arouse. Teachers
in most States have campaigned
successfully against any exten-
sion of schoolwork. In fact the
week has, in a number of ways,
been reduced: sport takes
students and teachers away
from their desks, and although
the annual holiday-periods
appear to have stayed fixed for
some time, there are many
purely local holidays which the
public generally hears nothing
about.
Schools in the metropolitan-
areas close for “children’s day”
at the Royal Easter Show, and
this holiday is also granted to
a number of country schools
within 50 miles or so of the
metropolis. Country schools
also close on one day for the
local show, even if it happens
to be held in a centre a good
many miles away; and they
break-up on the Thursday be-
fore the regular holiday periods.
Since school doesn’t resume
until the Tuesday, teachers and
pupils get a couple of extra
“long weekends.”
Any move to extend school-
hours will almost certainly get
only lukewarm support from
the Ministerial head of the
Education Department in each
State. I think the worst feature
of the present short school-
hours is the feeling it en-
courages in the younger genera-
tion, that work doesn’t really
matter and that the country can
get along quite well on a
minimum of work and a maxi-
mum of sport, etc. — Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Long Bay Blues
I have been inside Long Bay
Penitentiary several times too
often—on walk - in-walk - out
business only, thank goodness
—but I heartily endorse that
cry from the heart (B.
10/2/’6O). Anyway, since
streets upon streets (small
suburbs, in fact) of brand-new
homes have been built on
scrubland both to the seaward
and landward of the place, isn’t
it high time the forbidding eye-
sore was shifted to blazes out
of it? In support of this sug-
gestion, echoing from outside
the gruesome walls, come
urgent cries from hundreds of
hearts. — Postscript (N.S.W.).
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
AN EXPERIMENTAL COWSHED
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
~C'or many years Australian
dairymen have tended to
rely on overseas research-
workers for the solution of their
problems.
This is generally not a good
-idea. However, at the Ruakura
Animal Research Station, near
Hamilton (N.Z.), there were a
number of research-workers
dealing with problems similar
to those worrying Australians ;
so a lot of New Zealand ideas
have crossed the Tasman and
been most useful.
In the end, though, Aus-
tralians will have to deal with
their own problems. There’s
a limit to the amount of over-
seas research which will be of
any use here, particularly in
the dairy-industry.
Australian pasture is quite
different from that of New
Zealand. In the field in
which I am interested there
are also some very real differ-
ences —e.g., the cleaning of
milking - machines. The
weather is hotter here ; there
Recent reports state the
annual turnover of the
Dutch wool spinning
and weaving mills at
about £A.45 million.
The total for 1959 will
be about £A.52 million.
The report went on to
state that approximately
70 per cent, of woollen
goods produced were
for domestic use and 30
per cent, were for
foreign use.
Recent reports in Aus-
tralia indicate the grow-
ing demand by graziers
for the proven method
of Castrating and Tail-
ing—Elastrator. Because
Elastrator is bloodless,
it is therefore humane.
Lambs upon which the
Elastrator method has
been used suffer no
shock, set-back, mother-
up quicker, and are less
likely to become affected
by disease.
is more dust, the distances over
which milk must be carried
are greater; more milk is
needed at a grade suitable for
consumption in the towns ; the
herds are smaller, and so on.
All these differences being
special problems.
Because of these special
problems Professor Robinson,
of the Department of Animal
Husbandry at Sydney Univer-
sity, conceived the idea of a
Dairy Husbandry Research
Foundation to finance a special
research-unit at the University.
This foundation has been set-
up, and, as a result of the
excellent work it has done, a
research-dairy is now almost
completed at the University
Farm at Camden. 1 would like
to tell you something about
this dairy, because we believe it
is unique.
In nearly every field of
human endeavor things start by
being a sort of practical art.
Things are done by experts
who pass on their skills by
training apprentices. Then
more exact knowledge is
obtained until finally the whole
skill is analysed and the theory
or the art is worked out. Then
anyone can learn about it in
a book.
The art of managing and
milking cows is like this. It
is only quite recently in the
history of milking cows or
goats that scientists have really
investigated all the problems.
Most of the work has had to
be done in ordinary cowsheds.
Quite a lot of useful work has
been done in the laboratory on
rats and rabbits ; but there are
special problems connected
with cows which don't occur
with rabbits —and in any case
it isn’t likely that we will ever
depend on rabbits for milk!
Back at Ruakura I used sows
for certain studies; but even
the sow isn't all that useful as
a source of milk.
At Camden we have built a
laboratory where up to three
cows can be milked. The cows
stand on a platform at bench-
height, so it’s possible to work
with delicate apparatus with-
out having to crawl about on
an ordinary cowshed floor.
I remember my first record-
ing of the pressure, in the udder
of cows being milked. I used
a laboratory gadget called a
kymograph—it had a drum
with smoked paper on it and
a little quill-device moved on
the paper to draw the pressure-
graph. One day I was bring-
ing my smoked paper to the
cowshed when a gust of wind
wound it round my face with
spectacular results!
There were other occasions
when the recording-gear was
put out of action and the
operators were subjected to.
certain indignities as the result
of having to squat in a rather
immobile position near the end 1
of the cow which is often quite
active when the owner is up-
set.
All these problems have
been eliminated at the research-
dairy by bringing cows into the
laboratory. This also makes
possible certain other develop-
ments. Perhaps the best way to
illustrate what I mean is to
describe some of the projects
we have in mind for the future.
We suspect that the milking,
machine has an effect on the
incidence of mastitis. It is
almost impossible to study this
on a practical farm because
the environment in the shed
cannot be controlled well
enough. With cows in the
laboratory it will be much
easier.
In the same way we have
a difficult time really assessing
the value of different systems
of cleaning a practical milking-
machine. Now, in our labora-
tory we have a complete
machine in well-controlled con-
ditions. Also we can run ex-
periments all the time and get
results more quickly.
There are still a lot of things
we want to know about the
milking-process. In an ordinary
cowshed it is almost impossible
to make all the measurements
needed. Here the new shed will
be a tremendous help. In par-
ticular we want to take blood-
samples, measure blood-pres-
sure, pressure in the udder, and
milking- rate. This would be a,
real picnic in most cowsheds!
Cow-behavior in par-
ticular, the problem of how and
why cows behave at milking-
time —is another field of study.
In normal cowsheds cows in
the yard know what is going
on in the bails. In our set-up
it is possible to have one cow
in at a time and to subject her
to a variety of stimuli without
the rest of the herd knowing
what is going on.
At present we do not know
what sort of stimuli are im-
portant to cows at milking-time.
I'm often told that music at
milking-time is good for cows,
but I doubt it. It's probably
good for the milker, and so the
cows are indirectly put in a
better mood. However, we
need to know how important
different sounds, different ways
of washing the udders, different
colors and movements really
affect the normal cow. Some
day we hope to have a chance
to look at these problems.
Connected with the milking
laboratory is a small chemistry-
lab. where we can do analytical


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, *’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight— Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire; £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
work. At present it is being
used for the study of a new
series of dairy-detergents. It
will be used in the future for
studies on milk and blood,
i Another lab. is set aside for
instrument-design. We hope to
develop new physiological
instruments to make special
measurements like blood-flow,
volume-changes, etc.
There’s also a practical work-
i shop, without which it would
be imposs : ble to make progress
in work of this kind. Lately
some new ideas about milking-
machine design came-up r Until
we can make them up and test
them no more progress can be
made. Then we have the
problems of special instruments.
We couldn’t afford to buy
special instruments ; we have to
make them ourselves.
Finally, we have a seminar-
room which we also use as a
library and study. This room
makes it possible to have small
dasses of students actually in
the dairy. We have designed
a remote-control apparatus for
the milking-machine and a
device which shows on a dial
the rate at which an experi-
mental cow is milking. In the
future it will be possible to
change the action of the milk-
ing-machine or alter the stimu-
lation applied to the cow from
the classroom and watch the
effects on the cow. This is a
satisfactory way of teaching
and is also a useful research-
tool, because it makes it
possible to change one variable
on the machine without in any
way upsetting the cow.
The milking-laboratory is
also useful for teaching. Small
groups of students can make
experiments without getting in
the way of cows and disturbing
them. Both theory and prac-
tice can be studied in condi-
tions where there’s no division
between the two. In this
laboratory the whole com-
plex cow, machine and
milker—can be studied pre-
cisely and students can learn
the science of milking with all
mrportant factors under control.
I have emphasised teaching
because when research is done
in a teaching-unit new results
tested practically are immedi-
ately known to the graduates
Who go out to preach the
§°spel. This is a good way of
cutting the time-lag between
ihe lab. and the man on the
farm, and I believe that at the
University we have developed
something which will bring real
benefits to the man on the
land.
Home Markets
“Pieter Nuyts”: When
“Naomi” (B. 27/1/’6O) says
poultryfarmers in W.A. have
already cut production-costs,
she means some have —the ones
who are making the game pay,
although perhaps not hand-
somely. But if they’re not still
looking for further economies
and finding them, their profit-
margins are on the way down
Of the other poultryfarmers
—those who are battling to
make a crust —how many can
say that their runs, stock,
houses and methods would have
even the qualified approval of
the Agriculture Department’s
poultry-advisers?
The point I made wasn’t so
much the reduction of costs as
the cultivation of home-
markets. It’s no good arguing
that ss. 4d. a dozen is reason-
able, considering the cost of
wheat and wages. Customers
don’t consider anything except
the price, which must be attrac-
tive. When it is, the home-
market will absorb many of the
eggs now being hawked over-
seas at considerable expense
and sold at a loss. That’s why
the local price isn’t as attractive
as it should be.
If the Egg Board can’t supply
its customers with fresh eggs,
the poultry-industry will fold-
up, because freshness is essen-
tial in marketing eggs. But if
the Board receives fresh eggs, it
can market them and they’ll
deteriorate very little while
being inspected and placed in
cool-store. If permittees sell
private customers eggs fresher
than those they send to the
Board, there’s something
wrong with their methods.
Eggs which are collected often
—three times a day or oftener
in hot weather —cooled quickly
and stored in a cool place,
should be quite fresh when they
reach the floors.
%
Cultivation Methods
“Gravelsnatcher”: “R.H.G.”
(B. 27/1/’6O) doesn’t indicate
how he’s going to “keep the
relative position of the soil
unchanged” (whatever that
means), but says he intends to
work down until he has enough
good topsoil working for him
to enable him to laugh at any
idea of erosion. That means
till hell freezes. Apparently his
experience is limited to ground
where the earth a few feet down
is apparently the same as the
topsoil and he has yet to learn
that erosion is simply the
removal of the first few inches
of soil, however deep it may
appear to be.
He criticises shallow plough-
ing. Some of the richest land
I’ve worked we topped the
Perth cauliflower-markets for
years with its produce, and
cauliflowers are a hungry crop
—was about 7in. of red loam
above a hard clay subsoil. For
that land the ideal ploughing
was as deep as possible without
scraping the clay.
Once we tried ploughing
deeper. It was killing work,
with a halt every few feet to
clean the mouldboard, and we
brought enough clay to the sur-
face to make a quagmire which
later set as hard as a board.
It took years and a heavy
application of gypsum to
restore its fertility.
For most crops where seed
is sown in the field a germina-
tion of approximately 100 per
cent, is aimed at. You won’t
get anywhere near that with-
out a well-mulched seedbed.
To make full use of the sub-
soil, keep it well drained and
aerated. Roots penetrate even
hard, unworked earth to great
depth—l’ve found roots from
10-week-old seedlings 4ft.
down in solid clay—and, if the
topsoil is well-fed, enough
plant-food leaches down with
rain or irrigation to supply
those roots which dig deep. But
with annual crops, however
rich the subsoil may seem, the
plants will still take most of
their nutriment from the top
few inches. That’s where you’ll
find the roots which anchor
the plant and sustain it.
I strongly advise “R.H.G.”
to consult the practical experts
of the Agriculture Department,
who (like him) haven’t many
farming inhibitions. They may
tell him something about the
need for phosphatic fertilisers
on Australian soils.
Makarikari-grass
“Rodger”: Imported from
South Africa, where it’s found
in Bechuanaland, Makarikari-
grass has shown promise in
trials conducted by the Queens-
land Department of Agri-
culture. Predominantly a
summer-grass, it appears to be
tolerant to reasonable winter
temperatures.
Before the grass can be intro-
duced into large-scale trials,
some method will have to be
found of conserving enough
seed for trial-plantings in
paddocks. Makarikari-grass
seeds for nearly a month, but
the seed drops as soon as it’s
ripe, so it must be gathered
almost continuously. Scientists
are trying to find a way of
holding all the seed on the
stalk until it’s ripe, so that it
can be harvested in one opera-
tion.
Two methods are under
trial. The first is an applica-
tion of nitrogen-rich fertiliser
to promote vigorous growth
and shorten the flowering-
period, thus lessening the time
of seed-drop.
Alternatively, hormones like
those used to control fruit-
drop are being applied in the
form of a spray. If the


Start the day right!
hormones are successful the
seed will be retained on the
stalk until harvested.
It’s too early yet to assess
the value of either method.
Under tests, this grass has
not yielded as heavily as
Rhodes-grass or Panic, but it
does better than either in cold
weather. Primarily intended
for sub-tropical parts of the
State, Makarikari has grown
well on the colder plains of
southern Queensland.
A staple grass in any African
pasture-mixture, Makarikari is
a member of the paspalum
family, and is relished by cattle.
It is not coarse grass, and it may
form a valuable part of the
grass-programme in areas of
central and northern Queens-
land which now depend on
native pastures to maintain
volume of feed all year round.
Banana Weevil-borer
“Musa”: The banana weevil-
borer is a serious pest in
plantations. Upwards of 30
of its larvae have been
found in a single corm.
Consequent infestation reduces
the capacity of plants to with-
stand dry weather and weakens
the base so that it may break
in a strong wind or fall under
the weight of a maturing
bunch.
Suckers from infested plants
will certainly be contaminated,
and have little chance of
normal, healthy growth.
The female borer lays a
number of pearly-white, oval
eggs, l/12in. long, each sealed
by sap in a cavity in the tissues
of the corm. The eggs hatch
out in eight days during warm
weather, and the larvae at once
start tunnelling into the corm.
These grow to £in. long and in
14 days tunnel back into the
outside of the corm, where they
pupate. In another seven days
a black, hard-shelled, snouted
beetle, long, emerges and
mates, thus completing the
life-cycle.
As eggs, larvae and pupae are
concealed inside the banana-
corm, insecticides can only be
used on the adult borer, and
precautionary measures must
be taken to ensure that the in-
fection is not transferred to
new plantations.
To destroy the adult weevil,
1 part of Paris-green and 6
parts by weight of flour
mixed thoroughly when dry,
are dusted on baits through a
finely-perforated small tin.
When desuckering com-
mences, dust with this mixture
the newly-cut surfaces of corms
and the butts of all suckers
sliced-off and replace them in
position. Cut stems from
which bunches have been
gathered not more than 6in.
above the ground and split
them open so that they will dry
quickly, making the tissues un-
suitable for the borer.
Cut the butt immediately at
or just above ground-level,
forming a slab several inches
thick. Dust the cut surface of
butt and slab, replacing the
slab on the butt with a thin
stick between. Take care to
dust the surfaces evenly, as
heavy dustings are not attrac-
tive to borers, and light dust-
ings will allow them to feed
without fatal results. Cover the
baited portions with trash.
When making new planta-
tions, try to procure suckers
that are not infested, either
with larvae or pupae. Most
plantations are infested to a
greater or lesser degree, so it’s
best to get them from a lightly
infested area where control-
measures are taken. Pare the
corm of each sucker to a
depth of |in. to destroy
any eggs laid in the tissue and
show-up any borer-tunnels.
Should traces of the pest be
found, destroy the sucker im-
mediately.
As a precaution, bag and
remove all suckers dug each
day to a location far enough
from the plantation to prevent
reinfestation.
Sydney Sheep Show
and Sales
At the 1960 Sydney Sheep
Show, which is to be held from
June 1 to June 4, there will be
a special contest among per-
sons holding sheep for judg-
ing in the Merino and Poll
Merino sections. There is
always a lack of good holders,
and the council of the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association has
instituted this competition in
the hope of stimulating interest
among students and others.
Entry is limited to persons
under the age of 27 at the
time of the show.
Arrangements are being
made to distribute information
about this year’s show —known
as the Macarthur Merino
Sesqui-centennial Show
throughout Australia and
overseas. Among events to be
held in conjunction with the
show will be mannequin-
parades of the latest woollen
fashion-garments. i
At this year’s Sydney Stud
Sheep Sales (June 6-8) Poll
Merino sheep will be sold for
the first time in the one group,
penned together in one pavilion.
The new arrangement should be
to the advantage of buyers and
sellers alike.
Merino
Export Embargo
The N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association declared lately that
it is clear that the prohibition
on export of Merino sheep is
impeding the progress of the
wool industry throughout the
world and is directly opposed
to the principles of the
Colombo Plan.
In the opinion of the associ-
ation the embargo was imposed
for two reasons:
(1) To make Merino rams
available at lower prices
to Australian buyers by
removing overseas com-
petition.
(2) To hinder production of
Merino wool in other
countries of the world
and cause the price of
Australian wool to rise in
consequence.
The statement continues:
With regard to Australia’s refusal
to supply other countries with rams,
it is interesting to note the result
in Russia. Since the Australian
embargo was imposed, Russia has
obtained good rams from Saxony,
where some very fine Merinos are
grown, and from other parts of the
world, and has also developed arti-
ficial insemination to a point com-
pletely beyond the present capacity
of the C.5.1.R.0. and other research
people in Australia. The result is
that Russia’s best sheep are now
comparable with those in Australia.
It is interesting to note that these
results are being obtained on
collectivised farms of very substan-
tial total acreages. Because of
breeding inefficiency, the Soviet has
done away with small sheepfarms.
It is now clear that, had the
short-sighted Merino export-prohibi-
tion not been imposed, Australia
would have benefited by very con-
siderable revenue, and there would
have been a great stimulus to the
Australian Merino-stud industry.
The total result would also have
been beneficial to the wool industry
of the world.
What has happened in Russia
shows that, while it may b'e possible
to hinder temporarily the world’s
progress by export-bans and such
restrictions, it is futile for anyone
to hope that it can be hindered
permanently.
The fact that Australia was
largely cut off from England and
the U.S.A. during the war years
did not destroy Australian industry.
It gave a tremendous stimulus to
the Australian engineering trades
and other industries and was main))'
responsible for the rapid industrial
growth during the war and ovei
the last decade. There are no
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/2/’60)
Queensland should receive good rains during March,
although falls may be light in the far south-west. Heaviest
rains are indicated for the coast, peninsula and Gulf areas,
with flooding in many parts of the State. Rainfall should be
poor in the far-western areas, but the eastern half of the
State should have a fair season.
Rainfall should be patchy in N.S.W. during March,
although moderate rain should fall on the coast, tablelands
and north-west slopes and plains. Heavy rains and flooding
are likely on the Far North Coast. Falls should be light else-
where. Poor rainfall is indicated in April, with heavy rains
and serious flooding in May.
Light to moderate patchy rains are indicated in Vic-
toria during March. Similar rains should fall in April; but
good seasonal rains are likely in May.
Rainfall should be poor in South Australia during
March, but moderate rains should fall in the agricultural
areas and 'on the west coast during April. Good seasonal
rains are probable in the agricultural areas during May.
Most of Western Australia should have good rains
during March, heaviest falls on the north-west coast. Rains
should be moderate on the lower south coast during April,
but poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, NZ.
grounds for believing that the wool
uidustry is different.
An important factor which must
a ]so be borne in mind is that the
world’s population is increasing
faster than the supply of Merino
wool and, if we do not wish wool to
be passed by, it must be grown in
adequate quantities to justify appro-
priate promotion and advertising.
The present consumption of wool
in the U.S.A. is between I.Blb. and
21b. per head per year. If the
International Wool Secretariat and
associated American organisations
interested in promoting wool were
suddenly successful in inducing
everyone to buy one wool suit the
demand for wool would exceed the
supply and prices would sky-
rocket.
As the American clothing-manu-
facturers are well aware of this, and
also that synthetic fibres can b'e
produced rapidly in great quantities,
there is a great temptation to devote
their efforts to producing clothing
from these materials, because of
their ready availability, even though
they are inferior in comfort and
appearance to highest-quality Merino
fabric.
It is only fair to add that U.S.
woolgrowers have shown the same
ostrich-like attitude as that respon-
sible for the Merino embargo by
steadfastly insisting on a tariff of
25 cents per lb. on Merino wool and
a quota on manufactured woollen
textiles coming into the U.S. from
other countries.
The association’s statement
asks for the convening of a
conference to hear evidence
from ail sides.
This proposal is favored by
the Sheepbreeders’ Associ-
ations of N.S.W., Victoria,
South Australia and Tasmania.
Pleuro-pneumonia
“Rodger”: If a drought
kills-off £l-million-worth of
cattle, the cry of indignation
can be heard from Cooktown to
Camberwell. Yet, in Australia,
contagious pleuro - pneumonia
nearly doubles that loss every
year, and you hardly hear a
word about it.
This huge loss is not caused
by deaths alone. Australian
cattle are second to none, and
other countries want to buy
them ; but they won’t import
our stock because they are
afraid of pleuro. You can’t
blame them, when you see what
it’s costing us to live with the
disease.
It only needs one beast in a
mob to go down with pleuro
and severe quarantine-restric-
tions are imposed on properties
for miles around. It’s the only
thing to do, of course, but
consider the loss to the industry
—stock-movements cancelled ;
musterings and mass-inocula-
“You heard me! Why'nt y ’ let a cobber buy y ’ a
drink? Because y're stuck-up , that's why!”
tions —as well as the incon-
venience it causes. It’s trouble
enough to have to make a clean
muster of all paddocks at any
time. It’s worse when the cattle
are weak from drought, or
water is scarce. And when you
inoculate you don’t get the
vaccine on the house.
Taking all this into con-
sideration, it’s a wonder we
don’t hear more about pleuro-
pneumonia contagiosa, as the
textbooks call it.
The disease is confined
mainly to the northern half of
Australia and vaccinations have
seriously checked its advance.
It has been wiped-out on small
runs and dairyfarms in
southern Queensland, an area
where one case of pleuro would
throw the whole district into
confusion.
Modern vaccines have
replaced the old seton-serum
routine. Any northern cattle-
man of the 1920’s will tell you
all about the seton. It sounded
romantic, but there wasn’t any-
thing fancy about it. You went
through the mob and picked-
out what looked a typical case
—a persistent cough when
chased around for a minute or
two was proof enough—
bowled the beast over, opened-
up its chest and looked for the
straw-colored fluid that is a
symptom of the disease. This
fluid, baled-out of the thoracic
cavity with an old cup, was
strained through a lump of rag
into a bottle of doubtful
sterility. The stock were
yarded, and setons, dipped in
the fluid, were inserted into the
tail with a special needle. You
wouldn’t qualify on a station
in those days unless you could
swing a pleuro-needle. If you
used a dirty needle or hit the
bone in the tail with the seton,
like as not the tail would
rot-off.
Modern vaccines, adminis-
tered with hypodermic syringes
that can be kept clean, have
taken all the guesswork out of
pleuro inoculations-. Nearly a
million cattle are inoculated
each year. If stock are being
moved from a suspected area
they.must be inoculated. This
rule has been operating for
nearly eight years. Before the
rule was formulated it was a
normal pleuro year that saw
only 50 outbreaks. Now 10 are
enough to cause concern. Out-
breaks among travelling stock
are a thing of the past.
Many station-owners in
Queensland inoculate their
cattle as a means of controlling
the disease, irrespective of
whether they suspect its
presence or not. But there are
some who won’t take the
trouble and some who can’t
guarantee that their muster is
clean. Unless every beast on a
holding is vaccinated the
scheme may fall flat—those
who are missed may be carriers.
What is badly needed is a
simple test that will determine
which cattle are suspects and
which are not. Veterinarians
are busy working on this, and
they hope to have a rapid
crush-test perfected shortly.
This will be a boon for the
cattleman; but there’s one
snag: all cattle will have to be
mustered. The difficulty of
getting a clean muster is prob-
ably all that is stopping the
elimination of pleuro from
most of the northern half of
Australia. Because the disease
hasn’t appeared on a property
for a number of years there’s
no reason why it won’t
suddenly flare-up again. And
a disease that costs the country
up to £2 million a year spells
trouble in a big way.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
dassers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
"The Bulletin” will send one
°n its way.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Context of the line “And the
anguish of the singer gives beauty
to the 50ng,”—6943.
Copies of the magazine
“Omnibook,” published in Sydney
about 1947 or 1948.—6942.
Helen’s Babies, by Eleanor
Porter. —6941.
Would like to contact anyone
interested in compiling difficult
crosswords, quizzles, panagrams and
similar puzzles.—694o.
Shorter Oxford Dictionary (1955
or later edition); Clee’s Elements
of Roman Law. —6939,
Information Sought
(1) On what types of tree do
burls occur ? (2) What causes
them ?
(1) A burl (often called “burr”)
is a solid, woody, rounded out-
growth projecting from the bole of
an otherwise normal tree. Burls
are often found on eucalypt trunks
(especially red-gum, manna-gum
and karri), and occur also on many
exotic trees, such as cedar, maple,
oak, walnut and magnolia. They
may live for over a century, and
are sometimes enormously big — a
burl on a karri (“Miss North’s
Tree”) in the Warren National Park
near Pemberton (W.A.) is 30ft. in
girth.
(2) Exact cause unknown. They
are usually associated with abnor-
mal, congested development of
aborted adventitious buds which
become lignified. The curly grain
gives a characteristic bird’s-eye
effect; large burls are prized for
turnery and veneer-work. True burls
are not harmful to the tree. They
should not be confused with cankers,
which are morbid lesions of the
bark surrounding some injury where
parasitic fungi or insects may be
active.
* * * *
How to cure and preserve dates ?
Cut-down the bunches on a dry
sunny day when the fruit is ripe
but still firm and lightly brush-off
dust. Plunge them into boiling
water quickly and out again at
once (for sterilisation), then spread-
out in twiggy bits on paper to dry
in a warm but shaded place, not
directly under the sun’s glare. As
the fruits become detached from
stalks, turn them about to dry
evenly, remove sticks, and, when
they seem dried and sugar-contents
are pronounced, pack into plastic
bags or glass jars and keep in a
cool place. For larger quantities
you may need special drying-racks
or -trays, in which case the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Brisbane,
should be able to help.
* * * *
Details of a bird known as the
lesser Lewin-honeyeater ?
Also known as the yellow-spotted
honeyeater, this bird is found in
North Queensland from Cape York
to Cardwell. Flocks frequent the
scrubs, occasionally open forest-
country and mangroves. The birds
feed on native fruits, berries, insects
and nectar. Their nest is a rather
deep, cup-shaped structure, composed
of bark and dead leaves woven
together with wild cotton. It is
lined with wild cotton and silky-
down from plants. Generally it is
suspended from a small fork of a
tree or shrub, usually in dense
scrub, and is placed at heights of
up to 12ft. from the ground. Eggs
(usually two) are pearly-white,
boldly spotted with deep chestnut
and purplish - brown markings.
Breeding-season is from October to
March.
* * * *
What is the extent of “the great
Australian artesian basin’?
It includes a good deal more than
one-half of Queensland, taking-in
most of the State lying west of the
Great Dividing Range, with the
exception of an area in the north-
west contiguous to the N.T.; a
considerable strip of N.S.W. along
its northern boundary and west ot
the Great Dividing Range; and the
north-eastern part of S.A., together
with the extreme south-eastern
corner of the N.T. It comprises
an area of about 600,000 square-
miles: 376,000 in Queensland,
118,000 in S.A., 80,000 in N.S.W.
and 25,000 in the N.T. The area
of the intake is estimated at 60,000
miles —50,000 miles in Queensland,
10,000 miles jn N.S.W.
* * * *
What are the laws relating to
private burial ?
Under Section 448 of the Local
Government Act, 1919, a council
may control and regulate the burial
of the dead in any cemetery within
its area. Section 449 of the same
Act states that the Governor may,
on the recommendation of the
council, prohibit burials on any
land where pollution of any water-
supply is in question. Such a course
may be to safeguard the health
of the residents in the neighbor-
hood. Under Section 530 any power
given by the Local Government Act
to regulate shall be deemed to
confer power to license, prevent or
prohibit. Ordinance 68 under the
Local Government Act controls
cemeteries and burials, but only
applies to certain areas. It does
not apply to your particular shire.
Check with the council to see that
your property is suitably situated.
If so, normal procedure regarding
burials should be followed, and the
requirements laid-down in Ordinance
68 of the Act should be met.
Clause 18b, relating to private
cemeteries, provides that a body
shall not be buried in a private
cemetery in a grave or vault which
is within the distance of 100 yards
from any public reserve, public
building, schoolroom, dwelling-
house, public road or public place,
unless the body is enclosed in a
hermetically-sealed casket of lead.
It is also essential that Regulations
24-29 under Part 111 of the Public
Health Act, 1902 (as amended)
referring to persons dying of an
infectious disease, are observed.
Brief Answers
X.X.: Duty on a Hillman Minx
sedan, wholly made in England and
shipped to Australia, is calculated
thus: On a privately imported car
of an estimated value for duty of
£664, duty and sales-tax is made up
of duty, £166; sales-tax, £298 165.;
total, £464 16s T.H.: It all
depends on how valuable your time
is. At any rate, it appears you
are entitled to some remuneration.
G.E.: Write to the Public
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
O.N.R.: Oats have been grown
in W.A. since the early development
of wheatfarming, but their cultiva-
tion was somewhat limited until
stimulated by the introduction ot
large-scale sheep-raising in the agri-
cultural areas, when their high
nutritional worth as stock-feed
made them a very valuable crop.
The area sown to oats for gram
increased from 193,486 acres in
1920 to 274,874 acres in 1930,
429,177 acres in 1940, 585,701 acres
in 1950, and 1,090,901 acres in
1955.... W.V.S.: Certainly the book
has historic value, and possibly also
collectors’ value; but to find out
the monetary value, why not try
J. Tyrrell, 202 George Street,
Sydney? .... A.M.: It is published
twice yearly by the School of Wool
Technology, N.S.W. University ot
Technology, Darlinghurst, N.S.W,
Price per copy is 10s. 6d., plus Is.
postage; annual subscription, 215.,
post-free... .J.T.N.: No records ot
that nature immediately available.
Suggest you write to the Society ot
Australian Genealogists, Lanark
House, Phillip Street, Sydney,
There is a charge for this type
of research.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on i
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily ;
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom- [
pany. MSS. should be addressed '
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor \
thinks necessary.
J.M.: Nicely done, but will it
give much delight to your readers?
A.O’F.: Glad to hear from
you. They don’t make the grade,
though J.P.: Two lines, then: —(
Guard my house, and drink from the
pool:
Till I come back, gumtree, farewell.
. ...J.A.S.: It may not be great
poetry but it has its appeal—i
“Humidity reaches its acme”..;-
H.V.F.: There’s some nice stuff in
the river-poem, but when you got
to “Ever native, Dauntless, dative,
we gave up... .K.D.L.: But how
can you have verse “written in a
free prose style”? You might as
well say your caterpillar is a butter-
fly....G.V.: “Weeping” roses and j
“peeping” sun —have a heart!..• •
J.M.T.: Your verse for “Society, I
Abo. or Elsewhere” has been placed
Elsewhere... .G.W.: The feeling for
the sea in them is attractive; the
verse uneven. Ever tried short-
stories? ....M.E.8.: Well enough
written, but you might as well let
them get to the m00n... .R.H..
Find it difficult to accept the con-
versation of your hermit-crab
J.M.: Tinkly... .A.W.W.: Dewy
indeed... .M.D., J.F., L.R., MJL
S.McL., K.W., G.H.E.: Missed, i
A.E.D.: Try it oit the girl.."
M.J.K.: “I have never written any-
thing before or since—to which
your remarks are anticipated and \
endorsed.” Correct... .M. 8.: P*v
you couldn’t have dealt more,
smoothly and geometrically with the
geometrical love-poem. It’s a good
ideas.. .J.L.: You’re not too bad
on the hauliers, but we’ve had them,
before... .E.S.-L.: “Dust-Dervishes
should appeal to children... . B.R"
“Hope springs eternal in the human
breast, and it’s just as wet
it does or the suicide-rate amongst
freelance journalists would be truly
horrifying.” Well, keep hoping.


case of a “last takeover” a
takeover by the Government.
But, generally speaking, Dr.
Coombs is not on sound ground
when he infers that business
finds it easy to pass-on increases
in wages. This is shown by the
comparative figures covering
the period 1938-39 (the last pre-
war year) and 1958-59.
Wages and salaries paid in
1958-59, according to the
national-income figures pro-
duced by the Commonwealth
Treasury, are seven times the
figure of 1938-39.
The value of plant used in
factories alone in earning
profits has risen from £144
million to £lO2l million —
again representing a figure
seven times that of 1938-39.
Company net profits, after
payment of company-tax, but
before shareholders pay their
personal taxes, are only 5.6
times the 1938-39 figure.
Relatively wages and salaries
have risen at a greater rate
.than company earnings.
Qne of the great difficulties in
the way of companies
Passing-on the fruits of in-
creased productivity to the
Public or to wage-earners is the
fact that the Commonwealth
Treasury has stubbornly
refused to allow companies
sufficient depreciation (for tax
Purposes) on old plant to
Permit replacement with new
Pfant at present-day inflated
cost.
This has not only made it
Uecessary for companies to
hold tightly to any surplus
(taxed) profits in order to trans-
fer them to “reserve for in-
creased cost of plant-replace-
ment” ; it has also discouraged
the re-equipment of industry
as a whole with modern, more
efficient machinery.
The attitude of Canberra to
these problems seems to be
like that of the fatalistic French
“C’est la guerre.” Canberra
seems to shrug it off with a
complacent “It is the system.”
And “Long live the system!”
T ate and waveringly, Mr.
Menzies and others in Can-
berra have lately come to admit
that productivity is the principal
answer to the kind of inflation
Australia suffers from; that
productivity is the source of
living-standards and capital for
the expansion of industry and
development of national works.
Even trade-unionists, who
have been reluctant to be on the
creative side of productivity,
are now vocal in demanding to
be on the receiving-end of it.
How does one go about
stimulating productivity?
Mr. Menzies, Mr. Holt, Sir
Roland Wilson and Dr.
Coombs should study the report
of the Joint Coal Board for
1958-59 to find out.
In December, 1951, the In-
come Tax Assessment Act was
amended so as to allow ex-
penditure on mining-plant,
mine-development, etc., to be
claimed as a deduction from
income for tax purposes.
This so encouraged colliery-
proprietors to modernise and
mechanise their mines that to-
day the output per manshift is
5.25 tons, compared with 2.95
tons in 1950.
And the price of coal, in spite
of the fact that wages have
doubled in the meantime, has
dropped from 645. 6d. a ton
in 1952 to 555. 4d. in 1959.
By reducing taxation at the
producing-end, productivity has
been increased at an amazing
rate and prices to the consumer
have been reduced. Australian
coal can now be exported pro-
fitably to many markets, the
main snag nowadays being
loading and shipping costs.
The Australian coal industry,
and what has happened in the
U.K. following the reductions
in purchase-tax, should be
taken as object-lessons by Mr.
Menzies, Mr. Holt and the
Treasury brains-trust in making
any plans to cope with the in-
flationary outlook for 1960.
Quick note should also be
taken of any recommendations
by the present committee study-
ing taxation incidence that
may help to remove the many
depreciation and other anom-
alies that are hindering the
expansion of Australian in-
dustry, the increase of pro-
ductivity and the reduction in
living-costs.
without the consent of the
Capital Issues Committee.
Vote-buying
After the “tax-rebate”
fiasco of last election it was
hoped that the Labor Govern-
ment might have learned a
lesson. Apparently not.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Nash, has announced that
work will start soon on the
construction of a new railway-
line linking Nelson with the
South Island main trunk
system between Picton and
Blenheim.
The line will cost more than
£lO million. Interest charges
will amount to about £500,000
a year. It is estimated (not by
the Government; it is keeping
quiet) that the annual
operating-loss will be about
£200,000. So the line will cost
the taxpayers something like
£700,000 a year. What for?
To honor a rash and quite
unjustifiable promise made by
Labor before the last election
and to attempt to hold the
Nelson seat which Labor
captured then with a majority
of only 509.
Since November, 1957,
Nelson has had a “national”
railway to Blenheim. This
provides road-transport of both
passengers and goods at rail-
equivalent rates, the difference
being met by way of Govern-
ment subsidy of about £lOO,OOO
a year.
So to gratify Nelson’s
ambitions the taxpayers are
to stump-up another £600,000
a year.
Outside Nelson, the press
has been unanimous in its
condemnation of the move.
THE HOLLISAYS
“ Me? I just beg to differ."


Women's Letters
STONEY
A hundred-thousand welcomes multi-
plied have greeted the Queen’s new babe.
The bells have rung, the salutes have
been fired, the flags waved to express a
nation’s joy. And, in addition to this,
there’s the welcome the baby has brought
himself, as every baby does. For,
although he is a Prince, he is a baby
first, helpless and appealing. And it is
as a mother that the Queen at this time
confirms herself in the affection and
loyalty of her people.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a great gathering of the
clan Mackerras at the second of the
A.B.C.’s orchestral concerts of 20th-
century music. The parents of con-
ductor Charles were present, of course —
Mr. and Mrs. A. Mackerras, of Turra-
murra —as well as Colin and Malcolm,
Joan and Alastair, Mr. and Mrs. Neil
Mackerras, and Mr. and Mrs. Andrew
Briger. Mrs. Charles naturally attended
the concert. She acts as her husband’s
manager, which according to Sir Richard
Boyer, speaking at the A.B.C.’s reception
in honor of pianist Moura Lympany, is
by no means unusual.
At this reception, by the way, Miss
Lympany spoke in such glowing, enthusi-
astic terms of the quality of Australian
audiences as would do anyone’s heart
good to hear. We don’t shuffle or
cough or come in late. We’re also
generous and appreciative.
Mr. Mackerras joined in these remarks
and also praised us for the mere fact
that we go to concerts. Our concert-going
exceeds anything in the world, he said,
adding that the Germans and Italians
go to opera and the English only go to
concerts if Tschaikowsky’s Fifth or some
such is being played. But there, perhaps,
Mr. Mack, was just having his little
joke.
He wasn’t joking, however, when he
let fly at Sydney’s music- and art-critics
during his speech at the opening of
Peter Laverty’s exhibition at David
Jones Gallery on Wednesday. They are
unintelligible, he said, except in the one
sentence or so which lets you know that
the performance was no good. Of course,
he was speaking of the critics of a
paper which he considers “the only one
going in for serious criticism on music
and art.” So there you are. You have
to be unintelligible and derogatory in
order to be taken seriously.
☆ ☆ ☆
The sudden death of the Countess
Mountbatten has quenched an ardent
spirit. A beauty of the 1920’5, she typified
its spirit of gay adventurousness, but with
experience she showed herself a person
of great strength and character.
Directly the war ended she set-off on
a tour by aircraft of all Allied prisoner-
of-war and internment camps in South-
east Asia. It was largely due to this
action of hers that the evacuation of
prisoners was carried out so speedily and
effectively. She was Superintendent-in-
Chief of the St. John Ambulance Brigade
and was closely associated with the
Women’s Voluntary Service Organisation.
The portrait Salvador Dali painted of
the Countess Mountbatten showed long
vistas and visions reflected in her enor-
mous eyes, and her life made real those
visions. She was the first European to
travel the length of the Burma Road
into China and the first passenger to fly
the Timor Sea on the mail-route from
Australia to London. She was the mother
of two daughters, Patricia (Lady
Brabourne) and Pamela, whose marriage
to Mr. David Hicks took place recently.
Gay Blaiklock, of Linden Way, Castle-
crag, has two occasions for special cele-
bration in the ne ar future. On March 5,
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Blaik-
lock, will give a party in honor of her
21st birthday, and in May she will have
her degree in Arts conferred at Sydney
University. Gay, who studied Public
International Law for her Arts course,
is particularly interested in this sphere
of knowledge and will shortly become a
member of the Australian Institute of
International Affairs. Her photo is by
Norton Trevaire.
The Waitara Babies’ Home, which for
62 years has been giving shelter, care
and, most of all, affection to tiny ones
in need, is making its first public appeal
for funds.
The home was founded by the Sisters
of Mercy at a time when unwanted babies
were often abandoned by their desperate
parents left on doorsteps, placed in
backyards (one was even found on a
ant-heap!).
It was a simple charity to take the|
babes and care for them. The nei
step was to help the unmarried mothei
who had formerly resorted to the!
terrible expedients. So the home grew
financed by donations and legacies
helped by well-wishers. During its lifl
time 6569 children and 3292 mothei|
have been accommodated by the homt
and cared for by the Sisters.
Today there are 100 little ones in the
home, aged from a few weeks to seven'
years. They are not orphans as the
children in the home were in the past,
for today a baby who has no parents
is almost invariably adopted immediately,
These children come from homes broken
by illness or strife and they are greatly
in need of care.
In addition there are 37 young women
living at the home, where they await
their babies in an atmosphere of peace
and security. It is to modernise and
beautify their accommodation, as wet
as to bring the whole home up to present'
day peak that this appeal is being made,
This is an Australia-wide appeal, foil
many of the mothers come from othei
States, are of all creeds and come froa
various classes of society.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is an enormous conference oJ
business-management people in Sydney
this week, with about 1500 delegate)
from 29 different countries attending \(
Its first social function took place oi
Friday when Lady Woodward openei
the exhibition of Australian painting
at the Commonwealth Bank Building it
Pitt Street. Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Webstij
were there, of course. He is president
of the Sydney branch of CIOS, ths
world organisation which has these con
ferences in different countries every thre)
years. Mrs. Webster is president of th
ladies’ auxiliary, which is arranging th
social side of things. There’ll be morj
to say about these next week.
☆ ☆ ☆
The world-quality of Australian show 1
people was well demonstrated this week
by the two opening-nights that toot
place.
At the Tivoli we saw Australia’s interj
national skating star who has been awaf
for five years and returns from a trium-j
phal tour right round the world. An
International Gold Medallist, Pat Gregory
has spent the past four years tourms
America and Europe and could have
signed a further contract for three
but preferred to come home to Australia'
for a spell.
At the Empire we saw Kathleen
Gorham as a most appealing Giselle-
We have watched Kathy since she was a
rather chubby young thing. Now, slender
and ethereal, an accomplished dancer
she fills us not only with admiration W
also with a personal pride. M arl T
Jones, another of “our girls,” is
Queen of the Wilis in the same ball*
Another one to watch.


MELBOURNE
New rooms and a well-stocked library
• Nicholas Buildings, Swanston Street
were reasons for a delightful late-after-
noon party given by the president and
committee of the Alliance Fran?aise in
Victoria. The French Ambassador, who
wa s unable to be present, was repre-
sented by Mile. Anne Lissac. Mme. Le
gas de Piumetot, present with her hus-
band the French Consul, looked attrac-
tive in a dark navy-blue-and-white
patterned silk frock. Also there were
Professor and Mrs. Jackson, Professor
and Mrs. Maurice Belz, Mr. and Mrs.
Poy Shepherd (a charming and viva-
cious Frenchwoman now making her
home here), Mr. and Mrs. M. Cockerton
Mme. Dominic Modesti (home on a
visit from France), Mrs. George Gazeley
and Mr. Eric Lampe.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of Victoria’s
Premier, heads a committee working for
the Royal Children’s Hospital appeal for
£400,000. This is a special rebuilding
appeal for the new hospital, which will
cost one-million pounds. White, pink
and yellow flowers decorated the board-
room of the hospital when Lady Mur-
doch, (president of the hospital’s board-
of-management) and Mrs. Bolte gave
a luncheon to introduce the newly
formed committee. Earlier it had been
decided to hold a children’s carnival at
Como Park, South Yarra, on April 9.
This will be followed by other events in
April and May. Among those who
attended the luncheon were Mrs. John
Baillieu, Mrs. Tom Carlyon, Mrs. H. J.
Carter, Mrs. John Colquhoun, Mrs. Tom
Graham, Mrs. Eric Cottrell, Mrs. B.
Edwards, Mrs. Erl Gray, Mrs. Ken
Luke, Mrs. Albert Hallenstein, Mrs.
Frank Herman, Mrs. Tony Luxton, Mrs.
lan Miller, Mrs. Maurice Nathan and
Mrs, Carlisle Taylor.
# AA
More than 250 members of the
women’s group of the Australian-Ameri-
can Association went to the first meeting
°f the year at the association’s centre in
Exhibition Street, where they heard their
President (Lady Casey) describe a few
°f the highlights of her recent trip over-
seas. Prior to her talk, Lady Casey was
Presented with a bouquet of flowers and
? scroll, signed by the members, extend-
good wishes on the elevation of her
husband to the peerage. At the meeting
Plans were also discussed for the forth-
coming Coral Sea Ball. This will take
™ form of a dinner-ball at the St.
k'lda Palais on May 13. Portion of
proceeds will go to the United
Rations World Refugee Year Appeal.
the platform with Lady Casey were
de new vice-presidents, Mrs. Mark
lements and Mrs. Charles Lane, Mrs.
"■ W. Killough and Mrs. Keith Rigg.
☆ ☆ ☆
Bathed in brilliant sunshine, the gar-
of the Toorak home of Mr. and
rs - Angus Jones made a beautiful
setting for the luncheon Mrs. Jones gave
for over 50 guests. There were two
guests of honor —Mrs. Rufus Burton,
who is here with her husband on a
visit from America ; and Mrs. W. Wil-
liams, an American now living in this
city. Mrs. Jones wore a slim frock of
white polished-cotton, patterned in a
floral design. Among the guests were
Mrs. Henry Bolte, in a frock-and-jacket
ensemble of grey-and-white tweed-
patterned silk, topped with an emerald-
green straw planter’s hat; Mrs. David
Jones (daughter-in-law of the hostess);
Mrs. John Buchan, in a jacket and
frock of pale-primrose linen ; Mrs. Elmer
Davis, an American from Rochester now
visiting her sister (Mrs. W. C. Clark);
Mrs. Gerard Osborne, whose pretty
ensemble was of pastel-pink linen ; Mrs.
W. W. Killough; Mrs. Tom Blarney;
Mrs. Robert Anderson, Mrs. Keith
Duncan ; Mrs. Davis Gough and Mrs.
Michael Saunders.
Born at Mount Vernon, twenty miles
from New York, Mrs. David Korman
met her husband, an Australian, while
he was doing a university-course in the
U.S. The couple now live at Toorak, and
have one small son. Mrs. Korman has
a flair for fashion trends and is always
dressed in excellent taste. She has settled
thoroughly into Melbourne life and, with
her sister-in-law (Mr. Leon Korman), is
a ticket-secretary for the gala-night of
“The Music Man,” which is being organ-
ised by the Red Cross functions-com-
mittee for the Red Cross March month
appeal. Dame Mary Daly is chairman
of the committee. The Governor (Sir
Dallas Brooks) and Lady Brooks will
be present in the Princess Theatre for
the gala-night. Mrs. David Korman's
telephone number is 50 5500 and Mrs.
Leon Korman sBJ 5409. John Warlow
picture.
Torrential rain spoilt the arrangements
made by the Robin Hood committee
(which works for mentally retarded
children) to serve dinner in the lovely
garden of Mr. and Mrs. R. Shankly's
home in Toorak. Colored fairy lights
had been strung among the trees, and
a strolling minstrel was to have wandered
among the guests. Instead dinner was
served in the house, and there was danc-
ing in the music-room. At dinner each
guest was served with pre-dinner sherry
in an individual small bottle. The 200
guests included Dr. and Mrs. E Cunning-
ham Dax, Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Davis,
Mr. and Mrs. F. McDermott and Mrs
John Heath. Guests were received by
the president of the committee (Mrs.
James Alston) and the honorary secre-
tary (Joan Sutherland Smith). Com-
mittee-members who assisted during the
evening were Frances Dobinson Anne
Swallow, Francine Abry, Maria Manners,
Mrs. Robert Park, Mrs. Grame Laws and
the hon. treasurer, John Yule. Also at
the party were Cr. W. J. Brens, Mr. and
Mrs. David Moore, Dr. and Mrs. Caren
Kent, Maureen Stewart, Davina Mcln-
tosh (Geelong), John Fearnley (of “The
Music Man” company), Fred Asmussen
and Douglas Waterworth.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn, State Commis-
sioner of Girl Guides, was hostess at a
morning-tea party at Guide Head-
quarters, where plans were discussed for
celebrating the jubilee of the Guide
movement. There’s to be a pageant at
the Olympic Pool in August, a thanks-
giving service, exchange-visits between
metropolitan and country divisions and a
bring-a-gift-buy-a-gift fete at the School
for the Deaf in St. Kilda Road. This
fete has been planned by physically
handicapped Guides. Australia has
90,000 Guides, one-third of them in Vic-
toria. Among those at the morning-tea
was Miss Cowen Swinburne, captain
from 1922-1947 of a company originally
known as Ist Hawthorn Girl Scouts.
Also there were Mrs. Curtis Otter and
Mrs. James Riddle, who are on the
public-relations committee; Mrs. A. E.
Sharp, Mrs. Peg Barr (State organising-
secretary), Miss Betty Macartney (State
secretary), Miss Doris Kane (Extension
Ranger Captain) and Miss Mary Lambe
(Victorian Extension Advisor).
☆ ☆ ☆
The most enthusiastic part of Tommy
Steele’s audience at the Tivoli Theatre on
opening night were the teenagers who
filled the top gallery. Although not this
Letter’s cup of tea, Tommy has a certain
appeal. Maybe it’s the wild lock of hair
which falls over his brow, or his boyish
appearance and disarming manner. The
first-night audience included the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans), who sat with the Tivoli’s
Gordon Cooper and Mrs. Cooper. Also
in the dress-circle were Sir Frederick and
Lady Thomas, Garnet Carroll, Sir Frank
and Lady Tait and John McCallum and
his wife Googie Withers. Others seen
were Sir Arthur and Lady Smithers, Dr,
and Mrs. W. McDermott (who were
accompanied by their daughter Pat), Mrs.
David Martin and Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Martin.


Greece, and excluding Oriental
philosophers, an argued exposition and
not a compilation, and one where the
casual reader can learn strange matters.
Philosophy, for instance, seems to
have begun teetotal, with Thales, who
thought everything was water, and gone
on to arson, with Heraclitus, who
thought everything was fire, while that
notorious old square, Pythagoras,
thought the universe was tuned like a
lyre, in tonics, fourths, fifths and
octaves; he was rather given to the
notion that a line is made up of points.
The line made of points left an
opening for a nark called Zeno, who
said that in any handicap on such a
line a tortoise would beat Achilles;—
Suppose the tortoise starts a
certain distance down the track, then
while Achilles runs up to the
starting-point of the tortoise, the
latter will have moved somewhat
further ahead. While Achilles runs
to this new position, the tortoise
will have gained a point slightly
further on. Every time Achilles
closes in on the tortoise’s previous
position the wretched creature will
have moved away. Achilles does, of
course, come closer and closer to the
tortoise, but he will never catch up
with it.
This vaudeville-comedian romp at
the expense of commonsense opened
the way for Socrates, an ancient Fran-
quin who reduced reputable citizens to
absurdity by cross-examining them
under hypnosis, although some say
Socrates himself was no more than a
ventriloquist’s dummy for Plato, who
expiated these early dialogues by con-
structing a literary republic so perfect
that no one could live in it. Plato did
this by deducing order from ideas,
leaving his pupil Aristotle no alterna-
tive but the deduction of ideas from
order; and they give Lord Russell
plenty to talk about, more reverently
about Plato than about Aristotle,
whose whole range of philosophy has
come under fire because his logic was
“taught in a fossilised condition” by
schoolmen of the Middle Ages.
Philosophy having thus puzzled the
minds of men, it remained for Euclid
to worry the soul-cases out of boys,
and Eratosthenes to do something
clever about the earth’s girth, and the
Epicureans and Stoics to model the
new season’s fashions in cheery or
moody poses; and we are in on the
early history of Christianity and the
arguments that surrounded its faith,
with, one should say, a fairly dis-
passionate survey of the philosophical
ideas of St. Augustine and St. Thomas
Aquinas. One pauses at the scholasti-
cism of the Middle Ages to notice that
in those days realists believed that
names were things, whereas nominalists
held that names were not things—a
trap for young players . . .
The truth is that one cannot hurry
fast enough past Duns Scotus, who
held that will rules reason; Erasmus,
whose “Praise of Folly” was a pun
on the name of Sir Thomas More, in
whose house it was composed; Coper-
nicus, whose theory that the planets
went around the sun was a revival of
the theory set-out by Aristarchus
around 300 8.C.; even Galileo, Newton,
Bacon and Hobbes; Descartes, who
thought he was because he thought,
and who died because the Queen of
Sweden wouldn’t give him his break-
fast in bed; and Vico, who let us in
for James Joyce; and so get to George
Berkeley (1685-1753). Berkeley held
that philosophers, and for that matter
the universe, the whole boiling, were
no more than a dream in the mind of
a dreamer, illustratable by a story
about Dr. Johnson, who was no lover
of Berkeley: he dreamed that he was
being beaten in argument and woke
perturbed until he realised that in his
dream he himself was supplying the
knockdown arguments of his antagonist,
Russell is a well-known admirer oi
Berkeley’s indestructible and labor-
saving theory, but he will have no
resting upon it, partly because Plato
said that living in a cave away from
the light of reason was no life for a
man, and partly, one suspects, because
the next philosopher after Berkeley is
Hume, who is so fine a critic of
philosophy and so agreeable to talk
to. So, having gone oq to Hume, we
must continue with Kant, Hegel, whose
dialectic method let us in for Karl
Marx, Kirkegaard, who underwrote
existentialism, and Neitzsche, whose
ideas were claimed by Hitler:—
There is much to be said for the
exercise of a certain ruthlessness,
provided this is administered to
oneself.
The existentialists, as Russell sees
them, bear something of the relation
to genuine philosophical inquiry of the
Epicureans and Stoics to Plato and
Aristotle: “The rationalist sees his
freedom in a knowledge of how
nature works; the existentialist finds it
in an indulgence of his moods.”
Analytical philosophy seems more to the
point, which works on the wording of
the question being asked; for instance,
the old question, what was the begin-
ning of the world, followed by another
question, what was the beginning of
that? The philosophical analysts go
to work on “beginning”:—
To ask for a beginning with noth-
ing preceding it is like asking for a
round square. Once we have seen
this we shall stop asking the ques-
tion, because we shall see that it is
senseless.
This linguistic disposal of an ancient
worry leads to a few words on the
Austrian, Wittgenstein, the last
philosopher in the book, whose ideas
on “language games,” in which words
get lost in a world of their own, would
seem worth following-up—especially
since Wittgenstein seems to have been
responsible for a good deal of one of
the most witty and beautiful of modern
poems:—
What is conceivable can happen,
too,
Said Wittgenstein, who had not
dreamed of you ;
and
Man, as the prying housemaid of the
Soul
May know her happiness from eye
to hole ;
He’s safe ; the key is lost; he knows
Door will not open, or hole close,
and
Imagine, then, by miracle with
me....
What could not possibly be there,
And learn a style from a despair.
The wide margins of the large pages
all carry illustrations, ten paintings by
John Piper, portraits of philosophers,
JACK
My mortal husk is shelled at death
And shut inside a narrow box;
But he is coffined up in life :
Oh, what a bitter paradox!
He crouches low and supplicant,
His elbows knocking on the wood,
And with a cry too thin to hear
Implores the gods that somehow Good
Will bring him to a just release.
He waits the tapping at the locks,
He hears the children calling “Jack ! ”
They think he sleeps inside his box.
They think he sleeps, but how he weeps,
His small tears falling with no sound
Like ghostly leaves that seem to fall
And fade upon a haunted ground!
We touched the lock and up he sprang,
Delight upon his simple face
As though he knew himself at last,
The poet-prophet of his race —
All lowly Jacks shut up in boxes,
Composed of odds and ends of wood,
Who have such brief, amended chances
To see the world and find it good.
The children laughed and stretched their
hands
And called again for Jack, for Jack,
But with a sudden brutal thrust
l caught his head and pushed him back,
Thinking, it does not do to muse
And give to toys of stick and straw
Emotions that belong to life
Lest the conclusions that we draw
Might yet be turned upon ourselves
To show each in his narrow piece
Of flesh and blood, like Jacks of straw
Shut down, and crying for release.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
maps, geometric theorems, photo-
graphs of birthplaces, large-size mathe-
matical calculations, syllogistic dia-
grams, plain and colored. Some of the
games with varicolored dots and arrows
don’t seem to contribute much, but the
rest are very pleasant to look at. a
testimony to the ingenuity of the
“editor,” Paul Foulkes.
Songs of Queensland
The Queensland Centenary Pocket
Songbook (Edwards and Shaw) is a
handy little book of thirty traditional
bush songs, words and music, collected
and arranged by the Federation of
Bush Music Groups, Brisbane, with a
foreword by Dr. Robert Dalley-Scarlett.
Some of the songs, such as “The
Wild Colonial Boy” and “The Convict
Maid,” really haven’t much to do with
Queensland, though the justification
for including them is that both words
and music—three alternative tunes,
one of which came from Bernard
O’Reilly, are provided for “The Wild
Colonial Boy,”—were, in part, picked-
up in that State. A few others, which
do incontestably belong to Queensland,
have been collected in rather unfortu-
nate variants ; “Farewell to the Ladies
of Brisbane.” for instance, which is a
most cheerful and adventurous song in
the “Old Bush Songs” version, has
here become coarse and complaining.
But on the whole it is a very pleasant
and useful collection in which anybody
can enjoy such old favorites as
“Moreton Bay” or “The Banks of the
Condamine,” while the connoisseur of
such basic pieces of Australiana will
take particular pleasure in several
unfamiliar songs which have been
unearthed, most notably a ribald
curiosity entitled “Old Black Alice”—
Old Black Alice are my name, Well-
shot are my station ;
It’s no disgrace, the old black face,
it’s the color of my nation.
Bindieye-eye and mind your eye,
and don’t kick up a shindy;
I’ve got a boy in Camooweal, and
one in Goondiwindi . . .
and a delightful song called
“Bullocky-O” which, though it is “a
purely local ballad, attributed in the
district to Mr. Duncan’s grandfather,”
vaguely reminds this reviewer, as do so
many other old bush songs, of some
other song heard somewhere some
time:—
I draw for Speckle’s Mill,
bullocky-O, bullocky-O,
And it’s many a log I drew,
bullocky-O.
1 draw cedar, beech and pine, and
I never get on the wine ;
I’m the king of bullock-drivers,
don’t you know, bullocky-O!
Simultaneously with the publication
of this booklet, Wattle Recording Co.
of Sydney have brought out a gramo-
phone-record entitled “Folk Songs from
Queensland” in which many of the
same pieces are sung. The noises,
generally speaking, are interesting as
folklore but singularly unmelodious—•
it is time someone tried to restore these
tunes to the original freshness which,
presumably, got rubbed off them during
their years of knocking-around the
bush.
Reviewed Briefly
Living As I Do: Henry Williams
(Oldbourne). The earnest account of
a young Welshman’s revolt against
the “slavery” of civilisation and the
Welfare State. He jumps ship at
Sydney and takes a series of jobs—•
circus-hand, road-laborer, “mucker” at
the Isa, fencer’s laborer, trench-digger
and fruit-picker, with several pot-
boilers thrown in—which sees him
through Queensland and part of the
Northern Territory and then across to
Wyndham and Broome, before he
returns to Sydney and works his
passage back to England. In England
he gets another series of assorted jobs
and again discusses how little he
enjoys them.
Man with a Racket: the autobio-
graphy of Pancho Gonzales as told to
Cy Rice (Thomas Yoseloff). The book,
which goes up to the end of 1958,
shows Gonzales as brash and rather
too cocky (“I’m the best damned tennis
player in the whole wide world and I
expect to remain so for a long, long
time. Bring on the challengers,
Jack!”). Hoad, of course, beat
Gonzales in their second series of
games, in 1959, and is now professional
champion. On the strength of his
fondness for tinkering with “hot-rods”
and scorching over the roads in them,
as well as for his tennis, Gonzales
claims to be a human dynamo. The
story of his happy married life rings
hollow, in view of his subsequent
divorce. Despite a few too many
American allusions meaningless to
Australians, the book would interest
tennis enthusiasts, telling as it does
of one of the greatest players of the
1950’5, about whom comparatively
little is known in Australia.
• • • m
Masters of Political Thought: Lane
W. Lancaster (Harrap). Vol. 111,
covering Hegel to Dewey, in a series
which began with Plato to Machiavelli.
The author is Professor of Political
Science in the University of Nebraska.
The typography is marked by extra-
ordinarily large paragraph - indices,
looking rather like stirrups. It is not,
however, a book to canter through
too lightly.
• • • •
Trial for Treason: G. W. Keeton
(MacDonald). A discussion of the
trials of the Earl of Essex, Alice Lisle
(who sheltered refugees from Mon-
mouth’s army), Lord Lovat and Roger
Casement. G. W. Keeton is Professor
of English Law at University College,
London.
• « • •
Storm South: Philip McCutchan
(Harrap). A novel obviously written
by a sailor or one who knows all
about handling a full-rigged ship. The
sea and seamanship are very well done
in it. Its characters are an old sea-
captain, retired from the sea, who is
driven back to it by a nostalgia for
square sail, a tough first-mate, handy
with his fists, who narrates the story,
two minor mates, six passengers, a
doctor, a tea-planter, a retired colonel,
two women, one of them an Australian
—we know at once she is an Australian
because she prefaces every utterance
with “Gee!” —and finally an awful
Australian with a frightful Australian
accent. There is plenty of dramatic
action, a mysterious murder and a
heroic finality for all concerned.
EVERGREEN
No snow scathes through this tree nor
has it ever.
Its seasons move in green, and green
days all
expound the years. Like days the dead
leaves fall,
and in each branch the spent times break
and suffer,
and new days rise there winged as any
lover ;
and song and sorrow move as one. The
tall
tree is a world of skill where green
speaks all,
though no snow deserts here, nor may it
ever.
Though no snow deserts here (O may
it never!)
yet winter comes to try the dry twig£
nerves
and dull with pain the accolades of leaves.
Quicker than snow they fall, but there’s
no fever
that could drain this hue the full tree
tells
though all the world turns white, though
each leaf falls.
Q.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


rit i
% I
m
m
?!
■:!v
1
BSS
8
a
%
%
©
©
m
m
x*
&
*2
%
%
£
r 4>
%
%
€
a
*
3
©
%
©
©
V
C
sfc
Ct
The man on the land
knows from experience:
there is no satisfactory
substitute forSTEEL PIPE
After experimentation with other types of piping,
experienced land nren invariably come to one
conclusion there’s no really satisfactory sub-
stitute for. Steel Pipe.
Steel Pipe, for instance, is not susceptible to
damage by stock, fire, rodents or termites and
can, therefore, be laid above ground saving
trenching costs.
In addition it has greater strength, longer life,
and can stand greater pressures. Steel Pipe is
easy to handle or store without fear of breakage,
and is adaptable to innumerable uses.
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged,
shorter-lived types of piping!
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . FOR LONGER LIFE ... FOR VALUE
INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
