

The Bulletin
"Outward Bound” School— pag e 30
Wednesday, July 13, 1960
Price 1/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Goodness, Carol, what have you done to yourself? You look ridiculously feminine!"


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. Tliat difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
WRITERS!
WHAT TO WHITE—WHERE TO SELL
Complete Details of Current Markets
“WRITERS’ MARKETING GUIDE”
1900-61 Edition
Australian. N.Z. and Oversea Markets for
Articles, Stories, Radio and TY Books.
Publishers,' Literary Agents, etc.
Detailed up-to-date information
PRICE 15/- (post Bd.)
At most booksellers, or direct from:
Australian Writers’ Professional Service,
Box 28, P. 0., Collins St., Melbourne.
The Red Page
BUTLER IN NEW ZEALAND
Dr. Joseph Jones, who was a Ful-
bright scholar in New Zealand and is
now at the University of Texas, says
he wrote The Cradle of Erewhon (Mel-
bourne University Press) because over-
seas commentators have generally
failed to lay proper stress on the influ-
ence of his New Zealand years on
Butler’s life and works. They have
largely ignored, he says, the informa-
tion that has been brought to light by
such New Zealanders as A. C. Brassing-
ton, M. H. Holcroft, Oliver Duff and
the mountaineer John Pascoe.
There was an obvious need for
somebody to enlighten the English and
American critics and biographers when,
as Dr. Jones says, one recent book on
Darwin and Huxley “places Butler's
sheep-farming in Australia”; but the
book will also be informative to New
Zealand and Australian readers who,
though they may know in a general way
that Butler lived for five years as a
sheep-farmer in New Zealand and
located his famous satire, “Erewhon,”
not far over the Southern Alps from
his own property with its absurd name
of “Mesopotamia,” are not well-up
in the details. Butler, young and
virtually unknown as he was then, was
a considerable lion to have been roam-
ing the mountains of New Zealand a
hundred years ago, and the more we
can learn about him the better.
One of the most interesting aspects
of his career which Dr. Jones discusses
is, for instance, his painting. As well
as being a writer, Butler was interested
enough in art to apply (unsuccess-
fully) for the Slade Professorship of
Art at Cambridge in 1886. He is
thought to have .done quite a bit of
painting in New Zealand. A few speci-
mens survive; more, says Dr. Jones,
may be discovered; and, judging from
the admirable self-portrait reproduced
in this volume from the original in the
McDougall Gallery, Christchurch, they
may have had quality enough to make
any further discoveries a most excit-
ing. as well as a profitable, event.
Dr. Jones has a good deal to say
about Butler’s “A First Year in a
Canterbury Settlement,” which his
father made-up and published from
letters he wrote home. It is not as well
known as it should be—partly because
Butler himself grew to be ashamed of
it and tried to push it out of sight—
and one wishes that Dr. Jones had
quoted more of it. However, his
account is certainly enough to prove
his two main points: that Butler’s
father could hardly have been the
monster his son always made him out
to be, since he obviously took a decent
paternal pride in his writing; and that
Butler himself was not at all as
unhappy in the wilderness of the
Southern Alps as his biographers have
imagined.
In fact, it is quite astonishing to
learn from this book how much he
enjoyed his five years’ “exile.” On the
one hand there was, as Dr. Jones points
out, a witty and cultivated society in
Christchurch, mostly university men
from England, with whom Butler could
have all the intellectual talk he needed
when, as he often did, he stayed for
long periods in town; and there was
also the Christchurch “Press,” always
the most cultured of New Zealand
newspapers, where Butler could publish
his first ventures into literature—essays
and skits in favor of Darwinism, which
afterwards he was to oppose so
violently. And on the other hand—
and anyhow in a world where any
chance-met shepherd was likely to be
an old Oxonian with the “Machiavel-
lian Discourses upon the First Decade
of Livy” in his hut —there is the clear
evidence of how much he enjoyed the
exploring and mountaineering which
the search fc* new lands in Canterbury
forced upon all the settlers who timed
their arrival a bit late. Here is Butler
describing his first view of Mt. Cook: —
Suddenly, as my eyes got on a level
with the top, so that i could see
over, I was struck almost breath-
less by the wonderful mountain that
burst on my sight. The effect was
startling. It rose towering in a
massy parallelogram, disclosed from
top to bottom in the cloudless sky,
far above all the others.... It is well
worth any amount of climbing to see.
No one can mistake it. If a person
says he thinks he has seen Mount
Cook, you may be quite sure that
he has not seen it. The moment it
comes into sight the exclamation is,
‘'That is Mount Cook! not, “That
must be Mount Cook!” There is no
possibility of mistake.
The pass over the Southern Alps
that leads into the imaginary country
of Erewhon is. of course, as Butler him-
self made clear, and Pascoe after him,
an actual pass which Butler discovered
while searching (in vain) for good
sheep-country on the West Coast side.
It is called Whitcombe Pass, after
Henry Whitcombe. who was drowned
in a West Coast river after crossing
the pass as a result of Butler's report.'
Dr. Jones is interesting in his recapitu-
lation of these facts, and again in his
investigation of Maori influences in
“Erewhon”—in the naming of places
and characters and possibly in the great
statues, which he thinks were a com-
posite of Maori totem-poles and the
Easter Island figures.
Dr. Jones has one or two small
errors of his own, to correct which
some one else will presumably have to
write a book. He seems to think that
wild-pigs would not harm lambs. He
gets into bother over the interpretation
of the phrase “a fire in the fern,”
which he calls “a New Zealand idiom
for trouble” but which actually was a
Maori term for tribal war. He quotes,
without recognising the origin, one of
Butler’s friends in Christchurch giving
a very garbled account of our
cherished Australian phantom, Fisher’s
Ghost; and, discussing the possibility
of getting lost in the New Zealand bush
(Continued on page 58)
WOUNDED NIGHT-BIRD
[FROM A SERLES]
Walking one lukewarm, lampblack night
I heard
a yard from me his harsh rattle of
warning,
and in a landing-net of torchlight saw
him crouch;
the devil, small but dangerous. My
heart’s lurch
betrayed me to myself. But I am
learning;
l can distinguish ; the devil is no bird.
A bird with a broken breast. But what
a stare
he fronted me with —his look abashed my
own.
He was all eyes , furious, meant to wound.
And I, who meant to heal, took in my
hand
his depth of down, his air-light delicate
bone,
his heart in the last extreme of pain and
fear.
From nerve to nerve I felt the circuit
blaze.
A long my veins his anguish beat; his eyes
flared terror into mine and cancelled
time,
till the. black whirlpool closed over my
head
and clogged my throat with the cry that
knows no aid.
Far down beneath the reach of succour-
ing light
we fought; we suffered; we were sunk
in night.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Only INTERNATIONAL
can supply 16 basic models
and over 100 variations
m
mm
mm
m&wmMz
m
Choose your truck from Australia’s most
complete line. There’s an International
to suit every truckman’s needs, whether
it’s logging or deliveries, road transport-
ing or any job where only the best trucks
will' do. With International trucks you
get tireless engine work-ability, the most
up-to-date cabin and chassis designs and
practically custom-built wheel-bases and
axle arrangements. For greater payloads
and maximum driver efficiency, go for
International.
See and test-drive
International trucks
at your local IH dealer
or nearest International
sales office today!
THE MOST TRUSTED NAME IN TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT 365/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 13, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4196
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (.opposite
G.P.O. ), Wellington.
LABOR'S ALTERNATIVES
nrHE United Kingdom Labor party,
A defeated heavily at the general
election last year, with further losses at
subsequent by-elections and rejected at
the municipal polls, presented a sad
picture as it struggled to reconcile its
Left and Right wings and establish
some sort of firm ground under its
slipping feet.
The “Gaitskell faction” ultimately
triumphed over the trade-union Left,
but whether it was a triumph de facto
or only a temporary reprieve by the big
Red-run unions remains to be seen.
The trade-union bloc is immensely
powerful, buying many M.P. candi-
dates with subsidies and promises of
careers, usually the young long-hairs
of the universities who are glib and
oratorical and who look on politics as
the best opening for a career.
Probably a third of the whole of
Labor’s candidates at an election now
consist of political gigolos, of a type
which is also beginning to be known
on both sides of the House. But the
theatrical voices of some of these
political adventurers pleading the
Labor cause leave a lingering aroma
of the vaudeville stage.
At the same time the unions have
their quota of hard-boiled secretaries
and trained organisers who act as
shepherds to union-members, though
they have not the same kind of appeal
as the “intellectuals” to the floating
middle-class vote, which is Labor’s only
hope of winning an election. The
“intellectuals” of the Gaitskell type
can flaunt their old-school-ties and
university-college affiliations to prove
that they cannot be stooges of the
Kremlin.
The fight in the U.K. between the
Gaitskell “intellectual” leaders and the
others (particularly the others in a little
group of foreign origin headed by Mr.
Sydney Silverman, chairman of the
Victory for Socialism Group) came to
a climax in meetings, both closed
against the press, at the end of June.
A vote of confidence in Mr. Gaitskell
was passed by 179 to 7, the seven
being the Victory for Socialism Group.
The resolution condemned “in the
strongest possible terms all personal
attacks in whatever form and from
whatever quarter, and calls on all mem-
bers to show by their actions and words
their unity and loyalty to the party.”
Twelve present abstained from voting.
Except for seven members who wrote
apologising for non-attendance but
supporting Gaitskell, the 53 who did
not attend were apparently saving their
fire for a future occasion—the annual
party conference in the autumn, when
the real fight will take place.
'T'HEN the primary issue will be de-
A fence, because it seems that there is
no other issue which the Tory party
has not made its own. Wages and con-
ditions have become something for
the trade-unions to handle exclusively,
because all such questions are now
matters of detail rather than broad
policy.
The Labor party, when it was in
office, fell into an inescapable trap by
nationalising industries like coal and
transport, which the business experi-
ence of their leaders did not enable
them to manage efficiently. They now
find themselves in the position that
the “Big Business” experience of the
Tories enables them to show a better
record of management and treatment of
the workers than the Attlees were ever
able to show.
The recent appointment of Mr.
Robens, one of the hopes of the
leadership of Parliamentary Labor, to
be titular head of the National Coal
Board, at a salary of £lO,OOO a year,
left Labor feeling particularly sore.
Especially in the light of the fact that
Mr. Robens is only 49 and might have
been expected to see a good future for
himself in politics if Labor has any
chance of office in the foreseeable
future.
Following the vote of confidence in
the leadership, at which various sections
supporting Mr. Gaitskell did their best
to stifle discussion for very obvious
reasons, two other conferences were
held.
One was another Parliamentary
caucus-meeting which reflected the real
position of the party. Whereas 203
out of 257 members had turned up to
give Mr. Gaitskell a hand on the motion
of confidence in himself, only 112
found themselves able to be present
the following day to vote on defence
policy.
It seems surprising how many
members had mandatory engagements
that day when they should have been
eager to hear Mr. George Brown, who
is Labor’s shadow Defence Minister,
expound the compromise defence plat-
form. This is based on some sort of
agreement between those who were for
provision of an independent national
British deterrent defence policy and
those who favored a move away from
a defence policy based on the nuclear
deterrent.
He apparently made it clear that it
would not satisfy the “unilateralist”
supporters who want Britain to “ban
the bomb” alone or the pacifists of
the party. That it was carried by 97
votes to 15 seems to mean only that
a majority of the party had not suffi-
cient interest in it or guts to come and
vote, or that sections didn’t want to be
pinned to it.
The Trade Union Congress in the
Isle of Man, in the first week in Sep-
tember, will probably see the big Red
unions bringing up their artillery.
The A.E.U. and the Shop and
Allied Workers perhaps will join the
five who are supposed to have voted
against the statements of policy at the
T. meeting—Cousens of the Trans-
port and General Union; his chairman,
Comrade Fordham; his women’s
branch officer and the two representa-
tive officials of the Boilermakers.
These constitute the most formidable
opposition possible to Mr. Gaitskell
and his policies, and it is obvious that
the meeting was small and desultory
and that the real explosion will come
at the Labor Party Conference in Scar-
borough following the T.U. Congress
when the M.Ps. meet their masters.
Then, too, will probably come up,
either for final or intermediate discus-
sion, the question of modernising the
party’s constitution and Socialistic pro-
gramme.
TN debate on that subject are the seeds
A of destruction for the p>arty. Its
leaders now know that it is impossible
for them to sup on Socialism without
supping with the Communist party,
which has cunningly framed its policy
so as to persuade gullible unionists
that there is no difference between
Kremlin Socialism and Labor’s brand.
Labor is forced more and more to
the Socialistic ideal to get out
of the clutches of United Front Com-
munist policy, and consequently more
and more to abandon the very points of
policy which it has claimed to give it
a special appeal to, and claim on, the
rank-and-file.
It seems at present that the only way
Labor can save itself, either in the
U. or in Australia, is by going Con-
servative. Its alternative, as is being
shown by the mottled pattern of Aus-
tralian Labor policy as between the
States, is to prepare to go Communist,
at least in policy, as the Victorian
A.L.P. appears to be doing at this
very moment, to the intense embarrass-
ment of those who are fighting its two
by-elections in Bendigo and Balaclava.


THREE BLIND MICE


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Australia tor the
White Man"
At a time when there was probably never
more friction between the black races
and the white races of the world in
places where they are rubbing together
geographically and politically there is
pressure by pockets of Australians to
open our doors, partly or completely, to
immigration from Africa and Asia.
This pressure is coming almost en-
tirely from Australians themselves, with
some subtle help from overseas
European or American busybodies. There
are no loud demands from the new self-
governing nations of either Africa or
Asia for the right to migrate to Aus-
tralia. For the present, at any rate, they
seem quite busy in establishing their own
form of nationalism and their own politi-
cal policies. Like Australia, they have
immense tasks ahead of them requiring
manpower as well as materials and money.
But where there are blacks and whites
together jockeying for political and
economic power (or supremacy) it is
another story. This is so from the north
of Africa to the south. It is so in parts
of Asia and the United States. And there
have been unpleasant incidents in the
United Kingdom following an influx of
Jamaicans.
It seems both appropriate and necessary
for Australia to re-emphasise, to Aus-
tralians, the need to maintain its White
Australia policy with the utmost vigi-
lance. The danger of a breakdown, or
watering-down, of that policy is for the
moment from within, not from outside.
Until it is shown that the United States
has politically assimilated its negro
population successfully there is no reason
for Australians to believe that assimila-
tion of Asians or Africans would be any
easier here. And it is of no use talking
about letting in limited numbers of
colored people. Unassimilated, even a
5 p.c. minority, with the vote, would be
a potent pressure-group, as any Gallup-
poll at election-time would demonstrate.
It could even hold the balance of political
power.
The Australian Constitution, with its
one-man-one-vote adult suffrage (except-
ing aboriginal natives of Australia), its
political and social provisions, was
designed for an educated people brought
up to obey the law rather than one or
a dozen brands of religion or creed. Its
popular conception at the time was
“One flag, one people, one destiny.”
Minorities with other ideas do not fit
in with that conception. And Australia,
with a population, even at its present
swift rate of growth, of just over 10
million, is in no position to feel that it
can absorb unrestricted immigration.
If the United States, when it had
grown to have a population of over 100
million, found it necessary to restrict
immigration of all kinds, then Australia
at its present stage of development should
exercise great bare to see that it does not
become politically embarrassed by un-
assimilable political minorities of any kind
or color —European, Asian or African.
The world today, because of world-
Communism, is in an intensely disturbed
political state. There are all sorts of
pressures being exercised from abroad to
interfere with the government of
particular countries: through trade-
unionism, through the United Nations
and through trading and economic acti-
vities. It is no time for Australia to get
itself into a state of political flux over a
matter like the abandonment of the
White Australia policy. On the other
hand, the greatest possible political and
social unity is urgently needed.
Even the Indonesians are having
trouble with Chinese ; the Ceylonese are
worried about their Indian population ;
Pakistan and India are at loggerheads ;
and the Fijians dislike the Indians.
Chinese in particular seem to retain their
links with China regardless of what
country they make their domicile.
To seek abandonment of the White
Australia policy, or even a watering-
down of it, is either sinister or silly.
And the policy is not one that can be
taken for granted by Australians, or
one that should be deprecated or
apologised for. It needs restatement now
as never before, so that Australians
themselves should be in no two minds
about it. For, after sixty years, the
policy has never been in greater danger
from softheaded interference.
Imported Crime
The kidnapping of a small boy in a
quiet suburban street as he was on
his way to school is a horrible sidelight
on a kind of crime new to Auftralia
though common enough elsewhere.
Briefly, the thugs who achieved the
kidnapping heard that the parents of
the boy had won £IOO,OOO in a lottery
run by the N. S. Wales Government in
the interests of culture and decided to
have their cut of the prize under threat
of murder of an innocent.
In sympathy with the distressed parents
and concern for the little boy it is easy
to lose sight of the main issues raised by
this type of crime and to yield to its
criminal blackmail.
The parents could scarcely be blamed
if they were willing to pay the ransom.
At the same time, the public issue is
that facing the menace of a crime so
abhorrent to every decent human in-
stinct, and so dangerous to freedom and
lives of children who must frequent the
streets, it should b£ shown very de-
cisively that kidnapping will receive no
encouragement.
The handling of the affair to date
scarcely fulfils these conditions. That
one Sydney journal has offered a reward
of £IO,OOO (supplementing a £SOOO
Government reward) for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of
the kidnappers, the money being handed
to the police to dispose of, is all to the
good. But another journal—the Sunday
edition of which describes itself as “the
clean family newspaper”—has announced
that it will pay a reward with “no ques-
tions asked.”
It notes the offer of rewards for the
arrest and conviction of the kidnapper,
but says that the public is not as
concerned with these matters as it is with
the safe recovery of the boy. It appeals
to the kidnapper, or anyone having
information, to ring the special tele-
phone number it is keeping open night
and day—and provided it receives the
information, irrespective of who gives
it, the reward is to be paid.
The key words in the offer are those
which insist that the kidnapper shall
collaborate to give the newspaper the
credit of getting the boy home.
Mr. Delany, N. S. Wales Police Com-
missioner, says that “this is a desperate
situation and demands drastic measures,”
one in which “the preservation of the
boy’s life means more than money or
the observance of conventional criminal
investigation procedure.” He says that
“while we cannot and will not compromise
with a criminal we have a grave responsi-
bility to the parents and indeed to the
public to do all in our power to have
the child returned.... We want to find
him alive and unharmed. We must also
think about the apprehension of the per-
son or persons responsible.” And he asks
the cold-blooded planners of the crime,
who are obviously coldly calculating
criminals without a grain of softness, to
have a bit of sense: “Surely in the in-
terests of the community you will release
this little boy.”
It seems (according to the daily press)
that the police have “cleared the way
for the kidnappers to contact the boy’s
father and collect £25,000 ransom.”
Last in the field with an appeal was
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Jensen, who made
a “pledge” over TV-stations giving the
kidnappers “an undertaking which I will
honor” as “an unconditional promise” to
“go to any place they like to nominate
and take the boy from you,” saying that
any information they might give him
would not be divulged to anybody. The
kidnappers “would not be betrayed.”
As a man of the world Alderman
Jensen should be able to visualise the
kind of response he will get to this plea.
The chances are that the kidnappers
will not have given up hope yet. They
will hang on to the increasingly valuable
human commodity in their hands as long
as there is any way of getting the mount-
ing rewards directly or through con-
federates. That is the only bright spot
in the picture.
Goldberg and Bendigo
It was news to Harry Goldberg, inter-
national representative of the American
Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organisations, when he visited
Melbourne and discovered the mateship
in Victoria between the militant unions,
including such associations of all types
of unions as the A.C.T.U. and the A.L.P.
His pained surprise is evident in an
article he has written for the A.F.L.-
C. 1.0. “Free Trade Union News,” in
which he complains that the official
leaders of the A.C.T.U. are not making
the slightest effort to dislodge Com-
munists, that Communists are entrenched


in positions of control or influence of
national and local unions and Trades
Hall councils, and that their strength
extends to the top.
All this is old stuff to Victorians. The
most recent developments in the A.C.T.U.
have, in fact, strengthened the Com-
munist representation in the A.C.T.U.,
and since Harry Goldberg visited Mel-
bourne and was jeered and shouted-down
at a Trades Hall Council meeting when
he attempted to discuss Red China, the
Communists have secured control of the
Gippsland Trades and Labor Council by
the usual means.
This was the familiar unity-ticket
between the Reds and Labor-party mem-
bers, and defended by the T.H.C. officials;
and in the last week the A.L.P. had staged
a farcical inquiry into a unity-ticket issued
in the Victorian Waterside Workers’
Union election, accepting at face-value
the owlish evidence of the A.L.P. team
that they had not given permission for
their names to appear on it.
There was no real sense of examination
in this inquiry. It was held simply to
frustrate any inquiry the Federal Execu-
tive of the A.L.P. might feel inclined to
make as the result of what may happen
at the Bendigo by-election.
Khrushchev and
Monroe Doctrine
The intrusion of Khrushchev and Mao
into Cuban affairs is the most serious
development in international politics for
20 years. The fact that it is directed
to helping a bandit Government which
em~”ed power over the graves of hun-
dreds killed-off by “people’s courts” with-
out normal rules of justice seems strange
in leaders who call themselves democrats,
devoted to peace.
This small country, still under the rule
of the tommy-gun, has just seized vir-
tually all the assets of the United States,
whose trade enabled it to exist on a
higher level than most Latin American
republics. It has done this after failing to
pay for the services and supplies pro-
vided by the owners of the greatest of
those assets to the tune of tens of millions
and after demanding that the oil com-
panies concerned process Russian oil
instead of their own.
These outrageous actions, bracketed
with the seizure of U.S.-builk hotels and
mills, and a gutter-campaign against
Americans, have been taken seemingly
on a guarantee that Khrushchev and
Mao will see them through whatever
happens.
Castro’s Government includes Com-
munists, one of them an Argentinian,
Guevara, obviously inserted into the
country to establish Communist tech-
niques and a “threshold situation”
leading to formation of a Communist
satellite Government.
The proceedings of Castro and his
Moscow and Peking friends are delibe-
rately aggressive and have been timed
nicely for the moment when the United
Mates would be in the greatest political
confusion.
Khrushchev’s warning is that if the
United States dares any aggression
against Cuba, Soviet rockets may support
Castro:
Let the Pentagon remember the last
rocket-tests, in w'hich we proved that
we can hit a target at a distance of 13,000
kilometres... .This, if you want it, is a
warning to those who might want to solve
problems by force and not by reason.
This, following Castro’s charge the
same day that Cuba “is the victim of
aggression” by the United States and
his resounding threats, is ominous.
Khrushchev has issued threats before
in provocative language, but this one is
somewhat different. Russia has no nor-
mal interests that would not be specifi-
cally aggressive in the Caribbean zone.
It has no possession within thousands
of miles of Cuba. Neither has China.
Cuba is outside the Nato defence
zone, but it is well within the defence
zone of the U.S., and the U.S. Guanta-
namo base on the s,-w. end defends
directly access to the great ports of
Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, Missis-
sippi and Texas and the Panama Canal,
apart from Puerto Rico and the U.S,
Atlantic Cpast.
Anything that threatened Guanta-
namo would bring a dangerous situation
of itself. But it would not need this to
breach the most sacred principle of
U.S. international relationships and one
for which every American would fight
and every American Government have
to fight.
Since December 2, 1823, when Presi-
dent Monroe said in his message to
Congress that “we owe it . . . to candor
and friendly relations ... to declare”
(to Powers outside the American zone)
that “we should consider any attempt [on
the part of those Powers] to extend their
system to any portion of this hemisphere
as dangerous to our peace and safety.
We could not . . . view any interposition
for the purpose of oppressing any inde-
pendent American Governments or con-
trolling in any manner their destiny by
any European Power in any other light
than as the manifestation of an un-
friendly disposition toward the United
States.”
Khrushchev is playing with fire. Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s warning that the
United States will not permit the estab-
lishment of a regime dominated by inter-
national Communism in the Western
Hemisphere is more than empty words.
Nye Bevan
Aneurin Bevan began his working-life
as a boy of 13 in the Welsh mines—in
narrow coal-seams and wretched condi-
tions. Even as a youth, however, he was
a rebel, and his fiery nature drove him
into the South Wales Miners’ Federation
before he was entitled to a vote.
His first real prominence came in the
angry days of the general strike of 1926,
when ragged and shivering bands of
miners from Wales sang in the London
streets to raise money for sustenance.
He actsd as the miners’ disputes agent,
and from then onward, until the end of
World War 11, he was known as one of
the group of M.P.s who had graduated
from trade-unionism to the House of
Commons under the impetus of the
depression.
He developed a bitter hatred of the
coalowner whose alleged sins he laid at
the door of capitalism in general. The
Conservatives were “lower than ver-
min”; patriotism an exploiters’ fetish.
There was something Napoleonic
about his figure as about his brainstorms
in his younger and middle years. When
engaged in pursuing his own topics he
was a formidable opponent.
He was merciless to opponents,
singling-out their personal weaknesses
and pursuing them in a way which led
Clement Attlee to admonish him more
than once, especially for his treatment
of Churchill in his later post-war years
in Parliament. To Churchill he became
“that miserable gamin of the Welsh
gutters.”
In the years round Munich (married
in 1934 to Jennie Lee, daughter of a
Scottish mine-worker and a graduate of
Edinburgh University who sat as M.P.
for a coalmining constituency), he was
far on the Left in the Popular Front
which was all too intimate with the
Communists to be comfortable for the
Labor party. It expelled him and Sir
Stafford Cripps. But with the develop-
ment of the rift between Germany and
Russia after their return to the party,
their very Leftism made them assets.
Too powerful among the mining vote
to be ignored, too dangerous to be
allowed within 50 miles of anything to
do with foreign politics or finance, Bevan
in 1945 was handed the job of Minister
for National Health, which he held for
six years and for his work in which he
will be remembered.
Then his leader made the dangerous
experiment of entrusting him with the
portfolios of Labor and National Ser-
vice. His term of office ended after three
months in a violent explosion that nearly
blew-up the Government.
He was much happier as a member
of the Labor Shadow Cabinet than as
a member of the real one. He personified
everything that is meant in the argot of
Labor by the word “militant”; but as he
travelled in the Leftist -bloc countries of
Europe and in Asia, along the fringes
of and into the Communist world, his
outlook became milder. He was on the
defensive rather than the offensive
against men like Macmillan a type
which baffled him. He missed the help
of Stafford Cripps, and as he grew
sicker he became more tolerant of his
foes and more and more devoted to his
farm and to the music and poetry that
his Welsh soul loved.
"Banjo" Paterson Festival
During its centenary celebrations later
this year, Orange (N.S.W.) is holding a
“Banjo” Paterson Festival.
Literary competitions include the offer
of a £IOO prize for the best short-story,
£SO (donated by Macquarie Worsteds)
for a short poem, and £SO for a one-act
play (prize from 2GZ Orange).
Entries close on August 31. Entry-
forms from Box 54, Orange, N.S.W.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Question was: why did teachers choose
that kind of work? “A” said
she had been well educated, and didn’t
know what else to do; “B” said he
wanted the long holidays ; “C” said she
liked bossing kids around ; and “D”
thought he should have his head read —-
he must have been mad. The head-
master said that “A” loved study for its
own sake, and liked to instil the love of
learning in others ; “B” gave up much
of his free time to teaching physical train-
ing, even going on educational camps
during the long-vacation ; “C” was not
a bossy sort, and had the happy knack
of getting the children to co-operate
without letting them know they were
being guided ; “D” had a genuine fond-
ness for the young, and was adored by
them. “Don’t you believe what teachers
tell you,” finished the Head ; “they’d
be much too self-conscious to tell you
that they felt teaching to be a calling.”
“Is that why you chose to be a teacher?”
I asked, and the Head blushed: “Good
Lord, no! My parents decided that
for me!” —“G. M. Newton.”
*i* *l+ *i*f
“Joanne”: Theatre encores can be-
come a little boring, even though they’re
flattering. The Borovansky Ballet at a
matinee performance of “Beau Danube”
in Dunedin (N.Z.) received 17 curtain-
calls. As the curtain fell for the 17th time
the company varied the proceedings by
stepping up to the footlights and
applauding the audience.
♦j+
“N.A.8.”: Fourteen pupils of Ellerslie,
a tiny one-teacher school near Singleton
(N.S.W.), are completing paintings that
their teacher (Mr. H. Jones) hopes will
be on view in Rome during the Olympic
Games. Ellerslie is one of the few
schools chosen to send paintings to Rome.
It was nominated by the Education De-
parment’s Supervisor in Arts (Miss N.
Playford) because of its excellent record
in art —the artists range in age from
eight to 11 years.
❖' ❖ ❖
“Stromlo”: Unk White’s spirited illus-
tration of “The Battle of the Marching
Girls” (B. 29/6/’6O) recalled to me a
procession of damsels clad in the same
way in 1952, in Chicago, where I was
attending the Democratic Convention
which eventually picked Adlai Stevenson.
I discovered that Averill Harriman’s
claims were being advanced, not by logic
or argument, but by this bevy of girls
parading around the Chicago streets and
the hotels where the delegates were
lodged, carrying banners: “Vote for
Harriman.” He didn't get the pick, but
when 1 was going round for a while on
the campaign in the “Ike” train I found
that similar displays were a feature of
the Republican parades in most towns
we visited. Messrs. Menzies and Calwell,
please note.
❖ ❖ *
“Yen”: The young hopeful returned
from town with a treasure branded
“Japanese Kissing Dolls.” With three
little wooden figures were the instruc
tions:
Place these different Genders of dolls on
desk. Move one of them gently with finger
closer to rest. If they have a Passion for
will suddenly kiss; on the contrary, she
turns round her face and will never kiss.
MEAT AND FITTING
“One of three Homebush Abattoirs (Sydney)
employees jailed for stealing meat had four
sheeps’ livers tied around his shins, two more
in his overcoat pockets, two pieces of steak
in his right-hand pocket and two more tucked
in the waistband of his trousers.”
“Oh, where are you going to, my meat-
works employee,
Oh, where are you going with that load ?”
said the D,
“With two bits of steak in your trousers-
pocket, and
Two bits of steak in your trousers-
waistband,
And two sheeps’ livers in your overcoat-
pocket,
And four round your shins, and all
without a docket ?
I hardly like to say it, but you look a bit
uncouth
With your liver round your legs and your
heart in your mouth.”
“My man,” said the magistrate, “I’m
sending you away
To a Governmental boardinghouse for
four weeks’ holiday,
With two bits of steak in your trousers-
pocket, and
Two bits of steak in your trousers-
waistband,
And two sheeps’ livers in your overcoat-
pocket,
And four round your shins, and all
without a docket;
I’m sure you will be welcome, though you
look a bit uncouth
With your liver round your legs and
your heart in your mouth.”
And when he got inside the jail, they
asked the employee,
“What would you like for breakfast, sir,
for dinner and for tea ?”
“Well, there’s two bits of steak in my
trousers-pocket, and
Two bits of steak in my trousers-
waistband,
And two sheeps’ livers in my overcoat-
pocket.
And four round my shins, and all without
a docket:
You see, it paid me in the end, to look
a bit uncouth
With my liver round my legs, and my
heart in my mouth.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Had my take - over offer to the
proprietor of the “Manly
Daily” 50 years ago gone through I
might today have been enjoying the
fruits of my early confidence in the
future of free newspapers. In 1910, fresh
from the country, where I had been
trying to sell subscriptions for a tri-
weekly against its stronger rival daily,
I was attracted by the volume of district
advertising carried by the Manly sheet,
which even then made a house-to-house
delivery throughout The Village and
surrounds. It would be fine, I.
thought, to own a paper which didn’t
have to bother about subscriptions and
was under no obligation to gather news,
so I wrote to the proprietor (E. E.
Lincoln) offering to “rent, lease or buy”
his paper. Turning over the corner of
my letter he sent back this forthright
reply: yl will sell the ‘Daily’ for £5OOO
cash. I would not rent or lease it to
any man living on the face of God’s
earth.” As I didn’t have 5000 pence, let
alone £5OOO, the deal fell through. Today
the “give-aways,” as the free newspapers
are known, are thrown over tens of
thousands of front-fences in the metro-
politan and near-country areas and
carry a heavy volume of advertising.
One chain of give-aways, with its head-
quarters in Parramatta, was sold recently
for £1,000,000. —“Peter Simple.”
* ❖ *
“VTF”: Incorrect diagnosis and sub-
sequent wrong first-aid by a Boy Scout
could result in his being sued for his
good deed, according to the Boy .Scout
Commissioner in Wellington (N.Z.).
❖ * *
“Country Parson”: The position of
the Anglican celebrant if someone objects
to a marriage at the time of the ceremony
(B, 15/6/’6O) is definite. Immediately
after the question and the warning to
the couple a direction is printed in the
Marriage Service:
if any man do allege and declare
any impediment... .and will be bound,
and sufficient sureties with him, to the
parties; or else put in a Caution... .to
prove his allegation: then the solemnisa-
tion must be deferred, until such time
as the truth be tried.
As yet I have never had any objections
raised in 13 years of solemnising
marriages ; but were one to be made I
would require definite evidence or a sub-
stantial deposit in cash before deferring
proceedings. The reaction of the couple
to the objection would usually give a
fairly clear indication as to the truth or
otherwise of the alleged impediment.
$ ♦♦♦ *
“Rangitaiki”: Two Japanese table-
tennis champions touring N.Z. will re-
member their visit to Masterton: Misses
Matsuzaki and Yamaizumi received their
c ups of tea with smiles, but as they
sipped they barely restrained gasps of
horror. An interpreter caught the eye
°f an official, who thought the gestures
were the signal for a toast; he drank
up, too, and spluttered—the sugar-bowls
had been accidentally filled with salt.
“Sunray”: The group was discussing
the criteria of essays, short-stories, etc,
and one view put forward was that no
real critical sense could be instilled into
school-children because they were given
competent works to study and this dulled <
their critical faculty. A suggestion was
made that teachers should approach The
Bulletin and buy, for two-bob a pop,
"But you can’t Wriggle out now. I'm all
dressed-up and everything!”
the rejected articles and short-stories
(with the consent of the authors, of
course); these to be multilithed and
handed round to classes for criticism.
The chairman suggested that there was
a danger that the children would prefer
the bad examples—but it seems a novel
approach to teaching appreciation.
•> *J4 *
“0.W.W.”: With liabilities of some
£35,000 and assets of about 5i 9,000, the
New Zealand Players’ Company has
appealed for State aid. Since it began
touring seven years ago the company
has been unable to cover expenses,
despite yearly grants from the N.Z.
Cultural Aid fund —£5300 for 1959.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Tabba”: When The English Associa-
tion of Central Queensland was being
formed in Rockhampton on June 27,
more than 50 people, to the surprise of
the organisers, turned-up. As always,
would-be a menders and hair-splitters
were in good voice, feut the evening’s
prize laugh-raiser spoke on rule 3 (“A
register of members shall be kept. This
register shall include particulars of the
scholastic, teaching, literary and other
activities of each member”); the amender
intimated that he wouldn’t agree to such
public disclosure of his “other activities.”
+*4
“Flu”: “Rose Flo” (B. 22/6/’6O) re-
minds me of a relative, a junior partner
in an estate-agency, who had an order
from an old country client
to find him a house in a
good suburb to which he
and Mum could retire, the
boys being old enough to
look after the farm ; the
price not to be more than
£650. A suitable house
having been located, and
settling-day arranged, Dad
arrived pronto with a little
case from which he ex-
tracted a 71b. oatmeal-bag
and, in turn, several small
tins which he emptied onto
the table sovereigns.
"There they are,” said
Dad ; “six-fifty of them,
and if you don’t believe me,
count them.” “But, Mr.
Dad,” said the junior part-
ner, “don’t you know that
each sovereign is worth
£1 12s. 3d?” “Look here,
my boy, I’ve been doing
business with your father
and your grandfather be-
fore him for over fifty
years, and I saved them
sovereigns specially to buy
this house, and I’m not
going to rob anyone. I
don’t want to know any-
thing about this high-
finance of yours, so count
them and give me a re-
ceipt.” After giving the old
boy a couple of weeks to
cool-off the junior partner
took around a cheque for
the difference and also the surplus
sovereigns, and after much explanation,
offered Dad his choice. “Well,” said
Dad, “I still think I’m robbing someone,
but as J won’t be saving-up to buy
another house I’ll take the cheque.”
❖ , ❖
~p very driver knows the frustration
of endlessly trailing a laden truck
that is slow on the upgrades and
faster than you on the downs and
straights. You learn the truck’s number-
plate off by heart. The mug-driver pulls
out of file at the slightest opportunity
to risk death with the single yellow
line between his wheels. My mate,
George, a veteran of the Pacific High-
way, knows that Newcastle to Sydney
is three to four hours unless you're very
lucky. “I’m crawling at about twenty
behind a large table-iop with a high load
well tarped and tied,” he said to me,
over a middy. “Every time I get to nearly
passing he pulls up fair and square in
me path. 1 got to stop, too. He gets
out with a two-foot batten of three-by-
one in his hand and does a quick round
of. the truck slamming the tarp with
the batten. Then he gets back in and


drives off, still blocking my run.” George
took a couple of swallows at the middy.
“Each chance that looms-up for me to
pass, he comes to a stop again, barring
my way, gets out and repeats the round
of tarp-slamming with the three-by-one
batten. After a third performance I do
me block. I get out, too, to have a
piece of him. ‘Wot the hell?’ 1 says.
‘Sorright about you, mate,’ he says. ‘You
got a Holden see-dan. I got seven-ton
on with a five-ton permit, and Transport-
dicks ahead!’ ‘Seven-ton of what?’ I
says. -Anyhow, what’s all this tarp.-
thumping with the hunk of three-by-
“And remember, gentlemen, there is as much space between the
galaxies as between the cells of your respective skulls .”
one?’ ‘Canaries,’ he says; ‘canaries in
cages. Seven-ton of ’em and a five-ton
permit! I want to keep two-ton of ’em
flying till I get past the roadblocks.’ ”
“Spenton.”
♦t* ♦♦♦
“Destry”: Reference to “Old Hughie”
Murphy of Waterfall-station fame (B.
29/6/’6O) brings back happy memories
of school-holidays some 40-odd years
ago. I always considered it a highlight
of the trip to hear him calling as he
came along the platform with his basket:
“Oranges, all skin, no juice!” and “Slip-
stoned bananas!”
❖ *X* *X*
“Rehab.”: The driver of a timber-
truck thought that the Main Roads Board
blokes were making it a bit hot when
they held him up for inspection twice
in a week. When he was taking a load
in late on a Friday afternoon the
M.R.B. blokes again ordered him to
drive onto the scales, found his load in
order and told him to proceed. Driver
protested it was past his knock-off time
and the truck was going to stay-put till
Monday morning. M.R.B. blokes sought
assistance of a constable, who ruled that,
as truck was not obstructing traffic, he
couldn’t order its removal, while the
driver wasn’t obliged to shift it out of
workipg-houfs. Our driver hasn’t been
troubled since.
*
“Ex-ACT”: “Sackfair’s” curtailed
newspaper-item (B. 29/6/’6O) recalled the
pleasure created in the National Capital
by the “Canberra Times” report of a
collision between a bus and a car, which
concluded abruptly: “The bus sustained
a bent bum”; On another page a line,
which had obviously nothing to do with
an item in which it had been somehow
incorporated, said simply “per ba r .”
* *i* *
“Roomy”: That cartoon depicting the
chap who owned the ultimate in color-
cameras, but couldn’t put the film in (B.
29/ 6/ ’6O) made me cackle. With my
ultimate in models the difficulty wasn’t
to get the film in, but to get it out. This
operation entailed rotating one knob
anti-clockwise, while simultaneously de-
pressing another knob at the other end
of the camera. That left no hands with
which to hold the camera ; one could
use one’s feet if they were sufficiently
prehensile, or clamp it between one’s
jaws, provided the instruction - book,
exposure- and light - meters, and other
brie - a- brae were not already clamped
therein. Perched on a swaying rail
some 30ft. from terra firma, I photo-
graphed swans on Lake Purrumbeet and
finished the film. Then a gannet came
sailing along and perched on my rail,
not 3ft. away. I rotated and depressed
with the camera braced against a post
until I dropped, not the infernal
machine, but myself, into the drink. The
gannet couldn’t have cared less. I sloshed
ashore, did more depressing rotation,
performed the extraction, and then, fast,
the insertion. I clambered back along
the rail. The gannet watched with in-
terest. It only flew away when I glued
eye to finder and finger to lever. There
are limits to a bird’s patience. I’m
trading-in my model for the super-ulti-
mate kind, guaranteed automatic, elec-
tronic and self-adjusting in every detail.
That is, if I don’t go back to Brownies.
❖ *X* +>
“Acetiam”: Lew Wallace’s original
was not the film-version “Ben-Hur” in
more ways than one. Describing the
chariot-race to us our high-school girl,
while agreeing that it was “the most
thrilling spectacle anyone could see,”
came down to earth and Hollywood, with,
“The color-scheme was very effective;
Ben-Hur was in midnight-blue with white
accessories—white chariot and white
horses....” Box-office effectiveness,
without a doubt. The nags Lew Wallace’s
Ben-Hur drove were “all bright bays.”
Messala’s team were two blacks and two
snow-white, the only white ones in the
race! \
POSSIBLE CAUSE
Magistrate : “You say your husband beats
you once a week. Why this regularity? ’
Witness: “He gets nasty every payday,
your Worship. But last week he went over
the odds.”
When the ghost walks, the fiscal drought
To break by handing earnings out,
One will react by being ecstatic;
Another, like the ox its hay,
Invariably takes his pay
In manner utterly phlegmatic.
And there is he, dull in the dome,
You’d say, who takes the whole lot home;
Who by compulsion s philanthropic,
Not daring the envelope to unseal.
For this poor coot there’s no appeal
Against a handback microscopic.
There is the type who celebrates
Each Thursday after toil with mates,
His tonsils laved, with suds a-foaming,
In happiness he’ll praise in song
The pay that’s his —though not for long —
Before he finally is homing
To put on joy an emphasis
By planting on his spouse a kiss.
This bird, though, took his pay-dirt
dourly.
Whether because it wasn’t enough,
Or tfiat he thought he’d earned it tough,
He viewed the stuff they gave him
sourly.
Receipt of screw touched-off a rage
Which only one thing could assuage :
Though it was consolation scanty
At having emolument each week
Thrust upon him, it eased his pique
To hang upon her eye a shanty.
This time, though, to his roof-tree pard.
He handed something extra hard ;
Beyond endurance he’d been driven.
Now, could it be he’d blown his top
And vowed that she the lot would cop
Because of marginal increase given ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Swiss Holiday
From HERBERT HOLMAN, in London
After having lost custom to
other holiday countries,
Switzerland is regaining its
popularity as a centre for in-
ternational tourists. This year
it is, in fact, the only European
country to expect an increase in
numbers.
Aside from the natural
beauty and variety of scenery,
the reason is simply that Swit-
zerland has become relatively
cheaper. Prices in Spain and
Austria, for long the “cheaper”
countries, have crept up year
by year, partly because of in-
flation and partly because of
the natural commercial instinct
to make the most of a thriving
industry.
The Swiss hoteliers, with
more than a hundred years of
service and a farsighted Gov-
ernment behind them, have no
need to brace themselves to
cope with a new problem.
Despite overfull employment
and a consequent shortage of
staff, they provide, quickly and
competently, excellent food,
impeccable cleanliness and very
reasonable terms.
Especially commendable is
their practice of quoting an all-
in tariff, inclusive of service
and taxes. The visitor at least
knows how much he will have
to pay for a week’s board and
is spared the shock of “gross-
ing-up'’ which has become the
practice in neighboring coun-
tries. In every resort there are
two or three middle-class hotels
which are slightly better than
the rest and which, with a little
perspicacity, can be identified.
A week’s full board, excluding
only drinks and. baths, will
work out at about £l6 (Aus-
tralian currency) v/ith a sur-
charge of about £2 in the high
season. Moreover, there is no
“special” menu for en pension
guests: the difficulty is to avoid
too many second - helpings.
Wine, too, is reasonable so
long as you keep to Swiss or
Italian labels.
Halting-place
According to the local
chemist, who has lived in
Wengen for over 30 years, the
visitors to get least benefit out
of a Swiss holiday are those
Mto come from furthest away
His detached but percipient
observations are well worth
passing on to those Australians
who have a European trip in
mind.
All of'us want to see as much
as possible and many of us
learn by our mistakes. But the
difference is that if you live
in England you can go back
another year, wiser and better-
informed. The Australian may
have to wait twenty years.
What happens, particularly
with Americans, is that, in try-
ing to see everything, they often
see little. Their travel arrange-
ments, made in advance before
they leave, are so tightly packed
and close together that the
holiday becomes a whirl, with
some of the best trips ruined by
bad weather ; and their heavy
schedule leaves no time for the
excellent ad hoc excursions
which the Swiss Railways offer.
Sound advice is to travel out-
side the high season and to
make no plans. This enables
the visitor to wait for a clear
day before he ascends the Jung-
fraujoch (11,300 feet and an
expensive trip) and also gives
him the chance to get acclima-
tised to heights. Moreover,
coaches and motor-cars, though
indispensable in Germany, Aus-
tria or Italy, are to be avoided
in Switzerland.
Since, by buying a holiday-
ticket for £2, the tourist can
enjoy travel at half-rates on
the State services, they are com-
paratively expensive. They in-
evitably deposit him in the
trippiest places (cowbells,
cuckoo-clocks and masses of
people) and, in any event, the
pleasantest trips are made on
foot, by train or by one of the
various types of mountain lift.
No Parking
It is a relief for many of us,
motorists and pedestrians, to
get right away from petrol-
fumes,and there are three size-
able resorts, which are still in-
accessible to motor-cars. They
are Zermatt, Wengen and Mtir-
ren. This year Wengen, the
most attractive of them, cele-
brates its centenary as an
established holiday resort.
Thousands of people pass
through it every fine summer
day on their way, by rack-and-
“Cads!"
pinion railway, to the Jungfrau-
joch, but it still retains a quiet,
exclusive character. In fact, so
highly is the absence of traffic
valued, that the local trucks
and jeeps are not allowed on
the streets after the first of
June until the close of' the
■summer season.
There is no cinema and,
because of bad reception, no
television. The last connection
from Interlaken arrives at
dinner-time to add, as it were,
a final delightful touch of
cutting-off. One is forced to
get out, mainly on foot, and
the benefits are rich and health-
giving.
Yet, for all this apparent
isolation, the community is
sophisticated. The new chalets,
for example, are architect-
designed, keeping to the tradi-
tional Alpine pattern but with
all mod. cons., including a
study. Something of a para-
dox is the feeling of not living
in a foreign country, for the
Swiss, hardened to visitors
during eight months of the
year, look and behave just like
one's own neighbors.
One readily makes friends
and there are, of course, some
ripe local “characters.” Such
as the brothers Hans and Peter,
who at 86 and 83 are now too
old for work in the fields and
who, in their time, have carried
out what must be the brightest
and longest pub-crawl un-
recorded. Peter is now to be
seen, puffing his pipe in serene
old age and hobbling to the inn
fours times a day for his
Marc. Hans, less frequently,
goes along to pull him away
when he thinks his younger
brother is getting out of hand.
Migration Problem
The shortage of labor is
serious. For many years Swit-
zerland has drawn on Northern
Italy for casual labor but
always with circumspection,
for the Swiss are naturally very
conscious of their history, with
four races (French, Germans,
Italians and Romansh) living
in amity 'and without any
minority difficulties.
Now many of the Italian
immigrants have good jobs and
are well settled. The reservoir
is drying-up. The Swiss Gov-
ernment has recently been
searching Greece and Spain
for workmen butTwith little
success. The latest move is
much further afield —to
America, of all .countries —
where it is hoped that some of
the three-and-a-half million un-
employed may be persuaded
that there are better prospects
in Europe!


POLITICAL POINTS
!
• •
Kites are being flown for an increase
in members of the N. S. Wales Assembly.
If 122 M.H.R.s can look after the affairs
of the Commonwealth there should be
no need for more than the present 94
M.L.A.s to take care of N. S-. Wales,
especially as many of them find time to
hold down lucrative outside jobs in their
spare time.
• •
Inflation is the lifebuoy Calwell has
been depending on in his by-election
voyagings. This is a subject on which
the Government is vulnerable, though
hardly from Arthur, whose supporters
have thrived on inflation, and who has
never advanced any real policy for deal-
ing with it, being content to inveigh
against “excess profits” and monopolies.
• •
■p vents in the former Belgian Congo
■*“' during its first week of “independ-
ence” show only too clearly what can
happen when a colonial Power abdicates
its authority without giving adequate
thought to preparing those who are to
succeed it. With a Prime Minister and
a President at loggerheads, various
factions itching to resume tribal feuds
smouldering for half-a-century and
almost no trained administrators, it is
small wonder that the takeover was the
signal for murder, rape, pillage, mutiny
and general chaos.
The Belgian withdrawal was in reality
a scuttle. At the time Ghana was given
its independence something like 1200
Africans held reasonably responsible
posts in the civil service. In contrast,
the Congo, with 12 times the area and
four times the population, had only a
handful, and in the past few months
white officials have belatedly been making
frantic efforts to teach untrained Africans
the detailed tasks of running Govern-
ment departments.
For Australia, the lesson of this in
relation to New Guinea should be crystal-
clear.
• •
When Victorian railwaymen’s union
representatives rejected the Government’s
offer to pay the service grants they want
if they agreed to their superannuation
being scaled-down to those of Govern-
ment workers who get the grants, the
Government circularised the offer direct
to the men. Now there’s a strong rank-
and-file move to accept the offer.
Moscow is establishing a new univer-
sity to train Africans, Asians and other
“foreigners” at Kremlin cost as engi-
neers, doctors, and Red - ants to serve
Communism in their native lands. Which
proves that the Soviet Union is still back-
ward in its thinking. Australian Com-
munists spent a lot of hard cash some
years ago training doctors and lawyers.
The only snag was that, after they quali-
fied, capitalist gold proved a greater
attraction than Marxism-Leninism to
most of them.
• •
Indian Fligh Commissioner Shri S. Sen,
who has completed a three weeks’ tour
of Papua and New Guinea, was asked
in Port Moresby for his impressions of
Australia’s work in the "territory. He
said he thought a good deal had been
done in education, health and economic
development. He had been told that
the rate of development had not been
fully maintained in recent years, but this
was not substantiated by what he had
seen.
The High Commissioner said he felt
that Australia was fully aware of its
obligations to the trust territory.
As to the actual details of the target-
dates in this field, I cannot give a
dogmatic opinion after only three weeks.
We would like to see this political
development speeded-up as fast as
practicable, but how this should be done
is Australia’s responsibility.
It is to be hoped Mr. Sen’s remarks
will be studied by some oversea critics
who are prepared to be dogmatic on this
subject without even visiting New Guinea
at all.
• •
The A.C.T.U. is raising ,a levy from
unionists—9o per cent, of them anti-
communists —to bring a delegation of
“Soviet trade-unionists,” who are Gov-
ernment and party officials, to educate
our backward rank-and-file. Why
shouldn’t they? Once when such a
delegation came here in 1927 (a) the Pan
Pacific Trade Union secretariat was
formed and began its revolutionary work
in Asia; ( b ) the A.C.T.U. was founded
on the initiative of the Communist party ;
(c) a period of unprecedented industrial
disorder ; ( d ) paid agitators multiplied
like rabbits.
• •
“Stromlo”: The chances of 12-nation
ratification of the Antarctic Treaty,
necessary before it can come into effect,
aren’t very good. So far Britain alone
has ratified it, but some U.S. Senators
have held up the American ratification,
and there are doubts about Argentina
and Chile. Canberra has not yet debated
the matter. Although we have by far
the largest claim to territory in Antarc-
tica, there has been no discussion and
precious little information forthcoming.
Perhaps Calwell will propose an all-party
trip to the Pole!
• •
The Associated Chambers of Com-
merce, the Graziers’ Federal Council,
the National Union of Farmers and
others asked the Prime Minister a while
ago to consider appointing a committee to
inquire into the application of the tariff
laws. There hasn’t been an inquiry since
1929.
• •
[From Canberra]
In the welter of pre-Budget conjectures one
subject may have more substance than most
—the possibility of a higher excise-rate on
beer.
The rate was nearly doubled in the 1956
“Little Budget” and now stands at 9s. lOd
a gallon, which is more than the price paid
by the publican to the brewery.
The big question exercising Cabinet’s mind
is will an increase in excise—with an inevit-
able rise in the bar-price of beer —kill the
goose that is at present laying a fair-sized
golden egg for the Government?
If Ministers believe they will get enough
from an increase in excise to more than
offset any drop in consumption it is fairly
certain they’ll go ahead.
BITTER-SWEET


Khrushchev’s reported admiration of
Austria’s bikini - girls seems to be
the only instance on record of his
applauding the naked truth.
c •
While the N.S.W. Labor caucus sub-
committee is investigating “every aspect
of the land boom” it had better have a
word with Lord Mayor Jensen about the
block of Sydney City Council land in
Martin Place which he sold for over £1
million. After all, there was room on
that block for a couple of modern
cottages which “genuine home - buyers”
would have been glad to own.
• •
Replying to critics who suggested that
at 43 he was too young for the job of
U.S. President, John Kennedy said that
throughout history young men had been
notable successes. As examples he cited
Washington, Jefferson, Pitt, Napoleon
and Columbus. For the job he proposes
to tackle Pitt, Prime Minister of England
at 24, was the only one of the five who
really supports his argument. Washing-
ton was 57 when he became President,
Jefferson 58. Napoleon and Columbus
are not much more relevant to the argu-
ment than Don Bradman and Jimmy
Carruthers.
Most U.S. Presidents have been in
their fifties when elected. The oldest was
W. H. Harrison, who was 68 at his
inauguration in 1841. Kennedy could
have quoted Theodore Roosevelt, who
was only 42 when he became President
on the assassination of McKinley in 1901.
Others who went to the White House in
their forties were Grant (46), Cleveland
(47), Pierce (48) Polk (49) aftd Gar-
field (49).
• •
After three years of attempting to tear
their British protectors to pieces, the
Cypriots, under the agreement signed
on Wednesday, will now be free to tear
each other to pieces. Archbishop
Makarios expects “an era of friendship.”
So do his old Eoka friends, but they’d
first like to push underground the Turks
who unreasonably want a quota in the
civil service in proportion to their
numbers.
• v «
Khrushchev’s visit to Austria went
with zip and vim, save for one unlucky
incident: Somebody mistook his Security
Chief for a “suspicious-looking charac-
ter” and ran him in. Even policemen are
sometimes discerning.
« •
JJeefsteak as a cure for black eyes has-
had long acceptance, but sheep’s
livers used as shin-plasters were a new
one on the Sydney policeman who found
nn abattoirs employee wearing them.
When a further search revealed two more
hyers in the man’s overcoat pocket, two
Pieces of steak in his trousers pocket and
™ more tucked in his waistband the
oops suspicions were aroused. Sequel:
a month’s jail for the liver-lifter.
Melbourne picture-theatre proprietors,
badly hit by TV, are asking Bolte to
abolish entertainments-tax, which they
claim eats up 20 per cent, of their gross
revenue. Since 1956, they say, the num-
ber of theatres in the metropolitan area
has fallen from 142 to 87 and total
attendances have dropped from 34 million
to 18 million. TV'operates seven days a
week to their six and pays no entertain-
ment-tax. If Bolte reacts in the cus-
tomary way of Governments faced with
that sort of problem he’ll solve it by
finding a way of imposing the tax on TV.
• •
Charges of rigging are evening-up the
handicaps of Democrats and Repub-
licans in the Presidential elections in
U.S. The apparently immortal Harry
Truman and others say the Democratic
Convention has been nobbled to make
the choice of Senator John Kennedy a
certainty. Kennedy’s supporters are
charged with having arranged to offer
the Vice-Presidency to Senator Lyndon
Johnson and the Secretaryship of State
to Adlai Stevenson, leaving Senator
Symington, the Truman favorite,
stranded. Apart from him everyone
except Khrushchev seems to have been
provided for.
• •
"Dig guns on both sides will be mounted
this week for the final stages of the
election campaigns in Balaclava and
Bendigo. Balaclava should be a walkover
for Liberal candidate Raymond Whit-
torn, and it is unlikely that preferences
will have to be distributed. Most interest
will centre around whether the D.L.P.
can improve on its 1958 showing, as it
did in Latrobe.
Bendigo is a different kettle of fish,
with Calwell’s prestige as a leader staked
on the effort to hold for Labor a seat
which only Percy Clarey’s personal popu-
larity saved in 1955 and 1958, on the
latter occasion by only 266 votes. To
the Government the seat is not of vital
importance, but it would dearly love to
win it and Menzies and McEwen will
both make last-minute sallies into the
electorate in support of Liberal candi-
date W. H. Snell. Public-opinion polls
show a slight drift from the Government
in recent months, but against this are
balanced the loss of the Clarey personal
vote, and the effect on R.C. Labor sup-
porters of the Fox-Mannix pronounce-
ments. D.L.P. preferences, as in 1958,
will go overwhelmingly to Snell.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: In the current drive by
the N.S.W. Liberals to foster branch
development a good deal of stress is to
be laid on “two-way” discussions.
Branches will be encouraged to consider
specified topics (on which the party will
provide basic information and pose ques-
tions for debates), and will be asked to
send back to headquarters the findings
resulting from the combined wisdom of
the branch members. These findings will
go to appropriate policy - formulating
bodies, committees or Federal Ministers,
to allow a clear picture to be formed
of Liberal thinking throughout the elec-
torates. One result is expected to be a
lively interest in branch meetings and
greater awareness of current political
topics.
• •
‘‘New Zeal”: If N.Z. lost the first
Test in S. Africa, Rugby is winning all
the way at home where the coming
general elections are taking a bad second-
place in point of public interest. “Cry-
ing shame,” says the average Enzedder,
“that politics should interfere with the
Gome” Even so, with three Tests to go
in S. Africa and about four months
, before the elections, Labor is backing
its chances in millions (Nelson railway
and Auckland airport), plus a tidy sum
in increased civil-servant salaries. The
National party may find it tough going
to outdo such colossal bribery. On the
basis of last general elections it seems the
votes are there for the highest bidder.
• •
If the Liberals win Bendigo
on July 16 it will be the first occasion
since 1920 that a Federal Government
has won a seat from the Opposition at
a by-election. In 1920 the Hughes
Government won Kalgoorlie after Hugh
Mahon had been expelled from the
House of Representatives for alleged
seditious utterances. In 1929 Labor won
a seat formerly held by an independent,
but that’s not the same thing.
• •
“Actin’’: This is the season for pre-
Budget pressures, and the manufacturers
aren’t neglecting it. In Victoria, their
highly-vocal chamber has quoted with
approval Trade Minister McEwen’s re-
mark that because of development of
industry and diversification of primary
industry Australia will “never go back
to dependence on wool to balance its
economy.” It has followed this up by
urging for manufacturers the “same
encouragement and concessions” to
build-up export markets as were given
in the past to primary producers, and
has listed as immediate needs the return
of the remaining 6d. in the £1 of the
“Little Budget” company-tax of 1956;
the abolition of payroll-tax; adequate
depreciation-allowances on plant, machi-
nery and buildings; and a review .of
the income-tax law relating to private
companies. But has the Treasurer been
impressed?
• •
West Germany recently passed a build-
ing and real-estate act which provides for
a progressive real-estate tax, designed to
prevent excessive Speculation in building
sites. At the same time it freed the real-
estate market from all existing controls
and restrictions.
• •
Some time ago Treasurer Holt chal-
lenged those advocating the abolition
of payroll-tax to suggest an alternate
source of revenue. The Australian Road
Transport Federation claims it has the
answer —the increased income-tax the
Government will receive this year from
unanticipated increases in margins.


Personal ITEMS
Captain of the last Qantas domestic
flight out of Port Moresby on July 9
when Qantas, by Government direction,
handed-over the link to T.A.A. and
Ansett-A.N.A. —J. G. Morton was a
member of the crew of the first Qantas
aircraft to fly that link between Aus-
tralia and New Guinea. He flew in a
DC3 from Sydney to Lae when Qantas
began its Bird of Paradise service on
April 2, 1945. On this service Qantas
has used DC3’s, Skymasters, Electras and
Super Constellations. It was a Super
Constellation that Captain Morton com-
manded on the final Qantas flight.
• •
In Melbourne is Sir Halford Reddish,
beginning a tour of his companies’ Aus-
tralian interests after discussing develop-
ment projects with the W.A. Government.
In a Melbourne interview he tipped an
industrial awakening and development Jn
the West.
He is one of Hawker-Siddeley’s direc-
tors and also on the boards of Alfred
Herbert (machine-tools) and the Scottish
Union and National Insurance Co. and
chairman of Rugby Portland Cement,
which is the parent of W.A.’s Cockburn
Cement. He is an underwriting member
of Lloyd’s.
• •
“0.W.W.”: Dannevirke, a small town
in Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.), has the
Dominion's oldest car-driver. At 92
C..E. Hoggard has again passed medical-
and driving - tests. Another Hawke’s
Bay ancient, 81-year-old W. James, and
a Napier 90-year-old, also got licences.
• •
“Wyuna”: Unveiling of a memorial
to the late J. R. Duigan, who built and
flew Australia’s first plane, reminds me
that his brother Reg, who helped in
both the building and flying of the
machine, became a successful inventor
and now lives in retirement in the Gee-
long district. Flying must be in the
blood. One of Reg’s -sons got himself
to England the hard way, including
Cape-to-Cairo on a motor-cycle, joined
the R.A.F. and saw the war out with
Bomber Command, finishing with D.S.O.
and Bar, D.F.C., while his brother
served with the R.A.A.F. in the Pacific
and finished D.F.C.
• •
Warden of the Australian Outward
Bound School (described in this issue),
Warwick Deacock is a tall, well-knit
young man who looks a likely moun-
taineer. Until lately a captain in the
British Army, with some interesting ser-
vice to his credit and a taste for explora-
tion, he is now becoming known to a
growing circle of young Australians as a
skilled instructor and an intrepid leader.
Deacock (here pictured) joined the
Royal Marines directly he left school,
and at the end of War II was commis-
sioned in one of the commandos. On
demob, he took a job -in London for a
while, but found it too dull, so rejoined,
was gazetted to the Middlesex Regiment
(“The Diehards”) and went to the Far
East. There still wasn’t enough action
to suit him, so he got himself seconded
to the parachute-battalion of the French
Foreign Legion in Indo-China, when the
OUTWARD BOUND
fighting was at its height. Subsequently
returning to England, he volunteered for
a tour of duty with the Parachute Regi-
ment and meanwhile took part in two
expeditions—going to Alaska in 1956 and
to Lapland the next year —and later spent
some time at one of the Outward Bound
mountain-schools. In 1958 he was one
of a seven-man joint-services expedition
to the Himalayas and climbed Rakaposhi,
the 25,550 ft. peak nicknamed “the poor
man’s Everest.” Back again in England,
but with his taste for adventure still
unsatisfied, he transferred to the Special
Air Service, had some jungle-fighting in
Malaya and, on the way back to Eng-
land with his unit, a little quiet scrapping
in Oman. Seconded to help Sir John Hunt
in organising the Duke of Edinburgh’s
Award, he was seen by Sir Spencer
Summers, who recommended him for the
post of warden at the Australian school,
which was just about to open.
• , •
Monash University Interim Council
is earning, quite deservedly, a takeover
reputation in the academic field. (In the
matter of staff, of course, as the employ-
ment-ads. emphasise, it is every boss for
himself.) One of the latest two acquisi-
tions is again a youngish sprig of Mel-
bourne University’s intellectuals.
William Alexander Gowdie Scott,
Reader in English Language and Litera-
ture at Melbourne University since 1957,
who has been appointed to the founda-
tion Chair of English, is a B.A. graduate
of the University and B. Litt. of Oxford.
Dr. John David Legge is also a Mel-
bourne graduate, but he has been taken
over from Reader in History at the Uni-
versity of Western Australia to the foun-
dation Chair of History. He gained his
Doctor of Philosophy at Balliol College,
Oxford, and before his Readership was a
senior lecturer in W.A.
• •
“A.J.0.”: Recently paragraphed here,
Professor Harvey Sutton was one of
a band of pioneers who tried to intro-
duce the Canadian game lacrosse to
Australia. Although a fast-moving game
needing a lot of skill, it failed to catch-on
here. Whilst at school at the old St.
Andrew’s College, Bendigo (just before
my own time there), he had a remarkable
escape when a large horse-drawn furni-
ture-van, carrying a picnic-party of which
he was a member, was smashed by a
passing train at one of those Victorian
level crossings that have often figured
tragically in the news since. Several
other members of the picnic-party lost
their lives, but Harvey Sutton scrambled
from the van unhurt.
• •
A new recruit to publishing in Mel-
bourne is Lloyd O’Neil, formerly of
Brisbane, who has started the Lands-
downe Press in Tattersall’s Lane. He
plans to publish 20 titles in his first year,
including Bill Harney’s Cook Book and
David Fleay’s Living with Animals. He
says that Lansdowne Press is “anxious to
contact any authors with manuscripts or
ideas for manuscripts.”
• •
“Shibli Bagarag”: Peter Bland, who
won the Melbourne Arts Festival
Literary Prize, is a young English immi-
grant who has lived in N.Z. for the past
six years. In 1958 he won the Macmillan-
Brown prize from Victoria University
(Wellington) for a collection of verse
entitled “Habitual Fevers.” He is now
busy on a novel.
• •
Winner of the Rennie Medal for
organic research—it’s Australia’s highest
award for students under 30 Dr.
Athelstan Beckwith, now a lecturer at
Adelaide University, has had to contend
with physical disability since he was 13.
In his second year at Perth Modern
School he fell a victim to osteomylitis
and spent two years with his leg in
plaster—but he still managed to pass his
junior exam, with distinction in eight
subjects. Then, in his first university
year, he caught meningitis, but even that
didn’t stop him, and in 1951 he graduated
with honors in organic chemistry
Awarded a C.5.1.R.0. research-scholar-
ship, he went on to Oxford ; then, in


1956, joined the C.5.1.R.0. at Fisher-
men's Bend (Vic.), going thence to his
present post a couple of years later. The
severe handicap of a permanently stiff
leg hasn’t stopped his including swimming
and dancing as main hobbies, along with
music.
• •
Pat Lawlor (N.Z.): Lately passed on
here, Bill Yates was known among War
1 Enzedders as “the man who built the
Maadi Baths.” When Bill arrived in
Egypt with the First Echelon he heard
that Freyberg wanted swimming-baths
at their base-camp at Maadi. An archi-
tect by profession, Bill did such a fine
job that it launched the legend.
• •
Calling at The Bulletin office last
week, John O’Grady (“Nino Culotta”)
admitted that his latest book, Cop This
Lor, has reached its edition, with
sales over 70,000. Meanwhile he has
another book on the stocks, and a play
as well. The book in progress—not about
“the weird mob” this time—is the story
of a Samoan boy’s adventures as he
reaches manhood ... a sort of Samoan
Charlie Chaplin is possibly the best way
to describe it, says O’Grady. The play
sounds as if it could be a great winter
attraction: it opens in Hell. Subsequent
action, at time of writing, is a closely
guarded secret.
“Nino” yarned about his recent' trip
to Europe. Primarily his object was to
get local-color for the present book,
though he and his son Denis stopped-off
in London for a time and paid a visit
to Dublin in the “Ould Country” of the
O'Gradys, as well as visiting France.
Germany, Switzerland, and also northern
Italy, where the book’s scene is set.
O'Grady, student of accent and excellent
and witty mimic, turned-on some life-
like imitations of the throaty, upland
“NINO CULOTTA”
drawl of northern Italian peasants. Alto-
gether he leaves the impression of a
keen observer with a special flair for
finding humor in just about anything and
fetching a laugh out of just about any-
body. i
• •
“Maitri”: Bird-lover and former presi-
dent of the Royal Australian Ornitho-
logical Union, Norman Chaffer, F.R.Z.S.,
has done much to interest Australians in
the preservation of native -wild-life, and
as well his photographs and articles
have been featured in such overseas publica-
tions as the “Illustrated London News” and
American “Life” —one of his articles, pro-
fusely illustrated with his photographs, is
shortly to appear in the American “National
Geographic Magazine.” Charter's pictures also
appear in a number of woi xs by himself and
otner ornithologists, and some are to be
included in the new edition of a famous
zoological work at present being republished
by the University of Lund (Sweden). Also,
he has lectured and shown his stills and
films to hundreds of audiences, including
such specialist bodies as the Royal Australian
Zoological Society, the Zoological Society of
London, the British Aniculturists’ Club and
the Oxford Ornithological Society.
Chaffer has photographed almost every
conceivable variety of bird, but his chief interest
is the bower-bird. With inexhaustible patience
he erects his “hides” and has sometimes waited
as long as 12 hours at a stretch for a single
shot of some particular variety. Birds in his
photographs, like those in old Chinese paint-
ings, look as if they are alive, and his films
are as exciting as any that have come out
of Hollywood. In the time he can spare
away from bird-watching and picture-making
he runs a successful tannery.
• •
Having written a book based on his
experiences in the British Army during
the Burma campaign, John Palmer, of
Hamilton <N.S.W.), titled it Ranchi to
Rangoon and sent it off to a London
agent —a woman —who has now cabled:
“Relax ; Ranchi to Rangoon received ;
read ; reflecting reaction ; report reach-
ing you due course; rest assured will
offer.”
e •
“Ailsey”: Bishop R. E. Davies, new
Anglican Assistant Bishop of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), began his ministry there,. at
Christ Church Cathedral, 22 years ago,
later became a chaplain to Toe H, and
on war-time service in the Middle East
transferred to the R.A.A.F. for the dura-
tion. He completed his studies at Queens-
land then worked 10 years in
the Gouiburn-Canberra diocese, becom-
ing archdeacon, rector of Canberra and
later of VVagga. In 1959 he returned to
his old diocese as warden of St. John’s
College, Morpeth.
• a
Honorary - treasurer of the Royal
National Association of Queensland and
“whip” on the current Shell-sponsored
R.N.A. journalists’ tour of the Darling
Downs, Archibald Archer is descended
from a pioneering family which drove
sheep to the Brisbane valley 119 years
ago.
Born at Gracemere and schooled at
Rockhampton Grammar and at Sydney’s
“Shore,” he’s had' a fair innings with
sheep and cattle in western Queensland
and with general farming on the Downs.
He takes care of the sheep-and-wool
section at the Exhibition and says he
QUEENSLAND TOUR
hopes that this year the Show (August
11-20) may top the all-time record
attendance-figures—733,660 in 1958.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, Lieut.-Colonel Roy Morell,
a councillor of the R.A.S. of N.S.W. for
more than 20 years and treasurer from 1951
to 1959. Enlisting in the 6th Light Horse, he
fought on Gallipoli and later served in France
with the 4th Division, winning D. 5.0., 0.8. E.
and four “mentions.” Grazier and later
member of the Sydney Stock Exchange, he
was also a councillor of the Fairbridge Farm
School of N.S.W. and of Sydney Hospital.
At Wagga (N.S.W.), at 58, Charles Leslie
Sadler Falkiner, son of Otway Falkiner and
brother of O. McL. Falkiner, M.L.C. A
noted breeder of stud Merinos on his Riverina
properties, he also owned racehorses- —his
Humber Hawk was 1958 Moonee Valley Cup
winner.
In Adelaide, at 54, Arthur Lawrence
Pickering, Q.C., lecturer in the Law of Evidence
and Procedure at the University of Adelaide,
and past-president of the S.A. Public Service
Council.
In Perth, at 73, John Thomson, associated
with the wheat-industry in Westralia from
1910 until he retired about two years ago
as manager of Westraljan Farmers Co-opera-
tive, Ltd. First g.-m. of the Australian
Wheal Board throughout War II and awarded
the C.8.F.. in 1958, he was president of the
Perth Club.
In Melbourne, at 68, C. B. Hearn, who
rose from junior clerk to become, chairman
of Colonial Mutual and its associated com-
panies. Member of the Royal Melbourne
Hospital’s committee of management for close
on a quarter of a century, he had been
president for the past two years.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 61, Alfred Edward
Caddick, popular schoolmaster, bibliophile and
cricketer.
In Brisbane, at 64, Captain Ronald Shafto
Adair, founder and managing-director of
Queensland Airlines Pty., Ltd., and flying-
boat pilot in War 11.
At Palmerston North, T. K. Fraser, one of
the best-knovyn figures in the N.Z. dairy-
industry. He served in the R.N.Z.A.F. in
War 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Northern Territory Year is at
its height. Many names are
honored and achievements remembered
for the part they played in the develop-
ment of this vast land ; one debt that
should be recalled is to the Chinese
storekeepers. In the 1890’s, when gold-
strikes in other States had drained the
Territory of able-bodied men, and a
severe economic depression had set in,
the population had dwindled and pro-
gress looked sick. People who remained
and had little or no money for food and
provisions were able to carry on through
the generosity of the Chinese store-
keepers. With little or no hope of repay-
ment, the Chinese gave handouts of
food and provisions. In celebrating their
Centenary Year, the Territorians should
remember the kindliness of these simple
Chinese storekeepers.—“Sing-Song.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Friend of mine returned
from a trip to the Queensland Gold Coast.
“Just between you and me — there's a bit of brainwashing going
on over there."
“Things have changed since we were
up there together,” he remarked. “One
morning I heard a strange bird, so I got
up to investigate and found it was a
kookaburra —laughing with a foreign
accent.”
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: There is talk of our
export of opals reaching £1 million for
the first time this year, especially as
Australian opal is becoming more
fashionable in eastern Asia. Three years
ago the value of opal exports was only
about £289,000, but Japanese buying has
made a dramatic expansion. Experts
estimate that at least 85 per cent, of
the Australian production these days goes
overseas.
“N.A.8.”: Four . rams —three Corrie-
dales and a Polwarth —that left Mel-
bourne by ship are on the long way
round to Brazil —21,000 miles. There’s
no direct link between Australia and
Brazil, so the aristos go by way of Ant-
werp, where they’ll be transferred to a
coffee-ship for the rest of their voyage.
* * * *
From the Government Botanist, Bris-
bane Botanic Gardens: Touching on
“Exped’s” query here concerning the
“Australian pine” in Florida, the plant
known there by that name is not a pine
at all. j It is Casuarine equisetifolia, which
«we know in this country as the coast-
oak or the coast-sheoak. Many people,
including foresters, believe that the name
“pine” should be confined to species of
the genus Pinus. In this restricted sense
we certainly have no indigenous Austra-
lian pine-trees. The name “pine” in
Australia is used much more loosely and
is applied to species of the genera
Araucaria, Callitris, Agathis, Podocarpus
and Dacrydium. These are gymno-
sperms, but do not belong to the family
pinaceae and would not be regarded as
pines in the restricted sense.
*** * .
“0.H.” While driving from Guthega
Dam to near Mount Kosciusko we passed
through five miles of country in
which every tree in sight was dead. They
hadn’t been ringbarked; and trees in
that area have been bred through cen-
turies to withstand extreme cold. Any
explanation?
* * * *
“Derwent”: After a sequence of
hoodoo-ship occurrences the 144-ton
trader Davara, running between Tas-
mania and King Island, has struck
further misadventure only a fortnight
after returning to her job. This time she
had to be beached when her tailshaft
ran hot following propeller - damage.
Twice previously she had to be towed
back to harbor after breakdowns ; then
she struck a submerged object in Bass
Strait, but managed to limp back to
Burnie. While she was refitting at
Stanley wharf last October she caught
fire and her' chief engineer was burnt
to death. In a later accident the captain
had a leg broken.
,** * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Our four-year-old
son had his first, richly deserved, hiding.
I administered justice in his bedroom,
and looked up to see we had a grinning
audience of one older brother and one
Fijian housegirl at the door. When I
went outside, the housegirl rushed in
to cuddle and kiss and generally console
“her baby.”
* % * *
“Curie” (Fiji): People in the cities,
with entertainment laid on, have no idea
of the amount of work people in small
towns must do to have anything in the
way of dances, parties, etc. I wrote to
a friend in an American city about the
work a few women were doing to have
a Christmas - concert, Christmas - dance
and children’s Christmas - party. “Your
schedule appals me,” she replied. “We
thought we would just have to go to
a South Sea island to get away from
it all.” Another friend in a little town
in the Northern Territory was persuaded
to give a radio-talk for a women’s pro-
gramme. Dozens of letters poured in
from listeners wanting to correspond
with her as she “must be so lonely.”
“Lonely!” she hooted. “I had to enter-
tain so many visitors passing through
I scarcely had time to breathe.”
* * * *
“Wandana”: Closing-down of the last
of the silver-lead mines, the Oceana, in
the one-time flourishing town of Zeehan
on Tasmania’s wild west coast, marks the
end of a colorful 70 years. The Oceana
was a valuable show, but ran out of ore.
In the ’nineties there was a long list of
silver-lead companies operating in Zee-
han and Dundas areas. The town of
Zeehan was thrown open in November,
1890, although pegged-out long before;
the claims of numerous applicants to the
same blocks had to be cleared-up by the
commissioner visiting each block in turn
with the applicants ; names were written
on pieces of paper, placed in hats, and
successful drawers took the blocks. At


/ JvJANf 7ij T-HANK ftJft.
'X+iz. ZvC'NPfcRfUU
L-ASt NjG-Hf. -?Sfc7tAJ
y?u Pgeu This
'P /7
jTm StoT AcrruALty yer
<&JT I T«/A»K. •
2


first a canvas-town, the place grew to
a lively settlement of between 3000 and
4000. There was a wealth of red- and
huon - pine, celery - top and so on, but
practically all the early buildings were
of American oregon or other imported
woods. Principal meeting-places for
business or pleasure were the numerous
hotels, some of which constituted open
mining-exchanges; large quantities of
scrip changed hands nightly. No card-
playing was allowed in the pubs,
although substantial sums were wagered
on billiard - tournaments ; gambling on
“ I'll always remember that cute little toothbrush moustache you had
when We first came here.”
skittles was popular in a number of
alleys. The telegraph-office used to be
a very busy spot, and frequently through
lack of appliances and wires hundreds
of messages would be held-up for a day
or two after they were lodged.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: There’s an estimated
200-million super.-feet of timber growing
in the Talasea (Cape Hoskins) area of
New Britain on about 100,000 acres, and
it’s now open for tender —the third big
patch of timber-country thrown open
since about 1950. The permit will be
for ten years; a sawmill capable of
whirling through at least five-million
super.-feet of logs a year will have to
be built, and there’ll be limits on the
annual cut of various species.
* * * *
“N.A.8.”: They grow things tough in
New Zealand. W. Alexander, a farmer
of Hawera (Taranaki), has bought a war-
time Valentine tank, added two diesels
and a 16ft. propeller one engine to
provide power for the tank ; the other
to drive the “prop” fixed above the gun-
turret and worked by a belt and reduc-
tion-gear. The blades, made of armor-
plate steel and weighing about 6cwt.,
will rotate at from 500 to 600 r.p.m. and
they can be angled hydraulically. And
whaffor all this? Why, because he needs
it to cut down the boxthorn hedges on
his property! J
* * * *
“Joanne”: The Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Chamber of Commerce is backing an
idea to invite major contractors with
the Snowy Mountains Authority to blast
away the rock bar outside Newcastle
Harbor. The bar keeps out big ships,
and as northern coal-owners are trying
to increase trade this is a major draw-
back. One vessel recently had to leave
6000 tons of coal at grass because of
low water on the bar, even at high
tide. The plan has been sent to the
Public Works Department, which, in the
chamber’s opinion, has “toyed” with the
deepening of the bar. Members say that
in 50 years the department has only
nibbled at the obstruction. The chamber
also has decided to support organisa-
tions seeking to have a model built to
show the possibility of making a new
entrance to the harbor.
* * * *
“Amdee”: North Queenslanders who
go to splash paint on house or boat and
find that the old brush they forgot to
clean is as hard as a board aren’t per-
turbed. They simply help themselves to
a pandanus-palm nut —there are hun-
dreds washed-up on the beaches. The
small end of it frays out into fine fibres
which spread paint evenly.
* * * *
“Vulcan”: Some young doctors settl-
ing in country towns seem to have an
idea that they can have fixed hours for
seeing patients. This may work where
they have a colleague to relieve them,
but it doesn’t work in one-doctor towns.
A man was kicked in the stomach by a
horse; his mate took him into town,
The doctor’s wife met him at the door,
“I’ve brought Bill in,” he said ; “the horse
kicked him.” “The doctor doesn’t see
cases on Sunday,” he was told. “Cripes,
Missus,” drawled Bill’s mate, “the horse
couldn’t ’a’ known it; I’ll go back and tell
him.”
THE WAR-TORN TOWN
The town has one wide straggling stree
tin roofs picked out in rtist;
A sagging pub in which to meet, to try
quench your dust.
It was built a hundred years ago ai
hasn't changed since then.
The traffic is a little slow —one cow,
horse, a hen.
The Australian coast was guarded fro
Darwin round to Perth,
And they’d sent us lots of papers on ho
to scorch the earth :
On how to burn our crops and cows,
drive them all inland.
We sent a succinct answer, “We prefer
make a stand.”
We’d had a proper meeting on how an
what to do.
The policeman was the president, he m
called “The Cockatoo.”
He had a thin and beaklike nose, a cm
of yellow hair.
“I’m just a bird of passage”—our laughtt
rent the air—
“l’m just a bird of passage, not alwa\
living here;
But if a Jap comes near the town, L
guard it, never fear.”
They sent still other papers about
Bofors gun. *
The riot nearly started when Paddy mat
his pun.
“This here’s a gun I understand. Yt
got to hold it steady ;
You hold it. still ’cos if you don’t it P
off bofors you’re ready.”
They said to fend off air-attack we ht
to have a plan :
But this was quickly answered by bot
legged Bob McGann.
“I bet this town, from high up there, loot
just like dust and rubble.
To fend off any air attack won’t give
any trouble.
“The planes are up, the Japs are tk l
the bomb-aimer says ‘Steady.’
The pilot looks again and says ‘Y
town’s been bombed already.’ ”
And so we quietly settled back, to k
flies and the rest.
They sent us no more papers. They $
they gave us best.
N.S.W.
M.M. G.


IN his “Aboriginalities” par. crediting
Te Kooti with cutting down the
British flagstaff several times during the
Maori Wars of the 1840’s, “Janus” was
well off the beam. The Maori allergic
to British flagstaffs was the Ngapuhi chief
Hone Heke, who was a considerable
nuisance to the British Regulars during
the war in the north. Te Kooti cut his
dash 20 years or so later in the bigger
and better Maori War of the 1860’s.
“J.” is on surer ground, though, with
the puha (sonchus oleraceus), which, in
the Maori view, is to boiled-pork what
mint-sauce is to pakeha roast-lamb. It
probably came to New
Zealand as a stowaway in
the canoes of the Great
Migration, but it was
generally thought to be a
Kiwi speciality until 28th
(Maori) Battalion landed
in Greece. The battalion
transport, going from
Athens to Katerine by
road, happened to stop
near a village surrounded
by grain-crops, which the
population were busy
weeding, and putting the
weeds into bags slung
around their waists. Curi-
ous for a closer view, the
O.C. Transport strolled
over and immediately iden-
tified the weed as puha,
which the Greeks also
consider a delicacy.
Enough money was forth-
coming from the transport-
drivers to buy the lot. —
“Otaki.”
* -*
“Acetiam”: To bul-
lockies of half a century
and more ago Cunnamulla
was renowned for mud
rather than for doubles-
winners, mentioned here
lately. “Up to the neck in
Cunnamulla mud*’ did not
mean only well and truly
bogged; it passed into
early-days vernacular for
a lot of other things, too.
* *
“Carapace”: No matter
how long you try to cook
a turtle’s egg the “white”
will never harden and go
white: it remains an
albumenous liquid. The
yolk will set when fried ;
but it’s inclined to crumble,
* s palish in color like a
duck-egg and lacks flavor.
ve heard fellows claim
that the white of a turtle’s
e Bg is a fine thirst-
a eviator; but the eggs
nee d to be fresh, and to
got them that way a man
as to be lively, for they
begin to incubate within 24 hours.
Total incubation-period ranges from
66 days during a mild and dry summer
down to 60 during hot, wet and humid
weather.
* * * *
“Narumee”: The front-garden of the
first-occupied home in the new street
resembled a concentration - camp, with
its barbed-wire barricades, its criss-cross
trap-wires, netting and alarm-bells. The
owner had sown carefully-selected lawn-
seed in soil he had not only dug,
trenched, drained, weeded, sterilised,
fertilised and raked and re-raked, but
also sieved, and he was determined that
no cat, bone-burying dog, hungry bird
or tricycling kid should wreck the
smooth, green-velvet prospect. But he
reckoned without Melbourne’s unpre-
dictable weather. The first lot of seed,
together with the lovely fine topsoil,
blew away during the unprecedented dry
of early autumn. The second lot was
washed away during the unprecedented
wet of late April. Having meantime
done a deep think, he’s now planting a
nice little shrubbery.
"Dunning parallel to General Holmes Drive,
near Mascot Aerodrome on the north-
western corner of Botany Bay, is a stretch of
tidal area which is unique for its unusual
foreign bird-population, its white sand and its
bloodworms.
In spring and summer it is the resting and
feeding place for thousands of migratory
“waders” which leave the Arctic during the
Northern Hemisphere winter and return in the
Arctic spring to breed. Virtually all the species
of “waders” which visit Australia have been
recorded at Botany Bay. It was in this vicinity
that Sir Joseph Banks and Daniel Carl Solander
took their first ornithological specimens.
This is an outlet for seepage of a chain of
billabongs which reach from Centennial Park.
It is also the old mouth of Cooks River. Per-
, , r ■ ,
aps because of t e abundance of organic
available there, or the fact that
waders do not scatter among our indigenous
bird-population, these migrants take up the
same location year after year, creating an
exclusive colony with centuries of occupation.
Nevertheless, this little unspoilt spot is
under the threat of extinction, as civil authori-
ties are planning to build a wall along the
margin of the bay and municipal authorities
will use the area as a dump for rubbish with
the prospect of reclaiming this and adjacent
areas for industrial purposes and some
recreation-facilities. It will be a tragedy in
many ways if this vista is removed from
Sydney’s most beautiful sea-drive,
Students and ornithologists all over the
world will find it a bitter blow, as it is the
most patronised area in Australia for the study
of the habits, migration and population of
shore birds and “waders.” No more will the
C.5.1.R.0. be able to carry-out its researches
into the little tern who nests in the sandspit,
but there will be room aplenty to dump the
city’s rubbish for some years to come,
Must this new brutalism in planning con-
t|nuei bounty Cumberland? Or
sh u ou ! d P°< we foll °"' some overseas countries
* hlc !'. have set a * ,dc „ areas a ? ™ fu B es and
breeding-areas on the fly-ways of these migrant
wanderers? I am convinced that these pfo-
posed developments could be resisted in such
a wa y t jy at a jj interests in the community
could be served and this precious little precinct
preserved for posterity.
Its preservation would provide an assured
reserve for these migratory birds, and for the
people who just want to see a beautiful unspoilt
seascape or simply potter around on an historic
piece of Australia watching the turn of the tide,
MAURICE MORRISON.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullers
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O'Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I 13 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
A. L. NEViTT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Lite Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: SI 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Business, Robbery, Etc.
CAPITAL-GAINS AND TAX
HPhe question of a capital-
gains tax has been brought
to the surface and discussed in
Australia over the past two
months. It has been prompted
by the big rise in share prices
over the last two or three years,
and by the public promotion of
enterprises aiming to profit
mainly through capital-gains
(including those in land trans-
actions) and so avoid tax. An-
other factor has been the take-
over techniques employed by
some financiers whereby the
receivers of a takeover offer
have been enabled to get a cash
payment as capital, whereas, if
the same amount of cash had
been taken out -as dividend, it
would have borne tax.
There are undoubtedly
special cases which will cause
eyebrows to be raised, includ-
ing the use of life-assurance
premiums within the £4OO-a-
-year exemption for the purpose
of securing a loan used to buy
equity shares on the Stock Ex-
change. But, generally speak-
ing, the “profits” which seem
to have been made, in the long
term, from share-dealings, are
not all that they seem.
While during the past 18
months there has been a strong
upsurge, over the past 10 years,
if the general inflation in the
economy is taken into account,
the gain by investors in the
market price of their shares is
largely illusory. Compared
with the rise in the basic wage
in the same period, the majority
have lost value, and some have
lost very heavily.
V)Gh[le many real capital-
profits (and some big ones)
have been made by those who
invested successfully within the
past two or three years, to go
back to pre-war or early post-
war prices in establishing a
basis of cost in relation to sell-
ing-price of shares would be
most inequitable and unjust.
Taxation of illusory “capital-
gains” would, in most cases,
result in the further impoverish-
ment of those who have had
their savings leached away by
the effects of inflation.
The recently issued Invest-
ment Review of Ordinary-
Shares put out by Ralph King
and Yuill, the Sydney share-
brokers, shows that the market-
increment in Kandos Cement
shares over the 10 years to the
“It's your Missus. What'll I say ?”
end of 1959, allowing for all
new issues, was 115 p.c. The
rise in the cost-of-living was
about the same. The increase
of 42 p.c. in the price of Henry
Jones shares fell far short of
the c.-0.-l. growth. On the
other hand, the capital-gain in
B.H.P. shares was somewhat
ahead of the c.-0.-l. at 155 p.c.
One co., Reichhold Chemical
Industries, showed a lift of
733 p.c. But it, Mt. Isa and
Minster, Ltd., were outstanding
cases.
Commercial Bank of Austra-
lia did not maintain its price
over the decade, regardless
of inflation; neither did
Bradford Cotton, Bruck Mills,
Taubmans or Vesta Battery.
John Vicars and Felt and Tex-
tiles showed no gain or loss.
AT the back of much of the
increase in the price of
equity shares on the Stock
Exchanges has been the policy
- of the Commonwealth Treasury
itself. Rarely have shares risen
in price simply because profits
and dividends of the companies
concerned have expanded. It
can be ascertained very quickly
that profits have not by any
means risen in the same pro-
portion as share prices. Earn-
ings-yield to price has fallen in
the same manner as dividend-
yield to market price.
The Treasury’s influence has
been principally through its
existing taxation policy. The
double-taxation of companies
has produced a state of affairs
where many companies have
ceased to issue more equity or
preference capital and have
resorted to debt-finance in
order to escape the 7s. 6d.-in-
the-£ company - tax that us
exacted on company profits
regardless of the fact that
shareholders pay tax in full
again on any profits they may
receive in dividends.
It is this taxation policy of
Canberra that has done much
to create a scrip shortage on
the Stock Exchanges, with the
result that share prices, stimu-
lated by takeovers and over-
seas investment, have soared to
heights where the yield, either
from profit or dividend, is un-
reasonably low, and spurred on
their way by fears of ever more
inflation.
Regarded as a whole, capital-
gains on the Stock Exchange
are principally “gains” among
investors only, in much the
same way as wins and losses on
the racecourse are restricted to
racing-people. It is not quite
the same in the case of land
dealings, where homeowners
and industry in the end have
to pay for inflation in land
values.
But at the present time the
Treasury has power to tax in.
dividuals on profits made from
the sale of capital assets
bought for the purpose of re-
sale, and it would appear that
that provision, in general, is
sufficient to cope with most
“trading’’ aspects of the situa-
tion, even though it will still
allow some carefully calculated
large-size transactions to get
through tax-free.
Accent on Food
/“\ver 1950-57 Woolworths
were trying-out the super-
market idea on their own
account. Then in March,
1958, the co. took the plunge
and bought - out B.C.C. Stores
in Brisbane, a progressive
chain of cash - and - carry
grocers. Last term the nine
John Wills supermarkets in
W.A. were taken-over. Since
the close of accounts on
January 31 this year 11 Food
Fair Stores owned by Broad-
head and Barcham in N.S.W
were bought and six of the
Safeway Chain in Sydney
were acquired. More recently
(in June) the 55 shops of
Fleming Food Stores in
N.S.W. were taken-over.
Last week Woolworths
made its biggest bid to date
Ord. shareholders in Matthews
Thompson and Co. (Sydney
were offered one Woolworths
ss. ord. for each of the
7,491,624 ss. ords. in their own
co. Four Woolworths ords
were offered for each £1 It
p.c. Ist pref. and five Wool
worths ords. for each font
5 p.c. 2nd prefs.
If the deal goes through
Woolworths will acquire 21!
retail grocery-stores (undei
the names of S. R. Buttle
Goodlands, Goodways, Sydney
Cash and Carry, Carlisles ant
Rodneys), as well as nin f
country department-stores, to
gether with manufacturing


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
l lland^E
Australia’s
Better Brandy
manes
Pot-s+iii brandy
perfection of
distinguished
world over!
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
BRANDY
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
packing and other interests.
Last year turnover of the
chain was £l5 million.
Woolworths have now made
j t plain that they intend to
establish an Australia-wide
chain of food-stores. This
notwithstanding that, to begin
with, in their own supermarket
activities, it was reported that
profit-margins were lower
than on general merchandise.
But turnover is brisker.
It is possible, however, that
food-chains on the grand
scale tell an even better story.
And with the Matthews,
Thompson takeover Wool-
worths must be the biggest
food-retailing people in Aus-
tralia.
Food-warehousing as well as
-retailing has become import-
ant to Woolworths. At
Everton Park, in Brisbane, a
warehouse on a 15-acre free-
hold has been erected for both
Woolworths and B.C.C.
Stores, with a supermarket on
the same site. A food ware-
house has been set-up also at
Silverwater, in N.S.W. In
addition, new, modern fac-
tories are being established in
N.S.W. for the processing of
meat and smallgoods.
The current year’s pro-
gramme for Woolworths com-
prises the establishment of 25
new Woolworths stores,
“practically all of which are
supermarkets.” Two meat
warehouses are also being
built.
It would appear that
Woolworths, in the process of
establishing their food-store
chain, will be casting an eye
around for “feeder” interests,
and could possibly, in time,
have direct interests in the
production or packaging of
food.
This interest in food high-
lights two things. Firstly, as
The Bulletin has emphasised
in the past, scope for the
variety-chain in Australia has
been restricting; and,
secondly, a large proportion
of the capital is now repre-
sented by food-retailing and
-warehousing. However,
Woolworths will not let-up on
development, of its traditional
variety-chains.
Since 1956 paid capital of.
Woolworths has grown from
£4,283,649 to over £l2 million
(assuming full acceptance of
(he Matthews, Thompson
offer). [ts capital will still
be smaller than that of G. J.
Loles, which has bigger invest-
ments in capital-city stores,
but > m total, fewer chain-
stores than Woolworths.
It is not yet clear whether
J ~ J- Coles will attempt to
outgrow Woolworths in the
food - store business. It is
already well in it in Victoria
and S.A., but most recent
moves have been made by
Woolworths.
The G. and G. chain, still
unattached to either, has
speculative sharemarket
interest, in the circumstances.
Packer Gets GTV
quick effect of the
passing of the Broadcast-
ing and Television Act has
been that control of television-
station GTV, Melbourne
(Channel 9), is likely to pass
from Pye (U.K.) to the
Packer-controlled Consolidated
Press, which is the major share-
holder in Television Corpora-
tion (TCN, Channel 9), Sydney.
The Act provides that not
more than 20 p.c. of a
station’s share-capital may be
held overseas, and that not
more than • 15 p.c. may be
held by one overseas corpora-
tion.
Electronic Industries and
its subsidiaries hold 627,441
shares in General Television
Corporation, and the con-
trolling shareholder in Elec-
tronic Industries is Pye, Ltd.,
of England, since Sir Arthur
Warner sold his interest
earlier this year.
Electronic Industries re-
ceived offers of £6 a GTV
share from three different
parties. These are understood
to have been Packer (TCN,
Sydney), Sydney “Herald”
(ATN, Sydney) and Rupert
Murdoch, with Adelaide TV
interests. Melbourne “Herald”
already has control of two TV-
stations, and under the Act
cannot acquire more than 15
p.c. of the shares in additional
stations.
The success of Packer in
acquiring GTV will probably
not particularly displease Sir
John Williams, of Melbourne
“Herald,” who is unlikely to
have favored control passing
to Rupert Murdoch. It will
create programme problems
for Rupert Henderson’s ATN.
On the other hand, it will
put Frank Packer out of the
running for the granting of a
country TV-licence anywhere
in Australia. His Consoli-
dated Press will now control
two metropolitan TV-stations,
and any other interests are
limited to a 15 p.c. holding.
Electronic Industries will
make a capital - gain of
£3,137,205 on its shares in
GTV. Total consideration is
£3,764,646, payable £2,264,646
in cash and £1,500,000 in
p.c. notes, repayable at
£300,000 a year.
Packer’s TCN 9 has been
earning profits, and GTV 9 is
also credited with being a
good profit-earner. The com-
mercial opposition (ATN 7 in
Sydney and HSV 7 in Mel-
bourne) are generally believe'd
to be lagging in the profits
race, even if in some respects
they are offering a superior
programme.
At £6 per £1 share Elec-
tronic Industries has made a
good sale. Most TV-stations
in Australia still have the job
in front of them when it comes
to making profits to measure-
up to a share-premium of
500 p.c. The 10s. shares in
Television Corporation in
Sydney, which recently
jumped from 665. to 725., are
at a premium of over 600 p.c.
For the present, anyway,
investors paying these prices
are living in a state of
glorious anticipation. It may
take some time for profits to
measure-up to hopes, especi-
ally if a third commercial
licence is granted in both
Sydney and Melbourne.
[From Melbourne]
What gives GTV 9, the
Melbourne TV-channel, a
pre-eminent place in telecast-
ing is its sense of gaiety ; and
at a time when the grim-faced
millionaires were selling and
buying it for £3.76 million,
its artists were happily guying
the business, for the viewers,
with Sir Arthur Warner, the
chairman of Electronic Indus-
tries, the virtual owners of the
station, the chief butt of their
true but not malicious humor.
Whether this Australian
effervescence will continue
under the new sovereignty of
Sir Frank Packer is at least
doubtful. Sydney viewers,
for instance, haven’t seen
comedians introducing chim-
panzees as_ Sir Frank on his
station, the sort of thing Sir
Arthur tolerated, because it
might lower the majesty of the
“Daily Telegraph,” and there
would, no doubt, be a strong
son on deck to toss out the
offending funny-men, with


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
and 15 years
7%
4 years 6|% 3 years 6% 2 years Sj°/o
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros-
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Branch, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Assets exceed £6o#
HEm
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Nl
rival newspaper - cameras
clicking.
So instead of the inspirit-
ing (and expensive) fostering
of native talent, especially
writers which the youngish
newspaperman, Colin Bednall,
the station’s g.-m., encouraged
so profitably, Melbourne
expects now a dazzling release
of films starring Theda Bara,
Mary Pickford, and, perhaps
as a special late release, one
of Clara Bow.
The business itself seems to
have been dictated with the
same sense of farce as the
goings-on before the cameras.
The English Pye Co. recently
bought - out the Warner
interests in Electronic Indus-
tries. Sir Arthur protests that
the company does not, and has
not, sought to control any
policy or shareholding meet-
ings, but under a recent Act
it was not competent for
Electronic to continue to hold
a large- voting-power in GTV.
Electronic thereupon trans-
ferred its holding into a 100
per cent.-owned subsidiary.
Sir Arthur, in a press state-
ment, does not say so, but
apparently the P.M.G. was
not at all impressed by this,
and in the meantime Elec-
tronic received three offers
for 627,441 of its GTV shares,
all around £6, and Sir Frank’s
Consolidated Press offer, sub-
ject to conditions, was accepted.
The Electronic board, Sir
Arthur says, was sorry it could
not continue to retain its
interest, and he hopes to
remain chairman, with his
family as directors. (He has,
apparently, little acquaintance
with the facts of newspaper-
life in Sydney.)
Before telecasting licences
Were issued, it was an actuarial
computation they were worth
£1 million apiece in Sydney
and Melbourne, an estimate
that has proved under the
mark, and millions of words
were given in evidence and
months of earnest thought
given to consideration of the
fit and proper persons to
whom they should be
entrusted.
Once bestowed, however,
they may be sold to the fellow
next-door or, if he happens
to be the highest bidder, Ned
Kelly.
Shifting Emphasis in Oil-
search
[From “H. Yona”]
An interesting, albeit quiet,
shift in Australian oil-
search areas is now taking
place. One now finds a snow-
balling interest in the great
centre of the Australian con-
tinent. Although this is chiefly
a desert area with attendant
high-cost problems, many of
the smaller, more flexible opera-
tors have already started ex-
ploration-work. Recently there
have been signs that their
slower-moving big brothers are
awakening to the possibilities
offered by the Amadeus and
Georgina Basin areas of the
Northern Territory and far-
western Queensland.
It is a known fact that one
of the chief drawbacks to suc-
cessful oil-finding in Australia
is the lack of unmetamorphosed
marine rocks. The eastern
coastal ranges contain older
marine Palaeozoic rocks, but
these were deposited mostly in
structurally weak areas which
were eventually buckled and
subjected to several periods of
intrusive and extrusive igneous
activity. These rocks have
been recrystallised, and any oil
generated in them has been
lost.
Attention has been drawn to
the Alice Springs area, where
the oldest Palaeozoic rocks are
present in an unaltered state.
It is interesting to find these
marine rocks in such an in-
terior location. Indeed, follow-
ing the deposition of the Ordo-
vician sequence, marine in-
vasions onto the Australian
continent were limited to the
coastal fringes until the nearly
world-wide Cretaceous trans-
gressions. It thus appears that
these Cambro-Ordovician sedi-
ments are unique in the Aus-
tralian stratigraphic sequence.
Several companies are pre-
sently making, or will shortly
start, geological surveys in the
region of Alice Springs in a bid
to gain original information
about the nature of these old
marine rocks. Among them
are Flamingo Petroleum Pty,,
Ltd., a company organised by
lan Potter and associates; Three
States Australian, an offshoot
of Three States Natural Gas, a
Texas independent ; Smith Aus-
tralian Oil Company, represent-
Canadian and local in-
terests ; Frome-Broken Hill,
which has already carried out
extensive surveys ; Magellan
Petroleum Corporation, an
American independent with in-
terests in Canada, Guatemala,
and Spanish Sahara.
The problems these com-
panies face will vary with the
areas they hold. In some
places the structure of the rocks
is well exposed. Here the prob-
lem is to determine the nature
and changes of the rock-units.
In other areas, some idea of the
nature of the rock-units is
already known from Govern-
ment surveys. But here the
operator may find at the sur-
face only recent sand-cover or
lack of outcrops due to other
reasons. Thus, to determine
structure, the operators must
resort to geophysical methods
which will be more than usually
expensive because of the
isolated nature of the prospects.
This observer finds that noth-
ing but good can come of this
shift to The Centre. During
the past year or two, great
emphasis was placed on the
oil possibilities of the Great
Artesian Basin. Many com-
panies were oversold on the
prospects of this basin, and a
great deal of effort and finan-
cial resources were poured into
exploration-work there. While
the Great Artesian Basin can-
not be wholly written - off,
especially east and south-east of
Roma, drillings at lnnamincka,
Betoota and, most recently, at
Corfield, indicate that the
chances of encountering un-
altered marine. rocks under
most of the basin are very
slight.
It often happens that ex-
ploratory companies will throw
good money after bad by con-
tinuing to explore an area
which a level-headed appraisal
indicates is not worth the effort.
It is refreshing indeed to see
clear thinking with the accom-
panying willingness to write-off
expenditures in an area shown
to be of little interest. Austra-
lia has many areas still to be
explored and there is every-
thing to be gained by concen-
trating efforts in the most likely
spots.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Surprising Pudding
I must say that Peter Scriven’s
marionette-show of The
Magic Pudding at Sydney Eliza-
bethan took me completely by
surprise.
Knowing the book and the
“Tintookies” and having seen
the reviews from Brisbane I
had no doubt that I was in for
a lot of fun, a'- lot of gay and
lively puppetry, and a produc-
tion that faithfully followed a
book too sacred to be tampered-
with ; but, as well as all that,
what I found myself looking at
was an exquisite little work of
art; a thing that stood alive
and alone in its own right as
a beautiful piece of theatre.
I don’t know, in. fact, that
“theatre” is quite the right
word for it. It wasn’t like
ordinary theatre at all, but
more like an exhibition of
paintings. But then, since the
paintings are in the round,
three-dimensional, it was more
like sculpture. But then, since
the sculptures are alive, and
talk, and dash around the stage
in the oddest antics and atti-
tudes, it was more like a play
or a ballet. But then, since the
dancers and actors and singers
are bears and sailors and pen-
guins, roosters and hedgehogs
and wombats, it was not realty
like a play at all, though still a
hit like the more imaginative
of the ballets.
The truth is, obviously, that
puppetry, when it is done as
superbly as this, has a unique
enchantment. The illusion of
depth and distance Peter
Scriven had contrived for his
Pny stage had a great deal to
do with its magic. Everything
seems to take place on the sky-
hne, against an infinity of dis-
tance in the faintly pink sky ;
and against this infinity the
hgures of the puppets, solid as
sculpture in their modelling,
r*ch and colorful in their cos-
uming, seem to come tumbling
°ut as living creatures from the
author's imagination.
Really, it is like looking into
an artist’s mind. The forms he
conceives are visualised, made
clear and solid and alive, as
they cannot possibly be in the
printed word (though that has
its own effects which puppetry
cannot reach); and, since pup-
petry is free to give life to any
freak of the imagination, they
are embodied here in a way
which the live theatre can only
rarely and with the greatest
difficulty achieve. The live
theatre, generally, stays on the
level of reality ; this opens a
window into fantasy.
As to what Norman Lind-
say’s imagination has con-
ceived, and Peter Scriven em-
bodied, and his amazingly skill-
ful puppeteers set moving—
everybody knows that: we
have all grown-up on The
Magic Pudding. It’s the jolliest
lot of fun imaginable; with
something earthy and Austra-
lian and indomitably gay about
it that has made it a children’s
classic.
I missed in the puppet-show
something of the essential,
sunny leisureliness of the book ;
the feeling that Bunyip Bluegum
is out for a stroll on a sunny
day with all the world and all
of time before him. 1 thought
the sky could have been bluer,
the gumtrees more like gum-
trees ; and (while I’m on these
small points) I wish that the
wonderful swagman - cockatoo
had spoken more intelligibly.
But a puppet-show, ] sup-
pose, can’t dawdle; the pink
sky and the surrealist trees
helped to create the striking
pictorial quality ; all the rest
of the speech (whether spoken
or sung to Hal Evans’s delight-
ful music) was admirably
clear; and the production’s
fidelity to the book on the
whole is astonishing.
Much has had to be cut, of
course ; a bit is added ; but the
job has been done so carefully
that everybody will feel,
simply, here is the book come
to life . . . and come to life
in a way that, with the in-
credibly active figure of the
Pudding and the richness of the
minor characters, you would
never have expected.
I kept thinking as I was
watching it not only that here
was a work of art, but also
here was a work of art that,
simply because The Magic
Pudding hasn’t been done as a
puppet-show before, is some-
thing you couldn’t see any-
where else in the world . . .
until Peter Scriven, as he plans
to, takes it there.
In short, it was quite an
afternoon for the kids ; and I
wish the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust would put it on at night
for a while so that their parents
could see it, too.
Douglas Stewart.
♦**
“The Pleasure of His
Company”
This gently amusing
drawing - room comedy, with
its sinister undercurrents
which never quite reach the
surface, whether by intention
or not, succeeds mainly as a
showpiece for the precise and
personable charms of its two
p r i n c i p a I s —Cyril Ritchara
and Cornelia Otis Skinner.
Ritchard fits into his part
so exactly, in fact, that it
seems to have been specially
tailored for him. He is the
prodigal father who turns-up
for his daughter’s wedding
and sets about with the suave
ease of a confidence-man to
turn everything and every-
body around him upside-
down —why we never really
learn.
Miss Skinner, who colla-
borated with Samuel Taylor
in the creation of the piece
(now at Melbourne Comedy),
plays the first of Ritchard’s
three wives and the mother of
the would-be bride. She puts
up a valiant struggle—on the
one hand against succumbing
once more to our elderly
enfant terrible’s attractions,
and on the other against his
perverse scheming to wreck
the proposed match between
daughter Jessica (an effer-
vescent performance by
Patricia Kerr) and her virile
but graceless young rancher
bridegroom.
The outcome is, as might
be expected, predictable from
the outset and hardly needs
going over here. Enough to
say that J.C.W.’s have secured
a comedy of considerable
popular appeal, a little over-
talky perhaps, but full of
good - humor, relieved by
Owen Ainley’s engaging
character - sketch of the
bride’s Thoreau - quoting
grandfather and given every
chance by Ritchard’s skilled
production and a capable
cast.
Brisbane Opera
Puccini had such an unfail-
ing sense of theatre that his
operas, like many a popular
brand of cake-mix, already
“contain all the ingredients for
success,” if only the directions
are followed. And with his
operas (as with cakes) it is
the different-just-to-be-different
kind of producer that wreaks
havoc.
Havoc is too strong a word
to use for the current Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust produc-
tion of “Madam Butterfly,”
but, with so much fine singing,
it seems a pity that many minor
lapses prevented the whole
from bursting into real Puccini
passion.
Fine singing? Yes. Even
better than that. Donald Smith
has developed into a tenor of
such power and style (so rarely
do these gifts go together) that
the haphazard operatic seasons
of this country cannot hope to
hold him. Neil Easton, as
Sharpless, gave what we have
come to expect from him —
another characterisation as
easy to watch as to listen to.
And, despite the lady’s name
on the opera, it was the gentle-
men’s performances that were
beyond reproach ; and some
reservations must be made con-
cerning the vocal line adopted
by Joan Hammond in the title
role. Phrase after phrase was
invested with the warmth and
loveliness of tone associated
with this artist, but at other
times there was a certain gusti-
ness and far too many cauti-
ously negotiated passages and


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Divorce Notices
■ . -]
IN THE/. SUPREME COURT OF NEt
SOUTH WALES— Is Divorce. 4
TO RAYMOND THOMAS NONNEI
MACHER late of Goodooga New Sou!
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that BERII
RUTH NONNENMACHER has filed.
Petition for Divorce No. 4502 of W'
on the grounds of desertion for thri
years and upwards without just caul
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE thl
if you wish to defend you may enter a
appearance in the Divorce Registry Ilia
Building Macquarie Street Sydney It
the sth September 1960 and obtain'
copy of the Petition without chars
from MESSRS. SERISIER, HAWKE *
CO., Solicitors, 142 Lord’s Pla ll
Orange, or their citv agents, MESSES
PETER G. KEARNEY & CO., Solicitor!
60 Hunter Street, Sydney.-—C. A. ®
HARMS, Registrar.
TO RITA ESMA BOYD formerly <
Albany Claremont and Norseman Wests®
Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that y«<
husband ROBERT SAMUEL BOYD h
commenced proceedings against you 1
the Supreme Court of Western Austral*
for Divorce on the ground of ’ desert l ,®
by you for three years If you desu
to defend such proceedings you ®»>
file your Defence in the Central OB'
of the Supreme Court at Perth wi®
forty clear days from the date of t) 1 '
publication In default of your so do l ®
the case may proceed and the Corf
will pronounce judgment and w®
orders against you in your absent
DATED this 4th day of July, 196®''
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
The Bulletin, July 13, 1960
Dmitry Gnatyuk
Producing a voice of very
wide range and a volume
which he is able to cut-down
almost instantly from massive
weight to a bare whisper
without sacrificing artistic
values, this principal baritone
of Russia’s Kiev Opera, at
his first Sydney recital, made
it clear that grand-opera is
his true forte. He has the
grand manner and a superb
stage-presence.
No baritone this reviewer
has heard has injected so much
raging passion into the
“Credo” from Verdi’s “Otello”;,
it became an almost startling
transcription into notes of
lago’s bitter and cynical
assessment of his twisted life,
and the declamatory passages
were shattering enough to set
any nearby seismograph-
needles oscillating.
Another emotion-charged
aria was the “Enemy of the
Fatherland,” from Giordano’s
“Andrea Chenier.” Here
despair and remorse were
seemingly raised to the nth
degree, with phrasing and
tone-control neatly meshed,
Yet in the opening aria, “With
Joy the Impatient Husband-
man,” from Haydn’s “The
Seasons,” he had imparted
to the smooth legato passages
an almost Mozartian delicacy!
His partiality to strong
musical emotion was rather
too heavily weighted in “1
Will Not Grieve,” one of the
most delightful of Schumann’s
lieder. And a rarely-heard
aria, “Adamastor, King of the j
Deep,” from Meyerbeer's ;
“L’Africaine,” allowed him It.
cut loose with almost enougl
resonance to drown the oceai
tempest’s fury which the text
invokes.
The natural beauties ol
this remarkable voice were |
perhaps best heard in two \
groups of Russian songs o!*
widely varying mood. Ons |
of the loveliest was “Rollins |
Billow,” where, as in most ol
descents into a speaking-style
not authorised by the score.
There are, broadly speaking,
two basic styles of performing
this role. It is no secret that
Puccini had Storchio in mind
when he wrote the work—a
thin, expressive, girlish voice,
not unlike the Dal Monti and
Moffo recordings. After initial
failure, the opera was re-
presented with a heavier
dramatic type of soprano, and
At the far left of this family group from Eugene O'Neill’s comedy “Ah! Wilderness ”
(Sydney Elizabethan) is Richard Miller (Lewis Fiander), the adolescent who gives his
parents (Neva Carr Glyn, with sewing, and Ron Haddrick, holding forth) some
anxious moments with his adventures in sacred and profane love. The paunchy type
in the background is Uncle Sid (Des Rolfe), whose long-standing relationship with
Aunt Lily (Madeleine Howell, at right) has more than a touch of pathos in it.
was successful with voices such
as Destinn’s in the part.
Tebaldi and Hammond
would fall nearer the second
category, but it seemed that
her producer imagined her in
the former, and her physical
acting seemed ill-fitted to the
vocal acting. I refer in par-
ticular to a kind of “Waiata-
poi” hand-movement that kept
literal time with the orchestra.
Miss Hammond has nobility of
voice and of presence. These
could have yielded a moving
“Butterfly,” but such fussiness
of gesture only highlighted the
discrepancy between the con-
ditions prescribed by the
libretto and the Tosca-like per-
sonality of the artist.
Such a failure was hard to
understand, because she had
the same problem to cope with
in “Salome” and came nearer
to resolving the girl-Isolde
paradox of Strauss than many
an overseas authority, on the
role. After that, Butterfly
should have been easy!
There has been so much
Australia-wide comment on the
drabness of the first-act set that
surely by this time it should
have been brightened up. And
as a matter of consistency, if
the {louse as seen in Act I has
a genuine thatclwoof, a
painted counterpart of it in
fuller view in Act II is surely
not acceptable. And if the
tone of the whole first act is
attributable to the sheer
enchantment of things Japanese
at their loveliest, the stark,
white, ringbarked central tfee
is nothing less than an
emotional “anachronism.”
When the Flower Duet does
come, three years later, it is
quite obvious both from the
text and the quality of the
music that Puccini intends that
the flowering trees be shaken
to yield up their flowers. The
harsh, oversize, plastic props
which were carried on, already
cut for the occasion—and with
which Joan Hammond pro-
ceeded to do a Constance Spry
act —destroyed the petal-like
lyricism which this crucial
scene can take on under gentler
imaginations. The poverty of
invention in this scene was
thrown into sharp contrast by
a beautifully contrived “hum-
ming chorus” tableau and by
the soundness of musical policy
in not permitting a second in-
terval to destroy the illusion of
the following morning.
Under Georg Tintner the
Queensland Symphony
Orchestra demonstrated the
same indifference to Puccini
that they revealed in their
“Tosca” a few years ago.
Noise alone -is not a Puccini
climax. Perhaps they l were
piqued, and rightly so, because
Rankl did not choose to con-
duct the opening night of the
season!
This may sound a harsh
criticism of what was for
many, including the local press,
a genuine operatic experience,
but the Trust at its best is
capable of international quality,
and it seemed a pity to spoil
so beautiful a ship for a
ha’porth of tar.
VAL VALLIS.


Go modern!
Give yoiir new home
a low pitched roofline
BUTTERFLY
LOW CABLE
SKILLION
FLAT
!►•«
VL
STEEL.
SHEET
Today’s houses just like today’s cars, are taking on a new, stream-
lined “low-pitched” look. This is truly modern architecture
smarter looking, easier to maintain, and cheaper to build.
Be sure your new home has a modern low-pitched roof and be
equally sure that the material you specify is Lysaght Steel Sheet.
That is because Lysaght Steel Sheet is so versatile so completely
right” for each of the four basic low-pitched rooflines. Available
in all wanted lengths and corrugations, or pre-painted to help your
architect or builder express his ideas perfectly.
Really permanent , too, because there is nothing to equal Lysaght Red
Orb quality for resistance to storm, fire or other damage. Check
the facts and figures about Lysaght Steel Sheet, now.
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney • Newcastle • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Fremantle
\.XV9
\vot» e
Send for your free copy of the
new 1960 Lysaght Home Plans
booklet, containing floor plan of
the home above plus many
other original designs.
B
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney
Please send me. free and post free, your Home Plans
booklet entitled ‘‘The Lysaght Guide to Modern Home
Planning”.
NAME
ADDRESS


Are You Paying Too Much Tax ?
THE TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION’S
“INCOME TAX
GUIDE”
1959-60 EDITION
“Income Tax Guide” is designed to give taxpayers a simple
and concise explanation of the income tax law and procedure
—how to prepare returns—how to check J assessments —what
deductions and concessions are allowed—how to settle disputes,
etc., etc.
The problems of taxpayers are dealt with in a distinctly practical
manner—completed tax returns are reproduced—practical examples
illustrate particular problems—and so on.
Sections deal with the special problems of primary producers,
salary and wage earners, shopkeepers, investors and property
owners.
The book is written by John 3lcKeliar White,
Research Director of the Federated Taxpayers’
Associations of Australia, and is based on a wealth
of experience in dealing with the practical problems
of taxpayers.
10'-
POST FREE
limited supply available so order now!
From booksellers, any branch ot' the Taxpayers’ Association or
simply tear out this ad. and send with name, address and 10/- to
TAXPAYERS’ PUBLISHERS PTY. LTD.
Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
these songs, the mezzo-voce
technique is put •. to the
severest test, especially for a
baritone who at the same time
has to take a head-note in
tenor territory. Gnatyuk
stretched his voice out to the
most tenuous thread, so that
one felt it was altogether too
frail to hold the weight of
words; and he actually did
break the thread in Shtoga-
renko’s charming and delicate
“Trust Thou All to My
Destiny.”
The rest of these fine songs
were beautifully rendered.
Accompanying the singer with
rare understanding was Rosalia
Elvova.
“Dandy Dick”
That the Tin Alley Players
should have chosen this, surely
the most innocuous of Pinero’s
comedies, for their mid-winter
production is symptomatic of
a disease which seems to have
a large section of Melbourne’s
theatrical world by the throat.
The disease is an alarming
waste of talent and energy—
Charles Colville’s production of
“Dandy Dick” and some of the
acting, particularly Paul Eddy’s
comic sketch of the Dean’s
butler, are often quite impres-
sive—on plays of mediocre
value.
It is useless to argue that
plays such as this Pinero piece
are worth reviving because they
are sure box-office winners.
They simply are not: the Union
Theatre was less than half-full
on the night this reviewer paid
his respects. Surely it is obvi-
ous by now that such plays do
not stimulate public interest;
they are not “talked about,” no
one takes them seriously, and
they certainly do not enhance
the prestige of the groups that
persist in putting them on.
Of course, the Tin Alley
Players are not alone in this.
Other recent offenders include
the great majority of suburban
amateur theatre-groups, and
several in the city, such as the
National Theatre (which seems
to reserve whatever dramatic
taste it has for its often excel-
lent excursions into ballet and
opera), the Arts Theatre, the
Little and, surprisingly, the
M.U.T.R.C.
For their first production this
year, the T.A.P.s did Sean
O’Casey's enchanting “Juno
and the Paycock” (B. 20/4/’6O).
Admittedly good houses were
guaranteed because the play
was on the secondary-school
syllabus. Nevertheless it is a
risky play to tackle, and one
gives thanks that on this occa-
sion the T.A.P.s didn’t find it
necessary to subscribe to the
feeble defence, popular in
amateur theatrical circles, that
important works should be side-
stepped because they are too
“difficult.” The work in the
O’Casey play convinced one of
the audience at least that it
is -better, far better, to fall just
short of excellence for a worth-
while dramatic cause than to
excel with mediocre material.
A.S.J.
“Oedipus Rex”
CEdipus got it in the neck
On Friday at East Sydney
Tech.
Done devotedly in masks,
One of Mr. Tasker’s tasks,
Like burgundy’s ironic stream
Cooling the blood of the
world’s dream :
Proper it was for them to pour
it,
And one feels much better for
it.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
By far the most interesting
event in a crowded art-week in
Sydney is the exhibition of a
dozea Dobell portraits grouped
around the magazine-cover of
Mr. Menzies at David Jones’.
The Menzies portrait is
neither a good likeness nor an
exciting Dobell; but it is nice
to see Helena Rubenstein and
Elaine Haxton still looking so
richly decorative, and very in-
teresting indeed to realise from
the charming straightforward
study of the girl in “The White
Lace Dress” how excellently
Dobell might have performed
in the traditional field if tem-
perament and publicity had not
diverted him into his extra-
ordinary series of “Dobells.”
Peter Sparks (Blaxland
Galleries) could be one of those
young painters who are so
often tempted these days to
exhibit before they are ready
to. Deriving from Cezanne
through Passmore, his larger
paintings have at best a thin
charm ; his genu i ne talent
shows in smaller, more com-
pact such as his yellow
beach-girl or the tiny “Blind
Man with an Orange.”
It is a relief to turn to the
comparative solidity of David
Strachan (Clune Galleries).
Much of his work is vague
enough, or with an inclination
towards conventional surreal-
ism, but such a work as “The
Old Filanda,” a group of build-
ings with snowy mountains in
the background, is both pleas-
ing and surprising in its massive
romanticism.
Since he has always con-
centrated on stylised designs,
lan Fairweather’s development
into abstracts (Macquarie Gal-
leries) really makes very little
difference. But these paintings,
some of them exceedingly
empty, are all the better for
being compressed into a smaller
area ; and one or two of them,
such as No. 11, which derives
from aboriginal bark-paintings,
and No. 15, which has a
Chinese look about it, are quite
captivating pieces of design and
quiet color.
Films
‘‘The Royal Ballet”
This splendid British fil s
taken, complete with applaus
straight from the stage
Covent Garden, offers twofi
ballets —“Ondine” and “T[
Firebird” —and Act II I
“Swan Lake.” All of them a;
danced by Margot Fontey
who throughout is the vt:
spirit of the dance, and Micha
Somes, who exudes strenj
and an air of easy security
everything he does.
The most spectacular, ai
the most satisfying from eve
point of view, is “Ondim
seen here in its entirety f
probably the first time ; at
very easily the best section
it is the central act on t
storm-bound ship. The it
sion of storm, augmented
great billowing silk-scarves,
brilliantly conceived stage®
Indeed the effects, as well
the settings and costuming,!
superb throughout.
Stravinsky’s “Firebird” ;
imaginatively set and clad, i
stage-traffic in the fast-mow
episodes wonderfully organis
The popular second act of i
Tschaikowsky classic has t
benefit of a beautifully dis
plined corps de ballet; the f
de deux is wrought with
utmost delicacy and precisio
and the Dance of the Lit
Swans is a model.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“North-west Frontier”
There is no lack of excit
situations in this Rank I
about the shifts to whict
young British Army officer
put to deliver into safe ha
the child of a maharajah win
fanatical rebel Moslems
seeking to kill. Almost all
action takes place on a o
carriage train drawn by
rickety old engine across rt
territory.
The overall effect is mai
somewhat by a script wt
leans too heavily on did
and by ham-filled acting
Herbert Lorn as a Mo»
newspaperman who turns
to be the villain of the pi
But Kenneth More gives at
account of the dared
subaltern, and Lauren B*
uses her green eyes with k
appraisal as the goveri
accompanying the reti|
Wilfred Hyde White gives
of his customary studies a 1
imperturbable, tolerant 0
official.
At Sydney State.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatinax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 ri *t Street, Sydney. Telephone: BYV 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Slock Exchange
K. H. AU,KX, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. K. LEW, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. K. COIKSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Ilelfin House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential lliiilding, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (1 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: ‘dlosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Tooth and Co., Ltd.
Tooth and Co., Ltd., has grown to be
one of Australia’s major brewers,
with a modern plant, extensive laboratory
facilities and other technical niceties. It
dates back to 1835. In addition to Kent,
the co. operates the Waverley brewery
and controls about 1000 hotels in
N.S.W., including more than 600 free-
holds.
In recent years, considerable amounts
have been invested into expansion and
improvement of production-facilities and
modernisation of hotels.
The co. puts out one of the most
conservative set of accounts in Australia.
A glance at the figures suggests a fat
inner kitty, from which occasional dis-
gorgements are made. In 1954 the co.
added a £3,091,329 assets-revaluation
surplus, plus another £3,987,390 unex-
plained accretions, to its disclosed
reserves.
Next year, the assets - revaluation
reserve was capitalised in a one-for-two
bonus-issue. In 1958 the co. wrote-back
£5,038,219 of “amounts provided in the
past against certain assets.”
Ample disclosed and undisclosed
funds exist for another bonus-handout.
In fact, bonus-scrip accounts for well
over half of Tooth’s £9,273,986 one-class
issued capital.
In the face of a rising consumption
of domestic and imported wines and
spirits, beer remains the national drink.
Despite the heavy excise-duty (hiked-up
to 9s. 10d. a gallon in 1956) the demand
for the draught and the bottled shows
no signs of falling-off.
Total Australian beer-production in-
creased by two-million gallons to 228-
million gallons in 1958-59. Consumption
is steadily growing, following the rising
trend in population and national income.
Official statistics show that output of
beer in the six months to March 31,
1960, was 132-million gallons—an in-
crease of six-million gallons compared
with the previous corresponding period.
The co.’s chairman says that “direct
Government interference on the co.’s
sales by taxation, which is entirely out-
side the co.’s control, raises difficult ques-
tions of policy regarding finance for
expansion.”
The co. is said to be under a constant
threat of “some Government move, quite
unrelated to the requirements of our
industry, which may result in a restric-
tion of the co.’s turnover.” Another
worry is that the “steadying-down of
trade,” caused by high excise, leads to
“diversion of spending-money to other
purposes.”
“Costs in addition to wages” are on
the increase. The price of malt and Tas-
manian hops increased by a few pence
a unit during the year. “Most other
materials” were also up.
The recent £B-a-ton rise in the price
of sugar will be felt in the current term.
Last March the wholesale price of
draught-beer went up by a penny a
gallon, but the bottled variety remained
steady.
The chairman says that “virtually the
whole of the additional costs” incurred
were charged against profits for the year,
without any increase in the price at
which the co. sells its beer.
In spite of all these reservations, Tooth
must admit to a good year’s trading.
Gross profit from trading, rents and in-
terest for the year ended March 31, 1960,
was £99,979 higher at £5,974,321 after
providing for doubtful debts, “contin-
gencies” and writing-off £923,610 for
depreciation (up £57,335).
Net profit was disclosed at £1,368,172
(up £46,001), after deducting £4,606,149
expenses (up £53,978), including unstated
tax-provision and £6OOO directors’ fees:
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1953.. 739 154p.c.= 958,312 t
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. \ 4,13i,93a
Assets revaluation res., £3,091,329 7,229,264
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390.. 11,216,654
1954.. 076 16 p.c. = 989,225 } arl , ■,
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. 1 H,29-,000
Reserve capitalised, £3,091,329 ... 8,201,170
1955.. 1,180,909114p.c.=1,066,508 l, n , „ , n ,
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO .. j lO4 ’ 401 8.300,0,7
Mar.,
1956* 619,361 3 2 P .e. = 556,439 1
Employees’ fund, £5OOO . ) 8,363,499
1957.. 964 12|p.c.=:1,136,064 1 no ...
Employees’ fund, £10,001) .. j 92,900 8,456,3,.9
•Provisions w/baek, etc., £5,038,219 13,494,61'8
1958.. 1,278,411321p.c.=1,158,218 1 ... ...
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO j 440,103 13,004,/81
1959.. 1.322.17] 12Jp.c.=l f 182,48S I . „
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO S y ’ 8 43,/34,,>19
1960.. 1.368.172 13ip.c.=1,228,804 \.., q ... ...
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO j 4.9,308 13,803,887
* Six months only, div. at rate p.a.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 14.8 p.c. on the average ord. capital,
compared with 14.2 p.c. disclosed in the
previous term, and 13.7 p.c., 13.3 p.c.,
13.3 p.c.\and 12.7 p.c. back to 1955.
The div.-rate was raised from 12f p.c.
to 13| p.c., absorbing £1,228,804. Em-
ployees’ fund received a steady £lO,OOO.
Visible reserves amounted to £13,863,887.
Five of the co.’s hotels were rebuilt
during the year. Plant and equipment
were “kept up-to-date in keeping with
modern developments.”
Balance - sheet movefnents were un-
dramatic and unrevealing:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £9,273,986 £9,273,986 £9,273,986
Reserves .. 13,604,781 13,734,519 13,863,887
Overdraft .. 458,948 481,053 276,687
Creditors . . 6,297,793 6,887,084 7,245,627
Employees fund 166,906 180,078 192,348
Final div.-_ .. 579,624 602,809 625,994
£30,382,038 £31,159,529 £31,478,529
Freeholds and
plant , .. 22,735,980 23,236,364 23,258,164
Shares other cos. 17,000 17,000
Stocks ... 1,862,781 1,908,151 1,892,339
Debtors ... 5,597,903 5,812,741 6,126,254
Consols, cash, etc. ' 185,314 185,273 184,772
£30,382,038 £31,159,529 £31,478,529
Each 20s. ord. was backed by 495. lid.
of visible net tangible assets.
There is no doubt that shareholders
have a sound investment in Tooth’s scrip.
Thet more immediate benefits depend on
the co.’s policy, which has been conser-
vative in the past. But every year since
the last bonus-issue there has been some
increase in the div.-rate. Now at
p.c., it compares with 16 p.c. just before
the last capitalisation of reserves.
The 20s. ords. command a high pre-
mium on the sharemarket, and last
changed hands at 655. 3d. a unit. The
immediate yield is 4.1 p.c. p.a. on the
basis of the new 13| p.c. div.-rate.
Mark Foys, Ltd.
trends in retail-trading seem
finally to have convinced Mark
Foy’s board that branching-out into
suburbia may be worth-while profitwise,
and also essential to survival in the long-
run. The co.’s chairman says that it is
intended to move into suburban retail-
ing when “directors feel satisfied that
sufficient return can be earned on share-
holders’ funds.” This is taken to mean
a “satisfactory” dividend, plus a surplus
for reserve..
For 51 years now, Mark Foy’s, Ltd.,
has been in business as a major Sydney
retailer. At present the co. is trading
from a single retail-outlet provided by
a large freehold _ department - store
situated on the once-strategic spot
bounded by Elizabeth, Castlereagh and
Liverpool streets, not far from Sydney's
Central Station. Still valuable from the
retailing angle, this position has lost a
lot of its attraction because of the con-
tinuous shifts in the distribution of popu-
lation and changes in Sydney’s transport-
system.
The chairman says that last year’s
switches in public transport meant the
loss of some valuable routes to the co.
However, it is said that other lines were
gained and the overall results would be
beneficial. This may be a debatable
point, but the occupation of the King
Street property late last term should have
a positive effect on earnings.
Last yea-r’s turnover was higher than
in the previous term. Combined with the


maintenance of the gross-profit margin,
this enabled the co. to offset “heavy in-
creases in salaries, wages and other ex-
penses,” and improve net earnings. Gross
profit on manufacturing and trading
(after providing £1712 more for depre-
ciation at £21,126) plus income from
rents, dividends, etc., was £145,039 higher
at £1,489,930.
Net profit for the year ended February
29, 1960, was £13,157 higher at £116,256,
after charging £1,373,674 expenses (up
£131,882), including undisclosed tax:
( Dividends —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£j £>
1952.. 957 16,374 12i p.c. = 67,546 52,037 521,808
1953.. 111.193 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 40,782 5«2,590
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. •• 563,290
1954.. 167 16,374 12£ p.c. = 67,546 49,247 612,537
Unexplained addition, £875 . . 613,412
1955.-163,867 16,374 15 p.c. = 81,054 66,439 679,851
Unexplained addition, £1282.. .. 681,133
1956.. 16,374 12i p.c. = 67,546 50,986 732,119
Unexplained addition, £230 .. 732,349
1957.. 95,825 16,374 12i p.c. = 67,546 11,905 744,254
Profit sale assets, £4365 . . . . 748,619
1958.. 88,429 16,374 10 p.c. = 54,037 18,018 766,637
Profit sale assets, £4009 .. .. 770,646
1959.. 099 16,374 11 p.c. = 59,440 27,285 797,931
Profit sale assets, £lOB .. .. 798,039
1960.. 256 16,374 12jpfc.= 67,546 32,336 830,375
After paying £16,374 dividends on
£272,902 6 p.c. prefs., ord. shareholders
earned almost 18.5 p.c. on the average
ord. capital, compared with 16 p.c. in
the previous term, and 13.3 p.c. in 1958,
and 14.7 p.c., 21.9 p.c. and 27.5 p.c.
back to 1955. Some clue to unstated
tax-requirements may be obtained from
the £44,121 rise in the tax-reserve, shown
in the co.’s balance-sheet.
The ord. div. was raised from 11 p.c.
to 12y p.c. p.a., restoring the rate which
was reduced to 10 p.c. in 1958. The
cheque absorbed £67,546, leaving £32,336
for reserves, which also benefited by £lOB
profit on sale of assets and were shown
at £830,375.
The £201,008 drop in bank accommo-
dation (to £177,462) was another indica-
tion of better times. Creditors, sundry
provisions and current stocks were all
higher:—
Paid capital—■ 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £272,902 £272,902 £272,902
Ord 540,367 540,367 540,367
Reserves . . .. 766,637 797,931 830,375
Overdraft . . 395,971 378,470 177,462
Creditors . . 207,898 201,311 236,741
Sundry provisions 156,512 173,655 192,801
Tax reserve . . * 60,546 75,000 119,121
Final divs. . . 35,206 40,609 48,715
£2,436,039 £2,480,245 £2,418,484
Property .. 841,370 872,481 878,009
Plant, etc. .. 95,000 85,000 101,000
Shares, etc. .. 5,340 7,215 6,129
Stocks .. .. 1,058,128 997,028 1,016,927
Book debts . . 426,673 508,992 406,311
Cash, etc. .. 9,528 9,529 10,108
£2,436,039 £2,480,245 £2,418,484
Debtors fell by £102,681. Theoretical
working-capital amounted to £658,506.
Current ratio was 1.8 to 1.
On the whole the co.’s balance-sheet
reveals an adequate financial structure
and last term’s results are encouraging.
Trading in current year is said to show
satisfactory results so far. If the present
trend in sales continues, the co. is con-
fident that last term’s figures and profits
can be at least maintained.
Rising costs, especially wage-increases,
are the main headache. Last term, higher
wages and longer annual and sick-leave
periods “had cost the co. many thousands
more than the previous year.” Under the
severely competitive conditions prevail-
ing in the retail-trade it is becoming
more and more difficult to pass-on rising
expenses to the consumer by way of
price-increases.
The co. will subdivide its ord. capital
into ss. units on August 3.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
fetched 595. 6d. each, for an immediate
return of 4.2 p.c. on the basis of a
p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 50s. 7d. for each 20s. ord.
Cottee’s, Ltd.
had a good year. Profits
increased and a steady 15 p.c. div.-
rate was maintained on higher paid
capital, enlarged by a one-for-two bonus-
issue in July, 1959. The recent takeover
of Passiona Bottling Co. (Sydney), Ltd.,
and Passiona Bottling Co. (Bris.), Ltd.,
appears to have improved Cottee’s earn-
ing-capacity.
Established in 1927, Cottee’s, Ltd.,
absorbed a going concern turning-out
various passionfruit products (including
the popular Passiona cordial). Since then,
the co. has been continuously expanding.
Today production of cordials is only a
small part of the business.
Cottee’s products comprise a wide
range of grocery, confectionery and
milk-bar lines, including high-grade
jams, jellies, fruit-spreads, toppings and
packaged soups and desserts,
The co. is based on N.S.W. and
operates factories in all mainland States.
A considerable portion of raw materials
is supplied from the co.’s citrus-orchard
near Gosford (N.S.W.) and the sub-
sidiary Dyasons (Mildura) Pty.’s property
at Mildura (Vic.). Substantial share-
holding is retained in associate (fran-
chised) cos. engaged in bottling and
aerating soft-drinks.
Despite competition, consolidated net
profit from trading for the year ended
March 31, 1960, increased by £10,443
to £134,192, after charging all expenses,
paying directors’ fees, providing £64,103
for depreciation (up £27,834) and setting-
aside £84,195 for taxation (up £3195).
Dividends from franchised cos. and other
investments brought-in another £7530,
building-up consolidated net profit for
the year to £141,722 (up £11,038):
, Dividends —^
Prefs. Ord. />
5 & 8 To Re- Re-
March, Profit, p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £65,000 .. ' 157,896
Reserves capitalised, £65,000 .. .. 92,896
1953 .. 34,961 3,514 15 p.c. =22,500 8,947 101,843
1954 . . 43,893 3,514 16 „ ~24,000 16,379 118,222
1955 .. 61,727 3,514 15 „ ~30,000 28,213 146,435
5 p.c.
1956 . . 83,075 3,250 15 „ ~35,165 44,660 191,095
1957 ..100,777 3,112 15 „ ~37,500 60,165 251,260
Revaluation investments, £30,750 .. 282,010
1958 ..120,197 2,862 15 p.c. =39,350 77,985 359,995
Parent and Subsidiary.
Share-premiums, £55,500 . . . . 415,495
1959 ..130,684 2,613 15 p.c. =43,559 84,512 500,007
Prom inner reserves, £150,000 .. 650,007
Increase pref. capital redemption re-
serve, £5900 .. .. .. .. 655,007
Reserves capitalised, £68,748 . . . . 581,259
1960 ..141,722 2,363 15 p.e.=67,792 71,567 652,827
After paying £2363 pref.-div., the earn-
ing-rate on the increased average ord.
capital was 30.8 p.c., compared with;
47.7 p.c. in the preceding term, and 46j
p.c. in 1958, 39.1 p.c. in 1957, 34.1 p, c
in 1956 and 29.1 p.c. in 1955.
Dividend-rate was steady at 15 p.c. on
the higher capital, absorbing £67,792,
Reserves received £71,567 and also bene,
fited by £150,000 taken from inner re
serves (built-up “where prudent account-
ing dictated that conservative valuations
should be established” but no longer
necessary). Pref.-capital redemption re
serve increased £5OOO by redeemin'
£5OOO prefs. from the A.M.P. Society,
The co. capitalised £68,748, leaving re
serves at £652,827, free of intangibles.
Last year several capital changes toot
place. Cottee’s issued 32,751 20s. ords.
at a premium of 50s. each, in acquisition
of two franchised associated cos.
Passiona Bottling Co. (Sydney), Ltd
and Passiona Bottling Co. (Bris.), Ltd
This lifted the ord. capital to £301,251
The 20s. ords. were subdivided into 5s
units.
The co. then-'delighted shareholder
by a one-for-two bonus-issue from tax-
free reserves. The bonus - handou:
absorbed “more than £150,000 of rt ,
serves arising from share-premiums am
the revaluation of fixed assets and invest
ments.” Only £68,748 of visible resent
was capitalised, and there must have bea
some capital movements not fully rt
fleeted in the accounts.
Paid capital at balance - date wr
£497,011 in £45,000 20s. prefs. am
£452,011 ss. ords.
Mortgage increased by £131,303 t|
£159,828, but the £145,072 bank-accot
modation disappeared. Book-values of
freeholds and plant, motor - vehicle
vending-equipment, etc., were substar
tially higher. Stock, book-debts am
cash-holdings, etc., all increased:
Paid capital-f—. 1958. 1959.* 1960.
Pvef £55,000 £50,000 £45, 0
Ord 250,000 268,500 452,0 E
Reserves . . . . 359,995 500,007 652,8:
Mortgage . . . . 30,148 28,525 159#
Overdraft . . . . 66,967 145,072
Oreditorsf.. .. 181,383 213,953 273,»
Tax provision . . 154,235 86,160 156,5 t
Pinal div 28,225 31,384 46,3:
Inter-co..' suspense 36,1
£1,125,953 £1,323,601 £ 1,822, &
Freeholds, etc. . . 223,746 296,472 380,9
Plant, etc. . . 247,380 296,071 519$
Shares associated cos. 46,758 46,758 49,S
Stock . . . . 381,8 2 2 4 5 9,5 5 9 52?,!'
Debtors . . \ . 223,916 223,192 292,1
Cash, etc 2,331 1,549 531
£1,125,953 £1,323,601 £ 1,822,1
* Parent and subsidiary,
t Including accruals, provisions, etc.
Theoretical working-capital amounted t
£396,245. Net current tangible assei
backing works-out at 12s. 3d. for eat
ss. ord. unit on the consolidate
accounts.
A co. with great initiative, pro' !
earning-capacity and solid reserve-bat
ing, Cottee’s should continue to be f
interesting investment. One cannot I
count competition and variations
consumer-tastes as factors in assess®
the co.’s long-run future, but the steal
15 p.c. div.-rate on a bonus-swell'
capital inspires confidence.
At the last sale in Sydney the e (
scrip, now listed in all capital-citf
fetched 245. 3d. for each ss. ord. *
return is 3.1 p.c. on the basis of l
steady 15 p.c. div.-rate.


L
La tec
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £1,000.000
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 year* or more
~7°/o per annum 2 years
6% per annum | year
5% per annum £ months
o.
*.v
o
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR! EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LATE C INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
Australian Cash Orders,
Ltd., had its origin 40
years ago in a flourishing cash-
order business passed over by
Buckinghams, Ltd., of Sydney,
in 1920 to certain of its em-
ployees. By 1928 £133,609 of
the then £198,446 of paid-
capital had come from gilt-
scrip. Even in the depression
the co. turned-ia an warning-
rate which would have per-
mitted an 8 p.c. distribution on
the then paid - capital of
£206,900, a largish figure when
translated into present - day
values.
In the realms of credit
finance, the cash-order boom
of the middle-’twenties has re-
mained unparalleled until
recent years, when (and only in
the last decade) the even more
colorful h.-p. alternative got
under way. A more sophisti-
cated credit-medium, h.-p. has
become the cash-order system's
most deadly rival. Cash-orders
were never intended to cover
the purchase of things like
motor-vehicles or refrigerators,
and, also, at least in N.S.W.,
statutory limits exist on the
amount of orders which an
individual can take out at a
given time. There still remain,
however, spheres of consumer-
spending consumer-goods as
opposed to consumer-durables
—where cash - order finance
reigns supreme. A.C.O. exploits
these somewhat limited avenues
to the full and, in spite of h.-p.,
continues to make hay while
the sun shines:
Parent Only. -
Re-
Mch., Profit. /— ——Dividends—serves:*
£ £ £
Share-issue exps. w/off, £132 210,553
’52.. 73,411 17* p.e. = 60,055 223,939
’53.. 68,036 171 „ „ 64,754 227,221
Share premiums, £2OlO . . 229,231
’54.. 94,361 171 p.e. = 65,242 258,350
Share premiums, £42,436 . . 300,786
Share-issue exps. w/off, £63 300,723
l7* p.c. = 70,397 317,443
Share premiums, £4063 .. 321,506
’56.. 75,471 15 p.c. = 62,617 334,360
57.. 45,618 10 ~ ~ 4],996 337,982
,58.. 52,034 10 p.c. = 41,483 348,533
°®.. 69,624 12* p.c. = 51,486 366,671
Freeholds revalued, £183,759 550,430
, Share premiums, £292 .. -550,722
60. .101,991 121 P-c. =58,063 594,650
* Subject to goodwill, £127,513,
March 31, 1960.
Besides its finance offices,
located in Sydney, Melbourne
a nd Brisbane, A.C.O. operates
a nd finances home-furnishing
offshoots in these cities and
also at Parramatta, Newcastle
and Wollongong in N.S.W.
Although the two aspects of the
business are closely integrated,
b Y far the greater proportion
°f earnings comes from dis-
counts, commission and interest
earned, rather than from furni-
ture-trading.
Consolidated accounts- are
B'ven for the subsidiaries only,
whose balance-date trails nearly
12 months behind that of the
parent, itself purely a financier.
The parent's accounts show
that last year it received
£346,209 (up £62,224) in in-
terest, discounts, etc., £61,020
(up £8981) in divs. from
subsidiaries and £12,104 (un-
changed) in rents, a total of
£419,333. Expenses, £291,342
(up £27,238) were necessarily
heavier and include provisions
for doubtful debts and depre-
ciation, in aggregrate £39,623
(up £7799). The figures indi-
cate, bearing in mind the in-
creased volume of business, an
efficient control of costs and a
satisfactory collection perform-
ance. The considerable all-
round improvement lifted net
profit by more than 50 p.c. (for
the parent only) to £101,991
(up £32,367).
Written after setting aside
£26,000 (up £11,600) for taxa-
tion, the result works-out 22
p.c. on average capital, as
against 16.4, 12.3, 10.8 and 17.9
p.c. back to 1956.
Capital is held in three classes
of 20s. scrip—£lB,7oo of “A”
stock issued to the vendors of
1920 and originally restricted
as to transfer, but now on
the same basis as the ord. “B”
stock except that, like the
£40,223 of non - transferable
employees’ shares, they are pre-
cluded from sharing in assets
until “B” stock or shareholders
have been paid in full. At the
beginning of last term “B"
stock included 100,000 contribs.
paid to Is. The uncalled
liability has since been called
up so that, at balance-date, “B - ’
(Continued on page 32)


Towards Complete Manhood—
Outward Hound School
ROCK-CLIMBING
THE LONG-RANGE ASPECT
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
The Outward Bound move-
ment started in Britain
during War 11.
In July, 1941, Kurt
Hahn, headmaster of Gordons-
toun School (Scotland), with
the co-operation and financial
support of shipowner Lawrence
Holt and his Blue Funnel line,
opened a sea-school at Aber-
dovey (Wales). The aim was to
combat
the decline in initiative [among
young men] as a result of the wide-
spread disease of “spectatoritis”;
the decline in physical fitness as
a result of modern means of trans-
port ; the decline in skill and care
as a result of the weakening tradi-
tion of craftsmanship; the decline
in concern about one’s neighbor
as a result of the unseemly haste
with which daily life is conducted.
The school sought to train
young men to become active
citizens. Its method was “to
compel by example . . . being
less a training for the sea than
a training through the sea, to
benefit all walks of life.” The
name “Outward Bound” was
chosen by Holt.
Boys between 16 and 19 were
given courses at the school;
each course lasted a month, and
during that time, through train-
ing in seamanship, cross-coun-
try expeditions and athletics,
they were given the opportunity
to “overcome adversity.”
The school at Aberdovey
formed its own training-con-
ditions and established a com-
munity out of what was origin-
ally a crowd of boys from
different surroundings. Discip-
line self-discipline, through
honor —-was strict ; for instance,
boys were required to give-up
smoking for the period of the
course, and this often called
for a definite effort of self-
denial on their part. If they
broke the rule, they were not
able to qualify for the Out-
ward Bound badge awarded to
all who passed the standards of
the course, unless —and this is
the important part —they were
able to certify that, after they
had left the school, for the
period of a month they had
given-up smoking. (This rule
still holds in all the schools
that have grown from the
original sea-school, and is in
force at the Australian school.)
The school at Aberdovey was
an immediate success, and in
1946 the Outward Bound Trust
was formed in London under
the chairmanship of Sir Spencer
Summers. Lord Tedder suc-
ceeded as chairman of the
council in 1955. The trust now
controls five Outward Bound
schools in Britain —two sea-
schools, two mountain-schools
and one in Devon moorland.
There is also an Outward
Bound school in Germany, one
in Austria, two in Africa and
one in Malaya, which are run
from independent Foundations.
In Australia
The first Outward Bound
course in Australia was held in
1956 in co-operation with the
Australian Surf-lifesaving As-
sociation and the National Fit-
ness Council.
Since then the Australian
Outward Bound Memorial
Foundation has been estab-
lished with h.-q. in Sydney, and
the aim is to establish enough
schools throughout the Com-
monwealth to meet the demand
for training boys and girls.
Patron of this Foundation is
Judge Adrian Curlewis, and
its president is Rear-Admiral
H. J. Buchanan. There’s a full-
time secretary, Captain J. M.
Armstrong, C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
R.A.N. (ret.), whose address is
Box 4213, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Foundation has estab-
lished its first school at Fisher-
man’s . Point, on the Hawkes-
bury River, 35 miles north of
Sydney. This school, which is
under the control of a resident
warden and set in eight acres
of bushland, is capable of
training at least 500 boys a
year.
To date six courses have been
held, all of them so far “stan-
dard schools” of 26 days for
boys aged 16 to 19. Two
“senior schools” for younj
men of 20 to 25 years of ago
are being held this year ; one
started on June 18 and is to
last till July 16 ; the second
will be from September 25 to
October 23. It is planned to
run a couple of junior courser
in 1961 for boys from 14T t°
m.
Boys who attend thes-
courses are generally sponsors
by industrial or commercio
firms, by Legacy and simih
organisations, by State 0


private schools or by their
parents; a few come under
their own steam. The courses,
based on a Christian founda-
tion but with no form of poli-
tical or sectarian bias, are
designed to build character by
careful direction of an adoles-
cent’s natural love of adventure
and through self - discipline,
teamwork, physical hardship
and a certain amount of risk.
At Fisherman’s Point
Having heard of the success
of the movement and experi-
enced the rudiments of its
training at the pre-war Duke of
York’s Camp in England, I
decided to pay a visit to the
Australian school and to see at
first hand what went on.
So I telephoned the warden
and arranged to catch a train
one Sunday afternoon from
Sydney to Hawkesbury River
station, where I was met by
one of the assistant-instructors
in the school motor-launch and
taken 51 miles upstream to the
school. As we rounded the
bend south of Milson’s Island
and came within sight of the
school-buildings I was struck
at once by the fine,, command-
ing aspect of the establishment.
The main building, once a
private residence, stands on a
promontory above the river,
surrounded by natural bush-
land. Below it I could see the
jetty and boathouse. The in-
structor steering the craft told
me that there is no access to
the school except by water.
This makes it an ideal place
for the type of training carried-
out there.
Meeting “Old Boys”
As we came alongside the
jetty I was met by the warden,
33-year-old Warwick Deacock,
a former paratroop-instructor
and an explorer of note —he
has climbed in the Himalayas,
been a member of expeditions
to Alaska and Lapland, and
served against the Communist
terrorists in Malaya. He took
me up the steps to the main
building, explaining that I had
missed Judge Curlewis, who
had been visiting the school
earlier and left just before I
arrived.
But at the top of the steps
I met a group of “old boys”
Irom previous courses who had
come to spend the day at the
school, doing what they could
m the way of voluntary work
about the buildings and the
property.
B Was impossible to miss the
sense of purpose and achieve-
ment shown by these young
university students,
others now in business or pro-
fessi6ns—who so evidently en-
joyed coming back to help a
movement which they regarded
as the most important training
in their lives. These lads were
on their way home at the end
of a hard day’s work ; but they
were planning to come again at
the next possible opportunity
to finish what remained to
be done. They have formed an
“old boys’ ” union.
The Staff
In the common-room I met
the rest of the staff. There was
a seamanship instructor from
the Aberdovey sea-school; a
law-student from Melbourne
University—he has now hitch-
hiked up from Melbourne to
help with the running of three
courses ; a member of the Syd-
ney University Mountaineering
Club ; and a young man who
had qualified on an earlier
course and had lately been with
the A.B.C.
In addition there were several
“old boys” there giving part-
time service, either instructing
or working. All these men are
fully qualified as assistant-
instructors.
Deacock explained to me
that he organises the courses in-
to a number of patrols, each un-
der one instructor and limited,
for safety reasons, to 12 boys.
The “standard school” I visited
consisted of 24 boys and was
divided into two patrols—Scott
and Shackleton. There could,
however, be three more patrols
if numbers warranted and if
there were enough instructors,
since the school can take up to
60 students a course.
Also there I met Mrs.
Deacock, “the Deaconess,” who
combines the duties of matron,
secretary and general guide to
the boys with looking after a
nine-months-old baby daugh-
ter. She is an explorer in her
own right as well, and has just
published a book about her
travels in Ladakh.
In addition, there’s a cook,
who is a general handyman ;
an electrician, who is a first-
class marine-engineer ; and a
War I Digger who did a spell
as a bus-driver in London, be-
fore he came back to Austra-
lia to find a niche at Fisher-
man’s Point, turning his hand
to anything.
Evening Routine
We had the evening meal
with the boys in-the dining-hall,
a fibro 1 building constructed, at
the back of the homestead —it
was put-up by the voluntary
work of the R.A.A.S.C. Officers’
Association of N.S.W. and is
identical in size and design to
the boys’ dormitory next-door.
The food was good and there
was plenty of it. The boys had
just returned from a 90-mile
expedition by canoe and in the
bush—they had been mapping
aboriginal midden-caves for
the Australian Museum. They
had been living on hard tack
and were therefore making the
most of their tucker. Deacock
explained that sometimes they
are apt to eat too much after
several days on one of these
expeditions on a balanced
ration of honey, dried-fruit,
oatmeal and rice, with resultant
digestive upsets!
After the meal there was a
conference of patrol-instruc-
tors, then “assembly'’ and
prayers in the lecture-hall and
after that a discussion was held
on a subject that may, perhaps,
have been chosen to suit the
occasion: “The press does not
interest itself in giving people
the facts!” I did my best to
defend the press against some
very shrewd criticism. At the
end of the discussion, the
warden issued his simple, clear
instructions for the final ex-
pedition of the course—a trek
of three days called “Fair
Dinkum” and designed to test
all the skills boys had learned
at the school.
The Training
Later I was able to talk to
Deacock and learn a little more
about the system of training.
On the first day of the course
boys are medically examined
and weighed and then put
through power-tests Since the
object of the course is to pro-
duce physical, mental and
spiritual improvement, the same
procedure is repeated on the
last day and any improvement
is noted and assessed. Towards
the end of the course, as at the
time of my visit, boys have
become physically fit, mentally
alert and are gaining the
spiritual awareness which these
courses develop.
The warden emphasised that
the primary aim of the course
is not simply physical fitness.
It goes much deeper than that,
he said. Training is by means
of expeditions which test every
side of a boy’s character and
cannot fail to strengthen it, as
well as by the development of
a community-spirit within the
school. This particular course
had been on two major expedi-
tions: one by canoe into the
bush and the other by ship's
lifeboat towards the ocean at
the river’s mouth. Apart from
expeditions, emphasis is laid on
. service without thought of
reward. Boys help to clear
beaches or dp voluntary farm-
work. Every morning and
evening there is a reading from
some book of adventure or
achievement and simple non-
denominational prayers are
held. All the instructors hold
“trek” prayers when out on an
expedition. In each patrol, he
said, a captain, vice-captain and
quartermaster are elected, but
each boy has 'a chance of lead-
ing a group-task or taking part
(Continued on page 43)


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE.
DEBENTURE STOCK.
SStasiiE
waafasia
fgg^Sßß
gPfe SSB
HtaiUn
Hfc
m
Bi®
RSI»*
4 to 10 •
years
iraoiuKiiiroi
S3SSB
Tff-
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange
CUMULATIVE DEBENTURE STOCK
8% per annum for 4-20 year*
Compounded on yearly rests
PROSPECTUS
WITH
A PPIICATION
FORinS A
Hankers to the Company and for the Issue:
BANK OF NEW SOCiH WALES,
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING &
YUILU, 113 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Members
of tlie Sydney Stock Exchange?
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S.
SCORER & CO., T. and G. Building, Hunter
Street, Newcastle. Members of the Newcastle
Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Queensland : CORRIE
& CO., Union Trustee Chambers, 400 Queen
Street. Brisbane. Branches at Cairns. Towns"
ville, Rockhampton and Surfers’ Paradise.
Members of the Brisbane .Stock Exchange.
Trustees for Debenture holders: BANKERS'
& TRADERS’ INSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Applications can be accepted only on the
printed form attached to the Prospectus, a
copy of which has been lodged with the Regi-
strar of Companies, Queensland.
AVAILABLE FROM:
Any member of the SYDNEY, NEW-
CASTLE or BRISBANE STOCK
EXCHANGES.
Any Office of the Company.
Any Branch of the Bank of New
South Wales.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ist Flour, Park House, 15 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus with Application Forms,
without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 13/7/’6O
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. BL 5771-2-3
81 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080, 67-1357
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralpliking’ Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armiddle
stock comprised £459,990 —-
there were in fact calls unpaid
amounting to £6B.
The co. has just announced
a one-for-four 20s. “B” ord.
par issue, stock- and note-
holders registered August 15
next to participate. The offer
is available, as well, to pref.-
holders in the subsidiaries
Ruggles and Ringrose, Ltd.,
and Parramatta Furniture
Co., Ltd. Monies are due in
full on application not later
than September 30, 1960;
163,000 “B” ords. are involved.
Divs. were held steady at 12j
p.c. for the second successive
year, leaving £43,928 for trans-
fer to reserves. Though divs.
were cut in 1957 from 15 p.c.
to 10 p.c., the average div., in
the last ten years, is quite at-
tractive at 14| p.c. from the
long-term point of view.
During the year the book-
values of freehold properties
of the parent co. (revalued by
£183,759) and of two of its
subsidiaries were wjitten-up.
Reserves jumped, in all,
£227,979 to £594,650.
In the search for funds to
finance a growing activity—
book-debts rose last term by
£373,162 to £1,411,805—A.C.0.
offered stockholders a one-for-
four unsecured 1965 conver-
tible-note issue calculated to
raise £130,000. Other notes
held, £250,000, but not con-
vertible, are due for redemption
on October 1, 1965:
Parent Only.
1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £423,913 £518,845
Reserves . . 366,671 594,650
Mortgages .. 151,750 144,250
7 p.c. notes .. 250,000 250,000
8 p.c. notes . . 105,065
Overdraft . . 251,559 263,094
Sundry liabilities 95,652 137,679
Due to subsids.. . 103,183 253,180
Provisions* . . 107,055 123,456
Final div. .. 30,915 31,470-
£1,780,698 £2,421,689
Freeholds, etc... ■ 180,687 302,621
Shares subsids.. . 339,084 402,460
Debtors, etc. .. 1,038,643 1,411,805
Due by subsids. 93,303 175,308
Cash ... . . 1,468 1,982
Goodwill . . 127,513 127,513
£1,780,698 £2,421,689
* Bad debts, depreciation, taxation, etc.
Mortgage borrowings from the
C.M.L. were reduced to
£144.250 (down £7500).
Summing-up, A.C.O. has a
fine div. record which by most
standards must rank as impres-
sive. Allied to this, the co. has
displayed a resilience and a
buoyancy in good times and
bad alike, even in the slough
of depression. At 365. cum.
rights, latest trading, the 20s.
“B” stock-units are worth
325. lOd. ex-rights, to give a
yield of 7.6 p.c. trom a 12{
p.c. div. The 8 p.c. notes
sold for 265. last week. At
balance - date the parent’s
accounts showed net tangibles
of 425. for every £ of “B”
capital.
North Australian Uranium
IMorth Australian Uranium
Corporation, N.L., has
recently arranged to buy all
outstanding shares in Storeys
Creek Tin Mining Co., N.L.,
making it a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary. The mine is near
Aberfoyle Tin, in Tasmania,
and contains wolfram and tin.
It has' been earning good
profits.
Most of N.A.U.C.’s remain-
ing fixed assets were sold last
term.
Sales of uranium ore mined
by a tributor at the Cobar II
mine at Milestone amounted to
£4813. No further return is
expected from the mine, but
the lease is being retained by
the eo.
Profit-and-loss statement for
the year ended June 30, 1959,
disclosed £lOB4 income from
interest on investments (down
£9586), against £6027 ex-
penses and directors’ fees. Net
loss carried forward was
£4943.
Paid capital at balance-date
was £1,125,000 in 4,500,000 ss.
f.-p. ords.:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £1,125,000 £1,125,000
Sundry creditors 4,381 816
Loan from sub- .
sidiary . . 9,596
£1,129,381 £1,135,4x2
Fixed assets . . 26,300 1,115
Investments, de-
posits . . 302,102 330,004’
Sundry debtors 521 159
Accumulated loss 4,943
Intangibles (mine
development
a/c) .. 800,458 799,191
£1,129,381 £1,135,412
* Shares in subsidiary only.
Investment in Storeys Creek
(94,286 20s. f.-p. ords.) was
shown at cost (£424,290), less
£94,286 divs. received. Intan-
gibles amounted to £799,191-
At the last sale in Melbourne
N.A.U.C. ss. ords. fetched
2s. lid. for each f.-p. unit.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearlv Subscription .. 22/6
36m,
M
:
«
T
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, July 4, 1960.
The Government has had
second thoughts about its
plans for investigation of the
potential of an iron-and-steel
industry based on N.Z.’s iron-
sands.
Originally the work was to
have been done by a company
with capital held 51 per cent,
by the Government and 49 per
cent, by private enterprise.
This proposal, however,
caused so much dissension th t
the Government decided to go
ahead alone.
Announcing the decision, the
Minister of Industries and
Commerce, Mr. Holloway, said
that offers by private interests
to. subscribe for the 49 per cent,
share in the investigating com-
pany heavily oversubscribed
the amount required.
The proposals for the alloca-
tions of these shares took into
account the interests —financial
and otherwise —already held in
phases of iron-and-steel con-
verting in N.Z.
“Our market is only large
enough for a one-unit industry
for many years, and the manu-
facture of billets cannot be
considered without assessing
the influence of the converting-
industries already established
and to be established,” Mr.
Holloway said.
Also taken into account was
a need to obtain active partici-
pation of N.Z. citizens as well
as sources of the large financial
investment that would be
needed if the industry were
proved.
However, it was early evi-
dent that there was a strong
conflict of interest among the
proposed participants, and,
though he had hoped to be
able to find a solution to these
differences, he had come to the
conclusion that this was not
possible.
In any case, there was doubt,
even if a form of agreement
could be reached, that there
would follow the genuine co-
operation necessary in such a
venture.
The Government had, there-
fore, decided to form the com-
pany itself. The directors
Would be asked to meet as soon
as possible to take over all
aspects of investigation and
testing. This would include
work already done by Govern-
ment departments.
Taxpayers Shareholders
The company would have a
capital of £250,000, but whether
or not it would be necessary to
use all this would not be known
till all the work had been un-
dertaken. It would be a private
company in every sense except
that all the shares would be
held by the taxpayers.
He did not think the fact
that the company was Govern-
ment-owned would discourage
co - operation from overseas
companies. “Like the other
company, we will still have to
buy co-operation from over-
seas,” he said.
An iron-and-steel industry
would have a profound effect
on N.Z.’s economy, and it was
essential that a thorough and
impartial examination of all
aspects be undertaken before
any firm commitments were
made.
The proposed company
would undertake an investiga-
tion only, and it would be for
the Government of the day,
when the company made its
final report, to decide the shape
of control of any subsequent
operating organisation.
Mr. W. Fisher, an Auckland
businessman, will be chairman
of directors of the company.
Other directors will be Sir
Leonard Wright, Dunedin ; Mr.
W. M. Smale, New Plymouth ;
Dr. W. B. Sutch, Secretary of
Industries and Commerce ; Mr.
I. D. Dick, an assistant direc-
tor of the Department of
Scientific and Industrial Re-
search ; and a representative of
the Treasury, yet to be named.
Sharemarket Cools-off
The market for N.Z. shares
has lost a good deal of its
exuberance in the last two or
three weeks. The cooler climate
is probably due not so much
to any specific adverse factor
as to a growing feeling on the
part of investors generally that
The boom cannot, and should
not, go any higher.
It looks as if the market is
entering on a period of con-
solidation and readjustment.
Buyers are still there, but
they are becoming more cauti-
ous and selective. Shares con-
sidered to have risen too far,
too fast, are dropping as profit-
takers sell.
Overall, however, it is un-
likely that prices will be allowed
to fall far. There is still, fun-
damentally, a shortage of scrip.
Short-term speculators should
be wary. But there seems no
reason for genuine long-term
investors, holding good shares,
to be concerned.
A N.Z. Unit Trust
First New Zealand Unit
Trust has received applications
for more than 2,500,000 ss.
units. Applications have come
from 4200 persons.
The original issue was to be
two-million units (managers
reserving the right to accept
oversubscriptions for a limited
period).
The managers’ selling and
repurchase price of units will
be quoted for the first time on
August 1.
N.Z. Breweries, Ltd.
N.Z. Breweries’ accounts are
complicated by the take-over
of Hancock and Co., but one
thing is clear; the company
has had a remarkably success-
ful year.
Consolidated profit was
£186,059 up at £533,332. Part
of this increase is attributable
to the inclusion of Hancock
earnings for the second half of
the year, part to improved
trading conditions and part to
development of wider trading
facilities.
Tax provision of £765,607
indicates that profit is still con-
servatively stated. Deprecia-
tion was £760,891. The direc-
tors indicate that this represents
a reduction in the amount
provided in excess of that
allowed as a deduction for tax
purposes. They add, in their
now customary phrase, that the
provision is “prudent but not
excessive.”
The interim dividend of 4 1-6
per cent., paid on capital of
£3,486,023, took £145,251. The
final of 4 7-12 per cent.,
which is being paid on capital
increased by £1,075,842 to
£4,561,865 as a result of the
Hancock take-over, requires
£209,086. Total dividend re-
quirement is £354,337 and is
covered one-and-a-half times
by the net profit.
Paid capital of £4,561,865
is backed by reserves of
£4,442,139. The coming one-
for-three bonus-issue will in-
crease capital to £6,082,487, and
the one-for-eight premium issue
will take it to £6,842,798. The
bonus issue will take. £1,520,622
from reserves and the premium
issue will add £190,078, so that
reserves will become £3,111,595.
The-last year’s profit would
represent an earning-rate of
7.8 per cent, on capital as it
will be after the coming issues.
That is including only six
months’ earnings for Hancock
and Co. and allowing nothing
for earnings on the £950,389 of
new money to be raised by the
premium issue.
The directors have warned
that the rate of future dividends
may be lower than the present
8| per cent., but they have not
said that it will be lower.
Butter and Cheese
Purchase prices for butter
and cheese for the 1960-61
season will enable dairy-com-
panies, on average, to pay their
suppliers 32 pence a pound of
butterfat for butter manufac-
ture and 38 pence a pound of
butterfat for cheese manufac-
ture.
This was announced at the
Dominion Dairy Conference.
The Dairy Products Prices
Authority, after consulting the
Minister of Agriculture, has
decided that when it fixes pur-
chase prices for the two pro-
ducts it will epable this pay-out
to be made by the dairy com-
panies. *
This basic price is the same
as that paid out last season.


Over the Mountain to Candy
By
J. C. SHELLEY
There were times when
Chislom was a hard,
unyielding boss.
“There’s no argu-
ment about it!” he thundered,
pounding the shabby top of his
desk with a bear-like hand.
“That load of tallow-wood
goes on tomorrow-morning’s
train or you’re fired!” His
hard eyes in his old weather-
beaten face stared McGree
down. “That's final, Dan. On
your way.”
McGree glanced at the
weather through the grimy
office-window. The rain ap-
peared to be easing, but he
knew the road down the moun-
tain would be bad, with fog
below the falls. He sighed
without sound. The boss was
hard to toss at the best of
times. Still, it was McGree
who had to drive the semi., not
Chislom.
“Where’s Andrew?” he
demanded sharply, jerking the
words out ; staring moodily
through the window at the
dreary mill-yard in its sea of
slushy mud ; listening to the
whine of the saws in hard logs.
They’d been cutting tallow-
wood for a week and there was
10,000 super-ft. of the stuff to
get down to the railhead ;
greasy, unpredictable, treacher-
ous loads to be hauling down
mountain roads, particularly in
rain.
“What’s Andrew got to do
with you getting down to the
rail?” Chislom snapped.
“A ruddy lot!” McGree
flared, anger flushing-up over
his tanned face to the roots of
his ginger crew-cut. “You
know damn’ well that Andrew's
down at the rail right now and
likely to be coming up when
I’m going down. How the
blazes do you think we’re going
to pass each other if we meet
in the fog?”
“That’s what you’re paid
for!” Chislom snapped, cold
eyes hard and unrelenting.
“You’ve done it before.”
“Not in fog!” McGree re-
minded him grimly. “I want a
clear road in fog.”
Chislom riffled papers on the
big soiled blotter. “Once again,
Dan ; on your way or you’re
fired.”
IV/TcGree looked out the door
into the rain, his big hands
clenching and unclenching.
How did you deal with a situa-
tion like this? Not the way he
wanted to, with his fists.
Across the streaming yard
the big semi-diesel, with its high
load of chained-down tallow-
wood flooring gleaming greasily
in the wet, stood by the load-
ing-crane.
“That’s tallow-wood,” Dan
said quietly, nodding tow'ards
the truck. “Greasy when it’s
wet. Slides when you hit the
brakes sudden. You kidding,
Mr. Chislom?” His voice, quiet
as it was, was hard and he had
trouble keeping his hands from
balling-up into fists.
Chislom dived into a drawer
for his cheque-book.
“Me and Andrew’s going to
find it a bit awkward if we
meet on one of them bends,”
Dan persisted doggedly. “You
know how me and Andrew get
on, don’t you? Like a pair of
cranky bulls in the same yard.”
“Whose damn’ fault is that ?”
Chislom bellowed, pounding
the desk again. “A pair of
blasted hooligans, that’s what
you are! A damn’ disgrace to
the town, for that matter. How
many days have you pair had
off this year to appear in court?
Drunk and disorderly—every
time.”
“That’s not fair!” Dan pro-
tested. “Andrew might get
drunk occasionally, but not me.
I don’t go looking for a fight,
either. Brit by the same token
I don’t run away from one-
pa rticularly Andrew.”
“If only that blasted girl
would make lip her mind, my
damned drivers wouldn’t be
looking for every paltry, piff-
ling excuse to stop in town
overnight.”
Chislom went off at a tan-
gent, sitting down at his desk
and running his hands through
his thinning hair.
“She’s your daughter,” Dan
reminded him, feeling sour;
knowing the truth in what the
older man had just said.
“A waitress in a blasted
Greek’s cafe!” Chislom ex-
ploded again, hammering the
desk with both hands. “A dis-
grace to her family, working up
there! ”
“She calls it being indepen-
dent,” Dan defended the girl;
feeling sorry for this stubborn
old man.
“For the last time, get out!’’
Chislom roared, springing up
from his desk to look for some-
thing to heave at Dan.
T\an slammed out of the office,
banging the door behind
him. One of these days he was
going to lose his temper in
there and crown the cranky old
coot with the waste - paper
basket. He grinned thinly at
the thought, seeing the bits of
paper, dead matches and cigar-
ette-butts cascading over A. F.
Chislom’s head. He was almost
tempted to go back and do
just that right now.
The big diesel woke with a
flat roar to Dan’s thumb on the
starter-button, and he dismissed
all thoughts of what he would
like to do to his boss. He had
other worries now. A load of
greasy tallow-wood flooring.
What chance would a man
have if he had to hit the brakes
sudden on the way down the
mountain? Charlie Duggan
had done that last year, in rain,
just below the falls ; snapped
the chains holding the load, and
the wet; green planks had shot
forward, crushing the cabin.


STOP
SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
START TODAY
TAKE
|c|o|l|c|h|i|s|o|n
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from the intense pain of Gout —Rheumatism—Sciatica —
Lumbago Fihrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOWS. This special COLCHISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most cases is the
cause of the inflammation and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases, 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England—Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.I,
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
Xhey had given Charlie a full-
size coffin for appearance's
sake. Chislom had paid all
expenses and Mrs. Duggan’s
fare home to Sydney.
Parking the semi, in a side
street, Dan walked through the
rain round into the cafe in the
main street. “You better make
it six eggs with a pound of
underdone steak and a pot .of
tea you can stand a shovel up
in,” he said morosely to Candy.
“Why? You hungry or some-
thing?”
“Both.” He kept his eyes
down, not wanting to look at
her. She was that nice-looking
with her chestnut hair fluffed
up a bit, brown eyes wide
apart, firm wide mouth above
a determined little chin, that
he felt if he looked up at her
he’d forget all about the in-
justice that was gnawing away
inside him. The trouble was
he never knew how he stood
with Candy. He was sick and
tired of asking her to marry
him. Sometimes he wondered
irately if she ever had a sensible
thought in her head. If she had,
why the heck didn’t she say
yes and let them get married?
“Dad in your hair again?”
Her long, slim fingers caressed
the top of his head gently.
He wished she’d go on doing
that for the rest of time. It
sort of made a bond between
them. He wondered if she did
the same thing to Andrew and
was instantly depressed. On
the other hand, you never knew
what Candy was thinking. She
had a personality that attracted.
It was damnation to see how
the boys flocked into the cafe
to lean on the counter and con-
sume soft drinks while they
talked to Candy. She seemed
to like it.
“No.” He thought that over.
Chislom was the boss and had
the right to give orders. It was
just the way he carried on that
got under your skin; never
listening to reason ; blattering
about like an old hen that’s
just laid an egg. “It’s just that
I’ve got to get this load of
tallow-wood down to the rail
or I’m fired.”
laughed. She had an
easy, friendly laugh that
went down inside a listener and
made them happy too. “Dad
does ride that to death, doesn’t
he?”
Dan grinned sheepishly, feel-
J ng his tension ease the way it
always did when he was talk-
mg to her. “He’s the boss.
u b est weapon. But
there’s going to be fog below
the falls and Andrew could be
coming up.”
He didn’t want to sound
worried ; just let her know how
things were with him, and how
they were going to be if he met
Andrew on the mountain road.
“No!” Candy had a feeling
of something ugly impending.
“It’s madness!”
“It’s orders —from the boss,”
he reminded her, warm in-
wardly from her concern for
him.
She sat down abruptly on the
opposite chair watching him
closely as he ate ; trying to
gauge his concern.
“Why don’t you get on the
’phone and stop him before he
starts up?” she said quietly.
“If you can’t locate him in
Belligen, maybe you could
ask the post-office at Thora to
tell him you’re coming down.”
“Who? Me? Try to reason
with that yellow-bellied dingo?
That’s a laugh.”
“You’re a pig-headed fool,
Dan McGree!” she said
heatedly, clattering the chair as
she stood up. “You’re always
provoking Andrew. Carrying
old scores too far. Why don’t
you wake up to yourself and
leave him alone? One of these
days he’ll lose his temper and
kill you!”
“That’ll be the day!” Dan
glared at her, thumping the
table with his fist so that the
crockery rattled. “The day
that happens, Candy Chislom,
I’ll enter an old-man’s home
and stop there for the rest of
my life.”
“You might be safer there!”
she stormed at him, leaning on
the table with her face thrust
belligerantly at him. “Some-
times, Dan McGree, I wonder
whether you’re a juvenile.”
“Hah,” he said. “You do,
do you? Well, what do you
think of Andrew Welsh, eh?”
She straightened-up, still
looking at him: “I like An-
drew.”
She stalked off towards the
kitchen.
“So that’s how it is?” Dan
flung after her loudly. “Well
let me tell you something. If
I meet-up with Welsh on the
road ...”
But he was too angry and
disgusted to find words. He
stalked out of the cafe, throw-
ing the money on the counter
and not stopping for the
change.
TTe stood under the awning to
roll a cigarette, morosely
watching the falling rain and
the swirl of gurgling, muddy
water in the gutter.
He’d take the semi, back and
tell Chislom he was finished.
He plunged through the flooded
gutter, ducked his head against
the rain and ran for the truck,
buttoning the canvas side-
curtain and thinking about the
last time he and Andrew had
fought. That had been out
at the football a couple of Sun-
days back, and both had nursed
sore ribs for a week after-
wards. He felt the coldness of
early afternoon in the cab,
thumbed the starter-button and
switched on the wipers just as
the offside-door flew open and
Candy scrambled in.
There was rain on her hair
and she was breathing quickly
as she slammed the door and
secured the canvas.
Dan eyed her warily. “Want
a lift to somewhere?” he asked
gruffly.
“Same place as you’re going,”
she replied quickly. “And
shake it up. Andrew is Still in
Belligen. You’re got a chance
if you don’t dawdle.”
“Oh?” Dan took time about
his thoughts, leaning on the
steering-wheel in an exagge-
rated manner, watching her, his
eyes narrowed and suspicious
“How do you know where he
is?”
“I’ve just been speaking to
him on the ’phone. He was at
the pub and I told him to stop
there until you pased through.”
“Pig-swilling, eh? Never-
pass-a-pub Welsh.”
“You needn’t be sarcastic,”
she retorted. “It’s no worse
than fighting at every chance
you get!”
“Hah! So that’s the way you
look at it, eh? Anyway, what
did Welsh have to say? Rec-
kon I was chicken, eh?”
“Never mind what he said.
Just get a move on and get this
load of timber down the moun-
tain.”
“When I’m ready,' * he said
slowly, not wanting any woman
to boss him around. “Look,
tell me this, Candy Chislom ;
who are you worrying about —
me, or Welsh?”
“Oh, you damned big idiot!”
she said. “If you want to know,
I’m worrying about you both.”
Dan let-out the clutch
thoughtfully and the big truck
lumbered to life, the load up
behind joggling in its binding
chains. Thinking of them both,
was she? That was a laugh.
“If we meet down the road
that galah had better look out.
When I’m finished with him,
what’s left even the cats
wouldn’t drag home for a feed.”
Candy was silent. She was
22, and had lived at home with
her father for most of those
years. She had her mother’s
philosophy; a mental shrug
of the shoulders when life, or
men, became impossible.
Tn a drift of fog where the
A plateau road lipped over the
mountain crest Dan brought
the semi, to a halt with a sough-
ing of air-brakes, climbed down
and critically examined the
chains holding the load.
Seven miles of steep, winding,
down-hill grades lay ahead and
he didn’t want anything to
happen. He remembered he
had intended to drive back to
the mill and tell Chislom he was
finished. But he hadn’t thought
any more about it after what
(Continued on page 44)


A HALF-CENTURY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE
This year is the jubilee of the firs?
school of agricultural science in
Australia —the School of Agricul-
ture at the University of Sydney,
which began with four students in tem-
porary quarters half-a-century ago.
In 1910 a brilliant young Scot, Robert
Dickie Watt, was appointed Australia’s
first Professor of Agriculture, and
launched a school which holds the
names of many of our top agricultural
scientists and administrators on its rolls.
It also has a fine record of research
achievements which have been turned
to practical use by the man-in-ihe-
paddock.
The story of its formative years is
largely the story of Professor Watt, who,
until his retirement in 1946, was Pro-
fessor of Agriculture for 37 years, and
Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture for
27 years.
His enormous influence on agricultural
progress, both directly, and through his
students, was recognised with a knight-
hood in this year's Birthday Honors.
His original work laid a pattern to be
followed by other University Schools of
Agriculture throughout Australia, and
which, to a considerable extent, were
staffed by his graduates.
Seven are full University professors in
Australia, two are associate professors,
and many are university lecturers. Three
others are professors in Universities
overseas.
TVow under the leadership of Professor
J. R. A. McMillan, who succeeded
Professor Watt, the Faculty of Agricul-
ture at the University of Sydney has to
its credit a total of 674 graduates in
agricultural science, scattered throughout
Australia and overseas
Amongst these graduates have been
five State Directors of Agriculture, a
former Territory of New Guinea Admin-
istrator, and seven principals of agricul-
tural colleges.
Without such men the enormous task
of grafting onto the strange and dis-
heartening conditions of Australia crop-
ping and livestock industries originally
developed in Europe could not have
made the outstanding progress it has
exhibited in the last 50 years. -
Apart from teaching, however, the
School of Agriculture is engaged in a
widespread programme of research into
problems affecting primary production.
One of the most outstanding contri-
butions the school has made to practical
production is its development of rust-
resistant and more productive strains of
wheat.
An intensive programme of cereal-
breeding, originally initiated by Pro-
fessor W. L. Waterhouse, and carried
on under Professor I. A. Watson, has
produced a steady stream of wheat
varieties now widely grown throughout
Australia.
Gabo, the leading whea,t variety in
Australia, was bred by the University
of Sydney, also Kendee and Koda, both
well known to growers in N.S.W.
Since 1954 the University has been
working on joint cereal-breeding pro-
jects with the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, and to keep pace with the
march of rust disease, which steadily
stalks all varieties grown in the field,
have come Mengavi and Gamenya.
These two varieties, bred under this
joint project, are now becoming available
to growers with, of course, newer and
better varieties on the way.
T>lant-disease is a vital aspect of
* research. It is not merely enough
to keep breeding crop- and pasture-
plants resistant to the various diseases.
Professor N. H. White and his colleagues
are working at the more basic principles
of how diseases operate.
They are making careful investigations
into the behavior of the bacteria, fungi,
and viruses which plague our plants, on
the basis that the more you know about
a disease, the better you are equipped
to combat it.
Professor J. M. Vincent and his asso-
ciates are working with the microbes—
good and bad —that inhabit the soil.
Prominent amongst these are the
rhizobia the bacteria which live in
association with legumes such as clover,
lucerne and medics, extracting nitrogen
from the air and making it available to
the plants.
Most Australian soils are lamentably
lacking in nitrogen supplies for plants,
and unless nitrogenous fertilisers are
used, legumes will not grow successfully
without the aid of these bacteria.
However, the plants and the bacteria
are rather fussy whom they live with, and
different strains of rhizobia are needed
for different plants. Professor Vincent
and his co-workers are studying different
strains of rhizobia, selecting them for
best performance with the particular
legumes in common use, and then breed-
ing them up so that they can be produced
in their millions as inoculum for land-
owners planting legume-seed.
In the field of agronomy—pasture-
establishment and management the
school has made major contributions.
Prominent amongst these was the de-
velopment of the sod-seeder —designed
to sow clover-seed and fertiliser directly
into existing pastures without prior cul-
tivation and the risk of soil-erosion and
loss of production.
This technique has not only been
applied widely in Australia, but overseas
as well. It arose from investigation of
failing production in the dairying areas
of the Far North Coast of N.S.W. —-
investigations which showed how pasture
productivity could be increased economi-
cally by suitable use of clovers and
fertiliser.
More'recent research by F, C. Crofts
in the County of Cumberland has intro-
duced the technique of filling the gap
in winter-feed production of pastures by
sod-seeding oats into the sward.
'T'his work is showing how many dairy-
farmers can provide year-round feed-
production from irrigated pastures, with
increased production and vastly reduced
feed costs.
This section is also studying the effects
of soil fertility on wheat quality and how
fertilisers and management can economi-
cally improve both quantity and quality
of wheat.
Of particular importance with the
growing realisation that the plant and
animal must be regarded as a closely
related system is the University’s rela-
tively new Department of Animal
Husbandry. Under Professor T. J.
Robinson, it carries out both teaching
and research.
At the University itself are the three
sections of animal-nutrition, animal-
genetics and animal-management, cover-
ing sheep, beef-cattle, dairying and
poultry. These studies expand into
applied work on a more practical basis
at the three University Farms —the well-
known Badgery’s Creek farm where H. J.
Geddes developed the system of water-
harvesting, and two other farms at Cam-
den, not far from Sydney. On these
farms, teaching and research units have
been established under experts drawn
from Australia and overseas, and these
are expanding rapidly.
Agricultural economics, under Pro-
fessor K. O. Campbell, is a recent field
of agricultural research at the School
of Agriculture. Apart from studies aimed
at more efficient operation of individual
farms, this research involves-investiga-
tions of marketing its shortcomings,
methods of price - determination and
so on.
D esults of such work guide farmers
and their organisations in their
developmental programmes, as well as
Governments framing programmes of
agricultural production and marketing.
Agricultural chemistry, and wide-
spread investigations of soil science, are
further aspects of the University research.
However, as Professor McMillan
points out, this first 50 years has only
been the beginning.
There are many problems still to be
faced, and many more agricultural
scientists will be needed to work at them.
“We believe that the strides forw'ard
in agricultural development over the
next 50 years will be even more striking
than they have been in the past,” he
claims. 1
“Australia is poorly endowed by
Nature compared with other countries,
and it is only by learning how to cope
with our own peculiar conditions that
we can hope for proper development of
the production potential that is un-
doubtedly there, waiting to be realised.”


Start the day right!
r
mm.
fPM
py
® Sporting Motions
your shout/
AND ITS
red mill rum
The Cup on Tour
More than £l3OO-worth of
race-trophies, including the
Melbourne Cup, left Mel-
bourne last week for New
Zealand —first time the gold
Melbourne Cup has left Aus-
tralia before the running of
the race.
This year the trophy is a
lovely £7OO work of art, and
it and the other trophies
are on loan to the Australian
Wool Bureau, which is com-
bining with the V.R.C. in pro-
moting the Centenary Cup
Carnival.
Heavily insured, and under
armed guard worthy of a Cup
favorite, the trophies were
officially handed over to the
bureau on July 5 by V.R.C.
vice - chairman Ross Grey-
Smith, and, packed in two
specially-designed boxes, were
flown to N.Z. by T.E.A.L.
Electra. They would be handed
over to the New Zealand Wool
Board for display in retail
stores for a month.
Then the trophies are to be
flown back to Australia and
exhibited in every State, the
bureau thus using them to
back its “Travel With Wool”
theme for the Melbourne Cup
Carnival, with special State
promotions planned to influ-
ence visitors to Melbourne for
the Cup Carnival to wear wool.
Any suggestion that the idea
is to pull wool over the eyes
of punters can be dismissed as
synthetic.
# * *
After the Nationals
The finish of the Grand
National Steeple at Flemington
last Saturday was strangely
similar to the final stages of the
National Hurdle the week
before.
In the Hurdle, Justification
had led until a furlong from
home, where he was challenged
by Line Ahead, but then found
pother effort to pass the post
hrst and survive a subsequent
Protest.
In the Steeple, the 25-to-l
outsider Blacksmith led the
lavorite, Mudeet, over the last
lence, but when Mudeet headed
him a furlong out, it seemed
only a matter of “How far?”
blacksmith; however, fought
nack, to win well by a little
n ye r a length. Mudeet’s rider,
yrne, entered a protest, but
e stewards quickly threw it
out. Lord Toby was a distant
third.
Beulah farmer Reg Fisher owns
Blacksmith, and trains him him-
self on his property. All credit
goes to Fisher, an accomplished
amateur rider, for bringing the
nine-year-old Debtor gelding back
to racing. Three years ago Black-
smith ran second to Pedro’s Pride
in the Grand National, but broke-
down the following season.
Incidentally, Byrne, on Mudeet
on Saturday, rode Blacksmith in
that second to Pedro’s Pride.
With a little bit of luck Ted
Byrne might have emulated his
famous predecessors Adam
Lindsay Gordon, Tom Corri-
gan and Brian Smith, who all
rode three jumping winners in
a day at Flemington. Byrne
rode a winner and two close
seconds. His win on Fair
Counsel in the Doutta Galla
Plurdle was a compensation
for owner-trainer Bill Murrell,
who believes that only a bad
jump at the last obstacle cost
the gelding this year’s Grand
National Hurdle. Even allow-
ing for the weakness of Satur-
day’s opposition, Fair Counsel’s
win was most impressive, and
he looks a strong Australian
Hurdle prospect. That is likely
to be his next race.
Byrne’s other second was on
Tinto, who, in the Footscray
Steeplechase, staged a strong
run from 11th at the mile to
finish within half-a-length of
the winner, Moonacoota. The
irony of it was that first and
second are trained by Alec
Fullarton, who obviously ex-
pected Tinto to carry the stable
banner —there was no money at
all for Moonacoota, but his
stablemate was heavily backed.
It was the winner’s first start
since last November, and his first
win for two years. In the past
the Perricoota gelding has been
a chancy jumper, but he gave an
excellent display on Saturday. He
has jumping blood. His sire is
a son of David, whose stock have
been dabsters at the game.
The two-year-old of the
moment in Melbourne is the
New Zealand-bred Blue Pelt.
Since June 11 the youngster has
raced four times at Flemington
for three wins and a third. He
scored a most courageous win
in the 10-furlongs Byerley Han-
dicap on Saturday. Second-last
at the half-mile, he swept
around the field to be third
soon after straightening-up, and
showed true staying power to
race home strongly.
Blue Pelt’s trainer, Jack Godby,
thinks the gelding might be up to
spring class. There is not much
size about Blue Pelt, and many
thought the handicapper had
caught-up with him, but on Satur-
day’s effort he can manage weight
and distance.
They were far from a won-
derful lot in the 13-furlongs
Winter Handicap, and it was
not surprising to see the four-
year-old Carbon Copy mare
Trueform finish too stoutly for
the rest. In the autumn she
showed good staying power to
win over 14 furlongs at Flem-
ington and two miles at Caul-
field.
Trueform has a double-cross of
that grand stayer Windbag. Her
sire, Carbon Copy, was out of
the Windbag mare Havers, while
her dam, Furies, was by Hellespont
(Fr.) from another Windbag mare,
Daughter of the Wind. Many
stayers reach their best as five-
year-olds, and we may see True-
form winning in better company
next spring.
• • • •
Most people close enough to
the post to have an opinion
thought Foxley had just won
the Lawn Handicap down the
straight - six. Certainly Fox-
ley’s hindquarters were nearer
to the line than Jet Gun’s, but
the camera showed that Jet
Gun’s nose was an inch or two
ahead. The winner is a huge
horse, standing over 17 hands,
and it was his size that tricked
the onlookers.
• • • •
Apprentice Bobby Scarlett,
who is riding well, scored a
double at Flemington—on Blue
Pelt and Fiero. After being
with the rear division at the
half-mile, Fiero galloped all
over his opponents to win the
first division of the mile Gran-
ville Handicap for three-year-
olds. It was the most promis-
ing effort of the day.
With V.R.C. approval, the
Geelong Racing Club, which
holds its two-day Cup meeting
on October 18-19 (10 days be-


c z/cot/midti cfl/u/e -
f/te
f/\
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
a
O'
v-i A
X
♦
m
y x s
White l abel"
W»<»sll»i Si’OltH W«lMlf
loin) DfwurJ, Sons
s " r • p ”cariAH*
DWII4
The fobum, ROME. Photo by Qantas.
White Label
Dewar's
Scotch Whisky
99
*
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
fore the Victoria Derby), has
initiated a race likely to prove
an outstanding success. Styled
the Derby Trial Stakes, it’s for
three-year-olds and is similar
to the one run at Lingfield
prior to the English Derby*
It’s to be worth £B5O and Sash
to the winner, with £25 to the
winning trainer. Weights, 8.10
colts and geldings, 8.5 fillies,
and there will be claims and
allowances, to be announced
later.
* • • •
Comments by V.R.C. officials at
Flemington make it seem pretty
certain that the 120-year-old course
is soon to become a motor-racing
circuit. Committeeman Rupert
Steele, whose many sporting
interests have included motor-
racing, is right behind the plan,
and Cabinet approval seems a
foregone conclusion. There’s a
suggestion of sacrilege in the pro-
posal that the circuit will cut
off a slice of the Lawn, laid-down
so reverently by secretary R. C.
Bagot 80 years ago, as it runs
parallel to the straight, but the
V.R.C. is satisfied the green con-
crete to be used in this stretch
of the circuit will blend in har-
moniously. Speed-car enthusiasts
envisage Melbourne as a link ia
the chain of world Grand Prix
events. The snag could be that
Sydneys Warwick Farm was first
in the’ field and will have its
circuit completed late this year —
before work can begin at Fleming-
ton. Geoff Sykes is supervising
the work at Warwick Farm, and
he's a former secretary to the car-
racing club which controls the
circuit laid-down on the famous
English course Aintree.
H: *
“Power”: An interesting aspect
of the building of a motor-racing
track inside Warwick Farm race-
course is that the A.J.C., which
owns the course, is associated with
the venture —-maybe the day will
come when it will be staging motor-
racing as well as the horses! The
big motor-opening is billed for
October, and arrangements are
being made to bring some of the
world’s best drivers to it. World-
champion Jack Brabham has
already accepted an invitation to
race.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Veteran trainer Bill Kenner-
son, a familiar figure around
Bathurst way and parts west,
had a winner at Canterbury
Park on Saturday when his
filly Legal Session, raced in
partnership with P. E. Ed-
monds, easily landed the Three,
year-old Handicap. She’s by
Brimstone (E.) from News
Session by Le Grand Due
(Fr.) from the well-performed
Session by Marconigram (imp.).
• • • •
Well handled by Mulley,
Tudicare, four-year-old mem-
ber of Jack Denham’s team,
went to the front in the Bank-
sia Novice and made all the
pace, to win easily enough to
suggest his scoring in better
company in distance events of
the new season. His sire, Judi-
cate (imp.), a son of Hyperion,
won at above two’ miles in
England, and also lifted the
Irish St. Leger, while his dam,
Platonic, is by Le Grand Due
(Fr.) from Brunette by Magpie
(imp.) /from Winsome Queen
(a sister to Artilleryman) by
Comedy King (imp.). That
surely is a stout background!
• • • •
Steeplejack was an interest-
ing runner in the first Canter-
bury Park Two-year-old, but
the costly brother to Melbourne
Cup winner Evening Peal
didn’t earn prizemoney. How-
ever, he’s easy on the eyes, ami
may need a few runs before
striking form. The race was
brilliantly won by Swallow
Tail, who is also from the T
J. Smith stable, for which a
second winner was led in when
Irish Folly very comfortably
landed the main event, the
Canterbury Park Handicap.
Apprentice D. Osborne had
his first winning ride when he
got outsider Valiant Prince
half-a-head in front of Double
Brace at the finish of the
Canterbury Park Moorefiekb
Handicap, with Winchester a
close thirds It made Valiant
Prince’s score 11 wins, mostly
on heavy tracks, arid five ol
them at Canterbury* Country
apprentice J. Gilders had hr
first city win when he scored
on Lady Webb in the Carlton
Encourage, surviving a protest
on behalf of runner-up Nyn l3 '


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
g eC) who has now had unlucky
seconds at his last two runs.
Early in the season the grey
two-year-old filly Yass won
two races on slow tracks, and,
produced after a short spell,
she won the second Canterbury
Two-year-old. She’s by Raw-
son (imp.), who has made a
good start as a sire in Aus-
tralia. He won several races
over staying distances in Eng-
land.
From the Morrie Anderson
Rosehill stable, Cartel ran a
good race in her third to
Swallow Tail and Arahia. A
winner in New Zealand, she’s
by Jekyll (imp.), a son of
champion stayer Alycidon
(who won at up to two miles,
five furlongs in England).
Jekyll won the Doncaster
Rufford Abbey Stakes (2J-
miles). Scribble, dam of Cartel,
is by Gold Nib (imp.) from
Moradabad by Bulandshar
(imp.).
* * *
For the second successive
year Brisbane’s best stayer,
Earlwood (at 10 to 1), won the
Doomben Cup, worth £7OOO,
plus 1 a £2OO trophy, to the win-
ner. He broke his course record,
made last, year: on Saturday
he covered the 11 furlongs less
27yds in 2.12.9. Mediterranean
(5 to 1) and Dow Street (also
fives) filled the places. Earl-
wood has now won 14 races
from 35 starts and earned
£27,179 in stakes.
Young Flame, easy winner
of the Two-year-old Handicap
at Doomben, cost 950gns. as
a yearling at the Melbourne
sales last year. He’s by
Empyrean (imp.) from Love’s
Own by Caithness (imp.) from
Lovable by Gilt Edge, and is
a half-brother to Not Proven,
a smart Melbourne winner.
Young Flame is trained by
N. D. Hoysted and was ridden
by Sellwood.
* * *
file All Blacks
The trouncing of the All
Blacks at Ellis Park, Johannes-
burg, by the Springboks in the
centennial Test, blemishes but
u°es not spoil the imposing
(ecord of the New Zealanders
the hundred games played
®utce Jimmy Duncan, the
Dunedin saddler, led out his
stalwarts on Sydney Cricket
Ground in 1903.
Today the tally stands at 64
lns j 30 losses and six drawn
against the finest
Rugby combinations fielded
during 57 years.
I saw those early games ; and
later played with and against
some of those whose football
was learned under Duncan,
whom I consider still un-
equalled as a Rugby tactician
as well as being a great player.
The strength of those early
All Black sides lay not only in
the individual players but in
the wonderful, balanced
strength between backs and for-
wards. This 1960 side is as
good, if not better, forward
“ Lady — I'm not a player... I'm a referee!"
than, say, the earliest packs,
with such men as Seeling,
Nicholson, Francis, Glasgow,
Gallagher and Johnston —still
household names in N.Z.; but,
like-most later back divisions,
there are to be found no Mac-
Gregors, Hunters, George
Smiths, Wallaces or Albert
Ashers, to mention only a few
of the brilliant exponents of
the fast passing game that
matched the strength and speed
of the vanguard.
When the calibre of .the teams
beaten by the earlier genera-
tion of All Blacks is recalled,
some of the names associated
with them, like Gwyn Nicholls,
Owen and Jones, Sievright,
Harding and Morgan, the
stature of those who hunted
the leather under the aegis of
the wizard of Kikora cannot be
doubted.
It was plain to old hands
who saw the presently touring
All Blacks in action that their
back division was mediocre
compared with their forwards,
who have no equal in either
code today.
OLD REP.
Nagle’s Open
“Overlap”: As a golfer of
such calibre that I have long
Jiad a standing offer to shout
for the club should I break 90,
but have not in 10 years felt any
need to insure against this con-
tingency, I’ll wager that I cheered
louder than anyone at news ot
Kel Nagle’s British Open win.
I’ve been an ardent fan of this
cheerful character ever since 1
first saw him play in a big match
a few years ago at Perth’s Lake
Karinup course. I was one ot
a big gallery following Kel,
another local, and a couple of
Yank pros. Kel played a long
approach shot at one hole that
found the green with a shade much
strength and ran right througn
into a- bunker at the back. In
the crowd round the green to
watch him extricate himself 1
found myself jammed next to a
couple of the local club's Very
Senior Types. Kel disappeared
into the pit and a couple of seconds
later the pill shot up low over the
lip of the bunker and rolled
straight for the hole as Kel
handed his club to his caddy.
“My God!” gasped one of the
V.S.T.s next to me. “Did you see
that? The fellow used a putter.”
Personally I could have hugged
him, having long suffered the
condescending smiles of fellow-
players when I have elected to
putt out of the right sort of
bunker instead of condemning
myself to five minutes’ fruitless
spadework with a sand-iron. I’d
love to know if Kel found oppor-
tunity to perpetrate the same bit
of sacrilege on the hallowed St.
Andrew’s links last week. At all
events, it was grand to see Nagle
finally realise with_ this very big
win the potential which those who
have seen him play here in the
past year or so knew existed in
his fast-improving game. Aside
from anything else Nagle is a
cheery, happy-go-lucky sportsman
never given to tantrums, temper
or exhibitionism, and in inter-
national sporting circles these days
that’s saying something.
Nagle, away to an early good
lead, had a stroke to spare at the
end from Palmer—a 278 total to
the American champ.’s 279.
* * *
Other Sports
Richest motor - race ever
staged in Australia will be de-
cided at Phillip Island (Vic.)
on November 20. Called the
Armstrong 500, the race is
expected to carry over £5OOO
in prizemoney, and is open
only to stock standard saloon-
cars either manufactured or
assembled in Australia. The
name comes from its 500-mile
distance and its being spon-
sored by Armstrong York
Engineering Pty., Ltd. It is
being organised by the Light
Car Club of Australia.
♦ * *
Back at full strength, St. George
Rugby Leaguers downed Canter-
bury-Bankstown 38-2 at the Sydney
Cricket Ground last Saturday—
St. George lock Johnny Raper
(always in the right place at the
right time) going over for four
tries. Other games: Balmain beat
Parramatta 28-7, Easts shaded
Souths 18-14, and Norths beat
Newtown 18-14. In the Sunday
match at the Sports Ground Wests
didn’t so much beat Manly as
run all over ’em, 28-5.
In Brisbane the N.S.W. Rugby
Unionites found the job decidedly
tough, but, with three tries by
young new winger Michael Cleary
the best of the day, they managed
the northerners, 31-23. Very close
going, much more so than the
scores suggest.
In the Rugby Union round in
Sydney, Randwick ran all over
Gordon, 32 - 5 ; Drummoyne
(mainly per Knight’s boot) downed
Easts, 24-14; a weakened Manly
lost to University, 18-13; and
Parramatta beat the also-weakened
Norths, 17-18.
Melbourne continued their V.F.L.
winning way by downing Carlton
9.17-6.22; St. Kilda gave the
Tigers their customary drubbing,
14.15-4.18; Collingwood were too
good for Geelong, 13.16-10.13;
Souths just beat Footscray,
8.9-7.12; and Essendon got there
from Norths, 14.14-12.14.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE U.S. AND THE EAST
Some British press discussion
of the United States Far
Eastern policy in the light of
the Tokyo riots against the
U.S.-Japan security-treaty:
London “Sunday Times”:
“Naturally enough, in view
of the triumph of an anti-
American mob in Japan,
many disparaging things are
being said about the United
States policy in the Far East.
Among them is the reproach
that America suffers from a
‘Pearl Harbor complex.’ By
this is meant a fear-psychosis
which constantly sharpens her
basic policy of keeping her
forward defences as far as
possible from her own shores.
In itself, this strategy is
obviously sensible. It applies
in Western Europe (luckily
for her allies in Nato) as well
as in the Far East; in each
case it has been supported
with arms and economic aid
on a large scale.
“In Europe the policy has
on the whole met with success
—the Russian line of getting
the Americans out of Europe
finds fortunately very few
takers. In the Far East the
policy has always been under
difficulties and is now in
trouble at its key point,
Japan.
“The episode of the can-
celled Presidential visit obliges
the American Government to
consider whether the policy
is still a sound one for the
long-term future. Is there an
alternative policy of with-
drawal and of reliance on
intercontinental missiles and
long-distance bombers based
on the mainland fortress?
“This may become a possi-
bility in the distant future,
but for the present America
does not possess enough
missiles to make such a
strategy realistic. In any case
a great Power cannot embark
on an abrupt reversal of policy
which would at once wreck
the many political, economic
and other connections arising
from a close alliance.
“There is, in fact, no present
alternative to America’s exist-
ing Far Eastern defence
policy, and her Government
would be well advised to take
the current troubles calmly,
eschewing panic measures or
demonstrations of strength,
and above all not to sink into
a mood of exaggerated self-
criticism. Modification of the
way her policy is applied is
another matter.”
* . * *
Edinburgh “Scots m a n”:
“The fact that the official
U.S. line obstinately refuses
to admit that there was any-
thing to the riots but a ‘Red
plot’ does not mean that the
State Department does not
know better. If Peking or
Moscow had really engineered,
and not simply cheered, the
show, the situation would be
desperate. Against such bril-
liance the U.S. would be
helpless. But the triumph the
Communists have claimed
was created by the mistakes
of the United States.
“The U.S. representatives
in Japan have regarded
extreme conservatives such as
Mr. Kishi and the business-
interests which support them
as the only reliable ‘demo-
cratic’ force. (After all, they
believe in free enterprise.)
The Opposition are simpletons,
Reds and riff-raff. Yet the
liberal and enlightened laws
imposed by the MacArthur
regime, which have been under
fire since 1950, won for the
U.S. more friends on the Left
than on the Right.
“The subsequent identifica-
tion of the U.S. with the
extreme conservatives, con-
firmed by recent events, wasi
largely a product of the
Dulles era, in which neutralists,
however friendly, were
regarded as little better than
Communists. This attitude
has been abandoned else-
where in Asia with excellent
results. It is folly to imagine
that Japan stands apart from
the rest of Asia in her attitude
to the cold war.”
* * *
Guy Wint, in London
“Observer”: “The prime
interest of the West in Japan
is not simply that it should
be able to use its territory for
bases. It is to prevent Japan
FROM “SIMPLICISSIMUS,” MUNICH.
from going Communist. Com-
munism in Japan would give
the Communist cause through-
out Asia a very alarming
fortification. The danger is
that a frustrated instinct
towards pacifism may be taken
hold of by Communist coun-
tries and exploited for bring-
ing in a Government which,
even though non-Communist,
would be most unco-operative
with the West. It would be
the rallying-point of all the
anti-American forces in the
Far East. Paradoxically,
though it might come in as
the result of a movement Left-
wards, it might be supported
by many of the discredited
old gang who made the last
war. Old, disturbing ambitions
might revive.”
The same: “America could
not revise its Japan policy
with enthusiasm. There are
dangers in whatever is done,
As Japan goes, so may go all
South-east Asia. But a Japan
without bases need not neces-
sarily be a disaster for
America. In certain circum-
stances it might be resolutely
non-Communist.
“In conventional war, Japan
is capable of providing its own
deterrents with its own
resources. It might be, like
India, a country displaying a
different way of life from
Russia and China. Freed of
its fears of nuclear war, and
freed of the resentments
which might lead it to mis-
calculate its interests, it might
be relatively stable, and might
continue, as in the recent past,
to cause little commotion
outside its own borders. In
the. long run this might serve
America’s interests the best.
* * *
Henry Brandon, Washington
representative of London
“Sunday Times”: “If there
were indications of -a desire
for a change in American
policy in the Far East —and
there are virtually none—it
would be to remove the
impression of American
paternalism towards some
Governments in Asia. This
explains, for instance, the
relief here [the U.S.] at the
spontaneous student demon-
strations which toppled the
Rfiee Government. They were
a different kettle of fish fro® 1
the demonstrations in Tokyo-
it is pointed out, because the)
were not Communirt-inspir^
“No tears would, be shed
here if Mr. Kishi were soot
replaced by man friendly t ft
but less committed to, the
United States. Nobody, how-
ever, can see any likely change
in American relations wW


Falffi lit ihc
Fulurc
It is a capturing fact that in this year of 1960
—one hundred and seventy-two years after the first
British settlement—Australia is still being explored.
Geographically it is marked, of course. That
was an early evolving process in which the
expeditions were wide and fearless.
But economically our country is still being
surveyed. And it is as true today as ever it was.
that the limits of its resources are far from
assessable sight.
That is evident in many ways: in industries
of the land, for instance, with scientists raising the
fertile and productive worth of so much more of
our soil.
It is to be seen again in the search for
minerals, the increasing discovery and working of
which will contribute enormously to our growth
in prosperity.
Probably few Australians realise just how
much exploration is going on right now in the
mineral drive. One example is the fabulous field
around Mount Isa—where, incidentally, millions of
pounds in shareholders’ funds were spent in
exploring and testing ore bodies in the years before
a first dividend was paid. How rewarding this
contributing work has been for Australian mining
is too well known to need more than reminder here.
Similarly, in the huge Queensland bauxite
deposits at Weipa. exploration is being carried out
in prelude to another story of the unfolding of
vastly rich industry.
We see it again in the search for oil, to which
effort and expense have been persistently and
faithfully applied; in the uncovering of more
minerals for the atom-age; in drillings to measure
coal beds for a future that will require coal for
power-fuel and for chemicals—and probably as a
source of oil, in the absence of its direct discovery.
Each year is bringing us more in explored
knowledge, to be sure. But the truth is that we do
not yet know the extent to which Providence has
favoured us here in Australia.
China. A small minority in
the State Department has been
pleading at least for a more
realistic, rather than an emo-
tional, approach to China
policy, but the problem is
where to start injecting
realism. .
“Peking is not offering any
opportunities. On the cqn-
trary, it seems ever more
intransigent now, and the
United States will not take
the initiative on her own.
Britain’s negative experience
with China is usually quoted
to support American argu-
ments against recognition.
“The danger now is that the
Communists, by diplomatic
persuasion and, if that does
not succeed, by threats, will
try to convince various Asian
Governments to abandon their
allegiance to the United
States.”
Japanese
Wool Exports
TJradford “Wool Record”
expresses concern at the
development of “a wool-
trading situation full of
dangerous possibilities”:
“Japan has increased her
purchases of wool from several
sources and is now dominat-
ing wool-auctions in Australia
to such an extent that it will
surprise nobody if the tally
at the end of the season
shows her to have ousted
Britain as the biggest buyer
of Australian wool in the
world for the first time. It
is among the few certainties
in this uncertain world that
Japan does not buy wool in
weights like this so that her
home population can enjoy
its many comforts more
abundantly.
“As these words are being
written, there lies on the desk
a sumptuously produced book
recently issued by the Japan
Woollen and Linen Textile
Exporters’ Association. In
this, the fourth edition, the
candor is quite breath-taking
in places. We quote: ‘lf
necessary, the joint organ
[namely, the above associa-
tion] exercises direct control
ov pr not only the export
prices but also the export
volume in each market in such
? way as is most suitable to
,t -...if necessary, it enforces
quality-control in each market,
yur customers abroad, please
' n Japanese wool goods
)vi hout fear. We promise you
ledouble our efforts to
repay your favors.’
, Elsewhere in the same work
we read: ‘Textiles occupy
more than one-third of Japan’s
total export though the figures
vary....ln 1958, for instance,
the workers employed in the
textile - industry numbered
1,780,000, or more than 20
per cent, of the 8,500,000
workers employed in all
manufacturing industries.’
“In a table, textile raw-
materials comprising all fibres
are shown in 1958 as being
over 20 per cent, of the value
of Japan’s total imports, while
her exports of these same
materials, processed, comes to
31 per cent. We may be sure
that Japan imports only what
she must and exports what she
can. Equally beyond the
realm of speculation is that
Japan exports yarn at the
world price of clean wool, and
cloth at not much more than
the world price of the equiva-
lent yarn: a state of affairs
that can have its explanation
only in subsidy.
“During: recent years the
nature of the U.S. wool-cloth
import tariff-quota has favored
Japan largely at our [Britain’s]
expense, and, while recent
political events in Tokyo
might cause a deceleration or
even a reversal of this ten-
dency, present prospects in the
rest of the world for the
British wool-cloth exporter
are not reassuring.
“In Britain, only the natural
forces of a free economy
exercise ‘direct control over
not only the export prices but
also the export volume in each
market . . .’ and to compete
with a rival who openly con-
fesses to rigging these factors
will certainly present enor-
mous difficulties. Is it too
much to ask that so long as
Japan is an adherent, even
nominally, of the idea of a
free economy, she should obey
the rules?”
Ike Ending
XV/hTH President Eisenhower’s
last term drawing to-
wards its end amid the cam-
paigns to choose his successor,
London “Time and Tide” takes
a brief look at the record of
his leadership:
“Any judgment on Eisen-
hower will also be a judgment
on the America of the Eisen-
hower years. Few Presidents
have reflected so completely the
internal conflicts which trouble
America or the current virtues
and blind-spots of Americans.
His election in 1952 was a vote
for peace (Ike promised to end
the Korean war) against poli-
tics (he had no previous politi-
cal connections at all), and for


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order f0r....
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to—•
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year —£1 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign; £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques. „
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
a hero of typical American
proportions (born the wrong
side of the track in a western
cattle - town, a successful
warrior who hated war).
“Eisenhower has been a uni-
fying national figure at a time
when both political parties
have been split into progressive
and reactionary wings, and
when the country at large has
not committed itself completely
to either party—the Democrats
have been in control of Con-
gress since 1954.
in his own views Eisen-
hower reflects the indecision
which grips both the Republi-
cans and Democrats, and the
electorate: he has the compas-
sion of the New Dealers with-
out their enthusiasm for
Federal Government action,
and he shares the Right wings
hking for decen ralisation
wherever possible but not their
insensitivity to human prob-
Jems
n.'
, JT'"!! *n char « e -„ i os :
tered by the Democrats, that
Eisenhower’s was a big-
business Administration, “Time
and Tide” points out that some
of his bitterest fights have been
with Right-wing Republicans
and that he has characterised
his Administration as “ ‘con-
servative’ in economic matters
(i.e., a balanced Budget above
all else) and ‘liberal’ in human
relationships.”
“Eisenhower has failed to
reconcile his belief in the old-
fashioned virtues of a balanced
Budget and individual initia-
tive with a solution of new
problems created by America’s
prosperity. The gravest charge
against him is that he has had
neither the ability nor the
vision to guide America
through prosperity. He has
not the ability because he is a
political novice (only a political
innocent like Ike would have
thought of starting a third
party): whatever a President’s
popularity, he can only get
results by working through the
political system,
“The demands of a balanced
Budget or his limited concept
of p e( j e ral activity, or both,
have a ii OW ed the Administra-
tion t 0 , et prosperity pass by
vital areas o{ American H fe
that bri n 0 immediate proflts .
Educatio = urban redevelop-
ment transpor , at i on> health
and hospitals scientiflc re .
search> so F cial insurance . these
and other
areas need both
money and Federa i act i on . In
affairs the Administra-
fion has not £ollowed . up wilh
r
vigor the line laid down by
the Supreme Court in 1954.
, £ A . , . ,
Americas domestic prob-
lems have been lar g el Y °ver-
looked because of her import-
ance in international affairs.
Here Eisenhower’s great
achievement has been to com-
mit America to an inter-
nationally-minded policy. In
the long run this may seem to
be more important than his
failures; the reliance on dubi-
ous allies, the view that the
East-West struggle should be
seen in terms of absolute evil
and good, and the perhaps
naive view that goodwill at the
Summit will somehow end that
conflict.”
Dragnet Digest
Manchester “ Guardian ”:
“The main cause of the rela-
tive decline in the military
strength of the United States
is the slow rate of economic
growth, for although Ameri-
can production is far higher
than that of the Soviet Union
a far lower proportion of it
can be spent on defence.
Hence the world can be made
safe for democracy only by
a higher rate of growth in the
United States—and, the liberals
[among the Presidential can-
London “Sunday Times."
“ONE FINE DAY..."
didates] imply, a higher rate
..of growth in the United States
can be achieved only by the
deliberate policy of the
Federal Government. Presi-
dent Eisenhower has seemed
to look back with nostalgia
to the good old days of
laissez-faire; his critics seem
to be calling for something
much closer to a planned
economy. No one can tell
whether the liberal case will
appeal to the electorate.”
* # *
“New York Times”: “No
one with any understanding
of the Algerian problem will
expect a quick or easy solu-
tion. Few conflicts in the
world have proved more
intractable. Whatever the
outcome, many people are
going to be badly hurt, many
hearts are going to be broken,
many fortunes lost. There
never was a formula for all
Algeria that could do any-
thing except to satisfy either
the Europeans or the Algerian
nationalists, and there never
was a realistic solution that
could save French power in
Algeria. Yet the Europeans
in Algeria and the diehards
in France are still fighting as
best they can for the goal of
integrating Algeria with metro-
politan France. The Algerians
of the National Liberation
Front still believe that inde-
pendence from France is the
only satisfactory outcome,
although the Algerians would
have to pay a high and bitter
price for this.”
* $ *
C. L. Sulzberger, in the
“New York Times”: “Algerian
peace would allow a large,
well-trained French Army to
bolster Nato defences in
Europe. At last the base-
negotiations in Tunisia and
Morocco could be settled. All
north-west Africa would swing
more openly towards a pro-
Western political bias. This
trend might be favorably
echoed among newly inde-
pendent lands south of the
Sahara. And a» major obstacle
to better relations with the
Middle Eastern Arabs would
vanish.
“One can easily discern how
the entire free-world position
would benefit should de
Gaulle succeed in resolving
France’s greatest problem
But the pitfalls on the road
are numerous. New con-
spiracies are being hatched
this very minute on both
Mediterranean shores. Trouble
is almost bound to erugt
And, if negotiations collapse
one can foresee the overthrow
of existing administrations $
the F.L.N., in Tunisia, > n
Morocco and, perhaps, in
France itself.”


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND —Wellington Registry.
In Divorce, No. DlO5/60.
TO ERIC DAVIDSON MURRAY form-
erly of Wellington Soldier but now of
parts unknown the husband of ANNE
ELLEN MURRAY of the City of Wel-
lington New Zealand.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife has filed a Petition for
Divorce on the grounds of wilful deser-
tion and alternatively on the ground
that you are and have been living apart
for not less than seven years and are
unlikely to be reconciled A copy of
the Petition with an annexed notice
containing information for you will be
forwarded on application to my office If
you do not file an answer to the Petition
on or before the 10th day of August
1960 the Court may hear the Petition
ana pronounce judgment without your
being heard A marriage is not dissolved
until the Decree Nisi made in the first
instance is later made Absolute and a
Decree Nisi is not a defence to a
charge of bigamy.—DATED at Welling-
tt* lB 28th day of June, 1960.—T. R.
LEAGUE, Deputy Registrar,
friends of the abovenamed Eric David-
son Murray are asked to forward this
advertisement to him. Francis Duncan
DfJynn is the Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, whose address for service is at
his office at 151 Lambton Quay, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
PETER OTELLO NARCI-
\r„ • , 55 Fotheringham Street
rini C T k . V 1 ? e -~'TAKE NOTICE that
Ppt?t® lA , LOIS NARCINOVIC has filed a
*® r Div °ree under Part Ilia of
p® Patrimonial Causes Act 1945-1955”
P-™ TT alth of Australia on the
war?* dese rtion for 3 years and up-
pnw “ you w ‘sh to defend you may
an appearance in the Divorce
Srfw, ,P |n t Building Macquarie Street
10Rn ®th day of September
witßmr obtain a copy of the Petition
SolW?n, Ch !! r S. e from GREGG & MILNE,
P . s ’ 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
_ U A - H - HARMS, Registrar.
WHAT HAVE YOU READ
OF SWEDENBORG?
“The moral insight of Swedenborg, the correction
of popular errors, the announcement of ethical laws,
take him out of comparison with any other modern
writer, and entitle him to a place, vacant for some ages,
among the lawgivers of mankind.”— Ralph Waldo
Emerson.
Not only does Emerson refer to the Swedenborg
Writings as “the most remarkable step in the religious
history of recent ages,” he suggests that even those who
have never heard of them have been influenced by their
teachings. Says he: “These truths passing out of his
system into general circulation, are now met with every
day, qualifying the views and creeds of all churches,
and of men of no church.”
Another writer echoes this: “As the genial ocean
streams imperceptibly warm and invigorate our shores,
so the influence of Swedenborg’s thought has for a hun-
dred years been thawing and warming the bleak
theology of the middle ages. His writings are today the
prime influence beating down the wall of irrationality,
making way for a faith that appeals at once to reason
and to the heart.” —Edwin Markham (author of “The
Man With The Hoe”).
But how many have actually read Swedenborg?
Helen Keller wrote: “It would be such a joy to me if I
might be the instrument of bringing Swedenborg to a
world that is spiritually deaf and blind.”
It is astonishing how few people know anything of
the Swedenborg Writings. Said John Bigelow (former
United States Ambassador) upon reading a book about
Swedenborg: “My first feeling when I laid it down was
of mingled surprise and mortification that I had lived
till then in such dense ignorance of the career and
work of so remarkable a man.”
If you would like more information on Swedenborg
and the Writings send a sd. stamp and I will send it to
you free of charge.
If you would like to buy an excellent (in my
opinion the best) biography of Swedenborg, with a
thorough description of his works, send ten shillings.
“SWEDENBORG, LIFE AND TEACHINGS”
by G. Trobridge. 290 pages. 10/- (post free).
Rev. D. L. Rose, 86 Laycock Rd., Hurstville, N.S.W.
in a project which demands
initiative.
Reaction of Boys
Next morning I had an
opportunity of talking to
several boys on the course.
The first I spoke to was Bruce
Germon, age<) 19, living at
Roseville, Sydney, and working
as a ledger-examiner in the
Bank of N.S.W. He told me
that he is a surf-lifesaver, so
already knew something about
knots and the use of boats
before he came on the course,
but this was the first time he
had done any bushwalking or
canoeing. The course? “Al,”
he said. “I’ve really enjoyed
myself and learned more than
I ever thought possible.” The
next I spoke to was Bill Boyle,
from Narromine (N.S.W.),
who’s a jackeroo working for
McKillop and Sons and was the
only boy from the country on
this course. He told me he has
enjoyed the course and would
have liked to be able to stay
longer. He had also learned a
lot, but perhaps in a different
way from the city boys—boys
from the bush have a lot to
teach their city comrades and
also a lot to learn from them,
so it wojild be good if more
from the country came to these
schools, the warden said.
The third boy I met was
Peter Parry, of Cessnock
(N.S.W.), captain of Scott
patrol. An apprentice in the
radio and television business,
he had sponsored himself, he
told me, and paid the necessary
£42 for the course, because as
soon as he heard about the
movement he felt “there was
something in it for him.” I
met other boys, who all told
me the same thing in different
words. But these three are a
fair cross-section one boy
from the city, one from the
bush and one from a country-
town.
Athletics, Lecturettes and
Projects
I spent the rest of the morn-
ing watching boys at athletics.
They are expected to reach
certain standards, all perfectly
possible for a boy of normal
physique, in the high- and
broad-jump, 100 yards’ dash,
shot - putt and crosscountry
running. The school does not
aim to turn-out super-athletes,
but simply to show ordinary
boys what they can do if they
set their minds to it.
Then I listened to the other
patrol giving five-minute lec-
turettes on different subjects
chosen by their instructor.
Their subjects varied from “fish
and chips” to “sewerage” or
“Shackleton,” but each needed
some research and the remain-
der of the patrol were expected
to offer good-humored critic-
ism on the lecturer’s matter and
manner of approach. After
that, I watched groups of boys
at work on their project. One
lot happened to be drawing a
sketch-map of the school pro-
perty. Another group were
bringing the scrapbook up to
date.
The time had come to go -
it’s a 40-minute river-trip to
the station to catch the train —
and I had to say good-bye
before the boys started on the
afternoon’s canoe-race. But J
left the school with genuine
regret at being unable to see
more of this purposeful train-
ing, which was to culminate
next day in the final expedition.
Reports
The course cannot fail to be
of value, not only to the boys
for what they experience and
learn, but also to the firm or
organisation that sends them
there. There’s a system of
reporting by which the warden
and his team provide a skilled
and unbiased appreciation of
the character and potential of
each boy on the course. (At
the end of'the course the boys,
too, are encouraged to write a
report on their training, and
criticisms are Welcomed.)
The Future
The need at present is for
more entrants, particularly for
the “senior schools.” Until the
warden knows that he will have
a definite intake, it is difficult
to plan ahead. As soon as
State Educational Departments,
firms and other organisations
recognise the value of the
training, there’s no doubt at all
that the courses will be full up,
but it may be slow going for a
while until the news gets round
through all States. This is a
Commonwealth school, al-
though it happens to be sited
in N.S.W., and it is available
to boys and young men
throughout Australia. Perhaps
even greater, Deacock told me,
is the need for a hard core of
instructors at the school.
A few final facts —the Out-
ward Bound Movement does
not try to run in competition
with other youth-movements ;
rather it seeks the help of other
such organisations to make its
principles of value to the com-
munity. Nor does it seek to
produce a sort of class of
supermen. Quite the contrary ;
it aims only at offering some
means of fulfilment to the
average young man or woman.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A344,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Candy had said. All he wanted
now was to meet Welsh.
The rain had stopped and the
fragrance of rain-soaked bush
was keen in the thin, chill air.
East, at the furthest point of
the Belligen valley, a shaft of
sunshine escaping through a
rift in the dark, troubled-look-
ing clouds probed at the beaches
fringing the faraway sea. But
the tops of the rain-soaked
trees below the mountain crest
had the appearance of the com-
ing fog and the air was very
still.
Down about the falls, Dan
thought worriedly, the fog’ll be
like pea-soup. A man’s a mug
for having it on. But he knew
he had to go on. He couldn't
turn chicken in front of Candy.
He climbed back into the
cabin, glancing curiously at
the silent girl. “You getting off
here?” he demanded roughly,
not looking at her, but watch-
ing the faint drift of fog -lifting
over the rim of the road.
“Don’t be * silly,” she said,
startled. “I’m not walking
back home from here.”
“What do you want me to
do, then?” he asked. “Get
down on my knees, if we meet
Welsh, and ask him not to hurt
my poor little truck?”
She looked at him levelly,
keeping the anger out of her
voice, knowing this was not a
time to be angry with him.
“Dan, in case you don’t know,
you’ve got one little weak spot
that makes you really lousy.
Why don’t you give it away and
fill in with something of you
that is big and admirable?”
He went to say something,
changed his mind, with an
alarmed, depressed feeling that
maybe she was right.
There was little traffic on the
road as the big semi, crept
slowly down ; one or two cars
hurrying up ahead of the
coming fog, cringing against
the mountainside to let the
semi, go by with its sheer drop
on Candy’s side. Candy was
used to the road. It held few
perils for her and she had all
the confidence in the world in
Dan’s ability as a driver.
Then the fog was ahead of
them as they rounded a sharp
elbow and Dan checked the big
truck with the airbrakes.
Candy said suddenly, “Don’t
you think you ought to pull-up
and wait?” She wasn't angry
now; only a girl becoming
frightened.
“You got nerves?” Dan
growled, his whole attention on
the road. His voice had lost
its edge of sarcasm. He was
his old, normal self and she
warmed towards him, liking
him this way, wishing he'd
always be like this.
The road came at them
slowly, winding, the sheer rock
wall on Dan’s side a ghostly
picture moving slowly past the
truck. With a shock she
realised that the wall of the
mountain was not more than
12ft. away from where she
sat in the truck, yet it was
hardly discernible, so thick was
the fog.
C'hf was frightened, now.
Andrew's voice had been
thick and slurred on the ’phone,
so that she had guessed he’d
been drinking heavily. “You
tell that galah to stay where
he’s safe,” Andrew had growled
at her. “I’m coming up and
I’ll push him and his little
bitzer-truck right off the road
if we meet, that’s for sure.”
“You can’t, Andrew; you
can’t. He’s got to get this load
of timber down. Please.”
She’d been humiliated be-
cause she had had to plead.
But then she had been desperate
because of the possibilities.
She knew Dan 100 well to try
to plead with him. He was
like a bear with a sore head
when his mind was made up.
“H one y,” Andrew had
wheedled over the ’phone, “you
marry me and I won’t play
bogeyman with that little hero
of yours. Now, that’s it, honey ;
you just tell me you’ll marry
me and I’ll stay right here and
celebrate until you join me.”
“You big, pig-headed fool!”
she’d stormed back over the
wire at him, forgetting herself
completely in her anger. “I
wouldn’t marry you if you were
the last man on earth! And
that’s final!”
But that was an hour ago.
Life looked different here in
the fog, and she strained for-
ward, expecting to see Andrew’s
big diesel with its following
trailer. There were only three
or four places on the mountain
road where big trucks could
pass each other, and it would
be luck indeed if they met
Andrew at one of these.
Newell Falls, boisterous
from the heavy rain on the
plateau, hung a curtain of spray
in the fog as Dan eased the
semi, over the concrete bridge.
The cold, brisk air the falling
breathed into the hot
cabin of the truck made Candy
shiver. She peered from her
side of the cabin into the wall
of fog. The fog hid the sheer
drop on her side, but she knew
it was there, and she was
frightened more now because
she couldn’t see it.
She marvelled at Dan’s
tenacity, to go on down the
road when it was impossible to
see more than 6ft. ahead of the
bulking bonnet of the truck,
She wondered what he was
thinking about. His hands
held the steering wheel lightly,
There was a grim line to his
jaw and his whole body, was
tensed with more than the
effort of driving.
She should have made up her
mind long ago, but it was sweet
and lovely having them at log-
<gerheads . . . but then neither
one in a fight had ever got the
better of the other ; and that
was what she had been waiting
for over the years, so that after
they were married there wouki
be no more .of this childish
fighting.
She listened to the sound of
the truck, inching slowly down
the road ; the mutter of the
diesel, the almost - continual
blubber of the air-brakes. She
had grown -up around her
father’s sawmill, ridden in the
forest on bulldozers and
travelled miles in the timber-
trucks. She “listened” to the
load behind them with her back
as all the good truck-drivers
did. Loads had voices and she
could feel the tremendous
power of this one leaning
heavily forward over the cabin,
There would be no chance in
the cabin if the chains broke,
She could imagine the tower-
ing load of tallow-wood ready
to slide forward and crush
them if the driver applied his
brakes suddenly.
'T'HE weak yellow headlights
of Andrew’s big truck
coming at them ldoked vague,
unreal in the fog ahead and
she screamed, but the scream
was lost in the raucous bellow
of the horn under the heel of
Dan’s hand on the button as
her hands leapt forward to grip
the cold metal of the dash-
board.
She sensed more than felt the
big semi, come to a halt,
snubbed by its locked brakes,
but straining downwards and
forwards. She heard the load
up behind snub slightly fo f '
ward in its chains and she held
her breath, releasing it slowly
after a minute ’When nothing
happened.
With his foot clamped o»
the brake-pedal, Dan leaned
from his cabin, a balled-up h sl
emphasising his shout: “Yojj
damn’ galah! Back, back!
BELLS
(Extract from a marriage-
sequence)
We reach among bells
and touch the trembling sounds
with melting hands;
around our selves fall bells,
and clothed in afternoons and
rounds
of this delight, all lands
are ours, we are all lands.
We reach among bells
to touch the trembling lands
of melting hands
where all our selves like bells
are clothed only with throbs
and rounds
of sound’s delight; all lands
are sounds, we pierce all lands.
We touch among bells
and watch the laving sounds
beneath our hands,
remember as our selves all bells
that clothe the days in ebbs
and rounds,
and our delight is lands
past ours, we reach all lands.
Q-
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Then, with a surge of relief,
Candy knew where they were.
Andrew had just negotiated a
bend and right behind him was
a side-track he could reverse
into to let them pass.
Andrew’s dark face, with
a day-old stubble of beard,
appeared around the edge of
bis togged windscreen:
.“Chicken!”
The derision hung in the fog
and in Dan’s brain like a white-
hot splinter, numbing sane
reason. Candy saw his face
drain white and the muscles
knot along his jaw-line as he
took his foot off the brake-
pedal.
The big semi, rolled slug-
gishly until the two bumpers
met with a resounding crash.
Candy felt the load up behind
jerk forward in the chains, but
the chains held and she breathed
again.
The horn on Andrew’s truck
set up a continued blare. Dan
thpmbed the staiter-button and
his motor woke to life with a
stuttering roar. Fumes of burnt
diesel-oil wafted up into the
cabin. Gears grated; then
Candy felt the power of Dan’s
truck press forward on the
downhill truck and she could
see Andrew waving a wild fist
from his side of the cab as he
stood on his brakes.
Under her, Candy could feel
the whole framework of Mc-
Gree’s truck throbbing with the
beating it was taking. For a
moment she exulted in the
struggle. Then she remem-
bered the load of tallow-wood.
She leant forward, switching-
off the ignition and dropping
the key down the front of her
dress.
“You damned idiot, do you
want to kill the lot of us?” she
screamed at Dan.
No one was listening to her.
McGree was climbing out,
scrambling across the wide
bonnet, dropping to the ground.
Be stalked stiff-legged towards
the other truck, fists balled-up
an d hanging loosely at his
. e - In the pressing, envelop-
m § tog he was an unreal figure ;
a puppet in some nightmarish
Pantomime that stifled and
throat sounc * in her
li»Ku C * r t W * an^e( i on the road
if../ - he was much the same
?™ d . as Dan, but a little
* n .the shoulders. He
. 1 e h. easily, legs apart, fists
shmr i drawn back from
’ teeth.
I]n ,.„ c , e ’ forcing himself to
in? ua ir Ca ! mness > tried reason-
WplcK . im ve got to back back,
place IKe * sa *d tn the first
“Yeah?”
“I’ll say it again,” Dan
repeated thickly. “Back back! ”
“Go to hell! ” Andrew
snarled the insult with a filthy
word.
Dan swung savagely. An-
drew ducked, coming up with
a short-arm jolt that wracked
Dan, swinging him round gasp-
ing with pain. With a quick
shuffle of his feet, Andrew
drove in a right-arm smash
that glanced off Dan’s cheek
but brought blood. Dan
smashed back, catching Welsh
in the ear and dropping him to
the ground. He was up in a
flash and they came together
with flailing arms and the
scuffle of boots on the worn
bitumen road. Andrew went
down again, rolling slowly,
struggling to get up ; crashed
down again with the weight
of Dan’s body. It was now a
battle of brute strength. The
fight took them to the edge of
the road with the drop into the
fog-swathed depths.
Candy screamed, clawing her
way out of the truck, tearing
her dress on a bolt. But by the
time she was on the ground the
two men had fallen and rolled
under the jinker-pole of An-
drew’s truck.
Bending down to see where
the fighting men were, Candy
put her hand on the tyre of
Andrew’s truck. And suddenly
she went cold with fear. The
wheel was moving ever so
slowly, the tyres bulging where
they gripped the asphalt, and
there was a trickle of smoke
from under the tyres; the
acr i d, clinging stench of
scorched rubber mingling with
the fog.
She knew instantly what was
wrong. Dan hadn’t applied the
handbrake, and all the weight
of his loaded truck was bearing
downhill against Welsh’s truck.
She could feel the tremendous
power of the trucks trembling
up through her hand.
Andrew, with his back to her,
was straddling Dan, his thick,
powerful fingers sunk in Dan’s
neck, the rear-wheels of the
moving truck almost on them.
Dan’s heels beat a slowing
tattoo on the asphalt. She
looked around desperately, saw
a branch by the road, hefted it
above her shoulder, and crashed
it down on the back of An-
drew’s neck. He keeled over
slowly without a sound while
life ebbed back into Dan.
Candy was crystal-clear on
everything that was happening
around her; Dan, gasping for
breath ; Andrew, unconscious,
almost under the wheels. She
clawed up the side of the
truck and across the wide seat
until she found the brake-pedal
and clamped down on it with
all the power in her leg.
Through her back, pressed
hard against the seat-swab,
she felt the trembling in the
big truck stop. She began to
breath again. But in a little
while her leg, holding the big
brake-pedal down, began to
tremble and she pulled the
handbrake on savagely, think-
ing, Couldn’t I have thought
of that before? She released
the foot-brake suspiciously, but
there was no movement in the
truck now. She scrambled back
to the ground.
Dan was on his feet, groggily
examining Welsh. He stood
up, swaying a little.
“I think he’ll live. What did
you hit him with?”
“A bit of a stick,” Candy
said, trembling all over. “Can't
you back his truck and let’s
get out of here?”
Dan got into the other truck
and backed it out of sight into
the fog. When he came back
Andrew was sitting up, feeling
bewilderedly at the back at his
head and stretching his head
in an experimental way. He
got up and moved about.
“You’ll be all right,” Candy
told him, hoping her voice
sounded as determined as she
tried to make it. “And just
remember this in future,
Andrew: when you tackle Dan
you take on the two of us.”
She followed Dan up into the
cabin of the big semi., wishing
the trembling would stop. It
was damn’ silly, really, to get
worked-up like this over two
men fighting. “And if you go
fighting again,” she stormed at
Dan, “you’ll have me to deal
with afterwards!” She was
nearly crying with mortifica-
tion. -
“Hell,” Dan said, setting the
big truck rolling, “you sound
like you’re fair dinkum,
Candy.”
“You just try it sometime if
you want to find out if I mean
it!” Candy said.
Dan let the truck roll slowly
down the road for 100yds.,
then braked it hard, pulled the
handbrake on and turned on
the seat to face her. “Do you
know what, Candy?” he said.
“It’s just occurred to me that
you love me.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
West New Guinea
The recent official report
from The Hague about Indo-
nesian infiltration of West New
Guinea —first by armed groups
plotting the overthrow of the
Administration by insurrection,
and later by smaller unarmed
parties better able to escape
detection and, being unarmed,
hopeful of getting off with
milder sentences if caught—
makes interesting reading.
It would seem to answer
effectively the Indonesian claim
that refugees from West New
Guinea had sought asylum in
nearby Indonesian islands. In
all probability the “refugees”
were earlier infiltrators who
escaped arrest when the more
actively subversive efforts had
been squashed by the Dutch
authorities.
The infiltration tactics bear
a strong resemblance to those
pursued by European dictators.
The intrusion of Hi 11 e r’s
“tourists” into Sudetenland and
the formation of Communist
fifth - columns in Czechoslo-
vakia, Poland and Hungary
are cases in point. Bracketed
with these have been the con-
flicting statements issued from
Djakarta.
Fitting well into the pattern
are the accusations of belliger-
ence which followed the recent
and rather belated measures
for strengthening the defences
of West New Guinea. The
accusations remind one of the
French zoologist’s statement:
“This animal is wicked. It
defends itself when attacked.”
The infiltrators’ propaganda,
according to The Hague state-
ment, has not had much effect,
except perhaps among people
of mixed blood in the coastal
area ; for, again according to
the Dutch authorities, the
Papuan population is “resist-
ant” to Indonesian aims.
Strangely enough, very little
has been heard about the atti-
tude of the people most con-
cerned with the issue of the
dispute—the Papuans, whose
future is at stake. Authentic
and independent evidence of
that attitude has been pro-
vided by G. T. Roscoe in his
lately published Our Neighbors
in Netherlands New Guinea.
Roscoe, a Queenslander who
joined the New Guinea Govern-
ment service in 1947, and' has
been Director 'of Education
there since 1958, lately made a
tour of West New Guinea with
two of his native teachers. He
considers that in West New
Guinea the Dutch authorities
are doing a “sound and work-
manlike” job.
He left the work of inter-
viewing native people in West
New Guinea to his native
teachers, who, he said, could
get into closer touch with the
western Papuans than any
white man could. Information
elicited suggested little enthusi-
asm for Indonesia’s claims.
On the other hand, the party
heard opinions freely expressed
“Getting a bit thick on top, sir!”
in favor of closer relations
between West New Guinea
natives and their eastern'neigh-
bors, and eventually of an in-
dependent political union of
the people of the whole island.
—Pip Tok (W.A.).
University Quotas
No doubt “Luke” is right in
attributing high failure-rates at
universities to inadequate pre-
paration at school and students’
irresponsibility (B. 29/6/ ’6O) ;
but does a quota-system effici-
ently discriminate between
those who will cope with a
university - course and those
who will not?
All would agree that the
better a student’s preparation
and the greater his sense of
responsibility, the more chance
he has of passing his university
examinations ; but the difficulty
arises in devising a quota-
system which will admit all
who can graduate and exclude
all who can’t.
One investigator divided all
incoming first-year students at
an Australian university into
three groups according to their
marks in the five matriculation
subjects in which they did best.
The failure-rates at the end of
first-year were: poorest group,
58 per cent.; middle group, 11
per cent.; best group, 1.4 per
cent.
Now, if only those students
in the best group had been
admitted to university the
failure-rate would have been
negligible ; and if the middle
group of students had also been
admitted the failure-rate would
have been reasonable—about 7
per cent.
But the important point is
that 42 per cent, of the poorest
group passed, and these students
would have been excluded if
the matriculation standard had
been high enough.
The question we have to
answer then is whether we
should tolerate a high failure-
rate to ensure that all who can
graduate are admitted to the
university ; N or keep the failure-
rate down to 5 or 10 per cent.,
thereby excluding many poten.
tial graduates.
In our present desperate neec
for graduates and our inability
to predict university success oi
failure with anything like abso-
lute accuracy, there seems onli
one answer the Americai
rather than the English one-
of casting the net wide-
H.O.F. (N.S.W.).
Decentralisation Move
One of the most persistenf
advocates of decentralisation®
Victoria (B. 15/6/’6O) is'a
promotion-committee set-up jt
Geelong 12 months ago.
The committee, first mooted
by the Chamber of Commerce
and promptly backed by tk
City Council, has already sue
ceeded in attracting one half
British industry
to the area and has received
“feelers” from other Britisi
and U.S. concerns. Jts lates
move is a decision to tab
advertisements in the Londoi
“Economist” and the journal'
of the British Federation of In-
dustries, and in a special
industrial supplement of tk
“Sydney Morning Herald.”
Reason for the publicity
campaign—financed by cot
tributions from eight memk
municipal councils in the dir
trict—is that Geelong, a cit
of 100,000, which is large!
Australian standards, has four,
to its cost that it is hardy
known outside Australia.
First step towards
British and U.S. industrial®
to this country, the commit!
says, is to make a particular
locality and its facilities kno«
Then there is the chance of
survey visit, when the local at
vantages can be pressed hois
—Plain Australian (Vic.).
Councils and the Press
As a footnote to D. C. Till
man’s appeal to councils t
refrain from excluding h
press from their commit!
meetings (B. 29/6/’60): I r £i
lately of the una n i mot
decision of the Copmanhuf
Shire Council, on the N.S."
North Coast, to allow report!
and ratepayers to attend ■
future meetings of its work
and finance-committees and
exclude them from any o®
such meetings only on a specit
•resolution that the business
be discussed was of a
tial nature. v
Councils have the right
“open” or “close” their $
mittee meetings to the prof
they please, and it astonis/
me that so many of them


mm
. „
,fe,#
*■»
r
*f
»
W *i/'
m'
FROM
£BB5
PLUS TAX
Discover the new thrill
of driving HOLDEN
There’s a brand new feel to Holden driving. Don’t just look at Holden and admire its
magnificent new styling drive Holden and discover for yourself all its thrilling new values.
More value in styling and comfort
From striking new full width radiator grille
to graceful new tail light assembly there are
exciting new lines to Holden. Inside
Holden, too, there’s new beauty.
When you drive Holden you’ll quickly
experience its new quietness, new comfort.
The luggage boot is roomier too.
More value in performance and
handling ease
The 6 cyl. Holden engine now gives 75
gross brake horsepower. Yet owners
report even better petrol economy. Driving
ease is improved by lighter brake and
clutch pedal pressures.
Discover Holden value yourself
Styling comfort, performance, handling
ease and low cost maintenance look at
Holden any way you wish ... you’ll quickly
see how much more value the new Holden
offers you at low first cost. Call on your
Holden Dealer today . . . drive Holden*
today, and thrill to all its wonderful new
values. Ask about the GMAC hire pur-
chase plan. +regd.
Australia’s Own Car
Australia’s finest value
SEE YOUR LOCAL HOLDEN DEALER TODAY
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Q 232
to exclude reporters as a matter
0 f routine. Maybe it enables
some aldermen and councillors
to set things off their chest
which they would not like
reporters or ratepayers to hear,
but that is surely a poor excuse
for 1 depriving the people who
elect them from gaining a
proper appreciation of the
work they do.
Maybe reporters sometimes
“play up” differences between
aldermen and council officers ;
but, provided they act with a
proper sense of responsibility,
there is no reason why alder-
men or councillors should be
ashamed of their most forth-
right utterances appearing in
print. To speak out only when
the press is absent suggests a
lack of moral courage or sense
of ’responsibility.
I believe that local-govern-
ment would stand much higher
in the estimation of ratepayers
generally .if more were known
about business transacted at
meetings. The remedy is in the
hands of the councils. —Dix
(N.S.W.).
Sea-power
The Russian walk-out at
Geneva could benefit members
of the Western alliance if they
pause to reassess the dangers
of partial disarmament.
Negotiation means conces-
sions by each party. But with
fear of mutual destruction by a
nuclear war, and mutual dis-
trust as the only common
ground to start from, conces-
sions can only result from
hard bargaining.
Distrust rules-out any pro-
gress towards the ideal of com-
plete nuclear disarmament
unless each step is foolproof.
Meanwhile each side strives to
maintain its own way of life
while at the same time trying
to impose its will (or way of
hfe) on its opponent. This is
done deliberately by the Com-
munist bloc, but perhaps only
unconsciously by the West.
In the absence of nuclear
disarmament, distrust expresses
itself through the medium of
conventional” arms. A
cardinal principle is to use no
more force than is necessary to
attain an objective. Can either
side impose its will in any par-
ticular way by “conventional”
arms alone? This is import-
ant, as Western leaders, being
responsible to democracies,
Wl be under constant pres-
sure to agree to a pro-rata
reduction of “conventional”
rms as a political gesture to
relieve tension.
the English
Speaking Union in April, 1957,
Admiral Arleigh A. Burke,
U.S. Chief of Naval Opera-
tions, said: “The need to use
the oceans is greater than ever
before. Over ninety-nine-and-
a-half per cent, of the total
world volume of trade moves
by sea ....Survival under
attack depends on the ability
of the free world to come
quickly to the support of be-
leaguered nations by sea. There
can be no free world unless we
do so.”
About 4800 allied merchant-
ships were sunk in World War
11, although Germany started
with only 30 ocean submarines
and few maritime aircraft; by
1942 she had over 250 sub-
marines, about 100 opera-
tional. The atomic bombs on
Hiroshima and Nagasaki were
merely the coup de grace.
Japan was defeated by sea-air
power, which reduced her
merchant-fleet from six million
to one million gross-tons. This
was achieved by a force of
submarines, initially 50, but
never exceeding 150, and only
4.5 per cent, of U.S. air sorties
in the Pacific.
To ensure that a given flow
of merchant-ships is main-
tained the protecting force can
be calculated in absolute or
concrete terms of ships, air-
craft, submarines and their
numbers, performance, etc.
This holds good whether a
particular ocean convoy is sub-
jected to light sporadic, or
heavy sustained, attack.
Russia already has some 500
submarines and 3500 maritime
aircraft, with many subs.


already deployed in the various
- oceans. As the present size of
available Nato naval forces is
below that which barely en-
sured survival in World War
11, it is apparent that a pro-
rata naval disarmament would
magnify an existing danger to
the West and further jeopar-
dise its means of continuing its
way of life —its merchant-
shipping.
That the minimum force re-
quired to counter this Russian
threat is a matter not of con-
jecture but of calculation is
too little known and too little
exploited. Craster C. M.
Usher (N.S.W.).
Children’s Books
In a recent literary competi-
tion conducted by Rigby’s, Ltd.,
Adelaide, there were 270 entries
in the children’s-book section.
Of these, 10 to 12 per cent,
were assessed as suitable for
publishing and put to a final
judging to select prizewinners.
The standard of these selec-
tions compares favorably with
imported children’s literature,
according to a senior member
of Rigby’s publishing-staff ; but
in the face of the limited
demand for Australian books it
is extremely unlikely that any
would reach the public. The
cost of publication for the
relatively small market here
is far greater than for books
“Now Well just have to Wait."
for similar age-groups pub-
lished overseas.
In an endeavor to overcome
this difficulty, co-operation
between publishers in Australia,
the U.K. and the U.S. is being
fostered in The hope that, with
the combined demand, books of
this nature may be published
at a more favorable price.
But this presents added
difficulties to the Australian
creator. Material selected and
sent overseas —the printing of
such books in Australia will not
be considered by overseas
publishers—is selected by per-
sonnel who understand the
many and various environments
of Australian life. It must
then pass the critical inspection
of the overseas publishers —
people who favor the existing
market, either natural or
created.
Remembering the delightful
stories we read in our youth,
we buy similar books for our
children. So it could go on,
generation after generation
buying imported atmosphere,
whilst our own, equally delight-
ful, is overlooked. O-Twit
(S.A.)
New Zealand Attitudes
An illustration of the theory
that New Zealand has con-
veniently turned aside many
of her potential Ausubels
[David Ausubel is author of
The Fern and the Tiki, a study
of N,Z. society] has lately
fumed-up.
A New Zealand graduate in
education and philosophy
gained a Fulbright scholarship
to specialise in educational
psychology in America and
England. Eventually he
returned to N.Z., but was
unable to find a suitable posi-
tion and had to work tem-
porarily in the Wellington Post
Office.
Efforts to find a niche in his
own field repeatedly came to
nothing, until he began to sus-
pect —with good cause, as it
turned out later —that he was
“disapproved of” in higher
circles.
Eventually he retired from
the capital and took one of the
few teaching-positions offered
him—in a one-teacher schoo l
in a back-country area. Here
he continued his research as
best he could and was quite pre-
pared to work within his
immediate environment.
It was, however, an unsatis-
factory situation and became
in the end frustrating and
potentially stultifying. How
long it might have continued is
not known, for out of the blue
came a phone-call from an
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 599
Across
I—Rev.1 —Rev. Shaw confused a feature of the waterfront. (7)
s—Famous English cartoonists whose humor could be
ruthless —could be lenient, too. (7)
9 —Land you and some warmer you, yes! (7)
10 — Six football's which may raise the temperature? (5)
11 — Sounds as if it's not quite an’ Australian car-
toonist. (3, 5)
12— Curiously loomed as a threat to our tennis prestige. (6)
14 — A liar Tom included in a
noted U.S. chamber music
ensemble. (4, 4)
16—Stuff of which the fury of Roy
Rene is made. (5)
18 — Drama critic has a logical way
of getting in. (5)
19— What goes to bolt with B'eer-
bohm's vegetation. (3-5)
21—Lady Godiva couldn’t have had
this instruction. (6)
23 —The Philistines, grieving for
Goliath, know doubt thought this
cartoonist. (5, 3)
26 Eggs. (5)
27 — Boy who makes an insect honor-
able, w'hy? (7)
28— -Wisdom one of these con-
querors. (7)
29 — Bird with nothing to market
in the rqiddle.' (7)
Down
1 — The stomach turned to the
upturned thousand in redskin
money. (6)
2 A tripe is berserk. (5)
3 Guarantee the locker for
valuables is to grant , with
condescension. (9)
4 -How Joan Hammond might
behave about some of her
sporting equipment' like an
expiring candle. (10)
5 What Father Christmas brings
to a legendary land off the coast
of Brittany. (4)
6 —What distinguishes the vet. from
the velvet? (5)
7 Is an artist the elect, or just
one of the chosen people. (9)
8 — Reduced by Id. as instructed. (8)
13 —He agrees to build an alterna-
tive to the bridge. (10)
15 — What a lenient boss might say
to the typist for whom he
nurses an affection? (4-5)
16 — Henchmen suggest thousand a
year fieldsmen. (9)
17 — All our central source of Vic- r
torian power. (8)
20—A state drink w'hich used to
saißthe Tasman. (6)
22 —Ring ship I put on a mark on
an alternative musical , pas-
sage. (5)
24 — Myrna Jolson is true to her
allegiances. (5) -
25 — Cross up dozes. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 598


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
TO |? UTH WALES—In Divorce.
£0 BARBARA ELLIS late of Chester
X s * The Esplanade, Balmoral.—TAKE
I'” 1 that MARJORY HILDA GRAY
q a^ ille< l a Petition for Divorce No.
r-pLt^L. l . 9 ! B . .against her husband
Tn?M\Trrm agdinst ncr nusoana
AM: HI LLOYD GRAY alleging that
committed adultery with you. You
jIZ *° the Court to be allowed to
uwena You may obtain a copy of the
TAr vc.pv,y Uhout charge from J. BIRNIE
JACKSON & COATES, Solicitors, of 117
RegilS ’ Sydne N-~ C - A - H. HARMS,
Missing Friend
HINKm HI , NKIN - wife of GARNE]
England "ho “ngrated to Sydney froi
in/ hpr- *]° ut 1939 > or anybody knov
cafp win, "'hereabouts, please commun
Solicitors M ® SSR S. BEVINS & HOUEI
s > Elizabeth Street, Sydnei
Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a
O'SUI.UY’AN
ri* PTY LTD ,
?«S
tra
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and, Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
American University he had
worked at during his Fulbnght
oeriod offering him an assis-
tant - professorship in the
psychology department. He
jumped at the chance and, with
L w ife and child, left N.Z.
until, as he put it, a more
progressive regime is estab-
lished.
Some people might see in
this merely the recklessness of
an American university and
proof that standards there must
be a good deal lower than they
are in N.Z. Yet after several
years in America the graduate
reports the following achieve-
ments: publication of a book
by the University of California
Press; publication of many
articles in psychological
journals; a grant from the
American Philosophical Society
to study with anthropologists
at Cornell University ; appoint-
ment as research-consultant to
a local mental-hospital; and
the initiation of a special uni-
versity-course in children’s
literature.
Looking back he says: “Con-
trast New Zealand, where a
man spends his life bitterly
cherishing gangrened hope for
an ‘opportunity’ to realise his 1
talent (he thinks by then he
has only one—which probably
is true after years of attenua- =
tion; viz-, ‘experience’) and by
the time opportunity knocks
he has capacity only for pre-
pension plans.”
The use of the words
“gangrened hope” is revealing
and indicates the extent of the
disease; for disease it is, and
until it’s recognised as such
it will surely never be cured. —
J. M. Thomson (N.S.W.)
Health and Publicity
It would be a good idea for
the Commonwealth Health
Department to make known
who controls and authorises
the quantity of each drug that
a doctor is permitted to pre-
scribe under the Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme. The depart-
ment could also state why
changes in quantities are sud-
denly made —a process which
at present is a mystery to doc-
tors and patients alike,
Asthma-sufferers claim that
a certain tablet is limited to 12
on each script—which, besides
the 5 s - dispensing-fee, entails a
visit to the doctor (and another
fee) about once a week,
I am prescribed three differ-
ent tablets a day. Tablet “A”
is allotted (3 a day) in quanti-
ties of 100, with a repeat on
each script. Tablet “B” is for
two years on the same basis ;
and “C” (one a day) is only
rated at 12. All of which is
just plain stupid, according to
three different doctors who
have prescribed the tablets.
Now the rates for “B” and
“C” have been suddenly
changed. The quantity of “B”
has been reduced to 50 with
one repeat, and “C” has been
increased to 50 with no repeat,
no explanation being given
even to the doctors who must
abide by the little book, issued
by the department.
Better public-relations would
surely help to relieve the annoy-
ance thus caused among
patients and doctors. One has
only to review the wonderful
success of the public-relations
campaign for T.8.-control to
see that gaining the confidence
of the public is of enormous
value to the health of the com-
munity.—lm-Patient (Vic.).
Unwanted Govt. Agencies
Earlier this year, at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), the 16 or so
constituent councils of the
Southern and Central Table-
lands Serrated Tussock Com-
mittee voted overwhelmingly
against the formation of a
county-council in the area to
control and eradicate this
noxious weed—only two coun-
cils voted in favor. Yet the
N.S.W. Minister for Agricul-
ture, R. B. Nott, told a public
meeting at Braidwood a few
weeks ago that the Government
intended to set-up these county-
councils, irrespective of what
the individual councils thought
on the matter.
The other day the Southern
Tablelands County Council,
the e 1 e c t r i c i t y-distribution
authority in the area, rejected a
motion by Aid. J. E. Seiffert
(Queanbeyan), brother of the
Labor M.L.A. for Queanbeyan,
that it approach constituent
councils to see whether they
would hand-over powers to it
for serrated-tussock control.
Several county - councillors
said emphatically that the coun-
cils would resist handing-over
powers as long as possible.
They claimed, and it seems to
be true, that most councils are
doing a reasonably effective job
of control. Councillors are, of
course, strongly opposed to
further bureaucratic control.
This being the position, the
Heffron Government seems to
be acting dictatorially in foist-
ing unwanted and unnecessary
agencies on the people of this
developing area. Keima
(N.S.W.).
Schools and Society
T. M. Thomson (B. 29/6/’6O)
says that a good secondary-
school master in New Zealand
is greatly hampered by his
syllabus, etc., and “if these
were changed the personalities
of the students would benefit.”
But surely he would agree
that mere “change” is not going
to make any improvement.
Obviously he means change in
a certain direction —but in what
direction?
Later he gives us a clue to
the criterion he has in mind.
Schools are “to initiate social
change through the develop-
ment of personality.”
But this isn't as helpful as
it looks. Does he mean by
“personality” the characteristics
of a person as a person, or “a
relatively persistent core of
habits”—to borrow one of
some 50 definitions of the term
offered by psychologists—or
the kind of thing a successful
entertainer has?
Does this personality develop
best in an atmosphere of com-
plete freedom, as some Ameri-
can educationists would have
us believe? Or must it be
carefully moulded according to
certain notions of desirable
personality traits?
When J. M. Thomson or
David Ausubel can provide
precise answers to these ques-
tions it will be time enough
to speak of Government
schools initiating social change.
—R.A.S. (N.S.W.)


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ARGENTINE BEEF
Tn Argentina there has been a
suggestion that domestic
beef-consumption will have to
be reduced in order to release
additional supplies for export.
In a leading article “The
Review of the River Plate,”
published in Buenos Aires, has
discussed the subject of beef
and taxes in terms of special
interest to the industry in Aus-
tralia :
“According to the frigori-
ficos, whose argument is largely
borne out by a majority of
cattle-farming opinion, beef
export trade conditions have
been becoming increasingly
difficult in recent months.
Throughout the first nine
months of last year these diffi-
culties were not operative;
overseas prices were remunera-
tive, the exchange value of the
peso was low (favoring the
export trade), such increases in
costs as had occurred were
moderate, and prices for the.
principal by-products of the
industry were satisfactory.
This situation began to change
after October, however ; over-
The United Kingdom
was again the main
buyer of South African
greasy wool during the
July - December period
of 1959. Her wool
purchases totalled 26.75
million lb., being
10.9 per cent, more
than the previous total
for the corresponding
period in 1958. France
also increased her
imports from South
Africa to 88 per cent,
more in the first half
of the current season,
while Japan’s buying
increased almost two-
fold.
Growers the world over
are continuously striv-
ing for healthier sheep
and higher production,
and in all countries
they are considerably
helped by the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings. These reduce
the lamb mortality rate
since every lamb saved
means increased pro-
duction. The Elastra-
tor method provides
effective, humane cas-
tration and tailing
without loss of blood
or open wounds.
seas prices, both for meat and
by-products, dropped, the peso
quotation in the exchange
market was stabilised at a
higher value than that ruling
previously, and new wage
agreements came into effect
which resulted, together with
other factors, in a far from
negligible increase in produc-
tion costs.
“By way of illustrating the
extent of this deterioration, it
was recently pointed out by one
authority that the price of 400
dollars per ton f.o.b. for frozen
beef shipped to Germany is
the equivalent of a dressed
weight price locally for a side
of beef of 23 pesos per kilo-
gramme, which in turn would
imply a steer price in the
market of scarcely more than
13 pesos the kilogramme live-
weight. Here, it is pertinent to
point out that current prices
on the Liniers Market, not-
withstanding the recent fall in
quotations, are appreciably
above this level. Generally, the
position is that the domestic
consumer trade is paying more
for its beef cattle than those
engaged in the beef-export
trade can afford to offer.
“The suggestion is that the
fault resides in the system of
retentions and assorted impost
to which the export of meat,
and of other products, is sub-
ject. The combined incidence
of these, it, is estimated,
amounts to at least 23 per cent,
of the value of the product
shipped. Thus, it is reasoned,
the domestic butcher trade,
which is exempt from such
retentions, is in a stronger com-
petitive position vis-a-vis the
frigorifico buyer for the beef
export trade.
“There are, of course, sectors
of opinion which do not agree
with this interpretation of the
problem, the Centro de Con-
signat arios de Product os del
Pais, for example, which in a
communication addressed to the
authorities, declared its opposi-
tion to the proposed modifica-
tion of the system of retentions
and cast certain aspersions on
the sales policy of the frigori-
ficos. Curiously, the C.A.P.,
which is an entity financed by
the producers, and one of
whose functions is to provide
the cattle-raiser with guidance
in matters relating to the com-
mercial disposal and industrial
processing of his animals, has
remained silent on the subject
of slaughtering and processing
costs at a time when its opinion
might usefully have shed some
light on this aspect of the con-
troversy.
“Entities which have been
pressing for the removal or
scaling down of the export-tax
burden include the Junta
Nacional de Carnes; Con-
federaciones Rurales del Litoral
and Confederaciones Ru rales
de Buenos Aires y La Pampa.
Other representative associa-
tions have preferred meantime
to refrain from taking up a
position either way, while the
Government has commendably
sought, by convening broadly
representative discussions
among the interests concerned,
to ensure a hearing for all
sectors. Latterly it has become
apparent that the Governrrlent,
as indicated by the Minister of
Economy, shares the view that
some reduction in the export-
tax is necessary, although the
difficulty to be resolved is that,
as the Treasury cannot afford
the loss of revenue which such
a remission of tax would entail
a substitute irhpost, applicablj
to the domestic and export
trade alike; must be devised,
“Accordingly, official think,
ing seemingly favors the sup.
pression of both the 8 per cent,
sales-tax and the 3 per cent
contribution to the Fondo </ (
Compensation (administered by
the Junta National de Carnes)
As the proceeds of the latter do
not accrue to General Revenut
in any case, the need to devise
a substitute levy does not arise,
while to make good the loss of
revenue represented by the su
pression of the Sales Tax (8
cent.) it is proposed to crea
a new tax of three or four pc
cent, to be applied indiscrimin
ately to all cattle slaughtering
i.e. whether for the beef expor
trade or for local butcbe
supplies. The incidence of
proposed new tax, it may
reckoned, would represent bt
tween 200 and 300 pesos pt
steer or not more than ti
pesos per kilogramme on tb
price of beef if transferred tf
the consumer.
“Not surprisingly, howevei
the announcement that tin
Government was contemplatio;
such a course has served acutelj
to heighten the controvert
revealing opinion among tin
various entities concerned at
almost irreconcilably divided
The Sociedad Rural Argentig
the Comision Coordinadorai
Entidades Agropecuarias, aft
the retail butchers’ associate
oppose the new tax and den®
the abolition of all taxes aft
retentions. The Junta Nacm
de Carnes, more realistical
acquiesces, albeit reluctant!
in the need for a substitute!
because of the special circuit
stances of the case. The reta
butchers’ co-operative sociei
of the Federal Capital als
acquiesces in the official p
posal, while the C.A.P. K
refrained from venturing *
opinion.
“In all the circumstances, aft
given the present need to asst
the export trade, the officii
proposal seems reasonable, i
the same time, the anxieties ft
vealed by the replies of ti
various sectors consulted ft
real enough, especially *
argument that the inter®,
market for beef is the bigg®
and most stable market tf
producer has and should
therefore, be undermined. (
reminder by the C.A.R.B.A
authorities of the need, in $
cases, to avoid upsetting E
balance between arable
pastoral farming prices is ®
relevant. But the basic ®
sideration, which, in the If
of the present controversy, I*


Spaded
It
'S
6 uM' Nl
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
Obtainable in 4 ox., 8 ox.,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM " HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
been largely lost sight of is
that the real cause of all these
difficulties is to be found in the
technological backwardness of
our farming methods.
“If the economic benefits
resulting from the present effort
of national sacrifice are not
substantially applied by the
farmers and the meat process-
ing industry towards improving
the efficiency of their enter-
prise, the natural tendency of
costs— influenced by antiquated
techniques— to rise will' lead to
successive situations of crisis,
requiring further and progres-
sively heavier sacrifices.”
Later repqrts from Argentina
announce that a decree cutting
export-taxes on meat has since
been brought in, with immedi-
ate effect. Chilled and frozen
beef, frozen lamb and sub-
products will pay a 4 per cent,
sales-tax instead of 8 per cent.,
while the 3 per cent, tax used
for encouraging steer-breeding
has been scrapped altogether.
The decree is expected to be
followed by heavier taxes on
meat consumed locally, so as
to maintain the rate of fiscal
revenue. Government officials
are confident that this move
will boost exports and reduce
local consumption.
Beef-supplies in Argentina
have been exceptionally good
this year in spite of depleted
herds, because dry weather has
forced many ranchers to thin-
out their stock. Prices at local
markets for cattle on the hoof
declined as much as 25 per
cent, in April and May. Now
good rains have fallen within
the last fortnight. They seem
to have broken the drought and
resulted in a reduction in cattle-
supplies.
Pine Varieties in N.Z.
“Rangitaiki”: While the
N.Z. Forest Research Institute
! s aware of the commercial
importance of its plantations of
Pimis radiata —now producing
profitable quantities of timber
a nd paper—that pine has not
nourished in all areas, and in
part of Northland about 3500
a cies have been satisfactorily
Planted with a Mexican pine,
Pmus patulci.
Two of the institute’s officers
have returned after making a
our-months’ visit to Mexico
ooking for seeds from likely
varieties among the 35 native
pecies of pine that grow there.
ey collected seed from trees
areas over 5000 ft. above sea-
ve ’ w here climate and tem-
peratures are somewhat similar
ose °f N.Z. Several of
, s P e cies are considered
very promising, and experi-
mental plantings are to be
made in various districts.
Youth at the
Sheep Show
“Fergie”: The most striking
impression left on me by the
Macarthur Sheep Show in
Sydney was that there are
evidently no bodgies or widgies
in the bush.-'
That percentage of unhappy,
bewildered, seemingly under-
nourished (and often unwashed)
youngsters of the cities who
have had so much publicity
were not to be found even
amongst the spectators.
Instead, the majority of the
young men there were only
older editions of the youths
who so efficiently handled the
champions.
To my mind —thinking back
to days at Sydney Tech, a
generation ago the sheep
exhibited were the best of their
breed, superbly prepared for
judging.
The merits of sheep-entries
have been reported elsewhere.
The quality of the young folk
who contributed so much to
the success of the Show
is generally taken for granted.
The significant point is that
the wool-industry, on the pro-
duction-side at least, is in the
hands of youth—competent
youth. These youngsters are
trained craftsmen in their
fathers’ trade, articled to
apprenticeship without written
agreement, in spite of the
attractions of city life, and in
their hands the industry is sur-
viving droughts, floods and
fires, quite apart from the
hazards of good and bad years
for selling and the high cost of
production.
Discussing sheep and wool
with these sons of the soil is
refreshing. 'For example, a
question about the merits or
demerits of standard Merino
types against Poll Merinos
started an eager, but friendly,
debating-team round the sheep-
pens. These youngsters are
very well-informed (as I found
out) on all kinds of topics.
They see and hear quite as
many overseas and local films
and recordings as do their city
counterparts, but I could see
no acquired mannerisms, either
in dress or speech.
They worked in overalls and
paraded in jodhpurs or gaber-
dine riding - trousers, wool
shirts, ties and sports-coats,
wearing hats big enough to
protect their eyes and neck and
elastic-sided riding-boots. The
style might seem old-fashioned
to anyone from the city, but it
is typically Australian and
does not try to ape foreign
fashions. For example, there
were no “chaps” worn over
“jeans” or ten-gallon som-
breros !
As for manners, I have
seldom seen better-behaved
youngsters, not only during
judging but at all other times.
Those who see only decay in
Australia’s youth may take
heart. Five-million bales of
wool brought to the cities this
year ought to help the country’s
economy, to say nothing of the
meat-supply. So it’s worth
giving a bit of praise to the
men, women and youngsters
who made it ’possible.
I found only two discom-
forting features at the Show.
On “People’s Day” (Saturday)
people were mainly noticeable
by their absence, although
they could be heard in thous-
ands yelling themselves dry at
a nearby football-match.
And —sad to one, like me,
who comes from the channel
country in s.-w. Queensland —
I could have counted on my
fingers the number of specta-
tors watching the sheepdog
trials. But the dogs performed
brilliantly. Obviously they
couldn’t care less about
applause.
Nagoora-burr Beetle
“North”: Late in 1957 the
Queensland Lands Department
brought in from the U.S.A.
some-larvae of the micas-beetle,
which is reputed to feed on
nagoora-burr, one of the most
widely scattered, hardiest and
altogether worst pests in the
State, as it is elsewhere.
For 2\ years exhaustive test*
have been made to see whether
the beetle will really kill the
burr, and whether it will attack
crop plants. It can now be
reported to have actually ex-
ceeded expectations ; it has be-
come acclimatised and, tested
on 150 varieties of commercial
and native plants—vegetables,
fruit-trees, general crops and
garden-flowers has shown
that, apart from its fondness
for nagoora, the only other
plants it will attack are wild-
sunflowers, Jerusalem arti-
chokes, cosmos and dahlias.
Permission of the Common-
wealth Health Department is
now being sought for release of
the beetles in districts badly
infested with the burr.
Permanent Pasture
“Myall”: Queensland dairy-
farmers, particularly those on
the red soil of the Atherton
Tableland and around Mackay,
Springbrook and Tamborine,
are alarmed at the decreased
soil-fertility in their areas.
Today these pastures carry
only one beast to three acres,
instead of one to the acre as
they did 40 years ago. Often
pastures have become so poor
that only costly hand-feeding
allows dairymen to keep-up
production in their herds.
C.5.1.R.0. Director of Tropi-
cal Research Dr. J. Griffith


Grow OLIVES
... for profit!
■> 1. $
mm
m
■ *
Ideal for stock windbreaks,
hedges and shade trees . . .
do n®t denude the soil.
Prices range from 5/-.
Planting season 1960, April to
Sept. 30. Sizes available: 12, 18,
24, 30, 36 to 48. Sicilian type for
oil; Verdale, Queen and others for
pickling. All trees hormone-propa-
gated for quick growing.
Write for FREE Illustrated Booklet on
cultivation, price list and further infor-
mation to
BEAUMONT NURSERY
(K. A. BROCK)
Beaumont Road.
Beaumont, South Australia
Phone: UX 2543.
Davies says the trouble is
caused by loss of nitrogen in
the soil. Much of Queensland
is deficient in nitrogen, and
after a few crops have been
grown yields begin to drop un-
less this element is replenished.
Nitrogenous fertilisers are
costly, but the growing of
legumes —peas, beans, lucerne
and other pod-bearing plants—
will help to restore fertility.
Grown continuously in a
field for two or three years and
ploughed under while in bloom,
cow-peas, Mauritius-beans and
velvet-beans, in summer, and
field-peas and blue-lupins, in
winter, will soon build nitrogen-
content ; but few dairyfarmers
can afford to leave paddocks
idle for any length of time.
Sowing exotic grasses with
perennial legumes overcomes
this limitation, though the
build-up of fertility will be
slower.
A recent experiment with
lucerne on worn-out wheatland
on the Darling Downs showed
that a three-year stand will re-
charge the soil with enough
nitrogen to bring back its
original condition. The crop
grown was equal to any ever
produced on that land.
Naturally, the species sown
is regulated by climatic and
soil conditions. In wetter parts
of the northern coast grasses
such as Guinea, para and
molasses sown with the legumes
centrosema, stylo, phasey-bean
and Glycine Javanica have pro-
duced excellent results. On
poorly-drained and low, wet
areas, para-grass does excep-
tionally well, and when grown
with phasey-bean it gives good
grazing. On well-drained
slopes 21b. molasses and 21b
centrosema to an acre have
been successful.
Green-panic, buffel-grass and
Rhodes - grasses mixed with
lucerne have been satisfactory
in the sub-coastal districts from
Rockhampton to the N.S.W.
border, and out west into the
Maranoa also. Kikuyu-grass
has given good results on the
Blackall Ranges and in dairy-
ing districts around Brisbane.
Molasses-grass and the legumes
centrosema, stylo and phasey-
bean have been successfully
grown in frost-free areas as far
south as Currumbin on the
Gold Coast.
In the Central Burnett, just
south of Rockhampton,
graziers are experimenting with
mixed pastures, and a 20-acre
irrigated paddock of perennial
prairie, phalaris and scobic-
grasses mixed with lucerne,
red-clover and white-clover
carried 80 bulls for 68 days,
and turned them off in tiptop
condition, ready for a stud-
cattle sale.
At the nearby Brian Pasture
Research Station a paddock of
Rhodes-grass, buffel-grass and
green-panic sown separately
with lucerne gave grazing stock
1001 b. liveweight a head over
cattle fed only on natural
pastures. This paddock was
divided into four even portions,
on which stock were rotated
under a system of two weeks
on and six weeks off.
At an experiment on the
Blackall Range, 60 miles north
of Brisbane, a 15-acre paddock
of kikuyu-grass and white-
clover grazed an average of 59
cows for 194 grazing periods
of not less than eight hours a
day, from July 1 one year to
May 25 the next. Another
area, 10 acres of kikuyu-grass
and paspalum partly oversown
to red-clover, New Zealand
white-clover, ladino-clover and
H.I. ryegrass, carried the same
number of animals over the
same period. By comparison,
an area under native pasture
carried the herd for only 69
days. The total rainfall during
the trial-period was only 15in ,
while the yearly average is 68in.
In the Lockyer Valley, 50
miles west of Brisbane, a trial
plot of'7| acres of unirrigated
land was sown with a mixture
of 61b. green-panic, lib lucerne,
lib. Townsville - lucerne, lib.
barrel-clover and +lb. phasey-
bean, just after l|in. of rain.
The seed was mixed with pas-
ture-fertiliser lcwt. to the
acre —and sown with a mecha-
nical planter. Thirty-six days
after sowing, the pasture was
in luscious growth Min. high,
and was being grazed.
Further west, on the Dar-
ling Downs, green-panic, buffel-
grass and Rhodes-grass (either
separate or in mixture) and
lucerne are generally sown for
permanent pasture and have
proved their worth during
drought. From Rockhampton
south no legume can surpass
lucerne. At the Brian Pasture
Research Station cattle running
on 25 acres of native pasture
were allowed grazing on five
acres of lucerne during winter
and spring, and gained up to
1401 b. a head in a year mors
than those on native pasture
alone. Agrostologists say that
lucerne will continue to to
Queensland’s leading pasture
legume for many years to
come.
C.5.1.R.0. pasture - researc!
officers are working to trans-
form the economic position of
the dairy-industry. They aim
to lower farm-production costs
by increasing the yield ani
quality of the food-suppl)
Also, they want to encourage
dairy-farmers not to remait
dependent solely on milk, and
to help them to obfain more
milk to each cow and each
acre, and so have more time
for attending to other types olj,
farming.
Marginal areas could gradu-
ally disappear from dairying
and be used instead for pro-
duction of veal and beef. There
is also scope for increasing 'fat-
lamb production on farms no"
devoted entirely to dairying 1
These changes presuppose
major uplift in pasture-produc
tion on the farm. Because
Queensland has a high, well-
distributed rainfall in the war®
summer months, it should t> f
possible to grow far mo ft _
nutritious and better-yielding
pastures and forage-crops thaa
is being done today. If the prof'
lem of providing cheap nitro-
gen either by development
of new strains and species®
pastures and crop-legumes 0
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/6/’60)
’ In Queensland rainfall is likely to be ligbt and generally
below normal during July, apart from moderate falls on
part of the Darling Downs. In August there should be
better rains in the coastal districts, on the central highlands
and the Darling Downs, and about the Maranoa and
Warrego; then rainfall will probably be patchy until
November.
In N.S.W. there should also be light rains, mainly below
normal, during July, with better falls on the Southern Table-
lands. In August there should be good rains along the coast,
on the Tablelands, and in the north-western districts; rain-
fall is then likely to be patchy until November, when there
should be general falls.
Victoria should have good rains during July, with best
falls in the east-central and north-eastern districts, along
the west coast and in East Gippsland. In August rainfall is
likely to be patchy, with general rains following in Sep-
tember.
There should be good rains in South Australia’s agri-
cultural areas and along the west coast during August, and
moderate falls should extend to the north interior. Moderate
rains are likely in the agricultural areas during August and
better falls are probable in September.
During July the agricultural areas of Western Aus-
tralia should have reasonably good rains, though generally
below normal. Falls are likely to be good along the s.-w.
central coast, but lighter about the Gascoyne. In August ;
rainfall is likely to be patchy and below normal.
LENNOX WALKER


mk
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY '
DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
4iitl
m
WM
s
1
fF**SoMobvVxnrs, iSsOT\,fajd'
LEV
' ffIOUCE df sconwo
NET m >W?t>'4 IPrcff (IPI
Fine old Scotch whisky.
\ V.NZLB2S?
hv cheap nitrogenous fertilisers
-lean be solved, then a signifi-
cant increase in pasture-yields
over extensive areas of the
coastal sub-tropics may be
expected.
Makarikari-panic
“Ruddigore”: Tests con-
ducted by the Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture show
that Makarikari-panic grass has
a big future on the Darling
Downs.
It.is a poor seeder, and so
far has been spread mainly by
planting-out runners. The de-
partment, however, has been
experimenting with new strains
which produce more seed and
hold it longer. Experimental
plots have shown that it can
be adapted to a variety of
soils, ranging from the heavy
black of the Downs proper to
light, sandy soils and deep,
red loams.
Makarikari-panic is drought-
resistant, and even when
“topped” by frosts it remains
palatable —a point in its favor
in places where heavy and
prolonged frosts make most
grasses useless for stock-feed.
The grass is a strain of a
group known as Panicum
coloration, and crosses of two
strains of this group may in-
crease the seeding-rate. In
experiments, the original strain
of Makarikari gave a seed
viability of 26 per cent., but
other strains have given as
high as 70 per cent. Experi-
ments are also being carried-
out to see if the application of
certain hormones will slow the
rate of seed-drop.
About Brooders
“Bronk": Although feeding
[nay be absolutely correct, it
is possible to lower the stan-
dard of general health and
growth throughout a flock by
retaining defective chicks..
Brooders are usually sold
carrying a complement of day-
old chicks. If the quoted
number is carried it won’t be
long before there will be a
shortage of space because of
me natural growth of the
chicks. Since the brood must
be kept for three or four
weeks, this accommodation-
problem can become serious.
Dt course, it’s more acute if,
as often happens, a brooder
carries more than its quoted
Overcrowding means
at there’s not enough floor-
space within range of brooder-
heat and that facilities for
feeding and watering are
crowded and usually insuffi-
cient. It’s better to place 80
day-olds in a brooder with
the capacity for 100 and allow
the extra space for growth.
Before the chicks arrive the
brooders should be rim long
enough to heat-up and do away
with chill. If the heat is
provided by kerosene-lamps
trim the wicks so that there’s
a clear, steady glow, giving
maximum heat and no fumes.
Correct temperature varies
with different types and makes
of brooder, but the behavior
of chicks should show when
the right temperature has been
reached. If they settle down
with little noise it generally
means that the heating is right.
Chirping chicks moving about
usually means that more heat
is needed.
Two final tips: Adjust the
heating-system so that it keeps
the necessary temperature
through the night. And never
place brooders in the corners
of buildings, where there’s a
risk of suffocation when chicks
mass against the wall through
fright.
Chickens which show any
defect should be done-away
with immediately. They’re a
dead loss, anyway, and more
prone to disease than healthy
chicks.
Beet-nematode
“Beta”: A heavy infestation
of beet-nematode has appeared
in a cabbage-crop on the
Queensland Agricultural High
School and College farm at
Lawes, in the Lockyer Valley.
Although this pest is well
known in other States it had
not previously been reported
in Queensland.
Besides attacking cabbage,
this species of eelworm is a
serious pest in crops of beet,
cauliflower, turnip, radish,
rhubarb, kale, broccoli, brussels
sprouts, sugar-beet, mangel-
wurzel, spinach and rape.
The first evidence of nema-
tode injury is usually areas of
undersized plants. Under con-
tinuous cropping the infestation
rapidly spreads.
As the developing eggs of
the beet-nematode are pro-
tected within cysts, soil-
fumigation used for controlling
the rootknot - nematode is
ineffective.
To keep the pest in check
it's best to grow non-suscept-
ible crops for four years in
succession before giving any
susceptible crop a trial. Beans,
peas, tomatoes, onions, melons,
cucumbers, celery, lettuce and
cereals are not susceptible.
Crosscut
“M’Lou”: Myxomatosis, it
appears, has done Victorian
Wimmera farmers a bad turn.
Skeleton-weed is spreading
alarmingly through this great
wheat-growing area because,
to myxo., there are
practically no rabbits left to
eat-out the shoots in their
tender stage.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
A history of Mission 204, which
was the British Military Mission
to China, is now being compiled
by a writer in the United Kingdom.
If any ex-members of the A.I.F.
contingent of that mission have
photographs, personal diaries,
reminiscences, etc., and would be
willing to lend them, please send
them to Mr. V. V. W. Fretwell,
c/o Bank of N.5.W.,. Royal
Exchange Branch, Sydney. —6996.
Copy of Life in a Haitian Valley,
by Herskovis. —-6997.
Information Supplied
Words of “Island of Dreams”:
It lies on the deep, where the blue
water gleams—
A beautiful island, an island of dreams;
Where sweet tender faces flit to and fro:
The loves that we loved in the dear long
ago.
Our hearts they must beat and our
burning tears fall
As we see their hands waving and hear
their lips call:
“0 island of dreams, 0 star of the deep,
I am watching and waiting and longing
to sleep.”
For there, far away from the world and
its pain,
I meet you my darling, I hold you again.
We tread the old paths as in days that
have been
With no one to part us, no shadow
between.
I feel your heart beating, I see your
eyes shine, x
And parting or meeting I know you are
mine.
O island of dreams, O light of the past,
The waiting is over: I find you at last.
Information Sought
What is the Governor-General’s
allowance ? Does he have to use
this to pay for upkeep of official
residences, staff, travelling ex-
penses ? Has the allowance always
been adequate ?
The Governor-General’s allow-
ance is fixed by the Constitu-
tion at £IO,OCO.
The official residences are main-
tained by the Commonwealth
Government; staff requirements
for all official purposes are pro-
vided by the Government,. but
privately employed staff are paid
by the Governor-General; the
Government supplies travelling-
facilities.
Not all the facilities made
available by the Commonwealth
“Why should I tell YOU? I'm in the damn thing myself!”
have always existed. “Privately
employed staff” is a large expense
item still, as, by the nature of
the office, the Governor-General
must do a certain amount of
entertaining not covered by the
phrase “official purposes.” When
present facilities were not avail-
able the allowance did have to be
supplemented by some former
Governors-General.
* * * *
Information on the aims, activi-
ties and requirements for member-
ship of the Bread and Cheese Club 7
The Bread and Cheese Club,
founded in 1938, aims at promot-
ing “fellowship among members
and discussion on Australian
literature,” The club meets on the
first Sunday of each month at
3 p.m. in the Henry George League-
room, George Parade, off Collins
Street, Melbourne. Membership
is restricted to men “keenly
interested in the arts and their'
promotion.”
The club publishes a monthly
bulletin, “Bohemia,” and has also
published 38 books, including the
well-known one on the art of
Albert Namatjira. Present member-
ship is about 200. The Worthy
Scribe (secretary) is Mr. A. G.
Millet, of 10 Watkins Street, North
Fitzroy, Melbourne.
* * * *
In five-card poker, what are the
respective chances of holding a
flush or a straight ?
The basic odds against drawing
a flush —that is, the odds against
the first 5 cards dealt making a
flush —are about 500 to 1. Basic
odds against a straight are about
250 to 1. Again with the first
5 cards, the chances of drawing a
4-card flush are. 1 in 23, of draw-
ing a 4-card straight, 1 in 6. The
odds against a .flush are longer
simply because there are twice as
many straights as flushes in a
52-card pack. However, assuming
that the good player will never
buy 2 cards to either straight or
flush, his chances of filling his
original 4-card hand are only 1 in
12 for a straight open at one end
or in the middle, 1 in 8 for a
straight open at both ends, but
1 jn 5 for a flush.
Brief Answers
A.K.: Not out of print, but
you would probably have to order
it from England. Cost is 455.
P.J.L.: Possums are pro-
tected by law and must, when
caught, be released in a sanctuary.
You will find it easier to consult
a pest-removal firm... .8.A.: You
can get pink frangipani by driving
a rusty nail through the stem of
a young tree... .Elanora: No
connection between paragraph and
drawing. .. .T.L.: Three rulers of
Bavaria attended the first per-
formance of Wagner’s “Tristan
and Isolde”: ex-King Ludwig 1;
the reigning King, Ludwig II; and
the future Prince-regent, Luitpold.
The® performance took place at
Munich’s Hof-theatre on June
10, 1865... .L. 8.: American
winners of the British Open since
the war are Snead (1946) and
Hogan (1953)....C.R.: The “Ski
Year Book” is published for the
Ski Council of N.S.W., but covers
not only N.S.W. but as much
Australian ski-ing as possible, and
general information on inter-
national events.. .’ .0.P. : The
Bulletin does not publish requests
for pen-friends... .W.C.: Between
1948 and Dec., 1959, a total of
1,454,492 immigrants entered Aus-
tralia. Of this number 807,523
were males, and 646,969 females.
These figures are gross, net intake
being lower as many immigrants
have returned. In the first quarter
of 1960 a total of 38,077 immi-
grants arrived; figures are not yet
available classifying these arrivals
by sex. Awgiting a reply
from the Department of Immigra-
tion concerning your other ques-
tions... .D.L.: The first film of
“Ben-Hur” was made in 1907, and
“Quo Vadis” in 1913. First film
with sound was “Don Juan” in
1926, which used a musical score
synchronised on disks. “The Jazz
Singer,” released the followin
year, was the earliest film USII
spoken dialogue.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear «
all MSS. No liability is unit,,
taken re contributions voluntw f
submitted; and no MS. will j
returned unless stamps accoi
pany. MSS. should be address
to the Editor; they will be «
sidered for publication on ih
understanding that they mil) j
shortened or altered as the Edm
thinks necessary.
M.W.: Three times in foi
pages you had your hero®
“stealing softly.” Why didn't yii
make a shoplifter out of her an
be done with it? ... .C.C.M.: 1
the craftsmanship had been a
sound as the sentiment you’d te
been on a winner L.C.F.;
Away with the 16-year-old flapp'
who fires-off epigrams and k
mots! ; she isn’t natural.,,
F.G.8.: Say it here:
B.M.: Your characters Ji,
the impression of having te,
manufactured to fit the situate
K.L.: The no-hoper wlr
been guzzling suds can scarct.
Stories, feature articles
verse contributions are p»'
for on acceptance. P>#
graphs are paid for on pubi !
cation, and the contribute!
must claim for paymenil
Claims which state tlij
section in which paragraph
appear and the date «f
appearance will be paid
promptly than those wM
don’t.
be said to “Seek escape M,
Nirvana of the grape”. ..
You add nothing to what hu®J
of poets have said about brev
and clouds... .R.T.: The wo
who hopped-in the prize-ring
fight her brother-in-law lost ;
a technical k.o Ruby
Very well':
M.N.S.: Shake-off the all
tion bogey and start aS alß |
L.K.: It reads like a
on an empty stomach ...N y
You really ringbarked “T“ e k
of Knowledge” with that fl
metre... .S.F.: But don t T
fauns and nymphs sort 'j|
oddly with the wombats j.
walleroos? G.L.: Too P
logical altogether.
CERTAIN PARTIES
Party foods
and party manners
party faces
p-arty voices
party thoughts
and party vices,
party acts
quite unexpected
by the parties who provide them,
party spirits effervescing
in the minds and in the glasses. !'
Taken in correct proportions
these provide the normal parties '
for the parties who create them.
A DOCTOR’S DIAGNOSIS
TROUBLESOME MONKEY. 1
“Try not to worry, Mrs. Monk, I
I can see into deepest gloom . j
sunk - „
He’s a trifle delinquent, I’ll
But don't be forever having * I
Look ! He’s thrown his food a I
that pan —- ,J
I think he must have descends T
Man.” J


THE HOLLIDAYS
New Recordings
“If you’ve had enough cold meat I’ll give the rest to the cats.”
Tile Australian Scene
From Pacific comes some-
thing different and distinctively
{'Australian — My Country (LLP
*502), a collection of Australian
‘verse selected and read by
•Leonard Teale, who suits his
voice admirably to the varying
jmoods and styles of the pieces
~chosen, though at times he
!• seems uneasily aware that 14
(tracks have to be fitted onto
tthe disk. The name-piece (and
'first on the list) is Dorothy
“Mackellar’s well-known con-
cession of faith and the scene
ffepicted on the attractive sleeve
could be any of a score of
Places in any of the six States
’of her “wide brown land.” In
similar vein is Lawson’s “Wara-
‘tah and Wattle,” and love
$ the Australian landscape,
[though not expressed, is implicit
in Kendall’s “Bellbirds.”
C Many of the verses Teale
teads were in the repertoire of
™ campfire and shearing-shed
Reiters of 50 years ago.
there’s Banjo Paterson’s “Salt-
(ush Bill, J.P.” ; John O'Brien's
t>aid Hanrahan” (“we’ll all be
rooned before the year is out”);
awson’s “Boss Over the
card ; ant j Thomas E. Spen-
n/u i3 um Water” and —
P 0 ably the most famous and
P Polar of all Australian comic
v/ S^ s "the same writer’s “How
C 7°Pped the Score.”
' tennis contributes four
OM U° Programme: “An
Q Master” ( 0 f bullocky vitu-
peration); “A Post-Cup Tale”
(of the winner he didn’t back);
and two pieces from “The Sen-
timental Bloke” (“The Play”
and “Spring Song”).
Only two contemporary poets
have forced their way in among
the old-timers: John Quinn,
with _ “Argument,” his moving
war-time verses on a dead com-
rade ; and Douglas Stewart’s
“The Bishop,” with its delight-
ful comment on the daily life
of a bronze divine. When (as
he must) Leonard Teale makes
his next collection, it is to be
hoped he will insist on his
recorders allowing him longer
pauses between his items. On
this disk some of the pauses
almost don’t exist. For ex-
ample, at the conclusion of
“The Bishop” one would have
liked at least a few moments of
cathedral calm before being
whisked away to the possibly
just as peaceful, but different
atmosphere of Piper’s Flat.
♦j* *t*
Gold in Them Thar Labels
Philips, in its series of Gold
Label Classical Favorites, has
hit a bonanza, with the richest
assay on GL7, which embraces
two of music’s great treasures:
Mozart’s 41st Symphony (the
“Jupiter”) and Schubert’s Un-
finished. Both are played by
the Amsterdam Concertgebouw
Orchestra, the Mozart under
Karl Boehm, the Schubert
under Eugen Jochum. Flaw-
less engineering, with the play-
ing well up to this celebrated
orchestra’s best standard. An-
other, GL7, is devoted to one
of the greatest of Beethoven,
the “Eroica,” with Paul van
Kempen conducting the Berlin
Philharmonic in a slashing
performance. The odd spot on
the final band is devoted to the
same master’s “Coriolan”
Overture.
For Coronet, Eugen Istomin,
abetted by the Philadelphia
Orchestra and conductor
Eugene Ormandy, has put on
disk Tchaikowsky’s Concerto
No. 1 in B Flat Minor, a work
Tin Pan Alley thought so
highly of it pinched the first
theme of the opening movement
to put it on the Hit Parades
under three different titles!
Istomin gives it the virtuoso
treatment, * especially in the
bravura passages of the end-
movements, and draws a stream
of lyrical beauty from the con-
templative andantino.
Ravel’s Daphnis and Chloe
is familiar to concert-audiences
through the two orchestral
suites culled from the best
musical episodes of the ballet,
already on record. More satis-
factory to balletomanes is the
complete ballet, with choruses,
issued by Decca (SXL 2164).
Pierre Monteux pilots the*Lon-
don Symphony Orchestra and
the chorus of the Cov e n t
Garden Opera through the
music’s shimmering evocations,
its delicate poetry and fine
gradations of tone-colors.
It is fitting that such an
expert as Bridget D'Oyley Carte
should have directed the record-
ing of The Mikado, with a
hand-picked cast, released on
an Ace of Clubs disk (ACLA
1014). Spoken dialogue has
been discarded, enabling all
sung numbers to be confined
to two disks.
It is a strong cast, with
Darrell Fancourt in the title-
role, Leonard Osborn as Nanki-
Poo, Martyn Green a comic-
voiced Ko-Ko and Australia's
Richard Watson a strong-voiced
Poo-Bah. Margaret Mitchell
(Yum-Yum), Joan Gillingham
(Pitti-Sing) and Ella Halman
(Katisha) round off a cast
which, as well as giving a good
vocal account of the doings,
peddle diction of crystal clarity,
such a “must” in Gilsullivan.
And the choruses beef it out
as if they are really enjoying it.
❖ ❖ ❖
U.S. Peerage
Order of precedence in the
American peerage isn’t very
well defined, but Nat “King”
Cole and “Duke” Ellington are
obviously very near the top,
both from the standpoint f f
title and in seniority. In popu-
larity, at any rate, Count Basie
must be pressing them hard.
On Basie Swings and Bennett
Sings, a Roulette recording
from Philips (RL 25072), the
Count and his hot-rhythm jazz-
orchestra supply the appro-
priate background for Tony
Bennett’s voice in a batch of
close on a dozen popular songs.
“Life is a Song,” “Anything
Goes” and “Strike Up the
Band” come from the hits of
yesteryear; the combination’s
version of “I’ve Grown Accus-
tomed to Her Face,” links them
to the present.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Australian-American Association
celebrated independence Day with a
luncheon at the Royale Ballroom, when
Federal Attorney-General Sir Garfield
Barwick was guest-speaker. He was
accompanied by Lady Barwick, whose
sapphire-blue wool suit was worn with
a small winter-white felt cloche. Featured
in the decorations were the Australian
Flag and the Stars and Stripes, with its
new 50th star. Trails of poinsettias edged
the official table, whilst on individual
tables were flags and bowls of flowers.
Association-president Sir John Latham
greeted and introduced guests, and with
him was Lady Latham. The Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress were in the official
party, she looking smart in a tweed frock
and matching coat of tweed fleclced in
light-brown and black, topped by a
high-crowned brown hat banded in
black velvet. Also at the official
table were Sir Thomas Maltby
(representing the Premier) and Lady
Maltby, Lady Dixon, U.S. Acting
Consul-General W. F. Ryan and Mrs.
Ryan, Professor J. H. Franklin, Mr. and
Mrs. Mark Clements and Junior A.-A.A.
president Andre Papp. Guests included
Cyril Ritchard and Cornelia Otis Skinner
(of whom Sir John said he was glad to
have the “pleasure of their company”).
Miss Skinner’s husband Alden Blodgett,
Lieut.-General and Mrs. E. K. Smart,
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, Mrs. G. I.
Stevenson, Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon,
Cr. and Mrs. Maurice Nathan, Mrs.
Lionel Newton and her daughter Mrs.
Verna Linton.
ft ft ft
As usual, the ball arranged by the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Royal Children’s Hospital was marked by
splendid decorations. St. Kilda Palais ball-
room was dominated by a huge black can-
vas backdrop with painted figures seated
at the cocktail-bar of the Mark Hopkins
Hotel. In the foreground was a waiter
carrying a tray of glasses, and at one
end of the bar was a larger-than-life
couple dancing. Looking into the dist-
ance was an illuminated San Francisco
skyline, with one tall building carrying a
flashing red light from its tower, and the
waters of San Francisco Bay gleaming
in the moonlight and spanned by the
Golden Gate bridge. Set in front of the
backdrop was the official enclosure,
decorated with silver candelabra, pink
candles and pink camellias. Individual
tables were covered with a white cloth,
a band of scarlet down the centre,
and at each end replicas of old San
Francisco street-lamps. Through the
courtesy of the Mark Hopkins' Hotel
every guest received a swizzle-stick,
coaster and postcard.
U.S. Ambassador W. J. Sebald came
from Canberra, and with other official
guests was received by auxiliary-president
Mrs. F. Heathcote Wright and Mr. Wright
(she wearing a lovely gown of off-white
satin-brocade embroidered in gold and
cut on sheath-lines). Others in the
official party were Acting U.S. Consul-
General William Ryan and his wife (she
wore a bouffant gown of hydrangea-
blue chiffon) ; Mr. and Mrs. Mark
Clements (her wide-skirted gown was of
pale-mushroom-pink silk-faille, worn with
a long, matching stole); and Dr. and
Mrs. W. K. Braun (she in a slim sheath-
gown of geranium-red velvet which had a
wide off-the-shoulder shawl-collar). Vice-
presidents of the ball-committee were
Mrs. M. N. Pierson, whose charming
gown of pastel-blue silk-taffeta featured
side-panels of deeper-blue taffeta, and
Mrs. L. E. Tewkesbury, whose choice
was a strapless gown of midnight-blue
taffeta worn with a matching jacket.
Ticket-secretary Mrs. H. A. Gilkeson
chose a short frock of oyster-grey chiffon.
Shahdrina Carpenter, who made a fine
public-relations job of the recent Inter-
national Food Fair, was originally
trained for the stage, but went into radio
work and for a timei was with the A .B.C.
She gave this up to become managing-
editor of “Fashion Trade News" and
from that graduated into public-relations.
Shahdrina also chooses all clothes and
accessories for the woman selected to be
My Fair Lady on the weekly TV show
of that name. The theatre and reading
are Shahdrina's relaxations.
The glass-house at Caulfield racecourse
was transformed into a tropical hot-house
for a dinner-dance organised to assist
the Royal Children’s Hospital. Along
the wide window-ledges were arranged
colorful potted cyclamen, baskets of
them hung from the ceiling, and sur-
rounding the bandstand was a white
trellis entwined with greenery. A flood-
lit fountain played at the entrance t
were cyclamen and palms banked at
edge of the dance-floor, and on ‘
table was a potted-hyacinth centre!
Lady Clarke, president of the dance!'
mittee, and Sir Rupert Clarke rec e i
the guests, whq included the Premier’
Mrs. Bolte. Lady Clarke’s short |
with its bouffant skirt was of c ] o |-
gold, the bodice embroidered, i
Bolte’s short frock of emeraldi
chiffon had a full skirt and k
encrusted bodice. Mrs. Fred Fair o®
the ticket-secretaries, chose a short
frock of aqua-blue satin, the skirt,
broidered with jet. beads and i
sequins. Mrs. lan Miller, the other lit
secretary, wore a high-necked fr oc |
bright-red wool-jersey.
Mrs.. Fred Gilder (Maffra) vvoi
wide - skirted frock of mushroom:
brocade, Mrs. Trevor Clarke (Dunf
midnight - blue laces. Mrs. Gs
Madden’s frock was in red tonings. 0
country visitors were Mr. and Mrs,,
de Little, of Caramut. Sir Nos
Robinson, chairman of the V.A.T.C,
with Lady Robinson, whose ballet
frock was of carbon-blue faille, !
James Buchanan wore a sleeveless I
and coat of white gold-patterned t
tissue, and in Mrs. Hamilton Sit
chiffons pale- and deep-mauve
combined. Mrs. Eric Avery’s long t
was of white faille splashed with:
roses.
☆ ☆ ☆
Their country’s flag decorated
porch of the Balwyn home of Philip
Consul G. C. Molyneux and Mrs. I
neux when over 100 guests celeb:
at a cocktail-party Philippines M
,dence Day. Mrs. Molyneux w
terno —the national dress. Made of
pina-cloth, the frock, featuring’
slim skirt and traditional butterfly-sif
was Worn with an aqua or*
stole and gold jewellery. The frod:
a surprise gift from Philippine stir
in Melbourne. Among the f
were Assembly Speaker Sir Wj
McDonald and Lady McDonald, 1 1
Mary Daly, the Lord Mayor andf]
Mayoress, Air-Vice-Marshal A 1
Walters and Mrs. Walters, Mr,;
Mrs. R. Santamaria, Sir Nof
and Lady Robinson, Mr. and
Angus Jones, Mr. and Mrs
Buckland, the Town Clerk and
Rogan, the L. J. Doolings, Italian
sul-General the Marchese Serafini,
Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs.
Chinese Consul K. Y. Leung and
Leung, and French Consul M.
Bas de Plumetot and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Astra Chamber Orchestral
is to celebrate its 10th anniversary
a concert in Nicholas Hall, L®
Street, on July 23 at 8.15 p.m.
orchestra is composed entirely of *
but has a male conductor, George
Smith. Beryl Kimber will
soloist at the concert, and it will ’
young violinist’s last appearance ,
leaving for Russia to give 0
Tickets for the concert at 12s. $
(students 7s. 6d.) are available at ®
Elizabeth Street, or Hall’s, Bourke


SYDNEY
' The new Consul-General for the U.S.,
W Laurence C. Vass, Mrs. Vass and
‘!etty daughters Patricia and Linda
were naturally guests-of-honor for the
' r ourt h-of-July celebrations, the chief of
which was the ball at the Trocadero on
] Monc tay night. Decorations, as always,
~ were striking and imaginative, featuring
: shiny-red fire-crackers in all sizes from
: the Jin. table-types to the huge one, 12ft.
' in length, that hung from the ceiling.
The singing of “The Star-Spangled
■ Banner ” in a hall lit only by the sparklers
i held by each guest was most impressive.
| Mrs, Rush Clark lfed the singing. Hosts
a t the ball were the president of the
, American Society, Mr. Sydney Albright,
and Mrs. Albright.
Two days later members of the
American Women’s Club entertained the
new Consul-General and his family at
luncheon. There we learned that the
name Vass, which is of Scottish origin,
is pronounced to rhyme with “class” and
that Patricia will be returning to the
U.S. in three months’ time to complete
her Arts course, for which she is taking
philosophy-honors. Linda, who has two
years more of her course to take, and
who is doing honors in German, may
enrol at Sydney University. Mrs. Ardell
McCabe was hostess at the luncheon, and
Mrs. Norman Chaffer the guest-speaker ;
her subject, Australian bower-birds and
flowering-shrubs.
I ☆ ☆ ☆
A 10-year-old's wonder-struck reaction
to “The Magic Pudding” at the Eliza-
bethan, “An artist must have done it!”
pretty well sums-up Peter Scriven’s pro-
duction of the Norman Lindsay classic
as a play for marionettes. The author
was not present on the opening day, but
his wife, Mrs. Rose Lindsay, and daughter
lane Glad, were there, also June Raper,
who modelled the heads for the
marionettes, and Wendy Dickson, who
designed the beautiful scenery. Saw
Doris Chadwick at the show also (she is
co-editor of “The School Magazine”) and
Nhe Tennant, whose picture appears on
(his page.
& ☆ ☆
Red -sas the motif for the decorations
a ‘ ‘he 11th Eastern Command Army
a “ at the Trocadero, red for the uni-
°rms of the E.C. Band which played to
usher-in the ball, red programmes on all
, e tables, poinsettias and fire-crackers
Lh w 6 Seen them before?), red, white
a j! h'ue balloons bunched on every table
n red, red, red repeated again and again
(he jackets of the officers.
J en e bs. were presented to the Gov-
-0r > Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
j. ° cd ' Var< l> who chose green faille for
. dress; matron-of-honor Mrs. D.
wore navy silk pin-spotted with
Vin ‘ e - Her husband, Brigadier Douglas
w J ent » President of the ball-committee,
in P i„°. the official party, which
Ljp...the G.O.C. Eastern Command,
OipiL ‘General H. G. Edgar, Admiral
arn and Mrs. Oldham, Air-Vice-
Marshal Hancock and Mrs. Hancock, and
Sir Iven and Lady Mackay. Little flower-
girl Lynsey Wardell and page-boy John
Churchill (very nattily attired in the
uniform of a corporal) preceded the
debutantes and played their parts with
great charm and decorum.
Author Kylie Tennant has added
another award to her long list of literary
successes. This time it is the 1960
Australian Children’s Book Council
award for the Book of the Year by an
Australian author. The book, "All the
Proud Tribesmen,” was written when the
author was gathering material about the
aborigines for her book "Speak You
So Gently,” and has a little native hoy,
Kerri, for its hero. It was published
by Macmillan, London.
The Children’s Book Week Exhibi-
tion will be open all this week at the
Dixson Gallery, Public Library, Mac-
quarie Street. A beautiful display of
books for children can be seen there,
including the prize-winning story and
the commended books, which were
Anzac Adventure, by Dale Collins ;
The Summer in Between, by Eleanor
Spence ; and Rangatira, by N. L. Tin-
dale and H. A. Lindsay.
In addition, there are many displays
made by schools, municipal libraries and
children’s free libraries in suburbs and
country towns. The council is stressing
again this year “Support your local
book-week exhibition,” and its slogan
for the week is “Treasure from Books.”
☆ ☆ ☆
When tempted to complain about diffi-
culties of parking and transport generally,
think of this note from Mrs. Phyllis
Thornton, of the Royal Flying Doctor
Base, Derby (W.A.):
“Life in the Kimberleys! Last Satur-
day the people on one of the stations had
a crowd of V.I.P.s up in a specially-
chartered Fokker Friendship and put on
a barbecue-party. We set out in the
Land/Rover, taking our glad-rags in a
suitcase so we could change just before
we arrived, looking glamorous. We took
basin, soap, water, etc., and togged our-
selves up in the bush —a grand dressing-
room. Then we got back into the Rover
and the thing refused to go, so Dad had
to strip to the waist and fix it. I took
the kids back to the road and fortunately
we met-up with some other people en
route to the party. A very good time,
which included French champagne, was
had by all, and we left at 1 a.m. We
arrived home at 3.45 a.m., which was
good going on that road.” Eighty miles
each way for a party!
☆ ☆ ☆
New South Wales scored again in the
St. John Ambulance Brigade’s biannual
inter-State nursing competition held in
Adelaide in the presence of the Governor-
General, Viscount Dunrossil, and Lady
Dunrossil. The award, the Sir James
Sleeman Shield, was won for this State
for the first time in 1958 by the Waverley
Division, which retained it again this
year.
* * ☆
The Junior Red Cross, which has
200,000 members throughout N.S.W.,
staged an excellent pageant during the
week at the Town Hall, when over 100
boys and girls aged from 10 to 12 por-
trayed in dramatic tableaux the humanity
and compassion shown today to people
in trouble contrasted with the ruthless-
ness of former ages. The director of
the pageant was Mr. Dan Dempsey,
Director of Speech and Drama for the
Education Department, and there was
also a recital of songs by the school
choir from the Dulwich Hill Home
Science High-school.
* ☆ ☆
The University Settlement, which held
its annual meeting on Friday, seems to
provide something for everyone in the
Chippendale-Redfern area, where it
operates from a couple of newly-
decorated terrace-houses and large hall
which serves as children’s playroom,
general meeting-place and theatre. After
school, children flock to this hall, where
they learn puppetry, play games, paint,
draw, read books and are entertained
under skilled supervision. There is a
Badminton Club for people of all ages, a
Mothers’ Club and a very happy and
thriving Senior Citizens’ Club where the
older people meet in beautifully decor-
ated rooms to chat, relax and watch tele-
vision. The work of the settlement also
includes sending children to holiday-
camps and on visits to the zoo and other
places of interest. There is a full-time
warden, Miss Margaret Mac Lean, a club-
leader, Miss V. Shaw, and a newly-
appointed club-leader for work with teen-
age boys. University students and gradu-
ates have worked with the settlement
since it was established in 1891, and each
year the University Settlement Ball
(which is to take place this year on July
29) is a popular University function
which raises funds for the Settlement.


today, he remarks. “Search-parties are
called out with some frequency, though
not so often as in Australia, where the
bush is a sort of green terror and
where aborigines are employed like
bloodhounds to track lost people.” Dr.
Jones should really do his next Ful-
bright researches in Australia; and one
can assure him that, though he may
conceivably get lost if he strays too far
from Martin Place, he is not likely to
hear the aborigines woof-woofing after
him like bloodhounds.
But these are minor matters; and so.
having regard to the requirements of
an overseas audience, is the fact that a
lot of the history of Canterbury, re-
told here, is familiar to New Zealand
readers. Essentially an academic study,
“The Cradle of Erewhon” is neverthe-
less a readable book, and one must be
grateful for its thoroughness, its shafts
of fresh insight and information, and
for the American outlook which is able
to see how fruitful the New Zealand
“exile” was for Butler’s writing and
how little he gained by losing the
Southern Alps for the suburbs of
London or by substituting friends like
Moorhouse, Fitzgerald and Haast —the
Christchurch luminaries —for “Pauli,
Jones, Miss Savage, a few casual
acquaintances and (once a week, at a
pound a week) ‘Madame’ Lucie
Dumas.” But Dr. Jones perhaps goes
too far when he says that London
“desiccated and immured him”: it was
there, after all, that Butler wrote his
books.
Irish Short-stories
A previous Faber anthology of Irish
stories was a very green and gay thing,
full of huntin’, fishin’ and shootin’; but
this view of Irish life is frowned upon
in Irish Short Stories, edited by
Valentin Iremonger (Faber), as the
view of “the Anglo-Irish ascendancy,
in many ways the most despicable
upper class in 19th-century Europe.”
His book is thus an effort to do with-
out the stage-irishman on the one hand
and the landlord-irishman on the other,
and concentrates on the reality of Irish
nationalism; the lives of the poor or
the middle-class.
George Moore, he says, started the
movement with his book “The Untilled
Field,” in response to a call to come
back and write real Irish stories for
translation into Gaelic; and certainly
“Home Sickness,” the, story of the
Irishman who emigrated to New York,
returned, jilted a country girl and went
back to establish a New York bar, is
far from the brilliant comic story of
“Lisheen Races,” by the women,
E. (E. Somerville and “Martin Ross,”
the only members of the dread-“ Angl-
o ascendancy” to scrape into the
book. :
For next comes a story of a fisher-
boy getting the command of his first
boat; and this is followed by the monu-
mental story, “The Dead.” by James
Joyce, of the middle-class Christmas
party after which the young husband
was struck with such beautiful dismay,
to the admiration of so many learned
commentators, by his wife’s memory of
the boy who died for the love of her.
Next come O’Flaherty’s story of the
peasant’s party and farewell to two of
his children, off to settle in New York;
and O’Faolain’s of the doctor and his
married mistress who attend the
religious pilgrimage and what it did
to them; Frank O’Connor’s story of the
two brothers, one a priest, the other a
schoolteacher, who come home to visit
their old farmer-father; McLaverty’s
lighthouse-keeper who quarrelled with
his wife and wouldn’t signal to her from
the lighthouse; MacMahon’s Paddy
who came back to swing for his wife
who had had a child during his six-
year absence; Maurice Kennedy’s
seaside-boy who wouldn’t take the'girl
who offered herself to him; James
Plunkett’s clerk who went on a pub-
crawl rather than meet the bus carry-
ing the pretty librarian he had met and
made love to at the country resort . . .
If George Moore is completely
responsible for this school it does him
great credit; he certainly had the gift
of almost-naive simplicity allied to a
Mephistophelian understanding of
motive which underlies all the stories
in this book. He had also, as all these
writers have, that religious ecstasy of
appreciation which makes the crises of
Irish stories beautiful without senti-
mentality—where Moore got it, heaven
only knows, but it is the Irishman’s
secret. When Pasley said of O’Banion,
the Chicago gang-leader, killed among
his flowers, that he had a “sunny
brutality.” it was just such another
facet of the Irish paradox.
N.Z. Literary Grants
A look at the latest N.Z. State
literary grants, totalling £7OO. To
Louis Johnson’s “Poetry Year Book,”
£300; to help publish a play by Bruce
Mason, £150; to Reed’s, who have
acquired the rights of republication of
the books of Robin Hyde. £lOO to help
the publication of “Check Jto Your
King.” Fifty pounds to Paul’s for
Ruth France’s novel “The Race,”
already published with success in Eng-
land.
The grant of £B2 12s. to the P.E.N.
to subsidise the Jessie Mackay and
Hubert Church awards for verse and
prose sounds odd until it is known that
the P.E.N. has gift-funds on deposit fo
these awards and the State grant wj
bring the interest therefrom up to £5
apiece.
A few of the State-subsidised titles
have been good sellers, notably Irvin
Smith’s “Streets of My City.” A weal
ness of the committee’s operations
dating back to the time I was secretaij
is that all applications for assistance
must come through a potential put
lisher who with sales rather that
quality in mind may overlook ft
incipient genius. The young unknown
writer has no recognised source oi
guidance. Even the “N.Z. Writer'
Handbook,” subsidised by the Literal]
Fund in 1952, has been out-of-prin
several years.
Pat Lawlor
Andre Gide
“Pay attention only to form,” Andii
Gide once wrote; “emotion will con
spontaneously to inhabit it. A perfec
dwelling always finds an inhabit®
The artist’s business is to build I
dwelling; as for the inhabitant, iti
up to the reader to provide him.”
If this precept accounts for Gide
shortcomings as an artist, it als
explains his special strength as a critic
for he followed it faithfully at bo!
ends. As novelist he created somei
the emptiest architecture of his tins
as critic he supplied the houses of otk
writers with inhabitants that seldoi
failed to belong and to stimulate. S
Albert Camus could write: “Wta
Gide criticises, he creates.” (Gide
opponents might add that when i
creates he criticises, for many of l
novels are really criticisms of one kin
or another, sometimes even of the no«
itself as a form.)
As a critic—using the word ini
broadest sense, as he used it himsel
to embrace life as well as art— Gi
was, as has often been said, i
conscience of a generation.” Such mi
appear in France more often than els;
where (although E. M. Forster an
George Orwell spring to mind as p«
sible English counterparts); and the
are valued less for their creations tta
for their unshakeable integrity.
One might say of Gide what Sarti
said of Camus (another “conscience
that had he lived in the seventeen
century he might have written a boo
or two of aphorisms or “character
(La Bruyere was one of his favorite
in the beautifully spare prose of f
time. Or, more likely, had he
even earlier he might, like Montaign
have conducted a lengthy self-expb !i
tion in essays. At any rate, his tern{*
comes from somewhere between tbj
two periods, and the best way to enf
it is through his journals or in a W
like Pretexts (Seeker and Warbuf-


book scout
)oks Sea serv i c e for your out-of-print
Bolt <5 6336 sen< f yoUr requirements tc
1 ~° ut ’ B ox 2178, G.P.0., Sydney
A REGULAR
SUPPLY OF BOOKS
MONTHLY BOOK
SERVICES
by
THE It TIMES
BOOKSHOP
On any of the four services listed below you receive post free
a new book every month selected by expert booksellers.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO
You deposit the amount shown, which will normally cover the
twelve books (an adjustment statement is sent each year).
Deposit (Sterling)
NON-FICTION SERVICE £lO 10 0 DETECTIVE NOVEL SERVICE £7 7 0
general novel service £8 8 0 romantic novel service £7 7 0
All books are new publications, first editions and original issues,
not special substandard editions.
TO THE TIMES BOOKSHOP, DEPT. B, 42 WIGMORE ST., LONDON, W.l.
Please enrol me in The for which
I enclose £ to cover the first twelve months.
NAME. ................... ........ ................... , 5
ADDRESS. .... ....... ... .
Lw edited by Justin O'Brien and trans-
ited by various hands, most of them
American and all of them capable.
Here in lectures, essays, prefaces,
imaginary interviews,” open-letters
fnd notes, we see his immensely fluid
ind open mind at work over a period
\ about forty years on many aspects
!,f and morality, which for
jL W ere most often bound together.
The book would be worth having just
iL or the essay on the death of Mallarme,
Written in a tributary copy of the poet’s
Vose style which even in translation
ff s strangely moving; the almost scien-
tific outline of Paul Valery's per-
sonality, full of the feeling of his
Soetiy; the open-letter to Cocteau, a
healthy exercise of Gide’s principle, “I
rave always sought to encourage each
n his own path, and should not like to
attract anyone to me”; and above all
for the preface to Stendahl’s little-
cnown novel “Armance” (an ante-
cedent of Hemingway’s “The Sun Also
ibises”), which is creative criticism at
( ts finest.
Reviewed Briefly
The Great Fair: Sholem Aleichem
/Vision). The famous Jewish writer’s
Account, completed in New York, of
scenes from his Russian childhood,
translated from the Yiddish by his
granddaughter. An extraordinarily
beautiful picture of Jewish family life,
% colors that have a soft pastel bloom
against the Russian snow.
j * * 4= *
j The Australian Environment:
-5.1.R.0. (Melbourne University
;f f ess). Third (revised) edition since
1949. An authoritative study of Aus-
ralian soils, climates, pastures, crops,
egetation, water and irrigation, sheep,
ihttle and pigs, with reference to things
podzolic soils, dry sclerophyll
wests and the derivatives of the
| tenc formations, all directed towards
chowing what can be grown where, with
little information on how much is
£,ein § grown now. With illustrations,
graphs and photographs and five pull-
;u ma PS, four colored, of rivers, soils,
fgetation, etc.
* * * *
Devil Inside: Stephen Coulter
i A novel of the main events in
I . Dostoevsky, especially the
justing circumstances of his exile in
L.. na and the curious and somewhat
f* c co | urse of his loves on his return
concluding with his feverish
efforts to make a fortune at the gaming-
tables. One of these novelist’s-eye-
views of a man of genius in which
everything is explained except the
method and sanity of his art
* * • *
The Sea Change: Elizabeth Jane
Howard (Cape). This is a novel of
some interest not only of itself, but
for students of the craft of novel-
construction. It consists of eight long
chapters each of which takes the story
into a definite stage, and each of
which itself is subdivided into four
sections told from the viewpoint of the
four main characters. These are
Emmanuel, a famous playwright,
Jimmy, his secretary, Lillian, his wife,
and Alberta, his secretary. Emmanuel
travels energetically about England
and America, being regarded by some
of his acquaintances as the next thing
to a saint and by others as a satyr.
The main parts of the story are set in
New York and in Greece where the
four of them spend a working holiday.
Alberta and her almost-too-delightful
father, who is an important off-stage
character, and the benign air of
Greece, work subtle changes upon the
others—everyone finishes better and
happier. It just misses cloying and/or
moralising.
* • • •
When Cobb & Co. Was King: Will
Lawson (Angus and Robertson). A
reprint (third edition since 1936) of one
of Will Lawson’s best efforts, involving
those lost and almost forgotten things
in novel-writing, the love of good
women, Cobb & Co.’s coaches, hand-
some bushrangers and the first Mel-
bourne Cup.
• • • m
Best Ghost Stories: chosen by Anne
Ridler (Faber). There are 18 stories,
all written within the last 100 years
and ranging from Wilkie Collins to
Wells, Kipling and Oscar Wilde, with
an old favorite by M. R. James and
a creepy tale by Elizabeth Bowen.
Anne Ridler has made a good choice.


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference-^ s^
1L
a
99
1
.
i
Published by
m
21-
per single
copy
A review of :
ECONOMIC, MARKET
arid
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
u
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly,"
BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
