

The Bulletin
Kylie Tennant—"Christmas in the Asylum”<-pa ge 40
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
_ ,
December 21, 1960
Price 1/-
ROLAND
WILSON
Czar of
Treasury
PAGE 10
3 in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


THE STOTT WAY
IS
THE SURE WAY
Be Stott-trained and Succeed!
If you have the urge to write, it will pay
you to have your talent trained by
STOTT'S, to learn how to write acceptable
stories, articles and scripts.
Bead what this Stott Literary Student has
to say,
*‘t am pleased to report further successes since
Lesson 10. This makes £53 ia hand with mors
to come.”
Wherever you live, STOTT’S can train
you in your own home. Send the Coupon
—without cost or obligation of any kind
—for STOTT’S Free Literary Prospectus.
159 blinders Lane, Melbourne; Jl9 C'astle-
reagh st., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., ISris-
bane; t.renfell st., Adelaide; 251 Murray
St., Perth.
——CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON'—
To STOTT'S: Please send rue, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
IS.B. 2460)
AGE
T he Red Page
ENGLISH LITERATURE
A Critical History of English Litera-
ture. Two volumes. David Daiches.
Seeker and Warburg. 90s. 9d.
A survey of this kind, in 1169 pages,
from Anglo-Saxon to Eliot and Joyce,
is not impossible in our times, since
Daiches has done it; but there are so
many expert books on any one period
or subdivision of a period that he must
say in his preface, “On matters of pure
scholarship I have, of course, often to
depend on the researches of others.”
Again, when he says. “The chapters
on Shakspeare and Milton can perhaps
stand as independent critical studies
capable of being read as short books
on their own,” the qualification must be
that these are elementary books beside
books by specialists on Shakspeare and
Milton.
So the real interest of the book is
not so much in the authors and their
as in how Daiches performs upon
>pe. .. .that the pattern which a
mind imposes on this vast
ial will make my account more
and suggestive than the •
ientious composite works of
nee by teams of experts, from
I myself have profited, but
whicii are not literary history in the
sense that this book is intended to
be.
This might lead the reader to expect
from Daiches a brilliant re-interpreta-
tion of literary history, either with a
new view of life and society as in
Christopher Caudwell’s Marxian
literary history. “Illusion and Reality.”
or through the prism of an unusual
mind, as in D. H. Lawrence's “Studies
in Classic American Literature.” But
the phrase that comes to mind as one
puts the book down is; “conscientious
composite work,” the phrase which
Daiches throws at the teams of experts.
Daiches is most conscientious. He
tells the stories of Shakspeare’s plays
and Richardson’s novels, and all the
other plays and novels; he follows with
deep interest the adventures of the
Ancient Mariner . . . His synopses of
outstanding English literary works
would set up, say, a hostess, unwilling
to devote time to the originals, in
literary table-talk for life. But what
he has to add to previous comment on
them seems ordinary'. Maybe being
ordinary is the extraordinary thing,
these days; and there is this to say for
Daiches’s sober appreciations, that to
young readers or readers new to such
studies this quiet survey of authors and
their places in history will be more
valuable than more brilliant and more
tendentious writing.
As the work is an exhibition canter
for Daiches, its reviewer may be par-
doned for trotting out a few of his own
hobby-horses. In discussing Suckling,
for instance, to forget his “Ballad of a
Wedding,” as unique and in its special
way as glorious a performance as
Coleridge’s “Rime,” is a serious fault;
but then to lump Suckling in as merely
a “Cavalier Poet” with Carew and
Lovelace, and to judge him inferior to
Lovelace because Lovelace has “a
truer strain of chivalry” while Suckling
merely “shows the Cavalier at play”—
Mr. Daiches thinks that because he is
virtuous there shall be no more cakes
and ale!
Not that this view of Suckling is
unshared by other academics; nor is it
surprising to find Daiches underwriting
the poor opinion of Mrs. Bennet in
Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice”
which is encouraged by other com-
mentators. by Mrs. Bennet’s daughters,
by her husband, and by Jane Austen
herself. At first, remembering Jane
Austen’s ability as an ironist, and see-
ing how everyone in her book ganged-
up on this unfortunate wife and mother
whose only desire in life was to do the
utmost for her family, one thought that
the exposure of this plot against Mrs.
Bennet was Jane Austen’s purpose.
But evidently it was not; and if one
didn’t have more books to review and
a living to earn, one might devote the
remaining years of one’s life to rehabili-
tating Mrs. Bennet.
Still, if Daiches lacks the gallantry
to take Mrs. Ben net’s part against a
censorious world, it is nice to see him
standing up for the rights of Tennyson’s
“Maud,” at a time when the young lady
might be considered beyond all
reclamation. He speaks of the “swing
and crash” of “Maud's” rhythms; he
says that “the speed and hothouse
passion of the lyrics in ‘Maud’ are
impressive.” But here he does not
inquire curiously enough. It is the tech-
nique of “Maud” that is interesting; it
is a technique of contrast, of clash,
rather than crash. In a literary history
it would have been interesting to trace
the development of form, which
Daiches hardly ever traces, which pro-
duced from the sequence of rhythms
that make Tennyson’s “Maud” the
much closer rhythmic sequence that
makes Eliot’s “Prufock,” and which
developed further into “The Waste
Land” and “Ash Wednesday.” Without
Tennyson’s metric experiments these
might never have been written.
Daiches is interesting on Eliot him-
self. It amounts almost to originality,
these days, to consider “The Waste
Land” a failure, to the extent that “the
conclusion... .remains an incoherent
collection of phrases and quotations”;
to opine, in general, that “Eliot’s poetry
lacks scope and sympathy,” and that
“Eliot remains a great minor poet and
a major historical influence.”
Here Daiches may have justified his
book. The matter of “major” and
“minor” needs clearing up. In Aus-
tralia, today, a major poet is either
someone for whom the critic entertains
kindly feelings, or one who can write in
verse with something of the clarity and
something of the obscurity of a daily
newspaper’s leading article. By the
standards of Homer, Virgil, Dante,
Chaucer and Shakspeare, applicants
for majorities must be judged, and by
such standards Daiches’s judgment on
Eliot must seem just; while the
conscientious sobriety of a work that
leads to such a conclusion may well be
its justification.
The book is finely printed (in
America), is rich in quoted passages
and has a large index:
Ronald McCuaig.
Bert Schultz
Vigorous, alive, contemporary-
thoroughly and naturally Australian
and occasionally rough and raw. Colin
Thiele’s latest poems have been p
lished by Rigby’s of Adelaide under the
title Man in a Landscape; and when
they have such attractive qualities i
is not much use going on about their
lapses. .
Moreover, Thiele’s style has 1
virtues. If sometimes he stumbles- 1
(Continued on page 57)


' :
git.
$
A
st
WHILE THE CITY SLEEPS...
While the city sleeps in the pre-dawn stillness of another working day,
the railway goods yards at Darling Harbour are a-bustle.
To this great rail terminal one of the largest of its kind in the world
fruit and vegetable trains daily converge for the never ending
enactment of the law of supply and demand.
Every week an average of 3000 tons of this perishable traffic arrives
to meet the continuous demand of over 3i million urban and rural
consumers.
For over a century the New South Wales Government Railways has
played a vital part in the movement of the agricultural wealth of this
State to the terminal markets.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the Railways is freighting meat,
flour, butter, sugar, cheese, milk, fruit and vegetables . . . the very
essentials by which we live.
In playing such a dominant role in the collection and distribution of
the wealth of this State, the New South Wales Government Railways
is serving many industries helping to a better standard of living,
people living within reach of its mighty network.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
m
&
QC
co
u
W*
_d-l
/ft??*' s&Zatfl,


The Bulletin
DECEMBER 21. 1960
Vol. 81
No. 4219
INDEX
COVER STORY
Sir Roland Wilson—the Czar
of Treasury .......... 10
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
The Anglican Rebels—the A. and
R. Election Higinbotham :
Locally .. ; >... ... .... .. 6
Political Points .... .. ..; >•: 14
OVERSEAS
Nato as a Nuclear Power .. ; 41
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities ........... 50
Personal .. .. 16
Service and Information .... 52
Society .. ... ; . . •• •• .. 8
FEATURES
Crowded Australian Loneli-
ness .. .. •• U
Search of Bed-bugs .. .., 22
Christmas in the Asylum ... 40
Behind the Scenes in the
1920’s .., .. .... ... .. 56
JTION
i ioii Bomb, by Clive Barry .. ; 19
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Quiet End to Boisterous
Year ............ 34
Wild Cat Pages .. .. .. ~: 23
MAN ON THE LAND
Development of the North .. 45
Wool Trade Winds .. ~ .. : 45
The Common Market .... .. 47
Gulf Country Cattle .. .. .. .. 47
OPINION
The Other Fellow’s Mind .. 53
REVIEWS
The Red Page
English Literature .. .... 2
ShOWS ... ..; .., ..; ..... .. : 26
SPORT
Davis Cup .... ; ..- 31
Cricket—First Test .. .. .. 32
John Schofield ... .... .. ... 33
WOMEN
The Christmas Bird .. ; .. ; ... 29
NEXT WEEK
INSIDE
A MIGRANT CAMP
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Projecting the
President’s Image
T IKE Mr Khrushchev and Mr Macmillan, Senator Kennedy has virtually
- Ly decided to be his own Foreign Minister. Instead of appointing as State
Secretary a figure of independent political stature such as Mr Stevenson or
Mr Bowles (and thank Heaven he did not appoint one of those two) he has
appointed someone who can keep the State Department turning over smoothly
but will cheerfully leave the big stuff to the new President.
If it is necessary these days for Heads of Governments to concern them-
selves very largely with foreign affairs, Senator Kennedy has made a good
decision. One of the worst evils of one-man foreign policies is that all of the
week-to-week work often is not done, or it is done in a muddle. The great man
at the top jumps exhilaratingly from crisis to crisis. His very ignoring of other
less interesting but developing situations until they break into a crisis can be one
of the causes of a crisis. The late John Foster Dulles, although in many ways
a good State Secretary, had this failing. He carried American foreign policy in
his head. The Americans had a foreign policy when Dulles was interested in
something; if he could not spare .the time for a problem the Americans had no
foreign policy on it.
It is possible that the pew President will be more modest than this. One
hopes he will be, because the simple fact is that the President of the United
States has not got the time to be anything more than a P.R. man in foreign
affairs who has nevertheless to give the final “yes” or “no” to other people’s
recommendations. He can pick his crises and specialise in one or two of them;
he hasn’t a hope of acquiring a specialist knowledge of everything in foreign
affairs because he also has to run a Government and a country.
The extent to which he runs even his Government or his country can be
exaggerated. If he is a strong man—and there seems to be reason at present to
believe that Senator Kennedy is—the best he can do is to pick his team (and
even some of that is decided for him by political pressure) and to let it work. He
can be ruthless with the blunderers or the unpopular; he can make an occasional
decision himself; otherwise it is his job to back his colleagues and to look as if
he knows what is going on. If he is a weak President —like the ailing President
Eisenhower —he can be the mouthpiece of his advisers and smile for the cameras.
This does not mean that Presidents do not have power. It means simply
that they cannot give - much thought to how they use it, that they simply have to
keep the team running (as with Eisenhower) or keep two or three rival teams at
each other’s throats (as with Roosevelt) to keep everybody on his toes. And—
above all —to project an image of their policies.
A LTHOUGH Mr Khrushchev has to engage in more savage in-fighting to keep
his job and his power than one hopes Senator Kennedy would have the
stomach for, he has one great advantage over Senator Kennedy in his appear-
ances before the cameras: he can forget his own public and concentrate on ours.
He can rig the Communist press so that it reflects whatever his P.R. men want
it to reflect, and while he cannot control our press he can at least get into it-
The President can control the image that is cast in the press of the free countries
only by his conduct; and he can’t get into the Communist press at all — except
by permission of his opponents.
Playing against an opponent whose cards are all marked, Mr Khrushchev
is obviously going to warm up the bidding as soon as the new President is
inaugurated. He will go back to his role of Father Peace, the reasonable man
who talks endlessly of settlements'(without ever offering one), who talks ot
compromise (when all he wants is victory), who makes offers (and tries to
manoeuvre his opponents into appearing to reject them).
Against this the new President must call Mr Khrushchev’s .bluff. He must
force the bidding up, otherwise Mr Khrushchev comes out as the conciliator
but he must try to manoeuvre Mr Khrushchev’s cards out of his sleeve onto tn
table. Then the free world can have a look at what all the fuss was about.


SEASONABLE
“Yes, it IS smaller than last time; but YOU know how tight things are this Christmas!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Anglican Rebels
'T'he recent protest to the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment by four Sydney clergymen
against the moves to create an autono-
mous Church of England in Australia
was a cleverly timed delaying-action. It
now threatens to be more than this: to
do nothing less than split the Anglican
Church in two. Speaking on behalf of
one of the groups, the Rev. Mr K. N.
Shelley has claimed that the proposed
legislation would have the effect of legally
dividing the Church of England in Aus-
tralia into two thurches.
The situation has arisen because the
Archbishops, Bishops and Synods of the
Church in Australia do not want any
longer to run an assortment of colonies
of the mother Church in England. They
want a federated and independent
dominion that will be an equal member
of what is swiftly becoming a Common-
wealth of Churches, with the Primate of
All England and Archbishop of Canter-
bury, Dr Fisher, as first among equals.
The Sydney men who suggest the
imminence of a split are extremist mem-
bers of the conservative evangelical wing
of the Church. The group consists of
Mr Shelley, the Rev. Mr J. R. L.
Johnstone, the Rev. Mr D. B. Knox and
the Rev. Mr D. W. B. Robinson ; these
last two being principal and assistant-
principal of the Moore Theological
College, which trains the clergy of
Sydney diocese. By their own lights they
are men of conscience, but their tactics
are simply those of the narrowest
legalism.
It is quite true, as they say, that Church
members who refuse assent to the new
constitution will lose the use of Church
facilities and property, and will cease
to receive the Church’s ministrations.
They omit to mention the conviction of
laymen and clergy of all forms of church-
manship, for more than 30 years, that
the Church in Australia should be inde-
pendent, with power to administer its
own laws without dependence on the
Ecclesiastical Committee of the Privy
Council in London, and to legalise its
own forms of service.
Claims of a large silent lay support
are surely bluff: in the final resort in
ordinary circumstances the average
Anglican trusts his bishops and arch-
bishops. The rebels do not say in what
way they disagree with the belief of such
men as Dr Gough and Archdeacon Ham-
mond that the evangelical tradition will
be fully protected under the provisions
of the projected constitution.
There is no doubt where the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury stands on the
matter. When the constitution is opera-
tive Mr Johnstone and his associates may
well continue to stand out, claiming to
be the original Church of England in
Australia. But Dr Fisher will consider
only that body which is representative
of the Bishops and Archbishops, and
what will be the vast bulk of the clergy
and people, in comrirunion with the
Church in England.
Even the Diocese of Adelaide, which
holds a'“central” position in churchman-
ship and has so far remained aloof from
moves to promote the constitution, will
find itself subject to this ruling. The
four rebels know this quite well. Their
tactics are only the delaying-tactics of
desperate men. To use a political
analogy, their situation in no way
resembles that of the Keon-McManus-
Joshua group before the breakaway from
the A.L.P.
Higinbotham: Locally
Tt would be comforting to think, as the
Federal political correspondents
apparently do, that the middle-class
electors of Higinbotham are deeply
sympathetic with the woes of company-
directors and life-insurance boards and
the higher incidence of sales-tax in the
motor industry, and that this caused
nearly enough of them to vote to unseat
the Liberal in the by-election for a very
safe seat.
No doubt some of them think nation-
ally on these lofty lines, but there is
evidence that two State political matters
had some influence on voters. These
were the lack of Sunday trains, and the
Ray Suggett case.
The Higinbotham electorate is served
chiefly by Melbourne suburban trains,
and with outing-weather again in season
the absence of Sunday trains has begun
to hurt the suburban family without a
motor-car. Canvassers found it impos-
sible to convince some voters that there
was a distinction between the Federal
Liberal candidate, Donald Chipp, and
the State Liberal Minister for Railways.
The feeling about Ray Suggett, M.L.A.
for Moorabbin, is even sourer and has
resulted in probably permanent damage
to the Liberal cause in the electorate.
Suggett was convicted of offensive
behavior on the evidence of a policeman
in a police court, but his appeal was
upheld. Liberal headquarters twice
rejected the local Liberal branch’s re-
nomination of him for the State elec-
tions next May; it selected its own
candidate.
This genteel, Sunday-school outlook
resulted in considerable Liberal dis-
affection which is at least partly reflected
in the higher percentages recorded by
the A.L.P. and the D.L.P. A substantial
section of Moorabbin residents feel that
Ray Suggett, a comparatively young and
intelligent Parliamentarian and a family
man, has been treated very roughly
indeed.
These two issues are a long way from
the fiscal policies of Canberra, but they
are not a long way from Higinbotham.
And at least they have a common thread:
the dominance in Liberal Governments,
Federal or State, of bureaucrats and
official opinion.
An Education in Politics
A delaide University never produces
volcanic eruptions like Tasmania’s
Orr case: but various hot springs keep
bubbling. The ex-Vice-Chancellor, A. P.
Rowe, recorded five years of strife, dis-
sension and political pressures in his book
“If the Gown Fits.” Since his departure
Adelaide has had a fresh firebrand
arrival in Professor Neil, who holds the
Chair of Education.
Professor Neil believes that Education
should cease to be a unit in an Arts
degree, that the field should largely be
one of a post-graduate character. Within
12 months of his arrival in Adelaide
University he had the matter before the
Senate.
In the largest Senate meeting in recent
University history a vast assemblage of
teacher-graduates rolled up determined
to keep Education an Arts subject. Uni-
versity staff and Arts graduates arrived
in force to get rid of what they deemed
a specialist, semi-technical course.
The voting was a photo - finish. The
teachers carried the day by a single vote.
Immediately a swag of jubilant conscript
teachers left the meeting in high glee.
This was a sorry mistake. They had not
allowed for the points-of-order specialists
who immediately demonstrated that (tf)
the chairman had allowed voting absten-
tions, ( b ) the chairman had himself not
voted, and (c) scrutineers had not been
able to vote. The vote was retaken, and
Education is no longer an Arts subject
in Adelaide.
Although the Institute of Teachers
muttered threats about taking legal action
over the meeting, there is nothing they
can do. However, at the moment the
word Neil is about the dirtiest you could
use in the carpeted clubbery of the
Teachers’ Institute.
Professor Neil is an Englishman of
such clear-skinned apple-like complexion
as to substantiate the idea that the word
Pom derives from the French word for
that amiable fruit. As an academic he
could have walked straight out of a C. P-
Snow novel. Trained to the minute iu
that terrifying reasonableness which


characterises the habitues of the Oxford
common - room, Professor Neil can re-
duce an opponent with the quick lift of
an eyebrow or a bemused “Well, really! ”
Neil’s long-range aim is to increase both
the status and scholarliness of South
Australia’s teachers.
“He has destroyed our twenty years’
work building up good relations between
teachers and University,” commented
one member of the Teachers’ Executive.
She was probably thinking of that quick
lift of the eyebrow.
Lands for All
John Galbally, Labor leader in the Vic-
torian Legislative Council, has intro-
duced a bill—the public and recreational
lands bill —which is worth the study of all
who are concerned at the Australian
politician’s popular pastime of filching
public land for his mates.
Debate on the bill has been adjourned
until next March. Since private members’
bills rarely succeed, this one has had
little public notice. There is, however,
a division in the State Cabinet about it.
Sir Arthur Warner, the Government’s
chief Minister in the Council, is attracted
to it. The Premier does not like it
because he is actively engaged at the
moment in the politicians’ popular pas-
time of filching public lands for his mates
—part of Yarra Park for the Melbourne
Cricket Club bowlers. <
The bill simply amends the Land Acts
which classify Crown land under two
sections: permanent reservations, and
temporary reservations which can be
alienated by the Governor-in-Council —
in fact, the politicians.
The most recent example of this was
the taking of part of Caulfield Park for
the erection of a school. Under the
bill, land reserved temporarily for five
years becomes permanently reserved. A
change in its use can be effected only
by Parliamentary approval, or rather lack
of disapproval. The proposed change
must lie on the table of each House for
a fortnight and will be permitted unless
a•positive step is taken to disallow it.
This should free Cabinets and individual
Ministers from considerable pressure.
No doubt the manoeuvrings of the State
Government, and the Melbourne Cricket
Club, to get extra land in Yarra Park for
a bowling-club inspired the Galbally bill;
hut similar coups on public land-are
brought off annually in Victoria. In 90
years more than 1000 acres of the 2500
originally reserved as parklands in inner
Melbourne have been diverted for other
Us es. Land-speculators, always with us,
got their unfair proportion of it, but the
(j}ajor part has been nipped up by officials.
There is always a compelling reason
for departments to expand which is
irresistible to weak Ministers.
Albert Part originally extended from
the bayside to St Kilda road, but both
the road-frontages and the foreshore were
j>old-off. Defence and other buildings
have been put up on what was originally
reserved, and its area is now a little
jhore than half what it was. Similar,
though not as extensive, inroads have
been made on the Carlton Gardens,
Yarra Park and Royal Park. Even the
wondrous Domain grows smaller; origi-
nally it did not contain Government
House, the Observatory or, the latest
addition, the Myer Music Bowl.
In his second-reading speech John Gal-
bally quoted the Melbourne Metropoli-
tan Planning Scheme, 1954, illustrating
an indifference to parkland provision in
the outer suburbs. Melbourne covers
7850 acres, with existing parkland of
1286 acres —a ratio of about six to one.
Templestowe, with 22,000 acres, has
332 acres of public open space ; Box Hill
has 5200 and 373 ; Nunawading has
10,490 and 141.
The Parliamentary Labor party’s en-
dorsement of the bill is encouraging.
The Liberals in both Houses should con-
sider whether it isn’t more vital than
the Premier’s mateships.
Which Red Star?
/“\ne of the few interesting things about
a party as predictable and cliche-
sodden as the Australian Communist
party is whether it will finally toe the
Chinese line of inevitable world war or
the Russian line of “peaceful co-
existence.”
To date the party has sat firmly on
the fence and officially denied that there
is any division between the Communist
Powers. But although its bookshops
these days have far more Chinese books
and pamphlets than Russian ones, the
party has been kept pretty firmly in
the Moscow camp under the leadership
of the two old Moscow hands—general-
secretary Sharkey and president Dixon.
These two, however, are sick men.
Sharkey, 62 this year, has had high blood-
pressure for over ten years, and when
Dixon went to Moscow recently for the
Communist international conclave he
suffered a severe heart-attack. The Com-
munist press described his condition as
“very serious.” His family was called
over to Moscow to see him. He is now
reported to be recovering.
In view of the poor health of these
two leaders they will probably be re-
placed at next year’s party congress. The
favored candidates for their jobs are
Mr Ted Hill, the Melbourne barrister,
Mr. Jack McPhillips (of Ironworker
fame) and the rising red star Mr Laurie
Aarons. The first two are well-known
Moscow stooges, but Laurie Aarons is
Pekingese. While it does not matter much
whose name adorns the Communist
party’s stationery, after next year’s con-
ference the names will at least indicate
on what side the party thinks its bread
is buttered.
A. and R's Damp Squib
A fter the explosions of the preceding
weeks the Annual General Meeting
of Angus and Robertson shareholders in
Sydney on Friday was a damp squib.
Or to put it another way, it was adroitly
managed by the chairman Mr Norman
Cowper to minimise the bitterness and
recrimination. A majority of the 180
present were anti-Burns, but since it was
obvious most people had made up their
minds and there would be a poll, what
was to be gained by a shouting match?
Immediately after each candidate was
nominated for one of the vacancies on
the Board, someone called: “I move the
question be put’’ (i.e. that there be no
discussion), and in all cases but one this
motion was accepted. The exception was
the nomination of Mr A. G. Cousins of
the Ferguson ticket, when Mr Colin
Simpson, his supporter, read some tele-
grams from eight authors who wanted
to add their names to the 34 who had
already said they would try to break
their contracts with A. and R. if Mr
Cousins were not elected. (As Mr Simp-
son stood there with his folio of telegrams
one shareholder asked if this was a share-
holders’ meeting or a wedding.)
The voting was by show of hands
and after each count the Chairman
announced: “I declare the motion
carried (or lost) and I demand a poll.”
It was all very peaceful and automatic,
and since only the poll would be decisive
a number of shareholders did not bother
to raise their hands. There were few
signs of tension even on the platform.
Mr W. V. Burns stared impassively at
the ceiling throughout, and Mr G.
Ferguson occasionally gnawed a iinger-
nail.
The only discussion took place early
in the meeting and was about the last
balance-sheet. After Mr Gerald Packer
had denounced the firm’s takeovers as
speculations—bad speculations at that —
Dr Colin Roderick began to give figures
to show, he said, the losses of the take-
over subsidiaries during the present
financial year. Then Mr Frank Clune
cannoned to his feet shouting that this
had nothing to do with the last balance-
sheet. He only sat down after Mr
Cowper threatened to order him out “to
stop the meeting being reduced to a
shambles.” When another member made
Mr. Clune’s point of order more calmly,
Mr Cowper accepted it and Dr Roderick
had to sit down amid cheers —a winner
on points.
One unexpected development was the
appearance of an Unknown Stranger
who speaking “as an old bushman, in
the interests of harmony” gave an
obviously sincere and moving address
which lasted five minutes but which was
clearly pro-Ferguson. We should not,
he said, let the forest oak be supplanted
by a mushroom. (Mr Burns remained
impassive.) The old bushman then left
the meeting. He was soon followed by
many others.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED"
WITH WIMBLES INK'S
At the
Thorne Inquiry
They start queueing in the corridor out-
side Charge Court No. 3 at Sydney
Central Courthouse in Liverpool Street
at around 8.30 a.m., facing not only a
90-minute wait but the possibility of a
very dull three-hour session. This court-
room is more spacious than some —
plenty of room in the body of it, which
is divided from the “gods” (the public
gallery) by a low balustrade in front of
which is the long press-table.
The habitues take such inconveniences
in their stride. They’re used to them,
to the risk of an unrewarding day, and
to the seats, which seem to have been
hewn from the best ironwood. Many
of these same spectators can be seen
in the gallery at Darlinghurst Quarter
Sessions, sucking in the juicy titbits flung
up—for these are your true evidence-
fanciers ; they do the circuit, eternally
hoping for the sizzling sensation, the
wild outburst, the purple patch. But in
this session there is not even the faintest
tinge of mauve.
The public gallery quickly fills, and
a few even take advantage of “standing-
room only.” The sexes are about evenly
mixed, with not one on the sunny side
of 45. Only three of the 60-odd present
are obviously New Australians.
Under his canopy, elbows on the
bench, sits City Coroner C. S. Rodgers,
supporting his strong jaws with his fists,
absorbing all that is said, mentally sifting,
sifting, then jotting down a note. He
mightn’t make one remark in 20 minutes,
but when he does it is pithy and very
much to the point.
A witness drones on. Yes, that battered
wicker picnic-basket was brought by her
husband from the Bradley home ; there
is considerable discussion —seemingly out
of all proportion to its importance —of
a piece of string which holds it together.
Another Crown witness is sworn in
and testifies that he re-ducoed part of
a Customline owned by Bradley. A
dream witness, this —a young man who
snaps out his answers cleanly and con-
cisely, sure of his facts, in no way
flustered. Public Defender F. W. Vizzard
doesn’t even bother to cross-examine him.
The Coroner leans back in his chair
and leisurely but very fully appraises
each witness, taking off his horn-rims
the better to do so —and it is not till
then that you notice the piercing quality
of his dark, deep-set eyes under heavy
brows.
Through all the proceedings Stephen
Leslie Bradley sits in the dock, impassive,
lethargic, rarely taking his eyes off the
prevailing witness, and then only to
glance at the sergeant assisting the
Coroner. This Sergeant Goode, around
6ft. 3im, confident, calm, trotting out his
exhibits and constantly referring to his
voluminous notes, tosses his questions in
a clear, ringing voice.
Looking at Bradley, with his high
cheekbones, olive skin and unmistakable
mid-Europeanness, it is difficult to recon-
cile him with his Hibernian name. Nor
would Dublin’s exclusive outfitters give
their imprimatur to his clothes: dark-
blue Bermuda jacket under a mustard
pullover, striped shirt and blue tie, fawn
trousers and sandal-type casuals, the
mustard shade repeated in the sox. Only
once in two hours is his phlegmatic
expression broken —when mention of his
blue Customline brings a fleeting frown
to his brows.
The Coroner, glancing at the clock
announces an adjournment till 10 a.m!
next day. All stand, the Coronor departs
but there is no move in the public gallery!
The moment they have all been wait-
ing for is at hand. Bradley stands up,
and for the first time most of them get
their first real look at him for the day:
for the most part his face has been
hidden from them by the panelled end
of the dock. The short, stocky figure
is flanked by two large detectives, and
they all go out the side door to the mass
stares of the rubbernecks.
Oh, yes, they saw him the day before,
and they will, of course, be there next
day, to face—a long dreary day? Or
one of sensational evidence? Who
knows? It is all part of the fascinating
game.
They are the true evidence-fanciers.
❖ ❖ ❖
Stripping Business
TThere is such a rush of business to
Sydney’s two strip clubs that they
both now offer a special businessmen’s
session.
In a recent survey we chose the
Primitif, which announced that admission
was £l, and “no other expense is neces-
sary.”
The Primitif (it opens straight off the
pavement) glowed with the fires of hell
inside ; this turned out to be the lighting,
which is unrelievedly red. A three-piece
band was hard at work, playing non-stop
jazz in a lumpy, midway-out style.
“Haven’t you got anything smaller?”
complained the middle-aged woman be-
hind the desk. “I’ve changed a dozen
fivers already.” An eager young business-
man obliged with singles from his
expense-account. Each customer received
a card making him a “guest transient
member.”
The club itself was fairly large, but
“Jingle Bells!”


forced into such bulges and cul-de-sacs
by pillars, walls and partitions that it
resembled the engine-room of a ship.
A very fat man with a square, balding
head —the living image of the late Sydney
Greenstreet intercepted each new
arrival: “No reservations! Try number
seven —a lovely seat! Up there at the
back!”
The place filled rapidly. The average
age of the businessmen was about 21.
They must have been junior executives
or trainee managers. They were hushed
expectantly.
Here and there a sprinkling of older
tycoons chatted easily to the waitresses.
“How about coming and working for us
for sixty pounds a week?’’ said one.
“We’re in cash-registers.”
The waitresses were harassed young
ladies in white blouses and black or red
ballet tights. “You want to eat now, or
order from the menu?” demanded one.
Without waiting for an answer she went
away and came back with the “meal,”
which presumably made it legally possible
to sell drinks. It was a hamburger with
a sprinkling of salad.
“Beer’s four shillings a small bottle,”
said the waitress. Two young executives
ordered two bottles each. “It wouldn't
do to come here to get full —not at four
bob a go,” said one.
At 8.15 Sydney Greenstreet gave a
loud command to someone out of sight
behind the bandstand to get the show
on me roaa.
A rainy attractive girl in a beaded
brassiere and a glass-wool skirt bounded
on stage, wiggled'her way about for a
few minutes, and to mild applause
bounded off again. “Not much there,”
said an apprentice salesman.
“And now, straight from Cuba, Fidel
Castro’s favorite dancer! ” cried the
bandleader. La Passionara wore a con-
ventional costume, with the addition of
large sprays of colored feathers that
inhibited her movements somewhat.
When, after a song in guttural Spanish,
she shook herself to a climax, there was
dead silence. From the back came the
voices of two trainee sales-assistants dis-
cussing the new hardware manager.
“Ha! ” shouted La Passionara, and
began to applaud herself.
“Straight from Paris —Cherie Desiree! ”
shouted the bandleader. Cherie Desiree
at last raised a few whistles. She prowled
about the stage, gave a few half-hearted
bumps with her hips and rapidly stripped
to a G-string and two stars. She posed
briefly, the lights went out, and as the
band went into its hurry-them-off theme
Cherie scrabbled round the stage in the
dark picking up her belongings.
“An Australian girl—your favorite!”
announced the bandleader. A plump
y°ung lady in a blue dress sidled
cautiously on stage. After bumping up
and down, she unzipped her dress and
stepped out of it, revealing black under-
wear and a large expanse of flesh the
color of pickled pork.
“Sit down at the back!” cried Sydney
Greenstreet. “Me, I don’t care what you
but it’s against the licensing-laws!”
And so, while the hamburgers cooled
“Masted, the procession continued non-
stop; “The pocket Venus, Carmen!”;
“Liza, straight from New York!”; “the
tempestuous Barbara Carroll!”
A buzz of interest greeted a tall Negro
girl—“the girl with the titanic bust move-
ment!” She must have been saving her
muscles for later shows.
At 9.30 the lighting Went up from dark-
ness to semi-darkness. “That’s all for
this performance,” announced the band-
leader, “but if you want to stay for the
next show, you’ve only got to pay
“No, no! ” shouted Sydney Greenstreet
across the room. “All booked out for the
next show! Everybody out!”
❖ ♦♦♦
New Bottles
for Old Wine
Tt is an odd reflection on Victoria’s
licensing-laws that some of the most
“civilised drinking”—a favorite phrase of
the Licensing Court’s chairman, Judge
Fraser —is done in this State after 6 p.m.,
and on unlicensed premises.
Anyone who cares to spend an hour
or two touring the main streets stream-
ing out from Melbourne will have no
trouble in discovering this. Take for
example Lygon Street, Carlton, the exten-
sion of Melbourne’s Russell Street, which
disects the heart of the Italian commu-
nity. The curious traveller in quest of
an after-work drink in comfortable con-
ditions from, say, 5.30 p.m. onwards,
will almost certainly find that the
numerous hotel bars along this amply
liquored street are not ideal for two
reasons: you are ordered out without
ceremony at 6 p.m., and your half-hour
or so stay will have been highlighted
(dramatised if you like) by an uncom-
fortable first-hand experience of Vic-
toria’s notorious six-o’clock swill.
Legally, there are only two alternatives
to the swill. One is to pay a visit to
Jimmy Watson’s famous wine-saloon at
the far end of Lygon Street and jostle
for drinks with academics and under-
graduates from the nearby University ;
the other is to head for Lygon Street’s
one licensed bistro.
But again there are drawbacks. Watson,
hampered by the same restrictive regu-
lations as the pubs, is forced to lock his
doors at 6 p.m., and it is only the fleet-
footed or privileged (those who can
arrive early enough) who will be able to
squeeze into a place in the pleasant, but
pint-sized, bistro which can hardly cope
with more than 20 customers at a time.
So? So you simply go to one of those
cafes which suddenly and significantly
become popular after 6 p.m. and ask
the waiter for a claret or a light wine.
In an open and courteous manner which
his licensed and legal colleagues might
well envy he will whisk away to return
with what appears to be a bottle of
coca-cola (for the reds) or apple-cider
(for the whites).
Meanwhile, the police are not finding
claret in coca-cola bottles, but vice in
espresso bars. Inspired by a generous
tip from Chief Secretary Arthur Rylah,
made during a Parliamentary session, they
went hunting in inner-suburban areas,
including Lygon Street, and reportedly
found what they were looking for. These
daring public eyes treated Melbourne
to some of the most startling headline
stories of recent times. Behind the
innocently ornamented fa9ades of the
espressos teenage girls are apparently
being seduced over capuccinos spiked
with spirits, and then procured—prob-
ably -by unscrupulous foreigners for
immoral purposes. Such discoveries make
the present researcher acutely aware of
his amateur status.
A CHRISTMAS WISH
“State lotteries were described in a TV-
programme as ‘a form of voluntary taxation.'
Now people speak of lotteries
As forms of voluntary taxation
/ wish the tax authorities
Would take into consideration
Awarding Cadillacs and Humbers
To taxpayers with lucky numbers.
As for the First, the Jackpot, Prize
{And they have both the means to pay
And urge of housing difficulties ) :
Give the People s Bank away —
Not in one mighty avalanche,
But year by year, and branch by
branch.
Secure from all the world's assaults,
Feasting your eyes upon the view
Of lettuce growing in the vaults —
This Christmas thought 1 leave with
you ;
And if it seems a bit deranged
Then, after Christmas, have it changed.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Sir Roland Wilson
The Czar of Treasury
By ALAN REID
He is five feet three inches tall and
as slim as a boy. But para-
doxically he is a very big man
and very few individuals in this
Commonwealth carry as much weight.
He is Sir Roland Wilson, 56, Knight
Bachelor. His neat, spinsterish signature
has appeared in the right-hand corner
of every Commonwealth bank-note
printed since 1951, when he became
Secretary to the Commonwealth
Treasury. This small, insignificant-
looking man whom few would pick out
in a crowd, who is scarcely known to
the public except as a name, is the man
who has more say in how you live today
and will live tomorrow than most of the
politicians who strut the front pages. As
the personification of the Commonwealth
Treasury—-that powerful, bureaucratic
machine which has an impact upon the
private life of every Australian—he has
had more say in the management of
Australia’s financial affairs than any man
outside the Federal Cabinet-room and
probably more than most of those in it.
It was on his advice that the Menzies
Government decided to eliminate import
controls entirely and in one bold step.
The advice was based upon pure text-
book theory. The law of Supply and
Demand suggested that if goods flowed
in they would be cheaper than locally-
produced goods. Under their pressure
local prices would come tumbling down.
Inflation would be halted. We would
achieve financial stability. And that
would be that.
What has gone wrong with this text-
book approach is that it ignored the effect
that eliminating import restrictions would
have upon Australia’s balance-of-pay-
ments. And so now another five-footer-
and-nothing-much-more-in-the - way - of-
inches may be saying, “I told you so.”
This other diminutive economic czar is
Sir John Crawford, then still head of
the Trade Department, but now retired
to the more attractive quietness of the
Australian National University.
When Treasury rushed the Govern-
ment into abolishing import restrictions
“Trade” took a more cynical, possibly
more realistic view. Its senior officers of
necessity rub shoulders with the business
world, unlike the more secluded Treasury
men, who can still maintain something
of the academic view towards business.
The law of Supply and Demand
worked all right in textbooks, said the
men from Trade. But the law of Supply
SIR ROLAND WILSON
Kills his own snakes
and Demand had very little to do with,
say, the price of tyres. They were fixed
under a trade agreement. Or with, say,
the furnishing trade. If somebody in the
furnishing trade started serious under-
cutting he would not get far. His sup-
pliers—also well organised—would see
to that.
Trade provided a long list of “buts”
and also pointed to the human factor.
Importers were shrewd. They would
know that the situation was not so
obviously good that they could be
guaranteed indefinite liberty to bring in
what they liked, wherever they liked, and
for as long as they liked. They would
know that their rivals would be flat-out
to see that they had as much in as they
could get, so as not to be caught short
if import controls were reimposed. In
self-defence they had to go as hard as
they could to get in as much as they
could, in as short a time as they could.
And it was not their concern that their
action would make the reimposition of
import controls likely.
For these reasons Crawford urged that
import controls be abolished gradually,
over a period, so that people could get
accustomed to it and accept it as a norm
instead of something which —because it
contained an element of risk, however
mathematically s 1 e n d e r—could be
reversed at some future date.
Crawford lost and Wilson won. But
it has been a greatly qualified victory.
Events have tended to confirm Craw-
ford’s assessment that there was more
in the problem than economics and pre-
cise figuring, that there was the human
factor as well. Cabinet’s recently an-
nounced financial proposals are publicly
acknowledged as designed to correct, in
part at least, the miscalculations in assess-
ing the effects of a complete abandonment
of import controls at the time they were
abandoned.
To those close to the Canberra scene
there is much of Wilson’s personality in
that chain of events. It does not sur-
prise them that in making his assess-
ment Wilson was guided only by the cold
clarity of the figures that he has worked
with and loved all his life and overlooked
the human factors, nor that Wilson,
though he overlooked a key factor,
argued the case in the Cabinet-room for
wiping out import controls with such
brilliance that his view won.
For Wilson is quite an extraordinary
figure, with the mind of a calculating-
machine, a sure, positive grasp of the
techniques of finance and economics, a
tongue barbed with fishhooks, no rever-
ence for anyone, complete intellectual
integrity, and the habits of a recluse.
He was born clever (at Ulverstone,
Tasmania, in 1904). He scudded cleverly
through Devonport High School, emerged
from the University of Tasmania as a
Bachelor of Commerce and a Rhodes
Scholar at the age of 21, won the prize
in colonial history in his first year at
Oxford. He took a doctorate of philo-
sophy with a thesis on the import of
capital (something that 20 years later he
was to put into practice in Australia),
was elected to a fellowship at Chicago
University and returned to Tasmania to
become a lecturer in economics at
Hobart.
He could not have chosen a better
university. This was the period of the
“Tasmanian invasion” into the Com'
monwealth Public Service. With Prime
Minister Joe Lyons in power and shrewd
old Professor Giblin, of the red, invari-
ably ash-stained tie (and also of Tas-
mania), as the Government’s chief back-
room economic adviser, the Tasmanians


crossed Bass Strait to take-over the main-
land. Two of them stilt survive in public
life: Sir Douglas Copland—and Wilson.
Wilson was only 29 when appointed
Commonwealth economist, and 31 when
he became Commonwealth statistician —
then the youngest ever Commonwealth
departmental head and the world’s
youngest Government statistician.
War pushed Wilson still higher—
through the odd coincidence that Caucus
had elected Ned Ward to the Curtin
Labor Ministry. The Prime Minister,
John Curtin, was under pressure from
the Left-wing of Labor to appoint Leftist
Ward to a Cabinet post which would give
him control of the working force in Aus-
tralia — with vast emergency powers.
Curtin had to give in to this pressure, so
he looked around for some cold, unemo-
tional man to act as a check upon the
ebullience of Ward. Curtin feared Ward's
ebullience and he feared what Ward's
Left-wing associates might do with it.
Probably directed by —Giblin and
endorsed by Ben Chifley, who was then
Curtin’s chief adviser, Curtin decided on
Wilson. And so began one of the oddest
partnerships in Federal history—a
partnership of disparates.
Ward, as Minister, and Wilson, as
permanent head, set-up and got operating
a Department of Labor and National
Service that controlled Australia’s war-
time civilian manpower. Despite their
dissimilarities —Wilson at that period
was as conservative and conventional as
Ward was radical and politically reckless
—they seemed to have got along very
well. Ward later described Wilson as a
first-class administrator (though you were
left with the impression that Ward also
viewed him as a man without many
human sympathies). And Wilson admired
Ward’s capacity to make up his mind
quickly and firmly (though he thought
Ward wrong in his judgments).
The post-war period saw Wilson’s
career slump temporarily. He got
“cream” jobs—those modern Government
postings that spell prestige, travel, glamor.
He lived for a while in the United States,
which he likes. He favors the United
States in various aspects of Government
policy. Lady Wilson is an American
whom he met during one of his many
trips abroad. He functioned as Austra-
lian representative to the International
Monetary Fund, the U.N. committees
and the like. But the work was remote,
probably a little frustrating to a man like
Wilson who had lived'in the heart of
things. He was not accustomed to be
one among many, but the first among
few.
His anti-social habits, always latent,
developed more strongly. A sparing
drinker and a moderate smoker, he had
nevertheless gone to occasional Canberra
Parties. But when he returned to Aus-
tralia to go back to his former job as
Commonwealth statistician he became
niore monklike than ever.
He found his off-duty outlet in his
lavishly equipped workshop, where he
indulged the twin passions of engineering
a nd cabinet-making. He is a first-class
Mechanic who during the war years beat
the petrol shortage by building his own
electric motor-car —a small, neat job with
a suggestion of sporting jauntiness that
became familiar on the Canberra scene.
He built furniture and enlarged his com-
fortable suburban house, and seemed to
be drifting into a nondescript background
inappropriate for a man of his tempera-
ment and talents. He accepted only
official invitations he could not turn
down.
Then, with Mr Fadden (now Sir
Arthur Fadden) as Treasurer, the Gov-
ernment needed a new Secretary to the
Treasury. Wilson was an obvious con-
tender. But for a while---and the period
must have been galling to a man of
Wilson’s arrogantly proud temperament
—it looked as though he could be nosed
out by either of two much younger, less-
experienced men, whom Wilson probably
regarded as being, administratively,
scarcely out of napkins.
Wilson got the job (salary now £6500).
But he was still a long way from getting
the power he has today. The year 1951
was still the era of the “Dedman
boys.” These were the men who had
come up through the Post-war Recon-
struction Department when John Dedman
was taking the pink icing out of cakes
and proliferated all over the administra-
tion.
Allan Brown (now Sir Allan Brown
and comfortably in London at Australia
House) was head of the Prime Minister’s
Department with constant, daily and
trusted access to the all-important ear
of Prime Minister Menzies. Jack Craw-
ford (now Sir John Crawford) was boss
of the Commerce Department, working
in close association with his Minister,
John McEwen. Dr H. C. (“Nugget”)
Coombs, ex-wharf laborer and ex-teacher,
short, cheerful and ingratiating as head
of the Commonwealth Bank, had un-
limited access to and was trusted and
liked by Fadden.
These men had survived triumphantly
the 1949 switch-over from Labor to a
Liberal Government. Though their paths
had diverged they tended to have an “old
departmental tie” attachment that made
them in association a formidable and
powerful group strategically located right
in the inner councils of government. To
them Wilson must have appeared an
interloper and his conventional and rather
rigidly orthodox ideas a throwback to the
cautious conservatism of the hated pre-
war era.
There were others who also checked
and balanced the power immediately
conferred on Wilson. William Dunk
(now Sir William and on the verge of
retirement) was head of the Public Ser-
vice Board and a power in the land.
Patrick McGovern (now Sir Patrick and
retired) had, as Commissioner of Taxation,
maintained his independence, despite
Treasury attempts to reduce his func-
tions, and was persona grata with both
Menzies and Fadden.
Surrounded by strong men in other
departments, Wilson at first concentrated
on the Treasury. He set out to re-
organise it, and the manner in which he
reorganised it is to some degree an illus-
tration of both his strengths and his
weaknesses. He is a man who likes to
carry all his own babies and kill his own
snakes. In a profession which breeds
"Have you any ‘Get Lost ’ cards?"*


buck-passers as inevitably as sheep-
country breeds blowflies he never dodges
responsibility. But because he accepts
responsibility he likes the decisions to
be his and his alone, and a natural con-
sequence follows. He had a tendency to
centralise all power within the depart-
ment in his own hands. And he did just
that. The Treasury became Wilson.
Only in one area of Treasury activity
did he fully delegate authority. And the
fact that he delegated authority in that
area revealed that rather cruel .sense of
humor with which he still sometimes
chastens even senior Ministers as if they
were schoolboys. For delegation he
chose the section of the Treasury that
can veto the spending of other Govern-
ment departments.
For all but the larger things—on which
Wilson makes the decision himself —
he put in to act as- the Treasury’s
representative an officer who has since
become known throughout the Public
Service as “The Hatchet Man.” This
man has the instinct—commendable in
a money-saver—to say “No.” Wilson
gave him almost unlimited authority to
exercise this restrictive instinct, while
Wilson sat back, secure as the last Court
of Appeal, and watched the victims
wriggle.
But because otherwise he did not dele-
gate authority Wilson has inevitably not
been served as well as some of the
other departmental heads who were pre-
pared to give able subordinates reason-
able freedom within the framework of
departmental policy. There are excep-
tions : Dick Randall, another five-footer
and Wilson’s first-lieutenant in the
Treasury, has a fine analytical mind, un-
limited capacity and a sturdy earthy
integrity. There are others —but Treasury
men tended to become henchmen rather
than innovators.
Even backed by the functional strength
SIR JOHN CRAWFORD
“I told you so”
of the Treasury, Wilson for a time con-
tinued in eclipse. It was the “Dedman
boys” rather than Wilson who had the
ears of important Ministers. It was
rumored in Canberra —and believed—
that Wilson had difficulty in getting
audience with the Prime Minister.
The period during which revaluation
of the Australian currency was being
seriously reconsidered brought Wilson
back to the central stage of Government.
The story goes that Prime Minister
Menzies was impressed by the case for
revaluation made out by advisers closely
associated with some at least of the
“Dedman boys.” Fadden was worried.
An upward revaluation would have made
heavy inroads into farm income. The
Prime Minister is supposed to have
phoned Wilson on a Sunday afternoon
and to have taken him with him to the
Lodge. There in the Prime Minister’s
study the argument raged. When Fadden
and Wilson left the fate of revaluation
had been solved. It would not happen.
From then on Wilson’s authority grew.
It became more assured as the “Dedman
boys” dropped out of the picture one by
one. Brown left for London, Crawford
for the National University. Others (not
“Dedman boys” but alternative power-
points to Wilson) left for other posts,
mostly in universities, or retired.
Coombs managed to retain a consider-
able part of his influence while Fadden
continued as Treasurer. I am told that
there is nothing the Prime Minister
enjoys better than to get Coombs and
Wilson into the Cabinet-room and put
them, like worms, on the hook of argu-
ment and let them wriggle. But Wilson
does not wriggle. He declaims. And
though I am told that Menzies is
obviously more comfortable with
Coombs, whom he can understand, he
has a profound respect for the soundness
and integrity of Wilson’s viewpoint.
When Harold Holt was appointed
Treasurer Coombs’s influence receded
further. Geography partly accounted for
this. Coombs is headquartered in Sydney
(through which Fadden was almost a
weekly bird of passage). Holt lives in
Melbourne, visits Sydney only inter-
mittently, but is available to Wilson in
Canberra throughout Parliamentary ses-
sions and for long periods during recess.
So Roland Wilson, small, slim,
boyishly unlined of face despite his 56
years, has become the czar of the Com-
monwealth Public Service. He has many
strengths intellectual integrity, the
willingness to make decisions and to stand
up to them fearlessly, a razor-sharp
mind, and an encyclopaedia-like know-
ledge of all aspects of economics. He
will stand up to any Minister, and if they
are offensive or try to trespass upon what
he regards as his preserves and functions
he will insult them.
But he also has his weaknesses. Ha
has few of the human frailties himself
and he does not seem to understand them
in others. I am prepared to bet that
when he made the alterations to his
house in Canberra he had every penny
to cover his expenditure securely tucked
away in the bank —that he cannot under-
stand how other men can be so improvi-
Dr H. C. (“Nugget”) COOMBS
The old departmental tie
dential that they have to go to a bank to
borrow.
He can work through figures to an
impeccable conclusion. But he does not
seem to realise that the human factor
can make a joke of his highly scien-
tific answers. He can argue a case
brilliantly. But he does not seem to
understand that a man who presents his
case badly may nevertheless have a good
case.
He lives austerely, remote from the
everyday world, seldom seen away from
the office even in Canberra, hardly rub-
bing shoulders with the business-men,
union-leaders and workers who have to
live in the world which his policies
shape.
He is hard, brilliant, superficially
cynical. His policies reach into
your home and mine and help to
decide whether we will have a new car
this year or in the distant future, and
indeed whether we will have a job and
just how highly paid that job will be.
Though many people who know Wilson
well will laugh at this, I believe Wilson
is a sensitive man, easily hurt, who
masks his sensitivity behind a cynical,
flippant manner. He does not like to
be hurt himself. So before others can
hurt him he hurts them with his clever,
gibing tongue, which is uninhibited by the
importance of the person who is his butt.
He does not like fools and he makes
no secret of it. He views a lot of Cabinet
Ministers and Parliamentarians as fools.
But perhaps he overlooks the important
point that they intuitively understand
human nature —which he does not —even
though they have not studied economics
as intensively as he has. He does not
seem able to understand that politicians
rub shoulders with the harsh everyday
world (which he does not) and regard
figures simply as an aid in reaching 3
conclusion rather than the only reason
for reaching it.


Crowded Australian Loneliness
By OLAF RUHEN
Something exciting is happening on
the Australian road, something new
and far-reaching, something bound
to cut another characteristic facet in
the still-developing jewel of the national
constitution.
For every mile of it is carrying the
Australian-on-tour in ever-increasing
numbers: ten-thousand of his kind will
visit the lonely Big Gibber that is Ayers
Rock in this year alone ; the road to the
Gulf of Carpentaria is carrying pleasure
traffic supplementary to the trickle of
Mount Isa miners who year after year
have holidayed amongst the lively, fight-
ing fish of those quiet waters ; the centres
of Normanton and Croydon, near-ghost
towns, are being revitalised by the flow
of curious Australians newly ecstatic over
the unbelievable wealth and color of their
own country.
The unbroken lines of beer-bottles no
longer mark the outback roads ; at least,
not in the previous quantities ; nor are
they replaced by the more modern cans,
for the calibre of the traveller has
changed. But other signs of passers-by
are abundant. Some sections of the road
glisten with piles of glass from more
broken windscreens than they had cars
in previous years ; more than one sector
has been christened “the Crystal High-
way.”
Everywhere the Australian urbanite is
pushing into places more and more
remote. Equipped with camping-gear
varying from a motor-scooter and a pup-
tent to a huge four-roomed dwelling
built on to a massive semi-trailer, he is
engaged upon a personal.exploration of
his world.
Perhaps the greatest single motivating
factor in all this road-travel has been
the general application of long-service
leave. Literally thousands of hard-
working people, finding themselves pre-
sented with from four to six months of
time to spend just as they wish, settle
for a round-Australia tour. A high pro-
portion of the travellers are in upper
middle-age ; they are self-reliant and,
unlike the youngsters looking for adven-
ture, keep out of financial difficulty.
But there are other factors operating
a t this time. Great credit must go to the
tourist-bus companies, extending their
services into the farthest corners of the
continent; and to the big oil companies,
tfith their readiness to provide informa-
tion and facilities. “I see Ansett’s Tun-
ing up to the Gulf now, and across the
bottom of York Peninsula. If he can do
't> I can.” I must have heard a dozen
motorists say something like that.
As far as the Territory is concerned,
Albert Namatjira’s work provided yet
Mother inducement to go and see. The
Public has long accorded Albert much
jPore respect and attention than he has
from the country’s myopic and ill-
trained critics ; and a tremendous percent-
age of the travellers in Namatjira country
are there for the sole purpose of satis-
fying themselves as to the bona fides of
Albert’s brush. Are such colors, such
shapes, really possible? Or was he, as
natives are reputed to be, dazzled by the
bright possibilities of his palette? Well,
the colors are there, brighter and more
fantastic than they ever believed.
Tn the whole area of Australia the Terri-
A tory is the only part that can be
accounted inimical to tourists ; and it’s
anybody’s guess whether this attitude
derives from the station-owner, who
needs no neighbors, from the Govern-
ment servant, whose pay goes on just the
same, or from the downright cussedness
of humanity ; for no one needs the tourist
pound so much as the Territorian. In no
other area is the local money so methodi-
cally drained to provide periodical spend-
ing bouts elsewhere.
The Territorian, and particularly the
Territorian publican, will tell you that
the tourist doesn’t spend money. “He
comes with a clean shirt and a quid and
he leaves with the quid.” But the average
tourist who goes to the Territory spends
at least a couple of hundred pounds on
his enterprise, and the garagemen, the
bus-companies, the motels, the tourist-
camps and the tradesmen domicile it
where he spends it. It is true that the
tourist doesn’t frequent, to the extent of
the local resident, the broken-down
humpies that pass as pubs, but he does
spend big money in such hotels as have
been tailored to his taste, as you can
see in Alice Springs and Darwin, but
hardly elsewhere.
The feeling against the tourist is there,
however, and is peculiar to the Territory.
A Government servant told me: “If I
could say what I wanted to the tourist
I would say, ‘Get out of here. Go back
where you came from. We don't want
you.’ ” But that attitude disappears as
soon as you cross the South Australian,
Western Australian or Queensland
border. Particularly Queensland, where
the welcome to the tourist takes the prac-
tical form of extensive road-building.
The tourist’s best insurance against
trouble is his fellow-tourist; and this is
particularly true in the wide distances of
the Territory. Stop by the side of the
road for any purpose apart from that of
spreading a table and every other car
will pull-up to ask you whether you need
assistance. The locals will not stop—
you can pick them by the number-plates;
but almost every out-of-State car will.
Perhaps the position is reversed for locals
and they stop for their own kind ; but
this I could not say.
Come sound bets are as yet overlooked
by the many who profit from the
great migratory movements of the
tourists. Some 12 years ago I explored
the caves of which the entrance lies
hidden in a limestone outcrop about a
quarter-mile off the road at a point per-
haps 16 miles south of Katherine. These
caves are a major attraction, with forma-
tions like those of Jenolan and Waitomo,
and they run for miles through all that
limestone country. This plain was once
a coral sea, and, like all coral formations,
is threaded with caves. Development,
from the tourist angle, need consist of no
more than a cleared track and a notice-
board ; but development is not forth-
coming. In fact, the whereabouts of the
entrance is forgotten even in Katherine.
There are other cave-systems in the
district; but the tourist never sees them.
He is often unable to see the magnificent
attractions of the Katherine Gorge—a
little roadmaking is indicated here. The
Animal Trap, a natural formation
described in “We of the Never-Never,”
lies a few hundred yards off the road near
Elsey Station ; no tourist ever sees it,
nor is he told of its fascinating story.
A good many go to the bourne pro-
vided by the health-giving spa and the
hospitality of Mataranka station-home-
stead, and Mr and Mrs Vic Smith, who
operate the hostel there, are of the soul
of Australian hospitality. But this is the
only one of Katherine's considerable
resources under development.
The tourist-camp that Katherine pro-
vides has toilet-facilities of which one
brief inspection provokes most tourists
to drive on in disgust. I’ve never seen
worse anywhere in the world ; not even
on Darwin's Mendel Beach, which
approaches a superlative in its con-
temptuous regard for the tourist.
The official outlook in the Territory
seems to be: “To Hell with visitors.” If
there are signs pointing to popular scenic
resorts, they are, in general, provided by
private enterprise. The one road in
Alice Springs that every tourist uses is
that to the top of Anzac Hill ; it is the
only road that is in shocking shape,
though a couple of men with shovels
could fix the worst of it in a day.
In the Territory there is nothing to
show you (as there is in Queensland) just.
when you enter the tropics. The Terri-
tory’s eastern boundary is marked by a
notice welcoming you to Queensland, and
erected by Queensland school-children.
You breathe the aura of friendliness
once again as soon as you cross the
border, and it is wonderful.


POLITICCAL PONITS
"Cor 24 hours it looked as if it was
going to be Vale Selassie!
• •
Adlai Stevenson, twice Democratic
candidate for the U.S. Presidency, was
an early tip for Kennedy’s Secretary of
State, but instead he has been given the
job of U.S. Ambassador to U.N., a post
he should fill with ease and distinction.
The new Secretary of State will be Dean
Rusk, for the past eight years president
of the Rockefeller Foundation. Rusk
worked in the State Department in minor
posts during the Truman regime ; his
last appointment was Assistant Secretary
for Far Eastern Affairs. In that post he
was involved in the problems of the
Korean War, the recall of General
Macarthur, the defence of Formosa and
the Japanese peace treaty. He’s 51.
• •
In rejecting the application of eight
metal-trades unions for three weeks’
annual leave (against two at present),
the Federal Arbitration Commission
took the timely view that, because of
present economic conditions, this was not
the time to grant an extension of annual
leave. Increased leave would seriously
affect primary industries and export earn-
ings, the commission said, and added
that while it did not consider that em-
ployees under Federal awards had re-
ceived all the leisure they should achieve,
employment figures at present showed
lhat an increase in annual leave would
not result in more leisure for workers
but in more overtime. The commission
also made the interesting comment that
public-service standards were not to be
accepted as the standards for all industry.
• •
Dy a six-to-one majority, Fullagar, J.,
-*-* dissenting, the High Court dismissed
the application by eight N.S.W. legislators
for leave to appeal against a N.S.W.
Supreme Court -judgment upholding the
Heffron Government’s move to hold a
referendum on the abolition of the
N.S.W. Legislative Council. Next step
depends on whether the eight crusaders
decide to appeal to the Privy Council.
In the meantime Chief Secretary Gus
Kelly (in the absence of the Premier and
Deputy Premier) is doing victory-rolls
and talking of going ahead with the
referendum. He hasn’t given any hint
of actual dates, but opinion leans to
March or April.
. No Labor member any longer suggests
that the referendum will be a foregone
conclusion for abolition. Many Labor
M.L.C.s, besides the rebels, don’t want
the Upper House to go, and Labor’s
campaign-team will include a lot of re-
luctant dragons. A saner scheme, even
at this late stage, would be to confer
, ... ~ 4 ,
with the Opposition on plans to reform
the Council rather than destroy it.
• •
According to Moscow Radio the
Algerian rebel leader Ferhat Abbas has
asked Khrushchev to do everything “to
put an immediate end to this overt
genocide with regard to the Algerian
people.” The Voice of Moscow added
that France should stop trying by force
of arms to impose its will upon the free-
dom-loving Algerian people. It is de
Gaulle’s avowed intention to ask the
freedom-loving Algerians to indicate by
referendum exactly what future they want
for their country. That’s a choice no
Russian satellite country has ever been
given. The only chance the people be-
hind the Iron Curtain get of voting for
freedom is with tl\eir feet—and that’s why
three-million from East Germany alone
have walked across the border since the
end of the war in Europe. In contrast
400,000 Algerians are voluntarily living
and working in Paris alone.
With the final counts in the N.Z.
general election all but concluded the
position of the parties is 46-34 in favor
of National. The finals resulted in the
defeat of a second Labor Minister
(education), P. O. S. Skoglund, retired
schoolmaster, of Palmerston North. The
position of the parties is now the same
as when National took over from Labor
in 1949 and held office until 1957. P.M.
Holyoake has riffled his fingers over the
meagre cash-box passed on to him, and,
with the depleted overseas reserves in
mind, seems to be eyeing the future in
a spirit of anxious resignation.
• •
Cuba’s Ambassador in Djakarta has
promised Cuban help for Indonesia if
it is attacked by Holland. As there is
not the slightest likelihood of the Dutch
attacking Indonesia the promise was an
easy one to give. It was accompanied
by much talk about Dutch and American
imperialism—the sort of hot-air that
currently passes for diplomacy in Djakarta
and Havana. In return for promised help
the Indonesians were told that Cuba
would expect similar assistance from
them if required. Presumably both
countries will now sit back and await the
imperialist aggressors, calm in the know-
ledge that each has a firm friend half-a-
world of water away.
• •
Tn the closing hours of the Senate session
two Senators suddenly discovered
an urgent desire to rid Canberra of some
of its pests—of the non-human variety.
Senator Brown asked whether the
C.5.1.R.0. could do something about
eradicating Canberra’s flies. He said he
had heard there were no flies in Formosa.
Senator Spooner replied that there were
no flies on Senator Brown, either. As
to eradication he said that constant efforts
were being made to reduce the number
of flies in Canberra and elsewhere.
Senator Tangney then commented on the
prevalence of snakes in Canberra and
asked whether the C.5.1.R.0. could find
out why there were no snakes in Ireland
and apply the same treatment here.
Senator Henty, the Minister to whom the
question was addressed, was no more
helpful than Senator Spooner had been
about the flies. He didn’t even offer to
try and get in touch with St. Patrick.
"These winds of change don’t usually blow for long in Abyssinia!”


Road-safety note: T. G. Paterson,
director of the Australian Road Safety
Council, warns that up to 100 deaths and
2000 injuries may be expected over the
Christmas-New Year holiday period
unless drivers and pedestrians show more
care and courtesy than last year, when
93 people were killed and 2159 injured
in road-accidents in the 10 days from
December 23 to January 1. Drivers were
primarily responsible for 65 of the 93
deaths.
It is ironical that Christmas Eve is the
most dangerous day of the year. Last
Christmas Eve 20 people were killed on
the roads —more than three times the
normal daily fatality figure. The primary
causes of fatalities among drivers and
riders were excessive speed, 20 deaths ;
failure to keep to the left, 15 ; not giving
the right of way, 11 ; inattention, 8 ;
intoxication, 5.
• •
As predicted in The Bulletin some
months ago, the Federal Government
has settled on the French Mirage 111
jet' fighter for the R.A.A.F. It has a
speed of around 1700 m.p.h. and costs
a.good deal less than the U.S. Starfighter.
An initial Australian order of under 30
is talked of, with delivery in 1962. A num-
ber of decisions have still to be made as
to whether French or Rolls-Royce engines
will be fitted, and whether the machines
will- be wholly-imported or partly
assembled here. It is to be hoped that
by the time Cabinet and the various
departments (including the Treasury)
make up their minds the aircraft has not
become obsolete.
• •
An unexpected shortfall in the export-
sugar commitments of Mauritius and the
West Indies has increased Australia’s
export quota by 18,031 tons. This
brings the quota for the season to
768,546 tons, the highest ever.
• •
Chester Bowles, named Under-Secretary
of State by President-elect John F.
Kennedy, is 59, a Yale man, and his
first job was as a reporter on the “Spring-
field Republican',” the family newspaper
founded by his great-grandfather and
edited by his grandfather. He then went
to the advertising concern of George
Batten Company. In 1942 he joined the
Office of Price Administration, and in
1943 was appointed National Price
Administrator by Franklin D. Roosevelt.
After the war, he served under Truman
as director of the Office of Economic
Stabilisation where he was responsible
for direction of anti-inflation controls,
a od as chairman of the Economic
Stabilisation Board. After work with
Unesco and U.N., Truman appointed
fi'rn Ambassador to India and First
American Ambassador to Nepal in 1951.
rm resigned when Eisenhower became
president, and was elected to the U.S.
douse of Representatives in 1958. He
not seek re-election in the November
d 960) elections, but, as chairman of the
democratic Platform Committee in July
I" ls year Bowles helped produce the
democrats’ Statement of Political Pur-
poses on which Kennedy waged his
successful campaign.
• •
Final majority of Liberal D. L. Chipp
after D.L.P. prefs. had been distributed
in the Higinbotham by-election was 603,
compared with the late Frank Timson’s
majority of 9805 at the 1958 general
election. D.L.P. support for the Govern-
ment candidate dropped from 90.9 per
cent, in 1958 to 83.4 per cent., the result,
partly of general dissatisfaction with
Treasurer Holt’s financial measures and
partly to publicity given to moves (un-
successful) for a truce between D.L.P.
and A.L.P.
Both the new member and the Govern-
ment should do a spot of lucky-star
thanking for the narrow win, but Labor
would be unwise to build its hopes too
high on the strength of the swing.
Incensed supporters have a habit of
taking it out of the Government at by-
elections, but masses of them swing back
at general-election time if the Govern-
ment gives them the slightest excuse for
doing so.
In the early years of the Menzies
Government a by-election in Flinders
gave a close parallel to the present posi-
tion in Higinbotham (the two seats
adjoin). At the 1951 general election the
Liberal candidate had a majority of
4004 over Labor and Independent oppo-
nents. A by-election in October, 1952,
following a most unpopular Budget, saw
this changed to a deficit of 5365. The
swing of 9369 compares with 9202 in
Higinbotham. Yet 18 months later the
seat returned to the Government and
has been comfortably retained ever since.
• •
A/Count Gambier City Council adver-
tised for an office - junior:—“A
young man required possessing qualifica-
tions of leadership, courage, tact, dis-
cretion, patience, tolerance, and ability
to train as a future town clerk.” The
mayor wasn’t impressed ; in fact, he
said he was disgusted, and that the two
qualities the council should look first
for in an office-junior were honesty and
punctuality,
• •
One reason for recent increases in tea
prices has just been revealed. After a
lapse of nearly two years, Russia has
resumed buying tea in Ceylon, and, as
a result, prices at the Colombo auctions
rose by nearly 20 cents a pound. The
Ceylonese Government is considering
setting up a corporation to handle the
import and distribution of petrol and
kerosene from the Soviet.
• •
There is some excitement in W.A. at
the Federal Government’s decisions to
give an export-licence for 500 tons of
limonite iron-ore to be sent to Japan,
Germany, Britain and the U.S. for metal-
lurgical testing, and to relax the export
embargo which has been imposed for
22 years. The limonite ore comes from
the Scott River region of the south-west,
and £2O million has been mentioned as
the capital for a treatment-plant and
ancillary works if a sponge-iron industry
becomes established.
The general relaxation doesn’t apply
to certain named deposits which include
nearly all Australia’s proved reserves.
These are properly being conserved for
our own use, but some ore from Mount
Goldsworthy, W.A., will be allowed to
be exported. National Development
Minister W. H. Spooner admitted the
other day that this deposit was originally
thought to contain seven-million tons,
a figure later extended to ten-million.
It is now estimated, he said, to contain
25-million tons.
• •
When Senator Cooper retires from
Cabinet at the end of the year only four
of Menzies’ original team who took
office in December, 1949, will be left in
the Ministry—Menzies himself, McEwen,
Holt and Spooner. Cooper has been
Minister for Repatriation throughout the
entire period. McEwen’s original port-
folio was Commerce and Agriculture;
it gradually grew into Trade. Treasurer
Holt’s first departments were Immigra-
tion and Labor and National Service ;
at present he’s probably wishing he'd
never left them. Spooner began as Minis-
ter for Social Services, but National
Development has been his baby since
1951.
• •
The 111-bred State?
Touring the recent general-election cam-
paign in N.Z. the National Party
plugged it good and hard against Labor
over the half-hearted manner in which
it had dealt with the plague of unruly
youngsters.
One aspect of the problem, since
developed, is that defiant and otherwise
obnoxious pupils are making things so
difficult that teachers are leaving the
service and recruits are hard to come
by.
Much of the trouble stems from what
hard - hitting Professor Ted Blaiklock
(Auckland) refers to as “the farce of
compulsory education till 15 years of
age, a scheme introduced emotionally by
politicians who had been denied a good
education.”
The criticism was elaborated on a few
days ago by the Head of the Auckland
Girls’ Grammar School and supported the
day following by several headmasters.
Forced to continue their study, the near-
fifteen-year-olds had become a disrup-
tive and corruptive (dirty stories and the
like) influence on the younger ones. They
resented correction and in this were aided
and abetted by their parents.
This, however, is only one aspect of a
problem that is growing to such pro-
portions that N.Z. may yet be referred
to as the 111-bred State. When the new
National Government meets next year
the country will be looking to it to
honor its pledge, and in this any legisla-
tion framed must have thought for the
adult influence that should be (but in
many instances is lacking) in the home.
A lower school-leaving age may help
to ease the over-employment worry and
redraft many mothers to their rightful
place in the home. — New Zeal.


PERSONAL
Humanity at the Top
Nowadays, when the Australian busi-
nessman tends to look more and
more like an American slickster in
charcoal grey on a tight schedule,
Bill Hayward, managing-director of
Adelaide’s big store, John Martin and
Co., Ltd., and several other firms, seems
as incongruous as a kangaroo in a ratrace.
For a start, he is not basically a
businessman ; he was happily settled on
the land near Narrabri (N.S.W.) until he
decided to go into the family business.
Again, he has probably given more
pleasure to more Australian children
(and grown-ups) than any knight of the
Australian rag-trade. It was he in 1937
who had the brainwave of introducing
in Adelaide the annual John Martin’s
Christmas Pageant, which is now,
astonishingly enough, the biggest pro-
cession of its kind in the world, televised
and filmed everywhere, and this year
viewed even by the Russians.
Bill Hayward appears to be walking
proof that a man at the top of big
business can stay human. He is strongly
built, and his soft voice has an upward
break to it; he has big, gentle features
with deep-set eyes, and his teeth take
a firm grip on his cigarette-holder. He
dresses comfortably with an occasional
surprising tie and has a fondness for
collecting old tiepins which he sports on
gala occasions.
His office is in a cool old stone house
on the North Terrace frontage of John
Martin’s ; from his desk over the years
he must have collected an extraordinary
amount of information about the
appearance and habits of people walking
along the Terrace. The situation is
symbolically apt: he is passionately in-
terested in and involved with human-
beings, but he remains behind a screen,
out of the public glare, partly through
shyness and partly through a deeply Aus-
tralian loathing of public antics and
pomposities. Perhaps his strongest con-
demnation of someone is the simple
phrase, “Pompous ass,” and his unpopu-
larity in certain quarters is due to his
inability to play along with that other
merchant, the merchant of bull.
This attitude sometimes limits him, as
it does many Australians, from perceiving
the genuine worth beneath an offensive
package, but on the whole the range
of Hayward’s interests leads him far
beyond the narrowness that such honesty
imposes.
The symbol of this side of his character
is the art collection that he and his wife
have built up sipce their marriage. It is
probably the finest private collection in
Australia ; they bought their Renoir,
Degas, Boudin and all the rest long
before such paintings became the inter-
national currency of multi-millionaires.
It is typical of the complications of
Hayward’s character that he is not
actually called Bill at all; his Christian
names are Edward Waterfield. Born in
1903, the son of Arthur Dudley Hay-
ward, he is a fourth-generation South
Australian. He was educated at St.
Peter’s College, Adelaide, where he was
a triple-blue and swimming champion.
He did not go to a university, which has
left him permanently suspicious of those
institutions, especially when academics
venture outside their special fields ; in-
stead, he went as a jackaroo for three
years to F. B. S. Falkiner and Sons,
Boonooke.
In 1925 he bought a sheep-property,
Wairoa, near Narrabri. There he was
one of the founders of the Narrabri
Polo Club, and later he played inter-
state polo for South Australia, becoming
captain and president of the Adelaide
Polo Club.
'T'he big switch in his life came in 1929
when he joined the firm of Snow’s
in Sydney, where he stayed for a couple
of years before joining the family busi-
ness at John Martin’s London branch.
In 1935 he married Ursula Barr-Smith,
and they built a house on what were
then the empty foothills of Springfield,
Adelaide.
The Haywards are a formidable pair
in their combined wit and knowledge
of the human situation. They could not
be less insular (in the mere physical sense
they go abroad every second year for
six months), but they are firmly local;
Adelaide fascinates them, and one could
not imagine them permanently anywhere
else.
This is one fact about Australia that
is sometimes hard to convey to a
foreigner—that Australia’s capital cities,
BILL HAYWARD
Big Business, Fine Arts
however parochial in some respects, are
genuine capitals and not provincial cities
cowed by a national capital.
Bill Hayward enlisted in the A.I.F. in
1940 and went overseas with the 2/43rd
Battalion as a Lieutenant. He was in
Tobruk during the siege, and later was
in New Guinea and Borneo with
advanced H.Q. He finished up as a
Lieutenant-Colonel, was mentioned in
dispatches twice and awarded the Ameri-
can Bronze Star.
In Canada in the middle 1930’s Hay-
ward saw a small Christmas pageant
organised by a well-known Toronto firm,
and he decided to try something of the
sort on a bigger scale in Adelaide. The
first Christmas pageant in 1937, consisting
of five bands and 14 floats, was regarded
with general suspicion by all those in
authority who would much rather have
the sacred cow of “unimpeded flow of
traffic” than any number of elephants
on floats. However, Lord Mayor Cam
gave his permission on the understanding
that there would be no advertising. To-
day, after 23 years, John Martin’s name
still does not appear.
On the morning of the first pageant
Father Christmas flew in from the North
Pole, having collected various fairytale
characters on the way, and circled the
suburbs broadcasting over Children’s
Hour. The tramways and railways had
been warned, but did not put on any
extra vehicles, and thousands of children
could not get into the city. To make sure
the police would not hurry the procession
along, and also to avoid breakdowns,
Hayward had every float drawn by cart-
horses. Heights of all overhead wires
had been checked, but in the meantime
one stretch of tramwires sagged, and
Hayward, watching Father Christmas
wave to the crowd, suddenly realised
that in a few seconds there would be
nothing left but a few charred whiskers.
The more he shouted the more cheerfully
Father Christmas waved ; then at last
he saw Hayward pointing at the
approaching wires.
Odd incidents still go on ; this year
Hayward, who follows the procession all
through the town, was pushed forward
by the crowd, to be dug in the ribs by
a woman who said: “Here, you, I didn’t
bring me little girl all this way just to
see your backside.”
This year the pageant, held early in
November, went for nearly two miles
through the centre of Adelaide ; it was
2036yds. long, with 15 bands, 36 floats,
1005 people in the procession and 200
assisting. Some of the original characters
such as Nimble, the giant rocking-horse,
are still going strong. Messrs S. Schebella
and John Martin’s staff have long been
associated with the organising of the
pageants.
'T'he whole business of the pageant 1S
symptomatic of Hayward’s attitude
to life that although necessarily r^ 1
and earnest enough, and in some respects
personally tragic, it can nevertheless be,
in a favorite Hayward phrase, “a bi
of fun.”
What is deeply felt can also be i un -
Ursula and Bill Hayward are relative y
rare among art-collectors in that they
genuinely enjoy their treasures ; nothing


j s there for prestige or a cunning invest-
ment. Their collection now includes
works by Rerioir, Degas, Gauguin, Con-
stable, Augustus John, Epstein, Boudin,
Fantin-Latour, Matthew Smith, Stanley
Spencer and others, as well as fine
Dobells and Drysdales. Two years ago
a tragic fire destroyed all their books
and Dobell’s famous portrait of Joshua
Smith, which used to gangle above the
entrance hall; a wonderfully wicked
Goya also went up in flames.
Bill Hayward has never lost touch with
the land. He sold Wairoa in 1942, and
bought Siiverton Park, Delamere, a
property on the hills above Backstairs
Passage looking across to Kangaroo
Island. There the Haywards run the
largest Border Leicester stud in Australia,
and Hereford cattle. Having done well
with these in local shows, the Haywards
this year crossed the border and rocked
the Victorians by winning the Junior
and Grand Champion Hereford Bull at
the Melbourne Show, with “Siiverton
Czar,” son of “Bwlchllyn Murray” (imp.).
One of the original Governors of the
Council of the Adelaide Festival of Arts,
Hayward has long been embroiled in
various schemes for furthering the arts
in S.A. Behind the scenes, with some
other Adelaide businessmen, he has put
op money to enable various people asso-
ciated with the arts to study overseas.
It is thanks to men like Bill Hayward
that Adelaide enjoys its peculiarly, even
astonishingly, happy relations between
business and the arts. A literary quarterly
like “Australian Letters,” lor instance,
could not survive without the help of
Adelaide advertisers. There are, of
course, shrewd pressures brought to bear
everywhere on businessmen to support
the arts ; in some places it is a good
racket. But in Hayward’s case the broad-
ness of interests and the balance of mind
are as genuine as his links with land and
city.
• •
Wan on the
Two Big Hearings
Any coroner can expect a normal run
of hearings on suicides, drownings,
traffic fatalities and suspicious fires ;
these are the mundane cases in the nor-
mal course of his duties. But rarely does
he find himself hearing, simultaneously,
•wo inquiries of nation-wide, if not world-
wide, interest. Sydney’s City Coroner,
Mr C. S. Rodgers, is in that position at
the moment, as he hears evidence in both
the Graeme Thorne and Dr Yeates in-
quiries.
Tall, unassuming and quietly spoken,
Rodgers is 53 years old and a fully
qualified solicitor. Born at Hornsby and
educated at Bathurst High School, he
Joined the Department of Justice, served
h>s term as a deposition clerk and Clerk
°r Petty Sessions and was commissioned
111 1943 as a Stipendiary Magistrate,
which automatically made him a coroner
!°r the State. He became City Coroner
Just a year ago, succeeding Mr J. A. Letts.
He has since hit the headlines twice—
when he warned women that stilt-heels,
“Did you know my husband once coxed the winning eight?”
though fashionable, were highly
dangerous, and when he said that presi-
dents of water-skiing clubs should help
police the laws governing that sport;
both observations being made at the
conclusion of inquests.
Respected by the legal profession, the
police and the press, Mr Rodgers has
also caught the admiration of the public
for the way he has handled both his big
inquiries to date. He is entirely con-
versant wiih the wide powers of a
coroner and does not hesitate to exercise
them.
Inside Runner
/”\ne of the most crucial figures in the
Angus and Robertson battle, Arthur
Newling (“Mick”) Swain, is also the one
who finds the whole affair the most dis-
tasteful.
A Dickertsian figure, with a long grey
head, pale face and thickening build,
he looks more venerable than his years
—s6—would suggest. Until he was flung
into the hurly-burly of the Angus and
Robertson affair, when he became
managing-director after its merger with
Swain’s, he had never before worked in
a public company. Accustomed to work-
ing only with employees—ail of whom
he addresses by their surnames, and for
whose welfare he feels a definite responsi-
bility—he dislikes the idea of outside
directors, and voted against a proposal to
have outside professionals on A. and R.
A man of strong views, he is said to
feel an initial prejudice against anyone
who smokes or drinks —he himself drinks
grapefruit-juice, sometimes topped off, if
the glass is big enough, with milk —and
his personality is felt throughout his
shop. He was, for example, reported
to be very annoyed when one of his
employees ordered a large number of
“They’re a Weird Mob.” He did not
like having such a vulgar book in his
shop, refused to it displayed, and
insisted it be sold more-or-less from
under the counter.
He likes to keep the hours of an
English gentleman and tries at sunrise
and dusk to be in his magnificent Kiliara
garden, where he grows splendid rhodo-
dendrons, roses and hydrangeas; he has
been known to have up to 18 vases of
them on his desk in his large airy office
in the Swain’s building.
He will certainly be glad to get back
to his garden when the Angus and
Robertson affair settles down. Mean-
while he urges all employees to buy their
Christmas - presents from shops in the
A. and R. group.
• ' •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 66, George Aaron Nathan,
honorary organiser of Boys’ Town, 1940-50, for
which he raised thousands of pounds.
In Hobart, at 85, C. B. Davies, consultant-
engineer to many Tasmanian municipalities for
their connection to hydroelectric power, and
Associate Commissioner of the H.E.C. from
1930 to 1941. He was also chairman of
directors of Davies Bros, Ltd., publishers of
the Hobart “Mercury,” from 1926 to 1946.
At Townsville (Q.), at 103, John James Riley,
who was born at Malvern (Vic.), and over 90
years ago started a mounted mail-service
between Forbes and Cowra (N.S.W.), at the
mature age of 11.
In Sydney, at 83, Alexander James Gibson,
one of Australia’s leading consulting-engineers,
a former member of Sydney University Senate
and a War I Digger. Born in England, he
started his career in China, came here in 1901
and was the first Professor of Engineering at
the University of Queensland. For many
years a senior partner in the firm of Julius,
Poole and Gibson, he was a past-president of
the Australian Institute of Engineers (N.S.W.
branch) and won the Peter Nicol Russell medal
for his outstanding engineering achievements.


CHRIS THAS TREE AT
TENNAT CREEK
Something out of the desert,
A mulga, saltbush or thorn
Something to hang our toys on
On this glad Christmas morn.
No Christmas-bush from the east land,
No flaming tree from the west —
Our Christmas-tree is the ghost-gum
By the desert winds caressed.
A mulga bush from the desert,
A mulga, saltbush or thorn
Will hang on its. spikes our presents
On this glad Christmas morn.
The red dust-storms may gather,
The desert sun will burn
And there may be hearts among us
That for southern beaches yearn,
But our tree will be as lovely
To us in our desert place
As those in the southern cities
With their shining lights and their
grace—
Something out of the desert,
No dark-furred Christmas pine,
And a red red stone from The Alice,
And some quartz from the Peko mine.
W.A.
NANCY EATON.


FISH BOMB
Short Story by CLIVE BARRY
Down on the slanting meadows
where the streams fell into deep
pools you got one or two whoppers
for every bomb. But up on the
moorlands in sight of the snowline you
got plenty of tiddlers for every bomb.
This principle was as true at Kosciusko
or Cradle Mountain as it was at Mount
Kenya where I worked.
A misty afternoon found me staggering
down over moorlands to my car with a
rucksack overloaded with tiddlers. At
the bamboo forest on the edge of the
moorlands, the altitude ache went out of
my lungs.
I drove on down the damp clay track.
The mist disintegrated as I arrived back
at my stone house. Dead opposite the
red sun, touching the horizon, a huge
yellow moon came up so that my stone
house was splashed with red sunlight on
one side and with yellow moonlight just
as powerful on the other.
IZangai giggled as I gave her the ruck-
sack of fern-wrapped trout. She
carried them out to the kerosene refri-
gerator in the kitchen. I took my forty-
four revolver from inside my woollen
shirt and stuck it in the drawer at the
side of the loose wooden mantelpiece.
Below that loose mantelpiece a heap of
resinous cedar splittings were burning
like firecrackers.
1 sat cross-legged on the zebraskin
before the spitting fire and pulled off
my mist-damp woollen shirt to let the
fire get at my chilly skin.
“A fine catch of trout,” said Kangai
as she placed four grilled tiddlers on a
china dish on the zebraskin between my
knees.
“Huh,” I grunted, groping around for
the salt.
Kangai kneeled and dusted the four
trout with salt from her hand while I
famed at her solemn face.
“I told you before,” I snapped, “never
to wear bare feet inside the house. You
put marks all over the polished parquet.”
Kangai giggled. Those women were
all the same. While things were running
smoothly they had never an expression
on the face, but as soon as they got
rattled they started to giggle.
“Shut up,” I cried angrily.
Kangai straightened her face into lines
°f sadness but involuntary giggles, devoid
of any mirth, kept breaking through.
“Get out,” I yelped. “Go back to your
own house. And don’t come back until
you can dress in the gown of a servant.”
Kangai released a moronic giggle and
the hem of her gaudy dress she
began polishing at invisible marks on the
Parquet. Bent double, she stumbled
about the parquet and I could see that
ber stumbling kept bringing her in my
direction.
From the cross-legged attitude I got to
my feet like a camel and grabbed Kangai
by the shoulders.
“Out,” I shouted. I pushed her into
the kitchen and then out the back door.
As I pushed, she continued to giggle but
I noticed that a tear or two made
glittering tracks down her warm copper
cheeks.
“Lock the door,” I shouted and waited
until she inserted her key from the out-
side, turned the lock and withdrew.
T went back to the wacm fireplace in
A the living-room and lit the small car-
bide lamp and carried it along the
narrow passage into the tiled bathroom.
Level rays of the full moon hit the tiled
wall so that the bathroom was almost
bright enough for reading a newspaper.
To save carbide, I extinguished the lamp
and set it on the windowsill inside the
bars.
As I turned on the hot water I slipped
off my clothes and told myself that I
should expect more gratitude from a
woman like Kangai. She was an orphan
and therefore no one had insisted that
she be decently circumcised in early ado-
lescence. Being uncircumcised she had
no hope of getting a respectable man to
marry her. It was darn good of me to
have her in my house.
1 turned off the tap and lowered my-
self delicately into the too-hot water. A
good deal of my legs and back had been
slightly singed by sunlight reflections off
the glaciers during the day’s fishing and
the water now bit savagely at the nerve
endings in my skin.
During that delicious agony I thought
I heard Kangai’s voice once or twice in
the distance, and maybe the voices of
several other people. But I was intent
on introspection, gazing somewhat mes-
merised at the small square trapdoor
leading into the ceiling above the bath.
A hot bath was for me peace of mind,
and peace of mind meant sleep. I slept,
all right.
I was awakened by my own heartbeats.
The night was so still and placid that I
could hear the boom of a baboon a
thousand feet up the mountain in the
bamboo forest. The twitters of the bats
above the ceiling came to me with reas-
suring familiarity, but my terror didn’t
diminish.
Then came a sound like the nearly-
inaiidible scrape of a cobra in a basket
but it was made by a bare human foot
on the polished parquet beyond the bath-
room doorway. The foot rested on the
parquet in a patch of moonlight from
the bathroom window while another foot
swept past it and on into solid blackness.
Then the foot detached itself from the
parquet and swept on in pursuit of its
brother.
TPhose two feet did not belong to
-*■ Kangai. Kangai’s foot was a sculp-
tor’s dream of elegant curves. The foot
I had just seen by the rays of the full
moon was an ugly tool designed for
power propulsion and armored with
scaly skin against the giant nettles of the
bamboo forest.
The rays of the full moon had been
broad enough to reveal not only the feet
as they swept by but also the tip of a
dangling panga. A panga was a sword-
like knife, something like a machete,
and sharpened for hours on oilstone. The
tip of that panga had swept across the
rays of the full moon like the flickering
light of a firefly.
My word, I said to myself, this is
murder.
It was more than murder. The man
with the feet was a gangster from the
bamboo forest. The gangster not only
learned the methods of murder but also
was required to swear oaths that when-
ever possible murder would be preceded
by humiliating torment. The first part
of the torment was usually a light panga
blow across the victim’s heels. With
the thick heel tendons severed the victim
was still able to suffer but remarkably
handicapped.
Submerged in a chilled bath and para-
lysed with terror, it was no good telling


myself that I abhorred the wretched
conditions that gave rise to the retalia-
tions of gangsters. The rights and
wrongs of the present uprising were of
no help to my immediate situation. I
clamped my teeth together to prevent
their chattering audibly and eased myself
out of the bath.
The surface of the air cut over my
skin like a frozen blade. A couple of
my stiffened joints cracked. But there
was no gangster response. The roof
timbers made plenty of similar cracks as
they contracted at night.
I took the small carbide lamp off the
windowsill and started with fear as I
noticed a movement in the narrow pas-
sage beyond the bathroom doorway.
Then I realised that the movement be-
longed to the shadow of the carbide lamp
which the rays of the full moon printed
on the floor of the narrow passage.
A thousand feet below my stone house,
on the slanting meadows, a few ele-
phants bellowed. The common sounds
seemed to steady me.
From the shelf under the windowsill
I picked off the empty brandy bottle with
the screw top and the snakebite out-
fit. I held the carbide lamp in my left
hand. I clutched the brandy bottle under
my left armpit. I gripped the snakebite
outfit in my teeth. With my right hand
I unscrewed the top of the brandy bottle,
and put the top back on the shelf. Then
I untwisted the top half of the carbide
lamp and put the top half noiselessly
back on the shelf.
Still holding the small wooden peg
containing the snakebite outfit in my
teeth, I poured the calcium-carbide
powder from the lamp into the empty
brandy bottle. Frightened as I was,
my expertness as a fish blower functioned
as a simple reflex, and the dose of
powder I measured into that brandy-bottle
bomb was just big enough for the size of
fish I was aiming at.
Soon I had the screw top twisted tightly
back onto the brandy-bottle, which now
contained a dose of carbide powder. The
door of my bedroom gave a slight creak
and the brandy bottle slipped from my
fingers. With one of those blind reactions
used by a cricket fielder close-up in
slips, my right hand snapped down and
caught the bottle in the darkness with
certainly no direction from my conscious
mind.
I just held the brandy bottle tightly and
silently a few inches from the tiled floor
while my mouth fell open with horror.
Then the snakebite outfit fell clattering
onto the tiled floor . . .
After that I stopped trying to be
stealthy. I whipped the brandy bottle
back under my armpit and used both
hands and ten fingers to locate the snake-
bite outfit while the scaly scrape of bare
feet could be heard coming from my
bedroom. Madly I groped. When I was
on the point of giving up and pretending
to be dead, my two hands located the
wooden peg simultaneously and flicked
through the convolutions that untwisted
the medically-sharp steel needle for pierc-
ing the fang marks on flesh to release
snake venom.
The useless part of the snakebite outfit
fell from my fingers, but with the steel
needle I made a small hole in the screw
cap of the brandy-bottle. Again, in spite
of my nervousness, my training as an
expert fish blower ensured that the hole
was just small enough for the size of the
fish I wanted.
The moonlit night was so placid that
now, together with the scraping of scaly
feet in my bedroom, I could distinctly
hear the breathing of the gangster. To
me this meant that he was becoming
excited, too. Luckily, he didn’t rush into
the bathroom. Like a well-trained gang-
ster he approached the bathroom pru-
dently.
I stood the loaded brandy bottle sub-
merged on the bottom of the bath.
Bubbles came up from the hole in the
screw top and made a high-pitched gurgl-
ing as they broke surface and disinte-
grated.
If I stayed in the bathroom much longer
I should be gurgling myself.
TVTaked down to the quilt-like wrinkles
.of my shivering skin, I stepped off the
tiled floor of the bathroom on to the
edge of the bath, on to the windowsill,
on to a high shelf whose position I had
planned exactly, and my hands, thrown
upwards and overhead, raised the trap-
door half an inch in the ceiling, and
looped over to clutch the edges of the
loophole.
While the high-pitched gurgling of
bubbles in the bathwater slipped upwards
an octave or two under the pressure
from the brandy bottle I displaced the
trapdoor so that it fell back onto thick
felt hinges and pads and, like a gymnast
on parallel bars, propelled myself easily
into the space above the ceiling and under
the roof. I rested on a sturdy beam
while I dropped the trapdoor silently
back into place.
As it w'as duty - bound to do, that
good soldier of a brandy - bottle stood
to attention on the bottom of the
bath, a plume of bubbles waving
from the regimental cap to attract
any fish that might be swimming
around. As air came out of the brandy
bottle to form the plume of bubbles, so
bathwater went into the brandy bottle
to damp the calcium-carbide powder.
Soon no more air was left in the bottle,
but the bubbles continued to rise, although
now they spurted upwards like bullets ;
they were composed of the gas acetylene.
If you could have struck a match down
there, that plume of bubbles would have
burned underwater.
For blowing fish, the size of the hole
is awfully important. If you make it
too big, the acetylene gas can escape
too easily and sometimes not enough
pressure is built up to cause an explosion.
If you make it too small, not enough
water gets in to help form the acetylene
gas, and here again there is not pressure
built up that will shatter the brandy bottle
and stun every fish within fifty yards. But
if you make the hole just right, the
force of the exploding brandy bottle
pushes at the water with forces that
move like metal rods, all pointing out-
wards.
As I moved from beam to beam in
the solid blackness between the ceiling
and the roof of my stone house I felt
the flurried air from flying bats. I didn't
need the supersonic navigational equip-
ment of the bats to lead me through the
solid blackness to the trapdoor above
the mantelpiece in the living-room. I
moved silently with never a creak from
the timber, but I was coated with bat
droppings by the time I raised the trap-
door and looked down at reflections of
the fire embers in the polished parquet.
I could see no one in the living-room.
The trapdoor fell back silently on to
thick hinges and pads of soft felt. I
sat over the loophole in the ceiling and
lowered my bottom, coated with bat
droppings, down into the living-room.
Like a resting bat I hung upside down
with my knees hooked over the edge
of the loophole in the ceiling, in a
position from where I could look along
the narrow passage past the bathroom
doorway, and from where I could reach
into the drawer beside the loose
mantelpiece.
TV'or was I astonished to find the drawer
standing open and the forty-four
revolver gone. To get into my stone
house at all, that gangster must have had
access to Kangai’s kitchen key, and I
had to admit that I had in fact done very
little to make the woman loyal to me.
The gurgling of the brandy bottle was
fainter, but its pitch had risen urgently
so that now it was an air-raid siren in
a distant city. This high-pitched gurgling
suffocated other sounds, so it was with-
out audible warning that the gangster’s
foot appeared once more in the moonlit
patch by the bathroom doorway. I
stopped the movement of my lungs and
the pulse in my arteries shook my whole
body.
Like a trout inquisitive about the jet
of bubbles the gangster padded softly
into the bathroom. As he entered the
bathroom, the slanting rays of the full
moon slid upwards along his shins, over
the honed-bright blade of the panga and
flared off the tattered ends of a leopard-
skin toga before the gangster disap-
peared into the bathroom altogether.
I put my hands just outside my knees,
gripped the edge of the loophole in the
ceiling, took the full weight of my body
on my hands, tucked my knees into my
upside-down chest and then straighteped
my body and hung by my hands with
my two feet a short drop from the floor.
Because of fear and movement, my cir-
culation had warmed up and I felt
comfortable as I landed lightly on the
thick zebraskin.
On the run, I seized the loose mantel-
piece, lifted it off its supports, turned
it over and laid it on the zebraskin.
pushed one end of the upturned mantel-
piece. With the zebraskin under it W
deaden noise of friction it glided ove
polished parquet and along the narro
passage leading to the bathroom,
stopped pushing when the forward
of the upturned mantelpiece was J us
short of the moonlit patch in front °
the bathroom doorway.


I ran back to the fireplace, put one
foot on an Egyptian pouff, the other on
the mantelpiece support and, using a shelf
for the next foothold, gripped the edges
of the loophole in the ceiling and pulled
myself up into the space between the
ceiling and the roof among the flurried
bats.
For three seconds the gurgle of the
high-pitched bubbles in the bathwater
made no sound; then they continued.
I guessed that the gangster had picked the
bomb out of the bath and put it back
again. There was no reason for him to
suspect that it was not a normal item
of equipment for any normal harebrained
European’s bathroom. When his foot
appeared again in the patch of moonlight
it was as though a flash of lightning had
struck through my consciousness. I was
not frightened.now, but I knew what was
coming.
The foot rested in the moonlit patch
while its brother foot swung out through
the bathroom doorway and along the
passage toward the living-room. To get
to the living-room now the gangster had
to traverse the upturned mantelpiece
which rested on its zebraskin cushion on
the floor of the passage. The upturned
side of that broad mantelpiece was lethal
with six-inch nails whose file-sharpened
points reached skywards like a battalion
of bayonets.
I had been worried about the gangsters’
visit for many months, and I had pre-
pared for it.
Decause of total blackness in the narrow
** passage, I could only infer the
ensuing action from the sounds. First
came the distinct twang of one bayonet
that had barely scraped the bone of a
heel. Then the muttered ejaculation, not
too loud; the clatter as the adhering
mantelpiece was taken a foot into the
air with the gangster’s alarmed leap ; and
then the loud crash as it bounced off the
side of the narrow passage and settled
again on the zebraskin. The gangster
had fallen, and was sticking to the
mantelpiece like a fly on flypaper.
In response to this clatter, the kitchen
door flapped open and three shadowy
forms rushed into the living-room. By
the light of the dying embers in the fire-
place I could see pangas ready in their
hands. Perhaps the flypaper gangster
was already out of control. I didn’t
know. But I did know that at that
instant the brandy bottle in the bath
reached its zenith of pressure and, with
an explosion loud enough to leave a
permanent scar on the placid surface of
the night, it hurled pieces of bathtub clear
through the tiled walls of the bathroom
so that they added to the debris now
encumbering the narrow passage.
In spite of his incredible vicissitudes
the prone gangster in the narrow passage,
Ws network of blood-vessels jagged on
the five-dozen needle-sharp nails, retained
his grip on my forty-four. Bleeding to
heath and maddened by the explosion,
he opened fire upon the three newly-
arrived gangsters as though he had mis-
taken them for me.
One of them became a silent, motion-
less heap on the polished parquet with
a slug-hole through his chest which at
“Suppose We skip the fancy names and just call him Spot!”
one point was three inches wide. Another
crashed about the living-room with the
violent abandon of a beheaded rooster,
spraying blood into the sizzling embers
of the fireplace and jerking with the
enthusiastic but asymmetrical eurythmics
occasioned by pain and broken bones.
After the master-explosion of the
brandy bottle the shots from my forty-
four revolver in the gangster’s hand
didn’t seem too loud. Nevertheless the
third gangster, apparently untouched by
slugs from the gun, catapulted himself
into the wall-size window at one end of
my living-room. Head-first through the
drawn curtains he had no trouble, but
the thick glass louvres, edge-on presented
a hazard far greater than that he sought
to escape, and the firm iron bars outside
that wall-size window stopped his tra-
jectory completely.
Like a blowfly that couldn’t resist the
urge to. reach the clear outside and
perhaps maddened by fear of what was
inside, that third gangster took a second
dive at the louvred window. The damage
he did to my furnishings was slight
compared with the damage he did
himself.
Because I didn’t know who remained
alive and how many slugs remained in
the forty-four, I sat shivering in the
roof, surrounded by flurried bats, until
morning mists rolled up from the slant-
ing meadows.
TN the mottled light of approaching
-*• dawn through my shredded curtains
I gazed down into the living-room.
Dimly I could make out the crucified
gangster who lay nailed to the mantel-
piece. The motionless heap on the
polished parquet hadn’t moved. For a
time I couldn’t see other bodies, but
then I found the next gangster jammed
into the astonishingly narrow crevice
between the heavy sideboard and the
living-room wall. He reminded me of
a seaside crab that had scuttled into a
cranny. The last gangster, I found later,
had blindly scrabbled his way out
through the kitchen and had made seven
miles towards the bamboo forest before
death found time to deal with him h.s
grabbling odyssey described in blood,
Sufficiently reassured of my own
f b y. the scene below me,
I swung down to the parquet floor from
| loophole . the ceili
m ß ade a gown F for myself out of
shredded window-curtains to cover Ihe
bat . d ; on skin .
T , , T , , . a ,
No doubt I was glad enough to be
delivered from the terrors of the night
but something like pity shook me as I
took my forty-four from the blood-
drained J f marauding gangste r.
jj e j SU pp osedj merely a soldier
j n a revolutionary movement. I paused
a rnoment to think back on his courage,
which, although ill-directed, caused him
de f e nd his position even when he was
bleeding to death.
When I took that forty-four outside
and behind the red-flowering corkbark
trees to Kangai’s neat little house, all
admiration for that gangster left me.
j ha(J e ted to arrest K angai for
aiding (he gangsters i nste ad, 1 found
myself weeping over the almost un-
recognisable structure of a once-beautiful
body. The gangsters had taken com-
plicated oaths, they had sworn to
commit humiliating torment before they
murdered,
With Kangai, unequivocal friend of an
ungrateful European, the hideous oaths
had been fulfilled in all their anatomical
incredibilities.


In Search of Bed-bugs
By NANCY KEESING
When I was a student at Sydney
University in fascinated pursuit of
a Diploma of Social Studies the subject
of bed-bugs loomed large in my thoughts.
In such nooks and crannies as were left
vacant in a brain filled with Psychology,
History, Economics, Biology and Nutri-
tion shadowy and sinister little insects
proliferated, but if they remained
shadowy it was because I had never seen
a bug in my life, any more than I had
seen an Id. I was curious about both
and on the whole imagined I might more
easily see the former than the latter.
During our first year’s studies we em-
barked on a placement for “practical
work” within a social welfare agency.
Before being allotted to our agencies our
casework lecturer kindly gave us a few
tips—things like whether dignity should
be aided by the wearing of hats and
stockings, ethics and cross-my-heart-
secrecy, and—bugs. It was best, she said,
if visiting a dirty house never to sit at
all, but if one had to accept a chair
always look for a plain wooden one.
Eschew the stuffed lounge suite. Equally
be careful in houses where the bead
curtains (at that time übiquitous) were
suspect. If one must venture through a
bead curtain whose cleanliness was in
doubt, touch it as little and as gingerly
as possible.
It was wartime. The agency to which
I was sent had much to do with the
dependants of absent service personnel.
I was frequently asked, by my super-
visor, to undertake home visits and many
of the homes I visited were undeniably
filthy. But I never saw a bug. In vain
I sat on greasy cushions, made oppor-
tunities for penetrating behind bead cur-
tains ; three fleas in six weeks was all
I gained of vermin. Fellow students
shuddered gruesomely, recalling the bugs
they had seen, had pulled from their
clothes, had given advice about exter-
minating. I felt most inferior.
In my subsequent sessions of practical
work I had no better luck. Then, when
my course was almost completed, I went
to an agency in another city—a branch
of the public service. The gentleman in
charge had a fund of excellent stones.
One which m&de me green with envy
was of how he became the first public
servant in that area to be granted a
car for official use. In the old days, it
seemed, he had to hire a sulky for his
out-of-town visits. Returning to his office
one day, some ten miles still from his
goal it began to rain unexpectedly. The
driver pulled up the horse, rummaged on
the floor of the sulky and produced some
chaff-bags which he and his passenger
draped across their shoulders. The rain
continued beating down on their
backs, but they were kept moderately
dry and the gentleman in charge was
just congratulating himself on the driver’s
resource when he happened to glance
down towards his vest which, to his
horror, he observed to be crawling with
bugs that had left the wet bags to seek
a drier region. He stopped the sulky,
walked back to his office, flatly refused
ever to hire another vehicle from the
livery stables, and was eventually given
a car. At the end of his story I laughed
dutifully, then boldly confessed my
ignorance of bugs, my desire to see one.
If I had realised my request would lead
to Miss V. I would have remained silent.
TVJ'iss V. was a policewoman. She was,
if you like marble, beautiful. The
coldest, flintiest, most ruthless female who
ever confirmed unfortunate teenagers in
rebellion. I was sent upon a morning
round with Miss V. Miss V. said we
would" waste no time, we would go
directly to the terrace house inhabited
by Mrs X. Mrs X. was supposed to have
cleaned her house ; permission to retain
custody of her children depended upon
her having kept her undertaking to clean
her house, but Miss V. knew Mrs X.
By the time we entered the shabby, peel-
paint door I was, although disappointed
in my quest, relieved to observe that
Mrs X.’s house, although appallingly
shabby, was apparently as clean as a
whistle. She was a rather pathetic,
obviously ill, young woman, and in her
face, as she spoke to Miss V., pride in
her recent efforts fought with fear. No
she said, there were no bugs left. Yes]
she had treated the furniture with the
recommended compound, and as Miss V.
might see for herself the beds now rested
their legs in tins of sump oil. Miss V
said nothing. She looked coldly about
her. She looked speculatively at the
walls. Her eyes rested upon an ancient
spotted picture. She strode across the
room, ripped the picture from the wall,
extracted a pencil from her breast pocket,
a pencil as sharp and pointed as her
own chiselled nose, she jabbed the lead
once, and held the pencil triumphantly
in front of my eyes. A fiat grey object
was impaled there. I was invited to
admire it, to scrutinise it closely. But
really I only felt like joining in with
Mrs X.’s weeping. We both knew that
Miss V. would permit no second chances.
Mrs X. would surely lose her children
and I felt the fault was mine.
Actually the story had a happier end-
ing. The local magistrate had Miss V.’s
measure better than I had supposed. The
first public servant ever to have a car
in that district listened to my version of
the story. Mrs X.’s children were left
in her care. Miss V. shortly afterwards
retired from the Force to marry the local
taxi proprietor, a gentleman whose family
had a long history of transporting the
public, having for three generations
owned the only livery stables in the town.


The WILD CAT
COUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens’
The Federal Government’s plan to
require the life-offices to put at least
30 p.c. of their funds into Government
and semi-Government securities, if
passed by the Parliament next year, will
seriously impair the long-run efforts to
improve the bonus-earning possibilities
of life-offices’ investments.
For several years there has been a
steady trend to co. scrip and debentures,
etc., away from Government and semi-
Government securities, in the life-offices’
portfolios. Last term the proportion of
Government and semi - Government
securities to the M.L.C.’s total assets was
33 p.c. compared with 35.5 p.c. in 1958
and 39.4 p.c. in 1957.
Founded in 1886, The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance Co., Ltd. is the
second-largest life-office in Australia.
Branches operate throughout the Com-
monwealth and New Zealand, and. in
Canada and the U.K. The co. writes
ordinary, industrial and accident policies
and is one of the few life-offices which
have ordinary shareholders. The shares
are not quoted officially but enjoy an
active market in the unlisted section.
The M.L.C. was the first major life-
office to follow the trading-banks into
hire-purchase business, and took up a
44.4 p.c. capital-interest in Alliance
Holdings, Ltd., of Sydney, in June, 1958.
Last term the co. entered the fire and
general insurance fields through the sub-
sidiary M.L.C. Fire and General Insur-
ance Co., Pty.
The co. enjoys an established reputa-
tion for its generous reversionary-bonus
policy. Last year the M.L.C. was again
able to declare bonuses at increased rates
for all participating policies.
“The most striking trend” of the de-
clining proportion of endowment-policies
relative to whole-life and temporary
assurance continued. In 1951 endow-
ment policies represented 81 p.c. of the
new business in the ordinary branch.
Last year this proportion dropped to
69 p.c.
Last term was very successful. The co.
Wrote 68,161 new ordinary life-policies,
assuring £73,601,140 exclusive of
temporary assurances, and 74,425 new
industrial policies, assuring £12,427,314.
The total number of life-policies in force
at December 31, 1959, was 1,676,609,
assuring (with bonuses) £629,093,152:
1958. 1959.
New business* .. .. £78,612,526 £86,028,454
Annual income! . . .. 27,401,255 29,184,220
Business in force , . . . 574,046,211 629,093,152
Total assets 162,575,784 178,862,279
* Ordinary and industrial combined. f Excluding
taxation, but including tax refund.
Total income increased by £2,312,500 to
£23,022,364 in the ordinary department
and by £352,632 to £6,161,856 in the
industrial department. Claims paid-out
to ordinary policyholders rose by
£664,141 to £6,704,142 in the ordinary
branch and by £162,187 to £2,663,867 in
the industrial section:
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dee., Income.! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’ss—
4,168,607 2,002,903 21,303 1 0 , 0 ,
To staff fund, £70,387 .. ..} 8.864,427
’s6 1
From tax refund, £6135 .. .. |
16,875,793 4,519,681 2,160,068 48,091 f A6,u'6,u03
To staff fund, £78,035 .. ..
’s7 1
18,771,662 5,390,067 2,390,827 89,250 1-10,815,349
To staff fund, £86,169 .. .. j
’sB ]
20,709,864 6,040,001 2,603,097 74,150 1 11,898,717
To staff fund, £93,869 .. ..J
’s9 j
23,022,364 6,704,142 2,779,876 81,456 J-13,354,811
To staff fund, £102,079 .. ..J
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’ss—
1,793,942 1,149,374 10,265 1 1,998,114
To staff fund, £23,805
To general branch, £50,000
From tax refund, £1256 .. ..'
’s6
5,390,646 2,138,605 1,204,373 28,579 1,959,822
To staff fund, £25,523
To general branch, £35,000.. ..
’57 —
5,518,316 2,319,794 1,244,196 29,956 [, RrR
To staff fund, £25,963 .. ..
To general branch, £40,000
’58 —-
\ 5,809,224 2,501,680 1,354,494 135,557 ,
To staff fund, £26,783 .. . . ‘
To general branch, £ 25,000
’s9—-
6,161,856 2,663,867 1,366,567 114,940 1,964,023
To staff fund, £27,459 . . . . [
To general branch, £25,000 ...
t After deducting taxes. * Including shareholders’
proportion of profits.
The O.D. expense-rate was further
reduced from 16.21 p.c. to 15.44 p.c. of
premium income. Calculated on total
income, the rate was 11.25 p.c. (12.08
p.c. in 1958). The I.D. expense-rate was
equal to 29.16 p.c. of premium income
and 21.43 p.c. of total income (28.92 p.c.
and 22.02 p.c. in 1958).
Funds and reserves increased by
£15,412,356 to £170,579,639. Total net
surplus for 1959 was £926,927 higher at
£6,399,532:
Surplus.
1956. 1957. 1958. 1959.
Ordinary .. 3,575,428 4,077,220 4,669,671 5,525,760
Industrial . . 605,800 674,703 802,934 873,772
Total .. 4,181,228 4,751,923 5,472,605 6,399,532
Bonuses allotted to policyholders come
from favorable mortality-rates, low
operating expenses and investment
profits. All these build-up the excess of
assurance funds over actuarial liabilities
and make increases in bonus-rates pos-
sible. Last term actuarial liabilities were
calculated on a stringent 24 p.c. basis for
ordinary policies and 2 p.c. for industrial
policies.
The surplus in the general branch,
which works for the shareholders, was
£38,758 higher at £177,838, equal to
almost 17.8 p.c. on the £1,000,000 share-
capital (up 3.9 p.c.). Shareholders
guarantee to conduct the ordinary depart-
ment at an expense-rate no greater than
15 p.c. of its total income, and may
participate in up to 15 p.c. of the divisible
earnings of the life departments. Similar
provisions apply to the industrial branch.
The div.-rate was raised from 28.33 p.c.
to 29.17 p.c.
The shares looked a good buy at the
buyers’ quotes of £7 ss. for each 20s.
(unlisted) ord. unit. The immediate yield
is 4 p.c. Net tangible asset-backing
works-out at 50s. for each 20s. ord. unit.
Shares, notes and debentures in public
cos. represented 19.3 p.c. of the
M.L.C.’s assets at December 31, 1959.
This compares with 16.6 p.c. in the previ-
ous year and only 6.3 p.c. in 1949.
This type of investment offers a higher
return than bonds and housing-loans,
allowing for steady increases in rever-
sionary bonuses. Holdings of Govern-
ment securities amounted to 33 p.c., still
well above the proposed compulsory
minimum of 30 p.c. However, the Gov-
ernment’s plan poses a major problem in
the long run. Loans on mortgages at
£55,056,752 represented 30.8 p.c. of total
assets (down 0.5 p.c.):
1958. p.c. 1959. p.c.
Government
securities, etc.* £57,624,109 35.5 £59,068,496 33.0
Mortgages .. 50,912,597 31.3 55,056,752 30.8
Loans, building
societies . . 6,073,366 3.7 6,195,894 3.5
Loans on policies 5,438,654 3.3 6,310,935 3.5
Shares other cos. 11,261,950 6.9 13,682,416 7.7
Debentures and
notes .. 15,764,096 9.7 20,722,797 11.6
Freeholds, etc. 12,640,026 7.8 14,377,028 8.0
Book-debts, etc. 2,860,986 1.8 3,447,961 1.9
£162,575,784 £178,862,279
Liabilities! .. 7,408,501 8,282,640
Net assets ..£155,167,283 £170,579,639
*lncludes municipal and public bodies, t Other
than under policies,
In the O.D. the net interest yield was a
satisfactory £5 p.c.; in the I.D.
£4 18s. 9d. p.c.
Last April the board’s proposal to
raise nominal capital by four-million to
five-million and to acquire the right to
issue scrip to non-shareholders without
seeking the existing shareholders’ specific
consent was narrowly defeated, falling
4.3 p.c. short of the required 75 p.c.
majority.
Strong financial structure, widespread
investments and sound management
augur well for the future. The M.L.C.
is going from strength to strength.
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
Competitive jostling in the motor-tyre
industry grows more marked as the
newly established B. F. Goodrich Aus-
tralia Pty. (formed by the International
B. F. Goodrich Co. of U.S.A. and Ampol
Petroleum, of Australia) gets under way,
and as Hardie Rubber Co., Ltd., assert-
ing new-found strength (Hardie Rubber
was taken-over by H. C. Sleigh, Ltd., in
December, 1959), bids for a bigger slice
of the market.
Tyre sales in Australia have increased
steadily in recent years, but, even before
Goodrich’s arrival, the Australian motor-
tyre industry operated at less than 90
p.c. maximum capacity.
The situation is now aggravated by
cessation of import-controls (last Febru-
ary). “Any further increases in the Aus-
tralian cost-structure will make....im-
ports more attractive and could seriously
affect the Australian rubber industry.”
Japanese rivalry has already undercut the
local product on Asian and African
markets and “Australian production of
tyre-cord fabric has already been severely
affected by the lifting of import restric-
tions.” The matter, generally, has been


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALIEN, M. R>. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A, P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building-, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong-
referred to the Tariff Board and is pend-
ing inquiry.
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd., as one
of the live major tyre-manufacturers in
Australia and as the largest manufacturer
of rubber products, has found diversifica-
tion a stabilising factor in present cir-
cumstances. Activities were extended
last term to include acquisition of a
75 p.c. interest in Trilby Footwear Pty.,
ladies’ footwear manufacturer, for 95,600
20s. ords.; acquisition of Sleepmakers
Pty., manufacturers in Sydney and Bris-
bane of innerspring mattresses ; forma-
tion of Dunlop Oldhams Pty. to manu-
facture and sell in Australia the PG
traction battery; and agreement with
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Pty. and
Ralph McKay, Ltd., to manufacture
truck-type wheels (under the auspices of
Wheel and Rims Australia Pty., yet to
be formed, the three contributing cos.
to each hold a one-third share-interest).
Production will commence early in 1961.
The Oldham venture links Dunlop,
already the largest manufacturer of
automotive batteries in Australia, with
one of the oldest and most experienced
traction- and industrial-battery producers
in the w'orld, Oldham and Son, Ltd., of
Manchester. Since June 30, Dunlop has
acquired Buesst and Bills Bros. Pty.,
bedding - manufacturers, issuing 375,000
20s. ords. in satisfaction.
The manufacture of all types of motor-
tyres provides Dunlop with over two-
thirds of its total income, and the group
turns-out, in addition to automotive
batteries, wheel-brakes, footwear,
clothing, waterproof garments, sporting-
equipment and industrial plastics, as well
as an extensive range of rubber and
synthetic-rubber products.
Capital-growth has been substantial,
especially in the last decade, a one-for-
four issue at a premium of 10s. in 1950,
a one-for-four issue at a premium of
7s. 6d. in 1952, several takeovers involv-
ing share-issues, and a one-for-six bonus-
issue last term, doubling equity in the
ten yeais. The gift hand-out followed
on capitalisation of the share-premium
reserve, £1,154,314, and the asset-
revaluation reserve, £34,683. Paid capital,
at close of the accounts, aggregated
£9,348,577, £8,418,577 in 20s. ords. and
£930,000 in 20s. 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
Latest results tend to reflect the adverse
conditions prevailing throughout most of
last term the higher cost of raw
materials (the price of raw rubber in-
creased upwards of 24 p.c.), the build-up
in labor costs, and the intense degree of
competition (both at wholesale and retail
levels) encountered. Decreased profit-
margins were offset, to a large extent,
by turnover which, breaking all previous
records, jumped 13 p.c. to £63,735,623.
Group net profit, as disclosed,
£1,662,912 (down £122,757 or 6.9 p.c.),
though somewhat lower, was still credit-
able. It was ascertained, however,
after tax, £1,179,899, and depreciation,
£1,101,840, the one down £53,456 but
applicable to a profit approximating
£1,770,000, the other down £133,131, with
fixed-asset investment greatly in-
creased :
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Net t — I—Dividend 1 —Dividends —• To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. Total. serves. served.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1956 1,300,225 10 9 711,208 589,017 5,009,995
To provision long-service leave, ’
£249,300 4,760,695
Intangibles written-off, £42,180 .. 4,718,515
Profit sale assets, £116,469 . . 4,834,984
1957 1,279,885 10 93 745,553 534,332 5,369,316
Reduction intangibles, £lOO,OOO .. 5,469,316
Tax overprovided, £48,269 .. .. 5,517,585
Intangibles written-off, £109,044 .. 5,408,541
Profit sale assets, £81,401 .. .. 5,489,942
1958 1,539,284 10 10 779,898 759,386 6,249,328
Reduction intangibles, £431,543 . . 6,680,871
Tax overprovided, £8267 .. .. 6,689,138
Intangibles written-off, £154,377 .. 6,534,761
Revaluation assets, £122,409 .. 6,657,170
Profit sale assets, £95,302 . . . . 6,752,472
1959 1,785,669 10 10 859,868 925,801 7,678,273
Reduction intangibles, £200,000 .. 7,878.273
Tax overprovided, £8687 .. .. 7,886,960
Intangibles written-off, £240,287 . . 7,646,673
Surplus acquisition of shares in sub-
. sidiary, £55,726 7,702,399
Reserves capitalised, £1,188,997 .. 6,513,402
Profit sale assets, £47,359 .. .. 6,560,761
1960 1,662,912 10 10 934,858 728,054 7,288,815
* After deducting outside interests.
Earnings, after pref. handouts, repre-
sented 18.6 p.c. on ord. capital (bonus-
enlarged), compared with 22.1 p.c., 21.1
p.c., 17.2 p.c. and 17.5 p.c. back to 1956.
The ord. div. (lifted to 10 p.c., the current
rate, in 1958) took £841,858. Reserves,
benefiting undistributed profits, £728,054
(43.7 p.c. of total profits), surpluses, etc.
(see profit table), but reduced by
capitalisation (the bonus-issue), dropped
£589,458 to a still massive £7,288,815.
Balance-sheet figures are powerful
representation of Dunlop’s impressive
strengths. Movements in fixed assets
reflect the considerable expenditure
undertaken by the group in the imple-
mentation of its modernisation and ex-
pansion programme:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £7,798,980 £8,063,980 £9,348,577
Reserves . . 6,880,871 7,878,273 7,288,815
Outside interests 58,038 253,538 98,280
Debentures, etc. 1,237,500 1,137,500 1,056,000
Deposits .. 154,500 1,616,500
Overdraft . . 567,815 629,679 1,405,280
Sundry-creditors 2,732,725 3,312,916 4,615,421
Staff fund . . 345,986 391,267 420,280
Tax reserve .. 1,106,320 1,369,085 1,290,210
Final div. .. 445,803 526,314 537,726
£21,328,538 £23,562,552 £27,677,089
Freeholds, etc. 5,181,971 5,771,594 6,637,573
Plant, etc. . . 3,953,619 4,166,968 4,945,407
Stocks* .. 6,150,766 7,109,326 8,929,421
Debtors . . 5,353,073 6,259,593 7,141,160
Investments .. 49,419 44,419 12,907
Cash, etc. .. 8,147 10,652 10,621
Intangibles .. 631,543 200,000
£21,328,538 £23,562,552 £27,677,089
* After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
Manufacturing capacity, warehousing
and marketing facilities were all increased
during the year. Finances remained com-
fortable although theoretical working
capital fell somewhat (down £954,525 at
£6,195,785). Dunlop raised £1,616,500 in
deposits-at-call.
Directors have expressed confidence
“that the present year will bring satis-
factory results” and, indeed, trading has
been satisfactory so far. The co. is
energetically seeking further diversifica-
tion, plus greater efficiency. The group
is engaged in preparation of new selling
and distribution plans and new products
are an everyday occurrence. But the
recently increased sales-tax levy on
motor-vehicles, scarcely envisaged by
directors, is bound to dampen activity
demand for tyres will fall if demand for
motor-vehicles declines.
The group’s leading position in its field,
however, its ability to weather difficult
trading periods, an adequate div.-cover,
expansion prospects, and a conservative
assets-backing in excess of current
market-value, engender confidence in the
stock for investment. Net tangible cover
for the 20s. ords. was 375. 4d. at balance-
date.
At 355. the ords. look a worth - while
investment. Yield is currently 5.7 p.c.
The prefs., supported by net tangibles
to the extent of £l7 17s. 9d., last sold at
295. to return 6,9 p.c.
Engineering Supply Co. of Australia,
Ltd.
Popularly known as Esca, the Queens-
•*- land-registered Engineering Supply
Co. of Australia, Ltd., is a well-known
machinery and engineering-supply mer-
chant. From its headquarters in Brisbane,
Esca deals in tractors, agricultural
machinery, engineering and automotive
supplies and spare-parts throughout the
Sunshine State.
Trading mainly in country areas, the
co. is subject to the influence of fluctua-
tions in rural incomes caused by seasonal
conditions, etc. This helps to explain
the fairly frequent variations in earnings.
Improved seasonal conditions resulted
in “a very satisfactory increase” in sales.
Expenses continued to rise, but the sub-
stantial improvement in turnover more
than compensated for the higher costs of
operations.
Net profit for the year ended June 30,
1960, was £16,102 higher at £89,516,
after providing £12,184 for depreciation
(up £531) and setting-aside £60,000 for
taxation (up £17,500):
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends •, serves. serves.
1955. .109,298 173 p.c. = 48,125 61,173 441,888
Unexplained reduction, £363 .. .. 441,525
Asset revaluation, £2 00,000 .. .. 641,525
Reserves capitalised, £137,500 .. 504,025
1956. .101,379 173 p.c. = 51,562 49,817 553,842
1957.. 98,761 15 „ „ 61,875 36,886 590,728
Staff funds transferred to general re-
serves, £25,000 .. .. .. 615,728
1958.. 91,571 15 p.c. = 61,875 29,696 645,424
Tax prov. transferred to reserves, £5331 650,75 a
Less reduction contingency res., £6135 644,620
1959.. 73,414 15 p.c. = 61,875 11,539 656,159
Tax provision transferred to reserves,
£3732 659,891
1960.. 89,516 15 p.c. = 61,875 27,641 687,532
The tax-provision looks high on the
profits revealed. The increase in tax is
disproportionately large in relation to the
rjse in disclosed earnings, taking into


consideration the recent increase in
co.-tax rates.
Net profit disclosed represented an
earning-rate of 21.7 p.c. on the average
paid capital, compared with 17.8 p.c. in
the preceding term, and 22.2 p.c., 23.9
p.c., 24.6 p.c., 26.5 p.c. and 24.4 p.c.
looking back over five years to 1954—•
the last three years on a lower paid
capital.
Disclosed earning-rates over the past
seven years appear satisfactory, despite
some fluctuations.
The steady 15 p.c. div.-cheque absorbed
£61,875, leaving £27,641 to reserves,
which had also benefited by £3732 trans-
fer from accumulated tax-provision.
Paid capital remained unchanged at
£412,500 in 1,650,000 ss. ords. Bank
overdraft reappeared at £70,107, but
otherwise Esca seems to rely on internal
finance. Creditors were lower:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £412,500 £412,500 £412,500
Reserves . , 645,424 656,159 687,532
Overdraft .. 55,369 70,107
Creditors .. 110,830 153,354 145,372
Tax provision .. 58,160 42,500 60,000
Staff funds .. 18,253 16,753 16,763
Final divs. . . 41,250 41,250 41,250
£1,341,786 £1,322,516 £1,433,514
Freeholds .. 312,691 318,954 333,353
Furniture and
vehicles, etc... 47,762 44,212 52,410
Shares . . . . 3,470 3,470 5,905
Stocks .. . . 586,895 601,407 667,818
Debtors . . . . 329,544 334,791 373,097
Cash, bonds, etc. 61,424 19,682 931
£1,341,786 £1,322,516 £1,433,514
Current stocks (valued at landed-cost,
replacement-cost, market-value or “less
where thought necessary”) were £66,411
higher at £667,818. Book-debts increased,
but cash, bonds, etc., were much lower.
in order to relieve pressure on space,
the co. made some extensions to the
yard area of its property in Edward
Street, Brisbane.
Current outlook seems fair. The co.
has a creditable div.-record. At the last
sale in Brisbane the ss. ords. changed
hands at 13s. 6d. for an immediate return
of 5.5 p.c. on the basis of the steady
15 p.c. dividend distribution.
Net tangible asset-backing is a solid
13s. 4d. for each ss. ord. unit.
East African Coffee Plantations, Ltd.
poRMED in Melbourne in 1928, East
A African Coffee Plantations, Ltd.,
operates coffee- and tea-plantations in
Kenya. The co. owns and teases exten-
sive holdings in the Kiambu and Nandi
uplands.
The high-grade, Arabica-flavor type of
coffee grown in Kenya enjoys a steadier
market than the Santos and Java. Kenya
coffee is especially popular in W. Europe.
Total coffee-crop in the 1959 -60
season was 23,394 tons (up 567 tons).
The co.’s two coffee-estates produced 509
tons (up 204 tons) or 2.2 p.c. of the total
output, compared with 1.3 p.c. in the
Previous year.
The average payout to producers by
the Kenya Coffee Marketing Board was
£4 lower at £389 a ton. Substantial
Premiums were enjoyed on the German
market for the top grades. The peak
Price reached £628 a ton at Nairobi
coffee-auctions.
“Still following that ‘ There's always tomorrow ’ philosophy, Jackson ?”
Tea production was favored by excel-
lent growth-conditions in the Nandi
district, following good rainfalls. Total
tea production from the co.’s tea-factory
was 144,1071 b. higher at 400,1201 b. This
was 60,1201 b. over the estimate given a
year ago.
The Nairobi tea - market remained
reasonably steady, and, although the peak
prices were lower, the overall average
price for all grades was 2yd. higher
at 4s. Iyd.
Higher output of coffee and tea, and
reasonably steady average prices, resulted
in the net profit rising by £83,778 (more
than two times) to £154,886:
To Re- Re-
May Profit. , Dividends—serves. serves.
31, £ £ £ £
1955. .121,254 16 \ p.c, = 87,750 33,504 234,408
I.oss sale investments, £3179 .. 231,229
1956.. 93,690 16£ p.c. = 87,750 5,940 237,169
Assets revalued, £270,000 .. .. 507,169
Revaluation res. capitalised, £270,000 237,169
Written-off investments, £124 7. 237,045
1957. .102,913 10 4/sp.c.= 87,750 15,163 252,208
1958. .137,085 10 4/5 ~„ 87,750 49,335 301,543
1959.. 71,108 10 4/5 ~ „ 87,750 284,901
Development expenses w/off, £18,750 266,151
1960. .154,886 13 J p.c.r=loB,ooo 46,886 313,037
All amounts shown are converted to Australian
currency at prevailing exchange-rate.
This was after providing £9863 for
depreciation (up £932) and paying
£35,601 Kenya income-tax (up £23,807).
The earning-rate on the average ord.
capital was 19.1 p.c., compared with
8.8 p.c. in 1959 and 16.9 p.c. in 1958.
The well-covered div.-cheque was
raised from 10 p.c. to 13| p.c., absorbing
£lOB,OOO. Reserves benefited by £46,886
but were reduced by £18,750 develop-
ment expenses written-off. Paid capital
remained unchanged at £BlO,OOO in 10s.
ords., supported by £313,037 reserves and
undistributed profits.
Formal liquidity looked tightish. Book-
values of freeholds, leaseholds, buildings,
plant and livestock, etc., were higher.
Creditors, debtors and cash increased:
Converted to Australian Currency.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £BlO,OOO £BlO,OOO £BlO,OOO
Reserves .. .. 301,543 284,901 313,037
Staff fund .. 5,363 7,998 11,153
Bank overdraft .. 7,412 24,791
Creditors . . .. 26,257 13,108 22,387
Tax provision .. 63,786 47,869 45,402
Dividends ’ .. 87,750' 87,750 108,000
£1,294,699 £1,259,038 £1,334,770
Freeholds, leaseholds,
buildings . . 833,575 840,632 853,749
'Plant, livestock, etc. 78,609 80,483 89,087
Plantation develop-
ment . . . . 229,569 267,980 308,320
Stock .. .. 16,890 21,937 19,453
Debtors . . .. 24,458 36,001 47,964
Shares .. .. 3,117 3,117 3,117
Cash, bonds, etc.. . 108,481 8,888 13,080
£1,294,699 £1,259,038 £1,334,770
Current stocks were slightly lower. Net
tangible asset - backing works - out at
13s. lOd. for each 10s. ord. unit.
During last term 250 acres of poor-
yielding coffee were uprooted, and,
together with surrounding areas, re-
planted with 350 acres of tea. Another
500 acres of forest adjoining the planta-
tion and suitable for tea-growing were
acquired by the co.
Difficult seasonal conditions were ex-
perienced early in the current term. Total
coffee-crop for 1960-61 is estimated at
350-370 tons and of black tea at 500,000
tons. There is an unusually large early
coffee-crop, which is normally of a lower
quality.
The financial outlook appears fair,
except for the steady growth of labor-
costs. However, political conditions con-
tinue to be uncertain and this gives much
food for thought to a prospective
investor.
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s.
ords. could be bought below par at 9s. Bd.,
making the immediate return 13.7 p.c. on
the basis of the 13y p.c. div.-rate.


Shows
BUSTER MORE THAN HALF A MO
The Bobby Limb show continues to
hold its own, not only against the
Graham Kennedy show, but against the
TV
overseas Spectaculars, as they
are so ineptly called. The
Limb show has had a good
long testing and it stands
clearly out from the pack as the major
achievement in popular TV in Australia.
The show has over-all strength. Bobby
Limb gets by on his general brio rather
than his comic talent. The weight falls
on Buster Fiddes, who has developed
from the custard-pie comic to one of the
finest of technicians, his timing fast
approaching Roy Rene’s. And he never
overplays his hand.
But the show has also gained from the
maturing TV-technique of Tiki Taylor
and Johnny O’Connor. Both these
players have an infectious zest. The
personable cast only require higher-
standard, better sketch-writing to be in
international TV class. The mimed
burlesque of Italian opera a couple of
weeks back was the best-drilled and most
intelligent exercise in that worn brand
of comedy we have ever seen in Aus-
tralia . . . but too often the show resorts
to Mack Sennett devices which assume
a TV audience of mongoloids.
The greatest irritant in Limb’s show
is the commercials; there is a point
beyond which the repetition of a plug
builds up psychological hardening in the
viewer. Of this fact Australian agencies
seem unaware.
One of the most confirmed and grow-
ing canards among those who evolve
TV copy is that a real live American
with a real live vulgar American voice
has a profound effect on public buying.
Limb will be exceedingly foolish if he
sells his indigenous show down the river
for a mess of American vowels.
Max Harris
THEATRE
“The Music Man”
Ingenuity is the sauce of art, but never
the main dish ; nothing succeeds long
which is not simple and solid at heart.
The main dish in the new Carroll im-
portation at Sydney Tivoli is a nostalgic
feeling for the security and innocence
of a little American township in 1912.
The town librarian and music-teacher,
Laurie Franks, is a nice dish, too ; and
we accept Ted Scott, as the confidence-
man, because she has confidence in him.
But the show's ingenuities are a good
part of its appeal: the opening poem
which a set of travelling salesmen in a
railway carriage recite to the rhythm of
the wheels; the “Pickalittle” chorus in
which a quintet of women gossip like
fowls as a background to action and
further singing ; and a musicomedy aria
developed from a child’s piano-practice.
The confidence-man’s speciality is form-
ing a town band of children and running
off with money he collects for their
uniforms ; he is foiled for ever by the
great love he develops for the librarian
and the dismay of her little brother.
Ted Scott’s fine stage-finish, at its best
in the song-and-dance, “Marian the
Librarian” (which like many of the other
lyrics might have seemed more wicked
and witty if one could have heard it
clearer), still left the provision of warmth
and feeling to Miss Franks ; her picture
of innocence accepting with its eyes open
all the faults of the deceiver pleased the
women in the audience, who no doubt
knew of similar cases.
The New Four Quartet of town
worthies who could always be put off
inquiries into the confidence - man’s
credentials by being launched into a
barbershop refrain (in very dark har-
monising), Al Mack as the suspicious
mayor and father of marriageable
daughters, a long list of local identities,
and a real horse drawing a Wells Fargo
wagon, moved well through the 16
scenes ; and young Ross Coleman, as the
little boy who was shy because he lisped,
brought down the house singing “Gary,
Indiana.” Playing on the audience’s
feeling with the woes of little boys might
be regarded as the biggest confidence-
trick in the show, if all theatre were not
a confidence-trick.
Ronald McCuaig
Borovansky Ballet
One of the severest tests in ballet is
“Giselle”. The Borovansky Company
came out of its tussle with this great
classical work at Melbourne’s Her
Majesty’s Theatre with distinction.
On ballerina and company this ballet
imposes difficulties of unparalleled com-
plexity and range. In this production,
under the direction of Peggy van Praagh,
Kathleen Gorham set the pattern ; there
was terror in her performance, in the
aftermath of the intoxicating gaiety of
the early scenes, and she met all the
exhaustive technical demands of the
second act. She has probably never
danced here before with such a sense of
mood and seemingly effortless control;
it was a triumph of technique subordi-
nated to the developing feeling of the
ballet.
Miss Gorham’s dancing was again the
highlight of the fourth production of
the Melbourne season, “The Sleeping
Princess”, whose unfailing romanticism
and lavishness afford all connected with
it opportunities for showing off their
qualities Under Miss Praagh’s guidance
the company’s ensemble dancing has im-
proved out of all sight; a convincing
impression of harmony has been estab-
lished.
A. S. Jorgensen
Ballet Australia
This new group produced four ballets
by Australian choreographers at Sydney
Conservatorium. “Overture for Dancers”
by Valrene Tweedie to music by
Stravinsky showed the company limber-
ing up, in awkward offstage poses beloved
of Degas, exercises, and parts of acts, for
the remaining ballets. “Cantilena” by
Ruth Galene to music by Villa-Lobos
was an expressionist celebration of night
and creation with an acrobatic “Love
Song” for Elizabeth Kennedy and Colin
Peasley. In the “second movement” of
the abstract “Bartok Sonata” by Judith
Burgess four of the taller girls showed
the most graceful and stately points-
dancing of the evening. In “Sea Inter-
ludes” by Joan Halliday to Benjamin
Britten’s music Patricia Moore fell in
love, was married and mourned the loss
of her man at sea, and there was a well-
danced fight between two of the young
fishermen. The thought put into the
creation of these ballets and the devotion
that procured so efficient a performance
promises well for the future of this new
society.
R.McC.
“See How They Run”
Has a piece like “See How They Run”
(Melbourne Union Theatre) a legitimate
place in the repertoire of a company with
the pretensions and potentialities of the
M.U.T.R.C.? If this is the best Mel-
bourne’s only professional permanent
theatre can offer, the reviewer would per-
fer the adventurous amateur or the
unashamed commercialism of Spring and
Exhibition Streets.
The Union Theatre’s policy over the
past two seasons of winning customers
at any cost can no doubt be justified by
financial necessity. And it isn’t true, as
many would have it, that this “give ’em
what they want” policy is not going down
well with the patrons. At the opening
night of this idiotic, though admittedly
funny Philip King farce there was noth-
ing more obvious (save some of the
jokes) than the audience’s whole-hearted
and unqualified approval of the play-
The best of Shaw, Miller, Brecht, Camus,
Satre, loneso, Beckett could never hope


to win such rapt attention, such sus-
tained applause at every curtain.
The kind of idealism which inspires
the production of plays like this is neatly
implied in the programme note: —
Remember that it is considered by
many that there is more technical ability
and more keen concentration required
from the actor for the performing of this
type of play than the greatest of tragedies.
From this point of view, and for-
getting those values which differentiate
a work of art from a cheapjack comic
strip, Malcolm Phillips’s production and
his playing of the Rev. Lionel Toop were
by no means unimpressive. Phillips has
a sense of style, and he has won from
his supporting players, particularly
Frederick Parslow, Charles Haggith and
Mary Hardy, performances which make
the most of every moment in the play.
A.SJ.
MUSIC
Musica Viva’s Early Italians
Like a Provencal poet finding his way
into a green garden one strayed into
Musica Viva’s “Alessandro Scarlatti”
concert at Sydney Cell Block theatre,
where beautiful and accomplished young
ladies recalled flowers and nightingales.
Granting the fine acoustics of the
rounded stone walls, Elaine Blight sang
Caccini's “Amaryllis” and some of old
Alessandro’s songs with wonderful purity
and soft fullness, while Beryl Porter ran
through five of Alessandro’s son
Domenico’s sonatas on the piano with
steel fingers and a most satisfying pre-
cision of shakes and trills, and the
Cremorne Girls’ High Sichool madrigal
singers under Maude Berriman showed
that boys had no monopoly in the angelic
piping of Orlando di Lasso and Pales-
trina —the school break-up setting of
words to a jig of Corelli’s was the one
false note.
Eva Kelly and Dene Barnett, after a
rather dry violin and harpsichord sonata
by Marini, were joined by Barbara
Woolley, a completely Botticellian ’cellist,
in a trio of Stradella’s, and then with
Janet Harvey (2nd violin) and Joyce Hor-
wood (viola) they made the orchestra for
Alessandro’s small pastoral cantata for
the Birth of Christ whose pastoral jig
was so unmistakably the forerunner of
Handel’s “Messiah” pastoral; and here,
with Miss Blight singing surrounded by
the musicians and their timeless instru-
ments, the grace of Botticelli foresaw
Scarlatti by two centuries in the renas-
cent youth of our own times.
R.McC.
Tagliavini and Tassinari
The famous Ferruccio Tagliavini and
his wife, Pia Tassinari, came and went
during their first Sydney Town Hall
concert like the weather couple ; when
he went in, she came out. They appeared
together only once, in a duet from Boito’s
“Mefistofele,” with great credit to them-
selves and to Boito.
Tagliavini has a wonderful control of
the mechanics of his art, if not now quite
the morning-fresh liquidity that makes
young singers of “Una Furtiva Lagrima”
so appealing to middle-aged ladies with
diamonds and time on their hands. In
the “Willow Song” from “Otello” Pia
Tassinari produced some of those low
notes that in old records of great mezzos
seem to spring out and chew you up.
R.McC.
ART
Cotton in Place of Canvas
To improve the form and color of
a given cotton dress by superimposing
on it a design or pattern—lB Australian
artists responded to this unusual chal-
lenge ; the results, arranged by the
Museum of Modern Art, may be seen
at Hicks Gallery, Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne.
The most successful scorned the
abstract pattern-making common to
dress design and produced colors and
shapes with a figurative basis. John
Perceval, in whimsical mood, sent some
deftly drawn mice scurrying provoca-
tively over his dress; Charles Bush
lucidly and delicately outlined city
scenes ; Mirka Mora contrasted winged
angels with not-so-angelic street kids.
Of the abstract work George Johnson
and Don Laycock, with a simple, direct
strength of forms and colors, were the
leaders. Peter Burns goes a bit further,
perhaps too far, for. his design seems
to be locked in uneasy combat with the
dress itself.
A rather sad, but none the less impres-
sive, note is struck at the Richman Art
Galleries with the exhibition of Nicholas
Heiderich. This will be the enterprising
little gallery’s last show —it will not re-
open in the new year—and it is impres-
sive because Heiderich has a rare feeling
for landscape. He is neither subjective
to the extent that the qualities inherent
in his subject are distorted and
obliterated, nor objective to the point
of photographic realism. “Kangaroo
Ground No. I”, with its breadth of
handling and feeling for color and sub-
ject, is as good as anything of its kind
being done in Melbourne at present.
At the National Gallery, the curator
of prints and drawings Dr Ursula Hoff
has arranged an exhibition of paintings,
reliefs, sculptures, engravings and draw-
ings around the theme of Christmas.
There is a set of 23 etchings on the
Flight to Egypt by Domenico Tiepolo
which has never been shown before, and
among the sculpture are three examples
by John Perceval of the delightful studies
of unangelic angels which he first
exhibited two years ago.
A.SJ.
Paintings and Pots
The Sydney galleries obviously have
one eye on art and one on Christmas
trade at the moment. Two of them, David
Jones’ and the Macquarie, are each run-
ning a double bill.
But if Peter Rushforth’s pottery at
Jones’ has been nicely timed for trade
—and has, in consequence, sold like
hot cakes, or hot pots—it is nevertheless
a very fine exhibition. Rushforth’s vir-
tues are of harmony, simplicity, quietness,
respect for his materials. He has neither
the crudity of most studio-potters nor the
flamboyance of the Boyd-Perceval
school; yet his jugs, jars, vases and
casseroles retain the pleasant earthiness
of the home-made product, arid his quiet
colors and simplicity of line are certainly
not to be valued less than the grotesque.
The other exhibition at this address is
of drawings by Francis Lymburner—
backstage, street musicians, people in
London nightclubs and cafes and a few
on Sydney beaches. One thing can
always b§ said for Lymburner: his nudes
—thank heaven —are always a little rude.
For the rest, his spiritual home is really
the Paris of Toulouse Lautrec, where wit,
grace and esprit must combine to catch
art image of urban carnival. Sometimes,
as in “At the Folies Bergeres,” Lym-
burner misses his target. There is neither
wit nor glitter in this sketch. And some-
times, as in “Tired Actor” (No. 6) and
“Dressingroom, Old Vic.”, he hits it
nicely.
Judith Oldfield’s curious “paintings” or
collages in jewellery enamel at the Mac-
quarie Galleries are more in the nature
of Christmas novelties than art. There
is a lot of ingenuity in this work but
her talents would be better employed on
practical forms of jewellery.
A mixed exhibition of paintings also
at the Macquarie includes a standard
Rupert Bunny, two slight little oils by
Conder and Tom Roberts, a colorful
watercolor by Frances Hodgkins ; some
murky abstracts by Gieghorn and
Coburn ; a suave Fairweather, a stylish
Elaine Haxton and some of Cedric
Flower’s gay terraces.
Douglas Stewart.
“Christmas Abstracts”
“A picture,” said Braque, “is a thing
in itself, efficacious of itself, not a peep-
hole into reality, and not reminiscent of
reality, but its own autonomous reality.”
Braque is pretty old-hat. Today the
philosophy of nature, of knowledge and,
indeed, of the unconscious, is the thing ;
so those who are really on the ball in
modern art should find much to interest
them in the show of “Christmas
Abstracts” at the Terry Clune Galleries,
Sydney.
John Coburn, reducing what he has
to say to the barest essentials, presents
in his “Still Life” a table on which rest
a frying-pan and two flat objects, under
a moon-like sphere in the sky. “Table-
land,” by the same painter, makes similar
direct statements in broad, flat tones.
Leonard Hessing, who is also an archi-
tect, reveals his structural and engineering
knowledge to a Heath Robinson degree
in his three canvases. Thomas Gleg-
horn’s “Landscape Coast” is a thorny


SPECIAL OFFER
A Christmas gift combination that cannot fail to please
your male relatives and friends
A Subscription to
PLUS
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS
TUCKER”
¥
\i.y
5
0.
sS>'
-AX V
*♦*
’*T~.
W/f
*1
5*
Every NEW one-year gift-subscription to THE BULLETIN entitles the
donor to a copy of “Time Means Tucker” AT HALF PRICE —5/-.
We will post the book (post free) to the recipient of your BULLETIN gift-
subscription, together with a Greetings-card announcing both gifts. (Please add
a memo to the subscription-form if the book is to be posted direct to donor.)
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for ... months’
subscription to THE BULLETIN. Add 5/- to subscription rates (see below) if
a copy of “Time Means Tucker” is also to be sent to recipient (see details above).
RECIPIENT
Address
DONOR
Address
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; i year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C’wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s. 6d.; i year —19s. 6d. British
C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a
Christmas gift an appropriate Greetings-card
will be sent direct to the recipient announcing
your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD:
composition, with effective, fresh color
and a feeling for paint. His “Landscape”
is a decorative and effective flash and
flare of color.
Elwyn Lynn’s “Minos of Hades” is a
huge, dripping, melting composition of
plaster-like substance, plywood and
mingled, adhering strips of tape or band-
ages. His “Collage” is more restrained
and ordered, a Picasso abstract composed
of pieces of burnt hessian, catalogue
strips and other material difficult to
assess.
Dominant, black, sweeping brush-
strokes compose the Stanislaus Rapotec
creation, “Bursting.” Perhaps it is an
oval bomb shape ; but it also looks like
a good representation of a monstrous
black beetle, in the Port Keats Mission
aboriginal tradition, one would say.
An additional section is comprised of
paintings by Drysdale, Friend, Herman,
Nolan, Lymburner, Feint, Olley,
Strachan and Rickarts, whose merely
representational works are modestly
occupying the rear gallery.
ROLAND ROBINSON.
NINTH PERTH FESTIVAL
On January 1 the Ninth Festival of
Perth will be launched. Perth is so
isolated that most easterners will never
have heard of the other eight.
It is not surprising. The other eight
have been humble, but slowly building up
strength and experience. By 1962 Perth
and Adelaide will be battling it out, no
holds barred, for the title of Australia’s
Edinburgh.
Perth’s 1961 programme runs almost
six weeks. The entire programme has
been built around Perth’s superb outdoor
facilities.
Bernard Heinze will lead the celebrity
concert section, the imported soloist
being the Russian pianist Tatyana Niko-
layeva. The programme is so heavily
loaded with popular Mozart as to be
lacking in musical imagination. All the
music will be out-of-doors.
The newly appointed director of
Perth’s National Theatre, Raymond
Westwell, is producing “The Miser’’ and
“The Merry Wives,” with English actor
Alexander Archdale. The third play of
the season is “The Insect Play,” directed
by the South Australian producer Colin
Ballantyne, who has worked-over this
old reliable. Abandoning the appalling
Oxford translation, Ballantyne has
hepped Capek’s well-worn classic into a
satire on espresso-bar psychology, con-
temporary world politics and atomic
destruction. The plays will all be per-
formed in the University Sunken Garden.
John Young, of the Hobart Theatre
Royal, and John Farnsworth Hall are
collaborating in a full-scale production
of Humperdinck’s “Hansel and Gretel.
The Bryce Rohde Quartet leads the jazz
section. A foreign film festival runs non-
stop from January 9 to February I°-
Sadie Bishop will sing folk songs with
guitar ; and Brian D. Barnes, who has
worked with E. Martin Browne, will give
solo recitals from Eliot, Fry, Dyia n
Thomas and all the right writers.
W.A.


Women
POULTRY...PAINTINGS...ANTS
The Christmas Bird
The Christmas bird chicken, turkey
or duck - is a reliable bird these
days: tender, plump and not too dear.
And it seems that he may become the
year-round bird, a commonplace on the
Australian menu.
True, the average Australian eats only
121 b. of poultry a year at present, as
against the 2301 b. of other meat he gets
through in the same time ; but things
have livened up considerably in the
poultry industry in the past few years,
and today a good-sized chicken does not
cost any more than a sirloin of beef.
The price of poultry has not gone
down ; it has remained steady. But the
price of beef has gone up. The two are
running about even at the moment, but
the indications are that while poultry
could, through improved methods of
production, become cheaper, there is
nothing to show that beef will do so too.
The egg came first in Australia’s
poultry industry, not the chicken. We
eat 50-mil lion-dozen eggs a year in
N.S.W. alone, and up to ten .years ago
the only fowls sold for meat were
cockerels or old hens. These were by-
products of the egg-industry, unreliable
in supply and price because the market
was subject to gluts and not considered
a sound business proposition.
The development of the “broiler” in-
dustry—the Americans call chickens
raised solely for meat “broilers” —is,
according to Mr V. H. Brann, Principal
Livestock Officer of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, one of the most
spectacular advances in agriculture over
the past ten years.
Chicken-breeders and nutritionists have
during that time developed strains that
weigh 31b. at eight or nine weeks old.
Formerly a fowl weighing 3lb. would be
as much as three months old, and pro-
portionately tough.
The Australian industry began seriously
about 1948 when there was an unlimited
export demand for chickens because of
the food-shortage in Great Britain. Even
at this stage nearly all the chickens raised
Were cockerels from egg - producing
breeds, and the few pioneer broiler-
growers began to complain that they were
Working at a disadvantage because they
could not get the right breeds for fast
early growth.
It was the rise in the price of beef and
lamb which increased the home demand
for poultry and made it profitable for
Australian hatcheries to develop new
strains. These have been so successful
that experienced broiler-growers can now
turn out three to four times the amount
of meat formerly thought possible. The
use of new drugs and antibiotics in
controlling diseases in poultry has also
helped to bring this about.
Better methods of processing birds
were adopted as greater supplies of good
quality became available. Equipment is
expensive and continuity of supply neces-
sary so that staff and machines may be
kept busy all year round.
One of the many processing-works near
Sydney Sunnymorn, at Mascot puts
through 2500 chickens every day with no
reduction of staff throughout the year.
Here it takes only 45 seconds to pluck
eight chickens of medium size. First they
are dipped in a water-tank of carefully
controlled temperature, then they are
spun round in a drum where bouncing
back and forth on rubber fingers on the
side of the drum plucks them clean. In
the old days it took a champion to kill
and pluck 12 chickens by hand in an
hour.
New methods of deep-freezing are
being introduced. Freezing in brine takes
45min. as opposed to the four to five
hours necessary under present conditions.
This will be in operation next year.
Excellent methods of wrapping chickens
have been developed so that the birds
are hygienically handled. Efficient trans-
port means that birds are processed in
a minimum of time after they leave the
farm. For instance, 450 turkeys loaded
in the Riverina district at 4 p.m. on
Thursday arrive at the works at 5 a.m.
on Friday, and killing begins at 5.30.
Turkeys are still a seasonal bird.
Reared in spring and killed in winter,
they became the appropriate bird for
Christmas dinners in the Northern
Hemisphere. In Australia they must be
cold-stored for the Christmas trade, and
this naturally adds to their price.
Change is possible here. Some specialist
growers are hatching turkeys in winter
and putting them fresh on the Christmas .
market; but this is not yet the general
rule.
Several factors have contributed to the
demand that has made all this develop-
ment possible. Apart from the favorable
comparison in prices with meat, the in-
crease in the number of migrants has
made poultry more popular in Australia.
Not only chicken, but turkey, duck, and
even pigeons are popular with most New
Australians. Some Middle Europeans
are disappointed that they can’t buy geese
or goslings. But geese, though they don’t
cost much to rear, are birds of indi-
vidual character. They do not respond
to regimentation ; they are notoriously
true to one mate and pine if separated ;
they are wanderers, erratic. They do not
seem to fit into the modern picture.
An increase in diet-consciousness has
also helped to make poultry popular.
But perhaps more important is the im-
proved presentation by retailers.
The rotisserie system of cooking as
many as 30 chickens at a time on turning
spits in a huge glass case draws hundreds
of passers-by to gaze into the windows
where they are shown. Browning chickens
basting in their own juice are almost
irresistible, and the habit is soon formed
of taking home a cooked chook wrapped
in foil.
This form of barbecue - cooking was
introduced to Australia only two-and-a-
half years ago by Mr Peter Rose, who
developed the machine from English
plans and opened the first rotisserie in
George Street, Sydney. Since then hun-
dreds of these machines have been put
into action, though not all have had the
same success. City locations mean that
office - workers, flat - dwellers, party-
arrangers can get meals to take home
quickly and easily; 90 per cent, buy
their chicken cooked and hot, says Mr
Rose. At Christmas about 50 per cent,
buy it cooked.
Though there is a trend towards cold
meals for the Christmas dinner in Aus-
tralia, the cooking of the bird is still an
important feature in most homes. New
recipes are more and more popular, say
home-management experts of the Sydney
County Council, who include some exotic
recipes in their Christmas pamphlets.
A sauce which contains garlic, soy-
sauce, orange rind and ginger is quite a
change from the formal gravy. Duck may
be rubbed all over with warm honey,
stuffed with celery seasoning and served
with a sauce in which oranges and
raisins play a big part. Even the bread-
crumbs which were always the basis of the
stuffing can be replaced by cooked rice,
which, mixed with mushrooms, combine
well with the distinctive chicken flavor.
So Christmas dinner takes on a new
distinction. But the bird is still there,
and is certain to keep his supremacy.
☆ ☆ ☆
"ft’s an Original!”
Many Australians who own original
works of art —sculpture, drawing or
painting—feel, whether they admit it or
not, a certain smug satisfaction ; they are
distinctive, apart, more discerning than
their fellows. There are indications, how-
ever, that before very long it will be
just as important for a woman to have
an original painting on her wall as it


"I still maintain that a woman's place is in the kitchen .”
is to have a real diamond in her engage-
ment ring.
Twenty years ago the only peopde who
bought originals at gallery exhibitions
were well-heeled collectors with large
houses. Today’s buyers represent a much
wider range in the community. Young
couples starting their homes often buy a
picture before they buy their curtains.
The picture lasts them all their lives ;
if the curtains do, it is a pity.
One reason for this, according to the
director of one of Sydney’s leading gal-
leries, is that good prints are so expen-
sive. Quality reproductions can cost
from 10 to 15gns unframed; originals
can be bought for as little as lOgns.
Artists proof-prints of etchings, lino-
cuts, silk-screen prints, colored wood-
cuts etc., often cmt as little as 3gns
framed
, T , . ,
Not everyone approves of artists work
being sold at low prices. If out of lOgns
the gallery gets £2 10s. and the framer
w^ers 1S reward foi the
aiust.
Albert Tucker, who has sold 13 paint-
ings; from is current exhibition in Aus-
P n c es his work from £4ho to
£650. He feels that people must learn to
pay a good price for a painting, or cul-
hk 8 gr ° W “
y '
I his may be true. But some art-
directors argue that once the first original
painting goes into a living-room the
fashion quickly grows. “The problem
is,” they say, “to get that first one in.”
Ten-guinea shows may be the solution.
As soon as people start buying origi-
nals they lose interest in prints. “A
reproduction hasn't any soul,” said a
Sydney social leader recently. “It is
fiat, dead, uninteresting. I didn’t realise
this until I bought my originals.”
The average price of Australian paint-
ings is not really high. To pay from 25
to 40 guineas for a work of art may
have seemed extravagant to Australians
in the past, and the feeling still lingers.
But compared with the hundreds of
guineas that go to buy TV sets, refriger-
ators, washing-machines, it is extremely
moderate. Ten-guineas for a drawing,
ten-guineas for a hat —which is the better
investment?
Another reason why people are begin-
ning to appreciate the quality of ori-
ginal works of art is that they are seeing
more and more of them in public build-
ings. The buying of originals for business
offices and boardrooms is definitely on
the increase. These are mainly in oils,
landscapes being most in demand. Large
as a rule, they may cost up to a couple
of hundred pounds—-a trifle compared
with the thousands spent on a big build-
ing.
Some architects believe that the artist
should be involved in the planning of a
building from a very early stage. In
past ages, says architect Mr R. N. Johnson
(of McConnel, Smith and Johnson), art
and architecture were associated in the
closest possible way. In Gothic cathe-
drals, in classic temples, it is impossible
to think of one without the other. It
is to re-establish this relationship that his
firm, along with other leading architects,
consult with artists on sculpture and paint-
ings (and particularly on murals) in form-
ing plans and creating designs.
This harmonious marriage of ideas be-
tween the artist who decorates a building
and the architect who creates it gives the
public examples of Australian art which
cultivate taste and train the eye.
It should not be long before the effect
on the Australian public makes itself
known in an even greater interest in ori-
ginal works for the home.
* ☆ ☆
Ant F arm
The Ant Farm is probably the most
novel novelty on the market this Christ-
mas. Designed primarily for children,
it is a spellbinder which could become the
present that people are most likely to
keep for themselves.
The transparent plastic case in which
the ants live is about 6in. high by Bin.
across and |in. through. In the top
half, colored plastic fafades of a house,
a lamp-post, a hillock, etc., give the ants
a little town to explore. The botton
half, filled with sand, gives them their
material for work. All this comes in the
kit, with instructions on how to stock
an ant farm and look after it.
The ants can come out of the garden.
They will crawl up a stick or a thin
pencil, and can then be shaken down
into the farm through an opening in the
top, which is then closed again. It is
a good idea to include a queen among
the ants gathered. She is easily recog-
nisable —she is at least twice as big and
fat as the other ants. It is also recom-
mended to dig your ants from a nest
so as to get some of their eggs as well.
This gives them an incentive to work.
They rush around trying to find a safe
place to hide the eggs.
According to “The Ant Watchers
Manual,” provided with the kit, all your
ants must come from the same colony.
War begins when colonies are mixed.
Once established in their transparant
case, the ants start to dig tunnels, make
bridges and anthills. The workers (all
females) continually hurry about with
big loads, taking sick ants to a separate
“hospital,” carrying dead ones to a
“graveyard” at the top of the sandhill.
If you look at the ants through a
magnifying-glass you come to recognise
individuals. They often sit around in a
group like a board-of-directors and tap
one another on the head when they
want to get attention. They work most
of the time, but they play too. And
they wash their faces by rubbing them
with their “hands.”
How long ants will hold one’s atten-
tion remains to be shown. Perhaps the
interest will pall ; perhaps an ant-
watchers’ association will spring up-
Already there are many books on their
life and habits. There’s no knowing
where the thing might end.


SPORT
Challenge Round Chances
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
Italy is rapidly developing
into a major sporting
nation. It took a great
step in that direction
when it defeated the United
States in the Davis Cup Inter-
Zone Final.
Before the Second World
War Italy’s sporting strength
rested on its always-good
cyclists, car-racing drivers,
rowing, fencing and gymnas-
tics. It picked up an occa-
sional Olympic Games gold-
medal in weight - lifting,
boxing, equestrian and athletics
events. But it was never then
rated a sporting nation like,
for instance, Australia,
Britain and America. It has
since developed a new look in
sport.
Instance its having become
one of Europe’s most power-
ful Soccer nations with costly
imported players like Welsh-
man John Charles, South
African Eddie Firmani and
Argentinian Enrique Sivori.
An Italian club bought Charles
for £60,000.
Today Italian Soccer is so
strong that top players receive
up to £5O a week.
Rome’s excellent promotion
of this year’s Olympics
really brought to light Italy’s
growing power in sport. In
the Games, Italian Livio
Berruti surprised the world by
winning the 200-metres dash.
Italy never before had a runner
sufficiently fleet-footed to be
regarded as even a test for the
Americans.
Even Rugby League interests
are now being directed to Italy
as a likely healthy field for
the code ; the International
Rugby League Board has in-
vested £14,000 to foster League
there, and the English
League has since decided to
support the venture to the tune
of another £lB,OOO.
Tyrow the eyes of the tennis
world are focused on
Italy.
That country has been in the
Davis Cup Inter-Zone Final
seven times since the war. It
failed dismally in the first six
of these finals ; but now, here
in Perth on December 9-12,
Italy’s Nicola Pietrangeli and
Orlando Sirola defeated Ameri-
cans Barry Mac Kay, Earl
Buchholz and Charles McKin-
ley three rubbers to two. And
the splendid fighting qualities
the Italian pair showed in
achieving their victory over-
shadowed even the result of
the match.
Italy’s No. 1 player, Piet-
rangeli, was involved in grim
five-set struggles in the third
and fourth rubbers.
With the score equal, 2-all,
America still was favorite,
because its No. 1 player,
Mac Kay, was drawn with
Italy’s No. 2 player, Sirola, for
the deciding rubber.
For days before this decid-
ing match, Sirola had been
saying, “There’s one man I can
beat in this American team
. . . that’s Mac Kay.”
Sirola had defeated Mac Kay
in straight-sets in the French
championships last May. That
victory had left him with a
poor impression of Mac Kay’s
tennis talents. It was an im-
pression no other leading
player in the world would have
shared, but, carrying it' on to
the court in Perth, Sirola again
whipped Mac Kay in straight-
sets.
I do not think any other
player in the world could have
defeated Mac Kay in straight-
sets in a Davis Cup deciding
rubber. It showed what con-
fidence can do.
Confidence! That is going
to play an important part in
Italy’s Davis Cup future ; and
Pietrangeli and Sirola are now
oozing confidence. Accus-
tomed to the hard-courts of
Europe, they had a phobia
about grass-courts until their
victory against America in
Perth. Now that they know
they can win on grass-courts
as well as on hard-courts they
are going to be very difficult to
defeat in future.
So now Australia faces this
critical Davis Cup Chal-
lenge RAund, meeting Italy in
Sydney on December 26, 27
and 28.
If Australia loses, the Davis
Cup will go to Italy for con-
test on hard-courts. Both the
Australians and the Americans
realise it could be extremely
difficult to defeat Italy on a
hard-court to regain the Cup.
They might take years to do it.
For the present, tennis fans
throughout the world regard
Italy’s victory over America as
a great boost to the game.
With Australia and America
having fought out the Chal-
lenge Round every year since
1938 the Davis Cup contest had
become static. With the spell
all other tennis nations
have a glimmer of hope of
getting to the Challenge Round
in the near future as Italy has
done this year.
A ustralia should defeat
Italy three rubbers to two,
at least.
World champion Neale
Fraser should win his two
singles rubbers. Fraser and
Roy Emerson should win the
doubles, to give Australia its
third rubber. Both Pietrangeli
and Sirola are capable of
defeating Australia’s No. 2
singles player, Rod Laver.
Fraser this year won the
Wimbledon and American
championships. He defeated
Laver in both finals. On those
results Australia should be a
firm favorite to defeat Italy.
Fraser and Laver have
played patchily this summer —
form, however, which tennis
fans assessing Australia’s
chances should not take too
seriously.
Australia’s captain, Harry
Hopman, has proved skill to
lift his players’ form for the
Davis Cup. He did it so often
with Frank Sedgman, Ken
McGregor, Lewis Hoad and
Ken Rosewall. He can be
depended upon to do it again
with Fraser and Laver.
Hopman, a masterly strate-
gist, becomes a great asset to
Australia when he takes his
seat beside the Davis Cup
court. The moral uplift and
advice he gives his players is
worth a set start to Australia
each rubber.
On these counts Australian
tennis fans have no need for
alarm. But they can set them-
selves for plenty of excitement
in this Challenge Round. The
Italians are plenty good
enough to make a grand fight
of it.
The Great First Test
From start to madhouse
finish the First Test, West
Indies v. Australia at the Bris-
bane Cricket Ground, was
different.
The new-look ’Gabba
deserved the staging of this
miracle game which made Test
history by ending in a tie.
Our cricket-minded Cabinet,
led by Premier Nicklin,
Treasurer Hiley and Education
Minister Pizzey, have backed
the Q.C.A. in an expansive
building programme. The
Press and Players’ Pavilion
was ready for the last visit of
the M.C.C. A modern double-


start the day right!
m
■ £
Oi
uUO' rtC
*ci*yl
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
_ Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Brunches in all Staieg Agencies in nil Country Centres
decker Cricketers’ Club greeted
the West Indies team. They
showed their appreciation.
The dusky boys took the
advantage of the toss. They
didn’t worry about the heavy
atmosphere, the slight lift in
the wicket or the reputations
of Davidson and Meckiff. They
were armed with bats. For-
getting entirely about the three
stumps behind them, they
flailed that ball. They proved
to be the best fence-finding
combination ever seen in
Queensland. Lord knows what
they would have totalled had
at least four of them —Smith,
Hunte, Kenhai and Alexander
—not thrown their wickets
away.
The single exception in the
whole gamut of stroke-making
in the memorable effort by
Sobers was the lofted drive
over mid-off. Eighty-eight of
his 132 runs came from shots
that shimmered in the sun.
They left class fieldsmen like
Harvey and O’Neill helpless in
the covers, and went on to
explode against the fence.
England’s Frank Woolley and
Victorian Vernon Ransford
will be supplanted in our
memory of left-handed excel-
lence. Our own “wrong-way”
stylist, former inter-Stater Bill
Rowe, paid a glowing tribute
to the world-record holder's
skill when he remarked, “If
only I could have batted like
that.”
Worrell, Solomon and
Alexander stabilised the inn-
ings. They’ll do it again.
Their times at the crease may
be discounted; they were
masterly in giving the strike
to more forceful partners.
They were never idle, as the
21 boundaries between them
should show. Alexander, with
bowler Hall, enlivened the
Saturday morning with an 86
partnership that blasted
Meckiff off the third new ball
and, probably, out of the Tests.
Skipper Worrell could learn
from Herb Collins in the use
of his tornado in the batting
list. This Australian captain
often had Jack Gregory high
up in the order to keep him
fresh for his main job of open-
ing the bowling.
No West Indian ducked a
bumper. More often they
stood up to hook or cut them.
Our fellows, when they weren’t
hit in the body, often hit the
deck. Wesley Hall, the first
time since Larwood, openly
•exposed the fallacy of our late-
lift cult.
Both Australian innings,
with the exception of a few
explosions by O’Neill and
periods during the century
partnership of Davidson and
Benaud, were strokeless, by
comparison with our visitors.
Worse, they were drab, dull
and dead. Failure of the
opposition to bottle-up the
head of the gully contributed
largely to our scores.
Besides the late bat-lift, the
cult of the short-handle bat,
the low grip and the Bradman
stance also immobilised our
batsmen. It’s a shame to watch
O’Neill donating to the enemy
his advantage of height. The
many small men in our side
may be excused ; their slavish
homage to Sir Donald Brad-
man’s “Art of Cricket” let
them down.
Both captains kept calm
under pressure. Worrell intelli-
gently used experience to plug
one end. He refused to over-
bowl Valentine and Rahmadin
on a batsman’s dream which
took little spin, even late on
the fifth day.
Our skipper took his first
belting, but never flinched. He
missed full use of Kline, who,
despite Davidson’s figures, was
our best bowler in the first
innings. It was not until he
yorked Sobers with a Lindwall
gem that our left-hander
showed penetration. That was
the first time he turned the
game our way.
It was Davidson who was
there in that fateful second
innings to save Australia from
pending humiliation and bring
victory within its grasp. The
story was a gloomy 6 for 92
when Mackay paddled off the
pitch. Yet he saw the ’Gabba
bathed in sunshine as Benaud
came through the gate. Our
captain smiled as he passed
him on his way to take the
strike. The scene was one
just meant for cricket, though
neither of those triers knew
the type of cricket that was in
store.
There was an early shiver
when our captain, off the first
delivery from Rahmadin, sur-
vived a confident appeal. That
suspect “tickle” shocked the
sympathy of the crowd into
a turnabout. Till then all for
the visitors, they now began
to share the anxiety, successes
and the race against the clock
of their own duo fighting in
the middle.
After “tea” few remained
calm. The coolest will always
remember the giant Wesley
Hall.
He was almost too weary to
lumber up to the crease to take
the new ball Worrell offered ;
he needed an urge from little
Solomon, who wisely knew
the key to his deep reserves.
He broke the concentration of
our heroes in his second over
of thunderbolts, when an error
in judgment, plus the un-
erring aim of Solomon, sent
back Davidson at 226. His last
mad over —Benaud caught, his
own spilt catch at a fantastic
spot beyond square-leg, the
run-outs of Grout and Meckiff
by bullet throws from Hunte
and Solomon —and the result-
ant “tie” is now history, most
of which goes down to bowler
Hall.
When Australia were within
a dozen of victory, an umpire
called “No-ball.” At other
times, to Davidson, that would
mean four or six. It took
Alan by surprise; he simply
played it back. A few still
hold that this patriotic gesture
could have been timed in better
taste. That one “no-ball” took
from Australia some gloiy
from its “tie.”—“Furban.”
* * H«
A headmaster is play-
ing under the captaincy of
his deputy-head in ' Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) second-grade.
He is the head of North Goul-
burn public school, Les
Burnett, who played his first
game of cricket for some
years when he turned-out
with R.S.L. seconds, the
team led for the past couple of
years by North Goulburn
deputy-head Jack Whiteman-
under Whiteman, R.S.L. won
the competition last year. An-
other of the four male teachers
at North Goulburn, Brian Mc-
Intosh, is one of the best bats-
men of the R.S.L. first-grade
side—“Keima.”


A Horse Too Good to Lose
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
When the filly Emblem (sister to Wenona Girl) won
at the Randwick twilight meeting a couple of
weeks back she was the fifth two-year-old winner
in the current crop sired by Wilkes (imp.), stand-
ing at John Kelly’s Newhaven Park Stud at Boorawa on
N.S.W.’s South-western Slopes. The win put the new
sire further ahead as the season’s leading stallion in Aus-
tralia, and the leading sire of two-year-old winners.
Star Kingdom (imp.) has ruled leader in one division
or the other ever since his first crop of yearlings raced
in the 1954-55 seasdn. Perhaps by next August he still
will be on top, but in Wilkes (imp.) he has his first real
challenger for several years.
Oldest of the progeny of Wilkes (imp.) are three-
year-olds. There were 20 of them to ruil as two-year-olds
last season —10 colts and 10 fillies. Of the colts, six were
winners and two gained places ; of the fillies, eight were
winners and one gained a place. All told, they won 27
races, filled second place 21 times and third place five
times. Wenona Girl, of course, was the best, winning
£25,000 in 14 months of racing.
Of the present crop of Wilkes two-year-olds, eight
have started and five of them already have won. They
include two of the smartest colts seen for a long time—
Native Statesman and Young Brolga, first and second
respectively in the Maribyrnong Plate at the Melbourne
Cup meeting.-
Native Statesman is owned in Adelaide, and his record
so far is six starts for five wins and a second ; Young
Brolga is owned by Sydney Turf Club chairman W. Long-
worth, who also owns Wenona Girl, and the colt’s three
starts have produced two wins and a second, including the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate.
Last season Wilkes (imp.), with £20,490, was second
in the list of sires of two-year-olds to Star Kingdom
(imp.), whose tally was £26,010. Already this season the
Wilkes progeny have won nearly £13,000, and the win-
nings of the three-year-olds have given him a grand total
of more than £24,000 for about four months’ racing.
As owner of Wilkes (imp.), John Kelly, one of the
younger studmasters in N.S.W., had a tremendous deci-
sion to make at the end of last season.
The question was asked of him whether £50,000 would
tempt him to sell the horse, and the source of the inquiry
was sound enough for it to be inferred that English
interests wanted to buy.
The reply was “No”—representing the owner’s faith
that the first-year success was not a flash in the pan. If
Wilkes (imp.) were in England with his present record
£50,000 (English ones) certainly would not buy him.
England’s interest in Wilkes (imp.) is readily under-
stood when it is remembered that his half-brothers,
Worden II and Mahan—each the winner of the Inter-
national Stakes in America, the race Sailor’s Guide won
—are now successful sires.
Worden II began his stud career in France under such
auspicious circumstances that an English syndicate paid
£BO,OOO for him. His stock are doing very well and are
showing a disposition to stay.
Wilkes (imp.) is by Court Martial, who was twice
leading sire in England and six times leading two-year-old
sire, and who, as an old horse, was bought for America.
His dam is Sans Tares, a half-sister to the outstanding
stallion Norseman.
THRUST a veteran like Fred Hoysted, doyen of Melbourne
trainers, to find the way out with a “mad” horse.
Hoysted won a race at Caulfield on Saturday with the
two-year-old Banff, who earlier in his career was almost
a complete outlaw. Banff, a bay gelding by Valognes (imp.)
from Seawitch, could not be persuaded to gallop on the
tracks, nor to enter or jump smartly from the starting-
stalls. In fact he looked hopeless.
Then Hoysted took a hand. Using appropriate gear
and long driving-reins, he “drove” Banff round the yards,
on the track and into and out of starting-stalls. Result, a
completely tractable animal.
Probably not one racehorse in hundreds now in
Sydney or in Melbourne has ever been broken to a sulky.
Yet the old-time trainers frequently employed this method
to cure a horse of waywardness.
Jack King, for many years top-ranking rider in
Australia and in England, and then leading trainer in
Sydney, was a great believer in the sulky for a bad-
tempered or frightened horse.
King maintained two training establishments, one at
Randwick and the other at Rooty Hill, the latter the edu-
cational school and Randwick the finishing-off place when
a horse got close to winning-condition.
Dozens of his two-year-olds were broken to harness,
King’s dictum being that man might not always be master
in the saddle, but in a breaking-in gig there was no escape
for the horse, except to throw himself down, in which
case he wasn’t worth anything, anyhow.
Many racegoers today will remember Ganegrass, and
the absolute certainty of his jumping away from the open
barrier right out in front of his opponents. They will
remember, too, earlier in the sprinter’s career when he
would scarcely approach the barrier to line up, much less
jump away.
Canegrass was broken-in to the sulky at Rooty Hill.
He would be driven down to the track, made to stand
behind the rope barrier while King took a glance at the
morning paper, and when the ropes were sent up he would
be driven out.
But, then, King was always an individualist when it
came to handling horses. His great stayer Oro invariably
and inexplicably broke out into a sweat when he was taken
to Randwick. He became so nervous he was beaten before
he went to the post.
The Coldstream Guards Band cured him! A gramo-
phone was placed in his stall. It played band records
during mealtime, and Oro learned that the band on the
lawn at Randwick was not such a terrifying thing, after
all. It was the band music that used to upset him!
King finds life on his property at Willowtree (N.S.W.)
too strong a tie to go racing much these days, but every
now and then he makes the trip to Sydney to meet up with
the fraternity.
"Dookmaker George Nathan, who died in Sydney last
" week, was one of the most widely known of betting
men. Over and over again he could have changed his
stand and bet in the saddling paddock, but he preferred
to remain “King of the Leger.” He is, however, best
remembered, not for any of his betting, but for his long
association with Father Dunlea in the furtherance of the
charitable organisation Boys Town. Caring for orphaned
boys, Boys Town greatly needed money when George
Nathan became interested, and he is credited with having
raised £250,000 at carnivals and other sporting gatherings.


Rusiness, Robbery, Etc.
Quiet End to a Boisterous Year
The Stock Exchange year of
1960 is closing with the
sharemarket quiet to the point
of whispering. There is not
much buying and equally little
inclination to sell. Brokers’ •
offices are no longer scenes of
feverish activity and long
hours of work, often extend-
ing to nine or ten at night, as
was the case three months
ago. Commission earnings
have often been cut in halves.
The price of seats on the
Sydney Exchange appears to
have weakened in proportion
to the fall in the market.
The bloom has gone off the
boom, as it goes off all booms,
Although there is talk of a
revival in activity after
February of the new year, and
many people are awaiting a
return of the old booming
order of things, it is more
likely that, after the shape of
the Australian economy takes
more definite outline follow-
ing implementation of Federal
Treasury policy, for some
months there will be a study
of the “form” of individual
stocks, and less regard for
general sharemarket “tone.”
The aftermath of a boom,
apart from the slump itself, is
a period of staleness.
Buying shares according to
their particular intrinsic merits
as dividend-payers and poten-
tial producers of other benefits
is, in any case, the best way to
approach the sharemarket in
the long-run. People who have
paid regard to yield when
investing over the past two or
three years now find that
ownership of the scrip is not
entirely unrewarding even in
a depressed sharemarket.
The touchy, up-and-down
character of the sharemarket,
which is now sensitive to even
small dealings in any one
stock, has continued for some
weeks, with occasional but
usually short - lived purple
patches,
exists for the
picking-up of bargains
where forced sales are neces-
sary. It is well worth while
watching for such bargains as
they arise, though in the present
touchy state of affairs it is hard
to say when a stock has reached
bottom. The thing is to satisfy
one’s-self in advance as^to
what price for a selected stock
represents a bargain, and to
be happy to buy it at that
figure even if, later, it goes
temporarily lower,
it is an old saying that tops
and bottoms of the market are
made for fools. It is unre-
warding to try to pick either,
A good price, whether buying
or selling, is good enough.
As it seems unlikely that
there will be any quick return
to the sharemarket zest for
scrip that we saw over the two
years up to September 16 this
year, a more important factor
in pricing shares will be the
actual trade and business con-
ditions of the next six months,
For a couple of years at
least there has been a tendency
to discount the importance of
“I wish Ogg Would stop fooling around with his
silly inventions !”
the profitability of business
conditions when assessing the
value of industrial shares.
Speculators in the share-
market were more inclined to
pay regard to the probability of
an influx of footloose portfolio
funds from the hot-spots of
the world and the effect such
an inflow would have on the
market anyway.
Mow that a question-mark
hangs over the matter of
capital-inflow, Australians are
not so keen about betting on
overseas people always being
ready to buy their shares at an
enhanced price. There is very
little breeze from the seaward
to fill speculative sails. For
the present it needs to be a
land-breeze, generated within
the country itself.
An exception to this
generality seems to be United
States interest in B.H.P. shares.
Steady purchase on behalf of
U.S. interests goes on each
week. It is one of the
intriguing curiosities of the
current investment scene.
In view of all the credit and
other restrictions, including
heavier taxes on companies, the
season for interim dividends
during February and March,
1961, will be of more than
usual interest.
The half-year July-December
will show very little of the
impact of the “dampening”
economic factors introduced
in mid-November. But by
February the picture should be
taking shape in many board-
rooms, and interim reports and
dividends could be indicative
of the ultimate nature of things
for. 1960-61.
The Canberra approach to
the undoubted inflationary
problems of the Common-
wealth has to date been most
unrealistic and disheartening.
But there are indications that
the Ministry is having second
thoughts about the matter, and
there are hopes that the short-
cut, slapdash and Socialistic
panaceas produced by Trea-
surer Holt in this crisis will be
replaced by something more
fundamentally helpful before
1961 is out.
Myer-Farmer's
’yUHAT effect will the Myer
Emporium (Melbourne)
takeover of Farmer’s (Hold-
ings), Ltd. (Sydney), have on
the market generally?
Among other things, it seems
likely to present investors with
very favorable opportunities
for buying Myer ordinary
shares. They are a first-class
investment of their type.
The offer which Farmer’s
directors accepted was one
Myer ss. share for each
Farmer’s ss. share plus one £1
7 p.c. seven-year redeemable
Myer note for every 10
Farmer’s shares, with an alter-
native offer of 325. in cash
straightout for each Farmer’s
share.
The cash offer has been
guaranteed by J. B. Were and
Son, the Melbourne brokers.
If all the consideration were
taken in cash it would involve
nearly £lB million ; if all in
shares, over 11-million Myer
shares. In any case, after the
merger there will be over 50-
million Myer ords., allowing
for the bonus-issue.
Last week Myer Emporium
ords. were at around 325.,
which is also the cash-offer
price. But in addition to one
Myer share, there is also one-
tenth of a 7 p.c, 20s. note
attached to each Myer share in
this offer, equal at par, to an-
other 2s. per Farmer's share.
Whether Farmer's (and old
Western Stores) shareholders
take the “money or the box,”
there are likely to be more
Myer shares for sale.
If on offer at reduced prices
they are a most attractive retail-
store investment.
In respect of last term (to
July 31) consolidated net profit
was shown at an amount, allow-
ing for prefs. and outside share-
holders, at 30.3 p.c. on ord.
capital.
But if profit is worked back
from the taxation provision
(shown at £2,567,147 alongside
net profit of £2,128,284), the
figure becomes approximately
60 p.c. on ord. capital.
Dividend for 1959-60 was at
the rate of 18| p.c.
After the one-for-two bonus-
issue (in which Farmer’s share-
holders participate) Myer’s
expect to pay not less than
16f p.c. On this dividend
basis the shares bought at 325.
cum bonus now, would give an
immediate dividend yield of
4 p.c.
Takeovers in the past have
been digested rapidly by Myers
regardless of their cost (mostly
in sharemarket premiums).
Last year’s true profit (judged
by tax provisions) would appear
to be the highest in relation to
capital employed ever earned
by Myer’s.
This relative growth as well
as absolute growth is not always
exhibited by takeover com-
panies, and is a tribute to the
Myer management. It also
suggests that the Myer trad-
ing technique has convinced the
management that the Farmers
acquisition will not be long
before it is pulling its fun


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
1
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts—
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment —can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—•
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
2 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
weight among the other Aus-
tralia-wide trading-posts of the
Myer empire. On last term's
figures, the entire Myer con-
solidation turns its stock over
every six weeks—eight times
a year.
£ Devaluation?
Developments over the past
two years have not only
reduced the purchasing-power
of the Australian £, but events
at home and abroad have com-
bined to reveal it in all its
inflation-afflicted infirmity.
There was a time, soon after
the war, when the Australian
£ undoubtedly looked the £
sterling in the eye and on equal
footing. But Prime Minister
Chifley decided not to revalue
our currency towards parity
with sterling, and soon after-
wards the 40-hour week had
devastating effects on the
strength of the £A. From these
it has never recovered, and each
year has seen a further whittl-
ing-away of its purchasing-
power because of the country’s
poor productivity during the
working-week.
There was a period of com-
parative stability during the
wage-freeze which ended in the
middle of 1959.
Since then purchasing-power
has run out of the £A at a
faster pace.
It is particularly unfortunate
that inflation should have got
so much impetus on again at
a time when overseas countries
were keeping it well in check
and when the world’s markets
for raw materials were on the
decline.
With countries abroad keep-
ing their costs down and their
productivity up, Australia is
finding it difficult to compete
in world’s markets.
At the same time, especially
since the lifting of import-
restrictions early this year, a
flood of cheap imports has
come in from abroad and have
hit some of our own industries
badly.
Under the combination of
lower export receipts and
higher import costs the vulnera-
bility of the Australian £ has
become apparent.
It has become a hothouse
product over the years, and
has drooped particularly dur-
ing the past 12 months.
Among the big overseas
countries with which Australia
has financial understanding
there has been an emphasis on
convertibility of currencies
during 1960. Convertibility has
been the cherished aim of the
sterling area ever since 1939.
With almost complete con-
vertibility operating during
1960, the Australian £ was tried
and found wanting.
Its purchasing-power parity
is below that of the fixed ex-
change-rate on sterling and the
dollar, and only a heavy inflow
of overseas funds has per
mitted convertibility to func-
tion as long as it has.
The big lift in wages during
1959 and 1960, accompanied
by a heavy migrant intake and
a rush of overseas investment
funds, produced a startling in-
flation in land-value-, and other
things.
Now that speculation has
received a sharp check, it is
doubtful whether funds for
portfolio investment will find
their way to the Common-
wealth at the pace experienced
during 1960. If that is the case,
with internal costs still rising,
the overvaluation of the £A
in the world’s markets will be-
come painfully obvious during
1961 unless convertibility is
restricted and/or import-
restrictions are reintroduced.
But, whatever arbitrary
means are employed to ease the
strain on our overseas funds,
the weakness of the £A will
only be disguised—not cor-
rected—so long as productivity
per working-week remains low
and costs remain high.
W.A. Minerals
[From Jack Walkerden]
One of the reasons for Can-
berra’s lifting of the ban
on iron-ore export from W.A.
was the discovery that the Big
State had far greater deposits
than had previously been
known ; and the average per-
son finds it hard to understand
how a mass of iron up to a
hundred-million tons can be
lying around a locality for 130
years and not be recognised.
It sounds more screwy when
it’s realised that W.A. has been
pretty well worked-over and
classified, even out in the
desert country. There are huge
areas where fewer than 100
white men have ever ventured,
yet Mines Department officials
can tell you the structure of
rocks and the types of mineral
you’d be likely to find there—
because the few men who’ve
been out there were mostly
geologists or prospectors. And
often when a mineral which
has been regarded as useless
has suddenly found a place in
the atomic age they’ve been
able to say with certainty that
it exists in some desert locality
because an old sandalwood-
puller found it there 80 years
ago and sent specimens to the
department out of curiosity
and in the hope that he’d
located a precious gem.
'T'hat’s how much of W.A.
■*- has been prospected, and the
general topography has helped
a lot. Apart from the Kim-
berleys and a few other hilly
areas, the State is more or less
a plateau fringed by narrow
coastal plains. Much of this
plateau is thinly covered with
soil, and the underground
minerals tend to outcrop. And
if much of this country is dry
—well, the men who pushed
out into it were keen-eyed and
observant, and the desert was
their oyster which could hold
pearls. They found them, too ;
and it was their misfortune
that all too often their gems
were rare and curious but
valueless. It took the needs of
an atomic age, with its call for
heat-resisting metals and light
alloys with high tensile
strengths, to turn them into
exciting possibilities and put
us in debt to the desert-rats
who told us where to find them.
The beryllium minerals, for
instance. There are many of
them, chiefly beryl, and this
comes in several forms. The
grass-green emerald is a beryl;
the greenish-blue aquamarine


ms
& umm
I
W;
t^, ; <’
ispg&r' /
i :, V
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
Aneoves ™
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
SB
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY . ST ACHES BRANPY
is another. So is the golden
heliodor. And the most beauti-
ful pink stone known, pink
morganite, is also a beryl.
These minerals are found
over a big part of W.A., from
Wodgina in the Pilbara to
Balingup and the Preston
Valley in the south. There are
emeralds in places in the Mur-
chison goldfields ; but it’s dry,
inhospitable country and the
finds have been worked only
spasmodically. But beryl is
worth money now, not as a
precious stone but as a source
of beryllium. Two-and-a-
quarter per cent, of beryllium
in steel gives an alloy with a
tensile strength of 90 tons to
the square-inch and with a
very high fatigue strength—a
wonderful help in delicate
instruments and electrical
equipment and for spring parts
where non-magnetism is vital.
Beryllium goes into welding-
alloys, it makes bronze tools
which won't produce sparks—
used in explosives factories —
and it helps produce X-ray
tubes.
Tn W.A. there are known de-
A posits (in commercial quan-
tities) of lithium, yttrium,
cerium, thorium, vanadium,
tantalum, miobium, molyb-
denum and tungsten, and the
State geologists can tell you
where you’ll find traces of
uranium, radium, gadolinite,
caesium, zirconium and other
minerals which are still more
or less curiosities. Often they’ll
have to warn you that they’re
in mighty rugged country ; but
they can say with certainty
they’re there.
Then how come these recenf
discoveries of huge iron-ore
deposits? Well, they’re not
altogether recent. It’s been
known the ore was there, but
it hadn’t previously been
worth anyone’s while to assess
its quantity. And there’s more
to come. In places where
officially there’s no worth-
while deposit I’ve struck rock
outcrops where the ore could
be almost moulded with a
hammer, it was so nearly pure
iron. The geologists know that
iron is there ; but they haven’t
any idea how much there is of
it, and probably they won’t
while farmers and pastoralists
still find it pays to crop and
stock the light covering of soil
on the outcrop.
Roughly, that goes for the
whole State. We know a sur-
prising lot about what’s on
the surface of practically every
acre of it; but we’re woefully
ignorant of what lies even a
few feet down.
The oil-search brought that
fact home to us. The need to
find new exports —iron, for
instance —has merely taken the
lesson a step further.
B.H.P. for U.S.A. ?
Tn 1958 The Bulletin pointed
out that 8.H.P., with its
more-than-50,000 shareholders,
was a sitting duck for a take-
over by any U.S. steel co. so
inclined.
The suggestion was derided
at the time by many, but in
view of what has happened to
British Aluminium and other
big cos., it is clear that B.H.P.
would represent only a hearty
snack to a really hefty U.S. co.
So far there has been no
outright bid for B.H.P. by any
overseas co. But there is
evidence that substantial buy-
ing of B.H.P. shares is being
made, piecemeal, by U.S. in-
vestors.
Undoubtedly local invest-
ment is strongly pro-8.H.P.,
but that alone would hardly
explain why B.H.P. shares have
fallen only about 10 p.c. in a
market that has dropped, over-
all, by 21 p.c. since September
16.
Productivity & Profit
T aroely through plough-back
of profits earned, ably
assisted by new investment
funds and an inflow of over-
seas capital, there has been a
heavy investment in factory
and other industrial equipment
in Australia recently.
This modern equipment,
often financed by capital that
took the shape of convertible
notes or unsecured or secured
notes as well as shareholders’
funds (because of inequitable
company taxation), has had
much to do with the growing
productivity of the Australian
economy during the same
period.
The Department of Trade
has just revealed that for a
period prior to the imposition
of the recent Government
restrictions, output of factory-
produced consumer-goods rose
at a fast pace and at little or
no extra unit-cost, in spite of
the lift in wages.
Increased productivity, in the
main,-has not come f roni
greater efforts by wage-earners
though it is true that there has
been much more industrial har-
mony over the past four or five
years and there hasn’t been the
same wanton waste of man-
power that was evident in the
early post-war years.
In the coalmining industry,
where the increase in produc-
tivity has been especially
apparent, mechanisation has
been the principal accelerating
agent, even though the coim
parative absence of strikes has
been a contributing factor.
Increase in productivity in
coalmining has been so great
that it has outstripped the
general lift in other types of
industry throughout the Com-
monwealth, and there has been
little difficulty in coping with
rises in the basic wage and
other charges. Not only have
substantial tax-free profits re-
mained to plough-back into
plant and equipment, but the
price of coal in N.S.W. has been
reduced very substantially.
The coal industry is an
example of what can be done
where adequate funds are avail-
able to equip an industry in
the most modern manner with
the most nutritive type of
capital—that is, retained profits.
T Tnfortunately, other indus-
tries are not in the same
boat. There is tendency in arbi-
tration circles to hand too much
of the increase in productivity
too quickly to the wage-earner,
and not let a major part of it
go back to the capital which
created it. The Treasury’s
taxation policy also inhibits
manufacturing industry.
Too often we see a calcula-
tion to the effect that produc-
tivity has increased over the
year by, say, 3 p.c., only to find
that during the same year
wages have risen by, say, 6 p.c.
It is hard indeed to establish
a satisfactory index of produc-
tivity, but surely the lesson that
plough-back of profits enables
lower prices to be charged (with
inflation correspondingly
checked and the export-market
vistas correspondingly widened)
should now have been learned,
and with it the fact that profits
—and often quite big-seeming
profits—are not only a desir-
able, but in every case an
essential, feature in a private-
enterprise economy.
It is only by making large
profits that companies like
General Motors-Holden’s can
keep re-equipping to make their
product stand comparison
with anything of its kind in the
world. But what an initial
effort is required to get to the
point where the General
Motors example can be fol-
lowed by others!


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
'CC-32J
gl iS
IP*
pc
m
c«
<0
or
is
0
0
O’
0
■l^
0
0
SW
0
§2? PER ANNUM
4-9 YEARS
VARIABLE SHORT TERM DEBENTURE STOCK
INTEREST RATE
5% per annum
6% per annum
7% per annum
8% per annum
REQUIRED NOTICE
OF WITHDRAWAL
, , One month
.. '3 month*
.. 6 months
. . 12 months
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
For PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION
FORMS—CALL at, or WRITE to:—
ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES or
ANY MEMBER of a Recognised Stock Exchange
or THE COMPANY'S OFFICES
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone BU 5542
OR THE UNDERWRITING BROKERS
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney. 84 William Street, Melbourne
159 Beardy Street, Armidale. 80 Fitzroy Street, Grafton.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
CORRIE & CO.
400 Queen Street, Brisbane
' Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
99 Queen Street, Melbourne
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra,
Applications for debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
CLIP and POST COUPON
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney
P/eose send me, without obligation, a copy of the Prospectus
with Application Forms,
NAME ■
ADDRESS *.*L£f 2
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. 1. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. 0. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P-O. Box No. 1887 W
H.H. Webb Expands
The business of H. H. Webb
and Co., Ltd., has diversi-
fied considerably over the past
decade without an undue
spread in capital or outside
commitments. Principal visible
growth has been in turnover
and profit-earning.
The co. was formed in 1917,
when it took over the import-
ing business of Wehl Bros.,
who specialised in supplies for
tanners, dyers and funeral-
directors.
For a time activities were
concentrated on funeral requi-
sites, and in 1925 a metal-manu-
facturing unit, the first of its
kind in Australia, was set-up at
Abbotsford (Vic.).
The metal-processing side of
the business has extended to
the servicing of other indus-
tries. There are now subsidia-
ries engaged in making toys,
tubular-steel furniture for
offices and homes, carrying-out
diecasting, engineering and
electroplating contracts for
commerce, manufacturing
hardware for homebuilding,
and diecast accessories for the
automotive industry.
During 1959-60 the brass-
finishing business of Leslie M.
Willoughby (in Brunswick,
Vic.) was acquired for 120,000
ss. shares. A property in Foots-
cray was also taken-over for
40,000 ss. ords. and an unstated
cash consideration. Then
10,000 ss. units were issued as
part consideration for the tool-
making business of F. Jewell
and Co., East Brunswick.
Since the close of accounts
another freehold has been
acquired at Carlton (Vic.), part
of the consideration being
30,000 ss. shares. A further
development in the co.’s policy
of diversification was the issue
of 105,000 ss. shares in part-
payment for the capital of
Purvis Glover Engineering Pty.,
Ltd., makers of phosphor-
bronze bushings, and engaged
in shell-moulding techniques.
The diversified engineering,
woodworking and finance
group is now comprised of the
parent and 12 subsidiaries. Of
these, six are in Victoria —H.
H. Webb (Victoria) Pty., Web-
craft Pty., Willoughby Webb
Pty., Camcraft Pty. (incorporat-
ing the Jewell business), Hoile
Investments Pty., and Purvis
Glover Engineering Pty. The
N.S.W. subsidiaries are H. H.
Webb (N.S.W.) Pty., and Hoile
Advances Pty. In Queensland
there are H. H. Webb Pty.,
Web wood Pty., and Hoile (Q.)
Pty. The New Zealand sub-
sidiary is H. H. Webb (N.Z.),
Ltd.
During the term to June 30,
1960, consolidated net profit
of the group was £77,769
(allowing £50,000 for taxation
at post-Budget rates), an in-
crease of £15,256 on the pre-
ceding year, and equal to 21
p.c. on average ord. capital,
after providing for the prefs.
On paid capital at the end of the
year the rate was 22.3 p.c.
The ord. dividend was lifted
from 10 p.c. in 1957 to 11.6
p.c. in 1958, and for the past
two years it has been at the
rate of 15 p.c.
Paid capital at the end of
the year was £372,500, all of
it in ords. with the exception
of £30,000 of 5 p.c. pref.
money. Fixed assets are in at
the modest valuation of
£386,000. There are £181,312
of term liabilities, and surplus
liquids of £401,263.
Net tangible assets amounted
to Bs. Bd. per ss. stock-unit at
June 30. The sharemarket puts
a price of 13s. on these units,
for an immediate yield of
5.5 p.c.
No Surprise on Ore
[From Canberra]
TThe Government’s decision to
lift the embargo on the
export of iron-ore from Aus-
tralia has come as no real
surprise.
For more than 12 months
now it has been under strong
pressure to lift the 22-year-old
ban on exports, but has been
wary of making a decision be-
cause of the possible political
repercussions.
According to the statement
by National Development
Minister Senator Spooner,
there will be no “open go” on
exports, and every precaution
will be taken to ensure that
sufficient supplies are retained
for domestic needs.
The Government’s move is
believed to be part of a care-
fully designed plan to unob-
trusively give “behind - the-
scenes” assistance to a general
build-up of exports.
It is believed that there is a
ready market for more than
£2O-million worth of iron-ore
in the East, particularly in
Japan, and the Government
does not want this opportunity
to pass unnoticed.
The Government hopes that
modification of the export ban
will aid foreign-exchange re-
serves, which are a problem of
the first magnitude today.
The final decision to ease the
embargo was reached following
a comprehensive report by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources,
which showed that limited
exports could be permitted
without endangering Australia’s
own supplies.


LIMITED
PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LTD.
£300,000
NOW OPEN
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
LONG TERM
7.
PEHNHUM |7%*Thum
3]c 18 YEARS j FOR 2 YEARS
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURE STOCK OF 2 YEARS AND OVER
RECEIVED ON OR BEFORE 31 ST DECEMBET 1960 HAVE THE SPECIAL
RIGHT OF PARTICIPATION
IN THE FORTHCOMING ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES BY
WYNYARD HOLDINGS LIMITED.
SHORT TERM
► *i% per annum for 12 months %6% per annum for 9 months
i per annum for 6 months Q 4-)% per annum for 3 months
Applications will be accepted only on the application form
attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited. • Project Development Corporation Limited, 291
George Street, SYDNEY. • Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Colin A. Gray, Chairman E. S.
Clementson, Managing Director, H. S. Clementson, E. A.
Fenton, H. Hawking, B. G. Hely.
BROKERS for the ISSUE: William Tilley, Hudson,
Evans & Co., (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
BROKERS for the issue in VICTORIA: Clarke & Co.,
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
291 George Street, Sydney.
Please forward a Prospectus with Application Form to
NAME
ADDRESS
N.Z.F.P. and Whakatane
N.Z. Forest Products-
Whakatane Board merger
scheme came as a surprise for
the N.Z. sharemarket, though
it seems entirely logical.
As the chairmen of the two
companies have pointed out,
the merger will prevent the
possibility of wasteful dupli-
cation of plant and should
result in economies in produc-
tion and distribution.
The delicensing of the pulp-
and-paper industry probably
gave Sir David Henry and Mr
Mackley the incentive to get
together.
While the industry was
licensed, fields of activity were
defined. Broadly, N.Z. Forest
Products produces wallboard,
kraft-paper, pulp and timber ;
Whakatane, cardboard, timber
and pulp ; Tasman, newsprint,
timber and pulp. Delicensing
has opened up the possibility
of unrestricted competition.
Mr Mackley showed some
concern about this in his last
annual report. He expressed
the opinion that the increas-
ing demand for pulp-atid-paper
products would be sufficient to
keep all those engaged in the
industry fully occupied in their
own sphere of operations.
“Any attempt to steal the
other man’s market will, in my
view, not benefit anyone, and
can only lead to a good deal
of disruption and disturb-
ance,” he said. He warned,
however, that should other
interests decide to enter the
field allocated to Whakatane
over fh e l ast 21 years Whaka-
tane would be “quite ready to
to its activities and pursue
a policy of meeting any
changes as they arise,
Mow, as the outcome of
negotiations, Forest Pro-
ducts has offered two of its
ordinaly £1 shares for each of
1,520,000 ordinary £1
? ha Ir*?. 1 r *?. of Whakatane Board,
including recently
issaed ’ when the y are full F
P aia -
On the basis of a market-
value of 395. (N.Z.) for Forest
Products’ shares, the bid was
worth a total of close to £6
million (N.Z.).
Mr Mackley seems to have
made a good deal for his
shareholders, but there is no
reason to think that Sir David
doesn’t know what Whakatane
is worth. He is getting a well-
established company, with an
excellent record of growing
earnings. Since 1950 Whaka-
tane’s annual profit has risen
from £75,653 to £254,656. Re-
serves have increased from
£85,921 to £614,775. Ordinary
dividends have been paid regu-
larly since 1948, and the rate
has risen from 5 per cent, to
this year’s 10 per cent., which
included 2 per cent, bonus.
Forest Products paid its first
ordinary dividend in the form
of preference shares, in 1957,
and its first ordinary cash divi-
dend, 7 per cent., this year.
On full acceptance of its
offer, Forest Products will
have to issue 3,040,000
ordinary £1 shares, increasing
its paid ordinary capital to
£8,244,231.
For that it will acquire net
assets shown in Whakatane’s
last balance - sheet at
£1,614,775, plus £195,000 in
premiums paid on the new
issue of 520,000 shares, plus
£520,000 still to be paid on
these shares, plus Whakatane’s
net earnings since June 30, less
the preference shareholders’
proportion.
fixed assets,
’ * shown in the last balance-
sheet at £2,143,399, represent
plant, most of which was
bought at far below present
costs and which has, in addi-
tion, been heavily written-
down over the years. In the
last four years alone deprecia-
tion has * amounted to
£1,235,321.
Whakatane’s last profit
(£212,566 after deduction of
the preference dividend) would
be enough to cover Forest
Products’ current 7 per cent,
dividend on the new capital of
£3,040,000, which it will have
to issue to finance the deal.
That is allowing nothing for
earnings on the £715,000 to be
raised by Whakatane’s recent
share-issue.
The projected earning-rate of
7 per cent .-plus on the new
capital is considerably less
than the 13.9 per cent, which
Forest Products earned on its
present ordinary capital last
year.
But it is a conservative
figure. Whakatane’s latest
profit of £254,656 appeared to
be modestly stated. It was
reached after provision of
£340,928 for depreciation,
£50,000 for obsolescence,
£329,118 for tax and after
£20,000 had been set aside for
a special purpose.
/Combined net profits of
Forest Products and
Whakatane for 1959-60, after
deduction of preference divi-
dends, amounted to £935,437.
This would represent an earn-
ing-rate of 11.3 per cent, on
Forest Products’ ordinary cani
tal of £8,244,231 after the
merger.
This calculation takes no
account of the two companies’
rapidly growing potential.
Last year, for instance, Forest
Products’ profit increased by
18.5 per cent, and Whakatane’s
by 25.8 per cent.
No offer has been made for
the 600,000 Whakatane prefer-
ence shares, but Sir David has
given an assurance that holders
have nothing to worry about.
The company has “something
in mind for them.” These
shares carry a dividend of 5
per cent., but participate with
the ordinaries up to 7 per cent.
Forest Products is paying that
rate now.
The merger negotiations
were a well-kept secret, though
there appeared to be a leak
just before the announce-
ment. Whakatane shares
jumped 3s. 9d. to 435. 9d.
(N.Z. currency) at the after-
noon call. The next day they
were quoted 655., 795. in
Wellington, 705., 765. 6d. in
Auckland. They settled at 675.
Forest Products, which had
been around 405., eased to
395., then to 375. The market
for these shares seems certain
to be depressed for a while, not
because too much is being paid
for Whakatane but simply be-
cause of the proposed huge
increase in the number of
Forest Products shares and the
likelihood that some of the
new holders will want to take
their profit.
'T'he merger will make
Forest Products easily
New Zealand’s largest com-
pany. Tasman, at present the
largest, has a paid capital of
£6 million.
Paid capital of Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., at last
balance-date, June 30, 1960,
was £1,600,000 in £1,000,000
ordinary and £600.000 prefer-
ence. Since then 520,000 new
ordinary shares have been
issued at 7s. 6d. premium. Only
the premium has so far been
paid. Reserves at balance-
date were £614,775. Net profit
for the latest year was
£254,656, representing an earn-
ing rate of 21.2 per cent, on
ordinary capital. Preference
dividend of 7 per cent, took
£42,000, ordinary dividend of
8 per cent, £BO,OOO and 21st
anniversary bonus of 2 per
cent. £20,000.
Paid capital of N.Z. Forest
Products is £7,235,862
£5,204,231 ordinary and
£2,031,631 preference. R e '
serves at last balance-date,


PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Eevel 9, Kindersley House, Telephones:
20 O’CONNELL ST., and 33 BLIGH ST., BW 4011 \ r lilw>a
SYDNEY BW 5505 j ° 1 es
Telegrams Address: BRING STOCK EXCHANGE, SYDNEY
Cables Address: EINWAR, SYDNEY
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables and Telegrams
BW 8171 (3 lines) BL 5327 “EMDECELEX,” Sydney
March 31, 1960, were
£3,743,813. Net profit for the
latest year was a record
£839,600, representing an earn-
ing-rate of 13.89 per cent, on
ordinary capital. Preference
dividend of 5f per cent, took
£116,819 and ordinary dividend
of 7 per cent., £364*296. The
latest profit of £839,600 was
reached after provision of
£790,108 for depreciation and
£645,650 for tax. Fixed assets
have been written-down by
£6,681,852, or 49 per cent, of
original cost. They are now
shown at £13,553,090.
H.-p. Losses
[From Herbert Holman in London]
'T'he hire-purchase debt in the
United Kingdom, which
showed an average monthly
rise of £25 million in the
period November, 1958, to
April, 1960, has fallen by £l6
million since last August, wherr
the effects of the credit-squeeze
were first felt.
Greater caution on the part
of the finance-companies may
also account for some of the
fall. To add to the catastrophic
losses (Western Credit £400,000,
S. J. Claye £500,000, the col-
lapse of Charterhouse Credit
and undisclosed amounts from
other big concerns —an esti-
mated £lO million in all),
Wood Hall Trust has written-
off the whole of its-original
investment of £175,000 in a
subsidiary that has lost most of
its share-capital.
Surprisingly, there is some
controversy about the decision
of seven large industrial
bankers to sponsor “Kemp’s
Mercantile Gazette” as a cen-
tral register of information.
The objections are not only
from Members of Parliament
who are sensitive to anything
that smacks of infringement of
individual liberty. Mr J. Gib-
son Jarvie, chairman of United
Dominions Trust, whose hire-
purchase debt is in the region
of £125 million, looks upon
the venture as a sign of weak-
ness, contending that these
companies want a central regis-
ter because they “don’t know
how to make investigations
themselves.” U.D.T. use
Kemp’s and other agencies, but
only for published information
about fraudulent people. The
joint-stock banks are also
believed to disfavor the project.
All mortgagors, of course,
make status inquiries, but, with
a satisfactory bank reference
and, in the instance of young
borrowers, a responsible
guarantor, are usually satisfied
if nothing adverse is revealed.
That usually applies to mort-
gages on house-property. With
consumer-goods on hire-pur-
chase many well-established
firms are content to use their
own judgment to size-up the
applicant and call for two
references.
The question that is being
asked about the future, with
the inevitable extension (despite
the recent chastening experi-
ences) of hire-purchase, is
whether the intention is to build
up a credit-rating system, add-
ing many more millions of
names to the five-million
already filed at Kemp’s. In
other words, will a prospective
customer have to produce a
card showing his rating?
It is unlikely, at any rate, in
the near future. There is
plenty of scope for expansion
in hire-purchase finance, even
with very selective methods of
choosing the borrower. More-
over, the hire-purchase controls
have had the effect of influenc-
ing shoppers into the multiple-
shops for cash purchases.
These people have certainly not
set money aside as a replace-
ment-fund against deteriorat-
ing household goods and gad-
gets. So that, next time the
controls are eased, the pres-
sure from free-spending but
nonetheless creditworthy cus-
tomers will be firm and in-
sistent.
Ravensfhorpe Copper
■O avensthorpe Copper
Mines, N.L., has completed
negotiations with Mitsui Min-
ing and Smelting Co., Ltd., of
Tokyo, Japan, regarding
Japanese participation in the
co.’s operations in Australia.
Mitsui Mining will be
allotted 400,000 10s. contribs.
in Ravensthorpe Copper at the
paid-up value of Bs. a unit. The
shares will rank equally with
contribs. already issued. The
balance of 2s. a share will be
payable in calls “as and when
made.”
Under terms of the agree-
ment, Ravensthorpe will sell
the whole output of copper
concentrates to Mitsui Mining.
Purchase terms are subject to
periodic reviews, and will
ensure that Ravensthorpe re-
ceives world-parity price at all
times.
The co.’s chairman, M. R.
Lodge, says that the additional
capital will be used for de-
velopment of the Ravensthorpe
field.
The Victorian - registered
Ravensthorpe Copper is min-
ing for uranium and copper at
Dundas and Ra-venthorpe in
W.A. After the Mitsui deal is
through, paid capital will be
£925,000.
TRADING BANKS ' LIQUIDITY
UNDER PRESSURE
A.N.Z. Bank Chairman's Statement
The rising tempo of business
activity in Australia, the high rate
of internal spending connected with
the marked extension of non-bank
credit, the virtual removal of
import restrictions and the severe
restriction of bank credit are
features of the Statement by the
Chairman of A.N.Z. Bank Limited,
the Hon. Sir Geoffrey C. Gibbs,
K.C.M.G., in the Bank’s Annual
Report.
CONTAINING INFLATION
“The rise in the general level of
business activity and particularly
the lift in imports during 1960 have
made heavy demands on the trading
banks for increased overdraft
accommodation. At the same
time, the drain in oversea currency
resources, caused by the excess of
import payments over export
receipts, substantially reduced bank
liquid funds. The tight credit
conditions imposed by the Reserve
Bank in 1960 made the task of
providing liquid funds to meet the
substantially increased volume of
imports extremely difficult. Hence
A.N.Z. Bank, in line with other
Australian trading banks, has been
forced seriously to restrict credit
in compliance with Reserve Bank
policy.
“The situation focuses attention
upon an element in the Australian
monetary scene which can only be
viewed with concern. The high
rate of internal spending was closely
connected with the marked exten-
sion of the use of non-bank credit,
and was most evident in the upward
movement in hire-purchase con-
tracts outstanding. Investment acti-
vities, based partly on expectations
of capital appreciation and of a
semi-speculative type, became more
numerous, and supported the growth
of investment institutions of one
kind and another outside the
banking system.
“The activities of these institu-
tions have been stimulated by the
tight credit policy applied officially
to the banks with little mitigation
over a long period,, which has
inhibited the banking system from
covering the full field of finance
for legitimate trade expansion and
industrial development.
IMPORT EXPERIENCE
“The feature of the Australian
import scene until the virtual
removal of restrictions announced
in February, 1960, was that the
licensing system operated to permit
the influx of factory plant and
equipment and raw materials for
industry virtually without restric-
tion, but imposed severe limitations
on the inflow of consumer goods.
The expansion of consumer demand,
which followed the wage increases
of the second half of 1959, has
been met partly by imported goods,
and, as a result, the flow of imports
increased substantially in the
months from May onwards. While
this would appear to have been
partially a response to the policy
of providing goods to absorb the
increased spending power in the
community, thereby reduping the
tendency towards price increases, it
has brought considerable problems
for the banking system.
CREDIT NEEDS
“Fiscal policy, in the August,
1960, Budget, was aimed at apply-
ing a degree of deflationary pres-
sure, to support the tight credit
policy in the banking structure, by
means of some increases in per-
sonal tax and company tax and
a Budget surplus. Additional
measures 'were announced in
November to attract funds to the
banking system to damp down the
level of spending both on imports
and internally on activities of a
less essential nature by raising bank
interest rates and providing for
greater flexibility in rates charged
on overdrafts. In addition, direct
action has been taken through the
Federal Taxation powers to dis-
courage the high rate of fixed
interest borrowing by public com-
panies, including those financial and
other institutions on the fringes of
the banking system which were
stimulating inflationary pressures.
“It is important, therefore, that
the restrictive policies should not
be pressed too far, perhaps to
the point of restricting national
development.” Sir Geoffrey con-
cluded : “For this reason, the policy
announced in November should
prove a step in the right direction
by providing some scope for exten-
sion of activity by the banking
system, thus enabling it effectively
to compete for investment -in legiti-
mate trade and production at
reasonable rates of interest.”


Christmas in the Asylum
By KYLIE TENNANT
This year was the first
time I missed the Christ-
mas Party at the lunatic
asylum. Nice people say
“mental hospital” but who ever
heard of a hospital being men-
tal? Whereas all asylums are
probably lunatic. For some
years now Our Group has been
visiting patients who have no
other visitors, people whose
relatives have forgotten them
or cannot face the recurrent
misery of a visit to the hopeless
but harmless inmate. Our
Group wrote to a small church
paper asking for volunteers and
I turned up at the asylum gates
clutching a brown-paper bag
of cakes. Usually Our Group
is half-a-dozen elderly women
motivated by a stubborn Puri-
tan urge to do something other
people avoid. One Saturday
afternoon a month isn’t much
to give. Relatives are not
always the best visitors to
people who are emotionally or
nervously disturbed. Indeed
they may be the reason why
the patient is now behind those
high stone walls.
Some of Our Group came
many many miles. No men ever
came. Not even to visit the
men. When the full faithful
half-dozen were gathered at the
gates we would walk in between
high stone walls to the door of
the house with barred windows.
When we rang the bell we
waited until there was a great
unlocking and a sister led us
through the waiting - room
where People - With - Visitors
were already murmuring to-
gether at little tables in a
crepuscular twilight due to the
narrow barred windows. There
were flowers on the tables to
make things a little brighter.
More unlocking, and we filed
into the big room where our
twenty - odd patients were
ranged round the walls. They
were always well dressed and
had on rouge and lipstick. I
sometimes suspected that the
nurses filled them with stimu-
lants before we arrived.
Twenty patients to be got ready,
helped to dress, made presen-
table. And after we left they
must be changed back again
to their prison-drab.
As a general rule conversa-
tion is not difficult. The patients
have so few breaks in their
routine that they remember in
minute detail the times they
have come to my house for
afternoon tea or the picnic we
took them the day we managed
to get enough cars. Our Group
was a little nervous of taking
the patients out.
“And how many nurses?”
our leader asked when she
made arrangement/s for the
picnic.
“Oh we couldn’t spare any
nurses,” Matron answered.
But we found we never had
any trouble. Years of walking
two by two have quite des-
troyed their urge to indepen-
dent action. But we seldom
have enough cars to take them
all out, although they love to
go. Occasionally we fluke a
musician or someone who
shows slides. The patients are
very polite however bad the
show is. They watch TV and
tell us about the programmes.
And they have pictures once a
week.
T made a mistake the first day
I visited. I kissed a patient
good-bye. All the others came
pressing forward eagerly and
Our Group found itself com-
mitted to the innovation. The
nurses used to look at us with
a kind of horror. One mem-
ber, explaining her absence,
said she had only just recovered
from the cold she caught the
time before. But we go on
exchanging germs with The
Girls. Some of The Girls are
grey, half-blind, a little vague.
The nurses bring in the
sweetened institution tea in big
jugs and Our Group sets out
cream cakes, sandwiches,
scones, little tarts. We all
bring food. We give out sweets
and distribute cigarettes. (“No
leaving knives about and be
careful of the matches.” Mat-
ron’s request.) We issue maga-
zines. Somehow the heavy
thick institution atmosphere dis-
solves and everyone is talk-
ing freely. An impatient pretty
nurse unlocks doors and stands
swinging her keys. It is time
to go.
We visit the men on the
third Saturday. I find the men
harder to take. Nobody bothers
to dress them up for us and
there are so many of them that
it is hard for Our Group to
talk to everyone. Sometimes
there are sixty men. They are
all dressed in a strange mixture
of cast-off clothing and Our
Group sometimes arrives with
a pair of boots that might fit
Joe or a suit someone’s hus-
band has sent for Dick. The
stone-walled room is crowded
with broken and terrible faces
and new members show a ten-
dance to huddle, casting
frightened looks around them.
'T'he highlight of the year is
■*- the Christmas Party Our
Group gives the men and
women patients together. It
is dangerous to meet me any
time before the Christmas
Party. Earlier in the year I am
being very charming to people
who may have cars for the
picnic. Towards Christmas I
am looking for recruits for the
party ; the more people come
the more food there is. You
can usually depend on the local
church guild if they don’t have
other engagements. We are
always looking for entertainers.
If you have enough people
from outside you can break
down the heavy presence of the
warders, most of them New
Australians looking puzzled and
slightly uneasy. Members -of
other Groups come to help and
this leads to mistakes.
I was taking one stout old
lady to the washroom. We both
had on festive paper hats from
the party and we met a rather
peculiar looking woman on the
landing. For our Christmas
Party we have the big new
recreation hall.
“Where are you from? ’’she
asked.
“I’m from Ward One,” I said.
“I’m from the Ryde annexe.
I’ve only been there a short
time.” I said I understood
that Ryde was quite good. We
looked at each other guardedly.
Later, outside the gates she got
into a most impressive car and
drove off all alone.
I certainly thought she was
a patient.
The Christmas Party always
gets off to a slow start with that
abominable community singing.
It never lifts my spirits to hear
a hallful of patients chanting:
“Daisy, daisy, give me your
answer do. I’m half crazy all
for the love of you.”
But by the time we file down
to the refreshment-room for
soft drinks and party food and
paper hats and presents and
Santa Claus the party is swing-
ing,
Usually I try to take my
children and any of their
friends who will come. The
patients never see any children.
Last year I found an old
grouch (who refuses to talk to
me) sitting beside my son talk-
ing and smiling and presenting
him with sweets and comic
papers. He had also given him a
bottle opener from his collec-
tion. He had about twenty
bottle openers stowed away in
odd nooks in his clothes. They
came in handy for opening fizzy
drinks at the Party. Another
patient eagerly unknotted a
dirty handkerchief full of
pennies. “Here sonny,” he
said. “The barber sometimes
lets me sweep up his shop. He
throws pennies down in the hair
for me to find. Here’s one for
you.” They love to give. They
have so few chances to give
anything. We distribute little
bags of sweets and the thrill
for a patient is to hold out the
bag and ask you to have one.
man I most disliked at
A one Christmas Party was
the caretaker of the hall. He
couldn’t stand us. “Come on,”
he shouted. “You’ve been
magging there long enough.
How about getting out of
here?” I was pleased last year
to find him gone. He treated
everyone like the patients.
Apart from the grim and ter-
rible buildings which they hope
to replace when they have the
money our lunatic asylum is
not bad by Australian stan-
dards. Of course when you
read what psychiatrists are
doing in England and America
you can only hope some of it
will seep out to the colonies.
Nothing can be done unless
you spend money, but even if
enough money were spent 1
don’t suppose you would ever
see such startling innovations
as a doctor asking the patients
to call him and the rest of the
staff by their first names. He
said it broke down the dread
and suspicion that is in
America. Even in an ordinary
hospital most doctors float by
in a cloud of glory with nurses
in awe and reverence. It lS
just something our doctors
wouldn’t sacrifice. The worse
doctors they are the more they
have this God-complex. But
they aren’t doing badly within
their limits.


OVERSEAS
Nato as a Nuclear Power
IN a speech to the Nato Parlia-
mentary conference in Paris
last month General Norstad,
Supreme Allied Commander in
Europe, suggested a basic pool
of nuclear weapons—strategic
as well as tactical —which
would, in effect, make Nato
a Fourth Nuclear Power.
The proposal met with a
mixed reception from the
British press. Manchester
“Guardian” said the idea had
three purposes and all were
political rather than military:
“They are to save individual
nations from building up inde-
pendent nuclear armaments, to
let members of Nato share in
the control of nuclear weapons,
and to increase the authority of
the alliance. These are useful
purposes and they make a
strong case for creating the
fourth nuclear Power.
“The objections also are
threefold. They are that in
practice some individual nations
may still want to make their
own atomic arms, that joint
control may be slow and
clumsy, and that the military
commanders may be even more
ready than now to risk using
their nuclear weapons without
waiting for political approval.
The last is the most serious
objection. Nevertheless the
plan seems well worth pursu-
ing.
“Would it, in practice, en-
courage or discourage Govern-
ments from going their own
Way? Two Governments par-
ticularly are concerned—those
of France and West Germany.
General Norstad refrained
from counting France among
the existing nuclear Powers,
because her nuclear weapons
are not yet operational. But
he must have been thinking
of France first when he recog-
nised that the plan for Nato
might not influence the wish
of some nations to pursue their
ownfindependent nuclear arms.
His caution is justified.
“Yet the creation of Nato
as a nuclear Power would cer-
tainly strengthen the voice of
those in France who believe
that President de Gaulle’s in-
sistence on having his own
striking-force is wasteful and
unnecessary. Still more, it
Would remove whatever argu-
ments exist in Bonn for seek-
lnB parity with the French. It
could not guarantee that indi-
“Westdeutsche Allgemeine,” Essen.
"...AND THIS GENTLEMAN WANTS TO PAY
THE NEXT ROUND.”
vidual nations would not seek
their own atomic arms, but it
would diminish the inducement.
“The question is one that the
North Atlantic Council has per-
sistently declined to face —
leaving General Norstad with
little alternative to acting on
his own, after consultation with
the White House. Now, how-
ever, the Council may have to
face it. The method of decision
•could be either by radio con-
sultation between Ministers in
a number of countries or
through a small political stand-
ing group in France.
“One formula, proposed
some time ago by Mr Gaitskell,
was that the Ministers should
be drawn from the country
supplying the nuclear weapons
to be used, that on whose ter-
ritory it was based, and that on
or nearest to whose territory
it would be used.
“This, with the possible addi-
tion of one of the smaller
nations such as Norway, would
make a manageable group. The
implication is that each mem-
ber of the group would have a
veto, that the other nations
would have to trust the deci-
sion of the group, and that
there would be as frequent
consultation as possible be-
tween the members of this
small group and the full North
Atlantic Council.
“The creation of Nato as a
nuclear Power is an idea worth
pursuing. But Nato remains
today excessively dependent on
nuclear weapons. Its conven-
tional force is too small and
too immobile to cope quickly
with any substantial crossing of
the land frontier. That means,
under the present strategy, too
early a use of nuclear weapons.
General Norstad himself rightly
says that the threshold must be
kept as high as possible. It can-
not be kept high while his con-
ventional force is weak.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman”
doesn’t like the plan at all:
“General Norstad says the
basic pool of nuclear weapons
would give all the members an
equal say in the control of
the weapons. But a mere pool
would not simplify the prob-
lem of how a decision to use
or not to use the weapons
would be taken. If it is merely
a matter of extending political
control of military decisions
that can be done, if at all.
while the weapons remain in
the hands of their present pos-
sessors. If it means anything
the pool proposal means that
they would be in the hands of
other members of Nato as well.
“Nato is not a Power but an
alliance of Powers ; Nato forces
are national armies. This
means that there would be not a
fourth or a fifth nuclear Power
but as many nuclear Powers
as there were members of Nato
in possession of the weapons.
Control would be extended
in the sense that any Power
could decide to use them ; it
would be diminished in the
sense that no other Power could
prevent this decision.
“There is absolutely no mili-
tary advantage for Nato de-
fence in spreading nuclear wea-
pons in this way. It is simply
a. sop to the pride of ex-Great
Powers, which cannot think
themselves great unless they
have them.”
London “Daily Herald” says
that militarily Norstad is quite
right. His problem is that he
has too few men. His target
of 30 divisions is short by at
least ten:
“His v aircraft-bases already
have Russian rockets pointed
at them ; they could be neutra-
lised in an hour. Beyond the
Iron Curtain he has hundreds
of targets at which he must
strike in the event of aggres-
sion : airfields, rocket-sites,
troop-marshalling areas, trans-
port-centres.
“He wants his own missiles
—his own atomic striking-
force —to make up for defi-
ciencies, which he considers
might be disastrous.
“Additionally, he seeks co-
hesion within Nato. He wants
no individual nation to make
nonsense of the Alliance by
the threat of unilateral atomic
war. Otherwise, his job be-
comes impossible.
“But, politically, the Fourth
Nuclear Power argument can-
not be sustained. It is unfor-
tunate —horribly unfortunate
—that because of the weakness
in its conventional arms Nato
has been driven to the idea that
any invasion from the East
must be met by nuclear wea-
pons in the field. That at once
sets the scene for global war.
“And any decision that might
result in a war of annihilation
must be that of the politicians,
the men who represent their
peoples, and not that of the
generals.”
To the London “Economist”
the proposal is “a package-plan
and not all the goods in it are


This Christmas...
Th is colourful "Dewar's Highlander" single bottle
presentation carton is available to assist you
in your Bottle Department sales—at no extra cost.
White
Label
MV»KL„
SCOTCH
74 sc,;
Jlti
3M
suss
~
HR 1 ! 1 .
, White Label"
Fine Scotch Wms«<
'%n Dewar & Sons l* 1
vc 9*-“ ’’sCOTIAI®
The Classic Blend of Scotch
Whiskies known to generations for
its consistently fine quality and dis-
tinctive character. More people than
ever are asking for it by name.
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured
and blended in Scotland
of equal value; nor are they
all accurately labelled”:
“The assumption is made that
France would be content to
exchange its present separate
nuclear ambitions for a share in
the Nato nuclear pool, to
which it would contribute, and
from which it would also
receive, expertise and hardware.
Most of the hardware, includ-
ing, ultimately, atomic sub-
marines and, immediately, land-
based missiles of 2000-miles
range, would come from the
United States, which would
put into the pool a whole range
of atomic arms now under
Presidential control, retaining
only a single finger among fif-
teen on their triggers and
safety-catches.
“One object of the plan is
to meet the growing difficulties
which the American arrange-
ments with individual countries
for joint control of nuclear
arms are running into. This,
General Norstad hopes, would
impart vigor and realism to
Nato itself.
“But General Norstad’s plan
leaves many questions un-
answered. The first is whether
General de Gaulle will play at
all, or whether he will continue
to insist that France must be-
come the Fourth Nuclear
Power itself, and that Nato
must be run by a Great Power
committee in deference to
French claims to greatness. He
will have an argument in the
omission from the plan of any
scheme to pool the British inde-
pendent contribution to the
deterrent.
“Behind this political stumb-
ling-block lies the greater prob-
lem whether Nato can be said
to be a Power at all. The
simple device of giving an
alliance a structure of nuclear
commands will not necessarily
give it the attributes of single-
ness, sovereignty and separate-
ness. There is still strength
in the contrary assertion, that
in a crisis each Power might
attempt to seize individual
control over the Nato missiles
mounted on its soil ; so that
there would then be no unified
command to fire the weapons.
Thus the final result might be
not one, but 15 nuclear Powers
at odds.”
Back to
One-party Rule
T ondon “Economist,” inter-
ested naturally more in the
international aspects of the
-United States Presidential
election than in its effect on
U.S. domestic policy, holds
that it is all to the good to
have a President of the same
political party as the Congress
majority:
“The Democrats next year
will have not only Congress but
the Presidency as well; this is
the end, for a while, of the coali-
tion habit, the split-ticket choice
of one monarchial man to
represent America in the world
and a party of another political
color to run affairs at home.
It will be plain where the
responsibility for American
policy lies ; and it is a gain, in
the world and in America, that
this should be so —just as it is
a gain both that a taboo against
a creed has been broken by
the election of a Catholic Presi-
dent and that it can be shown
that in the greatest of democ-
racies the rulers may be
changed without weakening
the national will.
“The change in political and
personal terms can be large.
As President, Mr. Kennedy will
have, as Mr. Nikon would not
have had, a formally friendly
alliance with Congress, at the
outset (though he will have
the reactionaries to cope with,
in both parties) ; and, in the
Administration, there will be
a new generation—a whole new
cast of players with new parts.
Yet one thing is quite certain:
in the world policies that affect
us all, it will be a change of
degree, not of kind, of mood
and attitude and outlook, not
of direction. The narrow defeat
of Mr. Nixon, and the honest,
brashly denunciatory rhetoric
of the winner, must not dis-
guise the fact that, during the
Eisenhower epoch that is now
ending, the United States con-
sistently recognised, sometimes
with startling liberality, its new
Obligations in the world. What
the President-elect can claim,
as he does claim vehemently,
is not that he will do differently
but that he will do very much
better. And, whatever the
qualifications, the point is that
he has won.
“Mr. Kennedy’s claim, his-
torically an impudent one, is
that the Democrats, both at
home and therefore abroad,
Will be vastly more efficient
than the Republicans. They
will be ‘active’ not ‘passive.’
Instead of just ‘holding the
line,’ they will ‘advance the
frontiers’: of the American
economy and its social oppor-
tunities and public provisions;
of America’s armed strength
in concert with its allies; of
America’s diplomacy on the
basis of that strength in pursuit
of peace ; and of the positive-
American contribution to world
development. It is a big bid,
with a big bill to foot. No
more than any other country
can even the United States
spend in the ’sixties the wealth


it may hope to have in the
’eighties ; and the eager Demo-
crats will find, when they get
to Washington, that even the
United States has in these days
to look to its balance of pay-
ments.
“It all turns on the real rate
of growth, on the level of
activity and the balance of in-
vestment and saving, that a
new New Deal might generate.
The largest danger is not of
financial irresponsibility or im-
providence ; Mr. Kennedy will
have too many canny economic
advisers for that. The chances
are still that when he arrives
in Washington the nation’s
capacity and resources will be
under-used not over-demanded.
The danger is rather of disap-
pointment when the cloth has
to be measured for the new and
many-pieced Democratic coat.
But the bill is one which only
the United States could, and
should, think of footing. This
can still be the American cen-
tury, though the Russian up-
rush suddenly seemed to have
shortened it to a single Ameri-
can decade.”
U.S. Ford Buys U.K.
Ford
'T'he bid by the American
Ford Company for com-
plete control of its U.K. sub-
sidiary raised the sort of storm
in Britain that U.S. ownership
of General Motors-Holden's
'evokes in Australia.
The British Government was
urged by Labor M.Ps. to with-
hold Treasury consent to the
deal, which involved an offer
of $3OO million for the British-
held 30 per cent, of the share
capital.
Most responsible opinion
has taken the view that Britain,
a big investor in the industry
of other countries (including
the U.S.) must recognise that
investment is a two-way traffic
and could not object to the
deal. Most also expressed con-
cern that so large a proportion
of the British car-industry was
now in American hands.
London “Observer” held
that in the present state of
British law there was no case
for refusing consent. It asked:
“How can it be argued that
what is good for General
Motors, who own all of Vaux-
hall, can be wicked for Ford,
which is offering $3OO million
to secure a similar 100 per cent,
ownership at Dagenham?
“The real issue is not the
United Kingdom versus Ford,
but where, in fact, a line could
and should be drawn between
attracting foreign capital into
Britain, which is a good thing,
and abdicating all national res-
ponsibility for major sectors of
British industry, which is not.
“The advantage Britain has
already derived from American
capital in this country should
be self-evident. Far from being
prejudicial to Britain’s foreign
trade, the operations of Ameri-
can-financed firms in this coun-
try account for more than 15
per cent, of our whole export
earnings. They also help deci-
sively to keep Britain abreast of
the latest technological pro-
gress. These firms are esti-
mated to have access collec-
tively to the results of 25 to
30 per cent, of American re-
search and development—in
other words, to a great deal
more than the whole United
Kingdom expenditure by pri-
vate companies on research.
“One solution put forward
for limiting the risks has been
that the Government should set
up a special body to keep an
eye on foreign businesses in
Britain. But an equally good
case might be made for addi-
tional control over British firms
with major international rami-
fications.
“A more promising way of
meeting public anxiety without
discriminating against foreign
investors would be to insist by
legislation, as many countries
do already, that a proportion
of capital in any foreign firms
should be nationally owned. A
British share in the ownership
of Ford or Vauxhall, with con-
sequent British presence on the
board of directors, would not
involve Government interven-
tion, but the local man might
be more aware of local interests
and more sensitive to local
pressures anyway people
would expect him to be.
“But it is certainly not the
American investors’ fault that
many branches of British in-
dustry, including cars, are still
not internationally competitive
enough. A higher rate of
modernisation, wider facilities
for transition from one pro-
duct to another, a more flexible
response to international de-
mand —in other words a more
dynamic and expansionist in-
vestment policy—are what
Britain now needs to keep itself
in business.”
Manchester “Guardian,”
approving the decision, says
that the question is not one of
national sentiment, but whether
there are sufficient reasons “for
risking the damage that might
be done by withholding con-
sent” :
“To have obstructed the bid
might have harmed the British
economy in two ways—one
specific and one general. The
specific danger would have
been a decision by the Ameri-
can Ford company to concen-
trate its future development in
Europe in its wholly-owned
German subsidiary which
happens also to be inside the
tariff-ring of the Common
Market. But to have withheld
consent might also have done
wider damage to Britain’s repu-
tation for fair dealing in inter-
national economic affairs.
“British investors have
sought, and found, opportuni-
ties for investment abroad—in
the United States as well as in
other countries. The Govern-
ment would have needed to
have strong reasons to have
decided now to discriminate
against one particular Ameri-
can company seeking to place
additional capital in this coun-
try.”
After initial doubts London
“Financial Times” found the
decision “no less welcome for
being almost inevitable”:
“Even more welcome than
the decision itself, however, is
the manner in which Mr. Lloyd
went about explaining it. He
made no attempt to argue that
a practical choice should rest
on blind adherence to a general
principle. The Ford case, he
made it clear, was decided on
the facts of the particular situa-
tion after seeking information
and assurances from the com-
pany on matters which have
aroused legitimate public
anxiety.
“He went out of his way
to, stress the possibility that the
Government might oppose
transfer of control in other
cases, however commercially
attractive the offer, for reasons
of national security or because
of the special part played t>y a
firm or an industry in the eco-
nomy. The whole tenor of his
statement (not least his admis-
sion that the adequacy of the
Ford offer had been officially
considered) suggests that he
takes a broad, commonsense
view of the Government’s re-
sponsibility in administering
this type of control.
“This attitude is undoubtedly
the right one. Now that it is no
longer politically necessary to
make an unreal antithesis be-
tween absolute freedom and
rigid control, it is as well to
admit that economic principles
are not inflexible, and that prac-
tical decisions involve a choice
between different principles and
a balancing of different advan-
tages. |
“There is a good general
Cartoonist Cummings, of London “Daily Express," notes an “alarming outbreak of
bite-the-hand-that-fed-you disease."


w
m
W
<32^
C.B.C.
SAVINGS BANK
INTEREST
INCREASED
TO
3>
PER ANNUM
on balances up to £2,509
as from Ist January, 1961
Interest on Societies 1 and Clubs 1
cheque accounts increased to 3£%
up to £2,500 and thereover I|%
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
a subsidiary of
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
case against Government inter-
ference with the flow of pri-
vate-investment capital. But
there is no need to pretend that
foreign investment may not
sometimes bring disadvantages
as well as benefits and that
Governments may not some-
times have to interfere at an
early stage to obviate more
violent and discriminatory
interference later on.
“Mr Lloyd, therefore, is to
be doubly congratulated—first
for having taken the right deci-
sion, second, for having taken
it on the facts of the particular
case without prejudicing his
freedom to make a different
decision in another case should
the facts warrant it.”
Strains in Spain
"Crom London “Economist”:
-*■ “A succession of events
in November has suggested
that General Franco’s regime
is continuing to feel insecure
and threatened internally.
“Prison terms of from four
to 20 years were imposed on
17 men and one woman who
were convicted of having
attended a congress of the
Spanish Communist party in
Prague, and similar heavy sen-
tences were inflicted on five
members of a “Communist” cell
in Cordoba province. Both
trials were conducted by mili-
tary courts, in accordance with
a new decree, an up-to-date
version of a 1943 law, defining
various offences as ‘military
rebellion’: the wide scope of
the decree can be judged from
the fact that ‘military rebellion’
covers such crimes as strikes,
conspiracy and the dissemina-
tion of false or tendentious
news with intent to discredit
the Government. By a judi-
cious severity and new legis-
lation the Caudillo evidently
hopes to deter would-be chal-
lengers of his supremacy.
“Such challengers have
recently shown their hands
from Left and Right, though
in no very alarming fashion.
Four or five Falangist youths
were arrested after one of
them called out that General
Franco was a traitor during an
official celebration of High
Mass. They will be tried by a
military court. And 240 lead-
ing intellectuals in all fields
have signed an appeal for the
rationalisation of the censor-
ship.
“In their declaration they
recognise that it would be illu-
sory to hope for the disappear-
ance of the censor, but they
feel they can at least ask for
explicit regulations, the right
of appeal, and an end to the
practice of anonymous censor-
ship ; as things are now, they
never know where they stand.”
Dragnet Digest
“ Manchester Guardian ” :
“The West cannot imitate
Communist techniques of sub-
version and propaganda; any
attempt to do so , would be
self-defeating. Communism is
a Messianic faith which
promises universal salvation.
To that it owes much of its
appeal. But the West has no
such single faith with which to
reply. The best summary of
the values for which the West
stands is that of Bernard
Shaw: ‘The only golden rule
is that there is no golden rule.’
This is an ideal worth fighting
for; but it is not an ideal
which can easily be turned into
propaganda slogans. Indeed,
as the 8.8. C. found during the
last war, the most effective
form of Western propaganda is
the unvarnished truth.”
* * *
Don Cook, in New York
“Herald Tribune “ The
Kennedy Administration could
perhaps best begin to sort out
its Nato and European poli-
cies by trying seriously to find
out what General de Gaulle
wants and how to give it to
him. There is certainly a
superficial case to be made for
the need for far greater top-
level strategic planning and
political co-ordination when
the Communist threat is no
longer a Nato threat but an
African threat, a South-east
Asian threat, a Middle East
threat.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Development of the North
Tn July, 1959, the Federal Government appointed a
Committee of Inquiry to investigate the possibility of
closer settlement in the Northern Territory, to report to
Territories Minister Hasluck on the state of agriculture
there, and to examine factors to be considered in shaping
a new agricultural policy for that vast, lonely area.
Committee members were : Dr H. C. Forster, Profes-
sor of Agriculture at Melbourne University (chairman);
Mr C. R. Kelly, M.H.R. for Wakefield (S.A.), a practical
farmer; and Dr D. B. Williams, officer-in-charge,
C.5.1.R.0. Agricultural Research Liaison Section and
former director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics.
The committee, formed because (as Mr. Hasluck said )
“thirteen years after the end of the war people wishing to
develop the Territory were getting impatient,” went out
to contact men on the land throughout ihe N.T.; members
visited the Territory twice, once towards the end of the
1959 “dry” and again in the “wet” in January this year.
'T'he report of the Committee
of Inquiry into closer-settle-
ment of the Northern Territory
has now been presented to Mr
Hasluck, Minister for Terri-
tories, and he has issued a
statement of its contents and
recommendations.
It is not clear from Mr Has-
luck’s statement whether the
report made any detailed study
of the ultimate potential of the
Territory. Probably it did not,
because there are many ques-
tions of vital importance still
unanswered about this subject.
There is a possibility that the
full report will be published and
made available to the public.
This would be welcome, be-
cause there is a great deal of
interest in the future of th;
Territory, both as an invest-
ment-project and as a possible
source of increased agricultural
production.
From the statement, the com-
mittee’s main recommendations
are:
(a) Establishment of pilot
farms to determine the
economics of farm-scale
rice-production and of
fattening beef-cattle on
improved-pastures in the
wet season.
(b) Development of these pilot
ventures into a settlement-
scheme to be administered
by a proposed Land Settle-
ment Commission.
The committee proposes that
pilot farms should be occupied
by new or existing settlers, who
should be given the best avail-
able technical advice, but be
bound to plant and rotate
recommended crops, using their
own methods and keeping the
profits for themselves. There
should be adequate provision
for assistance in the event of
failure, and for payment of a
minimum wage, with guaran-
teed prices, until the farms are
established.
The committee recommends
a system of land-tenure which
would permit transfer from
leasehold to freehold —a new
and revolutionary idea in the
Territory.
Crops considered most likely
to succeed are rice, pasture-
species and fodder-crops, but
there is a recommendation for
more research on peanuts and
on tobacco-diseases. Cost of
peanut-oil produced in the
Territory is high, but could
be lowered if an economic use
for peanut-meal could be found.
Among points to be investi-
gated about the economics of
peanut-production, the Com-
mittee considers the need for
a means of mechanical harvest-
ing important.
Land offering best prospects
of development lies in defined
areas, in all of which more
research on soils, pasture and
cattle is needed. There are
about 10,000 square-miles of
land in the Tipperary system
which runs north-east from
Katherine. Another big area
is the coastal plain, which in-
cludes the present rice-project
at Humpty Doo. The com-
mittee considers that more re-
search is needed here and
throughout the “Top End.”
Any discussion about
development of the North must
be largely concerned with
water. The committee recom-
mends investigation of under-
ground resources in parts of
Central Australia and, depend-
ing on results, suggests exami-
nation of the possibility of
growing cotton there; but
generally it is cautious about
hopes from underground sup-
plies. “Any idea of development
of the Northern Territory on a
grand scale by irrigation is far
from reality.” Recommenda-
tions are that the Water Re-
sources Board of the Admini-
stration and the Commonwealth
Bureau of Mineral Resources
should continue their efforts.
There are prospects that under-
ground water in the vicinity of
Alice Springs may be enough
to irrigate about 10,000 acres
of annual crops.
Cattle are already important
in the N.T., and the committee’s
findings cover two aspects of
this industry. The report says
that establishment of export-
killing facilities is the only way
to increase permanently the
cattle-carrying capacity of the
“Top End.” Research is also
needed into the economics and
possibilities of quality cattle-
production.
Provision of efficient and
economic wharf and port faci-
lities is the key to the develop-
ment of the cattle industry and
other agricultural production.
- The other main item of Mr
Hasluck’s summary deals with
provision of credit and finance
for development. Credit for
settlement-schemes likely to
arise from successful pilot
farms should be along the lines
of the War Service Settlement
scheme, the committee holds.
Provision of other rural credit
should be a recognised function
of existing credit-institutions
and of the Commonwealth
Development Bank. The Pri-
mary Producers’ Board should
then be abolished. Relief-
schemes for settlers hampered
by disasters, like fire or flood,
should be administered sepa-
rately from rural credit.
Several of the committee’s
recommendations have already
been put in hand. The
C.5.1.R.0. and the Administra-
tion are to undertake a soil-
survey of the Tipperary system
next dry season, and the
Administration will continue
experiments into new methods
of land-clearance.
C.E.W.
Wool Trade Winds
TTp and down the country,
growers are talking about
a reserve price for wool. Old
war-horses like Eric Hitchens,
in Western Australia, Bertie
Cole, in N.S.W., and Alan
Campbell, in Queensland to
name three reserve-price cham-
pions of earlier days are back
in the arena, full of fight.
In a sense, they have been
there all the time. But now
they have a much wider
audience. It is a sober
audience, anxious to hear both
sides.
So far most of the argument
has been in favor of a reserve
price. But this, old hands point
out, doesn’t necessarily mean
much. There could be effective
opposition if a nation-wide bal-
lot of woolgrowers is held on
a reserve-price plan.
But over the past few months
there has been a remarkable
series of public meetings in
country towns,
There was one last week, at
Orange, in the N.S.W. central-
west, organised by the local
branch of the Graziers’ Asso-
dation. No vote was taken, but
the reserve price was very much
on the agenda. Two of the
three speakers had addressed
a meeting at Armidale, in the
New England, a few days be-
fore, and all of them had been
on the platform at an earlier
public meeting at Walgctt, in
the north-west,
At Armidale, some 300
graziers voted almost unani-
mously for a reserve price,
But the Walgett meeting
was as good an indication as
any of the way the wind is
blowing. It was called by the
president of the Walgett Shire,


“I think he's had enough — he's full up to about here."
K. G. Colless, at the request
of the North-west Wool
Marketing Committee, a
recently formed body ; and 600
people turned up.
This, for a district of big
holdings, was an extraordinary
muster. But even for a closely-
settled district it would be out
of the ordinary. One of the
speakers, D. W. Bucknell, told
me that it was the biggest
gathering of rank-and-file
graziers he had ever seen. Mr
Bucknell should know. He is
a former president of the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
and is still a force in the asso-
ciation’s councils. He was also
one of the leaders in the “No”
—no floor-price—campaign.
Another leader, but in the
pro - floor - price camp, was
Claude Renshaw, former presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Wheat and
Woolgrowers’ Association, who
also spoke at Walgett. He
speaks of himself as coming
out of retirement to take up the
battle where it broke off in
1951 ; in that sense he is an
old war-horse —but a surpris-
ingly youthful one. Now in his
early forties, and looking a
shade younger, he is racy in
speech, and no mean orator.
What he had to say in the
Walgett Memorial Hall went
down very well with his
audience.
Tt is probable that a strict
A count of noses would show
that not all the 600 at Walgett
were woolgrowers, since the
committee, in its pre-meeting
publicity, made a point of in-
viting everyone. Townsfolk,
too, had a stake in the price
of wool. But the overwhelm-
ing majority in the Memorial
Hall were woolgrowers, and
many of them came a long way.
The meeting passed a resolu-
tion asking the Minister for
Primary Industry to hold a
ballot of woolgrowers on the
implementation of a floor-price
plan. For various reasons,
bound up with producer poli-
tics, this amounted to an en-
dorsement of a floor-price plan.
The Federal body pressing for
a ballot is the one that wants
a reserve price.
Although only nine votes
were recorded against the reso-
lution, it would not be accu-
rate to say that 591 voted for
it; some abstained. But there
was an impressive majority—in
fact, when the hands went up,
there was no need to take a
count. And all this becomes
more impressive if one agrees
with Jim O’Brien, chairman of
the wool-marketing committee,
that 70 per cent, of the graziers
went to the meeting intending
to vote against a floor price.
V. J. Williamson, BreWarrina
shire-president, got up on the
platform and said he had come
with that purpose, but had
changed his mind after hearing
the speakers. And, in the
course of discussion from the
floor, one or two others said
much the same. At post-mor-
tems that night a cross-section
of opinion inclined to Mr
O’Brien s estimate.
What swung them?
It was a strong team of
speakers—apart from those
already mentioned, B. Bremner,
from Condobolin, a member
of the Graziers’ Association
wool-marketing committee, K.
D. Watt, from Mudgee, a
former woolbuyer, and Peter
Heap, from Armidale, who has
studied wool at Bradford and
in the U.S. and has worked in
a family woollen mill in Aus-
tralia. Different points
appealed to different listeners.
I was fascinated by Mr Watt’s
revelations of international
juggling, while a number pre-
ferred Mr Renshaw's broader
outlines —but, cumulatively, the
arguments were impressive.
There is hardly space to go
into them here. The interesting
thing is their effect. This has
been commented on well be-
yond the immediate area. The
chairman of another wool-
marketing committee, at
Orange, remarked on it the
other day, and Alan Campbell,
when he was in Sydney recently,
also saw a good deal of signi-
ficance in it. And there have
been other examples.
The effect of D. W. Bucknell
crossing the floor must have
been considerable. No one
knew he was going to cfo it.
Speaking after Claude Ren-
shaw, he recalled that, back
in 1951, he had been one of
Claude's chief opponents. He
had changed his mind over the
last 12 to 18 months, he said,
“but this is probably the first
time I have admitted it.” What
had changed his mind was the
establishment of a Greasy Wool
Merino Futures Market in
Sydney. He now considered a
reserve price necessary to “re-
trieve the ground we have lost.”
Both Mr Bremner and Mr
Bucknell made it plain that they
were speaking as individuals,
not for the Graziers’ Associa-
tion. But the declaration in
favor of a' reserve price by
two such influential figures in
the association clearly discon-
certed some of the audience —
because the official policy of-
the Graziers’ Association is
opposed to a reserve price.
Tn policy, the association is
A bound by the decisions of its
last annual general conference.
But, it seems, a lot of water has
flowed under the bridge since
then.
The main strength of the
Graziers’ Association lies in
wool-districts like Walgett,
whereas the strength of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion —the other major producer
organisation interested in wool
in N.S.W. —lies more in the
mixed-farming and wool-and-
wheat districts. So a majority
of the graziers at the Walgett
meeting were also Graziers’
Association members—includ-
ing Jim O’Brien, chairman of
the North-west Wool Market-
ing Committee —although the
meeting was not sponsored by
the local branch of the Graziers’
Association.
Perhaps there is not a great
deal of significance in this.
Public meetings in other centres
are sometimes sponsored by
local branches of the F.S.A.,
sometimes by the Wool and
Wheat Growers’ Association
(soon to be amalgamated with
the F.S.A.), and sometimes by
the Graziers’ Association:
sometimes they are joint affairs.
But generally there is a ten-
dency to keep clear of organi-
sational ties.
On the other hand, there is
evidence of a gap, or time-lag,
in the opinions of different
echelons of producer-organisa-
tions concerning wool-market-
ing. This was brought out
clearly at Walgett by individual
speakers, who complained that
the resolution would cut across
the association’s policy in both
State and Federal fields.
Other, more forceful objec-
tions were that they had only
heard one side of the case.
This was true. But Jim O’Brien
maintains that his committee
tried to get someone of equiva-
lent tonnage to speak against a
reserve price, and couldn’t.
A week or so later the N.S.W.
Graziers’ General Council
met, and its wool-marketing
committee presented its report
on Wool Futures. It is critical of
some aspects, and recommends
more Government supervision.
Another interesting angle is
the attitude of wool-broking
firms to a reserve price. Eric
Hitchens, in his book, says that
at least one firm actively can-
vassed against the post-J.O.
plan ; generally the brokers
have been cool-to-unfriendly
towards a reserve-price plan in
the past.
The outstanding exception to
the rule, Alan Campbell —•
managing-director of the
Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association Ltd.
■—was asked his opinion of this
traditional attitude by brokers
recently, and he said he thought
that was all it amounted to:
tradition.
There are, of course, other
possibilities, including the
chance that a national market-
ing-body might one day make
direct sales. However, an inter-
esting straw in the wind has
been praise of the N.Z. floor-
price scheme in a recent Dal-
gety’s News Letter.
Meanwhile, the wool-market-
ing meetings are still going on.
JOHN FOUNTAIN.


Hstab'isherl 186.*
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON & T®
o'scujvav v y
■fty ltd 'fr
> '*.**■. fir (
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
3*
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
"The Times" on the Common Market
Allotted most space in a
London “Times” eight-
page agricultural supplement
(December 5) —and certainly
of importance to Australia and
New Zealand —is a discussion
of the effects on British agricul-
ture of developments towards
economic integration in
Europe.
On the question of the practi-
cability of Britain becoming a
member of the European Eco-
nomic Community, Mr Harold
Woolley, C.8.E., president of
the National Farmers’ Union
of England and Wales, con-
siders that enough information
is available to make it clear
that it would be undesirable
for Britain to do so on present
terms.
First/he points out, it would
mean a complete reversal of
present trading-policy with
countries of the British Com-
monwealth. Instead of giving
them preferential treatment,
Britain would be required to
discriminate against them.
Second, it would mean
abandoning Britain’s well-
proved domestic agricultural
policy, which ensures maxi-
mum freedom of international
trade and so makes available
to the British consumer the
widest variety of foodstuffs at
the 1 most favorable prices.
Third, if Britain became a
signatory of the Treaty of
Rome it would mean that
British agricultural policy
would be controlled from
E.E.C. headquarters in Brussels
rather than from Whitehall.
To Mr Woolley the wisest
course for Britain seems to be
to help, as a member of the
European Free Trade Area, in
promoting sound economic
relationships in agricultural
matters between the Six and
the Seven. He thinks this could
make a valuable contribution
towards solving problems of
food-production and market-
ing in Europe and could im-
prove the potentialities of
providing food for less-
developed areas of the world.
On the question of produc-
tion, Mr D. B. Wallace
examines the scale of British
agriculture as compared with
that of the Continent. He
points out that if farms are
substantially bigger in one
country than in another it
should be possible to have
smaller overheads for each unit
of production. The U.K. has a
larger proportion of holdings
over 300 acres than obtains in
any other European country.
On the subject of labor, Mr
Wallace explains how, though
British wage-rates are higher
in terms of cash than those
of most European countries
except Sweden, increased pro-
ductivity through intelligent
use of capital and recourse to
machinery gives Britain an
advantage in cereals and makes
her able to hold her own in
many other products, especi-
ally in livestock. Therefore
the British farmer has no
reason to fear Continental
competition and can approach
any integration—which, Mr
Wallace points out, is a politi-
cal problem rather than an
economic one —with an open
mind, though with a sharp eye
to the conditions in which it is
undertaken.
On the question of Com-
monwealth preferences, Mr
A. P. O’Shea, general-secretary
Federated Farmers of New
Zealand, describes how the
attitude of N.Z. primary
producers towards the entry of
Britain into the Common
Market is governed by two
considerations. First, Britain
has always been, and is likely
to remain, the principal market
for their produce. Second,
farming occupies a peculiar
position in the N.Z. economy
—not subsidised, as in the
industrial countries, but keep-
ing other sections of the coun-
try going.
At present, N.Z. produce
entering Britain enjoys a
small margin of preference, Mr
O’Shea says. If the principles
applied to general goods in the
Common Market were to be
applied to agricultural pro-
ducts they would lose that
margin and Britain would be
forced to impose stiff duties on
N.Z. fruit, dairy-produce and
meat.
Further, N.Z. would find her
exports subject to a quota
which would not be deter-
mined until after the produc-
tion of Common Market
countries had been ascertained
each season. So far as meat
and wool (but not animal by-
products, like tallow) were
concerned, this would be no
great hardship. But the entry
of dairy-products and fruit
would be severely restricted,
and they would also have to
compete with the subsidised
products of Common Market
countries and suffer Customs
duties imposed on imported
foodstuffs.
N.Z. farmers find it hard
to understand such policies,
Mr O’Shea explains, because
they have been forced by
economic circumstances to
achieve a high degree of effici-
ency in spite of high costs.
With their extraordinarily
high output per labor-unit and
correspondingly low unit-cost
of production, they see in the
application of the proposed
trading-arrangements only a
penalty for efficiency. On the
other hand, they a're fully
aware of the need for a pros-
perous Britain as a market for
their produce. They also
recognise that Britain cannot
divorce herself from Europe,
either politically or economi-
cally, and are strongly in favor
of moves for freer and wider
trade.
Mr O’Shea recommends that
the sponsors of the Common
Market should recognise the
need to preserve traditional
channels of trade, at the same
time expanding it generally.
They believe that this is pos-
sible provided the aim of the
Common Market—freer trade
—is kept in view. Therefore
he suggests that, since the prob-
lems of the N.Z. farmer are
generally the same as those of
the British farmer in this
matter, a conference should be
called between representatives
of these two bodies with the
object of working-out a com-
mon approach to the question.
Gulf Country Cattle
4 committee appointed to
investigate means of ex-
panding the beef-industry
recently submitted its findings
to the Queensland State
Cabinet. Its report said that
the Gulf country held the
greatest potential for increased
production of store-cattle.
Good facilities for transport-
ing stock from breeding-areas
to fattening country were
essential all year round, how-
ever ; and the best way to get
these facilities must be by
building roads so that store-
cattle could be transported
from the Gulf country by road-
train. To build up available
supplies of store-cattle in the
Gulf country would help Gov-
ernment plans for encouraging
fattening in coastal areas and
developing the Channel
country.
The present system of walk-
ing store-cattle out from
breeding-areas restricts move-


" Cripes! A bloke develops a maddening thirst
up here in th' north."
ments to a few months of the
year, after the monsoon-rains,
when water and feed are avail-
able.
The Queensland Govern-
ment has announced a scheme
to provide a network of roads
for which it proposes to ask
the Federal Government for
financial help. The network
would involve: 270 miles from
Normanton to Julia Creek-
estimated cost, including
bridges, £1,787,000; 105 miles
between Georgetown, Mt Sur-
prise and the Hann Highway
—cost, £1,355,000 ; 225 miles
between Burketown and
Camooweal— cost, £1,437,500 ;
and 198 miles between Croy-
don and Nelia cost,
£1,391,000. A total 798 miles
at a cost of £5,970,500.
A short stretch, costing an
During 1959-60 the
number of lambs
marked in Queensland
rose by 1,179,000 above
the previous year’s
total of 4,612,000. This
figure was greater than
any year's total since
1941. To reach thiX
figure 8,516,000 ewes
were mated giving an
average lambing per-
centage of 54.2 per
cent., the highest for
three years.
Graziers everywhere are
now becoming more
and more “Elastrator"
conscious, and they
realise from experience
that Elastrator Green
Rubber Rings provide
the safest, surest, most
humane method of cas-
trating and tailing.
With the use of Elas-
trator Green Rubber
Rings, you minimise
fatalities due to in-
fected wounds, while
obtaining increased pro-
duction and higher
returns.
additional £250,000, to connect
Normanton with Karumba on
the Gulf of Carpentaria, would
make it easier to deliver cattle
to that port, where they can
be shipped to Cairns and other
ports in North Queensland. As
the least extensive of the pro-
posals, this will be given first
preference.
Meanwhile some people are
urging extension of existing
railway-lines into the areas
covered by the proposal. The
Queensland Auditor-General’s
recently tabled report shows
that this would be uneconomi-
cal. Railway operations for
1959-60 resulted in a net loss
of £6,587,521 (after charging
interest), compared with
£4,925,732 the previous year.
During the year it cost
£1 19s. lid. to run each train-
mile, while revenue was only
£1 17s. Ifd. a train-mile. With
interest considered, the net loss
was 7s. Ofd. a train-mile.
Extension of existing lines
would only add to the deficit,
because the extensions would
be unable to show a profit.
Road-trains are already
carrying thousands of stock
over the existing rough roads.
Cattle are lifted from the
properties, so graziers do not
have to drove their stock to
the extended railhead, and can
thus save additional expense.
'T'wo years ago only seven
A road-trains operated be-
tween Mt Isa and the Northern
Territory ; today there are at
least 28 working round the
clock to shift a record total of
cattle to railhead, and the num-
ber is rapidly increasing. Many
big Territory stations have not
engaged a drover to shift their
herd these last 12 months. The
112 miles from Camooweal to
Mt Isa meant a 12-day walk
with drovers—and a loss of
801 b. to 1001 b. a beast. Road-
trains cover the distance in five
hours, can carry up to 85 head
a run and cost between 6s. and
10s. a mile a load.
During July these huge
vehicles transported nearly
4000 head from the Territory
into Queensland. Figures for
August were 3000, and this
number continues to be
brought across each month.
Most of the Territory has had
a good season this year, and
fat cattle are still being turned
off. Had it not been for road-
trains they would have had to
remain on the breeding-
grounds until next season, be-
cause it would have been
impossible to walk them out
over the long stretches of hot,
eaten-out stock-routes near the
Queensland border.
These cattle are sold for
immediate slaughter, but if
they had been walked out they
would have lost so much con-
dition that they would have
had to spend 12 months on
Queensland fattening-pastures
before being fit for killing.
One Queensland contractor
is planning to lift 60,000 head
of cattle yearly from the Terri-
tory into Queensland by means
of road-trains, using 400-h.p.
prime-movers to haul a num-
ber of trailers. These trains
travel 400 miles a day, so
cattle can be brought from as
far as Daly Waters and spelled
for a few days near Camoo-
W'eal before being entrained at
Mt Isa. This will be an all-
year operation and should
bring some stability to the
coastal meat-industry.
Tn Cape York Peninsula
road-trains are transporting
cattle “down the centre” to
Mareeba railhead, where they
are entrained for Cairns meat-
works. When the coastal road
is completed they will be able
to deliver cattle direct to the
Queerah meatworks.
In the Channel country
cattle and sheep too weak to
walk to railheads are being
shifted by road-train down to
Mungindi and Wallangarra, to
be railed to agistment in the
southern half of N.S.W. Many
hundreds of cattle are also
being transported to Quilpie
for railing to the Brisbane sale-
yards at Cannon Hill.
With road-trains already
well established throughout the
breeding-areas, it would hardly
seem wise to extend railway-
lines into the cattle country.
With railheads as the terminals
for road-trains,, though, the
only expense to the Govern-
ment would be road-mainten-
ance —considerably less than
the cost of operating any sug-
gested extensions and partly
offset by registration and
permit-fees. In addition, roads
would give graziers and others
in the outback an amenity they
are entitled to and would allow
speedier travel in case of
emergency.
NORTH.
Across the Slope
■Experiments carried out near
Dodge City, Kansas
(U.S.A.), to assess the value of
contour-tillage were described
in a recent article in the
American publication “Hoard's
Dairyman.” Since the land-
slope on the testing-ground
was 0.25 and the average
annual rainfall for the 12 years
of the trials was 20in.—condi-
tions which apply to many
million acres of plain in
the Commonwealth —farmers
might well give some con-
sideration to the benefits
(greater retention of water,
consequent increase in yields
of both summer and winter
crops, and reduced soil-losses)
which are reported to come
from working land across the
slope.
Cropping-systems dealt with
in the article were: wheat
after fallow; grain-sorghum
after fallow ; continuous grain-
sorghum.
Contour-tillage increased the
average yield of wheat after
fallow by 2.6 bushels an
(12 per cent.). Greatest increase
was 32.2 bushels an acre from
contour-listing, compared with
a yield of only 16.6 bushels an
acre where the land was listed
up and down the slope.
Contour- - tillage increased
yields of grain-sorghum after
fallow by 4.2 bushels an acre
(17 per cent.). Continuous
grain-sorghum yields were
increased by 5.6 bushels an
acre (38 per cent.). The
greatest difference between
contour- and non-contour-
tillage with sorghums were:
after fallow, 53.8 bushels an
acre, as against 27.2 ; con-
tinuous, 49.5 bushels an acre,
as against 24.2.
These average-yield differ-
ences in favor of contour-
tillage were substantiated by
the average increases in soil-
moisture storage for the
various crops.
When water is lost from the
land, loss of some soil must
be expected. An average of
similar treatments under three
cropping-systems showed that
listing with the slope for con-
tinuous sorghum Jed to a total
loss of 595 tons of soil an
acre; sorghum after fallow,
325 tons ; wheat after fallow,
145 tons. No soil was lost with
contour - tillage except for


FaiiJi In ihe
Fulurt
\
Christmas returns in the warmth of an
Australian summer. And here, as in every land and
under every climate, its message of Goodwill again
brings fresh hope and comfort to mankind.
As an historical fact, it can well be a source
of wonder that the birth of a Child in a Judean
town should have so influenced the lives of men
through all subsequent ages. Yet it is a truth which
must be accepted, by believers and unbelievers
alike, that the night Christ was born was a night
that changed the world.
Today on earth there are some nine hundred
and sixty-five million Christians; more than
one-third of the human race. As followers of
Christ we may differ in our forms of worship, but
we stand as one in an uncountable procession of
humanity which for almost twenty centuries has
been proclaiming the central fact of the Christian
religion—that Christ is God.
Now, at Christmas, we reaffirm this belief:
that He was God when the Star appeared over His
native town; when He worked as a boy in a
carpenter’s shop at Nazareth; when He taught and
healed in the three years of His public ministry;
when He died on Calvary, and rose again on the
first Easter morning.
This is the Faith that was preached in the
Aramaic tongue spoken by Christ himself; which
was taken on in Greek and other languages foreign
to the land in which He dwelt, and was carried far
out to win whole nations to the tremendous belief
that Divinity had indeed come into the world in
the form of an Infant humbly bom.
There may be awe and wonder at the mystery
of Time touching Eternity in a setting of outcast
poverty in a stable, but the Faith it has inspired is
living and will continue to live through every
turbulence of man’s own making.
In the spirit of true Christian peace which
this thought accompanies, I wish you now a serene
and joyful Christmas.
wheat after fallow, which lost
70 tons an acre. Average soil-
loss of all treatments farmed
on the contour over the 12-
year period was five tons an
acre, compared with 325 tons
an acre for treatments farmed
up and down the slope. This
is equivalent to a soil-loss of
about 8401 b. an acre each
year, compared with 54,0001 b.
an acre a year.
From the average soil-loss
from all treatments listed with
the slope, and the correspond-
ing nitrogen-loss of 7741 b. an
acre over 12 years, two simple
calculations were made. The
annual loss of nitrogen is
equivalent to 64.51 b. at 9|d.
a pound—or £2 11s. 2d. a year
thrown away. The average
loss of nitrogen from all treat-
ments farmed up and down
the slopes would provide nitro-
gen for a 25-bushel grain-
sorghum crop annually for 31
years.
These facts alone make
contour-tillage appear profit-
able ; but it’s the soil which is
lost and never can be regained
that is really priceless.—
“Myall.”
Machine or Man?
A Wimmera (Vic.) expert
recently contended in
print that the inefficiency of
conventional haymaking
machinery leads to about 50
per cent, of haymaking time
being wasted. He went on to
state that as a result much of
the hay baled is of poor
quality, being cut too soon or
too late and, subject to vagaries
of the weather, either too
dried-up or too wet.
He advocated use of the
flail-type forager, now being
tested by the C.5.1.R.0., claim-
ing that it needed much less
repair and maintenance ; got
in better-quality hay; cut,
dried and baled better and
quicker; and was especially
good when prospects of bad
weather made it necessary to
speed-up drying by use of
chemical agents.
But a practical farmer with
ten years’ experience of work-
ing the conventional haymak-
ing machinery which the expert
condemned insists that, in the
hands of a capable man,
machinery at present on the
market does a perfectly satis-
factory job without the loss
of even 5 per cent. —let alone
50 per cent. —of haymaking-
time. He says that the in-
efficient operator, who does
not check or maintain his mac-
hine, and who handles it
wrongly, is to blame for losing
so much time through break-
downs.
In support of this he states
that this season the only
attention his conventional
mower needed, while mowing
several hundred acres without
a single breakdown, was the
replacement of a plate or two
on the knife. He also quotes
neighbors who lose a minimum
of time through breakdowns,
though mowing large acreages
each season.
The efficiency of any hay-
making machine appears to
depend largely on the man in
charge of it. —“Wemel.”
%
Crosscuts
The R.A?S. of N.S.W.
announces that the 1961
Sydney Fat Stock and Carcass
Show and Sales will be held
from Thursday, May 18, to
Thursday, May 25, and not in
October, as previously planned.
Starting in 1962, the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association will
hold annual sheep-sales in
Goulburn, Dubbo and Tam-
worth which will cater for
stud-selected and flock rams,
all of which must be from
registered studs. Reserve prices
similar to those operating in
Sydney will be imposed and
will be announced shortly
before the sales. First sale is
to be held at Goulburn
towards the end of January,
1962.
Fifteen new Poll Hereford
studs were established during
November —five in N.S.W.,
three in Queensland, four in
Western Australia, two in
South Australia and one in
Victoria. This brings the total
of new studs establised in
1960 to a record 130.
Elected officers of the
Federal Government Food and
Agricultural Committee: H. J.
Bate, chairman ; P. E. Lucock,
vice-chairman; C. R. Kelly,
hon. secretary ; A. A. Chresby,
assistant hon. secretary. The
committee plans a mission to
northern Australia next June
to examine agricultural and
pastoral development.
P. R. McMahon, Professor
of Wool Technology at the
University of N.S.W., returned
from a world-tour on Decem-
ber 10. In nine months’ travel
he inspected sheep and wool
properties in the U.S., Spain
and Portugal, attended
two international conferences,
toured the U.S.S.R. and re-
turned through Turkey, Israel,
Pakistan, India and Indonesia.


ABORIGINALITIES
Under the Skin
TRor many years now a deep
and abiding interest of
mine has been the gathering
and recording of the oral
literature of the aborigines. I
am sure that whatever success
I have had in gaining the
friendship, confidence and re-
spect of both tribal and de-
tribalised aborigines has been
due to my belief in accep-
tance, not assimilation ; to my
belief that we should not try
to “assimilate” them to our
way of life, but that we should
rather accept them and their
cultural traditions for what
they are. I have earnestly
wanted the aborigines to accept
me, a white man, and in doing
so I have been repaid with
gratitude, lasting friendships
and the closest confidences.
It is three years since I made
my first visit to Woodenbong,
a little township in the New
England Range near the
Queensland border. Here at
the Settlement I found the
aborigines still speaking their
tribal language. The old people
had retained their mythology
and traditional songs, and
almost every feature of the
beautiful mountainous land-
scape was pointed out and
named for me as featuring in
the myths.
One cannot move among
such people without being
aware of their social dilemma.
Many of the men are engaged
in laborious bush-work. One
man has bought, and works, a
taxi. But the taxi operates
solely for the Settlement; it
is boycotted by the white com-
munity.
Not far from Woodenbong
I had asked an aboriginal to
have a meal with me in a cafe.
He would not enter the. cafe
because he said he would not
be served. My inquiry in this
cafe brought the response:
“Well, if we serve the
aborigines, the white people
will not patronise us.”
Once, when I was walking
along the road to the Settle-
ment at night, a car approach-
ing from the opposite direction
swerved across the empty road
and tried to run me down.
Residents at the Settlement
told me that this was because
I had been mistaken for an
aboriginal.
During this visit I was
asked to attend a meeting of
the Woodenbong Aborigines’
Council, formed by the
aborigines themselves. I was
asked to speak on their prob-
lem of segregation and non-
acceptance by the white com-
munity. I remember I told
them how, when I was travel-
ling to Woodenbong, my car
became bogged. I said I
climbed out, and planned to
get out of the bog. I cut
saplings and timber out of
the bush. I levered up the
wheels and laid timber under-
neath them. At last I got the
car out of the bog. “Yes,” one
man replied, “but here we are
bogged out of sight.”
I told them of the various
organisations like the Aborigi-
nal-Australian Fellowship, in
Sydney, who would help and
advise them. “But,” I said, “I
believe that you must organise
yourselves. Your leaders and
your speakers must come from
the aborigines. You must be-
come a voice, the voice of your
organisation. Then the white
man, the Government, will
hear and know that you are
struggling to get out of this
bog and will come and help
you.”
At my last visit to Wooden-
bong I told the council of
what I had learned about co-
operatives. This seized their
interest. Speakers wanted the
reserve to be run and managed
by the council. They said they
could grow corn on the river-
flat, run a dairy-herd, graze
sheep... .“We would work on
this place then,” they said.
“You would see what we
could do.”
I believe that co-operatives
could provide one of the best
ways for the aborigines to
regain their self-respect, initia-
tive and pride of race. I
believe that by so helping
themselves they would gain the
respect, and the all-essential
“acceptance,” of the white
community. Now the latest
news I have from Wooden-
bong is that the aborigines
there are petitioning the
authorities to enable them to
establish a co-operative saw-
mill.
T astly, on this matter of
“acceptance,” I would like
to speak of my aboriginal
friend of many years standing,
Percy Mumbulla. Percy is a
Prince —the full-blood son of
the late “King” Jacky Mum-
bulla. Born at Wallaga Lake
some 50 or 60 years ago,
Percy, who can neither read
nor write, is a natural poet and
storyteller of the aborigines.
He carries his swag up and
down the N.S.W. South Coast
from Nowra to Bega, and he
picks beans and peas and corn
when they are in season.
He can use the boomerang
and spear for hunting ; I have
watched him spearing fish in
the river. When I set out to
find him he may be camped
anywhere on the coast. Any
of the “dark people” will tell
me where he is. I always have
some old clothes and some
“tucker” for him, because
whenever I find him he is
ragged and starving.
But Percy is not aware of
this. Two months ago I found
him on the rubbish-tip at Bega
picking out a heap of old iron
which he said he was going to
sell, “an’ get me on me feet
again.”
I have asked Percy (I should
have had more sense) to let
me try and get him a perma-
nent job somewhere. But the
splendid black cockatoo of the
South Coast, with the red bar
in his tail-feathers, will not
live as a cage-bird.
Percy tries to explain: “But
Rob, this ’ere’s my life. I
can never starve. I can always
get a bit of bush-tucker. The
harder the ground is, the better
I like it. That blow-up mat-
tress of yours, 1 couldn’t sleep
on it. I’d wake up achin’ all
over.”
Must the aboriginal then,
the bushman, the nomad, the
poet Percy, be “assimilated”?
Why, on our camping-trips
together, when we have sat
round the fire and I have been
writing down in my note-book
“The Tales of Percy Mum-
bulla,” the “blackfella” in me
has listened round-eyed to the
other “blackfella” telling his
tribal stories in the firelight.
Blackfella and whitefella, we
had long ago accepted one
another without thinking
about it.
ROLAND ROBINSON.
The Creeping Desert
/Certain small groups of
people in N.S.W. are in-
creasingly and gravely con-
cerned with the Cinderella
status of nature conservation
as more and more Crown land
becomes alienated and “de-
velopment” spreads the city
and the country towns out into
the country.
They are, to a real extent,
voices crying in a wilderness.
At a recent symposium of
nature - conservation societies,
Mr M. Dunphy, of the Insti-
tute of Architects, described
the 20-mile area around
Sydney as “a desert.” This was
the case, he said, with a popu-
lation of 2,000,000 only. If


the population rose to the ex-
pected 5,000,000 in the next
decade the “desert” would
extend for 50 miles, and this
would be the end of the Blue
Mountains as we now know
them.
Mr Dunphy added that the
“desert” area outside New
York city extended for 600
miles. The duty of the town-
planner was to help nature
conservation by providing for
breathing-space.
Other speakers said that the
National Arboretum Society
had been advocating for many
years that farmers should
leave some of their land in a
natural state so that native
animal and bird life would
continue to exist; that much
education was needed among
children and young adults,
both native-born and migrant,
on how to preserve the natural
habitat of fauna; and that
there was need for trained per-
sonnel in national parks who
could talk to visitors about
plants, animals and natural
features.
The Chief Guardian of
Fauna, Mr Allen Strom, who
represented the National Parks
Association, said that within
10 or 20 years vacant Crown
lands in N.S.W. would have
been alienated.
The problem was to deter-
mine how much should be
sought to be reserved perma-
nently for nature conservation.
With a present population of
3,000,000, less than one p.c. of
the State’s area, or about one
acre per person, was reserved.
Complete environments in
natural primitive condition
were essential for the preserva-
tion of fauna and flora —for
example, it was necessary to
set eight acres aside for one
pair of Mallee-fowl to survive
and breed. Mallee areas and
rain-forests succumbed rapidly
to exploitation. The time was
overdue when decisions should
be made on the amount of land
which should be kept for
national parks, fauna reserves
and recreation reserves, with
full recognition of the relation-
ships between soil, plant,
animal and physical condi-
tions.
It was useless just to hope
that adequate reserves would
be kept without Governments
and the public appreciating
that nature conservation repre-
sented the soundest kind of
land-usage.
A census of what yet re-
mained for nature conserva-
tion was essential, but N.S.W.
had no department with a
charter for such a task. The
Fauna Protection Panel would
be very willing to do the job,
but had no staff available for it.
“In some areas we are run-
ning out of time,” Mr. Strom
said. “When the white man
first came there was about
750,000 acres of rain-forest in
the area now comprising
N.S.W. Today there is less
than half of this, and most of
what is left is in the hands of
the Forestry Commission for
forestry purposes. Unless we
are successful in our efforts in
the next 20 years, there will
be nothing left to save.”
Charles Meekino.
* * * *
'T'hose 181 bird species in
Wyperfeld National Park,
lately mentioned here, are
vouched for by four-minute-
miler John Landy, now a
technical officer with the Vic-
torian National Parks
Authority. Rare birds found
in this 139,000-acre park in-
clude the lowan or mallee-hen,
mulga- and ringnecked-parrots
and the Major Mitchell cocka-
too. Landy has also identified
250 plant-species in the big
park.
Wyperfeld, largest of Vic-
toria’s 17 national parks, was
first suggested as a flora and
fauna reserve in 1908. By 1921,
16,000 acres, the nucleus of
the park’s present 218 square-
miles, was reserved, but poorly
maintained. Yet Wyperfeld
grew and its management im-
proved, especially since the
newly formed National Parks
Authority took it over in .1957.
Wyperfeld has been sign-
posted, and certain facilities
provided, chiefly by a manage-
ment-committee of Rainbow
and district enthusiasts whose
aim is to secure world-wide
recognition of Wyperfeld’s
typically Australian tourist-
attractions.
The park needs better access
and tourist roads, but these
can cost up to £3OO a mile.
Rabbit - control has been
effected with green - dyed
carrot-bait, but Wyperfeld still
needs more public amenities —
a water-supply, reafforestation
of burnt-out areas, erosion-
control and, above all, fire-
protection, without which all
improvements might be swept
away. This summer, with the
drying of lush growth,
especially in that haven for
wildlife Lake Brambuk —said
to be named after bushranger
Morgan’s horse stretches of
the park are frightening poten-
tial fire-hazards.
As only £45,000 is available
each year for all 17 Victorian
national parks, development of
one so large as Wyperfeld is
necessarily slow. A recent
£3OOO grant will, however, give
Wyperfeld a sewerage block at
its tourist centre, Wonga Hut,
which stands near where the
Cameron family a century ago
had its historic Wonga Station
homestead.
The grant will also maintain
a water-supply from a nearby
bore which yields good drink-
ing-water. A picnic shelter is
planned later ; aiso a survey
for water to ensure adequate
bores and concrete tanks
throughout the park.
Much of the money for this
development must be raised
locally. It has been suggested
that Wyperfeld could become
largely self-supporting by the
sale of the abundant dead
timber which, at present a
serious fire danger, litters a
considerable part of it.
Emel.
* * * *
'T'he radio said that “a noted
landmark” in West
Queensland—-the Tocal pub—
had been destroyed by fire.
Noted landmark!
A neat enough galvanised-
iron building, goat- and horse-
yards behind, a tethering-rail
in front of the bar, heat-waves
shimmering and errant whirl-
winds spiralling columns of
dead roly-polies. Away in the
distance, a smudge on the
horizon, was the timber on the
river, the Thomson. For the
rest there was nothing but
heat-waves and billowing grass.
A noted landmark!
Built by Charlie Bielenburg
about 1901, it survived where
other pubs perished, when
townships waned and died.
Eernestina, Arrilalah more
famed as Forest Grove —
Stonehenge, Jundah, and even
Windorah, all faded or closed.
Tocal retained its status. If
that one pub closed, the place
was ended.
Close to Tocal station, at the
corner boundaries of Bimerah
and Westlands, it was a great
place to liquidate station
cheques in. As a mail-change
when Ben Eyre was king of
the roads on the down-the-river
mail, it was a night stopover
for passengers, and they all
had to spend a bob or two.
In any case, whatever direc-
tion a traveller came from,
he’d have a thirst when he
reached the Tocal pub.
Perhaps it had its memories
and high spots; it was too
bleak and desolate ever to be
one of my spiritual homes.
K. 1. N.
* * * *
Come alarm may be caused
among New Guinea's
cannibal tribes if they hear
of American plans to divert
tourist traffic away from the
disturbed African continent
and towards New Guinea. A
travel-director surveying the
Papua-New Guinea “tourist
potential” says he’s looking for
the “unusual.” Some of the
more sophisticated native
people around Moresby are
already planning fake villages
and ceremonies to give the
tourists what they want, but
remoter areas are likely to feel
that tourist excursions will
interfere even more than occa-
sional district-officer patrols
with primitive sports and pas-
times. —“Fuzzy Wuzzy.”


1000 Different Whole World
Stamps 17/6 or 500 Different
For 8/6. Both Post Free.
R. C. Walker,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Member Australian Stamp Dealers’
Association.
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated, in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
Divorce Notice*
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.-— lk Divorce.
No. 2898 of 1960.
TO NORMAN LAURENCE FAULKINER.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOZEFA
FAULKINER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2898 of 1960 on the
grounds of your desertion for three (3)
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an Appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the
Twenty-third day of February 1961 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. BOWMAN &
MACKENZIE, Solicitors, of 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — *;? Divorce.
TO MERVYN OSWALD McGIJIRE late
of 67 Newman Street Newtown. —•
TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET JEAN
McGUIRE has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 3002 of I 960) on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an Appearance in the. Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 23rd February
1961 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. J. KIELY,
Solicitor, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEORGE ANDREW BEAVER late
of 32 Chifley Avenue, Sefton. —TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN RAE BEAVER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3251
of 1960 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause and excuse for three (3)
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an Appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Queen s
Square Sydney by the 20th February
1961 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from P. J. FREE'
STONE, Solicitor, 768 Princes Highway,
Sutherland, in the State of New South
Wales, or from his city agents,
MESSRS, C. P. WHITE & SON,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. —C. A.
HARMS, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of “State Children in
Australia,” by Catherine Helen
Spence.—36.
Australian correspondents to
exchange Australian books for
books published in the United
States. Mimeographed lists avail-
able, as well as search service
throughout United States for works
unobtainable in Australia. —37.
Information Sought
For what purpose was telegraphy
used by the Railways? Has their
Morse system now been altogether
superseded ?
Hand-speed Morse telegraphy is
used by the N. S. Wales Depart-
ment of Railways for train-working
purposes, for the transmission of
messages relating to goods and
passenger traffic, and for general
administrative matters.
Many of the Morse circuits have
now been superseded by telephone-
channels, which do not require
skilled operators, and by machine-
telegraphy ,in the form of tele-
printers that have been installed
between the Chief Telegraph Office
at Central Station and many of
the major country telegraph-offices
throughout the State.
l . only remaining Morse cir-
cuits in use are: Sydney-Werris
Creek (converting to teleprinters in
six-nine months); Sydney-South
Grafton-Brisbane (teleprinters 12-18
months); Junee - Narrandera - Hay
(converting to telephone operation
six-nine months); Werris Creek-
Walgett (telephone six-nine months);
Orange-Broken Hill (listed for
conversion).
* * * *
What is the form of Government
ii. Puerto Rico ?
Puerto Rico was ceded to the
United States by the treaty of
1899, after the Spanish-American
War. The Constitution approved
by the Congress and President of
the United States,, which came into
force on July 25, 1952, establishes
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
with full powers of local self-
government. Legislative functions
are vested in the Legislative
Assembly, which consists of two
elected Houses: the Senate of 27
members, and the House of Repre-
sentatives of 51 members.
Membership of each House may
be increased slightly to accommo-
date minority representatives. The
term of the Legislative Assembly is
four years, and the Governor is
popularly elected for a four-year
term. A Supreme Court of five
members is appointed by the
’Governor, with the advice and
consent of the Senate. There
are eight similarly appointed secre-
taries at the head of the permanent
departments, but the selection of
the Secretary of State must be
approved also by the House of
Representatives.
Puerto Rico is represented in
Congress by a Resident Commis-
sioner, elected for a term of four
years, who has a seat in the House
of Representatives, but not a vote.
* * * *
Could you give a brief biographi-
cal description of George Adams,
founder of Tattersall’s Sweep-
stakes ?
Adams was born at Sandon,
Hertfordshire (Eng.), on March 14,
1839, and migrated to Australia in
May, 1855. When he arrived he
worked on a sheep-station in the
Wellington district and as a butcher
at Goulburn. When still a young
man he acquired the licence of the
Steam Packet Inn at Kiama and
held this until 1878, when he took-
over Tattersall's Hotel, Sydney,
whose freehold he bought in 1884
for £40,000.
The hotel was the headquarters
of the Tattersall's Club, and
Adams began to conduct sweep-
stakes for the benefit of his regular
patrons. In 1881 he threw these
open to the public. The sweep
on the Sydney Cup of that year
had a total stake of £2OOO.
In 1892 the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment passed a bill declaring all
sweeps illegal, and the next year
Adams moved his business to
Queensland. Queensland also legis-
lated against sweeps, and in
December, 1895, Tasmania became
the Adams’s headquarters. Adams
also organised a lottery to help
dispose of the assets of the Bank
of Van Diemen’s Land, with
100,000 tickets at £1 each.
Adams purchased much property
in Hobart and erected a number
of new buildings; he bought the
Bulli Colliery and Coke Works and
established the Palace Electric Light
Station, Sydney; he had interests
in a paper-mill at Waterloo and
built the Palace Theatre, Sydney.
In March, 1902, the Federal
Parliament decided that the Postal
Department should no longer carry
mails addressed to Tattersall’s or
George Adams, but this handicap
was overcome by the appointment
of agents in Hobart to receive the
mail. The embargo was in exist-
ence until 1930. Subsequently
Tatt s” continued to be popular
and to produce considerable revenue
for Tasmania, but in September,
1953, following a proposal to
establish a State Lottery in Vic-
toria, an arrangement was made to
transfer Tattersall’s to that State.
Can rabbits suffer from the
disease hydatids, or can they be
carriers of same ?
There are several types of
bladder-worms affecting rabbits
which are incorrectly named
hydatid. The true hydatid, the
intermediate stage of Echinococcus
gramulosus, occurs commonly in
sheep, cattle and pigs in Australia.
However, infestations of rabbits by
this parasite are rare. This is
probably due to the low receptivity
of rabbits to the true hydatid.
An examination of 35 dogs used
for catching rabbits, and fed almost
exclusively on rabbits, showed only
one dog to be infested. There is
little doubt that this dog did not
become infested by rabbits, as it
had started rabbit-catching only a
very short time before it was
examined.
The two bladder-worms wrongly
called hydatid are Cysticercus
pisiformis and Multiceps serialis,
which occur in wild rabbits. The
first forms pea-sized cysts attached
to the abdominal lining (the adult
tapeworm affecting dogs used for
rabbit-catching). Cysts of Multiceps
serialis are larger, approximating
the size of a small pigeon-egg, and
are mostly attached to muscular
tissue. The adult tapeworm occurs
mainly in foxes which prey on
rabbits.
Since 'these two parasites are
only mistakenly called hydatid and
the occurrence of hydatids in
rabbits is practically non-existent,
it may be concluded that the
rabbit is of very little, if any,
significance as a carrier of hydatid
disease.
Brief Answers
P.C.N.: (1) Private hospitals in
Queensland should come under
either the Public Award ruling or
the special Private Hospitals ruling.
It would be a good, idea to contact
the Royal Australian Nurses’
Association, 337 Queen Street,
Brisbane. (2) Macao comes
under Portuguese jurisdiction
A.G.M.: An applicant for a pen-
sion would not have to live at
home for any particular time, but
he would probably have to convince
the department that he was living
in the home in good faith and not
merely for the purpose of his
application for a pension....
H.J.: The fire in the department-
store of Anthony Hordern and
Sons occurred on July 10, 1901.
The eight-story building in the
Haymarket was almost completely
destroyed. Five lives were lost and
the damage was estimated at over
£500,000.. . .G.L.: Of the 12
Caesars, six were assassinated and
two suicided... .J.K.G.: Yes, the
ball would sink. The density of
the water would not be increased
enough to stop it, even at great
depths. Of course, it may not sink
straight down, and currents could
carry it a long way before it
settled on the bottom N.T.M. :
The value of the gold in the
cigarette-case is about £l2. If the
case has a resale value it could bring
considerably more S.W.R.: The
only time in the history of Anglo-
Australian Tests that 11 players
have bowled in an innings was the
Third Test at The Oval in 1884,
when Australia scored 551. The
English bowlers were Peat, Ulyett,
Steel, Barnes, Barlow, Grace, Read,
Scotton, Lord Flarris, Lyttelton
and Shrewsbury R.T.: Tinaroo
Creek is supposed to take its name
from the discovery of tin there in
1879. John Atherton, who found
the tin, is said to have shouted:
“Tin! Hurroo,” thus giving the
creek its name. 7
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear an
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.C.: Say it here:
The following verse is an attempt to
voice the uneasy opinion of those who
are aware of the position Man occupies
in Destiny on the threshold of a new
era ; I believe it is an opinion which
is unrepentent for the past, yet is aware
and capable of the responsibility of the
future; there is essentially a national
spirit.
THE SIXTIES
Now roll the years of grinding sequence
hard,
Hard as the steel machine on human
ways,
Wherein no echo from a truthful bard
Reckons appeal to crowds of doubtful
gaze.
Now might the years of toilless time
repeat
Sadly the pages oft’ repeated quote;
And lazy heads might nod in their
defeat,
Rush, spend unspent their precious,
garnered notes.
Oh, damn those heads! And if there be
a war
Fox’d with the finger freeing missiled
dart—■
Oh loose my lyre’s lullaby before
Swift silenced breath forbids the lips
impart.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Defence Policy
A major change in defence
policy, deserving some editorial
comment, has so far caused
hardly a ripple on the surface
of Sydney’s newspaper world.
On November 9 the Minister
for Navy apnounced in Parlia-
ment that H.M.A.S. Melbourne
would be retained after 1963 as
an anti-submarine helicopter-
carrier. Nearly two weeks later
the Minister for Defence told
Parliament that H.M.A.S.
Sydney was to be used to carry
helicopter-borne commandos.
It is only about a year since
the Federal Government an-
nounced that, because the cost
of replacing H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne would be prohibitive,
the Fleet Air Arm would not
be re-equipped. Therefore this
welcome, if only partial,
reprieve for the Fleet Air Arm
indicates a perturbing vacilla-
tion in defence policy. The
brief announcements also leave
many questions unanswered.
Although the force of
R.A.A.F. Neptune bombers is
to be increased, is it to be
assumed that there has been a
rejection or modification of
the claim that this force is a
major factor in anti-submarine
defence?
Unless protected from attack
by similar enemy bombers
H.M.A.S. Melbourne and
Sydney, and also merchant
ships, will be “sitting ducks.”
Is this defence to be provided
by retaining a quota of Fleet
Air Arm fighters embarked in
the carriers? If so, will the
current development of ver-
tical take-off, fixed-wing air-
craft be fully exploited?
Or is the answer to be ship-
to-air guided-missiles? If so,
there would be a gap until the
R.A.N. is provided with suit-
able vessels to launch such
missiles or until a missile suit-
able for launching from exist-
ing frigates, etc., is developed
and installed.
If the R.A.N. is to carry
and operate our commandos,
would not the long-term
interests of Australia be better
served if the commandos
became marines? With the
“Rip” tragedy fresh in our
minds, there is a lot to be said
for the Navy assuming com-
plete control. The Royal
Marines and the U.S. Marines
started from small beginnings.
Perhaps the recent visit to
Australia, the first of its kind,
of the Commandant-General of
the Royal Marines had signi-
ficance?
Few Australian defence
problems can be divorced from
party politics. The A.L.P.
attitude to sending forces
abroad has been modified to
the extent of stipulating that
such forces must be part and
parcel of standing U.N. forces,
with scant regard to how this
would increase the protection
of Australia. But the Defence
Act still contains the proviso
that soldiers cannot be sent
outside Australia unless they
volunteer. Australian Marines,
as part of the R.A.N., would
be free of this restriction.
Finally, there is the practice
of piecemeal announcements
on defence by various
Ministers. This may provide
publicity for individual mem-
bers of the Government, but,
apart from confusing the
public, it tends to undermine
the collective responsibility of
Cabinet.
There is much to be said for
an annual White Paper on
defence, with supplementary
White Papers if necessary.
Details of its implementation
should be announced by the
executive bodies constituted
for this purpose —the Naval,
Military and Air Boards, which
include in their membership
the respective Ministers and
their Service members.
Although its functions are
only advisory, the most
important body is the Chiefs
of Staffs Committee. Its
members have the difficult task
of producing an agreed
defence plan for all three Ser-
vices which must suit the
particular needs and available
resources of Australia. —
Craster C. M. Usher
(N.S.W.).
Speech-training
I can fully endorse “Pat’s”
comments here on the need for
more attention to correct
speech in our schools. Modern
schools attach no merit to
reading - ability, though they
include in the curriculum quite
a lot of instruction of rather
nebulous value.
No matter how well-
informed a young _ man may
be, or how sound his ideas and
judgment, his capacity and
knowledge will always be
underrated unless he is able
to express himself clearly and
correctly. Even for the
humblest position in the busi-
ness world the youngster whose
speech is poor has a serious
handicap which can be a
barrier to advancement
throughout his career.
It is not generally realised
that speech-training can con-
tribute a great deal towards
giving a youngster poise and a
pleasing personality, and also
aid his general progress in
school-studies. The student
who cannot express himself
in clear, correct English tends
to make a poor showing in all
subjects, not because he doesn’t
understand or remember what
he is learning but because he
can’t adequately convey his
ideas, either in speech or in
writing.
As an example of what
speech-training can do I cite
the scholastic results of a group
of youngsters who are getting
instruction in “speechcraft”
from a private teacher in my
district. In their school
examinations every one of the
group scored well above
average ; several were placed
first or second in their form,
the rest finishing in the top
half-dozen. It was not merely
a case of getting high marks
for reading, grammar and
associated subjects ; their train-
ing in expressing themselves
clearly and correctly gave them
a marked advantage in their
studies generally, and even
those who, ' like my own
youngster, had only a rela-
tively brief period of speech-
training displayed definite
general improvement.—Wuss-
lean (Vic.).
Beth Dutton — a Memorial ?
The Austra|ian and Nz .
servicemen who used to make
.. dinner at Bethv , a standing
date wden j n jq ew York during
World War n wi „ feel> as j
d j<k a sense 0 f rea [ j oss a ( d)e
news of her passing,
. ,
u
New York, Beth, with her niece,
authoress Joy ' chute>
enter-
tained more ' han t ’ housand
servicemen duri the war
mainl Australian ° and New
Zealanders
„. ‘ .
, B ° rn * n Indooroopilly (Bris-
banf>> s tf had travelled exten-
lively with her late father, who
was on Government service,
and made her home in New
York prior to World War 11.
An accomplished writer of
delightful fiction, her stories
have appeared in publications
of many coun tries, and had a
-quiet charm and deep under-
standing which made them
memorable to her readers,
The Director of the Aus-
tralian War Memorial read a
“request” article written by
her for a Canberra servicemen’s
magazine and asked her to
send her guest-books and letters
from servicemen. Her sister
did this after her passing, and
they are now preserved in the
archives.
As one who enjoyed her hos-
pitality, felt honored by her
friendship, and delighted in the
interest she showed in her
“family” after hostilities had
ceased, I feel that this great
little Aussie should be corn-
memorated in a lasting manner.
Knowing her love for the
“Ate or hate him?”


short-story, I would suggest
that an annual award, spon-
sored by those who knew her
during the war, should be made
for the best short-story written
by an ex-serviceman. If only
a hundred of the old gang who
congregated from all points of
the compass to the flat in East
63rd Street contributed, such
a foundation could be formed.
If any of Beth’s “family”
should read this and be inter-
ested, I shall be pleased to hear
from them. — John Orrell,
P.O. Box 1, Smithfield via
Cairns (Q.).
Early-closing and the
Unions
Under “Political Points,”
The Bulletin of November
30 published a paragraph refer-
ring to the reply recently given
by the N.S.W. Premier in the
House to questions relating to
the payment, in some instances,
to the Shop Assistants Union
of penalties imposed for early-
closing breaches.
The Bulletin report reveals
a complete misconception of
the true position, and is cer-
tainly not an accurate impres-
sion of what was said. The
report reads:
Nothing could be more per-
nicious than the medieval system
under which, according to N.S.W.
Premier Heffron, shop-assistants
who report breaches of the early-
closing laws are paid “something
for seeing the law is carried out
and to recompense the union for
any expense it may incur.” What
expense does it incur when, as the
Premier admitted in Parliament, the
prosecutions are launched by the
Shops and Factories Department
and not the trade union or its
members? The expense of spying
or just the expense of informing?
Against both practices Labor has
angrily set its face ever since the
party was formed.
In the first place there was
no suggestion, even by the
Premier’s questioners, that
shop-assistants receive any
payment for reporting breaches.
The fact is that the court may
award all the penalty or a
moiety to the Shop Assistants
Union in those cases where the
union has obtained the neces-
sary evidence and then has it-
self instituted proceedings in
the Industrial Court. It is true
that proceedings for early-
closing breaches are also taken
by my department but usually
on the evidence of the depart-
ment’s inspectors! In all cases
where the proceedings are
taken by my department the
penalty imposed, if any, is paid
into Consolidated Revenue.
Generally speaking, the Fac-
tories and Shops Act fixes hours
of trading for shops by refer-
ence to the appropriate award
for the particular class of busi-
ness carried on in the shop.
The right which the secretary of
any union of employees or
employers engaged in the in-
dustry has to institute proceed-
ings for early-closing breaches
is analagous to the right which
he enjoys under the Industrial
Arbitration Act to take pro-
ceedings for breaches of
awards.
The right of the trade-union
movement and of employers to
enforce and police awards is
fundamental to our system of
industrial arbitration. It is a
right which is zealously guarded
by the trade-union movement.
So, too, is the obligation to
preserve the hours and working-
conditions of its members.
The records of my depart-
Honest, Comrades, all I said Was, 'Alexander Bell
invented the telephoned.' ”
ment show that during the past
two years the Shop Assistants
Union has benefited to the
extent of £6l from 40 prose-
cutions taken against shop-
keepers for early-closing
breaches. The majority of these
prosecutions were in country
areas, and must have repre-
sented many thousands of miles
of travel by officers of the
union. The return in terms of
cash would not even pay for
the petrol.—J. J. Maloney
Minister for Labour and Indus-
try, N.S.W.
Rice in the North
We may have 10 years, pro-
bably no more than five, before
our right to hold the North —a
tract of country embracing well
over a million square-miles—
is challenged on the score that
it is almost unoccupied. Out-
side Mt Isa there are not 30,000
white people in the whole of
the Gulf country, the Territory
and the Kimberleys. Yet we
have had some settlement in all
three for close on a century.
I believe the Humpty Doo,
Fitzroy and Ord River schemes
will succeed in time. The major
difficulty the two last-men-
tioned suffer from is isolation.
The Ord is 60-odd miles from
Wyndham, the Fitzroy scheme
about 100 miles from Derby,
and neither of those towns
offers secondary-school faci-
lities.
Probably one of the most
hopeful parts of tropical Aus-
tralia for a large-scale scheme
of settlement based on rice-
growing, or on rice associated
with cattle, is the country along
the Albert River south of
Burketown, and that along the
Norman.
Rice demands three essen-
tials : a hot growing-season,
about 36in. of rain spread over
that season (or its equiva-
lent in irrigation), and a
stiff and retentive soil based on
clay.
The Gulf climate provides
the required heat, the rainfall
at Burketown over a period of
40 years averages above 28in.,
while that at Normanton
exceeds 38in. —in each case well
spread over the growing-season
so that irrigation should not be
needed. If there is sufficient
rain, costs can be cut materially.
Water-costs are a major item
in the Murrumbidgee areas.
Access to the Normanton
and Burketown areas could
be provided at a reasonable
cost. It is less than 100 miles
from the rail terminus at For-
sayth across country to the
Normanton railway at Croy-
don. There is a first-class bitu-
men road from Mt Isa down to
Camooweal, and a further 200
miles would link-up Burketown.
The Normanton-Croydon line
has been a headache for years
Linked with the main system
there would be some chance of
a profit, quite apart from that
derived from the additional
traffic consequent on a land-
settlement scheme.
The present Queensland
Government has shown an ini-
tiative which has been markedly
lacking in the northern State
for the past quarter of a cen-
tury. Perhaps the Premier
would consider an investigation
into the potential of the Gulf
country for rice, and would
take steps to establish the in-
dustry if that potential is proved
to exist. Queensland itself pro-
vides a ready market for be-
tween 3000 and 4000 tons of
rice a year—a market which is
steadily expanding, and which
now is supplied by N. S. Wales.
Many southern States
farmers would be prepared to
tackle farming in the Gulf,
though they might not be inte-
rested in either the Kimberleys
or the Northern Territory.
Naturally, they would want an
assurance that they could mar-
ket their crop; hence the need
for rail communication.
Queensland has always had an
attraction for Southerners.
Many thousands have gone to
the Atherton Tableland and
the Burnett Valley and have
done well there, and many
more would go if such a pro-
posal were implemented.
As it is, the Kimberleys are
a terra incognita to 99 per cent,
of Australians, and the N.
Territory has the handicap of
past failures to live down. But
Captain Lort Stokes named
the country south of Burketown
the “Plains of Promise”; it
may yet live up to the name,
and rice could be the redeem-
ing crop. That country is
worth a thorough investigation
by men who are competent to
express an opinion. So is a
lot of the country back of
Normanton. —D. C. Tilghman.
(N.S.W.)-
Railway Gauges
The most illogical argument
I have seen advanced against
railway standardisation and a
uniform railway-gauge was
perpetrated in the Senate
recently, when Senator Vincent
(W.A.) asked why, as it only
took about hours to trans-
fer passengers travelling from
Perth to Brisbane at the break-
of-gauge points of Kalgoorlie,
Port Pirie, and Albury, at the
non-break-of gauge points at
Adelaide, Melbourne, and


Sydney passengers had to wait
a total of 20 hours and also
had to change trains.
This is merely a red herring.
The railway authorities could
provide through trains at any
time they chose —if traffic
warranted it —because these
points have no break-of-gauge
problem. On the other hand, to
provide through trains where
there is a break-of-gauge point
is a physical impossibility.
The chief broken-gauge prob-
lem is one which some of our
Senators seem to be side-step-
ping—the handling of goods-
traffic. The railing of mining-
concentrates from Broken Hill
is a typical example. The
former Commissioner of the
Commonwealth Railways esti-
mated in 1957 that an up-to-
date standard-gauge railway
from Broken Hill to Port Pirie
would save the country £1
million a year.
The improved strategic value
of the railway-system in time
of war would be beyond com-
putation in monetary terms.—
George Beesley (N.S.W.).
Tourists and Rates
In talking of amenities pro-
vided for tourists in the Blue
Mountains through local-
government borrowing,
“C.8.M.” (B. 2/11/’6O) seems
to have fallen for the propa-
ganda that the tourist-trade is
something worth cultivating
and worth the ordinary
property-owner putting his
hands into his pocket to pay
for.
I lived for more than 10
7 e ars in a town which catered
largely for visitors, and I find
this propaganda more and
more difficult to swallow.
I know little about the Blue
Mountains other than that they
existed as a living area long
before the mania to attract
tourists overtook them, but I
am sure the problems of the
people who live there are
similar to those of the people
in my seaside town.
Here the so-called tourist-
industry provided employment
for very few people, and
those who did work in it pro-
duced nothing for the eventual
benefit of the community.
Yet of our rates, at least five-
shillings in the £ went to pay
off loans for better camping-
areas, tourist shower-baths,
higher-class roads to hotels,
patrolling of the beaches, and
other services strictly for the
benefit of tourists.
The only ones who benefited
from the influx of tourist-
money were the hotels and the
shopkeepers. Hotels and shops
changed hands frequently, as
their owners finished the five-
year or 10-year stint necessary
to make a moderate fortune.
When they sold out they left
the district, taking their money
with them. The home-owning
ratepayer, who wanted noth-
ing more than to enjoy the
place himself and make it into
a better neighborhood for
living in, as opposed to visit-
ing, stayed behind to dig
deeper into his pocket to
attract more spenders for the
new owners of the hotels and
shops.
Statistics on the benefits of
the tourist-trade are really only
statistics of the transfer of
money ; not of the production
of real wealth.
If we are to regard the
tourist-trade from an econo-
mic viewpoint we should look
upon the tourist-centres more
from the point of view of
comparing them with our own
homes.
The first essential is to make
the home as comfortable and
as pleasant as we can for our-
selves to live in, with decent
furniture and appliances, and
a well-kept garden. Any visi-
tors who come are welcome.
If we crave more visitors they
will no doubt come more
readily if the place is really
worth visiting—which it will
be if it is really worth
living in.
The same applies to our
home towns. Once we have
the essentials for decent living
(even the famed Gold Coast
has no sewerage system, and
until recently lacked a water-
supply), visitors will want to
come and see us.
If we want swimming-pools,
football-fields, libraries and
recreation-areas for ourselves,
then let us borrow to provide
them, and let us make the
visitors welcome to them. But
if these amenities are needed
to attract tourists for the
benefit of the business-people,
then let the business-people
get together and pay for them.
They would soon find that such
amenities rarely pay dividends
of themselves, but their
increased business might make
up for it, in which case the
ordinary ratepayer wouldn’t
begrudge them anything
extra they might get. — Ron
Harrison (N.S.W.).
Floor-price for Wool
Thqre are several good
reasons why Australian wool-
growers should ' give a hard
look at the proposal to estab-
lish a “floor” (or reserve) price
for wool, the -most important
being cost.
Whether the necessary mar-
keting scheme would be
administered by the Govern-
ment, the woolgrowers, or the
two in conjunction, someone
would have to pay for the
organisation that would have
to be set up.
Valuers would be necessary,
and their salaries aren’t low.
In a time of declining prices,
the organisation would need
a lot of money to support the
market and large sums would
be eaten up every year in
administrative costs.
Then, of course, there would
be the danger of Government
control of the wool industry,
something that has so far been
avoided in peace-time.
Strangely enough, an organ-
isation in which the bulk of
members are wheatgrowers
favors the floor-price scheme.
Those same wheatgrowers have
their perennial quarrels with
the Government and only
lately yelled to high heaven
about the Government’s deci-
sion on advance payments for
the current season’s grain.
Yet they seem willing to
put their wool-marketing—and
that of other people—in
similar hazard. On the sur-
face a floor-price for wool
looks a good thing, but the
outlook is not so bright when
costs are examined. — Sam
Square (N.S.W.).
THE HOLLIDAYS
“ We'll just HAVE to find room for them, they're Australians!"


Behind the Scenes in the 1920’s
By BERNARD HESLING
Reading my family bible
—“M o d e r n French
Painters,” by R. H.
Wilenski —I am imme-
diately sad that no one (save
possibly a gossip-writer) has
ever recorded the Vie de
Boheme of Sydney in similar
rock-around-the-clock manner.
Instead of dust-dry records,
which like plain-clothes men
shadow our Lawsons and
Streetons from creek to billa-
bong, well! get a load of this
page from Wilenski:
In this year, 1899, Jean
Cocteau, aged seven, was
takdn to the Noveau
Circque to see Lautrec’s
favorite clowns —Chocolat
and Footit —whilst his
parents, armed with the
score, went en grande
tenue to the opera to see
‘Les maitres chanteurs,’
after readtng, no doubt,
‘L’ceuvre Wagnerienne en
France which Catalan
Mendes had just written.
As I only left England for
my country’s good ift 1928, my
history begins a little later:
In this year, then, when
Bof Dickerson, aged four,
using peanut-butter as a
medium, was painting the
first of those great
hungry-looking dials, and
James Glee son, aged 12,
was possibly being dragged
to see Ken Slessor’s
favorite clowns, Stiffy and
Mo, at la Tivoli (then in
the Rue Castlereagh ),
your correspondent, wear-
ing plus-fours and a
pommie cap, was going
(probably en grande tenue)
to the Sydney Playbox
Theatre (capacity 85) in
Rowe Street, there to
watch that grisly little
Scot, Duncan McDougall,
with his incandescent
candle of a nose projecting
from beneath a Harpo
Marx wig, playing the
dramatic part of The
Woman in Ernst Toller’s
verse play.
Our tremendous moments —
and we were quite capable of
going time and again to some
bum play just for the two
minutes at the end of act three
—were called “real theatre.”
“Remember the perambulator
careering madly down the
stone steps in End of St. Peters-
burg!“Remember the gold-
fish twitching on the floor in
Storm Over Asia! ” “Pure
Theatre . . . Real Theatre!”
Tf memory serves me “real
theatre” (except the two
film examples given) had
nothing in common with real
life. The heroes of “real
theatre” appeared on our pro-
grammes as: The Woman, The
Sailor, Death’s Assistant. Two
Angels Riding Pillion, A
Clown, Mr Zero, First and
Second Corpse, Mr Shrdlu.
(The last a character from
Elmer Rice’s .Adding Machine .)
These characters wore masks
as we wore braces, but
lounged on cogwheels and
tombstones instead of sofas.
Their stamping-ground was
usually someone’s nightmare,
and on the rare day when the
weather lifted, any view from
“I am Woman. Peace in the Heart..."
their front porch was mostly
gasworks.
Of the few pieces with a
homely moral, perhaps Kaiser’s
Morn to Midnight is a good
example, for it tells in some 20
scenes the life of an absconding
German bank-clerk. It shows
how, far from enjoying the
dough, he gets religion instead
(as he would); how he picks
up a cutie in the street who
has a wooden leg (as he
wouldn’t); how the value of
the German mark declined
(which it did) proving conclu-
sively that he only stole 3d.
and not three-million marks.
Whether McDougall—who
did this 20-scene epic on a
stage about as big as the back
of a covered wagon with the
curtain jiggling at each scene-
change as if carpet-beaters
were behind —-ever paid royal-
ties I wouldn’t know (or
wouldn’t tell). What I do
recall is that a play would be
on and you’d paid to see it
and then phut! it was out like
a light, and there before the
curtain was poor Duncan,
bathed in the beam from sus-
pended cocoa-tins, saying that:
“Owin’ tae unforrreseen cir-
cumstances, I am nae able tae
present Loudspeaker to-neet
. . . Nane the less a gurt treat
lies in stoorre for ye, for at an
’oor’s notice, wi hae bin able
tae lay oor hans on Ghosts, the
worrrrk of the Norwegian
Master.”
My own contribution to
Sydney’s Theatre history
occurred when I helped Carrie
Tennant (now Caroline Kelly,
the Anthropologist) to start her
Community Playhouse, a com-
pact theatre where the heads
in the back-row stalls grazed
the ceiling. We opened with
the ceiling.
Building a little theatre is a
headache. You have to
have aisles up which the public
can stumble in case of fire.
The law also maintains that you
need a row of hooks on which
at some future time you can
hang fire-buckets. You have
to have a screen of some sort,
too, to divide Ladies’ from
Gents’ dressing-rooms.
One day a great, blue-mail-
bag of a police sergeant came
to see us. We weren’t worry-
ing about the Police —they
were our friends. We only
feared the Town Clerk and the
red-tape merchants who can’t
see the difference between the
Tivoli and a playhouse beneath
a grating in the street.
The sergeant asked what we
were up to? He liked the pair
of us and wanted to know
what we were doing about exit
doors, about the Ladies’,
about fire-alarms? He came
often. “No concern a mine,”
he’d say: “I’m not the Town
Clerk, now, am I?”
He kept telling us that
McDougall’s new theatre in
Oxford Street had cost him a
lot of money—“Oh! a lot a
money—l ’elped McDougall a
lot . . . went to the Town Hall
for him, I did. And I’d do
the same for anybody. I’m
like that. Yes —it cost
McDougall a lot a money . ..”
■piRE-iNSPECTORS were another
matter. I was thoroughly
used to London County Coun-
cil fire-inspectors for they
didn’t say a word, but just
flicked their petrol-lighters and
set fire to your theatre—or
tried to. I say “tried to”
because fireproofing is a
simple process. You put two-
bob’s worth of alum in a pail
of water, add some other in-
gredient—l forget what —but
worth about the same money,
spray your scenery with the
mixture and it just won’t
burn. Whether the Sydney
fire-inspectors were not sup-
plied with petrol-lighters then,
I can’t say, but the man who
called on us (and it was quite
usual) wouldn’t even waste his
box of matches.
“I’m not interested in
whether it will burn or not,
said the inspector. “Merely
want to know if it’s been fire-
proofed.”
“It has.”
“Good-oh! Show me your
receipt for the fire-proofing
dope.”
“I made the dope.”
“No dice, mate. Here’s the
address for the dope. You
show me the receipt that
you’ve bought it and you can
open.”
The address was in Red-
fern, the dope a quid a gallon,
only one man made it, an “
the least you could buy was
a four-gallon tin. I suppose
nothing like this happens as
they build the Opera House.


is obvious, sometimes in a cadence
that reminds you of Vachel Lindsay’s
drum-thumpings, sometimes in a
reminiscence from “Banjo” Paterson
(“On Farley’s run”), that Thiele has
been trying hard in this book to find a
way of writing that, whoever has helped
him towards it, will sound natural and
easy and Australian; and in “Bert
Schultz,” despite a mistake or two as
in the awkward second-last line, he has
very nearly got it—quite nearly enough
to make this piece a certainty for the
anthologies:—
Bert Schultz on his West Coast farm
Eases backwards through the door-
way of his truck,
And the cabin grows around him,
the wheel
Finds comfort in a padded stomach
rut.
Bert Schultz in motion is a monstrous
forward shoot
Because he crushes the accelerator
like a toadstool
Under his six-pound boot.
The essential strength and novelty of
the book is Thiele’s creation, in this
homespun style, of a small gallery of
living Australian portraits; something
that has seldom been attempted in this
particular way in our verse before,
though it has affinities with the art of
Robert Frost and Edwin Arlington
Robinson in America. “Bert Schultz”
is one of these portraits; another is
“Tom Farley,” who has grown so like
his dog
That folk would hardly be surprised
Some day to see them interchange
their places,
See the dog stand up to fill his brier
pipe,
And old Tom, dropping to the turf
behind the flock,
Creep stealthily with feints and,
cunning graces,
And, nose to ground, sink his teeth
in a lagging hock.
Then there is “Bert Wilson’s Daughter,”
who is rather like W. H. Davies’s
admirable Mary Price who, at the age
of 75, was still “skinning eels alive,”
only Thiele’s is a hard picture of hard
Australian pioneering; and, a more
symbolic, generalised type, in the tradi-
tion of Mary Gilmore’s “Old Shep”
and the mythological stockmen and
bullockies of Judith Wright and David
Campbell, there is the horseman from
Yardea . . . who (if only it weren’t for
“xerophytic”!) shows how firmly Colin
Thiele can write at his best:—
Risen from his own country, a living
part,
Sun-tempered, xerophytic man,
Made in its own image he rides
wide,
Rides loosely, ranging the boun-
daries of his thoughts ;
From rim to rim one figure, man
and horse,
Inexorably running some predestined
course.
All these, with a most exact picture
of a country school, with scenes from
the Murray mouth and the beaches,
including a lovely bit of moonlight fish-
ing (which needs rhyme or at least a
more regular rhythm) and with a set of
up-to-date cityscapes of Adelaide, all
written with Thiele’s good-humored
acceptance of life, make a very pleasant
picture of the life he knows in South
Australia: as versecraft uneven, but
consistent in robust poetic feeling.
Douglas Stewart.
School Novel
The Incorruptibles. Guthrie Wilson.
Hutchinson. 18s. 9d.
Guthrie Wilson’s latest novel con-
cerns the selection of a headmaster by
members of a college council. The
author was formerly a schoolteacher in
Palmerston North, New Zealand (now
senior Latin master, Newington
College, Sydney), and, following a
criticism in a local paper of his third
novel, “Sweet White Wine,” Wilson
sued the paper for libel and was
awarded £ISOO damages. The appoint-
ment of teachers by college governors
was discussed during the case.
In a different manner and in the
wider field of Sydney, Guthrie Wilson
has written a story of uncommon
power, but is emphatic in his post-
script that the Cranmer College of the
novel is not to be equated with any
other college. Having cleared the desks,
as it were, he dips his pen in vitriol
and presents a scene of “choler and
contention.”
He must have enjoyed writing this
book, for he is back once more in the
sea of school life with the minnows (the
boys) and the big fish (even a shark or
two) representing the masters and the
college council. There is also a loyable
porpoise, Arthur Bracken, senior
master, who, with two others, is a candi-
date for the headmaster’s chair: a
rivalry which leads to much bickering.
As a relief to this theme of pride and
Lake George
Violet-blue and white
As fragile china cups
Tree-freckled hills in the distance
Suggest a scene of dreams:
A stretch of white water,
Condensed mist, as foreground
Small waves tripping
Each after each ashore,
A sky of silk over
Birds in the shallows.
Being of conventional
Mind, though one reaches
Stretches to seize some
Meaning or essence
Beyond flat description
Nothing will come; this cold
Half-unearthly country still
Sends back no echo,
Dumb, remains obstinate
Rock, grass and water.
A.C.T.
J. R. ROWLAND.
A Solitary Hut
Whose hut it was we’d never know
Since we were travellers on the road
Without a single sign to show
We’d ever be back there again.
But life could never be as plain
As that rude house' whose bareness
showed
Good cause for every wind to blow
On such a work of bleak disdain. '
Its setting was of course the plain
Whose clear and barren surface flowed
Towards a sunset’s violent glow —
As if the whole earth meant to show
That such a wretched hut must go,
Must burn and never stand again.
But Earth, of course, the way it rode,
Would miss that fire whose iris showed
Its gabled pupil’s rude disdain.
Through days and years the sun will
show,
As we and other travellers know —
That man has colonised the plain.
VIC.
NOEL MACAINSH.
Necromantics
Seven the things that tempt us,
Nine the time of day,
Two the distance between us
And there is one way.
Green the thought love rests in,
White the thought that parts,
Black the shadow tests us
With our destroying arts.
A sign is enough to live by,
A shape we make in air;
A long line of time we follow —
And there is nothing anywhere.
S.A.
MAX HARRIS.
Demolition
Today a bulldozer is probing where
I used to quiver in the dentist’s chair;
A pneumatic drill, above the gums of the
city
Trembles in the wall's huge cavity.
The old brown stone, the verandah’s
cast-iron lace,
Open wide their sad, decaying grace;
Tomorrow the trucks will cart away
their face,
And concrete dentures glisten in their
place.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


prejudice we have the college back-
ground which includes a brilliant
description of a Rugby game between
rival colleges (Cranmer loses in spite
of the coaching of Bracken), and then
the vivid story of the loves and hates
of the masters and their wives.
There are uneven patches in the
story, but with more pruning and
polishing Guthrie Wilson may produce
something exceptional. This is his best
book to date.
Pat Lawlor.
Joyce? Mann? Proust?
The Man Without Qualities: Robert
Musil. Seeker and Warburg. 575. 9d.
“The Man Without Qualities” is an
immensely long novel of which the
volume here reviewed is the third book
called Into the Millennium and sub-
titled “The Criminals.” It is trans-
lated by Eithne Wilkins and Ernst
Kaiser from the German text of its
Austrian author who, having worked
on the whole novel for twenty years,
died in exile in 1942 leaving it
unfinished.
The English translation so far covers
essentially as much of the book as was
published (in two parts in 1930 and
1933) in Musil’s lifetime. The
remainder was published posthumously
and privately in Switzerland. This
present volume, therefore, stands (or
fails to stand) by itself according to
its author’s intention.
Of the previous two volumes trans-
lated into English various unquestion-
ably eminent reviewers have said very
glowing things, and it is not merely an
anonymous blurb-writer who has com-
pared Musil with Thomas Mann,
.Proust, James Joyce ... In the preface
to this volume, however, Eithne Wil-
kins, its co-translator, takes English
readers to task for regarding “The
Man Without Qualities” as a satirical
book and ignoring its other aspects,
although she admits that the two
volumes preceding this one are intro-
ductory only to Musil’s main theme —
his explorations of love and belief —-
and to his strange ponderous quandary
that leads him to question and grope in
territory where “love” becomes almost
anything, becomes art or science or
mathematics or woman or man or God.
This reader has read nothing of
Musil’s before and feels that while
obviously a knowledge of the earlier
sections would assist in understanding
this one, the last (and in any event
unfinished) chapters would have to be
available to anyone hazarding an
opinion as to what manner of writer
Musil really is.
As this book stands it seems all
middle. Only one main character now
appears for the first time and, without
previous knowledge of them, the other
people of importance give a curious
impression of having floated into its
pages from a sort of limbo. One sur-
mounts this difficulty, however, enjoy-
ing sporadically pages of sometimes
rather heavy teutonic wit, sometimes
rather distasteful teutonic humor,
sometimes surprisingly light and truly
deft comic and satiric situations that
remind one that Vienna was, after all,
renowned as a centre of grace and
pleasure and that the time of this work
(often rather hard to place) is 1913-14.
But then ... the central characters
are Ulrich and his sister Agathe. Musil
speaks through them to give expression
to his sad philosophy of love as being
a state that everyone desires and no
one can attain because true union of
any sort is unattainable. An earlier
story of his mentioned in Miss
Wilkins’s introduction showed that
homosexual love is no answer to this
predicament and here he seems to say
that incestuous love (albeit on a
scarcely physical plane) is no answer
either.
One feels apropos this point that his
courage failed him: he hints at dread-
ful disclosures to come about Ulrich
and Agathe, but so far there is no
overt act of impropriety. Again, so
many of his people have a disembodied
quality that throughout these four-
hundred pages it is simpler to believe
in society than in them. Mostly they
are young people and married, but they
have no children —vaguely one won-
ders why. Merely to enable the author
to manipulate them more freely, or
from a symbolic intention? Briefly one
lady appears to simulate a pregnancy,
but even this, we are told, may have
been an accidental appearance result-
ing from a certain disposition of
draperies across her reclining body.
A scene of great importance for the
book is one in which, for a long time
one evening, Ulrich, two married friends
and a possibly phony philosopher
watch a pervert who lurks in bushes
beneath their window waiting for soli-
tary females to approach his hiding-
place, when he then darts out to exhibit
himself. None of the four in the room
speak or move perceptibly, though one
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 622
Across
I—Burn1 —Burn no reason for calling “Get ia bag!”—sack is
inevitable, though. (5, 4)
s—Tarm which is in credit frequently. (5)
7 Feller takes French and his wearing apparel. (6-6)
8— Bar is not a great distance. (3)
9 How’s the mother-in-law? May be drunk! (5, 3,6)
13 — What makes an old ship quick
with colors to survive the
wash? (7)
14 — Marches his output like this
homeland of his. (5)
15 — About a manuscript and the
stationery, used for it? (5)
16— Rib sure to be broken by this
pug. (7)
17 — Iron serpent ate. (anagram) (14)
19— Sailor on the road. (3) .
20— X may be an unknown quantity,
like the chipper-in on the phone,
but at least we know this about
it. (7, 5)
22 — A 6.50 fitting for the forge. (5)
23 — Talks out of knocking suds
aside. (9)^
Down
1 — Popular retail establishment has
a little business, less rent. (5, 5)
2 Who swallows, the grave of a cat
musician among natives. (3-3, 6)
3 Cry along with this color. (3)
4 Legal restraints in street
corners. (11)
5 Split crescent remaining. (5)
6 Girl or knockout. (5)
B—Again8—Again quizzed as no queer diets
can be arranged. (12)
10 —Art upset postscript snares. (5)
11 — Bodkin bores into these pre-
servers of literature. (11)
12 — Rest jn soap, (anagram) (10)
14 —A Soviet distance-runner upset a
dive-bomber. (5)
17— Nevermore said by it. (5)
18— This makes a Capek play with
Jolson of the agricultural
region. (5)
21 —Is after him on formal occa-
sions. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 621


1500 K HI'NT 10 K. Box 2071, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you -fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
hooks. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
Printed and published by The Bulletin Newspaper
I Co. I J ty. Ltd., 2n2 George Street, Sydney.
GREEN GROWS THE VINE
Nancy Cato
An effective, sensitively-written novel about three young women
who spend two months grape-picking in South Australia. 17/6.
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
man wonders at their collective
attitude. Here obviously high symbol-
ism is intended, and the scene is also
intentionally (and unintentionally)
funny in its repugnant way as is
another central incident, a visit,
minutely described, to a lunatic asylum,
which contains similar ambivalent
qualities along with a deliberate effort
at the comic in the person of a general
who is conventionally shockable.
It is a murky book, curious, some-
times strongly lit by good honest sun-
shine, and one ought not venture very
outright statements about the work of
Musil as a whole on the strength of
this single volume. Whatever one may
think of his philosophising, his straight
descriptive writing is outstandingly
good. Houses, places, rooms and
people are depicted with unforgettable
accuracy, and if one grants this as a
quality of a masterly author, then to
that extent at least Musil is without
qualification a master. But compari-
sons with Proust, Mann or Joyce would
never have occurred to this reader. In
the words of Ulrich: “Men with par-
ticularly fine heads are usually stupid,
Particularly deep philosophers are
usually shallow' thinkers. In literature
talents just a very little above the
average are what contemporaries
usually take for greatness.” One feels
wickedly tempted to leave it at that.
Nancy Keesing.
Memoirs of a Pope
Memoirs of a Renaissance Pope: The
Commentaries of Pius 11, translated by
Florence A. Gragg (Allen and Unwin)
is an abridgement which, however,
restores cuts made to the Pope’s original
in the interest of great Italian houses.
For students of Ezra Pound’s
“Cantos” it is interesting because Pope
Pius II (1405-1464) had to handle
tricky characters like Borso d’Este,
Duke of Modena, and Sigismondo
Malatesta, a really bad character, with
whom the Pope took the unprecedented
course of “canonising him to hell”—-
“No mortal heretofore has descended
into Hell with the ceremony of
canonisation. Sigismondo shall be the
first to be deemed worthy of such an
honor.”
But the “Memoirs” are much more
than a secondary source to Ezra Pound;
in the third-person manner of Julius
Caesar, the Pope makes the story of
his selection by the College of Car-
dinals as colorful as a newspaper
account of the selection of a Labor-
party leader; and he details his pro-
gresses through Italy and his recep-
tions by nobles who ruled like kings
and the conventions he held to get a
new Crusade going with unflagging
verve, no least part of his brilliance
being his shrewd and caustic analyses
of the characters of his friends and
enemies.
R. McC.
Reviewed Briefly
A Dangerous Game: Friedrich
Durrenmatt (Cape). In spite of a con-
trivance or two, this short fable about
the human need for self-transcendence,
even if it means crime, and for justice,
even if it is to be self-inflicted, has more
than ordinary interest. An average-
sensual commercial traveller, stranded
overnight in a Swiss village and unable
to get a room at an inn, accepts the
hospitality of a retired judge. Over a
superb meal he agrees to be the “de-
fendant” in a game of mock-trials
which the judge plays regularly with
his old friends —two lawyers (prosecu-
tion and defence) and a hangman, all
retired. What begins as a joke turns
rapidly to revelation: a crime is found,
the traveller is made to see and admit
it, to embrace the verdict and sent-
ence. Although the crime is a shade
too familiar to justify the elaborate
explaining of it, a human truth emerges
from these ambiguous proceedings, and
the terrible ending is finely managed.
It is not surprising to learn that the
author is making a considerable stir in
Europe as an expressionist playwright.
* * * *
First Blood: W. A. Swanberg (Long-
mans). Scholarly and readable research
into the curious siege of Fort Sumter,
1860-61, which started the American
Civil War. This fort, built on an
artificial island of granite leavings in
the middle of Charleston harbor (South
Carolina), was designed to hold a garri-
son of 650, manning 146 guns of
various calibres. With eight officers,
68 enlisted men and 43 civilian
laborers. Major Robert Armstrong, of
the U.S. Army—himself a Southerner
—was left to hold it against Confeder-
ate attack. He had the use of only 21
guns (mostly 32-pounders) in the
casemate-tier against the enemy's 30
guns and 18 mortars firing from four
different points of the compass. First
of what may be a stream of centenary
histories of the “War Between the
States,” this book describes the plight
of the tiny garrison during a siege last-
ing over three months which ended in
a 34-hour battle—with no casualties,
except four men wounded on each side.
It also explains how the intrigues of
self-seeking politicians in Washington
caused uncertainty and confusion, and
conveys the atmosphere of the mount-
ing tension in the South which led to
the final outbreak.
* * * *
In Everyman's recent edition of
Barham’s The Ingoldsby Legends the
reverend and revered minor canon of
St. Paul’s stays as amusing and ingeni-
ous as ever. Whether he is cogitating
whereabouts he might bury his favorite
dog among the monuments in the
Cathedral
No! I’d not have him there —nor
nearer the door,
Where the man and the angel have
got Sir John Moore
And are quietly letting him down
through the floor,
By'Gillespie, the one who escaped
at Vellore,
Alone from the row: —neither he,
nor Lord Howe
Would like to be plagued by a little
bow-wow—
or whether he’s describing the orgies
of the “Witches’ Frolic.” or the tragic
ending of the love-play begun by the
Black Mousquetaire
With that sort of address
Which the English call “Humbug,”
and Frenchmen “Finesse”
(It’s “Blarney” in Irish, I don't
know the Scotch)
his tongue is always strictly in his
cheek. But his gory corpses all seemed
stuffed with sawdust and the most
bloodthirsty of his legends always end
in a laugh.


“Granola” Plastic Metallic Packing
(1)
Bourrage Plastique de Presse-etoupe
Exnpaquetadura Metalica Plastica.
i» ’
A
(3)
*
(1) Small Piece of Tlastic “Granola.
(2) THE SAME ROUGHLY MmfcDEJjjK into a small stuffing box.
(3) The same, after being compressed in the box.
GENERAL HANDINESS. Though “Granola” is
metallic, it is plastic and has not to be stocked in an
assortment of sizes. The same uniform diameter
rolls are used for packing a spindle or a 12" rod.
DURABILITY. “Granola” is a metallic packing and
woven packing cannot be compared with it for long
life. Hence the trouble and expense of frequent
re-packings are obviated.
ECONOMY. There is no waste with “Granola”.
Nothing has to be thrown away. When re-packing
becomes necessary fresh “Granola” is added to that
which remains in the box.
GOOD MAINTENANCE. “Granola” keeps the rod
“like silver,” and scoring is excluded. It does* not
harden or char under high temperature.
EVERY APPLICATION. “Granola” is right for
saturated and super-heated steam, hot and cold
water, sea water, acids, gases, and most fluids and
semi-fluids.
In 14-lb., 28-lb. and 56-lb. Boxes
“Granola” is made up in uniform plastic “sticks”
which can be moulded to any convenient thickness for
feeding into a stuffing box. When the gland is screwed
down a compact metallic ring is formed.
Where woven packings are used, the addition of a
central ring of “Granola” will give more “body” and
much longer life. It will also reduce friction to a
minimum.
Vy
\ A A VA V,\ V,\ AL
£
GRANOLA
X
Sole Australian Agents
MARS MACHINE TOOL CO. PTY. LTD*
THE VALLEY
BRISBANE
