

The Bulletin
Congo , Cuba and the US. Presidency
Wednesday, July 27, 1960
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Snow, dammit! And I'm out of white,"


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2fi7l, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
NULLABOR AND GALLIPOLI
Geoffrey Drake-Brockman’s The
Turning Wheel (Paterson Brokensha
Pty. Ltd., Perth) may not be an out-
standing piece of literature —though it
has some pretty good patches —but it
is certainly an outstanding Australian
life-story; and this reviewer, for one,
is very glad that the author’s wife,
Henrietta Drake-Brockman, persuaded
him to write it.
The adjective one would like to
apply to it, since it is so thoroughly
Australian in content and spirit, is
“representative.” But then, so few of
us have actually walked across the
Nullabor Plain or been personally
present at Gallipoli, though we all
accept these things as part of our
national background, that one realises
it isn’t really representative at all. It
is very nearly legendary.
To have become a work of literature
it would have needed sorting-out a bit:
the removal of what is merely of family
interest (as distinct from general human
interest); the pruning of what is of
interest only to West Australians; the
rewriting of some chapters that are of
national importance and yet have not
the immediacy of the chapters describ-
ing personal experience.
There is, for instance, the sequence
near the end describing some of
Geoffrey Drake-Brockman’s activities
during World War 11, when he was
Director of Works and Fortifications.
This was a most important post: Army
Works spent £100,000,000 on roads,
camps, gun-emplacements, stores, hos-
pitals, etc. It is history. It has its
nostalgic interest for those of us who
lived through those hectic days. It has
its moments of warmth or comedy, as
when the U.S. officer arrived with
orders to “duplicate both the road and
rail from Adelaide to
kind of feat, apparently, would have
been possible in America. But,
essentially, it is not much more than
a bare record of the facts. It would
have taken another book—and maybe
one that couldn’t yet be published—•
to do full justice to the story.
But, if such passages are a bit arid,
it is astonishing how rich is the rest of
the material; and, when his personal
interest is aroused, the author writes
vividly and well.
The first of the outstanding chapters
is the Nullabor story, when Drake-
Brockman was helping to survey the
route for the railway-line from Port
Augusta to Kalgoorlie, linking the rail-
way systems of east and west; a cara-
van of a hundred camels marching off
into the hot stones, with R.;J. Anke-
tell, who earlier had plotted and
erected a thousand miles of rabbit-
proof fence, navigating by compass
and dragging a snig-chain behind his
camel so that the course for the rail-
way-line was scratched on the earth
itself.
Then, straight from surveying rail-
ways in W.A., or whatever else they
were doing in Australia, there are
the 1500 men of the Light Horse, “on
mounts groomed to perfection,” parad-
ing on the sands of Egypt; with Drake-
Brockman’s disconcerting information
that they spent far more time walking,
leading their horses, than they did
riding. And so to Gallipoli:—
The jump-out of the first wave
from the tunnel trench is an unfor-
gettable memory... .The O.C. next
said, “Men, we have three minutes
to go. Adjust your packs and get
ready.” The joking stopped. The
trench grew silent. The major then
said, “On three blasts of my whistle,
up and over. No cheering.”
The silence became a torture. The
officer gave three blasts. The infantry
were gone. Despite orders, tension
broke in cheers as they reached the
surface. As they cheered, many
were killed. I saw one young lad
miss his footing and fall back into
the tunnel. He could not start again,
alone. He was crying as I moved on
to organise my night’s endeavor. No
sign came to help me. Playne had
fallen . . .
And after Gallipoli, where Drake-
Brockman was wounded, and after a
meeting with Tom Roberts at Wands-
worth, and after a few bombs on
London, when he thought the hotel
lounge was safer than the Tube, then to
France; the strangely peaceful life in
the farmhouse just back from the front,
where the farmer was heart-broken be-
cause a shell had killed his cow; the
observers for the guns floating above
the trenches in “a hundred balloons
looking like great grey jellyfish swim-
ming in the sky”; Pozieres; the snow
and the mud; a meeting with Blarney
(then Lieut.-Colonel) in his dugout,
which serves “to contradict the state-
ment, that is often used maliciously,
that ‘Blarney was never a front-line
soldier’ ”; a brigadier bogged in the
mud; an M.C.; the fearful rows with
Colonel X, who had a jaunty way with
his monocle but wanted to “put 1500
men on Hill 63 —when there was
insufficient room for 100 to work with-
out casualties. To try to place 1500
would have meant the death of God
knows how many”; and the game of
poker behind the lines when “On one
occasion bullets from a plane spat holes
in the blanket and made the cards
dance.”
War makes so abrupt a break in the
pattern of a life that one does not quite
know how to get Drake-Brockman
back to Australia again for his next
great episode; but perhaps one could
somehow bridge the gap with his story
of how, when 20,000 Australians were
parading to salute King George, and
Drake-Brockman’s battalion had sud-
denly to move to give the infantry more
room to deploy—and he had no idea
how to move them —“I called out
‘Woop-woop!’ in my loudest and most
indistinct voice, whilst Lieut. Stradwick
with his necessary orders did the rest.”
There’s a good and very Australian
story, too, of how he sat on a court-
martial with English officers and, when
a young Tommy was charged with
selling an Australian officer’s revolver
to buy a wedding-ring for his girl, horri-
fied the court by advising, “Lend the
lad a fiver and let him get married.”
Back in Australia, then, there is the
story of his appointment as Commis-
sioner for the north-west for the Wes-
tralian Government, which put him in
charge of a territory stretching from
“the 26th Latitude to Cape London-
derry, the northernmost tip of the State,
and east past the Canning Stock
Route right to the borders of the
Territory and South Australia”; and
which took him to Broome and Wynd-
ham and the pearlers, and gave him
what, if the war chapters were not so
good, one would say was the best part
of the whole book—the story of driv-
ing a car, or mostly pushing it, 350
miles in thirteen days to Hall’s Creek,
then on to Derby; eating champagne
for breakfast at one of the Durack
stations; meeting fabulous characters
such as “Mr. Booty,” the cultured
Englishman who would never allow a
visitor inside his awful humpy; and
camping by far and beautiful waters.
This is too big and crowded an
autobiography adequately to cover in
a review; but one must at least con-
clude by saying that Geoffrey Drake-
Brockman, as one would expect from
his career, holds vigorous and authori-
tative views on populating and develop-
ing the north-west and on how, by
irrigation, it can be done.
Penguins
Among the new Penguins is S, L
Grigoriev’s The Diaghilev Ballet
1909-1929, as succinct a book about
ballet as has been written, and by the
man who for 30 years, from first to
last, was Diaghilev’s regisseur, a sort
of theatre and staff manager.
All except one of the 68 ballets
Diaghilev put on, almost without excep-
tion ballets originated by himself
have Grigoriev’s name as regisseur
subscribed to the first
the ballet without his name is Nijinsky s
t Continued on page 58)


There arrived in the new colony of Australia the schooner
“Minerva” from Scotland under the command of Captain
Alexander Lang Elder.
Harving a cargo of Merchandise, Captain Elder saw a great
opportunity of starting a business in this new land. So he immedi-
ately set to work and began a modest Commercial Enterprise that
eventually became the nation-wide organisation of Elder, Smith
& Co. Limited.
■
JvV*%§;
* >
? <£ 4,*.
Wi
■
■
IPiiiS?
. .
liiiili
mmm
. . today, in
Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, with administrative offices in five
capital cities of Australia, nine well appointed stores, one in each
of the major Wool Selling Centres, and 200 Branches in the
principal Country Districts, Elders are able to render a most
complete Service to the “Man on the Land.”
The scope of Elders activities include Wool Broking, Buying and
Selling Livestock, Handling and Marketing of Skins and Hides,
Rural Land and Pjoperty, Chartering and Shipping, Industrial
and Country Merchandise, Travel, Insurance and Rural Banking.
ELDER,SMITH & CO., LIMITED
SYDNEY, GOULBURN, NEWCASTLE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY,
MELBOURNE, GEELONG, BRISBANE, LONDON


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 27, 1960
Vol. 81— No. 4198
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William Street,
Adelaide. 1
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
SOVIET TAKEOVER
nrHE Congo and Cuba present
A ominous resemblances in situation
to the Spain of 1938.
Both are the victims of civil war in
which the violent elements urged on
by Communists are in control. And in
both cases the Soviet Union is itching to
find an excuse to send in troops and
take over so as to establish one more
outpost of the world-revolution.
It is easy now, with the history of
the past 20 years and more behind, to
see how wise the great European
Powers were not to take up the cause
of the Spanish Reds, that strange inter-
national force which would at once
have become a satellite of Russia. It
is clear what use would have been
made of a Red Spain in 1940 when
Hitler and Stalin were celebrating their
friendship “cemented in blood” —the
blood of the torn flesh of Poland and
the Baltic countries—and every Com-
munist in the world was demanding
that the West should surrender to
Hitler in the interests of “the workers”
and “world-peace.”
The pressure now is so strong to
create new Soviet outposts that it is
difficult to see any end to the situation.
It is clear that Castro is a megalo-
maniac. His language suggests strongly,
in the face of his denials, that he is an
underground Communist. Though he
denies it, in unguarded moments he
pours out the phraseology of Leninism
with its sinister intents and double
meanings.
If he is not, his two chief henchmen,
his brother and the mysterious Argen-
tinian, Guevara, who is his Economic
Minister, certainly are. So Castro,
implementing Communist policies,
turning to Moscow for help, inviting
both Khrushchev and Mao into the
zone of the Monroe Doctrine and build-
ing military bases with a crowd of
Russian technicians doing the planning,
is either Communist or leader of Com-
munist planning.
His assertion that he proposes to
adopt the role of savior of the Carib-
bean countries, rolling them all into an
empire for himself as a" preliminary to a
Latin union of the Americas, opposed
to the West and the United States,
explains why Khrushchev and Mao
have so much interest in him, and how
he has obtained the resources. which
kept him afloat and enabled him to
overthrow the Batista Government.
<
TC VENTS in the Congo, as part of the
■ L ' world-picture, are more interesting
when the eye is focused on the Russian
part in it. Ever since the movement for
the retirement of the Belgians began
the Congo has been full of emissaries
of Moscow and Prague working to-
wards grabbing trade and influence
there as soon as the Belgians were out,
and replacing them as the colonial
Power, but with a more subtle tech-
nique.
A letter from an acute observer in
Broken Hill, in the Rhodesian copper-
belt, written before the present crisis
reached its full depth of anarchy,
remarked:—
In the Congo anarchy prevails, and
they are reverting to the cannibalistic
routine of the bush. Russia is stirring
the pot with great skill, and through the
Czechs will have a stranglehold on the
Congo in a couple of years. The Bel-
gians are getting out with little but
what they stand up in, and businesses
are closing down because owners are
not allowed to run them, cannot sell
them or do anything at ail.
Observers who have in mind the
programme of Mao outlined for world
Communism in 1960 are wondering
whether Moscow and Peking now feel
strong (and reckless) enough to try to
take over the world.
The volte-face in attitude to the West
last May was too positive and violent
to have been caused by the U-2 inci-
dent. The U.S.S.R. has swallowed-up
United States aircraft and crews half-
-a-dozen times in the past 15 years
without suffering from the slightest
touch of nervous dyspepsia. But sud-
denly, just after forming a Govern-
ment which appears to be something
like a military dictatorship, for which
Marshal Malinovsky speaks occasion-
ally in an ursine growl, the approach
of any aircraft to Russian borders gives
the Comrade Ministers violent stomach-
pains.
The RB-47 incident is particularly
an instance of manufactured pretext,
for, on the showing of Khrushchev’s
own statement, the machine was 14
miles off the coast and therefore out-
side territorial waters when sighted.
And the fact that it proceeded towards
Russian territory in the face of the
presence of Russian fighters, of which
it must have been completely aware,
and for which it was a sitting target,
seemed to suggest that it was obeying
under duress illegal orders to come in
and land, and that it was shot-down
the moment it was within the 12-mile
limit which the Russians claim as part
of their territory but which other
countries do not recognise. That is. if
the machine was shot-down off the
Kola Peninsula at all, and if its wreck-
age was not found by the Russian
salvage-vessel which went to search for
it ostensibly 500 miles away 10 days
before its discovery was announced.
'T'HE general behavior of the Kremlin
A and Peking, the shooting-down of
the aircraft which the Americans now
say clearly was never within 30 miles of
Russian territory-—the Russian version
lends color to this —is in line with
Khrushchev’s threats to the world
uttered in Austria, his warnings to the
United States not to interfere in Cuba,
and his threat to override even the
United Nations and send troops to
Congo if he was not satisfied that the
Belgians had been thrown out.
For instance, the British military
mission, going about its lawful business
in the Western zone of Berlin, has been
constantly harassed in the past few
weeks by the aggressive action of East
German police. These have threatened
uniformed officials of the mission with
loaded weapons and made several
efforts to crash their cars. Brigadier
Packard, chief of the British mission,
and another officer, in a zone free from
travel-restrictions, were stopped by uni-
formed police, physically assaulted and
held for the afternoon.
The Communist bloc’s world-wide
attitude is that it is now in command
of the globe, and that anybody who
crosses the lines laid down by Khrush-
chev and Mao can look out. He can
expect to be treated as the British have
been treated in Berlin wherever he may
be. Khrushchev has taken the procla-
mation of Communist control as read
and has announced that he is going to
enforce it.
Khrushchev will not' of course, get
away with his new assumption of world
power short of enforcement by the war
which he appears ready to risk.
He has already been told in effect by
the little Belgians to go and chase him-
self, and has been sent a dignified but
firm Note by Mr. Macmillan this week
(which some of the Australian press
did not publish).
The general attitude of papers and
politicians seems to be that there are
only three real countries in the world,
and that the dynamic Powers of
Western Europe are not among them
because their tongues are not as long
as those of Moscow, Washington and
Peking. But the moment of action
might tell a very different story.
. Certainly when it comes to a show-
down the Western world will not take
Khrushchev’s bullying lying down. And
it will not allow him to go on creating
new Communist Spains in Africa
the Caribbean.


THE VULTURE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Macmillan Replies
The British Prime Minister’s Note,
in reply to the Soviet’s charge that
the U.K. was involved in “aggressive
action” in allowing the U.S. RB-47 to
fly from an English aerodrome, pointed
out that the U.S. was officially emphatic
that its aircraft “was never less than
about 30 miles from Soviet land terri-
tory. In these circumstances the
allegations . . . are based on false
premises and the Soviet Government has
no ground for protesting.”
The U.K. Government, the Note said,
“viewed with the utmost seriousness this
unprovoked attack, which illustrates the
danger implicit in present instructions to
the Soviet armed forces.”
There is more force, however, in the
letter from the Prime Minister which
accompanied the formal Note in an
“effort to represent to Mr. Khrushchev
what I believe the whole British people
feel about it,” and setting out “my
anxieties as to the way the world situa-
tion is developing.”
When they had conversations in Mos-
cow last year, the Prime Minister wrote,
“I think we succeeded in setting in
motion a sequence of developments
which appeared to have great promise,”
leading up to the Summit Conference.
He continued that “it was not necessary
to go back to the reasons why the Sum-
mit Conference was broken-up before
it started.” He added: “I still think it
would have been better had you been
willing to put other difficulties aside in
order to pursue the major purpose for
which we were to meet.”
He then set the matter of spying in its
proper perspective:
All acts of intelligence or espionage on
either side are after all symptoms, not
causes, of world tension which we would
both seek to reduce. However, I took
comfort from your statement that when
the dust settled we might be able to take-
up again the task. Since then, however, a
number of events have occurred that
made me less hopeful.
First, he listed “the action of the
Soviet delegation in leaving the Com-
mittee of Ten on Disarmament when
new U.S. proposals were, with your
knowledge, about to be presented”; then
“that a new incident regarding the U.S.
RB-47 flight,” about which, over and
above the denials in the formal U.K.
Note, he felt “that even if facts had been
as stated by your Government . . . the
Soviet authorities should not have taken
so grave an action and one so calculated
to turn the incident into a major inter-
national dispute.”
Lastly, he came to the Congo. “I must
ask you, Mr. Khrushchev, whether you
really believe it is likely, as you have
stated, that ‘Britain, in concert with the
U.S., France, Belgium and West Ger-
many, are guilty of organising a con-
spiracy to destroy the Congo,’ in view
of the policies which the British Govern-
ments of all parties have followed not
only since the last war but for many
generations.”
He pointed out that since the end of
World War II 510-million people had,
with British help in the shape of financial
contributions and technical help, achieved
independent nationhood, and that all of
them had become members of the free
British Commonwealth.
Nor is this movement at an end. In
October, this year, Nigeria, with its
35-million people, will be another great
independent country . . . Sierra Leone
in April, 1961. The West Indies is moving
rapidly in the same direction.
The sting came in the tail. The writer
remarked that he had “consistently given
much weight to your assurances of the
Soviet Union’s desire for peaceful co-
existence,” but that it was his “firm
opinion that these objectives cannot be
pursued without patience and restraint,”
and that “much of the present anxiety
derives from the fact that these elements
seem to be absent from the recent mani-
festations of Soviet Government policy.”
He continued that “I simply do not
understand what your purpose is today,”
and that “if the present trend of events
in the world continues we may all one
day, either by miscalculation or by mis-
chance, find ourselves caught in a situa-
tion from which we cannot escape.”
In the House of Commons the P.M.
made it clear that reconnaissance flights
in international air-space are perfectly
legal and would continue.
The real question at issue seems to be:
“What is international air-space?” The
Kremlin appears to claim to make its
own law on the matter irrespective of
international law. Even on its own past
ruling the RB-47 was outside Russian
waters, and if the U.K. and France
applied the same rules, no Russian air-
craft or ship could pass down the English
Channel without danger of being shot-at.
Thoughts on a Kidnapping
/
With nine-year-old Graeme Thorne and
his kidnappers still untraced after nearly
three weeks of searching, full sympathy
must go out to the unfortunate little boy
and his distressed parents—the victims of
a vile crime of a type from which Aus-
tralia has in the past been mercifully free.
But sympathy and other commendable
human emotions should not be allowed
to obscure entirely some disquieting
reactions to this callous crime. '
The action of Lord Mayor Jensen in
volunteering his services as go-between to
facilitate the exchange of the boy and
the ransom-money demanded does credit
to his feelings as a father. But it does no
credit to him as chief magistrate of the
biggest city in Australia, pledged to the
upholding of good and orderly govern-
ment.
In press statements and on radio and
TV Alderman Jensen gave his word to
the unknown kidnappers that if they got
in touch with him regarding the boy and
the ransom he would in no circumstances
betray them. It is extremely doubtful
whether any citizen has a right to give
such an undertaking. Any person known
to have information which could help
the court in a criminal case may be
subpoenaed as a witness, and if he refuses
to attend or to give evidence he may be
jailed for contempt of court. What the
Lord Mayor is saying in effect is: “Well
you fellows have got the boy. His parents
have offered to pay you the money, but
perhaps you’re afraid to contact them
Contact me instead and you’ll have
nothing to fear.”
What better way could be imagined
for encouraging other attempts at kid-
napping? Blackmail is a crime which
above all others, thrives on success; and
kidnapping is a particularly obnoxious
kind of blackmail. There was no response
to the Lord Mayor’s offer. Had it pro-
► duced the result he desired the rejoicing
of the community at the safe return of
Graeme would have been tempered by
forebodings as to how long it would be
before the same or another gang of kid-
nappers was again seeking Alderman
Jensen’s assistance in collecting the
reward for their hideous work.
Mr. and Mrs. Thorne’s first duty is
towards their son, but the Lord Mayor’s
responsibility is to the whole community,
and he should look beyond the present
crime to the possible and only too prob-
able effects of his actions. The same
applies to the suburban mayor and to a
lesser degree to the Anglican clergyman
who made similar offers.
Some aspects of the press coverage of
the kidnapping have been nauseating. The
“Daily Telegraph’s” offer of £5OOO for
the return of the boy, with no questions
asked, was couched in terms which
suggested that the paramount thing was
that the “Telegraph” should get the
credit for his recovery. The two
afternoon-papers indulged in a poster-
and - headline war reminiscent of the
Sydney circulation-manager of years
ago who when things were slack used to
bemoan the lack of “a good rape” to
put on his poster. Some TV-stations
enlisted the aid of “crime-reporters” and
tried to turn the tragedy into another of
their nightly crime-serials.
Qn the Government side Premier
Heffron is faced with something of a
dilemma. As kidnapping is a crime
N. S. Wales has not previously had to
give much consideration to the penalty
under existing laws is not as great as the
offence deserves. But the problem is that
if it is made more severe a future kid-
napper will have less reason to hesitate
at adding murder to his original crime if
by so doing he sees a chance of avoiding
discovery. The Government which
thought it was doing the humane thing
by abolishing the death-penalty f° r
murder may now be having some second
thoughts on the matter.
Off-course in Victoria
It is expected that the A.J.C. will soon
release the V.R.C. from the mutual
agreement not to permit the telecasting
of races.
Now that the Victorian
have got the off - course tote coming
along, they are apparently preparing 10
make some concession, in the telecasting
of some of their programmes, to


stav-away punter, since he will be pay-
ing at long last, something towards the
upkeep of the racecourses through the
percentage-deductions on off-course tote
turnover.
It is more than likely the off-course
tote will be adopted by other States if it
succeeds in Victoria. Inter-State interest
in the experiment is very keen and sympa-
thetic ; but the Melbourne clubs are
making very slow progress in implement-
ing it.
The off-course tote bill was finally
passed in May, and it had been known
for some weeks earlier that it would
pass; the ayes and noes had been very
carefully checked.
The principal of the N.Z. Totalisator
Agency Board, originators of the scheme,
immediately offered to help plan opera-
tions in Victoria, and his offer was
accepted, and the country racing-clubs
eagerly appointed their two representa-
tives, P. H. Seeber, of Bendigo, and
H. J. Grigg, of Murtoa, but developments
have slowed down since.
The N.Z. system, which the Melbourne
protagonists may be wise to follow, began
as simply as possible with hired offices
in two modest-sized towns and gradu-
ally extended. In this way the organisa-
tion was built up with a minimum of
racing capital, and a minimum of errors.
There seems no reason, except the
Victorian board’s heavy sense of respon-
sibility, why people in Victorian country
and provincial centres should not be able
to have a bet in decent conditions on the
Centenary Cup this November.
The board is now talking of employing
a staff of 200 or more, and there is, of
course, great interest in the senior jobs.
An elaborate opening is apparently being
planned for as long ahead as next
February or March, but the fellow in
Mildura or Sale will wonder why it will
take almost a year before the five-bob
each way he bets can be transferred to
the tote at Flemington.
The board is estimating an initial turn-
over of £5O million a year, which will
give the clubs £1 million and the State
Government up to £3 million. The
royal commissioner, on the figures of
the s.-p. merchants and N.Z. experience,
reckoned the turnover would be £l6O
million yearly ; and this may, in fact, be
reached if the board can give the off-
course punters the opportunity, denied
them in N.Z., of “reinvesting” after the
running of the earlier races.
The Depressed
Reported during the week that the
representatives of a “million” white-
collared workers have decided to com-
me in a campaign against the Com-
monwealth’s wage-pegging policies. Not
white-collar workers” themselves,
ey are mainly too busy enjoying the
Tv C j • ?*■ age—listening to their
l s > driving the family cars to golf or the
nnt C • or holiday-resorts— but they do
f min d if gentlemen who make a pro-
serf'° n h P a^n l‘ n g them as miserable
s add to their momentary prosperity
by squeezing some more out of
employers.
They do not worry even if every new
wage-rise is a hostage to disaster. One
might expect white-collared workers to
be the intelligent section of the com-
munity, and that they, especially the
public servants, would appreciate the
ultimate dangers of galloping inflation
when applied through continuous wage-
rises.
The only people who might be pitied
in Australia in 1960 are perhaps the poor
professional trade-union watch-dogs like
E. H. McGrath, N.S.W. president of
the Administrative and Clerical Officers
Association, who told his troubles to the
daily press last week.
It seems that these sad toilers in the
wage-rise industry are “deluged” with
“letters and phone-calls, bitterly protest-
ing against the [Commonwealth’s]
In Defence of
"RED ROBBIE"
page 48
refusal” to add the 28 per cent, metal-
workers’ margins award to their salaries.
Meetings are to be held “in every
capital” of the Commonwealth to make
violent protests —despite the fact that
the Conciliation Commission has
expressed its view clearly on the basis and
intention of the award.
Every step is being taken to produce
a sense of grievance and to use the matter
as a political weapon against the Com-
monwealth Government in particular and
also State Liberal-C.P. Governments.
Mr. McGrath says that “vVE” —who-
ever “we” is—“have come to the con-
clusion that the Government intends a
deliberate policy of depressing white-
collared salary-groups.”
Perusal of the estimates of any large
Commonwealth Department will disclose
a list of perhaps a couple of dozen clerks
with fancy titles, but clerks nevertheless,
without real responsibility, who are get-
ting salaries not far short of those paid
to managers of substantial companies in
private business.
And, of course, their jobs are jobs for
life, with privileges' attached that no
private employee can ever hope to
enjoy.
Ceylon's Left Turn
After a long period of disorder, follow-
ing the assassination of Mr. Bandara-
naike, and failure by more conservative
leaders to establish stable Government
amid a ferment of noisy parties and
mutually-hating races and beliefs, Ceylon
has. achieved one of the queerest
Administrations possible.
Its new Prime Minister’s only quali-
fications seem to be that she is the widow
of her late husband. She hasn’t yet
got a seat in Parliament, yet she (with
the help of the people who are using
her) has led a campaign to a qualified
victory with 74 seats out of 157.
Though she is not in the House, and
cannot be except through a by-election,
or nomination, she has the power to
obtain a majority of the House by
nominating six members. She might even
nominate herself.
Her husband was one of the many
Asians who went to England to be
educated at an English university, was
treated as an equal, and returned to
make use of his education by turning
it to the purposes of the Left. As in Aus-
tralia, Asian students who reach England
are often taken hold of by Communists
and their kind and are persuaded they
must throw-off the bonds of “colonial-
ism” and “imperialism” and anything
that conflicts with Russian global ambi-
tions.
Some of them, like Bandaranaike, find
themselves sadly divided in their minds
—they want the good things of the
Western world, and they are ready to
accept Leftism as a weapon to get them.
The Freedom party which Mrs.
Bandaranaike “led” to victory is one
of those bodies which has a foot in
each camp (something like the Victorian
A.L.P.), and it and the lady who refused
to campaign herself for a seat because
of her “domestic obligations” were
hoisted to power by grace of a
front” which involved support from the
Communist party and the Trotskyites.
Like the Czech Government of the
early post-war years, the Freedom party
denies more than a temporary associa-
tion for election purposes with the Red
bodies. And the absurdity of their
“leader’s” being likely to follow Moscow
policy has been illustrated by the fact
that she is Catholic-educated, if not a
Roman Catholic.
But the fact is that she cannot survive
in office, even if she were a much more
adroit and enthusiastic politician than
she is likely to be, except by grace of the
two rival Communist bodies or some
other of sectional parties which infest
Ceylon’s politics and keep it like a
seething pot. Mr. Menzies’s fears that
Communism could take-over Ceylon are
well-grounded.
Ceylon almost immediately is to
become a republic within the Common-
wealth, but if Bandaranaike had
remained in office it is doubtful if asso-
ciation with the British Commonwealth
would have survived. Unless the new
Government is prepared to tie its leading-
strings to Moscow or to the Conservative
elements it is not likely to live long.
Ceylon is highly important to Aus-
tralia, and to South-east Asian defence.
Who holds Ceylon, Iraq, Egypt and
Indonesia can control all the sea and
air routes from Europe to the Far East
and to Australia. Also, these four bases
are grouped in such a way as to hem
India in completely with Russia, China
and Tibet along its northern borders.
Bandaranaike excluded the British
Navy and R.A.F. from its bases in Ceylon
and was flirting ever more intimately with
Moscow when he died, just as Soekarno
is today only restrained from going over
to Khrushchev by the Army.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
Sydney “Sunday Telegraph” is “The
Clean Family Newspaper”; Sydney
“Sunday Mirror” is “The Independent
Newspaper”; Sydney “Sun - Herald”
says: “Largest Net Sale of any News-
paper in Australia.” —“Nunk.”
❖ ❖ ***
“Jay Kay”: The prisoner had almost
reached his century of convictions, the
charge this time being assault. Evidence
was that he had walked into a woman’s
bedroom uninvited and, among other
things, had blackened both her eyes
when she objected. The chivalrous
magistrate, perhaps thinking insult to the
lady’s character was being added to
injury to her person, awarded six
months on hearing the accused’s defence,
that he had accidentally walked in, had
been insulted, and from the language
used had thought it was a man!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ymar”: A Horsham (Vic.) business
lavishly advertised its new self-service
department, but prosecuted the first to
avail himself of it, a man who, because
he wanted a drink, anticipated the
official opening and at 4.30 a.m. broached
the display-window with half-a-brick
and served himself with six bottles of
sherry, half-a-gallon of old white port,
a bottle of sparkling-hock and another
of champagne.
“Corpus”: After a minor car-smash
at night at an important intersection
in our city, first on the scene was a
policeman, quickly followed by a doctor
and a lawyer who live in adjacent flats.
The doctor rushed one of the acciden-
tees to the hospital; the lawyer took
the other to the police-station; the John
first on the scene was left to push one
of the cars to the side of the road.
❖ ❖ *>
“Vingter”: When the dailies’ splurge
on the Army’s so-called “brain-washing”
“My goodness , it did turn cold during the night."
course was at its flood, the wife was
entertaining two ex-A.W.A.S. friends.
Said the sporty type who must have
been a dainty dish a little over a decade
ago: “It’s a pity they didn’t have the
idea ’way back in 1944. A course would
have done old Colonel Paunchy a lot
of good. They might have been able
to put back some clean notions in place
of the only ones that he seemed to
have! ” It should have ended there. But
the other ex - A.W.A.S. rejoined
spiritedly: “I never did believe those
stories about the Colonel. Only a few
girls in the unit complained about him.”
Back came the reply, “Of course, dear!
All the others didn’t altogether object
to his notions, or they just didn’t give
him any notions.” Mrs. V. hastily poured
another round of tea, but, I’m afraid,
not swiftly enough to prevent the break-
up of a beautiful friendship.
*
“Peter Simple”: I nominate as one of the
pioneers of flying in Australia a youth of
20 who 60 years ago jumped from the
roof of a barn near Grafton (N.S.W)
flapping a pair of goose-wings tied to
his wrists. He had eaten a hearty
Christmas-dinner and drunk several
giasses of wine a short time previously
but the final inducement was the taunts
of half-a-dozen other youths who stood
around asserting that he wasn’t game.
The doctor who set his' broken leg
consoled him by saying he would prob-
ably have broken both legs if the goose-
wings hadn’t lightened the impact.
* * *
“5.0.5.”: At the Academy of Science
—Canberra’s architectural talking-point,
mushroom-shaped and surrounded by a
moat —officials had been wondering
what they should do with the coins
thrown in the moat by members of the
public or some academician in a whim-
sical moment. Earnest discussions were
carried on, whether World Refugee Year
or the office tea-club should be endowed.
But on a Monday they found that all
the silver coins had been carefully
picked out of the water during the
weekend, along with most of the pennies
and halfpennies.
... A A
“N.M.R.”: For some reason Alec
Chisholm’s “Husband-Wife Sagas” (&
6/7/’6O) brought to mind a story my
father used to tell. Born in England,
he was sent to school in France, but
was unhappy there, and ran away t 0
sea. On a voyage to Australia the
ship was in a heavy storm which fright"
ened many of the women passengers
One of them came up on deck at mid-
night and, seeing my father, said.
“Common sailor, is there any danger?
He replied, “Yes, madam; g raV J
danger.” Next morning she reported
him to the captain. When asked wha
he meant by frightening a woman P aS "
senger, he said, “Well, sir, the l ad j
asked if there was any danger, and
replied, ‘Yes, madam; grave danger,
because if any other members of p
crew came on deck they might see h e „
in her nightdress and flannel petticoat
CHAIN LIGHTNING
“G. J. Coles and Co., Ltd., topped by
about £2 million a takeover otter
by Woolworths, Ltd., for Matthews Thompson
and Co., Ltd.”
When you try to buy a million-dollar
baby
For a five- and ten-cent store
You’ll often find it possible that maybe
Someone will offer more.
And if you then discover you have blun-
dered
By refusing to be denied
It’s hard to get the purchase-price re-
funded
If you’re not satisfied.
You could cut them for a catch-line to a
reckless
Million-and-sixpence a chain,
But those who want a half-a-dollar neck-
lace
Would view them with disdain.
So, taking all in all, I think that maybe
The taking-over business is a bore :
I’d rather have a million-dollar baby
Than a five- and ten-cent store.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


tn Ihe Newcastle City Council some
1 aldermen considered the previous
Lord Mayor was taking too long
to decide who should paint his por-
trait. The present Lord Mayor (Aid.
Purdue) brought the discussion to a
close: “A man who’s going to be hung
should have a say on who’s to be his
executioner.” At the same meeting an
alderman suggested that wrecked cars
should be placed as warnings every few
hundred yards along the main roads, to
which the Lord Mayor replied, “They
are.” —“Mutton Jeff.”
♦y *X*
“Liz”: An item of interest re Cyril
E. Goode, of the Lawson Festival prize-
winning story (B. 6/7/’60): Some years
ago the Brighton Council (Melb.) con-
demned an old weatherboard house in
Lewis Street, Brighton, and ordered it to
be pulled down. Now, this was the
last home of Adam Lindsay Gordon, and
Cyril fought hard to have it preserved.
The council was adamant, but finally
consented to Cyril’s pulling the house
down and carting it away. After draw-
ing up a plan and numbering each
weatherboard and each brick, Cyril care-
fully dismantled the old place and
carted it to his backyard, where it was
stored for two years before being re-
erected in a park at Williamstown
(Melb.) in memory of the poet.
>X« *i* ♦>
“1.H.P.”: They’re taking all the fun
out of driving a car. Soon they’ll even
have a magic-eye to do the steering and,
except for having a seat, you might just
as well be in a bus. One new car
releases the handbrake when you put
it into gear. The seat can be adjusted
forwards, backwards, up and down, or
tilted, by touching a small electric
button. A photo-electric device dips
the headlights to an oncoming car.
Radio-programmes can be changed by
an electric button on the floor.
♦+♦ ♦> ♦>
“R.A.M.”: Anyone who believes in
the fitness of things should have had the
final event at the Belmont Park (W.A.)
race-meeting in the bag when the Naval
Base Handicap was won by Seagoing,
from High Channel and Water Queen.
* ❖ *
Collins Street”: There are some sore
hearts at J.C.W.’s in Melbourne because
the last three months of “My Fair Lady’’
have had to be announced, and so the
Proud sign, “Third Year,” cannot be
ra ised; but there will have been 700
Performances in Melbourne, of which
• were by the first cast, now playing
P Sydney, when the run ends in October.
Kunner-up i s “Annie Get Your Gun,”
will performances. Williamson’s
probably decide to send the Mel-
c A om P an y to New Zealand and
the th e^a jd e - New Zealand is not
fm eat re-minded country it once was,
chur.K C u* an< *’ Wellington and Christ-
bettpCr*’ r on, y cities to be played, are
Perth c lma ti ca lly than Adelaide or
ln the summer. A run of six
months in Adelaide and Perth is ex-
pected and this would have taken the
season over the hottest months where the
theatres have no cooling-system.
♦♦♦
“Mugga Way”: Criminologists attri-
bute thefts in West Germany from
museums and art - galleries to the ex-
tremely high prices now being paid at
auctions for Old Masters and even more
modern works. In North Rnine-West-
phalia alone about 1400 works of art have
been stolen from public galleries. Some
say an international gang is at work,
“I say, driver, do you permit multiple-hiring ?”
selling to buyers ready to pay exorbitant
prices and ask no questions ; others say
what cun you expect after they’ve made
abstraction fashionable
<£♦ ►>
“Croc”: Warwick (Q.) railway-station,
famous for Billy Hughes and The Egg,
boasted a fruit-seller some 30 years ago
who put rhyme into disparaging his
wares (B. 29/6/’6O). His best - known
call, combining train-news with advertis-
ing his oranges, was reserved for the
appearance of the South - west Mail:
“Here comes the Goondiwindi train,
with all the pretty girls from Thane;
All skin and no juice.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bass”: An old-timer who recalled the
bank-bust of last century related how
a Perth woman waited for her bank to
open and demanded her entire savings,
payment of which embarrassed the
branch, but was accomplished. She
staggered off with the load of sovereigns
(B. 6/ 7/ ’6O), but somewhere between
there and home the truth hit her —her
life wasn’t safe with that hoard in the
house. Within an hour she was back
to redeposit it, but the bank, which
happened to be the only one that didn’t
bust, wouldn’t take it. I’ve often won-
dered about the outcome of that incident.
During the next depresh I found a
sovereign in an old house I demolished
and rushed it into a bank. Got 24-bob
for it, and thought I was doing well until
the bloke next to me was handed the
value of the English £l-note he was cash-
ing—25-bob.
❖ * *
“C.A.A.”: High-pressure American-
type sales-methods have had some success
here in Victoria. Technique is to
send an account to a householder for
a 12-months’ subscription. While the
recipient is still getting over the shock
along comes the magazine marked:
“Return postage paid.” If the addressee
hangs on to it he is morally bound to
pay the sub.
♦x< ♦> *>
“No Sirrah”: Taped or rehearsed
radio-shows lack a certain spontaneity,
but . . . The A.B.C. put on a special
children’s-hour broadcast for Children’s
Book Week from the Newcastle Public
Library. A bright young lady from the
A.B.C.’s Sydney studio brought some
children on stage ; the first, a six-year-
old, was asked “Do you like reading?”
With demure charm she replied, “No.”
The young A.B.C. lady paused,
swallowed, and then passed it off: “Oh,
well, 1 suppose you’re a bit young for
reading.” But the next, a seven-year-
old, also denied any interest in read-
ing. “I suppose you’ve got plenty of
books at home?” “No,” said the
seven - year - old. Later on, the young
lady from Sydney told the children


they would have a “Sing-O”; what would
they like to sing? The uncultured little
brats yelled out with one voice: “My
Old Man’s a Dustman.” After another
slightly shocked pause, the shaken young
lady did some fast talking, and persuaded
them to sing one of the regular “Sing-O”
songs, which they did just as lustily and
happily as if they had been given their
chosen piece.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“E.McK.”: When John O’Grady
{They’re a Weird Mob ) gave a talk to
a group of young Brisbane writers some-
one asked him why he used a pen-name.
“Well,” said O’Grady, “fancy writing
under the name of O’Grady or O’Toole
and O’Regan—it doesn’t do.” “But,”
pointed out a member, “there was a man
who wrote under the name of O. Henry.”
<£• ♦> *:<
“Sebak”: To roll down just another
bowl in this appropriate insignia rink:
one of ours marks his property with the
phiz of a burglar done in the old-time
comic-paper style; his name is Sykes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sackville”: I know most of the tunes
on the hit-parades before my nephew
does; the rock-’n’-roll smasher, “Pretty
Red Wings,” was a musical archaicism
when I started school, and that wasn’t
last week. “Softly Wakes My Heart,”
the child of “Samson and Delilah,” was
born in 1877; modern pop.-singers
murder it under the name of “Night.”
The newest old-’un is that beloved ditty
of round-the-piano sing-songs, “Darling,
I Am Growing Old.” If I didn’t mis-
interpret the synthetic-American pro-
nunciation, its reincarnation is “Hours.”
Pointed out all this to the young bloke,
and for a moment it rocked him ; then
he came back with, “Aw, the tunes
may be old, but we give ’em the modern
treatment.” He had me there ; I couldn’t
deny that they give ’em the treatment.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Artie”: The carbon-copies par.
reminds me of the stationmaster at a
small country railway-station in Central
Queensland who meticulously checked
both the original and the carbon copy
of his weekly report, just in case, so he
said, there was a mistake in either.
❖ ❖ - ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: That Dunedin (N.Z.)
incident of the company returning the
compliment by applauding its audience
after taking numerous encores (B.
13/7/’6O) isn’t entirely new. From an
orchestra-stall in old Her Majesty’s
Theatre (Sydney) now a Woolworths
store —during the early 1920’5, I saw
Maude Fane recalled five times by her-
self for singing of “Avalon” at a last-
night musicomedy performance. On her
final appearance, she glided through the
fallen curtain to the footlights, raised
her hand for silence, clapped briefly but
resoundingly herself, smiled warmly,
shouted, “That’s for you,” and then
darted off into the wings.
“Kelvin”: In spite of “Imperial 55’s”
(B. 6/7/’6O) spirited defence of her
stenographic sisterhood, I maintain there
is no 100-per-cent, insurance against what
a typist will do in malice or mistake. A
Big Shot I know is famed for being crisp
and pungent at unhesitating speed, and
for his insistence that his drafts must
not be altered. He is envied for his
10-years’ retention of a super-efficient
“I think they should put some limit
to the height of these units”
lass who doesn’t mind being sworn at,
and will swear back at him; having
dictated a letter, he leaves her to sign on
his behalf if he happens to be absent.
After an extended lunch-hour, he dic-
tated a swag of letters, and then left to
rejoin his lunch-time associates. One of
the letters must have been particularly
cogent, because the addressee’s prompt
reply cleared - up exasperating delays,
thanked him for his courtesy and
expressed satisfaction with the transac-
tion. Looking back at the file - copy to
refresh his memory on this courtesy, he
was rocked by the last paragraph: “That
will fix you, you b .”
*l* 4jt
“Wynbal”: A picture in the
“Journalist” of the original Press Gal-
lery at Canberra supports “Bo” (b
6/7/’6O) in his contention that the wheei
of male fashion turns full cycle in a
decade. Over a noggin, I showed the
picture to an acquaintance who had the
central position of the 1927 picture. He
was nattily garbed then as now and, to
all appearances, he was wearing the
same suit, in cut, texture and color. But
instead of the now de rigeuer plain white
handkerchief worn in the outside breast-
pocket, he then sported a gaily - hued
silken wisp. To both of us this recalled
the souveniring - craze of the mid-
’twenties’.flappers, who made a habit of
snatching any particularly striking
handkerchief sported by a young buck.
The bucks retaliated by wearing, not a
silk handkerchief, but a miniature pair
of panties, the snatching of which
brought blushes to cheeks of the pretty
purloiner.
“Bardon”: Overheard at the bus-stop:
“I thought they’d got a TV-set the day
before, but when he arrived home from
work, sick, just in time for the midday
movie, I knew I was right.”
* * *
“Sunray”: Consternation in the
neighbor’s house: he’d been poisoned!
The small boy was forcibly held and
made to drink a cup of hot water,
What had he swallowed? A lump of
ice!
«g» *♦«
“H.G.”: Seeing in the death-notices
the name of a great friend of mine I
remarked to my wife, “I must go to
his funeral.” But as I was managing
a business I found I was too busy to
attend the funeral. A few weeks later,
while walking to work, who should I sec
coming towards me —but my deceased
friend! I stood still with amazement.
Holding out his hand he said: “Don’t
be afraid. I’m not a ghost. I know what
you’re thinking ; you read of my death
in the paper—so what?” I said: “Well,
I did read about it in the obituary notices
and I was going to your funeral. But •
I was too busy.” He replied, “Oh, so
now I do know how much you think
of me! ” He went on to tell me that the
obituary notice was of a man of the
same name, same age, who lived in the
same street, and was in the same bat-
talion in the first A.1.F.; and neither had
ever come in contact with the other.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Maitri”: Paid a call on a woman-
celebrity and was astonished to find host
untidy' her home was. Interpreting tffj
reactions correctly, she remarked, as she,
playfully scrawled her name through the *
dust on the table-top: “I’m not house-
proud. Life’s too important to won')
about details like that.” Then she invited
me to smoke and started to hunt f° r
the ashtray. “Now where’s it got
It was here a fortnight ago when So-andj
So was here and knocked it over. I
wonder where it rolled to?”


An ad. in Sydney buses makes a beauti-
T*- fal girl say, “I like a man with
a hat.” Someone has gone better with
a correction in various units of the
public transport: “I like a man with a
fiat.”—“Jayem.”
+2*
“0.w.w.”: She was discussing a
bodgie boarder. “He’s too lazy to get
out of bed to turn off the light,” she
declared; “so he leaves it on all night,
j*na ties a handkerchief over his eyes so
he can sleep blindfold.”
* ❖ *
: One of Sydney’s best-known
‘nging-teachers had a first-term pupil
nose sister wanted him, the pupil, to
ng Because” at her wedding: would
e teacher mind putting him through it?
hf pr^ssin § a shudder, the ' maestro
JW-He promptly discovered that the
nf ° °^ e had apparently never heard
nm ,„. Wor .d “wider,” for he kept pro-
att ncin 8 h “widder”; and repeated
to ma h e him get the correct
We 1 hnd the roses waiting at my feet”
usi fruitless, the pupil consistently
withu ..king”— a mistake that he took
kirk, as his tutor, who
sneaked in to get a surreptitious earful,
despairingly heard. As he said to me
later: “I’ve heard of climbing-roses, but
I’m blanked if I’ve ever struck the
perambulating sort!”
*J+ »j*
“Gener”: Patrons got full value for
their 3s. at a Central Wimmera (Vic.)
Aussie Rules match in which Dim-
boola Seconds and Noradjuha played
43min. (nearly two extra quarters) over-
time!
♦2+ ♦♦♦
“Supray”: As we came down the steps
from the darkness of the street the first
thing to catch our eyes in the cafe was
a glittering chandelier, a mass of gold
and silver balls and frills and dangles,
very effective as a decoration. Still look-
ing at it while waiting for our order,
we discovered it was constructed from
about a dozen extra-large strainers with
baubles sold for Christmas - trees
attached, the strainer - handles being
hooked on the black, wrought - iron
sprays of the light-fitting, the bulbs being
uncovered. Ingenious, economical, and
most effective.
❖ +> *l*
“O-Twit”: Actors must live the part,
but, unless they are prepared for strife,
must know where to draw the line. I
did a war-time navigation-course with, as
co-nav., a comedian—off-stage as much
as on. Each' flight was a fiasco, particu-
larly the one when we fixed our position
“After all , what is money? Merely a convenient medium of exchange!”
in the centre of the Crewe balloon-
barrage. Had the balloons been up that
night it could have been said that we
went down in hysterics.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Breezy Bertha”: He boarded my tram
at the terminus. Very conscious of my
new conductress’s uniform, I approached
him for his fare. ’“Where to?” I asked
him as he handed me two-bob. He gazed
at me in amazement. “Where to?” I
repeated. Still he gazed blankly at me.
“Where to?” I shouted, using every
ounce of my lung-power. Amazement
gave way to contempt: “Why, to town,
of course,” he loudly told me.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: “Windswept,” “Incline,”
“Radiant Lady,” “Riptide,” “Midnight
Splendor,” “Indian Summer,” “Golden
Glory”—perfumes, lingerie, prize hair-
dos or horses, perhaps? No; simply
style-tags for wrist-watch bands!
❖ •* ❖
“O-My”: The deadly-dull office-
party, with everyone on his best
behavior, suddenly came to life ; in one
corner the very serious accountant was
seen attempting an adagio-dance with
the equally serious and usually prim
head-girl, while on the only spare table
a couple of juniors were doing a
Spanish dance using spoons as castanets.
Someone had laced the fruit-cup with
whisky.
THE NEW LOOK
•■Where formerly film-singer herpes were
’"" to be well set-up, masterful and he-
requu.cu strong voices, they are now—
Skfto demands of the aggressive dpminat-
! a American female—mostly frail and
Spuissa.it, physically and vocally .--Radio
commentator.
The handsome guy with barrel-chest
And biceps that for bigness matched;
j) ee p- throated voice —you’d not have
guessed
That from the cast - race he’d be
scratched.
Yet it is so.
gis doom, you know,
Was sealed because of one defection :
He fcdled to spark
In matriarch
The feeling he’d need her protection !
And when dames in the U.S.A.
Their say-so’s have forthrightly loosed,
The fillum-moguls don’t delay —
They’re well aware who rules the roost.
And so the screen
{As you’ll have seen )
Where the sound-track with songs is
studded,
Features some goon
Shrunk like a prune,
Who seems as if he’s been de-blooded.
And in a voice that goes too well -
With his debilitated state,
He groans out tunes to give us hell;
Like him, they’re always underweight.
In Hollywood
The one who would
Be looked upon as star-presumptive,
Must whinge his songs
As if they’re wrongs,
And give the impression he’s consump-
tive.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


POLTICAL POINTS
Bendigo provided a closer finish than
appeared likely in the early stages
of the count. Noel Beaton (A.L.P.) lost
ground on the postal votes, and when
the primary count was finished he needed
13.6 per cent, of D.L.P. preferences to
win. At that stage the figures were:
Beaton (A.L.P.), 20,290; Snell (Lib.),
15,773; Drechsler (D.L.P.), 6200.
Drechsler’s preferences were distributed,
5292 going to Snell and 908 to Beaton,
giving him a majority of 133 votes.
Beaton has reason to be gratified at
his win. The marginal votes which gave
him the seat were obviously personal
rather than party. He is a local man,
widely known as a champion footballer
and radio-broadcaster. In a campaign in
which A.L.P.-D.L.P. rivalry was as bitter
as ever he gained a higher percentage
of D.L.P. preferences than P. J. Clarey
did at the general election, although his
winning margin was only half that of
1958.
As a mid-winter dish Calwell must
have found the Bendigo win about as
palatable as a cold meat-pie.
• •
At the Security Council meeting to
hear Cuba’s complaint against alleged
U.S. aggression debating honors seemed
about even. Comrade Sobolev said:
Do not touch Cuba . . . Let it do what
it deems proper in its own country, and
do not threaten Cuba with your might
because other countries also might have
might.
Cabot Lodge replied:
Do not touch us. Do not touch those
with whom we are tied. Do not seek to
extend Communist imperialism. That is
very simple and ought to be understood
by everyone.
The U.S. won on points ; the matter
was referred by unanimous vote (Russia
abstaining) to the Organisation of
American States, which consists of 21
American countries, including Cuba and
the U.S.
• •
In a first-past-the-post contest R. A.
Armstrong had little difficulty in holding
the Mulgrave seat in the Queensland
Assembly for the Country party. At
close of counting on Saturday night he
had a lead of 1247 over his nearest
opponent, with the certainty of increas-
ing it (possibly to an absolute majority)
when the count continued. Progress
score: R. A. Armstrong (C.P.), 2913;
S. S. Scoines (A.L.P.), 1666 ; C. B.
English (Q.L.P.), 671 ; J. N. Hesp (Ind.),
748.
• «
J. M. Hesp, who vcontested the Mul-
grave seat as an Independent, didn't win,
but one of the ideas he advocates is
worthy of consideration. He suggests a
reafforestation scheme for North Queens-
land, -using unemployed sugar - workers
during the slack season, January /May
each year. Hesp is a sugar-farmer who
has already done a little reafforestation
on his own account.
• •
Khrushchev’s threat last week to send
troops to the Congo if the Belgians did
not leave within three days was typical
of his tactics. He did not make it until
he was sure their evacuation was under
way. Now he’ll be able to take the credit
for it.
• •
The N.S.W. basic-wage (on State
awards) will rise by 3s. to £14 8s. as a
result of the c.-o.-l. index-figures released
last week by the Commonwealth Stati-
stician. Only in N.S.W. will there be an
automatic rise, but the changes in living-
costs in other States as indicated by the
figures were: Victoria, 18s.; Q’ld., 2s.;
S.A., 7s.; W.A., 5s.; Tas., 6s.
Biggest factor in the steep Victorian
rise was the jump in the rent-component
of the index consequent on a relaxation
of rentrcontrol. This, possibly more than
any other current factor, demonstrates
the fictional nature of the C-series index.
When the regimen was first devised a
considerable majority of Australian
wage-earners lived in rented homes. The
Commonwealth Statistician now esti-
mates that only 20 per cent, of homes
are privately rented.
Stuart Cloete’s prophetic essay about the
Congo may be right provided the p] ace e
doesn’t go Communist under Russian
control, in which case it will become a
great slave State put to work by tank,
divisions. Cloete says:
The Congo must revert to barbarism
The mass of the people . . . will b e '
delighted to revert . . . The leopard-men
and the crocodile-men will reappear
cannibalism will be resumed and the great
Congo basin will revert to sleep.
And the same applies to the rest of
Central Africa. Already the Rhodesia*
are affected and the Federation, and
probably white civilisation there, doomed
• •
Net gain in population from migration
during 1959 was 83,578, compared with
64,879 in the previous year. British
migrants comprised the biggest group,
32,537, with Italians (11,914) next. Then >
came Germans (7602), Dutch (7094)
Greeks (5293), Finns, (1496). Migrants
listed as “Stateless” numbered 6626. The
Italian quota would be more welcome if
they showed less tendency to form
“colonies.”
• •
ft
'T'his week almost certainly will see
Richard Nixon chosen as the Re-
publican candidate for Presidency at the
Chicago Convention. He is going to
have a hard row to hoe against the high-
pressure salesmanship and wholesale out-
lay of money by the Kennedy party, 1
whose leader claims that “it is' neither"
tired nor Tory,” though he says mag-
nanimously that he is prepared to work
with British Conservatives and continue
to regard the U.K. as “the anchor of
U.S. policies in Western Europe.” He
has no alternative. Without Britain as
a base, the U.S. would go right out of
European politics.
"REMEMBER ME?"


a N African student from Uganda who
A won a U.N. scholarship two years
ago has written to U.N. complaining
that he has been expelled from the uni-
versity to which he was assigned because
he refused to co-operate with the political
party in power in the country where he
was studying. He told London pressmen
that he had seen other African students
suffer insults and assaults and that one,
a Somali, had been beaten-up for dancing
with a white girl. No, the university
wasn’t Oxford or Cambridge, or even
Atlanta, Georgia. Just Moscow!
• •
“Whenever I have referred to warnings
of the future, 1 have been accused of
spreading gloom and talking depres-
sion,” said Arthur Calwell in a radio-
talk after the by-elections, and he went
on to talk gloomily and depressingiy.
At long last Arthur is one step from
the Prime Ministership, but you’d never
guess it. He not only talked with an
undertone of calamity during the Ben-
digo campaign, but he looked the part.
In his big Commonwealth car, he was
lonely and long-faced.
• •
With an election four months away the
New Zealand Government has brought-
down a Budget lightly lined with vote-
catching material, but with nothing that
can be hailed as an election-winner.
There’s to be a relaxation of capital-
issues controls ; estate-duty relief where
two deaths occur in a short period ; an
increase in the permissible deduction for
life-assurance premiums; a minor cut
in sales-tax on motor-vehicles. Com-
panies will be exempted from “excess
retention-tax” in respect to income re-
quired for new buildings and plant and
there’ll be more liberal depreciation-
allowances on plant and machinery.
Customs- and excise-cuts will slightly
reduce the price of petrol and cigarettes,
but at 4s. 2d. (Australian currency) and
3s. 2d. respectively, petrol will still be
dearer than in Australia and cigarettes
about the same price.
• •
United Arab Republic now
has a Parliament of 600 members.
It should be a good Parliament —Nasser
picked it himself.
• •
When S.A. Premier Playford an-
nounced that his Government would
wake £4 million available to the State
a nk for home-building advances a
queue began forming at 10 p.m. on
Sunday night (July 17) and by Monday
morning 2000 applicants were waiting.
f oa . ns be made up to a maximum
~ bOO, at per cent, interest repay-
te up to 40 years. At the bank’s esti-
mated average advance of £2BOO the
money available will help 1400 home-
rp„i,erS- Position in the queue didn’t
da y CoUnt - Applications are being con-
eligibility.
“Collins Street”: Neither Maury
Sheehy, who has put up for the D.L.P.
for the Melbourne Province vacancy in
the Victorian Legislative Council against
Doug. Elliot, the A.L.P. advertising-
consultant, nor Barry O’Brien (D.L.P.)
who is running against the A.L.P.’s Jack
Tripovich for the Doutta Galla Province
has any chance of winning. They’re in
the field precisely for the reason the
Liberals aren’t. The Libs, don’t want to
show what a small vote they’ve got in
these Labor strongholds, and the D.L.P.
wants to show what a comparatively big
one they have. Their scores will, of
course, include most of the Liberal vote.
• •
Hayato Ikeda is the new Prime Minis-
ter of Japan in succession to Kishi,
resigned. He belongs to the same party
as Kishi —the Liberal-Democratic party.
His appointment has been approved by
the Japanese Diet by 275 votes to 163.
It isn’t yet reported whether the students
and snake-dancers are wearing “I-Like-
Ikeda” buttons.
• •
A cademic freedom had another triumph
during the week —about 20 per cent,
of the students of Havana University
imposed Castro’s glorious Communist
type of democracy on • the majority of
professors and students. When last heard
of the new equivalent of a Vice-Chan-
cellor, the president of the revolutionary
“Students’ Association,” Major Rolando
Cubela, one of the noted leaders of
Castro’s execution squads, was parading
the campus in uniform, Luger pistol
strapped to his hip.
• •
“Actin’’: While more and more con-
cerns are seeking and getting Govern-
ment assistance in the almost Australia-
wide search for oil, reports indicate a
world-wide surplus, and speculate on the
possible economic and political effects.
One little - publicised aspect is the
enormous quantity of oil discovered in
the Sahara, which will soon become
available to France through new pipe-
lines. Much of the output will go to
Europe, and effects on the Middle East,
where rulers of desert States have grown
rich on “black gold” royalties, and even
on production in the United States and
Indonesia may be considerable.
• •
Vic. A.L.P. Left-wingers are on the
ball. They smartly inyited F. E. (Joe)
Chamberlain to nominate for the
vacancy when Tripovich, the secretary,
was elected for the Doutta Galla seat.
Chamberlain, Federal president and W.A.
secretary, is a unity-ticket man and
wouldn’t upset the ruling Labor-Com-
munist coterie in important unions.
Chamberlain says he won’t run. He
has plenty of opponents in Lygon Street.
Some regard him as an imperious presi-
dent, some think his A.L.P. in W.A. is
slipping back ; others are simply tired
of losing elections in Victoria.
/"''alwell’s reaction to the new c.-0.-l.
figures was that Menzies should
resign. Presumably a sequel to Bob’s
resignation would be a general election,
at which, on the Bendigo figures, Arthur
would be hard put to hold some of his
borderline seats, far less to win enough
from the Government to realise his
ambition of becoming P.M. Menzies’
reply was: “As I always listen to Mr.
Calwell with great interest and enjoy-
ment, I -will certainly consider his
request.”
• •
The Commonwealth has filled two
vacancies, one male and one female, on
the Literary Censorship Board with
school-teachers. Most of the other mem-
bers are professors. Soon Australian
writers will have to raise their hands and
say “Please teacher” for permission to
write a book —or to do anything.
• •
Nehru certainly isn’t taking his
methods from Australia in dealing with
the strike of two - million Indian civil
servants. Last week he passed an
ordinance prescribing a year’s jail for
incitement and six months for participa-
tion. Then he began arresting strike-
leaders “all over the country” and the
enthusiasts began to lose their enthusiasm.
• 9
There have been several instances in
Australian politics where the widow of
a prominent M.P. has been elected to
represent her husband’s former seat.
Dame Enid Lyons and Mrs. Doris Black-
burn are two examples in the Federal
Parliament and Mrs. Mary Quirk in the
N.S.W. Assembly. But there’s no pre-
cedent anywhere in the world for what
has happened in Ceylon, where Mrs.
Sirimavo Bandaranaike has been sworn-
in as Prime Minister. She’s the widow
of Solomon Bandaranaike, a former
Prime Minister, who was assassinated
last September. At present she’s not even
in Parliament; she led her husband’s
party to victory, but didn’t contest a seat
herself. Under the Ceylon Constitution
she must win a seat at a by-election
within four months if she wants to stay
on as the world’s first woman Prime
Minister.
9 9
ttweed Heads, the N.S.W. twin of
Coolangatta (Q.), has lost its tuna-
export-processing plant which is being
taken to Gladstone (Q.) for installation
in a new factory. Reason for the switch
is that continuous export operations are
not practicable in the present condition
of the Tweed River entrance. Australian
Food Exporters Pty., Ltd., sa,y they’ll
install similar plant at Tweed Heads if
and when the entrance is made safe and
the bar removed.
The chances of any N.S.W. port per-
suading the Heffron Government to
spend money on it is in inverse ratio to
its distance from Sydney. And if Tweed
Heads were any further from Sydney it
would be over the Queensland border.


Personal
ITEMS
An interesting set of travel-drawings,
mostly of Japan and Hong Kortg, by
Frederick B. Lamberger, were among
the exhibits in an “open day” at Sydney
University. Lamberger, who has now
been twelve years in this part of the
world, hailed originally from Czecho-
slovakia. In Sydney he has been a tram-
conductor, a barman at the Australia,
and a waiter at Prince’s and Adams’s,
and he ran his own coffee-shop at King's
Cross. He says he enjoyed his 18 months
as a trammie very much, because he
saw so much of Sydney and met so many
of the people. His sensitive little draw-
ings were done on a recent world trip.
• •
“Shibli Bagarag”: William Hearn
Thomas, of Taumarunui (N.Z.), who, at
90, is the oldest working journalist in
Maoriland, has just published his
reminiscences, titled The Inky Way. It
tells the story of old-time N.Z. from
Tom Bracken and Blondin to Amy Bock,
Malcolm Ross, Seddon, Mark Cohen and
Sir Robert Stout.
• 9
Last Friday about 200 members of
the Victorian branch of the P.M.G.
Department gave Harold Davidson, the
retiring Chief Engineer for Victoria, a
final farewell. He had retired on June
26, 10 days earlier than required, because
of a coronary, and he had been given
farewells by the heads of divisions and
also by the engineering division.
He was gassed in France and suffered
until the department kindly pushed him
out to Wagga in 1926, after seven years
in Sydney, where he improved sufficiently
to be the strong server and secretary of
South Wagga Tennis Club ; and in 1942
he was transferred to Melbourne, where
he was appointed to the post he has
just vacated.
Chided about his three farewells, he
philosophised: “Oh. well, after 47 years
in a department, they all must have some
sort of an opinion of you to express!”
• •
David Taft, 21-year-old son of the
U.S. Consul in Sydney, is learning all
he can about sheep and wool in Aus-
tralia. Lately he completed the sheep-
and-wool course at Sydney Technical
College and then went through a school
in shearing-shed management at Warren.
His father will return to the U.S. later
this year, but David will stay on here
for another year, studying wool-produc-
tion methods he can use in his own
country.
• •
“Jayem”: Phillip A. Wright, who
succeeds Sir Earle Page as Chancellor
of the University of New England
(N.S.W.), after being Deputy Chancellor
since 1955, has done much for the Uni.,
right from 1938, when it started as a
University College. His good deeds for
it have included providing the neces-
sary to buy the adjoining property of
Laurel Dale as the University’s rural-
science research - station, and another
sum for research into bloat in cattle.
Principal of the family firm which runs
the Wallamumbi and Kindon Hereford
studs near Armidale, he’s a past-president
of the Australian Hereford Society.
JOHN P. RYLAND, of Melbourne, has
been T.A.A.’s g.-m. since 1955. After
war-time flying with the R.A.A.F., ending
as Group-Captain, with D.F.C., he had
charge of T.A.A.’s operations-pilots’
training school before joining the
administrative side.
Australian Paper Manufacturers have
awarded a research-fellowship in forestry
to 30-year-old Eric Roy Hopkins, a
B.Sc. of the Westralian University and
holder of a diploma with honors from
the Australian Forestry School, Can-
berra. He has already done six years
of research for the W.A. Forests Depart-
ment, and the fellowship, worth £2500
a year and tenable for two years in the
Melbourne University’s School of
Forestry, will enable him to work for a
higher degree.
• •
John Clive Pearson and William David
Hewison have joined forces in com-
mercial photography, trading as PHP.
Born in Bristol (Eng.), Pearson is a
grandson of Henry Pearson, R.A., and
himself studied at the Royal West of
England Academy of Art for three years
Coming to Australia 11 years ago he
had his introduction to photography
when he and artist-friend Russell Drys-
dale set out with 35mm. cameras to make
photographic portraits of Sydney’s lead-
ing artists. Since then he has had spells
with leading photographic studios and
has travelled extensively over Australia
Hewison was born in Perth, but has
spent most of his life in South Africa
and. England, returning to Australia 18
months ago. Keen on photographing
big-game, he set out with a friend on a
trip from Bulawayo, in Rhodesia, head-
ing overland for England in a 1937
Austin. Three months later they arrived
broke in Kenya, were called-up when a
State of Emergency was declared, and
Hewison became attached to the police-
force, taking over the C.I.D. photo-
graphic department. In the seven years
he was there the department grew to a
s.taff of 20 photographic experts and be-
came recognised as one of the best-
equipped in the world. There, Hewison
developed a new method of photograph-
ing fingerprints on mirrors, which was
later detailed in the British Police -
Journal. He holds three photographic
degrees—Associate of the Institute of
British Photography, Associate of the
Royal Photographic Society, and Asso-
ciate of the Master Photographers Asso-
ciation (London).
• • '
“Jock”: Charles Edward Parry, known
for the work he did in cultivating speci-
mens of Australian plants, passed on
lately at Gosford (N.S.W.), at 64. A
pioneer in his field, Parry ran a nursery
at Gosford for more than 40 years and
made valuable contributions to our
knowledge of the propagation of such
natives as the waratah and Christmas-1
bush. His brother Percy is to carry on
his work.
• •
Appointed artistic director of the
National Theatre in Perth, 41-year-old
Raymond Westwell is no stranger to
audiences in the W.A. capital. With his
wife, actress Joan McArthur, he faced;
the footlights there as a member of the
Stratford Memorial Theatre Company jo
1953. His wife was in Perth again in
1955 with the Katharine Hepburn and
Robert Helpmann Old Vies. At present
producer and administrator of the Dun-
dee Repertory Theatre, Westwell gradU; •
ated from the v Royal Academy f
Dramatic Art in 1939 and toured in
Europe before going to Stratford in 1951
He has played many Shakspearian rote
and in 1956 was drama-director and P r0 ‘
ducer at the Central School of Draw
London.
• •
Professor Isaac Berenblum, head °-
the Experimental Biology Department a!
the Weizmann Institute of Science
Rehevoth (Israel), will deliver a cous
of lectures on cancer-research at the 3t
Australasian Conference on RadiobioM
in Sydney, August 15-18, and before tw
Victorian Cancer Congress in M e ‘
bourne, August 22-25. One of the worW :


t0 p investigators of the disease, Pro-
fessor Berenblum was born in Poland
and educated in Belgium and England,
held research-fellowships at Leeds Uni-
versity and Oxford, and was in charge
of the Oxford University Research
Centre of the British Empire Cancer
Campaign from 1940 to 1948. He spent
two years at. the National Cancer Insti-
tute at Bethesda, Maryland (U.S.A.),
before going' to Israel to take up his
present post at the special invitation of
President Weizmann. After his Austra-
lian tour Professor Berenblum will visit
New Zealand, Japan and the U.S.A.
• •
Dr. S. L. Macindoe, who’s to be chief
research liaison-officer with the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, was the de-
partment’s cereal specialist from 1943
to 1945, principal research - agronomist
1945 to 1954 and acting deputy-chief of
the Division of Plant Industry from 1954
to 1956. A Bachelor of Agricultural
Science of Sydney University, he gained
his doctorate at the Minnesota Uni. in
1941, and his achievements, particularly
in wheat - breeding, are recognised
throughout the world.
o •
Appointed director of the Queensland
Conservatorium of Music, Basil Jones
is continuing a family tradition. His
brother, the Rev. Dr. Percy Jones, is
assistant-director of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Conservatorium of Music and
conductor of St. Patrick’s Cathedral
choir in Melbourne ; their father, the late
Percy Jones, of Geelong, was a well-
known musician and bandmaster. Basil,
a former Melburnian, was chief teacher
of the violin at Melbourne University
Conservatorium, a director of the Vic-
torian Chamber Players and an examiner
and lecturer for the Australian Music
Examinations Board.
JOHN FOSTER, of Pleasant Banks,
Evandale (Tas.), BULLETIN writer and
foundation-president of the Tasmanian
Fine-wool Merino Sheepbreeders ’
Association.
Losing the sight of his right eye has
had little effect on the marksmanship of
72-year-old Gilbert Cooper, captain of
the East Perth Rifle Club. Shooting at
900 yards on the Swanbourne Rifle
Range recently he scored nine consecu-
tive bulls. He uses a .303 rifle with a
specially made stock which enables him
to shoot off the right shoulder while
sighting with the left eye. He .learnt his
marksmanship in his early days, shooting
kangaroos for his living.
• •
“Murray Swagman”: In 1940-41, in
the rush of organisation in Army camps,
many young businessmen were given
commissions in specialist jobs without
elementary training in Army protocol.
I was having a beer in a sergeants’ mess
when a young lieutenant blew-in looking
for help to unload butter and milk, a
newly-appointed A.S.C. supply - officer.
“I’m doing the round personally tonight
with my drivers, Sergeant,” he said ; “I’m
trying to find out why it takes the night-
round so long to deliver the butter and
milk. I’ve just come from Brigade Head-
quarters. There wasn’t anyone about,
and then I ran into an old captain.
‘Come on, Captain,’ I said ; ‘when the
A.S.C. works, everybody works. There’s
too much delay about here. Show us
the fridge and give us a hand, Captain.’
The old captain was a good sport,
Sergeant; he showed us the fridge and
gave us a hand with the milk-cans.” I
smelt a rat in his yarn. “What was the
old captain like?” I asked. “Oh, a decent
old bloke, Sergeant,” said the young
loot; “he had a double row of ribbons,
evidently an old soldier, but I noticed
one peculiar thing; instead of three
stars in a row, he wore them in a
triangle!” The “old captain” was Briga-
dier Sir George Knox, M.L.A., who re-
cently passed on.
• •
Sir Frank Meere, who is retiring as
Comptroller-General of Customs, has
been having a round of farewells in Mel-
bourne, particularly from Customs’
agents, with whom he has always had
the friendliest relations, despite the ins-
and-outs of Government policy over the
years. Meere was one of the first of the
few public servants in Canberra, arriving
a few months after the opening of Par-
liament in 1927, and he has been there
ever since except for six war - years he
put-in with the Division of Import Pro-
curement in Sydney and Brisbane. He
hails from Daylesford, but isn’t returning
to Victoria for his retirement. “I’ll settle
for Canberra,” he says. “It’s a pleasant,
expanding and interesting place.”
o •
Starting in Queensland as a pupil-
teacher when he was 13, Herbert Watkin
(here pictured) is now the State’s
Director - General of Education and
Deputy-Chancellor of Queensland Uni-
versity. Born at Bundaberg, he took time
off to be in the Ist A.1.F.; then, War I
over, he made an educational visit to the
U.K. He has served in every branch of
the State Education Department, as
teacher, lecturer, inspector and principal
of high-schools, reaching his present top
post in 1952. When the hon. degree of
Doctor of Laws was conferred on him
DIRECTOR-GENERAL
during the Uni.’s jubilee celebrations last
May mention was made in the oration
of the links he had forged between
“schools and the University, and between
town and gown.”
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Gladys Moore, artist, broadcaster
and only woman member of the board of
trustees of the Public Library of N.S.W.
Widow of artist and architect John D. Moore,
she was a daughter of Judge Sir Langer Owen
and sister of Sir William Owen, Senior Puisne
Judge of the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
At Wingham (N.S.W.), at 89, William
Somerset Andrews, pioneer Shorthorn-breeder
of the Manning River district, where he had
lived all his life.
In Sydney, at 52, Chafes Madden, architect
and partner in the firm which designed, among
other notable buildings, Sydney's Anzac House,
winner of the R.1.8.A. gold-medal in 1958.
In Brisbane, at 51, John Matthew Schmella,
Federal and Queensland secretary of the A.L.P.
In Sydney, at 78, Lieut.-Colonel H. V. P.
Conrick, who served as a doctor in War 1,
winning the D.S.O. and three “mentions,” and
who later had a large practice in North
Sydney.
In Sydney, at 85, Percy Allen, member of
the staff of the “Sydney Morning Herald” for
30 years and author of several books about
the Pacific Islands.
At the Wimmera Base Hospital, at 71, the
Right Rev. Dr. W. J. Johnson, Anglican
Bishop of Ballarat, chaplain in the Ist A.1.F.,
and noted preacher and writer.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 69, James Baxter
O’Neill, journalist and swimming enthusiast.
In the old days he 'swam with another
enthusiast, “Tiny” (later Lord) Freyberg.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 85, Canon Cecil
Edward Bolam, who, himself blind, was
engaged in welfare-work for the blind in
England for 40 years. In N.Z. since 1951,
he" had previously been canon of Lincoln
Cathedral.
At Palmerston North, at 67, Eric Oakeley
Pryce, prominent Shorthorn cattle-breeder and
veteran of World War I.


BAORIGINALITIES
"Dorn in our country town in 1880, she
taught school for 45 years, her
4ft. 11 in., 1001 b. frame housing a
resolute spirit capable of aweing her
beefiest delinquents and bending the
twigs the way she knew the trees should
grow. When she gave-up school she
coasted along in the activities of
managing the shire library, superintend-
ing Sunday-school, and collecting and
parcelling at her cottage old clothes,
stamps and magazines for this and that
charity. Then, slightly incapacitated with
a leg-clot, she of such excellent entitle-
ment was prioritied into a suburban
church-home with adequate companion-
ship and attention. She died in three
months, and her two-year-old will read
“Go on —get cracking!”
that her property, “consisting of her
house and money in the local bank,”
was to be halved between a niece-by-
marriage and her local church. Because
her cottage had been tidily realised and
all her money transferred to the subur-
ban bank-branch near her last home
before she died, the law which of
course is “a hass” —rules that she was
intestate! —“Lilydaie.”
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: During the wave of
sympathy-strikes that bothered Fiji a
while ago a Fijian came to the boss: “I
have to go on strike, turanga.” “When?”
asked the boss. “Oh, I need the money,”
the Fijian replied, “so I will go on strike
over the weekend and come back on
Monday morning.”
* * * *
“Vic”: A Victorian grazier who
dropped-in on a sheepdog-trial in
London’s Hyde Park was rocked to see
the shepherds helping the dogs by prod-
ding sheep with their crooks!
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Yes, “Conif,” we have
no pines (B. 6/7/’6O). In fact, no true
pine occurs in the Southern Hemisphere.
Conifers grow cones, but pines need
needles. So-called Murray-pines are coni-
ferales of the genus Callitris, which, all
Australian} comprises 18 species. The
wood was exported to Liverpool last
century under the aboriginal name of
coorung-coorung. Because its callitrol-
content repels not only lyctus and termite
but also teredo it is the world’s most
durable softwood. When “Banjo” Pater-
son wrote of “where the pine-clad ridges
raise their torn and ragged battlements on
high” his “pines” were Cal. robusta.
It’s time some poet fitted a sonnet to
the Callitris columellaris of Melbourne
Botanic Gardens. Skyward it soars and
billows in olive-green curvacity.
“Corio”: Two travellers from the
Cabbage State on a six-week holiday
trip to the Pacific Islands are taking their
motor-scooter. No strangers to the
Islands, they see in lack of mobility one
of the big handicaps to tourism there.
Made-roads are few, and for this reason
there’s little motor-traffic. But a scooter
is ideally suited to the bush tracks which
are all some of the islands have.
* * * *
“Tabba”: That par. about the electric
fence (B. 29/6/’6O) reminded me of one
of the best bits of English folk-dancing
I ever saw. The dancer was a first-year
agricultural student working his vacation
on a Scottish farm. Having taken the
cows to pasture after milking he came
back apologetically to Hamish, the herds-
man, to say the electric fence wasn’t
working. Hamish, the taciturn Scot we
read about, put on his coat and, with
never a word, set out with John to
investigate. Plodding along through the
drizzle they came to where the wire
dangled low in the wet grass. “The
wire’s no’ in they twa insulators,” said
Hamish pointing to the offending posts.
John was putting the wire in the first
insulator when he suddenly dropped it
and gave the unrehearsed folk-dance
mentioned. Hamish watched the exhibi-
tion dourly, then grunted, “A thocht ye
saed the fence was no’ worrkin’!”
* * * *
“Kilsyth”: A pet lamb had been
donated to our pre-school centre. After
playing with it for a while one youngster
approached the teacher with a polite,
“Please, Miss, when its mother lays
another may I have it?”
* * * *
“Medic”: The Society of Windscreen
Manufacturers should subsidise Queens-
land Government to leave Central
Queensland roads in their present state.
Returning-Ao Rockhampton from the
south last week, I counted over 120 piles
of shattered shatterproof-glass along one
30-mile stretch. Garage bloke at Glad-
stone during the Christmas six-weeks
averages two windscreen installations
daily. And there are a dozen or more
service-stations in Gladstone, Proprietor
of a big station here in Rocky averages
over three daily all the year round. A
stretch of the western road around
Capella is known locally as the Crystal
Highway. My daughter did two wind-
screens there within as many weeks. Most
of the damage is done on roads with a
narrow bitumen strip down the middle
and gravel along each side. Two cars
approaching at speed, each edges-off until
the outside wheels are on the gravel
shoulder ; still travelling at speed, the
gravel flies like shot, and the damage is
done. Where the narrow centre-strip
roads begin, so do the heaps of glass.
* * * *
“Derwent”: A ewe on Camelford
Estate, near Campbelltown (Tas.), has
staggered its owner by giving birth to
five lambs, all well and healthy. Some
of the infant lambs have been distributed
among ewes that lost their own in the
cold-weather snap.
* * * *
“Sunray”: I wouldn’t know about
wearing sovereigns in stays, like the lady
who used the bank manager’s office to un-
dress in (B. 6/7/’6O), but I do remember,
riding a bike to work in a country town,
coming on the scene of an accident;
when Mum and Dad were driving in to
shop the horse had shied and the sulky
had gone down the bank, spilling Mufft
She was sitting on the ground moaning,
half-a-dozen men gathered around. She
yelled at me frantically; she wouldnj
let the men come near her, and scolded
her husband, dazed with the shock ot
it all, into taking them all away a bit.
Someone had already sent for the


V
you’re. £TH£u ; S P(f\rtC£
<Ve
STH£I SiNCfc
6W£ WAS THIS
HiGH .. • ANP I TNiNK,
,%t . _ *
SH&S Tb?S* « Pont know
What To th<nk of you }
Sot i\o oet you k/now
Before i LtftVS .


ambulance. It looked like a badly-
sprained ankle, but goodness knows what
else was damaged. She was terrified
about going to hospital, and wanted to
get at something before the ambulance
arrived. “It’s pinned onto me singlet,”
she whispered. “Quick, can you undo
it? I don’t want anyone to know where
I hide it, not even me husband.” After
some kufoofling around I managed to
unpin the handkerchief, bulging with
money, and the old girl quickly-disposed
of it in her handbag and settled back
with a sigh of relief to wait for the
ambulance.
* * * *
“Crow Eater”: Tasmania’s Hydro-
Electric Commission picked a winner
“I can see you are going to be a nervous pupil, Mr. Spark."
with the importation from Canada of
two Muskeg carriers, a revolutionary
type of tracked-vehicle. One of them
operating on the rugged west coast —
which includes some of Australia’s
toughest territory has made journeys
from the mouth of the Arthur River to
Sandy Cape lighthouse, an isolated out-
post, successfully negotiating sand-dunes,
quicksands and other tough obstacles
without trouble.
* * * *
“Wandana”: What Queensland calls
snapper isn’t what we used to get in
South Australia ; and when it comes to
tinned stuff I don’t know how many
monickers the shark conceals himself
under. Minister for Customs Henty has
bumped into a difficulty over imports
from England of tinned fish labelled
“whiting,” and has banned it as from
October 1. Not that U.K. exporters are
attempting any malpractice, but when
an Englishman asks for whiting what he
expects is a type of cod, whereas our own
product under that name is the delicate
fish always in high demand for hospital-
patients’ menus, and recognised as some-
thing special.
'T'he New Zealand Army has lost its
last gun-horse. At the age of 28,
Barbara, regimental number 940, passed
away at Waiowru Camp after 23-years’
Army service, being posted first to Trent-
ham and then to Fort Dorset, before
going to Waiowru after Hitler’s war. Her
head is to be mounted for the Waiowru
Artillery Museum. —“0.W.W.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Lately mentioned here, the
ghost-bat once inhabited practically the
whole of W.A.—-its remains have been
found in caves near the south coast. It
almost certainly doesn’t come south of
the tropics now, but it could still be
fairly common in the north yvithout
being often seen. Five years ago a Perth
Museum collector, seeking it in caves on
an island near Derby, had no luck at
first, although natives had assured him
the big fellows were there, and numerous
other bats were to be seen wedged in
crevices high up in the caves. Playing
a hunch, he shot a free-tailed bat, and
as it fell, squeaking, a grey shape left
the wall and tackled the wounded bat
in much the same way as the collector
had seen butcher-birds tackle shot birds.
T-hat explained why the small species
roost in crevices—hiding from the ghost-
bat, which is a cannibal. The reason it
isn’t seen more often probably is that
it spends its entire lifetime in caves,
living on the other species which emerge
at dusk and live-off the land. It’s sus-
pected that no more than a pair of ghost-
bats occupy the one cave.
* * * *
“8.A.N.”: Rummaging through a
junk-box I came across a few brass
medals issued to school-children in 1938
to celebrate Australia’s 150th anniver-
sary, and felt a twinge of conscience.
A few years ago in Port Moresby, when
a scrap-metal dealer showing me through
the conglomeration of junk he hoped
to turn into £ s. d. gave me a hanaful
of the medals, I facetiously inquired how
many schooners they would buy at the
Snakepit. Weeks later when the bomb
gave out 200 yards from my dongha
on a steep hill, six natives, hastily co-
opted, had puffed, pushed and heaved
me home before I realised that all 1
had was |d. in my pocket and not a
cracker in the flat. Surrounded by six
eagerly-expectant black faces, I thought
desperately, then excused myself ... The
ceremonious presentation of the medals
was impressive—even if the natives
wandered off looking slightly bewildered
as they fingered their “money.” Now
I often wonder if they got as much use
from them as I did, or if they laid a
curse on me when they found the medals
weren’t spendable.
* * * *
“Bass”: Proof-readers see the ones
that don’t get away: when a racehorse
scored after a long run of outs the head-
ing that nearly went into a Perth paper
read: “Gelding Recoups Losses.”
* * * *
“Alice”: Many policemen gave sym-
pathetic hearing to seekers of the dole
during the depression, but in our terri-
tory a gimlet-eyed sergeant was always
on the lookout for applicants who had
negotiable property. Any such possession
was a disqualifying obstacle, according
to our sarge. When friend Smith, to
keep body and soul together, was forced
to line-up he was quickly challenged
with: “You own a weatherboard house.”
“What of it?” replied Smithy. “Do
you think I’m a bloody white-ant?”
# * • *
Asa kid wandering the Ballarat dig-
gings during the 1890’s I saw a few
Chinamen working with windlasses,
mostly of the early-digger type: two
crossed saplings,v one at each end of
the 4ft. hole ; a 6in.-diameter stringy-
bark log for the barrel, and a couple of
natural “knee§” set into the ends of the
barrel for handles. Old Melbourne
“Argus” files show the Chinese using the ,
windlass from their first arrival (it was
a common method of protest on the pad
of white diggers to throw a Chinaman's
windlass down the shaft he had been
sinking). A windlass, however, was not
entirely necessary. Some Chinese hauled
the mullock and wash by hand, the top-
man standing on two planks laid across
the top of the shaft, hauling up the
light bucket of hide or canvas. Traverse
of such shafts was by a series of foot-
holds dug alternately in each side, the
shaft being kept narrow for that reason.
Most white diggers climbed or descended
their shafts that way—it was a job for
two strong men. at the handles to hois!.
even a lOst. man in the windlass-bucket
One deep - sinking and quartz - crushmS
outfit, the Waup Haup Canton, waS
manned and controlled entirely
Chinese except for necessary white
enginedrivers ; those Chinese were seem-
ingly unable to pass the examination i J
enginedriving.—“Gumsucker.”


il3flJ H3QNOM S.AVQOI
r
3
S3HOIVIAI ONIHXON
; r
m-
,/j
Boron high-energy fuel is today helping to power
advance-stage missiles through space at fantastic speeds
. . . speeds of more than fifteen times the speed of sound.
In Ampol Boron, this same high-energy element will
dramatically increase power and mileage in your car!
Ampol is the only petrol that gives you Boron.
Ampol Boron is an entirely NE W petrol. Fill your
tank and prove for yourself that your best buy is
Ampol Boron.
Boron high-energy fuels will power missiles and
Super-Jets of today and tomorrow to almost unbe-
lievable speeds!
* New Power! • New Smoothnessl
* New Pick-up !• Better Mileage!
RON IS EXCLUSIVE TO
OWNED


★
?agqM
L I&AND^
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
STAGI7GS
pot-stiii BRANDY
Australia’s
Better Brandy
g&CNT
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Rollery. ETC.
Wages, Costs and Profits
T ast week’s rise in State basic
wages, calculated accord-
ing to the increased cost-of-
living in each particular area,
emphasises that the big addi-
tions to wages last year could
not all be absorbed by industry,
even if a large proportion of
them were.
The effect of this partial
absorption will no doubt be
shown in the profit-figures for
1959-60 which will shortly be
coming forward in an aval-
anche of reports and balance-
sheets.
The Federal Department of
Trade has just released details
of a survey which it made
throughout manufacturing
industry during May. It points
out that the main sections of
industry increased their output
by 10 p.c. during the early
months of 1960 compared with
the same period of the preced-
ing year, with an estimated
6 p.c. increase in all the
industries surveyed. The out-
look for the remainder of 1960
was rather indefinite. But at
the present time all industries
are working closer to capacity
than in either 1958 or 1959.
Although demand and output
increased over the year sur-
veyed, manufacturers were
faced with increasing costs.
This followed a period of rela-
tive stability during 1958 and
1959. Now the effect of the
1959 basic-wage and margins
increases are commonly
reckoned to have added about
3 p.c. to 5 p.c. to direct labor
costs. The cost of Australian
steel rose by about 7 p.c., and
there'were rises in some other
raw materials.
Prices of finished products
followed the upward trend in
costs, but in some cases grow-
ing competition prevented a full
recouping of the increased
costs. Rises in costs varied
from very little to as much
as 10 p.c.
In all, more than 45 p.c. of
manufacturers reported price-
increases, nearly 25 p.c. 'no
change, while about 30 p.c.
claimed a reduction in price
for at least some of the lines
they produced.
Two-way Tipsters
C'ydney and Melbourne Stock
Exchanges have become
concerned about cases of two-
way tipping by “investment
advisory services” which have
mushroomed over the past
couple of years. There appear
to have been cases where
clients have been advised to
buy shares in a particular co.
and shareholders in the same
co. have been advised not to
sell. Anything more calcu-
lated to boost the price of
shares in the co. concerned
would be hard to find.
Brisbane has been worried
for some time about com-
pany-promotions in Queens-
land where there have been
common principals in glamor-
ised offerings of uncertain
promise and substance.
The Brisbane Stock
Exchange has warned
investors against putting up
money on representations of
luscious returns from little-
known enterprises, and par-
ticularly stresses that it is
usually bad policy to swap
sound listed securities (even if
giving a low return) for shares
in unknown ventures where a
high return is offered but by
no means guaranteed.
Every boom in land and
shares brings in the go-getter.
He shows-up in the same or
suitably adjusted form each
time the general public is
attracted to a speculative
boom. The novice at invest-
ment is well advised to go to
a member of a recognised
Stock Exchange if he seeks to
invest his money at such
times. Though even recog-
nised stockbrokers can make
mistakes, in the main they
are a conscientious and well-
informed body.
Minster’s Big Profit
■poLLOWiNG its one-for-h-
bonus-issue of ear jj
this year, Minster, Ltd., m ailll
facturer of
rubber-bonded carpet at Dan',
denong (Vic.}, has shown ]
profit of £695,498 for the y eai
to June 30. This is an increase
of £157,564 on the precede
year’s result, and represent;
43 p.c. on present capital
against nearly 50 p.c, | ast
term, before the bonus-issue
As indicated at the time ol
the bonus, the 20 p.c, divi-
dend has been maintained,
and is handsomely covered,
The 1959-60 profit ms
arrived at after providing
£132,122 for depreciation (ui
£39,213) and £495,212 fords
(up £153,891),
Working back from the tax-
provision, it seems that profit
were nearer £825,000 than the
figure shown. In any case, it
appears to have been an
exceptionally profitable yeas,,
How much the new carpet-unit
had to do with this and ho*
much the gamma-sterilisati®
plant it is impossible to sat,
However, there seems to it
no slackening in the demand
for Westminster carpet, aid
the* importation of a second-
hand drum from the U.S.A
by a competing firm to malt
rubber-bonded carpet in Mel-
bourne seems unlikely to affect
Minster’s prospects.
For the present it appears
that the gamma-radiation plant
will be restricted to its prime
purpose of sterilising goat-hair
The point where preservation
of foodstuffs by radiation os
a commercial scale will
profitable seems a fair wa)
off. However, the co. is M
in the field in Australia, ai
in some ways ahead of other
parts of the world, in its vet
ture into gamma-radiation,
In the bonded-carpet
Minster has worked-up Jl
export connection with Canada
and the U.S. west coast.
Following the revelation ®
the much bigger pr®
Minster 10s. shares h a ' !
jumped from 58s. to above 7ft
This means that the pe rs011
who invested £100 in
original flotation and retain®
all his bonus-shares now n j!
1050 shares of 10s. eac
worth, on the market, £3o-
He has not been required 1
put-up more cash for n£ "
issues.
On the basis of 70s. for
10s. shares the immediate F
is just under 2.9 p.c.
disclosed earnings-yield 1
market-price is 6 p.c. ° n
disclosed profit, or 7.2 P- c \,


£
X*'-.
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Serialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge—no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 188$
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT27C
theoretical profits worked
back fjom the tax-provision.
Coles and M., Thompson
rpHOUGH Sir Edgar Coles,
A chairman of G. J. Coles
and Co., Ltd., sent Mr. Theo
Kelly, managing-director of
Wooiworths, Ltd., a telegram
conveying good wishes follow-
ing Wooiworths’ £6| - million
offer for the capital of
Matthews, Thompson and
Co., Mr. Kelly now seems
to think that the Coles courtesy
was more Oriental than sincere.
For Coles, after 12 days’
deliberation, have now outbid
Wooiworths for the same
grocery-chain. Mr. Kelly says
he is not going to enter into
an auction for the Matthews,
Thompson business But,
apparently with that telegram
still in his thoughts, he says
that during the three months in
which the Coles offer remains
open the market assessment of
Wooiworths and Coles shares,
and other factors which may
influence the position, might
cause Wooiworths to vary its
offer.
The Wooiworths offer was
detailed in B. 13/7/’6O. The
G. J. Coles bid is five fully-paid
new-issue ss. ords. in Coles for
every four f.-p. Matthews,
Thompson ss. ords. ; five f.-p.
Coles new-issue ords. for every
M.T. 10 p.c. £1 pref. ; 21s. in
cash for every 5 p.c. M.T.
second £1 pref. The ord. shares
offered will not participate in
the three-for-10 par issue to be
made this year.
G. J. Coles “old” shares are
around 20s. each. Matthews,
Thompson ss. ords., after
reacting 215., have dropped
back to 19s. After the Wool-
worths offer, but before the
Coles counter-offer, they were
selling at about 16s.
Angus and: Robertson
the takeover of Swain’s
bookshop and stationery
business in Pitt Street, Sydney,
the ramifications of Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., spread wider
and wider. First takeover was
that of map-printers H. E. C.
Robinson, in Sydney. This was
followed by the acquisition of
Robertson and Mullens, in
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
its branches. Later
Alberts, of Perth, was
acquired.
„ . properties
in i CI j control now
elude the original retail
premises in Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, opposite David Jones’s
big store ; a freehold further
up Castlereagh Street; another
off Oxford Street; the Kings-
grove printing-works of the
Halstead Press ; and the valu-
able Robertson and Mullens
freehold in Melbourne. The
Swain’s premises in Pitt Street
are rented, and the end of the
lease there is in sight. Premises
in North George Street,
Sydney, are leased from the
Maritime Services Board.
There are plans now for the
erection of a skyscraper block
on the original premises in
Castlereagh Street.
The rapid expansion of A.
and R. as a whole has been
accompanied by a number of
staff changes which have caused
a lot of “buzz” in Sydney
financial as well as literary
circles, and there has been a
considerable selling of shares,
some representing profit-taking
by former Melbourne share-
holders in Robertson and
Mullens.
The shares carry rights to a
one-for-six bonus-issue, and the
books will close in August.
When the rapid expansion
and change ,wh ! ch has been
occurring in the business settles
down, Angus and Robertson
should be in a strong financial
and trading position. Its
Halstead Press also should have
much more scope with the new
plant which is now being
installed, and job-print'ng on a
large scale is to become a
feature of the business.
The acquisition of Swain’s,
Ltd., which has no Sydney
freeholds, indicates that the A.
and R. board is still strongly
interested in retailing books
and stationery, and is not
merely interested in collecting
freehold properties, as some
observers had begun to think.
In the book-retailing business it
now has a pre-eminent position.
It has been top-dog in Aus-
tralian book-publishing for
many years.
At 205., cum bonus, for the
ss. ords. the ex-rights price is
17s. 2d., at which figure the
yield is £4 7s. per cent, on a
15 p.c. div. basis.
Tooheys, Ltd.
Secretary of Tooheys, Ltd.,
W. F. Knight, tells The
Bulletin that “the directors
have no knowledge of any take-
over offers reported to have
been made to the co.”
There were rumors recently
that Miller’s Brewery had made
moves to take over Tooheys.
Oil Development, N.L.
An issue of three-million ss.
shares in Oil Development,
N.L., a new oil- and gas-
exploration float registered in
Melbourne on April 13, 1960,
has been underwritten by
broking firms in Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide and Bris-
bane and applications close
July 29.
Vendors have been issued
with 456,000 ss. fully-paids for
interests in petroleum-prospect-
ing titles and reimbursements.
Another 190,000 (140,000
paid to 2s. 6d.) are being
issued concurrently with the
present public offering. A
further 90,000 are to be
issued fully-paid, 220,000 paid
to 2s. 6d., and a sum of £39,250
is payable in cash. Options
have been granted over another
495,000 shares.
The public issue is payable
2s. 6d. on application. The
total amount payable on full
subscription, including calls
later on, is £750,000. It is
expected that working-capital
available will be £658,250.
Most of this is earmarked for


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urqohart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (8 lines) KT.5:!27
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
84 WIEEIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67 5080, 67-1257
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Orafton and Armidale
expenditure on areas in the
Torquay (Vic.), Bonaparte
Gulf (N.T. and W.A.) and
Bathurst - Melville Islands
(N.T.). Seismic surveying and
drilling is allowed for in each
of these areas. Other permits
held by the co. will include
prospects in the Hunter-Sydney
Basin (N.S.W.), Tibooburra
(N.S.W.) district, Alpha (Q.),
Anderson’s Inlet and adjacent
offshore continental shelf
(Vic.), and other areas, includ-
ing “fringe” positions to the
Portland (Vic.) and Fitzroy
Basin (W.A.) areas.
The co. aims to apply for,
and “take the utmost advantage
of,” subsidies offered by the
Commonwealth Government.
The prospectus says that
adequate exploration will
precede any drilling, which will
be carried out by contract.
The co. intends to avail itself
of the new knowledge and
techniques which are now avail-
able in Australia. It is pointed
out that scarcely 500 holes have
been drilled for oil in Australia,
compared with 3000 in Canada
before commercial production
was achieved. It is emphasised
that Australia is now attracting
a number of independent
overseas oil exploration com-
panies, all of which are aiding
exploration in general and
adding to knowledge and
know-how.
On the board of Oil Develop-
ment, N.L., are K. W. Craig,
H. B. Borwick, K. B. Gross,
R. F. Hockey and J. A. Roche.
Technical manager is Reginald
Hare, and consulting geologist
is Reg. C. Sprigg, of Geo-
surveys of Australia, Adelaide.
Branch-factories in Asia
Professor Donald
Cochrane has returned
from a Seato tour, the first
for an Australian civilian,
satisfied that great oppor-
tunities exist for imaginative
Australian firms to establish
small branch - factories in
S. Asia, especially Pakistan,
Thailand and northern
Malaya. Melbourne’s Pro-
fessor of Commerce expects
some other country to hop in
to meet the demand for
consumer-goods if Austra-
lians don’t.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, July 18, 1960.
iven the continuance of a
stable international situa-
tion, the 1960’s offer a prospect
of sustained economic progress
in N.Z.
This opinion was expressed
by the Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, in his economic
survey for 1960.
“The rising population will
“You can make a lot of dough in the advertising
profession if you're prepared to learn the game
from the ground up.”
lead to a steady growth in the
labor force. This will provide
a basis for the further develop-
ment of N.Z. industry which is
already gathering momentum,”
he said.
From 1949-50 to 1958-59 the
volume of goods and services
produced in N.Z. increased by
39 per cent. The volume of
goods and services available
rose by only 30 per cent.,
because terms of trade at the
close of the period were less
favorable than at the start., ,
Over the period population
increased, so that goods and
service available on a per head
basis were only 7 per cent,
higher.
Complete-figures for 1959-60
were not yet available, but it
was evident that the substantial
recovery in export prices last
year would show a better result
than the foregoing figures
indicated.
“Even allowing for this
improvement, however, it is
clear that the rate of economic
growth in N.Z. over the last
decade has been appreciably
less than that attained in many
other countries,” Mr. Nord-
meyer said.
“In making such com-
parisons it should be remem-
bered national income per head
at the beginning of the decade
was high, and that present
average standards in N.Z. are
still among the highest in the
world.”
Slow Growth
There was a number of
factors which might account for
the relatively slow rate of
growth over the last decade.
There was a smaller propor-
tion of people gainfully
employed and a bigger propor-
tion economically dependent.
In spite of migration gains, the
labor-force increased by only
21 per cent., while the pop u .
lation rose by 25 per cent.
“A stage has now been
reached where this trend vviil
be reversed, and it is likely
that during the next decade the
labor-force will increase at a
slightly faster rate than pop U .
lation. This should lead to a
rising level of output per head
of population.”
More economic growth could
be accomplished if the rate of
capital-formation were raised.
The rate of capital-investment
was still less than in a number
of countries.
The level of savings in the
last decade had been retarded
to some extent by the trend
toward a more even distribu-
tion of incomes, which tended
to lead to higher levels of con-
sumption.
Another factor had been the
concentration in investment
activity on background capital-
projects which did not produce
an immediate and direct return
in rising output of goods and
services. This investment, how-
ever, might well provide a
sound structural basis for
accelerated expansion of
directly productive plant, build-
ings and capital equipment in
years ahead.
“In future policy formation
increased emphasis should
therefore be given to encourag-
ing investment of a type which
will directly increase the pro-
ductive capacity of industry,”
Mr. Nordmeyer said.
A willingness to take risks
and to provide incentives for
skill and enterprise was a
factor associated with rapid
rates of economic growth in
other countries, and to the
extent that these had not been
emphasised in N.Z. a slower
rate of expansion and develop-
ment might have occurred.
Importing Skilled Workers
The, Government has
approved a number of pro-
posals for recruiting skilled
workers from overseas under
assisted immigration schemes.
“The marked improvement
in our economic position has
already resulted in a much
stronger demand for skilled
workers, and as these workers
are not available in this country
there is no alternative but to
look overseas,” said the
Minister of Immigration, M r '
o Continued on page .33)


a Discriminating host’s first choice
u
k
r
Vintage Wines
N.iW; DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Aden's “Twelfth Night”
Always amusing, most ele-
gant in its Cavalier
costumes, swift in its _ scene-
changes, distinguished in two
of its roles and generally satis-
fying, John Alden’s “Twelfth
Night,” which has moved this
week from Sydney Conserva-
torium to the Independent, is
one of the best all-round
productions this invaluable
company has put on.
It is not great Shakspeare.
For that you would need an
intensity of characterisation
and a comic flair of which
most of these actors are not
—or not yet —capable. Gordon
Glenwright’s Sir Toby Belch,
for instance, an amiable
alcoholic too much inclined
to woof-woof inaudibly in his
whiskers, lacked the Fal-
staffian majesty which this part
can have. Leo McKern,
when he was here with the
Stratford -on - Avon players,
showed us that Touchstone
could be genuinely funny;
therefore Barry Lov e t t’s
pleasant and tuneful Feste
should also make you laugh.
Malcolm Billings’s Duke,
admittedly rather a flat piece
of writing which Billings
brought nicely to life in the
second half, could add a great
deal to the piece by playing
the passionate lover more
passionately, probably with a
touch of caricature. Kay
Eklund’s maidservant can be
r >cher and naughtier, not so
agitated ; Ga y e Jordan’s
Olivia needs aristocratic stature
ai td a sense of comedy as well
as charm; and Dennis
Garoll’s very youthful and
slightly uncouth Sebastian will
hardly do for the wandering
hobleman, any more than
canned music booming lugu-
nously somewhere under the
w HI do for that strain
nich comes upon the ear
l the sweet south That
oreathes upon a bank of
lines h)' ose wonderful
et a H these parts were well
; nobody really
let the show down ; all of
them helped it along. Elaine
Montgomerie, most fetchingly
costumed in green and gold,
made an admirable Viola;
Vaughan Tracey in his brief
appearances a flawless Antonio.
Where the show reached
distinction was in Don
Pas c o e’s Aguecheek and
Alden’s Malvolio.
This commentator has a
notion that Aguecheek, who
comes from the country,
should be played as a sort of
chawbacon trying to be
sophisticated. Except that Sir
Toby is more drunken and
rascally, the pair could be not
unlike Dad and Dave come to
town, and might be amusing
played with such an Australian
slant. However, there could
be no criticism of Pascoe’s
most diverting fop; and
Alden’s Malvolio was quite
remarkable.
Leaving the steward’s cus-
tomary foppishness to Ague-
cheek, Alden played him
rather like the Perfect Butler,
remembering all the time that
butlers are human: and so
was able to make the most
impressive and convincing
synthesis of his initial pom-
pousness, his rise to foolish
vanity, his collapse into simple
humanity and, in a last excel-
lent touch, his return to pom-
pousness. It was at once funny
and alive, and it was very well
thought-out.
♦j» ♦s*
“Ziegfeld Follies”
Tibor Rudas, producer of
Sydney Tivoli’s new show,
does a fine job of breaking-up
the straight ballet-lines into
arrangements constantly re-
arranging themselves, and
scenery on rollers that moves
while you watch almost as
quickly and completely as
J.C.W.’s turntable - scenes ;
beautifully-dressed girls whirl
in and out of this changing
world, but still, as one com-
plained last time, no nudes —
Tibor isn’t as Rudas he
could be.
A French girl and two men,
the Dandinis, tumble wonder-
fully wittily; then, from
standing, one somersaults and
hangs by the ankles from a
loop of rope; Rita Moreno
(or Ann) puts Ann (or Rita)
into a bag in a big box, and
Rita (or Ann), to everyone’s
surprise, comes out of it;
Evelyn Rose juggles brass rings
and things; the wife in the
Ulk and Maor pair holds her
husband aloft with one hand,
hand-to-hand, and does a
contortion-act while he is still
balancing on her hund; the
young Diors have a nice
adagio routine.
Barney Grant, as a corny
comedian from the South, is
maybe a bit too much in
character; but Edith Dahl,
comedy per violin, gave us
a better “Rhapsody in Blue”
than Peter Crago, the tap-
dancing pianist with the Diors,
the Girls and the Orchestra,
while the Coquettes, two
violinist-comedians, relied on
their fiddles only for a pretty
shrewd ayt. The singing was
concentrated mostly in a
medley of hits from Ziegfeld
shows Marie-Claire, Eileen
O’Connor, Patricia Smith and
James Vaughan being pushed
on and off stage on wheels to
do the job. Maybe the audi-
ence would walk out if one
song in every show had never
been heard before.
Introduced by Lee Davis as
Ziegfeld, with Billie Burke, the
real Mrs. Z., stealing the show
from the Royal Box and what
seems to have been a lush
stage-party after it, it was as
satisfying a Tivoli first-night
as . . . ail that jazz.
❖ *> ***
The “Widow” Arrives
This is the fabulous “Merry
Widow” which Garnet H.
Carroll had to tear away from
the hearts of London’s
theatrical world to enable Aus-
tralian audiences to see —for
the first time, it is said —just
how Franz Lehar should be
played.
It is indeed an extraordinary
“Widow.” Tenderly light-
weight, giddily inconsequential
and shot-through with the
magic of Lehar’s familiar
melodies, it will astound the
present writer if London does
not run into theatrical diffi-
culties in retrieving it again for
home consumption.
For this Tivoli (Melbourne)
appearance, Carroll joined
forces with the Tivoli Circuit
and Sadlers Wells. The result
is an evening of great enchant-
ment. Lehar had a marvellous
sense of melody, and here, in
the most famous of his
operettas, it runs riot.
Admittedly his sense of drama
—or, rather, comedy—is not
always so impressive in these
days of “My Fair Lady,” etc. ;
but this hardly matters, especi-
ally when the production
emphasises the music rather
than the sense.
In this respect Australian-
born June Bronhill is magni-
ficent as the Widow, and the
Sadler’s Wells cast is immensely
capable.
Miss Bronhill early takes
charge in no uncertain manner
with the well-known song
“Vilia.” She first sings it with
the rest of the cast thronging
about her. Then the lights
fade, the rest slip into darkness
and a spotlight isolates her. He
voice now is muted; the
orchestra, conducted by
William Reid, subsides to a
gentle whisper, and the lovely
refrain floats away over the
audience.
Other notable performances
were turned-in by Raymond
Nilsson and Dierdre Thurlow,
as the illicit lovers who provide
the operetta with an attrac-
tively sentimental sub-plot, and
by Howell Glynne, whose
resonant bass and refusal to
exaggerate the histrionics
written into his role made the
Ambassador one of the most
consistently satisfying
characters.
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
Puccini Three Times
No amount of musical arith-
metic can make Puccini’s three
one-act operas known as the
“The Trittico” add-up to one


Missing Friends
ESTATE OF MAY CECILIA YOUNG,
DECEASED
WILL KEVIN and YVONNE OEHME,
who emigrated from India to Australia
in or about 1946, please contact
MESSRS. DAVIES & BLUNDEN, of 16
L.vnchford Road, Farnborough, Hants,
England, Solicitors, who are acting in
the administration of the Estate of the
late MAY CECILIA YOUNG, as you
are entitled to share in the Estate.
WILL BRIAN GILMOUR, formerly of
New Plymouth. New Zealand, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please contact
DAVID GILMOUR, 110 Gill Street, New
Plymouth, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NE«
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOEL WILLIAM LITTLE late «
55 MacDonald Street Lakemba.— TAß
NOTICE that SHIRLEY ANNE LITTLE
has filed a Petition for Divorce W
3715 of 1959 on the grounds of adulW
and bigamy with adultery If .you "'■*
to defend you may enter an appear® l *
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street S.™ l ?
by the 4th day of October 1960 »
obtain a copy of the. Petition with®
charge from A. J. McLACHLAN HOABj
MANN & CO., Solicitors, 6 Wynys*
Street Sydney.—C. A. H. HAS®
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1541 of 1960. Trt
TO MARTHA ANTONETTA QUIM
BOSZ.—TAKE NOTICE that g
HUYBERT DATHO QUINTUS
has filed a Petition for Divorce So. 1
of 1960 on the ground of desertion* 1
out just cause or excuse for three)
and upwards and is asking for the e
cise of the Court’s discretion
S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Act 1899 If you wish to defe °-,l e
may enter an appearance in the !'■’«
Registry Supreme Court Mint do
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by <
September 1960 and obtain a c°P j
the Petition without charge from • g
SMYTH KING & SON, Solicitors, oi a
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—'C.
HARMS, Registrar.
single opera of the quality of
“Butterfly” or “Boheme.”
Each has its flashes of charm,
humor or tenderness, but this
composer needed a wider scope
to develop those broad, sweep-
ing melodies and moments
when drama and music fuse
into the unforgettable.
In spite of this, the Trust
Opera Company in Brisbane
provided performances that
were more satisfying than the
slimness of the material sug-
gested. The chief architect of
their success was conductor
Karl Rankl, whose tight hold
on the orchestral reins and un-
failing command of his singers
inspired in everyonq the confi-
dence that encourages unsus-
pected reserves of talent.
These are not operas for star
performers, but rather for a
good, all-round company of
singers. Apart from Rankl’s
direction and the pleasing
musical shape it gave to the
three scores, Stephan Haag’s
productions lacked none of his
familiar skill.
This was evident in “II
Tabarro,” one of the most un-
bearable of operas on the
gramophone or radio, yet here
relieved of its gloom and given
a touch of charm to lessen its
brutality. Towering above
other satisfactory singing per-
formances in this tale of mur-
der among Parisian bargees,
Neil Easton caught the anguish
of the cuckolded barge-skipper
with complete success.
The second opera, “Sister
Angelica,” is musically more
engaging, but dramatically
static. All the characters ex-
cept one are dressed as nuns
and look alike from a distance.
The piece was set under a mag-
nificently vaulted convent roof,
and the statue of the Madonna
came most miraculously, if a
little jerkily, to life before the
eyes of the dying Sister. Visu-
ally, it was most attractive, as
with all of Louis Kahan’s
settings for the three operas.
The music of the leading role
was beautifully sung by Valda
Bagnall, and the only strong
piece of characterisation pos-
sible came from the indefatig-
able Justine Rettick.
The third opera, “Gianni
Schicchi,” is Puccini at his most
unsophisticated. Humor seldom
enters Puccini opera, but this
tale of forged wills and whim-
sical roguery caught his imagi-
nation, and he turned it into
an opera with enough catchy
tunes to match the subject.
Neil Warren-Smith seems to
revel in character-parts, and a
medieval Italian rascal is well
within his range. The same
performance also gave Gino
Zancanarro an opportunity to
display a fine stage presence
as he sued for the hand of
Schicchi’s daughter, Lauretta.
Doreen Morrow took this part
with ease and did not dis-
appoint in the only famous aria
of the opera, “O, My Beloved
Daddy.”
D.J.M.
Wilde at Sydenham
Sydney’s Pocket Playhouse
company has for some time
now seemed ready to break-
out of the confines of its tiny
premises at Sydenham and
into a hall at least twice as
large. Nowhere has this been
more apparent than in its
current production —an intelli-
gent and assured treatment by
Robert Findlay of “The
Importance of Being Earnest.”
More than any other pro-
duction one has seen at this
theatre it calls out for space
to move in: the actors, one
feels, are as good as their
surroundings, which demand
a certain amount of tuning-
down, will allow.
From an exceptionally well-
balanced cast one singles-out
for special praise Anne
Loudoun’s finely calculated
Miss Prism, Kathleen Ken-
nedy’s .beautifully poised
Gwendolen and Jennifer
Mooney’s secure Cecily. John
Cooper, as Algernon, and
John Humphries, as Jack —the
two young men who want to
be Ernest had engaging
manners rather than true style ;
Marie Byron played domineer-
ing Lady Bracknell with pre-
cision, but a bit too safely
when something of extrava-
gance was needed; and
Philip Weston’s Canon
Chasuble seemed to need just
another stroke or two of
caricature.
❖ ❖
A Play for London
Ray Mathew, Sydney play-
wright, poet and short-story
writer, who is now in London,
is to have his play “The Life
of the Party” put on at the
excellent address of the Lyric,
Hammersmith, for a season
of four weeks from November
21. It will be produced by
Frith Banbury, with sets by
Loudon Sainthill.
The play was given a read-
ing at Sydney Independent a
year or so ago, but it is so
strange and intricate a,„piece
of work that' it really needs
a full-scale production before
anybody can tell what the
effect will be. Like another of
Ray Mathew’s plays which
has yet to receive a first-class
Australian production, “We
Meet the Bunyip,” it moves in
curious circular patterns, very
wordy, full of the exact and
sensitive pictures of life you
get in his short-stories.
It is about a party at King’s
Cross, or thereabouts, with a
complexity of love-affairs and
many dramatic things happen-
ing on and off stage, and
could have been influenced
by either Chekhov or Saroyan,
or both. Mathew says he has
cut and revised it for the
London production.
“THE DRUNKARD”
at Sydney Ensemble
At the Milson’s Point Onsomb’
Mr. Scullin’s vill-i-an
With the odious aplomb
Of an ivory from Japan
Sets himself to breaking-up
Lives of china figurines
That have been too full a cup
For domestic faiths and
wines,
While the unctuous child recites,
.The frightened violin is
flayed —
Thus from boredoms, fears
and spites
Our household gods are
made.
SWILLIAM.
Artbursts
Melbourne Art
Today it is fashionable to
decry the art of the illustrator,
in particular of the magazine
illustrator, and unfortunately
this attitude is only too often
justified. Edward Ardizzone,
the well - known London
“Punch” illustrator, is, how-
ever, not so easily disposed of.
In a series of lively, imagina-
tive sketches and wash-draw-
ings at the Australian Galleries
he gives us an insight into the
moods and forms of English
life which most of us would
either pass by without noticing
or simply not want to notice..
Ardizzone recalls no one so
strongly as Daumier —but it is
always a Daumier in a
decidedly minor key. Whereas
the French master expressed hi
feelings and ideas about society
by means of a savage strength
of line and a caustic wit which
never pretended a spade was
anything but a spade
Ardizzone rarely seems able to
resist the temptation to
idealise his subjects: even his
most unpleasant scenes are
pleasant to look at; the ugliness
is inevitably concealed from
too close an examination by the
delicate and deliberate fuzzing
of line and color.
His reeling drunks are
veiled in charming light; so
too, are his prostitutes ’ and
street - urchins. In fact, it
soon becomes obvious
that Ardizzone’s main coo.
cern, unlike Daumier’s is not
so much with character as
with scene, ensemble and the
feeling of place. When this
approach predominates, his
work achieves a rare excellence,
Dermont Hellier (Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau Gallery) applies
a brightly colored palette to
country and city scenes alike,
The result is often charming,
but not always convincing. It is
in his simpler works, such as the
“Old Pub, Wandiligon” anti
“Road to Mt. Bulla,” that he is
most impressive; where the
tonal and color schemes have
not the rather false ring which
mars many of his other
exhibits.
At the Victorian Artists'
Society, members are holding
their annual open exhibition,
and, regrettably, it is one of the
least distinguished shows seen
at their headquarters for some
time.
Relieving the general level


An Artist at “Twelfth Night”
When artist “Middy” went to see John Alden’s
production of “Twelfth Night” at Sydney Con.
last week —it has since moved to the Inde-
pendent—he took his sketchbook along.
Here are some of the impressions he
gathered from the stalls . . .


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE.
DEBENTURE STOCK.
&
aa
iggig
i«Si
■I
sf,
mmmm
p.a.
4 to 10
years
22T2CTS B
3Z
EEJOBGIHE
ITT?ng?CTI
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange
CUMULATIVE DEBENTURE STOCK
8% per annum for 4-20 years
Compounded on yearly rests
Bankers to the Company and for the Issue:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING &
YUILL, 113 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S.
SCORER & CO., T. and G. Building, Hunter
Street, Newcastle. Members of tie Newcastle
Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Queensland: CORRIE
& CO., Union Trustee Chambers, 400 Queen
Street, Brisbane. Branches at Cairns, Towns-
ville, Rockhampton and Surfers’ Paradise.
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Trustees for Debenture holders: BANKERS’
& TRADERS’ INSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Applications can be accepted only on tbe
printed form attached to the Prospectus, a
copy of which has been lodged with the Regi-
strar of Companies, Queensland.
AVAILABLE FROM:
Any member of the SYDNEY, NEW-
CASTLE or BRISBANE STOCK
EXCHANGES.
Any Office of the Company.
Any Branch of the Bank of New
South Wales.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ist Floor, Park House, 15 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus with Application Forms, a
without obligation. |
NAME |
ADDRESS |
It. 27/7./'<so j
of mediocrity are John
Farmer’s lucid landscapes,
Ronald Kirk’s lyrical, warmly
colored “Girl on the Farm,”
Arnold Shore’s impressionistic
glance at “Red Gums,” Frank
Werther’s “Thistles at Dark”
(its powerfully turgid sky
broken-up by the foreground
thrusts of the thistles) and Ron
Crawford’s clean, sharp
“Summer Morning.”
♦> . ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Sydney Art
Sydney's leading art-show of
the week is Margo Lewers’s
lively and refreshing display of
abstracts and semi-abstracts at
David Jones’.
Miss Lewers will obviously
have a shot at anything. Some-
times she fires blanks, some-
times she misses by miles, but
when she does hit the target
she hits it with a bang ; or even
occasionally, as in “Autumn,”
quite gently. In its tumult,
color and tumbling and tower-
ing buildings the show is very
much a reflection of Sydney
here and now.
Louise Henderson, at the
Macquarie Galleries, has sharp,
bright, bitty abstracts, not say-
ing very much ; Lesley Fletcher,
at the same address, showing
uncertainty in a variety of
derivative styles, has genuine
force and poetry in her
romantic “Bavarian Land-
scape” and “Jungle Orchids.”
David Dridan, a presumably
young painter, at the Clune
Galleries, shows oils in the
manner of Boyd, Nolan and
Pugh, but lifeless. His less-
ambitious monotypes, such as
“Desert Glimpse” and “Virgin
Plain,” are delicate and
attractive.
The contemporary British
graphic art at the N. S. Wales
Gallery—part of a larger
exhibition seen at the Adelaide
Festival —is mostly rather slight
and vague to have been sent
round the world, but there are
pleasing bits of design by Allin
Braund and others, Michael
Rothenstein’s “Red Cliff” looks
oddly like an aboriginal bark-
painting, and John Piper in
“Venice” and Michael Ayrton
in “Attic Port” make %sub-
stantial and decorative state-
ments.
Films
“Five Branded Women”
There are poignant touches
and a deal of solid drama in
this imaginatively directed film
set in Yugoslavia in 1943 ; and
it is a pretty pungent comment
on the futility of war.
Five girls caught collaborat-
ing amorously with the Ger-
mans have their.hair cut off t
Partisans, and the German
find it is politic to send then
packing. They get arms %
dead Germans, and do so well
with them that they at[
accepted into the P ar ti Sa!
ranks ; in the final sequent'
one of them elects to fight!
fatal delaying - action on
mountain-pass to allow %
bulk of the force to escape
The skirmishes have a ring
of reality to them ; the rugged
ness of the terrain has to
seen to be believed; and tfe
story is worked-out cogently by
a competent cast headed bv
Van Heflin, as the Partisan
leader, and Silvana Mangano
as the brains of the live.
At Sydney Prince Edward. .
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Who Was That Lady?’
When research-chemist Tout
Curtis is caught by his wife
being kissed by a tesbtube
fancier in a skirt she tells him
he’s had it; whereupon Tony'
invokes the fertile imagination
of his friend, TV script-writer
Dean Martin, who supplies him
with a gun, a phony F. 8.1
card and secret marks on his
heel, and he becomes a secret
service agent whose job is tui
trick female Russian spies into
betraying themselves. His
missus falls for it, and whet
the F. 8.1. gets onto the im-
personation, and some real
spies get on the job, the fun
becomes uproarious.
At Sydney State.
Uni. Players on Broadway
A cinema is being coa-
verted into a theatre i®
Sydney University Play®';
next production. It is tin
Broadway, which closed
several months ago.
are now working to get l
ready for the final play 1)1
the International Drama Fes
tival, “him,” by e. e. cummin?
the American poet whose dis
regard of capital-letters "'0»
him the title of “mr. low®'
case highbrow.” /
The existing stage is ®
2ft. deep, so a split-level stage
with an area of 500 ft. is W
built to hold a cast of acton
who between them play
parts.
The company describes
play as “basically serious
theme but containing seven
vaudeville-scenes involving
use of a full jazz-band. •
trick-bicycle and nine oW
freaks, including a 9ft. Biaf8 iaf
and an 18in. dwarf.
The play opens on Fr#
July 29, for five nights.


telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
. J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay. C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
C Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
1 loor - City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
ptlon "= 2 2773, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 ritt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 17U—BW 8088
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
tn the past seven years shareholders
1 have been treated to three bonus-
issues. Following the one-for-10 hand-
out in 1954, the co. made one-for-two
bonus-issues in both 1955 and 1959.
Paid capital rose from £1,150,000 in 1954
to £3,330,982 (including 223,155 20s.
ords. issued as purchase consideration).
Intensive ploughing-back of profits has
ensured a satisfactory rate of return on
the capital invested. Acquisition of
Better Brakes Holdings, Ltd., has
widened the co.’s scope and improved
its earning-capacity.
Established in 1888, James Hardie
Asbestos, Ltd., is a successful member
of the well-managed Hardie group.
Catering mainly for the building and
allied industries, the co. manufactures
asbestos - cement, flat and corrugated
sheets, gutters, downpipes, flue-pipes,
moulded accessories, high-pressure water-
pipes, underground conduits, marble
finished asbestos-cement sheets, thermal
insulation materials, terra-cotta tiles and
automotive brake-linings and clutch-
facings.
A portion of the raw-material require-
ments is supplied from the co.’s asbestos-
mine at Baryulgil (N.S.W.). The co. is
also a shareholder in the Cape Asbestos
Co., Ltd. (of U.K.), which supplies it
with raw asbestos.
Factories and subsidiary plants are
located in all the mainland States and
New Zealand.
Hie new wholly-owned subsidiary
Better Brakes Holdings, Ltd., is a well-
established specialist in the servicing of
automotive brakes, and also a distributor
of brakes and clutch replacement-parts.
The other subsidiaries are:
James Hardie and Coy. Pty. (Sydney).
James Hardie and Coy. Pty. (Auck-
land, N.Z.).
Asbestos Cement Pty. (Adelaide).
Asbestolite Pty. (Adelaide).
Asbestos Mines Pty. (Sydney).
The co. has followed a policy of rapid
Mansion financed by extensive reinvest-
ment of earnings, aided by substantial
draft° W^ngS ° n mort S a^e anc * bank-over-
Tax - provisions have consistently
Ppeared excessive in relation to dis-
cosed earnings. An accurate estimate
of profits applicable to tax shown is
difficult since tax-provisions include New
Zealand tax, and the extent of N.Z. earn-
ings included in the consolidated figures
is not indicated. Depreciation write-offs
have been high all along.
Moreover, during 1958 and 1959 the co.
built-up a £425,000 provision for plant-
replacement. This was done by means
of two transfers (£250,000 in 1958 and
£175,000 in 1959) charged against profits.
Last term no visible transfer was made.
Increased output and “successful mar-
keting” of new products resulted in a
“substantial increase in combined turn-
over.” New sales-levels were said to be
reached by all subsidiaries in Australia
and New Zealand.
Consolidated net profit from trading
and investments for the year ended
March 31, 1960, was disclosed at
£522,593 after taking - off £92,742 pay-
ments to staff fund, writing-off a massive
£882,841 for depreciation (up £318,198,
deducting minority-interests and provid-
ing £675,144 for Australian and N.Z.
income-tax (up £252,942).
This was £37,884 less than in the pre-
vious term, including the £175,000 trans-
fer to plant-replacement provision in
1959 net earnings (or £137,116 more if
the provision is excluded from 1959
profits):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
1956. .359,029 10 p.c. =189,750 169,279 2,580,796
Added reserves on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, etc., £117,705 .. .. 2,698,501
Additions, sinking fund, £3959 .. 2,702,460
1957. 10 p.c' =197,250 139,860 2,842,320
To depreciation provision, £23,350.. 2,818,970
1958. 10 p.c. =199,750 414,693 3,233,603
Tax overprovided, £lOO,OOO .. 3,333,663
Revaluation property, etc. £42,308 3,375,971
1959. .560,477 10 p.c. =199,750 360,727 3,736,698
Share premiums, £llO,OOO .. 3,846,698
Assets-revaluation, £1,112,974 .. 4,959,672
Reserves'capitalised, £1,110,327 .. 3,849,345
Increase difference cost and bopk-value
shares in subsidiaries, £108,269.. 3,957,614
Increase contingencies reserve, £68,749 4,026,363
Less transfer for subsidiary to con-
tingencies reserve, £6200 .. 4,020,163
1960. .522,593 10 p.c. =331,098 191,495 4,211,658
* Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’6O.
The £252,942 jump in combined tax-
provision indicates a rise in real net
earnings. The big (£318,198) lift in pro-
vision for depreciation, coupled with a
much higher tax-slug, suggests that an
appreciable portion of the write-down of
fixed assets may have been disallowed
tax-wise.
The figure for combined tax-provision
bears no relation to the profits shown.
At £675,144 it would be applicable to a
theoretical consolidated net profit of
about £1,125,000 after tax, basing the
calculation on the ruling Australian tax-
rates (£703,000 in 1959, based on the
£422,202 tax-provision). The absence of
separate N.Z. earnings and tax figures,
and possible tax complications with sub-
sidiaries, make these theoretical calcula-
tions useful only as an indication of the
trend in profits.
The disclosed consolidated net profit
(£522,593) was equivalent to an earning-
rate of almost 15.8 p.c. on the higher,
bonus-swelled average capital.
This compares with 28 p.c. in the
preceding term and 30.7 p.c. in 1958
(both including transfers to the plant-
replacement provision in consolidated net
earnings). The earning-rates in 1957 and
1956 were 16.9 p.c. and 18.9 p.c. respec-
tively.
The div.-rate was steady at 10 p.c.,
absorbing £331,098. Reserves received
£191,495 and also benefited £68,749 rise
in contingencies reserve, but were re-
duced by £6200 adjustment in a sub-
sidiary.
“Following the revaluation during the
year of real estate,” the co. revalued its
shareholdings in subsidiaries by
£1,112,974. Of this, £1,110,327 was
capitalised and distributed as a one-for-
two bonus.
The co. also issued 183,155 20s. ords.
in part - consideration for the takeover
of Better Brakes Holdings, Ltd. A
further 40,000 20s. ords. were issued, at
a premium of 555. a share, as part-
consideration for the purchase of addi-
tional businesses. This netted James
Hardie Asbestos £llO,OOO in share-pre-
miums. The £108,269 increase in the
difference between cost and book-value
of shares in the new subsidiaries brought
total reserves to £4,211,658, subject to
£98,449 intangibles and including
£425,000 plant-replacement provision.
This supports a paid capital of
£3,330,982 in 20s. ords.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital . . £1,997,500 £1,997,500 £3,330,982
Reserves .. 3,233,663 3,736,698 4,211,658
Minority interest 25,000
Mortgage . . 491,250 467,100 476,615
Overdraft . . 231,581 605,254 892,675
Creditors, etc. . . 1,263,656 1,374,614 1,591,592
Tax provision .. 965,830 854,059 1,100,430
Suspense .. 50,903
Final dividend .. 99,875 99,875 166,549
£8,283,355 £9,186,003 £11,795,501
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 4,073,438 4,932,768 6,536,716
Shares .. 206,119 259,632 259,632
Stocks .. 2,371,195 2,611,729 2,831,257
Debtors .. 1,397,672 1,202,532 1,900,024
Cash, bonds . . 87,930 80,893 84,059
Suspense . . 48,552 85,364
Goodwill . . 98,449 98,449 98,449
£8,283,355 £9,186,003 £11,795,501
Book-value of plant, freeholds, etc.,
was £490,974 higher, excluding the
£1,112,974 asset - revaluation. Bank
accommodation (up £287,421), creditors
(up £216,978), stocks (up £219,528) and
debtors (up £697,492) all increased.
Theoretical working - capital was
£1,023,749.
James Hardie Asbesos is a strong and
vigorous company with an energetic and
efficient management. Up to now,
periodic bonus-issues, which make the
co.’s scrip appear so attractive to in-
vestors, have been successfully absorbed.
Recent expansionary moves should
improve the co.’s earning-capacity. The


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Slock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, Mi R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
A. L. NEViTT & CO.
A. L,. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building)
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO” ,«
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No.
building industry appears to be in good
shape.
The co.’s scrip is highly regarded on
the sharemarket. At the last sale in
Sydney the 20s. ords. fetched 755. 6d. a
unit, for an immediate return of 2.6 p.c.,
based on the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Visible net tangible asset - backing
works out at £2 4s. Bd. for each 20s. unit
on the consolidated accounts.
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.
Mow over a century old, Anthony
Hordern and Sons joined the public
list in 1926. The co. is a major depart-
ment-store, proprietor and retailer,
trading in Sydney, West Ryde (N.S.W.)
and Canberra. Headquarters are in the
co.’s building on Sydney’s Brickfield Hill.
Last year the co. considerably ex-
panded its retail network, acquiring
Hordern Brothers, Ltd., and McCathies
Pty. in the heart of Sydney, and opening
a new store in the bustling, fast-growing
Sydney outer-suburb of West Ryde. In
addition, a large store (some 60,000
sq.-ft. in area) with roof parking-space
is being erected in Wollongong (N.S.W.)
at an estimated cost of £500,000.
On July 15, 1960, the co. made an
offer to acquire the whole of the issued
capital of Jack Craig and Sons Pty.,
Goulburn (N.S.W.) furniture-retailers,
and a small minority holding in Jack
Craig Investments, Ltd., of Canberra
(owner of the retail-premises in Canberra
leased to Anthony Hordern and Sons).
The offer, accepted by the directors of
Jack Craig and recommended to the
shareholders, was eight Anthony
Hordern 20s. ords. plus 255. cash for
each share in Jack Craig and Sons Pty.
This would involve the issue of 189,112
20s. ords. and would raise paid capital
to £2,942,557.
The latest expansion moves, some of
which will take time to become income-
producing, were not reflected in last
term’s earnings. ,
No divs. or rentals were received from
Hordern Brothers or McCathies, and no
administration charges had been made
against these cos. at balance-date. “On
the other hand, provision has been made
in the profit - and - loss appropriation
account for interest due on the un-
secured convertible notes issued to the
previous shareholders of Hordern
Brothers, Ltd., amounting to £16,820.”
In addition, divs. amounting to £14,354
and £7892 respectively were paid to the
former shareholders of Hordern Brothers
and McCathies.
Last year the co. encountered “uncon-
trollable rises in expenses,” mainly wage-
costs caused by the equal-pay legislation,
margins-increases and the three - weeks
' annual leave.
Turnover in Brickfield Hill improved
and, aided by “careful administration,”
allowed the co. to absorb rising expenses.
“It must be emphasised, though, that the
full impact of these colossal pay-increases
with their far-reaching effects on costs
of all kinds, has not yet been felt on the
cost-structure of thevco.”
Intense competition prevailing in the
retail-trade makes it increasingly difficult
to pass-on rising expenses to consumers.
Successful absorption of higher costs in
future will largely depend on higher
sales. The board’s ambitious expan-
sionary moves to extend and diversify
the co.’s retail-outlets are far-sighted and
should pay-off in the coming years,
although the immediate return from the
fresh capital-investments may be rela-
tively small.
Turnover is not disclosed. Net earn-
ings for the year to February 24, 1960,
edged-up by £2441 to £196,494, after
providing £58,000 for depreciation (up
£5000) and setting-aside £116,000 for
taxation (up £24,000):
, —Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7-J p.c. { — serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
To alterations reserve, £50,000 .. 301,434
Asset-revaluation reserve, £2,675,519. . 2,976,953
From depreciation ( £500,000) and
alteration ( £100,000) reserves, and
sundry provisions ( £375,000) . . 3,951,953
’55..300,570 56,250 10 = 125,000 119.320 4,071,273
’56..233,680 56,250 10 = 125,000 52,430 4,123,703
’57..102,686 56,250 10 = 125,000 4,0.45,141
Provn. long-service leave. £131,000 .. 3,914,141
Provn. retirement benefits, £73,000 .. 3,841,141
Provn. stock fluctuation, £50,000 . . 3,791,141
Provn. Unearned interest under h.-p.
agreements) £46,000 .. ..3,745,141
Less deprec. on w/up value of plant
trails, from reval. res., £282,447.. 3,462,694
’58..185,532 56,250 8 = 100,000 29,282 3,491.976
Profit sale assets, £19,824 .. .. 3,511,800
’59..194,053 56,250 8 = 100,000 37,803 3,549,603
Decrease assets-revaluation reserve,
£17,975 3,531,628
Capital profit, £15,864 .. .. 3,547,492
Tax overprovision, £70,000 .. .. 3,617,492
’60..196,494 56,250 8 = 122,246 . 17,998 3,635,490
After paying a steady 74 p.c. on the
prefs. (£56,250), the return was 9.2 p.c.
on the higher average ord. capital, com-
pared with 11 p.c. in the previous term
and 10.3 p.c. in 1958, 3.7 p.c. in 1957,
and 14.2 p.c. in 1956 (all on a lower
capital).
The div.-rate was steady at 8 p.c.,
absorbing £22,246 more on the higher
capital. Reserves received £17,998 and
benefited by £15,864 capital - profit
on the sale of premises in Dickson Street,
Sydney. The co. also wrote-back £70,000
“surplus income-tax provisions of pre-
vious years” and deducted £17,975
adjustment to assets-realisation reserve,
bringing the reserves and undistributed
profits to £3,635,490.
The balance-sheet shows a large in-
crease in paid capital and loan-funds.
Acquisition of the whole of ord. capital
in Hordern Bros, in October, 1959, in-
volved' the issue of 358,820 20s. ords.
at 10s. premium each, ranking for divs.
from September 1, 1959, plus 538,230 74
p.c. 20s. conv. notes, maturing on Sep-
tember 30, 1965.
In December, 1959, 394,625 20s. ords.
were issued (at 235. premium a unit) t 0
pay for the takeover of McCathies p[ v
ranking for divs. from December 1,
This increased paid capital to £2,753 4ai
in 750,000 p.c. 20s. cum. prets and
2,003,445 20s. ords., all f.-p.
The co. has also made a bid for the
pref. capital of Hordern Bros. By the
end of June, 82 p.c. of the holders of
first prefs. and 85 p.c. of second pref s
sent-in their acceptances, the closing-date
for which was extended to July 31, 19|
The co. raised £1,904,776 of loans and
deposits. Bank accommodation w as
£759,484 lower at £194,158. Creditors
were £103,772 higher:
Paid capital—• 1958. 1959. lgco,
Pref. .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £7500(10
Ord 1,250,000 1,250.000 2,003®
Reserves .. .. 3,491,970 3,549,603 3,635,400
Loans, deposits . . 1,90i,;;s
Mortgages . . 2,003,459 2,101,501 1,931*
Overdraft . . 946,834 853,642 194,455
Conv. notes . . —538,23 d
Creditors . . 679,573 814,217 911,8(1'
Tax provision . . 149,096 162,137 176,Qn
Final divs. . . 128,125 78,125 100,3 d
£9,399,063 £9,559,225 £12,157,3)
Freeholds, leaseholds,
plant . . . • 4,807,744 4,844,299 5,209,810
Stocks .. .. 2,105,186 1,991,203 2,091),81tj
Debtors .. .. 2,355,118 2,654,762 3,460,131'
Shares in subsids. 9 1,313,01;;
Cash, investment-,
etc. .. .. 131,015 68,952 78,Hi’
£9,399,063 £9,559,225 £12,157,3!
Stock (up £99,407 at £2,090,610) was
“under strict control.” Debtors were
£811,369 higher. Cash, etc., increased,
Shares in subsidiaries now appear ai
£1,313,025. Recent takeovers pushed-up
the book - value of fixed assets to
£5,209,628 (up £365,329), after taking-oS
£547,029 accumulated depreciation and]
£225,958 “special depreciation reserve,
Net tangible asset-backing works-oiil l
at £8 16s. 4d. for each 20s. pref. and:
58s. 7d. for every 20s. ord. unit.
The current term has started well and
the co. “expects to see a marked it
provement as the various ventures read
their full productive potential.” Altera
tions and innovations in the co.’s store
“have markedly helped sales.”
If steady expansion continues in til
next few years, Anthony Hordern ffl!
well develop into an interesting growth'
stock. Sharemarket rating is encouragifl}
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ordi,
fetched 445. 6d. each. The immediate
return is 3.6 p.c. on the basis of tin
steady 8 p.c. div.-rate. The 10s. con
vertible notes changed hands at 21s j
unit, also yielding an immediate yp
of 3.6 p.c., or 4.8 p.c. allowing f®
hypothetical capital-profit on conversion
■
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Cuttle!
Tntense competition from domestic a®
overseas rivals (mainly J a P an '
changing tastes and rising
costs don’t make life easy for text*
manufacturers. Nevertheless M af !
borough Knitting Mills had a good y eal


xmmx
FV<'
iil
*JJ\ y?<-'
1
“Sure, I can relax,
I’ve appointed
Perpetual Trustee”
“It’s a load off a man’s mind to know
that when he’s no longer around to handle
things his business will continue to function
soundly—seems to give you a new lease
of life.”
The specialised advice and constant
personal and friendly service provided by
“Perpetual” ensures that your affairs will be
managed as you would want them to be, by
experts in estate administration.
• Why not ring B 0377 and arrange a
confidential discussion with a Senior Officer
of “Perpetual” to-day.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
8 3-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANOE A TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA CITY
AUSTRALIA IS
ASSURED . . .
. . . friendly
Life Assurance
with
the
WSTRMIW
W tT*ovoin^
LIFE
p OL
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE
CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld. 1895)
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (Chairman); Col.
R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H.
Phillips; T. Keith Smith; C. W.
Rothe; W. J. Cooksey.
GENERAL MANAGER:
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
GENERAL SECRETARY:
George Leslie, F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
NEW BUSINESS MANAGER:
John L. Richter.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney
with net earnings at the highest
S since 1954, and the 12*
DC div.-rate (reduced to 10
Sc in 1959) restored and
covered almost twice.
Incorporated in Victoria in
1923 Maryborough Knitting
Mills (Cuttle), Ltd., is mainly a
manufacturer of knitted under-
wear. The co.’s well-equipped
factory is located in Mary-
borough (Vic.), with auxiliary
plants in the Victorian towns of
Talbot, Dunnolly and Avoca.
An associated concern, Inter-
knit Hosiery Co., Ltd., produces
woollen half-hose.
As did so many other firms,
the co. had a difficult time in
the “hungry ’thirties” and was
forced to write-off 55 p.c. of its
paid capital in 1931. Recover-
ing, M.K.M. has earned satis-
factory profits and has paid
attractive divs. on its prefs. and
ords.
In 1951 the co. made a one-
for-six bonus-issue, restoring
about a third of the capital
which had been lost during the
depression. Subsequent issues
in 1955 and 1957 brought
paid capital to its present
strength of "£248,248 in 105,050
8 p.c. cum. ss. prefs. and
887,942 ss. ords.
Pref. shareholders are in a
good position, participating
fully with the ords. in divs.
beyond 8 p.c., although not
sharing in surplus assets in the
case of a winding-up.
Trading conditions last term
were fair, if highly competitive,
and contrasted favorably with
the preceding year, when net
earnings fell to £23,849 and
£976 had to be drawn from
reserves to cover the reduced
10 p.c. div.-cheque.
Gross trading-profit for the
year ended March 31, 1960,
increased by £71,113 to
£213,330. Income from
interest, fees, rent and divs.
amounted to £3956 (up £1695).
Expenses rose by £38,446 to
£159,075, including a steady
£15,000 for depreciation and
£37,655 set aside for tax (up
£26,155). Net profit more
than doubled at £58,211 (up
£34,362):
t Dividends Re-
Mar.,Prft. All Shares. serves.
£ £ £
Res. capitalised, £18,618.. 287,036
’52..31,673 10 p.c. = 18,619 300,090
From tax reserve, £3565. . 303,655
’53..29,526 10 p.c. = 18,618 314,563
From tax reserve, £7859. . 322,422
’54..62,764 10 p.c. = 18,619 366,567
Tax underprovided, £2145 364,422
’55..52,425 121 p.c. = 23,273 393,574
Tax overprovided, £2288.. 395,862
’56-32,229 12J p.c. = 24,049 404,042
Tax underprovided, £1076 402,966
’57-54,906 121 p.c. = 27,928 429,944
Tax overprovided, £6696.. 436,640
’58..40,131 121 p.c. = 31,031 445,740
Tax underprovided, £5BB . . 445,152
’59-23,849 10 p.c. = 24,825 444,176
’6O-58,211 12J P.c. = 31,031 471,356
This was equivalent to an
earning-rate of a shade over
23.4 p.c. on the combined pref.
afid ord. capital, compared with
9:6 p.c. in the previous year
and 16.1 p.c. in 1958, 24.6 p.c.
in 1957 and 16.2 p.c. in 1956
(last two on a lower average
capital).
Divs. were paid at the rate
of 12* p.c. on prefs. and ords.
(up 2} p.c.), absorbing £31,031.
Reserves benefited by £27,180,
rising to £471,356 (free of
intangibles).
The balance-sheet shows
much the same position as in
the preceding term with a
definite shift to higher liquidity.
Bank accommodation re-
appeared at £12,308. Stocks
were a bit lower, reflecting an
improved turnover. Debtors
rose by £23,234 and cash,
bonds, etc., by £46,026:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital—- £ £ £
Pref. .. 26,262 26,262 26,262
Ord. .. 221,986 221,986 221,986
Reserves .. 445,710 444,176 471,356
Overdraft .. 28,840 12,308
Creditors .. 29,831 24,890 23,137
Staff fund . . 6,000 6,000 6,000
Tax reserve . . 27,000 11,500 34,000
Dividends . . 31,031 24,825 31,031
816,690 759,639 826,080
Freeholds .. 113,017 115,314 115,389
Plant, etc. .. 100,783 93,167 98,534
Shares .. 7,057 7,057 7,057
Stocks .. 396,553 367,538 359,277
Debtors . . 133,317 106,614 129,848
Cash, bonds, etc. 65,963 69,949 115,975
816,690 759,639 826,080
Theoretical working - capital
was £21,738 higher at £488,624.
Net tangible asset-backing
worked out at 15s. 7d. for each
ss. ord.
At the last sale in Melbourne
the ss. ords. fetched 9s. Bd. a
o Continued on page 32)


The keepers
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
But was it altogether normal? Joe wondered, watching Percy sitting there, in the
perfectly-cut suit, a cigarette burning between his slim fingers.
Complimenting Miss Paul
on the new 100k —new
furniture, new carpet,
new face on the walls —
Joe thought what an improb-
able person she was to find in
a busy psychiatrist’s rooms.
Not young, not hard, no nurs-
ing background. She had led,
Joe gathered, a singularly
sheltered life; and here she
was, at a kind of clearing-house
for a wealth of off-beat human
behavior, coping.
She suited Finnigan, who, as
he said, didn’t want a bright
young thing full of “Reader's
Digest” information about
neuroses and psychoses, or a
bossy nurse bouncing the
patients, or an adding-machine,
but someone human and gentle
who could also keep the books
and answer the phone. In fact,
Miss Paul.
“It is nice,” Miss Paul said
in her quiet voice. “And how
is Mrs. Fraser —well, I hope?”
Well, Joe assured her. She’d
had a touch of 'flu but was
over it now. And how were
things with Miss Paul —pretty
hectic?
Very busy, Miss Paul agreed,
pouring the tea —no, doing
something with the switch.
The same manner, though.
“Not that I mind,” Miss Paul
said. “B u t Doctor is ex-
hausted. He really is.”
That, of course, was Finni-
gan’s own fault. He probably
liked being exhausted. But
Joe didn’t say so. He nodded
graveiy.
“Go straight in, Mr. Fraser,”
Miss Paul said. Adding, for
the benefit of the people sitting
around the re-decorated walls,
waiting, “Doctor is expecting
you.”-
It was only approximately
true. But she knew this wasn't
a social call. Knew, too, that
he wouldn’t waste time. She
knew a lot did Miss Paul, under
her drawing-room manner.
It had been surprising to
watch, the steady accretion of
Miss Paul’s knowledge since
she had come here as Finni-
gan’s secretary, and, .with it,
and the special kind of respon-
sibility it involved, the unfold-
ing of personality ; a sort of
belated flowering.
Behind the big brown desk
with the small brass pre-
sentation - plate Finnigan was
crouched over the phone, smok-
ing, frowning, tense as a spring,
A broad-shouldered man in a
white coat, ruddy, outdoor face,
ruffled grey hair and grey and
tobacco-stained moustache. A
bright grey glance took in Joe’s
lanky figure in the doorway,
forgot it. “Yes. Yes. Go on.
The whole mind concentrated
on what was being said over
the phone.
Joe shut the door. He wasni
offended ; he knew how it was
And, if he had been— what
then? Finnigan would never,
dream of apologising. Finni
gan made a point of never
apologising for anything. #
worked, too —took the starch
out of small resentments. No
audience, no drama. As simple
as that. It couldn’t be generally
adopted as a social rule, more
the pity, because you either had
that kind of mind, or P
hadn’t; it couldn’t be faked-
But, granted you weren’t the
same, colliding with that granite
unconcern now and then
you good ; jarring, but invigon
ating. Made you realise that
most of the time, you lived
a wofld of fretful pygmies.
Toe wandered out on thj
** veranda, stared down J
the traffic in Macquarie Stiej
glanced at his watch, m
past-four. He had to fl e


p erc y at five. Old Percy—it
had brought back a few things,
seeing him walk in to the office
this morning.
Behind him Finnigan’s voice
rumbled: “Does he know the
month of the year? The day
of the week? Then it’s not
Korsakow’s syndrome. No.
Yes the symptoms are similar,
very. Best get a specimen of
his urine, soon as you can,
down to the Health Depart-
ment. Yes, they're the best
equipped for that sort of—and
put him in hospital, and keep
visitors away—all visitors, un-
derstand? Yes, let me know.
That’s a 11 right; pleasure.
Goodbye, Doctor.”
Click. “Bloody fool! Kor-
sakow syndrome! Come in,
joe. What’s on your mind?
Did your friend turn up?”
“Yes,” Joe said, sitting down.
“This morning.”
“Been drinking?”
“Yes.”
“His doctor wrote to me.”
The freckled hand made a
dart for a drawer, recoiled, the
quick nicotine-stained fingers
scooped up a cigarette, stuck it
under the ragged moustache,
pushed the packet across to
Joe. “I told you that. Why I
asked you to get in touch with
me as soon as you saw him. I
had an idea he’d look you up.”
“Why?” Joe looked at Finni-
gan curiously. “He hasn’t for
some years, you know. And
he comes to Sydney quite
often.”
The grey eyes swept past Joe,
to some point beyond, and
under the untidy grey-and-
yellow moustache the square
jaw set like a rock. There he
goes, Joe thought—and what
the hell does it mean? That he
doesn’t want to answer, or
doesn’t think it important, or
has simply forgotten—his mind
haring after something else?
With Finnigan you couldn’t
tell.
“How’s George getting on?”
Finnigan asked.
“George?” Joe stared at the
irrelevance. “Oh, not bad, I
suppose. Not making a for-
tune.”
Finnigan snorted. “W h y
should he? Young fellows,
just through, think they should
have everything handed to
them ...”
The thing to remember about
Finnigan, Joe thought, how-
ever much he may irritate you
hy talking in cliches or being
dogmatic or one thing and an-
other is that he is a great man.
•* oe was sure of it. In a news-
P a Per job which deposited a
l re sh batch of celebrities on
his plate every week Joe had
met v ery few great men. Say
two or three. And that in-
cluded the war.
Finnigan went on talking like
any old medical bore down at
the University Club and then
Joe became aware of the grey
eyes watching him appraisingly.
Mary had pointed out that
trick of Finnigan's—the trick
of talking pure nonsense and
watching. Women were sharp.
With Finnigan, Mary claimed,
it had reached such a peak of
virtuosity that he could set
himself going like a record,
leaving the mind absolutely
aloof, free to observe.
TX7hy? Joe had wondered.
’ * For the private satisfac-
tion of knowing, when some-
one judged you a fool, that he
was the fool?
No, Mary said, it was
simply a clinical technique, like
a doctor’s handshake. To make
people relax. To make them,
in some cases, drop their guard.
Nothing like a feeling of
superiority to make you drop
your guard—and people could
feel superior about all sorts of
absurd things, the correct pro-
nunciation of a foreign word,
the price of shares, a wise-
crack in the “New Yorker.”
Give ’em half-a-chance and
they jumped at it, poor dears.
When they were all happy and
relaxed like that, being superior,
you could tell what made them
tick—if you really wanted to
know.
That, anyway, was Mary’s
theory. Although, she con-
ceded, Finnigan probably
slipped into his act sometimes
because he couldn't be bothered
—as a tired man, at the end of
the day, will glance at a comic
strip instead of the leader-page.
But why put on the perform-
ance now? But already Finni-
gan had shifted ground. “How
did he seem?” He meant Percy,
of course.
The phone rang. Finnigan
took it off the cradle. “Yes?
When? I see. I’ll come
straight away.”
He replaced the receiver,
picked it up again. “Miss
Paul? Nothing urgent out
there? I’ll be back in an hour,
if -they like to wait. If not,
try and fit them in tomorrow.”
Peeling off the white coar,
wriggling into a dark suit coat,
rattling his pockets for keys,
spilling ash down his front, a
broad-shouldered man with a
paunch, very quick in his move-
ments. Snatching a hat.
“Emergency,” he murmured.
“Attempted suicide. Coming?
I can drop you in Martin
Place.”
“George,” Finnigan said in
the lift. “If I’m held up, get
hold of George. He’ll be a
help. I’d like to get your friend
Percy into The Poplars.”
“The Poplars?”
“Yes. Private hospital, out
Parramatta way. You’ll find
it. Get George to drive you.”
“But ...”
“Nice lad, George. Should
never have done medicine, of
course. Sent me a patient the
other day. She’s getting on all
right, tell him.”
“This car has a good pick-
up,” Finnigan remarked. “Look
at that clown. Should never
be allowed to drive. One thing
I can claim —I can drive.”
He can, too, Joe thought.
“Been very busy. I’m ex-
hausted. Absolutely exhausted.
I’m taking a holiday. Jerry
will be coming back next week.
I’ll let him handle the practice,
do him good. He’s a bright
boy.”
Joe agreed. Jerry, Finnigan's
assistant, was a very bright
boy.
“Only one thing he lacks,”
Finnigan continued. “Grey
hairs. Wonderful asset in this
game—inspires confidence. I’m
looking forward to this holi-
day.”
“Where are you going?”
“Alice Springs. Driving.”
“That doesn’t sound very
restful,” Joe said.
“That’s where you’re wrong.
It is. Very restful. Here we
are —hang on to him, now.
Don’t let him give you the
slip.”
Joe watched the bright-green
car dart into the stream of
traffic. Now how did I get
landed with this chore, he
wondered —how?
\Tl7hen he rang from the pub
* ’ and said he was bringing
a friend home for dinner, an
old Army friend, Mary said
“Oh, Joe,” and left it at that,
because she had no way of tell-
ing whether the old Army
friend was standing at Joe s
elbow when he was talking, as
old Army friends are apt to
do on such occasions.
Not this one, though, as was
made clear when Joe explained.
She said quickly, “I’ll have to
run down the street and get
food. Give me half-an-hour,
Joe.”
One thing about the old
Cross, you could always run
down the street and buy some-
thing—if, of course, you had
the doh-ray-me . . .
“Got enough money?”
The question wasn’t all that
casual. Money was one of
their little problems. Joe didn’t
make much of the stuff;
much less than George, for
instance, who considered him-
self practically a pauper —and
rent for the flat was high. Until
such time as Mary won the
lottery or he sold film-rights of
a book to Hollywood, or got
a rise, or something, they'd
have to watch the pennies.
Mary was doing some cal-
culating. “Yes. But give me
three-quarters of an hour, Joe.
I'm black.”
“Awkward. It's just on
closing-time now. If I hang
around too long he'll want to
eat here.”
“Well, what about George?
Can’t you take him down
there, sort of fill in time?”
“I’ll think about it,” he said
dubiously. “So long.’
Apart from money they were
right as rain, he and Mary.
Lucky. He was, anyway. Not
many girls, with this sprung on
them, would back you. Most
wives would say, Keep out.
Mind your own business.
What’s in it for you?
Mary wasn't like that. Con-
vince Mary that someone
needed help, and that you
could give it, and she was right
behind you. Mention of Fin-
nigan had convinced her. She
knew he, Joe, was capable of
making all sorts of a galah of
himself, but she didn't believe
Finnigan could make a mis-
take in a thing like this.
But suppose —just suppose—
Finnigan had made a mistake?
The light was on in the wait-
ing-room, which was empty,
and the door of George's sur-
gery was locked.
“Lazy cow,” Joe grumbled.
He was beginning to feel the
last couple of middies. “Do
you mind waiting here a
minute, Percy? I think I know
where he is.”
“Go ahead,” Percy said geni-
ally. He sat down and picked
up a magazine.
had his feet on the
kitchen table. He was
reading a paper and eating a
thick piece of bread and pea-
nut-butter. >
“Jenny’s out,” he said. Jenny
was George’s sister.
“I’ve got a bit of a problem,”
Joe said, and explained it.
George listened coldly. “Well,
what do you want me to do?”
Joe wasn’t quite sure. “Just
come up, be around. Come
for dinner.”
“I’m not hungry,” George
said graciously. “Anyway, I've
got evening surgery on.” He
glanced at his watch. “Any
minute now. Anyone there?”
“No. I think I’d better ring
Finnigan.”
“Go ahead.” George picked
up the paper.
Even as he dialled the num-
ber, Joe realised that it was
(i Continued on page 34)


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road.
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Mug-netting Machine*,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et~. Makers of Classifiers,
\\ uter Filters, Steam Valves,
etc
DAVIS. ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co .)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL, 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange,
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP,” Sydney.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigiw nl
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street,
108 Queen Street,
unit, for an immediate return
of 6.4 p.c. on the basis of the
12j p.c. div.-rate.
Southern Motors Holdings
At once a prince in the
mighty Holden empire,
Southern Motors Holdings,
Ltd., has, since its inception,
been a consistent and virile
profit-spinner. The co. was
formed in 1955 to acquire the
total shareholding in Southern
Motors Pty., issuing 720,000
fully paid ss. shares (£180,000)
for the takeover. Public sub-
scriptions took paid capital up
to the present £230,000.
Southern Motors Pty. is one
of four metropolitan distri-
butors of the Holden in Mel-
bourne and is sole metropolitan
distributor of the Pontiac. It
handles the “Nasco” replace-
ment-parts and accessories of
G.M.-H. The co. has a head-
office and attractive showrooms
in Lonsdale Street, and at
Blackwood Street and Flem-
ington Road in North Mel-
bourne, has general offices,
service divisions and body-
repair divisions ; there are three
used-car lots, one at Balwyn,
one at St. Kilda, the other at
Moonee Ponds Junction
(acquired only last term ;
brought into operation late
December). Plans are afoot
for the rebuilding and extension
of both the Blackwood Street
and Flemington Road premises
—freeholds are held adjoining
both sites —the ultimate object,
the construction of modern
showrooms and further service
facilities. A. leasehold has been
acquired in Franklin Street. It
is being used for pre-delivery
services and storing of new
vehicles.
Last term’s profit, £137,439
(up £37,189) is a record. It
was achieved in the face of
intense competition plus higher
operating-costs:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Apr., Profit., f Dividends —■, serves.
£ £ £
Prelim, exp. w/off, £4996 63,141
Goodwill written-off, £3074 60,067
’56.. 105,444 171 p.c. = 40,250 125,261
Tax overprovided, £ll7 . . 125,378
’57..108,079 17J p.c. = 40,250 193,207
Assets revalued, £27,304 . . 2(10,511
Profit sale plant, £l6 .. 220,527
Tax overprovided, £4784.. 225,311
’58..119,178 171 p.c. = 40,250 304,239
Tax overprovided, £l5B . . 304,397
To staff fund, . £5OOO . . 299,397
’59..100,250 171 P-c. = 40,250 359,397
Tax underprovided, £B5 . . 359,312
’60..137,439 171 P-C. = 40,250 456,501
Written after tax £83,696 (up
£20,602), depreciation £4116
(down £364) and directors’ fees
£11,305 (up £1978), profit
works-out a rich 57.8 p.c. of
capital. Corresponding yields
back to 1956 were 43.6 p.c.,
51.7 p.c., 46.9 p.c. and 45.8 p.c.
The co. has a more than credit-
able profit history.
The usual \l\ p.c. div.
absorbed profits to the tune of
£40,250, the undistributed
balance, £97,189, heaping
already N hefty reserves to
£456,501. At this figure reserves
equal just under 200 p.c. of
paid capital.
The balance-sheet is crisp
and precise. It is a tribute to
initiative and efficiency:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
195,9. 1960.
Paid capital .. £230,000 £230,000
Reserves . . .. 359,397 456,501
Creditors .. . . 126,261 190,149
\Tax provision . . 63,094 83,696
Final div.. . . 23,000 23,000
£801,752 £983,346
Freeholds .. . . 288,818 305,183
Leaseholds . . . . 667 2,715
Plant . . . . 27,733 25,513
Investments .. 25,000 175,000
Stock .. . . 242,033 172,054
Debtors .. .. 125,808 205,311
Cash, etc 91,693 97,570
£801,752 £983,346
The book-values of freeholds
rose £16,365 to £305,183, of
leaseholds £2048 to £2715. In-
vestment in short-term General
Motors Acceptance Corp.
unsecured notes rose £150,000
to £175,000. Working-capital
declined by £69,089. Stock fell
by £69,979 to £172,054, and
debtors rose to £205,311 (up
£79,503). Cash lifted £5877 to
£97,570 and creditors were
greater by £63,888 at £190,149.
The firm has a very solid
financial structure.
Southern Motors (Whole-
salers) Pty., a wholly-owned
subsidiary, has, to date,
operated successfully and to
the considerable benefit of the
parent. Registered in February,
1958, its main aim is the more
equitable time-distribution of
the incurrence of sales-tax
liability. Another subsidiary,
Blackwood Investments Pty.,
has just been formed. It-will
handle hire-purchase trans-
actions covering both new and
used vehicles. Operations
should commence shortly.
Present prospects promise
another good year for S.M.H.
Competition is bound to
increase, and costs will rise, but
the motor-trade is booming.
New vehicles (excluding motor-
cycles) registered in Australia
during the four months to
April last total 91,548, and
include 35,638 Holdens, against
77,429 registrations in the four
months to April, 59, including
33,616 Holdens. The Holden
does not command quite the
same proportion of the market
as hitherto, but, in total, its
sales continue to grow and pro-
duction remains behind
demand.
An enthusiastic sharemarket
values the ss. ords., each
buttressed by 14s. 1 Id. net
tangibles, at 20s. 6d. cum. div.
—the final div. of 6d. a share is
payable on July 27. Even so,
and admitted a glittering
premium,' the shares don’t look
overpriced. Chairman T. A.
Scheps says “the matter of a
bonus-share issue has been
receiving the active considera-
tion of the board.” The effec-
tive yield on the ex-div. price
of 20s. is 4.4 p.c.
South Alligator Uranium
■VIEW disclosures of “good-
grade pitchblende ore” to
the east of Rockhole workings
in the N.T. are reported by
South Alligator Uranium.
Indications are that the mine
ore-zone extends eastwards
for another 1000 ft.
The eastern extension of the
ore-zone is being explored
with two new levels. The
Rockhole No. 1 level has been
driven 405 ft. east of the 950
shaft, and has passed through
pitchblende ore from 375 ft. to
the present face.
Approximately 600 ft. fur-
ther east of this drive-face, a
new shaft has been sunk to
95ft. on the western end of
the surface mineralisation.
A level driven westwards
from the bottom of this shaft
entered good-grade pitch-
blende ore at 35ft. The
present face at 45ft., west of
the shaft “is showing good-
grade ore.”
Interim report for the half-
year ended March says that
during the 24 weeks to March
19, 1960, the solvent-extraction
plant has been in continuous
production.
Operating profit amounted
to £150,000 to the end of
March. “This profit, plus the
co.’s liquid-fund position at
the beginning of the current
year, is sufficient to fully
cover the Commonwealth
Bank term-loan of £160,000.’
Liquid assets at March 31,
1960, increased by £107,875 to
£113,550 (including £84,682
concentrates).
Profit now accumulating at
approximately £25,000 a month
is “free of all commitments’’
and should be available for
distribution to shareholders.
Ore milled to date has
averaged 1.03 p.c. U3OB (very
close to the 1 p.c. grade of
the ore-reserve figure).
Last term’s net profit (for
13 months to September 30,
1959) amounted to £4170. No
divs. were paid.
South Alligator Uranium,
N.L., is under a contract to
supply the U.K. Atomic
Energy Authority with
uranium-oxide to the total
value of about £1,150,000 by
early 1962. The mine operates
on the South Alligator Ri vet >
N.T.
The ss. ords. are currently
priced at 4s. 4d. a unit.


Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £1,000.000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 Y earJ or more
7% per annum 2 yw*
6% per annum | year
5% per annum 6 months
Mmam&
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting \ brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: 8W1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: AAA 4344.
SY3O6IA&
LAT EC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Hackett, announcing the
decision.
This action follows closely
on a report by a committee of
the recent Industrial Develop-
ment Conference.
N.Z.’s development is being
impeded by a shortage of labor,
particularly skilled labor,
according to the committee.
The shortage is likely to be
intensified as the economy pro-
gresses, since the kind of
growth required in N.Z. will be
based increasingly on skills in
the production of both goods
and services.
Immigration is the obvious
source from which the shortage
can be met, the report con-
tinues. It calls for an increase
in immigration in line with
present and prospective labor
needs.
That policy would be most
valuable to the country if it
were framed with the aim of
maintaining full employment
and viewed continuously in that
light, the report says.
The report mentions that
trade-umons are not opposed
by tradition or policy to
immigration, provided it is in
line with N.Z.’s capacities and
needs, and is limited to skilled
workers who would form part
of the permanent labor-force.
There is a strong case for
more selectivity in the immigra-
tion programme. The lack of
skilled workers in such trades as
engineering and metal-working
is particularly pressing, and
priority should be given to the
encouragement of migrants
with such skills.
N.Z.’s choice of immigrants
should not be restricted to
certain nationalities if others
could provide the skills needed
(“though preference for British
a nd particular European
persons is sometimes
expressed”).
The responsibility for recruit-
ing immigrants need not rest
solely upon the Government,
the report points out. Manu-
facturers can also bring their
own skilled staff into the
country.
Import Freedom
Industry has at last been
freed from licensing in N.Z.
The last three industries to
escape from control were the
motor-tyre industry, the paua-
? oil conversion into jewellery
industry, and the pulp- and
Paper-manufacturing industry.
t h e decision, the
lnis ter of Industries and
Commerce, Mr. Holloway, said
the Opposition would now not
be able to criticise the Govern-
ment on the ground of restric-
tions, and he did not think that
the job of licensing was to
protect the investment of a
certain section of the com-
munity.
Dealing with the record of
the Government in the field of
industrial expansion, Mr
Holloway said that individual
new capital-investments of
£lO,OOO or more in the past two
years had totalled over
£73,000,000, and that would, he
thought, discount the conten-
tion that controls and restric-
tions were scaring off invest-
ment and preventing expansion
in industry.
There had been no requests
for the abolition of Capital
Issues Control, except as
affecting hire-purchase com-
panies and a few other com-
panies which had their capital
overseas. Abolition would
mean that the sufferers would
be industry and the farmers.
Capital-issues control had
been used to support industry,
and they did not know of one
application that had been
turned-down. It was necessary
during an era of expanding
production that investment
should be channelled into
production.
The suggestion that not one
application by industry had
been turned down by Capital
Issues Committee caused some
raised eyebrows in business
circles.


late to be ringing Finnigan’s
rooms. Although he’d said he
was going back . . .
Miss Paul answered. “You’re
working late,” Joe said.
“Things are at sixes-and-
sevens here,” Miss Paul said.
She sounded flurried. “Doctor
has been trying to ring you at
your home, Mr. Fraser. He’s
going away tonight, flying. He
wants you to take your friend
out to The Poplars.”
“I’m afraid,” Joe said, “there
may be difficulties ...”
“But Doctor said it is most
important,” Miss Paul said,
with a hint of severity in her
gentle voice. “He has made
all arrangements.”
Except getting him out there,
Joe thought; that detail he
delegated. “Well. Where is
he going, anyway?”
“To Deniliquin. An urgent
case. I’ll go home now, Mr.
Fraser.”
He went into the kitchen and
reported to George. George
listened, curly head cocked to
one side, hazel eyes intent.
“You’re a bunny,” he said.
“How did you get into it?”
“I’m concerned, I suppose,”
Joe said thoughtfully. “He was
a friend of mine- —a damned
stout friend.” He paused, won-
dered at the past tense. But,
after all, he hadn’t seen Percy
for years. Friendship, like
love, needed some traffic to
survive.
“But, hell, you’re a layman.
You can’t go around bunging
people into hospital, you
know.”
“I know. I see that. But —
you know what Finnigan’s
like.”
George nodded. He knew
what Finnigan was like. He
had been one of Finnigan’s
students, not so long ago.
“All the same,” George
said “Abduction. Kidnapping.
Doesn’t sound so good.”
“Oh, rot,” said Joe uneasily.
“What else is it?” George
asked. “If you put someone
in hospital against his will?”
He picked up the paper. “These
Pommy batsmen are a mob of
no-hopers.”
“Well.” Joe frowned, hands
sunk in trouser pockets. “Come
up, anyway. See what you
think.”
“I’ve got surgery.”
“I don’t think you’ll be very
busy,” Joe said unpleasantly.
George yawned, glanced down.
“Maybe not. I’m getting a gut
since I gave up football. Must
start playing squash. I’ve
got a few calls to make, any-
way. Don’t count on me.”
“You know,” Joe said, rock-
ing on his heels. “This con-
versation takes me back a long
way. Back to school. The
night you pinched the butter
from the prefects’ supper. And
when we went outside there
was a posse waiting for us —
all those self-righteous bastards.
And what did you do? You
planted it in my pocket.”
“Very touching,” George
said. “You were bigger than
me, and stupider. Let me
know how you get on.”
Mary opened the door
her first thought was:
What a nice suit. How it
showed up Joe’s! Then she
said, gaily, “Come in.”
Joe introduced Percy Carter,
a short, spare man with a bald
head and vivid blue eyes. Percy
smiled, the blue eyes twinkled,
and she liked him. Most people
liked Percy Carter.
He was, as always, the per-
fect gentleman. He ate little,
but praised the food. He’d
been a bit off-color lately, he
told Mary—take no notice of
me not eating.
He drank the inferior claret.
Looking at the thin, red-
skinned face, Joe found it hard
to decide whether Percy was
drunk or sober.
The phone rang. It was
Finnigan;
“He’s with you? Good.
Take him out to The Poplars.
They expect you. I’ve rung the
matron.”
How can I do that, Joe
wondered? Tear a guest from
my table and dump him in
hospital, on someone else’s say-
so? With all those memories,
unspoken, crowding round the
table?
“When will you be back?”
Joe asked.
“Tomorrow, I hope.”
“Wouldn’t it be better to
wait till then?”
“No. They’re like quick-
silver, these chaps. Take him
out tonight. It’s important.”
“How am I going to manage
that, when he won’t go?”
“What’s that? This phone
55
“I said how am I going to
55
“That’s up to you, Joe,”
Finnigan said crisply. “Good-
bye.”
Joe was uncomfortably aware
of a question in Percy’s eye
when he went back.
“What was all the yelling
about?” Mary asked lightly,
meaningly.
“That was Dr. Finnigan,”
he blurted out, simply because
he couldn’t think of anything
else to say. He had always
been a poor liar.
Mary frowned.
“He wants me to take a chap
to see some property of his—
block of land he wants to sell,
up Palm Beach way.”
Did that fit in?
Percy raised his thin eye-
brows. “You in the real-estate
business now, Joe?”
Joe laughed. “Not quite.
This is something personal.
Know both parties.”
“Ah.” Percy ground his
cigarette-butt into the ash-tray.
“Finnigan ; that’s the eminent
head-shrinker, I suppose.
Matter of fact, the quack
wanted me to see him when I
came down. Thinks I’m drink-
ing too much.” He gave a dry
little laugh. “Give a dog a
bad name. Now, my good
brothers—they can be blind,
paralytic drunk, and no one
bothers to mention it. But if
I have a few drinks the whole
district buzzes with it.
something that has always in-
trigued me.” He paused. “I’m
not going, of course.”
The sound of the door-bell
was a relief. It was George
Good old George. Unreliable
character though he was, there
was this about George, h e
generally came good if ’ you
took the trouble to point out
to him what a dirty dog he
would be if he didn’t.
They shook hands, George’s
big mitt enclosing Percy’s deli-
cately boned hand;
“Everything o.k?” Percy
said pleasantly. “Palm not
moist?”
_ln the silence he offered
cigarettes around. Mary and
Joe took one each. George
shook his head.
Percy struck a match, stared
at the flame. “Bit of a terminal
tremor,” he remarked. “Doesn’t
mean much. I’ve had it for
years.”
He looked up, and Joe found
it hard to meet the blue, ironic
eye.
“Are you satisfied, now the
medicine-man has looked me
over ”
“No one’s looking you over,”
Joe said, a fraction too late, a
shade too heartily. “George
is an old friend. I told yon
that, back at the pub.”
The blue eyes veiled. “Oh,
in that case ...” He smiled
at George, and George, like
everyone else, felt the force of
it.
“No offence meant, I’m sure
—but, candidly, that knowing
look you medical coves put on,
it gives me the creeps, some-
times. Reminds me of an un-
dertaker measuring a prospec-
tive client, or some Pavlov
chap—feel I should bark, or
wag my tail.”
“Has anyone been looking at
you like that lately?” George
asked.
Percy made a sharp gesture
with his cigarette, turned to
Joe. “See what I mean? He’s
at it again! Call him off, chum,
call him off!”
TL/lary said quickly, smiling-
iVA “J3 on ’j- take any notice of
George—he’s just showing-oft
aren’t you, George? Y o, ‘
know, like those me"dic a *
students who talk about gr u£ ‘
some things in a loud voice in
trams.”
“That’s me, just a big show-
off,” George said. He sat down,
cocked a leg over the arm d
the chair, frowned at the bare,
muscular calf.
“Perpetual student,”
murmured. “Out of Chekov-
WINTER WESTERLIES
The knuckled shadows of the western wind
strike and stumble on our little hill
and leave a mark as visible and chill
as broken glass in all the air—you mind
your fingers on such mornings ! Strong, unkind,
the winter vandal tweaks and worries till
he makes the country quick as razors: still
he cuffs, and all the land is roused and shined.
On days like these —these are the clear-eyed days—
that wind is rogue, is brave, to slap the back
and snap the lock and strike and break and crack
the lazy comfortable town all ways
at once. And when, his three days done, he dies,
the whole town settles deep again, and sighs.
QUEENSLAND.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


Not because he thought it, par-
ticularly, but just to keep the
talk rolling.
Although, come to think of
it, there was a touch of the per-
petual student about George.
Certainly he had enjoyed study-
ing medicine more than prac-
tising it. It came, perhaps,
from that upside-down educa-
tion, the reversal of the natural
order of things. After school,
the war, then the university.
George’s war had been with the
Air Force. The Desert, then
the Islands.
George stood up. He was as
tall as Joe, but broader. He’d
been small at school, then he
shot up and filled out all at
once. Maybe he was like that
in everything—a slow-starter,
late-maturing.
“I’ve got some beer in the
car,” he said. “Give me a
hand to bring it up, Joe.”
When they came back, carry-
ing the bottles straight through
to the kitchen, Mary followed
them. “Go back,” she said
quietly to Joe. She faced
George. “What do you think?”
George said he didn’t know.
Honestly, he didn’t know.
“After all, Finnigan’s an
authority. I’m not,” he said,
almost sulkily. They talked
around the subject for a while
and then went back, nothing
decided.
There were several whispered
conferences in the kitchen after
that. Joe and George Joe
and Mary ; Mary and George.
One of them staying with
Percy, and Percy all the time
talking calmly and politely
about inconsequential things,
puzzlingly normal. Until,
finally, his calmness and nor-
mality had them on edge.
But was it altogether normal?
Joe wondered, watching Percy
sitting there in the perfectly-cut
suit, a cigarette burning be-
tween his slim fingers, holding
rorth on cricket, the price of
wo °l, politics. He had a quick
memory of Percy in monstrous
red Army boots and giggle-
suit before they sailed, Percy
on the boat and in Palestine,
rercy with his genius for
rriendship: who had more
mends, and more unlikely
ones? Percy the surprisingly-
,earless and combative infan-
i y " l ” an - Surprisingly, because
e Percy they had known, as
? Clv uian and before they went
. actl °n, was mildness,
uroamty, geniality, personified.
lim 1 Although, to be sure,
“it *T! g . s about the Army
p J him. He was not a
parade-ground soldier.
p pr P r ° ce ssion, a parade of
_ this one didn’t
seem to want to recognise them.
Which was odd, if only because
the Percy he had known would
have been incapable of snub-
bing anyone let alone old Army
cobbers. But every time Joe
tried to lead the conversation
back there, Percy gave a dry
little laugh, said, “Oh, that.
Well, happy days” and plunged
into some other subject. The
present.
Nor was it altogether natural
for a man to drink that quantity
of beer, to sit there steadily
drinking it, and to show no
sign whatsoever.
Tentatively, after one of the
kitchen conferences, Joe sug-
gested going to a party. Percy
declined, and George chipped
in.
“No,” said Percy, quietly
and sternly. “I have some
business to attend to.”
“Business? At this hour? All
the offices closed now.”
As Joe said it he laughed,
and was struck by the foolish-
ness of the sound. Had a few
too many. Not drunk, but a
few too many.
Percy smiled secretly.
“Not in Poland,” he said,
and Joe sat bolt upright.
T>ercy’s thin lips quivered
1 and began to move, making
soundless words.
“ We've missed the bus on the C.L. & S. takeover-bid —
The stinkers have taken US over !”
He sat rigid, his hand rest-
ing on the arm of the chair, a
freshly-lit cigarette burning be-
tween his fingers. He was
staring straight ahead, and the
blue eyes seemed enormous.
His face began to shine with
sweat, beads of sweat appeared
on the top of his naked skull,
and the lines running from
nostril to mouth, cheek-bone
to jaw, were deeper-etched.
Moisture darkened the reddish
fringe, screening the grey hairs
—how old was he, 45, 50?
He’d been no chicken when
he'd joined up, older than most
of them ; and yet, in a way,
young. Young and gay.
“Yes, Father!” Percy shouted
—a tremendous and shocking
sound, coming from that soft-
spoken little man. The veins
of his hollow temples seemed
to have swollen. Joe had the
feeling that he could hear their
throbbing, that the sound filled
the room.
Shatteringly, he shouted
again, and this time Joe could
understand only the last word:
“Over.”
He sat rigid,, the cigarette
burning down to the tanned
skin of the slender fingers.
George leaned across and took
it away. Percy didn’t stir.
He sighed, and seemed to
slump.
“Who was it, Percy?” Mary
said softly.
“Father Domansky,” Percy
said. He didn’t look at her,
but his eyes had lost the fixed
stare. They were vague,
dreamy.
“Is that”—Joe hesitated —
“the Polish priest? The one in
the village?”
“Of course! ” He fell into his
reverie again, then took a clean
white handkerchief from his
pocket and mopped his stream-
ing face. “He was supposed
to have been shot, you know,
by the Germans, he and the
others. It would have been my
fault, you know. Taking me
in. and then the explosion. He
speaks English so, of course,
he’s the one. The reception was
very clear tonight, better than
at home. Those saltbush plains,
you’d think . . . But it was all
a furphy. fortunately, they're
all alive, even the old lady.
Alive and fighting. Only now,
of course, it’s the Communists.
I do what I can, mai'nly in-in-
intell ...” He stammered,
and finished with a burst, “I’m
the I bloke!” He blinked at
his watch. “I really must bo
going, Joe.”
Mary slipped out of the
room.
Joe found her in the kitchen,
pouring whisky. He had for-
gotten about the bottle of
Scotch.
A moment later George fol-
lowed them. “It’s all right,” ho
said. “I switched on the radio,
he s listening to the news.
Hallucinations, all right. Funny
we didn’t spot it before. It’s
not unusual, when they’ve been
drinking heavily. They’ll sedate
him in hospital, dry him out
gradually, build him up with
good tucker and pump vitamins
into him. That type of alco-
holic is generally under-
nourished—get their calories in
grog ; can’t be bothered eating.
He’ll be right as rain. What
was all that about —have you
any idea?”
‘‘Only roughly. He escaped,
got in with some Polish parti-
sans, saw some grim things
when the Germans were clean-
ing up. Lucky to get out of
it. He was in bad shape when
he came back to Stalag after a
term in a Straf camp. The
thing is, how do we get him
into hospital?”
“Same old problem,” George
said. “Only more acute. Mary,
who’s that for?”
“Percy.” She didn’t look up.
“A bit solid, isn’t it? That
nip would stun an elephant.”
“That’s the idea.”
“I don’t think you should,
Mary,” Joe said nervously.
“We don't know what he’s had
to drink today.”
She added water, looked at
them.
“Which is worse? To let him
go on as he is, or this? If you
two can suggest any better way,
I’m willing to listen. Can you?”
She waited a moment, then
placed the four glasses on the
tray. She swept past them, a
dark-eyed Lady Macbeth in a
green linen frock and high-
heeled, pointy-toed shoes of
midnight-black suede. They
heard her say, hostess - firm,
“Before you go—one for the
road.”
T>ercy was able to walk to the
A car, but the enormous
whisky, and the more reason-
able one that succeeded it,
seemed to send his will to
sleep. He’d have gone any-
where, Joe thought.
And pretiy soon Percy, sitting
next to Mary in the back, was
asleep, too.
(Continued on page 44)


To develop some of Australia’s
greatest natural resources
ELECTRICITY
is Queensland’s greatest need!
O'*
Q* qvtzr
rln a State which progresses as fast as Queens-
land, maintaining the balance between elec- s?
tricity supply and industrial demand compels
far-sighted planning. In fact, Queensland’s pros-
pects for continued progress are so bright, so
assured, that a £190,000,000 plan for electrical
development must be put into effect during the next
decade. And with Queensland’s growing influence
on the nation’s affairs, this is a task which must
interest every Australian. It is a task, too, in which
you, as an Australian, are asked to join—by your
Queensland S.E.C. Loan investments. Your S.E.C. Loan
investment is guaranteed by the Queensland Government
and offers £5/7/6% —plus the opportunity of helping to
influence continued national development.
THE STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
OF QUEENSLAND
APPLY NOW THROUGH— any of the following banks:
Commonwealth Trading Bank —A.N.Z. Bank—Commercial
Banking Company Commercial Bank of Australia
E.S. & A. Bank —Bank of N.S.W. National Bank
of A’asia; or any Stockbroker; any Regional
Electricity Board Office; or direct to the
State Electricity Commission of Q’ld.,
447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
Phone 5 2701
Underwritten by
lAN POTTER & CO.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUR
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Tulloch's 70.7
The question that has exer-
cised racing men all over Aus-
tralia _ Tulloch’s Centenary
Melbourne Cup weight—has
been settled. Kevin Ryan,
handicapping his first Mel-
bourne Cup, has given the
champion 10.1.
Going by Tulloch’s perform-
ances seen here in Melbourne
and his record altogether, that
seems to present writer an
inexplicably bad piece of han-
dicapping. Last year the late
Charles Davis gave Tulloch
10.3. Since his dramatic come-
back the son of Khorassan has
started five times for five wins
—all in weight-for-age com-
pany. By normal expectations
Tulloch should have received
between 10.4 and 10.6.
Tulloch’s owner, E. A.
Haley, had stated that his
horse would not contest the
Cup with more than 10.2, but
surely no handicapper would
be influenced by any such
statement.
After Tulloch’s comeback at
Flemington last autumn this
writer expressed the hope that
the champion would win the
Centenary Melbourne Cup, but
it is against all the wonderful
tradition of the race that he
should be given the opportunity
to do so with less than his
merited weight.
Cup weights allotted in com-
paratively recent times have
included Phar Lap’s 10.10,
Peter Pan’s 10.6, Kindergarten’s
10.6, Bernborough’s 10.9,
Rising Fast’s 10.2 and Red
Craze’s 10.2, and of that illus-
ions company only the
immortal Phar Lap can be con-
sidered Tulloch’s superior.
Ryan has had to treat all
Tulloch’s opponents leniently to
justify his decision to weight
the champion so lightly, but,
even so, it is quite certain that
Tulloch will now dominate the
Melbourne Cup betting.
V.A.T.C. handicapper
George Davis has given Tul-
loch 10.4 for the Caulfield Cup.
* * *
Winter Cup
The 25,000 crowd at Rand-
« for the S.T.C. Winter
Gup meeting last Saturday was
xcellent for a midwinter fix-
re > there has, in fact, been
tr enc °uraging upward
Air m both STC - and
Let at t e ndances over the
st mont h or so. We should
be back again to tiptop race-
crowds in the spring.
Although New Zealander
Waipari hadn’t started in
Sydney until last Saturday, he
was favorite for the 10-furlongs
Winter Cup, and his stylish
performance left no doubt
about his ability to stay. He
was third-last, nearly half-a-
furlong behind the leaders, at
one stage, but he cantered in
at the finish —one of the best
middle-distance winter efforts
in years.
Waipari quickly became one ot
the picks for spring events over
a distance, the Metropolitan in
particular. Before coming to
“He’s got cold feet.”
Sydney he had three outings in
Brisbane for two seconds, the first
on June 18 to Midswain in the
11-furlongs Q.T.C. Moreton Handi-
cap, and the other to Dow Street
in the Tattersall’s
Cup, also at the Eagle Farm track.
A five-year-old gelding by
Summertime (imp.), whose pro-
geny have included Summalu
(V.R.C. St. Leger), Hot Spell
(Caulfield Guineas) and Rose of
Summer (S.A. Oaks), Waipari won
several races at up to 11 furlongs
in N.Z., mostly on soft tracks.
The majority of Metropolitan
winners had not been winter per-
formers of any note, but Waipari
is a strong gelding who should
stand up to a solid spring prepara-
tion. He’s trained by J. Wicklitt
for J. G. Sutherland, who bred
the gelding.
Alec Higgins, of Piecefield
Stud, Muswellbrook (N.S.W.),
has won successive races with
his well-developed two-year-
old Thesis, who in earlier races
had been taken to the lead
or near the front, and had
then petered-out. At his latest
two starts Thesis has been
given plenty of time to. settle
down, and his easy win at
Warwick Farm on July 2 was
followed by just as convincing
a win in the S.T.C. Mac-
arthur Quality for his age-
group at Randwick. His dis-
play on Saturday suggested
prospects in classics for three-
year-olds in the new season,
due to open next Monday
with the Bank Holiday racing
at Randwick.
Thesis is related to former
stayers Talking and Bankstream,
while a New Zealand St. Leger
winner, Bon Ton, also figures in
the pedigree. Flis sire Nilo (imp.)
sired V.R.C. Derby and dual St.
Leger winner Pride of Egypt.
Fliggins was. in luck’s way when
he declined the bid of 300gns. for
Thesis as a yearling.
Within five weeks New Gem
has won three races in as
many starts for new owners
D. M. Scott and C. A. Evatt,
who paid less than lOOOgns.
for the smart four-year-old
sprinter, now trained at Rand-
wick by Doug Lonsdale. For
his latest success, in the S.T.C.’s
Three-and-four-year-old Han-
dicap, he was a solidly backed
favorite.
New Gem evidently goes extra-
well for A. Mulley, who has had
these last three mounts, and who
also got him home on the only
three occasions he rode him earlier
in his career. On Saturday he
just beat Morning Star, who looks
an early winner, as also does
Fireroc, a fast-finishing third.
Minor placegetters Dual
Copy and Delsound had to
make-up a lot of ground from
the half-mile in the Broadway
Handicap ; they finished fast,
but the hot favorite, Sham-
rock, had too much of an
advantage in the final half-
furlong and went on to win
nicely. Still, both Dual Copy
and Delsound should soon
win.
Sweet Rye, winner of the
Cleveland Handicap for novice
gallopers at Randwick, had won
at Hawkesbury five days
earlier with more weight, but,
as usually happens with out-
of-town winners, he was
neglected in the Randwick
betting, starting at 25 to 1.
High Row, favorite, ran well
to the St. Leger, then tired. He,
however, had to be forced
along in the early stages from
an outside barrier position.
Nobody at Randwick could
have missed the powerful
finishing run by stayer Ulandra
in the main sprint, the Lakes
Handicap (six furlongs). Start-
ing at 100 to 1, as would be
expected at such a distance,
Ulandra was resuming after a
spell of several months. He
was tailed-off to the home-
turn ; Swinton then set sail
after the smarter sprinters,-and
in the final furlong or so
Ulandra was passing them at
such a bat that in another stride
he’d have finished second to
Furhoy, instead of third. Sonar
King beat him a half-neck for
second money. It was a very
promising run by Ulandra for
his next outing over a bit of
distance.
Furhoy is trained by A. C. Cox,
who holds a Newcastle licence and
has not been long in the game as
a mentor, but has already led in
several winners. R. N. Rose (who
races the gelding in partnership with
his wife) bred the four-year-old,
whose dam, Ahoy, is a sister to
Sunshine Express, dam of Dubbo,
winner of the Oakleigh Plate two
years ago in time equalling the
race record. Grecian Vale and
Fuss gave only moderate displays
in the Randwick sprint.
In the Alexandria Handicap
(fillies and mares) Lady Webb
again showed ability to run a
distance. She was back to-
wards the rear at the top of
the straight in the Randwick
mile, but, well handled by
apprentice C. Underhill, she
soon put the issue beyond
doubt. Interlude (third) indi-
cated she should soon win.
Bill Cook, who in his day
rode winners in several coun-
tries, and whose record of 126
firsts in a Sydney season
(1939-40) looks likely to stand
for a fair while, had his first
win as an owner —in partner-
ship with Mrs. Cook —when
Silver Dolph : n, at the bare 50
to 1, got home in a Maiden at
last week’s Kembla Grange
meeting. Trained by brother
Reg Cook, and ridden by his
apprentice, R. Marchant, Silver
Dolphin is a grey three-year-
old by Tembu (imp.) from


iY APPOINTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEM
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD., PERTH. SCOTLAND
deride -/Av 7/d/Afo ApAcice
Dewar’s
The famous name in the History
of
Scotch Whisky
“White Label”
Dewars Scotch Whisky
it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled } matured and blended in Scotland
SQ«£DA|S
50 G#ii 50 0«ld
on 4 ® ni
\ P 'i>tMt!id« Priif' v ' c4olt /
©N,. 'teSSsta ..-■:«!
h "White Label
u ewarsFine Scotch Whisk«
t OF RARE AGE .
Dewar & Sons
DISTILLERS
pe s r cotlanp
tt0,,.. **T COMTENtt tPINT. 6EI OZS.
IMOUT WTIUE*, MITU9M MO HM*® *
— n\
Stefanoway (imp.) by Harro-
way, and was bred at Sid
White’s Carrington Stud,
Jerry’s Plains (N.S.W.). A
happy win for all, including
young Marchant, having only
his second ride in a race.
* * *
Sydney Cup winner Carioca,
winner of 20 races in all, at
from six furlongs to two miles,
with £35,717 in stakes, sired
Carajax, winner of last Satur-
day’s Second Two-year-old
Maiden at Ipswich. Carajax
is from the Ajax mare Exuber-
ance, whose dam, Providence
(imp.), was got by Le Prodige
and traces back to Carbine’s
son Spearmint. Exuberance
is a half-sister to Queensland
Cup winner Guiding Light,
and as the family-lines also
include Prince Foote (Mel-
bourne Cup) Carajax could
develop into a useful stayer.
• • • •
Hunt Club Cup
Last Saturday’s meeting at
Moonee Valley was conducted
by the M.V.R.C. for the benefit
of Melbourne’s hunt-clubs —
one of two such meetings held
each year. Quite a number of
Melbourne racegoers are not
happy about .these fixtures,
holding that members of the
hunt-clubs are wealthy enough
to pay their own way.
The theory behind the meet-
ings is that the clubs warrant
encouragement because they
provide a breeding-ground for
potential jumping stars. In
point of fact, no good horses
have come out of the ranks
of hunters for many a day, and
the field in Saturday’s Vic-
torian Hunt Clubs Cup was
made up mainly of greybeards
who couldn’t run within cooee
of a placing in a city Steeple.
The link between the clubs
and city racing goes back to
1899, when the first Hunters’
Steeplechase was run on
Moonee Valley Cup day for a
prize of £l5O donated by a
member of the Oaklands Hunt
Club. In those days some good
jumpers did come from the
hunting-field.
To be eligible for last Satur-
days race horses must have, in
the opinion of the committee,
been fairly (!) hunted with
any recognised pack of hounds
five times during 1959, or twice
during 1960. Entries could be
ridden by either amateur or
professional riders, the profes-
sionals to carry 101 b. penalty.
Most punters regard these races
as rather a bad joke, and the
bookies’ holdings are very
light.
The nine-year-old Dashing
Cavalier gelding Whetakura
won Saturday’s Cup, and
thereby completed a useful
double —at his previous start
he had won the sister race, the
Moonee Valley Hunt Steeple.
* * *
Moonee Form
This page drew attention to
Grey Jet’s fourth in the Keilor
Hurdle at Flemington early in
July, and suggested that good
wins were ahead of him. He
had his first start since then in
the Glendewar Trial Hurdle on
Saturday, and, last for a good
part of the journey, was
patiently ridden by R. Sweet-
man to make up his ground
and win with something in
hand.
It was a run good enough to
earn Grey Jet a start in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle, and despite his lack
of experience he looks a good
prospect in that race. A six-year-
old grey gelding by Pherozshah
from Lochwinnoch, he was bred
in New Zealand, and has raced in
both Western and South Australia.
• • • «*
The progeny of imported
Smokey Eyes are very much at
home in heavy going; more-
over, for some curious reason,
they seem to race particularly
well around the tricky Moonee
Valley circuit, three by that
sire winning there on Satur-
day. The first of them was
Purple Haze, backed from
twelves to threes in the first
division of the Arundel Han-
dicap (two-year-old colts and
geldings; six furlongs /«,
20-yds.).
Purple Haze had not shown
much form in Melbourne, but
earlier in the season raced well
in Queensland, landing a race at
Ipswich, and running a second to
the very good Refulgent. L. $,
Reid bought him after his Ipswich
win, and races him in partnership
with his wife. Purple Haze is a
reddish chestnut colt from
Tranquil Dusk.
Until Hazon won the second
Arundel, Caulfield trainer Char-
lie Sanderson had not had a
metropolitan winner for a long
time. There was added satis-
faction in the win, as the geld-
ing is raced by that trainer’s
wife. A chestnut gelding by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Hazon Way, he showed
courage by beating off a strong
challenge from the well-per-
formed Golden Acres.
* * *
H. Holman and E. C. Cole-
man have a promising colt in
Optic Prince, who scored his
second win in a row —both at
Moonee Valley—in the 10-
furlongs Inverness Handicap,
Against a useful field of three-
year-olds Optic Prince won by
any number of lengths. He is
another Smokey Eyes colt, and


start the dau right!
m
all
F*
v«*9
the third of the Smokey Eyes
Sners. Smokey Lad, scored
L fourth in a row, winning
he second division of the
Soringbank Handicap so easily
that he could make his winning
sequence longer still.
The first heat of the Spring-
bank W as won just as easily
by the filly Sahibah, whose
form improves greatly on a
b e avy track. She’s trained by
Paddy Quinlan for V. J.
O’Gorman and his wife, and
everybody in Melbourne
seemed to expect Sahibah to
run well. She’s by Belve-
dere (imp.) from Milford
Haven by Midstream (imp.)
from the Silvius (imp.) mare
Lady Silvius.
* * *
Golfing Handbook
Muir Maclaren’s The Aus-
tralian Golfer’s Handbook
(Langside) provides a much-
needed book of reference,
with entertaining commentary
added. It contains a compre-
hensive coverage of major Aus-
tralian events and the most
important of overseas tourna-
ments, as well as a representa-
tive “Who’s Who in Australian
Golf.”
Surprisingly, this second
edition has omitted the list of
administrations and the articles
on the history of golf in Aus-
tralia which appeared in the
first edition, and has not added
such “handbook” items as lists
of major golf-courses and their
facilities, or reports on out-
standing matches and tourna-
ments.
Nevertheless there are many
welcome additions. Amongst
these, articles on “Junior Golf”
and “Golf in Australia Today”
are the most interesting. There
is also a large introductory
section of breezy articles, some
written by well-known sports-
men, covering personalities,
golf-course architecture and
golfing humor. Colin de Groot
supplies a golf lesson, well
illustrated by photographs of
leading professionals, to corn-
book W^C covera S e the
Notwithstanding its compre-
hensive statistics, more than
, alt of the book is bright golf-
uig anecdote and commentary,
IHa l. pages °f photos in color
and black-and-white. Golfers
Ml enjoy all of it.
H* *jj jjj
Other Sports
oJ*”*’’: More on
Queensland’s Te rrace - Nudgee
Week m £? tloned here last
the,At “feud” between
Union mea ! less Friday” Rugby
rivals goes back to the
first official G.P.S. encounter at
Nudgee in 1918. Terrace
oldsters still claim “we wuz
robbed” in that battle. Among
them are forwards in Stan
Sherman (the lightest of the
pack), who is now “Courier-
Mail” manager and TV
director; All Schools hooker
and champion gymnast Ron
Clarke, doyen dentist of
Ipswich; and Paul Carroll,
chief dispenser at the Brisbane
Hospital. Still on deck, also,
are classy wingers in Eddie
Kenny, Brisbane City solicitor,
and Dr. Brucklay Forbes,
senior member of the School of
Tropical Medicine at Sydney
University. Nudgee notables
include Bill Ahern, better
known as “Alister,” Turf scribe
on the Brisbane “Telegraph” ;
and Jim Enright, who controls
the famous family emporium at
Beaudesert. The demands of
this latter business robbed
Queensland of the services of
one of its greatest-ever sports-
men. Even Terrace rivals
readily admit that anything
“Chilla” Porter or Keith Miller
could do, Jim would have done,
at least, as well. (Nudgee, a
boarding school, boasts Old
Boys’ Associations all over
Australia. Terrace, a day
school, is the oldest Christian
Brothers’ school in Queens-
land.)
* * *
Both Melbourne and Essendon
continued on their winning way
at the top of the V.F.L., the
Demons given a Very hard game
by St. Kilda before scratching
home ahead of the Saints, 6.13-6.9,
but the Dons having the sadly
familiar easy win over Richmond,
16.16-10.10. Footscray, 9.10, just
shaded Norths, 9.8; Hawthorn had
it only the bare point to the good
over Collingwood, 7.16-7.15;
Souths also had only a point the
better of Geelong, 10.20-11.13; and
Fitzroy stoushed Carlton, 12.13-5.10.
* * *
Saturday’s Rugby Union round in
Sydney: Northern Suburbs held to
its premiership lead by downing
University 26-9; Manly (only a
point behind Norths) had an even
easier task disposing of Eastwood,
36-6; Drummoyne beat Parra-
matta, 13-8; showing something a
bit more like the form expected
from them, the Gordons solidly
beat St. George, 24-11; Randwick
found the job tough enough in
beating Eastern Suburbs, 17-13.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby League
match-of-the-day Wests, 28, were
too good for Easts, 7. Manly,
19, came good in the second half
to beat Parramatta, 12, and
Canterbury, 17, downed Souths,
3. At the Sports Ground on
Sunday Balmain, 46, in a game
nowhere as uneven as the scores
suggest, beat Norths, 22, and St.
George, 54, had a work-out against
Newtown, 10. Four teams, Wests,
Easts, Manly and Balmain, now
share second place behind St.
George.
* * *
“Leaguer”: I give away try-
ing to follow the form of Aus-
tralian Rugby League teams.
It was mildly surprising when
our team, which had done so
well in the U.K., was held to a
draw by the Frenchmen in the
first Test. Australia toyed
with the Frenchmen in the
second Test, winning by a 50-
point margin. Then down to
earth again—beaten 7-5 in the
third Test. And by this
astounding (to me, puzzling)
victory France drew the series!
Even the horses couldn’t beat
these reversals.
* * *
“Kabara”: The Hawthorn-
Fitzroy clash of the previous
Saturday was missed in the
V.F.L. results in B. 13/7/’6O.
’Roy won 13.14-10.9, and held
its place in the four. This
match, too, stopped Hawthorn
“doing a Collingwood.” Like
’Wood last year, Hawthorn lost
its first five games, then won its
next five. Fitzroy stopped the
Hawks’ run. Collingwood went
on to 10 successive wins.
** \ *
“Tennisite”: The Bulletin
was the only paper in Australia
which published the view tnat
“open” tennis tournaments
would not come for years.
What the recent decision of
the International Federation
means is that “opens” are dead
as the dodo, and Jack Kramer
has to continue carrying a load
that gets heavier every year as
his players get slower and older.
The Australian Association
isn’t going to loosen the favor-
able advantage created for it
by the decision. It has the
players of the future, and it’s so
confident about tennis that it is
considering offering the public
20,000 seats for the Davis Cup
final in December. That’s only
5000-odd seats short of the all-
time record for a tennis “gate,”
set in Sydney in 1954.
* * *
“Puzzled”: Probably now
second in popularity in
Sydney, Soccer is again on
the edge of a crisis, with two
powerful Federation dubs, Apia
and Flakoah, up in arms against
the central control over payments
from gates. That’s almost back
to the state of affairs which existed
for many years within the code,
and which led to the formation
of the Federation, a body dedicated
to taking control from the
“directors” to the clubs. , Soccer
seems to be unable to get along
without squabbles, and problems
are bound to rise fast when secre-
tary Eddie Princi leaves the job
soon. Princi helped put Federa-
tion Soccer on its feet, but he has
found himself embroiled in the
politics of the code and has decided
to quit. He’ll become p.-r.-o. for
a big Italian airline when he returns
from Rome’s Olympics, where he
will be an official interpreter for
Australia.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE NEXT PRESIDENT
Commenting editorially on the
coming U.S. Presidential
election (“probably the most
important in their [the Ameri-
cans’] —and our [Britain’s] —
history”), London “New States-
man” notes that the American
public seems to be “approach-
ing the campaign in a mood of
high seriousness. This is wel-
come news, for the world is
desperately in heed of sober
judgment and firm leadership
from America.
“As many Americans them-
selves recognise, their campaign
system, producing a protracted
hiatus of power, is ill-suited to
a nation which now plays a
predominant role in inter-
national affairs. Mr. Eisen-
hower has proved the lamest
duck in history, and ifi addi-
tion, his personal and physical
failings, his inability to replace
such trusted advisers as Foster
Dulles and Sherman Adams,
and the sharp rebuffs —at the
Summit and in Japan—which
he has recently received have
combined to produce a virtual
breakdown of government in
Washington.
“It is no wonder that Mr.
Khrushchev prefers to await
the election of a new President
before resuming serious nego-
tiations ; for, irrespective of his
name, the new man in the
White House cannot fail to
improve the clarity and decision
of U.S. policy. Once he is in-
stalled, Mr. Khrushchev will at
least know where he is. And
so shall we.
“By what criteria, therefore,
should the world judge the
rival candidates? In the short
term, Berlin, the Far East and
Cuba will require fairly rapid
answers. Will the new Admini-
stration, when Khrushchev’s
Berlin moratorium runs out,
possess the courage and flexi-
bility to negotiate an interim
solution of the type Mr. Mac-
millan discussed with Khrush-
chev?
“In the Far East, the col-
lapse of U.S. policy in Japan
indicates that even America’s
allies in this area now reject
Washington’s persistence in
conducting policy on doctrin-
aire cold-war lines —of which
the increasingly illogical boy-
cott of China has become the
psychological symbol. Will the
new President recognise the
necessity to make a clean break
here?
“The events in Cuba (which
may soon be repeated else-
where in Latin America) will
be a severe test of the nerve of
the new regime. Can it sustain
Roosevelt’s forbearance when
dealing with a similar challenge
from Mexico, or will it repeat
—in a far more dangerous con-
text —the errors of the older
colonial Powers?
“The answer to these ques-
tions will largely depend on the
new Administration’s response
to the challenge of peaceful
competition, which Russia—
and no doubt China, too —must
be expected to wage on an
ever-growing scale during the
next few years. While the
advanced ‘free’ nations have
now acquired reasonable
economic stability, scarcely one
of the underdeveloped terri-
tories has yet succeeded in
achieving the self - sustaining
growth which is the only sure
safeguard against Communist
penetration.”
London “Economist” offers
a rather different estimate of
Eisenhower “whatever the
disasters at the Summit and in
the Far East, the last major
initiative of his Presidency
was, in fact, an attempt to set
East-West relations on a new
basis befitting the nuclear
context in which the Russo-
American rivalry has found
itself. His failure has been in
a seeming unwillingness to
examine, or accept, the full
consequences and risks that a
detente was liable to bring in
its train” —but comes to similar
conclusions about the tasks
facing the next President:
“In the demanding situation
in which the new President is
likely to find himself, it should
not necessarily be cause for
anxiety among America’s allies
if the choice should, in fact,
fall on a young man. He will,
after all, have to guide the
United States through what is
increasingly a young man s
world.
“Many of his most important
dealings, from the very begin-
ning of his term, will be with
the leaders of new States whose
inexperience may be apparent
but whose youthful enthusiasms
have to be grasped and under-
stood. It is perfectly conceiv-
able that by the time the next
President’s first term is over
West Germany will no longer
be governed by Dr. Adenauer
or, for that matter, Formosa
by General Chiang Kai-shek.
During his second term, if he
obtains one, the ruler of the
Soviet Union may no longer be
a man of Mr. Khrushchev’s
generation but one more in
touch with the desires and am-
bitions of the age-group to
which Mr. Khrushchev’s son-
in-law belongs. We have to
look forward to a world in
which Presidents Nasser and
Nkrumah have become rela-
tively elder statesmen.
“It should cause no appre-
hension if the next American
President is a manwvho, simply
because he did not have a hand
in the destiny of nations in
last conventional war, may
all the more imbued with %
urgencies of the nuclear J
There is enough built-in stir.
lity and caution in
to counsel wariness and m.
traint when it is appropriate
“The need is for a President
who will allow new ideas t 0
reach the top and circulate
effectively among the poli cv .
makers. Mr. Truman, largei,
as a result of h's own utter in.
experience, triumphantly j e |
this happen 15 years ago,
Above all, there must be the
determination, not only tj
renovate American policies
but to resume the purposeful 1
search (it can be no more) foi
a Russo-American confront!,
tion of a kind that can initial!
the building-up of a framewort
of disarmament and general
consultation the one son
means of averting the ultimate
disaster.
“There can be no assurance
either that such a search cai
succeed or that any one man,
young or old, will turn out to
be such a paragon of diplo-
matic virtues. Yet if, despite
Mr. Truman’s misgivings, tl»
American electorate decides
that a young President, what-
ever his limitations, will corn
closest to the needs of tie
1960’5, the choice — irrespective
of party—will be heartening
and imaginative.
“This is d crucial year, not
merely in the historical nil-
bers-game, but in all reality.
It is something that even the
numbers-game is not entirely
confined to premonitions of
disaster. The year 1933 not
only brought Hitler to power:
it saw, too, the inauguration ol
—London “Daily Mail."
“MORNIN’ MISTER PRESIDENT, SIR.”


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pit} Street, Sydney.
Tn lal EARS 0F SERVICE
0 IRE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
F*uoi in lii c
Future
k
Wool, still the mainstay of Australia’s
prosperous expansion, is keeping its high place in
international trade. World imports of raw wool
were greater last year than ever before.
Even in countries such as Britain and the
United States of America, where the supply and
demand are more or less balanced, imports were
substantially increased. In other countries, notably
Japan, France, West Germany and Italy, the
consumption of wool is rising.
And here in Australia —from which the world
draws nearly thirty per cent, of all its wool, and
fifty-five per cent, of its fine Merino wool—the clip
this year should be, on an official estimate,
six-and-a-half per cent, more than in 1958-59. At
that, it should be an all-time high.
This greater production is more than a matter
of the risen numbers that run in flock on our plains
and downs. A combination of wise breeding and
long research has brought dramatic increase in the
average weight of a single fleece. Superior
Australian sheep now would be carrying about five
times the fleece weight that was average when our
wool industry was founded a century-and-a-half ago.
These are the lights of a very pleasant picture.
There are, of course, some contrasting shades
—as in the need for facing the growth of
competitive fibres.
Much has been done, through brilliant research
into technical processes, to meet that challenge.
It is still being done. One of the further advances
to which science is aiming now is a method by
which woollen goods may be made resistant to flame.
Among conditioning factors for the future are
the changing patterns of trade, the ability of other
countries to buy. But the earth’s population grows;
more nations are coming up to economic strength.
And by all the signs, I believe we can say—
confidently, but free of any trace of complacency
that the prospect is good, and the world will be
requiring more and more of Australia’s wool.
Franklin Roosevelt. The new
an of 1961 will not face any
less a challenge.”
African Babies
a fresh
rpHE emergence of a tresn
1 crop of small independent
African States— neatly pictured
here last week in a London
“Daily Mail ” cartoon showing
a string of Negro babies skip-
ping out of the white man’s
stockade and into a jungle full
—Manchester “Guardian.”
“WHERE TO NOW, NIKKI?”
of predators—draws from the
“New York Times” a realisa-
tion of “the vital necessity that
we [the U.S.] not be caught
short again—as we have been
so many times since the Second
World War —in our relations
with countries just emerging
into nationhood.
“These new States are, most
of them, Socialist in ‘orienta-
tion, neutralist in sentiment,
hopeful of staying as far away
from the cold war as it is
possible to do in this nuclear
age, and intent on just two
things: establishment of their
own political viability as inde-
pendent entities, and develop-
ment of their own under-
nourished economies in order
to raise an incredibly low in-
dividual standard of life.
“They need help of every
possible kind —perhaps most
basically education at the tech-
nical and secondary levels—
and by and large they would
prefer this help through United
Nations agencies rather than
through bilateral agreements
with their political connota-
tions.
“But both kinds of help are
necessary; and the United
States is going to have to ex-
tend it in far greater degree
than a timorous Administration
and Congress have yet seen fit
to do if we hope to achieve the
one major political goal we
ought to have in Central
Africa: establishment of the
new regimes as genuinely in-
dependent States, standing on
their own feet with commit-
ments to no one.”
Commenting on the widely
held opinion that these States
are as yet unready “to preserve
their own freedom, work
democracy, protect themselves,
develop their economies and
avoid producing a Balkanisa-
tion of the continent,” London
“Observer” notes than “these
fears are not unreasonable.
“Africa is just as likely to
produce bad Governments and
dictatorships as Europe or
Latin America—it will da well
if it avoids producing such
barbarous tyrannies as Europe
has recently known. Mau
Mau was kid’s stuff compared
with the Nazis.
“No European country has
yielded control of its African


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A344,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
The
Taxpayers’ Associations
INCOME TAX
GUIDE
solves your tax problem 9
10/-
from booksellers, any bra nC
of the Taxpayers’ Ass° cia
tion, or
Taxpayers’ Publishers Pi’
Ltd.
11c Castlereagh St M Syd ne>
colonies till it has been obliged
to do so by local pressure.
There is no question of Britain
having been able to go on
ruling Ghana (without massive
repression) or of Belgium being
able to delay the independence
of the Congo.
“If these territories are still
politically inexperienced and
economically undeveloped, that
is something about which their
former rulers should feel
ashamed. Europe has had 50
years to make something of
Africa. The traditional British
method of indirect rule —i.e.,
through the tribal chiefs —
although better than that of
other European Powers, gave
little experience of self-govern-
ment. The Africans now
demand democracy because
students have told them we
have it, not because we have
taught it to them.
“From now onwards, if we
are to help them, it will have
to be mainly through the inter-
national agencies. They will
certainly need a lot of help.
But the days of paternalism
are over: henceforth it must be
through a new Commonwealth
Civil Service or through the
United Nations. That may
also be the best way to safe-
guard the huge investment that
these new countries will be
demanding.”
However, the same topic
finds London “Daily Express”
in doubt about the future of
the very organisation through
which the new States are pre-
sumably to be helped—it sees
the United Nations becoming
“the world’s most useless
club”:
“Today the majority of
voting-power in this organisa-
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune!”
JUGGERNAUT.
tion has fallen into the hands
of African, Asian, and South
American States. The little
men who rule them will do all
they can to embarrass the big
nations and particularly Britain,
which is still, in a small
measure, a colonial Power.
“U.N.O. is an institution
filled with menace for all im-
portant nations of the world.”
Magazines in Asia
In the course of a London
“New Statesman” article on
the struggle between Russia
and the U.S. for influence in
Asia, editor Kingsley Martin
offers some disquieting
thoughts on the workings of
American magazines on the
Asian mind:
/-‘Americans carry their way
of’life with them. They talk
as if it were an ideal for
which all mankind yearns.
Insofar as it means more
food and a better house, they
are perfectly right. But much
of the life they regard as good
seems to many Buddhists and
Hindus actively evil. A
Burmese, who returned after
a year in the United States,
remarked that he felt sorry
for the Americans; they
spent all this money on people
like himself, but the more he
saw of the American way of
life, the less he liked it.
“The bookstalls in Singa-
pore, Rangoon and Djakarta
are stacked high with propa-
gandist literature, some sub-
sidised by the Americans, the
rest by the Communists. The
Communist literature describes
the West as decadent and
immoral; a world in which
the rich batten on the poor,
colored people are treated as
dirt, and Governments pre-
pare for war against the
Communists and colonial
races.
“How much of this is read
and believed I don’t know.
But side by side with the Com-
munist pamphlets, brightly
jacketed and attractive Ameri-
can literature precisely con-
firms Communist propaganda,
“Here are wonderful pi c .
tures of the Hollywood
world ; advertisements f or
hotels and clothes, which
obviously only the well-off can
afford, lie side by side with
photographs of strikers being
clubbed and Africans being
jailed or flogged. Good
Western propaganda would
show slums being pulled
down and black and white
children going to school
together.
“Scarcely less impressive
are the pages of letterpress
and pictures showing half-
naked women, which most
Asians think disgusting, and
describing the intrigues and
divorces which confirm their
view that family life, which
they revere, is breaking up.
“Next are columns of sex
and violence, still horrible to
almost all Asians, and stories
of * the apparently insoluble
quarrels between the capitalist
Powers who, they learn from
very full descriptions of new
American armaments, are
apparently taking for granted
a future war against the
Soviet Union, which they
believe to be everywhere
advocating world peace and
disarmament. ‘Time’ and
‘Life’ magazines are the
perfect Marxist textbooks of
our age.”
Dragnet Digest
Erich Goldhagen, in
“Problems of Communism"'
“The treatment of the Jews
by the Soviet dictatorship is
without a full parallel amoo{
its policies toward the other
national minorities.,
“A unique people, tin
Jews have drawn themselves
singular treatment.
Stalinism departed from the
ideals of internationalism
cosmopolitanism which hats
inspired the Bolshevik r evo '
lution, it cynically resorted to


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
and 15 years M /©
4 years £l% 3 years £% 2 years 5j%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3£% p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros-
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Branch, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Assets
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne e Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Nl
—Washington “Post.”
HAMMER AND SICKLE.
anti-Semitism as a tool of its
designs, harkening back to the
tradition of the Narodnaya
Volya, in many ways its
spiritual ancestor.
“The xenophobia born of
its totalitarian isolation —a
xenophobia incongruously
linked to its international
aspirations and professions—
exposed the Jews to grave
suspicion. They were members
of a world-wide fraternity, the
greater part of which lived in
the camp of ‘imperialism,’ and
the creation of the State of
Israel intensified that sus-
picion. Alone among all the
national minorities the Jews
have been condemned to total
assimilation.! The Jews are
indeed a ‘chosen people’ in
Russia chosen for cultural
extinction.”
* * *
“Sunday Times”:
Neither in Asia nor in
Europe C a n we [ the W est]
nttord to let down our guard.
e should seize every oppor-
tunity of easing tension, but
■ e must be equally watchful
s we lose, unrequited, any
c fia tage power or the
arm hdence °? our a bies. Dis-
DmH arn f nt come as a by-
of (wt not a Preliminary,
lt eWer relations - if we
incan k’i We s^ soon become
ble o£ pressing either
the short-term policies or the
long-term philosophy that
bespeaks our ultimate interest
in peace with freedom.”
* * *
US. News and World Report
( an independent weekly news-
magazine published at Wash-
ington): “Remarked an
official from an under-
developed country: ‘A few
showpieces, such as sports-
stadiums and public buildings,
would have done America
more good and
won her more
friends than gifts of food,
clothing and other things to
raise living - standards
quickly.’ ”
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune’’: “We are
only in the beginning of the
missile age. But we are far
en ° Ugh int ° il tO / e , alise c , that
ins P ecbon — eve n d the Soviet
Government would a § ree to [t
=? n °‘ ‘° UPo ';'
The weapons that matter most,
because of their almost instant
•, , ,
r “ 316 unlnsp f c,abl ®-
What, then, are we to rely
upon? We have to rely upcn
what has llow become thc
acce P ted doctrine of the Penta-
gon-that is to say, on develop-
in S a deterrent power that can-
not be , kn ° cke T d , out b ? a , su| -
pnse attack Tins, and not in-
spection, is the way to reduce
the tensions which are caused
by the race in nuclear arma-
ments.”
* * *
Mohammed Ayub Khan,
Pakistan’s President, in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs”:
“As a student of war and
strategy, I can see quite clearly
the inexorable push of the
north in the direction of the
warm waters of the Indian
Ocean. This push is bound to
increase if India and Pakistan
go on squabbling with each
other. If, on the other hand,
we resolve our problems and
disengage our armed forces
from facing inwards as they do
today, and face them outwards,
I feel we shall have a good
chance of preventing a
rence of the history of the past,
which was that whenever this
sub-continent was divided —and
often it was divided—someone
or other invited an outsider to
step in.”
* * *
Derek Walker - Smith,
(Britain’s Minister of Health):
“Labor-party dissensions have
a habit of oscillating between
tragedy and farce. At the
moment farce seems to be
getting the upper-hand. It is
tempting to view their diffi-
culties in terms of Shake-
spearian tragedy —a sort of
contemporary Julius Caesar —
but the characters do not fit
the parts. Mr. Gaitskell
obstinately refuses to be
ppshed off the stage; and
though the Labor party has
its share of ‘lean and hungry
men’ and ‘slight unmeritable
men,’ the cast does not run to
a Brutus or a Mark Antony.”


Presently George said: “Any-
one think to look up that
address?”
“Yes, I wrote it down,” Mary
said. “Here.” She handed a
piece of paper forward. Joe
took it, and began to study the
road-map.
“Fixed a date yet, George?”
Mary asked suddenly.
“Not definitely, Mary. A lot
depends on this job. If I get
it, we’ll get married just before
we sail.
“Sounds good,” Mary sighed.
“Joe, why didn’t Percy ever
get married?”
“No idea. Ask him.”
Percy woke up. “Hullo,
what's going on?”
“We’re going to a party,”
Mary said. “How do you
feel?”
“Not bad. Not bad at all.
Nothing like a few minutes’
sleep to revive you—where are
we, Parramatta Road?” -
“Yes,” Joe said.
The stone walls of the Uni-
versity were slipping past, there
the narrow steps leading to the
Union, here the main gates
with the ovals, the S.U.R. build-
ing and the Vet. School hiding
in shadows. We’re getting old,
he thought, everything chang-
ing, George getting married
and going to Germany, he and
Percy, who had seen enough of
Germany—but the thought was
not completed.
“Possums,” he said. “There
are possums back there in the
trees.”
“Oh, yes,” George said.
“Place is lousy with possums.”
An island of possums and
stone, hemmed in by used-car
saleyards, factories, and men
exercising greyhounds. There
went the McMaster Labora-
tory ; and there St. John’s
College, tapering in the moon-
light. Then the blunt snout of
a factory. •
Mary and Percy were chat-
tering away back there.
“Of course, all brothers hate
each other,” Percy said.
“Surely not!”
“Oh, yes. But most of them
try to hide it. 1 don’t. This
brother’s - keeper idea never
appealed to me. I haven’t the
faintest desire to be my
brother’s keeper. And I strongly
resent my brother appointing
himself my keeper ...”
That could be taken two
ways, Joe thought.
He had come back before
Percy, and he had promised
Percy he would look into his
affairs, and report. He hadn’t
realised the complexity of the ;
task, but he had done his best.
When Percy arrived in Sydney
he thanked him, but questioned
him very closely on an inter-
view he had with his brothers.
Then, in reply to something, he
said, “Oh, I have no doubt
they were very charming,” and
Joe had felt a faint prick of
unease. It was ridiculous, be-
cause he had had no legal
status and, anyway, was not
competent to form an opinion
on the issues involved—that
was a job for a lawyer, or an
accountant, or both—he was
simply a reporter. And he had
reported honestly. But he had
the impression that Percy felt
that, in some subtle, personal
way, he had failed him. That
he had been charmed.
What rot!
“To be fair,” Percy was say-
ing, “They’re not bad chaps.
Paul, for instance —you've met
Paul, haven’t you, Joe?”
“Yes,” Joe said.
“Well, I often think that if
Paul wasn’t my brother, I’d find
him quite tolerable. To have
a drink with occasionally. Only
then, of course, he wouldn’t
feel at liberty to preach at me.”
George pricked up his ears.
“Is Paul Carter your brother?’’
“Yes. Do you know him?”
“No. I’ve heard of him,
though.”
“No doubt,” Percy said
dryly. “He’s quite a socialite,
poor Paul. He’s missed a lot,
I think. I may be wrong, mind
you; I admit I donT know
him very well; but I always
have the impression, when Paul
mets anyone, that the thing
rattling round inside his head
is, What’s this chap’s social
standing? Will he help me,
socially? Or will I lose caste?
Although, I suppose, it’s prob-
ably his wife. Women make a
man like that.”
Mary giggled.
“Not all women, of course,”
Percy said quickly. “Heaven
forbid. Matter of fact, I’m
thinking of getting married my-
self.”
“You are?” Joe turned
round.
“Who?” Mary said.
“No one in particular. Just
thought it would be amusing,
when I died, if my brothers
didn’t get my place. If I knew
a girl now, a good sport, would
go through with it on that
understanding— part after the
ceremony—l’d do it now.”
“Sydney’s full of girls,” Mary
said faintly.
“Yes, of course. But I
don’t think you get my mean-
ing. I’d have to like the girl,
not that we’d live together, but
like her as a person, and
although I’ve known a lot of
girls like that, most of them
are married, or the sort who
want to marry. Really marry,,
I mean. So, you see, I’m look-
ing for a special kind of
person.*’
“You are serious?”
“Oh, definitely.” He chuckled.
“In the Australia, today, Joe
reminded me, talking of dear
Paul, of the day I joined up.
I had a couple of horses then,
and I was in the bar talking to
a couple of fellows, when I
saw a very splendid sight.
Brother Paul. A captain no
less. In the militia, spurs and
all. He saw me and gave me
a nod. I said to Sammy White,
a very decent little chap, used
to be a fair jockey before he
put on weight, ‘I see there’s a
circus in town.’ Paul went red
and strode over, said had I
heard there was a war on. I
said I had. He said it would
become me better —his words,
mark you—to do something for
the war-effort, instead of hang-
ing around pubs and race-
courses. He had a point there,
but I said, if I wanted to wear
a uniform I’d join the A.1.F.,
not the Boy Scouts. Pauf said
he was quite sure the A.I.F.
wouldn’t have me. And, if I
did get in, I’d probably spend
the war in boob. So I caught
a taxi to Victoria Barracks.
They took me. And —I’m proud
of this —no red lines in my pay-
book. Not one.”
Too chatty, Joe thought.
And why the change?
The car pulled up in a little
park.
“Smoke-oh,” George an-
nounced. “For the driver.
There’s more beer in the boot.
We might as well crack a
bottle.”
They cracked several.
“ \ party?” The nurse stared
at him.
“It’s the only way we could
get him here,” Joe explained.
“So, please, don’t say anything
to disillusion him. Not straight
away. Otherwise he won’t
stay.”
She was a nice-looking girl,
rather plump, and young. She
looked worried. “But Dr.
Finnigan left definite instruc-
tions he was to stay,” she said.
“He didn’t say anything about
99
“Just take him easily, don’t
say anything to upset him ...”
She tossed her starched cap.
“I’m not in the habit of up-
setting patients.”
“Of course, of course.”
Crawl, you idiot, crawl before
you get her back up p, roperl
But there was no time, “h;
they come.”
George came first. He %■
a bit flushed, and he y
loosened his tie. The nurst
stared at the bottles, u
George brushed past her i nt „
the office, and Joe followed
George dumped the bottles®
the table and went to get mors
Joe heard Mary’s and Per®;
voices in the hall.
“I think I’d better ca|
Matron,” the nurse said.
is most irregular. Did you®
that man was a doctor?”
“Certainly,” Joe said. “H®
he is. You’re a doctor, aren;
you, George?”
“I am.” He said it va
firmly, like a police witness
“I told them to wait a mint
This is the position, nurse-
what’s your name, by ftj
way?”
“Brown.”
“No, Christian-name. 1
is a party, remember? (I
didn’t Joe tell you?”
“Something was said aboiiii
a party,” she said doubt
fully. “But —well, I hope™
know what you’re doing. If
name is Meg.”
“Well, we’ve got to mail!
him think this is a privat
home, and that a party i
going on, Meg. It’s q®
important. Where’s the phone.
Oh, I see.” He sat do«
dialled. “Engaged,” he an-
nounced. “Probably Jenny,
yapping her head off.” ft
met Meg Brown’s fascinate:
eyes. “Jenny’s my sister,”!!
explained.
He frowned, dialled agaii
twisted around in the ctai
Finally he pushed it back a:
put his feet on the desk.
“That’s Matron’s desk,” M?
Brown said faintly.
George looked surprise
He frowned at his feet, sw
them down. “Sorry. I W
Thought I was home .
Jenny, George here. A®
thing doing? Who? Yes,
see. Anything else?
Jenny, I’ll be a while yet'
keep sending the calls oaf
Noel. Yes, he’ll do them. 1*
other can wait till m° rl ®
See you!”
He yawned, picked up;
bottle and looked
thoughtfully. A
“Beer is strictly forbid'
here,” Meg said. .
“Eh? Can’t have a f
without beer. Buzz oft*
get some glasses, will h
pet? Five.” He held j
bottle-top near the edge
the polished desk, raised.
big hand to smack if ,
tated. “Better bring a H
opener, too. Mustnt w
Matron’s desk.”


went. She came back
■five thick glasses and a
i She seemed
b | ot hdv dazed. George reached
S lgh nri neatly removed her
»P “Vow now. Without
ffi yon don't look as though
n ’re in uniform. Realism.
Sty hair, too—shame to
S it.” He P' a « d ,he cap
carefully on a shelf.
When Mary and Percy came
in George had the glasses
filled Mary drew the nurse
into a corner, and they whis-
pered together.
When they came back, Meg
looked happier She even
sipped a glass of beer, under
George’s bullying. Then, see-
ing George fill the other
glasses again, she straightened
her shoulders.
“Mr. Carter,” she said, and
swallowed nervously. “Mr.
Carter, don’t you think you
should go to bed now?”
Percy blinked: “I beg your
pardon?”
“Wouldn’t you like to go
to bed, Mr. Carter?” Her
voice was under control now,
crisp and professional.
“There’s a bed all ready, if
you’ll just come along with
me.”
Percy’s face was a polite
mask: “Er—very kind of you,
Miss Brown, very kind
indeed.” His eyes roamed from
face to face, back to Meg.
“Delighted.” He blinked
again, then beamed. “Like
old times, eh? —very old times.
But—er—don’t you think
we’d better have a drink
first?” He filled his glass,
glanced around, said “Happy
days!” and swallowed it
quickly.
A buzzer sounded and Meg
said, “Oh, dear,” and fled.
Percy looked after her with
puzzled blue eyes. “No doubt
about these modern girls,” he
said wonderingly. “They’re
very well, down-to-earth,
arent they? Probably a good
fifing; I don’t know. I’m . . .
"'nil, I suppose you’d call me
old-fashioned. Fine looking
> too.” He glanced in the
!?! rr ° r > straightened his tie.
Although, Joe, frankly . . .
’ there’s George here,
younger man . .
\ sort of storm broke, its
centre a determined,
q are-set dark woman in
Matron Whp, Th lainly ’ W&S
n ' There were other
M eg en ’all thC wretched
harm dl but wringing her
man ’ and there wa s a burly
meetin m shirt-sleeves with
ohng eyebrows.
word? 6 W6re a Breat man y
once ’ a nH Veryone taikin S at
’ nd someone snatched
the glass out of Joe’s hand.
Then they were alt in the
corridor, and the Matron had
Percy pinned against the wall.
“A fine sort of a doctor
you are, if you are a doctor,
coming in here upsetting dis-
cipline, bullying the staff. You
should be thoroughly ashamed
of yourself!”
Percy kept a firm grip on
his glass. “Not my party,
lady,” he murmured. “I came
with friends.” He raised his
glass, bowed slightly. “Well,
happy days.”
“Party!” blazed the Matron.
“This is no place for a party!
I have never heard of any-
thing more atrocious!”
“But, Matron!” Meg said
tearfully. “He’s not . . .”
“I’ll have a word with you
later, Nurse Brown. Reg!
Put the patient to bed at
once.”
“Come on, sir,” the man
“To sleep . . . perchance to dream . . .”
said, taking George’s arm.
“Enough excitement for one
day, eh?”
“What the hell do you think
you’re doing?” George
demanded.
“Off to beddo,” Reg said.
“Come on now.”
“This is a funny place,”
Percy said distinctly. “I think
it’s a drum!”
The Matron wheeled.
“What did you say?”
“Come on, let’s get out of
here,” Percy said. “Joe, you
get Mary out to the car. I’ll
wait for George.”
“I’ll give you one second to
let my arm go,” George said
carefully. “Then I’ll knock
your block off.”
“Get stuck into him,
George,” Percy said encourag-
ingly. “Don’t let a pimp push
you around.”
“Reg! Did you hear what
this creature said?”
Things were moving too
quickly for Reg. Finally he
made -up his mind, and
advanced on Percy, scowling,
only to find himself sand-
wiched by George and Joe.
“Hold it,” Joe said. He
turned to the Matron. “Let’s
try and straighten this out.”
Fie tapped George on the
shoulder. “This is Dr. Hunt.”
He nodded to Percy. “That
is Mr. Carter.”
Percy had lost interest in the
scene. He had walked a little
distance away, and was look-
ing at a painting.
The Matron had recovered
her composure. “I see. And
who are you?”
“My name is Fraser. Dr.
Finnigan probably mentioned
that I would be coming out
with Mr. Carter. Incidentally,
if Mr. Carter said anything
offensive, it was probably our
fault. He didn’t know this
was a hospital.”
“He’s not the only one who
has behaved as if it isn't a
hospital,” she said severely.
Reg said, nodding at
Percy. “He’s the patient, eh?”
He stepped forward.
“Just a moment.” George’s
big hand came out, grabbed
Reg’s shoulder and swung him
round. “There’s to be no
rough staff, see?” He turned
to the Matron. “Who’s this
character?”
“He’s my husband, and I’ll
thank you to keep your hands
off him.”
“Well, tell him to keep his
hands off the patients.” He
dropped his hand. “Are you
a male nurse?”
Reg didn’t reply. He
breathed heavily, and nar-
rowed his eyes. He looks
tough enough—wonder if he
is, Joe was thinking.
“My husband helps when
necessary,” the Matron said
coldly.
“Yes, I can see that. He’s
not to help with Mr. Carter.
We’ll stay until Mr. Carter
goes to bed. And I don’t think
Dr. Finnigan will be very
happy when he knows you
have Reg here”—he jerked his
head—“manhandling patients.”
“I’ll have a few words to
say to Dr. Finnigan myself
about tonight,” the Matron
said hotly. She took a deep
breath. “No patient has been
manhandled here tonight—or
at any other time,” she said
evenly.
“Well, I’ve had a taste of
Reg’s methods, and I don’t
like them,” George said. “Mr.
Carter isn’t at all violent. All
he needs is to be reassured,
given a sedative—l suggest
nembutal—and settled down
for the night.”
“Thank you. Dr. Finnigan
has left instructions.”
“Well . . .” George shrugged.
“I think I’ll stay and see him
to bed.”
She looked him up and
down. “You know I could
order you out, don’t you?
All right. Put him to bed.
And if you ever come back
here, I’ll have you arrested.”
“Oettled down?” Joe asked,
as George got into the
car.
George nodded. “Yes. It
was a two-bed room. I —er —
well, he thought I was sleep-
ing there, too. Then I said
I had to make a call. He
just looked at me with those
blue eyes, and said ‘All right,
George.’ ”
Later, George said: “Quite
an eventful evening.”
“Yes.”
“Yes.”
“Give me a cigarette, Joe,”
Mary said. “I think you might
have been unfair about Reg,
George. I don’t think he’s
really rough. He was con-
fused.”
“Yes. I was ruffled, too, I
suppose. And . . .”
“And it was sort of sym-
bolic, eh, the manhandling
—because that’s what we did,
in a way. Is that what you
mean?” Joe said.
“Something like that,”
George muttered.
“Only he wasn’t, you know,
by Reg,” Mary said quickly.
“Not really.”
“And what we did —was
for the best,” Joe said.
“Only, well, he was so trust-
ing. Towards the end,
anyway.”
“So we did what we had
to do,” George said. “We’d
have felt lousy if we hadn’t.
So now we’re happy.”
“As the day is long,” Joe
said.
They drove on in silence.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“King of the North”
Reference in a recent Bul-
letin article to John Horrocks,
who died through a shooting-
accident in South Australia in
1846, describes him as “a young
Cornish settler.” In my records
—and they are supported by the
A ustrcilian Encyclopedia —he
figures as a product of Lan-
cashire.
Anyway, Horrocks was
something more than a pioneer
settler. Reaching South Aus-
tralia on his 21st birthday
(1839), he presently fell-in with
the explorer E. J. Eyre, and by
him was advised to acquire
land near the Hutt River in the
lower north of the colony, i
This the young fellow did, and
from his sheep-run—which he
named Penwortham, after his
birthplace in England he
made during five years a series
of arduous treks into country
hitherto unexplored.
One of his companions on
the last excursion (when his
gun exploded while he was un-(
loading a camel) was S. T. Gill,
later to become famous as an
artist on the Victorian gold-
fields.
If those expeditions were
not of first importance they
were highly useful, and their
remarkable feature was the
fact that the leader of each
party, Horrocks, was only 22
when he started' out and only
28 when he died. Obviously
this youngster was pretty
soundly equipped, both physic-
ally and mentally, which seems
to explain why, from the age
of 23, he was known in S.A.
as “the King of the North.”
Horrocks’s grave, still well
kept, is in the cemetery of Pen-
wortham village—alongside the
little church where “Bully”
Hayes the buccaneer married
Amelia Littleton in 1857, and
near the township where “Sen- j
timental Bloke” Dennis first
practised the art of weaving
rhymes. — Wulworra (N.S.W.).
The Overloaded Sheep
The editorial under this head-
ing (B. 6/ 7 / ’6O) is one I hope
city-dwellers will read —and
“I'll raise you.”
,
mark. But did Mr. Chislett s
review really say that subsidis-
in 8 wool industry seems in-
evitable ? I understood it .o
sa Y that unless the vicious
circle can be broken the sub-
sidising of the wool industry
seems inevitable. I sincerely
hope I will never live to see
the day when the salvation of
wool can only be bought in this
wa y-
Heavy taxation is one of the
greatest difficulties the industry
has to suffer, particularly as
regards properties situated in
the areas of low or erratic, rain-
fall where much of Australia’s
Merino wool is grown.
But the unkindest cut of all
is surely that the department
refuses to recognise the essen-
tial producing-asset of a pas-
toralist —i.e., his permanent or
average flock —as a capital-
asset, but treats it as a trading-
asset.
As the law now stands, if a
pastoralist has to sell part, or
even the whole, of his per-
manent flock owing to severe
drought his proceeds from the
sale, instead of being “realisa-
tion of capital,” is treated as
income and therefore taxable.
—F. G. Dempster (W.A.).
Permanent Pastures
“Myall” (B. 13/7/ ’6O) does
scant justice to the question of
large-scale improvement in the
carrying-capacity of Australia’s
most important cattle-country
—namely, the millions of acres
of speargrass country stretching
from Bundaberg to Mackay.
This area carries two-million
cattle. The total Australian
figure is 16-million, of which
Queensland has about seven-
million.
Experiments by the C.5.1.R.0.
at Rodd’s Bay, near Gladstone
(in the heart of the speargrass
country), show emphatically
that with the application of
superphosphate and the intro-
duction of the tropical legume
Townsville - lucerne (Stylosan-
thes sundaiaca), the average
speargrass country which now
carries one beast to 15 acres
will produce three to four
beasts.
Moreover —and this is most
important—whereas the beast
on the untreated land has to be
four or five years old before
marketing, the three to f OU[
beasts on the treated land are
marketed as prime beef at t%
and-a-half to three years. Th eS!
figures mean that the carry,
ing-capacity of the speargrasi
lands can be raised from (lit
present two-million to six-
million.
So far landowners have taker
little notice of the C.5.1.R.0 s
results, the principal reason
being that the cost of super
phosphate is prohibitive £i;
to £lB a ton.
There is, however, a means
of reducing this price very con.
siderably—by producing super,
in the centre of the area, using
indigenous sulphur (pyrites
from Mount Morgan) for sul
phuric-acid production.
Millions of • tons of pyrites
is available, and our company
says that if it had a big enougb
market for it, it could produce
the super, for £lO a ton, f.0,i, :
works. If, instead of super-
phosphate—which carries upli
20 per cent, phosphoric-acid-
triple-phosphate carrying 45-50
per cent, were used, freight
and handling-charges would k
substantially cut.
It appears that the minimum
economic size for a treatment'
plant would be 50,000 tons
and the present problem is»
work out a means of guarantes
ing a market for this annual)
tonnage.
The ultimate results aret
outstandingly important »
Queensland and Australia that
a solution must be found.-l
Malcolm Newman, Mount
Morgan, Limited (N.S.W.).
|
Decentralisation
After nine months travel!
in Victoria and N.S.W the Vit
torian All-party Parliaments
Population Distribution Co®
mittee has concluded that®
problem of the octopus gro"j-
of our capital cities cannot ®
solved on an intra-State btf
Members are convinced tit-
substantial Federal help will:
needed, particularly in N.S.'
and Victoria.
They feel that part of tt
solution lies in an educate®
campaign designed to sell;
people the advantages of W (
in the country as oppose 1
the city. ~
The main present attract 0
of capital cities are efflFi
ment opportunities and affl e
ties. A consistent and v#'
Government policy of i* l
trial decentralisation, V


lihera l subsidising of amenities
uch as libraries, swimming-
fnnk art-galleries and live
theatre should ensure that over
"neriod of years population is
encouraged to stay in provin-
cial cities and towns and is
even brought away from the
sprawling, congested capitals,
with their increasing problems
associated with transport, smog,
juvenile delinquency and crime.
—Plain Australian (Vic.).
The Throwing Question
Throughout the cricketing
world throwing seems to be
the question of the moment.
Nearly all cricketing countries
have an impressive list of
alleged “chuckers,” but only
one player has been no-balled
out of the game —Geoff Griffin,
South African speedster, who
met this embarrassing fate in
the Test series against England.
Australia’s leading cricket
administrators are obviously
worried. Although our main
suspect, lan Meckiff, has been
passed in every country except
England, they are still not com-
pletely satisfied with his bowl-
ing action. It’s essential that
all suspicion should be cleared-
up before the Australian selec-
tors meet to choose the team
to tour England next year. It
would be ridiculous to pick
Meckiff and our other suspect,
Gordon Rorke, if they are to
meet with the same fate as
Griffin. Alan Schwab
(N.S.W.).
Imported Placenames
“Siosal” is right in deploring
the use of imported placenames,
not only on the Gold Coast,
but in other parts of Australia
as well (B. 6 / 7 / ’6O). To me it
indicates that as a nation we
suffer from an inferiority-
complex. Instead of being
proud of our heritage we
conceal it by adopting “glam-
orous”-sounding American
names.
However, news of the open-
ing of an inn, appropriately
named “Man From Snowy
River Inn,” in Perisher Valley,
Kosciusko State Park (N.S.W.),
is encouraging. To show it’s
no empty title there’s a mural
in the public bar depicting part
of the epic ride of the Man
from Snowy River, together
with Banjo Paterson's verses.
—Ashleigh (Vic.).
New Guinea
The report of the Trustee-
ship Council of the United
Nations concerning New
Guinea has produced some in-
teresting reactions in Australia
—reactions that must cause
surprise, and even concern, to
a lot of people who really
know something of our Trust
Territory.
The majority of Australians
apparently still believe that
New Guinea is Australian ter-
ritory and consider criticism
from outside as impertinent.
This is due in part, no doubt,
to the historic events associated
with our receipt of the mandate
from the League of Nations
after the taking of New Guinea
by our troops in 1914, and the
vigorous stand by W. M.
Hughes at the ensuing peace-
conferences.
It is arguable that many of
our politicians of that period
believed that a mandate was
only a blind for permanent
possession and regarded New
Guinea as a vital factor in the
defence of the Commonwealth
against intrusion from the
north. The responsibilities in-
volved in the mandate were
not appreciated then, nor are
they fully appreciated now.
Indeed, one speaker from the
planter population has sug-
gested that New Guinea should
have representation in Can-
berra ; another has mooted the
prospect of New Guinea and
Papua being joined to the Com-
monwealth as a seventh State
—a suggestion revealing woeful
ignorance of the status of the
Trustee Territory under Con-
stitutional and international
law.
Lord Lugard, chairman of
the Mandates Commission of
the League of Nations, and
possibly the world’s greatest
authority on colonial admini-
stration, frequently pointed
out that Powers which accepted
“C”-class mandates (mandates
over backward lands such as
New Guinea) were taking on
a long and arduous task in
preparing such territories for
eventual freedom from
tutelage ; a task entailing both
education and economic ad-
vancement of the inhabitants,
the former being essential to
the training of indigenous civil
servants and administrators,
and the economic advancement
being necessary to lift the
general standard of living.
Tanganyika (Central Africa)
was, like New Guinea, a Ger-
man colony that became a
mandated territory after the
1914-18 war, and was placed
under mandate to Great
Britain. Today this Negro-
populated area of Bantu Africa
is so far advanced politically
and economically that it has
been judged to be nearing the
end of its period of tutelage, its
progress having been marked
by little or no friction and its
people almost ready to under-
take the administrative respon-
sibilities involved in the change,
while its rich mineral resources
promise reasonable prospects
of economic security.
Thus the winds of change,
so far as Tanganyika is con-
cerned, look fair. Australia’s
territorial administrators might
with advantage compare this
example of British colonial
performance with our own to
the north. Fred Aarons
(N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 601
Across
I— Almost purple cricket team gets exactly the same
score as such problems. (12)
B—Tiles broken by the agave fibre. (5)
10—Mice and such pests swallowed by Kelly, but don’t
concern yourself! (5, 4)
ll Jolson retired and the Queen joined a conductor ot
one of 28-across. (9)
12 — The old countries in that distant
goldfield. (5)
13 — Stern to get up on the hind-
legs. (4)
14 — Acid pertaining to a wrecking
storm. (8) A
19 — Observed the nippers what
cut? (3-5)
20 — Wood-shaping implement in a
daze. (4)
22 —The turf draws back. (5)
25 — An alliance wherein Idriess is
urged to give it fuel. (9)
26 — Be choosy about feeding advice
to a would-be Parliamen-
tarian? (2, 2,1, 4)
27 — Animal victory in the south-
east. (5)
28 — The precursors of jazz tease
the enemy bunches ot
brigands. (7, 5)
Down
1 — Ram of a prissy kind votes. (9)
2 A nasty rumpus famous for.
hacking. (6, 3)
3 Cross an advertisement on you
in Kubla Khan’s resort. (6)
4 No Rivett can be found in the
place where Lorna Doone’s
husband went to school. (8)
5 County layer disturbed ahead
of schedule. (5)
6 Mimi halved Giovanni, accord-
ing to this cricketer. (3-2)
7 Bogarde weapon. (4)
9 —Come out from an improper
tea name. (7)
15 — North whirls donkeys. (7)
16— —26-across might be the advice
of this painter urged to kick
the bucket. (9)
17 — Items of kitchenware which
bring business ashore. (9)
18 — One who keeps a supply of a
commodity kit costs the con-
tents thereof. (8)
21 — Poultry’s needed —go on a
~ reducing diet before morn-
ing. (6)
22 — Indulge in suspiration before
tea —that’s the sense of it. (5)
23 — Go up to Georgia likewise it
very much roused. (4)
24 — Drop a show. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 600


An Ex-A.C.B.O. Replies to "Ex-R.S.M."...
In Defence of “Red Robbie”
By R. G. HODGE
(Ex-A.C.8.0., R.A.A., 3 Aust. Corps.)
As you were, “Ex-R.S.M.”
(B. 18/5/’6O). You are
entitled to your opinion
of the late Lieut.-General
Sir H. C. H. (“Red Robbie”)
Robertson, K.8.E., D. 5.0., etc. ;
but I declare you on for the
grounds on which you criticise
a General who was a soldier in
every sense of the word if ever
there was one.
Most of your remarks are
uninformed ; and even your
single note of praise rings false.
Robertson did not “insist” on
the construction of the Alice
Springs-Birdum (not Darwin)
road. Such decisions were
made by taller poppies than
garrison-commanders. Robert-
son, whose garrison-force at
Darwin was so modest that it
was “built up” by flying 84
men to it when a state-of-war
emergency was declared, could
not “insist” on high policy
matters. He had brains and
foresight and probably recom-
mended the road.
So much for that. Now come
on —out where the bull feeds.
Tn your sneer at Robertson’s
Light Horse service in War I
you omit to mention that it
opened with 10th Light Horse
on Gallipoli, where, as you
may have heard, soldiering was
not the fun and games that you
appear to think cavalry-charges
were. For details of his other
War I service read history—it,
needs no support.
“He was not given a job to
do against Rommel’s Afrika
Korps ...” No. And there
were two main reasons for thatf
In the desert he was a mere
brigadier—and not a very
senior one —commanding a
mere infantry brigade (hardly a
force to “do a job” against
Rommel’s korps !); and
Rommel hadn’t set-up in busi-
ness in Africa when Robertson
was there. That would make it
a bit hard to arrange a match,
wouldn’t it?
Rommel, with forward
elements of his korps, arrived at
Tripoli, about 500 miles west
of Benghazi, on February 12,
1941 —five days after Robert-
son on behalf of his Div. Com-
mander, McKay, accepted the
surrender of Benghazi. The
Italians that hadn’t been yarded
at Benghazi were fleeing west
for Tripoli. Robertson was one
of the subordinate commanders
who, fired with success, urged
pursuit and clean sweep.
Higher command ruled other-
wise, for, as Wavell wrote
afterwards, armored vehicles
and M.T. were in poor shape
after the 500-mile advance to
“Sorry, madam! We accept no responsibility for this
sort of thing—customers are not expected to sit on
the furniture !”
Benghazi; a march of a further
500 miles was out of the ques-
tion, regardless of the probable
ease of the clean-sweep opera-
tion at the end of it.
Little was then known of
Rommel’s arrival and build-up.
There were other unfavorable
factors involving Navy and Air
and the forthcoming commit-
ment in Greece. The decision
will be debated as long as old
soldiers debate. Six Aust. Div.
(including Robertson’s 19 Bde.)
was withdrawn soon afterwards
for the Greece adventure.
There were only skirmishes
with Rommel’s forward
elements before it left the
desert.
In the same year Robertson
was appointed to command
A.I.F. Reinforcement Depot
(all arms) in southern Palestine.
Reinforcements had been
reaching fighting-formation so
unready for operational service
that something had to be done.
Robertson, by ’tween - wars
experience as Chief Instructor,
Small Arms School, and
Director of Military Art, Royal
Military College, and by his
desert experience and success,
was the best man for the urgent
job.
That he did it well —as he did
all things —is well known,
especially to commanding-
officers who received reinforce-
ments from the depot before
and after the Robertson treat-
ment.
That the appointment de-
prived him of the operational
command his adventurous and
ambitious spirit craved is
perhaps not so well known. He
accepted it as he would have
accepted any personal mis-
fortune dictated by duty. As
far as I recollect he remained
there until the Curtin Govern-
ment brought most of us back
to Australia.
TThat Robertson was not
*- given a “job to do . . .
against the Japs” is also an
unfair statement. On his return
to Australia he was immedi-
ately given command of 1 Aust.
Armored Division in Lj eut .
General Gordon Bennett’s 3
Aust. Corps, then being
urgently built-up in West Aus-
tralia in strong expectation of
a right-hook by the Jap on the
coast of that State.
That naval actions later
knocked the Jap’s W.A. plans
sky-high, and that as a result 3
Aust. Corps never fought as a
corps (its units were transferred
piecemeal to other formations)
are well-known facts, but it
may be not so well known that
these (fortunate) fortunes of
war left two splendid fighting
commanders, Gordon Bennett
and his armored-div. com-
mander, Robertson, more#
less high and dry without opera-
tional commands. But for this
discussion you may take it,
“Ex-R.5.M.,” that both of them,
had been given vitally
important jobs when the main-
land of Australia was
threatened by the Jap-s.
We may thank God and
naval forces that the invasion
did not come, but from tk
viewpoint of Robertson’s
career it was the second mis-
fortune he suffered that tk
turn of the tide left ni
important place for him else-
where.
He succeeded Gordon
Bennett for a dull period itj
command of what was left in!
W.A., later commanding 5 Dim
and then 6 Div. before going
on to his highly successful
command of 8.C.0.F., Japft
a knighthood and other honors.
In spite of the [to him] ® s '
fortunes of his war-time career
he finished-up among the tallest
poppies, where he rightful
belonged.
“He kept the armotj
division killing time in WA
long after threat of invasion
had disappeared ...” I sugg®
to “Ex-R.S.M.” that eve!
Robbie’s most junior eS )
gunner, trooper, sapper, prh®j
or cook could tell him ®
movements of divisions fr° r ;
one formation to another ®
not —repeat nor—ordered
very much influenced by e°
manders of divisions. T.
like R.S.M.’s, do as they®
told. j
The 1 Aust. Arm°
Division was kept in W-A-


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
„ SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
Tn ni>Aii„^ 0, 4348 of 1957.
~tauu ßG ? t fredeiiick mcconnell.
M4rv E w £°J 4CE tha t DOROTHY
tion f A r M n GO^REEE has filed a Peti-
th e U , lvorce Ko - 1348 of 1957 on
cau F .:e 8 ?i- ! dS 0f d esertion without just
wards Tt ex f use f. or three years and up-
enter an you Wls h to defend you may
Rettistrv oi a i )p , e^ rance * n the Divorce
Street s ? Ml "t Building Macquarie
Sr i± ey '»■ the 4th day of
Petition I wit°hrmf d ! btam a copy of the
NORRIS W r!L„ char " e fr °m BARRY
oitors of G 0 ,'r S * LEND ER, Soli-
A ff ml unter Street, Sydney.
A - H - HARMS, Registrar.
lB6B
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jACKSON &
,OSULIJV/W
t PTYLTD C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
long time because armor
could not be employed in jungle
operations, and tanks, like the
bulk of our guns, were a zack
dozen— to Robertson’s disap-
pointment as well as to his
Lops’. The armored forma-
tions had been created,
equipped and trained prim-
arily for defence of the main-
land and when the threat of
invasion receded they were
foredoomed to a dull life except
for the few of Macarthur-
Onslow’s who got guernseys for
one particular show in N.G.
tn these days of softer treat-
-1 m ent of soldiers —which
might be a good or a bad thing ;
I’m too old to worry much—
“Ex-R.S.M.'s” remarks about
troop’s welfare, charge-sheets,
quashing of convictions by
higher-formation legal branch
(not the G.0.C.) might have
some paltry effect on the dead
General’s reputation. Facts of
the matter are: (a) To Robert-
son his troops’ welfare, well-
being, medical care, feeding and
dothing were almost a religion,
and woebetide the officer or
N.C.O. he found neglecting
such matters. He would drive
him into the ground without
sharpening his feet, and the
higher the offender’s rank the
harder Robertson would
hammer him.
{b) His standard of discipline
was high ; his ambitious nature
embraced the men he com-
manded ; military inefficiency
or slackness of deportment and
dress was an affront to him, his
command and his men. He hit
it hard wherever he found it.
If in obtaining the high
standard he demanded some of
his subordinates (Div. Com-
manders do not themselves
write charge-sheets; usually
R.S.M.’s do it!) “put men on
charge - sheets for trifling
offences or none at all” (check
that “none at all,” “Ex-
R.S.M. ), it was bad luck for
the innocent (if any); but the
high standard of training and
conduct of Robbie’s division
compared to all others spoke
for itself.
And if some convictions in
his division were quashed on
review by legal officers at
Corps H.Q., that would have
been on points of military law
and not on mollycoddlery. A
normal event in any formation,
and often the legal eagle would
phone the C.O. (not the Div.
Commander) and say: “Sorry,
sir, your man Soandso has been
very naughty, but we’ll have to
let him wriggle out of this one.”
Some legal point in his usually
undeserved favor.
(c) I quite believe that in the
circumstances of the time
Robertson would require troops
to stand until he had taken his
seat in the camp picture-show
(there were no picture-shows
where he cut his teeth). He
“Ready? Ten — nine —eight ...”
was a bit that way. All com-
manders have their own par-
ticular methods of providing
their men with a figure of
authority and power to look to.
A clue to Robertson’s might
lie in an old story he retold to a
group of officers in those W.A.
days:
Two Diggers discussing their
C.O. Said the younger, “ ’E
seems to think Vs gawd
almighty.” “So ’e does,” replied
the old soldier, “an’ so far as
you and I are concerned, so 'e
is! ”
It is debatable where old
Generals go when they fade
away, but if Robertson is where
I think he is I wouldn’t be at
all surprised if he has raised
the question of seating-arrange-
ments on the right of the
Supreme Commander.
tVobertson thought that the
Army was the perfect
fighting and administrative
machine, provided every cog
functioned as intended. Any
cog he found to be a bit rusty
was smartly cleaned and oiled,
and if that didn’t work it was
replaced forthwith, and no
apologies offered.
A training-expert of wide
experience, he believed in hard
physical condition, hard train-
ing, high efficiency with
weapons and correct military
conduct. He didn’t mind how
tough he had to be to instil
these military virtues into all
ranks, or how unpopular with
the less strong were some of
the measures he adopted. We
were playing a serious game in
those days, and Robertson was
playing to win and to save lives
of troops when they got to
close quarters by ensuring that
they did so with a high standard
of military skill so deeply
instilled that they would do the
right thing at the right time.
It is amusing at this distance
to recollect that strong men
quaked when exposed to
Robertson’s displeasure. But
quake they did. One colonel
who copped the full treatment
for the collective errors and
omissions of his regiment on a
training-exercise told me: “It
was a dreadful experience. I
felt so small I thought he would
swat me. For four following
nights I had nightmares in
which I was a worm trying to
get away from a large red
rooster! ”
Robertson prided himself on
this prowess. He was a guest
at a farewell dinner to the C.O.
of an artillery regiment in the
mess of C.C.R.A. (Brig. B. E.
Klein). The guest-of-honor
referred to dressings-down he
had sustained from Klein on
past military occasions. In
jocular vein he referred to his
host as the “rudest man in the
A.1.F.” Robertson rose and
said, “As you were, colonel —
the second-rudest.”
T>y nature Robertson was
tough, a strong person-
ality, sure of himself and sure
that there was only one way to
go about anything—the right
way. He was forthright in
speech and act and contemp-
tuous of half-measure and
compromise. As a result he
made a few bad friends both
above and below him, but I
didn’t know any reasonably
good soldier of any rank who
did not admire him as a soldier
and aspire as a soldier to be
like him.
Perhaps Robertson knew this
and set himself such lofty
standards of military skill and
behavior for those very reasons.
Personally, in his rare “off-
parade” moments, he was a
courteous, kindly, amusing and
charming man.


THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WDRRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
LUCERNE
From “MYALL”
T>est fodder-plant in Austra-
lia, either as a cultivated
crop or for grazing, lucerne
should be grown by all who
breed or graze livestock. It is
surprising, though, that many
grqziers in all States have not
yet adopted it as the basis of
pasture-management.
Lucerne has been prized for
forage since the earliest times.
Under the name of alfalfa
(meaning, in Arabic, “the best
fodder”) it was grown in south-
east Asia, and carried from
there by nomad stockmen to
Egypt, Morocco, Palestine,
Greece, Italy and Spain. It
has since spread throughout
the sub-tropics and become the
mostly widely cultivated crop
in existence.
Introduced into N.S.W. early
last century and originally con-
sidered a crop for coastal dis-
tricts with high rainfall and
rich soil, it is now grown in
many inland districts through-
out the Commonwealth, especi-
For the 11 - month
period to November,
1959, the raw wool
exported to France
amounted to 325 mil-
lion lb., which repre-
sents an increase of 9
per cent, on the 1958
total. Exports from
Australia, France’s main
supplier, were slightly
less than 144 million
lb. Increases in the
imports from Argentina
and New Zealand were
also noticed.
Sheep health is of
vital concern to every
grazier, and Australian
sheep- owners are
indeed fortunate to have
available the Elastrator
method of castrating
and tailing. Castrating
and tailing is simple,
effective and humane
with Elastrator, because
the animal undergoes
no pain or agony. As
there are no open
wounds with this
method lambs are less
likely to become infected
by fly-strike.
ally where irrigation is possible.
It will thrive on almost any
deep, fertile land where there
is good drainage. Better-class
wheatland suits it best, and,
once established, it will with-
stand dry conditions better than
other crops.
Several sowings of lucerne
“No, no! Attack him from the SIDE!”
were made during the last few
years at the Hermitage Re-
gional Experimental Station on
Queensland’s southern Darling
Downs, both as pure stands and
as a component in pasture-
mixtures. It was broadcast
with grass to form a sward,
and was sown with grasses in
rows. It has competed well
with the grasses, and generally
by the second year it is the
dominant component in the
pasture. During the droughty
winter and spring of 1957-58,
lucerne made the bulk in all
permanent pastures, including
row - pastures with phalaris,
prairie-grass and ryegrass.
Lucerne continued growing
when the grasses died-off, and
during the hot, dry summer
months it provided lush feed
for sheep at regular grazing
periods of a few weeks.
As an example of its grazing
potentialities, a seven-acre pad-
dock of lucerne carried 300
sheep for eight days early in
November, and five weeks later
carried them again for nine
days/though no effective rain
fell during the whole period.
Those performances are
remarkable, because lucerne is
known to use water extrava-
gantly. A dense stand, with
ample water available, may use
as much as Bin. of water during
the summer, yet it continues
to grow for months without
any worthwhile rain. The ex-
planation is that deep soils
store water and lucerne has ex-
traordinary ability to send its
roots into the soil-depths. The
available water stored in 20ft.
of soil on the Darling Downs
may amount to as much as
50in. and a dense stand of
lucerne could survive on this
for six months or more. A
moderately thin stand, like that
in a pasture-mixture, could
survive much longer.
Where subsoils are porous,
lucerne tap-root will go down
over 50ft.—far beyond the
reach of any grass-roots, which
rarely go below sft. Seedling
lucerne-plants may penetrate
as deeply as 3ft. in their first
two months’ growth, and to 6ft.
in five months.
This rooting-system not only
enables lucerne to tolerate
drought but also gives it
access to minerals not acces-
sible to grasses or other fodder-
plants. Green, leafy lucerne is
therefore highly nutritious and
palatable, containing 16 per
cent, of protein and 8 per cent,
of minerals, and being rich in
all vitamins essential to health
and vigor in animals.
Graziers and dairymen in
Queensland, from the Maranoj
and the central highlands to
the coast as far north as Rock-
hampton, are laying. dowj
permanent pastures consisting
of green-panic, bulfel-grass or
Rhodes-grass, with a base 0 £
11b. or 21b. lucerne to each
acre. During the last drought
these growers learned at first,
hand just how good these pas-
tures were. While cattle oa
neighboring properties had to
be hand-fed, the . permanent
pastures kept their stock in
good condition. Some of these
lucerne pastures are over seven
years old, but are still as pro-
ductive as when first laid-down,
Lucerne needs a fine seed-bed,
whether sown alone or in mix-
tures. The soil should be deeply
ploughed some months before
sowing ; and just before sow-
ing should again be ploughed
about 6in. deep, and worked
with harrows to bring it to a
fine tilth.
When sown alone, the rate
varies in different districts. In
Queensland’s Lockyer Valley,
where most farms are irrigated,
151 b. to 201 b. an acre are
drilled-in, so that the resultant
stand will give a fine-stemmed
crop for hay.
On the drier Darling Downs,
where little irrigation is pos-
sible, t>lb. or 71b. is the usual
rate of sowing.
As the seed is small it must
be lightly covered, with the
disks of the drill set as shallow
as possible, or fixed so that
they are out of the soil when
the drill is in gear. This en-
sures that seed is sown on the
surface. A chain attached to
the footboard of the drill will
give the necessary covering,
just as a light, fine harrow will
give good covering when the
seed is broadcast.
Even though lucerne has the
ability to extract nitrogen from
the air and fix it in the soil, it
still needs fertilising. A gross-
feeder, it removes much larger
quantities of plant-food from
the soil than many other farm-
crops, thus exhausting the
ground much quicker. Lucerne
needs twice as much phos-
phorus, five times as much
potassium, and 20 times as
much calcium as the equivalent
yields of other crops.
Even on rich alluvial soils
dressing of |cwt. super. a”
acre drilled-in with the seed
will give excellent results, while
applications of up to 2cwt. a®
acre are not too much 0°
second-class land.
A topdressing of 2cwt. ajj
acre every second year, appl l£(l
in the spring, will greatly &
crease the yield. It’s usually
applied through the wheat-drib


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques .
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
or in small areas, broadcast
by A S with all legumes, lucerne-
jLwn on new ground needs
nilating with mtrogen-fix-
bacteria, obtainable from
SL Agricultural Departments
Soot charge and stocked by
!ost seed merchants. Good
c, have followed moculat-
Steme-seed: official trials
• NSW have shown in-
creases of up to 300 per cent,
in yield. In one instance a
farmer obtained 10 cuts in 12
months from inoculated
lucerne, but none at all from
an untreated plot sown along-
Sid ]f a stand of lucerne is
needed for hay it should be cut
when about one-tenth of the
crop is in flower, or when fresh
shoots appear from the crowns
of the plants. At either of these
stages the plants, being in full
leaf, contain most protein, and
stems are not hard and woody.
Cutting should be done in the
morning and the raking done
in the afternoon.
The value of lucerne for
grazing has long been recog-
nised. The first two cuts are
usually made into hay, and the
field is then turned over to
grazing for four or five months,
with due consideration for
spelling the areas to allow them
to recuperate.
There’s always a chance
that grazing the crop may
cause bloat, but with normal
care there should be little
trouble. In South Australia
many farmers have established
large areas of lucerne to provide
hay for graziers in the Northern
Territory. The lucerne is
grazed and fed between autumn
and spring, and the paddocks
are closed between October and
February to get three or four
cuttings, which are pressed for
sale. The lucerne is then left
to flower and seed. This sound
practice is now widely adopted
by farmers elsewhere.
Cattle for Market
A. 5.8.”: Men who raise
beef-cattle try to improve the
weeding of their herds to
satisfy the home-market as well
as for export. In doing so
S try to avoid any waste
“J er ln breeding or fattening,
therefore much attention
ana been §^ ven by scientists
• P r °ducers alike to pasture-
m? r f ° V n m€nt and better fatten-
m 8 facilities.
the time huge quan-
es of beef (and other forms
are * ost eac b year
bruising, which is often
caused when animals are being
transported to market. This is
where the Government could
do something to stop unneces-
sary wastage.
At the same time bruising
is sometimes also caused in
working cattle on the property.
So producers should look to
their own methods, too, check-
ing the layout of yards and
paddocks particularly the
location and size of gates—
and keeping a strict eye on the
way their staff use dogs and
whips.
Speaking recently a promin-
ent beef-producer in Argentina
stressed the importance care-
ful selection of herd-bulls. He
said it is necessary to know
something of the line-breeding
of any bull, because it is
generally those with the quietest
temperament which are the
best foragers and reproduce
that quality in their stock. Any
temperamental disorder is
bound to show-up in handling,
often resulting in unnecessary
bruising.
Lean beef is what all house-
wives want, whether they live
in Australia or abroad. A light
fat-covering is all that’s needed.
It is therefore necessary to
select the right bulls for mating
with females likely to produce
early-maturing types which will
fatten young and give an eco-
nomic return either for domes-
tic consumption or for export.
Market for Cuils
G. B. S. Falkiner, president
of the Australian Association
of Stud Merino Breeders,
lately said that during a talk
with J. L. Shute, chairman of
the Australian Meat Board,
he learned that there is a good
overseas market for boned
mutton, to be used for trade-
meat, sausages, etc. In con-
sequence, culls —rams and
ewes —are bringing a good
price as boners and should be
sent to the meatworks. Even
if not very fat they could
bring a worth-while return to
growers and also help to gain
foreign currency for Australia
—much more profitable than
shearing them and possibly
destroying their carcasses.
New Sorghum-hybrid
“Belar”: After two years’
work the first Australian-bred
hybrid grain-sorghum seed
has been produced at the
Hermitage Regional Experi-
mental Station, near Warwick
(Q-).
The new strain —not yet
name'd at time of writing—
is superior to present varieties,
and seed will be released in
limited commercial quanti-
ties in the spring.
A full-scale introduction of
hybrid sorghums is expected
to add another million
bushels to Queensland’s
present sorghum-crop of about
four - million bushels an
increase of 25 per cent.
American growers are har-
vesting up to 40 per cent,
more grain to the acre with
hybrid strains than with the
older varieties being used in
Australia. With further
research, the Queensland
Agricultural Department’s
plant-breeders should be able
to introduce new and higher-
yielding strains in the near
future.
The first hybrid-sorghum
seed in the world was released
in America only three years
ago, and experiments are
being made at Armidale
(N.S.W.) with several hybrid-
sorghum varieties received
from there. The seed from
these strains, however, cannot
be used for propagation,
because it does not reproduce
true to type, but observation
of its growth and yield should
be instructive.
Hormones
“Carcoil”: Cattle should
never be treated with hormones
for fattening unless they are on
feed that will last at least for
five months
Best time for treatment is
between three or four months
before the beasts are due to be
marketed.
Hormones are chemical sub-
stances which occur naturally
in the body of animals and
regulate various activities. Tab-
lets may be mixed daily with
the feed where animals are
stall-fed or injected under the
skin at the back of the ear —
but not on any other part of
the beast, since it’s essential
that unassimilated fragments of
the chemical must not gain
entry to edible meat.
Hormones are not a food.
Their function is to direct
nutrition to lean meat at the
expense of fat, and they do
their work during the course of
fattening. They should never
be administered to breeding
or store-cattle or to poor
stock. Treat only steers and
bullocks, and then only when
good feed is assured until they
are marketed.
Kangaroo Meat
“Pieter Nuyts”: ’Roo meat
shipped from Westralia doesn't
all go as pet-food. A sizeable
trade has been developed with
European countries, mainly
Germany, where the steak is
taking the place of venison,
and ’roo-tail soup must be in
strong demand judging from
the number of tails shipped.
Some ’roo meat goes to the
U.S. for pet-food—a newspaper
report that some of it was find-
ing its way on to the table
there has been rejected by
W.A. authorities. U.S. food-
laws are the strictest and most
rigidly enforced in the world,
and all food imported for pets


Between
Ourselves
ft
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
must be covered with-sawdust,
charcoal or tar.
The ’roo - meat trade de-
veloped in W.A. as a result of
myxo. The railways had a lot
of refrigerated wagons and
road-vehicles designed for
rabbit-transport, and these were
offered to shooters in the Mur-
chison, where ’roos are a real
pest. The carcasses are carried
to Robbs Jetty (Fremantle)
meatworks and are inspected as
carefully as prime mutton
before being packed for export.
There’s one catch to this
trade —it thrives on bad
seasons. Good rains early this
year dispersed the ’roos and
made shooting unprofitable.
Trade will boom agaip when
the ’roos are forced back
around the waterholes. It’s a
pity they can’t be taken when
the feed is good, but it doesn’t
pay to follow them through
that country.
Growing Our
Tobacco
A ustrxlia's tobacco-con-
sumption in 1958-59 was
51-million lb. and is expected
to rise to lb. this
year. Our production for 1958-
59 was 12.3-million lb. of cured
leaf and is estimated.to reach
20-million lb. for 1960—about
38 per cent, of requirements.
There seems little likelihood
that supply will exceed require-
ments for years to come.
For the last 15 years Queens-
land has grown more than half
the total amount produced in
Australia, and has the potential
to step up production much
further. Of 12.3-million lb.
produced from 13,976 acres in
1957-58, Queensland grew a
record crop of 6,099,3901 b.
from 7493 acres. Tobacco is
now the State’s third-largest
agricultural crop, valued at £7
million. (Sugar, worth £39 mil-
lion, comes first, with wheat,
almost £8 million, second.)
Tobacco-growing in Austra-
lia began with the arrival of
the First Fleet. The British
Government, having lost the
tobacco-supplies of the Ameri-
can colonies, hoped to make
eastern Australia a tobacco-
producing colony. Philip
Schaeffer, self-styled “agricul-
tural supervisor,” had special
knowledge of tobacco-growing
and was detailed to establish
the industry on a commercial
basis. He was granted 140
acres at Parramatta for the ex-
periment, but neglected the
work and let the project fail.
In 1820 the superintendent
of Emu Plains Prison Farm
produced the first crop of com-
mercial tobacco, which sold at
4s. a pound. The industry made
little further progress until the
outbreak of the American Civil
War, when, owing to lack of
exports from the U.S.A., pro-
duction soared. In 1888-89 a
total of 7,025,0001 b. of cured
leaf was produced. When
American tobacco again be-
came available the use of home-
grown tobacco rapidly declined.
Tobacco has been grown
commercially in Queensland
for about 90 years, with fluc-
tuations in production caused
by diseases, pests and poor-
quality leaf. Oldest produc-
ing-centre in the State is the
alluvial-flats country around
Texas, Yelarbon and Ingle-
wood, almost on the N.S.W.
border. Here the crop was
grown for years, mainly by
share-farming Chinese, who
produced a heavy type of leaf
to be manufactured into pipe-
tobacco. At the turn of the
century three tobacco-factories
operated in Brisbane and peak
production was in 1905-06,
when 903 acres were planted.
The industry then gradually
declined and factories ceased
operations, due to the world-
wide change in smoking-habits
from pipes to cigarettes about
that time.
In 1927 the Queensland and
Commonwealth Governments
decided to search for districts
that would produce good
cigarette - tobacco, and the
Mareeba - Dimbulah area in
North Queensland was found
to be ideal. In 1928 the two
Governments established at
Mareeba an experimental farm
of eight acres, where excellent
results were obtained. In 1929-
30 commercial production be-
gan at Chewko, on Granite
Creek, where 26 farms were
established. In 1930 three pri-
vate farmers—Bartless, Veness
and Jenkinson —grew* excellent
tobacco on Emerald Creek in
the same district. About this
time flue-curing in artificially
heated barns replaced the older
method of curing by sun and
air.
Until the 1931-32 season,
when the yield was more than
2-million lb., no serious efforts
were made to expand the area
under crop. The Common-
wealth Government’s conces-
sional Customs-tariff to manu-
facturers using a percentage of
Australian leaf greatly helped
to expand and stabilise the
dustry. In 1935 the excise-di
on tobacco containing W h o ii
Australian leaf was lowered!'
Bd. a pound, and further 2
ference was given the next yea!
when import-duty was lowered
on leaf imported for use j Q l
manufacture of tobacco an
cigarettes which containe
specified proportions of a Us
tralian leaf. This applied ,r
tobacco-blends containing
least 5 per cent, of Australia,
leaf, or 3 per cent, for cigarette,
blends. These measures, witi
control of blue-mould, ’main
tained stable production until
a year or two after the out!
break of War 11.
In 1940-41 the area und
tobacco in all States was 855?
acres, but this fell to 3970 acres
between 1944 and 1946, an,
that level was maintained unii 1
the 1948-49 season.
Since then there has been;
sensational rise in leaf-prod®,
tion, with good price-level
especially in Queensland. Tit
Commonwealth Government
has steadily increased the per
centages of home-grown leaf!!
be vised by tobacco-manuf®
turers to qualify for conces-
sional duty-rates on imported
leaf. This year the proportions
are 28.5 per cent, for cigarette
and 24.5 per cent, for pipe-
tobacco, and lately the Govern
ment announced that from lull
1 next year the proportion ij
be increased to 35 per cent, i;
cigarettes and 32 per cent, it
pipe - tobacco. These prefer
ences have further stabilisedtl 1
industry, and planted acre® *
has constantly increased. 1
Price-levels in Queens!# (
have also been stabilised, ft®
an average of 33d. a pound J
1940-41 to 151.5 d. a pound
June, 1960.
Better returns and solutic
of other problems have raise ;
Queensland’s planted area fi 2
2677 acres in 1949-50 to #
acres in 1958-59, with 10,f {(
acres estimated for 1960. j
Principal producing areas
the State are Mareeba-Dif th
bulah, the Burdekin Valle;
Bundaberg and the TeS hr
Yelarbon - Inglewood triansi m
This season farmers inin
Glass, House Mountains® at
have grown 57 acres, *, bi
produced high - quality of
Tobacco-buyers, after inspee m
ing the cured leaf, have ® wi
that it will realise about W m
a pound at auction. As r# wl
from pineapples (the distrj in
main crop) has slumped ds- de
trously in the last 12 Q 1
most growers will switch W
tobacco this coming season- lea
The Mareeba-Dimbulah 1
trict in the north P rotll
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/7/’60)
Queensland should have good rains along the coast, on
the central highlands and Darling Downs, and about the
Maranoa and Warrego during August, although rainfall may
be poor in the rest of the State. Light to moderate patchy
rains should follow in September and October, with good
falls in a large part of the State during November.
In N.S.W. there should be good rains in the coastal
districts, on the tablelands and in the north-western areas
during August, with light to moderate rain elsewhere. Rain-
fall is likely to be patchy during September and October,
although good general rains should fall in November.
There will probably be moderate rains, mainly below
normal, in Victoria during August, although better falls
should be received in the east-central and upper-north-
eastern districts and along the West Coast. General rains
should follow during September.
Rainfall looks like being patchy in South Australia
during August, although moderate falls, mainly below
normal, should occur in the agricultural areas. Better rains
should be received in the agricultural areas during Sep-
tember, although falls may be light in the interior.
The south-western agricultural areas of Western Aus-
tralia should have light to moderate patchy rains during
August, and similar conditions are likely elsewhere in the
State, except in the Kimberleys and north-west.
LENNOX WALKER.


Frame your view
with Wunderlich Aluminium Windows
cost a lot less than you think
■
mm.
mm
m
UNLIMITED WINDOW
ARRANGEMENTS . . .
available from the big
size-range of Double Hung,
Picture, Sliding Picture
and Horizontal Sliding
Windows.
Save money with Wunderlich
Aluminium Windows . . .
• Economical in price
• Never need painting
• Ideal for new or remodelled
homes
• Suitable for Brick, Timber
or Asbestos-Cement
• Will not warp or shrink
• Rattle free—no disturbed
nights
• No maintenance costs
• Fly screens available for all
sizes
FREE
detailed colour folder on
Aluminium Windows available
from Dept. "AW," Wunderlich
Limited, Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney,
Here's luxury utils best. ..
Wunderlich Aluminium Windows are
economical in price—easy to handle—
sash lifts, pulls and locks are built in—no
time-absorbing fittings to apply
on the job.
Specify Wunderlich Aluminium Windows
and forget about costly installation ,
maintenance and painting problems.
Aluminium Windows
a product of the Metal Working Division
u
/
m
a
BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN. MX 2411
•3.AW.1
it oer cent, of the State s
Frol m an eight-acre ex-
2t»Sa farm >" >928 the
p ~nder the crop has grown
are sooo acres, and will be m-
toJsed in the coming season.
SgSnplction ofthe Tinaroo
Falls Dam will provide lrriga-
Sn for 78,000 acres spread
over 1000 farms, most of which
will produce tobacco.
Development in the Burde-
kin Irrigation Area has been
,ven more spectacular. Here
f he few acres planted in 1948
have grown to more than 1000
acres in each of the last few
years. The Bundaberg district,
well known for its sugar, has
turned to tobacco and produces
high-quality leaf. In 1958-59
on ly 111 acres of experimental
plots were grown, one farmer
producing five tons of excellent
tobacco from eight acres. This
season 547 acres were planted,
and 1000 to 1500 acres are
likely to be planted in 1960-61.
The Texas-Yelarbon-Inglewood
triangle has adapted itself well
to changing needs and now
grows well over 2000 acres
annually.
Now that markets for
many crops are unsatisfactory,
growers in other districts are
experimenting with tobacco,
and with many irrigation pro-
jects under construction new
areas will come into produc-
tion.
In 1949 a Central Tobacco
Advisory Committee, consist-
ing of representatives
of growers, manufacturers and
Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernment departments, was set-
up to make recommendations
on factors affecting the indus-
try. This led to proposed long-
term research, and subsequently
Commonwealth and State funds
were provided for the establish-
ment of the programme, sup-
ported by an annual levy of
Af a pound on leaf sold by
growers and Id. on each pound
? ea f purchased by manufac-
turers. The Tobacco Industry
trust Account was established
oy legislation in 1955 to collect
this levy.
The Queensland Government
« established tobacco experi-
™ntal stations at Inglewood,
at p a C !i° Uth op the State, and
bulaF, rada 10 the Mareeba-Dim-
of tnh Urea ' ere 11 varieties
mon!H aCC °’ all resistant to blue-
with r are now being tested,
m m id Pr t ,s ‘ n 8 / esul,s',Blue-
which L a fungus disease
in a ii attac ks tobacco-plants
*4s up e ?o°k SrOW,h and f
Queendc t 0 P er cent - °f
When Sa h^ s leaf each Year-
leased t n eSe Var t et tes are re-
_ § r °wers the produc-
tion of leaf to the acre will be
greatly increased. Introduc-
tion of wiser marketing-policies
and more effective control of
diseases and pests have con-
tributed to producing a higher
proportion of good-quality leaf
than was possible 10 years ago.
Credit is due to the Queens-
land marketing board formed
in 1948 and instrumental in
introducing auctions for selling
leaf in place of the former
method of selling by apprais-
ment. Prices have improved
under the new system.
Continued successful expan-
sion depends on the growers,
who must see that only high-
quality leaf is produced.
Farmers who lack experience
in growing and curing could
cause disaster by flooding the
market with inferior leaf, as
happened in the early 1930’5,
when good prices attracted
many new growers and a high
percentage of poor-quality leaf
was produced and marketed.
Strict attention to produc-
tion-methods and careful pre-
paration of leaf for market
are necessary to keep the in-
dustry in its present prosperous
state.
NORTH.
Crosscut
“R.R.D.”: C. A. Loneragan,
elected president of the N.S.W.
branch of the A u s t r a 1 i an
Society of Breeders of British
sheep, has been a member of
the society’s committee for a
number of years. He breeds
Southdowns on his property
near Gulgong.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FREDERICK PATRUSH-
OFF of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
FAY RUTH PATRUSHOFF, has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 5936 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 20th August
1900 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MICHELL & GEE,
Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
C. A. If. HARMS, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Bentham’s “Flora
Australiensis,” in seven volumes,
published 1863-70.—7002.
The Cape Horners’ Club of
Australia —qualification for mem-
bership is to have rounded The
Horn under square-rig—is looking
for a suitable film (with wind-
jammers, etc.) for screening for
their members. They would like
to have it for next month. The
club meets in Adelaide. —7003.
Copy of “Lone Hand” of July
1, 1910—7004.
Information Sought
I have a cottage occupied by an
ex-serviceman. If l were to sell
the cult age to another ex-service-
man could he obtain possession if
he wished to occupy it ?
If you were to sell your cottage
to another ex-serviceman he would
not be able to obtain possession
for occupation unless he offered
alternative accommodation, or was
a protected person under the
Landlord and Tenant (Amendment)
Act. An ex-serviceman is not
necessarily a protected person. The
protection given by the Act to
ex-servicemen depends upon the
length of time since their dis-
charge and there are in fact
relatively few ex-servicemen left
who are protected. The protection
of the Act also extends to other
people, such as certain elderly
people and pensioners.
* * * *
Did the American Indians take
scalps only from dead enemies ?
How was scalping performed ?
Scalping was performed by
making a quick knife-stroke around
the head, followed by a strong
tug of the scalp-lock, the small
hair-braid which hung from the
back of the head. Generally scalps
were taken from slain enemies, but
sometimes they were taken before
killing to increase the victim’s
agony. Occasionally captives were
scalped alive and set free as an
incitement to retaliation.
* * * *
What is the relative authority of
parent and master over school-
children ?
Generally speaking, the school-
master occupies the same position
as a parent in relation to his
pupils while they are at school and
probably, though this is not a clear
point of law, while they are coming
or going. At other times a
schoolmaster has no authority over
his P u Pil s whatever, - except when
a child is wearing a school uniform.
In this case > if the child is doin S
w with the authority of
s against the W)shes
instruction of the master, then
j s jjj-gjy that the master has the
authority to forbid the child to do
fjiat thing and to enforce his
w ishes with punishment, because
j s probably the duty of a head-
master to maintain the reputation
and credit of his schoo i.
Being in the position of a parent,
a schoolmaster is entitled to
“Come in. I hope I haven't kept you Waiting.”
administer reasonable physical and
other punishment. Reasonable
punishment would depend on the
nature of the offence, the age of
the child and the necessity in
certain cases of discouraging
others. Any punishment which is
unreasonable, either because it is
too severe in relation to the child,
or because it is unreal in the light
of the offence, or because it is
sadistic, is an assault punishable
by a criminal court, and if any
damage flows from it, it would
give rise to a civil action.
* * * *
Where does the term “Kultur-
kampf” come from ?
The term comes from Bismarck’s
struggle to destroy Church influence
in State matters. It originated in
action taken by the ecclesiastical
authorities against those Catholics
who refused to recognise the deci-
sions of the Vatican Council of
1870, and their demand that such
Catholics be removed from teach-
ing-posts in State schools. Against
interference in matters of State
policy Bismarcjc instituted a number
of reforms, among which were:
the clergy were forbidden to dis-
cuss State questions in the pulpit;
supervision of education and mar-
riage was declared to be purely a
civil matter; the teaching of the
monastic orders was placed under
State supervision and the Jesuits
expelled; and State tribunals were
set-up to deal with offences of the
clergy. To all these measures the
Pope forbade obedience.
Brief Answers
W.C.: Latest information from
the Department of Immigration:
Immigrants from January, 1948, to
April, 1960, totalled 835,182 males
and 668,957 females; no research
has been undertaken on the sub-
ject of the capacity of the immi-
grant population to reproduce
itself. The cost of assisted immi-
gration from July, 1948, to June,
1960, was £75,903,395.... J.A.:
Other words ending in “dous”
are : jeopardous—perilous : nodous
—knotty....W. J. President of
the Animal Welfare League is
Mr. A. Lawrence, and the
secretary, Mr. Sanders. There is
a committee of 12. The league,
whose activities extend through-
out the State, has no power
to take legal action, b’ut in
the few cases necessary it has
obtained a magistrate’s warrant to
investigate cases of maltreatment.
The league’s address is Tyndale
Chambers, 242 Pitt Street, Sydney.
.... J.L.: The original Big Berthas
were 42cm. howitzers, produced at
the Skoda works in Austria-
Hungary, and used by the Germans
against, the forts at Liege and
Namur in 1914. It was assumed
that they originated from the
Krupp works in Germany, hence
the nickname after Frau Bertha
von Bohlen, head of the Krupp
family... .P.W.: Blind Hookey
differs slightly from Slippery Sam
in that each player, including the
dealer, is dealt an equal share of
the cards in the pack. Instead
of seeing a hand of three, the
player bets against the dealer (or
banker) on each card. u e
not look at the card before If
and must gauge his chance.' 1
remembering which cards t
been played. As in Slipper, f
the dealer must accept ann
K.B.P.: The signal by*
soldiers in the British Arm*
b -°m ght up lo « heir W;
night H.R.: Best effort in,
National title was to be run
up in 1933. .. .T.F.H.: Yo“
find it in The- Animals L
Forgot.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must amir
all MSS. No liability is K ,
taken re contributions volun In
submitted; and no MS. »i|
returned unless stamps ac»
pany. MSS. should be
to the Editor; they will be ®
sidered for publication os
understanding that they my,
shortened or altered as llieiii
thinks necessary.
M.T.: Glad to hear from ;
again, but really can’t can
at “turbines producing ind®.
hum”... .W.R.L.: No go
Maudie and Amy and Man :
Flo.... Reva: The only stanza;
liked was the second; and::
one would never pass the Relipt
Editor... .T.M.: Curious: li
see another... .J.S.P.: The p
won’t do; but glad to see t
incredible photograph. ...R.SI,
Stories, feature articles iii
verse contributions are p»E
for on acceptance. Pan
graphs are paid for on pm
cation, and the contribute
must claim for paymet:
Claims which state I
section in which paragraph
appear and the date t
appearance will be paid mm
promptly than those wt
don’t.
(Rhodesia): Not a hope at*
J e n g t h... .C.A.B.: “Septa*
Flight” not good enougfi
July... .M.B'.: The plot / f
but you haven’t improved os
original... .A.C.C.: You say !
self that dying is an easy war
....K.B.P.: “The .soft#
and sleep-soothed rustling
petered-out shortly after it 1 ‘
... .J.McK.: Try .some ?
graphs before the next
opus... .G.E.: Has. posf
if you do some pruning, an ■
your characters more likely
....Ruby McC.: Here they W
... .T.R.: Although you JJ,
fifteen.... L.P.: Maybe ; , (
feel that way, but why f
out on me? fjj
written, but more suitajej
medical journal of the
variety....L.B.: Where »
go to skool?
GRASSHOPPERS
Us grasshoppers are a peculi
And human beings might t “ inK ' ,
But we put sport first and, c
may,
We’re off to the races every «.J
Like Ascot, it is, with toppers t
You should see us all hanging -
rails.
And one thing- above everything
hate , „„ g
Is for the favorite to be ne
there in the straight. , { J
W T e loudly declare in each 'J
“It’s not a hopper at all, 11 ‘ j
d’you hear?”


THE HOLLIDAYS
“This time We're going to try something different!”
New Recordings
A Zoological Touch
Animals scamper animatedly
over both sides of a record
issued by H.M.V. In Proko-
fieff’s imaginative Peter and the
Wolf (ALP 1728) Michael
Flanders humorously narrates,
while the Philharmonia
Orchestra under Efrem Kurtz
tells in music a story to appeal
equally to children and adults.
The reverse side has Saint-
lens’s Carnival of the
Animals, a series of riotous
vignettes in which donks,
kangaroos and elephants
disport with a brace of crazy
pianists an altogether
delightful cbncoction whose
one serious note is struck in
The Swan,” that melodious
Piece of dying-duck imagery
beloved of prima ballerinas.
* * ♦>
Rita Streich
Music much more delicate
is offered by the brilliant
y° u ng German soprano in
rzjy Franz Schubert
ft™‘£ sBs) - which
It ic eut . sc h Grammophon.
tact J s . e ect i° n at once rich and
ran of U ’ i 6 fine son S s i n all,
and § “Ti, “Hedge-roses”
so rout ” to those not
nlatfr> en earc i on the concert-
& \ nd inclu ding the
to r« on the Rock,”
A t, USer -l c i anne t obbligato.
heder Utu] ex P°sitioii of
lleder ’ w*h Erik Werba’s
accompaniments a match for
the singer’s high artistry.
♦+♦ *** ♦+♦
TV Themes <
A feature of TV which was
probably not anticipated when
visual-wireless was first brought
into the home is the impact
made on the viewer by the
music which is part and parcel
of every televised show.
Whether it’s a Western, a
private-eye confession, comedy,
romance or plain blood-and-
thunder, it can’t get by without
appropriate music to convey
the mood, set the tempo for
the action, heighten the
suspense and in general help to
build-up the atmosphere
demanded by the show. Every
TV-serial has its own theme-
song and many of them are
very good indeed. On Impact
(L 10876) R.C.A. has collected
a dozen of the most popular of
these themes, recorded by
Buddy Morrow’s orchestra.
Among those well known on
Australian channels are “Naked
City,” “Rawhide,” “Perry
Mason,” “Sea Hunt,” “High-
way Patrol” and “Peter Gunn.”
The last-named of this batch
was composed by Henry
Mancini, who is also respon-
sible for the music of “Mr.
Lucky,” a series popular in the
U.S. but not yet seen here. It
can be heard here, though—on
R.C.A.’s Music from Mr.
Lucky (L 10890).
Georgian England
Visions of George I proceed-
ing up the Thames in the Royal
Barge while close behind, in
another barge, Handel conducts
his latest composition for the
edification of his monarch and
former boss, is conjured in
Coronet’s latest release,
Handel’s Water - Music
(KLC2723). Ormandy conducts
the Philadelphia in his own re-
scored arrangement of some of
the sparkling movements. The
reverse side carries Hamilton
Harty’s arrangement of the
same composer’s Royal Fire-
works Music, which proved to
be the only thing that wasn’t a
fiasco at the celebrations for
which it was commissioned by
George II —the Peace of Aix-
la-Chapelle.
Based on the life and music
of Edvard Grieg, the Song of
Norway (OCPLI3I3) is a
platter from H.M.V. which
takes most of the best-known
excerpts from the Broadway
play. The elegiac quality in
Grieg’s music is given full
recognition by a cast of
distinction.
❖ ❖ »>
Romberg Melodies
From R.C.A., on both mono
and stereo (SL 10891) comes
Music of Sigmund Romberg, a
potpourri of 12 of the
Hungarian’s most romantic and
enduring tunes culled from
“Maytime,” “The Student
Prince,” “The Desert Song”
and other musicomedies which
rocketed Romberg to the top.
George Melachrino guides his
own orchestra neatly through
them.
Another attractive R.C.A.
disk is Lanza Sings Caruso
Favorites (5L16224). Here the
late film-star-tenor sings a
dozen of the Neapolitan-style
songs, including five by Tosti,
with which Caruso’s name was
strongly linked. If Mario
doesn’t reach the great Enrico’s
standard, at least he brings to
them a first-rate voice, virility
and his own gusty brand of
magnetism. Certainly one for
Lanza fans.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
American Ballet
The marches of John Philip
Sousa may not seem very
promising material on which to
base a ballet, but, asked by the
New York City Ballet to do so,
Hershy Kay set to work adapt-
ing and orchestrating Sousa’s
music into classic-ballet form.
Sousa's martial tunes, given
new rhythms and harmonisa-
tion where needed, were fitted
into five “Campaigns,” danced
by “Regiments” and apparently
the New Yorkers liked it.
R.C.A.’s version of Stars and
Stripes (L 16228) is played by
the Boston Pops Orchestra,
conducted by Arthur Fiedler.
On the reverse side of the disk
is another Kay adaptation for
the same ballet-co. For Cake-
walk he goes back over a
century to another American
composer, Louis Gottschalk,
much of whose music, written
in New Orleans in the 1860’s,
anticipated ragtime and jazz.
In among the Gottschalk
themes Kay interpolates
minstrel and street-ballad tunes
—one old imperishable that
breaks through is “Won't You
Buy My Pretty Flowers.”


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
No less glamorous and exciting than
the opening night was the second-night
gala - performance of “The Merry
Widow,” proceeds of which were for
Melbourne Legacy. Southern Command
Band played outside the Tivoli Theatre.
The guests-of-honor, Lieut.-Governor
Sir Edmund Herring, Dame Mary
Herring and their daughter Margaret
were welcomed by the president of Mel-
bourne Legacy, Dr. W. C. Radford, and
Mrs. Radford. Dame Mary wore with
her black slipper-satin gown, which
featured a full-length flared skirt, a grey
Arctic-fox stole. Mrs. Radford’s choice
was a full-skirted ballerina-length gown
of midnight - blue brocade embroidered
with gold-leaves. Before the performance
Dame Mary and Mrs. Radford were pre-
sented with posies by a Junior Legatee,
10-year-old' Christine Tatnell. The night
netted £2OOO.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Look Who’s Here,” a fast-moving,
amusing and well-acted revue performed
by the Union Theatre Repertory com-
pany, opened at the new Russell Street
Theatre. This theatre, formerly a church,
was bought by the Council of Adult
Education, and although small it has
been renovated and well-equipped to
make it suitable for all types of modern
entertainment. The Union co. will use the
theatre for five months each year ; for
the rest of the year it will be in its
original home, the University’s Union
Theatre. The distinguished first - night
audience included Lieut.-Governor Sir
Edmund Herring, Dame Mary Herring
and their daughter Margaret ; the Lord
Mayor, Mrs. Bernard Evans,and their
daughter Margot; University Vice-
Chancellor Sir George Paton and Lady
Paton ; Lady Dean and her daughter
M rs. lan Tulloch ; Opposition Leader
Clive Stoneham and Mrs. Stoneham;
Lady Selleck and her daughter Mrs.
Geoffrey Tolson; Sir John Latham;
Dr. Jean Battersby ; Dr. and Mrs. W. K.
Braun ; Miss Gertrude Johnson; and
Pauline Oulton.
☆ A ☆
Mr. and Mrs. A. Markillie, of Kew,
have announced the engagement of their
elder daughter Gabrielle to Laurance,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. R. E.
Hodgkinson, of North Balwyn. Laurance,
who was educated at De La Salle, is in
his father’s printing-business ; Gabrielle,
who is an old Gerrazzano girl, works with
her father in his business. Gabrielle is
wearing a solitaire-diamond ring with
baguette diamond-shoulders. The wed-
ding is planned for next February.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Killough gave
a great deal of pleasure to the friends
they invited to a private screening of
the film “The Crowning Experience,” at
the Windsor Theatre. Dramatic and
heart-warming, the film tells the story
of how Mary Macleod Bethune, who
was born of slave parents in the U.S.
Deep South, made a dream come true.
That dream was a college for her fellow
negroes. Later in her life the then Presi-
dent of the U.S. invited her to join his
Advisory Board. The part of Mrs.
Bethune was played and sung beautifully
by Muriel Smith, a negress who has
sung at the Metropolitan and Covent
Garden.
☆ ☆ ☆
Six years ago Shirley Venn went to
England where for some time she
demonstrated Australian food with the
Trade Publicity Department at Australia
House. Then she joined the staff of the
Australian High Commissioner, giving
lectures to various groups, such as
chambers of commerce, and lunch-hour
talks at factories, on various aspects of
Australian life. On her return Shirley
joined a public-relations firm and formed
a play-reading group. This leisure-time
hobby brought her to her present job of
promoting the permanent Union Reper-
tory company, now working in conjunc-
tion with the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
An imposing life-size Mammy from
the Deep South, with gold buttons for
eyes and multi-colored petticoats, greeted
guests arriving at Ciro’s for the dinner-
dance held by the younger members’
group of the E.S.U. to assist its scholar-
ship fund. . The Mammy-theme was
repeated by small replicas on the tables,
and the walte were decorated with posters
of Marilyn Monroe, American gobs,
Cadillacs, cowboys and Red Indians. By
courtesy of two business-houses, women
guests received a small phial of perfume
and their escorts cigarettes. The 250
guests were welcomed by dance-commit,
tee chairman Mrs. William Banks, and
Mr. Banks, assisted by group-president
Ronald Thompson, Jean Cameron and
Betty Nutting. Mrs. Banks chose a short
frock of royal-blue chiffon which fea-
tured a draped off-the-shoulder bodice
and full skirt. Jean’s full-skirted short
frock was of red-shot green taffeta.
Among the guests were Mrs. Brian Ely,
whose lipstick-pink silk-taffeta frock was
short and full and worn with a fitted
matching jacket with ruffled sleeves
Elizabeth Johns, who chose a full-length
gown of pale-blue chiffon ; Mrs. Jack
White, the bodice of whose white faille
frock was studded with sapphire-blue
rhinestones ; Laurette Hill, whose olive-
green satin frock carried pearls and
emerald-green rhinestones ; Anne Dixon,
who wore an ankle-length frock of dusty-
pink silk-taffeta, the bodice draped and
pleated across one shoulder ; and Jenny
Wark, whose ballerina-frock was of teal-
blue velvet.
# #
Cyril Ritchard drew a record attend-
ance of 500 to The Bamboo Room at
Chevron Hotel when he spoke to mem-
bers of the Australian-American Asso-
ciation and their friends of incidents in
his theatrical career. In the absence of
Lady Casey, who is president of the
women’s group of the A.-A.A., vice-
president Mrs. Charles Lane introduced
Cyril to his audience. A charcoal-and-
light-grey-checked suit was worn by Mrs,
Lane with a high turban of beige and
forest-green jersey. Mrs. W. W. Killough,
Mrs. E. K. Smart, Mrs. Keith Rigg and
Mrs. J. Woodlock were on the dais with
the vice-president.
☆ fa ☆
The women’s committee of the
National Trust of Australia (Victoria)
will hold an Exhibition of Miniatures at
Como from August 19 to 28. On wed-
days it will be open from 10.30 a.m. until
5 p.m. and on Sundays from noon until
5 p.m. This will be the first exhibition
of miniatures ever held in Victoria and
will be a rare opportunity for the public
to see many fine examples of this art
from private collections. Already the
committee has been promised over 101'
exhibits ranging from 14th-century
manuscripts, through the Tudor period to
the present day. There are samples ot
every medium miniature-painting ooe
can think of ; parchment, vellum, mutton'
bone, playing-card ivory, porcelain and
marble. Included is a miniature of Lad)
Martin, wife of Sir James Martin, after
whom Sydney’s Martin Place was naffld
There is also one of Betsey BalcombeT
ancestress of Dame Mabel Brookes, s )
well as several portraits by Stella Man-
(known for her painting of the
family), two miniatures by Cosway a JJ
Plimer and miniatures of Sir W- "
Porter (he was a president of the R°! J
Irish College of Surgeons and an ancc-
tor of the well-known Leeper family/


~- l irne) and his wife Jane. Admis-
Mel to the exhibition will be 2s. 6d. for
S Tlts and Is. for children, plus the usual
entrance-fee to historic Como.
SYDNEY
This has been a sad week for many.
The shadow of the kidnapped child
Graeme Thorne, has muted much of
« activity, and the death of two of
Svdnev’s best-known women, Mrs John
Moore and Mrs. Tom Bateman, shocked
and distressed people in every phase of
city life- , , ,
Yet there were many happy aspects to
the week, too. The sun shone in a crisp,
blue sky for the week-end, and there
was snow and early wattle on the moun-
tains, A succession of fine shows gave
theatre- and concert-goers a treat. On
Monday the “Ziegfeld Follies” opened
with a froth of prettiness that was cheer-
ing. (The ballet, waving huge white
ostrich-feather fans, made one wish for
a return to fashion of these beautiful
things.) On Tuesday we saw a delight-
ful performance of “Twelfth Night” by
the John Alden Shakspeare company.
Lady Dunrossil was the guest-of-honor,
and Sir Bernard and Lady Heinze were
also present. On Wednesday, Igor
Markevich conducted the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra in a most memorable
concert, and on Friday the Ensemble
Theatre revived the genuine melodrama,
“The Drunkard,” as an amusing
curiosity. Everyone was given peanuts
as they entered the theatre, by the way,
so that they could have something to
throw at the villain, but, sad to report,
many distinguished citizens ate their
peanuts instead.
☆ ☆ ☆
Everyone was stunned by the sudden-
ness of the death of Beatrice Bateman.
She was so brilliant and dynamic a
personality, her interests so manifold,
her sphere of influence so great, it was
difficult to believe that she had gone.
Though she was only 43 when she died,
she had crowded into her lifetime more
than most could achieve in twice that
hme. A barrister, M.A. and LL.B., she
was the mother of seven children, a
hostess of great accomplishment, a radio-
and TV-commentator, a worker for many
charitable organisations, a member of a
council and a committee within the
mversity of Sydney, a lover of the
catre and an organiser of great talent,
r, f SOrr ow of her husband, Dr. Tom
e man, and their children, her mother,
f fl m S; i Rachel Mc Girr, 0.8. E., and her
1 1S shared by hundreds of friends
mam kneW Beatrice Bateman, and by
infill ac f m ired her for her
c > courage and good works.
* ☆ ☆
widI a< r yS ore > a distinguished lady of
durine ln , these P arts ’ who died
Justice Sir C T Week Was the daughter of
was a** F - kan § er Owen. Mrs. Moore
1932 ? ciated wd .k the A.B.C. from,
early n ?- n • directed many of its
y actlv ities, arranging the first
women’s session and producing outside
broadcasts. Listeners all over Australia
will remember her as a fine speaker and
a sympathetic interviewer. Her work for
Red Cross goes back to 1914, when she
was assistant honorary - secretary in
N.S.W. for the British Red Cross, and
for 43 years she faithfully translated that
organisation’s ideals into a living reality.
Herself an artist of note, she was married
to architect and artist John Moore, and
with her husband she shared a great
community of interests and a great
enthusiasm for new adventures and
travels. She led a rich, full and
courageous life, and she shared with all
whom she could reach the goodness she
found in living.
Sydney for the past week or so has
been brightened by the presence of
charming film-actress Billie Burke, who
was guest-of-honor at the opening night
of “The Ziegfeld Follies’ at the Tivoli.
Her large eyes, her fluffy golden hair
(which can be “let-down” to below her
waist), her infectious giggle, her frivolous
flower-hats, have all fulfilled the expecta-
tions of those who know her from her
films and love her piquant femininity.
Miss Burke was the second wife of the
great producer Florenz Ziegfeld, and is
accompanied on her Australian visit by
her granddaughter Florenz Stephenson.
The fuss made over Dr. Barbara
Moore by folks all along her rainy
route from Albury to Blacktown has
some people puzzled. They cannot see
the point of all this walking for its own
sake. They forget the debt that so many
of us, as pedestrians, owe to Dr. Babs.
Since the days of the Flying Pieman
(who would walk to Parramatta and
back twice in one day), the name of
pedestrian has been little honored.
Indeed, if one wanted to say that any-
thing was dull, stodgy, uninteresting,
one said it was “pedestrian.” But Dr.
Babs has given it an air of dash and
daring, and we should be grateful to
her.
So many more people are taking-up
pedestrianism these days that the police
have been giving lessons to beginners all
last week. It has been most polite and
pleasant; “Keep to the left,’’ “Cross
at the correct places,” “Watch the
policeman.” This week we are to have
our exams, as it were, .to see how well
we have learned, and the punishments
—i.e., fines —for failing are to be severe.
Let us hope we watch our step, are a
credit to our training, and don’t let Dr.
Babs down.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Just Off Broadway” is the catchy
name the students and staff of the
Sydney Technical College have given
their revue, which they will stage on
29th and 30th of this month. Producer
is Patricia Pettit, who is a film-examiner
in the film-library of the college, and
who came to Australia with her husband
only five years ago. Formerly a pro-
fessional dancer in England, Mrs. Pettit
has trained a special corps of 12 students
as dancers in the revue and is managing
a cast of 35 in a programme which in-
cludes many original items. “Just Off
Broadway” will be shown in the Turner
Hall Auditorium of the New Commerce
Building, which is very attractively
decorated and seats 600.
☆ ☆ ☆
To celebrate the jubilee of the Girl
Guides’ Association and to say “Thank
you” to the St. Ives Community, there
will be an exhibition of paintings by
leading Sydney artists at the St. Ives
Community Centre on August 18, 19
and 20. At the opening day Mrs. Charles
Walton (Nancy Bird) will be chief
speaker.
Many well-known women artists are
represented among those exhibiting at
this exhibition and include Jean Apple-
ton, Judy Cassab, Margaret Coen, Sheila
McDonald, Grace Crossington-Smith,
Elsie Dangerfield, Nancy Borlase, Hanka
Jaskovic and Alison Rehfisch.
☆ ☆ ☆
Those who love objets d’art will have
an opportunity to see a beautiful exhi-
bition at the Northbridge home of Mrs.
J. Rankin from Friday, July 29, to
Friday, August 5. There will be a collec-
tion of antique French shoes on display,
all square-toed and marked “left” and
“right,” as in earlier times there was no
difference in the shape. There will also
be some of Mrs. T. Wilson’s prize-
winning tableaux of miniatures, includ-
ing The Olde Curiosity Shoppe (featuring
50 miniature antiques), Swan Lake, Sleep-
ing Beauty and a Parisian Hat Salon.
The Show is in aid of combined charities,
of which The Smith Family is one.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is a reporj that old-fashioned
pantalettes are the latest thing in London
and New York. They end just below the
knee and button with a frill, sorhetimes
under full skirts, sometimes under tunic-
styles. The idea is certainly engaging.
It shouldn’t be long before we see them
here.


WRITERS
Expert marketing service, under direction
of successful author, available. Reading
fee £ I per MS, complete criticism and
sale if suitable at normal commission rate.
F6r prompt service submit MS with fee to
LITERARY ASSOCIATION,
Box 124, Benalla, Vic.
disastrous “Tyl Eulenspiegel,” pro-
duced in New York after Nijinsky had
demanded, as a condition of his stay-
ing with the company, that he should
have complete control; whereupon the
management had withdrawn and left
him to his fate. It was this tour under
Nijinsky which gave such a bad name
to Diaghilev’s productions that he was
never again able to send a company to
America.
The dry, calm, year -by - year
chronicle of one of the most vivacious
and exciting theatre-companies in his-
tory, no doubt made more terse by the
abridgements of the translator, Vera
Bowen, is one of those rare, satisfying
jobs by an expert (Grigoriev was
trained at the Marinsky theatre). He
parades none of the terms dear to
balletomaniacs and sees the hysteria of
such scandalous first-nights as the
premiere of “L’Apres Midi” more from
the point of view of the box-office and
the worry of Diaghilev lest he lose his
reputation. But he seems to forget
nothing; you see Diaghilev welcoming
new choreographers and after a while
ruthlessly discarding them at the height
of their power, scouting for new
dancers, studying like a musicologist
old and forgotten scores that may be
made into new ballets, engaging and
quarrelling with painters, musicians and
choreographers, arranging European,
London and South American seasons.
Probably no better or more complete
portrait will ever be built-up of
Diaghilev or his company.
Romola Nijinsky’s portrait of her
husband, Nijinsky, reprinted now as a
“Penguin Biography,” gives something
of the other side of the Diaghilev-
Nijinsky story; and, while it lacks the
detachment and organisation of Gri-
goriev’s book, is nevertheless a rich,
full picture, with a personal appeal of
its own.
Other new Penguins include transla-
tions of Descartes’s Discourse on
Method, by Arthur Wollaston, Plato’s
Gorgias, by W. Hamilton, in which
Socrates ties Gorgias, Polus and Cal-
licles in knots over the value of oratory,
and in which Plato really lashes out
at the State and statesmen who, before
he wrote the book, condemned Socrates
to death:—
You are extolling men who have
regaled the Athenians by giving them
their fill of what they desired, and
people say that they have made
Athens great; what you do not per-
ceive is that through the efforts of
these earlier statesmen it is bloated
and rotten to the core. .They have
glutted the state with harbors and
dockyards and walls and tribute and
rubbish of that sort . . .
There is also a fascinating prose
translation by A. T. Hatto of the 13th-
century romance-poem Tristan, by
Gottfried von Strassburg, with another
prose translation of the poem he got it
from, Tristran, by Thomas of Britain,
who wrote in the previous century;
both only steps on the way from much
earlier beginnings to the rhapsodies of
Tennyson and Wagner, but in Strass-
burg’s case, a pretty big step of some
20,000 lines of poetry or 300 pages of
Penguin prose.
There are three rather good new
Penguin detective-novels. In The
Beckoning Lady Margery Allingham
has produced a heroine rather above
the general run of detective grouse-
sorts; it is a study of a girl bred to
marry into a ruling-class which no
longer exists, and who therefore marries
a police-inspector. A Kiss Before
Dying, by Ira Levin, is an extraordinary
study of an American college-student
who made a business of knocking-off
beautiful and rich co-eds; and Docken
Dead, by John Trench, adds to the
excitement of murder the vertigo of
following the investigation with moun-
taineers. The victim (he has been par-
ticularly cruel to women) is found
hanging from the top of a difficult
climb, and an additional novelty is a
description of a new, almost mechani-
cal method of climbing called “tension-
climbing.” There is also The Sea
Mystery, by Freeman Wills Crofts, and
that superb example of early-Gardner,
The Case of the Curious Bride, where
so much depends on Perry Mason’s
brilliant manipulation of doorbells.
The Penguin Special reprint of Ping-
chia Kuo’s China: New Age and New
Outlook gives a detached and compre-
hensive description of the economic and *
social revolution which showed-up the
failure of the Kuomintang and led to
Communist dictatorship. This book,
brought up to date since first published
in 1956, should be read by all interested
in Far Eastern affairs.
COLD-WAR WORLD
At least within a cold-war world
Where devices tick and satellites squeak
Love’s wars are here and sweaty,
Its weapons still antique.
Let those whose brains are electronic
Orbit lonely as a moon.
For lovers, one bed together
Cannot come too soon. ■
Lovers lie face to face, however
Frail the cells within their marrow,
Curved like two drawn bows
Joined by a single arrow.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
New English Poets
English poetry has been in the
doldrums -since the huge and enigmatic
wind of Dylan Thomas subsided; but
that the English haven’t given up try-
ing is shown by The Solitudes, by
Ronald Duncan (Faber). The title-
poem is the protest of a man cruelly
misused by a woman; the 27 sections
are in different forms; number 22 (for
adults only) is a version of one of
Donne’s vigorous efforts:—
Do me a favor, treat me with
contempt :
Laugh at my poetry, say my last
play’s dull, a bore,
Not half as good as one I wrote
before.
Find where my faith hides and
what my ideals are—
Or were, then ridicule them. Beg
for my heart
And when I give it to you
Bounce it casually on the floor—
No more!
That’s not enough! Do more!
The book concludes more hopefully
with the words of a charming cantata
for tenor, soprano and choir, set by
Benjamin Britten and sung at the wed-
ding of the Earl and Countess of Hare-
wood.
There are no such extremes of
emotion in The Cocks of Hades
(Faber), by Constantine C. A. Try-
panis, a Greek writing in English,
partly because he isn’t weighed-down
with love or marriage but mostly be-
cause he is a latter-day Imagist; i.e.,
he empties a jigsaw-puzzle of visions on
his page and leaves it to the reader to
sort them into a picture. They are
mostly Mediterranean pictures:—
Minoan ships are sleeping in the
trees,
The tight-hipped men, frieze over
stucco frieze,
With blue-scaled fish that swallow
and exude
An ochre sea, bulls in steep solitude.
•There is a more familiar world, if
as little argumentation, in the sonnets
of The Man Behind You, by Carl Bode
(Heinemann): —
The fat comedian struts in style
Making his jokes as he rejoices ;
Behind him, leggy girls in crocbdile
Sing with their fresh, flat voices . . .
But Mr. Bode doesn’t see anything as
forcefully as Ted Hughes in Lupercal
(Faber). Hughes’s method (he may have
studied a bit under Marianne Moore)
is to stare at an otter, a dead pig, a
pike or a bullfrog with such concentra-
tion that it hops into his eye, runs
down his arm and pours out through
his pen or typewriter-finger on to his


F BOOK scout
b°ok s Sea service f° r your out-of-print
BonU c 6ase sen< i your requirements to
Box 2178, C.P.0., Sydney
Britain’s Better
Bookshop
NEW BOOKS
SECOND-HAND BOOKS
LIMITED EDITIONS
FINE BINDINGS
CHILDREN’S BOOKS
GRAMOPHONE RECORDS
STATIONERY
WRITING ACCESSORIES
LEATHER GOODS
BOOKCASES
THEATRE TICKET BUREAU
Write for catalogues
Did you see our advertisements
for our Monthly Book Services
in the issues of July 13, 20 ?
Write for details
WIGMORE STREET, LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND
economical page-where, in the case of
X. it stares back at him:-
Two, six pounds each, over two feet
| Highanddry and dead in the willow-
herb —
One jammed past its gills down the
other’s gullet:
[ T he outside eye stared: as a vice
locks —
1 The same iron in this eye
Though its film shrank in death.
Hughes could be the best English
countryside poet since Blunden; with-
out Blunden’s small music, he has a
much sharper and tougher vision, per-
haps because he has read Edward
Arlington Robinson, perhaps because
he knows tough old octogenarians like
Dick Straightup, who,
With no more application than
sitting
And drinking, and singing, fell in
the sleet, late,
Damned the pouring gutter; and
slept there ; and, throughout
A night searched by shouts and
lamps, froze,
Grew to the road with welts of ice.
He was chipped out at dawn
Warm as a pie and snoring.
R, McC.
Reviewed Briefly
Cyprus Guerrilla: Doros Alastos
(Heinemann). Written by a Cypriot
journalist and correctly titled since it
describes the “little war” in Cyprus,
this book is fairly objective. It gives
the view of the Cypriots and makes an
attempt at analysing the causes and
course of their revolt against British
occupation.
• » • m
The Private Papers of Hore-Belisha
R. J. Minney (Collins). After the
generals’ stories, here is the tale of how
a politician trailed the puissant pike.
Leslie Hore-Belisha was Britain’s Sec-
retary of State for War from 1937 to
1940 and mar aged to stir-up a lot of
controversy while he held the seals of
office. This biography follows the
general pattern of contemporary rnili-
duH ° r Semi ' miiitar y writing—a little
• • • ■
°f Summer: Josephine Gill
IMacDonald). The mayor of an Ameri-
r n an( l selected high-class cronies
. s *? ln § lor trout and drinking when
judge downs a drink and falls dead
m the water. The scene then shifts to
town, the machinations of a shifty
lawyer who employs a beautiful young
girl on holidays from college, and sus-
picions about the judge’s wife, young
enough to have been his daughter—
only she is next to go, after receiving
documents which excited her curiosity.
Readable without being memorable.
rn * m m
Canaries Also Sing: Eric Allen
(Hammond, Hammond). Wild doings
in a Las Palmas nightclub, horrible
happenings in a boardinghouse, the
search for a spinster who bought a
canary, leading to an escape over a
roof into a barn—and all that jazz.
Confused as a hangover.
• • * •
. .
/t -JU- Charmian Clift
(Hutcmnson). Leading the simple life
on a beautiful, though rocky island in
the eastern Mediterranean has its
drama, and Charmian Clift reproduces
it for us on a wide screen, as it were,
and in glorious technicolor. Her title
is satiric, she makes quite clear in her
witty, vivacious account of how she
and her husband buy a house, estab-
lish their family and decide for the
simple life. The picture of Greek life,
however, is subordinated to sketches
of the odd visitors from the West who
lend non-local color and who remind
one uncomfortably of the cocktail-types
who i n f est the social life of the big
cities. There is something inevitably
fashionable about Miss Clift’s account
of ten months on the isle, so that even
the tribulations appear less impressive
and the joys more shallow than such
a way of life would suggest,
• • • •
„ c „ TT . _ ,
By Some Person Lnknown: Pamela
Barrington (Hammond, Hammond).
The wealthy financier of London who
was keeping a woman with a consider-
able amount of secrecy is followed
home and blackmailed by one of the
woman’s former lovers after the woman
has been killed. But who killed her?
It could have been good, but it’s hum-
drum.


•
BUTTERFLY
>; : x^
LOW GABLE
SKILLION
FLAT
Send
VlOtft©
.c.u for your free copy
of the new 1960 Lysaght
Home Plans booklet,
containing floor plon
of the home above
■ plus many othei
original designs.
When you study today’s award-winning home plans, you
realise that the low-pitched roof is the key to modern home
design. Plan your new home around this most pleasing of
roof styles it will cost far less than you imagine if you
specify Lysaght Steel Sheet.
Lysaght Steel Sheet fits in perfectly with the “low-pitched”
look; goes up faster; costs virtually nothing to maintain;
and, being first-grade Red Orb quality, it is the world’s
strongest roofing material!
Write for further information to:
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Limited
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle
GBC
“B”
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney.
Please send me, free and post free, your Home
Plans booklet entitled "The Lysaght Guide to
Modern Home Planning".
NAME
ADDRESS
