

The Bulletin
WeVe Growing Younger l—Page 36
Wednesday, January 13, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
ltegistered in Australia for transmission by 1 post as a newspaper.


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE DOCTOR'S COWBELL
F. B. McCann’s Medicine Man
(Angus and Robertson) is a modest
book in appearance and modest in style,
but it must not be allowed on that
account to shrink modestly from the
public gaze, for it is really a most read-
able little medical biography, scattered
and casual enough but full of excellent
stories.
It must be admitted that the present
reviewer approached it with some
alarm, because, with the totem-like
aborigines leaping about on the dust-
jacket, it looked as if it was going to
be yet another book about the great
outback and perhaps the Flying Doctor;
and noble though those themes are, we
have had a good deal about them
lately—a problem which possibly
bothers the book-reviewer, who sees
all the books, more than the general
reader who takes his pick among them.
But “Medicine Man,” for a start at
any rate, isn’t at all concerned with
medicine in the outback. In Dr.
McCann’s amusingly cynical style, it is
about how he drifted rather reluctantly
into St. Joseph’s College at Hunter’s
Hill, Sydney, because he had won a
bursary, and there observed such things
as the food, and the cold showers in
the open at daybreak, and the unfor-
tunate boy who, when the seat
collapsed, had to finish the boatrace
“sliding up and down two narrow steel
bars with nothing between their cold
hardness and his bottom”; and then
how he drifted into medicine at Sydney
University—“ There was no burning
ambition to join the profession but,
seeing that most of my particular
friends were going in that direction,
I decided to join them”—and there
observed the dissecting-room, the
“meat-fight” (an institution best not
dwelt upon) and veiy little else.
And so, after two years of “pouring
[sic] over corpses, innumerable lectures,
most of which were extremely dry and
many useless,” to “walking the wards”
in a teaching-hospital and the proud
acquisition of a stethoscope, which Dr.
McCann says is useful for siphoning
petrol and “as a means of gaining a
little time to think what on earth you
are going to tell the patient when you
have no clue as to what is wrong with
him.”
The students, says Dr. McCann,
“were left with no illusions as to the
place we occupied in the life of the
ward—the lowest, even below that of
the most junior of the probationers,
whose main task in life was to rush
about all day carrying discreetly
covered bedpans.” Nevertheless, he
spent some profitable hours following
eminent “honoraries” around and try-
ing not to be asked any questions by
them, or learning how to do operations
by perching at the back of the theatre
where all that could clearly be seen
was the backs of the surgeons and
nurses bending over the patient. Also,
the students spent some weeks in a
women’s hospital, acquiring the art of
“rabbit-catching,” a term which one
can only hope is incomprehensible to
the fond parent.
It cannot be said that Dr. McCann
leaves one, up to this stage, with any
particularly rosy illusions about the
medical profession; but all this was
long ago and is to be taken with at
least a milligramme of salt. In spite of
what seems his somewhat haphazard
preparation, he obviously did very well
indeed when, fully qualified at last, he
was let loose with a stomach-pump on
the drunks in one of Sydney’s
enormous and overcrowded public
hospitals.
So, then, to general practice—“l
selected a small town in the middle
of Queensland” —and if this is getting
perilously close to the great outback,
one doesn’t care by this time where
Dr. McCann goes: he is bound to be
entertaining wherever we find him. It
seems to have been a distinctly primi-
tive little town, where most of the
population, including the hospital staff,
lived by possuming; where most of
them were called Williams; and where
most of them had all their teeth
drawn out and replaced by false ones
so that they wouldn’t get toothache.
Dr. McCann was called upon to pull
out most of the remaining teeth (find-
ing the aborigines very difficult), and
also to act as obstetrician to the local
cows, mares, bitches, etc. He had one
most exciting night when a long-
suffering outback housewife, annoyed
with her family for complaining about
the evening meal, took a gun to them
and drove them all out into the bush.
Over his surgery-doorway was printed
a notice asking all patients to “Please
ring the cowbell”; and he was some-
what disturbed by kangaroos on the
veranda.
By a leap which only a kangaroo
could explain, Dr. McCann is next in
Fremantle during World War II trying
to persuade the R.N. to be medically
inspected, which it thought beneath its
dignity, and avoiding explaining to the
more co-operative Americans “where
they could find dames.” He was then
a quarantine doctor for the Health
Department, and he records, among
other things, a fearful occasion when
some American sailors got hold of a
cocktail made of industrial alcohol
from the paint-locker, pineapple-juice,
and carbon tetrachloride from the fire-
extinguishers: this, alas, completely
extinguished the sailors.
Leaping once more in the opposite
direction, Dr. McCann is now to be
found in the Northern Territory in
1931; and if this is truly the outback,
it is not every day you read of a doctor
having to treat a stationhand who had
been eaten by a brumby stallion. He
has a story of a drama in a lighthouse;
some interesting observations on half-
castes and on the chaining of aboriginal
prisoners—at least, he says, the chains
left their hands free to cope with flies
and other problems which handcuffs
would not have done; a pleasing chest-
nut about the policeman who squatted
on his spurs and thought he had been
bitten by a snake; the usual notes on
wild and drunken characters; and —in
a paragraph which epitomises the spirit
of the book: the humorous resignation
to human insufficiency; and the obvious
underlying pride in his profession—
the story of the stockman who wrote
to him, simply, “My missus is crook.
Please send a bottle of medicine and
tell me how long she will be crook.”
KANGAROO BY NIGHTFALL
The kangaroo by the roadside,
Standing like a milestone
In a place of national pride
Is changing into shadows,
In fact, it’s almost overgrown.
Soon, we’ll be able to say —-
I think it’s still there,
Or perhaps nearer your way —
I think so, but it might have moved;
I can’t be sure, it must be somewhere.
And then, of course, everywhere
Will have something of kangaroo —
Shrubs will have ears, a mild stare
Be felt from an empty bush,
And last, wary of what you do,
Of dim trees that could be a hide,
Your heart will thump away from you.
victoria.
NOEL MACAINSH.
Brennan Bibliography
The fact that at least one volume
of the long-awaited Complete Works
of C. J. Brennan is at last approaching
publication adds interest to a “compre-
hensive bibliography with annota-
tions” by Walter W. Stone and Hugh
Anderson published under the title of
Christopher John Brennan by the
Stone Copying Co., 64 Young Street,
Cremorne, N.S.W. The latest news
from Angus and Robertson on the
Complete Works is that Vol. I, the
poems, will be out in March. The
second volume—prose works —will be
(Continued on page 58)


VALUE MEASURED
THE USED TRUCK BUYING PLAN
THAT GIVES YOU WHAT YOU EXPECT
Yes! Now you can buy used trucks with the same confidence that you
buy new ones. I H Value Measured trucks are given a thorough test by
skilled mechanics. Each major component is tagged and on these tags the
condition of each part clearly shown. If reconditioning has been carried
out the value of work put into each part is itemised.
This means you can evaluate VM trucks at a glance, knowing that the
condition has been clearly and honestly stated. VM does what you would
like to do yourself when buying used vehicles if you had the time and
facilities. VM is an honest assessment and it can save you time, money and
worry. Combine I H and VM for the best in used trucks at surprisingly
low prices.
takes the
guesswork out off
used truck buying
mm
B ■
mk
USED TRUCKS
AT IH DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT3SO/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 13, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4170
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
fIEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
TASKS OF 1960
’T'HE new Governor - General.
A Viscount Dunrossil, is due to
arrive in Canberra at the beginning
of one of the most important Parlia-
mentary years in post-war history.
It seems to be an open secret that
it will be a “Constitutional year.”
though the repositories of such secrets
are, sometimes, misinformed. How-
ever. it appears likely that the report
of the Constitutional Committee, such
as it is, will be dealt with and any
referenda necessary for alterations will
be provided for.
The only really vital issue raised
seems likely to be that of the Senate
and its powers in relation to the lower
House, and the Senate is calculated in
its present mood to show a strong
objection to any attempt to reform it
in a manner which it may not approve.
Constitutional reform can, of course,
be achieved most rapidly through the
consent of the States, but where inter-
state and State rights are at issue they
are very jealous gods, and change is
likely to be achieved over their dead
bodies.
The remarkable unanimity as be-
tween the parties displayed in the
report is only surface-deep.
Basically the Labor party is a
unificationist party, envisioning the
abolition of Federalism completely
and the transfer of all real sovereignty
to Canberra, the States being broken-
up into provinces which would
derive all cardinal authority from the
Commonwealth Parliament.
The A.L.P. in the early 1920’s even
went the length of issuing a pamphlet
which was frank about the matter, but
this daring sally was not repeated.
The advent of Labor State Govern-
ments in most States brought about a
long period of complete silence on the
subject in the higher ranks of
“democracy.” Only the Left secretly
cherished and nourished the plan
which derives its inspiration from
Garden and Scullin.
npHE A.L.P. Federal platform calls
A for “complete self-government
through the Federal Parliament for
Australia and the amendment of the
Commonwealth Constitution to include
a charter of civil and human rights—its
nature was revealed in Dr. Evatt’s
Fourteen Points plan based on the
Soviet Union Constitution. It also
aims at the “clothing of the Common-
wealth Parliament with unlimited
powers and with the duty and authority
to create States possessing delegated
Constitutional pqwers.”
It aims for the abolition of the Senate
and nationalisation of all industries—
“banking and credit, monopolies,
shipping, public health, radio services
and television, refinery.”
The destruction of Federation and
its replacement by a unified Australian
Government would, of course, lead
back to the Supreme Economic Plan
of Scullin and Garden under which
the management of business would
centre outside Parliament and within
the Labor party, and Parliament itself
would become an instrument of the
bodies controlling nationalised indus-
tries. Absurd as it may seem, this is
inherent in Labor policy by implica-
tion. just as it was in 1921, and
Garden’s belief still stands that
when Labor gets into Federal power
.... the way will be open for the revo-
lutionaries to lead the workers. ...
Socialisation is a Federal matter.
The only trouble from the Labor
point of view is that the leadership is
being rapidly transferred, at least in
matters of major import, from- the
“rabble-rousers” to the rank-and-file,
which is quickly changing from the
status of “a beast with muddy brain”
that a “mere child could guide with bit
and rein”—as one Communist “poet”
stated it. It has given “the one kick
to break the chain” and is rapidly
becoming a class of little capitalists.
This, of course, makes Labor’s out-
moded ambitions imminently less
dangerous and less pressing from its
own point of view.
At the same time, if the world
economy were to slump seriously and
bring back a return to agitation and
tub-thumping, the ancient ambitions
would undoubtedly become vital in
the party’s programme once more.
'T'HE changes proposed in respect of
A everything save the Senate are
mostly more secondary than basic, or
else alfect something in the Common-
wealth authority which did not matter
or exist at the time the original Con-
stitution was drawn.
Some are fairly controversial, but
all trend towards unification and the
Government has some knotty prob-
lems in drafting a bill or bills which
will not bring violent reactions from
the States or help the cause of Labor
aspirations which are framed for party
and not national convenience.
The fear of Labor in power in the
Federal House might well lead the
Government to move in a very gingerly
way in giving legislative reality to
many of the proposals, apart from the
fact that State Government fears will
be even sharper than those of the
Federal Government and Liberal-C.P.
parties. The Senate will" almost cer-
tainly be the main target, even though
some others will be presented and made
to look larger than life.
Apart from mere Constitutional
changes, the biggest problem which
the Government will face during the
year will be inflation, following on
wage- and margins-rises. Parliament
will certainly hear a lot about this, but
on its own “margins” record it will be
coy.
It seems certain that the conditions
now developing will prove a stimulus
to price-rises and to increased imports
It is a sort of axiom that all controls
are now off and the sky the limit in
everything, and that Australia is on a
wave of progress, especially in its
cities, which is unequalled anywhere
in the world.
The real fact is that the progress
and developmental work in the vast
reconstruction of London and Phila-
delphia (where the existing building-
programme is five times that of
Sydney) and the resurgence of Ger-
many make the Australian changes
look small. The greatest development
is going on in places where prices and
wages are being kept most stable and
are not subject to academic judgments
based on artificial formulas like those
which set the ball of inflation rolling
in Australia at intervals.
It is to be hoped that the economy
will not be forgotten and its needs
submerged in the not-so-urgent con-
sideration of the Constitution.
ON OTHER PAGES
Page
Nazi and Jew .. .. .. 6
Market Leap-year Leap .. 20
Oil Exploration .. .. 31
Spearfishing with Lolo .. .. 34
Australians Growing Younger .. 36
Wool-futures Market .. .. 50


STILL PRESSING-ON REGARDLESS!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Nazi and Jew
A curious piece of repetitive hysteria
is the sudden outbreak of anti-Judaism
throughout the world, with a background
of Nazi resurgence in Western Germany.
The extent of it is probably
exaggerated, for it is a subject which
has only to be whispered to rouse the
daily press and the Communists —this
even though Russia, when it chose, could
be about as rough on Jews as anyone
on earth.
In Australia, where a Jew has been
Governor-General, and in the United
Kingdom, where the race provided one
of the greatest of Prime Ministers and
has given large samples of its blood to
the peerage —especially since in both
countries Jews are apt to take the lead
in major benefaction the fanatical
hatred of the Jews in parts of Western
Europe is very difficult to understand.s
It is true that the Jewish race and
religion traditionally tend not to assimi-
late and to retain their own ancestral
individuality, and this places the sons
of Israel somewhat at a disadvantage
in understanding, and being understood
by, Gentiles.
The issue in Europe is a very difficult
one, and is largely a case of a race
suffering for the sins of its worst ele-
ments. Horrible as has been the fate
of the Jew in Germany, there is a basis
of emotion behind it which it is possible
for reasonable people to understand
without in any way condoning it.
The success of Hitler was based on
bis vehement dislike of jews more than
anything else, for the foreign Jew, Polish
or Russian, poured over the borders of
Poland into Germany during and directly
after the inflation of 1924, inexplicably
armed with gold to take advantage of
Germany’s travail.
Thousands of ruined Berliners saw
their businesses bought for the price
of a packet of cigarettes by these in-
vaders. They saw Berlin turned into a
temporarily Jewish-controlled financial
and commercial community, while they
themselves lost so many of their own
race by suicide that some Berlin papers
kept a special “box” in their columns
to record the number every morning.
They moreover, as the years moved
onward, saw Berlin and some other
cities being riddled with glittering vice
bought and advertised with the immi-
grant money. And thus the millions of
Jews who were more at home and more
respected in Germany than any other
racial Hebrews in the world, having
provided many of its famous names in
literature and music, suddenly found
themselves caught up in a fury of
destructive hatred which they did not
deserve.
For centuries almost privileged and
speaking Yiddish, a language which
might be described as a German dialect,
the German Jew overnight now became
a pariah and a blight to be rooted-out
and the German Gentile an easy prey
for the jiysterical Nazi rabble-rousers.
The extent of the feeling developed
progressively in the dreadful years of
the ’twenties in Germany. Nobody who
did not see Germany immediately before
Hitler has a hope of understanding the
mainsprings of the history of the 1930’s
and World War II in Europe or of com-
prehending why Buchenwald was con-
ceivable and why it is possible to revive
the old hates.
The revival in Germany, though it is
attributed to Nazis and fanned by Nazis,
is not altogether confined to them, and
the advantage gained by Russia in having
such an agitation in progress suggests
that the Communists might not be
altogether found guiltless on a charge
of fanning the flames and developing
an agitation for propaganda purposes.
Certain it is that there are few Nazis
in Australia, yet here the slogans calling
on Australians to ban the Jews began
to appear on walls at virtually the same
time as those in Germany, and have a
remarkable resemblance in calligraphy
to many another one written by Com-
munists on the same or adjacent walls
adjuring Australians to ban the bomb,
the warmonger Menzies, or condemning
anti-Semitism.
In Germany, Cologne provided a fair-
cross-section of the elements involved
in the last few weeks. The head of the
extreme Right-wing Deutsche Reichs-
partei, Herr Custodis, has been arrested
in connection with the desecration of a
synagogue on Christmas Eve. A senior
public prosecutor, two assessors in a
Jewish restitution court, some police and
a number of schoolteachers are among
those to whom the thing has been
sheeted home.
But it appears that the outbreaks show
little increase on the usual annual epi-
demics of hatred which have broken-out
regularly and which have resulted in the
desecration of nearly 180 Jewish
cemeteries in the past decade and pro-
duced a rash of anti-Jewish literature.
What has ballooned is the publicity,
which has suddenly made itself evident
throughout the world to suggest that
Western Germany is going Nazi. Be-
cause the hatreds of Nazism are now as
deep in the Jews the world over as they
were originally only in Nazi Germany
for the Jews, the campaign of exaggera-
tion is dangerous. But it sells papers —•
and Communism.
Prices Up in Victoria
Leap Year began for Victorians with a
big leap in prices.
And the first price to rise? Marriage
fees!
Marriages performed before the Gov-
ernment Statist or the Registrar of
Marriages, which used to cost a single
fee of £1 Is., now cost £1 10s. And up
to £1 10s. can be charged as a booking-
fee.
Next in the queue of price-rises was
the Zoo. Admittance-charge has increased
6d. (to 35.) for adults and 6d. (to a
shilling) for children.
Some doctors are charging an extra
2s. 6d. for surgery and home visits,
although the increase, which has been
recommended by the British Medical
Association, won’t become general for
several weeks.
Bread prices have already , risen a
ha’penny a 21b. loaf in the country, and
a price-rise in Melbourne is expected
soon.
And Stock Exchange fees for listing
company securities have also increased
on a varying scale —some as high as
800 per cent.
"A Mere Show of Force"
In the light of what is happening in
Asia it can hardly be too often pointed
out that the Mao plan for world-con-
quest launched in Peking in 1953 seems
still to be working-out with accuracy
despite the belief of some Western leaders
that if it had been intended to operate it
would not have leaked-out.
The culminating point in the plan was
to come in 1960, when Indonesia was
to “fall into the Communist camp like
ripe fruit”—significant in view of
Khrushchev's sudden desire to make a
visit just at this time when he would
be expected to be occupied with greater
things.
Mao expected the “process [of the
conquest of South-east Asia] to be com-
pleted in or before 1960,” and by that
year he opined that the British “having
seen the hopelessness of putting up a
fight” for Malaya would withdraw.
“China’s military, economic and indus-
trial power,” he said, “will be so
developed that with a mere show of
force by the Soviet Union and China, the
ruling clique of Japan will capitulate.”
It was added that they must “be on
their guard lest the United States choose
this time for war,” and therefore the
“defensive and offensive preparations of
the Soviet Union and China must be
completed by 1960.”
Whether it was possible to prevent
the U.S. fighting “depends on how much
success we have in isolating her and
how effective is our peace offensive.”
The “peace offensive” is here, stepped-
up to its limit with all its guilefulness.
But behind the scenes Khrushchev has
talked in an entirely different tone to
his followers —urging Communist parties
throughout the world to remember their
missions and to work under the leader-
ship of Moscow for world-revolution.
Mao talks this way, too, but has no
peace offensive—that has been left to
Moscow because it would be ridiculous
for him to talk peace while he is moving
troops into what would be strategic
positions in case of invasion of South-
east Asia, particularly to those points
which must be occupied to put a pincer
round India. It is much better to allow
the world to believe in the delusion that
China and Moscow are at loggerheads.
The plans to create a European crisis
mentioned by Mao are in progress
through the raising of the Semitic issue
which seems to be a Communist stunt
since it has developed mainly where the
Communists are strong.
The Nazis are co-operating, but there


is nothing improbable in this, since they
co-operated with Stalin before, and it
is strange that coinciding with the anti-
Semitic campaign there should arise in
Germany a vigorous demand (couched
in abusive language which is strangely
Communist in form) to the Allies to
“get out of West Germany.” They have
not so far demanded that the Commu-
nists get out of East Germany.
The sudden publicising of rocket
experiments in the Pacific past Japan
and righf alongside two islands on the
main American defence-lines with Aus-
tralia, the mobilisation by Peking of a
million men at a moment when Khrush-
chev is on his way to Indonesia and
India, and the whole boiling of events
combined with the predicted peace
offensive provide a coincidence which
cannot be overlooked by Western leaders.
Melbourne's 1960 Anzac Day
Next to liquor-reform, Anzac Day has
always been regarded as the hottest
of political potatoes in Victoria.
Despite strong urgings from many
quarters, successive State Governments
have refused to change the character of
Victoria's “closed-shop” Anzac Day.
While Anzac Day services, ceremonies
and marches were held in the morning
in Sydney, with hotels and theatres open
in the afternoons, plus racing and other
sports-meetings, Melbourne has con-
tinued to keep the day “dry” and the
town shut.
The Bolte Government was elected on
a platform of reforms and greater service
to the public—but this didn’t include
any changes in Anzac Day.
Now the Government will act to
change the whole character of the day.
And returned servicemen themselves
have made this possible.
For years moves were made at the
annual conference of the Returned
Servicemen’s League for a change. But
always these were defeated. This year,
however, the move succeeded. The con-
ference decided to hold a plebiscite
among its members to decide the issue
once and for all.
[Premier Bolte had fobbed-off all
questions about a change with a single
statement that only the R.S.L. should
decide.]
The R.S.L. attitude had always so*
strongly favored “no change” that the
outcome of the plebiscite took many
people by surprise.
A change was called for. The march
was in future to be held in the morning
(instead of the afternoon) and restricted
entertainment would be allowed in the
afternoon.
The R.S.L. State Executive will meet
within the next two weeks to decide
whether hotels should be allowed to
open in the afternoon and theatres at
night and whether proceeds should go
to the R.S.L.
Having finally decided what it wants,
the R.S.L. executive will then go straight
to Mr. Bolte, who will happily prepare
the necessary legislation.
Parliament will be asked to rush the
bill through before Anzac Day this year.
No Dilemma for the Doctor
The appointment of the new N.S.W.
Chief Justice is imminent.
Normally, even when an appointment
has a political flavor, the perpetrators
of a job affecting a position of judicial
dignity have the decency to do it behind
closed doors, but in this case the agita-
tion has been open and naked. There
are hundreds of people outside the
Government in the Labor party who
not only say that it has been fixed, but
that the juntas of the A.L.P. have deter-
mined it for their own reasons and that
the Government has been, or will be,
forced to yield to their pressure.
There seems to be relentless shoving
from both the Federal Labor Caucus
and the A.L.P. and Trades Hall juntas
to see that they are rid of Dr. Evatt.
If the judiciary suffers, they care very
little, since almost to a man they affect
to respect the courts only when they
give decisions their way.
They, of course, are the people who
are most prone to shout the cliche that
justice must not only be done but must
seem to be done.
It is understood, on the basis of
official assurances, that no recommenda-
tion has yet been made to Cabinet, and
Mr. Heffron himself stated during the
past week that the position has not
been offered to Dr. Evatt, much less
that he has accepted it.
Yet it is weeks since Mr. Leslie
Haylen, a member of Dr. Evatt’s Shadow
Cabinet, said positively and publicly that
his leader would be appointed and that
he himself would be a candidate for the
deputy-leadership of the party when the
reshuffle following Dr. Evatt’s resignation
came.
Arthur A. Calwell, deputy-leader of
the A.L.P., on Sunday forecast that
N.S.W. Cabinet would probably invite
Dr. Evatt to accept the Chief Justiceship,
and Evatt “would accept the appoint-
ment,” after which he (A. A. Calwell)
would be eligible and willing as a candi-
date for A.L.P. leadership.
Having the picture presented as Arthur
Calwell so succinctly presents it, there
appears to be no dilemma in it either
for the Doctor or for Arthur.
Paris in Collins Street
Two summers ago the Ress family, who
run the big Oriental Hotel in Collins
Street, decided Melbourne needed to be
brightened up a little.
The Oriental Hotel is at the fashion-
able eastern end of Collins Street, where
the wide pavement is flanked on one side
by beautiful elms and plane-trees and
on the other by chic boutiques, smart
restaurants and doctors’ rooms. The
Resses asked the City Council for per-
mission to set-up an open-air cafe along
the footpath outside their hotel.
The council agreed. And so within
a few weeks the spot was famous
—pictures of smartly dressed women and
businessmen sipping coffee beneath
brightly colored sunshades were pub-
lished in the dailies throughout Aus-
tralia. Some of the pictures found their
way into publications overseas.
And, of course, this area soon became
known as the Paris-end of Collins Street.
In the past year the fame of this side-
walk-cafe, with its hustling waiters,
shady trees and its sun-loving customers,
achieved wider fame. It has been fea-
tured in newsreels, travel-films and on
television in Britain and America.
The people of Melbourne so strongly
supported the Oriental cafe that other
restaurateurs became interested. By this
summer Melbourne boasted three more
sidewalk-cafes.
Suddenly the cold hand of the law
struck. A police-inspector called on the
proprietors and gave them 14 days’
notice to clear their tables, chairs and
sunshades from the sidewalks.
The public was outraged. Protests
poured into newspaper-offices. The Chief
Secretary, Mr. Rylah—political head of
the Victorian Police Force —was the first
to act. Mr. Rylah’s office is on the first
floor of the magnificent old Treasury
building in Spring Street. It overlooks
Collins Street with its trees and its side-
walk-cafes. He immediately asked the
police on whose authority they had acted.
Meanwhile, the Town Clerk, Mr.
Rogan, whose council has encouraged
the sidewalk-cafes, attacked the police
action. The director of Melbourne’s
National Gallery, Eric Westbrook, said
the police move was a victory for those
people who wanted to make Melbourne
an even duller city.
The secretary of the City Develop-
ment Association, R. A. Gardner, said
the action was ridiculous. The chairman
of the Museum of Modern Art, Kurt
Geiger, said he was shocked by the
police edict. And the French Consul,
M. le Bas, said the Oriental sidewalk-
cafe was a delightful innovation.
He added (tactfully): “It compares
very favorably with Paris.” [Unlike
those in Paris, Melbourne’s outdoor cafes
serve only coffee with meals.]
Town Clerk Rogan pointed out that
the root of the problem was this: The
City Council was responsible for the
maintenance of the footpaths, while the
police had charge of law-enforcement.
The police told Chief Secretary Rylah
they issued the notice-to-quit orders
under the Police Offences Act, which
empowered them to see that pedestrian
traffic was not obstructed.
But no obstruction was being caused.
The police then claimed the action was
precipitated by an allegation that one
cafe-proprietor intended to place tables
and chairs opposite a goods-loading
zone.
But Mr. Rylah, who does not normally
have open brushes with his police-force,
bluntly told the acting Police Commis-
sioner, Inspecting Superintendent Arnold,
to lay-off.
He suggested that the police talk things
over with the City Council before taking
any further action.
And so Melbourne’s picturesque side-
walk-cafes have been granted a reprieve.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
nPHREE things I’ve seen are unlikely
to be seen again. In England in
the early 1920'5, a new car in a show-
room window priced £95. In Egypt in
1917 a trainload of steamrollers shipped
en masse from England to build roads
behind Ailenby's Army. The third was
the Desert Mounted Corps (Gen. Sir
Harry Chauvel), on November 2, 1917.
Beersheba having been captured two
days before, its precious supply of water
practically intact, almost the whole of
the corps was encamped on a treeless
plain with only one rise of ground and
that not very high. On this “eminence”
I had my Hotchkiss - gun tied to a
captured Turkish lance, to act as “ack-
ack" defence, and from here I could
see for many miles, clear to the horizon
in every direction, nothing but men and
horses, a sight which few have ever seen
and which will never be seen again.—-
“Cyda.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Flo. N.”: We've been visited by no
less than three wandering salesmen, who
confessed to being retired public servants
driven to eke out the pensions for which
they paid indirectly in taxes and directly
in superannuation.
❖ ❖ ■*
“R. A. McC.”: Old records in my
possession show that in 1820 The Rev.
Thos. Hassal sold four acres of land
“bounded by George, York and Market
Streets” for £2OO. This would appear
to be the site of Sydney’s proposed Town
Hall Square.
“Smithy”: The Speck's public servants
are now on the jury-list, and quite a
few of them recently became good men
and true. They are not permitted to share
in the pay-out at the end of the sitting,
but what really rubbed salt into the
wound of one of them was being called
on his annual leave, and having to do-in
a fair wad of it. He told me that he
counts it a civic duty and is not upset
unduly, but can see the irony of the
fact that the State which will not permit
him to take another job while on leave,
in order that the full benefit away from
the office will be gained, can force him
to do his holiday cold with no redress.
Such is life.
,-►s»-
“Manamoi”: Old soldiers . . . The
Inverell R.S.L. Club has issued a chal-
lenge to all other R.S.L. clubs in N.S.W.
to produce a member to take on the
local champ, at billiards, snooker or
pretty-ball. They’re not exactly being
rushed; in fact the only response to
date has been an offer from a Queens-
lander to defend the honor of his State.
Could be the conditions are too stiff —
the challenger must be between 75 and
80 years old, and the match must be
played without the aid of spectacles.
Win or lose, any challenger who turns-
“The Odious Ones propose to tear down the old place and
throw-up a block of home-units !”
up will be given a royal welcome and
the time of his life.
❖ +♦♦ ❖
“G.N.W.”: At the staff party the
conversation had got round to brain-
teasers, and one celebrant propounded
that, if a piece of paper IOOOth-in. thick
were torn into two pieces and the pieces
laid together, and the doubling-up pro-
cess repeated, in all, 50 times, the
resultant stack of paper would be 18-
million miles high. Checked on this with
log. tables and found it wrong —the stack
would be only 17,769,718 miles high.
Still, worse mistakes have been made at
staff parties.
❖ ❖ *
“Tabba”: Having a baby-tooth at 30
is certainly not a record, “M.J.R.” (B.
2/12/’59). I am 35 and sport one in the
upper jaw ; and just to show it’s no
indication of lack of manhood I can
quote “Bimbo” White, 6ft. 3in. and
17st. of rugged masculinity, who still
has one at 45. “Bimbo” will be remem-
bered by Bully sports-readers as an
international Rugger player for Australia.
During the war he flew Sunderlands
among the islands ; he is now a captain
with K.L.M. When baby-teeth endure
in such men I’m not ashamed to own one.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Jasby”: Nephew Allan, five years old
and a born trouble-finder, came home
early from a fete in the grounds of a
nearby Catholic hospital and explained
his hurried departure thus: “I was thirsty
and 1 found a tap, and when I turned
it on the water squirted out of the angel
and wetted all the people.”
STRAWBERRY’S LAMENT
“Milk Production to Continue Despite
Strike, Says Board.” — “S.M.H.” Headline.
“In years gone by,” said Strawberry,
“When all the dairyfarmers struck,
It was no holiday for me —
Those other cows had all the luck.
“And now’ the carters have cut loose —
They’re underpaid, and all that mul-
lock —-
I have to go on and produce :
I'm really just a working-bullock !
“I’m made to go on ; anyhow,
I don’t complain : the part that hurts
Is being called a poor old cow
By inefficient human squirts.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Rockhampton (Q.) boy Bevan Green,
top of 20,393 candidates in the
1959 State Scholarship with a pass of
95.5 per cent., has Queenslanders
worried. Described as “the 14-year-old
punter,” the Lilley Medallist, according
to his own account, does little study and
lists as his hobbies reading, rock-’n’-roll
and racing. Press and pulpit are busy
with warnings, both for this life and
that to come. Betting is illegal for
minors in Queensland. Brisbane book-
makers have declared that they wouldn’t
dream of accepting bets from a boy!
Never have wild-oats fallen on stonier
ground. —“Nes.”
❖ ❖ *t*
“E.A.”: When would-be authors heard
that H. A. Lindsay, writer of countless
Bulletin pars., articles and some short
stories, had had five novels accepted for
publication in London, they besieged him
with requests for advice on how to turn
out a work of fiction. He decided to
give a 15-minute talk over the A.B.C.
using as a model the story of how his
just-published novel, The Red Bull, came
to be written. But instead of being pro-
grammed as “How a novel grows,” it
was advertised in several places as “How
a navel grows,” no doubt, says H. A.
Lindsay, disappointing medical students
and fruitgrowers.
A. A. A.
V V
“Jeyles”: In the ’twenties canvassers
of poisonous charm and snake-level
ethics raked in unseemly gains by
hypnotising housewives to sign contracts,
with lots of fine print, for the enlarge-
ment, coloring and gaudy framing of
snapshots of late-lamented relatives. One
of these go-getters, successful in Aus-
tralia, sought fresh fields of exploitation
in Java, and I met him in Bandoeng.
He was downcast, bankrupt and spitting
blood, having collided head-on with a
Dutch law by which no wife’s signature
on a dotted line is worth a hoot unless
endorsed by hubby’s.
>+♦ *** ♦♦♦
“Nelson, jnr.”: When R.N. destroyer
Solebay tied-up at South Wharf (Mel-
bourne) she was met by 12 of her
ratings who had been marooned on the
tropical coast of Mackay (Q.) as part
of a Navy initiative-test. The matelots
had to cover the intervening 2000 miles
to Melbourne with minimum rations and
£lO between them. They made it by
hitch-hiking ; one of them did part of
his hitching in a doctor’s car which had
its side ripped off in an accident outside
Rockhampton.
“Falco”: A building at Woodford,
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.), second in the
Mountains age stakes, built in the 1820’s
to house Captain Bull and his soldiery
overseeing the chain-gangs on the
Western Road, lost some of its lustre
in the roaring days of the gold - rushes
when James Buss turned it into a pub.
There, it is said, diggers lit pipes with
fivers. In the 1870’s Buss’s Inn became an
academy where sons of the best families
"Well, yes and no. I'd love to be Lady Ffisher, but for a girl
like me money isn't everything
conned their Latin verbs. The academy
closed in the 1920'5, but not to become a
down-at-heel establishment: a notice-
board proclaims to Presbyterians that on
certain Sundays they may attend Kirk
within.
+**
“P.0.M.C.”: I thought most wives did
have minds of their own —and their
husbands’ as well (B. 30/12/’59).
“Zara’s” house-to-house-hawkers par. re-
calls the reaction of the bloke I’d noticed
for a couple of days selling brushes
around our suburb when he solicited
my patronage and I advised him to “see
the missus.” “No thanks; I saw her
yesterday,” he said, departing, defeated.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Smithy”: Hobart’s one-and-only
newspaper is running a Summer Girl
contest with a diff. Apart from staff-
photogs. who will take the shapely forms,
amateur cameraites can put in their
shutters, too. Pre-rule blurb promised
some mighty prizes all round, but,
although the winning Judy will cop about
200-odd smackers worth of gear, the poor
cow who turns-in the winning shot after
doing all the necessary arithmetic of
light, shade, filter, fill-in, film, developer,
etc., etc., and etc., will come out the
richer by the princely sum of a fiver.
To do the job properly will cost
about that much, anyway, and there is
every chance that some genius with a
ten-bob box-camera and his film handed
into the chemist for D. & P. will take
out the lolly. It’s enough to make one
weep at the generosity of a monopoly.
“E. & O. E.”: Melbourne’s new
musical, “Once Upon a Mattress,”
sounds like a carry-over from nursery
days, though apparently liberties have
been taken with the Hans Andersen text,
and I doubt whether he even gets an
acknowledgement for the idea. His
Princess felt the pea through 20
mattresses and 20 eiderdown beds —
whatever they may be. I was worried
as a child about how she surmounted
the pile—and then by the fact that she
complained. Have always felt that
H.C.A. tripped over that. According to
my own early teachings about Royal
manners, she should have said that she’d
had a delightful sleep even if she had
never closed an eye —that would have
proved she was a real princess.
❖ *** ❖
Statistics don’t usually interest me,
but food does, so I studied
closely a United Nations report on
ration-scales in various countries. Best-
fed nation, it appears, is not wealthy
U.S. or industrious Germany, or France,
home of gourmets, or fortunate Aus-
tralia, but traditionally poverty-stricken,
Now prey to that terrible dragon
Called Nerves, as most married men
are,
When his wife’s out alone,
He will snatch at the phone
And shout for the tow-away wagon
Before she has wrecked his new car !
n.s.w.
P.O.M.C.


famine-ridden Ireland (sorry, Eire), with
an average daily intake of 3510 calories
a person a day. Next comes dairying
Denmark, followed by New Zealand,
Switzerland, Australia, Canada and U.S.
Last on the list, with an average of less
than 2000 calories, come India and the
Philippines, where millions of people live
their whole lives without ever having
enough to eat. Another scale from the
same source, showing average percentages
of income spent on food, suggests that
failure by U.S. to head the best-fed list
may be due to the nation-wide custom
of calorie-counting (slimming), for the
average Yank spends a mere 24 per cent,
of his pay-cheque on feeding his face —
second-lowest in the world, after Canada
with 23 per cent. The average Dane
manages his high level of nutrition on
a mere 27 per cent, of his income, while
the less well-fed Italian eats 46 per cent,
of his no-doubt-smaller wages. Ghana,
which seems to be finding independence
expensive, shares the highest rate —57
per cent. —with the recently-battled-over
South Korea. —“Miss M.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Tabba”: I’m surprised that our
hawk-eyed paragraphers let you get
away with it, “An Chuidh” (B.
2/12/’59): “The arms of the Lordship
of Lome has the lymphad sailing to the
sinister or right!” “Sinister” is left,
“dexter” is right.
“G.M.”: Considering that old country
stores themselves may be to blame for
a drift of trade to large combines spread
throughout the State, the 84-year-old
firm of Marsh and Webster Pty., Ltd.,
in Mackay (Q.), decided to do something
about it. Right opposite a sparkling
chain-store self-service shopping-centre,
the firm spent £BO,OOO to modernise its
premises. Result: the largest indepen-
dent supermarket in an Australian pro-
vincial area and a price-cutting war
that is thrilling bargain-hunting house-
wives.
❖ * *>
“Corn Cure”: Young Gippslander dis-
cussing proposed air-trip to New Zealand
remarked that the present prop.-jet ser-
vice took three-and-a-half hours. Our
brains-trust horned-in with: “Yeah, but
wait till they get them there 600-m.p.h.
Bowyangs on the job!”
♦♦♦ +♦+ ♦>
“E. & O. E.”: Burnie (Tas.) residents
have lost their old private-enterprise
buses and are not finding socialised ser-
vices all they were cracked-up to be.
All Burnie’s new suburbs have been
built on high ridges above the town,
and deep ravines make it impossible
for a woman with a pram to get about
at all unless she has her own car or
a bus that will carry prams. And
A.T.M.O.E.A. doesn’t allow this, their
ruling being that prams are untouchables.
❖ ❖ +>
“Ceg”: I was standing at the counter
of a Maryborough (Vic.) bank drawing
heavily on a cigarette which had just
about reached the butt stage. Looking in
vain for an ashtray, I thought that a
few less flowers and a few more ash-
trays would be a better service for the
bank’s customers, stepped briskly to the
front-door, flicked the butt out into the
street, and was perturbed to see it lodge
in the floral hat of a passing woman.
Telling the teller I would be back in a
moment, I followed up the street, and
after a block or two was not altogether
surprised to see wisps of smoke rising
from the headgear. I then made a move:
“Excuse me, madam,” I said, “but your
hat seems to be on fire.” Frantically,
she tore it off. bringing a fair quantity
of hair with it. We extinguished the
fire, and there was the offending butt.
“One of those careless cigarette-
smokers,” I said ; “they never look where
they throw their butts.” She thanked me!
*l* *i* ❖
“Paille”: A “straw vote,” according
to the president of the Victorian Wheat
and Wool Growers’ Association, is “a
device where the ill-informed approach
the uninformed with a set of well-pro-
posed questions seeking to find out which
way the wind is blowing. It’s usually
a success, too, but if the latter cannot
provide the answers, the former usually
renders the requisite assistance.”
❖ *X* ♦>
“Smithy”: The par. by “A.G.H.” (B.
23/12/’59) on transport arranged for
Brisbane ne’er-do-wells arouses wonder
as to how the Hobart force will take its
bad - eggs to the new luxury dwelling
across the river with its pastel-toned
cells (sorry, guest-rooms) when it is
eagerly opened for business sometime
this year. At present the yeggs are either
lugged along the street to the lock-up
or driven in a patrol-car. Those sentenced
in the criminal court disappear down
a tunnel and see the outside again only
when released. Nothing less than Rolls-
Royces could equal the new magnificence.
STRATEGY
“Widow, attractive, unencumbered, would
seek acquaintance widely cultured man 50-60,
preferably one with a military background.” —
View-mat. ad.
In choosing her second,
The lady has reckoned
That much more than screw or position
Would be that he’s able
To yap at the table
On subjects of wide erudition.
Be au fait with Haydn,
With Byron and Dry den ;
To talk on the Bard with conviction ;
Know all about Rodin,
And just who was Odin—
While using the very best diction.
Some highbrow professor
You’d give as your guess, or
A fellow distinguished in letters,
As him who’s best fitted
To be thus permitted
To join her in conjugal fetters.
But, no! As recruiter
Of suitable suitor
She promulgates this : that she’s partial
To one who, though wearing
A bit, has a bearing
And background that’s patently martial.
It might appear barmy,
But, still, to the Army
She looks for her next; anybody —
A loot or a colonel,
A brig., so paternal,
A surge, or the lowliest swaddie.
You get the connection
With this predilection ?
It possibly smacks of expedience
In a scheme of soft living:
He’s so used to giving
All orders unquestioned obedience!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Child That Wins
By MENA ABDULLAH and RAY MATHEW
I was swinging on the
gate and wondering if the
day would ever end: if
anything interesting would
ever happen at all.
Ama had called from the
kitchen, called me to come
and work, and the sound of her
voice chased me the long way
down the dusty, track that led
from the garden to the front
gate of the property. And I
swung on it, open and shut,
shut and open, this way and
that, sometimes on top—
which made me frightened and
pleased—and sometimes on the
bottom rung which pleased me
too and was very safe.
I was on top of the gate
when I saw Hussein come
through the trees and along
the road towards me. I almost
fell in my excitement. He was
our like-a-cousin like-a-brother
prince of story-tellers. He had
been away to school. He had
lived in the white men’s cities,
in houses where a hundred
people lived in little cells like
bees in a beehive. Or so he
said.
We were not sure it was
true; it was in one of his
stories. He had hundreds of
them. He brought one with
him every time he came to
the house. A story and a
present. The present was for
us, the children. The story was
for us, too, but everyone
listened, Ama our mother,
Father, Uncle Seyed. Uncle
Seyed laughed and got angry
and said they were lies, like
white men’s stories, but he
listened all the same right to the
end, as we all did, and asked for
more.
As we all did.
That was why they all came
from the house when I ran
back shouting that Hussein was
coming. That was why no one
scolded me for running from
the garden and from kitchen-
work. They just stood there,
on the veranda, waiting to
greet him, the grown-ups ; but
we children ran at him shout-
ur greetings and our
KC.N
W 1 i. • got to him we
salaamed f ormally before fling-
ing ourselves on to him. He
hugged Rashida and me and
he threw Lai high into the air.
“Lai is a bag of wheat!”
we screamed with laughter, but
Hussein did not. He looked
sad. He put Lai down.
“Lai is a nice boy,” he said.
“You’re all nice children.”
Rashida and I stopped laugh-
ing and looked at him with
surprise. This was not the way
he should have talked to us.
He should have called us
monkeys, mosquitoes, mon-
sters, useless anything but
nice. Even Rashida and I
knew that we were not nice.
We were sure Hussein was
sick or terrible thought
did not like us any more. Lai
was not worried. He was six
and a boy and already as
vain as a man. He knew he was
nice, and just went on laugh-
ing.
On the veranda Hussein
pushed us away. He bowed to
Ama, Father and to Uncle
Seyed. He was greeting them
politely, properly. This was
strange, too.
‘‘Salaam Aleikum he said.
Ama must have been sur-
prised. She took what
seemed to be a long time before
she answered. She must have
been searching her mind for
the Punjabi answer: “And
peace be with you."
“W’aleikurh salaam,” she
said at last. Then she broke
into English, laughing. “But
Hussein, my son, why so
polite, so thoughtless? Pun
jabi is not my language, is not
yours. What has happened to
our Australian boy who shakes
hands with ladies and says,
‘How do you do?’ ”
“It doesn’t matter how he
talks. He’s here. He’ll tell us
a story. Won’t you, Hussein ?■’
Lai caught hold of his hand,
but Hussein did not lift him or
fondle him or fight with him
or do any of the things that
he used to do. He handed him
a bag of fruit.
“Mangoes from Bungabee,”
he said. “For the children.”
He should have thrown them
at us, told us we were greedy,
hoped they would keep us
quiet, but now he meant us to
take them like a present from
a grown-up and go away.
Even Lai was surprised.
Hussein turned to Ama.
“Begum,” he called her,
polite as anything, “I have
had worries since I saw you
last. I’ve had many things to
think of. My mother sends
you greetings, but that is not
why I am here. She is worried
about me and thinks that 1
should talk to you and Moham-
med Din.”
Uncle Seyed grunted and
turned away.
“And to Seyed our friend,”
Hussein added quickly.
Uncle Seyed nodded. “Your
father,” he said, “is he well ?”
“It is not that,” said Hussein.
“He is very well —and very
fierce.”
Uncle Seyed snorted. We
children looked interested.
“A quarrel!” he said. “You
young ones have no respect!”
Uncle Seyed was always say-
ing things like that and nobody
minded, but suddenly Hussein
was shouting at him, his voice
trembling with anger.
“My father! My father,” he
was shouting, “is a stubborn,
selfish, bitter old man. He lives
in .the past. He thinks Aus-
tralia’s the Punjab. He does
not understand me, just doesn't
know the life / have. He
won’t listen, won’t talk, won’t
try to understand” —
“My son, my son!”
"Cather was shocked and we
children fascinated. We had
never dreamt —not ever —that
anyone could speak of their
parents like that, not any Mus-
lim. We listened as our father
answered him.
“Your father is a good man.
He has worked hard. All his
life he has worked hard, to give
his children the. life they have,
the things he never had.”
“Lots of people have done
that! You’ve done it,” said
Hussein. “But you’re not like
him. I can talk to you. You
aren’t always saying Punjabis
do this, Punjabis do that,
Muslims do so-and-so.”
Uncle Seyed looked pleased.
He had laid these very charges
against our father. “Your
father is a very good man,”
said Uncle Seyed.
“Your father was grown
when he came to Australia,”
said Father. “His ways were
already made. I was a boy.
I lived here a long time,
travelled a long way, saw
many things—different people,
different ways. I know this
country better than I remember
the Punjab. When you have
two countries in your mind
it is easy to fit them together.”
“And my father has only
(Continued on page 32)


POLITICAL POINTS
For motorists 1960 looks like being a
bumper-to-bumper year.
• •
In what was, for a Federal Treasurer,
a rather risky remark, Harold Holt told
a gathering of A.M.P. field-representa-
tives that taxes were already high
enough for most people and “they don’t
want them to go any higher.” What the
insurance blokes (and many others
besides) would like to know is
whether Harold himself is satisfied
they’re high enough.
He was able to tell of “gains
of real substance” in the national
economy in the past half-year, but
he warned that the increases in
basic-wage and margins would put
a strain on it, and he stressed
the need to keep inflation under
control. He didn’t add that taxa-
tion is one means used by Govern-
ments to check inflation after the
inflation-horse has got out of the stable.
• • '
Viscount Bruce, who has been pretty
close to the mainsprings of finance for
the past quarter of a century, seems to
have no doubts that inflation is Aus-
tralia’s immediate problem. Speaking on
TV, he urged the Federal Government
to launch a nation-wide campaign to
defeat it. He advocates a campaign “from
one end of Australia to the other on
radio and TV, in newspapers and on
platforms,” and he thinks the response
would astonish most people.
Bruqe says the Government should
announce that it will take any steps, no
matter how drastic, to keep the cost of
living steady. Such steps could include
“increased taxation, a curb on h.-p. and
compulsory saving, even if it meant
amending wage-fixing legislation.”
Although the former Prime Minister
didn’t give details of what he meant by
compulsory saving, it is possible that
he was thinking along . the lines of
deferred-pay for young wage-earners,
first suggested in The Bulletin in 1946
and repeated on numerous occasions
since.
• •
Sydney’s milk-strike went sour.
• •
Cables report that Macmillan’s recep-
tion in Ghana was “cool.” That’s not
surprising the official Ghana press
never tires of denouncing “brutal British
imperialism.” The proclaimed platform
of Nkrumah’s secret “Circle” before
independence pledged its members to
work for “creation and maintenance of
the Union of African Socialist Republics”
on Communist lines. But he is not too
socialist to discuss taking as much
financial aid as he can get from the
imperialist capitalists of the United
Kingdom. Otherwise connection with the
British Commonwealth might cease
altogether.
• •
At a time when the leadership of
Federal Labor seems about to be put
to the vote, B. A. Santamaria, the behind-
the-scenes man of the Movement and
the D.L.P., has come out with a call for
"HEIL!"
a new-model Labor party. The policy
he proposes calls for the scrapping of
“democratic socialism” and the substitu-
tion of a plan for “decentralisation of
government, of administration, of owner-
ship and property, of industry.” The
Labor party, as he sees it, should “emerge
as the party which fights for the de-
concentration of ownership of the means
of production as the economic basis of
personal freedom.” In plainer language
this appears to mean opposition to
monopolies.
Coupled with this, of course, is opposi-
tion to Communism, a greatly increased
immigration-programme and closer co-
operation with Asian countries. In
essence this seems to mean that the
A.L.P. can be revived if it adopts the
D.L.P. policy—which doesn’t seem likely.
But Santa.’s statement may have its
effect on middle-of-the-road members of
Federal caucus, leading them to see that
in choosing a new leader the door isn’t
slammed on eventual reconciliation with
the D.L.P.
• •
Leslie Haylen, M.P., anticipated
any anti-Semitism that might arise in
Sydney by calling a meeting to deal with
it in advance. There’s nothing like
getting in early, but Les has never yet
called a meeting to deal with the anti-
Australianism of the Communist party.
Neither has Colonel A. W. Sheppard,
another speaker at Haylen’s meeting.
• •
“Collins Street”: The policewoman’s
lot is onerous, too. One of the good-
looking bunch at Russell-street, ‘Mel-
bourne, police headquarters has been
chosen to take back to Holland
a Dutch deportee of 25, who has
been convicted since she arrived
in 1955 of unlawful assault, shop-
breaking, stealing, larceny, indecent
language, assault by kicking, and living
on immoral earnings. She is also alleged
to have organised a team of —er —girls
and severely injured a lass who refused
to work for her. She is rangy, strong
and a judo girl. The policewoman’s ring-
side qualifications and prowess have not
been released by headquarters.
• • •
Now that the Summiteers have got
moving there’s no stopping them. Mac-
millan is doing the grand tour of Africa.
Khrushchev is going to Indonesia. Ike,
just back from the Athens-Ankara-New
Delhi-Teheran run, contemplates visiting
Japan, Korea, Formosa and the Philip-
pines on his way back from Moscow in
a few months’ time, and de Gaulle has
London, Ottawa and Washington on his
list. And to complete the circle Mac-
millan is to visit Rome in March while
Khrushchev is in Paris.
Another link with Malaya has been
established. The commander of the
new Malayan Navy is Captain W. X.
Dovers, R.A.N.
• •
The movement for the revival of Ben
Boyd’s old port of Eden as a major
shipping port for the Riverina, following
the growth of the Snowy Mountains
scheme, will be an important develop-
ment if it comes to fruition. Twofold
Bay was pronounced by the Captain of
H.M.S. Hood when he put in there in
1924 “one of the most magnificent ports
I have ever seen, subject to proper
development”; but Sydney and Mel-
bourne write it off as dangerous and
only suitable for a few small ships.


Exchange of New Year messages be-
tween Menzies and Khtushchev raises
the thought as to whether the Evatt-
Molotov pen-friendship is still alive.
• •
Just as things were looking a little
brighter for Victorian railway-finances,
along came two big pay-rises for rail-
workers. The deficit was cut by £2
million last year but the higher wages-
bill is now expected to increase this
year’s deficit by almost £2 million —
which just about puts the department
back where it was.
• •
N.R.M.A. secretary H. E. Richards
wants to know why N.S.W. Minister for
Labor and Industry J. J. Maloney won’t
allow self-service petrol-pumps to be
used after hours. He says it can’t be
on grounds of safety because Maloney
has agreed to their use during trading-
hours. Moreover, the fire-insurance
companies have approved their use at
normal rates of insurance. If it is their
effect on employment the Minister is
concerned about, his fears are ground-
less, Richards says. Motorists require
other services from garages besides sup-
plying petrol and, in any case, few
motorists would bother to use a self-
service pump when an attendant was
available. The appeal of such pumps
is almost entirely to those requiring
petrol after hours.
Maloney has so far been very definite
in his determination to put the clock
back, but he won’t be able to get away
with it indefinitely. Self-service pumps
work all right in Victoria and they will
ultimately have to come in N. S. Wales.
• •
Queensland State election, due to be
held some time this year, is now tipped
for May. Although no announcement
has been made all parties are working
on that assumption. Since the general
election in August, 1957, the party-
strengths have been: Country party, 24 ;
Liberals, 18; A.L.P., 20; Q.L.P., 11;
North Queensland Labor, one ; Indepen-
dent, one.
Redistribution of electorates has meant
the disappearance of some seats, the
emergence of new ones and a' change
in the character of others. One seat
drastically changed is Aubigny, held
since 1941 by Country-party member
W. B. Sparkes. Aubigny now includes
the town of Dalby, formerly part of
Condamine, which is represented by L. F.
Diplock (Q.L.P.), who was Minister for
Education in the Gair Government.
From being a Country-party stronghold,
Aubigny has now become a borderline
seat, so Sparkes contested the Conda-
mine preselection ballot instead. He was
beaten in the ballot and will now try
his luck in the Aubigny plebiscite at the
e nd of the month.
• •
The Netherlands Under-secretary for
New Guinea Affairs (T. H. Bot) is under-
taking a five-weeks fact-finding tour of
New Guinea. As well as covering the
Dutch end of the island he will also
visit the Australian territory and have
talks with local authorities.
• •
Vic. Chambers of Commerce will
discuss the proposal of the N.S.W.
Chambers to ask the public “Are you
in favor of later trading-hours?” But
secretary V. R. Hill thinks the question
as posed in Sydney is phrased rather too
baldly. He’d like to see the public given
alternative suggestions to choose from.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Extension to New
Guinea of the airways services of T.A.A.
and Ansett-A.N.A. may result in the
exclusion of Qantas from the Territory,
despite the fact that Qantas initiated its
New Guinea service in 1945 and has
developed a considerable network there.
Qantas has invested £750,000 in its “self-
contained” New Guinea airline, but
incorporation of services in those of the
competing major Australian domestic
airways has been strongly urged and
supported in recent months. The political
problems involved are likely to come
before Federal Cabinet soon.
• •
Work on rebuilding the Mt. Isa rail-
way will begin early this year, Queens-
land Premier Nicklin announced as the
old one ended. He added that “increased
freights to be carried from the vast
Mt. Isa mineral-field will guarantee the
repayment of the loan.” It’s to be hoped
he’s right, but much the same hopes
have been entertained about almost every
railway project ever advocated in Aus-
tralia. Still, the Mt. Isa job has better
prospects than most of living up to
expectations.
• •
“Stromlo”: .In the Antarctic almost
half-a-century ago, Dr. Wilson, who
later died with Scott, penned some verses
which referred to “the stark and sullen
solitudes that sentinel the Pole.” Stark
and sullen they still are, as the recent
destructive blizzard at Mawson proved,
but they are solitudes no longer. The
Russians, now there in considerable
numbers, provided some Christmas-cheer
for the Australians, a group of South
Africans celebrated the season by getting
frozen-in by the ice-pack, and a dozen
other nations were either on polar
expeditions or planning them. In fact,
the world’s “exploding” population
seems to be encroaching on the polar
areas, and solitude will soon be the
rarest thing on earth.
• •
Melbourne has introduced the system,
already in force in some other cities,
which permits motorists to pay parking-
fines at the Town Hall, without going
to court. A motorist who parks over-
long at a meter finds a new-look pink
sticker on his windscreen. The rest is
up to him.
At the moment the new system is
more frustrating for the police than the
motorist. Only City Council traffic-
officers have the new stickers. The police
won’t get theirs until March, because
the Government Printing Office can’t
print them earlier. The City Council
had its supply printed privately.
• •
While British Prime Minister Macmil-
lan is in Africa, Home Secretary R. A.
Butler will act as his stand-in and pre-
side at Cabinet meetings.
• •
The contrast between the old and the
new in India (and, indeed, in most of
Asia) was strikingly illustrated by a
remark of Prime Minister Nehru at the
47th Indian Science Congress in Bombay.
Nehru said that while India was develop-
ing the latest methods of power-genera-
tion through atomic energy, cow-dung
continued to be the principal fuel of
the country. He said that the main
social problems of a growing country
and the raising of the living-standards
of hundreds of millions of people could
not be solved without taking recourse to
science.
• •
Japan has ordered from the British
General Electric Co. a nuclear-reactor
of the Calder Hall type for an atomic-
power station of 150,000 kilowatts to be
built on the coast 55 miles north-east of
Tokio. The plant will cost £stg.2o
million and will take 4£ years to build.
• •
“Ancient Mariner”: Seafaring men all
over the world are keenly interested in
the battle developing between the mari-
time nations in the building and opera-
tion of large passenger-ships. A few years
ago it seemed that air-services had tolled
the death-knell for such liners, but pre-
sent building-plans in Britain and else-
where prove otherwise. The cloud on
the horizon is the possibility of large
“hovercraft,” but a satisfactory gleam is
the certainty that nuclear-power plants
for liners are not far distant. The
current issue of the “Journal of the
Company of Master Mariners of Aus-
tralia” contains several articles on aspects
of this subject, which is of considerable
importance to Australia in view of the
development of round - the - world
schedules which include this country.
• •
Dr. E. G. Coppel, Q.C., reporting to
the Victorian Government as a royal
commissioner on third-party insurance,
has rejected suggestions that accident-
prone drivers should be charged higher
third-party rates than accident-free
drivers. He has recommended that all
drivers pay a five-shilling surcharge on
their licences to cover damages awarded
against the “nominal defendant” —where
the actual defendant is unknown.
Coppel found that premium-rates in
the past had not been sufficient even to
meet claims, much less pay administra-
tion-costs and profit for insurers. He
recommended, however, that insurers
should be restricted to a profit-margin
of 2\ per cent, of the premium-income
instead of the assumed 10 per cent, at
present.


Persoanl
ITEMS
When he goes on the retired-list about
six months hence, Lieut.-General Sii
Ragnar Garrett, present C.G.S., is booked
to succeed Sir Douglas Copland as
principal of the Australian Administra-
tive Staff College, Mount Eliza (Vic.).
This private body has been established
and financed by Australian business
institutions to train business and Govern-
ment-department executives in modern
administrative methods.
Quite apart from his distinguished
service as Australia’s top soldier, General
Garrett seems an ideal choice for this
post. He graduated from the Camberley
Staff College in 1939, was Commandant
of the Australian Staff College in 1946,
went away to command the Australian
Component, 8.C.0.F., Japan, 1947-49,
and then came back to be C ommandant
of the Australian Staff College again
from 1950 to 1951.
• •
“Olivia”: The annual ceremony of
tribute to Gustav Weindorfer, famously
associated with Tassie’s Cradle Moun-
tain, was held on New Year’s Day at
his graveside. A bunch of everlasting-
flowers and a set of candles, sent by
Weindorfer’s niece in Vienna to Major
Smith, of Latrobe, were used at the
service. Major Smith, who was closely
associated with Weindorfer, gave the
address.
• •
After 40 years as managing-director
of the Australian branch of Universal
Pictures, Hercules Christian Mclntyre
retired to his property at Tingha, in the
N.S.W. New England. Standing 6ft. Sin.
in his socks, “Here” certainly lives up
to his first name. Doyen of local film-
men —and his associates will greatly miss
him from the Sydney scene —he started
in films in 1908, giving shows at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall in Bathurst Street. His
two older brothers were also in film-
business.
• •
Westralian-born F. J. Schonell, new
Vice-Chancellor of Queensland Univer-
sity, has been Professor of Education
there since 1950. A graduate of the
Westralian University, he’s an M.A. of
Birmingham and got two doctorates at
London Uni. —in Philosophy and in
Letters.
• •
“Retsol”: After 25 years as treasurer-
secretary of Northern R.S.L. at Towns-
ville (Q.), J. S. Wilkinson has handed-
over to W. L. Oswald. Now 76, and
hailing originally from Devon (Eng.),
“Wilkie” was formerly Townsville
manager for Dalgetys and, in addition
to his R.S.L. work, hon. sec. of the Bush
Children’s Scheme.
Sketched here, H. G. T. (George)
Searle is just about to take on the title
of general-manager of the Common-
wealth Savings Bank following its separa-
tion from the Reserve Bank ; he has
been chief of the C.S.B. under the old
set-up for several years.
Born in Geelong (Vic.), and joining
the C.S.B. in 1916, Searle has been an
inspector in every State in the Com-
monwealth, with overseas experience as
well, all assisting in establishing the
GEORGE SEARLE
bank’s financial-information service and
its approach to migration.
His wide travels in the C.S.B. service
have provided George Searle with an
inexhaustible fund of good stories, rang-
ing from Tully, in North Queensland,
to Paris, Geneva and Pitt Street. He
is not above a little expert legpulling
if he thinks the victim could benefit
from it. Although he sits on the largest
heap of money collected together by
any one institution in Australia—and
knows how to look after it —in himself
George Searle is a kindly and hospitable
chapf with a multitude of friends and
“contacts” in Australia and overseas.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Immediately before the
Menzies announcement of the proposed
incorporation of Canberra University
College into the Australian National
University, the College Council made an
admirable pioneering appointment —that
of Tom Inglis Moore to the new post
of Associate Professor of Australian
Literature. This is the first time that
such a position has been created, and
the College thus further pioneered the
elevation of the stature of our national
literature, just as it was the first among
Australian university - institutions to
establish a full year's degree-course in
the subject, in which Tom Inglis Moore
has been the senior lecturer.
Inglis Moore has done much in Can-
berra to stimulate interest in Australian
writing. He has lectured publicly and
broadcast on the subject, in addition to
undertaking the very substantial burden
of work involved in the preparation of
notes and establishment of a library for
the degree-course. His new appointment
is a reflection of the appreciation of
students and others, as well as the coun-
cil, for what he has accomplished.
• •
Selected as Moderator of the
byterian Church General Assembly in
N.S.W., the Rev. Neil Macleod, Minis-
ter of St. Paul’s Church, Armidale, was
born in the Hebrides and speaks Gaelic
as fluently as English. He came to Aus-
tralia before War 11, and after several
years of home-missionary work entered
the Presbyterian Theological Hall at St.
Andrew's College, Sydney. Ordained at
Walgett (N.S.W.) in 1940, he ministered
at West Maitland and Chatswood before
going to Armidale.
• •
“C.S.”: Viscount Bruce arrived in his
native city at the year’s end. Like Lord
Baillieu, he finds the Melbourne weather
in January and February fairer and
warmer than the east winds of England.
He is here for talks with the P.M. about
the merging of the National University,
of which he is Chancellor, and the Uni-
versity College. The young shipboard
reporters, who admire him, assert that
the P.M. of the 'twenties looks no older
than the P.M. of the 'sixties. In Knights-
bridge, of course, life has a leisurely
aplomb.
• •
Pat Lawlor: Besides the four new
knights in the N.Z. honors-list (B.
6/1 /’6O) there was a popular M.B.E.
for Miss Ruia Morrison, Maori tennis-
star and N.Z. champion, and an 0.8. E.
for E. G. Guy, the well-known journalist,
of Rotorua. There were 43 civil awards
in the list and a large number in the
military section.
• •
Called it a day on lanuary 3 after
nearly 20 years’ service as chairman of
the Melbourne Harbor Trust, Aubrey
Duncan Mackenzie has devoted his whole
working-life to the welfare of Australia
and the development of Victoria.
Born at North Carlton (Vic.) in 1895,
he began his career as a pupil engineer,
took time off for four years’ overseas
service with the Ist A.1.F., and in 1934 —-
youngest man to be appointed to the
posts in the history of Victoria —became
both Chief Engineer of the Public Works
Department and Engineer in Charge
Ports and Harbors. At the request of
B.H.P. he was granted leave by the
Victorian Government to report on the


construction of a new harbor at Whyalla
(S.A.) and from his report the present
harbor was constructed. He served for
two years as commissioner of the
Country Roads Board, before being
appointed in 1940 to the chairmanship
of the Harbor Trust.
As chairman of the Permanent Com-
mittee of the Australian Port Authorities’
Association, he has done much to make
Australia’s international achievement in
maritime affairs outstanding, while the
modern administrative practices he has
brought to the Port of Melbourne have
gained world-wide recognition.
Besides his leadership in port affairs,
Mackenzie is honorary consulting-engi-
neer to the Melbourne Cricket Ground
Trustees, and in 1956 he was a member
of the Olympic Civic Committee and of
the Olympic Yachting Committee. His
recreation has always been yachting, and
from 1947-57 he was commodore of the
Sandringham Yacht Club, which his
father founded. He built his own ocean-
going sloop Tam-o-Shanter, which he
raced successfully for three years in the
Queenscliffe-Devonport race and which is
now owned by the R.A.N. as a cadet
training-ship.
• •
The Grounds, Romberg, Boyd archi-
tect-firm brought-off a Christmas double.
No sooner had they been chosen as
architects for the new £3-million
National Gallery and Cultural Centre
in Melbourne than they leceived the
award of the Hawaii chapter of the
American Institute of Architects for
work of exceptional merit in the Pacific
area.
Roy Grounds, the senior partner, is
taking a few days off to fly to Hawaii
at the end of this month to attend a
dinner and accept the award, the Pan-
Pacific Architectural Citation.
WARWICK WHATMORE, commodore
of the Royal Queensland Yacht Club,
is chairman of J. Hargreaves and Sons
Pty., Ltd., director of several other com-
panies, and vice-president of the Queens-
land Chamber of Manufactures. During
Princess Alexandra’s visit his motor-
cruiser Valiant was used as royal barge
for the progress down the Brisbane River.
New general-secretary of the Austra-
lian Hotels Association (N.S.W. branch),
Ron McDonald, has packed a fair bit
of variety into his 36 years. He joined
the Army in 1942, transferred to the
R.A.A.F. six months later, and from
1944 until demobbed in 1946 was in
New Guinea and the islands, first with
the 11th Repair and Salvage Unit, later
with 75 Squadron. Afterwards he had
a spell with the Commonwealth Loans
Department and another with B.C.P.A.
Then he spent some time as assistant-
secretary of the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion, before he became, in February,
1955, assistant to R. D. Hadfield, whom
he’s now succeeding.
• •
“Jock”: Air - Vice - Marshal E. C.
Wackett has. retired from the R.A.A.F.
after 45 years’ service—longer than any
other serving member. He was Air
Board member for Technical Services
for 17 years, and earlier was the first
R.A.A.F. man to make a free-fall
parachute-jump. His successor will be
Air-Commodore Ernest Hey, who went
to England to learn about guided-
missiles in 1957 and has just completed
a course on jet-flying at Sale (Vic.).
• •
R. H. Sisley, Westralian manager of
Macdonald Hamilton and Co. since 1956,
has been appointed to the Tourist
Development Authority lately constituted
in W.A. Chairman of the tourist section
of Perth's Chamber of Commerce, he
joined Macdonald Hamilton in Brisbane
in 1927 and has had terms in the firm’s
Sydney and Melbourne offices. During
War II he was Staff Officer Intelligence,
R.A.N., in Sydney, from 1942 to the
finish.
• •
Father Paul Keenan, now Rector of
Xavier R.C. College, Melbourne, was
educated at Assumption College, Kil-
more, graduated in arts at Melbourne
University, and studied religious
philosophy in Melbourne and theology
in Sydney before being ordained in 1944,
after three years as a student-teacher with
the Jesuits at Xavier. He is Xavier’s
sports-master and is chairman of the
Public Schools’ Football Committee, and
they say he’s a dabster on Bulletin
crosswords.
• •
Val Leslie has sold-out his wool-
interests —superintendent of the Austra-
lian Wool Bureau Victorian stores —and
is currently matching his skills against
Tasmanian bowlers in behalf of an
R.V.B.A. team sent across the Straits.
Until his retirement he had been 20
years in the wool industry. His most
important post was as superintendent
of nearly 100 stores that handled all
wool and sheepskins lodged for ship-
ment during World War 11. There were
nearly a million bales.
Now he can count full time in lesser
number at Coburg rinks and in golf-
scores at Northern.
Of 1894 London vintage, and trained
as a tea-taster, Harry William Richard
Hawkeswood started in business in
Calcutta and Colombo, was in the Indian
Army (27th Light Cavalry) in War I,
H. W. R. HAWKESWOOD
and subsequently gave tea-tasting away
for rubber-buying and shifted to Singa-
pore. Marrying a daughter of Francis
Bligh (one-time chairman of Tooth’s
Brewery), he moved to Sydney in 1935,
and in War II served in New Guinea
on the staff of 11 Div. and was D.A.P.M.
at Milne Bay during the Jap attack.
These days a director of Melbourne’s
United Distillers Pty., Ltd., and of
Sydney Cold Stores and managing-
director of Harbottle Brown and Co.,
he’s a member of Sydney Legacy, is
chairman of Golfers’ Legacy Hostel
Fund (which does a lot to raise money
from the metropolitan golf-clubs) and
is also a Rotarian.
• •
Carl Shannon, recently named as
Queen’s Counsel, is the first alumnus
of St. Stanislaus’ College, Bathurst
(N.S.W.), to have taken silk. In his spare
time he’s a prolific writer of plays, short-
stories and novels.
• '•
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 69, John Joseph Shells, first
secretary of the N.S.W. Milk Board. A former
deputy-director of the Commonwealth Division
of Industrial Development, he was a senior
administrative officer in the Ministry of Muni-
tions during War 11.
In Perth, at 88, Frank Walsh, who went
from his native Queensland to Westralia in the
1890's, spent 40 years as a pastoralist in the
nor’-west there, eventually becoming managing-
partner of Warralong station, Port Hedland,
and M.L.A. for Pilbara from 1933 to 1938 and
M.L.C. representing the Northern Province
from 1940 to 1954.
At Hargreaves (N.S.W.), at 86, Ernest Suttor,
great-grandson of one of Australia’s first free
settlers, and until lately holder of one of the
biggest pastoral properties owned by one man
in Australia. The 40,000-acre family property
near Triamble (N.S.W.) was recently sold to
the Gundowa Pastoral Co. Pty., Ltd.
In London, Mrs. Constance Spry, 0.8. E.,
expert on flower-arrangement and cooking,
who visited Australia last March and toured
all States, lecturing on her art.
In Adelaide, at 72, the Rev. Father Richard
Morrison, archivist since 1943 of the R.C.
Archdiocese of Adelaide,


ABORIGINALITIES
•“Yes,” sa id Seth, “bulls can be
A very cranky at times, and they can
get to like people, too. Old Jack Smith
had a bull he called Roany and he was
very fond of Jack ’cause Jack used to
feed him and look after him.
“Roany had a small paddock to him-
self with plenty of grass and water. Old
Jack went over and saw that he was
cared for regular, and Jack used to talk
to him a lot, so they got to know one
another pretty well over the years. Old
Jack was dressed mostly the same,
dungaree trousers, brown coat and a
greasy old felt hat, and Roany must have
got to know how Jack looked.
“As Roany got older .he got very
crotchety, and never liking strangers he
got worse with them when they came
near him. There was an old sulky in
the paddock and Roany used to toss it
about when he was wild. Sometimes he
would toss it over the fence and then
jump over and toss it back again.
“One day Old Jack went down to see
Roany and talk to him, but he was
dressed different, in grey trousers and a
grey coat. Roany had been in a bad
mood for a couple of days ’cause two
heifers, Myrtle and Daisy, he had been
watching had gone off with a young bull
from a neighbor’s. Old Jack went into
the paddock, and Roany must have
thought he was a stranger, ’cause he
rushed up to Jack and tossed him over
the fence, and then stood looking at
Jack as he lay on the ground.
“Jack was hurt a bit, and when he
could he called out, ‘Roany, don’t you
know me? It’s Jack.’ When Roany
heard Jack’s voice and saw what he had
done to his mate he hopped straight over
the fence and tossed Jack back again,
and you could almost hear him saying:
‘Sorry, Jack, I didn’t mean it ; I didn't
know it was you’.”
Tiddles,
* * * *
“Ikew”: It was understood from the
day she adopted us that Lassie’s tenure
of the job of family’s best friend was
strictly on a caretaker basis. As soon
“The big ones are more expensive ,
ma'am."
as a good home could be found .
That was a year ago. A mixed-up stray
has become sleek and self-confident, and
the boss, who doesn’t like sheepdogs,
even Border-collies, and who wouldn’t
have a bitch about the place, hasn’t
even looked for the “good home.” One
narrow squeak, though: if the utility
hadn’t broken-down on the way back
from a holiday, so that a whole day was
lost, Lassie would have had the pups at
home instead of at a garage en route,
to her owner’s embarrassment. Five
pups, and all bitches!
“Santa Binghi”: The native
children on remote Bathurst Island,
off the N.T. coast, received their
share of Christmas-gifts, the dis-
tributor being another original
Australian, Papa Matthias, who
rode around the settlement on
horseback, in traditional Western-
style Father Christmas outfit. It
was the same Matthias who during
the last war captured a forced-
landed Jap airman on Melville
Island and turned him over to the
authorities.
“Sevenelms”: “Perseverando’s” remedy
for a “shuddering” crosscut-saw (B.
30/12/ ’59) is the “rubber-man” used by
fallers in pre-chain-saw pine-forests of
the U.S. It was evolved by Scowegians ;
they couldn’t bear the thought of sharing
piece-work rates with an offsider who,
in their estimation, always had 25 per
cent, less biceps output than themselves.
So they soloed with the far-end of the
Disston hooked to a piece of peg-
anchored inner-tube. Thord amplified
it to me in the Ponderosa-belt at
Deschutes (Ore.) as he uninterruptedly
sawed with his right hand and with his
left unhooked from his belt a Coke-bottle
of stove-oil which he sprayed on the
moving blade to “cut” the resin. “I may
be a big Swedish dumb-bell,” he said,
“but when I’ve knocked this one over
I don’t need an empty-handed so-and-
so to accompany me to the next tree
and stand picking his teeth while I
axe the scarf in!” With the falling pine
halfway to earth, Thord had axe, saw
and “rubber-man” under his right arm
and was striding to the next pine while
refueling his cheek with a wad of
Copenhagen snuff.
* * * *
Touring my outback-Queensland child-
hood a boy with a pony and a rifle
could make quite a bit of pocket-money.
Kangaroo-skins were usually saleable,
and, when they weren’t, there was a
small bonus on scalps. Emu-heads were
MILKING SONG
Like a sandstone sculpture, the ginger cat
Sits on his tipsy plinth of fence,
Snug in the arc of his tidy tail
And feigning a fine indifference
To morning s leisured blossoming,
The hills’ slow stirring to unfold
The hour's intrinsic loveliness,
The curve of sky, the spill of gold.
Spun galaxies of mislaid stars,
The yellow robins prank the air,
Conspiring to confuse the sun ;
And down the hill my lady-mare,
A wagtail at her wither, comes;
And magpies fill the sky with song
And hang the trees with leafy notes
For flocks of winds to flute among.
The soft froth lips the bucket’s rim ;
The red cow roughs her tongue around
The empty feed-bin’s edge ... The cat,
Suddenly vital at the sound,
Leaps in a golden arc from fence
To ground and then, with flanks grown
thin
And eyes gone green, he laps at last
His nectar from a rusty tin.
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


fcekt Back aoain
TO cook at thS
TguavtSicvs.'


worth a few pence each —the birds caused
expensive damage to dingo-proof and
rabbit-proof fences, and were said to
kick lambs to death.
The much-hated crow carried a 3d.
bonus, and the equally-detested wedge-
tail-eagle a princely 2s. 6d. Not only
was the wedgie considered a killer of
sheep and lambs, but illogical bushmen,
though they hunted and shot ’roos them-
selves, loathed the skill and persistence
with which a pair of eagles will hunt
a terrified animal, often a doe hampered
by a joey, to its death on the shelterless
plains.
Rabbits were unknown in our part,
but fox-scalps and the snouts of wild-
pigs .were valuable booty. Dingoes were
scarce, as the ring-fence was constantly
maintained, but the appearance of an
occasional intruder spelt a fast and
furious horseback chase, a killing (if
we were lucky) with a stirrup-iron—-
fortunate he whose
stirrup-leather could
easily be pulled off
the saddle —and a
scalp, carrying a
fabulous bonus of
£4 10s.
This system of
bonuses for fauna
rightly or wrongly
considered noxious
had a fortunate side-
effect in that nobody
would bother to
shoot anything that
didn’t carry a bonus.
A few wild-duck
and bustards were
shot for the pot, but
their appearance in
hundreds was wel-
comed as a sign of a
good season, not
as an opportunity
for mass - slaughter.
Now I’m told wild-
duck are scarce in
those parts, and it’s
a toss-up whether
protection will save
from extinction that
scourge of grass-
hoppers the bustard.
. Some of the vil-
lains of our child-
hood have been vin-
dicated and are now
protected, and a
public meeting in
the Leichhardt (Q.)
Rabbit Board’s area
has even recommended that the scoun-
drelly old goanna be protected as a
rabbit-killer. We regarded him as a
friend in the open paddock, but an arch-
enemy in the chook-yard.
Certainly I should think that anyone
who has seen what, closer-settlement has
meant to our native fauna would favor
protecting practically everything—except,
maybe, venomous snakes.
Manamoi.
* * * *
“R.R.D.”: With deference to both
“G.N.W.” and “5 G.R.,” I seem to
recall that my munshi told me that the
original significance of “pukka”—rightly
“pakha”—was “ripe,” or “mature,” in
the same way that “kacha” meant
“unripe.” All other usage, he said, was
derived from this original meaning. I
looked-up the dictionary and found that
Pandit Lakhsman Dass was dead right,
So you can have your “pukka raste” and
“pukka sahib,” if you remember the old
Brahmin’s exactness. The Pathans —
“Pakthans” or “Pashtans,” according to
how they sound the “khah” —named
themselves the ripe, or chosen, people,
* * * *
'W: A Queensland station due for
* centenary shivoo-this year is Knock-
break, between Eidsvold and Cracow,
Taken-up by Guthrie Sinclair early m
1860, soon after he came to Austialia
in charge of sheep destined for N.S.W.,
the property of 82 square-miles is now
“I will not tolerate inefficient flying or the
damaging of aircraft."
run in conjunction with other properties
controlled by the family. A fourth-
generation Sinclair manages one of them,
Mt. View.
* * * *
“Kelms” : Nature has many distinctive
markings like that mentioned by
“Swelpme” (B. 16 /12/’59), the best
example being the use of red to denote
creatures it’s wise to steer clear of. This
danger-warning is designed to protect
the wearer, not its possible attacker, and
the creature flaunting the sign usually
knows its value. Red-backed spiders
haunt dark situations, and so have little
to fear from such enemies as birds ; if
their shelter is removed and they can’t
find immediate cover they show the red
splash to the best advantage. There’s
an even better example in the fire-bellied
toad of Europe, a small creature whose
sole defence —a skin with a highly
irritant secretion—-is useless unless a
potential attacker knows about it. So
this toad has equipped itself with bright-
red patches to warn enemies and save
its own skin. As it’s a water-dweller,
living mostly on the surface, it has the
red on its underparts, and observers
claim that if it’s attacked it does its best
to let the attacker see the warning-sign.
* * * *
“Sammy”: As I fished a Tasmanian
stream at the end of a hot day a hare
came down the hill on the opposite bank,
sniffed the water, then plunged in. After
a few minutes swimming he came out,
shook himself and lolloped-off. I’ve seen
Long Ears take to the water when hard-
pressed, but is it usual for him to include
aquatics in his sports?
* * * *
“Northlander”: The Cooktown-Laura
railway (N.Q.) is not, as “Myall!’ claims
(B. 9/12/’59), the second-oldest line in
Queensland; the Dalby, Ipswich-Bris-
bane, Dalby - Roma, Maryborough-
Gympie and Townsville-Charters Towers
lines are all senior to it. Probably
Queensland’s biggest railroad-engineering
feat was in 1886 (soon after com-
pletion of the Cooktown-Laura), when
work started on the Cairns-Herberton
railway over the Cairns Range and
around the side of the Barron Gorge.
The range-section of 24 miles, Cairns to
Myola, took six years to build. The line
reached Mareeba in August, 1893, where
construction stopped for some years. The
line did not reach its original destination
until 1910. Meanwhile, a 103-mile-long
branch-line was built from Mareeba to
Chillagoe by Chillagoe Railway and
Mines, Ltd.—the first railway of impor-
tance to be built by private enterprise
in Queensland. The Government took
it over in 1919. When work began on
the Cooktown-Laura line (67 miles) the
intended destination was Maytown, on
the Palmer River, but by the time the
rails reached Laura, gold had petered-
out on the Palmer and the line was never
extended. Last year a new rail-motor
replaced the 1917 Daimler known as
Leaping Lena. The newcomer was
promptly christened Sabrina —and most
appropriate, too, considering the curves.
* * * *
“Will C.”: When I first became in-
terested in country towns I noticed that
quite a number of them had a Royal and
a Commercial hotel, with an odd Rail-
way, and Federal thrown-in. In a recent
compilation by a motorists’ association,
a count through the pages shows that
in New South Wales there are 57 Royal
hotels, 27 Commercials and 19 Imperials.
Railways and Centrals are right at the
bottom of the list with only 5 of each
name.


The wicketkeeper in a cricket-match
at Fairfield (N.S.W.) had just got
down to take the first ball of the innings
when he nearly threw a back-somersault
as he found himself almost sitting on
the most fearsome-looking creature he
had ever beheld. But before he could
uproot a stump and dispatch it the
umpire gave his decision —in favor of
the frill-necked lizard. Not only that,
the ump. gently picked up the harmless
creature and placed it on his shoulder,
where throughout the “dig” Frilly re-
mained perched, looking fierce enough
to take-on a gang of death-adders, or a
whole team of wicketkeepers.—“Fairf.”
* * * *
“Snobby”: With the bush fire-season at
hand it's good to remember a first prin-
ciple where beaters are the chief
weapons: always beat in! A straight
up-and-down swipe will spread a shower
of sparks behind the beater, and can
start a new blaze. By beating in —that
is, towards the fire—the live coals and
sparks are swept back on already-burnt
country.
* * * *
“Raja Ani Ani”: Having had some
experience with termites in Malaya, I’d
say that the ones mentioned here as
having been spread by “Norque’s” Bth
Divvy cobber around the wooden Jap
memorial at Bukit Timah would have
been redundant—it would be odds-on
that plenty others were already in the
ground, waiting for the feed. Also,
“Duke” Tritton, in his par. correcting
“Norque,” was obviously speaking from
purely Australian experience of a single
kind of termites that run to only one
queen. Actually, there are some 5000
or more species of termites in Malaya ;
many of them have more than one queen
in a royal cell, and many have more than
one cell in the termitary. Some of the
queens are bigger than your middle-
finger.
* * * *
“Wilga”: Some months ago the
Queensland Museum received six rare
brush-tailed rats (Dasyuroides byrnei )
from the Birdsville district, and recently
nine baby rats were born—the first to
be bred in captivity. The little fellows
are carried in the pouch of the mother
like other marsupials. Records show
that before the arrival of the Birdsville
batch only 15 of these little rats had been
found—in the sand-and-gibber country in
Central Australia, their native habitat.
First discovered in 1895 by R. Byrne,
of Charlotte Waters, the animal is
peculiar to Australia. The body is 6in.
long ; half of its sin. tail is bare, and
the other half covered with black hair
1 in. long, giving the appearance of a
bottle-brush. Brownish-grey, the animal
is nocturnal, camping in burrows by
day, and venturing out to forage at dusk.
It is closely related to the Tasmanian-
devil and spotted tiger-cat, is carnivorous
(feeding on mice and other small animals,
birds and insects), and can move with
amazing speed when pursuing its prey,
its ability to jump several feet into the
air making small birds easy victims. The
babies are being closely studied, and
observations will be circulated to most
universities throughout the world.
* * * *
“Jaygee”: Telling the age of a sheep
by its teeth and the general use of
consequent terms “full-mouthed” and
“gummy” can cause misconceptions. A
Victorian teacher recently wrote a text-
book on sheep for schools, and stated
that a full-mouthed sheep had eight
“How DARE you come into my cabin!”
teeth. Only one parent challenged him,
with “What about the grinders?
plussed, the teacher called on the live-
stock officer, but neither he nor his books
could supply the answer. He put the
question again to the butcher, who gave
the number as 36. Then he came across
the skull of a sheep in a ditch and
jubilantly discovered the answer —32.
ij* ?{» *j»
“Not Rum”: There’s a stand of Vic-
torian mountain-ash growing at an alti-
tude of 8500 ft. in the Aberdare Ranges
in Kenya. The height of the tallest is
260 ft., reached in just under 40 years.
Gums in East Africa are used for fire-
wood, and are mostly useless for build-
ing-purposes. They are planted also for
drying-out swampy patches and affording
shelter for stock. Other Australian trees
in those parts are wattle (the bark-
industry now well established), black-
wood and Grevillea robusta, which are
planted with coffee to provide shade.
I’ve seen wattles also growing in the
laval districts of the Belgian Congo,
where there were no signs of indigenous
trees. They did look a bit hungry,
though.
* * * *
TThh three dogs came with us on a
wintry afternoon, thankful we hadn’t
decided to stay inside by the fire ; and,
after the first fren-
zied barkings of
approval had sub-
sided, cast about on
their own affairs
with an occasional
glance in our direc-
tion to see we didn't
get lost.
The trees, though
bare, had that look
of pre-spring acti-
vity, the new
growth of the
peaches showing
red against the sky,
the prunings thick
on the ground be-
neath them. Re-
placement-trees had
been planted where
old ones had died-
out, their butts pro-
tected against hares
by an evil - smelling
concoction with a
fixative of cow-
manure. The green
crop had started to
show-up, and close
against the tree-
butts old weeds were
thick.
The old dog
chased and barked
at birds; the bitch
had found some-
thing very dead on
the bank of the dam
and rolled in it so
ecstatically she for-
got where she was
and fell into the
water with a mighty
splash; the pup lolloped along and
yearned for something to chase. Then old
Nigger shoved his nose hard against the
weeds round one of the trees and sniffed
till he sneezed. He started digging, his tail
wagging hard, pausing every now and
then to sniff into the hole he had dug.
The others gathered round. Nigger
dug harder, biting at the stems of the
weeds and pulling them out in clumps.
A field-mouse ran into the weeds at the
other side of the tree, but the dogs still
went on digging, the three of them now,
taking turns at the one hole, or making
independent ones. The pup ran round
to the other side of the tree, sniffing and
snorting. The mouse ran straight pasl
her to the safety of the next tree.
After another few minutes of digging,
they all gave up, told us they were only
fooling, and went off to look for hares.
SUNRAY.


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
S! AGHGS
g&fHtS
Pot still brandy
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
BRANDY
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE MARKET'S LEAP-YEAR LEAP
A ustralian sharemarkeis
opened for 1960 with a
spectacular up-burst, most
noticeable in the forward
heavyweights C.S.R., 8.H.P.,
Burns Philp, Anthony Hordern,
ICIANZ, Howard Smith,
Henry Jones and Melbourne
“Herald” ; but some of the
younger favorites, such as
Rothman’s, Bramble s, Union
Carbide, Miqster, Kelly and
Lewis, P.G.H., Publishers
Holdings, Ready - mixed
Concrete, Dalton Bros., and
Thompson s (Casttanatne)
showed hefty upward leaps as
welL
The opening market leap for
this leap-year was quite
startling.
Takeover interest stimulated
the 16s. shares of ancient Inter-
colonial Building, which, on
announcement of a takeover
offer of one Mercantile Mutual
Insurance £1 share, plus ss. in
cash for every 16s. share in
Intercolonial, mounted to 85s.
(buyer) after sales at 775.
An offer by Dalton Bros, to
take-over Paperholdings fol-
lowed a successful bid by
Dalton’s for the shares in
Hermann Haege, Ltd., an
associate of Paperholdings.
Dalton Brothers Holdings, Ltd.,
in which W. R. Carpenter has a
substantial interest, converted
last year with an offer of its ss.
shares at par. Last week these
units rose to 17s. 9d. Dalton
Bros, controls Carmichael and
Co., another paper-merchandis-
ing concern,
Another takeover develop-
ment was an offer from an
unnamed party for the shares
j n Lennons Hotel, Brisbane.
t j-, e enc i D f } ast wee k, in
jte of SO me read j llstments>
£ e market was still movi
upwardj < hough a( a slower
rate.
optimistic reports from
over *s eas proposed UK.
statutory recognition of certain
equity shares as trustee invest-
ments (thus stimulating the
London market), U.S. talk of
the “ go lden ’sixties,” confused
thoughts about our own infla-
tionary outlook, mofe vigorous
an d enterprising financial and
industrial developments in Aus-
tralia, greater overseas interest
in Australian investment, and
the scrip-shortage created by
income-tax anomalies were
factors in Australia’s New Year
renewed Stock Exchange boom,
A few quality second-line
stocks did not move forward
with the others. Among these
were the Gypsum group (Aus-
tralian Gypsum, Victor Electric
Plaster and Peninsula Plaster),
Ford Sherington Holdings, J.
Gadsden and Frederic Ash —
all still below their highest price
in 1959.
Unit-trust Insurance
T atest investment - cocktail
to be served-up in Aus-
tralia is a combination of unit-
trust investment with term life-
insurance.
Australian Fixed Trusts will
combine 100 (cost, £100) or
more units of any one of its
balanced funds with term-
insurance underwritten by the
Eagle Star Insurance.
No medical examination is
required, but a statement of
health is necessary.
Minimum premium is £3 p.a.
automatically payable out of
the income from the units ;
maximum annual premium is
£lB. Insurance-cover is highest
on young lives and cuts-out
completely at 65.
Surplus income over insur-
ance premiums may be re-
invested in additional units.
Assuming that the units
return 6 p.c. p.a., from 100
units £3 would be paid in
premiums and £3 received in
income (or reinvested in units);
from 600 units £lB p.a. could
be paid in premiums and £lB
p.a. collected (or reinvested, in
which case the income would
compound).
From £6OO put into the
units at the age of 21, £lB p.a.
allotted to insurance premiums
and the remainder of the in-
come reinvested would produce
£9900 in insurance if death
occurred at 35, plus £979 in
accumulated (compounded)
value of the investment (at
par).
If the investor died at 64
the insurance-cover would have
dropped to £450, but the invest-
ment (at par) would have risen
to £4195.
Term-insurance runs from
year to year and has no
surrender-value. It does not
accumulate bonuses, but on the
unit-trust side the compound-
ing effect of reinvested income
can be very attractive, pro-
vided a regular 6 p.c. is
realised.
No particular income is
guaranteed, but A.F.T. con-
siders 6 p.c. to be a conserva-
tive estimate.
Unlike ordinary life-assur-
ance (except single-premium
assurance), the combination
of unit-trust investment and
term-insurance involves a
comparatively large outlay in
the first year, but no outlay
thereafter. Also, between the
ages of 35 and 55 death-cover
plus units-value tends to drop
from the high peak reached at
35. With reinvestment of sur-
plus income there is some
recovery between 55 and 65.
Units can be sold back to
A.F.T. at market price and the
insurance terminated at any
time.
The A.F.T.-Eagle Star pro-
posal will appeal most to young
marrieds, especially those with
children (and with £lOO to
£600), and in view of the fact
that the 1960’s look like
producing a record number of
young married couples the
inauguration of the plan seems
to have been well timed.
Premiums paid for the term-
insurance are deductible for
income-tax provided all life-
assurance premiums paid by
the one taxpayer do not exceed
£4OO a year.
M.L.C. New Business
TVTew business written in Aus-
' tralia and New Zealand by
Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance in 1959 was again a
record. Exclusive of all tem-
porary assurance, policies were
issued in the Ordinary branch
with annual premiums of over
£2,560,000 (1958, £2,456,000),
and for sums assured of
£72,250,000 (1958, £66,450,000).
The Industrial branch issued
policies with annual premiums
of £610,000 (1958, £596,000),


BANK WHERE YOU
v>|\ m
*
(i a
SEE
THIS
SHIELD
*
cc°
*53
r/V,
Look for the blue and gold shield at every
branch of A.N.Z. Bank it is your safeguard
in banking service.
k An A.N.Z. SAVINGS ACCOUNT . . .
is easy to open. You receive a
Pass Book and your money earns
interest (up to £2,000). Attrac-
tive money boxes FREE to child-
ren under 12 years, who have an
A.N.Z. Savings Account.
■k An A.N.Z. CHEQUE ACCOUNT . . .
is a permanent record of all your
payments. Easy to use. Simple
to write and it's so much safer!
k An A.N.Z. TRAVELLER'S CHEQUE . .
is the safest way to carry money
when you travel anywhere in Aus-
tralia or abroad.
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSHAUA AND NfW If ALAMO SANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA ANO NEW XEALAMO SAViNOS lANK LIMITS*
A-N-Z
3 PB
and for sums assured of
£12,290,000 (1958, £12,114,000).
The combined new business
had annual premiums of
£3,170,000 and sums assured of
£84,540,000.
These figures indicate, said
the M.L.C.’s general manager,
A. F. Deer, that Australia
enjoyed a substantial measure
of prosperity in 1959. Pros-
pects are that 1960 will be a
year of great expansion in life-
assurance.
Mercury in Mosaic
'T'he annual report and
balance-sheet of the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank of
Australia for 1958-59 is again
a colorful and attractive pro-
duction, illustrating the acti-
vities of the bank and the
economy of the nation in
photograph and symbolic repre-
sentation as w 7 ell as in prose
and figures.
Hermes (otherwise Mercury)
has been selected as the motif
of the symbolism, all presented
colorfully as in a tiled mosaic.
This is eyecatching, and serves
the useful purpose of attracting
the reader to the more prosaic
letterpress.
According to the Oxford
Companion to Classical Litera-
ture, Hermes was “the god of
luck and wealth, the patron of
merchants and also of thieves,
and in many parts of Greece
a god of fertility. He was the
god of joads, and on these the
Her nut were erected in his
honor. He was the messenger
or herald of the gods, and con-
ductor of the souls of the dead
to Hades.”
He sounds, according to this
description, the god of just
about everything, including
lotteries, the “Herald” and
trustees and executors—in fact,
complete nationalisation. It is
rather a relief, therefore, to
find that the C.T.B. sets him up
on the last page of the report
as simply the “god of com-
merce and wealth.” Even so,
there may be a departmental
argument later with the tele-
communications people, who
seem to have more or less
adopted him, too.
George Hamori, designer-
artist, is responsible for the
colorful C.T.B. balance-sheet
presentation.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
Project Development Corp.
"Clot ation of Project De-
velopment Corporation,
Ltd., will bring onto the Stock
Exchange the various incor-
porated construction activities
which began with the entry of
E. S. Clementson into the
building-contracting business in
1949.
It follows the public appear-
ance of other expanding con-
struction-groups in recent
years.
Through seven sub-subsidi-
aries via E. S. Clementson Pty.,
Ltd., large and varied construc-
tion jobs have been carried
out in Papua, New Guinea,
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania. Present con-
tracts include the Port Wilson
jetty at Geelong (Vic.), the
Upper Cotter Dam and Red
Hill Flats, Canberra.
Turnover for the current
year is put at £1,800,000.
With a paid-up capital of
£255,296, Project Development
Corp. has just offered (and has
had oversubscribed) 578,817
ords. of ss. each, making its
total paid capital £400,000.
The new money has been
sought to “initiate new major
works, such as car-parks,
office-blocks, hotels, regional
shopping-centres, home-units
r and subdivisions, etc., and
negotiations for several import-
ant contracts arising from pro-
motion of this nature in Syd-
ney, Canberra and Melbourne
are already at the point of
completion,” says managing-
director Clementson.
The group owns a 579-acre
cattle property at West Hox-
ton, beyond Liverpool (N.S.W.),
most of which it is now pro-
posed to subdivide into five-
acre farms.
Mr. Clementson speaks of
profits of 18.5 p.c. on a
£400,000 capital during the
current term without including
any return from the new capi-
tal, and says a 10 p.c. div.
should be paid without diffi-
culty.
Excluding any profits earned
since June 30, net tangible
backing for the ss. ords. works-
out at 4s. 2d. per share (pro-
perties at recent revaluations),
or at 4s. Bd. if an appropriate
proportion of an investment’s
reserves are included.
Actual earnings over the
past five years (on the pre-
flotation capital of £255,296)
have averaged 6.1 p.c. (1954-
55), 8.5 p.c., 14.1 p.c., 8.7 p.c.
and 10.9 p.c. (1958-59) —
excluding farm charges and
losses applicable to the West
Hoxton property.
This emergence of the
Clementson construction-group
to public-co. status follows the
formation of Concrete Enter-
prises, Ltd., a short time ago,
when the Clementson ready-
mixed interests were floated.
Both floats have occurred at
a very busy stage in construc-
tional activity throughout the
Commonwealth, and at a time
when land-trusts and building-
trusts, motel-construction and
public works are booming.
Much will depend on
management and the various
companies’ ability to put on
financial fat during periods like
the present as protection against
the inevitable lean years and the
occasional “bad” contract. E. S.
Clementson has built-up a repu-
tation for efficiency during his
decade as a building-contractor.
Lennons at Auction
/~\n Monday, January 4, the
chairman of Lennons
Hotel, Ltd., Mr. Dudley A.
McNab, announced that an
offer had been received by the
Brisbane board for Lennons
Hotel, Ltd., and a contingent
offer for the other three hotels
in the group.
First thoughts turned to
Federal Hotels, who were
thwarted in the Australia Hotel
(Sydney) deal.
Federal's chairman, R.
Markillie, replied next day that
“Lennons had asked us if we
were interested in them. Since
then they have approached
others.” Meanwhile the market
placed a value of £3| million on
Lennons’ Brisbane expanded
capital. The ss. ordinary shares
rose to 17s. before settling at
13s. 3d.
Capital has more than
doubled recently by the con-
version of the unsecured notes
three years before maturity, and
the one-for-two bonus issue on
the already enlarged capital.
On last year's profit, earnings
represent a bare 11 p.c. on
present capital.


A.
MULLENS & CO.
H. Urqphart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mdllbhs
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8LK327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co .)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BB 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4034
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP/’ Sydney.
Shell-ICI Petrochemical*
Shell Chemical (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., will erect an
ethylene - manufacturing and
-purification unit at Clyde,
N.S.W., in association with
Shell’s refinery there. The
ethylene so produced will be
piped to ICIANZ at
Botany (N.S.W.), where its
immediate use will be in the
manufacture of polythene (also
known as polyethylene).
ICIANZ’s plant at Botany,
already extended several
times, is currently being
further enlarged, and the total
investment represented by
ICIANZ’s extended facilities
at Botany and Shell’s new
ethylene plant at Clyde will be
over £lO million. Adequate
supplies of ethylene will be
available to meet ICIANZ
and Shell requirements for
many years to come.
Construction of the new
plant at Clyde is expected to
start in 1960, and it should
come “on stream” within two
yeats.
Polythene was discovered by
ICI scientists in England,
and its manufacture in
Australia was begun by
ICIANZ in 1957. It finds
a wide variety of applications
for industrial and domestic
purposes, such as film and
plastic mouldings. New appli-
cations are constantly being
developed, and world produc-
tion has made the remarkable
leap from 6000 tons in 1946
to 700,000 tons in 1958.
A feature of the agreement
reached by the two companies
is that portion of the polythene
manufactured by ICIANZ
will be marketed by Shell
Chemical. This marketing de-
velopment, although new to
Shell in Australia, is in line
with current marketing activi-
ties of Shell Chemical’s over-
seas associates. ,
Parkmore Property Trust
t>arkmore Property Trusts,
Ltd., has been formed in
Melbourne to manage the
Parkmore Property Trust,
which will come into operation
early this year.
Parkmore Property Trusts,
Ltd., has come into being
through the activities of J. H.
Stockdale, whose co., Southern
Construction Co. Pty., Ltd., has
built more than 1000 homes in
Melbourne suburbs, and a large
number of shops and several
factories in the last few years.
It is particularly well known
for the Parkmore Estate.
The unit-trust co. was estab-
lished because of the consider-
able benefits believed to be
available from a diversified
investment in factory lease-
holds, flats and home-units,
land-subdivision and develop-
ment, and in the shares of
building-companies.
“Mind if I powder my nose?”
Parkmore Property Trust will
operate under a trust-deed, by
which it is empowered to
invest in all these forms of
investment.
The directors have had
experience in all fields of
building, land - development,
engineering, finance and bank-
ing.
The managers will guarantee
an income to unit-holders of
8 p.c. over the first three years
of the trust, and they expect
that this rate will be exceeded
Capital - profits are also
envisaged.
A feature of the trust is that
the managers are given power
to use capital-appreciation in
excess of 4 p.c. per annum to
increase income-payments in
future years up to 8 p.c. per
annum on the value of the
units at the end of each half-
year.
Directors of Parkmore
Property Trusts, Ltd., are J. R.
Bishop, chartered accountant
(chairman); E. S. Knight,
actuary (managing); R. W. A.
Dickson, solicitor; J. H. G.
Guest; K. G. Luke; J. H.
Stockdale and I. R. Veali.
Trustees for Parkmore
Property Trust will be the
Equity Trustees.
Nominal capital of Park-
more Property Trusts, Ltd., is
£250,000, of which £50,000 has
already been subscribed in cash.
The Development Bank
TV/Cain function of the Com-
monwealth Development
Bank, which will open for busi-
ness on January 14, will be to
provide finance for primary
production and for the estab-
lishment and development of
industrial undertakings (par-
ticularly small undertakings) in
cases where it considers the
provision of finance is desirable
and the finance would not
otherwise be available on
reasonable and suitable terms.
A primary consideration will
be the prospects of the
borrower’s operations being
successful.
It will be necessary for
prospective borrowers to
establish to the satisfaction of
the Development Bank that the
finance sought was not other-
wise available on reasonable
terms and conditions.
The need to ensure that the
bank’s funds are available for
developmental purposes will
mean that, except in special
circumstances, the bank will
not be able to approve applica-
tions which do not have any
developmental features and
which merely involve a change
of ownership of land or other
assets, or the taking-over of
debt from another lender.
Finance will usually be made
available by way of term-loan
repayable over periods suited
to each individual case.
Borrowers will be expected
to provide the maximum
security available, but no
specific lending-margins against
particular types of security will
be set, and each case will be
considered on its merits.
Interest on loans will be
influenced by such aspects as
the degree of essentiality of the
project and the risk factors
associated with the transaction.
Initially the maximum rate for
new business will be 6 p.c. p.a.
A fee of £lO will be payable
on lodgment of an application
for a loan. If the application
after consideration is declined
without investigation, this fee
will be refunded ; if approved,
it will be applied towards meet-
ing the fees payable by the
borrower in respect of estab-
lishing the relative loan.
The Development Bank will,
in appropriate cases, provide
hire-purchase facilities for the
acquisition of producer-goods
such as machine-tools, factory-
equipment, farm-tractors, agri-
cultural implements and trans-
port-vehicles other than pas-
senger motor-cars. Maximum
available term of hirings will
depend on the type of goods
financed.
Initially, the basic hiring-
charge for new goods will be at
the rate of 4f p.c. p.a. flat, with
a reduction of \ p.c. p.a. for
agricultural tractors and imple-
ments. The minimum deposit
sought will vary according to
the type of goods being
financed, but normally will be
between 25 p.c. and 33| p.c.
of the net cash price.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
mrnmn
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
The Ensemble Returns
Hayes Gordon’s Ensemble
Theatre, where plays are staged
in a square surrounded by an
audience in tiered seats, re-
opened last Thursday night in
its new waterfront premises at
Milson’s Point (Sydney)—an
ancient corrugated-iron ware-
house, rather like a tilt-roofed
tent, which the company-
members themselves have
painted white and ingeniously
turned into a playhouse with
an atmosphere all its own.
They have lined it with
painted sheets of wood and
screens of dyed hessian ; they
have laced a canvas awning
onto a metal frame above the
balcony overlooking the Har-
bor, where you can drink
coffee between acts and listen
to the waves slapping the
stones ; they have hung some
lively abstract paintings in
the passage-like foyer ; and in
the auditorium they have
draped fishing-nets between the
steel-framed spotlight fixture
and the high roof, enclosing the
area with dark-blue hessian
curtains which they dyed them-
selves.
They opened their new sea-
son with Mel Dinelli’s “The
Man” —the play they were so
successful with in their old
premises at North Sydney. It
is to be followed after a
limited season by Tennessee
Williams’s “Orpheus Descend-
ing”—their only other produc-
tion so far.
Many playgoers were disap-
pointed that Gordon did not
choose two fresh plays for his
reopening, and it probably
would have been better if he
had. However, the important
thing at the moment is that the
Ensemble is back in its arena
with people all round it.
Those who missed “The
Man” when it was on before
will need to be told that it
depicts an elderly widow’s day
of terror when the young man
she hires to help her in the
house turns out to be a para-
noiac with as frightening a set
of delusions as you could hope
to find this side of a psychia-
tric ward. The cracks in his
personality are opened and
closed by turns with a some-
times unnerving effect on the
audience, and a definitely un-
nerving effect on the widow,
who, at the twist of the climax,
is almost as far out of her mind
as her tormentor.
It is the sort of play that
inevitably provokes interest in
the in-the-round technique.
Seen on a picture-stage, on film
or on television, it would prob-
ably be no more shocking than
any of a half-dozen other good
thrillers on the innocent-
trapped-with-psycho theme;
but as produced in an arena
by Hayes Gordon, with a
skeletal set, and with Clarissa
Kaye and Jon Ewing in the
leads, its impact is unique and
very strong indeed.
In spite of one’s inevitable
expectations, no sense of
“novelty” gets between play
and spectator. On the contrary,
the arena rapidly comes to
seem the only place where the
play could be properly done.
This, and the sense of audience
involvement (so strong that
the faces and voices of the
actors persist in the mind and
nerves long after the play is
over), are guarantees of the
technique’s value.
It would be interesting to
know the range of this value:
one hopes that the company
will soon start applying its
technique to plays of more
varied scope and purpose than
the two on the current bill;
especially to plays less given to
the mechanics of shock and
sensation. Then we will be
better able to judge the tech-
nique and its special acting-
demands in detail.
*x* +i+ ***■
“The Year in Theatre”
The Bulletin reviewer’s
criticism of my article in
Australian Theatre Year,
1959/60 (B. 30/12/’59), refers
mainly to the manner in which
the Trust Players’ Sydney sea-
son was disposed of; my
neglect of the Sydney Uni-
versity Dramatic Society ; and
my statement that “as in the
past the real enterprise in
Sydney theatre came from its
three little-theatres.”
Controversy is the lifeblood
of the theatre ; but certain facts
only become controversial
when removed from their con-
text. Your reviewer apparently
thought this necessary, thereby
creating an erroneous basis for
his remarks.
My comment on the Trust
Players, taken out of its con-
text, failed to convey its true
meaning. Except for the men-
tion of the Trust Players—
used to illustrate a particular
point—no further reference
was made to professional-
theatre activity. This omission
was deliberate, as the article
was not intended to be a com-
prehensive review of theatre in
N.S.W. (I doubt whether the
articles from other States were,
either), but rather of some
activities and aspects of non-
professional theatre in this
State. The title “Enthusiasm
Unlimited,” the quotation at
the beginning and the defini-
tion at the end surely gave
precise indications of its intent.
The subtitle “"Theatre Year in
N.S.W.” was the editor’s.
Undoubtedly S.U.D.S. did
lead with the avant-garde plays
of the year for a selective audi-
ence. One rather expects this
from a university group not
competing for the patronage
of the general public and play-
ing only short seasons of two
or three performances—which
hardly rates a little-theatre
classification.
My claim about the enter-
prise of Sydney’s three little-
theatres was also taken out
of context. Knowing the full
facts one could not label the
Independent, the Genesians
and the Pocket Playhouse un-
enterprising. Their choice of
uncommercial plays such as
“Volpone,” “Moby. Dick,”
“Julius Caesar, 1959,” “Career”
and “A Hatful of Rain” —to
name a few —coupled with
healthy competition for the
patronage of the general pub-
lic each Friday and Saturday
throughout the year, could
hardly be called unenterpris-
ing.
These little-theatres are not
subsidised in any way. The
risks are many and the rewards
few. If, then, through circum-
stances beyond their control
they are occasionally forced to
appear “conventional in their
choice of plays and methods”
it is purely for the box-office
and to subsidise from within
the unconventional —i.e., the
uncommercial —play which is
good theatre but has little
entertainment-value for regular
customers. Too few people
realise this ; but those who do
accept it graciously and grate-
fully. .
In an article of limited
length and intention no writer
could be expected to mention
every non-professional acting-
group, there being some 200
in N.S.W. Also, my review
was written in late September,
and some of the peaks in Syd-
ney theatre mentioned by your
reviewer were presented after
that date.
Considering the many fine
actors, producers and tech-
nicians who worked during
1959 in Sydney’s little-theatres,
often under extreme difficul-
ties, to present continuous
worth - while uncommercial
theatre whilst our heavily sub-
sidised professional theatre was
often closed, isn’t it fair to
comment that “as in the past
the real enterprise in Sydney
theatre came from its three
little-theatres”?
Norman McVicker.
[The reviewer replies: Whatever
the purpose of Mr. McVicker's
article, he can hardly justify his
claim for the three little-theatres
without reference to some, at least,
of the professional companies. His
remark about the Trust Players, in
or out of context, still needs heavy
qualification as to that company's
unquestionable achievements. And
whoever was responsible for the
subtitle “Theatre Year in N.S.W.”
that subtitle was there and could
hardly be ignored.
It is news indeed that to qualify
for consideration as a little-theatre
a company must first compete for
the patronage of the general public
and play extended seasons. It


INFORMATION REQUIRED
On Thursday, the 15th October,
1959, at about 11.30 p.m. a motor
vehicle travelled through the red
lights at the intersection of Liver-
pool and Boui'ke Streets, Sydney,
and collided with a motor cyclist
then travelling along Liverpool
Street, causing serious injuries to
the motor cyclist. The driver of
the other vehicle did not stop after
the accident. Such other vehicle
was a chocolate brown coloured
utility thought to be of Morris
make and of approx. 1950 vintage.
If you saw this accident or can
give any assistance to establish the
identity of the motor vehicle, please
contact
MESSRS. TAYLOR & SCOTT,
Solicitors. BW 4485.
is also interesting that an experi-
enced producer like Mr. Mc-
Vicker considers “unconventional”
and “uncommercial” to be
synonymous.
Few reviewers have more sym-
pathy for little-theatres than the
present writer, as his notes on their
individual efforts last year must
have shown. But sympathy and
overpraise are separable.]
Films of 1959
Although there was still too
high a percentage of the indif-
ferent and the downright bad,
there was a clear upward trend
in the quality of films from all
sources last year.
The best drama of the year—
and the best to come out of
England since “River Kwai”—
was “Room at the Top,” a
splendid example of a good
novel losing nothing (perhaps
even gaining something) in the
cinematic telling. Laurence
Harvey was fine as the shrewd
and ruthlessly ambitious young
Yorkshireman and Simone
Signoret superb as the woman
he loves and betrays.
Running a close second was
“Separate Tables” (U.S.). Its
tense situations were worked-
out with great skill by a dis-
tinguished cast including David
Niven —winner of an Academy
Award for his performance in
it. Another first-class drama
(reviewed in this issue) was
“Anatomy of a Murder,” a
triumph for Hollywood’s pro-
ducer-director Otto Preminger.
Two other U.S. films based
on famous novels were “The
Old Man and the Sea,” which,
in spite of a solid performance
from Spencer Tracy as the old
Mexican who struggles to
subdue a great fish, somehow
missed the essence of the
Hemingway story ; and “Com-
pulsion,” from Meyer Levin’s
novel based on the murder-trial
of the two American patho-
logical kiilers Loeb and
Leopold.
Much of the beauty and
delicacy of the play came
through the screen-version of
“The Diary of Anne Frank.”
British studios also did well
with “The Key,” a war-time
drama with Trevor Howard
and William Holden in forceful
roles. “Shake Hands with the
Devil” was a tightly-knit Irish
piece set in the days of the
Black-and-Tan troubles, with
Abbey players Cyril Cusack and
Noel Purcell doing fine work in
support of a dynamic James
Cagney. Cagney also domi-
nated “Never Steal Anything
Small,” a rather astringent
comment on Irish-American
gangsterism in politics.
Bernard Shaw got a showing
in a lush “Doctor’s Dilemma”
“Oh, no, just another labor-saving gadget."
which followed the play fairly
faithfully and was peopled with
some of Britain’s top
character-actors.
Most striking in the
biography line were “I Want to
Live,” a wounding story of the
execution by gas-chamber at
San Quentin of Barbara
Graham (Susan Hayward), who
protested her innocence of
murder to the last; and “Too
Much Too Soon,” a lugu-
brious tale of the swift rise
and swifter fall of the ill-starred
daughter of John Barrymore.
Elia Kazan’s high-tempera-
ture treatment of Tennessee
Williams’s “Cat on a Hot Tin
Roof” had Burl Ives with all
his vocal guns blazing as Big
Daddy. In the suspense-field
Alfred Hitchcock maintained
his top place with a sizzling
“North by North West.” His
earlier “Vertigo” also pulled
the hair to the perpendicular.
Thrills were provided in good
measure by “Operation
Amsterdam,” in which the
British told a good story about
the race by British agents to
beat the invading Nazis to the
rich store of Holland’s indus-
trial diamonds. There was the
first of John Buchan’s Richard
Hannay trilogy, “The 39
Steps,” with Kenneth More out-
witting the pre-War I German
agents ; and “Danger Within,”
another British film, was a
p.-0.-w. escape-story holding
good tensions.
In comedy, “Some Like It
Hot” was an outright winner,
uproariously teaming the
Monroe with Jack Lemmon
and Tony Curtis. In more
subtle vein, “The Horse’s
Mouth” gave us Alec
Gumness in a delightfully
angled realisation of the dedi-
cated and crazy painter Gulley
Jimson. “The Reluctant Debu-
tante” was all polished sophisti-
cation, with Rex Harrison and
the late Kay Kendall at their
top.
The only musical worth
mentioning was the fabulous
“South Pacific,” from the
Rodgers-Hammerstein stable.
It is now in its second year in
Sydney, with the end nowhere
in sight.
Two major American films
were located in Australia —a
highly animated “Doll,” with
an international cast to prove
that Ray Lawler’s play can be
even better on celluloid than on
the boards ; and, also getting
its world-premiere, Nevil
Shute’s “On the Beach.”
Spearheading a strong con-
tingent from Europe was a
Russian version of “Don
Quixote.” This was a distin-
guished piece of cinematic art,
in beautifully muted colors, and
with an unforgettable perform-
ance by Nikolai Cherkasov as
the Don.
From Germany came “The
Devil’s General,” a crisp story
of a German Luftwaffe general
and his detestation of the S.S.
men.
Spain’s “Marceiino,” Yugo-
slavia’s “Valley of Peace” and
Sweden’s “The Great Adven-
ture” told engaging and mov-
ing stories of childhood.
The luckiest break for film-
addicts was that Brigitte
Bardot’s preoccupation with
having a baby and Elvis Pres-
ley’s temporary absence at arms
precluded their appearance on
the sets.
S. W. K.
Other Films
“Anatomy of a Murder”
Penetrating projection of
character, clear assessment of
motive, a smooth narrative
style, strong suspense and
almost faultless acting combine
to make this screen-version of
Robert Traver’s best-seller one
of the finest films Otto
Preminger has directed —and
that’s saying something.
A long film—yet one
wouldn’t have it a minute
shorter —its first half is devoted
to a minute and gripping study
of some of the characters: the
country-town defence-lawyer
who loves fishing ; the Army
lieutenant charged with the
murder of the man who raped
his young wife ; the worthless,
promiscuous wife.; the old
derelict lawyer who valiantly
puts aside the bourbon-bottle
to help a young colleague ; and
some of the vital witnesses.
The second half concerns the
trial itself, which develops into
a classic of polemics and is
even better than the one in
“Witness for the Prosecution.”
Holding the scales between the
cold incisiveness of the
prosecutor and the swiftly-
swooping and sometimes
passionate defence-lawyer is the
judge—wise, witty and gently
acidulous, with a razor-sharp
mind. In this role Joseph N.
Welsh gives a superb perform-
ance.
James Stewart is thoroughly
convincing as the small-town
lawyer who under pressure is
able to match law and wits with
the prosecutor from a nearby
city—a role filled most capably
by George Scott. Ben Gazzara,
as the accused, hurls only a


•A
wtmy CAT*
diesel tractors
top oil vesale values
Only Caterpillar Track-type Tractors give you all this:
• MORE FROM THE START: You get added values and inbuilt quality for more life, more
production that others cannot match at the price.
• LOWEST RUNNING COSTS: Burning low-cost non-premium diesel fuel, Caterpillar Track-
type Tractors save real fnoney on every tankful (20%-25% on annual fuel bills).
• NO ORPHAN MODELS: Replacement parts are still available for the first Caterpillar
Track-type Tractor builtl
• UNMATCHED W & J SERVICE: With seven highly staffed and equipped country branch
workshops, resident country servicemen and a vast inventory of genuine replacement
parts, W & J has State-wide Caterpillar service completely under control.
• LOWEST DEPRECIATION: Cat Diesel Tractors are "blood-brothers" to other Caterpillar-
built machines that have clocked over 100,000 work hours and are still going strong.
• HIGHEST WORKPOWER: A Cat Track-type Tractor gives big savings in maintenance
and labour—not to mention year-round adaptability for land clearing, tank sinking
«nd proparty improvements.
• INSURANCE against crop failure that goes with every machine
—the ability of Caterpillar Track-type Tractors to go when wheel
tractors can't get a footing.
Naturally you won't buy a Caterpillar Diesel Tractor for its
handsome resale value. You'll buy it to work—and that's what
it's built for; just check on its resale value for
the proof. There's always a solid market for
quality tractors made by Caterpillar.
Inbuilt quality that
costs no more when
you buy
gets you £loo's
more should you
ever decide to sell!
\
Ask your W & J representative to
give you the full facts on the
Caterpillar Equipment specifically
designed to handle your job more
profitably.
CATERPILLAR
•CATERPILLAR, CAT end TRAXCAVATOR ore Registered Trademarks
•f Caterpillar Traeter Ce., U.S.A.
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES.
Sold, serviced and backed to the hilt in N.S.W. by:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
WJ229.116
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone 657;
Moree, 'phone 208.


INVEST WITH SAFETY
18 MONTHS AND OVER
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
df/asfin{js / Dccritt(f (jriyu/t
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 4 dated 30/9/59 with audited balance
sheet as at 30/5/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS PEERING
FINANCE 6l INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
HD£I3
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
few, but effective, dramatic
thunderbolts. Arthur O'Connell
does a neatly-turned piece of
character-work as the ex-
derelict.
Although Lee Remick plays
skilfully on the theme of
langorous sexiness, her projec-
tion of the promiscuous wife—
she even begins to exercise her
wiles on her husband's defender
within minutes of meeting him
-—raises a doubt that resort to
rape by the dead man would
have been necessary.
At Sydney Victory.
“Journey to the Centre of
the Earth”
When Jules Verne wrote
this science-fiction story he
unaccountably failed to realise
that you simply can’t have a
scientific professor, especially
a Scottish one, rushing around
the bowels of the earth looking
for the lo§t City of Atlantis
unless he is accompanied by
a crooner. The makers of this
ornate and spectacular film
have kindly remedied the defect
by including Pat Boone as the
young science-student who
insists on going below with the
prof, and the widow of the
prof.’s Scandinavian rival (who
was most foully murdered by
a “Lights O’ London” villain).
The hazards faced by the
party —aside from the croon-
ing—include some fearful
rubber monsters (very ingeni-
ously animated), rapidly-
flooding caves, acres of red-hot
lava, a gigantic bombora in
the underground ocean, and,
of course, the pursuing villain.
But they emerge scathless, and
all get back to solid old Edin-
burgh after being spewed-up
out of the Stromboli volcano.
It is purple patches all the
way, with James Mason as the
tenacious Scot, and Arlene
Dahl—retaining the same per-
fect perm after a year or so
underground—as the widow.
At Sydney Regent.
* * *>
“Valley of Contrasts”
This documentary short
made in Eastmancolor by
Artransa is the best-photo-
graphed of its kind yet done in
Australia. There are beautiful
shots of the rich Tweed River
Valley in N.S.W. and of the
district’s many agricultural
pursuits—the growing of cane,
bananas, pineapples and paw-
paws along with the basic
dairying—and the fishing, surf-
ing and other attractions that
make the coastal strip just
below the Queensland border a
splendid tourist-centre.
At Sydney Esquire.
❖ ***
Other Sydney releases:
“Too Many Crooks” (G.U.
Theatres): A moderately laugh-
able English farce about a gang
of crooks led by George Cole,
who has a fatal facility for
botching things up. Terry
Thomas gets a fair share of the
grins as a racketeer whose
unwanted 1 wife (Brenda de
Banzie) joins the baddies to
bust his cache of ill-gotten
wealth.
“The Big Circus” (Esquire):
Victor Mature, as a flamboyant
circus-proprietor, is sufficient
guarantee that there is plenty
of ham in this big-top-and-
ring sandwich. Lurid melo-
drama ; excitement at about the
sewing-circle level.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERS LEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 IMtt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BWI77I—BW 8088
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.
Ranking among the top three trading-
banks in Australia, the National Bank
of Australasia, Ltd., handles an estimated
15 p.c. of the trading-bank business
through 861 branches and offices
throughout the Commonwealth and three
in London. One of the first trading-
banks to venture into hire-purchase, the
National has held a 40 p.c. share-interest
since 1954 in its financier affiliate, the
powerful, money-spinning Custom Credit
Corporation. Last term the bank earned
£350,000 in divs. from this source.
National’s first year in its second
century of trading ended with a higher
disclosed profit. A century in business
has mellowed this old Australian institu-
tion, but it hasn’t impaired its enterprise.
National issued its prospectus in Mel-
bourne in 1857. Growth was steady but
slow, being confined mainly to Victoria
and South Australia. Then in 1918 the
National swallowed the Colonial Bank
and three years later gobbled-up the
Bank of Queensland (an amalgamation
of the Bank of North Queensland and
the Royal Bank of Queensland).
Approaching the turn of its century,
National took-over the Queensland
National Bank in 1947. The Ballarat
Banking Co. was taken-over in 1955.
National has earned a name for being
a bit tight-fisted with scrip-issues in
modem times. During the period 1919-
1928 the bank raised its capital by
£3,000,000 to £5,000,000 in six share-
issues, netting £948,832 share-premiums.
Since then there has been only one issue
to existing shareholders, a one-for-two
in 1955. At that time 1,863,012 20s.
crds. were put out at 265. each, plus
2,400,000 contribs. paid to 12s. 6d. at
16s. 3d. each. This brought paid-up
capital to its present level (£10,089,037)
and earned the National a 30 p.c.
premium.
National’s 101st year of operations,
ended September 30, 1959, resulted in
consolidated gross earnings increasing by
£430,507 to £10,307,487- Net profit at
£1,029,696 (up £57,374) was the highest
ever disclosed. It was arrived at after
paying expenses totalling £8,569,704 (up
£436,198), and £708,088 income, land
and other taxes (down £63,065). The divi-
dend-rate remained steady at 9 p.c. (in
the previous year a 2 p.c. centenary-
bonus was added), and the cheque
absorbed £908,013, leaving £121,683 for
reserves, disclosed at £8,195,534:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. ten-off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 .. . . .. 5,934,806
1953.. 669,004 538.082 100,000 30,922 5.965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605.342 100,000 36,052 6,001,840
Share premiums, £1,008,904 . . 7,010,744
From inuer reserves, £991,096 .. 8,001,840
Unexplained addition, £7135 .. 8,008,975
1955.. 900,056 762,640 137,416 8,146,391
1956.. 954,152 908,013 46,139 8,192,530
1957. . 926,807 908,013 18,794 8,211,324
11 p.c.
1958.. 972,322 1,109,794 8,073,852
9 px.
1959. 1,029,696 908,013 121,683 8,195,535
Disclosed net profit represented an
earning-rate of 10.2 p.c. on average
share-capital, compared with 9.7 p.c. in
the preceding term.
There were some noteworthy shifts*
in the balance-sheet figures. Deposits,
bills payable, and other liabilities (in-
cluding provision for contingencies)
jumped by £19,160,714 to £292,816,503,
reflecting the buoyant state of the Aus-
tralian economy.
Inflow of foreign capital and a marked
improvement in wool prices helped to
sustain a high rate of economic activity
during the year.
However, the banking-system con-
tinues to operate under a method of
extensive Government controls, especially
when it comes to the vital question of
making trading-banks’ funds available
for advances. This particularly applies
to lending on overdraft, which can be
effectively supervised through the
statutory special deposits with the
Reserve Bank of Australia. The changes
introduced into the Australian central
bank system by the recent Federal bank-
ing-legislation, such as the creation of
the Reserve Bank, etc., are unlikely to
do much by way of diminishing Govern-
ment influence over the trading-banks.
Private enterprise and individuals have
been forced more and more to turn to
other sources of finance. Borrowing
from private finance-houses is consider-
ably more expensive than on overdraft,
but funds are easier to get. Finance
corporations and the like have simul-
taneously proved a profitable form of
investment for trading-banks’ funds, as
the National’s 40 p.c. holding in Custom
Credit proves.
Short-term money-market is rapidly
developing. Official statistics show that
total trading-banks’ funds with authorised
short-term dealers jumped from £18.2
million to £28.4 million between March
and October, 1959. The lowest figure
for that period was £22.9 million in July.
At September 30, 1959 (National’s
balance-date), short-term funds stood at
£25.8 million. This, and the country’s
continuous prosperity, coupled with
generally good seasonal agricultural
prospects for the coming year (except
for drought in some areas of western
Victoria and S.A.), may help to explain
the substantial drop in National’s
advances, which fell by £7,741,707 to
£156,510,714, or 53.5 p.c. of deposits com-
pared with 60 p.c. in 1958.
. Total advances of all trading-banks
at the end of September, 1959, were
£929.6 million, or £19.2 million lower
than a year ago. The fall in National’s
advances reflects the general trend in the
private banking-system.
At the same time, the figures revealed
a spectacular rise in the bank’s cash,
Government securities and other liquid
assets, which had risen by £28,096.625 to
£102,849,356;
1957. 1958. 1959.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 10,069,067 10,089,037 10,089,087
Reserves .. 8,211,324 8,073,852 8,195,534
Deposits, bills
payable, pro-
vision for con-
tingencies . . 272,895,857 273,655,789 292,816,503
Due other banks 255,835 269,364 296,578
Notes in circn-
, lation . . 47,478 47,478 47,478
Pinal dividend 454,007 655,787 454,007
291,953,538 292,791,307 311,899,137
Cash, Govern-
ment securi-
liqu’id assets 83,722,803 74,752,731 102,849,356
Statutory de-
posit with
Commonwealth
Bank .. 53,837,000 41,137,000 39,137,000
Advances .. 142,595,127 164,252,421 156,510,714
Premises, furni-
ture .. 8,253,592 8,971,902 9,548,671
Other assets .. 3,545,016 3,677,253 3,853,396
291,953,538 292,791,307 311,899,137
Advances as p.c.
of deposits . . 52.2 60.0 53.5
Liquid assets as
p.c. of deposits 30.7 27.3 3.5.1
The main factor behind this massive
rise in liquidity was the £20,367,373
increase in holdings of Australian
Government securities, shown at
£42,270,854. Bills receivable and remit-
tances in transit went up by £3,484,089
to. £30,464,523.
This brought liquid assets to 35.1 p.c.
of deposits (compared with 27.3 p.c. in
1958) in spite of the big rise in deposits.
Statutory deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank decreased by £2,000,000 to
£39,137,000.
Book-value of premises, furniture, etc.,
was £576,769 higher at £9,548,671. “All
other assets” increased by £176,143 to
£3,853,396.
At the last sale in Sydney the-20s.
f.-p. Ords. changed hands at 38s. 6d.,
yielding 4.7 p.c. on the steady 9 p.c.
dividend. The 12s. 6d. contribs. brought
245. 3d., making the yield 4.6 p.c. on the
same basis. The National offers a
higher immediate yield than the other
trading-banks.
On the consolidated accounts net
tangible asset-backing worked out at


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L,. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Dines) p.O. Box No. 1887 W
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5171-3-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
£1 13s. for the f.-p. ords. and at £1 ss. 6d.
for the contribs.
Petroleum and Chemical Corp.
Floated late in 1953, Petroleum and
Chemical Corporation (Australia),
Ltd. (popularly known as “Paccal”),
originally issued 1,300,000 20s. ords. at
par. Bitumen and Oil Refineries (Aus-
tralia), Ltd. (Boral), took-up 200,000
shares, and another 300,000 were re-
served for shareholders in that co. With
£25,000 in promoter’s shares and £3600
from the original subscribers, the co.
started-off with a total issued capital
of £1,328,600. At the same time
P.A.C.C.A.L. obtained a £500,000 deben-
ture-loan from City Mutual Life.
Modifications and additions to plant,
increases in the price of steel, etc.,
pushed plant-costs above prospectus
estimates. To cover the increased capital-
outlay shareholders were offered a one-
for-two cash issue (at 25 p.c. premium)
in August, 1955. At June 30, 1958, paid-
up capital amounted to £1,992,900, re-
maining unchanged since then.
The co. produces oil-gas (sold under
contract to the Australian Cjas Light Co.)
and light oil, containing benzene,
toluene and xylene, and petroleum-tars,
some of which contain appreciable
quantities of resin. Boral has contracted
to supply the co.’s oil requirements for
20 years, and also to purchase any sur-
plus fuel-oil produced.
At the moment P.A.C.C.A.L. is con-
verting to a holding-co. (Petrochemical
Holdings, Ltd.) which will control the
present co. (as a wholly-owned operating
subsidiary) and the two newly-formed
subsidiaries, Commercial Solvents Pty.
and Australian Petrochemicals Pty.
Commercial Solvents (wholly-owned)
was formed during last term to erect
and operate a Udex plant which will
manufacture pure benzene, toluene and
xylene by processing the light oil pro-
duced by P.A.C.C.A.L.
' The plant was designed and ordered
with a view to start operations by mid-
-1961. It will be erected adjacent to
Boral’s oil-refinery at Matraville, N.S.W.,
and will be operated by that co. under
an agreement. A long-term contract
for the sale of the entire output of Com-
mercial Solvents (other than needed for
internal requirements) “has been nego-
tiated,” and a “satisfactory return on this
investment is confidently expected.”
The latest important development is
the formation of Australian Petro-
chemicals, in conjunction with Monsanto
Chemical Co. of St. Louis, U.S.A., which
will hold 55 p.c. of the new subsidiary’s
£1,000,000 issqed capital. P.A.C.C.A.L.
will get the remaining 45 p.c. “Long-
term finance” for the “remainder of
capital requirements” is said to have
been arranged. The co. will produce
styrene-monomer from ethylene, and
benzene from the gas stream and by-
products flowing from P.A.C.C.A.L.’s
oil-cracking combine at Silverwater
(N.S.W.). Its plant will be adjacent to
P.A.C.C.A.L.’s to facilitate production
and reduce transport costs.
Australian Petrochemicals is scheduled
to begin production in 1961. A large
tonnage of its styrene-monomer will be
bought by Monsanto, which at present
imports it from other sources as a basic
raw material for processing into poly-
styrene.
Great hopes are held out for, the new
venture’s commercial success. Both
P.A.C.C.A.L.’s and Monsanto’s boards
are said to be satisfied that “the eco-
nomics are sound” and that the invest-
ment will bring satisfactory results.
This is just as well from the share-
holders’ point of view, because
P.A.C.C.A.L. is yet to pay a dividend.
Operations for the year ended June 30,
1959, resulted in another small loss
(£6451), compared with the £15,220 that
went down the drain in the previous
term. Thus far a profit was disclosed
only once (£12,955 in 1957), and
accumulated deficit has climbed to
£121,876 since 1954. Against this the
accounts show £166,075 reserves- (from
share - premiums), weighed - down by
£287,951 intangibles (including written-off
losses):
To Re-
June Loss. t —Dividends—, serves. Deficit.*
30, £ p.c. £ £ £
Prelim, exp., etc., £83,326 83,326
1954.. 15,870 99,196
Share-issue expenses, £12,500 111,696
1955.. 29,351 141,047
f Share-issue exp., etc., £17,437 158,484
1956 -j 120,751 279,235
[Share-premiums, £166,075 113,16.0
Profit.
1957.. 12,955 12,955 100,205
Loss.
1958.. 115,425
1959.. 6,451 - 121,876
* Subject to £287,951 intangibles at 30/6/’59.
Operating profit increased from £130,074
to £136,244, and expenses edged down
slightly to £42,695. Depreciation charges
remained steady at £lOO,OOO. Sales (un-
disclosed) were said to be much the same
as in the previous year. Tar products
were finding “greater acceptance.” If the
trend continues this profitable aspect of
the co.’s business could result in “quite
substantial” earnings.
Formation of the holding-co. will not
in itself alter the capital-structure, as
the share-exchange will be on a one-for-
one basis. However, after the formalities
are completed, the new Petrochemical
Holdings, Ltd., will make a one-for-four
cash issue at par, involving 498,000 20s.
ords., payable ss. on application and
the balance in ss. calls over about 12
months. This issue (underwritten by lan
Potter and Co.) will give the holding-co.
a paid-up capital of £2,490,900. Boral’s
interest will rise to 375,000 20s. ords.
Balance-sheet position did not vary
much from the preceding year. Formal
liquidity improved, with bank accom-
modation £23,339 lower at £117,887 and
creditors, etc., £64,139 down at
£132,060:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £1,992,825 £1,992,900 £1,992,900
Reserves .. .. 166,075 166,075 166,075
Debentures - .. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. 66,040 140,226 117,887
Creditors, etc. . . 285,270 196,199 132,060
£3,010,210 £2,995,400 £2,908,922
Fixed assets .. 2,504,179 2,454,440 2,397,870
Investments .. 1,002 1,002 1,002
Stocks, stores .. 11,9,179 160,184 125,616
Book-debts, etc... 119,525 98,221 ' 96,450
Cash .... 45 53 33
Intangibles .. 266,280 281,500 287,951
£3,010,210 £2,995,400 £2,908,922
Stocks and stores decreased by £34,568
to £125,616. Book-value of fixed assets
(down £56,570 at £2,397,870) showed the
effect of substantial depreciation write-
offs.
Current ratio was 0.9 to 1. Net
tangible asset-backing worked out at
18s. 9d. for each 20s. f.-p. share.
The game does seem rather tough
for P.A.C.C.A.L.’s long-suffering share-
holders, although the new arrangement
brought about by the co.'s association
with the big American Monsanto may
yet lead to satisfactory profits.
Thus far scrip-holders haven’t had
either divs. or capital-gains out of their
investment, except for a period in 1956,
when an optimistic sharemarket rated
P.A.C.C.A.L.’s shares at 425.
lan Potter, the chairman and a leading
Melbourne stockbroker, stated in his
last address that the co. is in “at least
as good a position to expand” as “any
competitive group” in the industry. But,
with other powerful interests in the field,
petrochemicals has become a very com-
petitive business.
The sharemarket is cautious, and last
valued the co.’s scrip at par.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
HPhe Australian paint industry is capable
A of a production well above that re-
quired to satisfy local needs. Because,
however, of high internal and non-
competitive cost-structures, it becomes
almost impossible to dispose of surplus
potential overseas. Consequently manu-
facturers, restricted to local and com-
paratively limited demand, have been
forced to cut output, and plant, in
general, operates at levels considerably
below the optimum.
But this problem—the problem of idle
capacity—is not of recent origin-
Demand for paint is characteristically
seasonal, and installation of plant is
dominated by need to cater for both
peak and off-peak periods.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd., is one of
the largest manufacturers in Australia
of paints, varnishes, enamels, synthetic


©
CAMBRIDGE
REGISTERED FIXED
DEPOSIT NOTES
High return and sound security! Your l
money is invested in first mortgages
on homes, real estate and selected
hire purchase. Check the advantages:
• 10% for 3 years and over, 9% for 2 years,
for 1 year, 8% for 6 months, 6\%
on 14 days’ call.
Renewal Interest Rate gives added benefits.
Invest with the company, or through the
Brokers to the Company, Messrs. Ralph W.
King & Yuill, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
through your own Broker.
Send for Application Forms and
latest Balance Sheet.
Park House,
15 Park Street,
Sydney
BM 6945
CREDIT CORPORATION
resins and solvents. Productive-capacity
has been increased almost fourfold in
the last decade. Factories are situated
in all States of the Commonwealth, and
also in Wellington and Auckland (N.Z.).
In Australia there are more than 6500
retail stores selling Taubmans’ products.
A close affiliation exists with English
paint - manufacturer Pinchin, Johnson
and Associates, Ltd., London, which has
a substantial shareholding in the co.
There are also valuable technical agree-
ments with American Marietta Co., of
Chicago, U.S.A.
Adding to the subsidiary network, 1959
saw the registration of Taubmans
Cement Compounds Pty. The new co.
will manufacture and market pozzolith
—a cement additive enjoying a world-
wide reputation, and other internation-
ally known products under licence from
the Master Builders’ Company of U.S.A.
Production has commenced at St. Peters
(N.S.W.) and substantial orders are
already in hand.
Competition and rising operating-
expenses, the latter partly offset by im-
proved production techniques (in 1958 the
group completed a big expansion and
modernisation programme), narrowed
profit-margins over the year to September
30 last, and, although the group attempted
to counter this trend by concentrating
its sales-effort on the more profitable
lines, a 7 p.c. slip in sales volume (value
unstated) was accompanied by a 12 p.c.
fall in net earnings.
Arrived at after providing an undis-
closed amount for taxation (combined
income, land and payroll tax together
amounted to £254,374, down £112,531
on the previous year’s figure) and
£228,442 (up £1181) for depreciation,
the £322,218 profit was £45,783 below
the previous term's. effort and equal,
after allowing for the pref. div., to 13.5
p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 15.4
p.c., 17.5 p.c. (on average ord capital),
17.1 p.c. and 33.2 p.c. back to 1955: —-
Taubmans Industries and Subsidiaries.*
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. , —Ordinary--, serves, serves.t
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’53..356,445 5000 15 = 175,309 176,136 1,491,386
Share premiums, £16,368 .. .. 1,507,754
Unexplained additions, £1798 .. 1,509,552
Less added intangibles, £14,074 .. 1,495,478
’54. .383,562 5000 15 = 176,333 202,229 1,697,707
Add subsidiaries reserves, £12,760.. 1,710,467
Share premiums, £276,367 .. .. 1,986,834-
Unexplained addition, £86,353 .. 2,073,187
Less added intangibles, £202,801 . . 1,870,386
’55.. 428,549 5000 15 = 191,651 231,898 2,102,284
Share premiums, £204,428 .. .. 2,306,712
Pius reduction intangibles, £10,622 .. 2,317,334
’56. .339,222 5000 124= 244,547 89,675 2,407,009
Re-acquisition profits, £60.31 .. .. 2,413,040
Addition intangibles, £5250 .. .. 2,407,790
Share-premiums, £51,000 .. ~ 2,458,790
Profit sale assets, etc., £40,192 .. 2,498,982
’57.. 413,759 5000 124= 290,484 118,275 2,617,257
’58..368,001 5000 293,259 69,742 2,686,999
Profit sale assets, etc., £6694 . , 2,693,693
Provisions no longer required written-
back, £20,000 2,713,693
’59. .322,218 5000 12}= 293,259 23,959 2-,737,652
* After eliminating outside interests. f After
deducting intangibles, £279,903 at 30/9/’59.
The result, disappointing in itself, and
revealing profits at their lowest level
in seven years, is still more unsatisfactory
when capital-increases are taken into
account. Capital was nearly doubled by
a four-for-five issue in 1955-56. How-
ever, sales, which last year were running
about 10 p.c. below the record levels
of 1957, have been picking-up in recent
months and this trend, superimposed
upon the streamlining of production
methods, is expected to lead to an im-
proved showing for 1960.
The div.-rate, held at 15 p.c. from
1951, was dropped to 12| p.c. in 1956.
There has been no subsequent variation.
Undistributed profits (£23,959), together
with profits from sale of real estate,
£6694, and provisions no longer required
and written-back, £20,000, lifted visible
reserves £50,653 to £3,017,555.
Analysis of Taubmans’ balance-sheet
reveals a basic and sound financial struc-
ture on the one hand, and at the same
time illustrates the difficulties facing not
only Taubmans but the entire paint
industry on the other. Fixed assets
bulk large even though they are con-
servatively valued. Erection of a new
laboratory and warehouse at the Sun-
shine (Victoria) factory and expenditure
on the Auckland (N.Z.) warehouse lifted
book-values of freeholds and buildings
£67,938 to £2,053,368. Plant is shown
at £909,611 (down £80,617 compared
with the figure for the previous year):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—■ 1957. ’ 1958. 1959.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 2,346,071 2,346,071 2,346,071
Reserves .. .. 2,897,160 2,966,902 3,017,555
Mortgages; .. 497,490 485,687 473,419
Creditors* . . 985,865 789,686 687,603
Exchange account 133,160 130,875 133,9f8
Suspense account 32,709 63,801 105,025
Staff fund . . 28,000 28,000
Final divs. .. 152,495 152,495 152,495
£7,172,950 £7,063,517 £7,016,086
Freeholds .. 1,898,756 1,985,430 2,053,368
Plant .. .. 1,075,990 990,228 909,611
Investments .. 94 94
Stocks .. .. 2,076,521 1,943,826 1,966,158
Debtors .. .. 1,232,975 1,187,139 1,111,986
Cash .. .. 608,711 676,897 695,060
Intangibles .. 279,903 279,903 279,903
£7,172,950 £7,063,517 £7,016,086
* Includes provision for taxation.
Fierce competition in a limited market
has reduced turnover, and plant and
machinery,' though capable of a much
greater output, are only partially
harnessed to production. Theoretical
working-capital last term rose £95,425 to
£2,933,106. Lowered sales saw debtors
down £75,153 at £1,111,986, but, off-
setting this movement, creditors dropped
£102,083 to £687,603. Stock-on-hand and
cash holdings lifted, the one to £1,966,158
(up £22,332), the other to £695,060 (up
£18,163).
As a growth prospect Taubmans’
shares remain disappointing, but in the
long-run benefits will undoubtedly accrue
to the bona fide investor. The slack, at
present so apparent in the paint industry,
should gradually rectify itself as the


THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5*% LOAN
(
For 6, 10 or 20 years
is
Government-Guaranteed!
Throughout the Board’s area, men are right on the job—
laying more mains for water and sewerage, building more
service reservoirs and pumping stations —extending and
improving essential services shared by 2,000,000 people. Last
year 400 miles of water and sewer mains were constructed,
and this year this will be exceeded.
You can invest in the Board’s Loan now and get right behind
this vital works programme. You will get more for your
savings, too — per cent, every year for 6, 10 or 20 years
as you wish.
Security? Well, the N.S.W. Government unconditionally
guarantees interest payments every 6 months and full
repayment of your investment when the Loan matures. Your
money is completely protected from the moment you invest.
Holders in Loan No. 52 (matured l/l/’6O) and Loan No. 86
(maturing l/2/’6O) who convert to this new Loan will make
certain of higher interest without interruption.
Loan investments (£5O is the minimum) or conversions can
be quickly arranged in a few minutes.
At any office of the—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank;
% Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
£ Or through a Stockbroker;
• Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lAN POTTER & CO.
economy grows. However, from
a yield point of view, the ss.
stock-units are well worth atten-
tion. At their lowest register
in many years, prices dropped
to 10s. 2d. last July. Since then
trading has recovered, but only
slightly, the stock-units fetch-
ing 10s. 9d. on 'Change a week
ago. Parcels bought at that
price would yield 5.8 p.c. from
a 12| p.c. div.
At balance-date net tangible
backing for the ss. stock-units
was 10s. Iod., and for the £1
prefs. £5l 16s. 9d.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.
rpHE Aberfoyle Tin mine-
■*- property is situated on
the slopes of Ben Lomond, at
Rossarden, in n.-e. Tasmania.
A new treatment-plant (gravity
and flotation) came into opera-
tion in 1945,. Aberfoyle holds
an interest in Western Titanium,
N.L., mining beach-sands at
Capel (W.A.) for the recovery
of ilmenite.
Under an agreement signed
in August, 1958, between
Aberfoyle Tin, North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp. N.L.
(in which Aberfoyle holds
2,250,850 out of the 4,500,000
issued f.-p. ss. ords.) and
Storeys Creek Tin Mining Co.,
N.L., 174,333 Is. Aberfoyle
ords. were issued to. share-
holders in Storeys Creek.
(Aberfoyle, jointly with N.A.
Uranium, holds 75 p.c. of
Storeys Creek issued capital.)
At June 30, 1959, Aberfoyle
Tin had an issued capital of
£12,500 10 p.c. cum. par.
prefs. and 1,174,333 one-shill-
ing ords., all fully-paid
Paid capital—• 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. .. £12,500 £12,500
Ord. .. .. 50,000 58,717
Reserves . . . . 468,112 620,436
Overdraft . . . . 256,508 193,938
Creditors .'. .. 24,803 28,679
Deposit by subsidiary 4,899
Tax provision . . 16,947 51,129
Dividend . . . . 15,625 17.804
£844,525 £988,102
Mine property .. 49,685 49,625
.Plant, buildings . . 239,915 , 242,346
Employees’ housing 91,722 88,510
Investments . . 352,567- 429,441
Debtors .. .. 68,717 83,633
Concentrates .. 18,830 49,400
Stores .. .. 23,089 20,147
Deposits .-. .. - 25,000
£844,525 £988,102
On October 30, 1959, after the
close of accounts, the co. made
a tax-free one-for-two bonus-
issue of 712,166 Is. ords. from
share-premium reserve.
In December, 1959, Aber-
foyle Holdings, Ltd., was
formed to consolidate the
interests of the Aberfoyle Tin,
N.L., group. One ss. f.-p.
share in the holding co. was
exchanged for each Is. share
in the old Aberfoyle Tin. The
share-register was transferred
from Melbourne to Canberra.
During the year 76,118 tons
of ore was extracted (up 9563
tons). Production of tin-con-
centrates was 168.57 tons up
at 805.56 tons, and of wolfram-
concentrates and flue-dust
15.68 tons up at 323.63 tons.
Costs were “still satisfactory.”
The financial results for the
year ended June 30, 1959,
showed a profit of £171,862
(up £85,624). Tax absorbed
£51,129 (up £34,182), leaving
net earnings £51,442 higher at
£120,733 (£86,616 taxable and
£34,117 tax-exempt). Aber-
foyle set aside £50,000 for
capital-expenditure in the
current term.
Sales of tin-concentrates
averaged £896 a ton (up £42
a ton) and of wolfram £467 a
ton (down £9l a ton). Current
price of wolfram is about £540
a ton.
The cost of acquiring shares
in Storeys Creek was written-
* off to the extent of £21,964
Liquidity position as shown
by the balance-sheet was a bit
tight, but better than in the
previous term.
Ore reserves at June 30, 1959,
were 262,654 tons positive and
16,020 tons probable (total
278,674 tons), against 252,782
tons positive and 26,430 tons
probable (279,212 tons) a year
earlier. They are equal to over
three years’ milling at last year’s
rate, and exploration and de-
velopment are still encourag-
ing.
Two quarterly divs. of 3d.
a Is. share were declared for
the year. The new ss. holding-
co. ords.. last changed hands
at Bs.
Sandy Creek Gold
candy Creek Gold Sluicing,
Ltd., has continued to
work its area located near the
Upper Watut River, New
Guinea.
During the year ended March
31, 1959, the co. treated 40,623
cu. yds. (down 14,327 cu. yds.)
for the recovery of 7570 z. (up
200 z.) of gold, realising £9718
(up £64) at an average value
of 4s. 9.4 Id. per cu. yd. (up
Is. 3.25 d.). Expenses increased
by £2374 to £9820. <
Operations for the year
resulted in £1261 net ■ profit
(down £1228).
Paid capital remained un-
changed at £77,500 in 620,000
f.-p. 2s. 6d. ords., last quoted
at a penny each. Balance-sheet
showed little variation, with
£8553 cash and £705 gold in
transit as the only liquid assets.
Liabilities amounted to £1298
Prospects are poor, and in
June last mining operations
were shifted to “a new area”
which appears hard to work.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnettingr Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
«ti. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
eta,
OIL IN 1959
By L. OWEN.
Consulting Petroleum Geologist
AUSTRALIA
Carry-over from 1958
The year 1959 opened with
even less drilling activity
than 1958 ; in fact, at the begin-
ning of the year, not a single
major oilwell was being sunk,
although rigging-up — after
delays caused by heavy rain-
fall —was in progress in the
Westralian Kimberleys, at both
Frome Rocks and Meda.
A well at Mulgoa (N.S.W.)
had reached a depth of a little
over 2000ft. and a test-bore,
Camden 6, was at 800ft. while
drilling in a gas-well at Clifden
(N.S.W.) had been suspended
at 1030ft., and a scout-bore at
Cannaway Downs (Q.) was
shut-down over the Christmas
break.
WELLS SPUDDED-IN
Western Australia
Drilling at Frome Rocks
No 1 location was started on
January 2, and at Meda 2 on
January 27. Frome Rocks 2
(four miles south of No. 1)
was spudded-in on February
19, but it was not until
November 7 that Thangoo 1
was commenced, followed by
an offset, Thangoo 1a (2000ft.
n.-w.) on December 22. Scout-
bores were spudded-in on
Beagle Ridge (160 miles north
of Perth) on August 2, and at
Spirit Hill (Bonaparte Basin) on
August 9, while, on the south
coast, a stratigraphic bore was
begun, at the end of November,
in the Eucla Basin.
South Australia
The only major well opera-
ting during the year was
Innamincka 1, located near the
north-east corner of the State
abutting on the Queensland
border. It was spudded-in in
late March, and was, in fact,
the only well drilling on the
mainland during June and part
of August.
Victoria
Port Campbell 1 represented
the only major drilling activity
throughout the State during
1959 ; the well was commenced
in early September.
New South Wales
No major well was started,
but several scout-bores were
sunk. Camden 7 was spudded-
in on February 2, Camden 8 in
mid-April, Camden 9 on June
17, and Camden 10 in October.
A well, also primarily in search
of gas, was commenced on the
Ravensfield Dome, near Mait-
land, early in the year.
Queensland
Only comparatively shallow
bores were sunk. Longreach 6
was spudded-in in March,
Wreck Island well at the begin-
ning of May, and Cooroorah 1
on October 25. Betoota 1, in
the extreme south-west, was
spudded-in on December 22.
DRILLING RESULTS
Western Australia
Frome Rocks 1 struck,
unexpectedly, a considerable
deposit of rock-salt at 2263 ft.
The well was abandoned, with-
out bottoming the salt, at
4003 ft. and the rig was trans-
ferred to Frome Rocks 2 loca-
tion, where it penetrated a
normal sequence of limestone
but no salt. Slight oil-showings
were noted between 3810 ft. and
3860 ft., and fluorescence was
observed in limestone cuttings
down to 6298 ft. The well was
abandoned on June 3, at
7504 ft., in beds of upper
Devonian age.
Meda 2 well drilled through
tight sandstone in which (with
a few breaks) oil-stains occurred
from above 5300 ft. to below
5600 ft, The well was aban-
doned at 7628 ft, in beds of
upper Devonian age.
Drilling in Thangoo 1 well
was stopped at 3475 ft. without
providing the hoped - for
geological information con-
cerning a nearby salt dome nor
clues as to the derivation of
4he oil and gas encountered in
several of the Kimberley bores.
Oil-staining was noted in
isolated cavities in the strata
penetrated between 2852 ft. and
2871 ft. The immediate reason
for the cessation of operations
was loss of circulation of the
drilling - fluid, presumably
caused by faulting.
Thangoo 1a was drilling at
2670 ft. on December 29.
Eyre 1 well (Eucla Basin) was
at 560 ft. on December 9.
South Australia
The only major drilling
activity was the sinking of Inna-
mincka 1, located on a
Mesozoic structure in a south-
east lobe of the Great Artesian
Basin.
Fluorescence was noted in
drill-cuttings from fine sand-
stone of Mesozoic age at
4782-4794 ft., and a “light to
fair” show of oil was reported
between 6887 ft. and 6897 ft., but
a drill-stem test produced only
mud with traces of oil. A
“good reflective surface” —pre-
sumably marking an upper
Palaeozoic land-surface was
recorded during a seismic
survey, and Palaeozoic red beds
persisted, without significant
change in lithology, from
7435 ft. to 12,637 ft., at which
depth drilling ceased on
November 14. The rig was dis-
mantled and assembled at
Betoota 1 location over the
border in Queensland.
Victoria
Port Campbell 1 well struck
a heavy gas-flow—containing
paraffins in the ethane-pentane
range, which was taken to
indicate a petroleum origin—at
5657-5718 ft. The rate of flow
was roughly estimated at several
million cu. ft./day under a
pressure of 1600 p.s.i. Testing
was in progress at the end of
the year, with the well-bottom
at 5965 ft.
New South Wales
Deep drilling was carried out
only at Mulgoa, where a gas-
show was reported at 2280 ft.
A further gas-show was
recorded as flowing at the rale
of 35,000 cu. ft./day from
2580 ft. Other small gas-shows
were logged at 2830 ft. and
4590 ft. The depth, at
Christmas, when the well was
abandoned, was 5630 ft.
Of the shallow test-bores,
Camden 6 gave a little gas
from 880 ft., and a test indicated
a combined maximum flow
from several horizons down to
1947 ft. at the rate of 70,000
cu. ft./day. Drilling was
stopped at 1981 ft. early in
February.
The initial rate of flow of
Camden 7 bore was reported
as 2|-million cu. ft./day from
the depth of 1690 ft., but it
dropped to about a million in
four hours. Further tests, after
a long shut-in period, do not
appear to have recorded results
of any promise, and an analysis
of the flow/pressure figures
published suggests a possible
maximum pressure of 450 p.s.i.
Camden 8 showed some gas
at 1742 ft., but was abandoned
at 2100 ft. in mid-April.
Camden 9 encountered small
shows of gas at 1370 ft., 1390 ft.
and 1800 ft., but they were of
no commercial interest and the
well was abandoned at 2104 ft,
on August 19.
Camden 10 (about a mile
west of Camden 7) was reported
to have yielded a flow of gas
at the rate of about 500,000
cu. ft./day from sandstone at
1741 ft. under a recorded
pressure of 600 p.s.i. Prepara-
tions for a full test were in
progress at the end of the year.
A well, drilled on the
Ravensfield Dome, near Mait-
land, reported gas from about
1900 ft. Drilling is 'now
suspended at 2076 ft. A bore
at Clifden, near Gosford, is
stopped at 1005 ft. No results
of value have been obtained,
but it is proposed to make
further tests.
Queensland
Although most of the Great
Artesian Basin in Queensland
is now covered by permits to
explore for oil and the permit-
holders include several large
U.S. organisations, no major
drilling was initiated until the
end of the year at Betoota.
A scout-bore at Cannaway
Downs has yielded shows of
gas at several horizons, but
drilling ceased in sedimentary
beds at 1570 ft. early in
February. A third scout-bore
in this area, on the Mount
Margaret structure, ceased
drilling at 1835 ft., also without
commercial results.
Off the coast, a well on
Wreck Island (35 miles north-
east of Gladstone) was com-
pleted at 1898 ft. in basement
rocks at the beginning of June.
Cooroorah 1 well —located
on an anticlinal structure of the
same name, about 100 miles
west of Rockhampton, and
expected to reach a depth of
6000 ft. to 7000 ft. was
spudded-in in beds of Permian
(Continued on page 49)


one!” said Hussein. “Punjab!
Punjab! Punjab!” He said the
name over and over again and
it sounded different from the
way we had ever heard it
before. It sounded like a
quali song, endless and boring,
close to tears.
“But what’s wrong?” said-
Ama. “Sit down and tell me.
Tell me straight away.”
“I am going to be married,”
said Hussein.
The grown-ups looked
astonished, and we children
were surprised.
“I think,” said Hussein.
“Married,” said Ama.
“It’s not so strange,” said
Hussein. “I am twenty-two.”
“Twenty-two,” said Father.
“I had forgotten.”
“You children grow so
quickly,” said Ama.
“Marry who?” said Uncle
Seyed. “No one to marry!
You have to go to Bungabee,
Fiji, to the Punjab.”
“Who do you want to
marry?” said Ama.
“Have you chosen?” said
Father.
“Ah!” Uncle Seyed took one
look at Hussein’s miserable
face. “This the quarrel,” he
announced.
“I’m going to marry the
teacher,” said Hussein. “1
think.”
'T'here was silence. Children,
stories, mangoes, manners,
everything was forgotten. No
one remembered to send us
out of hearing. No one had
anything to say. Even Uncle
Seyed looked thunderstruck.
Hussein was the only one who
had any words at all, and they
poured out of him like rice
from a bursting bag.
“And my father,” said
Hussein. “My father does not
approve. Calls her a Christian,
an eater of pig. He says she
is white and I am black, our
children will be yellow and
brown and not belong any-
where. Her people will despise
us and we will have no place.
He says her ways are not our
ways, that I am a traitor to
Allah and to India.
“He wants me to marry some
simpering silly who will cry
when I am angry, who’ll cook
me nothing but rice and know
nothing that I know. He has
written to Fiji. He has found
someone I don’t know, who
doesn’t know me, doesn’t even
speak English. What would I
do with her? With such a
wife!
“Anne is a good girl. I
have known her a long time
—since I started accountancy.
You remember how kind she
was. 1 told you about her—
how she came in the shop while
I was working at lessons, how
she helped me with English,
words none of us knew. She
has helped me always. I am
clever with figures but 1 would
not have passed if she had not
helped me.
“Everyone knows that, even
my father. He asked her to
dinner, and now he talks like
this. He thanked her himself
and now he calls her a pig. Her
people can bear me but he
will not bear her. I have met
her parents, and we were like
“yes, this is Hickson and Dickson. But hold the line —
I think there's going to be a dissolution of partnership."
friends. But my father now
will not talk to her, even. You
think that I am angry, but I’m
only ashamed to have such a
parent and belong to such
people.”
“But she Christian,” said
Uncle Seyed. And that was
that.
Ama looked at him sadly.
“It is a difference,” she said.
“Differences are very hard,
and married is a long time.”
“But she is not different,”
said Hussein. “She is like me.
And we can talk. I tell her
things ; stories, dreams, hopes,
things I could not tell any-
one else. And I want to marry
her. She wants to marry me.
She doesn’t think about differ-
ence. She is like me.”
“Unbelievers! You, her,
two of you!” Uncle Seyed
was furious. “Your father is
right!”
“Hussein,” said Father. “You
were a little boy when your
father first sent you to me
for advice about school. I
was proud of his trust and
proud I could help because
although I am a man from
the villages I knew about Aus-
tralia. And after that, when
you came here because you
wanted to I was more proud
and more. And always, some-
how, because I loved you and
knew you I found the words
to tell you things, to help.
Now you have grown away
from me, passed me. I cannot
find words.”
“Then you despise me,” said
Hussein. “You! ”
“No, no,” said Father while
Uncle Seyed muttered. “You
are a man now. I had not
thought of that. And neither
had your father. It is time
now' for you to find the words
yourself. I remember the old
country and I know the new
one. But the country you live
in is strange to me, and to
your father. You were born
here, and your ways are no
ways that we can know.”
“And if he loses the way?”
Ama sounded worried and
a'nnoyed and gentle, the way
she scolded Lai when he did
not behave like a good Punjabi
boy. “If he chooses wrong?
What then? If his father is
right and a boy like Hussein
belongs nowhere except with
people who remember the old
ways?”
“I don’t know, I don’t
know.” Father stroked Lai’s
head in a tired way. He looked
very old. “Hussein will find
that out, and he must stay with
it and bear it until the end,
until the wrong thing is the
right thing or until it doesn’t
matter any longer what is right
and what is wrong.”
Uncle Seyed was. mumbling
bitterly in Punjabi that that
time could never be, that what
was right was right forever,
and that what was Muslim was
always right.
No one answered him, but
Hussein stood up: ‘There is
nothing to say. My father has
said all of the words, and I
have tried to answer. He says
I must give up all thought of
this marriage or I must leave
his house, must never come
there. Well, I will never come
there.”
“You must come to us often/’
Father put his arm round
Hussein’s shoulder. “You are
our son, too.”
Ama went to him and put
her hands together in Hindu
blessing and farewell. She bent
her head. “I too left my father’s
house. I too married some-
one from a different world, a
different faith. I have known
pain, and I have known
joy. It will be like that for you.
All ways become the right
way.”
TVext morning he arrived...
Shareef Khan, the huge,
the terrible, the shopkeeper,
the prayer-leader, Hussein's
father.
He stood on the veranda,
where Hussein had stood, in
his navy-blue suit with the
stripe in it, in his weskit with
its gold watch-chain. He played
with the chain as he talked
and we longed to play with it
too but all he offered us was
the umbrella that he carried
on every hot day and we had
to put that away.
“Ah! Children! Children!”
said Shareef Khan mopping his
head with the sheet that he
used as a handkerchief. “If
only they stayed like yours!
If only they would not grow!”
He did not wait for any com-
ment: “My dear friend, you
understand. It is not that the
girl is not respectable. But
what of their children? They
will belong nowhere.”
“They will belong to both
worlds,” said Ama.
“Yes. Yes,” said Shareef
Khan. “That is true out here
on the farm. But what do
you know of the town and the
city and the time to come?”
“People are people,” said
Ama.
“Your own is your own,”
said Uncle Seyed.
“If you stay anywhere long
enough,” said Father, “people
get used to you. They take
you into their houses and their
ways.”
“Mohammed Din,” said
Shareef Khan, his fat round
face as earnest as Ramadan,
“were we wrong to come here?


“White Label
... freely available!
At last the years of short supply are over!
“White Label” is now available every-
where. Whether you ask for “Dewar’s” or
“White Label” — you will always get this
wonderful Scotch Whisky with the mellow
flavour the choice of discriminating
people for oyer a century.
*>***•s
A
white Label
Dewars Fine Scotch Whiskt
'John Dewar k Sons l-
" scotlanp
<J\um H«wii m *•**»»*££*
White Label”
Dewar’s
Scotch Whisky
“it never varies"
Guaranteed wholly distilled,
blended and matured in Scotland.
DW.SI
Were we wrong to have child-
ren in a country not their own,
living with people not their
own, seeing ways that are not
theirs?”
“I have wondered,” said
Father, “but I do not know
the answer or if there is any
answer. One thing, only, I
know. Our children are not us.
Our ways are not theirs. And
our people, the people we
remember, are no longer theirs.
They will marry as they please.
There is nothing we can do.
We do not know what is for
the best.”
“/ know,” said Uncle Seyed.
“We could have stayed in
India.” Shareef had prepared
his speech and was not to be
diverted: “We could have
stayed in clay huts in the
Punjab and have watched our
children hungry, untaught,
poor, as we were. But we
wanted better for them. Better!
Is this better? I am afraid.
I am afraid for my son’s sons.
They will be educated, they will
be well, but where will they
belong? I am afrhid for my
wife and even for me. This
girl—her parents, they are
educated, they are Christians ;
what can they have in common
with us?”
“They are nice people,” said
Father. “Hussein has met them
and he says”—
“Hussein is a child.”
“Hussein is a man,” said
Father.
“But it is best,” said Shareef
Khan, “that we never see him
again. And we will not. And
even his name ... I will not
hear it again.”
Allah rights everything in
His good time. They had
been married a long time,
Hussein and his Anne, and
they had a child, a son who
laughed.
Of course we knew. Hussein
and Anne had brought him
to show us and Ama had
cooked saffron rice with
almonds and raisins and
kababs with steak and
coconut and pineapple and
tamarind sauce and a thousand
things for a first-born’s feast.
But Shareef Khan was not
there, and he did not know.
Ama told his wife, and
although she came for five
minutes to see the baby, her
first grandchild, she dared not
mention it to Shareef Khan.
At the mention of the name,
Hussein, he would go red as
a pomegranate, crying on God
and all wise things to acknow-
ledge that justice was dead and
the young like serpents bit
at their parents.
Hussein and Anne lived in
the town in tiny rooms. Hus-
sein was determined to save
enough to open his own office:
Hussein Khan, Accountant.
He was working for the bank,
and working for himself, doing
books for farms, for anyone
who would pay him.
One night he came home,
from 12 miles out, as tired as
tired. As he climbed the stairs
towards his room with a
kitchen he suddenly heard the
great booming voice of Shareef
Khan.
He was so surprised that he
stopped on the stair and heard
his son scream and his wife’s
soft voice. The gladness he
felt gave way to anger: the
father that denied him was
bullying them all, waking his
son and booming at his wife.
He ran up the stairs, flung open
the door, ready to rage.
He stood there amazed. Anne
was smiling. His father was
laughing and roaring endear-
ments at the astonished child
he held in his arms. With
his free hand he was swinging
his watch-chain just beyond
the baby’s reach.
“Aha!” said Shareef Khan.
“He is here, the good-for-
nothing. He has come home at
last, the scoundrel that I
called my son. Salaam, salaam,
O Great High Lord who
descended to earth to marry ;
it is good of you to crawl home
to the wife and child you
abandoned in this terrible small
room even though it is the
middle of the night. Shabash !
Good on you!”
Shareef was laughing at his
own Australianness and roar-
ing in his half-pretended
anger: “Anne, Anne,” he said,
“is this how he keeps you?
A room like a coolie’s hut and
a' son that he does not see
except in the night when good
sons are sleeping! Why was I
not told that this son had been
born? This is my grandchild,
the. son of sons, and this
Hussein, this walker-in-dirt,
tells me no word of it. If
you had not a good wife, I
would never have known!
Come here, you nothing. Come
here.”
Meek as a lamb, like an
obedient son, Hussein went to
him. j
“Here! Here! ” yelled
Shareef. “Don’t stand there
like a lump of lead, you fool!
Take these gold bangles and
put them on your son as every
decent father does.” ;
Hussein just stood there,
like a lump of lead, looking at
the bangles with their inscrip-
tions from the jKoran.
“Take them! Take them!
Use them!”
His father was ordering him,
or pleading with him. No one
knows which.
“Yes, father,” said Hussein
meekly, and he took the
bangles.
Shareef watched him put!
them on the boy’s arms,
watched the boy bite at them.
“You see,” he said to Anne,
“the child always wins in the
end.”


Speartishing:
with Lolo
By CHARLES MacGREGOR
Lolo, the fisherman, was
anxious to try a very
ancient occupation —ama
or fish-spearing by torch-
light—in a new setting by the
light of my 300-candlepower
petrol-lantern.
Being a Tongan as well as
a fisherman he knew that
tomorrow (a bongi-bongi ) is
also a day. Time and tide and
dark nights may be reckoned
on, but calm, smooth seas
could be counted as blessings
when they arrived, very seldom,
in the hurricane-season.
As a taxpayer, “a man of
property,” he also had his abi,
Coral-fish
an eight-acre farm, to attend
to, cutting the copra from his
coconuts, cultivating bananas,
yams, talo and kumala (sweet
potatoes) and a few papalangi
(white - man) vegetables (corn
and tomatoes) if the rats did
not get them.
When the sea was not too
rough he would sometimes fish
in the sandy shallows with
his circular casting-net, with
which he was an expert, though
the only thing I could ever
manage to tangle in it was
myself.
My own work, family affairs
and a small garden kept me
fairly well occupied, though I
was more impatient than Lolo,
but I was able to make a
couple of light spears after his
patterns and to buy and
sharpen a big butcher’s knife,
a very efficient tool for mowing
the lawn or a lead-pencil, cut-
ting down scrub or baqana-
trees, opening coconuts, peeling
oranges—Tonga style, with the
edge facing away from you—
or coping with fish of any size
or with marauding “illegally
town-wandering” pigs, which
could be literal gate-crashers,
At weekends, while waiting
for Lolo’s “all clear,” I fished
with my light bait-casting gear,
using hermit-crabs for bait, in
the shallow water of the lagoon
at Neiafu-tahi, collected shells
and other marine specimens on
the seagrass-flats and along the
edge of the reef, and practised
with my little spears.
I aimed first at the loli, the
little black “lolly-fish” sea-
slugs that lay or crawled slowly
along the bottom, while I
gradually learned to make the
proper allowance for refraction
at various depths ; but when
I started on swimming fishes
they always had alibis before
the spear-points hit the bottom.
TJsing the barbed one as a
throwing-spear, with a light
line attached, I made dozens
of futile casts before I hit my
first grey-mullet.
Tt was a perfect evening, calm
and pleasantly warm, when
a small boy arrived from
Makave village to tell me that
Lolo would come “today when
sleep is the sun” to go fish-
spearing.
Moorish Idol
The thin golden rind of a
very young moon was sinking
close to the horizon when we
crossed the low ridge between
the scattered houses of Neiafu
and the lagoon. The air was
heavy with the scent of
gardenia, frangipani and
orange-blossom as we passed
the small native cemetery
beside the track, Lolo hurrying
to get past. He feared nothing
in the sea except tenifa, the
sea monster (the Great White
Shark), the giant groper, or the
black-and-yellow sea-snake,
but he felt a strong objection to
ghosts or devils (levolo).
One of the best fishing-
spots was just below another
native cemetery on a high point
where the reef ran out from
the lagoon, but Lolo could
not to coaxed to go anywhere
near it at night: “ Fu’u lain
tevolo ihena!” (“Too many
devils there.”)
We got safely past, and when
we came to the beach the high
spring-tide was well up, partly
submerging the lower branches
of the beach-hibiscus trees, and
we could hear the splash of
little fish among the leaves as
we stepped down the track
into the shallow water.
Lolo was barefooted—there
are no land-snakes in Tonga—
but the tender-footed papalangi
wore a pair of well-oiled heavy
ankle-boots with scupper-hole
eyelets at the insteps, and
leather leggings, relics of trout-
fishing days.
They were very useful
among the coral, but it was a
false alarm when a two-foot
snake with little wings darted
at me and bumped its nose
against my shin. Lolo reassured
me: “Is all right, ponu talinga,
the ear-worm, kind of eel. He
is only to kiss you to say
‘Good morning, you not hurt
me, I not hurt you.’ Is no good
to eat —too much bones.”
The water was wonderfully
clear, and we could distinguish
the surface only where a float-
ing hibiscus-flower, a leaf, a
bubble or the nose or dorsal-
fin of a tiny surfacing fish
showed where air and water
met, or the apparent bend in
our spear-shafts showed the
alteration in refraction.
T 010 was quickly on the job,
and before we were ankle-
deep he had half-a-dozen
tiddlers in his bag.
His style was not cramped
by any “minimum-length''
tapu. Anything he could take
on or between the tines of his
little spear was a keeper, and
the very few poisonous species
he left alone.
As the water grew deeper 1
stabbed at several larger fish,
but, though Lolo seldom
missed, I still had an empty
bag when he had a dozen or
more of various sizes up to a
foot long. Over one very
shallow, weedy stretch he drew
his big knife and used that
instead of the spear, chopping
the little fish neatly behind the
head.
I was not making any head-
way with my fishing, but I was
learning a little and discarding
some of my former ideas. The
Octopus Lure


fishes we saw in the lagoon
were not attracted to the light
like insects. With the lantern
suspended under the vine-
covered pergola at home we
could read in comfort 20ft.
way on the lawn, while the
mosquitoes, copra-bugs and
cockroaches swarmed around
the light, scorching their wings
on the hot mica chimney. The
little fishes either went about
their business as usual or
remained perfectly still, seem-
ingly dazed, till our spears
disturbed or Lolo transfixed
them.
Shoals of brilliantly-colored
surmullet (Mullidae), with erect
chin-barbels, groped for food
foot o«r:»wrv,:r.„
* the , s , and ’ / as *- wimming
! ttle , “ (long-toms or
needle-fish ) darted abou
close to the surface, while small
schools of iridescent trevally
swam slowly almost within
spearing-clistance, to turn then
with a flash and make for the
deeper water.
Exceptions were the several
species of grey-mullet (Mulgi-
lido) that came racing towards
the light, and then, apparently
catching sight of us, went tear-
ing off in a wild panic, leap-
ing and splashing. That was
just too bad, because, though
most of the mullet were less
than a foot long, there were
Unicorn-fish
others that were over 2ft., but
only once did they come close
enough for Lolo to get a four-
Pounder with a long, lucky
knife-throw.
J cramped his style a good
. deal, as he spent a lot of
time pointing out many things
that my untrained eyes, behind
misting spectacles, would have
missed ; the very slight differ-
ence in color where a well-
camouflaged sole or flounder
jy motionless on the sand ;
me small head-humps and little
eye ? .that gave the clue to the
Position of a buried ’ray ; the
■§ht-sensitive shell-fish that
pulled in its head, as well as
s brilliantly-colored mantle
and broad belly-foot—these
were all new to me.
He warned me of the
venomous spines of the cone-
fish, stone-fish and porcupine-
puffer, soki-soki, and the sea-
snakes, all very venomous
except the banded one (like our
black - and - white “bandy-
bandy”) that “is very afraid
for men and goes on the land
to run away from them. Is
very foolish—he can swim
much better than he can walk.”
While he was instructing me
Lolo was still picking-up from
under my nose invisible fish
camouflaged by their brilliant
colors among coral weeds,
Seagrass with roots, and sea-
weed with hold-fasts anchored
of coral washe d
inward fro £ the reef> sea _
anemones an( j crawling or free-
swimming sea-slugs could all
deceptive. A brightly-
colored sea-slug lying between
tWQ c ] um p S 0 f seaweed was
just a slug until Lo l o ’s
magic wand transformed it
j n to a “Humuhumunukunuku-,
opuaka.”
“No, Lolo, you can’t get
away with that! That’s a
Hawaiian name, not Tongan.”
Lolo chuckled. “Yes,
tangataeiki, I make a funny,
It is faka Honolulu [Honolulu
style], but very nice name for
vely pleety fish.”
Tt was awkward to carry the
lantern and two spears in
water knee-deep or more, but
with the e'bbing tide we were
able to get out among the
coral hummocks and small
niggerheads at the edge of the
deep water,
There' Lolo collected some
beautifully colored parrot-
fishes with horny beaks, and
wrasses with tusklike teeth, and
some dull-colored but beauti-
fully marbled or mottled rock-
cod. A large unicorn-fish waited
patiently till my barbed spear
drove in behind its head. It
struggled violently, nearly
upsetting me and the lantern
till Lolo’s knife came to the
rescue.
Coral-fish
With a large, sharp horn onfrom Makave at the Place of
its forehead, big sharp dorsal-
fin and pectoral-spines and two
large rose-thorn hooks at each
side of its tail, it was nearly
as much trouble dead as alive,
as I could not stow it in any
position in my s‘ugar-bag with-
out some point working its
way through bag and breeches.
Others of the same family
without any- horn were
surgeon-fishes that could slash
viciously with the lancets
beside their tails.
Lolo had a chance for a shot
at several larger fishes, but he
had not brought his harpoon-
line and was afraid to lose his
light spear. His bag was
growing uncomfortably heavy,
so we decided to call it a
night.
Most" of the fishes we had
seen were kai, lelei (food,
good), but a few were kona
(poison), some always, others
at certain seasons. Lolo had
36 fish, while I had six, quite
as many as I wanted to clean.
I had learned a little, and
Lolo had learned that the
“strong gas-lamp” was a great
improvement on a native coco-
nut flower-spathe, low-candle-
power torch, or a kerosene
hurricane-lantern, and he was
keen to try again.
“What about we go, in the
night to come, in the bobao
Canoe Races, and my father
Finau? If the night is good
like tonight we get fu’u lahi ika
[too many fish]. Finau will
paddle the canoe and you and
I will spear.”
“That’s all right for us, but
what about Finau? Are you
sure he will like that?”
“Oh, yes, he is telling me to
tell you, if the lamp is good,”
was his naive reply.
CJo “Saturday night was
bath-night,” and Lolo and
I had lots of fun and games
in and out. of the bobao and
up to our waists in water along
the edge of the reef and across
the shallow, sandy fiats.
In the canoe I would have
been content to hold the lan-
tern and let Lolo do the fish-
ing, but he had got a length
of iron-rod and shaped it into
a high bracket with a deep
hook that would hold the
lantern safely over the bow of
the bobao.
It must have been rather
dull for an expert like Finau
to. sit uncomfortably on the
after cross-pole, obey Lolo’s
orders and watch that clumsy
papalangi vale (silly white man)
make a fool of himself, while
Lolo, in the bow, conned the
ship: “To sea,” “To land,”
“All right,” “Slow,” “Stop,”
“Go astern,” as Finau worked
along the winding edge of the
reef where the water beyond
was 9- to 12-feet deep over
the sand, with many coral out-
crops coming within a few;
feet of the surface.
But Finau must have got a
good deal of amusement out
of my efforts. I heard him
chuckle occasionally, but only
once, when I went overboard
after a three-foot ’cuda with-
out intending to, did he make
any audible comment.
As I climbed back dripping
into the bobao I heard part of
(Continued on page 44)


Australians Are Getting Younger
All of a sudden it seems to have
dawned on all manner of people
that the decade just beginning
will see a vast expansion in the
numbers of late-teenagers and young
adults, and the problems presented by
such a situation are being discussed from
many angles. Teachers and educa-
tionalists see the problem in terms-of
the need for more secondary schools
and universities; the building-industry
in terms of more homes for young-
marrieds ; manufacturers and market-
research people in terms of greater
demand for consumer-goods.
The age-distribution of Australia’s
population has already changed very con-
siderably from that of the early post-war
years. As far as young people leaving
school were concerned, that period was
unique in Australian history. Youngsters
of earlier generations had had to hunt
for jobs and, in most cases, found it
■wise to hang-on to the one they got
without worrying too much whether it
was the one most suited to their capa-
bilities and temperament. But the
school-leavers of 1946 and succeeding
years didn't have to hunt jobs at all.
The jobs hunted them; employers,
desperate for staff, offered all sorts of
inducements to persuade them to come
on the payroll. Not only were boys (and
girls) able to take their pick of jobs,
but if the first pick didn’t come up to
expectations it was easy enough to take
a second pick—and another, and another.
The high rate of turnover of staff in
the first few years after the war was
one of the major problems of industry.
At that time youngsters in their teens
were at a premium because they were
one of the post-war shortages, though
their relative scarcity had nothing to do
with the war. The boys and girls who
were in their mid-teens in the late 1940’s
were the babies of the early 1930’s—the
period of the lowest birthrate in Aus-
tralian history. In the 1920’s the birth-
rate averaged 22.4 per thousand of the
population. In the depressed 1930’s the
average rate was only 17.2, the lowest
point, 16.4, being reached in 1934.
Increased Spending-power
'T'he post-war shortage of youths meant
higher wages for youths. Never be-
fore had the beginning-wage for boys
been so high in relation to the basic-
wage. The effect of this has been lasting,
and there is no doubt that the greatly
increased spending-power of youth has
been a big contributory factor to infla-
tion. Youth doesn’t save unless sub-
jected to strong persuasion, and in the
past 10 years or so organised persuasion,
as exercised by retail-trade advertising,
has been very much in the opposite
direction.
The depression babes are now the
young-marrieds of the 25-29 age-group,
and the school-leavers of today and the
coming decade are the product of the
post-war years when the birthrate again
reached the level of the 1920’5. The
difference is striking. In a recent
“Review,” the Institute of Public Affairs
Victoria pointed out that in the 10 years
to 1957 the number of 15-19-year-olds
increased by only 79,000, of which 66,000
were migrants, and the number aged
20-24 actually fell by 6000. In the
coming decade (assuming a constant
migrant intake of 100,000 a year) the
number in each of these groups will
increase by 400,000. Taking the two
age-groups together this means that the
increase in the decade to 1957 was 73,000,
but the increase for the decade to 1969
will be 800,000.
Growth of Labor-force
At present, says the 1.P.A., nearly 60
per cent, of all young people aged
15 enter the labor-force. The number
of 15-year-olds increased from 105,000
in 1949 to 168,000 in 1959, and by 1962
it is expected to flatten-out at around
210,000 a year, which means that in
comparison with last year about 25,000
extra jobs will have to be found each
year, plus, of course, the eventual
employment of most of those who con-
tinue on at school or university. In the
past decade migrants provided 74 per
cent, of the net addition to the labor-
force ; in the 1960’s they will account
for only 48 per cent., with Australian-
born youngsters supplying 52 per cent.
The January “Quarterly Survey” of the
A.N.Z. Bank also discusses this change
in the age-structure of the Australian
population, and considers its effect on
the demand for housing and consumer-
goods over the next 15 years. Remarking
that the proportion of teenagers will in-
crease in the next five years, but will
level-out in the ensuing decade, it feels
that the 20-29 age-group will be signifi-
cant because of its demands for housing
and related equipment.
Taking 60,000 homes as the annual
figure for “new needs” over the past
decade and comparing it with the actual
building figures for the period—an
average of 77,000 dwellings a year, rising
to a record 84,158 in the year ended
June 30,1959 —it considers that “between
1960 and 1965 annual housing-needs to
meet demand from new family formation
could vary between 60,000 and 76,000.”
In the five years after that new needs and
annual replacement-requirements (esti-
mated at from 12,000 to 20,000) “seem
likely to be higher than the present rate
of dwelling - completions and greater
rates of construction would then be
needed.”
Summing-up, the A.N.Z. “Survey”
expects teenage-spending on such things
as clothing, sporting-goods, gramophone'
records and entertainment to increase
during the next five years and to flatten-
out thereafter. The expenditure oi
young-marrieds on housing, furniture
and household requisites will be more-
or-less stationary during 1960-65, but
will rise steadily after that.
The I.P.A. “Review” expresses con-
cern over financing the expansion neces-
sary to provide the extra jobs and extra
homes called for by the change in the
age-structure of the population. It feels
that overseas investment can make only
a minor contribution and that most of
the new capital requirements will have
to come “from our own pockets,” and
hints that this means either inflation or
forced saving through higher taxation,
The A.N.Z. “Survey” is more optimistic,
It estimates that expenditure on housing
will remain between three and five per
cent, of gross domestic expenditure, “so
that finance on the basis of recent ex-
perience should not be a serious problem
in meeting the rate of construction.” li
also feels that hire-purchase companies
will be able to finance the demand for
consumer-durables “quite adequately,”
because of the increasing amount oi
“revolving finance” available to them
through rising repayments.
“A Younging Population”
'MTither survey discusses the political
implications of the change in the
age-structure, but these could be very
important. Dr. Frank G. Dickinson,
director of economic research for the
American Medical Association, claimed
a couple of years ago that it was no
accident that the trend towards the
Welfare State in the first half of this
century coincided with declining birth-
rates and deathrates in all Western coun-
tries. The Welfare State was a direct'
result of the ageing population so pro-
duced. It is natural that older people
should place more importance on security
than young people and because the pro-
portion of older people was increasing
throughout the period, politicians took
more notice of their problems than of,
those of younger voters.
Dickinson claimed (in 1957) that since
1910 there had been a shift of nearly
15 per cent, from the younger group of
voters (under 50) to the older group
The “peak” percentage would be reached
in Australia, he said, by 1961, after which
there would be a reversal and the trend
would be towards “a younging elec-
torate.” The reversal would come later
in other countries—not till 1970 in the
U.S. and 1978 in Britain. New Zealand
would be only a year behind Australia.
. In the 1960’s the younger voters will
have an increasing influence at the poll-
ing-booths and politicians—most of ? efl
in the “ageing” category —will ignore d
at their peril. *


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
Sydney Horses
Owner-breeder E. E. Swin-
son had a nice win with Corn
Vista in Saturday’s First Ash-
bury Stakes at Canterbury, the
three-year-old brother of
Cornelius (who's also raced by
Swinson) landing the money
very easily. Jack Green trains
both horses at Rand wick.
They’re by Port Vista (imp.)
from Cornelian by Beaupartir.
Owner Morrie Point, trainer
L. O’Rourke and jockey R.
Selkrig landed a winning double
when Bonne Victoire won the
Two-year-old Novice and Royal
Perception the Canterbury
Handicap. Carrying 31b. over
his light weight of 7.3, Royal
Perception was in the pace-
maker-role soon after the
start, and though Love and
Kisses ran up close to him in
the final stages he kicked-on
again for a short-half-head win
in 1.59.8 for the 9j furlongs,
close to Astron’s course record.
Royal Perception was one of
a number of horses that Point,
as breeder, declined to part
with as yearlings because he
considered the bids too light.
Highest for Royal Perception
was llOgns., for Bardshah
250 gns. and for Morning
Gleam 120gns. They have
since won several thousands in
the aggregate, and, in fact, the
Royal Empires are doing well
in most States, this French sire
having had upwards of 25
winners, among them Nadar
Shah, who was sold for
400gns.
Bonne Victoire was beaten
many lengths by Turkestan in
training two days before her
stylish win at Canterbury, but
she’s a different filly altogethet
with colors up. She jumped
out first on Saturday, was
temporarily headed by Det-
uita, but came again in the
straight to win by a long head.
It was her second win in four
starts.
Olympiad came to Sydney
last year from Perth after
winning races there by up to
10 lengths, and at the Canter-
bury meeting the now five-year-
old Port Vista entire proved he
could win in the best Sydney
s Pnnt company. With C. Pear-
son's 51b. allowance, he carried
only 6.13 —lib. above the
limit. At that, the youngster
had taken off too much weight
and had to be helped to the
scales, while the trainer un-
saddled Olympiad. Many a
jockey has lived to regret
reducing too much to accept
rides.
• • • •
Respectively owner and
trainer of Sea Hound, Len
Burke and Sid Nicholls are
still on a winning wave, though
“ Howzat ?”
they lost their favorite galloper
Gay Satin when she recently
broke-down. R. George got just
enough from Sea Hound to
beat the faster-finishing Lady
Cortauld by a short head, with
Idyllic a nose away third. Sea
Hound has now won eight
races at from five furlongs to
one mile.
Ziette looks a likely type for
the rich A.J.C. Adrian Knox
Stakes for three-year-old fillies
in the autumn, and trainer
Frank Lewis proposes to set
her for that event. She has won
two recent races for him at
Canterbury, both at 11 furlongs,
65 yds., and both with N- Mc-
Growdie in the saddle. She
hasn’t done much racing as
yet, and will be all the better
for that. Her sire, El Ziet
(imp.), won races at up to 12
furlongs, and her dam. Addi-
tion, is by The Buzzard (imp.)
from calculate by Caledon
(imp.), tracing back to Multi-
form, so Ziette is bred to stay.
Happy Kingdom, who
cleared out with the A.J.C.
Three-year-old Novice on
New Year’s Day, again won as
he liked in taking the Second
Ashbury Stakes. He looks to
have a really brilliant future.
A three-year-old colt by that
exceptionally fine sire Star
Kingdom, he cost Adolph
Basser 4000gns. as a yearling.
In successive starts three-
year-old Gene San has twice
won at Randwick, taking the
Three-and-four-year-old Han-
dicap on December 28 and the
Encourage at last week’s Twi-
light fixture. He could go on
to much better performances,
and breeding suggests staying-
ability. Raced by J. W. and
W. Clinton and trained by
H. T. Sherd, he’s a colt by
Genetout (Fr.) from Protection
by Stockade (imp.) from
Cineraria (E.) by Diomedes,
and is a first foal. Family-lines
include Beau Pere (imp.), Bal-
loch (imp.), and Mr. Standfast
(imp.).
Rosebery trainers Gordon
Brown (Travel On) and Fred
Hood (Halowee) both had easy
wins with their horses at the
Twilight fixture —respectively
in the Three-year-old Novice
and the 10-furlongs Maiden.
Costing Miss M. Brennan
200gns. as a yearling, Travel
On is by Globetrotter (imp.)
from Silver Dawn by Silver-
burn (imp.). Bred at Hobart-
ville Stud, Richmond (N.S.W.),
he’s closely related to Moor-
land (A.J.C. Derby). Halowee,
a four-year-old mare raced by
Wilson Mroeuh, is by Elysium
(imp.) from a Genetout mare,
but little else is known about
her pedigree. Attendance at
the Twilight (21,700) was sur-
prisingly good—equal to that
at some Saturday suburban
fixtures.
* * *
Laurie Morgan bred Mr.
Wonder, runaway winner of
Doomben’s Two - year - old
Handicap in 59.9 for the five
furlongs last Saturday. A.
Strong is racing and training
the colt, who showed the usual
Newtown Wonder speed. His
dam, Ambitious, a half-sister
of Redbank, is by Sea Tonic
(imp.) from Maenad by Drake
(imp.). Mr. Wonder was
passed-in at 500gns. at the
Randwick yearling - auction
last year. Doomben’s First
Maiden was won by Incal, a
three-year-old filly by the im-
ported sire Incalculable from
Bright Mark by Melbourne
Cup winner Hall Mark.
* * :Jc
“Sawtell”: Racing is boom-
ing in the N.S.W. southern
districts, and a highlight of
coming events is Tumut’s cen-
tenary meeting (Feb. 11).
Metropolitan support is assured
for the £ll6O programme, fea-
ture race of which will be the
Tumut Turf Club Centenary
Gold Cup. Rebate distributed
to visiting horses attracts good
performers from other districts.
“D.P.”: A pat on the back
for an Australian jockey comes
from the “New Yorker’s”
racing-writer:
Billy Camer, the Australian boy
who rode Vogel in the Washington,
D.C., International at Laurel, is
going to ride in Florida this winter,
and I think he’s worth keeping in
mind. The day before the Inter-
national he had the mount on a
horse owned by a man I know, and
I went to the paddock at saddling-
time. The first thing Camer did
after receiving his riding-orders was
to test the animal’s girths. Our
boys just take it for granted that
the saddle is on tight; I don’t re-
member ever seeing one of them —
not even Shoemaker or Arcaro —
test a girth. Camer could ride
for me.
* * *
At Caulfield
If all horses ran as con-
sistently as two-year-olds, book-
makers would not have nearly
so much trouble with their
income-tax. In the Chicquita
Stakes at Caulfield (five fur-
longs ; two-year-old fillies)
Elated scored her third in a row.
It was suggested here after her


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEIf
SOUTH WALES— In- Divorce.
TO WILFRED GEORGE RANDALL-]
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA Jois
RANDALL has filed a Petition
Divorce No. 174 of 19.79 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or o-
cuse for three years and upwards ®
you wish to defend you may enter «
appearance in the Divorce Registry it
the Supreme Court Mint Building Mat
quarie Street Sydney by the 15th Mai®
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petitior
without charge from ALAN BLUM ■
CO., Solicitors, of 8a Piccadilly Area*
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.»
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN CAMPBELL AUSTINV
TAKE NOTICE that KEITH AUS'R
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
of 1959 on the grounds of desert' 11 :
without just cause or excuse for thw
years and upwards If you wish to*
fend you may enter an appearance 1
the Divorce Registry in the Sup rf ® ! ,
Court Mint Building Macquarie SWI
Sydney by the 15th March 1900 alll l
obtain a copy of the Petition with 0 ?!
charge from ALAN BLUM & CO., “l
citors, of 8a Piccadilly Arcade,
—C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
previous wins that Elated was
well above average, but after
Saturday’s effortless five-
lengths win it can be said that
Elated is as good a filly as has
been seen in Melbourne this
season. Her young rider, Ray
Hill, never relaxed his tight
hold on the reins, but Elated,
who took-up the running soon
after the start, increased her
lead all the way to the line.
She will probably make her
record four straight.
• • • •
Egoline, too —winner of the
Juvenile had scored at
Moonee Valley the previous
Saturday. The Valley race
was over five furlongs, and it
was said here that Egoline
finished in the manner of a
good horse. He confirmed that
at Caulfield by beating a smart
field with something in hand.
His owners, P. Grant Hay and
his wife, have no ambitious
plans for the gelding, but he
looks the type to win a good
race some day.
Though present observer had
noted that Good Summer finds
it hard to win with 9st. or
better, the handsome chestnut
carried only lib. less than 9st.
and improved on his Valley
win the previous week to race
away from opponents in the
mile Normanby Handicap.
Could be that Good Summer
is now living up to the promise
he showed as a three-year-old,
when he was placed at w.f.a.
In their vulnerable position
it is vital for bookmakers to
know a good deal more than
revealed form. The aged
Solar Bear gelding Lar Pota,
quoted at an opening-price of
6 to 1 at Caulfield, had had
three starts since running
/
second to Humber Hawk in the
Moonee Valley Cup of 1958,
and in each had performed
poorly at long odds. News had
obviously reached the bagmen
that Ballarat trainer Arthur
Smerdon had overcome the
tendon trouble that had been
hindering Lar Pota, who
shortened to 11-to-4 favorite
and, well-placed throughout,
ran home an easy winner of
the Rowena Welter.
Apprentice Roy Higgins,
who on Lar Pota broke a long
losing run, made it a double in
the succeeding race, the Rose-
berry Handicap, on little-
known Insignia. At previous
start Insignia had won a
Maiden at Mornington, and
there was a confident ring
about the support for him at
Caulfield. Higgins rode a copy-
book race, keeping the gelding
on the rails fourth to the
home-turn, where he made his
run, Insignia responding like
a good horse to clear away
over the last furlong. New
Zealand-bred, by Llanstphan
from Gay Gitania, Insignia will
win again.
There are not many two-
mile races in Victoria —in fact,
few in Australia. Hence, the
two-mile Inkerman Handi-
cap is regarded as a sound
guide to the Australian Cup
(2m., l|f.) run at Flemington
in March. The winner of this
year’s Inkerman was the six-
year-old black mare Loyce,
trained by Owen Lynch, who
last year prepared Australian
Cup winner Gaybao.
With the camera able to split
horses to an inch dead-heats
are now rare, but the judge at
Caulfield had to post a tie be-
tween On Guard and Vic-
torious in the six-furlongs Park
Stakes. It was On Guard’s
best run in Victoria, and the
four-year-old Night Guardian
horse, was unlucky not to win
outright, as his rider dropped
his whip on the home-turn.
Despite that handicap, Miller
got a lot out of his mount to
bring him from a seemingly
hopeless position there to get
on terms with Victorious on
the line. His strong finish sug-
gested that On Guard would
be at his best over a mile. The
Oleandrin three-year-old Vic-
torious had hitherto hung-in
a lot, but on Saturday he went
straight and outpaced some
very smart sprinters, including
top-liners Prince Lea and
Planetoid. Victorious will be
given his chance in the rich
autumn sprints, including the
Oakleigh Plate.
Trots Record
There was a crowd of 20,000
last Friday night to see
Southern Van (scr.) equal
Ribands’s six-year-old record
in winning the Harold Park
Handicap (1 IT fur.) in 3.5
a mile-rate of 2.6 y. Enzedder
Guiseppi, second; Bangaroo
Lass, third. Since taking over
Southern Van early in the
season trainer-driver M. Adams
has notched six wins and two
seconds from 10 starts with the
Van Derby six-year-old. Gui-
seppi’s time from the 24yds.-
mark was actually at a mile-
rate of 2.5|, but as he didn’t
win this won’t be recognised
. . . Stewards refused further
nominations from Gay
Vivienne after that odds-on
favorite had finished a poor
fourth in the Trotters’ Handi-
cap. Gay Vivienne broke badly
at the start, as he had done
on previous occasions, Shell-
grit landing the event from
Queen Bee and Kyogle Wirra.
On Saturday night at the
Bathurst track the Western
districts Trotting Association
staged the first of this season's
classics, the Debutant Stakes
for colts and geldings. Three
heats and the final were run,
with the heat-winners filling the
places in the final. Opal Chief,
from Victoria, equalled the
track record of 2min. 21jsec.
for the 8y furlongs in winning
comfortably from Tacloban
(J. D. Watts), who beat J. C.
Caffyn’s Call Up by a head.
Caffyn had entered nine horses
for this event. Apmat and
First Kiss (two very favored
Inter - Dominion prospects)
staged a tight finish in the
Free-for-All, First Kiss getting
the verdict by a head, with aged
performer Bannalagh putting
in a whirlwind finish to get
within a neck of Apmat.
New Zealand's mighty atom,
champion pacer Caduceus, will
be driven by his trainer-driver,
Jack Litten, in this year’s
Inter-Dominion. Winner of
42 races and £53,000 in prize-
money, Caduceus holds records
in every Australian State,
including the fastest mile ever
paced in the Southern Hemis-
phere ; yet, so far, the Inter-
Dominion has eluded him.
This will, in fact, be his sixth
attempt to win the rich event.
Litten has driven Caduceus
only once in Australia.
Sheffield Shield
Both N.S.W. and Queens-
land flopped in their Shield
matches against the southern
States. N.S.W. did beat S.A.
outright, but lost outright to
W.A. and Victoria. The win
over S.A. was somewhat “hoi.
low,” the total of 333 bein{
compiled, in the main, by twc
men, Booth (177) and Crait
(57).
Batsmen to do well for Vic
toria against N.S.W. wen
Potter, with top-score, 62, it
the first innings ; Furlong (;
young left-hand opener, whi
played his first game for th<
State in ’57-58, but who hat
since lost and regained hi
place), 48 and a dashing 81;
Crompton 35 and 44; and
bowler Wildsmith, 37 and )]
not-out.
For N.S.W. Thomas and 1
Marks, young stars of last
season, both failed, Marks
getting a “pair.”
Victoria, sent in by Crait,
had made 251 (no victory
total by any means), bin
N.S.W. crashed in its firs
innings for 125, and Victorian*
second-innings 9-307 set the
job of amassing 434 to win
Despite a good start (1-111.
at one stage), N.S.W. fell fa
219.
Victoria’s four bowlers were
the mainsprings of its win-in.
particular, restored fast-bowle;
John Power (once labelled as
“Lindwall’s successor”), who
took three good wickets in an
over in destructive bursts it
each innings.
S.A. (300) beat Queensland
by 173 on the first innings
The Northerners collapsed for'
127, only two men reaching
double-figures (skipper Bratch-
ford, 52, after a string of
batting failures—-he took 5-1
in S.A.’s innings—and opener
Reynolds a stodgy 48). S.A
medium-pacer Quigley tool
7-39. The Northerners looked
likely to be beaten outright, but


start the day right!
F#kUl
r i>V
sha;
cb
eM*
second-innings centuries by
Reynolds and Trimble saved
them. Rain had reduced play
somewhat.
In the two games beginning
on New Year’s Day N.S.W.
beat Queensland by an innings
and 65, while Victoria, in a
high-scoring game, defeated
S.A. outright by six wickets.
Rain restricted play on the
third day in Sydney. Queens-
land, in its first five games this
season, has thus failed to win
a game—three outright losses
and two on the first innings.
Against N.S.W. Queensland
opener Reynolds got his third
“pair” in first-class cricket, an
unusual distinction for such a
good batsman. McLaughlin
showed out best of the Queens-
land batsmen ; Bratchford was
the most impressive bowler.
Best N.S.W. bowlers were fast-
medium Wollongong trundler
Barry Bates and the two left-
arm spinners Martin and Well-
ham.
In Melbourne Victoria beat
S.A. outright in what was
mainly a batsman’s game.
Polished S.A. batsman John
Lill followed his 126 against
Queensland with 176 and 51.
In S.A.’s second innings ’keeper
Ducker made a hard-hitting 71.
In a first innings in which
nearly all the Victorian bats-
men scored well, left-hand
openers La wry and Furlong put
on 167 for the first wicket, Vic-
toria’s best opening stand since
Meuleman and McDonald put
on over 300, also against S.A.,
in 1949. Best bowling figures
came from young Victorian
left-hand spinner Wildsmith
(5-79).
The third Test at Bombay fizzled
out into a draw—lndia, 289 and
5-226 n Australia, 8-387 and 1-34.
Davidson began devastatingly, send-
ing Roy and Umrigar (a good bat,
but who can’t get going) back
quickly. Then the reliable Con-
tractor (108) and young Ali Baig
(50) added 133. For Australia
O Neill and Harvey, Australia’s two
batting stars on this tour, each made
an attractive century (O’Neill 163,
Harvey 102).
“Zorok”: A Fijian cricket team
arrived in Sydney last week, to
tour N.S.W. Most of their games
will be played in N.S.W. country
centres. There are eight Fijians (in-
cluding the captain, N. M. Ulviviti),
two Europeans (player-manager
Gosling and vice-captain
I s - B. Snowsill), four part-Europeans
and one Indian. Most have played
lor Fiji against N.Z. and the West
ind ie s. They are proving as enter-
teams 8 3S an Rugby Union
“Bob-Ray”: The English
cricketers have started their
four of the West Indies with-
out Trevor Bailey and Godfrey
Evans. They, among others,
were dropped in favor of
younger players, with an eye
to the future. The unobtrusive
Bailey, now 36, is one of four
cricketers who have each taken
over 100 wickets and scored
over 2000 runs in Test-matches
—the others are Miller (Aus-
tralia), Rhodes (England) and
Mankad (India). The dynamic
Evans (born, 1920) did not play
in his first Test until he was
26, but in the following 13
years (including four visits to
“Autograph my bat, mister?”
‘Australia) he took part in 91
Tests, bagged over 200 wickets
with the gloves and scored
over 2000 runs—clearly the
best ever figures by any wicket-
keeper.
* * *
“Monty”: Award of an
0.8. E. to Toowoomba (Q.) and
Australian Rugby League stal-
wart Duncan Thompson recalls
a charity match in Brisbane
several years ago—Brisbane
Premiers (Valley) v. Ex-Inter-
nationals. Thompson, 20 years
retired, was half-back for the
latter and prevented Valley
scoring per medium of several
whistles secreted on him. He
was searched and disarmed by
the referee. After oranges he
caused a further stir when, as
he tossed the ball in the scrum,
he squirted hooker “Popeye”
Clark with a water-pistol. A
search again disarmed him, and
the game continued eventlessly.
* * *
“Let”: Two years ago Bob
Howe and Warren Woodcock
found the Far Eastern tennis-
circuit a good one for Aus-
tralians, and now Margaret
Hellyer (N.S.W.) has just won
the Asian championship at
Calcutta, while Woodcock was
a finalist in the men’s doubles.
Bob Howe, currently playing
the Australian circuit, visited
Macao last season and has
been invited to return. Macao,
3| hours by ferry from Hong
Kong, is only about a mile
from the gateway to Com-
munist China, but that doesn’t
worry the Macaoites as far as
tennis goes. Howe sees the day
when Australians will begin to
lose interest in European
tennis because of the conveni-
ence of the new circuit for
quick trips and the willing-
ness of the countries —ranging
around from India to Japan—-
to help visitors.
* * *
“Sportite”: Four young
Sydneyites last year spent £4OO
importing a four-man kayak
(canoe) in which they hoped
to compete at the Olympics.
The quartet Denis Green,
Barry Stuart, Phil Coles and
Dennis Maguire—trained hard,
and, on performance, selection
for Rome was never in doubt:
in trials they bettered winning
times at Melbourne's Olympics;
their times were as good as the
best recorded overseas last
summer. And now the Olympic
programme has been changed;
the four-man kayak-race has
given way to a double-kayak
event for women. So they have
had to break-up the team, form
double-kayak crews and battle
for selection! They don’t
mind that, but they’re naturally
a bit sore about that £4OO.
* * *
“Athlete”: Marathon run-
ners rarely run over the hard
roads on which they will race ;
most do their training in pad-
docks, and run up and down
hills of various grades. Middle-
distance men put more than
100 miles behind them every
week endeavoring to develop
a training-plan that will pre-
vent boredom. World-record
holder Albert Thomas, who
ran the mile in 3.58.8 at the
Special Carnival at Sydney
Sports Ground last week, runs
three times a day, even taking-
in a couple of miles during his
lunch - hour. International
coach Bryce Mackay has set
Bobb Vagg a hard task in his
effort to win Olympic selection.
Vagg, 19, a student, has his
eyes on a start in the 10,000-
metres, and he runs 90 miles
a week, most of it at night on
the sand of Sydney’s Bondi
Beach.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIAN EDUCATION
In the British monthly “Con-
temporary Review,” Pat
Sloan outlines Russia’s new
“eight-year plan” for educa-
tion, which is “based on a
general compulsory eight-year
schooling to be followed by
a variety of possible combina-
tions of further secondary edu-
cation and practical work:
“The curriculum naturally
starts with the three R’s, going
on to an all-round course
including language and litera-
ture (Russian for Russians,
and the choice of their own
language or Russian for all the
rest, with Russian as a second
language where they choose
their own language first) ; one
foreign language, history,
geography (including eco-
nomic geography), mathematics,
science with special stress on
natural sciences, physical edu-
cation, and for the whole eight
years music and singing.
“Labor is a special subject
in training for work, and a
system of ‘self-service’ is being
introduced by which pupils
will devote several hours a
week to school-maintenance
jobs, and also two weeks a year
to work of public importance,
such as the care of public
parks and gardens, local public
improvements, and so on. The
keeping of small livestock,
poultry and rabbits is also
encouraged.
“The number of children in
boarding-schools is to be
steadily increased, to reach
1,350,000 by 1965. The
majority of these schools are
placed not far from the
children's homes, and contact
with parents and families is
encouraged at weekends as well
as on special occasions. The
boarding-schools, like all other
schools, are co-educational.
“On finishing the eight-year
period a variety of possibilities
is provided. First, a further
three years at a secondary
polytechnical school, at 'which
two days a week will be
devoted to practical work in
production. Secondly, a six-
hour day-job coupled with
secondary schooling in even-
ing classes. For this, large
factories are to organise their
own schools to dovetail with
a six-hour working-day.
Thirdly, particularly for those
in remote areas, secondary
schooling by correspondence.
“To complete a secondary
education the students must
cover: in physics, atomic
physics, semi-conductors and
plastics; in chemistry, high-
molecular compounds includ-
ing plastics, rubbers and syn-
thetic fibres ; and in biology,
the latest developments in
agriculture and stock-breeding.
“There are to be four holi-
day-periods a year, three short
ones by our standards and a
long one in summer, as
follows: November 5 to 10,
December 30 to January 10,
March 24 to 31, and in summer
85 days for the first four years,
—London “News Chronicle.”
FOR HIS AMUSEMENT ONLY.
72 days for the fifth to seventh
year, and 66 days from the
eighth to eleventh years.
“On completing a full
secondary education the best
students will go on to uni-
versity. Here, too, combina-
tion of study with work is
being strongly advocated, and
it is felt that the university
intake will be now much im-
proved, and standards kept up,
by the constant trying-out of
every student in practical as
well as academic work.
“To make life easier for
those pursuing some form of
study, a scale of extra leave
has been issued, ranging from
10 to 40 days a year, plus an
additional 30 days paid leave
for preparing for and sitting
for State examinations. More-
over, in the 10 months before
diploma-work or a State
examination, workers will get
one day off a week at half-
pay.
“To dispel the alarm which
may be felt by those who fear
that education in the U.S.S.R.
is being geared too closely to
jobs (but isn’t it more and
more the same everywhere?),
it should be noted that another
recent development has been
the opening of ‘cultural uni-
versities’ catering for adults.
These function in the even-
ings and on Sundays, and cover
such subjects as literature,
theatre, ballet, art, music and
the cinema. They vary con-
siderably, as local initiative
plays a large part in deciding
on the curriculum. A course
on a particular branch of the
arts appears as a rule to cover
its history, theory, forms, a
study of the life and work of
its outstanding exponents since
antiquity, and some practical
training.
“Gradually the working-week
in the U.S.S.R. is being
reduced. By the end of 1962
nobody will work more than
a 40-hour week and many wiil
work less. In 1963 a start will
be made on going over to a 35-
hour working-week consisting
of five working-days of seven
hours each. In underground
and arduous jobs it will be 30
hours.
“The present developments
in education open-up a pros-
pect that within a few years
almost every citizen of the
U.S.S.R. will be enjoying the
lowest working-week in the
world, but will be using at
least a part of his or her free
time on some branch of
further education,”
Stalin Revival
T on don “Economist” notes
' that in Russia “Stalin has
been coming slowly, but per-
ceptibly, back into favor;
“The ‘Pravda’ leader on
December 21, on the 80th
anniversary of the great mans
birth, made the biggest single
stride in this direction. It
described Stalin as a ‘staunch
fighter for Socialism,’ who had
struggled against the many
enemies of Leninism, and who
should be counted among the
most prominent leaders of the
international Communist move-
ment in general and of the
Russian party in particular,'
His cardinal mistake lay not
so much in his political activi-
ties but in the fact that the
‘successes of the Communist
party and of the people were
ascribed to him personally.’
“Although ‘Pravda’ con-.
ceded that the cult of per-
sonality was harmful, this is a
criticism to be made only by
authorised persons, since ‘the
enemies of Communism had
launched a noisy campaign in
connection with the criticisms
of the personality cult.’
“Mr. Khrushchev’s desire
for a more lenient line on
Stalin is understandable. Some
people in the Soviet Union,
and many more in Eastern;
Europe, were liable to inter-
pret sharp criticisms of Stalin
as an attack against the Com-
munist type of authority ; the
Soviet Premier might well
have wondered how much of
the unrest in 1956 could have
been attributed to his attack on
Stalin at the 20th party con-
gress.
“Nevertheless, the official
hagiographers need to decide,
which of the two aspects of
Stalin’s reign they will concen-
trate on. He understood the
art of keeping Soviet citizens
in order better than anyone
else ; yet he did more than
anyone else to discredit
Communist cause in the eyes-
of the outside world.”
Nearing the Summit
/"Overseas press comment on
the outcome of the Western
Powers 7 pre-Summit meeting in
Paris in December:
London “Spectator ” : “The
Paris meeting produced all that
could reasonably be
an agreement to invite Mr
Khrushchev to a series
summit-conferences, with al j
agenda couched in very general
terms. It had always been Mr
Macmillan's view that there


€M ihc
7 '
fluhit+e
It is truer today—in 1960—than ever it was
that the fate of civilisations depends on how they
react to the challenge of the times. The challenge
is spiritual as well as material.
So much is happening to change the material
world that we are inclined to forget what is
happening in the minds of men. Yet the moral and
mental values of every culture in human history
have commanded its rise or decline.
Let us for a moment look at Australia in this
context. We know the story of our country’s origin
and growth. We see how our civil systems have
formed. We live in enjoyment of a land that is
prosperous and expanding.
In the lifetime of its senior citizens it has
emerged from a group of colonial outposts to a
Federal nation seen and heard and recognised in
the councils of the world. Internally it has been
transformed from a primary producing country to
one in which secondary industries are balancing
the creation of wealth; and a richer winning
awaits us.
But the present is only the particular pattern
that has been woven out of the past. It will change,
as surely as the ideas and attitudes and
achievements of men have been changing since
history began. And along with it, of necessity, our
own thinking will have to grow; not to a scale of
our own choosing, but at the mental rate that is
urging on the whole of mankind.
So a first essential, it seems to me, is that we
should rise above the satisfactions of today and
traject ourselves nationally into tomorrow.
That is where it comes back to the mind: to
our will to think ahead, and to act courageously
on the thinking.
The time has gone when pride in our country’s
past and present will suffice. We must act. And
only faith—an inexhaustible faith in our spiritual
destiny—will generate the power and force to take
Australia on to meet the future’s bold challenge.
y
should be, a series of Summits
rather than that everything
should be staked on one meet-
ing. Clearly he, or President
Eisenhower, his disciple in this
matter, has worked hard in
Paris to bring General de
Gaulle to the same way of
thinking.
“General de Gaulle, equally
dearly, has exacted his price.
The meeting is to take place
not in Geneva but in Paris, and
the agenda is to include ‘East-
West relations,' which is gener-
ally understood to stand for the
discussion of mutual -non-
interference in each other’s
internal affairs —a subject the
General has long been con-
cerned about, and for obvious,
Algerian, reasons.”
* * *
Manchester “Guardian” : “It
is not much to show after so
much preparation. The place
and date of a summit-confer-
ence are the kind of points
that, not long ago, could have
been settled by First Secretaries
or by Ambassadors. Now it
needs President Eisenhower,
Chancellor Adenauer, Presi-
dent de Gaulle and Mr. Mac-
millan. They have taken two
days for the task. They have,
it is true, discussed other things
as well. Just possibly—though
one cannot be sure —they have
come a little nearer to under-
standing each other’s views on
what should be said at the
Summit. They may also have
helped to clear the way for
detailed discussion by their
advisers.
“The fact that they them-
selves had talked about any-
thing so trivial as the date and
place for meeting Mr.
Khrushchev is itself a
symptom of deeper disagree-
ments. Dr. Adenauer in the
Past has shown scant
enthusiasm for a summit-con-
ference, and General de
Gaulle has been still cooler.
Possibly there is at last a
measure of unanimity. But
almost certainly no precise
plans have been laid. Exact
details are not President
Eisenhower’s speciality. He has
done more than any other head
°f a Government to hold to-
gether and give purpose to the
Western alliance, but he deals
m amiable generalities. If the
Summit is to achieve anything,
someone else will have to make
hard plans.”
* * *
Pun/ Johnson, in London
A/ew Statesman”: “The
British plan for an interim
settlement in Berlin has found
httle support outside Eisen-
hower’s immediate entourage.
While Super Mac is actually
talking—and how he talks!
the President listens, nodding
approval. But, more and more,
he resembles Haig’s description
of Lord Derby: ‘He is like a
feather pillow—he bears the
impression of the last person
to have sat on him.’
“De Gaulle does not want to
discuss Berlin at all; instead,
he would like to spend the
precious Summit hours
negotiating a mutual non-
interference pact. Adenauer
wants to talk about disarma-
ment, which he believes is a
comfortably innocuous subject.
“He is right, too. The nearer
one gets to the military heart
of things, the more Utopian
does any disarmament agree-
ment appear.”
* * *
London “Economist’’: “The
Summit plainly offers a chance
to break-down the initial dis-
agreements that the disarmers
are likely to run into at
Geneva; and, in the long run,
Dr. Adenauer's argument that
general disarmament must
assist the process of German
reunification is unexceptionable.
“For economic reasons, Mr.
Khrushchev is probably
anxious to reduce his own arms
burden. But the most pressing
problems must come first. The
current efforts to stop nuclear-
weapons tests provide an urgent
issue for the Summit. If the
first French explosions in the
Sahara are timed to precede
Mr. Khrushchev’s arrival in
Paris, the need to take General
de Gaulle’s nuclear ambitions
into consideration will be all
the more pressing. Even if the
General cannot be persuaded
to desist, Mr. Khrushchev may
be ready to turn a blind eye for
the sake of Russo-Ameriean
agreement. But he can only be
expected to do this if he feels
sure that a French deterrent,
however feeble, will not auto-
matically pass into German
hands. All this, as well as
Berlin, will need going into by
April.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune ” :
“What was not fully decided in
Paris in respect to Berlin was
the steps the Western Big
Three might take in discussions
with Mr. Khrushchev—whether
to repeat the concessions
offered in the abortive Foreign
Ministers’ meetings to secure a
new statute for Berlin or simply
to insist upon existing Western
rights. The British incline
toward the former ; the West
Germans are strong for the
latter. This is one of the vital


points that must be clarified
before the Summit takes place.”
* $ *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“It is difficult to avoid the con-
clusion that, even after the
most assiduous preparation, the
diplomatic soil remains disap-
pointingly barren. No purpose
would be served in attempting
to apportion blame. The sad
truth is that the West is at
present made-up of incom-
patible elements which are
unlikely to merge into an effec-
tive unity.
“It was hoped that President
Eisenhower, fresh from "a
triumphant tour of the peri-
phery of the free world, would
arrive at its European heart
with some new infusion to
release its clotted bloodstream.
From all accounts this has not
happened.
“As for Mr. Macmillan’s con-
tribution, whatever its intrinsic
merits, it can only be said to
have added to the toughness of
the Franco-German nut with-
out in any way strengthening
the American hammer.”
* * #
London “News Chronicle” :
“For the time being, at least,
the cracks in the Western
alliance have been papered-
over in Paris. Britain and
America are broadly in agree-
ment on all the principal issues.
“Despite the impending
explosion of a nuclear device,
France is unlikely to be allowed
by the Americans to share the
vast store of nuclear know-
ledge which they have accumu-
lated. The entente is likely to
be considerably less cordial
when this is realised in Paris.
“The important thing at this
moment, however, is that the
Summit train has been set in
motion. Its start is not a
minute too soon, because
before long all the pro-
tagonistsf Russia included, may
face a problem greater than
any confronting them at
present.
“That problem, looming
steadily in the Far East, is
China.”
Strange Game
From the Milwaukee (U.S.)
“Journal”:
“Russians are allowed to go
to Los Angeles, as the recent
visit of Premier Khrushchev
’CLOWNS SHOULD GIVE WORE TIME To
INTERNATIONAL ■PRO&LEWS.. ’
- POOC.YURf DEM6T*IEV OP THE iOViV
«AO£MV OP SCfCNCEi
VICKY, IN LONDON “NEW STATESMAN.”
proved. But in the Los
Angeles area they are barred
from five gravel-pits, three
cemeteries, four golf-courses,
two derricks, the Rose Bowl
and Mount Wilson Obser-
vatory.
“This is all part of the map
game that Russia and the
United States have been play-
ing for some time—since 1952
for the United States and 1941
for the Russians.
“For some years Russia
barred Americans from travel
to many parts of the country.
In 1952 this country decided
to retaliate by demanding that
Soviet citizens give advance
nctice of any trips beyond
suburban Washington. In 1955
our Government started a
policy of an eye for an eye.
When Russia closed a section of
the Soviet Union this country
closed a section of the United
States.
“For example, the Russians
lost six counties in lowa when
they banned water-travel on the
Yenisei River ; Omsk and
Tomsk were neatly paired-off
with Seattle and Louisville, and
when the highway from
Moscow to Kashira and
Kaluga was closed we followed
suit by shutting-off routes 40
and 240 from Washington,
D.C., to Hancock, Md.
“Retaliation sometimes does
work. For instance, in a
Moscow heatwave two years
ago the Russians suddenly
barred Americans from the
only cool spot around, a nearby
lake-district. We responded by
refusing to allow Russians in
Washington to enjoy the
breezes of Chesapeake Bay.
The Russians quickly lifted
their ban, and so did we.”
Attitudes to Chino
however miserable the lot of
her own people, is strong
enough to dominate Central
Asia and begin to lay claim to
everything that was ever
within the orbit of the Chines?
Emperors. We have been not
a whit more realistic thair
Nehru. For when he though!
he might get on with the
Chinese revolution, we hav< (
imagined that we could weaker
it by making faces at it.
“So there is no ground for
saying we told you so. And
there is every reason for feeling
humility and for clearing our
minds as we face the over-
riding problem of the future,
which is the containment of
China.”
* * *
Joseph Alsop, in New York,
“Herald Tribune”: “Looking
at Mao’s China one cannot
help recalling the China of
Ch'in Shih Huang Ti. That
almost legendary tyrant also
reunited and remade his coun-
try. He further transformed
China into a great Power,
stronger by far than any the
world had known before. But
the burden Ch’in Shih Huang
imposed w r as too heavy. The
Chinese people, at a given
moment, decided they had had
enough. The Ch’in empire,
founded in 221 8.c., collapsed
into ruin and nothingness only
15 years later.
“Remembering Ch’in Shih
Huang is no answer, to be sure,
to the tremendous question I
have posed. The best answer
to it was given, I think, by
one of the wisest men in this
city [Hong Kong], who told
me: ‘Anyone who says the
Chinese Communists will surely
succeed in what they are doing
is a plain fool; but so is any-
one who says they will surely'
fail.’ And to this must be
added the further fact that any
decisive failure in China is
only too likely to provoke,
'“Thoughts on China from
two leading United States
columnists :
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” : “No doubt
Nehru has had his illusions.
They were based on a failure
to realise that a strong China
would assert ruthlessly the
historical imperial ambitions of
the Chinese nation. These
ambitions are shared equally
by Mao Tse-tung and by
Chiang Kai-shek. Mr. Nehru
thought, mistakenly, that if he
befriended the Chinese revo-
lution he could live in peace
with it.
“But the Russians also had
their illusions about China and
so did we [the U.S.]. The
Russian illusion has been based
on the dogma that ‘Socialist’
countries cannot be rivals and
enemies, and that in a Socialist
world all would be harmony.
The Russians have learned in
Manchuria, they are learning
in Mongolia, they will be
learning on the frontiers of
Sinkiang that they were mis-
taken.
“And what about our own
illusion? It has been that if
we boycotted and ostracised the
Chinese revolution it would
somehow collapse and wither
away. But after all our boy-
cotts and our ostracism, what
we see now is a China which,
— “Weltwoche,” Zurich
“STRICTLY INTERNAL AFFAIRS.”


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Soviet intervention on. the
Hungarian pattern.”
The same: “While China.’s
agony continues, ,no new
departure can .usefully be
made, except perhaps by Nikita
S. Khrushchev. No external
influence, except perhaps
Sovietjnfluence, can affect the
outcome of the gigantic, cruel
and awe-inspiring experiment
that is now being made in
China.
“In these circumstances, the
only prudent course for Ameri-
can policy-makers is to be
patient and watchful until the
situation inside China is
changed either by the experi-
ment’s failure or by its final
success. Doing nothing is sel-
dom preferable to doing some-
thing, but it is certainly
preferable in this case.”
Dragnet Digest
London “Daily Express”:
“At present a preposterous
situation exists in Trinidad.
The proposed site for the
capital of the West Indies
Federation is at Chaguaramas,
on that island. But Chagu-
aramas was leased as a base
in 1941 for 99 years to the
Americans!
“It is sometimes, ignorantly,
said that Churchill leased the
bases to the Americans in
return for 50 old destroyers.
“Not so. Churchill offered
the leases ‘freely,’ to use his
own word at the time. There
was no bargain. The lease —
which should never have been
granted—was a gift. The
destroyer deal was linked with
the bases by the American
Government to justify them-
selves with their public.
“Now the West Indians ask
for their own territory back.
They argue that Britain gave
away something that was not
hers to give.
“Since justice is plainly on
their side, the Americans will
surely see it. And a needless
source of confusion and
resentment will be removed.”
* * * i
London “Economist”:
“Whatever hopes the Hun-
garian people may have of
achieving some amelioration of
Iheir present condition are
bound-up with the future course
of East-West relations. If the
present efforts to bring about
a detente fail, the Hungarians
oaay expect their situation at
best to remain as it is, at worst
deteriorate. But if East-
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune .”
STRANGE VOICES DOWNSTAIRS.
West suspicions were to
diminish and East-West under-
standing were to improve, then
the Hungarians (and all the
other peoples of Eastern
Europe) might just possibly
find some of the deadweight of
oppression lifted from their
backs. It will not be freedom,
but it may be an improvement;
and who knows where such an
improvement, once started,
might end?”
* * *
“New York Times ” : “The
important thing is that the
United States, and as much of
the rest of the civilised world
as is able to do so, extend
desperately needed help to the
people of underdeveloped
countries as people. It only
defeats our own interest, as
well as theirs, to give this help
in such a way as to sustain a
military dictatorship that may
be on their backs. An equally
pernicious effect is achieved if
it is given in such a way—or
withheld —so as to force estab-
lishment of a phony democracy
where the soil cannot yet
sustain democracy.”
* * *
Chester Bowles, in the “New
York Times” : “Fourteen years
after the end of the war, 37
per cent, of the Italian people
still voted for Communist or
fellow - travelling candidates.
The Communist vote in France
has again risen to 21 per cent.
Despite a civil war and the
outlawing of the Communist
party in Greece, the Com-
munist - controlled E.D.A
(Union of the Democratic Left)
won nearly 25 per cent, of the
votes at the last election.
“This does not mean that
about one-fourth of the people
of Italy, France and Greece
believe, in Communism. The
heavy continuing Left - wing
vote is largely a protest against.
Governments that may effec-
tively be charged with favoring
the rich and the powerful at the
expense of the people. Yet
the continuing size of the
protests dramatises the need for
reforms still long overdue.”
jc
London “Economist”:
“Anybody who looks at the
dramatically changing map of
Africa must see why there is
such desperate reason to wish
that federation could succeed,
partnership become real, a
temporary buffer be created
between Southern Africa and
the advancing northern tide,
the white minority prepare to
cede control and the Africans
to take it over responsibly, w.th
all suspicion spent.
“The -xrnly logical -objective
of British policy is to search
and search again for any struc-
ture of federation that has any
hope of working in this way ;
no places of pride in African
history will be accorded to
those, black or white, who have
chosen to abdicate from the
task of finding out.”
Various Voices
General Cowley : “Defence
reliance on massive nuclear
bombardment could be suicide.
Such a defence would be sure
to provoke an equally massive
bombardment on Western
Europe and the United States.
Whether this would result in
the end of the human race is
debatable. But there is little
doubt that it would result in
the destruction of Great
Britain.”
* * *
Lord Beveridge : “Today [in
Britain] we have something like
what happened in the time of
Henry VIII. A lot of associa-
tions of workers and employers
are debasing the currency by
asking for more shillings for
the same amount of produc-
tion. So long as that goes on,
it will send up prices and cause
inflation and cause difficulties
—not only to social security,
but to every poor old person.”
* * *
M. Spaak: “The Com-
munist menace in 1948 was
military and was aimed essen-
tially at Europe. Now the
menace is essentially in Asia
and Africa —and it is social
and economic. The geo-
graphical limitation of our
defence organisation is out-
moded. Nato will be able to
develop its activity only if it
succeeds in carrying it beyond
the present limitation.”


his comment— -“0n0. .. .papa-
langi. .. .faito ’o,” but I could
not fit together the bits —
“barracuda,” “white man” and
“surgery”—to make sense. 1
asked Lolo, but he was rather
embarrassed. “Faka-mole mole,
tangataeiki’’ (Excuse, sir), he
said. “Finau make a funny
ikai faka abdaba [not polite] ;
vely lude man my fader.”
I heard afterwards that
negroes had a mortal dread
of barracudas, attributing to
File-fish
them the habit of performing
a very unpleasant surgical
operation which would move
a Paul Robeson into the ranks
of the male sopranos, but I
never heard that white men
were in any more danger from
big ono than they were from
sharks.
The only case of barracuda-
attack I ever heard of was
that suffered by a white girl
in Fiji. She was bathing waist-
deep in shallow water when
a stampeding school of small
mullet came leaping around
her, followed by the splash of
a big fish. Afraid that it was
a shark, she went racing for
the shore, but she was too
late: the flash of her white
legs attracted the ongo (as the
Fijians called it), and it ripped
the calf-muscle from one of
her legs.
A few little long-toms had
fallen into the bobao as
they fled from the ’cuda, and
the raindrop patter of little
shoals, and the loud splash of
fair-sized fish in the surround-
ing darkness were heard occa-
sionally. All else was silent,
except for Lolo’s quiet direc-
tions to Finau, and the splash,
slap and flutter as a fish from
Lolo’s spear joined the
steadily-growing heap in the
canoe.
He picked grunting flute-
mouths from the bottom in
10ft. of water; he stabbed
motionless reef-fishes that I
could not see in the crevices
of the coral; he got others
swimming midway down ; and
he harpooned several mullet
and two big long-toms and a
small barracuda swimming
near the surface,
A loud splash and a con-
tinuous slapping noise well
astern brought swift movement
from Finau. As the canoe
went about, I asked Lolo:
“Koe ha?’’ (“The what?”)
“Koe ono lahi. The big ono
is run too fast after small
fish and he can’t stop in time.
He is o ki uta [gone to the
country]. We go and get
him.”
The fish was flapping about
on a rocky ledge 20ft. from the
water. We could see the wet
patch where it hit before skid-
ding, and much closer to the
water were a few of the little
haku (long-toms or needle-fish)
that it had been chasing.
Nearly 6ft. long, the ono
was very hostile, with snap-
ping crocodile-jaws and heav-
ing, lashing body. Lolo drove
the long spear into it behind
the gills, and got me to hold
it steady—as easy as that!
while he severed its backbone.
We dragged it down to the
water where Finau was wait-
ing with another “funny.”
“You can’t put that in the
bobao, the papalangi will slip
on it and fall overboard again.
We must tow it.”
“Yes, and then a big tenifa
or mako will smell the blood
and come after us to take the
ono and smash the outrigger
and upset the bobao. Then
we’ll all be swimming among
the dead fish and the live
sharks, and the tangataeiki is
not a very good swimmer, not
in all those clothes. Come on,
we put it in.”
“Well, you can’t nail its tail
on the door, because you did
not catch it.”
“That is all right. It is not
as big as the one that is on
the door now.”
Both Lolo and I found the
big fish an awkward ship-
mate, but we had all the fish
we needed, and Lolo wanted
to get some octopus. He did
not need the light for his
octopus-hunting, so I turned it
down and left it behind a
pandanus-palm, on which they
hung the big ono from a wire
to save it from rats and (
hermit-crabs, thousands of
which lived in the sand above
highwater-mark
In the bright starlight, with- j
out the lamp, I could not see
very much, but the two
Tongans could, and Lolo kept
on giving directions to Finau
till they were in position over
a deep hole in the reef.
Here Lolo picked up the
maka feke (stone of octopus)
that I had noticed the first
time I had met him. It was
a sausage-shaped piece of
black diorite from the volcanic
island Late, with the encircling
grooves fore and aft and a
piece of tiger-cowrieshell held
in place with two coconut-
fibre cords, from which four
shorf legs and a long tail
dangled.
Lowering it by a stout cord,
Lolo let it down to the bottom
in stages, jiggling about and
working it to and fro, back-
wards and forwards across the
hole. Then he started to
recover it with the same jerk-
ing movements.
“Feke! Feke lahi!” he
Coral-fish
whispered, and hauled up
steadily till the octopus—not
so big as all that! —was about
2ft. from the surface. Then,
holding the cord in his left
hand, he picked up the short
barbed spear that was lying
beside him on the rigger-poles
and thrust hard at the dark
object in the water.
The feke thrashed and
squirmed, wrapping its ten-
tacles round the spear and the
lamp-bracket and gripping the
prow of the canoe, while Lolo
pulled the spear up higher and
made a sudden thrust with his
left hand and a twist with his
wrist, and the struggle was all
over —the feke was turned-
inside-out and paralysed.
HThat imitation-rat was an
intriguing affair, and Lolo
was reminded to tell me the
“once upon a time” story of
the ancient vendetta between
the rat and the octopus: ;
“I he taimi kuo osi [ln the
time has finished] Kuma the
rat and Keviki the hermit-crab
went in their small bobao to
fish for manga [red-mouthed
emperor-bream] in the deep
water near Fatu Manga.
“The day was good when
they went out, but soon a big
wind came from Tokelau
[Union Is., on Equator], and
the sea began to jump up.
They paddled hard to come
back to Fofoa, but the wind
was too strong and the sea
too rough, and the bobao was
soon full of water.
“They were very afraid that
they would drown in the deep
water or be cut and broken
on the rocks of Fatu Manga,
when they saw Feke the
octopus swim beside them.
Kuma is saying ‘Malo-lelei
[Good-day], Feke, we very
glad we see a kind friend like
you. We are finish if you do
not help us! What about you
carry us to the land on your
back?’
“Feke said ‘Sai be’ [All
right]. You climb on my back
and hold on tight and I take
you where you want to go.’
“ ‘To Fofoa,’ said Kuma.
“ ‘Fofoa very far, but all
right. Hold on tight and we
g° : ;
“So Feke swam on and on


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritfon's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
it
w&-
,\\V
. rf£
\trrA
V?
&
A.
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free )
Amount enclosed
till they came past the angry
rocks of Foa Vatu to the
shallow water by Fofoa, and
then he said: ‘Sai be, you
jump off now and swim to the
land. Is not too far.’
“Keviki say: ‘Malo si of a
[Thanks for your kindness],
Feke,’ and he rolled into the
shallow water, but Kuma is
faka puaka [stubborn, “like
a pig”]. He said, ‘No, please,
Feke. I cannot swim ; you
take me to land.’
“So Feke take him to the
rock and says: ‘All right, you
go now,’ but Kuma say: The
rock is all hard and slippery
and sharp and my feet all soft
with the sea ; take me to the
sand.’
“So Feke crawled over the
rocks with him to the edge of
the sand. Then Kuma jumped
down and ran up the sand to
the edge of the bush and turned
round to see to Feke and laugh
and laugh and laugh.
“ ‘Tamasii pau!’ [Cheeky
brat] Feke said. ‘Why do you
not say Malo ? Why you
laugh?’
“Kuma is only laugh more,
and then he say: ‘You silly
old fool, you feel your head.’
“So Feke put up one arm
to feel his head and he is very
angry for Kuma. His hair is
all gone and some small dirt
of the rat is on his head . . .”
So that, to this day, is why
Feke will always attack a rat
or something resembling a rat,
and that is why a Tongan
fisherman takes a maka feke
with him in his bobao. The
story, in many versions, with
splashes of local-color, is
known throughout Polynesia,
where the natives all tell us
that the lure is an imitation
rat.
They probably know more
about it than I do, but a spiny-
lobster, still alive —or dead —
is a much more effective lure
for old Feke the octopus;
A fter catching a couple of
smaller ones that gave no
trouble, we picked up the lan-
tern, re-stowed the big ono,
and set-out home for Mokave.
When we were all aboard,
the bobao was laden well below
its imaginary Plimsoll-line, but
the sea was still smooth and
the air dead calm, and Finau
said we would be all right if
I would sit still and not try to
spear a sifi-sifi, the small
butterfly coral-fish. I was
greatly interested when the
swirl of Finau’s paddle caught
a brilliantly-colored specimen
about 3in. long, 4in. wide and
im. thick and set it off-balance,
so that it went rolling over
and over like a many-colored
leaf in the wind.
We had quite a load of fish
to carry from the landing-
place. Lolo and Finau had
had their best night ever ; the
strong lamp had exceeded all
their expectations, lighting-up
the fishes on the bottom far
beyond the reach of their
longest spear.
They would not hear of my
waiting to give a hand with
the gutting and scaling: Lolo’s
big brother Jione, the car-
penter, was routed out to
help, grumbling about the new-
fashioned papalangi ideas that
were always making more work
for people. “What do we want
with all those fish, anyway?
Far more than we can eat
before they go bad. What
about we sell some in the
village?”
“Tuku cti, be!” [“Stop it,
just!”] said Finau. “We can
always give them
Tongan-style, to our kainga
[relatives and connections].
We are not like the greedy
papalangi traders on the beach,
always wanting money for
everything.”
Most of the village cats and
a few of their equally keen-
nosed owners dropped-in to
give a hand, so I left them to
it, taking with me only a large
slab of barracuda, more than
we could manage at home.
Old Feke they could have on
their own.
Co I walked home on the
coconut-fringed coral road,
the palms raggedy black
against the morning stars, and
ever-moving, just faintly mov-
ing, even on the calmest day
or night.
But my day was not quite
finished. In the darkness under
the. big mango-tree —for the
lantern died before I got home
—I brushed my thigh against
the architrave of the kitchen-
door. And there the scorpion
that was waiting for me prob-
ably only wanted to “kiss me
good-morning” like the ear-
worm, but 1 gladly hurt him
as much as he hurt me.
A Tongan sikopio would not
have understood good Austra-
lian language, and the vulgar
native admonition “Alu kai ho
kui!” (“Go and eat your
grandmother!”) did not seem
to fill the bill. By the light
of a match I found the blighter
squashed on the doormat.
A spot of ammonia seemed
to give some relief, but I was
certainly rather dopey next
day, either from the scorpion-
bite or the night’s fishing.
But it was all well worth
the candle —or the petrol.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes o£ Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Down to Earth
By the time “R.H.G.” has
developed his 1500-acre plot
in W.A. (B. 16/12/’59) he’ll
either be broke or he'll have
a far truer appreciation of the
value of topsoil. He'll also
know why every sane agricul-
turist in the world is alarmed
at the extent of erosion since
man first began cultivation-
five geological minutes. ago—
and which is continuing be-
cause newcomers to the game
like “R.H.G.” can’t see what
there is to worry about “if a
few inches of soil blows off
perfectly good land.” In the
meantime “R.H.G.” would be
well advised to refrain from
dogmatising on unfamiliar sub-
jects.
It’s true that occasionally
—given time, patience and
resources good farming-
methods can bring into produc-
tion land which seems to be
quite barren ; it’s equally true
that during the past century
colossal amounts have been
spent in vain attempts to return
vegetation to huge areas which
have become deserts simply
because that few inches of top-
soil was blown away. The
American dust-bowl is one
example; there are others in
Victoria and N.S.W. ; and
“R.H.G.” wouldn't have far
to go to find some in his own
State.
Cultivated, fertile soil is
more than a collection of
“grit and clay and sand” —it
contains, among other things,
humus and bacteria, built-up
over the centuries by Nature
and increased 'by modern
scientific farming - methods ;
these can be lost in a few
moments of erosion.
Erosion is caused principally
by the destruction of vegeta-
tion. An irresponsible approach
to the problem can be dan-
gerous, since a denuded and
eroded area isn't static; the
vegetation surrounding an
eroded area goes under to the
advancing desert, run-off is
increased, gullies are enlarged.
In short, if my property ad-
joined “R.H.G.’s,” I’d be
very concerned to have him
enlightened before his plot be-
came a desert and a danger to
my farm and the district.
My -first experience of farm-
ing in W.A. was around the
“Using a filter?”
wheatbelt-town of Kununop-
pin, and I learnt much from
the district’s first settler, the
old explorer and prospector
Barney Larnond.
The first summer I was there
we had a couple of duststorms,
and Barney didn’t like it. He
saw them as products of indi-
scriminate clearing, and he
prophesied the nuisance would
get worse and could develop
into a national calamity.
A few years later in Quairad-
ing I saw sand-drifts covering
all but a few inches of the
fenceposts—and that on good
heavy land. On “R.H.G.’s”
reckoning, the farmers, having
plenty of earth just as good
for feet further down,
shouldn’t have worried ; but
they did, because their land
was becoming uncroppable. To
bring it back into production
they had to reverse the process
which destroyed it. They
planted trees, and crops capable
of growing in the impoverished
soil which, ploughed under,
could rebuild the good soil with
humus. A five-minute conver-
sation with those men would
have taught “R.H.G.” a lot
about the value of topsoil.
The dangers of erosion have
been stressed so strongly and
repeatedly over the past few
decades that ignorance such as
this catches one off balance.
The best advice I can give
“R.H.G.” or any other
beginners who may .have
heeded his remarks—is to con-
tact their State Agriculture
Department and have an ex-
pert explain the whole ques-
tion of erosion. This is a sub-
ject too vast to be covered in
an article like this, and every
case has to be handled indi-
vidually. Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.).
Coal and Transport
That Plain English article
on petrol from coal (B.
23/12/’59) was much to the
point. What would happen to
this Commonwealth if war
broke-out is anybody’s guess.
After two months (probably
less) about the only cars left
on the roads would be those
belonging to politicians, civil
servants and union-secretaries,
none of whom, no matter how
essential in other ways, pro.
duces an ounce of foodstuff-
in fact, some of them art
actually a hindrance to such
production.
I have always regarded the
replacement of the Sydney
and Perth trams with buses as
a major blunder —major be
cause transport in two cities
is now absolutely dependent or
imported fuel, and because
buses add to the already heavy!
pollution of city air with ex-
haust gases.
I believe Adelaide has shown
a little more sanity by install-
ing trolley-buses running on
locally-generated elec-
tricity. ;
Brisbane and Mel-
bourne have retained
their tramway-systems,
and look like doinj.
so indefinitely. The
N.S.W. and W.A,
Governments appar-
ently prefer to send-
their money overseas
to buy fuel rather than
provide employment
for the mining com-
munity. There may be
some excuse for W-A,
where local coal is
certainly inferior;'
there is no excuse for
N.S.W.
Had the matter of
substituting trams for
buses gone to a refer-
endum I feel pretty
certain a large
majority would have
voted for trams, which
are far more comfort-
able than the swaying
and overcrowded
buses. Efficiently managed,
tramway-systems can be made
to pay. Cities in Europe and
North America have proved
that. —D. C. Tilghman (N.S.W.)
Britain and France in Nato
Permit a Canadian citizen to
suggest that the last few lines
of The Bulletin’s article on
President Eisenhower (B
23 /12/’59) are unfair to France
and Britain. It implies that
European countries are doing,
too little for their defences;
and, by only quoting figures
for army divisions, makes d
appear Britain and France do
much less than West Germany
Defences include navies, air-
forces, and Britain’s far-from-
negligible nuclear weapons;
but many readers will not
pause to reflect, and merely
get an idea that poor 'oM
France and the long-suffering


You cant see
the bank
in this picture ...
But it's there /
I
am
\
m:
k
m
1
85!*!
SSi!
SSSi!
(*Tt4
The C.B.C. is “In the picture” of almost every
industry in Australia. It provides modern banking
facilities, including those of the C.B.C. Savings
Bank, for all engaged in industry and for every
member of their families.
Ask your nearest branch of this Bank to explain
how these facilities and services can help you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
I DEPOSITS GUARANTEED IT THE PARENT COMPANY)
Britain are lagging worst of
all.
We all remember -“Don't
let’s be beastly to the Ger-
mans,” but it is true that West
Germany has, more than once,
voted money for its new Army,
and then quietly taken large
sums back for other purposes.
Result: its recent military
strength was well below paper
commitments.
Let us be fair to both
France and Britain.
With regard to France,
please note that, whatever the
other aspects of her holding
onto Algeria, her Army there
serves Nato well by preventing
further outflanking of that
organisation.
General Gruenther —a good
soldier, as you know—said
mildly, when his country forced
France and Britain to stop
their effort to check the Reds
at Suez: “They seem to have
got round our side, don’t
they?” referring, of course, to
the Communists.
In his position, at that time,
more he could not say. More
was hardly necessary; most
especially after 10 Russian
submarines turned - up in
Alexandria soon after the Suez
tragedy.—G. E. W. (N.S.W.).
Formosa
Charles Meeking (B.
11/11/ ’59) asks whether
“Chiang Kai-shek’s crowd” is
“worth all the growing fear
and increasing bloodshed which
will be involved in resisting
the Chinese demand.”
Presumably Meeking means
Peking’s demand for control
of Formosa. 1 don’t know
whether he has ever been to
Formosa or not ; but I suggest
that he meet me there a few
days before February 15, when,
in the old capital of Tainan,
he can see a celebration that
will answer his question on the
spot.
This celebration of the
exploits of Cheng Cheng-kung
(Koxinga), who expelled the
Dutch from Formosa in the
17th century, is entirely in the
hands of the native-born
Chinese—miscalled Formosans.
(The only real Formosans are
the aborigines in the mountains
—about 100,000.) I have never
seen less than 50,000 at the
celebration, several times
fflore ; and its theme, repeated
itt other cities throughout the
island, is always the overthrow
°f Communist Peking, just as
Cheng Cheng-kung planned the
overthrow of Manchu Peking.
Meeking does not seem to
know that the domestic affairs
of Formosa are in the hands
of these native-born Chinese.
The majority of the members
of the. Provincial Government
are native-born, and in
regional-government affairs 18
of the 21 heads are native-born.
Meeking’s description of the
Nationalist regime as “led by
an ageing general and consist-
ing of ageing troops paid by
U.S. dollars’’ shows little grasp
of the facts. The men in
control are middle-aged ; prac-
tically none of the troops who
came over to Formosa in 1949
are now in the ranks, and the
few who remain are instructors,
The reason is that a system of
national service operates.
As for the U.S.-dollars story,
fact is that in Formosa the
troops spend part of their time
working on the farms, thus
helping to support themselves,
Space doesn’t allow me to go
into detail about the Army
system ; but it is unique and
certainly d6es not depend, in
the matter of soldiers’ upkeep,
on U.S. dollars.
Meeking also refers to “the
slowly-foundering Nationalist
belief that the Chinese people
will rise eventually against
their Communist leaders.”
This belief is not peculiar to the
Chinese Nationalists; I have
spoken to Peking university-
students, Shanghai factory-
workers and Chekiang farmers
w ho share it ; and several
British politicians v who have
visited Red China are disposed
to agree with them,
Meeking, and others who
share his mistaken beliefs,


should bring themselves up-to-
date on Formosa. I know what
I am writing about, as I now
spend part of my life on that
island and know every inch
from Keelung to Khaoshung.
I urge less thought about
Chiang Kai-shek and more
about 10-million people who
have freedom and possibly the
highest living-standard in East
Asia. Are they to be handed
over to the Peking murderers?
I warn fellow-Australians
that any concessions that would
strengthen Red China and add
to its prestige in South-east
Asia may, within a generation,
convert Tasmania into our
Formosa ; and such Australians
as could not cross Bass Strait
may have to find refuge near
Alice Springs or in some
remote pocket of the
Kimberleys. Dr. W. G.
Goddard (Sussex, England).
Automatic Petrol-sellers
Motorists will be astounded
at the decision of the N.S.W.
Minister for Labor and Indus-
try (Mr. Maloney) to license
petrol-selling machines only
on condition that they operate
during the present legal petrol-
selling hours.
If the machines are to'be
of any value at all to motorists
they must be allowed to
operate during the hours when
one cannot otherwise legally
buy petrol. If this sensible and
logical condition is refused,
then the machines’ will have
little value, and the Minister
might just as well have refused
to license them.
„ A commonsense plan would
be to issue licences for the
machines to garages and
service-stations only, and to
restrict their use to the hours
when the premises are closed
to business. A motorist would
then be able to buy petrol at
any hour of the day or night;
and garages and service-stations
would not be obliged to stay
open even for the present
legal trading-hours if they felt
that the volume of trade in
a district did not warrant it.
The N.S.W. Milk Board
proposes to introduce milk-
vending machines in Sydney
during 1960. It will be interest-
ing to see whether Mr. Maloney
will restrict their use to the
ordinary trading - hours of
milk-bars. If he does, the
venture will almost certainly
be a financial failure.— Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Dual-purpose?
As a one-time fruitfarmer
who has suffered considerably
at the hands of the “backyard
grower,” I thought I’d seen
everything connected with the
practices of these people out
for a “quick quid.”
I’ve seen canefarmers un-
loading their pumpkins and
melons —and seen their reason
for it as well; after all, they
are primary producers. I’ve
become used to top Govern-
ment servants, with an acre or
two of land to work at week-
ends, selling direct to retailers
and spoiling the agents’ market
for the legitimate grower-
always in their wife’s name, of
course.
As a former fruitgrowers’
secretary and representative I
thought I knew all the angles;
until my little girl broke her
arm, and, whilst waiting for the
plaster to set, the medico turned
the conversation around to
agents’ prices. My wife ex-
plained that the season hadn't
been the best, but that she was
satisfied with the prices we were
getting for our small produc-
tion, mentioning particularly
bananas at 6d. a pound on the
bunch.
She was left speechless when
the doc. told her: “But I
haven’t got less than seven-
pence-farthing all the season.”
Looking around our town 1
must list my doc. (the fruit-
grower) with others of his pro-
fession who are interested in
(1) a jewellery store, (2) a
guest-house, (3) a roadhouse,
(4) a motor-business, and (5)
a cafe and shop-rental service.
Can this mean that medicos
are making so much money
that they have it big to invest,
or does it imply that there isn’t
enough in their game to make
ends meet? — Papaw (Q.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 573
Across
, I—A1 —A sort of fairy queen in favor swallowed no holes to
facilitate tearing. (11)
7 —Used to be cut back:' (3)
9 —Somewhat ordinary business millimetre on his
confusion. (9)
10 — Deprecation turned it all in orchestral parlance. (5)
11— A scrambled egg seen about that token plum. (4)
13 —Like metal before it’s minted
rum, I associated with Kelly. (8)
16 — Where to dig up some entertain-
ment cure for nausea. (9)
17 — Study with Chopin. (5)
18 — Pale coppers taken in hand by
a fairy queen. (4)
19 — Designed for some lying extension
seeker. (9)
22 A hundred got married again,
though burnt! (8)
23 — Doesn’t deny it’s mad. (6)
25 —Tell on a damsel. (5)
27—Yours Truly defames insular
characters. (9)
29 — A baby glass. (3)
30 — Girl re-uses (anagram). (11)
Down
1— How’s a halfpenny island
extra? (4, 4)
2 —Post-office girl named Margaret
managed swallowed fruft. (11)
3 A bit of a bounder. (3)
4 An ancient form for nothing over
sixpence. (4)
5 The trouble with otitis is a
feature with toothed wheels. (6, 4)
6 Vexed retort is concealed, but
certainly not repressed. (11)
7 Know two changed what is
ignorant. (3)
8— Defraud 550 among pigs. (7)
12—Big daddy? (11)
14 — Hun's agent is concealing mis-
behavior. (11)
15 — Falsely appearing with . Miss
E. E. Menzies. (10)
20 — Doesn’t yield sisters herein. (7)
21 — Toecap damaged a poker
round. (6)
24 —Month of the Jewish calen-
dar. (4)
26—Gallery contents itself with an
inquiry as to your existence. (3)
28—Negative alternative. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 572


age in late September. The
latest reported depth was
2700 ft. on December 21,
which it has reached without
any result of commercial
interest. Fluorescence was
reported in light sandstone
between 320 ft. and 601 ft.
Longreach 6 well was
abandoned at the base of the
Cretaceous at 1168 ft. on May
26.
Betoota 1 was at 1206 ft. on
December 30.
PAPUA
All drilling operations
throughout Papua were at a
standstill at the beginning of
the year. The most promising
well of 1958, Puri 1, had
stopped in Cretaceous shales at
10,100 ft. The well passed
through a sub-thrust block of
• Miocene and Eocene lime-
stone between 7425 ft. and
8925 ft. without discovering any
formations sufficiently porous
and permeable to be considered
as potential reservoir-beds in
the overlying or underlying
Cretaceous shales. The equiva-
lent limestone formation had
been penetrated at shallow
depth in the same well. As the
limestone formation was of
considerable interest as a
possible reservoir, the sub-
thrust block was tested and a
show of oil and gas was
brought in between 7472 ft. and
7510 ft. This interval, after
acidising, flowed oil at a rate
of above 1000 barrel/day for
two days, when water came in.
The shallow limestone block,
tested between 1760 ft. and
1996 ft., also failed to produce
results of value.
The limestone sequence was
further tested by drilling
deviated holes which pierced
the limestone at some distance,
laterally, from the original hole.
The first deviated hole was
sidetracked from the original
hole early in March, at 6090 ft.,
and reached the limestone at
the drilled depth of 7485 ft. It
encountered a small flow of gas,
oil and water above 7515 ft.,
with water only below, and was
abandoned at a drilled depth
of 7927 ft. The second
deviated hole was sidetracked
at 3870 ft. in May. It reached
the sub-thrust limestone at the
drilled depth of 7664 ft. and
passed out of it into marls and
shale at 8055 ft. The forma-
tions penetrated were extremely
impermeable and no forma-
tion-fluids were recovered on
test.
The Bwata well, located 15
miles to the north-west of
Puri, was also designed to test
the Miocene limestone and was
spudded-in on August 23. It
reached the top of the lime-
stone at 4750 ft., and formation-
tests revealed several small gas-
shows below. 4780 ft. Some
small water - shows were
recorded below 5202 ft. The
gas-shows are being fully
investigated. The depth was
7260 ft. at the end of the year.
Detailed refraction and
reflection seismic surveys in the
Puri area have covered approxi-
mately 100 square - miles
immediately to the south of the
well.
PROSPECTS FOR 1960
/Ane of the most comforting
. aspects of the taking-up of
oil-permits by powerful and
responsible overseas oil organi-
sations is that a detailed
examination —both geological
and geophysical of the
petroleum potentialities is
certain to be carried out over
the permit-areas. This aspect
has particular reference to the
Great Artesian Basin, where
exhaustive testing is justified—
Quite apart from other con-
siderations—by the fact that the
structure represents one of the
last major sedimentary regions
in the world which has not
been extensively drilled for oil.
If, however, the search for
°il is to rely for its success on
something more than the
chance discovery of a com-
mercial “pool” of migrated
petroleum in beds of Mesozoic
age, my long-held opinion—
now shared by several other
experienced geologists—is that
the detailed examination must
be extended to (and concen-
trated upon) the Palaeozoic
strata, where it has become
increasingly obvious that the
real prospects of striking worth-
while quantities of indigenous
Australian oil occur.
The search in these beds is
going to be both difficult and
expensive, and will call for a
technique embodying not only
specialised geology and geo-
physics but also chemistry.
Under the extensions included
in the Petroleum Search
Subsidy Bill, 1959, the Govern-
ment will bear a greater part
of the cost than it did under
the 1957-58 Act, but it is unfor-
tunate that the additional aid
is largely confined to geo-
physical work; it does not
emphasise the necessity for a
rigid geological control of
interpretation, and it does not
even mention chemical aids.
Western Australia
The most striking geological
event of the year was the
unanticipated penetration of a
buried mass of rock-salt
possessing a stratigraphicai
thickness certainly not far
below 2000 ft. and probably
considerably in excess of that
figure. Offset-drilling proved
that, as in most salt-bodies of
this nature, the lateral extent of
the mass was limited. Although
the significance of the existence
of this salt—and of similar
occurrences elsewhere on the
mainland —must not be under-
estimated, it is somewhat dis-
appointing that no trace of oil
was found in the beds capping
the salt. The absence of any
oil, however, when interpreted
in the light of the geological
history, and what is known of
that of the salt, is not remark-
able.
The logs of the wells sunk
in W.A. in the course of the
search for oil have disclosed
not only rapid changes—both
laterally and with depth—in the
conditions of sedimentation,
but also important networks of
faults. In spite of these net-
works, the amount of oil which
has reached the Mesozoic beds
is negligible, for reasons which
should be obvious.
It is now admitted, even in
some official circles, that the
oil prospects of the Fitzroy
Basin (to quote one example)
are centred in the pre-Permian ;
the realisation of this fact is, in
itself, a very considerable step
forward towards success.
In the Carnarvon Basin, also
—where there is now hope of
resumed activity—it has been
amply shown by drilling results
that there is little hope of com-
mercial petroleum above the
Palaeozoic and that the sinking
of wells on Mesozoic “highs”
may lead to abortive drilling
through enormous thicknesses
of beds of unchanging
lithology.
South Australia
With the failure of the Inna-
mincka well, the oil prospects
of S.A. have been substantially
reduced. The penetrating of
over 5000 ft. of Palaeozoic red
beds in this well was unfor-
tunate, but it appears to be the
result (as in Cape Range 2 in
W.A.) of location on a marked
Mesozoic high. Another factor
which should be borne in mind
in assessing the petroleum
potentialities of this State is
that, in some parts at least, con-
tinental conditions extended
from the Cambrian to the
Tertiary.
Victoria
The highlight of 1959 has
been the striking of a very
heavy flow of gas at Port
Campbell. A true evaluation
of this strike cannot be made
until lull data from prolonged
production-tests are available,
but the outlook, judging from
the rather meagre information
released to date, is hopeful.
New South Wales
The exploration for gas—in
this State probably originating
in the Coal Measures —has
produced, as yet, nothing of
commercial significance. The
flows so far encountered in the
several bores have been either
too small or too impersistent.
Queensland
Although the search for oil
in this State was initiated at the
turn of the century, the number
of properly located deep holes
has been too small, and the
data of value too meagre, to
allow, as yet, of any worth-
while estimate of its oil poten-
tialities.
Papua
In spite of systematic and
well-directed exploration in the
western section of the Terri-
tory, commercial success has
not yet been achieved. It is a
hopeful factor, however, that
the work accomplished has
allowed of the elimination of
much of the region from con-
sideration as a good oil-
prospect. It has thus become
possible to limit the detailed
exploration and drilling to a
strip covering a relatively small
area running west from Puri
and extending to Barikewa.
Within this area the prospects
are as bright as those of any
unproved field in the world.
Portuguese Timor
As on the Australian main-
land, all known seepages and
oil-shows in wells so far
encountered possess definitely
migratory properties. It is not
surprising, therefore, that well-
locations sited on surface con-
siderations have proved disap-
pointing. The importance of
the migratory factor is now
recognised and this augurs well
for the success of future
operations.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SYDNEY WOOL FUTURES MARKET
By K. V. CHAPMAN
[Governing-director of K. V. Chapman and Co. ! Pty., Ltd., Sydney
and Melbourne —Floor Members of Sydney Greasy Wool Futures
Exchange and Associated Members of London Wool Futures
Market.]
'“Trading in futures dates back
to mankind’s earliest days
of commerce. When com-
modities were sold for future
rather than immediate delivery,
the basis of an elementary
futures transaction occurred.
The basic factor of futures is
time, which plays such an
important part in world trade
today. Because of slower
mediums of communication
and transportation, our pre-
decessors had far less anxiety
over the time-element than we
have today, and because of the
ever-increasing necessity to sell
our goods for forward delivery,
futures markets have sprung up
throughout the world to assist
and protect producers, manu-
facturers and merchants in the
selling of basic materials.
It has often been asked in
the past why Australia, largest
producer Of raw wool in the
Several units of the
South African Army,
so reports state, have
provided transport for
30,000 sheep from the
drought-stricken • area
north-west of Cape
Province to Namagua-
land, a distance of 250
miles, where grazing
and water are still
plentiful.
Most graziers in Aus-
tralia know the advan-
tages derived from
Elastrator—the Rubber
Ring method of castrat-
ing and tailing. As
Elastrator is humane,
lambs cannot suffer the
agonies of the “knife”
—and are less likely
to become infected by
fly-strike.
world, did nof have its own
Futures Exchange when many
of the other major producers in
the world had their own
facilities to cover cotton, wheat,
wool-tops, yarn, etc.
Many reasons can be put
forward to warrant the estab-
lishment of our own greasy-
wool futures market, but the
most pressing seems to be the
possible stabilising factor it
could have upon the price of
wool, provided that the industry
as a whole uses its facilities.
Wool has always been a
highly volatile commodity, but
since 1950 the market has
moved up and down with such
erratic gyrations that the manu-
facturer has often had to turn
to materials of a more stable
price—namely, synthetic fibres
—and if this pattern is allowed
to continue it could be an even
greater threat in the future to
our economy than at the
present.
Futures alone cannot bring
stability, as wool by the very
manner it is grown, sold and
consumed can never enjoy the
stable prices synthetics have
achieved; but any stabilising
effect futures could bring about
will do a great deal to combat
the inroads that these fibres
have made in the last five years.
Because of the need, a group
representing wool-interests in
Australia have formed the
Sydney Greasy Wool Futures
Exchange (S.G.W.F.E.), with
premises at 16 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and having the Aus-
tralian Development Clearing
House Pty., Ltd., a subsidiary
of Development Finance Cor-
poration, Ltd., as its clearing-
house.
The present maximum floor-
membership of the exchange is
15, of which number 10 have
already been accepted at a
membership-fee of £ASOOO
each, plus an annual subscrip-
tion of £AIOO.
All floor-members must be
firms or companies domiciled
in Australia and having a
bona-fide interest in the wool-
trade. Associate - membership
for local, as well as overseas,
interests can also be applied
for, and, if accepted, a member-
ship-fee of £ASOO is required,
as well as the £AIOO annual
subscription. Candidates for
associate-membership must be
proposed and seconded by
members, at least one of whom
must be a floor-member.
Here are a few of the salient
points in connection with the
S.G.W.F.E.:
(1) Unit of Contract. —
Each futures contract will
consist of the greasy-wool
equivalent of 30001 b. clean
weight of wool —approximately
15 bales.
(2) Standard Type.—Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau’s Type 7jj
—i.e., 645. good topmaking,
good-to-average length, comb-
ing-wool.
(3) Deliverable Types.-
Types 54/86 free, or up to
B/S fault, as well as Merino
brokens and comeback fleece
down to 420/4328, may bt
delivered at the appropriate
premium or discount, as fixed
by the committee each month,
Star lots are not deliverable.
(4) Official Appraiser.-,
The Australian Wool Board,
(under the auspices of the Com-
monwealth Government).
(5) Testing House
Authority. The Australian
Wool Testing House (also under
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment).
(6) Delivery Months—The
same periods as those for wool-
tops on the London Wool
Terminal Market January,
March, May, July, September,
October and December.
(7) Quotations.—Will be in
farthings (Australian currency)
per pound.
(8) Commissions Payable.-
Will be £A6 a contract to buy,
and £A6 a contract to sell,
Associate - members will be
charged at half these rates.
(9) Deposits. Will be
£AIOO a contract. In addition,
15s. a contract bought, and 15s.
a contract sold, will be charged
as clearing-house fees.
The S.G.W.F.E. is expected
to start functioning in Febru-
ary, i 960, operating five days
a week from 11.30 a.m. to
1 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. to 5 p.m.
daily.
Like most new projects the
Sydney market may have
certain teething-troubles to start
with, and possibly, during the
first few months, it may show
undesirable, and probably
unavoidable, thinness and
unreliability in comparison with,
the general wool-market. There
will also be certain drawbacks
with our time-variations com-
pared with other countries, and
in the case of arbitrage, where
London and New York count
the minutes, Sydney and
London may have to be content
with hours. In this regard
Japan will have certain
advantages.
No matter what small draw-
backs may be present, there has
been great interest shown
throughout the world’s wool
centres in the foundation of the
exchange, and applications for
floor - membership already
greatly exceed the number of
permitted vacancies, and
dozens of applications f° r
associate-membership are also
in hand. In business circles
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(31/12/’59)
Queensland should have good general rains during
January, with heaviest falls on the Peninsula and in the
coastal and north-western districts. Flooding may occur in
part of the south-western, south-eastern, central and
northern divisions.
N.S.W. should also have good rains during January,
with heavy falls in the northern divisions and heaviest on
the North Coast. Flooding is likely on the South-west
Slopes, Southern Tablelands and North Coast. Heavy rains
and severe flooding may occur in May.
Victoria should receive reasonably good rains during
January and February, best falls occurring in the central
division and north-eastern districts. However, the Mallee
and Wimmera may have only light patchy rains.
Light to moderate patchy rains should occur in South
Australia during January, with isolated heavier falls in the
north interior. Similar rains should be received in February.
Western Australia should receive good general rains
during January, with heaviest falls in the north-western
districts, possibly associated with a willy-willy.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —■
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 12s. ; \ year — £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
some consider that the wool-
trade has had at its fingertips
the same facilities that the
S.G.W.F.E. has to offer, if it
simply could have used those
offered by already established
wool-futures markets overseas.
Whether this is so, only time
will tell.
However, in some quarters it
is felt that the present estab-
lished wool-futures markets at
London, New York, Antwerp
and Roubaix more often than
otherwise are sympathetic,
price-wise, to buyers' rather
than to sellers’ ideas, owing to
the fact that these centres are
all easily accessible to users and
manufacturers of wool. Thus,
it is argued, wool-futures prices
at these centres too frequently
reflect the bearish tendencies
of Bradford, Boston and
Western European buyers who,
naturally enough, always seek
to buy their wool requirements
as reasonably as possible.
It is certainly true to say
that futures prices in the above-
mentioned markets exercise a
wide influence on the opera-
tions of Bradford and Boston
topmakers, and also Western
European combing-mills, whose
price-limits to buy wool at Aus-
tralian auction sales are con-
ditioned very largely by the
state of wool-futures markets.
If the S.G.W.F.E. reflects more
closely the actual day-to-day
prices being paid at Australian
wool-auction sales this could
have an early effect on prices
in overseas futures - markets
resulting in a healthier outlook
all round.
But forecasts in wool have
proved notoriously tricky, and
very often something entirely
unpredicted crops-up to upset
the most careful thinking.
However, with the right back-
ing that can be expected, the
Sydney Exchange should be as
big a success for this country
as the other world exchanges
have proved to be for theirs.
The buying and selling of
wool-futures is a simple opera-
tion. Nothing could be less
complicated. It is merely a
sophisticated and sound
method, approved by all banks,
of insurance against losses
and/or a guarantee of profit-
margins.
New Water-tester
“Zorok” : A newly developed
Water-testing unit, installed at
the Department of Agriculture’s
regional headquarters at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), was designed by
M. G. Chatfield, of the de-
partment’s chemistry branch,
and is the result of many years
of study and research. It
reduces enormously the time
needed for testing a sample of
water.
A check must be made of
the salinity of water, as
certain salts can cause either
immediate toxicity or can
build up toxicity in soil over
a long period.
As well, some water-supplies
vary in their saline content
from month to month and
from year to year, and may
need constant checking.
R. W. Shelley, regional
supervisor for the N.S.W.
Southern Tablelands Region,
said that landholders should
make sure, when collecting
water from a well or water-
hole, that the sample is a
representative one.
He said that sub-samples
should be taken from the top,
middle and lower depths, mixed
thoroughly, and a composite
sample of about one pint for-
warded for testing.
The sample, when submitted,
should be accompanied by a
note giving details of type of
water (bore, well, creek and
so on), depth of well or bore,
type of soil and/or rock in the
vicinity, and the use to which
the water is to be put.
If the water is to be used
for irrigation, the type of soil
to be irrigated and crops to
be grown should be given ; if
for stock use, type of stock.
It would seem to be a very
handy piece of equipment
which should be available in
every possible district.
Sunflowers
“Myall”: With graded seed
worth around £5O a ton, sun-
flowers can show quite a good
return.
Land for them must be
deeply worked and, if poor,
fertilised with a mixture of 561 b.
superphospate, 421 b. Chilian
nitrate and 281 b. muriate-of-
potash to the acre.
Seeding is usually done
during September and October,
if there’s sufficient moisture in
the subsoil; otherwise sowing
should be delayed until good
rains have fallen. The plant
is fairly resistant to frost; so,
if moisture is available, earlier
sowings may be made.
Although it stands drought
well, it needs ample moisture
to produce big crops.
The three principal varieties
successfully grown on Queens-
land’s Darling Downs are Large
Russian, Polestar and Orana.
Large Russian is a tall, hybrid-
ised variety, while the other
two are semi-dwarf, growing to
about 4ft.
Where harvesting is done by
hand, Large Russian is grown,
because it is a heavy yielder,
its head often measuring
12m. in diameter. It is sown in
rows 3|ft. apart, at the rate
of 21b. to 31b. an acre. Polestar
and Orana are seeded at slb.
to 71b. an acre in rows Min.
or 21in. apart.
The crop takes about five
months to mature and often
ripens during the wet-season,
so harvesting is simplified if
good, uniform stands and
plants are produced.
Harvesting is done with an
ordinary wheat-header, modi-
fied by an attachment to the
comb, of which particulars can
be obtained on application fo
Queensland’s Department of
Agriculture
The heads must be quite
dry and the seed mature before
harvesting, otherwise moisture
will cause mould, which makes
the sample valueless. Choose a
fine, dry day for the operation,
and if there is any doubt about
moisture allow the bags to
remain open for a few days
before sewing them up. Thrust
your hand well down into the
bag each day to see if there
are signs of heating, and if
there are, grade the seed with-
out delay. This will aerate
the seed and overcome the
difficulty.
Sunflowers are attacked by
red-rust and white-rust. Red-
rust appears as brown spots on
the leaves, which shrivel and
drop off, interfering with seed-
development. White-rust is not
serious, as it does not affect
the crop. Crops sown early
are less susceptible to the
diseases than later ones,
Sunflower-seed is largely
used as f ood for par rots, but
a i so provides an excellent oil,
and ds residue is good fodder
f or stock. The oil is edible,
pure white in color and almost
tasteless. It is used for cook-
j n g and in the manufacture of
margarine. If the crop fails,
the plants make excellent
fodder, either for grazing or
ensilage. Cattle and sheep
may not take to them at first,
but once they acquire the taste
they eat them readily,
Dingo vTOSSCS
4 „ „ _ . „
, ■ Cams (B.
9/12/ 59) asks a somewhat
ambiguous question. I pre-
sume he means: Do dingoes
domestic dogs ,
1S 1S the query he
implies, it could not have been
the question put to the Queens-
land Department of Agricul-
ture, and to which it is
claimed the department replied
that there s no reason why
dingoes should not breed wit i
Alsatians,
From the nature of the reply,
it seems likely that the ques-
tion asked was specific: “Do
dingoes cross with Alsatian
dogs?” This is a fair question,
but applies only to one breed
of dog.
The opinion of authority on
this subject is perfectly clear,
and embraces all breeds:


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
“The dingo and the domestic
dog do not readily mate, but
there is no reason why they
should not.”
Therefore if the councils had
asked the same question about
every breed in the canine
calendar, they would have got
the same answer, indicting
every domestic dog. Seems
to me the councils were doing
no more than seeking an
answer that would lend reason
to their own opinion.
For Constructive
Cattlemen
Tn 1930 the Council for
Scientific and Industrial
Research—as it was then
called —decided to implement
the proposal of the late Dr.
J. A. Gilruth and investigate
the possibilities of Zebu cross-
breeding for Australian beef-
production. Dr. R. B. Kelley
was put in charge of the
inquiry, and in 1933, on behalf
of the council and four pas-
toralists and pastoral com-
panies in North Queensland,
imported from America 18
head of Zebu cattle and a
Santa Gertrudis bull —Aussie,
the first of the strain (it was
not declared a breed until
1940) to leave the King Ranch,
Texas, for breeding-purposes.
Having since then travelled
all over the world gathering
information, Dr. Kelley (until
lately C.5.1.R.0. animal-
genetist and officer i.c. the
F. D. McMaster Field Station,
"Hey, Elsie!"
and at present animal-breeding
specialist for the Government
of Singapore) has published the
results of his intensive study
in Native and Adapted Cattle
(Angus and Robertson).
The book is written, as the
author explains, “for the more
thoughtful producers of beef-
cattle in any tropical country.”
Based on Australian condi-
tions, but universally applicable
within its terms of reference,
it is well presented, profusely
illustrated with photographs,
maps and diagrams, and care-
fully indexed.
The material falls into three
parts: the first deals with
native cattle, with observa-
tions on Sudan, Kenya, South
Africa, Southern Europe and
both beef- and dairy-breeds in
the Indian sub-continent; the
second discusses general prob-
lems of adaptation and berd-
modification; the third, ofj
special interest to Australian
cattle-breeders, particularises
these problems in the 10
tropical cattle-areas of the
Commonwealth from the
Kimberleys to the coastal
country of Queensland.
Dr. Kelley’s assessment of
the immediate problem facing
Australia is important:
The cold facts are that six-
million head, or thereabouts, of
British-bred beef-cattle are held in
Australia above the Tropic of
Capricorn in an environment for
which there is no cause to suspect
they or their progenitors were ever
naturally well adapted. There is
ample evidence to show that such
cattle have not been as satisfactory
as others in many similar environ-
ments in other parts of the world.
The Australian [cattle] population
is the only one of its kind main-
tained anywhere in the world in
such a situation.
In the circumstances the six-
million head within the tropics
present Australia with an imme-
diate problem and the three follow-
ing possibilities: of doing nothing,
of substantiating her position by
increased production with existing
types of cattle, or of bringing about
a change. So much has been
written showing the second to be
an improbability that the third
becomes the more rational pro-
position. Australia’s immediate
objective, therefore, should be to
evolve a tropical cattle-population
adapted alike to its primary and
secondary environments, with all
the considerations that have been
related to both conditions. This
resolves itself into thorough investi-
gation and exploitation of the
extent to which adaptation could
be brought about advantageously
in all respects by the use of Zebu
crossbreeding. The concept is
applicable to both beef- and dairy,
production, but the first presents
the bigger problem.
For many years of the foresee-
able future large numbers ot
grazing-animals will be required to
produce beef in the Australian
tropics. These areas cannot be
readily or economically modified to
meet the full requirements of
European-type cattle. If the
country and the climate cannot be
modified to suit the cattle, then the
cattle must be adapted to pre-
vailing conditions.
Dr. Kelley holds strong
views, with which everyone
may not agree, but they’re none
the worse for that, and he
states them logically and with-
out. equivocation. As he says,
during the first 20 years of
Zebu crossbreeding in Aus-
tralia the ultimate problem was
not: How does Zebu cross-
breeding help adaptation?
Instead it was: Does it help?
Judgment lay in the hands of
the cattlemen who owned the
cattle —if the beasts had not
done well, they would have
been eliminated.
It is the cogency of the
author’s argument that makes
this book one which should
be read and kept for reference
by everyone who breeds cattle
in the tropics, not just by the
converted.
R.G.
Time Off from
Dairying
“Heresone”: Agreeing
heartily with most of “P.H.R.'s”
article (B. 4/11/ ’59), I chal-
lenge a couple of points he
makes.
First, I have never before
heard a cow rated superior in
intelligence to a horse. Cows
are not exactly fools, in their
own strictly limited sphere, but
my opinion is that the average
horse could leave the brightest
of them for dead. I would
rate them as superior only to
sheep in brain-power among
the domestic quadrupeds.
The second matter is more
important. His solution to
“seven days a week slavery” is
really no solution. As he says,
a cow loves regular habits, and
to give of her best she should
always be milked in the same
shed, even in the same bail, as
nearly as possible at the same
times each day, and prefer-
ably by the same person. The
last is not so important; it is
permissible to have several
milkers, if they are ali people
the cows know and trust. If
they are taken to a neighbor’s
yard every time the owner
wants a day off they cannot
work efficiently. If the neigh-
bor comes over to milk them


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSsON 4
osuluvav
PTYL7D *
a.an
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson St Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
after he has done his own
milking, washing-up and feed-
ing the calves and pigs their
milking-times will be erratic
in the extreme.
In the old days the neighbor
might lend a couple of his
boys for the day, which was
better, but with smaller
families, secondary education
and the lure of the city that is
now out.
For annual holidays a
relieving dairyman is some-
times employed, but men
reliable and experienced
enough to run a farm for a
couple of weeks are not plenti-
ful, and most are in permanent
Sobs, anyway.
The only real solution is to
have at least two efficient
adults on the farm (not hus-
band and wife, as they will
want to get off together). A
grown-up son, son-in-law, or
a reliable employee on shares
or wages fills the bill nicely.
But a man on a very small
farm, or starting-off with un-
improved land or not much
capital (or both) cannot afford
to employ anyone. In fact,
anyone who can solve the
problem of such farmers (or
problems, for there are two:
the occasional day off and the
annual holidays) will deserve
to be honored as a public
benefactor.
Sorghum Almum
It’s now evident that no use-
-1 ful purpose would be served
by continuing the ban on sale
of Sorghum almum seed in
Queensland, so there’s little
point in keeping the regula-
tion. Dr. W. A. T. Summer-
ville, State Director-General
»f Agriculture and Stock, said
this a week or so ago.
But, before the ban is lifted,
it’s important for landholders
jo recognise that this plant
can cause damage as well as
do good, and learn how to
protect themselves.
' One of the parents of
Sorghum almum is Johnson-
f>rass, and the seed of both
plants looks much alike.
. There’s been a lot of pub-
acity about the growth and
irazing-capacity of Sorghum
Wnum in certain areas, but its
generally undesirable features
fiust also be remembered. To
it bluntly, Sorghum
ifmum escaped from quaran-
■ine before it had been ade-
quately tested—and Australian
landholders don't need remind-
lng what this country has paid
M is still paying for wide-
spread distribution of harmful
plants.
I from overseas
shows that sowing Sorghum
ttlmum (which is a mixture of
strains) in warm, humid
climates can lead to a weed-
growth on cultivated land as
bad as that of Johnson-grass.
No accurate work has yet been
done in Australia to assess the
possible effect of the grass in
farming-areas of this type —
and there are many in Queens-
land.
Landholders who are
primarily interested in pro-
ducing crops would be unwise
to introduce Sorghum almum
to their properties if these are
clear of Johnson-grass. At
the same time even clean land
can become contaminated along
stream-banks and drainage-
lines from run-off water carry-
ing seeds from areas estab-
lished higher up the water-
shed.
If Sorghum almum is to be
sown to any great extent the
problem of controlling
Johnson-grass or near relatives
of that weed is bound to
increase—and experience has
shown that this problem wastes
a lot of time and costs a lot
of money. Indeed, many
farmers have given up the
battle and are trying to live
with the pest.
The Queensland Department
of Agriculture and Stock was
aware of the risk involved in
indiscriminate distribution of
Sorghum almum seed, and the
ban on its sale was an attempt
to protect farmers from un-
knowingly buying a plant which
could become a pest at a time
when men producing crops
were striving to keep down
costs of production. But now
that the prohibition has been
lifted in N.S.W. there is noth-
ing to stop the undercover
selling of the seed in Queens-
land, so there’s no point in
retaining the ban.
All the same, the Queens-
land department is closely
watching the production of
certified seed and its distinc-
tion from that of Johnson-
grass. Even if a farmer buys
certified seed, though, it doesn't
necessarily follow that he will
not eventually add to his weed-
problem. If Sorghum almum
is sown within a quarter-mile
of Johnson-grass, crossing
between the two could result
in a percentage of Johnson-
grass developing in a paddock
originally sown to Sorghum
almum.
The Queensland department
is interested in any new sor-
ghums of potential value, hav-
ing always held that this group
is suitable as a summer-growing
crop to that season’s rainfall
in the State, and that it is excel-
lent both for grain and grazing.
Further research will no doubt
show the full facts about
Sorghum almum; meanwhile,
it’s better to be sure than
sorry.
R. G.
Bokhcsra-clover
“North”: Bokhara-clover, or
sweet-clover (Melilotus alba),
is a biennial, characterised by
its vigorous branching and
deep rooting, and resembling
lucerne in growth. Normally
it grows to 6ft., although it
has gone up to 10ft. Flowers
and seed-pods are produced
the second year, when the
plant dies and rots away
quickly.
Bokhara grows on a wide
range of soils, but does best
on fertile land containing
plenty of lime. Stiff black and
granitic soils and the clay
soils of the coast suit it; light
sandy loams are the least suit-
able. Frost does not harm it
to any extent, because it makes
little growth during the winter,
corning away strongly in the
spring to provide a big bulk of
feed through summer and
autumn. In trials Bokhara
carried one beast to the acre
from October to the end of
May.
It should not be grown in
wheat-paddocks—the seed is so
strongly scented that if only
a trace is harvested with wheat
it taints both flour and bread.
Bokhara may be grazed by
all classes of stock. As with
lucerne, cattle may not touch
it when first turned in, but
once they acquire the taste they
eat it greedily. The foliage be-
comes denser and the stalk
thinner with grazing, so never
graze closer than sin. ; re-
covery will then be rapid.
There’s little danger of bloat
with Bokhara, but it's likely to
taint milk, though this can be
overcome by removing cows a
couple of hours before milk-
ing.
The clover makes excellent
hay, but its large amount of
sap makes it somewhat difficult
to cure. Cut it before the
flower-buds appear, allow to
dry-out in the stook, then
stack it. The hay is relished
by all stock.
Mixed with other strong
growing plants Bokhara makes
good ensilage. Also, the flowers
are much visited by bees and
honey from the clover is of
high quality, with a distinct
flavor.
Bokhara may be sown
alone, or in a mixture with
cocksfoot and P ha la ri s
tiiberosa.
Seeding may be done in early
autumn or spring, in well-
prepared soil; roll the seedbed
after sowing. When sown
alone, 81b. to 101 b. an acre is
drilled-in, but 101 b. to 121 b. is
needed when broadcast. In
mixtures, about 21b. an acre
is sufficient. Inoculation with
the right type of nitrogen-fix-
ing bacteria is important to
prevent failure.
As a renovating and green-
manuring plant, this clover is
equal to any other legume. It
has an enormous root-system,
which quickly rots when the
life-span is ended. The plant
may be ploughed-under during
its first or second year of
growth and will add a large
amount of valuable humus and
nitrogen to the soil.
Crosscui
Legislation is to be intro-
duced early this year to provide
for more comprehensive beef-
cattle research, the scope to in-
clude production and market-
ing up to the point of retail sale.
Cost will be met by an addi-
tional Government grant of
£500,000 a year.


&
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Back copies of “The Reader's
Digest” (1922-1945)—6921.
Does Anybody Know?
Anything of bushranger James
McPherson, alias Alpin or Alpine
McPherson, known as “The Wild
Scotchman”? He operated mainly
in Queensland, but was in N.S.W.
between 1864 and 1866. Best-
known in Wide Bay-Burnett area
of Queensland. Information on his
later life after release from jail
also appreciated. —6922.
Information Sought
Biographical details of Alexander
Jardine ?
Born near Sydney on November
9, 1843; educated at Sydney
Grammar School and by private
tutors. At the end of 1865, after
making the journey to Somerset,
he entered the Queensland Civil
Service as roads-engineer; in 1868
he was appointed foreman of
works. The main road from Bris-
bane to Gympie goldfield was sur-
veyed and made by him. From
1874 to 1880 he was engineer of
roads and bridges for Central
Queensland. In 1880 the office
was abolished', and he became
superintending - engineer of the
Fitzroy River Navigation Works.
Later he held the same position
for the Central and Northern Harbor
and River Works. In 1890 he
was appointed Chief Engineer for
Harbors and Rivers in Queensland.
After his retirement he went to
London, where he died on March
20, 1920. ,
* * * *
How many large earthquakes
have occurred in Australia ?
Although many of the outlying
islands in the Western Pacific are
scenes of intense activity, Australia,
is remarkably free from earth-
quakes. An earthquake occurred
near Sydney shortly after the
arrival of the First Fleet in 1788,
but, of the others that have been
recorded since then, only 12 have
been regarded as important enough
to warrant inclusion in world lists.
The earthquake at Darlington, near
Adelaide, on March 1, 1954, was
the most intense in Australian
records to date. A relatively large
one occurred near the Finke River
on June 27, 1941. The hinterland
of Maryborough (Q.), the vicinity
of Gunning (N.S.W.), Bass Strait
and a region to the north of
Adelaide are four relatively active
areas. The N.T. has been shaken
at various times, but these shocks
emanate from the Indonesian
islands to the north. Tasmania
has been little affected by earth-
quakes, although a series of minor
“Nippy in, Wasn't it?"
shocks and tremors occurred
between 1883 and 1886.
* * * *
Details of the 1960-61 overseas
engineering scholarships ?
The scholarships are being offered
by the Federation of British Indus-
tries, London, in co-operation with
the Government of the Common-
wealth of Australia; selected Aus-
tralian engineering graduates and
diplomates will receive practical
training in the U.K. The period
of training will begin towards the
end of 1960.
Three types of scholarship are
offered: A, B and C. In Australia
types A and C are most frequently
awarded. Type A scholarships are
designed for recently - qualified
engineers who have had not more
than two years’ practical or indus-
trial experience, including experi-
ence gained during their engineering-
course. Final-year students who
expect to qualify for a degree or
diploma at the end of the year
and whose practical experience does
not exceed two years are also
eligible. During the two-year
scholarship - period the scholar
receives practical training with a
firm or industrial undertaking
engaged on the type of work in
which he seeks experience. Scholars
are not paid by the firms with
which they are in training, but
receive from the federation a
maintenance-allowance of £476stg.
p.a. While not providing a margin
for private travel or entertainment,
this allowance is designed to cover
the ordinary cost of living of an
unmarried scholar. Type A scholar-
ships also cover cost of travel to
and from the U.K., and the pay-
ment of a shipboard-allowance of
lOs.stg. a day.
Type B scholarships are designed
for recently-qualified engineers who
have had to pay their own fares to
and from the U.K.
Type C scholarships are for more
experienced applicants who have
had not less than five years’ indus-
trial or practical experience. They
provide training for from six to
12 months and the major part ot
living-expenses, and are designed
for the benefit of practising
engineers whose employers, whether
public or private organisations or
Government departments, are will-
ing to release them temporarily and
support their applications.
While in training, type C
scholars receive a maintenance-
allowance at the rate of £ssostg.
p.a., to which they are required to
contribute, before leaving Australia,
at the rate of £loostg. p.a. Type C
scholars must pay for their travel
to and from the U.K. and deposit
in advance the cost of their home-
ward passage. Substantial fare-
concessions are available for travel
by sea.
Copies of applications can be
obtained from The Executive
Member, Australian Selection Com-
mittee, F. 8.1. Overseas Scholarship
Scheme, Box 189, P. 0., North
Sydney, N.S.W.
* * * *
What is the largest shark in the
world ?
The whale shark, reported to
attain 50ft. or 60ft. in length. It
has a broad, round snout with an
expansive mouth situated terminally
instead of being undershot as in
other sharks, and thousands of
small teeth. The whale shark feeds
on plankton and is quite harmless
to man. Color is dark-greenish to
grey, with white or yellow spots
and bars. Whale sharks have been
seen in New Guinea, Queensland;
and N.S.W. waters, some coming;
as far as Sydney in the months
from February to May.
/ * * * *
When wax vigcro introduced inti l
N.S.W. ?
The game was introduced into,
N.S.W. schools in about 1919 bj
its English inventor, J. J. Grant;
Subsequently it spread to otheij
States, but it is widely popular only
in N.S.W., Queensland and Tas-
mania. These States formed an all-
Australian association in 1932. lr,
parts of Victoria vigoro is played
m schools. The first inter-State
match was played between N.S.W
and Queensland in 1931, when the
ashes of the bails and stumps used|
were placed in a silver casket for
future competition. Inter-State 1
matches are played every year
alternately in Queensland, Tas-
mania and N.S-W.
* * * *
Amounts of pay and deferred-
pay received by majors in the Aus-
tralian Regular Army ?
A major, married and living out
of barracks, receives per day (for
seven days): Basic pay, £4 6s. 4d.;
clothing maintenance allowance,
2s. 6d.; marriage allowance,
Bs. Od.; provision allowance,
7s. Od. Total, £5 3s. lOd. If
living in barracks, provision allow-
ance becomes separation allowance
of equal amount.
A major, single and living out of
barracks, receives per day: Basic
pay, £4 6s. 4d.; clothing mainten-
ance allowance, 2s. 6d.; living-out
allowance, 9s. 6d. Total, £4 18s. 4d.
If living in barracks, a deduction ot
9s. 6d. per day is made from the
single major’s pay for rations and
quarters. Increments are provided
for every two years’ service in
major’s rank up to 10 years. Rates
per day after increment are: Two
years, £4 9s. lid.; four years,
£4 13s. 6d.; six years, £4 17s. Id.;
eight years, £5 Os. Bd.; ten years,
£5 4s. 3d.
Retirement benefits have recently
been reviewed. Previously majors
in most corps received £617 a year
on retirement at 47 years of age.
The new rate is £903 a year. Con-i
tributions have increased accord-
ingly.
* * * *
Brief biographical details of
sculptor James White ?
He was born at Edinburgh in
1862, serving an apprenticeship as
a plasterer and then becoming
assistant to John Rhend, R.S.A-,
for two years. After making ana-
tomical models for the leading
London hospitals he migrated to
Australia in the 1880’s. He won
the Wynne Prize in Sydney in 1902
and executed a large number
statues and memorials in Australia,;
including the Queen Victoria |
memorial and the Fitzgibbon statue
in Melbourne; statues of George
Bass, Daniel Henry Deniehy,
Sir John Robertson and W. 8-'
Dailey in Sydney; the John Mo
Douall statue in Adelaide; South
African war-memorials in Perth,
and Ballarat; and statues of Queeh
Victoria and George Lansell at
Bendigo. He died in 1918.
* * * *
How to make a pig-weight
crate ?
Measure length, height and wio' 11
of a pig. Add 12in. to the length.


9in. to the height and 6in. to the
width to allow a little movement,
but not enough to let the pig turn
around. Use light timber. For
the floor, nail 3in. by fin. boards
across two runners of 3in. by 3in.
For the sides, nail similar boards
do 4in. by Hin. uprights; place
the bottom board 3in. from the
bottom ends of the uprights and
the two lower boards close to-
gether. Then fix the sides to the
floor with the lower side-boards
resting on the floorboards and bolt
uprights to the floor-runners. Next
nail top boards (3in. by fin.) across,
Make slots for the door to be
dropped into try nailing two pieces
of lin. by fin. timber on each side
at each end. The two doors allow
the pig to walk through after it has
been weighed. For the doors, use
4in. by Hin. uprights and nail on
3in. by fin. boards.
■
Brief Answers
I
l “Enquirer": Income of £7 a
week would not reduce the pension.
The difficulty is that the £4500
invested is counted as property
and is enough to disqualify the
.couple from any pension. With
'an amount like that it does not
matter that it is a joint-account,
The couple can reduce the amount
hy gifts without attracting gift-
duty, but the Social Services
Department might easily want them
to wait for a while before getting
1 pension, or to take a reduced
pension. This is entirely a matter
for the department. Anybody
wishing to make such an arrange-
I nient should first see the depart-
®ent in Brisbane. Alternatively,
jWite to the department R.P.:
> stents are covered to a large
.extent by international agreement
with various countries in Europe
jtfld with the U.S.A. Amount paid
a manufacturing firm is entirely
a matter for the firm itself; it
would not be possible even to give
find Y ° U Wi i* prot H bly
, na that the views of manutac-
ureis differ considerably. The
functions of a patent-attorney are
investigate, to apply for and,
0 some extent, to act in the pro-
kction of patents. In your case,
1 Would be best to see one right
way and take his advice. Patents
are peculiar things. The application
for them is a highly-specialised
branch of the law, and people who
do jt do little or nothing else. It
j s no t a good idea to advise briefly
about patents: such brevity can be
very misleading and the profit
from some patents can be enor-
mous. It would be a pity to lose
an opportunity of such profits
through not going to a specialist
j n the first place G.N.: Manus
island was discovered by Schouten
j n 1616. It is the largest of the
Admiralty Islands. The islands
were occupied by the Japanese in
1942 and were recaptured by Allied
forces in 1944. The U.S. forces
were withdrawn in 1948, and in
the 1950's Australia established an
airbase and naval unit on the island.
R.J. : r a. Hare’s The Last
0 f t^e Bushrangers (1894) tells the
story from the police point of
view. J. j. Kenneally’s The Inner
History of the Kelly Gang (1926)
argues in extenuation of the
Kellys. Clive Turnbull’s- Ned Kelly,
His Own Story (1943) prints the
letter to Cameron. Max Brown’s
Australian Son (1948) includes the
Jerilderie Letter, and Frank Clune s
The Kelly Hunters (1954) is an
extensive history with a biography.
M.N.F.: The Bulletin Reciter
js out of print. Only way of
getting a copy would be through
a dealer in secondhand books. But
Old Bush Songs, edited Stewart
and Keesing, obtainable at Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, contains many old
songs of the “Reciter” type
R.W.: It is a highly-specialised
branch of the law. To give brief
information about it might prove
misleading. The best thing to do
would be to write to Griffith.
Hassel and Frazer, Asbestos House,
67 York Street, Sydney, setting out
your exact requirements A.8.J.?
Hope these aboriginal names will
help: cooreenyan, a Queensland
timber; elouera, pleasant place;
eumeralla, valley of plenty; illoura,
a pleasant place; kooranowa,
camping-ground; koorrnong, creek
1 summer, moonyah, sate
house ’ P aruk a!a, flat country ;
warranyah, my house... .G.T.: A
cop y of the particular issue of
The Bulletin will be sent on
request, and on receipt of Is. sd.
to cover cost and postage.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“A charming thought, Henry, but let's face it. You really haven't the voice for it."
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.K.: Observe more and talk
less. The lines about the finger
are g00d... .R.V.W.: Indecipher-
able M.A.H.: You really did
go to town on Christmas....
K.McD.: “Cocky’s Wife” has a
fetching simplicity... .M.C.S.: At
least “banana-colored” is a new
adjective for the moon, but can a
banana stare? ... .CJ.F. (South
Africa): Why not write something
about South Africa? ... .E.T.:
Language in “Riley’s Pub” uncon-
vincing. .. .Erica Borne: Your
name seems faintly familiar. Your
verse exceedingly 50... .Nemesis:
The police may be all you say, but
you should be arrested for that
poem... .H.R.: Tales in verse
much too wordy. Say it in prose.
....Janice: It’s an old gag, but
it’s your own variation on it:
. ...J.H.W.: Better than most odes
on the Queensland Centenary
M. 8.: “Country Road” doesn’t
get beyond flat description
G.M.: Both need shortening to
preserve their freshest lines and
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
omit the hackneyed... .J.C.: Lock
the manhunt-poem up... .M.V.
Something in both of those....
F.J.H.: Can't reject this one:
THE DOG AND THE MOUSE
A dog said to a mouse, “The moment
is soon
When 1 shall be going off to the Moon.
We Russians are. smart, we’re not like
the Yanks
Whose scientists comprise of electrical
cranks.
We’re far more advanced than folk such
as you.
We’ll land on the planet before ever
you do.”
“I am shocked,” cried the mouse, “at
your insane outburst.
I’ll bet you a million that we’ll be the
first
To build such a ship which is terribly
fast
To land on the planet, Sir —you’ll be
the last.”
The dog was beginning to become en-
raged.
“Be off with you, Sir, I am better
engaged.”
So off ran the mouse determined that he
Would beat the dog to the Moon and
victorious be.
He suddenly had a brilliant idea.
Now the situation to him was clear.
“The Moon is made of rank cheese, I de-
clare.
I shall eat it before the dog arrives
there.”
He went to the planet in a very fast
ship
But he was going to make a serious slip.
After eating the cheese the mouse met
his fate,
And the dog is bewildered up to this
date.
TO POESY
How oft have I denied the inspiration
When I have experienced an exhalation
Which would swoon me some time unre-
hearsed
I have felt the mortal chains within
me burst
And with Thee I swept to those realms
devine
Where strange voices sing ecstatic rhyme
Till I laid pale fac’d in a plethora
Of emotion which flamed an aurora
With heat it seem’d I broke heavens
door
But there is pennance for those who so
soar
Though I returned on the softest cloud
And laid mongst blossoms they were
but a shroud.
The music of birds, the whispers breezes
blow
Were mourning in sorrow, pressing my
woe.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
“Giving Back Week,” which imme-
diately follows Christmas, has passed with
about 50 per cent, success as far as this
Letter is concerned. The play-suit
(branded with the well-known brand-
name) on which the colors ran even
before it was washed, was exchanged
with smiles and apologies. But the only
one that could be given in place of it
is rather the wrong color and just a
tiny bit tight. If it shrinks, one will
never have the courage to face those
smiles and apologies again.
Then the pen (also with the well-
known brand-name) which wouldn't
write for more than five minutes, was
also accepted back with graciousness and
sympathy. “The man who does our re-
pairs is away on four weeks’ holiday,
but he should catch up with the backlog
of work within a couple of months, and
we’ll certainly get him to fix your pen
just as soon as possible.” How can one
meet such politeness with grouches about
not having a pen for all that time?
The swimsuit that went at the seams
caused trouble. “You obviously bought
a size too small, madam.” An impulse
to give one’s vital statistics was squashed
by an ingrained caution on the matter.
High-dudgeon followed and the swim-
suit is still un-exchanged.
As for the pure-silk dress that shrank
beyond the bounds of wearability (though
washed with the utmost care), it has
been altered to fit once more at the
price of a scolding for actually washing
such a high-class garment, an embarras-
sing half-hour with a silent and sulky
fitter, and a bill for £2 2s. One’s resources
of aggressiveness having been whittled
away by this time, it seems as though
this bill will be paid without murmur.
Oh, well!
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a very good crowd at the
first showing of the Museum of Modern
Art for 1960. About 180 art-lovers
flocked along to Elizabeth Bay to see
director Barry Stern’s private collection
of paintings by 15 leading Australian
artists, including James Gleason, Michael
Kmit, Justin O'Brien and Grace Crossing-
ham (the only woman represented). Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere opened the show, and
viewers included Mr. Justice McFarlan
and Mrs. McFarlan, Mr. Mervyn Horton
(whose own private collection will be
shown at the Museum of Modern Art
from February 6), Mrs. M. J. Fountain,
Mrs. Valentine Russell and Mrs. R.
Gloster.
☆ ☆ ☆
An address with real “Sydney atmo-
sphere” is the home of the Ensemble
Theatre, which reopened last week with
a performance of its smash-hit,
“The Man.” An old warehouse at
Milson’s Point has been transformed
into an intimate theatre-in-the-
round by members of the Ensemble
Group and students studying drama with
director Hayes Gordon. A feature of the
location is the wharf where the audience
will be able to sit and drink coffee at
interval and discuss drama in a harbor-
setting. After “The Man” the Ensemble
Group will stage a performance of
“Orpheus Descending,” by Tennessee
Williams.
Diana Perryman, gifted Sydney actress,
has 11 changes of costume in the new
J. C. Williamson production “Two for
the See-saw,” which opens at the Theatre
Royal on Friday, January 22. With
Grant Taylor playing the only other role
in the three-act comedy-drama, she has
sometimes to make her change as the
revolving stage turns from one scene to
the next. Diana comes from a theatrical
family and made her debut on the stage
when her parents were touring Australia
in “White Horse Inn.” Then she was
just a little girl, and in the meantime
she has made her name on the Sydney
stage in a series of parts, as widely
different as that of Lavinia in “Mourning
Becomes Electra,” and the fashionable
Londoner of “The Reluctant Debutante.”
“Two for the See-saw” is a delightful
but exacting part —offering a challenge
to an actress’s vitality and personality
that Diana Perryman finds stimulating
and rewarding. Montgomery Dunn photo.
The newly formed, highly enthusi-
astic Lawn Tennis Younger Set goes
right into its dance with its first function
at the White City on Saturday, January
30. They’re making preparations for
about 1500 at this open-air dance, and
the accent will be on youth, with a rock-
band and a youth-size entrant
price of 10s. a head.
Many of our most promising teena”
tennis-players are on the
Assistant-secretaries include Helen Jot
son, who represented N.S.W. agaij
Queensland in 1957 in the schoolgif
championships and is a Ryan (1
player ; Geoff Paref, winner of the junif
boys’ singles championships of Queel
land and N.S.W. and No. 1 in |
Linton Cup team ; Geoff Holden, win#
of the special singles at the Pratten p|
tournament and a Tremlett Cup playe
and Denis Collette, who in 1958 won tj»
schoolboys’ singles and doubles
pionships. Committee-president is Joi
Hawkins, and on the executive are Shtj
Stevens, Peter Howarth, Margot Thatchr,
and Roslyn Sample. Inquiries for men]
bership are answered at FMIOOI ang
for the dance, FM6155.
i ☆ ☆ ☆
Two Australian women were create
Dames of the British Empire in tlf
Queen's New Year Honor List. Dam
Judith Anderson, though she now makl
her home overseas, was born and edj
cated in Australia and made a specij
visit home to play in “Medea” for tf
opening of the Elizabethan Theatre.
Dame Alice Berry had the outstant
ing honor of being elected president oj
the Associated Country Women of [\
World for two consecutive terms (sj
years), the longest period for which an|
one may hold the office. A wider
Dame Alice has a property, Wollarbr.
20 miles from Charleville (Q.). Ski
has two daughters, Mrs. H. Draper, d
Clayfield, Brisbane, and Mrs. S. Chill
of Wamumran, a well-known tropica
fruit farm in Queensland.
☆ ☆ ☆
Tt was sad to hear during the weti
of the death of Mrs. Constance Sprj
the famous authority on flower-arrangi
ment, whose visit to Australia create)
so much interest last year. Mrs. Spt|
though over 70 when she lectured here
impressed everyone with her energy an!
vitality.
It was she who was entrusted wit
the floral decoration of Westminstl
Abbey for the Coronation of the Queet
and to her school flocked students froi)
all parts of the Commonwealth to leal
the arts of flower-arrangement from tf
woman regarded as England’s ultima]
authority in the sphere. ’
☆☆ ☆ |
j
The news that Princess Alexandra h!
been named among the 10 best-dressi
women of the world has been receive
in Australia with great delight, for Ai|
tralians have come to regard Alexandt
as their own and take as much pride j
her achievements as if she were thej
daughter. I
Much has been made of the fact tli|
she buys many of her clothes “off tf
peg,” noticing something that takes W
eye in a Regent Street window and the?
and then going in to try it on. Certamj
this gives her much in common m


the modern Sydney girl, who seems to
buy a new dress every week. But,
'frankly, one cannot imagine those mag-
nificent ball-gowns that the Princess wore
When she was in Australia having come
'from anywhere but the most exclusive
Salons.
It was in the realm of hair-styles that
Princess Alexandra gave most stimulus
to fashion in Australia. She seemed to
We a Cachet to the imaginative and
Jhigh-styled hairdressing that is continuing
.into 1960.
☆ ☆ ☆
f
■ An invitation declined: to celebrate
'New Year’s Eve at drive-in theatres
'where the following shows were on offer:
(“Unknown Terror” and “The Night the
World Exploded,” or “The Uninvited”
“The Mad Magician,” or “Son of
doctor Jekyll” and “Zombies of Mora
Tau.”
# * V
Time was when the canteen of cutlery,
by the parents of the bridegroom
Sr the bachelor-uncle, was the gift most
jjikely to endure among those received
.by the happy couple. Even to this day
jgreat-great-grandma’s cutlery, were it
jiver so humble, has left a remainder in
Jnany a home as the sharp knife, and is
treasured as such.
j Nowadays, however, the cutlery-
bakers seem to be going in for the
[/planned obsolescence” that has made
-the motor-car what it is. The bone-
candles are dated, the ornate design is
and the four-tine fork is
Jeginning to look old-fashioned.
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks have
ssued invitations to a garden-party at
Government House on January 22. As
'patron of the Young Men’s Christian
Association, his Excellency will open the
Operation Youth Club Appeal
f Pn that occasion. '
» ☆ ☆ ☆
i The marriage of Patricia, eldest
|aughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Barrow,
#>f Caulfield, with Peter Andrew, only
i|°r> of Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Drummond,
of Caulfield, was celebrated there
St. Mary’s, which was decorated
fith green and white flowers, with
satin bows and stephanotis
embellishing the pew-ends. The bride,
' , ho chose as her wedding-day the 24th
jedding-anniversary of her parents, wore
j gown of white silk-taffeta, which had
'jtort sleeves and skirt-fullness drawn
h fall into a train. A circlet of orange-
'iossom caught her tulle veil, and she
juried a bouquet of gardenias with a
of ivy. Her bridesmaids were her
«ters Judy and Pam, and Sue Uglow-;
heir frocks of white cotton carried
| r een sashes, knotted at the back and
filhng t 0 t k e h em xhey carried bouquets
r stephanotis and trails of ivy-leaves.
|°nn Sampson was best man, and Bryn
Jones and Joost van Doom groomsmen.
Dinner by candlelight, with trails of ivy
wound round the candles, was served at
Tudor Court, which had been the setting
■ for the bride’s parents’ reception.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Robin Hood Committee, which
has a splendid record of service to
mentally-retarded children, will begin its
year’s work with a dinner-dance on
February 13. Venue is the home of Mr.
and Mrs. E. Shankley, 16 St. George’s
Road, Toorak. Donation is £2 from each
person, and invitations are obtainable
from Joan Sutherland Smith, 1554 High
Street, Glen Iris (Tel. BL 6305).
Gloria Nord, the graceful and petite
star of the Tivoli show “Ecstasy On
Ice," started roller-skating in her native
Los Angeles as a child and, switching
to the ice-blades, was in show-business
at 15. Over the past decade she has been
on eight world-tours. The only ice-
skater honored with a Royal Command
performance, Gloria gives her hair a
“wild-honey ” color achieved by a rinse
of peach and silver. Photo by Harry Jay.
The dinner-dance which will be held
at the Toorak home of Mr. and Mrs. R.
Shankley is a prelude to a gala-night
due at the Princess Theatre on Tues-
day, March 8. The Robin Hood com-
mittee has taken over the theatre for the
third night of “The Music Man” season.
The American director of the musical,
John Fernley, will be among the guests.
At a similar theatre-night held last year
£7OO was raised, and committee-
president Mrs. James Alston hopes to do
even better this year, when £15,000 will
be needed to build an emergency wing
on Government premises to house
children attending day-centres run by
voluntary groups.
/
* * *
For the presentation of the old-time
melodrama “Sweeney Todd” at the
Union Theatre the audience was asked
to hiss and toss peanuts at the villain,
the “demon-barber” of Fleet Street —
an invitation that was readily accepted ;
some of the blither spirits added tomatoes
to enliven the proceedings. At the final
curtain the actors got some of their own
back by tossing the offerings back at
the audience. It was all good fun, and
among those in the first-night audience
were University Chancellor Mr. Justice
Dean,.his wife and daughter.
☆ ☆ ☆
A family dinner-party, followed by a
theatre-party, celebrated the engage-
ment of Carole Mavis Opperman and
lan Craig Laird. Carole is the only
daughter of Mr. Hubert Opperman,
M.H.R., and Mrs. Opperman, of
Geelong. lan is the only son of Mr. and
Mrs. Ewen Laird, also of Geelong.
Carole is wearing a three-diamond ring.
* ☆ ☆
Lady Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, was hostess at an enjoyable
luncheon prior to the first race at Caul-
field on Saturday, guests-of-honor being
presswomen. Lady Robinson wore with
her sheath-frock and jacket of white silk
patterned in a brown etched design a
white summer-felt hat banded in brown
grosgrain-ribbon. Mrs. Kenneth McLean,
whose husband, Dr. McLean, is vice-
chairman of the V.A.T.C., chose a beige
Irish-linen frock and jacket and a
matching silk-straw cloche. Both Lady
Clarke and Mrs. Norman Strange chose
white ensembles. Mrs. J. T. Ahearne
topped her navy jacket-suit with a white
straw bowler-hat. Mrs. Leonard Dar-
ling’s navy - and - white - spotted silk
frock was worn with a tiny white straw
beret. Wyn Kellow’s cottons had
royal-blue leaves on a white background,
and her accessories were white. Mrs.
Harry Way, wife of the club’s secretary,
chose a black sheer frock and white hat.
Mrs. Alfred Fowler’s pink-patterned
black silk frock was worn with a small
black tulle hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the supper-dance given by Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Reuss, of Shepparton, at
Acton House, St. Kilda, to celebrate the
21st birthday of their only son Arthur,
Mrs. Reuss wore a short sheath-frock of
rose-beige which had a floating back-
drape falling from the deep-cut bodice.
Mrs. Reuss was assisted by her three
daughters: Mrs. Jim McColl, Robin and
Terry. From Sydney came Mrs. G. L.
Reuss, and also present was the grand-
mother of the guest-of-honor, Mrs. N. E.
Prescott. Other guests included Arthur’s
uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. W. K.
Stewart (her attractive, slimly-cut frock
of black French-faille), their son John
and daughter Dorothy (the latter in deep-
green strapless taffeta frock), Nancy
Furphy (wearing autumn-toned floral
polished-cotton), Carol Clarke (her frock
consisting of many rows of narrow pale-
pink lace), Toni Furphy (in watermelon-
pink Chantilly-lace), Janet Macdonald
and Virgina Finlay.


delayed until about the middle of this
year.
But the Stone and Anderson biblio-
graphy would have been valuable at
any time —partly for Walter Stone’s
lucid and compact introduction, which
brings out a few points previously
unknown or unstressed and gives a
well-balanced account of Brennan’s
life, and partly for the bibliography
itself, which both the student and the
collector will find indispensable.
Brennan’s own brief account of his
life is quoted in the introduction: —
Verse—began writing at school —
mostly for fun; translations from
the Greek (I used to write out
elaborate translations of my authors)
a burlesque tragedy on school
events entitled “The Hero of the
Haunted Dyke,” a comedy imitated
from Aristophanes’ “Knights” also
on school events —both went round
the school, fell into priests’ hands,
were returned to me, left by me at
the school, still in possession of a
friend —also a burlesque tragedy in
Greek verses with approved philo-
logical notes in Latin....
Then A. G. Stephens takes over: —
Admire his qualifications! He
substituted for professors in Greek,
Latin, French and German languages
and literatures, and assisted in
English. There was not another man
in the University who could have
done it; probably not another man
in Australia ; and how few beyond
Australia! The width of his
knowledge was extraordinary.
Stone himself adds some comments
on the unnecessary difficulties that were
placed in Brennan’s way in life—“ The
long years of waiting for even a toe-
hold at the University and the rejec-
tion by the Senate of the University of
Queensland of his application for a
Chair (one ground, at least, was the
eroticism of his verse, and one poem,
‘We sat entwined an hour or two
together,’ was specially mentioned)
must have been particularly frustrat-
ing”; he corrects/ the popular legend
that Brennan died of “drink, poverty
and despair”; and he makes the point
that Brennan’s poetry, if it contains
some recondite classical allusions and
is not helped by some of the typo-
graphical mannerisms on which he
insisted, is not nearly so difficult as
has been supposed.
The bibliography records Brennan’s
books in prose and verse; his contribu-
tions to magazines; the books specifi-
cally written about him; the books in
which he is discussed along with other
authors; and the various biographical
and critical articles about him that have
been published in magazines—every-
thing, in short, which the student would
need.
Bruce Rock, W.A.
District histories such as J. K:
Ewers’s Bruce Rock, published by the
Bruce Rock Road Board, W.A., are not
intended to entertain the general
public; they are for the people of the
district. That is fair enough, since it
is the district that commissions them
and wants to have its history preserved;
and yet it is a pity, for there is so
much fascinating material in nearly all
of them —and certainly in “Bruce
Rock” —that it would need only a slight
change of plan and direction to turn
them into regional books of universal
interest: in the category —if the his-
torian could write well enough and
were free to concentrate on whatever
might be his own special enthusiasms —
of Gilbert White’s “Natural History of
Selborne,” Thoreau’s “Walden” or
Guthrie-Smith’s “Tutira.”
Take, for instance, the moving and
surprising anecdotes which J. K.
Ewers has been able to pick-up about
the Barr family, some of whose des-
cendants are still living in this Wes-
tralian wheat-farming district: —
In 1901 Mrs. Barr died in child-
birth.... The burden of caring for
her father and the family fell upon
the eldest daughter, Rose, then only
thirteen..
Once when Rose was alone with
her father loading sandalwood four-
teen miles east of Noonegin
Andrew Barr fell from the top of
the load, striking his head on a rock
and becoming unconscious. The
girl revived him by pouring vinegar
on the wound. He managed to climb
on the load, where he again passed-
out. Single-handed the girl drove [
the team of eight fractious brumbies I
fourteen miles to the homestead.... |
Shortly after Mrs. Barr’s death
the family shifted from Noonegin
to Mindabooka, some ten miles to
the north. Here Andrew Barr
invented the .model of an aeroplane
which some of his friends persuaded
him to take to England.... Smith
Brabazon at first agreed to support
Barr and his project financially and
arranged a meeting with Lord
Kelvin. But that eminent scientist
was an enthusiast for balloons and
scoffed at the idea of heavier-than-
air machines.
Barr invented, incidentally, besides
the aeroplane, a stump-jump plough, a
machine for destroying mallee and
prickly-pear, a jumping scarifier, a
power-digging machine and “a solar
engine which would replace coal and
oil by the energy of the sun.”
Or take, again, Ewers’s account of
the granite outcrops which gave the
district its name and which would
surely have pleased Gilbert White or
Thoreau quite as much as any English
hedgerow or American pond:—
In the central Kumminin area is
Myarin, a rock of great expanse
At South Head Cemetery
Running an errand, I stopped there at the
gate,
A nd saw the stones that tilted on the fall;
“Martha Jones,’’ “Tom Cleghorn,” “My
Lost Love,’’
Angel and weeping face and marble ball,
Clutter of years heaped on- the turfy
spot;
Two ruined wreaths, bouquets left long
ago ;
Kerchiefs and shoes below the marly
wall.
A northern grave is soft and crumbling;
Bent marble cracking on an epitaph,
Yew-trees’ umbrellas filtering sun and
rain,
Wasps in the apples, sweet-peas climbing
the staff.
At South Head, earth subsides. Loaded
with sand
In its bright endless wash of salty
summer,
The spaded skull set in a bitter laugh.
So it may be for mine. Yet I could wish it.
Looking over the headland green and dun
To the horizon’s ruthless curve, boats
swinging
And the waves opening their night to
the warm sun.
Twelve-thousand miles off, now, my
father rests ;
“Sleep well, darling,’’ and the Latin
verses ;
And hawks roosting where the broken
words run.
Turning , I see the air hazy with sleep,
Palms drooping their sick leaves, black-
boys
Fat and complacent on the hill's bland
spaces,
Houses like pillboxes filled with rattling
toys,
And a grave which would loom in English
air is gone,
A small white spot lost in the busy world,
And the cliffs as free now of that mortal
noise.
They are not recalled, the land forgets
them easily.
Bill Stokes, John Purdom, Daveiller the
child’s face
In the iron coffin. My father’s bones were
held j
Gripped by the English earth in a strong
embrace;
But here the sandy soil scatters and
rejects.
Only the sea receives; the land vanishes.
Scatter my burning ash where the waters
race.
N.S.W.
CHARLES HIGHAM.


and graceful contours. To the east
is the mighty Wadderin Rock with
its huge roofed dam holding water
from the rock-catchment, its sup-
plies now reinforced from the Gold-
fields Water Scheme. Further south
is Emu Hill, a truly impressive out-
crop, while to the west and actually
just south of the Bruce Rock Road
Board area is the immense Woger-
lin, which covers an area of more
than two-hundred acres....
Take the story of the first explorer.
Ensign Dale, trudging in from the Swan
River settlement and observing the
peculiar gimlet-tree, the fluted stems
of which were to be used for the first
houses; or such scraps of information
as Ewers has been able to gather con-
cerning the pioneering sandalwooders,
camping out in the heat and the rain
to fell the aromatic timber which would
be burnt as incense in the temples of
the East; or the cricket-match that was
played in the wilderness with bats of
stinkwood; or the simple, homely,
intensely human diary of Mrs. David
Jones, arriving from Wales with her
husband and five children in the early
1900’s after James Mitchell, as
Minister for Agriculture, had worked
so energetically to get the empty lands
thrown open for wheat-farming; or
the man who ran the illicit still and,
presumably excited by his own wares,
so peppered a World War I recruit
with buckshot that he had to be dis-
charged from the Army; or the fearful
murder-story when the farmer killed
his wife, child and farmhand and then
hanged the farmhand’s body to make
it appear that the latter had done the
murders and then committed suicide;
or the amiable drunk who, when he
was chained to the log that served for
the first jail, picked up the log and
walked into the bar with it for another
drink; or the farmer who, annoyed by
his neighbor’s pigs, got up in the middle
of the night and shot his own pigs by
mistake; or W. N. Hedges, the local
squire, much given to sacking his
employees, who—rather like the head-
master in Brian James’s “Spencer
Button,” who whacked one of his ex-
pupils when he turned-up as a telegraph-
boy—sacked a neighboring farmer
whom he ca&ght leaning against one of
his haystacks; or the notable printer’s-
error in “The Bruce Rock Post” when
it announced in 1931 that “the financial
depression, if it has done nothing else,
has certainly turned attention to sport
as a laxative”; or the practical yet still
poetic information about rabbits
and subterranean clover; or, in
Ewers’s somewhat sketchy account of
such birds, beasts and flowers as
civilisation has allowed to survive—
the dalgite has gone for ever; a few
black-flanked rock-wallabies are pro-
tected by K. Beaton at Quurekin Rocks
—the charming story of the rainbow-
birds related by Mrs. Bland: —
Bushfires were raging around and
the day was exceedingly hot. It was
quite cool, though, in our tea-tree
veranda about 10 a.m. when a pair
of rainbow-birds flipped in and
parked on the spring-cart which was
backed into the shade. Bye and
bye another pair flipped in and
joined the first pair—then more and
more—and by noon they were
parked all over the cart, the meat-
safe and wherever they could find
parking-space. We tied the dog up,
popped the cat under a box and
watched the lovely visitors all the
afternoon.
The cat’s comment on this outrage
is, unfortunately, not recorded.
All this, then, is the richest of
material. It is life, it is Nature, it is
Australia. And it is tucked away, along
with records and statistics, in a history
which only the people of Bruce Rock
are ever likely to read. Well, it is a
pity. But that is the job J. K. Ewers
set out to do. It was worth doing, for
these district histories will become
more and more interesting and valuable
as time goes on; and, compact, lucid,
serious and entertaining, this book
certainly does the job exceptionally
well.
RAINBOW-BIRD
Come, come, you far too mythological
creature
Soaring and hovering and falling to make
that arch
Glimmering with promise over the brown
flood water
In violet and rose and green—this is too
much :
Down from the willows this rage of the
Murrumbidgee’s
Subsides as we know well of its own
accord,
Back from the paddocks again and under
the bridges,
Needing no sign from heaven, still less
from a bird.
Still, you may write me down —if for
no more
Than such felicitous feathers, such a fine
froth
Of light and color floating in noon’s high
core
Where poised on the peak of your arch
you catch your moth —
Much pleased to have seen, with no
mythology whatever,
A rainbow-bird flung up from the flooded
river. .
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Buried Literature
After P. R. Stephensen’s article
(R.P. 23/12/’59) you will no doubt be
inundated with recommendations for
republication. Here are two sugges-
tions:—
Jane Roberts’s Two Years at Sea:
being the narative of a Voyage to the
Swan River and Van Diemen’s Land,
during the years 1829-30-31. (The
Mitchell Library has the first —1834—-
edition and another of 1837. if I
remember aright); and articles (by Dr.
James Ross?) from the “Hobart Town
Almanack and Van Diemen’s Land
Annual”—including the one from 1836
on which Darwin seems to have based
his short description of the Tasmanian
aborigines.
John W. Doyle, S.J.
Reviewed Briefly
The Art of Radio: Donald Mc-
Whinnie (Faber). The author thinks
that radio, since television has relieved
it of the need to be primarily a medium
of mass entertainment, can now settle
down to developing itself as an art-
form. He says much about the “radio
experience” and argues that radio can
produce works of art as unique and
valuable in themselves as novels and
stage-plays. He also believes that, in
spite of TV, some people (a minority,
admittedly) will go on wanting good
radio, just as they go on wanting good
books and films. He fears that if he
is wrong his book will be of strictly
'archaeological interest. His detailed
accounts of his own productions for
the B.B.C.—among them Beckett’s “All
That Fall” and an adaptation of
Waugh’s “Brideshead Revisited” —are
instructive and fascinating as glimpses
of an expert’s craft.
* * * *
The Hours After Noon: Paul Bowles
(Heinemann). In these ten stories
Bowles continues to create strange and
haunting illustrations of human be-
trayal, persecution, spiritual emptiness
and madness, all neatly designed and
written in that cool, clear, mono-
chromatic prose that contrasts terribly
with the anguish it reveals. The
settings—Mexico, Morocco and New
York —are as indelible as ever; but
there is a deeper note of pity and con-
cern than before, and much less of
the feeling that the horrors are being
manufactured for their own sake. Two
of the stories —one about a small boy
being persecuted by his father and
over-protected by his mother; the other
about the relations between an old
negress and her white employers—
come near to the very finest achieve-
ments in the form.


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference—
%*
ft
99
m
Published by
fwfiuUdia
21-
per single
copy
A review of :—
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
Commence a New Indexed Volume with the January, 1960, issue.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
EOX 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
