

The Bulletin
Why the Japs Won Pearl Harbor —page 40
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
December 7, 1960
Price 1/-
TH E CASE 1
OF THE
SHIPWRECKED
CHINAMAN
A HUNDRED YEAR OLD HOAX
111 Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


STORY
WRITING PAYS
If You Know How fo
Write Successfully.
Editors can not obtain sufficient acceptable
MSS, This Student's acceptances more than
pay for his Course:
“Remittances are coming in frequently:
l am more than paying for the Course.’'
Successful STOTT-Trained writers con-
tribute regularly to the press. It will pay
YOU to study with STOTT'S.
Write TODAY for full particulars and
free “Successful Authorship” Prospectus.
Stolts Correspondence College
15J> Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 143 Castle-
reagli St.. Sydney; 2»0 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 slurrav
St., Perth.
The Red Page
LAWRENCE'S "WILD NOVEL OF AUSTRALIA"
While everybody, both here and in
England, is talking about Lady
Chatterley, of all D. H. Lawrence’s
novels it will be Kangaroo that will
ultimately hold the most interest for
Australians. Inspired, conceived and
written, with the exception of its
nostalgic last chapter, here in Australia
at Thirroul on the South Coast of New
South Wales, it is, for many reasons, an
astounding and significant perform-
ance.
The restless, world - wandering
Lawrence and his wife arrived at Perth.
Western Australia, by ship from Ceylon
at the beginning of May, 1922. Within
three weeks they had sailed for Sydney.
From there they travelled by train to
the cottage on the low cliff overlook-
ing the “huge rhythmic Pacific.” There
Lawrence wrote to his mother-in-law,
“Suddenly I am writing again, a wild
novel of Australia.”
“Kangaroo.” which contains much
of the essence of Lawrence’s writing, is
inspired, impetuous, first-hand. It con-
tains sustained chapters and passages of
poetry in prose that are ecstatic praise
of the Australian environment or
“spirit of place.” It is a fresh, sensitive
and intuitive portrayal of the character
of the Australians. And it is even more
remarkable when it is realised that the
150,000 words of this tour de force
were conceived and written within five
weeks of Lawrence’s stay on the Sou.h
Coast.
Richard Aldington, a recent bio-
grapher of Lawrence, reported Aus-
tralians as saying that the evocations
of the country in “Kangaroo” were the
most vivid and perceptive yet written.
Yet “Kangaroo” appeared before the
publication of the third book of Henry
Handel Richardson’s “The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony,” Katharine Susannah
Prichard’s “Working Bullocks” and
“Coonardoo,” Brian Penton’s “Land-
takers” or Kylie Tennant's “Tiburon.”
Such novels as these, written in the
mid-twenties and after, represent the
big time of modem Australian writing.
It is the Englishman, Lawrence, with
only a stay of three months in Aus-
tralia, who appears as the spearhead of
this creative upsurge among our
novelists. It is as though it was the
vivid genius of Lawrence that made
these writers aware of our unique
environmental values.
“Kangaroo” was one of my own
early “discoveries” of D. H. Lawrence.
It drove me to find the cottage on the
edge of the Pacific and the country
which had inspired such poetic praise.
I had nothing but the descriptions in
the novel and the knowledge that the
cottage was called “Wyewurk” and
not “Coo-ee” as in the novel. Yet. so
faithful were the descriptions that I had
little difficulty in finding the “brick
house, with a roof of bright-red tiles
coming down very low over dark
wooden verandahs—deep verandahs
like eyelids half-closed.”
Those days it was the poetry of
“Kangaroo” that was so compelling,
the poetry intoxicated with the sights
and scents of the Australian bush in
flower. “Yet a stillness, and a man-
lessness, and an elation, the bush
flowering at the gates of Heaven.” And,
“The morning was one of the loveliest
of Australian mornings, perfectly
golden, all the air pure gold, and the
great gold effulgence to seaward, and
the pure, cold pale-blue inland, over
the dark range.”
Now, re-reading the novel after many
years, the poetry is still there, but. in
addition, the powerful Australian
human theme and drama, which
mounts to an emotional climax, makes
its impact.
The first paragraph of the novel is a
portrait of Australians. Lawrence and
Frieda, his wife, the Somers and Harriet
of the novel, have just arrived in
Sydney and are looking for a taxi to
take them to the suburban house they
have rented in “Murdoch Street.” The
mature, handsome, fresh-faced Wo J3
and her companion, a smaliiu, nan
pale-faced, with a dark beard man ’
being observed. The observers
A bunch of workmen who were"
lying on the grass of the park beside
Macquarie Street, in the dinner hour
... .the sun was warm, and they l av
there in shirtsleeves, talking. Some
were eating food from paper pack
ages. They were a mixed lot—taxi
drivers, a group of builders... then
two men in blue overalls, some sort of
mechanics. Squatting and lying on
the grassy bank beside the broad
tarred road where taxis and hansom
cabs passed continually, they had
that air of owning the city which
belongs to a good Australian.
After an argument with the taxi-
driver over the fare, in which the easy-
going, yet independent, nature of the
Australian asserted itself. Somers and
Harriet took a hansom cab:—
They jogged through the city,
catching a glimpse from the top of a
hilt of the famous harbour spreading
out with its many arms and legs.
They saw the whole low wooded
tableland reddened with suburbs and
interrupted by the pale spaces of the
many lobed harbour. The sky had
gone grey, and the low table-land
into which the harbour intrudes
squatted dark-looking and monoton-
ous and sad. as if lost on the face
of the earth . . .
“Torestin” was the name of the house
which the Somers had rented. They
discovered the name was Australian:
“To rest in.” It was here that they
met Jack and Victoria, who were their
neighbors, and who were to invite
them to Manly and. later, to “Mullum-
bimby,” Thirroul. on the South Coast
Somers, a “writer of poetry and
essays,” by this time had already had
a typical Lawrentian reaction against
Australia and the too easy-going Aus-
tralians. He wanted to leave for San
Francisco in July, calling in at Tahiti
or Fiji on the way. But Harriet per-
suaded the gloomy Somers to try]
“Mullumbimby.” “Think.” she said, “it,
must be lovely there —with the moun-
tain behind, and steep hills, and black-
berries. and lovely little bays of sand.
Take the train from Central down,
to Thirroul and you will still see how,
Lawrence must have sat and sketched-
in the country as he and Frieda
travelled. You will find his description|
of Sydney, the suburbs, “spreading f° r
great distances, scattering over low
hills and shallow inclines.” Then te
waste marshy places, the old iron
abortive corrugated-iron ‘works --a
like the Last Day of Judgment, msteaa
of a new country.” e
Como: “that curious sombreness ij
Australia, the sense of oldness. Wl '
the forms worn down, low and ’
squat, and the sombre bush wi
pale-stemmed, dull-leaved § um ' ; ;
and the great spiky things hks zu
{Continued on p&B e


inmwjiX
wi.ii.ulM-M iiri p nrijrpxxi ui i.*w
SERIES
c_
ffi
PS
TV* t- j
' S**»
moves
FULL 6 YARD PAYLOAD MEANS MORE PROFIT • • • POWER TO SPARE
FOR FASTER HAULING ... EASIER DUMPING . . . FASTER TURN-AROUND.
conomical, high-profit yielding operation depends on bigger pay-
faster turn-around, every haul. The AA-160 series was
tally designed to achieve this, incorporating advanced front-
Wounted telescopic hoist and specially built light-weight bodies, a
which makes possible the legally-prescribed weight
nbution of a full 6 yards of screenings. With power to spare,
the AA-162 and AA-164 models’ rugged 4-speed transmission and
electric shift two-speed rear axles enable them to haul a full
load of 6 yards at speeds to maintain a tight schedule, while the
modern cabs are designed to give maximum driver comfort and
efficiency. There’s an International AA-160 series model exactly
suited to your load or location requirements see the range now !
ill INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
'NTERNATIONA
L HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. District Sales Offices in Capital Cities. Works
Dandenong, Geelong and Port Melbourne.
rMT3BB/FP


The Bulletin
DECEMBER 7, 1960
Vol. 81
No. 4217
INDEX
COVER STORY
The Case of the Shipwrecked
Chinaman .. 11
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English 6
Political Points 16
Uncabled Additions .. .. 41
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 51
Personal Items 14
Service and Information .. 56
Society 8
FEATURES
A Good Year for the Reds 50
Why the Japs Won Pearl
Harbor 40
FICTION
The Lucky Family, by
Margaret Trist 19
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, Etc. .. 34
Wild Cat Pages 23
MAN ON THE LAND .. 45
OPINION
The Other Fellow’s Mind .. 53
REVIEWS
The Red Page 2
Shows 26
SPORT 31
WOMEN 29
NEXT WEEK
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
South Australia: ' 436-440 King
William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: 33 Barrack Street,
Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings
(opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
Doctor Ross’s Dilemma
TAR. LLOYD ROSS seems to have got himself into an unholy— but
uninstructive —mess in becoming the leading figure in last week’s ue A
transport strike in N.S.W. One of Australia’s most courageous and skilled af
Communists, he is now unwittingly playing the Communist game. How diA*'
manage to do that?
° f
Everyone knows that the Communists have made a special play for the
transport unions in Australia. Why they have done so is a matter for speculation
But there are some obvious enough strategic reasons for the Communists to want
to ruin Australia’s transport system. It impedes the country’s prosperity and it
gives them a position of power at a time of crisis.
Into this Dr. Ross walked with the in itself harmless desire to get more money
for his members, and to this purpose he started an agitation in rather old-
fashioned fire-eating terms to show the bosses (the N.S.W. Government) that he
meant business.
But he seems to have lost control of what he started. The Communist cells
in his own and allied unions began operating and outdid him in agitation. All
this led inevitably to a 24-hour general stoppage. Hopes had been raised and
things got moving.
What does he do next? Strike again? And again? This is unlikely. The
Labor party wants to continue to govern N.S.W., and a few more transport general
strikes would quickly lose it the next election. Union leaders who like Labor
Governments will drop the transport workers as quickly and gracefully as
they can.
Where does Dr. Ross go after that? Does he become a permanent agitator,
with the Communists he hates as his allies? Or does he withdraw from the
game and let the Communists emerge as the only element in his union that really
fights for its members, stirring up the kind of agitation against Dr. Ross that could
weaken or destroy his hold on his union?
And what happens to Mr. Jim Kenny, the leader of the N.S.W. union move-
ment, who must help ensure that Labor goes on being elected in N.S.W. forever?
There are reasons to believe that Mr. Kenny did not want this strike. But his
Dispute Committee saddled him with it.
If another strike is proposed, what does he do? Give into his fear that the
Communists may seize the initiative in union affairs, go along with them—and
to hell with the Government? Or try to quieten the boys down to keep the
Government in office—and to hell with the Communists?
There is no doubt that the people who work in the public transport industries
of N.S.W. are entitled to some kind of an increase. But the increase has to be
justified on a comparative basis. And someone has to come up with a suggestion
about who is going to pay for what. Until the unions concerned put up arguments
of this kind they can expect no sympathy at all from the public —and very htt e
hearing from the Government.
There is also no doubt that union leaders like Dr. Ross see this only as a
margins fight. But the middle of the 20th century is not a period in history' w e
the effects of large-scale industrial disturbance can be confined only to
industries concerned.
Massive strikes —and this one was massive enough— inevitably become
political in effect. They arouse passions that, in the long run, only'tne
munists are cynical enough to exploit. A reversion to the late 1940 s 1940’s
industrial agitation inevitably would lead to the re-emergence of t ‘ ie , a l a ji
kind of union leadership. And Heaven help us if we had to go t 0
that again.
Reverting to old-fashioned demagoguery and old-fashioned in ers
weapons may be tempting to harassed union leaders. Harassed pom l
may sometimes look longingly in the same way at their nuclear arms.
But they can’t use them —no more than union leaders can now t 0
massive social violence. Because in either case —to put it mildly
violence would do more harm than good.


TAKEOVER REJECTED
“Who do they think they are? The Myer Emporium?”


Plain English
"EMPEROR" NKRUMAH
Nkrumah of Ghana is presenting the
British Commonwealth with new and
difficult problems —if he intends to stay
within it. He apparently only intends to
do so as long as it suits him or until
he overbalances and falls permanently
into the Communist yard.
His inspirations always have been
Communist. His methods of organisation
both before and after he became the
dictator of Ghana smack of his Com-
munist training, and his latest perfor-
mances seem to suggest that it is only
a matter of time before he is as much
under Khrushchev’s wing as Castro.
His autobiography stamps him with
the grandiose imperial ambition of a
Mussolini and the complacent conceit
in himself of a fashionable Hollywood
film-star.
The organisation of his party, though
the fact was to some degree disguised
in the use of terms, was based on
that of the Communist party. He
and his group described themselves
“as the revolutionary vanguard of the
struggle for West African unity and
national independence,” aiming to “sup-
port the idea and claims of the All West
African National Congress in its struggle
to create and maintain a Union of
African Socialist Republics.”
He had himself elected President of
his self-created republic in an election
in which chicanery was open and flagrant
and in which the number of votes he
received sometimes exceeded the total
number of electors in the district.
In August he and Lumumba agreed
in Accra with other independent African
States to set-up a combined high com-
mand of military forces to bring about
a speedy withdrawal of Belgian troops
in the Congo if the United Nations did
not take steps to do this.
There is little doubt but the intrigue
against President Kasavubu, to whom the
Belgians handed over, and the conditions
which produced the ascendancy of
Lumumba (with his train of Communist
advisers) owed something of its origin
to his scheming.
At present he is one of the obstacles
to peace in the Congo. He has tried to
force his Embassy into Leopoldville,
after it has been forbidden entry. U.N.
has told him that it will be difficult to
protect it against the de facto rulers
who have ordered it out along with that
of his ally, Nasser.
He interprets “present developments,”
which include the replacement of U.N.’s
Ghanian soldiers by Nigerians, as show-
ing that the colonialist powers, especially
Britain, U.S. and France, are plotting
to restore Belgian control. He de-
mands “law and order” under Lumum-
ba’s aegis.
Nkrumah’s move on Mali is designed
to put the Congo in a sandwich, and his
Nine Power command, like the nucleus
of his “Union of African Socialist
Republics,” is a move towards African
imperialism.
The most hopeful developments in
the Congo have been the achievement
of “perfect identity of views” between
the Katanga representatives and those of
the Ileo Government which was
appointed by President Kasavubu after
he had dismissed Lumumba.
There seems to be a reasonable chance
that, left to themselves, the various ele-
ments of the Congo will solve their
problems under the wing of the West.
But not if Nkrumah and Moscow and
Red China can help it.
An Act of War
The infiltration of Indonesian troop
detachments into Western New Guinea
seems likely to provide another problem
for the United Nations, and certainly
for Australia.
According to the reports from Hol-
landia this is not the first occasion that
armed Indonesian troops have gone
ashore in New Guinea, and certainly
there has been a substantial infiltration of
propagandists . intent on undermining
Dutch rule.
On November 20 the Dutch Govern-
ment announced that five days earlier a
group of armed Indonesians who had
attempted to land on the south-west coast
of Dutch New Guinea had not been
completely eliminated. Some who had
been captured, armed with automatic
weapons, had said that they formed the
vanguard of further groups on the way.
A little later the Dutch accused the
Indonesians of using a coaster (captured
by the Dutch Navy) to take food and
ammunition to the infiltrators.
The latest group of invaders, who came
ashore in an unpopulated area, con-
sisted of between 20 and 30 men modernly
equipped, and apparently clashed with
Dutch patrols, which captured one of
them and killed two before the rest
withdrew into the mountains.
The assurances of both Soekarno and
his Foreign Minister, Subandrio, that
they would not attempt to secure Dutch
New Guinea except by peaceful means
have apparently been jettisoned by Suban-
drio, who says shiftily that the reports
of happenings from the Dutch are merely
“psychological Warfare” intended to give
the impression that if anything should
happen the blame would be on Indonesia.
The Government and its spokesmen
are not explicit about events, but General
Nasution, the military dictator of the
Government, declared that the establish-
ment of stronger Dutch defences had
increased tension and produced greater
potential danger to Indonesia.
Soekarno seems to consider defence of
the territory which the Dutch claim to
own as aggression, which is a Communist
line of approach.
Dr. Subandrio’s version of the position
is that Indonesia could not guarantee
that its forces would not meet those of
Holland on Irian soil.
It is curious that these events should
come closely on reports of t a
mobilisation orders a month ndones ian
and Dr. Subandrio’s statement thatt
nesia would accept nothing " es T. nd ?‘
handing-over of West New , l the
Recently Tunku AMu? "“i,
Prime Minister of Malava hman >
mediate, remarking (out O Y f hß ffered to
perience) that it was impossible to° Wn £X '
that the West New Gnfnea
be far enough advanced to govern )h d
selves within 15 years. He se cur eS'
agreement of the Dutch to submit
policies to the United Nations, but
Indonesians will have none of hi m
If it will do any good to bring the
matter before U.N. it should be taken
«layT '*
Senate v. Reps.
The most curious feature about the posi-
tion in the Senate which has arisen
because the Government faces possible
defeat is the fact that the dispute affects
a money bill.
Under Section 53 of the Constitution
laws appropriating revenue or moneys or
imposing taxation cannot originate in
the Senate, and the Senate may not amend
proposed laws imposing taxation. It may
not amend any proposed law so as to
increase any proposed charge or burden
on the people. But these types of laws
may be sent back to the House of Repre-
sentatives requesting amendments or
omissions.
And the House of Representatives—if
it thinks fit —“may make such amend-
ments or omissions with or without
modification.”
Yet the possibility of Senator Wright
and Senator Wood adding their strength
to that of the A.L.P. and D.L.P. and
defeating the Government’s proposal by
producing a deadlock in the voting is
looked on as likely to produce a major
crisis which some observers suggest might
even bring the Government down. The
President of the Senate has no casting-
vote.
The bill imposing the increased sales-
tax on motor-vehicles was carried in the
House of Representatives by an over-
whelming majority.
All that seems required to resolve the
impasse is that the House of Repre-
sentatives should (as Mr. Calwell
himself suggested when Senator
Wright recently secured an amendmen
to a money bill which the House of Rep |e
sentatives accepted) “assert its rights o
the control of the public purse.
The Senate was not intended by those
who conceived it to be a party
except insofar as the States are P
States. But proportional representa -
introduced by Labor, destroy
P ‘Anlndependent and strongly
Senate which keeps the Government
the Lower House on the rails and
the mark is a vital adjunct to go g is
ment. It is a pity tha the
not less party in its ? Q overn nient
dispassionately critical ot
measures sometimes. „ rce nt the
But the Government cannot
defeat of the present bill «


ornate continues to deadlock, im-
h tax by resolution in the Commit-
Ways and Means and operate it
A has a further opportunity to put
■La bill before the Senate with a
fiance of getting it carried
f, he existing economic and consti-
\ 1 position the crisis scarcely calls
< 0U P ble-dissolution.
I Constitution Act makes it appear
t he Senate will be in the wrong if
cts the bill. But with the general
L only a year away, the country in
EL of anxiety and readjustment should
i; be submitted to the further distur-
L of a poll.
specially since Labor can scarcely fight
[the real issue, seeing that it considers
■ Senate is not only a House which
ijold bow to the opinion of the House
[Representatives in finance, even if it
Ijses, but an excrescence ripe for the
«'
Vise Counsels Prevailing?
[From Canberra]
[l restrained reaction by two senior
s®bers of the Parliamentary Labor
pity te the D.L.P. offer on preferences
jgests that there is still some sanity
tin the ranks of the A.L.P.
Ik first public rejoinder to the offer
as the outburst by A.L.P. chief “Jo”
jlamberlam that, in effect, any “deal”
1 the D.L.P. would be over his dead
politically speaking) body. And it might
all be.
However, after this display, Alan
ter, from N.S.W., and “Kingmaker”
[smelly, from Victoria, in separate
latements urged a more restrained
poach to the question.
Both are politically mature enough to
alise that unless something is done
lout the D.L.P., the Opposition will
main just what it is—the Opposition—-
■•years to come.
fhe meeting of the A.L.P. Executive
is week should prove interesting
Much as it should show just how
th support Chamberlain has for his
■•sight rejection of the approach,
fie outcome of this meeting will
a large degree the future course
•lie followed not only by Fraser and
®elly, but by many A.L.P. men on
* ‘fringe.”
Ineptitude Galore
[From Canberra]
‘Group of Government back-benchers
amazed at the ineptitude with which
I! x^ cu tive, and particularly Treasurer
J “ ave handled the Government’s
1 measures.
. has taken three weeks for the
!, e r ~ ment to bring down legislation to
£Ct ,t° its proposals to limit the
him UCUbilit y that companies can
In u! n ' lnte^est on borrowings.
I tk, e lnl ; er hn, Holt has been flounder-
i tllt 1 Question Time in Parlia-
kov 111 16 t 0 answer direct questions
fi J rnment P ro Posals simply because
U ost n ° t know the answers.
L °* the Government’s rank-and-
bers agree with the proposals
that it has put forward to arrest the
dangerous inflationary trends which have
appeared in recent months.
They have been prepared to give their
full support to the Government in im-
plementing these proposals. But what
have they found?
Introduction of the legislation has been
continually postponed, almost night after
night, simply because the Treasury could
not draft the legislation in such a way
as to ensure it achieved the Government’s
objectives without incurring a number of
undesirable side-effects.
The fact that the Government had to
introduce these measures so soon after
its Budget has not done much to en-
hance Holt’s standing as either Treasurer
or “heir apparent.” But that their im-
plementation should have been so mis-
handled has stunned many of Holt’s
former true-blue supporters.
The Ministry, from R. G. Menzies
down, has been staggered by the rough
passage the Government’s proposals have
received, not so much from its public
critics, but from its supporters.
Why the M.Ps. Like TV
The debacle on TV when Harold Holt
again cleaned-up the Melbourne press
must lead to a more realistic handling of
this session, which is at least one of the
most important nationally on television.
On the last occasion the Treasurer
vanquished the Melbourne press on what
seemed like a quite unimportant issue,
the M.Ps.’ salary-rises, although it led to
demand-inflation; the latest topic, the
credit-squeeze, is of vital importance in
its own right.
The result has been to impress on a
very large section of the viewing public
the unerring accuracy of the Govern-
ment in the measures it has taken, their
inevitability, the prescience of the Cabinet
and, implicitly, the infallibility of their
backroom advisers.
Harold Holt, as of course does Arthur
Calwell, simply uses these programmes
as political platforms, but Holt’s tech-
nique is more polished, or brazen. Occa-
sionally Arthur Calwell hesitates or
obviously hedges, but Harold Holt —
never.
The Treasurer carries in his head a
number of neatly-packaged replies to the
questions he believes he will be asked,
and if he gets one near the mark he pro-
ceeds to reel-off the answer he knows by
heart. This is obvious, because his syn-
tax in reply to what is presumably a
surprise-question is just on perfect; but
it doesn’t answer the question.
It does get his facts and the propaganda
across to the viewers. The majority must
be left to conclude that the Government’s
case is watertight.
If the question is a little too far off-
beam for what the Treasurer wants the
spotlight on, he prefaces his reply with,
“Your question, Mr. Blank, presupposes
” something else, which it doesn’t
presuppose at all.
The phrase, however, is one that the
Treasurer has picked-up from his master,
the Prime Minister. It brands the ques-
tioner as an uninformed or unthinking
heckler, although it should bring a quick
rebuke from a chairman of “It doesn’t
presuppose anything of the kind. Please
answer the question.”
Of course, interviewees who aren’t
regarded as having the importance of the
Federal Treasurer do get those retorts.
It will be a sorry day if the press is
overawed by the politicians, but that is
the impression given by Melbourne inter-
views with Menzies, Calwell and Holt.
The press calls a tune ; the downy birds
sing one of their favorites something
like it.
One who isn’t overawed is the hardy
and experienced Denis Warner.
Police on the Scent
With a whoop in the dailies which
would send any real crook scuttling for
cover to parts farther north than Surfers
Paradise, Victorian police have announced
an intensified effort to stop shady real-
estate dealing by agents.
> The starter ostensibly was a bill in
Parliament giving the Registrar of Build-
ing Societies control over building
societies’ advertising and power to in-
spect books without notice, but the State
Ministry regards the real-estate trade very
sourly just now.
The Premier claims he was misrepre-
sented in the offer of land for sale at
Sunbury, a satellite Melbourne town, and
Sir Thomas Maltby, the Minister for
Public Works, complained last week that
he had been misquoted about water-
supplies in advertising about land near
the seaside resort of Ocean Grove.
The Victorian police seem to have
leaped in far too enthusiastically, pro-
claiming their intention to put down
“bogus bidding” and “dummy sales” as
well as dealing with those who have
failed to produce audit reports within
the time stipulated by the Act.
There is no doubt that scores of real-
estate agents have been lax in producing
audits, but “dummy sales” is a fraud
which would be very difficult to prove
in court. It is one in which a vendor
is induced to sell to a dummy, a relative
or friend of the agent, for less than the
market price, and the property is then sold
for its true or over-value price to another
purchaser.
“Bogus bidding” is a practice carried
out by the most reputable agents. A
vendor fixes a reserve price for his
property and the agent takes bids from
him legally up to that amount. When
the reserve price is reached a sale is
usually effected.
Quite often the successful man at an
auction is the only bidder, and at some
auctions there are none. Auctions, how-
ever, are expensive, and when no imme-
diate sale is made, the vendor at least
gets publicity and an announcement of
the approximate price. The vendor sells
eventually at what he is prepared to
accept voluntarily to a buyer who pays
his price voluntarily.
As rather frequently of late, the Chief
Secretary’s officials seem to be going a
little too far.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TThe juniors were horrified to think they
were expected to try to get to work
during the Sydney transport trike. It
wasn’t a challenge to them, just a heaven-
sent opportunity to hitch a ride to the
beach and have a day off at the expense
of the boss. When the boss announced
that anyone could have the day off with-
out pay, it gave them pause. " After all,
Christmas just round the corner and all
those things on lay-by, a day’s pay would
be a lump out of the envelope that
couldn’t be spared. Reluctantly they
agreed to try. Then, when the day came,
they were all excited, comparing ex-
periences. They decided that participa-
tion was better than they expected and
more thrilling than watching from the
sidelines. Just the same, it would have
been a beaut day for the beach!
“Imperial 55.”
-ijt-
A sweet young thing, about 10 or 11,
asked me to buy a ticket for a social.
Pointed out that I wouldn’t be there,
but was reminded that I could still buy
a ticket. “But I’ve got my Sunday suit
on and I left all my money at home.”
“Oh,” she said, “you could buy a ticket
and enter it.” “Enter it?” “Yes, like
when you buy your meat and you haven’t
anv money. Enter it and pay later.” —-
“J.J.A.”
❖ ♦♦♦
In a letter from Gahd’s Own Country
there is a lot of dissertation about the
elections, ending: “Mr. Kennedy
promised so many things ; in fact lots
of people have stopped paying their
funeral instalments! ” —“Lorna Doone.”
♦>
Couldn’t resist listening-in to the two
smart females discussing earnest matters
“ She's not for sale , sir.”
at the adjoining table in the coffee-shop.
“Oh, ideas,” said the plumper one. “Of
course she’s full of ideas. But you don’t
raise funds without a certain amount of
tact, and that’s just what she hasn’t got.
This last scheme was an absolute flop,
as I knew it would be.” “What was it?”
“Well, my dear, she made dozens of
dollies’ aprons with little pockets in the
front and sent them out to all the
mothers with a note asking them to put
in a penny for every inch they measured
around the waist. Well, no woman’s
going to admit to being hefty there —
especially when it’s going to cost more.
I certainly wasn’t. I just put in two-bob
like all the rest of them.” —“Pat.”
❖ ❖ ❖
Our late-lamented rector had but one
fault that we were ever able to discover;
he was the world’s worst ri r ;
car-drivers pulled-in to the J?' other
was safely by. No one had k de , tiU he
to accept a lift from him n kn ° Wa
once. He picked-up a woman mor ?. th an
new to the neighborhood At P * nshl °ner,
the excursion the Rev. landed her
front gate, which she hadn’t P v her
to see again: “D'you know, y“« d
first one who’s been in my car who l h ?
tried to tell me how to drive?*’
wasn’t time,” quavered the lady ‘
didnt dare stop praying.”—"Maifri’’
* ❖ *
'? happening to the musicians on
the Manly femes? Has Sydney's C
winter discouraged them, or is the ni2
growing miserly, or is the competition
of transistors just too great? “M„ “
Way.”
*5 * $
The rotary mower reverberating in
my neighbor’s allotment stopped sud-
denly; I heard him muttering about
his wife throwing things out of sight in o
the tall grass. “Wire!” he exclaimed,
as he untangled it. “Every time 1 c
this patch I hit wire!” He tossed the
mangled length away into the
grass! —“O-Twit.”
* ❖ *
Bulletin joke-block likening 80 hoffl
units to Alcatraz reminds that r
new block of tiny flats near <■ ,
suburban railway - station L, ».
known as the “Rabbits' W»mn-
“P.O.M.C.”
>:♦ ❖ *
, , „„ ner Positions
In our suburban P a P ’ Assist-
Vacant : “Wanted Casual »
ant.” They can’t help getting o >
—“Green Willows.”
OUR BETTORS
“Fifteen men were betting on toy boats in
a Centennial Park (Sydney) canal, and a clerk
was fined £2O for receiving bets from 2s. to £l.
Little stream of water,
Gates to block its flow,
Little boats behind them
Waiting the word, “Go”
Fifteen men are betting
Which boat will be first
When the gates are opened
And the flood has burst.
The constabulary
Marches on the field;
Fifteen men are fleeing,
One is forced to yield,
And in the police-court
His Worship fines a clerk
Twenty pounds for betting
In Centennial Park.
Will the fourteen others
Lay-off betting flat ?
Men who’d bet on most things
Wouldn’t bet on that.
Little streams of water,
Little boats of wood
Make the wicked bettor;
Nothing makes him good.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


I rapid development of outer
uL Melbourne suburban coun-
sub fLblem in the numbering of
Allotments along main roads.
s en run through five suburbs,
*,l enough to be administered
P 7 Eac h city numbers allot-
-1 the road runs through its tern-
J|S 35 there are often two or more
the same number in the
10 d Box Hill City Council heard
"'Ll’ from a ratepayer who com-
l|!J th at among many similar
,|C “es a case of liquid refreshment
£n delivered to the similarly-
iittt house in the adjoining city
iawadmg; furniture which he d
Vd was dumped on his veranda ;
,an estate-agent had mistakenly
Dtographed his house and tried to
lit. —“R- Ray-”
* ❖ ❖
0n a bus: “Yes, my daughter is six-
and very interested in Yoga; and
ijfteen-year-old son is keen on Judo.”
|t other dame looked surprised,
jiely they are a bit young,” she said,
tile going out with immigrants.”—
0.W.W.”
* ❖ ❖
Ifthere is a universal lack of compre-
ssion among Sydneysiders it is of the
fence between “Push” and “Pull.”
itch them approaching swing-doors
ling these insignia and count how
my get it right first time. One middle-
siladywhom 1 helped solve the puzzle
plained her difficulty this way: “Of
arse I understand what the words
a; it’s my hands that can’t read.”
-“Pat,”
In English chain of tailor-shops, “The
ifty-Shilling Tailor,” will fit'you nowa-
iis with a suit for between eight and
rive guineas. At Dubbo (N.S.W.)
tv’re building a Guinea Motel . . .
Itbba.”
❖ ❖ *>
Another short and sweet sitting;
at be well behaved up this way,” corn-
led Judge Fraser, chairman, con-
®n§ the annual sitting of the Licens-
'Court at Mildura (Vic.). Licensing-
®ict covers all of the north-west of
‘State. The sitting lasted less than
; l£e minutes, during which the Court
oewe d licences for hotels, clubs,
Grants, billiard-rooms and other
®>ses in an area extending from St.
5 to the Murray River and east
Swan Hill.—“Tekma.”
* ❖ *
!? e Problem, he explained to sympa-
,l °nice cronies, was his wife’s atti-
J j r son - She was obviously
L lned t 0 He the boy to her apron-
1 5> prevent him from gaining con-
s' 4 u ren^ er him dependent upon
iiihim had ’ * n act ’ re f use d to part
order Sf to . consider doing so,
it's f he might follow in his
L i°„ S e P s at the boarding - school
|L sire had imbibed learning.
Were nods, and the joint
comment: “Women are always the
same.” No one, apparently, thought of
suggesting that the troubled father could
have broached the boarding-school topic
at some time more "suitable than that
upon which he first set eyes on his six-
hour-old son!—“Narumee.”
♦> *X* *X*
One of the Old Gray Mares is being
married, and as she is going to a well-
equipped house it’s been difficult to hit
on a suitable pre-wedding party for her.
She has always shouldered a lot of
responsibility, and helped bear the lot of
those less fortunate than herself, never
sparing herself in any way. To us, she
looks plain tired ! So, with the aid of
a beach-house of another member we
are giving her a weekend’s rest! An
interested outsider said, “Are the men
going, too?” Came the, reply, “Heavens,
no! They eat so much.” “Well, what
are you lassies going to do?” “Oh, we’re
only going to sleep and talk!’’—“Sister
Ellell.”
*s»
A Maltese in Mackay asked me to
recommend a car-painter. When I met
him some time later he said: “Man you
sen’ me to, he penta motor-cars. I no
wanta pent car, I wanta car-painter wot
builda house! “Tabba.”
❖ ❖ ❖
The place was newly painted and
redecorated and the owner was very
proud of her efforts. But she needed a
table-lamp to make things just perfect.
She found the base she wanted, but the
shade had to be in a particular color
and it would be an expensive item. She
admitted she couldn’t afford it, but on
the other hand she couldn’t wait to use
the lamp, so she airily explained that
she would get a shade on approval, use
it for a few days and return it, then do
the same thing at several other shops
and, as she said, “In that way, I’ll have
a few weeks’ use out of the lamp before
I’ll have to pay for a shade.” The woman
to whom she confided this plan was so
overcome she was still gasping when we
met her. What made her so incredulous
was that anyone who had such a plan
should talk about it. —“Sunray.”
<* +%* *t*
That item here about the young
migrant from Italy who, learning the
English language smartly and taking-
up sport, soon joined the Good Neighbor
Council and his town’s Chamber of Com-
merce, reminds us that only in Australia
are such opportunities so easily and
readily available to outsiders. Nine-
tenths of young Australians are even
more careless of local affairs and local
government than they are of govern-
ment in the larger sphere. In a few
years, since we’re probably the least
public-spirited people on earth, we’ll be
able to lounge back in real earnest,
what time the more intelligent of New
Australians are running our country for
us!—“P.O.M.C.”
❖ *** *>
It’s begun again ; absence due to self-
inflicted injury. Mostly it’s sunburn, but
the office-boy couldn't be usual if he
tried. He was found with the morning
deliveries still on his desk at mid-after-
noon: “Well, look. On Sat’dee I took
me boat out. But I fergit to put the
corks in, see? And she sank. They left
us there for hours before they come to
pull us in. And it's on a rocky shelf
with lots of shellfish when they pull
us ashore, and me feet’s all cut and
blistered, see? They'll be all right in a
day or two.” The senior typist was so
overcome at the thought of the deliveries
banking-up for three days that the boy
promised to help the healing process. He
said he’d sit and watch TV with his feet
in hot salt-water. —“Imperial 55.”
“But, dear, don't you remember? You retired yesterday !”


m
IN THE
f-p , y .
* •«&*.,! * \ &*■' r
IM
HI
■ 'M
,r
$?\Y.
ft.
Ik
Ws;
/
MM
- '
/ 4
f f
xS:*?
, S 3
IFP
m
&
4/j
7
•Sc
CO
u
°0
?0 UTW
K4028-A
T HE long-familiar column of smoke that has announced the movement
■ of trains across the rural scene for over a century, is vanishing.
In keeping with its vast modernisation programme, geared only to
the availability of capital funds, the Department of Railways is replacing
steam by diesel, diesel-electric and electric traction.
Already one complete section the North Coast Line has been
given over almost completely to diesel-electric traction, first stage in
a long-range programme that will mean more efficient and more
economical rail transport for New South Wales.
As improved industrial, commercial and agricultural techniques have
stepped-up the productivity of the State, so is the Railways moving
with the times . . . maintaining its place as the premier carrier . . •
providing services, as it has done since 1855, that are playing a major
part in the continuing progress and prosperity of New South Wales.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


The Case of the
Shipwrecked Chinaman
By OLAF RUHEN
a® hundred years ago a story that
0 changed Australian history was
led as news in the “Sydney Morning
S? Id”—a story of mass cannibalism
shocked the world Its influence
such that it delayed the annexation
New Guinea for a quarter-century,
delay which was instrumental in divid-
L the territory between the Germans
d the British. The story invested a
dole small nation— comprised of the
islanders resident in the Louisiade Archi-
igo and most of their neighbors—
ian undeserved reputation for callous
cruelty. Some writers still refer to it
is though it were a historical truth ; but
ie chances are strong that it was never
more than inspired fiction. I’d put them
I about 100 to one.
Because of the story, the British
rfused for years to halt the bloody
depredations of the criminals who preyed
pn these people for sandalwood and
slave labor, and sometimes slaughtered
them wholesale. Naval officers and
Government officials excused one-sided
military and naval actions against a harm-
fas people by quoting this “evidence”
of their savagery.
These actions aroused resistance: to
a limited extent the people of the
islands were made “savage” by them;
# that later European arrivals were
sacrificed to the story. And it still per-
sists; as late as 1954 yet another book,
k late Frank Reid’s Romance of the
few Barrier Reef, repeated it with some
wly-invented details, and since then
newspaper and magazine articles have re-
told the story, all presenting it as gospel,
jet all the evidence is that the whole
% was a hoax, invented without any
parent reason by a scheming or a
frightened Chinaman, and told by him,
primarily by signs, and secondarily
Ngh an interpreter, to an all-too-
“ev'ng audience who did not under-
s,and his language.
As his report has come down today,
e Trench ship St. Paul was wrecked
a small outlier, an almost barren rock
i: L aj Island in the Louisiades, the
jf w W ” f uns eastwards from the toe
tfa r W a * nea across the bottom of
e„ ti ° ral ea - The captain, crew and
Qiin o , P assen ger-complement of 327
and ® reac hed the shore ; the captain
help. i W in one of the boats for
from tu ln mea ntime the natives
mam anc * v isit e d the
ftej'lai^oUBjlt1 a i^ 0U8 j lt t I |errl food, and fattened
tilla e ’ e one at a time to their
lythetim u°i and there ate them.
e help arrived only the thinnest
Chinaman was left, and he was fattening
fast, getting ready for the butcher. His
rescue was effected and he was brought
to Sydney to continue his life on the
Australian goldfields. Arrested once for
a misdemeanor, he retold his experience,
so affecting the examining magistrate
that he was released from the conse-
quences of his misdeeds.
The first printed version of the story
came from the “Sydney Morning Herald”
of Wednesday, January 26, 1859. It was
headed: wreck of the st. paul and
MASSACRE OF HER PASSENGERS. The
report in full read:
“This ill-fated vessel left Hong Kong
for Sydney with 327 Chinese passengers
and on the night of 30th September was
totally wrecked on the island of Rossel.
Captain Pennard, her commander, and
eight of his crew left the island in one
of the boats and were picked-up by the
Prince of Denmark, schooner, on the
15th October inside Sir Evrard Home’s
Group and conveyed to New Caledonia.
“Immediately on learning the news of
the disaster the authorities at New Cale-
donia dispatched the French steamer
Styx to ascertain the fate of those left
on the island. The Styx arrived here
(Sydney) last evening, having left Rossel
on the Bth inst., and brings the horrify-
ing news that the whole of the passengers
and the remainder of the crew had been
killed by the natives with the exception
of one Chinese who had been brought
on to Sydney. It appears that from some
cause or other his life was spared, but
as he cannot make himself understood
without the aid of an interpreter, the
full particulars of this horrid butchery
could not be obtained last evening.”
By the following day the “Herald”
had obtained the services of H. Leau
Appa as interpreter, and, Appa being a
local citizen, it is to bs assumed that
there was no interpreter on the French
steamer ; and that therefore this was the
first coherent account given by the sur-
vivor. The newspaper reporter was
already committed to the story of the
massacre ; and at this point the respon-
sibility for the invention of the story
can be attributed to him, to Appa or to
the survivor with almost perfect impar-
tiality.
The survivor’s tale was printed as
follows: “The ship went on the shore
during the night, and when she struck
the passengers all rushed on deck, making
a great outcry, upon which the Captain
drove them all below again. When day-
light broke we landed by means of the
boats on an island, where we remained
two days without any water, when some
of us went aboard the ship again to get
some, as also provisions. The Captain
left in his boat with some of the crew,
and we were not disturbed by the natives
for a month after he had gone; then
they came over from the mainland,
distant about three-quarters of a mile,
and made an attack on us.
“Some of us had double-barrelled
carbines, but we got frightened and threw
them away. The only white man left
with us after the departure of Captain
Pennard was a Greek who, having armed
himself with a cutlass, fought desperately
and killed a great many of the natives
before he was overpowered.
“They then took all our clothing, etc.,
which they partly destroyed. Any valu-
ables that they found, such as sovereigns,
rings, etc., they placed in a net bag which
each man carried round his neck. A
watch particularly excited their attention,
as they were continually opening it to
observe the reflection of their faces in
the glass.
“At night we were placed in the centre
of a clear piece of ground and fires lit
in several places, and during the day
they would select four or five Chinese
and, after killing them, roast the flesh
and eat it; what was not consumed being
deposited in their nets.
“Their mode of proceeding was as
follows: The victims being decided upon,
they were taken out and beaten all over
(excepting the head) with a kind of club,
and then dispatched by ripping the
stomach open. The body was then cut
up in small pieces and divided, the
fingers, toes and brains being eagerly
sought after ; the bones were then coU
lected and either burnt or thrown away.
I saw ten of my fellow-passengers killed
in this way.
“On one occasion some of the Chinese
took a boat which belonged to the ship
and went over to the mainland at night
to get some water, but never returned
so we thought they had been killed.
Every day they [the natives] brought us
some coconuts or some wild roots to eat
and appeared to be quite friendly with
us. This state of things continued till
I was taken off the island.
“When I left there were only four
Chinese and the Greek left, all the rest
having been killed. I saw these five
the day the steamer came in sight, but
when the natives saw the boats coming
on shore they took them up the moun-
tain. I was sick and lame and they
would not carry me so that I watched
my opportunity and contrived to conceal
myself amongst the rocks until the boat
came on shore.


“They are very numerous, but do not
appear to have any chiefs among them;
they live on coconuts of which there are
large quantities, and a kind of yam,
which they roast before eating; but
beyond a few dogs I saw neither animals
nor fowls of any kind.”
“The narrator of the above horrible
details is quite a young man, particu-
larly intelligent in appearance,” com-
mented the “Herald” reporter, having
neglected to ascertain the name. “Several
of his relations were on board, but all
have perished.”
T eaving for the moment the obvious
discrepancies of this tale, it is pos-
sible to reconstruct a few of the actual
events of the voyage. The Chinese were
bound for the newly-discovered gold-
fields in the north of New South Wales
—the State of Queensland had not at
that time come into existence.
The passage from the North Pacific
via the China Straits close to the New
Guinea mainland at Milne Bay had not
been opened ; ocean-going ships cleared
the eastern end of New Britain, and
Rossel Island was the last considerable
hazard on their south-bound route.
Captain Pennard put his ship ashore at
night in south-easterly weather ; he struck
Adele Island, near the southern coast
of Rossel ; and by confining his excit-
able freight below decks prevented a
panic abandonment. Although high on
the reef and unshiftable, the St. Paul
remained unbroken ; the boats were un-
damaged and the shore handy, and with
daylight the whole ship’s complement got
ashore without injury.
From the shore, also, they were able
to return to the wreck and provide
themselves with essentials, including
weapons. It was a well-found company
that Pennard left on Adele Island when,
after a day or so, he took a boat and
set-out for Australia, seven-hundred
miles to the south and west. He was
within a few miles of his destination,
though far from any useful port, yvhen
he was picked-up by the schooner Prince
of Denmark on October 15, about two
weeks out from Rossel Island.
Captain MacKellar, commanding the
schooner, was a hard man, an adven-
turer ; Pennard begged him, he said
later, to sail immediately for the nearest
port to obtain assistance for the
marooned Chinese. But MacKellar first
wanted to provision his men. Thus they
spent 62 or 63 days at sea before bring-
ing the news of the wreck to the French
settlement at New Caledonia. The
French immediately commissioned the
Styx, which shortly found the lone sur-
vivor at Rossel. Beyond noting that he
showed no obvious signs of ill-treatment,
they were unable to investigate his story.
Indeed they were unable to receive it;
they could only guess at it.
In 1864 an account of the “massacre”
was incorporated in the British
Admiralty’s Sailing Directions, which
were read by the masters of all ships
arriving off Rossel, and immediately dic-
tated their attitude to the natives. And
when in all good conscience, the New
South Wales Parliament addressed a
memorial to the British Government,
praying that it exercise a jurisdiction
over New Guinea, these words were
cited in opposition in the reply.
Within a few years the excesses of
the blackbirders and the sandalwooders
caused retributive atrocities on the part
of the natives, and the islands did become
dangerous. These excesses were possible
only because of the British refusal to
act upon the New South Wales sug-
gestion.
But the Rossel Islanders’ side of the
story was not investigated until the
Administrator, William MacGregor—
later knighted—visited the island in
1892. His curiosity was aroused when
he was given a Mexican dollar dated
1852. It had been surcharged by having
three Chinese characters stamped into
the metal, and the natives told him that
it had come from the wreck of the St.
Paul, on Adele Island. Evidence of the
wreck, he found, was everywhere.
“There is no village on the South
Coast,” he wrote, “that does not contain
iron from this ship and some of her blue-
enamelled plates and dishes.” The cir-
cumstance is important. It proves that
the furniture and the amenities of the
vessel were available following the
wreck, and suggests she was a long time
breaking up.
MacGregor was unable to believe that
the Chinese had been overpowered or
eaten. The entire population of Rossel,
including women and children, he esti-
mated at 1000 to 1200 souls. This left
a maximum fighting force of 300 men ;
and the villages had never been known
to act in concert. He therefore, for the
first time, asked the natives their version
of the story. They gave it readily.
The Chinese had landed, they said, got
water, sugarcane and coconuts; they had
gathered all the food they could find for
a period, and then had left the island
in boats and rafts, proceeding north-
wards. MacGregor commented that they
would have had no choice of direction;
whether he meant that it was in the
time of the south-east monsoon, when
a northerly course would be indicated,
especially for rafts, or that their objec-
tive must have been the shipping lane
to the north, or the islands to the north-
west, is difficult to say. He asked the
natives why it should be believed that
the Chinese had been eaten; and for
this, too, they had an answer. They
pointed to the skull collections at their
houses; they kept skulls, they said, but
only the skulls of their relatives.
“The probabilities are all in favor or
the native account,” MacGregor wrote,
and he was at that time the best-informed
man in the world on New Guinea anairs.
“The natives are the mildest, quietest an
most inoffensive in the Possession,
have no proof whatever that they a
cannibals. The tribes all
southern coast live in very small c
munities and are by no means wa •
Their only weapon is the spear,
is no tribe on the island that cou
be conquered by fifty ineS ® vW here
with stones which abound ev y
on Yela (Rossel Island). A r <> jj spear
is but little inferior to the lßo J d
as an offensive weapon. Three


! could undoubtedly have con-
the island with such weapons as
! ,nuld pick up. But the natives
J { 0 think they had firearms.
Kt consideration of these circum-
n seems to me incredible that
Chinese were killed and eaten
island, and I therefore accept the
11 account as being correct. They
e all well acquainted with the main
MacGregor’s championship of the Ros-
I Islanders was recorded and supported
? one author, Seligman. Except for this
1 as lost in the dusty files of his annual
1 ftSi j n general, the “romance” of
f “Herald” version proved too attrac-
L the fantasy of a cannibal larder
yited preconceived European notions of
!„ unbelievable savagery rampant.
oothe Rossel Islanders were confirmed,
j unluckily, in a reputation alien to
|eir natures. But these gentle people,
living remote in their isolation, were not
iiuch harmed. It was the population
of the neighboring chains, the other
glands of the Louisiades and the XHalva-
dos, which suffered most when in the
next decade the brutal black birders raided
them for canefields labor.
Throughout the Chinaman’s account
there are several suspicious discrepancies:
I The Greek who fought with the cut-
lass and “killed a great many natives,”
though overpowered, was not killed by
his opponents but spared to the end.
I “The brains were eagerly sought
after” by people who collected un-
damaged skulls.
J “They were dispatched by ripping
the stomach open,” a curious .proceeding
for New Guinea natives ; curious for
any people armed with spears and with-
out knives. That is, unless they were
practising .with the captured cutlass
recently demonstrated upon their fellows,
t Some Chinese took a boat and went
for water. But there was water, and
sit ample supply of coconuts.
I In the period of the massacre some
Chinese took a boat and went to the
mainland at night for water —and their
tompanions expected them to come back
10 the daily slaughter. Those who
remained were not without water.
... ? aw ten °f my fellow-passengers
Killed in this way.... The natives....
Reared to be quite friendly with us.
ls state of things continued until I
ws taken off the island.”
I was sick and lame and they would
0 ca rry me, so that I watched my
PPortumty and contrived to conceal
isclf amongst the rocks.”
her tif discre P anc y °f figures. Remem-
nonth -r they were unm olested for a
Vl(W i „ The company would have pro-
rpm • nve or more carcasses for every
mairnng day of the ordeal. There is
Chinpf ntof . the dis P osa l of any
Nor k ‘ lled * n I* l6 mibal fighting,
faj , r matter is any method of
natives” , for the “ great man y
£ kll led by the Greek.
tion n f tde reason f° r the fabrica-
te kp- ls story? One possibility is
forj. 1 ? 8 , deserted by his companions
of thr/ 10d ma y have been in excess
becamp 6 m ß nt hs, his lonely imaginings
" e realities to him. The circum-
stances of the interview he gave were
such that it was practically put in his
mouth in any event. Another explana-
tion, less feasible, but still tenable, is
that the survivor was acting for all 327
Chinese in giving this account. They
were all probably indentured to Chinese
principals in Hong Kong; their fares
and expenses, probably magnified by
high interest rates, would be a charge
against their future efforts. One new
land might have offered them as much
promise as any other. These were
islands where food was plentiful; they
may have been amazed by the prevalence
of beche-de-mer, or perhaps by the wealth
of shell, and decided to disperse, leaving
one of their number to tell a story that
would preclude a search. Certainly there
were many Chinese in the Possession
before Government came to examine
the nature of its resident people.
But there is a much greater proba-
bility : that the story was the survivor's
method of concealing something he had
to hide. And there may be a clue in
his insistence that the Greek remained
to the end. This Greek, after all, was
a bit of a mystery. “Greek,” at the
time, was a fairly comprehensive term.
He was probably a Levantine of some
sort, but may have been anything from
Arab to Albanian. Captain Pennard,
setting-out on his long voyage in an
open boat, is reputed to have taken his
cabin-boy with him. There was no lack
of room ; had there been, he could have
taken an additional boat. He took the
boy yet left the Greek behind, and it
is reasonable to assume that the man
was not desirable company.
It is even more significant that the
remainder of the Chinese who left the
island on boats or rafts in the islanders’
accounts, or who went to the main island
by boat at night in the survivor’s, chose
to go without him. They were miners
or laborers, unused to the sea, and he
a sailor. He could have made at least
some contribution to their navigation;
the inference is that they did not like
his company.
Did he then, as so many shipwrecked
bullies have done, set-up a reign of terror
after the majority had left? Did he,
perhaps with the connivance of these
five Chinese lieutenants, including the
schemer who looked so remarkably
intelligent, perhaps himself kill and eat,
or at least kill and rob the luckless cast-
aways who were not on his side? There
was motive for robbery; besides any
personal possessions, the ship’s stores
were available down to the blue-enamel
plates in her galley ; after the wreck she
remained high enough in the water for
the captain to batten down the pas-
sengers without losing a life. The details
of execution given by the survivor sound
convincing; yet they are not native
methods of dispatch.
And on that morning when the Styx
steamed quietly into sight, did these six,
the five Chinese and the Greek, hold a
council of war and then separate ; the
five fleeing from officialdom, the sixth
frustrating a search, and perhaps himself
fleeing the madness of semi-isolation or
the horror of his earlier decision?
I think something like this happened ;
that the remainder group at least had
something to hide ; and by leaving one
man with a tale of wholesale destruction
they would avert a search of the island.
Even if he could have spoken English
he need not have admitted it, but only
given sufficient intelligence to show that
further search was useless. For one
thing, if the natives had really eaten
the 326 Chinese, where were the admit-
tedly undamaged boats? Concealed,
perhaps; but who concealed them?
And to what purpose? Destroyed ; again
for what reason?
is some further evidence that
A this may be a reasonable solution ;
more reasonable, I think, than that from
fear of the sea, this one Chinese stayed
by himself while his 326 companions
sailed into the North.
The evidence consists of a garbled and
word -of - mouth account of the rescue
of two more Chinese from Port Lifou,
in a neighboring group. The rescue was
made by Captain Charles Edwards in the
schooner Bluebell in 1865. These two
survivors, after paying an affectionate
farewell to their native wives, were taken
to the Australian mainland. They did
not speak English, and were regarded
as having got stupid during their long
isolation ; yet they said, or were reported
as having said, that they had been sold
by the Rossel Islanders for axes. If they
existed, and if they were rightly reported,
they could have been two of the five
companions of the first survivor; and
they could have been using the well-
known “no savvy” tactics.
For the Greek and the others prob-
ably survived, and became associated
with the lawless element which haunted
the south-west Pacific at this time. There
was no law in New Guinea, and conse-
quently no country could extradite its
criminals. A high proportion of the
non-indigenous inhabitants consisted of
adventurers wanted by the law in some
country or other. What was more to
the point, these men set the standards
for those who were not, for each com-
munity survived by rule of force.
Amongst them were “Greeks,” Chinese,
Filipinos and Malays as well as Aus-
tralians, Americans and North Euro-
peans—the Greeks and Filipinos, indeed,
being there in goodly numbers. In this
melange the survivors of the St. Paul
could have disappeared, and later even
risen to prominence in the area’s domes-
tic history; for when government did
come, it was impolite to ask for a man’s
record or his origins.
Whatever the real story was, if canni-
balism did take place on Rossel Island,
neither the predators nor their victims
were to be found amongst the native
population, I am convinced. Of a later
echo of the affair, in which the alleged
survivor told his story in an Australian
court, one comment should be made.
No check vyas made there; it is not
even clear that this was the same Chinese
delivered by the Styx ; and the motive
was apparent. Most petty criminals have
leaned at times on the hard-luck story to
mitigate their punishment; and by this
time the Rossel Island story had achieved
wide currency.
The story is still a tragic one; but
its tragedy lies in its dissemination and
not its sources.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Playing the Art Circuit
with Albert Tucker
Export prices of Australian primary
products may be falling, but sheets
of Masonite smeared with poly-
vinyl acetate are fetching up to
£750 in New York and London—pro-
vided they are signed “Tucker.”
This is just another way of saying that
Albert Tucker, a Melbourne painter, has,
in company with Sidney Nolan, made a
significant breakthrough in the inter-
national art market. For the first time
Australian paintings are a la mode abroad
as well as in Toorak and Bellevue Hill.
Albert Tucker was the first of Aus-
tralia's post-war artist expatriates, 13
years ago, and he is the first to return.
He is tanned, confident and successful.
He has already sold, for £5400, 13 of
the 50 pictures in the Tucker exhibition
now going round Australia.
His success story begins with 10 years
of work and travel, and ends with a
whirl on the high-pressure, high-price
art circuit which runs from San Fran-
cisco to Rome and which is hazardous
to get on and almost fatal to get off.
“The gallery system is in complete
control of the market and the artists,”
says Tucker. “You go along—if they’ll
have you —or you don’t make the grade.
You need money to live, say, in New
York. If you can convince them your
stuff is saleable they’ll pay you in ad-
vance. Say, £25,000 for your next 20
paintings. At the end of the year, after
a tremendous publicity campaign, they
put on an exhibition of what you’ve done
for them, plus a few others of your
own.
“If you’re somebody like Kline or de
Kooning your show will sell out —at
around £lO,OOO per picture, or ten times
what the gallery paid you for them.
While I was in New York de Kooning
grossed about £llO,OOO for an exhibition,
but I doubt if he got more than a third
of that. In theory the gallery’s com-
mission is a third, but it often gets more
like two-thirds.
“By the time the artist has paid for
materials, framing, insurance, transport
and the expense of living in a central,
high-rent area —and an artist seriously in
business over there can’t afford to live
anywhere else, believe me —the take is
getting low. Then you’re hit with taxes
in the upper bracket, after you’ve
walked for ten years instead of riding
in buses.
“But the galleries don’t leave it at
taking their profits. They tell you what
kind of things to paint. They even tell
you what size to make them. And they
won’t tell you who buys your pictures
in case you offer the buyer another one
direct, by-passing the gallery.”
Tucker and Nolan are good friends,
although engaged in a kind of rivalry
to get the highest prices.
“Nolan is definitely ahead of me in
London now,” Tucker admits, “especially
after the sensational sell-out of his show
on the theme of Leda and the Swan. His
lyrical approach suits London. But I am,
I think, a little ahead of him in New
York, where they go for my tragedy-of-
life. I’m ahead in the institutional market
with two pictures in the Museum of
Modern Art, and one in the new Guggen-
heim Museum —the spiral one designed
by Frank Lloyd Wright.”
Tucker pictures on show in Australia
range in price from 450 guineas to 650
guineas.
“These are what I would call the low
American price,” says Tucker. “I didn’t
know how they would go here, but I
decided I’d have to try for a proper price
or fail.”
He is understandably critical of the
low value attached to artists’ work in
Australia, with the obvious exception of
Dobell and Drysdale. “You can’t expect
the cultural side of life here to grow if
people go on thinking they can buy good
pictures with the change out of their
spending money,” he says.
“I remember one time Nolan was stay-
ing with me in Rome and he needed
money, so he sent off a show of small
pictures to Brisbane. He was advised
that he wouldn’t get any more than 25
guineas for them, so he let them go for
that.
“Naturally they all sold. When he had
finished paying his costs, including fram-
ing and commission, he got a few shil-
lings over ten pounds each for them. How
much do you reckon they’re worth now?
Hundreds.”
Which brings Tucker to the sense of
frustration (not new, of course) felt
by the artist when he sees works he sold
cheaply in order to eat changing hands
for hundreds or thousands once he be-
comes fashionable.
“This business has literally driven
Chirico almost to a frenzy. In Rome not
long ago a dealer came to him with a
picture he had paid Chirico about £5O
for many years ago. The dealer said
he had an American buyer for it, pro-
vided Chirico would authenticate it.
Then he revealed that he was getting
£9OOO for it.
“Chirico was so furious that he
refused to authenticate it, and in fact
went round saying it was a forgery. The
dealer, seeing his sale disappear, took
Chirico to court. The artist swore that
it wasn’t his picture. The court, on
TUCKER AFTER TUCKER
expert advice, insisted that it was. So
the picture was authenticated by the
court, the dealer got his £9ooo—and the
artist who had painted it was fined £l5O
for perjury!”
Albert Tucker has done what he can
to safeguard his capital. Despite
temptations and the necessity to live, he
has kept most of his early work, includ-
ing hundreds of drawings and sketches.
He sold only about 30 pictures before he
left Australia, and only some 40 or 50
while abroad. If the demand for Tuckers
holds up and grows he will release his
backlog in controlled batches. This way
he seems assured of a more than adequate
income for life.*
As for the paintings themselves, he has
gone as far as he can to make them an
indestructible asset to anyone who buys
one. They are painted with pigmen s
mixed into the longest-lasting permanen
industrial adhesive that 1.C.1. chemis
can devise. ,
If Albert Tucker can arrange it, there
will be Tuckers around wheti the wa is
of the Sistine Chapel are covered witn
ivy.
• •
Announcing that his
fired its first big salvo in the .
world markets, John T. ...
managing-director of United
reports that an Australian X P an£ j
is now to be shipped to the dk
the U.S.A. and then Pr°^ Gold)
the world. The blend (Cort s j nce
was first made 11 years ago , be f ore
been tested and tasted at in
being finally approved. v j n tage,
Of Williamstown (Vic.J ] f millers
Monahan started with a firm
"7 well out
* The Bulletin looks like°‘P the form
of this. It holds Tucker stocky him oun d
of some caricatures it boug eva jiing rate
20 years ago at the then pr eVd
30s. each.


Ij wholesale grocers m 1914, joined
!? ite( j Distillers in 1941, became g.-m.
0 1955, and two years later was
managing-director. He offers this advice
w hisky-drinkers —it’s best served in
joz. glass, with one part of whisky
[jtwo parts water and with ice added.
There's a lot about Australian drink-
habits he doesn’t like —he blames
lestricted hotel hours, advocates later
losing, more licensed restaurants and
tavern-style licences, and holds that
wherever these improvements have come
things have changed for the better.
}je favors bars where fruit-drinks, tea,
offee, etc., are served in addition to
aleohol, but doesn’t think cocktail-bars
till ever catch-on in Australia, “simply
because Australians like their drinks
straight and not in fancy mixtures.” He
jgrees with the practice of “shouting”
in bars—“it brings about a degree of
friendship and sociability which we all
look for.” Australian hotel standards he
tonsiders the equal to any in the world ;
but, he says, there just aren’t enough
hotels here to ensure the public the ser-
vice it’s entitled to.
• •
Reader in Australian Linguistics at the
University of Adelaide and the leading
authority on the Aranda dialects, T. G. H.
Sirehlow called at The Bulletin office
file other day on his way to Angus and
lobertson, who are bringing out his
kgs of Central Australia. He was just
lack from five months in the bush, be-
Iween Alice Springs and the South Aus-
tralian border, collecting more aboriginal
songs, and he explained a little about
Aranda mythology and epic poetry—
enough to whet anyone's appetite for
more.
Born at Hermannsburg (N.T.), Strehlow
graduated from Adelaide University and
fen went off to spend a couple of years
investigating Central Australian dialects,
T.G.H. STREHLOW
Songs from the Centre.
songs and traditions for the Australian
National Research Council. Later he
served six years as patrol - officer and
deputy-director of Native Affairs in the
Territory, before becoming an instructor
at the School of Civil Affairs at Dun-
troon in 1945. The following year he
joined the staff of Adelaide Uni. as
Research Fellow in Australian Linguistics
and Lecturer in English Literature. He
was Research Fellow at the Australian
National University from 1949 to 1951,
then returned to Adelaide in his present
job. His Aranda Phonetics and Grammar
is the text-book for the dialects and he
has published two other books: Aranda
Traditions and Rex Battarbee.
.• •
With the sudden death in Melbourne of Dr.
George Simpson there passed on one of the
most intimate friends of Flynn of the Inland,
who shared with him the first experiments con-
nected with the foundation of the Royal Flying
Doctor Service.
On August 2, 1927, when Dr. Simpson, aged
28, was in Cloncurry with Padre Andrew Barber
on an extensive medical survey of the inland,
a serious accident occurred at Mount Isa, and
Dr. Simpson flew with Norman Evans in a
Qantas De Havilland 50 to treat and bring a
patient with a broken pelvis to Cloncurry
Hospital. This first flight of the Flying Doctor
Service made world history, and since then
Dr. Simpson, as well as keeping up with a
busy Melbourne medical practice, had been
continuously associated with the Councils of
the Royal Flying Doctor Service, both in the
Victorian section —which provides an aerial
medical coverage in the Kimberleys with bases
at Wyndham and Derby—and on the Federal
Committee, of which he was honorary secretary
for many years.
George Simpson grew up on a station
property near Hamilton (Vic.) and went to
Scotch College, Melbourne University and
later to England for post-graduate studies in
gynaecology, in which he specialised. In
addition to his administrative work for the
Royal Flying Doctor Service he was medical
adviser to the Australian Inland Mission, of
which he was a board-member from 1936 to
the time of his death.
The Rev. Fred McKay, superintendent of
the Australian Inland Mission, who gave the
address at the funeral service, said that Simp-
son was one of the first Australians to outline
the Mantle of Safety (medicine, radio and
aviation), which, he claimed, was the only way
of giving security to inland settlers.
Dr. Simpson was also honorary secretary of
the Victorian Bush Nursing Association and
served in War II as an R.A.A.F. medical officer.
• •
As Sydney “Herald” not very tactfully
put it, “A Sydney land surveyor, Mr.
R. D. Fitz Gerald,” won this year's Grace
Leven prize for poetry. The prize, of
£lOO, was left by William Baylebridge
for the best book of verse of the year
by a writer born in Australia. Fitz-
Gerald’s prizewinner, The Wind at Your
Door, was first published in The
Bulletin and afterwards printed in a
limited edition by Walter Stone’s Tal-
karra Press.
• •
Among the 39 applicants for land-
settlement holdings at Esperance (W.A.)
is Marcus John Wood who sold his farm
at Clanwilliam, 150 miles north of Cape
Town, two months ago. He says his
decision to move to Western Australia
had no connection with the political
situation in South Africa ; he had long
been interested in Esperance as good
land for pasture, stock-raising and cereal
crops, and as one of the safest rainfall
areas in Australia.
A. S. BINGLE, president of the Royal
Flying Doctor Service’s N.S.W. section,
has been on the R.F.D.S. council
since 1955.
Peter Ryba, joint managing-director of
Advance Plastics, returned lately from
four months abroad, where he has been
looking at plastics progress in England,
Europe, Canada, America and Japan.
More plastics ideas per head of popula-
tion are still coming out of England than
from any other country, he says. Germany
is still leading the field in fabricating-
machines, and considerable progress is
being made there with P.V.C. plastic—
it is being used in rigid form to make
household water-pipes. In manufacture
of stationery and service articles —one
of his company’s own fields—America
and Canada have improved quality of
workmanship, and are “catching up on
Australia.”
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 88, Dr. Agnes
Bennett. First woman to graduate in science
from Sydney University, she took a degree
in medicine in Edinburgh in 1899, and six
years later took charge of the first State
maternity hospital in the world (St. Helen's,
Wellington). In War I, joining in Cairo to
help with Anzac wounded from Gallipoli, she
was the first woman to be commissioned in
the British Army; between the wars she worked
with the Flying Doctor Service in Queensland,
and in War 11 for three years in bombed areas
in Britain. Back in N.Z., she worked in the
Chatham Islands —though by then she was over
70—for which service she was awarded an
0.8. E.
In Sydney, at 63f, Alexander McCorquodale,
a vice-president of the R.A.S. of N.S.W.,
managing-director of McCorquodale Brothers
Pty., Ltd., flour-millers, chairman of Cumber-
land Newspapers, Ltd., a member of the
advisory committee, Wagga (N.S.W.) Research
Institute since 1953, who served in the Ist A.I.F.
(Bth Field Engineer Co.) and in War II was
assistant-engineer, gun-ammunition production,
with the Ministry of Munitions.
At Hawke's Bay (N.Z.), at 92, Major-General
Sir Andrew Russell, commander of the Ist
New Zealand Division, 1915-19.
In Sydney, at 90, Robert Chambers, one
of the oldest members of the R.S.L., formerly
of the Royal Australian Navy.


POLITICAL POINTS
Senators Wright and Wood are at
least consistent in opposing increased
sales-tax on cars on the grounds that it
is inflationary. In April last year they
voted against the Salaries Grab which
not only set the fashion for wage- and
salary-demands, but made it difficult for
the court to reject them. It is impossible
to measure accurately the inflationary
effect of the rise in the national wages-
bill since the passing of the Parliamentary
Allowances Bill, but Federal M.P.s
(Government and Opposition) cannot
shrug off their share of the blame. Self-
restraint on their part early in 1959,
instead of self-pity, would have done
the economy great service.
In the Senate, besides Wright and
Wood, only Senators Marriott (Lib.) and
Cole and McManus (D.L.P.) voted
against higher salaries. In the Reps, three
Victorian Liberals —F. J. Davis, R. W. L.
Lindsay and E. D. Mackinnon —were the
only dissentients.
• •
Eric Harrison has struck trouble in
London. Three years after the erection
of the Commonwealth’s lighted sign in
Piccadilly some Hibernian has discovered
that it marks Eire as part of the United
Kingdom. Behind his shame-crimson
forehead the High Commissioner can
reflect that 150,000 Irishmen from the
south who enlisted in the British Army
during World War II apparently made
the same mistake.
• •
Calwell has been optimistically
prophesying depression and disaster ever
since the Menzies Government came to
power in 1949, and now he feels once
again that both are just round the corner.
“Not since the great depression of the
1930 s has Australia been face to face
with a crisis like this one,” he told an
A.L.P. women’s meeting in Sydney,
adding that he was confident that Labor
would win next year’s election. Earlier
he had described Federal Cabinet as a
team of “tired, haggard and harassed
men.” If he is right in his forecasts
he’ll be looking rather tired, haggard and
harassed himself by 1962. Still, he’ll
have the benefit of the advice of the
same financial wizards who are now
guiding Harold Holt.
• •
Although H. G. Fowler has campaigned
shrewdly for the A.L.P. in Higinbotham,
building himself up especially as a non-
Communist, only a landslide from the
Government’s credit-squeeze could give
him the seat now that the D.L.P. pre-
ferences are going to Liberal Donald
Chipp on Saturday. All reports from the
electorate are that there will not be a land-
slide, although the Liberals may lose
votes to both A.L.P. and D.L.P.
• •
An iron-and-steel industry for W.A.
has been brought a step nearer by the
announcement by Premier Brand of an
agreement with B.H.P. It’s a long-term
plan, and it envisages a blast-furnace at
Kwinana with a capacity of 450,000 tons
p.a. by 1968 and a steelmaking plant
and rolling-mill, capacity 330,000 tons
p.a., by 1978. Ultimate cost, £4O million.
An essential point of the agreement,
however, is the conversion to standard
gauge of the railway from Kalgoorlie
to Fremantle and Kwinana (at a cost
of £35 million) and the W.A. Govern-
ment has to talk Canberra into this. Iron-
ore for Kwinana would come from
deposits - north-east of Southern Cross,
about 240 miles east of Perth.
• •
Tom Playford’s sudden ring on
Menzies’ doorbell was motivated by
fears that the Commonwealth might give
the Kalgoorlie-Fremantle-Kwinana con-
version to standard-gauge priority over
the conversion of S.A.’s northern lines,
including Port Pirie-Broken Hill.
Menzies apparently said Cabinet would
discuss Playford’s submissions this week.
• •
The A.L.P. proposes to appoint a
Federal secretary at £3OOO a year, the
office to cost about £12,000 annually.
Acting-Federal secretary Chamberlain
sees an easy solution to the financial
problem: quadruple the affiliation-fee
and transfer the balance of the Chifley
Memorial Fund (£1833) and the Inter-
national Affiliation Fund (£296) to the
general fund of the party for establish-
ment expenses.
For the £1833 donated by supporters
to provide a memorial to Ben Chifley,
subscribers will, if Chamberlain’s p ia „ s
go through, see the most exnemiv
plaque in Australia hung i n the A I P
offices.
• •
W. A. Chaffey, M.L.A, Deputy-leader
of the N.S.W. Country party, want l!
Heffron to arrange for the Electoral
Commissioner or some other reliable
authority to conduct a secret ballot of
Government-transport employees to find
out their real feelings on the 24-hour
stoppage. He feels that the result might
“give strength to the Government” when
confronted with threats of similar action
in the future. It might give them infor-
mation. But giving them strength (and
the will) to oppose Labor Council de-
mands is quite another story.
• •
While the Treasurer is talking of the
need to curb excessive spending in the
building-industry and the Reserve Bank
is urging a credit-squeeze the same insti-
tution is spending millions on costly new
premises in three capital cities. It seems
to be a case of “do as we say, not as we
do.”
• •
In the Vic. Legislative Council a com-
bination of Country and Labor-party
votes threw out the second plan to create
two additional Provinces for the Council.
Country-party M.L.Cs. were in their usual
form of opposing any electoral reform
whatever ; Labor, under Stoneham, per-
formed its usual cranky-boy attitudes of
I-want-the-lot-or-nothing, getting noth-
ing. As there is provision for only two
plans under the Act, the old provinces
of 45,000 electors in the city and -22,000
in the country remain, at least until
1964.
• •
Churchill was 86 on November 30,
which makes him not only the
greatest but the most enduring Prime
Minister since Gladstone died in 1897.
And he has only three years to go to
supplant the G.O.M. as the longest-lived
P.M. in British history.
“One thing, Harold, it seems to be flat only at the bottom."


t i e retail-store world it’s now a case
} what’s not yours is Myer’s.
• •
f .u e Cameron, Labor M.H.R. for
Larsh (S.A.), wants import-restric-
I re iniposed on “inessential luxury
Ids” In particular he complains that
government is permitting unlimited
L ts of “frogs’ legs in aspic, canned
J an ts, cods’ eyes, sturgeons’ eggs,
:.c a t e i s in champagne, red ants in
canned caterpillars, Paris-model
its and hats, artificial eyelashes, jewel-
ed dog-collars and poodle perfume.”
~|y something should be done about
sc red ants!
• •
I I National-party leader Holyoake
wed rare political courage when he
it down to Nelson and told the elec-
slhere that if his party came to power
would, as a matter of economic
dence, stop the £ 15-million railway
Be recently begun there by the Nash
jiernment. His action was suicidal as
;as Nelson was concerned —it was the
| constituency to show a marked rise
ie Labor vote —but it may have been
j party’s salvation elsewhere.
• •
Queensland is perturbed at the increase
joyriding” by juveniles, and the record
ibers of youths charged with “illegal
:of cars.” Heavier penalties are sug-
)sd. A sensible first step would be
stop using euphemisms for the old-
lioned word “stealing.” If a clerk is
covered dipping into the firm’s cash-
rfor a flutter at the races on Saturday
;fact that he intends to repay the
«y on Monday (if he wins) is not
*pted as palliating his offence,
scribing cars which are “illegally used”
"borrowed” doesn’t alter the fact that
Tave been stolen. There’s still some
®in calling a spade a spade.
• •
wame Nkrumah, who two years ago
poised a union between Ghana and
•a about which little seems since
b«e been done or heard, has now
'Wed another union—this time with
* On reports the union goes much
® er than the Guinea engagement;
tWo countries are to set-up a com-
-11 Parliament. Mali’s divorce from
'W, its partner in the Mali Federa-
te decreed in August at Senegal’s
j c . st ’ °nly two months after the
% The two new partners are
Ted geographically by the Upper
3 Republic which a few months ago
W an invitation to join the Mali
7 atlon - They are also separated by
,ilct that Ghana is a member of the
and Mali a mem-
}t3le French Community, but con-
! lOnal questions like that don’t seem
Unt for much in Nkrumah’s plans.
• •
IWs certificates for motor-vehicles
? e abolished in Victoria (the only
Wch issues them), the Government
} that they are not certificates of
e 7 appear to have lost a great
deal of their value with finance-com-
panies, they have been used to perpetrate
frauds and they are imposing on the
Government and the community a cost
far in excess of their value. Or could
it be that the bureaucrats are bored with
them?
• •
Liberal women are expressing annoy-
ance with the Federal Government for
neglecting to consult the Federal Liberal
Women's Committee to find women’s
viewpoints on public matters or pending
appointments. They’re also critical of the
N.S.W. parliamentary Liberals for pick-
ing a man out of seven nominees for the
likely Liberal vacancy in the Legislative
Council, although two prominent women
members of the party nominated.
* • >
Spain is in trouble again. A bunch
of its Communists went to Paris, cached
their Spanish passports, got false papers
from the Communists and went to
Prague for a conference devoted to a
conspiracy against the “Fascist war-
mongers” of the West —particularly
Spain and Franco. Now they’re wonder-
ing why they are in Franco’s prison-cells.
• •
YX/fiFE - starvers cost the Common-
wealth £3-million a year, according
to D. J. Killen, Liberal M.H.R. for
Moreton (Q.). This is the sum paid out
by the Social Services Department to
deserted wives. He asked Social Services
Minister Roberton to see whether State
Governments could strengthen their
maintenance laws to force deserting
husbands to face their responsibilities
instead of shelving them on the tax-
payers. Roberton replied that such an
approach would be outside his province.
A deserted wife only qualified for a
widow’s pension when she had exhausted
all legal processes open to her to obtain
maintenance.
• •
While Australia defers consideration
of nuclear-power stations, even in areas
remote from coal or water supplies,
Britain has just decided to add a new
station to its nuclear network at a cost
of £stg.ss million. The station, at Size-
well, Suffolk, will contribute 580,000
Kw. to the total output of three-million
Kw. of nuclear power. It is claimed
that Sizewell will generate the cheapest
nuclear powdr in the world, the cost
being well below the British national
average.
« •
How did Walter Nash take the defeat
of his Labor Government? His radiant
photogenic smile was if anything brighter
than ever. The 78-year-old P.M. of
prodigious working-capacity was in bed
by 2 a.m. on the night of the poll, and
was up for a few minutes at 4 a.m. to
answer a phone - call from a supporter
who wanted to apologise for not voting
for his party. Back to bed and up a
few hours later to attend chapel; to the
opening of a college in the afternoon ;
and then back to many callers and much
work. Nash plans to lead Labor “as
long as they want me.” —“P.A.L.”
Appointment of a Federal Minister
with responsibility for only shipping and
transport persuaded the Australian Auto-
mobile Association that greater attention
would thereupon be given to roads, road-
safety and kindred matters. At least this
is what retiring president D. M. Cullity
said in his annual report, adding that it
was too early to say whether the associa-
tion’s hopes would be realised. He
declared that the Minister (“Oppy”) was
restricted by Government policies,
“which in some cases are contrary to
our own views,” and acknowledged with
some condescension that in spite of this
the association recognised the import-
ance of “the many and varied demands
for finance to provide other essential
services.”
• •
The condition of U.N. may well be
judged by the state of the subscription-
list to its budget. Twenty countries out
of 82 were in arrears with their dues
on October 31, to a total amount of
about £A.2O million. Russia, which re-
fused to pay its share of the cost of the
U.N. emergency force in the Middle
East and now refuses to pay its share
in the Congo, owes about a third of the
total. National China owes 8.8-million
dollars. Most of the other defaulters
are small Arab or African and Latin
American republics or Communist and
fellow-traveller countries. The U.S.,
which meets 32.5 per cent, of the budget,
is not only the biggest annual contributor,
but has actually exceeded its quota. Its
basic annual dues are roughly 19-million
dollars, against 8-million from Russia,
4.5-million from the U.K. and 3.7-million
from France.
e •
Queensland Treasurer Hiley, explain-
ing why his Pollution of Waters by Oil
Bill defined the maximum allowable
“oily mixture” to be discharged into
territorial waters at ‘TOO parts of oil to
1,000,000 parts of mixture” when the
same thing could be expressed as “one
part of oil to 10,000 parts of mixture,”
said that this formula merely followed
Commonwealth procedure. Opposition-
leader Duggan suggested that perhaps
the Commonwealth Government was so
accustomed to talking in millions that
it couldn’t help it.
• •
John Galbally, Opposition- and Labor-
leader in the Victorian Council, became
rather emotional on the Kidnapping Bill,
which prescribes a penalty of 20 years’
imprisonment and gives a court power
to order a whipping. As he sees it the
measure takes its place alongside the
Star Chamber, the Spanish Inquisition
and the Russian State Trials of the 19305.
Galbally is one of Labor’s hopes in
the Victorian Parliament. When he
emotes, he reduces their number by half.
• •
Tmport-restrictions will not be reim-
posed “late this year or early next
year”, Minister for Trade McEwen told
a questioner in the Reps. The phrasing
of the question enabled him to say, “The
simple answer to the question is no.”
Whether the answer would have been so
simple if the question had included “late
next year” is a matter of opinion.


*
rfois) cm I V&CTitf
Hy f\s£T-A[Q %WGt UAtL^SS
$MtOl& cmxeams?


THE LUCKY FAMILY
By MARGARET TRIST
,|HE men working on the road were
paid on Fridays.
At midday on that first Friday
after he had been taken on the
Dave Moneypenny walked from the
Quarry to his home that was so
ion the outskirts of Unwisdom Bay
jbe almost in Salting Pete’s, the next
:community on the shores of Middle
bor, which, like Unwisdom Bay, had
story stretching back almost to the
years of colonisation, but, like it
opto this year of 1932, had shown
(further development,
iom the ridge separating the two
unities, on which Dave’s home was
led, one could see the winding shores
iblue waters of Middle Harbor clear
IcSpit Bridge, and beyond, a deeper
(limitless blur, which was the ocean.
;Dave had other things to think of ;
its, he took scenery for granted,
it was a brown man, of medium
It, spare frame, with thin features
deep-sunken dark-blue eyes under
'banging black brows. His hair was
i, too, and now showed, plastered
i sweat to his forehead, underneath
id Digger hat. He wore navy foot-
shorts and a navy singlet, and on
to were new heavy working-boots
iwere causing him to limp. He spat
is hands from time to time, rubbed
■gingerly together, then let them fall
® sides and shook them,
iving home, he went to the kitchen
while his wife Dolly and his 18-
id daughter Cassandra watched,
is pay-envelope from his trousers-
!t and shook the money from it
•he table. A few pound-notes, a
and odd silver.
fl Moneypenny scooped up the
,a| td handed it back to Dave.
1(e kept his hands behind his back
trie d not to take it. “The way I
' Doll”—he began.
Jeway I see it, Dave,” said Dolly,
”8 back the frizzy, faded-fair hair
” er forehead with her small, but
■ an d roughened hand, “is that
e working like anyone else, and you
a beer at knock-off like anyone
" adjusted the front of her pink
that was joined in only one place,
strings, in the position where her
1 a b disappeared, and which gaped
the hem, showing her plump,
f knees and white, blue-veined
mu’ve got to hold your own,
, et a name for meanness or not
| Wlt h the boys . . She peered
ea mestly through pale-blue, short-
t e yes.
“Yes, I know, Doll. Well, I won’t
chuck it around.”
/"''assie looked at the money and her
head whirled. “Now I mustn’t be
greedy,” she thought, “mustn't start say-
ing all the things we need, that I haven’t
any shoes, or that they keep on about
Vernie at school because she hasn’t a
uniform like the other girls . . .”
Instead she said: “Mumma, don’t you
think it would be best if we don’t spend
all of it? Keep a little aside as we used
to do. After all, if the pay had been
ten-shillings less we wouldn’t have had
that ten-shillings, and” —
Dolly’s chin quivered and red ran up
her neck. They were so far behind, so
far behind. Dreams of their own home
—everything—had vanished. They had
been glad to come as caretakers into this
old house that Phoebe Grant had died
in, while the solicitor decided what was
to be done with it. Anything left
unoccupied at Unwisdom Bay soon filled
with tramps, and became a ruin in no
time. So he had been willing enough to
let them have it.
But there was the uncertainty. Had
it been left to someone? Would someone
buy it? But no good worrying about
that now. It had already proved a lucky
move. The road through from Bligh
Bay had started. A few vacancies in the
road-crew had been advertised for
Unwisdom Bay men only. Dave, as an
Unwisdom Bay man, had got a job. That
was luck for you.
Dolly got her chin under control. “I
think, Cass, if we can break evens for
awhile it will do.”
“Not a cup of tea about for a work-
ing-man I suppose?” said Dave.
“Yes, Dadda, half a tick and there
will be, and I’ll put two spoons in the
pot —is that all right, Mumma?”
“Yes, love, make it so our spoons’ll
stand up in it.”
“And Dadda,” went on Cassie, “I’m
not telling you now what it is but you’re
going to sit down to a good tea.”
“Why, Cassie, where are you going?”
asked Dolly.
“To Oxford Street,” said Cassie.
“But Cass, it’s too far.”
“Well it’s far enough to Bligh Bay,
anyway, and I can take a tram from
there to Wynyard. I still look like a
child, don’t I? Besides, trammies hardly
ever try to charge girls like me full fare
these days.”
“And trudge the rest of the.way?”
“I like that Mumma, you know I do.
There’s a lot to see and I think about
things. Now we’ve got money I don’t
feel like flinging it all away on Bligh
Bay butchers. Robbers! You know they
are. And they’ll have heard Dadda has
this job and charge like anything be-
cause they know we have money.”
“Yes, they would, too,.’ v said Dolly
thoughtfully.
“Got any bread-and-scrape?” asked
Dave. “Don’t want to appear greedy
all of a sudden, but seeing tea’s so far
away, I reckon my insides’ll be pinching
by then.”
“No end to the demands of the Lord
of the Manor,” said Dolly, laughing.
What looked like a little old woman
bundled up in a heavy black coat
handed the tram-conductor a couple of
coppers, and two young blue eyes gazed
at him with studied unconcern. From
underneath the coat two girlish legs pro-
truded, slim and golden-brown, attractive
despite the sandshoe-encased feet.
“I’ve seen some sights,” the conductor
said to himself. Aloud he said, “What’ve
you got against the weather, Matey?”
“Nothing,” replied Cassandra, relieved


to be discussing weather and not age.
“In fact, it’s a nice summer day for
October.”
“So you’re well wrapped-up against
the heat.”
“Oh,” said Cassie, “it’s my new coat.
I wanted to take a turn out of it before
it got really hot. I’m dreadful like that.
I just must get into anything new I’ve
got.”
“My old woman’s the same,” said the
conductor. “And it’s a nice coat you’ve
got there.” He didn’t add that it looked
as if it had belonged to her grandmother.
Which, in fact it had. But Granny
had died last year, and for four years
before that had been bedridden. The
coat had been on its hanger in Granny’s
mothballed wardrobe all that time and to
Cassie’s eyes was as good as new. “Get
a good black,” Granny had written to
Cassie’s mother, years before, when she
wanted the coat bought. “I fancy a good
black.”
Black was scarcely Cassie’s or Dolly's
fancy as a color —Dolly liked pinks and
tomato-shadings, while Cassie gloried in
blues —but what you had, you had to do
with. There was the coat hardly worn
and there was Cassie coatless. Apart
from the fact that Granny had been a
short stout woman and Cassie was taller
and of thin build, the coat did what a
coat should do, kept one warm. And
now, as Cassie hadn’t been really warm
since last midsummer, a slightly stewed
feeling was all to the good. Besides, once
she came into the city, there was so much
to see and do, that anything physical
vanished from her. She trod on air in
her feet.
This was her city ; George Street from
the Quay to Central Railway ; the wind-
ing streets down near the Quay ; the
streets between Dario, and the Railway ;
the streets that ran from the other side
of St. Mary’s through the ’Loo; she
knew them all. And many streets held
memories. One of her earliest memories
was a spot in Macquarie Street near Bent
Street, where, as a tiny child, she had
been lifted in her grandfather's arms, to
wave a flag, as her father marched with
the khakied men away to war.
“Poor boys. Poor boys,” Cassie had
gabbled as she waved the flag, repeating
the words of the women around her. She
remembered more vividly still waiting
for hours behind a barrier near Woolloo-
mooloo Docks, with her mother and two
smaller sisters, for him to come home
again. These memories were mixed with
her feeling for the city, and memories
of Anzac Days, for Dadda marched each
year, and Cassie and Mumma and the
kids were always at some vantage point
to wave him by.
“Thank God he’s marching there,
Cass,'’ Mumma would say.
Oh, yes. Thank God. A lucky family.
Dadda marching by with his shoulders
back and his chin up, but throwing a
wink nevertheless at Mumma and the
three girls who had been there to greet
his return, and the five younger ones
who had arrived “on each others’ heels”
as Mumma put it, following his return.
Thank God he marched there and wasn’t
with the others in Martin Place. It was
many years before Cassie realised that
the Cenotaph was not a tomb, but a
memorial, and even when she fully under-
stood, she couldn’t quite rid herself of
her childhood idea, so she always walked
softly in that broad thoroughfare.
•T'oday there was no time to visit
Martin Place or any of the other
haunts of memory ; no time to look at
the terrace-house in Cathedral Street
where they had all lived in one room
when she was little ; nor to walk over
Pyrmont Bridge in search of the mystery
and strangeness of that far part of the
city.
Today Cassie had a mission. Five
shillings was the sum they’d been able to
spare for the week’s meat; Cassie in-
tended to buy ample meat for that sum.
Or for less if she could manage it.
These were Depression years. In bad
times money was scarce and food cheap ;
in good times money was plentiful and
food dear. Already Cassie knew that
in good times or bad, things were pretty
much the same for a family like hers.
Cassie went along George Street stop-
ping neither to look in dress-shop
windows —one of her ambitions was to
be a smart dresser someday—-nor to sniff
smells that came out of cafes —someday
she wanted to cook well, too. “There
was naught I could do when I first came
to this country but comfort their bellies
with what came to hand,” was a family
story told of her great-great-grand-
mother. Cassie carried on this family
tradition when possible.
She turned into Liverpool Street and
made for Oxford Street, where the pave-
ment was thronged with people and the
pavement edge was lined with barrows
piled high with fruit and vegetables.
Barrowmen called their wares and one
of them thrust half an orange, its rind
nicked into points, into Cassie’s hand.
anywher9^else/’ SSey ’ “ d *>» S
Cassie bit into it thankfully, SWeel
ness of pulp and tang of rind grate, I
to her tongue, but kept walking A S
a crowd was gathered outside the winH.
of a butcher-shop she had kno™" 0 "
other days. It was noted for its specials
Late on Friday afternoon was the time
Cassie joined the crowd, edging i n m
it as best she could, till she read the si™
pasted on the window: Sides of
Lamb, ss. ‘
Ah! But she knew something else
The last side of lamb went for half
price. Dare she risk the wait and the
chance of getting nothing? Yes, she
dared. Her mind was made up. And
she had no intention of feeling sorry
for people about her, who were as poor
as she was, or poorer. They weren’t
dirt-poor like some people, Mumma was
always telling them ; just poor. But that
was all very well. She couldn’t afford
to let sympathy interfere with her deter-
mination.
So she disregarded the women about
her, kept in abeyance her usual eager-
ness to hear the stories they had to
tell, sought no interpretation of her own
in a seamed face, or knotted hands
clasping a purse thin enough to tell its
own story.
YXZith each moment the crowd grew,
packing the footpath, pushing from
the edge of the gutter. A young police-
man with a pink-and-white face, the
cleanly-cut gold hair gleaming on his
neck beneath his cap, walked down from
the corner at intervals and said, “Move
on, please,” half-heartedly.
“Here, you stop your wriggling,” a
“He’s going to lecture us on how to economise on tea."


The most advanced silo yet introduced!
The new
All-purpose
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in” door
at no extra cost.
❖
OH&
[fill
*4
I* ;i .
MKT SIM
lliil
'*A
m&
<X*y>
'M
lililii
. w
WIIJIJMUJW
m
mM
S3i
miiniiinmviftHi
m
.v>:--V'V
'■•■■■ - A-~». **!. •■
• - "•"V*- • • :
lr
5®
UWW.WAMMM
iii
§•ss
i liijiii ||
in
EACH FEATURE CAREFULLY PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels upwards)
enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a minimum of
time, effort and discomfort.
* Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal Ribs for
added strength.
* Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging Outlet
complete with bag holder and steel cover.
• Sampling Outlet and Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind
door.
* Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies complete
with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Roof Panels.
* Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel Floor . , , suitable for
conical or flat bases.
O Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
* The 500 Bushel Silo is not
equipped with a door. Price
includes steel floor.
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97, £lO9, £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices In Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane. Adelaide, Fremantle.
S35XC


“Mrs. Potter's here, dear.”
woman said sharply to Cassie. “First-
come, first-served. I know your sort.”
“I’ve been here all the time,” replied
Cassie hotly and, impelled by indignation,
wriggled further. Oh, she had the
wriggling habit all right. Inside Granny’s
coat she was sweating, real sweat, run-
ning under her armpits and down the
hollow of her back. But she was edg-
ing close to the window, now. Above
the heads of the people in front of her
she could see the window with the cool
runnels of water running down it onto
the fern-fronds below. The sides of lamb
on the cold cream tiles diminished
rapidly. It was the one in the middle
that was to be the one, she saw. Her
eyes fastened upon it. It looked like
a mountain of meat to Cassie.
She made a jostling movement and,
ignoring the angry murmurings around
her, got through to the window. She
leant against its coldness, pressing her
forehead and nose against it. She closed
her eyes. But only for a moment. The
press of the crowd was so strong that
it was only with the support of the
window that she could keep on her feet.
She tried to resist the movement until
she realised that the pressure was moving
her sideways in the direction of the
doorway; with hardly any volition of
her own she reached the doorstep.
Now she had to be careful. She must
not go into the shop, and she must not
start a block at the door which would
prevent customers coming out.
Wedging the sugar-bag she had brought
with her under one arm, she clung with
both hands to a brass pole that formed
the corner of the shop window. From
there she watched as each side of lamb
was taken out. Five to go now, not
counting the cheap one.
She noticed it was the same assistant
came for them each time, a youngish,
stout man with a bush of carroty hair,
in the centre of which, on the dome, was
a bald spot. Four to go. Closing-time was
drawing near. The assistant took three
sides together, this time, and her heart
pounded.
He came back.
As he stooped for this last side before
the vital one his eyes met hers.
Their eyes locked. Something seemed
to happen. Did his head nod imper-
ceptibly, his eyebrows raise a little?
Cassie wasn’t sure. But something had
happened, she knew that. The thump-
ing of her heart was drowning her. The
murmuring of the crowd swelled around
her like the waves of the sea.
Inside a clock clanged half-past-five.
The crowd surged and pressed forward.
The assistant came to the door.
“Stand back!” he shouted.
Cassie let go the pole and swayed
dizzily towards the door. The assistant
with one hand began to swing the heavy
door to; at the same time he leant
forward and with the other hand grasped
Cassie’s arm. It seemed to her that all
at the same moment she was pulled
through the aperture and the door closed
behind her.
An angry roar sounded, muffled by
the thick glass.
A long way away a voice said:
“....A decent-enough kid in someone’s
castoffs.”
She looked around to see who this
might be, but there was no kid in sight,
only a surging crowd of sullen-faced
women, there behind the glass and the
running water and the fern-fronds. They
hated her. She felt their hate flowing
through her. The close-packed faces
reminded her of a picture she had seen
somewhere.
“Have you any money?”
“Oh, yes,” said Cassie, and
three shillings out of her pocket to f
on the counter. It was rung-un h ric n y
and sixpence handed back P bmkly
“Want the side chopped up?”
“Yes, please.”
“You want it all, neck and spare rih*
as well?” p nbs
“Yes, please,” said Cassie ; “and if the
brains from the head part were kept I’d
like them, too. And if by any chan™
it had two kidneys”
“Can you beat it?” inquired the
assistant, of the other assistants grouped
near him. “It hadn’t, Miss, kidneys being
what they are and growing one to each
side of a sheep, but I’ll oblige you
here, here’s heart and liver as well, and’’
—he turned behind him and cut recklessly
into a string of sausages—“you might as
well have the intestines as well.”
All this he wrapped in clean white
paper, and packed the bundles into
Cassie’s sugar-bag. Cassie wanted to say
something to show her appreciation.
“Someday . . she began, faltered and
stopped.
“Someday, Miss, I see no reason why
a girl like you shouldn’t be on the pig’s
back.”
Cassie smiled at him as she hoisted the
half-full sugar-bag over her shoulder.
That was a funny thing for him to say,
but she felt it meant something rather
nice and quite true. Quite, quite true.
Tf a girl carrying a sugar-bag with so
much meat in it. two cabbages, peas,
potatoes and a pumpkin could be said
to fly home, Cassie did so.
Fleetly down George Street, wedged
into the doorway of a crowded tram,
the sunset waters of the harbor spread
before her as she sped with other homing
people across the Bridge, plunging down-
ward through darkening bush on the old
track from Bligh Bay, Cassie went
homeward, scarcely noticing that the way
was long or that she was encumbere.
“And he said, ‘Here, Miss; you might
as well have the intestines as well, sai
Cassie, as she placed a chock of woo
under the grillpan to bring it nearer j
flame. ,
There was only half the griller left
so the process was slow, but the sme
of sizzling fat, the clouds of blue smok
rising from the long disused gril ,
escaping gas, all combined to make t
waiting a time of breathless exp
“Talking about intestines,” said Dave,
“reminds me of that time I go
at the abattoirs” ~.. .1
“Dave, not in front of the c 1 r >
said Dolly. . • t .
“ ’Struth, what’s wrong with an
tine?” asked Dave. said
“It should be kept in its P lace ’
Dolly firmly. . let .
Cassie, choking, eyes waterj" g^ as like
faced, smiled dreamily. 1 days
the old days, only these were new
of which the most must be s j, e
“Here, all of you,” sl } e on
set the first consignment
the table.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
jink of New South Wales
Ij EL D down for years by the strait-
I jacket of institutional restrictions, the
Ltralian trading-banks face another
L period. Recent credit-tightening
Lres tend to restrict liquidity and
L down advances, dampening the
jniing-rates on the traditional forms of
jilting business.
On November 15 the governor of the
ieserve Bank, Dr. H. C. Coombs, said
jil trading-banks were given “further
iilance” regarding their lending
slides. This was “to ensure that
pint on bank-finance and the direc-
ts in which it was available contri-
lled promptly and effectively towards
icing expenditure both internal apd
tonal to levels that the economy could
lord.” Trading-banks were requested
I achieve “a considerable reduction” in
I islanding advances by the end of
arch, 1961.
Restrictive lending-policies will apply
particular to financing stock-in-trade,
Burner and trade credit, “bridging
and underwriting, invest-
nts in co. shares, real-estate ventures
li building-construction (“where social
mioses such as housing are not
wived”).
illy way of compensation the Com-
jawealth Government has raised
prest-rates on bank-deposits to 4 p.c.
p three months and 4- 2 - p.c. for 12
pths. The ’Wales’ chairman, J. Cad-
Nlader, considers that “the increase in
pi-deposit rates will assist the banks
3 competing with the other financial
putions, which will be operating under
Niscriminatory tax-curb on any addi-
N borrowing from the public.”
■Wimum bank overdraft-rate was lifted
r® 6 p.c. to 7 p.c.
oldest and largest bank in the
Pnonwealth, the Bank of New South
3 ' es was established in 1817 and incor-
Wed by an Act of Parliament in 1850.
inches and agencies number 1102 and
'spread throughout Australia, New
%d, Papua and New Guinea, Fiji
“London. The N.S.W. Savings Bank
,s formed in 1956.
jkok of New South Wales Nominees
■ has been successfully operating since
I in addition, there is a 40 p.c.
; rest in Australian Guarantee Cor-
nhon, Ltd. The Wales Unit Invest-
* I Ltd., a fully-owned subsidiary, was
4 e d in November, 1958.
last June the Wales Superannua-
tes, Ltd., was operating in
U - and Queensland with “an
1 Ura ging response.” Operations in
other States are expected to begin shortly.
The bank also holds 200,000 10s. ords. in
Australian United Corporation, Ltd., and
has a 40 p.c. share-interest in Australian
United Development Pty.
Last term was marked by a large
increase in advances, which rose by
£53,319,368 to £338,793,820. Net profit
of the trading-bank for the year ended
September 30, 1960, was £75,223 (3.4
p.c.) higher at £2,244,553.
Consolidated net profit was £114,769
higher at £2,554,302, including £309,749
earned by the savings-bank (up £39,546),
after making undisclosed provisions for
tax and depreciation:
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. f serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 847,790 8 p.c. = 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
1951.. 954,006 8 „ ~ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952. . 997,769 8 „ „ 702,400 295,369 7,338,638
1953.1,117,835 8£ „ „ 746,300 371,535 7,710,173
Share premiums reserve, £1,646,250 9,356,423
From inner reserves, £1,000,000 .. 10,356,423
1954.1,491,417 9 p.c. = 1,078,600 412,817 10,769,240
1955.1,693,895 9 „ ~1,185,300 508,595 11,277,835
Consolidated Figures.
Share-premiums, £1.097,500 .. 12,375,335
1956.1,817,168 9 p.c. =: 1,375,387 441,781 12,817,116
1957.1,830,240 9 „ „ 1,580,400 249,840 13,066,956
From contingency reserve, £2,000,000 15,066,956
1958.2,050,866 9 p.c. 1,580,400 470,466 15,537,422
1959.2,439,533 9 „ ~1,876,725 562,808 16,100,230
1960.2,554,302 9 „ ~1,975,500 578,802 16,679,032
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 11.6 p.c. on the higher average capital,
compared with 11.7 p.c. in the two pre-
ceding terms, 10.4 p.c. in 1957 and 11..8
p.c. in 1956.
The div.-rate was maintained at 9 p.c.,
absorbing £1,975,500. Reserves benefited
by £578,802 and were disclosed at
£16,679,032.
The balance-sheet “shows very clearly
the stresses under which the banking sys-
tem has operated.” The trading-bank’s
total deposits rose by £l9 million to
£545 million at September 30, 1960.
Total deposits of all trading-banks at that
date were £1697 million (up £5O million).
The trading and savings banks’
deposits, plus tax-provision, accrued
interest and other liabilities in the con-
solidated accounts were £52,714,407
higher at £698,388,854. Paid capital
remained at £21,950,000 in £2O ords.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital £17,560,000 £21,950,000 £21,950,000
Reserves . . 15,537,422 16,100,230 16,679,032
Notes .. 80,892 80,872 80,872
Deposits, etc. 568,317,589 645,674,447 698,388,854
Due other banks 1,535,297 903,907 2,760,461
Final div. . . 395,100 493,875 493,875
£603,426,300 £685,203,331 £740,353,094
Liquids . . 224,061,174 309,671,711 294,435,624
Special a/cs* 74,301,175 71,162,223 86,534,535
Advances . . 287,660,967 285,474,458 338,793,820
Premises . . 11,500,000 12,050,000 13,000,000
Other assets 5,902,984 6,844,939 7,589,115
£603,426,300 £685,203,331 £740,353.094
* Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and New Zealand.
Liquids were £15,236,087 lower at
£294,435,624. The Reserve Bank’s tight-
fisted credit-policy was reflected in the
£15,372,312 rise in statutory reserve de-
posits, which have replaced special
accounts. Conservative book - values of
premises and other assets (including
shares, accrued interest, etc.) were higher.
Savings bank’s deposits rose by £34
million to £l6O million. Investment in
Government, semi-Government and local
authority securities increased by £2l
million to £lO6 million.
Trading-bank’s ratio of liquids (exclud-
ing £86.5 million in the statutory reserve
account) to deposits was 31.4 p.c., and of
advances to deposits 56.6 p.c.
The increasing balance-of-payments
deficit may accentuate the fall in liquidity,
which is already hard-pressed by the
Reserve Bank’s credit-tightening. Invest-
ments in the hire-purchase industry will
likewise feel the effects of the rather
nauseous fiscal medicine now being
administered to the Australian economy.
These factors may dampen the earning-
rate in the current term.
But the shareholders have little to
fear. The ’Wales remains its usual strong
and solid self. The bank’s widespread
interests in the vital sections of national
economy ensure steady growth, despite
the bumps that will be encountered on
the way.
At the last sale in Sydney the £2O
ords. looked attractive at £33 10s. a unit.
The immediate yield is 5.4 p.c. on the
basis of the steady 9 p.c. div.-rate.
The visible consolidated net tangible
asset-backing works out at £35 3s. lid.,
higher than the latest sharemarket quotes.
The true value of the backing could
possibly be double that figure.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated, Ltd.
TAavis Gelatine Consolidated, Ltd.,
was formed in N.S.W. in 1955 to
bring group interests under the control
of a single holding-co. The public sub-
scribed £300,000 of the £1,500,000 paid-up
capital, split into 20s. ord stock-units.
A one-for-five par issue, the first issue
since flotation, is now on the way —books
closed on November 18. Trading in
rights has begun with the 20s. ords. ex
rights, around 345. Rights fetch around
11s. The issue will lift paid-capital to
£1,800,000.
Foundations of the Davis Gelatine
business were laid in 1881 with the estab-
lishment of a small glue-factory in Auck-
land, N.Z. Production of gelatine was
begun in 1913, the original co., the New
Zealand Glue Co., Ltd., after meeting
local requirements, developing export
markets in Australia and Canada.
In 1917 the first Australian factory was
erected (at Botany, N.S.W.), and in sub-
sequent years subsidiaries were formed
to handle distribution of the co.’s pro-
ducts in Canada, South Africa and the
U.K. and, more recently, the U.S.A. A
70 p.c. share-interest was obtained in
South Africa’s sole gelatine - producing
co. in 1951, and the organisation now
occupies a dominating position in the
gelatine industries of Australia, N.Z. and
South Africa, enjoying in addition a con-
siderable export trade.
Subsidiaries comprise:
Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., N.S.W.;
Glues and By-Products Pty., Vic.; Davis
Gelatine (N.Z.), Ltd.; Davis Gelatine
Industries (Pty.), South Africa; Geo.
Nelson Dale and Co., Ltd., U.K.; Davis
Gelatine Pty., Vic.; Davis Gelatine
(Canada), Ltd.; Davis Gelatine Incor-
porated, N.Y., U.S.A.; Davis Gelatine,
Ltd., U.K.; Davis Gelatine (Africa)
(Pty.), Ltd., South Africa; The New
Zealand Glue Co., Ltd.; and D. G.
Transport Co. Pty., N.S.W.
As well as edible gelatine, used in
numerous foodstuffs and domestic


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
((Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order
for months’ subscription to The
Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:
ADDRESS:
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a
Christmas gift an appropriate Greetings-card
will be sent direct to the recipient announcing
your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; f year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C’wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s. 6d.; i year—l9s. 6d. British
C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
preparations, the co. also turns out
industrial gelatine, agar (vegetable-
gelatine), glue and adhesives, with oil,
tallow, bone - flour, filter - material and
fertiliser being produced as readily
saleable by-products.
Davis Gelatine is traditionally estab-
lished as the leading manufacturer, in
Australia, of conventional adhesives
(animal-glues), and a recent innovation,
the end-result of vigorous research and
ready implementation of latest scientific
techniques, has added thermoplastic- and
thermosetting-resins to an already com-
prehensive and rapidly growing list of
new-type synthetic adhesives.
The co. has just completed (last June)
a major reconstruction of its plant at
Botany —the washing and acidulating
sections of the gelatine-manufacturing
process.
Group turnover rose by approximately
6.5 p.c. last term to a record but undis-
closed figure, all subsidiaries, bar the
main Australian subsidiary, contributing
to the better showing. Sales and profit
of Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty. had to
contend with an influx of low-priced
gelatine following the ending of import-
controls last February. Temporary
corrective measures have been taken by
the Department of Customs pending
early further inquiry by the Tariff Board.
Consolidated net profit came in,
finally, a slightly improved £264,616 (up
£12,262), after deducting the share
applicable to minority shareholders and
after providing £167,871 (up £5093) for
tax and £177,367 (up £45,955; the in-
crease attributable to allowances regard-
ing newly installed plant) for deprecia-
tion :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. ( ——Dividends — serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £907 .. .. 248,777
1955. .298,802 298,802 547,579
Profit sale assets, £826 . . . . 548,405
Less adjustments capital reserve, £2290 546,115
1956. .241,816 8 p.c. = 120,000 121,816 667,931
Profit sale assets, £854 .. .. 668,785
To prov’n long-service leave, £31,946 636,839
Reduction intangibles, £1372 .. .. 638,211
Unexplained addition, £1470 .. 639,681
1957. .256,483 8 p.c. = 120,000 136,483 776,164
Capital profits, etc., £30,974 .. .. 807,138
Pre-acquisition profits, £16,714 .. 823,852
Unexplained addition, £12,413 .. 836,265
Less added intangibles, £58,393 . . 777,872
1958. .242,559 8 p.c. = 120,000 122,559 900,431
Profit sale assets, £914 .. .. 901,345
Less added intangibles, £l2B .. 901,217
Capital profits, £36,488 .. .. 937,705
1959. .252,354 8 p.c. = 120,000 132,354 1,070,059
Profit sale assets, £756 .. .. 1,070,815
Surplus revaluation stocks, subsidiary,
£21,305 1,092,120
. Less unappropriated profits, shares sold, ,
£11,860 1,080,260
Plus reduction intangibles, £136,851 1,217,111
Unexplained reduction, £124,982 . . 1,092,129
1960. 8 p.c. = 120,000 144,616 1,236,745
The div. took less than half of the
earnings, which represented a return of
17.6 p.c. on share-capital, against 16.8
p.c., 16.1 p.c., 17 p.c., 16.1 p.c. and 19.9
p.c. back to 1955. Divs. remained steady
at 8 p.c. (absorbing £120,000) as the group
continued its policy of ploughing-back
the major portion of its profits. Reserves
rose, in all, £166,686 to £1,236,745.
The balance-sheet speaks for itself:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves . . . . 900,431 1,070,059 1,236,745
Outside interests. . 180,382 186,732 233,876
Debentures . . 50,997 50,997 50,997
Overdraft .. 279,815 437,432 334,368
Creditors . . 341,013 335,649 324,972
Provision long-ser-
vice leave, etc... 55,588 60,112 58,881
Tax provision . . 184,081 189,316 213,518
Final dividend .. 75,000 75,000 75,000
£3,567,307 £3,905,297 £4,028,357
Fixed assets . . 1,601,615 1,863,430 2,009,560
Investments .. 8,706 8,739 38,387
Stock .. .. 1,330,920 1,396,716 1,320,137
Debtors . . . . 490,903 528,702 526,821
Cash,' bonds, etc. 136,163 107,710 133,452
£3,567,307 £3,905,297 £4,028,357
The book-value of fixed assets, in at cost
less depreciation, is up £146,130 at
£2,009,560. Unlisted investments at cost
are up £29,648 at £38,387. Bank over-
draft was reduced from £437,432 to
£334,368.
Davis Gelatine is fully aware of diffi-
culties ahead: difficulties especially
applicable to the main Australian sub-
sidiary, Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty. Com-
petition continues intense, costs are
rising, and the board anticipates “that
results in the year now current will be
on a lower level than in the past,” but
adds that “it believes the reduction of
profit will be a passing phase.”
’Change has been pessimistic. The co.‘ ? s
widespread interests should, however,
tend towards stability. The 20s. stock-
units at present prices look a good buy.
The rights offer even easier access to the
register. At 345. the yield from a con-
tinued 8 p.c. div. would be 4.7 p.c. Net
tangibles weighed-up a solid (and
undoubtedly conservative) 365. 6d. at
balance-date. Last January, long before
the one-for-five par issue was annm,„
the 20s. ords. fetched as high as 67s
Hilton Corporation, Ltd.
T HE one-for-four bonus-issue of 840 761
ss. ords. from the asset-revalua'tion
reserve plus a further £166,666 5s ords
issued on conversion of unsecured notes
during last term lifted paid capital to
£1,150,817, in £lOO,OOO 20s. 6 pc . cum
prefs. and 4,203,267 ss. ords.
The Victorian-registered Hilton Cor-
poration, Ltd., first entered the Austra-
lian hosiery market in .1936 as Hilton
Hosiery Pty., assuming public status in
June, 1947. Today the group operates
three factories at Brunswick (Vic.) and
other plants in Moreland and Surry
Hills, manufacturing stockings, socks,
lingerie and other hosiery items, pro-
cessing yarns and producing drop-
forgings as an important sideline. Branch
outlets operate in all States.
Trading conditions remained competi-
tive, but the sustained upward trend in
demand for quality, seamless, nylon
stockings edged-up turnover by 54 p.c.
Sales of fully - fashioned stockings
declined, but this was offset by rising
turnover in other departments. Demand
for children’s and women's socks in-
creased slightly,, and the volume of turn-
over in lingerie articles was maintained.
The yarn-processing division “substan-
tially increased production and sales,
which in turn resulted in higher profit.”
The forging division lifted output and
sales, but suffered from rising costs, and
profits “were not up to expectations.”
Turnover was not disclosed. Con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
June 30, 1960, was £12,609 higher at
£215,734, after providing £168,409 for
depreciation (up £12,147) and setting-
aside £128,176 for taxation (up
£18,551):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends —•, To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
30, £ £ £ £ h
6 p.c. 20 p.c. , n
1956 . . 251,108 6000 90,958 154,150 8/2,U«
To staff fund, £7500 •• • ■ ° b ’ ;
Increased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £53,590 ■
1957 . . 259,266 6000 113,382 139,584 1,058,Wi
Loss sale fixed assets, £lj,ooo I’® .’-qi
To staff fund, £7500 •• „• :
1958 .. 270,087 6000 113,382 1a0,70a
Tax overprovided, £15,044 .. ’ ’ |
Increased difference between par value „»
and cost of shares in subsids., £06,J90
Goodwill written-off, £12,130 ••
1959 . . 203,125 6000 134,818 62,307 1,30b,0n
Profit sale assets, £7566 .. ’ ’ j
Decreased difference between P ar val .5 . 013 923
and cost of shares in subsids., £-1° ,’0r,7’256
Share-premiums, •• ••
Asset-revaluation £210,056 ■ • 2’397^256
Reserves capitalised, £210,056 ••
1960 ... 215,734 6000 134,818 74,916 I,^-
After paying the unchanged 6 p.c. P
div. this was equivalent to .an ear
rate of 31.1 p.c. on the average
ord. capital, compared with 29./ P-
the previous term, 46.6 p.c. in H , •
p.c. in 1957, 53.9 pc. in 1956 and
p.c. in 1955. , , j
The steady 20 p.c. derate absorM
£134,818, leaving fo r rofit on
which also benefited by £?- 56 p share-
sale of assets and
premiums. t h e
During the year the co. t ' VI ot /9 jo 056-
book-value of freeholds by -


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
lls Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A - E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange')
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
®*ound Floor, The National Mutual Fite Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
h.. Telegraphic Address; “NEVITTCO”
SI 2761 (4 Fines) P.O. Bo* No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
' R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P.
i REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
I Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—3s-5911 (20 lines)
i Prudential Building, 150 Queen St., Melbourne—67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
ELECTRIC
HYDRAULIC
LIFTS
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams:
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd.,
Hydelec.
England.
L a sset-revaluation reserve was capi-
;|ised in May, 1960 ; 840,761 ss. bonus-
y Si W ere issued on a one-for-four basis.
Reserves were reduced by £2156
crease in the difference between par-
L and cost of shares in subsidiaries,
-jd were disclosed at £1,472,172:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
j f . .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
V . .. 566,907 674,095 1,050,817
gives •• 1,186,299 1,308,513 1,472,172
rfe interests.. 25,875
L deposits .. 297,450 340,220
j ra ft .. .. 448,208 335,307 11,520
jj tor 3 .. .. 137,395 170,235 272,145
f m d* •• 102,803 107,560 111,477
.provision .. 168,737 124,669 131,924
"l divs. .. 59,691 70,409 70,409
£2,795,915 £3,188,238 £3,560,684
sholds and lease-
rs .. 591,550 712,882 923,157
4 etc. .. 751,488 871,355 879,876
Kkj .. .. 956,622 977,106 1,038,086
jtorg .. .. 484,125 626,895 719,565
drill .. 12,130
£2,795,915 £3,188,238 £3,060,684
* Includes long-service provision.
lorking-capital was higher at £1,271,653.
ijiiidity looked satisfactory. The higher
lok-value of freeholds and leaseholds
jected the asset-revaluation. Creditors,
»k-debts and stocks were higher. Bank
iwmmodation decreased by £323,787 to
1,520.
Additional seamless machines were
stalled. Current has opened with
sreased sales in all divisions, but the
irket remains highly competitive, par-
iilarly with the larger volume of i ru-
nts. The co. is trying to improve the
itability of man-made fibres in the
itting-division.
Rising costs and competition remain
smain problems. Last term reversed
kadverse trend in earning-rates. How-
k a sustained effort to expand sales
peep down unit-costs is required.
At the last sale in Melbourne the ss.
t fetched 10s. 3d. The immediate
ta is a high 9.7 p.c. based on the 20
c, div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
f 26 4s. 7d. for each 20s. pref. and 12s.
"every ss. ord. unit.
tosolidated Metal Products, Ltd.
term was highlighted by the
acquisition of New England
®mony Mines, N.L., through an
®ange of shares.
Consolidated Metal issued 25,000 10s.
f ords, at a total premium of £1274
Purchase consideration. The mine is
near Guyra (N.S.W.). Develop-
ment - work is now proceeding con-
currently with mine-working. An “in-
crease in the estimated tonnage available
from proved ore bodies” is reported. The
outlets for antimony are said to have
improved.
Formed in 1950. the Sydney-based
Consolidated Metal Products, Ltd., is a
holding-co. in a group of subsidiaries
engaged in lead-smelting and -refining,
and manufacturing lead-oxide. In addi-
tion, there is a large investment-portfolio
in public cos.’ scrip. The group has inter-
state connections.
Difficult trading conditions in the
second quarter of last term resulted in
lower earnings. Consolidated net profit
for the year ended June 30, 1960, was
£31,008 leaner at £96,171, after providing
£37,026 for depreciation (up £2805) and
setting-aside £45,632 for taxation (down
£25,965):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. f —* —Dividends ~ serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
Profit sale shares, £397 .. .. 110,800
1955. .117,438 Hi p.c. = 40,938 76,500 187,300
Profit sale assets, £5063 .. .. 192,363
1956. .117,500 12-J p.c. = 50,000 67,500 259,863
Intangibles written-off, £69,291 .. 190,572
Unexplained reduction, £322 .. .. 190,250
Profit sale assets, £6OO .. ... 190.850
1957.. 90,521 12i p.c. 50,521 40,000 230,850
Profit sale assets, £6OO . . . . 231,450
1958. .115,800 12i p.c. = 56,250 59,550 291,000
Assets revaluation reserve capitalised,
£lOO,OOO 191,000
Profit sale assets, £Bl6 . . . . 191,816
Unexplained addition, £l3O .. .. 191,946
1959.. 11 p.c. = 61,125- 66,054 258,000
Share-premiums, £1274 .. .. 259.274
Assets revaluation, £84,741 .. .. 344,015
From inner reserves, £24,023 .. .. 368,038
Profit sale assets, £41,773 .. .. 409,811
Goodwill on consolidation, £13,843 . . 423,654
1960.. 96,171 11 p.c. = 67,325 28,846 452,500
* Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’57.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 15.7 p.c. on the slightly higher average
capital, compared with 22.9 p.c. in the
previous year, 25.7 p.c. in 1958, 22.4 p.c.
in 1957 and 29.3 p.c. in 1956.
The steady 11 p.c. div.-rate (£67,325)
was adequately covered. Reserves
benefited by £28,846 and also by £1274
share - premiums, £84,741 asset - revalua-
tion, £24,023 transferred from inner
reserves, £41,773 profit on sale of assets
and £13,843 goodwill on consolidation,
arising from the takeover of New
England Antimony. Total reserves and
undistributed profits were disclosed at
£452,500, free of intangibles.
The book-values of shares held in
other cos. were written-up by £84,741
“in order to present a more realistic
picture.” The basis decided upon was
to use listed “buyer-quotes,” less a 20
p.c. margin to provide against market-
fluctuations. The revalued investments
were shown at £417,394.
Creditors increased. Book-debts and
stock were slightly higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £450,000 £600,000 £612,500
Reserves . . . . 291,000 258,000 452,500
Overdraft . . .. 38,752
Creditors .. .. 124,127 127,746 152,281
Tax provision . . 70,880 74,314 49,170
Final divs. ' . . 28,125 33,000 33,688
£964,132 £1,093,060 £1,338,891
Freehold .. 206,454 231,619 244‘,986
Plant, machinery,
etc. . . '. . 130,950 128,025 155,032
Investments . . 191,242 242,503 417,394
Stock .. .. 156,443 277,451 282,750--
Debtors, etc. .. 175,890 178,155 189,141
Cash .. .. 103,153 35,307 49,588
£964,132 £1,093,060 £1,338,891
Theoretical working-capital, was £43,499
higher at £255,853.
The well-presented and informative
accounts leave a pleasant impression.
Conditions remain very competitive, but
the co.’s chairman feels that difficulties
encountered last term will not be repeated
in the current year. The co. is improving
its plants, and hopes to introduce “some
new products and methods.”
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s. ords.
fetched 19s. 6d. for an immediate return
of 5.6 p.c., on the basis of the 11 p.c.
div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 14s. 4d. for each 10s. ord. on con-
solidated figures.


Shows
THEATRE
Charley’s Elderly Aunt
There were greybeards at the opening
of “Charley’s Aunt” at Sydney Eliza-
bethan who remembered Charlie Ruggles
in the film ; there were teenagers who
thought it had originated in the musical
film a few months ago ; and there were
Methuselahs who said they had been
seeing it regularly for the last 2000
years.
And, insofar as it is the eternal stuff
of comedy, the Methuselahs were right.
What else, not to go further back, are
Shakspeare’s comedies based on but the
charm of young lovers and the absurdi-
ties of people running around in disguise?
And what else is “Charley’s Aunt”?
If it is objected that Shakspeare got
most of his fun out of girls dressed up
as boys (who would, of course, in
Elizabethan times have been boys
dressed up as girls dressed up as boys)
there was nevertheless Francis Flute the
bellows-mender as Thisbe. The Old
Master never missed a trick.
And neither in his modest way did
whoever wrote “Charley’s Aunt” —
Brandon Thomas, says the programme.
True, Brandon Thomas never wrote like
this:
Rosalind. Never talk to me. I will weep.
Celia. Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace
to consider that tears do not become a
man.
Rosalind. But have I not cause to weep?
Celia. As good cause as one would desire;
therefore weep.
Rosalind. His very hair is of the dissembling
color.
Celia. Something browner than Judas’s:
marry, his kisses are Judas’s own children.
Rosalind. I’ faith, his hair is of a good
color.
Celia. An excellent color: your chestnut was
ever the only color.
But “Charley’s Aunt” is for all that
an excellent, a respectable, a thoroughly
traditional little comedy ; and the point
to be made about it here is that it depends
not merely on the farce of the Aunt but
on the appeal of the lovers, particularly
the two girls, who have a proper Shak-
spearean willingness about them. They
want to be engaged to their lovers, and
the sooner the better.
Therefore, since Gordon Chater was
as amusing an Aunt as everybody thought
he would be, and since Brigid Lenihan
and Judi Farr were completely delightful
as the two enthusiastic maidens, the
Elizabethan production is, on the whole,
as pleasant a bit of nonsense as you
could wish for Christmas . . . unless you
wished for an Australian comedy.
It has some weak patches. Comedy
won’t really do unless every tiniest bit
of it is polished to perfection for laughs ;
and it could not be said that George
Roubicek, as Charley, added any clear
note to the performance ; that Geoffrey
King as Sir Francis Chesney, though
nicely in character, was more than
amiable ; or that Sheila Bradley, as the
genuine Aunt, an elegant and statuesque
figure, unbent enough to show that she
was enormously enjoying tormenting Mr.
Chater.
But Lou Vernon trotted through it
with great gusto as the pompous Stephen
Spettigue ; Kevin Colson was a firm and
gay Jack Chesney ; Walter Pym’s Brasset
and Betty Lucas’s Orphan were equally
engaging: so that altogether it worked
out pretty well. A slow first act while
it is winding itself up ; a slow third act
while it is unwinding ; and a second act
crammed full with laughter and charm.
Wendy Dickson’s set for Act 111 was
captivating.
Douglas Stewart.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Crucible”
Peter Summerton wrung the reviewer
out like a wild bell for the first three-
quarters of Arthur Miller’s play at
Sydney Independent, and if ever there
was a peal of wild belles it was the
group of Puritan teenagers in the team
of Abigail (Marlene Horsell), the evil
young witch leading the witch-hunt
against the older women of Salem.
This orchestration of screaming, con-
torting girls is the crown of Miller’s play
and Summerton’s production: demure
Puritans under the eye of the law and
the church, they become raging furies
in private when they are threatening
the negress Tituba (Patti Assange) and
Mary Warren (Carolyn Southwell-Keely)
against disclosure of their dancing naked
in the moonlight and singing incantations
in the woods, and change again to
inspired visionaries, shaking and swoon-
ing, when they are denouncing the
town’s women in the law-court. Their
best effort rises almost to a ballet of
glazed-eyed mimicry to discredit Mary
Warren when she turns evidence against
them, with the weird and chilling sug-
gestion that Mary Warren’s spirit has
bewitched them into following all her
movements.
Graham Rouse and Betty Dyson as
John and Elizabeth Proctor sustained
very well the main action, in which the
farmer stood up for his wife against their
discharged servant Abigail, who was
denouncing her as a witch. The scene
where the wife is brought in to testify
to the adultery for which she discharged
the girl and, by hoping to protect her hus-
band, ends , his last hope of proving
Abigail an evil woman, is a fine stroke
of theatre. For this reason one would
have liked to see another stroke of
theatre by which Abigail was confuted
and virtue triumphed—and that is why
the last quarter of the play was a bit
heavy on the reviewer’s hands, as
Mrs. Proctor nobly set out to talk Mr.
Proctor out of falsely confessing, and
into getting himself hanged for the good
of his immortal soul. One gets enough
of that at home. But maybe if
the curtain had not come down on this
curtain-lecture one would have com-
plained that Miller had sacrificed his own
immortal soul.
John Armistead as the downright
deputy-governor, with Max Rowley and
Terry MacDermott as the two clergy-
men, made the convincing picture of
what educated men in those days were
prepared to believe, which so cleverly
disturbs the audience’s faith in what
educated men are prepared to believe
today of matters other than religion*
Camilla Christensen, as the bewitched
girl, was prettily horrifying, and David
Copping as Ezekiel Cheever, the bent
skinny little tailor who was the law’s
factotum, had the perfection of a Disnev
caricature. Brooding shadows admir
ably minimised the sparseness of decor
which was further discounted by the
speed and force of the action.
Ronald McCuaig.
MUSIC
Handel with a G-String
Handel had. stone settings for his
“Judas Maccabeus” in Sydney St.
Andrew’s Cathedral and for “The
Messiah” in the Cell Block of old
Darlinghurst Jail. There wasn’t much to
choose, either, between the Cathedral
pews and the Cell Block seats for an
awkward three-hour sit; otherwise the
atmospheres were different.
Mervyn Byers secured Anglican purity
from the Cathedral’s Choral Society,
although the suavity of the tenor (Alan
Payne) and bass (John Davies) limited
the martial expressiveness of “Sound an
Alarm” and “Arm, Arm, ye Brave.”
Yvonne MintonVcontralto had a purple
bloom in its lower register that would
take your breath away merely crying
“Milko.” Marilyn Richardson daringly
boop-a-dooped the soprano role. “Pious
Orgies” had a charming, hesitation-waltz
flavor; “Wise Men, Flattering” went
like a minuet; here, she introduced a
cadenza ; there, she turned and fluttered
like a falling leaf —it was very beautiful.
But Miss Richardson’s freestyle
“Maccabeus” was only demure naughti-
ness beside the Cell Block “Messiah,” a
paying-off of old scores by Dene Barnett
of Sydney, a strip-tease of the encrusta-
tions with which time has clothed the
huge choral and orchestral performances
of Handel’s original lithe and muscular
work. The performance was an 18th-
century jam-session. The semicircular
stone end of the Cell Block bustled like
a Hogarth with the small company or
musicians unpacking violins and ’cellos,
choristers edged around harpsichords; a
specially constructed chamber organ
squatted on the floor below the stage,
bristling with shamelessly utilitarian tin-
whistles and stove-pipes; the five male
soloists (counter-tenor, treble, teno,
baritone and bass) climbed in and out o
each other’s seats during the show, an
the tenor (Rhys Alexander) sat happ y
singing with the chorus as he awaite
solos. ,
Mouthing the words at his singers, ®
conductor, Norman Johnston, drove
music at a speed that broke , r) 0
in Barry Strong’s exhilarating W y
the Nations”; and soloists from co
tenor (Charles Erickson) and al 0 1 J-
Milford) yodelled amazing ° rna ™ e o n re >’
tions “from Handel’s conducting „
and “from the Goldschmid
which reached their peak m
mented version of “I n 0^ v t , nunbar
Redeemer liveth,” which Rosly


handled with coloratura virtuosity, very
| a rd after the soft spirituality of today’s
version, but with a brilliance and artistic
j re of its own — and of Miss Dunbar’s.
It is unlikely that this “edition” will
re place the plum-pudding rituals of big
tlioirs; but there was no mistaking the
delight of the packed audience in seeing
Hie Messiah” rejuvenated and resur-
rected, its bass arias (Brian Copeland)
raining in sincerity from the lightness
Lf the presentation, its angelic speech
during the Pastoral Symphony from
being sung by a boy-soprano (Chris-
topher Bembach) and its Christmas
jollity from such things as the soprano
iir, “Rejoice Greatly,” being done in
jig-time. From Dene Barnett, Nigel
Butterley and co., we learn that the
resuscitation of an old work can create
as much enthusiasm as the composition
if a new one.
R. McC.
♦jt- *j«
Soprano Recital
At Sydney Conservatorium Mary
iiranagan sang through a “realisation by
Benjamin Britten” of “The Blessed
Virgin's Expostulation,” attributed to
Purcell, whose contortions unwound as
many moods as a symphony ; but it was
p in this, or in Schubert’s “Young
Nun,” in which she failed to realise the
mental torment of the girl against the
lunderstorm in the piano, than in more
imply lyrical pieces, that she was good;
ad she was best in the French songs:
Faure’s fine setting of Verlaine’s “Claire
ie Lune,” and Debussy’s “Bells” and
Mandoline.”
If she should not have sung the Bax
tod Delius songs it is because no one
the only quality inexhaustibly
present in modern English song-writing
5 dullness. Raymond Fisher accom-
panied well, and played some Befet-
»en bagatelles and Rachmaninov
Preludes with the air all accompanists
ive > of holding the fort while the
Mess is out of the room supervising the
Mering.
ART
Sydney Art
Those with a taste for pedestrianism
! ou |d enjoy Sydney’s current art-shows,
or . you can climb three flights of
you will find the Kurrajong Group
'wing its modest wares —some attrac-
-I,e landscapes by Alex McMillan;
Wtery by Trudie Alfred and Kate
Benzie—at the Bisietta Galleries ; if
* can climb six more flights you will
j the Orban Studios, near Circular
smelling pleasantly of oil-paint and
" r |-pies and displaying paintings by
pats, notably Mary Evatt’s “The
Me Teapot,” Edwa Owen’s “Old Cot-
jes ’ Hlfreda Finlay’s “Winter Flowers”
j sketches by Rachel Taylor ; and
J° u can walk (or, of course, take a
l E ‘ t 0 the N. S. Wales Gallery there is
travelling exhibition of entries in the
P a Rubinstein travelling scholarship,
ne seven judges or the sponsors of the
hrship award have neatly deprived
the critics of their favorite amusement of
disagreeing with their choice by stating
in the catalogue, “The award may not
necessarily be made to the artist showing
the best work, as examples previously
known to the judges may influence them
in a competitor’s favor.” However, there
would be few to quarrel with the award
to Charles Blackman—in the company
chosen to compete —for his curious pic-
tures of street-life and cafe-life, which
combine the composition of the triptych
for comic-strip) with the cartoon-like
figures of Bob Dickerson, have a warmth
and wit that put them well to the fore.
Among the other exhibitors Thomas
Gleghorn has an appropriate vibration
and a renewed contact with reality in
“Song of Cicadas”; John Molvig is look-
ing disappointingly thin and empty;
Dickerson has warmer feeling and
atmosphere than usual in “Hot Summer
Night” and “Market Gardeners”;
Leonard French’s religious abstracts are
striking designs for murals or stained
glass, if not much more than that; and
Fred Williams has one stylised land-
scape, “The Forest Pond,” which has a
pleasing affinity with the school of Pugh,
Boyd and Perceval.
The Macquarie Galleries, which you
can fall into either halfway up the hill
or halfway down it, has been showing
staunch and interesting early works by
the “Pioneer Contemporaries,” Roy de
Maistre, Grace Cossington Smith and
Roland Wakelin, and has changed this
week to a “tribute” to James Cook.
D. S.
❖ ❖ ❖
Komon Gallery
A rich cross-section of salient trends
in modern Australian painting is on
exhibition in the small, but selective,
First Anniversary Show at the Rudy
Komon Gallery.
Impressive in the Abstraction group
is Hughes's “The Bull,” with its nature
and spirit emerging through its powerful,
abstract form. Like a Byzantine,
Romanesque-shaped church window is
the rich, ordered pattern of French’s
large painting, “The Wake.” Also in this
section is an interesting Central Australia
painting, “Mood in Brown,” by Judy
Cassab.
The direct, strictly visual method of
children’s painting is exploited by Tucker
in his “Hunting Bushrangers,” and by
Dickerson in his “Second Round.” In
this critic’s opinion, the child’s statement
is the genuine one. In contrast, the
aboriginal-like, shack-dwelling in the
sandhills near the sea of Herman’s
“Suburbia” is typical and true of this
painter’s naive, innocent, child-like and
poetic vision.
Two early paintings by established
artists are Boyd’s “Landscape,” in the
academic manner of the Heidelberg
School, with all the muted charm of a
Conrad Martens, and Nolan's “Harvey
Bay,” a vast, rainy-gloomy expanse of
water, land and distant mountains with
all this painter’s feeling for the space and
solitude of his later desert canvases.
The influences of Rouault and Picasso
are much in evidence in Blackman’s
large “Suite No. V,” purchased by Major
Rubin. This is a sequence of rich
luminous panels in the “stained - glass
window” medium.
Other paintings which remain in the
mind are Gleeson’s “Birth of Aphrodite,”
with its Venus painted in the “old
master” manner emerged from a glow-
ing, molten chaos of abstract forms and
color, Pugh’s “The Owl,” recognisable
as such, yet with a confined strength of
draughtsmanship derived from abstract
forms, and Pidgeon’s “Iris,” a curious
yet pleasing fusion of Fauvism and
Impressionism.
Roland Robinson.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
New Adelaide Gallery
Best news in the Adelaide art world
at the moment is that Kym Bonython,
whose own collection of modern Aus-
tralian art is one of the best in the
country, is about to open a new art
gallery in North Adelaide. The first show


"It Was the heavy dew, doc. He rusted-up during the night.”
will be of Lawrence Daws’s paintings,
due to open in late February.
At present Adelaide is short of gallery
space, and paintings lurk amongst gin-
bottles in pubs and even occasionally
in the University Staff Club. The tiny
Peel Street Gallery is at present doing
its best to house the much more con-
fident new work of the young painter
David Dridan, but when a Bishop opened
the show the congiegation bulged out
into the street.
Bonython has a winner with Daws,
who has been painting here for the last
few months, but returns to Europe on
Christmas Day. His fiery new works are
less abstract than his recent paintings.
He says he is searching for “a new image
of man.” Next year we will be able to
see whether he has found it. Meanwhile
Kvm has knocked so many walls out of
the house that houses the Gallery that
it looks as if the new image will really
have room to breathe.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
TALKIES
“That Naughty Girl”
La Bardot gets her man (Jean Breton-
niers) against a background of songs and
sinners. The background, not to be
taken too seriously, is light and bright,
the man not too hard to get, and Brigitte,
delightful.
This naughty girl, naughty as only
French girls can be, has un papa who
has strayed from the straight and narrow
—she, of course, little suspecting. Singer
Jean is a friend of Papa’s, so why should
he not take good care of her when Papa
is in trouble. Why not, indeed? The
only objections raised —from Papa’s busi-
ness enemies and from Jean’s financee —
are easily surmounted, and Brigitte has
no difficulty in retaining I’allure through-
out.
At Sydney Esquire.
C. S.
❖ ❖
“Let’s Make Love”
In cinemascope-and-color a poor,
misunderstood, golden-hearted multi-
millionaire (Yves Montand) sets out to
add to his possessions a scantily-clad
but pure-hearted young actress (Marilyn
Monroe). Everything seems to happen
during rehearsals of a musical about
to be produced by a small, nearly-
bankrupt company. The film starts
briskly and humorously, then it drags,
suddenly picking-up speed for a rushed
and unconvincing ending. Yves Mon-
tand carries the show, but to everyone’s
surprise Miss Monroe goes expertly
through an entertaining song-and-dance
routine. There are a few good laughs.
Screened before the main feature is
a delightful short about Canberra.
Previewed at Sydney Regent.
E. B.
NEW RECORDS
A Recital of Lute Songs: Peter Pears
with Julian Bream (LXTASS67). The
English Ayre tends to make the straight
English tenor sound nasal, and although
Rene Soames sings Dowland slightly
better than Pears, for Archiv, neither
achieves quite the ethereal effect of a
counter-tenor like Deller, as of music
heard in a dream. There are 18 ayres in
this collection, by Dowland, Rosseter,
Morley, Ford and Campion, of which
Morley's “I Saw My Lady Weeping”
is rather a curiosity—a setting of the first
stanza, and rather an inferior setting, of
Dowland’s great song, “I Saw My Lady
Weep.”
Schumann Piano Concerto: Van
Cliburn with the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra under Fritz Reiner (R.C.A.
Stereo, 5L16250). The monaural was
released a few months, ago ; this stereo
is in the grand manner, and the soloist
plays with great vitality and warmth of
tone.
Pardon Miss Westcott: ATN Concert
Orchestra under Thomas Tycho, with the
Claire Poole singers, male chorus and
principals (Radiola RLISI). A bright
and tuneful recording billed a year ago
on ATN-Channel 7, and revived last
month, as the first musical comedy
specially written for Australian TV. The
joint work of the “Lola Montez” team:
Peter Benjamin and Alan Burke wrote
the book, Peter Benjamin the lyrics and
Peter Stannard the music. In Sydney £
after the Rum Rebellion, Peggy Mort’ime r
as a convict girl and Neil Williams as
an army officer sing their way throueh
musical-comedy tribulations, assisted bv
Alan Light, Stewart Harvey and James
Harris, three bad-eggs with yolks of gold
and Queenie Ashton as the Governor’s
lady.
George Beverley Shea Album: With
The Jordanaires and the Statesmen
Quartet (CAM 44); and Montana Slim;
Wilf Carter (CAM 43). Shea and Carter
are both Canadian-born, both sons of
Nonconformist clergymen; and both
have recorded for Camden paperbacks.
But Shea is billed as “America’s Beloved
Gospel Singer,” and was with Billy
Graham’s team in Australia ; his is an
album of devotional songs, while Wilf
Carter yodels about old corrals, lariats,
Kentucky moons and hitting the trail.
BATTLE OF NORTH TERRACE
There has to be some flinty problem
to break the drowsy hum of Adelaide
life, and that is why culture, of all things,
is a living issue. It was on the rarefied
issue of culture that war-drums began
throbbing in North Terrace a few weeks
ago.
Adelaide is preparing for its next
Festival of Arts with fierce subterranean
energy. There seem to be as many com-
mittees toiling away for the 1962 event
as there are cherries in Sir Tom’s
orchards. The dynamic force behind
Adelaide’s cultural zeal comes from a
group of business and civic leaders,
known as the Adelaide Club boys, or,
affectionately, as The Establishment. Led
by Sir Lloyd Dumas, of the “Advertiser,”
supported by Major-General Peter Hop-
kins and Rowland Jacobs of the S.A.
Brewing Company, these men are quite
genuine in their regional patriotism and
in their belief that Adelaide could become
a national centre of the arts.
But between them and their laudable
ambitions stands the corpulent philistin-
ism of Sir Thomas Playford, who cheer-
fully sicks-up at the very idea of the non-
profitable arts. Their great dream tor
the 1962 Festival is a Festival Hall alter
the fashion of London’s magmficen
South Bank. Sir Thomas was approached.
Not a penny from the Government, rs
free cherries from Uncle Tom.
The result was unprecedented: an
attack upon Sir Thomas Playford in
Council, not from the sleeping Labori >
but from Liberal dignitary Sir Ar
Rymill. This is only the first broadside.
Between now and 1962 there promi
be quite a war between Governmen
Establishment. e iq62
Meanwhile the first whispers of
events are getting abroad .• • 1 nce
Arthur Miller in person, a P e L_, pj a y
of the medieval musical play « rs t
of Daniel” (a brilliant idea), jte > s
world performance of Patrick
play “The Ham Funeral,” an • • •
for it —an imported exhibtno
Raphaelite painting!
MAX HARRIS.


Women.
CHRISTMAS... SYDNEY... MELBOURNE
Gilding the Tree
Silver glitter is taking the place of
green and red for Christmas decora-
tions—a trend that has been stimulated
ty the success of an Australian-made
Christmas-tree new on the market this
fear.
Of aluminium foil, the tree reflects a
shimmering light from 61 branches of
[ringed fronds. The Rex Aluminium Co.,
which makes it under licence from
Canada, says that it is “going like a
iird” in Australia. (In America, where
it has been on the market for three years,
jhree million were sold in 1959.)
All over Sydney it can be seen, in 2ft.,
jt or 6ft. sizes, as the basic decoration
iior shops and department stores. It will
itobably be popular in homes, too —not
July for its glitter but also for its wearing
qualities; it is said to be non-rust and
m-tarnishable. Price-range is from
[4 to £B. v
Glitter will also be used to decorate
ie traditional green Christmas-tree,
tee is a new tinsel strand of polythene
thich is cheap (9d. for a 48in. length),
®d has the advantage of being non-
iammable. This is also Australian-
tade.
The green trees themselves range from
paper ones to the beautiful goose-
®her trees from Germany priced from
P; 6d. for a three-footer to £7 7s. for
six-footer. For Christmas-trees freshly
f from the bush there are metal stands
R a container for water to keep the
going to Twelfth Night; and for the
elaborate type of Christmas-tree
i£re is a Swiss-made metal base which
Solves and plays carols. Solid and
it will cost you anything from
J ss. to £2O.
Mer the Christmas-tree the most
War type of decoration this year is
c Papier-mache centre-piece for the
Generally representing Santa Claus
his reindeer, his sleigh piled with
it, too, invariably sparkles silver
td white.
®°nbons from England are also ranged
W papier-mache Santa Claus scenes
’ ttake centre-pieces. A jazz-band of
; e Santas, a ski-scene, submarines and
Wre-island are all represented.
Wy boxes of tulle bonbons, trimmed
, r °ses and containing pieces of
. jewellery, run to about £7 7s.
?§ e price for a box of good-quality
S is 30s.
filers report that the demand for
st mas decorations. has snowballed
'dg the past five years. People start
late in September and keep on
till the bell rings on Christmas Eve.
Many even come in early in the New
Year to pick up supplies at bargain prices
for the following Christmas.
Many store buyers attribute the greatly
increased interest in colored lights in
Christmas decorations to the influence of
New Australians. To Germans in par-
ticular a lighted tree is essential; and
the popularity of candle-clips for trees,
strings of Santa-lamps for the mantle-
piece and illuminated welcome-wreaths
for the front doors has been gaining in
Australia.
The most exquisite of ornaments for
Christmas-trees come from Germany.
Beautifully made, they are imaginative in
design—birds-in-the-nest, tiny lamps,
snowstorm scenes —and reflect light in
intricate ways. New from Austria are
delicately colored pieces of fruit which
decorate the silver Christmas-tree par-
ticularly well. And from Japan have
come very large elaborate baubles at low
prices; some, at 2s. 6d. each, the largest
the chain-stores have ever had—9omm.
in diameter.
As well as these trends there is a
leaning—among those who want to be
“different” towards quaintness in
Christmas decoration: so much so that,
to judge by an exhibition held during
the week in Sydney, many decorations
seem to have little connection with Christ-
mas at all.
One tree was a cone of bronze pot-
scourers bunched together. Another was
a white-paper cone inverted and trimmed
with two “gift-wrapped” presents. A
great bough of driftwood was tied with
ribbons and colored glass balls ; a real
tree drooped its branches under a weight
of bronze paint; graduated rows of
lollipops formed another tree; a little
bare branch standing in a pewter pot
held pearl-drops at the tips of its
branches; and bunched ribbons, tulle,
cottonwool (sprinkled with red bows),
cellophane or flowers replaced the tradi-
tional Christmas-tree.
Glitter was there, too, in nearly every
instance —the outstanding theme of
Christmas decorations for 1960.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney
Sydney during the transport-strike was
like a big country-town on market day.
It was hot, over 90deg., and the people
in their, summer clothes had that
friendly relaxed look not often seen
in the city. Mercifully absent was the
shriek of bus brakes; pleasantly present
the spirit of co-operation which was seen
as motorists looked for anyone going
their way and people hitch-hiked who
had never done so in their lives before.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Charley’s Aunt” opened at the Eliza-
bethan for its Christmas season. Many
regular first-nighters have postponed
their visit to this delightful farce, waiting
for the school-holidays. One first-
nighter who used to be on the stage said
that she had seen it many times ; “I was
Charley’s Aunt,” she added. But there
she must have been mistaken ; there
are very strict rules about the perform-
ance of this play, and one of them
forbids the part of Charley's Aunt being
taken by a woman. Proof of the play’s
enduring quality, by the way, is the fact
that during the past 68 years there has
not been a single day when it has not
been performed in some part of the
world.
* ☆ ☆
The other first-night of the week,
“The Crucible” (Independent), intro-
duced a very different play indeed. By
Arthur Miller, it shows the power of
mass hysteria through the trial of the
so-called Witches of Salem in the late
17th century. The setting is done entirely
in black, white and grey, with one small
touch of red, making the flamelike effect
of the flickering lights on the red
curtains all the more impressive.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Christmas play that is truly Aus-
tralian will be shown on television in
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane on
December 14 and in Perth, Hobart and
Adelaide on December 21. By Sydney
author Jill Lyons, it is called “The Three
Drovers” and is based on the Australian
Christmas carols of W. G. James and
John Wheeler. “Duke” Tritton has
advised on how drovers should be
dressed ; how a swag should be rolled
(“You hardly ever see a properly rolled
swag,” he says); and how to build a
proper campfire. John Appleton was
its producer, with children from the
South Hurstville schools, nine boys, one
girl and a doll in the play, 84 girls in
the choir.
The play will be available for produc-
tion in all schools next year ; Chappell
and Co. plan to publish it in 1961, to-
gether with the background and inciden-
tal music specially written by composer
Hal Evans (known for his music to “The
Magic Pudding”).
☆ ☆ ☆
Emilio Pucci would have been pleased
to see how popular his beach-wear is in
Sydney had he been to the Dejeuner de
Noel held at the harborside home of
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere on Wednesday.
The silk tailored blouse (long-sleeved)
and skinny pants get-up that bears his
name was chosen by many of those


mm
dm
mm
Ready to FLY away at £5,555
Full Instrumenfation Retractable Tricycle
Undercarriage Excellent All Round Vision
All Metal — V.P. Propeller Max. Speed 160
m.p.h. - Dual Control
ECONOMY—3O m.p.g.—4.5 g.p.h.
CRUISE SPEED—I4O m.p.h.
FUEL INJECTION—WaIter M 332 Engine-
-140 h.p.
RATE OF CLIMB—9OO ft./min.
RANGE—6BO miles
LUXURY—4 place
COMPLETE AFTER-SALES SERVICE
AND FULL RANGE OF SPARE PARTS
* LEASE PLAN
* HIRE PURCHASE
* TRADE-INS NEGOTIATED
• 40 MILLER STREET, NORTH SYDNEY. XB 1174
:
m
I
>
is
m
m
mm
m
sm
The AERO 145
todays BEST BUY at £13,900
Let us demonstrate to you 1960’s wonder 4-5 place
twin-engined aircraft. The “Aer6 145’s” spacious interior
appointments and aircraft workmanship give you
unequalled value in its price range, for PERFORMANCE,
ECONOMY, SAFETY and COMFORT.
The world-renowned Walter M 332 engines ensure twin-
engined safety with single-engined economy. Normal
consumption is quoted at 10 gallons per hour. These
engines incorporate the latest design in fuel injection
and supercharging. Total output for take-off is 280
b.h.p. Cruising speeds up to 170 m.p.h. are obtained
with a total endurance of 7 hours.
For the business and professional man, the “Aero 145”
is the answer to all transport problems. Operation into
small areas can be carried out in perfect safety, with
take-off distances under normal conditions being 230
yards.
PTY
LTD
AIRCRAFT
A TEST FLIGHT CAN BE
ARRANGED WITHOUT
OBLIGATION. AND AT
YOUR CONVENIENCE.
• HANGAR
274, BANKSTOWN
AERODROME.
UY 1241
present. In fact, two were almost iden-
tical—the orange-and-black blouses worn
by Mrs. S. Lazio and Mrs. Dick Allen.
The prize, however, \yent to Mrs. Jack
Minnett, whose blue-check blouse was
covered by a white sleeveless jacket; Mrs,
Tony Inglis made the choice. Mrs.
Dekyvere wore a floor-length white
pique coat lined with shocking-pink over
a swimsuit of silk as classically draped
as a dinner-dress.
it ☆ ☆
Melbourne
Melbourne streets are already gay with
Christmas decorations ; at night the trees
in Collins Street glow with colorful fairy
lights. There’s also the illuminated
Christmas-tree on top of Consolidated
Zinc’s uncompleted building in Collins
Street and soon there’ll be a tree topping
the Vacuum Oil building—it’s to be pro-
vided by Australian Paper Mills from
their forest. And on top of Foy and
Gibson’s in Bourke Street a Ferris Wheel
filled with young passengers turns con-
tinuously on its merry way. On front
of the same store (on the word of Sir
Frank Richardson) the largest Father
Christmas in the world winks an eye and
beckons with one finger to passers-by.
Further down town, a reindeer-drawn
sleigh filled with parcels is driven by
Father Christmas across the front of the
store. Across the way another store-
front has Santa and his helpers busy.
making toys, and in the background is
his home, a moat and real waterfall. On
Myer’s roof-top are two merry-go-rounds
and several trains, which run straight into
Fairyland where on dialling MYER on
a telephone Father Christmas appears on
a TV-screen to book kiddies’ orders for
Christmas Eve.
Once again Fred Asmussen has brought
all his artistry and imagination to dress
the windows of the Emporium. Displays
tell the story of a child’s dream of Christ-
mas. First is Christmas in Sea Land,
then comes Animal Land, Snow Land,
Christmas Tree Land (with reindeers
busy trimming the trees) and finally the
dream of Christmas Eve —a magnificent
Byzantine group of the Holy Family.
The atmosphere was gay and informal
when the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans)
gave a cocktail, party in honor of English
visitors Sir Denys Lowson, the Hon.
Lady Lowson and their daughter
Melanie. The dais had been removed to
make way for a delightful drawing-room
setting and speeches were cut to a mini-
mum.
Lady Lowson’s hat, which brought
gasps of admiration from women guests
(men, as usual, were non-committal), was
a huge powder-puff of white tulle caught
in front with a white satin bow. It
topped a slim sheath-frock of blue-and-
white checked silk, the low-cut neck-
line finished with a flat bow. Melanie
wore a sleeveless frock of white silk pat-
terned with deep-red carnations and
green leaves. Jade-green straw with a
brim of matching silk made the Lady
Mayoress’s hat, which she wore with a
black silk frock patterned in a ereen
yellow and blue design. With Premier
Bolte was Mrs. Bolte, her full-backed
navy-blue faille coat worn with a side-
swept beret of cornflowers and green
leaves. Sir John and Lady Lienhop, who
knew Sir Denys and Lady Lowson in
England, were present, she in a navy-
blue frock and jacket topped with a
cream stitched sailor-hat printed with
grey and pink.
* ☆ ☆
Way back in last century fashionable
ladies in crinolines danced at Como
South Yarra, which has now been pur-
chased by the National Trust of Victoria.
Some of the gracious atmosphere of the
past was recaptured when the junior
group of the Trust arranged a dinner
ball at Como and 250 guests danced in
the ballroom—the first ball to be held in
the home for 40 years. Chairs and tables
were set in the garden, which was lit
with lanterns. The fountain in the middle
of the lawn was floodlit, and in the
drawing-room there was a small flower-
decked fountain. Large bowls of mixed
flowers decorated the reception rooms
and a buffet-dinner was served.
The president of the Junior National
Trust (Rodney Davidson) and his wife,
with Sir Daryl Lindsay (president of the
National Trust) and Lady Lindsay
received the guests. Among the pretty
girls at Como were Helen Mary Sawyer
(she marries lan Phipps in February),
Vanessa George, Elspeth McCall, Kaye
Hyett, Jay Robertson and Mrs. Sidney
Franklin.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
,iis Cupwards
fl, e Victorian L.T.A. cham-
flships concluded at Koo-
r at the weekend have
tied more interest in tennis
lerally and in this year’s
,j s Cup in particular than
l[e ’s been in many years
Australia-U.S.A. domina-
i.
Partly this was due to some
I comic-opera displays of
itinental temperament, com-
ilt with indignant walk-offs
f tiich is much more enter-
ing than the little-boy bad
iper of racquet-chucking,
Hamming and umpire-glar-
; indulged by some of our
tog near-topliners.
Stress the neor-topliner: ever
lice that the blokes who
pit right to the top line are
Lost without exception
iters of cool, even tempera-
mt who have never gone in
this petulant nonsense? —
igman, McGregor, Hoad,
sewall, Anderson and Fraser,
tto skim through the post-
ii cream.
Otherwise the feature of the
ictorian titles was the sur-
isingly good and surprisingly
i play from various unex-
aed sources, resulting in a
*g of upsets that ran right
rough the tournament from
tiling rounds to finals.
Only two Australians, Laver
1 the veteran Bob Howe,
de it to the quarter-finals,
•e upsetting first Neale
and then Italian Sirola
route. However, both were
in the quarters, and for
! first time in years a major
“stralian tournament had
' ! \ a n Australian in the semi-
als.
Uprise semi-finalist was
% Englishman Mike Sang-
ir ’ who outed America’s
ItZe n, and later Bob Howe,
paid his own way to
•stralia for these tourna-
which in a news cate-
'■ Puts him in the man-
jjs-dog class.
® er semi-finalists were
1E ? Americans, Mac Kay,
jholz and McKinley. Mac-
‘ and Buchholz were the
and Mac Kay took it
8-6, 6-3.
; , e doubles final produced
.j ast and biggest upset of
! tournament, when the
11? Pietrangeli and Sirola
I Otle more than an hour
i at Australia’s best pair,
i(. r a nd Emerson, 6-2, 6-4,
On the form they’re showing
in the very little play they've
had here the Italians give at
least reasonable promise of be-
ing able to worry both the
Americans and Australia. Aside
from their proven doubles
prowess (Pietrangeli and Sirola
also beat Seixas and Trabert
in an inter-zone final doubles
four years ago) they are no
slouches in the singles field.
Pietrangeli especially is capable
of beating anybody on his day.
At Kooyong he staged a walk-
off and forfeited when leading
comfortably against McKinley.
If the Italians should beat
the Americans in the Perth
inter-zone final there’ll be
tremendous interest in the Chal-
lenge Round. And should the
Italians win the Challenge it
will be the best shot in the arm
the Davis Cup and international
amateur tennis have had in
more than 20 years. —P. M.
* * *
Horse Form
After what must surely have
been a record lapse of years,
it came off again last week at
Randwick the grand old
double, Quick Wink-Adam, at
the twilight meeting.
At the Canterbury Park
meeting on Saturday Rosebery
trainer Frank Lewis, who rides
a number of his horses in
work —he’s the regular rider
of hard-pulling Grenoble —had
visions of winning with three
of his team, but two of them,
Ziette and Grenoble, were
narrowly beaten, by Royal
Bark and Game Trail respec-
tively, while Edspell, con-
sidered a particularly good
chance, could only manage a
third to Globous and Tout
Rouge. But the Lewis-trained
trio are fit and should be worth
noting as early winners.
A few seasons ago Bill Stripe
had a horse or two in training
at Rosebery for W. J. Smith
and others, but he dropped out
of the game for an easier sort
of life at Windsor. He’s now
back, having taken-over the
training of three - year - old
Royal Bark, who’s temporarily
being raced on lease by Mrs.
Stripe. And, after trying to win
a race for several months,
Royal Bark, at his 23rd start,
landed Saturday’s Campsie
Stakes at the Park. He was
well backed, too, and Bill
Camer rode a clever race to
lead throughout the 11 furlongs
and 65 yards. A Royal Empire
(Fr.) product, and at 60gns.
one of the cheapest buys at the
1958 Randwick auction, Royal
Bark is from Mooroolbark, a
winner in England.
Royal Bark’s time was 10
seconds outside the best for
the type of race, and even that
isn’t a sufficient indication of
the conditions on the day,
which was so cold, wild and
wet that the 14,000 crowd
could be considered a good
attendance.
Star Story, winner of the
Canterbury Welter, was
another to land the money
after a change of stables.
He’d been bought, ready to
win, for less than £5OO only
a week before, and had been
handed over to Rosebery
trainer Kel Suttle. Prizemoney
was £BO5, so Star Story was
a bargain buy, especially as
he’d already won eight races,
in the country and at Canter-
bury. He’s a Blue Booklet
(imp.) product from Gay
Clarissa by Dark Lover (Fr.).
Blinkers are becoming
fashionable, and still more
horses are likely to be wearing
them. They help to keep a
horse’s mind on the job ahead.
At Canterbury Tyburn wore
blinkers for the first time in a
race, though he’d been tested
in them several times in track
gallops at Warwick Farm.
Hitherto he’d had a habit of
lugging, but, well ridden by
Mulley, he kept . a straight
course in landing, the First
Narrabeen Novice. Even so,
runner-up Alvista appeared a
good thing beaten. There were
14 ahead of her at the home-
turn, where, as well, she was
checked. Third placegetter
Coinage looked one to note as
an improver.
Grande Brio, odds-on winner
of the Canterbury Graduation
Stakes, could develop into one
of the best of the season’s,
fillies. The Tukaris (imp.) filly
Tsarina, though a distant third,
will benefit from the outing.
Larego won her fourth suc-
cessive race when she bolted
in with the Canterbury Brook-
vale Handicap for fillies and
mares, and she should go on
to win some more.
• • • •
Canterbury will continue to
be the Sydney racing scene for
three more meetings, on
December 10, 14 and 17.
Coming up on December
24 and 26, this year’s Villiers
and Summer Cup double looks
like being exceptionally attrac-
tive. The class will probably
be the best for some seasons,
and a number of the entrant's
have been showing capital
form. At this stage Saydor
looks good for the first leg.
* * *
Some of the bookmakers at
Flemington on Saturday had
a real hard-luck story of their
own to tell after the Clayton
Stakes, a five-furlongs flutter
for two-year-old colts and
geldings. As betting opened,
a cloudburst deluged the
course. When the rain ceased
many bookies and their clerks
were left marooned on their
stools in the middle of small
lakes, from where they gazed
wistfully at the punters! To
add to their misery, the bookies
who were on dry land ex-
tended the consistent Royal
Meadow’s price from odds-on
to a shade of odds against,
believing he would find his 9.5
too much on the heavy track.
They were right, which brought
no joy to their marooned col-
leagues, who did no business
on the race.
Lord Damtar, narrow winner of
the Clayton, is a bay colt by
Damtar (imp.) from the imported
mare Turk’s Joy by Turkhan from
Liza of Lambeth. Audacity
(second) has been an unlucky colt,
with three minor placings from
four starts —his winning turn will
come soon, probably over six or
seven furlongs.
At Moonee Valley last
Saturday week everybody
seemed to have a tip for the
Nu 11 abo r Battybelle filly
Nulla Belle. She was backed
in from twenties to fours, and
ran well, too, finishing second
to the speedy Sweet Ailsa.
And yet—punters being like
that —not many of her Valley
backers followed their money
in the Dingley Stakes at
Flemington. After drifting to
double-figure odds, she quickly
got over to the rails from her
17 barrier and never looked
like surrendering the lead.
A. J. Carr, who races Nulla Belle
in partnership with his wife, used
to train greyhounds, but a gammy
leg, the result of a Jap bullet in
New Guinea, forced him to give
up exercising the tireless dogs. He
paid only 500gns. for Nulla Belle,
who should win more races.
There was some excuse for
punters who failed to follow
last-start winner Beautiful
Star in Saturday’s Holyrood
Flandicap—the Castle Don-
nington filly was coming back
to seven furlongs after her
Valley win over a mile-and-a
quarter. She showed she’s
above average by mustering
speed from the tail of the field
half-a-mile from home, getting
to a winning position on the
home-turn and going to the
line strongly for a clear-cut
win. She looks capable of


D&I
ESTABLISHED 1882
& Investment Co. Ltd.
Registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Financiers Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest Payable
Quarterly
Free of Exchange
5-10-15-20
Years
PER ANNUM
E 2
m
6 MONTHS 9 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 2 YEARS 3 YEARS
4 YEARS
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman) T. H. Martin Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members ,of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Kindersley tlouse, 20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
84 William Street, Melbourne, and at Armidale, and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie Street, Canberra
(Members of Sydney Stock Exchange)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA:
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN QUEENSLAND:
Charles Elliott & Son (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
. S. C. Ward & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
South Australia, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO., LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES.
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
winning a really good race
* * • .
A youngster who might
develop into a galloper right
out of the ordinary is Susa
mian, winner of the Noble
Park (seven furlongs) Handi-
cap for three-year-old colts
and geldings. By Sun Storm
(imp.) from La Taraise, her-
self a speedy galloper and the
dam of the brilliant South
Australian Mardene, Susamian
was quickly in the lead and
gave nothing else a chance at
any stage. He could prove as
good as his half-brother.
* * *
Test Preview
A good many words have
been used, since a Caribbean
breeze reached Australia, to
express the age-old opinion that
the game is worth more than
the result; but it is worth keep-
ing in mind that cricket is a
game, not a sport. , There is a
difference between “playing the
game, win or lose,” and “play-
ing to win” (as opposed, with
all due respect to Le Don, to
“playing not to lose”).
The one thing that could pre-
vent the-Tests, which begin in
Brisbane on Friday, from being
an unqualified success, would
be a number of what a Sydney
daily described as “Calypso
Collapsos.” Worrell was tipped
in this column to be the Indies’
most consistent Test batsman
because he tempers brilliance
with discretion. To make the
Tests a real trial of strength all
the West Indian batsmen will
have to be more prudent
against pace, less hesitant
against spin.
* * *
Two 15-year-old cricketers in
a Mountain District (Vic.)
competition share the honors
of a really remarkable match.
Paul Wilde (South Belgrave)
took six Narre Warren East
wickets in his first seven balls.
Then came Allan Dalton, who
proceeded to whack up a cen-
tury (103), which, although the
next-highest scorer for Narre
Warren East made a single,
enabled his team to win. Surely
no score-card anywhere has
ever looked like that one!
* * *
A six-a-sjde knock-out cri< S
competition, claimed to be the
staged in Australia, was
given a Sunday-aftemoon try-o^
at Goulb'urn (N.S.W.). J ,iu urn
was brought back ky
captain Jeff Prell, who went
England as vice-captain ot^j,
1959 Australian Old Oolieg
team. Seven matches we P 1
between eight teams, e s96runs
lasting about 35min., and 59
were scored all told. .\ W j ay 49.
made the top score of t ® J the
One member of Ma per .
winning team, had tne ; n his
formance, 64 for once three
three innings, and he toox


Divorce Notices
5 THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
10 ALLAN JOHN DUFFY late of
o in the State of New South
Wes.—TAKE NOTICE that DELMA
IjJBY DUFFY has filed a Petition for
force No. 3066 of 1960 on the
[and of desertion without just cause
’ excuse for three years and upwards
1 you wish to defend you may enter an
ippearance in the Divorce Registry
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
jwt Sydney by the 2nd February
® and obtain a copy of the Petition
*ut charge from R. S. WOODGATE,
Solicitor, 27 Watt Street, Newcastle.—
A H. HARMS, Registrar.
THE LOCAL COURT HELD AT
PERTH
No. 1958 of 1959.
®WEEN PETER GOODALL Plaintiff
>1 OSCAR HENRY NICHOLLS,
WHAEL J. OLARENSHAW and
fVIN RICHARD HOOPER Defendants.
KEVIN RICHARD HOOPER form-
y °f 435 Cambridge Street Floreat
:®k—TAKE NOTICE that a plaint
j® Keen entered and a summons issued
I 1 *® alia) against you in the above
**l Court by PETER GOODALL of
Carrington Street Hilton Park for
of FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS
tiOO) for damages for personal in-
-1,168 and loss sustained by him in
"'•sequence of an accident in which you
? mvolvc-d on the 19th day of April
r °n the Great Eastern Highway
and an order has been made
publication of this notice (re-
S to the issue by the first mentioned
;«dant OSCAR HENRY NICHOLLS
Wst you) in one issue of The Buile-
and one issue of the West
lian Newspaper shall be deemed
good and sufficient service of the
|r Party Notice (and of the sura-
•• herein) upon you The summons
has been part. heard) will be
j,™. a t the Local Court, Perth, on
!i; in .the 24th day of January 1961
o’clock in the forenoon on
• day you are required to appear ;
you do hot appear either in
111 or by your solicitor at the time,
(ill ? lac e abovementioned such order
,j e wade and proceedings taken as
A Magistrate may think just and ex-
L?/ DATED this 30th day of
jjher, 1960.—8. M. SMITH, Clerk
ir Co «rt.
is filed by MESSRS. JACK-
McDonald & co., of 55 st.
ses Terrace, Perth, Solicitors , for
S|C SOLLs ndant OSCAR HENRY
•Y appointment to her majesty the QUEEN
Scotch whisky distillers john walker & sons, ltSw
If you enjoy a smooth,
well rounded Scotch...
mm
m
AWARD 3
DUNfO'" 1,1
MICHtST
DDNir ' iao
urn I ill *
AOEIMDt
M£lßOU*Nt 1891
KIMBIHP
OUNCE 5
FLUID
PINT
NET
look for the square bottle
and ask for it by name
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
JW.4313.14
.Itt
m
took for this symbol of
friendly co-operative service
in all Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurance coverage.
FAI House, 28 King Street, Sydney. Phone BX 2027 (3 lines)
FA2.22
>ts an average of one in each
',l, e ’three overs he bowled,
rhe laws of cricket as for a one-
L s match apply, but each
in the side, except the
L r must bowl one over (of six
I each); only the six men field;
I runs are added for each wide,
j another ball must be bowled;
f i as t man bats until he is out,
need be, but the innings ends
L the five overs; winner is the
L which has made the most
L irrespective of wickets fallen,
u e - end of the five overs.
* * *
14-a-week Coach
: Former V.F.L. Melbourne
ypper John Beckwith has
jS ned a contract to coach
ountry team Colac at a
Laranteed £74 a week —for
very week of the year!
It’s probably the highest yet.
llany past stars signed-on to
oach country or inter-State
rams for amounts approaching
ilO a week, but theirs was for
[ie playing-season only.
Whether or not any player is
rorth such a figure, John Beck-
nth has unquestionably been
i magnificent player, captain
id clubman for the Demons.
Recruited from the Black Rock
under-17 team in 1951 he was
placed directly into the Mel-
bourne firsts team, and when he
ran onto the ground for his
opening game it was the first
time he had ever played against
grown-up men.
In 1957 John was elected cap-
tain and led his team to the
premiership. The following
season they were surprisingly
defeated in the grand-final by
Collingwood, but they regained
their position as top-dog in
1959, when they beat Essendon.
At the start of the 1960 sea-
son John showed what a fine
clubman he was by volunteer-
ing to step down from the
captaincy in favor of Ron
Barassi, and with lighter res-
ponsibilities John’s form imme-
diately improved.
After the grand-final, in
which the Demons annihilated
Collingwood, Barassi paid
a special tribute to Beckwith:
“I wish to thank and congratu-
late John Beckwith on a great
year ; if he hadn’t been injured
he would have won the Brown-
low Medal” —praise indeed,
coming from the man who’s
considered the best Australian
Rules footballer in the country
at the present time. —“Lai.”
* * *
Each of them her State’s
squash champion, Yvonne West
(N.S.W.), Jan Shearer (S.A.),
and Aline Smith (Vic.) are sail-
ing today (Dec. 7) in the
Orontes for a tour of the U.K.
on which they’ll be competing
in regional, national and inter-
national squash championships.
They’ll need to be fit; here’s
some of what’s ahead of them :
Midlands Championships,
Sheffield, January 20 -24 ;
Scottish Championships, Edin-
burgh, January 25-29; Birm-
ingham, January 30 to Feb-
ruary 2; North of England
Championships, Manchester,
February 3-6; international
match against Wales, at Car-
diff, February 7-9 ; South of
England Championships, at
Hove, February 10-14 ; English
Title, London, February' 15-20 ;
international matches, London,
February 20-25. After that little
lot they might hop across and
have a lash at the Continent.
* * *
Looking a bit ahead, it’s esti-
mated that facilities for at
least 10,000 competitors will
have to be provided for the
Tokyo Olympics. Back at the
first meeting, in 1896, there
were 484 athletes representing
13 countries. In Rome this
year 84 countries were repre-
sented by 7000 competitors. S.
B. Grange, Australian manager
at the Rome Games, strongly
tips Germany as a big winner
in Tokyo. —“A.L.D.”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
NOT JUST A MONEY MATTER
/Comments by the National
Bank’s chairman on our
present economic jam are valu-
able inasmuch as a broad view
of the problem is taken, and
not merely a monetary con-
cept. The “pinch” goes far
beyond purely monetary
matters, even though, ulti-
mately, it is revealed in mone-
tary terms.
Mr. Forrest also notes, with
The Bulletin, that through
neglect of taking earlier action,
Australia figures as inflationary
“odd-man-out” in the world of
competitive trade.
An alteration of interest
rates was far too long neglected
by the Government, Mr.
Forrest says. Now that a use-
ful start has been made toward
flexibility in interest rates, it is
to be hoped that as circum-
stances require, further use
will be made of this means of
influencing the demand for
money.
These latest changes in
monetary policy have jpeen
rendered necessary by the fact
that we are heading for a heavy
fall in our overseas reserves of
perhaps £2OO million, or even
more, at a time when the over-
all business and employment
situation internally is one of
“boom.”
Unfortunately, the National’s
chairman adds, in recent years
we have seen the terms of
international trade worsen for
us, in common with other
countries exporting similar
types of products. Notwith-
standing this, we have achieved
little in the way of checking
the rise in internal prices and
costs. This position is serious,
especially as inflation in those
countries to which we sell most
of our exports has been
brought well under control in
recent times. If we refuse to
recognise that we are now liv-
ing in a much more competi-
tive world and that our
economy cannot afford con-
tinuing inflation and ever-rising
costs, then we court disaster.
For the Government to have
ignored the new inflationary
impetus and the probability of
a serious loss of overseas re-
serves would have been un-
thinkable, and steps had to be
taken to arrest the drift, Mr.
Forrest contends.
“It seems reasonable to con-
elude that the new measures,
combined with the effects of
lower export income and the
higher imports already re-
ceived, will shortly induce a
more restrained business
atmosphere. This may ease
inflationary pressures some-
what ; but will the new mea-
sures overcome our funda-
mental problems of high costs
and insufficient exports?
“This ’“would appear un-
likely, if for no other reason
than that too much should
never be expected from mone-
tary policy. The Radcliffe
Committee in the United King-
dom, whose report is the most
authoritative in recent years on
monetary and banking affairs,
concluded that ‘monetary mea-
sures cannot alone be relied
upon to keep in nice balance
an economy subject to major
strains from both without and
within. 'Monetary measures
can help, but this is all.’
“Our cost and export prob-
lems are largely deep-seated in
content. We are subject to
inflationary pressure arising
from the peculiarities of our
wage-fixing systems and the
strains on the economy result-
ing from the vital need to in-
crease our population as
quickly as possible. In rela-
tion to our population, we are
now a large manufacturing
nation, and at the same time
we are, relatively, also a large
international trader. For our
exports we depend mainly on
primary products and upon
one above all others—wool.
We are also accustomed to
high living-standards, and we
tend to behave on the assump-
tion that these standards will
always continue to rise.
“In view of the strength of
these underlying influences,”
the National’s chairman con-
cludes, “the outcome of the
Government’s new mea-
sures will need watching
very closely lest they fall
short of their major objectives.
Even if they prove successful
in this, there remains the great
and urgent need to grapple
with the basic problems of in-
creasing our exports, keeping
our costs down and expanding
our production efficiently, in
order that the material ad-
vancement of our nation is not
retarded in any way.”
Trading in A.W.A.
Sharebrokers who “trade” on
’Change as well as acting
as brokers have had an oppor-
tunity for earning almost a
weekly income in Amalgamated
Wireless shares.
Twice recently the ss. stock-
units have sunk to below 245.
on ’Change and have then
quickly recovered to around
275. or 28s. On other occasions
they have fluctuated two or
three shillings a share over a
few days.
These down-and-up varia-
tions have been- particularly
opportune for brokers, acting
for themselves, who can make
up their minds whether to buy
or sell in a moment or two
on the floor of the Stock
Exchange.
For the ordinary investor the
opportunities are not so
obvious. To start with the
“tops” and “bottoms” of a
market that fluctuates from day
to day or from week to week
are not there for very long,
and by the time the man-in-the-
street sees in the newspapers’
quotes a stock at an attractively
low price they may already have
moved upwards. Furthermore,
he has to pay commission,
whereas the broker only credits
it to himself.
Kauri Timber-—What
Now?
TT'auri Timber Co., Ltd., of
Melbourne, had an increas-
ingly good run over the three
years from 1957-58 to 1959-60.
In 1956-57, following the credit-
squeeze of 1956, there was a
loss of £15,516, but an 8 p.c.
div. was paid just the same.
In the 11 years since 1949 an
8 p.c. distribution has been a
regular thing, with the excep-
tion of 1955-56, when 10 p.c.
was paid after three years of
above-average earnings.
The profit shown in 1958 was
£216,780, in 1959 it was
£257,466, and in 1960 it rose
to £355,647. This was the best
result since 1955, when a record
£414,273 was shown.
Kauri has been spreading
its operations at a great pace
since World War 11. It has
now large-scale distribution
depots operating from every
capital-city in Australia and
New Zealand, supplying, whole-
sale and retail, a substantial
share of the timber, plywood,
chipboard, steel, hardware and
other building-material require-
ments of these areas.
There are timber-milling
units in all States (except
N.S.W.) and in N.Z. There are
also very big importations of
softwoods from Borneo,
Canada, U.S.A., Russia, Brazil
and other South American
countries.
In handling the great pvm
sion, since 1955 ordinary capital
has grown, by takeover ‘JS
otherwise, from £750 000
£2,880,569 (there is £3?So °f
pref. capital as well). Outside
shareholders retained an inter
est of £1,062,454 in taken “S
subsidiaries. There were also
convertible notes to the value
31 laS 0,000 ° n iSSU£ at Au
On November 5 shareholders
and holders of convertible notes
became entitled to take-un
£1,000,000 of new £1 o rds. at
par. The issue was under-
written by lan Potter and Co
Unfortunately, the issue coin-
cided with the break in the
sharemarket and announcement
of the credit-restrictions and
other Treasury short-cut anti-
inflationary measures, and, ex-
rights, the ords. have fallen
to 19s. 6d., which is slightly
below par. Rights to the new
issue were last week on offer
at a penny, with no takers. The
issue closed on December 5.
The million, whether ob-
tained from the market or from
the underwriters, will be useful
to Kauri during the present
period of tight credit, which
coincides with big expansion
plans being implemented.
So far this expansion has not
paid - off profit - wise, seeing
that 1955 profit - figures,
achieved on a much lower capi-
tal, have never been repeated.
In regard to its widening
activities last term, the directors
of Kauri reported: “The over-
all volume of sales achieved
by the company and its sub-
sidiaries throughout Australasia
maintained an upward trend,
and a number of the difficult
conditions which previously
prevailed in certain areas have
been overcome, although results
from some activities can still
not be called satisfactory.”
The chairman of the co., J.
R. Bishop, recently said: “The !
company can safely look for-
ward in the next decade to
continued rapid growth, and
it is planned not only to con-
solidate and exploit existing
assets in full, backed as they
are by long-term timber re-
sources, but also to exten
merchandising activities in par-
ticular, and the developmen
industries utilising to an eve
increasing degree h>y-pr° u
of timber hitherto regards ,
a large extent, as waste.
A query now hangs ove
immediate future of the fi
milling business following
enforcement of more
credit-restrictions. It nas ' he
indicated by the gov e rn°r ot
Reserve Bank that the
tions are not directed f
building, which is the
of building-timber.


I
I
• v & A
f i
" ■*
4
' : =■»
>
B*B
fc-X?
n
A happier choice for every occasion . . ,
anGoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’l
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove's TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia'!
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF. TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING. SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY ..ST. AGNES BRANDY
tound to be side-effects
credit policy which
flo t leave the homebuilding
! tr y entirely unscathed,
the long term, prospects
(auri Timber Co. seem pro-
L especially if it can con-
nate the diversification that
.taken place over the past
iyears. It appears to be
idoping into a key figure in
industry,
(Alii be interesting to watch.
Hooks to be keeping a bit
its sleeve when announcing
,|s each year, and this well
[o mes a co. in its type of
jess. Compared with the
i It shown, tax provision for
§.60 seemed to be more
? adequate.
le’Wales’s Comment
king that through budget-
Ping for a substanitial sur-
fs and in restricting credit
sFederal Government aims
reducing consumer demand,
piling the demand for im-
uits, John Cadwallader, presi-
at of the Bank of N.S.W.,
iat the annual meeting that
nevertheless faces the
tana that in curbing the
iof imports it may unduly
pair the growth of the eco-
my, especially at a time when
fioyment is necessary for
rapidly growing labor-force,
hits recent credit policy and
amendments the Govern-
lat aimed at a section of
pee outside the banking
pi. Tight control over the
Wig-banks for some years
inulated the expansion of
F “fringe” institutions not
Ito perform special func-
* but to provide services
1% akin to banking. Now
■creasing part of the finan-
structure was relatively
une from official monetary
7 “Hence monetary
7 concerned principally
keeping down the volume
“ a nk lending, tended to
at itself through its narrow
ftion,” said Mr. Cadwal-
-17 In its tax-measure aimed
Arrowed funds the Govern-
-1,1 nevertheless “has estab-
lst) the highly objectionable
J ciple of denying the right
, Particular companies to
|j? tax-deductions for their
on^” 6 ex P enses m earning
j? Aspect of the startling
wal to force Government
J onto life-offices and
funds the
chairman comments:
: ’4e!| eS ' t u^ on implicit in the
% “ change in interest-rates,
Fed t more usefully have
Nuflflt' time of the earlier
K nonary measures, is also
W ln . the Government’s
, to its own problems in
“ o Bd-market.
Traditional institutional investors
in Government securities have in-
creasingly turned their attention in
recent years to other forms of
investment offering a better return
and a hope of keeping-up with
inflation.
The Government’s own loan
programme has therefore lacked
full support and, in face of its
failure to prevent erosion of capital-
values, public subscriptions have
declined, and a growing proportion
of its capital-expenditure has had
to be provided from tax-revenue.
Now, with the dual intention of
imposing a brake on funds to feed
the private investment sector and
of assisting its own finances, the
Government has resorted to a dan-
gerous principle of compulsion.
By planning to force life-
assurance companies and super-
annuation' and provident funds to
hold at least 30 p.c. of their invest-
ments in Government obligations
it is resorting to a form of forced
lending which is likely to create
an undesirable precedent for
both unintentional and convinced
socialisers. A less control-minded
Government would have sought to
win back support for its bonds.
Sorby’s Growth
A spectacular growth in
* profit-earning has been
shown by Sorby’s, Ltd., of New-
castle, over the past three years.
The group handles builders’
and domestic hardware, iron
and steel and engineering sup-
plies. During a period in which
capital has grown from
£256,300 to £511,561, net profits
have expanded from £56,772 to
£107,727. A dividend of T2±
p.c. has been paid on the ords.
each year for the past five
years.
The group has sales and dis-
tribution points in Newcastle,
Wollongong, Casino, East Gos-
ford and York Street, Sydney.
It has bulk-stores in Hamilton,
Wollongong, Casino, Wagga,
Fairfield, Canberra, Silver-
water, Tamworth, Griffith and
Dubbo. Among its subsidiaries
are Eldon Finance Co. Pty.,
Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment Co., Alexr. Smith and
Keeler Pty., and Fompak Pty.
(Dubbo).
The Sorby’s group deals on
a wholesale, industrial and
retail basis. In its recent expan-
sion it has run away, in dis-
closed profit-earning, from
Frederic Ash, Ltd., the old-
established Newcastle hard-
ware-chain, and it seems to be
catching-up on Swan’s (head-
quarters in Sydney), the big-
gest (from the disclosed profit-
earning point of view) in the
business.
Frederic Ash suffered a sharp
setback in profits last year, but
had no difficulty in maintain-
ing its 15 p.c. div. It is an
extremely solid stock with con-
servatively valued assets, but
Sorby’s, its wide-awake com-
petitor, seems to have run ahead
of it in development and profit-
earning since 1958.
Ricketson’s View
r T''HERE was a tendency for
-*• some smart financial com-
mentators to belittle the view
expressed by Staniforth Ricket-
son, the Melbourne sharebroker
and financier, that the share-
market would suffer a severe
setback before June 30 this
year. As he pointed out sub-
sequently, the flight of capital
from the African continent and
other hot spots deferred the
downward revision of share-
values in Australia for a few
months.
There is now no question
that, fundamentally, his fore-
cast was sound, and that the
crash in the sharemarket which
we have just witnessed was the
setback he anticipated, only
made worse by the additional
climbing which occurred in the
sharemarket during the period
by which the boom was ex-
tended through the influx of
footloose money from over-
seas.
Sections of the Sydney finan-
cial press in particular sniggered
at the Ricketson forecast. Any
sort of a boom was a good
boom, it seemed. Now many
people wryly know otherwise.
Ricketson has spoken-up
again. At the annual meeting
of Jason Investment Co. (Aust.)
in Melbourne on November
28, he said that there has been
an appreciable increase in
share-selling pressure in Aus-
tralia from the United King-
dom, and there was also evi-
dence that overseas institutions
were tending to keep new capi-
tal accruals at home rather than
investing in Australian stocks
and shares. Although present
lower prices might attract
further investment of overseas
money, it seemed “idle to expect
any increased inflow of capital
from overseas, and Australia
will be extremely lucky if the
inflow continues at the rate of
recent years.”
During the past year, Mr.
Ricketson said, investors were
extraordinarily slow to appre-
ciate the implications of the


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines) BL 5327
Cables and Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt, J- A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS hones:
Eevel 9, Kindersley House, ... uni )
20 O’CONNEEE ST., and 33 BEIGH ST., B «, V~A ( 6 ,l
Sydney «' v
Telegrams Address: PRING STOCK EXCHANGE, s*"
Cables Address: LINWAB, SYDNEi
drive against inflation started
as long ago as February, and
were encouraged to do so by
the lack of any continued
guidance from Government
leaders. It was not until mid-
September that a more sober
assessment of the position
developed.
“The fact is,” Ricketson says,
“that, at long last, investors
are reverting to the funda-
mental principle of ‘yield-con-
sciousness.’ In other words,
they are becoming more dis-
posed to consider the economic
return available on their hard-
earned savings, and less inclined
to discount not only the imme-
diate future but the hereafter
as well in the prices they pay
for equity stocks.”
He sees sharemarket austerity
for the next few months, with
possible further recessions and
spasmodic but temporary up-
ward adjustments. Credit will
become scarcer. The Govern-
ment has acted determinedly,
even if belatedly. Mr. Ricketson
thinks there could be some
relaxation of credit and other
restraints after the beginning
of the new financial year on
July 1 next.
“In the interim,” he says,
“the soundest policy for in-
vestors to adopt is one of
caution, discrimination and
selectivity. For those whose
aim has been to capitalise the
long-term growth of the Aus-
tralian economy, there is no
reason to panic out of sound
stocks in well-established com-
panies and industries ....
“Of all the classes of inves-
tors, those best placed are the
ones who possess liquid re-
sources. For them the coming
months may well offer many
opportunities of obtaining
sound stocks on more favorable
price and income basis. Even
then, the wisest course is one
of progressive investment,
which implies investing one's
funds in stages over a period
as new and attractive opportu-
nities arise.”
H.-p. Before the Crisis
Quarterly figures released
by the Commonwealth
Stastistician show that out-
standings increased by £6.1 mil-
lion during September, 1960,
compared with an increase of
£6.7 million in September,
1959.
Over a full year total h.-p.
outstandings in Australia rose
by £64 million to £433.4 million
at September 30, 1960. N.S.W.
remained the State with the
highest h.-p. indebtedness
(£166.3 million), followed by
Victoria (£120.1 million). The
number of all h.-p. agreements
made last September fell from
99,445 to 98,276. The value of
goods financed during the
month was £491,000 lower at
£37.5 million, compared with
August, 1960.
Motor - vehicles, including
used cars, tractors, motor-bikes,
etc., continued to dominate
h.-p. transactions, followed by
household and personal goods
and plant and machinery.
The figures relate to the last
period before the Government’s
and the Reserve Bank’s econo-
mic measures are likely to be
felt.
Oil-search and Tight Money
(From H. i’ona]
r TTtE recent resounding fall in
values on Australian Stock
Exchanges will have its reper-
cussions in the world of oil-
search. Attracting money for
such speculative ventures as
oil-exploration and drilling.has
always been closely tied to the
boom psychology inherent in a
“bull” market. Although oil-
search sometimes generates
isolated boomlets by its own
near-discoveries, it is usually
dependent on general market
action for the timing of
financing.
During the past two years,
with industrials, retailers and
hire-purchase shares rising to
all-time “highs,” many inves-
tors with available cash turned
to the oil speculations, hardly
realising that, subconsciously,
they felt the market too high.
An oil speculation, after all,
retains its lustre or dullness
regardless of business outlook.
But now the market has
turned around. Once again
there are many sound com-
panies which can be bought at
reasonable prices even after
adjusting for probably reduced
profits. To rnake it even worse
for the oil-search companies,
some shares have been over-
sold, thus creating irresistible
bargains to the few lucky inves-
tors with idle funds. In such
an atmosphere it is difficult to
attract capital to new issues
related to oil-search, except
under unusual circumstances.
Recently an oil-flotation pro-
moted by American interests
failed to reach allotment. The
failure was probably due to
poor timing, since more than
the usual fanfare and publicity
attended the formation of the
new co. Such a failure was
certainly noticed by other oil
companies seeking fresh capi-
tal, and there must have been
much rethinking in the light
of the new situation.
One company which has
gone its merry way is Aus-
tralian Oil and Gas. With
strong financial interests from
abroad carrying out explora-
tion and drilling for it in the
Surat Basin, it has been able
to ask its shareholders for
fresh funds to carry out its
own programme in the Sydney
and Murray Basins. The size
of the new issue has been very
carefully pitched to the reduced
tempo of the market, and thus
the expansion of equity capital
by about 17 p.c. should be
accepted by existing share-
holders without unduly depres-
sing the old shares, though
recent sales have been at 4s. 6d.
But where do so many of
the other companies stand who
find themselves with precious
little in the till, no American
partner to take up the slack
and continuing work-commit-
ments? These companies will
be forced to cut-back activities
sharply. They will require the
co-operation of the States and
Commonwealth Governments
in allowing them time to raise
new funds.
An interesting sidelight to
the situation, now becoming
more apparent, is that major
world-wide companies pull in
their corporate horns during
such a period even though the
financial resources are present
to carry on as usual.
Apparently the bear psy-
chology strikes everyone at
once, and one wonders how
there can ever be a recovery
from these situations when
everyone is freely predicting
that the worst is still to come.
However, sooner or later
there is a recovery. We can
expect that the oil-search busi-
ness will go through a slack
period, but will come back with
the general economy.
In the meantime, such
interesting areas as Port
Campbell in Victoria and
Cabawin in s.-e. Queensland
are being probed. A discovery
at either location would chanae
the picture for the oil-search
companies immediately an d
would undoubtedly gi ve the
entire market a lift.
G- H. Horton’s Progress
A BUSINESS that has made im-
pressive progress over the
past few years, without clap-
ping on too much sail in the
way of capital or book-value of
fixed assets in the process, is
that of G. H. Horton and Co.
Ltd., Sydney. It has branches
in all the mainland States.
The parent co. makes car-
bon-papers and typewriter-rib-
bons under the Copperplate,
Titan and Classic Nonstilt
brands. A subsidiary, Colum-
bia and Cumberland Pencil Co.
Pty., is joint owner of the only
pencil-lead manufacturing co.
in the Southern Hemisphere,
and it makes black-lead, copy-
ing and colored pencils under
Copperplate, Cadet, Color
Sketch and Lakeland brands.
Another subsidiary, Columbia
Writing Products Pty., is a dis-
tributor of the group’s manu-
factures as well as a variety of
office-stationery and -equip-
ment.
The group has kept well
abreast of developments in new
office-equipment and systems
through its overseas associates
(Columbia Ribbon and Carbon,
New York and London; Jen-
sen's, Inc., U.S.A. ; Kee Lox
Mfg., U.S.A. ; Ditto, Incor-
porated, U.S.A. ; and J. S.
Staedtler, Germany).
In the 1958-59 term a tie-
up with British Pens, Ltd., for
the merging of the Columbia
Pencil and Crayon Co. Pty.
with the Australian business of
the Cumberland Pencil Co.
was arranged under the present
title of Columbia and Cumber-
land Pencil Co. G. H. Horton
and Co. subscribed £lOO,OOO
of the capital and British Pens
Ltd., £50,000.
The group has factories at
Waterloo and Lane Cove in
N.SAV., and it owns other free-
holds in Melbourne and Bris-
bane. There was a revaluation
of freeholds in 1955, but at
latest book-figure of £192,2J*
the present valuation seems
modest.
Plant, at cost, less deprecia-
tion, £93,439, also seems a con-
servative entry.
Profit- wise, there has been a
upward trend since 1954 (e
for 1956-57, when there was


APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED
FOR AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF
With rates, terms and asset backing offering an excellent
combination of security and profit.
4 years, 9% p.a.
o
p.a.
FIVE-
SEVEN
YEARS
3 years, 8% p.a.
Interest will be paid quarterly free of exchange and calculated from the actual date on which the
application money is received at any branch of the Company. The minimum amount of Debenture
Stock that may be applied for is £lOO.
Main business of the Company is in the fields of
Land and Property Development, General Finance,
Industry, Retail Stores and Shipping. The Company
confidently proposes to continue pursuing a programme
of planned and profitable diversification by constantly
applying funds to actively promote these functions
so vital to the Country's continued growth.
Applications for Debenture Stock will be accepted only on the application form contained In the
printed Prospectus, which is obtainable from—
Any branch of H & S Credits Limited
SYDNEY _ Ist Floor, Renown House, 163 Clarence Street. BX 1733
ALSO NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, HOBART
Or any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
H & S CREDITS LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of N.S.W. on 16th June, 1954.) mm
TO: H & S CREDITS LIMITED, 163 Clarence Street, Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, printed Prospectus for your 10% First Mortgage
Debenture Stock.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 7/12


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LI Ml TED
H
a
limJS*
ws<zMa>.
HR)!
BBS
06 SS
M
WM
rze-DD.
'per annum
4-9 YEARS
Currency, Interest
Per Annum
10, 15 or
20 years
9Vx%
4-9 years
9%
3 years 8%
2 years 7Vz%
1 year 7 %
6 months
6%
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
For PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION
FORMS—-CALL at, or WRITE to:—;
ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES or
ANY MEMBER of a Recognised Stock Exchange
or THE COMPANY'S OFFICES
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone BU 5542
OR THE UNDERWRITING BROKERS
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney. 84 William Street, Melbourne
159 Beardy Street, Armidale. 80 Fitzroy Street, Grafton.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
CORRIE & CO.
400 Queen Street, Brisbane
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
99 Queen Street, Melbourne
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
CUP and POST COUPON
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the Prospectus
with Application Forms.
NAME:....
ADDRESS ;
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. (3. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
slight setback caused by the
aftermath of the “Little Budget”
and import-restrictions). The
growth in 1958-59 was spec-
tacular, with a jump in net
earnings from £53,436 to
£83,958 (up £30,549). In 1959-
60 there was a further rise (de-
ducting the share of British
Pen Co.) of £9(>o9 to £93,594,
after charging tax of £84,061
and depreciation of £11,926.
This was equal to 31 p.c. on
the one - class capital of
£300,000. The dividend which
had been steady at 10 p.c. for
some years up to 1957, was
lifted to 12 p.c. in 1958, 14 p.c.
in 1959 and 16 p.c. in 1960. As
indicated previously, even this
latest rate was almost doubly
covered by 1959-60 disclosed
group profits.
Reserves appear at £210,102
in the consolidated accounts,
making net shareholders’ funds
£510,005. Interest of outside
shareholders amounts to
£52,005. Liabilities total
£268,490, against current assets
of £544,920.
Though the liquid position
is comfortable, if present
expansion continues there
could be possibilities of a new
share-issue during the next year
or two.
There have been no bonus-
issues since the co. became
listed in 1956. Capital has been
stationary for the past five
years.
For several years the board
of G. H. Horton has shown
some pride in presenting each
succeeding term’s results, and
the satisfaction seems to
have been well justified, on
analysis. The chairman’s com-
ment for the term ended June
30 last was: “The turnover for
the year was substantially in-
creased on the previous year’s
figures and resulted in an in-
crease in profits. The increase
in business is due to the com-
pany’s policy of keeping abreast
of the latest methods of pro-
duction necessary for the manu-
facture of products required for
the continued development of
modern office-equipment.”
The management’s enthu-
siasm has never flagged. On
the other hand, it does not
appear to have gone too far
too fast, as can happen in this
type of business, and has al-
ready happened to one major
office-equipment manufacturer
in the U.S.A.
Last sale of the £1 shares
was at 635. (against a highest
quote of 675. 6d. for the year).
The return at 635. on a 16 p.c.
div. basis would be a shade
over 5 p.c.
So far this term the co. has
had no import problems, the
Government technique in
coping with declining oversea,
reserves being different f «
that employed in 1955
Fertilisers and Fertility
em Bruce Levy, the veteran
grassland scientist, has sug-
gested that national money in-
vested in the N.Z. fertiliser in-
dustry would effectively bolster
the basic source of the country’s
wealth, its industrial life and
the social welfare of its people.
Sir Bruce said soil-fertility
building in N.Z. was akin to
physical-stamina building of
the race. Topdressing with arti-
ficial fertilisers had set. up an
environment unequalled any-
where in the world for the
world’s best grasses and clovers,
the world’s best fodders and the
world’s best stock.
Soil-fertility building could
unleash untold potentialities
still latent so that N.Z. might
ultimately become the nucleus
stock-herbage farm and the
stud-stock farm for at least
the whole of the temperate
zones of the world, he said.
“The first million tons a year
of mineral fertilisers has got
us just so far,” said Sir Bruce.
“Two-million tons a year will
not complete the task, but it
will bring us a long way along
the road to our objective. It
may be that the third million
tons will be necessary to com-
plete the task.
“Maybe, as we tackle more
and more of the outposts of
the country and the more diffi-
cult soil types closer in, there
will arise a desperate need for
aid by way of a fertiliser sub-
sidy in at least the initial stages
of development.”
A.O.G.
Three “small shows of natural
gas have occurred at ex-
pected horizons” in the well
now being drilled at Baulkham
Hills (near Sydney) by Austra-
lian Oil and Gas Corporation.
Casing had been run-in and
cemented at 1175 ft. The well
is drilling ahead below 1331 it.
in sandstone formation.
A.O.G. is carrying-out a
drilling programme in the
Sydney Basin for comparatively
shallow natural-gas resources.
The co. also has concessions
in the Murray basin. Baia
capital is £1 million in ss. o •
Another 700,000 ords. are
° ff lt r has drilled a considerable
number of holes J n
separated areas and a .
countered various gas-sh _ ’
but none has been of comm
cial significance and
the gas has been of coal
marsh origin.


HIGHLIGHTS FROM NATIONAL BANK
CHAIRMAN’S 1960 ADDRESS
Mr. J. A. Forrest, Melbourne, 30/11/60.
GOVERNMENT HAD TO ACT, The Government coul d not ignore the possible loss of £200m.,
or even more, of overseas reserves in one year, and the new inflationary rises in costs and
prices. Corrective action to arrest the drift had to be taken. We should not be alarmed
at such modifications of policy because swings in our overseas trading and inflationary
conditions can occur very rapidly, as has happened on this occasion.
THE BUSINESS OUTLOOK. A more restrained business atmosphere is probable from the
combined effects of the Government’s new measures, lower export income and the higher
imports already received. It is obvious that advances must be severely curtailed as, between
March and October, the trading banks lost approx. £222m. of liquid funds, following a
£lsBm. rise in advances and a reduction of £64m. in deposits. The rise in advances has
been criticized, but it is impossible to turn bank credit on and off as one would a tap—
especially when the Government makes a fundamental change as in February with the
virtual removal of import restrictions.
RISING COSTS ENDANGER EXPORTS. We court disaster if we refuse to recognize that we are
now living in a much more competitive world. Failure to stop the constant rise in costs
will destroy the profit-earning capacity of our big exporting primary industries, and damage
gravely the prospects for a growing volume of manufactured goods in both export and local
markets.
The vital need to increase our population as rapidly as possible, and the peculiarities of
our wage fixing systems, strain the economy. Our nation’s material advancement urgently
requires greater exports, the restraint of rises in costs, and the efficient expansion of our
production.
INTEREST RATES. An alteration in interest rates was far too long neglected by the Govern-
ment. But a useful start toward flexibility in interest rates has been made, and it is to be
hoped that as circumstances require further use will be made of this means of influencing
the demand for money. The Bank believes in flexibility in official and bank interest rates.
The Government has already issued Seasonal Treasury Notes at market rates, but persists
in maintaining 1% on Treasury Bills. It would be fairer, and less complicated, if Treasury
Bills were made available to both public and banks at market rates of interest.
ACCOUNTS . Total assets, at £364m. are an all-time record. Gross earnings rose by £1,338,000 —
a substantial achievement—but expenses increased by no less than £1,485,000. Thus,
allowing for a decrease of £98,000 in taxation, net profit declined by £49,000. Rising
costs are severely affecting banks, and our operating costs have increased by 24% but
gross earnings by only 18% over last two years. Banks, under a real measure of Govern-
ment control which rigidly restricts their banking income, must be permitted to earn
sufficient income to cover increases in costs, over which they have little or no control.
STAFF THANKED. The Bank’s staff in Australia and London were thanked for the high
standards maintained in meeting, with energy and understanding, the difficulties of the
last twelve months.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Inc. in Victoria)
Registered Office: 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne.
880 Offices throughout Australia. Total Assets £364 million.


Why the Japs Won Pearl Harbor
By SECOND SHACKLE
'"The Japanese attack on Pearl
Harbor 19 years ago
today was a daring plan,
worthy of the best tacti-
cal brains of any nation.
To its originators, and to those
who implemented it, justice de-
mands, no matter how we per-
sonally feel, that we pay credit
for its conception and exe-
cution.
In point of fact, the whole
concept was born in the mind
of Admiral Isoruku Yama-
Moto. A complete realist, he
is on record as having said to
the Chief-of-Staff of the Japan-
ese Eleventh Air Fleet, Rear-
Admiral Takajiro Onishi: “If
we are to have war with
America, we will have no hope
of winning UNLESS THE U.S.
FLEET IN HAWAIIAN
WATERS CAN BE DE-
STROYED.”
He ordered Admiral Onishi
to commence studying the
possibilities of launching a
surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.
Onishi handed the job over to
a crack young airman, Com-
mander Minoru Genda, who
eventually came up with a plan
—risky, but not impossible.
That was all Yama-Moto
needed. A small group of
trusted staff-officers immedi-
ately went to work, and by May
of 1941 Rear-Admiral Shigesu
Fukudome, of the Naval Gen
eral Staff, was able to present
a tabulated appreciation of
Pearl Harbor’s strengths and
weaknesses to Rear-Admiral
Ryunosuke Kusaka, who was
instructed to go ahead and draw
up detailed operational plans.
The job was a tough one.
U.S. Naval and Air strength
was formidable. Hawaii was
thousands of miles from Japan,
and was dotted with airfields —
for all the Japanese knew, on
all the islands of the group.
Added to that, Vice-Admiral
Nagumo, who commanded
Japan’s First Air Fleet, was
not sold on the idea. He would
have to lead it, and he con-
sidered the odds were stacked
against him. However, Yama-
Moto persisted, and Kusaka
worked on. Suddenly the idea
seemed possible. He re-
doubled his efforts, and pro-
duced a master plan which time
was to prove successful.
"Clated, Yama-Moto pro-
*L' ceeded to announce the
scheme to a few selected key-
officers, who tested it for 15
days on the game-board at the
Naval War College.
Yama-Moto persisted with
his arguments concerning the
U.S.A. He figured America
was certain to be in the war
against Japan, and that the
U.S. Pacific Fleet was Japan’s
biggest worry . . . Crush it by
surprise without beg pardons!
So he won the day, and on
September 13, 1941, the Naval
High Command issued the
rough draft of an overall plan
combining Pearl Harbor,
Malaya, the Philippines and the
Netherlands East Indies in one
huge operation.
Then came a period of im
tensive trainng. A spot on the
Inland Sea, almost duplicating
the Harbor at Pearl, was
selected. One by one picked
men were drafted, and, after
an inspiring address from
Yama-Moto, over 100 specially
selected pilots of the Fleet Air
Arm were added to the force.
Th| men trained hard, and
one specialist group perfected
the low, short torpedo-runs
from aircraft—one of the then
newer developments in war.
Other pilots practised bombing
techniques, and for these fins
were fitted on 15in. and 16in.
armor-piercing shells con-
verted missiles that would pene-
trate anything.
On November 7 Admiral
Nagumo was named Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Pearl
Harbor attack-force. Simul-
taneously, Yama-Moto set the
date for the operation—Sunday,
December 7, Hawaiian time.
"piRST ship of the task-force to
A leave Japan proper was the
freighter Hoko Maru, which
sailed about November 15 with
orders to rendezvous in Tankan
Bay, in the Kuriles.
Next to sail was the aircraft-
carrier Akagi, on the 17th, with
Admiral Nagumo aboard. Ren-
dezvous was completed by No-
vember 21, when 32 ships were
at anchor in the bleak Kurile
harbor.
Besides the flagship Akagi,
ships of the task-force included
the carriers Kaga, Zuikaku,
Hiryu, Shokaku and Soryu, the
battleships Hiei and Kirishima,
the new cruisers Tone and Chi-
kuma, nine destroyers led by
the light cruiser Abukuma,
three submarines and eight
tankers.
At dawn on November 26,
on orders from Yama-Moto,
the task-force got under way
/for the almost insuperable
operation ahead. By December
2 Yama-Moto confirmed the
attack was to proceed on the
date previously set —Sunday,
December 7, Hawaiian time.
December 3 the pilots
were specifically briefed on
their jobs: the attacks-on U.S.
Army airfields at Hickam and
Wheeler . . . Schofield Bar-
racks . . . U.S. Naval Air
stations at Kaneobe and Ford
Island • . . the U.S. Fleet in
Pearl Harbor . . . the Marine
base at Ewa . . . Just about
every strategic point in the
islands.
By evening of December 3
the Japanese Fleet was about
1300 miles north-west of Oahu,
the main island of the Hawaiian
group. At dawn on the 6th
Admiral Kusaka completed the
refuelling operations com-
menced the previous day, when
three tankers had been sent to
a pre-arranged rendezvous for
after the attack. The five re-
maining tankers then steamed
off to join the first three at
the rendezvous and await
Kusaka's return.
Leaving nothing to chance,
the Japanese Navy had
stationed 28 large ocean-going
submarines off the waters of
Oahu. Five of them were
“mother submarines,” each
carrying a two-man midget sub-
marine, similar to those that
raided Sydney Harbor, Sunday
night, June 7, 1942. They
were to close in on Pearl and
be launched shortly before the
carriers’ air-strike. On Decem-
ber 6 they sighted the main
island, but from then on every-
thing in their part of the plan
misfired, and this phase of
the Japanese operations was
doomed to failure.
■jl/TEANTiME, in the unsus-
pecting islands, servicemen
and civilians were enjoying a
balmy weekend leave.
The Army did have five
mobile radar-units at strategic
points, but it was a new device
and was only operated spas-
modically, with no constant
watch maintained.
It was all very haphazard!
Had the radar-screen been ope-
rating on a proper basis (for a
general warning had been
issued from Washington on
November 27 concerning pOS-
lble imminence of war with
Japan) a different story might
have been told.
HPhen it happened! At 0755
on the morning of Sunday
December 7, 353 Japanese
planes hit Pearl Harbor and all
the other targets with every-
thing they had.
The attack ended about 10.00
—only about two hours in all.
In that time 2008 U.S. naval
personnel were killed and 710
wounded. The U.S. Army lost
218 killed, with 364 wounded;
the Marine Corps, 109 killed
and 69 wounded.
At Pearl Harbor itself 18
ships were sunk or seriously
damaged out of a total of 96
ships either at anchor, at buoys,
in dry-docks or alongside.
At the various airfields 188
planes were destroyed, Army
and 92 Navy—almost a line-
ball. Additionally, 128 Army
and 31 Navy planes were dam-
aged. Airfields hardest hit were
Kaneohe and Ewa. Of the 83
planes caught on the tarmacs of
these fields only one was suffi-
ciently airworthy to fly at the
raid’s end.
In the city of Honolulu there
were about 40 explosions—all
except one the result of U.S.
anti-aircraft fire.
Commander Mitsuo Fuchida
commanded the Japanese air-
attack. With him were 48 other
conventional bombers. Lieu-
tenant-Commander Kakiwichi
Takahashi led 51 dive-
bombers ; Lieutenant - Com-
mander Shigeharu Murata com-
manded a group of 40 torpedo-
planes. Lieutenant-Commander
Shigeru Itaya, with 43 fighters,
provided cover. The bombers
flew at about 9000 ft., the
fighter-cover as high as 15,000 ft.
They came in right on target,
and attacked as scheduled.
On Pearl Harbor, Genda is
reported having said: 9
Pearl Harbor attack, I wou d
say, was generally success
for the objective was to destroy
the main force of the Am
can Pacific Fleet. But in r
spect it would have been
at the time to have pusW
our advantage by
Hawaii.' By our not doing so
America was able to re
important foothold
Pacific.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMUNISM'S UNBRIDGED RIFT
o Ndon “Economist” com-
i m ent on the quarrel inside
Communist camp:
The Russians and the
linese are clearly having a
ia t argument, but what the
He of the debate is at any
tticular moment it is hard
■discover. By now the bare
line of the discussion has
Line well known. It con-
ins the relations of the Com-
jinist Powers towards the out-
je world and how best to
iarge their empire. Mr.
Irushchev believes that the
mmunist camp is now so
age and / powerful that,
pile peacefully coexisting
jith the rest of the world, it
till gradually and inevitably
tend its sway without re-
irse to war, with all its
leous risks of nuclear
kruction. The Chinese
taders, on the other hand,
Maintain in effect that imperial-
i cannot be finally scotched
pout resort to war —a pros-
sct which, with their teeming
lions, they think they can
igard with more equanimity
dan any other Power.
There is a further difference
pr policy towards countries
merging from colonial rule,
fie Russians believe that all
Monal-liberation movements,
p bourgeois ones, should be
icouraged as stepping-stones
* Communism. To the
iinese this is ‘modern revi-
pism’; i n their view only
’wlutionary struggle can
pre victory, and the Com-
knist Powers should concen-
N on securing the immediate
pallation of Communist
limes in former colonial
Entries.
The Hungarian Prime Mini-
P Mr. Muennich, told a
[tv of French journalists
My that there were no
differences be-
Russia and China, only
ict >cal ones. This may be
but the disagreement
P tactics could clearly have
Omental consequences. No
fP both sides realise that
ls ln the interests of neither
P Us h their disagreements
[ f ar ; if they end up by
5* n S the Communist world,
A will be losers. The
|; I!lese may believe them-
j' es fit to act as the recog-
c“ spiritual advisers to the
[Pmunist pope, but their
>aued references to ‘the
Socialist camp, headed by the
Soviet Union’ suggest that
they realise that to attempt
anything more ambitious
would fatally divide the Com-
munist world.
“The Russians, for their
part, may be sure they know
better than the Chinese how to
interpret Marxism-Leninism in
a mid-twentieth-century con-
text, and anxious to convince
Peking of its errors ; but they
must be equally anxious
neither to compromise Com-
munist unity nor to give the
Chinese any excuse to de-
—London “Evening Standard.”
“COMRADES, THE REPORTS OF MY DEMISE WERE SLIGHTLY
EXAGGERA TED.”
nounce them as backsliding
opportunists unfit to expound
the sacred texts.
“In New York Mr.
Khrushchev was, to put
it mildly, unaccommodat-
ing, and one reason may have
been his wish to show-off to
the Chinese his toughness to-
wards the West. Moreover, his
passionate demand for Com-
munist China’s admission to
the United Nations demon-
strated the underlying strength
of the links binding the Com-
munist world. But he was not
merely making out a case for
his ally ; with Peking's acquisi-
tion of nuclear weapons just a
matter of time, it is clearly only
commonsense to try to bring it
into any disarmament discus-
sions—whether inside the U.N.,
or, as the Americans have
already suggested, outside. The
Soviet leader may also feel that
it might help to bring the
Chinese round to accept his
views on relations with the
outside world if they can be
brought from their isolated
watch-tower in Peking to
absorb the atmosphere of the
world organisation.
“But however much he may
champion Peking’s case against
the outside world, inside the
Communist camp he cannot
afford not to prosecute vigor-
ously (but within limits) his
own case against Peking. If
the Chinese gospel were to gain
much ground inside the bloc,
Russia's position as the leading
Communist Power must be
seriously affected, and the
danger of nuclear war would
also be gravely increased. With
only the Albanian and Indo-
nesian Communist parties
openly supporting the Chinese,
the danger of their ideas mak-
ing much progress may seem
remote. But how deep does the
support for Mr. Khrushchev
expressed by all the other
Communist parties go? There
are sympathisers with the
Chinese view in all of them,
including the Soviet party. It
is unlikely that the support for
Mr. Khrushchev is so over-
whelming that he can safely
rest on his oars ; any serious
reverse for him in the West —
for example, over Berlin —or
any spectacular increase of
Chinese influence in Africa,
could cause a swing back to
China’s ideas inside the Com-
munist world.
“The ideological disagree-
ments of the two giants will
inevitably embitter their com-
petition to gain friends and in-
fluence in Africa and Asia,
And there is no sign that either
intends to give way in the dis-
pute . . .
“Whatever face-saving for-
mula may be adopted, so long
as Mr. Khrushchev reigns in
Moscow and Mao Tse-tung in
Peking the argument between
them is likely to go on, some-
times flaring up angrily, some-
times apparently dying away.
Each may try to blackmail the
other into giving way, by
threatening to disrupt the
Communist bloc; neither is
likely to carry out his threat,
The Chinese would sorely miss
the economic help they are now
getting from Russia, however
much they may bluster about
going it alone. The Russians
will think twice before cutting
off this aid, because of the
disruptive consequences of
such a step, however much they
may hint darkly at doing so.’’
* * *
New York “Herald Tri-
bune”: “Russia can dispense
some of its production to
assist nations that might be
favorably disposed toward
Communism —but at the same
time it has lost a modicum of
its fiery, revolutionary zeal. It
is this zeal that impresses men-
in-a-hurry and that has earned
for Red China so much kudos
among the Communists and
quasi-Communists of the new
or underprivileged countries.
“In this rivalry there lies no
reason for complacency in the
free world. It may well have
spurred Khrushchev to some
of his more outrageous per-
formances ; it poses a constant
threat of war in the Far East


£*
VS
m
IT APPOINTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD.. PERTH. SCOTLAND
c z/cofAmdti cA/rs/e -/Ae TAofAr/^^^Amce
“White Label’
The Classic Blend of Scotch Whiskies known to
generations for its consistently fine quality and
distinctive character.
More people than ever are asking for it by name
Blended solely by
Dewar’s
The famous name in the history of
Scotch Whisky
—it never varies
. *«**&#>:
Pit!
sOMpnatS
50G.1J 50ft>»
\ •‘riMMrtals Prii t»'»°“/
jmSmSt
"White Label .
u Ewars Fine Scotch Whisk
» OF RARE ACE -|
' J ohn Dewar & Sons v
DISTILLERS
'■■SCCX™ P SCOTIA^
tu.. Ker covrei/rs ipmr. en ois
“* ,, ! ! !.." rui muu “. «««*»» JJ*? .!■•-•
r i& JzZ/eU’<7Jr
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland'
PVVI22A
and stimulates violence around
the world. Nevertheless, there
is irony in the spectacle of a
Red regime that is more Com-
munist than the Kremlin and
is vigorously bidding against
Khrushchev for the loyalty of
revolutionaries everywhere.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph’’:
“The Chinese believe that
prominent neutralist countries
like India, Indonesia and Egypt
are now so anti-Communist
and anti-Chinese that Soviet
aid should be discontinued and
the forces of disruption
allowed free play. Mr. Khrush-
chev intends to continue court-
ing such countries’ non-Com-
munist Governments as part of
his more gradualist policy of
persuading uncommitted coun-
tries to adopt pro-Soviet diplo-
matic positions. For the Soviet
leader a clear victory on these
issues is essential. A paper
compromise might deceive the
West ; but it could not prevent
the gradual erosion of Soviet
hegemony over the world-
Communist movement. And in
the case of a faith like Com-
munism, erosion might easily
gallop into collapse.”
* * *
Dibdin Ragland in the
“Yorkshire Post”: “There is
no doubt the quarrel between
—Munich “Die Zeit.”
Mr. Khrushchev and the
Chinese leaders has been
patched up. The fact of the
patching is important, but so
is the form. The Chinese have
publicly conceded him the vic-
tory. That means the Chinese
have agreed to lose face. For
that they would extract a heavy
price.
“What price has the Russian
leader paid or undertaken to
pay? It may be only that he
has promised greater Russian
help in the building up of
Chinese economy, which cer-
tainly needs it.
“Even that prospect is not
one to fill us with relief. China’s
immense labor-power and
ability to manage on less than
starvation-rations enables her
to make good use of every
ounce of foreign help.
“Once over her present diffi-
culties, she could in 10 years
build herself up into a formid-
able Power —formidable to
Russia and to everybody else.
“It may be that is not the
whole price. There also may
be a Moscow-Peking under-
standing that peaceful coexist-
ence shall be constantly pushed
to the extreme, both •
cally and politically t? m '
or other of the capitalist C o “
tries finds a particular position
intolerable and war Li
rvhy, then the
say it is not their fault
“My bet is that this is, in
fact, the mortgage Mr. Khrush
chev has taken up, if only to
gain time for manoeuvre within
the Socialist camp.”
U.S. Electoral System
'T'he Electoral College system
1 of choosing the U.S. Presi-
dent is as traditional as any
institution that can be found
in America, but it is not with-
out its critics. Since Kennedy's
narrow win over Nixon several
writers have suggested th t the
system could do with an over-
haul.
David Lawrence, in New
York “Herald Tribune,” is iess
concerned about the Electoral
College itself than about the
administrative changes at top-
level which take place when a
President is elected who repre-
sents a different political parly
from that of his predecessor.
Lawrence says that virtually
all the Administration’s lop
policy-makers and experienced


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(j England)
N.S.W. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligh O’Connell Sts., Sydney
Chief Office for Australia:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
f*v
IM
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
frials m ust be § in fo P ack
1 bags. Their knowledge
d experie nce is thrown away
i a new personnel takes over
d begins to learn what it is
'll about- Even the new Presi-
L has first to learn “the inti-
'je background of public
| a j rs ” This takes many
Jnths and perhaps years.
Asking whether there is some
jllier way, Lawrence explains
Jk British system of Parlia-
mentary government, and com-
mits :
•‘lf the party in power makes
Stakes and loses the confi-
ne of the people, it can be
justed at any time, or a new
legislature can be elected.. A
srmanent personnel, known as
|e ‘career service,’ functions
continuously in high posts
irrespective of the party in
power. Thus is continuity
assured and transition made
smooth and effective in the
shortest possible time.
“It isn’t a perfect system, and
lie American people could
doubtless improve upon it with
certain safeguards. But it is
! democratic system and one
lat is immediately responsive
to the will of the people.
“Thus, when an American
President is elected he can make
serious blunders, but he cannot
lie ousted for four years, except
ly the impeachment process,
liiis is a long time in modern
government.”
Remarking that on two occa-
sions the Electoral College
system has forced a minority
President on the country and
to the recent election could
tasily have provided a third
sample, Roscoe Drummond,
to of the “Herald Tribune,”
isstrongly in favor of a change:
“The electoral-vote system
ought either to be abolished or
so reformed that it will be
assured in advance that the
popular will, will prevail.
“It might not be necessary
to abolish the Electoral College,
it will be necessary to abo-
® the system by which each
toe’s whole bloc of electoral
totes goes to one candidate,
irrespective of the division of
vote. This is what
ca uses the electoral vote to dis-
tort the popular vote. That is
™at has twice brought about
too choice of a President with
too fewer popular votes.
Numerous proposals have
p®oq introduced to change the
doctoral College system. They
need to be carefully
studied. One device, which
jo°ves in the right direction, is
0o Lodge-Gossett amendment,
toch would allocate the
octoral vote of each State in
to the popular vote.
, a candidate got 60 per cent,
we popular vote in New
York State, he would get 60
per cent, of the electoral vote,
his opponent 40 per cent.
“If we believe that the popu-
lar will should prevail in pick-
ing the President we had better
do something about the Elec-
toral College.”
Britain's
"Little Election"
VyiTH six by-elections on one
day political parties in
the U.K. had a good oppor-
tunity to judge their standing
in popular esteem. For two
of the three parties the day
ended happily. Labor was the
odd man out. Selected com-
ment :
Edinburgh “Scotsman’’: “In
the Little Election the Liberals
—N.Y. “Herald Tribune .”
“NOT TILL JANUARY '20, BUD.”
have secured evidence of a
Little Revival. On tjie other
hand, the Conservatives have
no reason to be downhearted,
for they have retained all six
seats. The Liberals have the
consolation-prize of finding
themselves second in four con-
stituencies. If the total votes
are compared, the Liberals
come second. From such facts
as these Mr. Grimond has
drawn the inference that the
only advance being made in
politics today is by the Liberal
party. But this celebrated ad-
vance has not added even one
to the number of Liberal seats
in the House of Commons.
“The Liberal leader, how-
ever, maintains that the elec-
torate would like to see a Radi-
cal Liberal Opposition, and he
hopes the party will provide
it before the next general elec-
tion. There is no harm in
hoping . . .
“Many who voted for the
Liberals on the present occa-
sion may have done so in an
experimental frame of mind.
But if any such tendency
should increase there might be
some Liberal revival at the next
general election, especially if
the Labor party were split into
factions.”
♦ * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The Little Election has
finished as the big election did
—in a Conservative landslide.
Carshalton, Mid-Bedfordshire,
Ludlow, Petersfield, Tiverton,
Bolton East —a straight flush,
with one to spare. Attention
naturally focuses not on the
victors, who had nothing to do
except win, but on those who
came second and third. And
here we are confronted with
something startling. In the big
election Liberals ‘intervened’
in four out of these six seats.
In each case they came last.
In this Little Election they


FuiUi in Ihc
Rdwre
\
mi
It is remarkable how a single event can bring
the memory back to something that is deep in
the storing of the years.
Such an experience was mine recently, on
reading of the plan for the systematic mapping of
Australia and New Guinea. The work is being
done jointly by the National Mapping Division of
the Department of National Development and the
Royal Australian Army Survey Corps. It will serve
both civil and defence requirements, and is to be
based essentially on photographs from the air.
Photography has beqn a lifelong hobby of
mine. And it was my lot to have served in the
First World War in the Royal Flying Corps,
alongside men who were among the very first to
practise aerial photography.
Right from the beginning of that war the
value of intelligence pictures from the air was
anticipated by the man who is now Lord Brabazon
—himself an intrepid pioneer airman who holds
Pilot Certificate No. 1 in the Royal Aero Club of
the United Kingdom, and is, as well, a most eminent
amateur photographer.
He had suggested it to the British authorities
before it was actually used by the French Army.
When the R.F.C. started into photographic
operations, he was given charge of the unit.
They did not have the mechanical aids with
which our men are mapping this continent now;
certainly not the airborne electronic measuring
equipment or the radar profile recorder the
Australian parties will be using.
Nevertheless, they did a wonderfully brave and
successful work, and from their first experience in
frail craft over hostile territory flowed the modern
techniques employed today in air photography.
They opened the way.
The mapping of a huge country like Australia
to the scale of approximately four miles to the inch
is a tall task, by any rating.
And we who share the expansive land which
our photographers and surveyors will be recording,,
will be wishing them “good mapping, clear skies
and much success” in this work of truly
national importance.
‘intervened’ in all six seats.
And in four of them they have
beaten Labor to second place.
This is no longer mere inter-
vention, the futile subtraction
of votes from here or there:
this is fighting. We have grown
used to speaking of Liberals
intervening. Is it now Labor
which is destined to inter-
vene?
“For the Labor party, any-
way as at present constituted,
this little election has been a
bitter blow. And as the Labor
party has been constituted, it
looks like going on being con-
stituted. .
“The victors naturally think
they have nothing to learn,
though they cannot be pleased
with their smaller share of a
smaller poll. Perhaps they
have not, so far as winning
elections is concerned —and
this is no small matter. But
there is more to politics than
winning elections.
“For example, there is a
chance to remove a common
reproach that Tory trade-
unionists never get a chance.
Conservatives are doomed to
win by-elections and —unless
the Labor party pulls itself to-
gether—the next general elec-
tion as well. They should not
merely luxuriate in their good
fortune. They should use it to
send to Parliament more of
the men Parliament badly
needs.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail’’: “The
Liberals nearly did it. To beat
Labor in four by-elections out
of six does show that they have
become a force to be reckoned
with. But a miss is as good as
a mile. They have won no
more seats, and where they
hoped to do best they did
worst. This was at Bolton,
where their prize candidate,
Mr. Byers, could manage only
third place.
“Mr. Grimond says the
Liberal party is becoming an
effective Opposition. That is
to jump the gun a bit. As he
well knows, the best chance of
forming a Radical alternative
Government is for his party to
link wifh Right-wing Labor.
“Millions of Labor or Radi-
cal supporters will not have
nationalisation, and have said
so three times. Mr. Gaitskell
tried to get rid of it, but the
Left would not let him. That
apart, there is so much in com-
mon in the philosophies of
Gaitskell and Grimond that
they could easily come to-
gether.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald”:
“The results should be re-
garded as a danger-signal by
‘ he L ?^ or , Party: „ ot as a
funeral-knell. d
The Tories have kept all
the six seats they were defend-
mi?‘ ? Ut that Was ex P e cted
They have nothing at all to
boast about. It is the Liberals
well aVC one sur prisingly
. , Ye j: , Liberals cannot
infer from this that they are
about to replace Labor as the
powerful voice of radical
Britain.
Five of the six constitu-
encies were safe Conservative
seats, and experience shows
that in seats of this kind the
Liberals do best.
“The Labor party is in the
midst of a great and funda-
mental dispute on defence. It
i could still have its dispute and
retain the respect of the elec-
torate if it conducted its affairs
with more dignity and decency.
“But it is not doing so.
There are people in the party
who are trying all the time to
widen the quarrel and destroy
the leadership. Those who
conducted themselves in such
an unseemly way at Man-
chester and Liverpool may
have enjoyed an emotional
hour. But / they did grave
damage to the party.”
Dragnet Digest
Harold Wincott, in London
“Financial Times” : “It has to
be remembered that the atti-
tude of the ‘Sydney Morning
Herald’ towards Mr. Robert
Menzies is rather reminiscent
of the attitude of cats when
they meet my bull-terrier.
Equally, it has been said that
Mr. Menzies when reading the
leading article in the ‘S.M.H.’
has been heard humming,
‘Come into the garden, Maude,’
which is where my bull-terrier
likes to get cats.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald
“An African leader who is
willing to put off independence
for his country a couple of
years is a phenomenon. That
is the position taken up by
Julius Nyerere, Chief Minister
of Tanganyika.
“Tanganyika is on the verge
of independence. But its close
neighbors, Kenya and Uganda,
have a little longer to wait.
Nyerere believes that federa-
tion of the three is Vlta l 0
their future and that t
chances of securing federation
are infinitely higher if the thre
States become independent
,o ?. e So he he is willing U> **
ge^ture^of 3 remarkable states-
manship.”


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Doiryfarmers on Their Own?
By R. A. PRICE
i£ report of the Dairy
Inquiry Committee seems
L it states the problems
( [y and offers the only pos-
: solution —improvement in
iency both of individual
trs and of the industry as
lole.
Lions will differ about the
way of reaching this end,
:the hard way proposed by
committee to drop the
>idy, do away with hope-
jfy uneconomic farms and
I on the farmers them-
58the whole burden of their
lie fate—will certainly prove
j effective than further
tring about with the many
fused and conflicting pallia-
swe have at present.
I drastic overhaul of the
istry, conducted by pro-
as in their own interests,
I cause much hardship and
mess, but should leave us
jler off in the long run.
lore exasperating than the
port, because less just and
tso well informed, are the
-lions and comments of
aimers of milk-products —
rally rushing in to attack
% which is already hard
®d from all sides,
fee is no need for the
tible suppression of uneco-
®c farms, one person sug-
}£d. If the subsidy is cut
■and every farmer has to
‘along on his own economic
fe the tail-enders will
tomatically retire from the
feess, or, if they wish to
feue, should be quite at
Wy to carry on at a lower
ferd of living. Economic
Auction doesn’t begin and
mt 80001 b. butterfat — a good
!®U” farmer could be more
fet and much happier
i 1" a “Pitt Street farmer”
fl se only interest is in reduc-
p s income-tax.
tas y loans for farm-develop-
II fell be no hardship, to
or to the nation.
l eve n hire-purchase could
‘ e a better return than m-
jHfet in such aspects of
r ln § as irrigation, pasture
rov ernent, or improvement
based on production
■feng.
The provision of better in-
formation and extension-ser-
vices seems just as good a
national investment, if it
results in a more stable supply
of cheaper and better food, but
there will need to be a big
improvement on present levels.
One field-officer to about
2000 farms is not going to make
a deep impression, even if the
man is good and willing (which
is not always so). The instruc-
tion available at agricultural
colleges and the amount of
useful study of agriculture
done at other schools is piti-
fully inadequate. If a farmer
is pigheaded and ignorant, the
fault lies just as much with the
system which educated him as
with the man himself.
The high price of milk, long
the subject of bitter comment,
has lately been compared un-
favorably with the price of
petrol, ignoring the food-value
of the products. Milk at Is. a
pint will stand comparison with
soft-drinks at about Is. 6d.
and bottled-beer at about 3s.
.... But, of course, that is
different!
The committee said that “it
would be a great thing for milk-
producers if the processed-
milk industry were to expand,”
adding that there is almost
unlimited scope for expansion.
It will also be a great thing for
both producers and consumers
if the farmers, with their new-
found independence and res-
ponsibility, could take greater
control of this side of the
industry. Some factories pay
a fair return of over 3s. a
gallon for milk for drying, but
in other places “surplus” milk
is bought for about Is. Bd. This
may be processed into whole-
milk powder selling at the
equivalent of 4s. lOd. a gallon,
or it may be separated for
butter or what-not and then
the skim-milk dried and sold as
a dietetic marvel, for the
equivalent of 3s. 2d. a gallon.
The high prices paid for city
milk-runs bear witness to where
the profits go, and if the shake-
up in dairying shakes off a few
parasitic middlemen it will be
all to the good.
We are told that, in the
general interests of the nation,
restrictions on the production
of table-margarine should be
removed. This brings up some
interesting points bearing on
exporting and importing, pro-
tection for secondary industries,
exploitation of cheap labor,
and unemployment—and these
points come up appropriately
in connection with the new
economic restrictions.
The Dairy Report says:
“The lowering of the average
return by a large exportable
surplus could be a loss to
individual producers, but the
industry gain was real and the
benefits went to the low-cost
producers. Reduced produc-
tion would not solve the pro-
blem and would have undesir-
able side-effects on production
of by-products, export-income
and employment. The com-
mittee believed that the only
way to deal with the export
surplus was to reduce costs
of production.”
These are really sound con-
clusions, and could very well
be applied to many other indus-
tries, too. Take the motor
industry, for instance. Refer-
ring to the proposed increase in
sales-tax, a spokesman says it
“would have the immediate
effect of large-scale retrench-
ments of thousands of skilled
employees.” But the 3000
dairyfarmers and their fami-
lies? . . . Well, that again
is different!
Treasurer Holt said: “We
would have to be looking for
exports wherever we could
find them, even at the expense
of our domestic standards of
living.” He need look no
farther than our millions of
hungry neighbors and our
farming industries with sur-
plus food for sale. All he
would need to put in is a little
sane political organising, so
that people can work for the
common good instead of tear-
ing each other to pieces.
In placing responsibility for
prices and marketing squarely
on the shoulders of the dairy-
farmers, the Dairy Report
says: “Consumers should not
be deprived of the right to
import, if domestic prices were
excessive.” I take it that this
cuts both ways. One of the
means proposed to stimulate
exports was to grant import-
licences only to those who did
some exporting. The dairy
industry would have some very
good reasons for importing all
kinds of essential floods which
are now expensive, or hard to
get, or both, such as wire,
fence-posts, machinery, cement,
clothing and electrical goods.
We should be taking advantage
of cheap labor, just as the
users of margarine would be,
and the cheaper goods would
help us to improve our
notoriously poor economic
efficiency.
Money in Trees
Most failures to realise a
profit in the growing of trees
are due to ignorance of fores-
try practice. The chief fault
probably is the putting of the
right type of tree in the wrong
place.
In every case known to me
of a good profit being made, a
son had cashed-in on trees
planted by his father. One
farmer planted three acres of
otherwise useless hillside with
Pinus radiata in 1880. In 1926
those trees, up to 4ft. in girth
and each yielding an average
35ft. of mill log, were sold to
a case-factory for £4OO.
In 1900 another man planted
a row of Osage orange (Mac-
lura aurantiaca ) along a fence-
line. In 1950 they fetched £8
a tree, being bought by a man
who turned the wood in them
—one of the strongest and most
elastic known —into archery-
bows, heads for croquet-mal-
lets and big-game fishing-rods.
In a third case a triple-line of
silver-birch (Betula pendula)
was planted along the course
of a creek. Thirty-four years
later they brought £4 apiece,
being bought by a firm making
high - class veneered - plywood
panels.
These were all peace-time
sales. Huge profits were made
during the last war —one man
received £l5OO for the Pinus
radiata which his father had
planted on an area of bracken
land good for nothing else —
but conditions were then ab-
normal.
In every one of these in-
stances the man who sold the
trees wished his father had
planted about 50 times as many,
but none of those who cashed-
in has now planted trees for
his heir to sell!
Mention has been made here
of useless bat-willows ( Salix )
planted at Daylesford (Vic.),
but willows will yield timber
suitable for cricket-bats only
when grown in a few selected
localities. In Britain nearly all
the trees have to be grown in
Sussex. Those grown at Lobet-
hal (S.A.) make a fairly good
article ; one man there earned
a living for years by making
bats from locally-grown willow.
But only in Tasmania are we
likely to find spots which might
produce really first-class bat-
timber, conditions in the way
of soil and climate there being
similar to those of Sussex.
For years forestry officials


said that American hickory
(Carya) wouldn't grow here.
Essington Lewis, of the 8.H.P.,
commissioned David Whibley,
of Stirling West (S.A.), to see
what he could do Whibley
raised hundreds of seedlings
from nuts sent from the U.S. ;
they have made remarkable
growth and are now bearing
nuts.
There is no mystery as to
why foreign trees usually do so
well in another country. They
are grown from seed and in
the new environment they are
not attacked by any of the
leaf-eating, timber-boring or
sap-sucking pests of their home-
land. Rodiata in Australia is
a well-known example. In its
native California it is a nonde-
script little pine found naturally
in only a few coastal areas.
Here, when planted in stands in
areas of heavy rainfall, it grows
straight and tall and can be
milled when only 18 years old.
The same thing holds good
with our eucalypts and acacias
overseas. In South Africa,
Algeria. Italy, California and
Brazil they grow so rapidly,
and their trunks and foliage
are so clean and healthy, that
it's hard to realise they are the
species we know.
The U.S., Canada, Sweden,
Finland, France, Germany and
even the British Isles find it
profitable to grow, on a com-
mercial scale, ash, walnut, oak,
maple, birch, beech, pine, fir
and larch, even when a species
grows so slowly that 80 years
must elapse between planting
and milling. In Australia most
of those species mature in half
the time or even less, and tests
Over the years there
has been a marked
increase in sheep popu-
lation in Japan. In
1958 these figures rose
to 915,000, a record
level, but, according to
latest reports, a rever-
sal of this trend has
been felt. During 1959
there was a 6 per cent,
decrease to 864,000.
These figures have
accounted for the loss
in the production of
raw wool. In the years
1956-59 Japan's output
exceeded 7 million lb.
(greasy), and has now
dropped to 6.9 million
lb. for 1959.
One of the more suc-
cessful methods of
castrating and tailing
lambs and calves, as
found by graziers every-
where, is Elastrator. As
they all know, Elastra-
tor considerably lessens
the risk of fly-borne
diseases, which account
for large lambing
losses. Next time you
castrate and tail your
lambs, use Elastrator,
the humane method.
—some of which I made per-
sonally—have shown' that this
rapid growth does not produce
an inferior timber. In some
cases it is superior.
Australia is missing wonder-
ful opportunities in this way.
In the Murray catchment-areas
we have millions of acres of
country with the necessary
heavy rainfall for commercial-
forestry work. No doubt some
American expert will come here
one day and show us how to do
it. —H. A. Lindsay.
Wildlife
Aids Agriculture
A landholder’s chief allies in
his constant and increasingly
expensive war on insect-pests
are birds, some of which are
rightly protected.
But protection is not enough
for such bird allies, especially
waterfowl. They need suitable
breeding-areas, and swamps
and marshes must be preserved
if these birds are to continue
their valuable contribution to
food-production.
The Victorian Fisheries and
Wildlife Department considers
the preservation of breeding-
grounds as its most urgent
project. At a meeting held
lately at Horsham (Vic.) this
project was discussed by dele-
gates from that department
and from the Forest Commis-
sion, the Wimmera Regional
Committee, and field-naturalist
and gun and angling clubs in
the district, together with the
representatives of 10 Wimmera
municipalities.
Shire representatives
brought maps showing pos-
sible areas in their shires,
some of which areas may
be incorporated in a proposed
Australia-wide scheme initi-
ated last February at a meet-
ing in Melbourne and since
further considered in Brisbane.
The groundwork for the
Victorian Wimmera’s share in
such preservation was laid in
1957, when a survey of the
region’s wildlife resources was
made by the Wimmera Shire
Council. A detailed report on
this survey—Victorian Direc-
tor of Fisheries and Wildlife
A. Dunbavin Butcher des-
cribed it as a unique and
valuable document—influ-
enced the wider scheme, and
also influenced the formation
of the State Wildlife Reserves
Investigation Committee,
which upholds the preservation
of wildlife as a legitimate use
of land.
This regional report recom-
mended the establishment of
suitable breeding-grounds,
with control of water-level to
provide ample food, and in-
vestigation of using the new
chemical discovered by the
C.5.1.R.0. for water-conserva-
tion.
It also recommended the
banning of splash-shooting, co-
ordination of South Australian
and Victorian opening dates
of game-seasons, introduction
of a game-licence (now in
force), and greater publicity
about wildlife sanctuaries.
The Victorian State Wild-
life Reserves Investigation
Committee has already begun
buying land for wildlife re-
serves. So far as funds partly
derived from game-licences
will permit, it will investigate
and select other reserve-areas
offered by various Shires.
Supplemented by some Crown
lands, these will be made into
wildlife reserves of four types
-—State sanctuaries, fauna re-
serves, game reserves and co-
operative projects.—“Wimra.”
Trophy for Cheese
The B 1 e d i s 1 o e Challenge
Trophy for the best exhibit of
Commonwealth Cheddar
cheese at the 1960 London
Royal Dairy Show was uv,
by Maffra Co-operative Milk
Products Co., Ltd of r
land (Vic.). 01 G W S -
This is the first time an Aus-
tralian cheese has won Z
trophy which is awarded
annually for the best exhibh
from British Commonwealth
countries. Hitherto the award
had always gone to Canadian
or New Zealand exhibits.
1
-
Pigs to Market
When pigs are to be taken to
market by motor - vehicle
fai mers should let them <>o
hungry the evening before they
are being trucked. If taken on
full stomachs the rapid, jerky
movements of the truck seem
to place a nervous stress on
them.
A few months ago a truck-
load of porkers arrived in Bris-
bane from Kingaroy (a dis-
tance of 150 road-miles) and
11 of them were found dead.
Post - mortem examinations:
showed no abnormality, except
that their stomachs were very
distended with sorghum-meal.
The cause of death was heart-
failure, due to overfeeding be-
fore trucking.
Transport by rail seems less
risky. Pigs loaded in rail-
wagons seem much more re-
laxed, and the slower, gentler
movement of these wagons does
not cause nervous stress. The
moving train keeps the pigs
cool, but long stops in hot
weather may bring the risk of
heat-stroke. —“Wilga.”
New Zealand
Lagging? j
Back from judging Beef
Shorthorns at Christchurch
(N.Z.) Show, E. J. Withers, of
Nalpa Station, via Strathalbyn
(S.A.), is of the opinion that
N.Z. beef-cattle are not in the
same class as their Australian
counterparts.
“The champions I chose
could hold their own at some
Australian shows,’ he sai ,
“though they might be onl
second-prize getters, not nis
New Zealand cattle have not
the size and bone of our c a
pion cattle, although they co
pare favorably in other way •
He added that many Austra-
lian cattlemen, as well as
Zealanders, are producing 1
stock too heavy for thei
bone. Likening men who
in for this type of b
a truck-driver who on a
putting a 4on ke t wo tons,
chassis built to tak ke
without Strengthening


THE
united insurance company
LIMITED
Established 1862.
1 Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
r DIRECTORS:
• DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
’ Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
X TMIAI 4 .HfHHISSr It f ,X#/ MPUSf ?
m,
L>
%
/i?*?
'.S'*
I^, - •
Everybody looks up to
HENNESSY
COGNAC BRANDY
L
A
'Les
Hl*
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
: '• idliir n -
wm
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in” and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
I|,J S) he said: “They are
considering the bone when
jjj n g. They are trying to
't o o much weight on the
have a lot to learn from
Zealand about lamb-rais-
jnd from the amazing uni-
jjjjty of their breeding-ewes,”
! concluded, “but, from what
; i seen, N.Z. could learn
jus about raising beef.”
fjthers and his wife travelled
i)miles by car over N.Z.’s
dll and South Islands.
Care with
"Weedkillers"
lie term “herbicide” should
iys be used instead of
sdkiller,”. which implies
correctly) that the potion
iweeds, and weeds alone,
pngs to watch with herbi-
p:
Sodium-chlorate can become
pious fire-hazard,
irsenic, sodium-chlorate or
lean cause soil-sterilisation
used in large amounts,
pical compounds are very
nous, and must be handled
I extreme care. Hormone
jiillers must also be used
| carefully, because of their
i toxicity to flowers, vege-
des and shrubs.
paying should be done
aen there is no wind ; even a
tit breeze can cause a lot
idamage.
Always clean thoroughly all
Equipment straight after
»used.
Herbicides should only be
in conjunction with sound
-'•'■management practices.
'Me a spray may kill a
“> it would not prevent its
fpearance. To prevent
growing again some de-
« form of pasture must
% replace them ; and, in
r a l> good pasture-improve-
crop-rotation and rabbit-
r°l are important in stop-
|weeds again taking-over.
tNyara.”
Vestry Overseas
P councillor of the Men of
, a nd society, Miss Jocleyn
ers °n, who hailed origi-
nally from Robertson (N.S.W.)
and has been working for com-
munity forests in Australia
since 1942, is back from an
eight-months’ trip abroad on
which she visited Great Britain,
France, Italy, West Germany,
Holland and the U.S.A. study-
ing forestry generally, and par-
ticularly the encouragement
being given to private and com-
munity forests.
Calling at The Bulletin,
Miss Henderson placed high
among the things that had most
interested her the private reaf-
forestation schemes being
carried out by landowners in
Britain and on the Continent,
and the operation of the Land
Bank in the U.S. On these
and other present land-develop-
ments overseas she is prepar-
ing a report for the Common-
wealth Forestry and Timber
Bureau, N.S.W. Forestry Com-
mission and the Soil Conserva-
tion Service, all of which en-
couraged her tour. Her
findings should be valuable and
helpful to practically all on the
land in Australia.
Rocketry
As orchardists in Queensland
were doing some years back,
those of Young (N.S.W.) have
been sending up rockets against
hailstorms threatening damage
to their cherry-crops.
Recently, when clouds
banked-up, thunder boomed,
lightning flashed and raindrops
fell, the rocket-men fired their
protective missiles. Imme-
diately the rain came down,
overflowing drains and depres-
sions in a few minutes. As if
to mock man’s feeble efforts, a
second storm, heavier than the
first, followed within an hour.
—“Boorol.”
Beef Production
Cattlemen all over Australia
are concentrating today on
breeding a quick-maturing
beast without too much fat,
and which they can sell when
its weight is between 4001 b.
and 5001 b. The 8001 b. bullock
with an inch of fat on its ribs
is not wanted either by the
butcher or the public.
In the saleyards today a
vealer weighing 4001 b. will
fetch £6O ; a bullock of 8001 b.
will fetch £BO. So practical
cattlemen are selling their
beasts when they can get the
top price for them. It’s better
to produce three vealers than
pay £3O a week to run an
irrigation-plant and have to
feed them for 18 months to
make the extra weight. It is
easy to write about turkey-nest
dams, but in the Hunter River
(N.S.W.) district there hasn’t
been enough heavy rain these


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
last four years to fill dams with,
a big run-off, and the same
applies to most of Queensland,
where there has now been a
record dry extending over
many years.
As another point, during the
past 12 months over 1000 stud-
bulls have gone to stations in
the Northern Territory, so I
think the managers of proper-
ties out there know what type
of cattle they want.
It costs much nearer £lOOO
a mile to put up a good fence
> he J e ™ or y than n e £ ,„
T b J! “ Ms " here; S
should be pleased to g,
rom him exaetly where “ 1
1000 brumbies could be fouS
m one place.-“Stockwhip."
Farm Hint
When culling the po u i try .
flock, be most severe in weed
birds ‘ Getri dof
all but the best of the second-
and third-year hens before
January each year.—’’Jayem.”
WOOLGROWER’S DILEMMA
Tn any country where the
A national economy depends
entirely or largely upon the
production of one staple article
any marked fluctuations in
terms of trade are of immediate
concern, both to producers of
the commodity and to the entire
population.
In Australia the truth of this
simple axiom of economics is
plainly evident today in the
effect the fall in wool-prices
on the world market is having
on our overseas balances, and
also on individual producers—
particularly woolgrowers whose
flocks number less than 2000
or 3000 sheep. It must be
remembered that, of the total
sheep-population of Australia,
roughly 60 per cent, are shorn
by graziers of this class; exclud-
ing small flocks run as a side-
line.
There is little doubt that this
relatively large number of small
flocks is the result of the exceed-
ingly high prices obtained for
our wool after War 11. These
prices induced many farmers
to turn to woolgrowing on
areas quite inadequate on
normal price-levels. But for
the buoyant market for lamb
and mutton the economic con-
dition of these small graziers
would be much more impaired
than it is. Nevertheless, any
depression of the sheep-mar-
ket would be disastrous for
these smaller men, whose pre-
dicament would be like that
of the monoculture wheat-
growers of the Eastern Riverina
in the late 1920’5, when only
Government action in the way
of stay-orders kept off whole-
sale bankruptcy.
A rational solution of this
problem for graziers whose
areas are too small would be
the adoption of mixed farming
on the New Zealand pattern —
fat-lamb raising and a system
of crop-rotation, so that wool,
instead of being a sole product,
would become an important
by-product, together with oats
or other grain-crops and the
rearing of vealers.
Such a change might cause
some initial outlay for equip-
ment, fencing, etc., but its
advantages should soon show in
distribution of returns through
the year and in improved carry-
ing-capacity of the land.
It was such a change from
perpetual wheatgrowing to
mixed farming that saved the
Riverina “dustbowl” from com-
plete sterility in the early 1930'5;
and a similar change, though
for different reasons, could
save hundreds of good men
from leaving their holdings
under financial stress to try
their luck in the cities.
The other horn of the wool-
grower’s dilemma would seem
to be the possible future posi-
tion if, by some unlikely
chance, the wool-market took
an upward trend reproducing
the high prices of 10 years ago.
Such a change might bring a
sigh of relief to many interested
parties (including politicians),
but in the long-term result it
would cost the wool-industry
dearly, because of competition
from the modern synthetics
that are being turned-out with
increasing efficiency and
adaptability. The wide variety
of styles and qualities and the
relative cheapness of the pro-
duction of synthetics nullify
much of the expensive cam-
paigning by the wool-industry.
However right it may be to
enlarge upon the proved advan-
tages of natural fibre, most o
the consuming public choose
with their eyes, not throug
their ears. . ,
Australian secondary indus-
try is widely dispersed and su
divided into many units, a
manufacturers are usually r ;
luctant to compete v
protected markets, so the
of overseas reserves will have i
be carried for years by our
producers. This being s >
woolmen would do
work for improved effia W
studying a PP re
requirements and co P .
closely with, sciento s
nologists. But. above A
should divert sma I j jnf
areas to a mixed
economy. —“F-A.


¥:*fS
/ 'll
m ■ j«
•' ■ -:'I! '•
■
<6^’
m
:
' ■': ‘
«
■
1/
H|
i
f herever you go .. . whatever you do . . .
OLDEN
N Holden and you experience all tht
Wure of car ownership to the full,
a real air of beauty in Holden
that makes you proud of Holden
occasion. And Holden gives you
J! long-lasting sparkle of Magic-
r ror Finish—the revolutionary ex-
* or paint—at no extra cost. There’s
*un°us comfort for six plus a really
rT> 26 cu. ft. boot. There’s the
economy and performance
Sn gives you—all proved by over
i iwO Australian owners. Add it all
I;,! 011 H quickly see no other car equals
lld «n for value. ~
J«MAWCf THAT'S PROVED
> road miles an
„. of Proving Ground experieri<
*Sine °^ n Holde
gives outstanding performanc
and long, dependable service. With its
direct, precise steering and all-round
visibility, you’ll find Holden is a thrill
to drive.
ECONOMY THAT'S PROVED
Low first cost is only the beginning of
the Holden thrift story. Low mainten-
ance costs are now helped even further
by the new money-saving GMH Pro-
tective Maintenance Plan. Holden petrol
economy is proved, too. Owners all over
Australia report up to 30 m.p.g.
RELIABILITY THAT'S PROVED
Holden dependability is a by-word
among Australian car owners who have
proved beyond doubt that Holden, de-
signed specifically for Australia, is just
right for Australian conditions. In ad-
dition, there are over 600 Holden Deal-
ers, offering you low cost, factory
guaranteed spare parts and speedy
service wherever you drive.
YOU CAN'T GO PAST HOLDEN
Holden is the one car that offers you
more of the things you want most. And
with Holden you get proved high resale
value.-
See your Holden Dealer today. Ask him
how (jrMAC Hire Purchase makes it
easy for you to own Holden yourself
7
With its roomy interior, Holden seats
six people in luxurious comfort.
HOLDEN. -AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR"°-£BBs™.™«
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY - GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.


A Good Year for the Reds
By BERNARD HESLING
Ti/fY vintner tells me that it
■*■*■*■ looks like being a cracker
year for major reds. In
Europe, too, indications are
that, provided Tun Weavil (a
type of borer) does not white-
ant the casks —perforation-
point coming dangerously close
in the frenzy of a vintage year
—then Beaunes, Voltrapas-
Pinot, Medoc and Macon
could equal the great years of
1922 and 1923.
I will never forget my visit
to the “Maconnai,” an import-
ant part of the Lower Bur-
gundy district of France, in
February, 1930—a good year
for reds—although paradoxi-
cally a true Macon, round, full
palated and soft finished
though it be, is in appearance
a “white.”
Thick snow lay on the
ground when I arrived, making
it an excellent time to evaluate
the slumbering grape. A hard
snow prevents moisture pene-
tration, so necessary to tender
roots, whilst soft snow means
that the character-forming
dropulets seep through evenly.
Actually on the day I arrived
I didn’t know it was a good
year, as for me it was a bad
year—no seeping of any kind
having taken place. I got off
the train in the very heart of
the great “red” district at
Amberiaux, which, as it is a
railway town (rather like
Hornsby), produces only a
minor wine itself —shunting
being notoriously hard on the
grape.
Quite close, however, was the
town of Macon and its famous
Chateau Vineyards, so at 6
a,m. on this excellent morning
for reds I sloshed through a
deep mousse—or souffle —of
snow en route for this red
which is paradoxically a white.
Dawn found me in a shocking
landscape: small, miserable
mounds (you could hardly call
them hillocks), no trees, only
these rows of depressing, bare
bushes—for I didn’t know a
grape even when I saw one.
Every adult male worth his
salt wants to know about
wine. He wants to know great
years, great vineyards, great
labels, great corks. He wants
to hold up his wine to the light
and be able to tell that when it
is white it is really a red. He
wants to be able —like those
coves at the Easter Show —to
swish the stuff around his
teeth and, without swallowing,
say conclusively whether it
was matured in oak cask or
kerosene-tin. Unfortunately,
then —although an adult male-
on this day when my great
chance came, my wants were
subservient to my needs. I was,
at this time, journeying from
Australia to England and just
had to reach Mother before my
last £lO ran out. The day be-
fore (Sunday) I had docked at
Genoa, where railway time-
tables informed me that on the
Sabbath no third-class trans-
port ran to Paris and beyond.
The booking clerk, who spoke
Served at room temperature (30 below).
some English, disagreed with
the timetable, said it was “a
mistako.” His cousin, he said,
lived at “Gosfordo, near
Seed-en-ay,” so naturalment
he wanted to help me. I had,
he said, the good luck, for “in
quatro minuto il traino departo
Paris, Londra, Eglise.”
The train —for he insisted on
putting me aboard —was cer-
tainly no “Rapido.” Some of
my fellow-passengers were
human, but many were canine.
There were also chooks and
a sprinkling of geese, whilst at
Alessandrie, a Strathfield-like
suburb of Genoa, where every-
one save me left the train, I
even saw goats hurrying along
the platform.
As the only Paris passenger
this Alessandrie ever had, they
were naturally proud of me.
The ticket-collector seeing me
hanging about took me to an
admiral in full regalia who
was called a station-master,
and in his Petit Trianon of an
office the three of us cracked a
magnum of Asti Spumante in
honor of Australia. Alas, alas!
I had insufficient Italian to
even inquire the year of the
Asti. The station - master
belched happily—for spumante
means sparkling or gassy —and
said in a sort of French to
make myself “comfortablement.
At six heure en'le dot —seence
thees Mussolini —la grande
Firenzi - Paris Ex-a - spresso
arrivay . . .”
A few hours was not much
time for me to fully absorb the
wines of Asti, of Piedmont, of
Liguria and the chaste vint-
ages of the Polognessi Stroffula
where a “still” is really a'
“sparkling,” but I managed it,
and “dans le dot,” as promised,
la espresso steamed in. As a
train it was a thing of plywood
and seemed hardly likely to get
me to Paris. It didn’t. At
Amberiaux, amongst those
grapes, harsh French voices
screamed the equivalent of “All
change ’ere.” Persuaded to
alight, to disembark, to stretch
the legs, I explored the
“Macannai,” for I had seven
hours before la grande express
de la Companie des Inter-
nationale des Wagpn Lits
would roar into Amberiaux on
its way to Paris. Peace in my
heart then I stepped on vint-
age France and about noon
partook „f tbe si ,
the province : a bowl or Lf
of those hotted-up meCK ,
»£«£j
to know so well in'Snn*
i" l *,/ la "-ode de Q
The Macon, setved at room
temperature (about 30 below)
was inclined at first to b
standoffish,” although per-
haps it didn’t know me very
well, not mean, not sulky and
definitely—as mine host used
his thumb for a stopper—not
corked. There are, of course,
lesser as well as greater
Chateau Macon, and one
sensed in this one the tar
sinister. Yes, there was no
mistaking it, the bouquet tad
what we in the Hunter Valley
call “Le cheap on ze shoul-
daire.”
At 13 hours the great Rome-
Paris Rapide snaked into l
Amberiaux, took on a case of
Moet et Chandon (Macon
doesn’t travel) and chuffed out
again, without yours truly,!
there being no Third Class on
a Rapide. Replete, of course,
with my Macon, plus my Tripe,
a la, etc., etc., I hardly;
minded. Scraping la neige
from an upturned casque du
vin I made myself comfortable-]
ment, ate the dessert of U
belle France: une petite orange
sanguine (eightpence) and felt,
well, sanguine!
A slow train with carriages
labelled “20 Chasseurs” finally
landed me at Dijon; nosebag
of the world, in time for»
grande dejeuner, and at «
hotel made famous by Her
Bemelmans, by Est ; o ® e ,’
Pierre Loti, Lady Mendll aj
I feel sure, by our own Edgar
Holt, my bird came to me wt
the chef’s name on a bra
plaque on its chest.
I have this brass
around the house so^ u2h
even today, for as no
train ever has
carriages at Dijon excess
stay the night and P roiseau
fare on tomorrow
Bleu. But did I c* *, a
Did } gr !L!f Poulet de
chook called m m
washing aroun ca |j e d
a magnificent j felt,
Chateau Macon 1- ’ be-
a meat-axe . •


ABORIGINALITIES
SHARKS, CROCS. AND BOGEY - HOLES
, 0 “coin a cliche, as
fan enthusiastic lgnora-
f mus said at Cairns
/many years ago, the
f ;.ct thinss in life are free. O
t' jhese things I place the
ley-hole first. (Incidentally,
C and Why did the word
Ley" come into the Aus-
Mn idiom?) I plump for a
Je into a deep, cool bogey-
e i, after a hot day’s march,
J eor drive as the best of the
£ things of this earth.
? I have had a bogey in some
If the best-advertised water-
lies on the planet, including
H much overrated Waikiki
ich, with its few yards of
ibles leading to an azure sea,
i the stink of the kelp-
■ Jen Atlantic at Jones Beach,
* Long Island XU.S.f where
ik has to draw in one’s belly
Ij go between the hot-dog
Suds to wade out great dis-
cs to get the Atlantic above
X knee-caps.
One of the finest bogey-holes
sat Kamilroi Station home-
tad on the Gregory River,
101 th of Cloncurry (Q.). On
It one hand there is the heat
ffld sweat and animal fear of
the thousands of long-horned
ale in the branding-yards
ler their long march from
k Northern Territory. On
other (and closer) hand a
tiver reach of peace and beauty
•id cool depths. And there the
lidren of the manager, Mr.
fc, would scamper after a
!®na. They had gone native
*ith the piccaninnies, and they
fed pidgin as they rushed
J er foe goanna, crying:
utchem! Cookem! Eatum! ”
Crocodiles are one of the
West hazards of northern
/'holes. The aborigines—
/never seem afraid of
//practically all show
J °., fo e crocodile, even the
'/y harmless freshwater
/f • . I remember the
® s the Albert River
ow Burketown. One of
the memory and
f/nn elephant. When
i .°/ lna t fisherman made
* l «»BtoMi SOinS tWO d T
local ? t0 . same s P°t the
!| c a u n rocod^e made certain
did no more
it) £ /, s happened we used
lit Tran fh®. bridge of the
L 3 hauled the
Ch ? d ? lwood d °™ >°
th of the Albert. After-
wards whenever we had to push
our cutter over a sandbank in
the river we did not waste time
getting back aboard. The salt-
water crocodile makes a
bogey-hole a hazardous cooler.
But for me the greatest
bogey-hole menace is the shark.
I have always been afraid of
sharks, and I was fool enough
to keep it to myself. This
secret fear ricocheted back on
me when coming across the
Gulf of Carpentaria towards
Burketown. We were in a five-
ton cutter with two Torres
Strait boys. My white com-
panion was one of those casual,
fearless, enigmatic fatalists.
The day was a breathless
scorcher, and we were be-
calmed some 50 miles from
the coast. A bucket of water
thrown on the hot deck would
dry in a minute. The natives
and my white companion con-
tinually dived overboard to
“Don’t you find it lonely—working in this giant
ant-hill country?”
cool-off. Then my white com-
panion challenged me to a race.
We would swim 50 yards from
the cutter and race back.
The Torres Strait boys were
standing on the cutter’s deck
urging us on, but it was no
race ; my companion sprinted
well ahead of me. Then one
of the boys, Paki by name,
yelled out. He had seen a
shark’s fin break water be-
hind me, and as it dived under
for the attack Paki plunged in
beneath me. This frightened
the shark off and allowed me
to scramble aboard the cutter.
In another minute Paki was
aboard and baiting the shark-
hook on its length of chain. I
sat on the hatch-top, smoked
and thought of how many
better ways there are of dying
than becoming a midday meal
for a shark.
I did not take any more
risks in that great bogey-hole
called the Gulf of Carpentaria.
It was even more uncomfort-
able than Long Island.
Eric Bedford.
* * * *
The 1960 ’roo-shooter no
longer plods through the
mulga burdened down with a
rifle, ammo, and skins. He
drives a jeep or a Land /Rover
around the paddocks and
doesn’t get off his behind to
shoot.
Out in the Morven (Q.) dis-
trict, where ’roos at present are
as big a pest as the rabbits ever
were, I saw a shooter’s outfit
which comprised a Land/
Rover with a one-inch gal-
vanised pipe running fore and
aft and another across the
front of the driver to be used
as rifle-rests with the shooter
seated in the driving-seat. His
rifle was fitted with a tele-
scopic sight.
This lad starts out at 4 p.m.
and shoots with spotlight and
headlights until about 1 a.m.,
when he returns to camp with
a full load of skins. He’ll
turn in and sleep until about
8 a.m., have breakfast, peg-
out the skins, reload his ammo,
and cool off for the hottest
part of the day until four-
o’clock in the afternoon, when
off he goes again.
Even though the skin-
market has fallen, he claims
he is making £7O to £BO a week
clear. It’s not uncommon to
run into 400 to 600 ’roos in one
mob.
All he wants now is a
’roo-skinning machine.
PETER.
Artist Noel Wood, who
lives on Bedarra Island
(N.Q.), cuts ripe bananas into
four thin slices lengthwise,
spreads them out on a dry
coconut-palm frond and dries
them in blazing sunshine for
two days. By then the slices
have shrunk to half-size and
turned from pale yellow to
brown —but flavor and sweet-
ness have increased, while the
fruit’s keeping-qualities, when
stored in screw-top jars in a
cool place, is prolonged into
months. —“Amdee.”
* * * *
A/Tost birds of coastal North
-f*-* Queensland have now
settled into new nests, just
about every one of them in
the branches of almost shade-
less trees, even though mango-
trees, which offer protection
from predators and the
weather, may be close by. Pos-
sibly the shade cast by a
mango-tree is too cool to
permit hatching ; or would the
leaves exude an odor the birds
don’t like? In my 10 years in
North Queensland I have seen
only two birds’ nests in mango-
trees ; one a tiny honeyeater’s,
the other a jumble of twigs
slung together by a big white-
head pigeon.—“Amdee.”
* * • *
Historical societies and
museums are growing in
country parts of N.S.W. The
Richmond River Historical
Society at Lismore has a col-
lection hardly to be bettered
outside Australia’s capital
cities. The museum building
itself is a link with the past;
and old diaries, letters, photos,
etc., have been brought to light
and catalogued. At Murwil-
lumbah the Tweed River His-
torical Society is building up a
collection in the Council


“She's a cut above us —our blokes are just boozers — her's is an alcoholic."
Chambers; there’s been a simi-
lar society at Grafton for
many years ; and at BaHina*
in the same North Coast coun-
try, there’s a project to build
a replica of a pioneer hut as a
museum for historical relics,
inaugurated by the gift of a
cedar plank which one family
has had for 90 years. Old hand-
cut slabs are to be used in the
novel Ballina project, and the
hut will be furnished with
the type of furniture, axes and
adzes of the cedar timber-
cutters and cooking utensils
used by the pioneers 120 years
ago.—“C. C.”
* * * *
TTiding along the Castlereagh
near the Nalgeth-Carinda
road one morning I came
across a large brown snake. It
was in sections. I was won-
dering what had happened to
it when I saw a large fox
lying dead a few yards away.
Don’t know who was the
aggressor, but it must have
been an all-in battle with no
holds barred. —“J.T.”
* * * *
should the beautiful
paradise-parrot (Psepho-
tus pulcherrimus), found on
the Darling Downs (South
Queensland) by John Gilbert
in 1844, have become extinct
in that region? The species
lived with the aborigines for
thousands of years and out-
lived numerous grass-fires.
Perhaps the hungry, egg-
starved shepherds added
parrots’ eggs to their meagre
diet and so hastened the pass-
ing of these beautiful creatures.
In the anthill mounds favored
by the birds the shepherds
could easily have had access
to the parrot-fruit. What else
would have contributed to their
extinction? Norwegian scien-
tist Carl Lummholtz saw pairs
of this sweet-voiced parrot in
Central Queensland in the
’eighties.—“Kesem.”
* * * *
TC xperiments by highway-
engineers in America to
abate the mounting toll of road
deaths found that, in suitable
localities, hedges Bft. high and
Bft. deep of the thorny Rosa
multiflora japonica made good
safety-nets along high-speed
roads. With its small white or
very pale-pink flowers, the
hedge is ornamental, and one
American description says of
it: “Horse-high ; bull-strong ;
goat-tight; thick and cruel
enough to keep out any form
of marauding livestock.” Some
thousands of miles have now
been planted. Hardly the
proverbial “bed of roses,” but
scratched faces are better than
broken necks. —“Arbre.”
* * * *
Touring a ver y dry spell here
in New Guinea our next-
door neighbor had one of his
native servants carrying water
up from the river. As the boy
passed our door on the first
trip I noticed he was very un-
comfortable carrying one
bucket on a long pole over his
shoulder. On later trips he
carried two buckets, one on
each end of the pole, equally
balanced. Much better. Next
day, when our neighbor put
a second boy on the water-
carrying job, I was reminded
of Territories Minister Has-
luck’s warning: “Let nobody
underestimate the intelligence
and shrewdness of the New
Guinea native.” The water-
carriers were operating hap-
pily, one fore and one aft,
carrying the pole between
them, one bucket of water
dynamically balanced in the
centre.—“P.E.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
TT\ell, a bitch owned by
Mrs. L. Armstrong, of
Casino (N.S.W.), this year won
two cattiedog trials and has
followed that up by winning
a maiden sheepdog trial. So
far as is known this two-sphere
feat has never been accom-
plished before, in Australia or
elsewhere. Dell is by Porter’s
Don, sire of 35 winners of
sheepdog trials. —“Bunda.”
* * * *
Tim Lack, who runs the pub
** at Barringun on the N.S.W.-
Queensland border, is a citizen
of some note. He is a shire
councillor, among other things,
and his love of trees and
gardens puts him in the top
rank of good citizens. Trim
lawns and gardens form the
approach to his hotel, and
across the highway is “Jim
Lack’s Park,” which he estab-
lished about seven years ago.
There he grows fruit and
flowers, in which neighbors
share, and he is growing silky-
oaks, sethel-trees, a big „ ian
tat,on of roses gladioli Z
strawberries. The project™
un.que for what is general,
thought a somewhat arid Hi?
trict. —“Mullengah.” -
* * * *
TN a paddock not far from
x Bowenfels (N.S.W.) there's
a group of seven graves dating
from the 1830's, the headstones
m o a remarkable state of pre .
servation. One marks the
grave of William Travis, late
corporal in Capt. N. Kane’s
Company, 80th Regiment, who
died on June 12, 1837, aged
20. His epitaph is worth
preserving:
Billeted by Death,
I quartered here remain.
When the trumpet sounds,
I’ll rise and march again.
Does anyone know anything
about William Travis, Capt.
Kane or the 80th Regiment?-
“Presb.”
* * * *
Tn a Papuan village prospects
* of matrimony for the young
men were dimmed by money-
hungry fathers asking hefty
settlements. The Mission priest,
a down-to-earth character,
broke the sellers’ market by
holding clandestine ceremonies
in the small hours. Villagers
proved sufficiently missionised
to accept the fait accompli,
though not exactly with wild
enthusiasm. —“D.J.”
* * * *
After hawks had inflicted
heavy losses on his
chickens, a farmer on the
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.)
installed a carbide scare-gun.
Its recurrent reports had the
desired results. The chickens
and the smaller birds ignored
it; the farmer's cats took no
notice, but those of a neigh-
bor took to the bush at the
first report and were not seen
again till evening. The
farmer's dogs were completely
demoralised, and to afford
them some relief the gun was
closed down on certain days
when baited rabbit-traps were
set on top of posts.
Apart from an occasional
hawk, the outstanding catch
to date has been one very
incensed kookaburra, whos
loud and prolonged protests
were better than any scar
gun. “All the time I was try-
mg to release it, saia
farmer, “it swore at nie
tinuously; our o u
vocabulary would have
greatly augmented if ...
able to translate and r
The kookaburra flew <*
with no apparent injury
to its dignity.
BENROY.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Lood for New Guinea
live only one point of dis-
sent with K. A. Saxby
{jll/’6O), and that is in
ge of the words “Seventh
,» I hope by the time
Guinea is fitted for admis-
is a State we shall have at
Ihree others, New England,
icornia and the Northern
itory.
troad to Statehood is long
lard. To make an English
j, only two civilisations
| Christian) had to be as-
lited, Norman French and
10-Saxon. Yet that took
pries, and it took even
Er to develop a common
I age. There are well over
iistinct languages in New
tea, and a number of quite
ict racial cultures, while
er cent, of the people are
pagans. It is doubtful
{'her one per cent, of the
iation has any conception
hat nationhood means, afid
process of education will
f years. It is not one that
!be rushed, and I strongly
sort Paul Hasluck’s stand
jradually introducing first
aspect for law and order,
Ihygiene, and finally educa-
te the natives a goal to
I! for by all means ; it is
logical thing to do. We
l want to make them feel
they are second-class
|sns. The great majority
Nduring the last war their
Nation of what Australia
1 tone for them ; many a
p owes his life to his black
ppper-colored New Guinea
per.
into the Common-
New Guinea could be a
s °urce of strength, and
| danger from a flank
p would be removed. And
,o uld prove the best thing
jhe inhabitants. .They
do feel far safer than they
* Present, and such integra-
put the final quietus
5 talk of “Irian.”
“stralia has been in Papua
vose on 80 years, and in
~ Guinea for over 46. In
; hrne we have incurred
fusibilities which we can-
,ifd dare not shirk. Let
j the Papuans and New
l ea . ns that just as soon as
I Manifest the requisite
to control their own
domestic affairs we shall wel-
come them into our Federation
and be prepared to defend their
national integrity with the
whole of our armed might.
The alternative? Chaos and
another Congo right at our
front door. Perhaps Dr. Reu-
ben Taureka or some other
educated Papuan could tell us
what he thinks of the idea. —
D. C. Tilghman (N.S.W.).
The Primary School
J. B. Blair (B. 9/11 /’6O)
echoes the thoughts of most
parents of schoolchildren in
these education-conscious days.
In spite of modern methods,
ideas and college - trained
teachers, present-day primary-
school children are not sound
in the basic subjects of the
curriculum —reading, writing,
spelling and arithmetic. Secon-
dary - school children may
catch-up, but usually after
much time-wasting work “back-
tracking” over what should
have been taught in early years.
The child who has a sound
training in the basic subjects,
all of which are essential to
adult life, no matter what the
status of the adult, can cope
with most advanced subjects in
later schooling. Other factors
are too-large classes, lack of
discipline, and teachers who re-
gard teaching as a way of earn-
ing a good living, not as an
important way of life.
Change of methods, even in
such things as the multiplica-
tion-table, make it difficult to
help primary-school children
at home. I find this particularly
so in spelling, mainly because
the children do not know
sounds of the letters and do
not seem able to cope with new
words in their reading. Per-
haps the best solution is to
send the parents back to school
to learn the new methods (this
has been done in some local
schools), thus giving us a closer
look at pupils and teachers and
forming the best of all coaching
colleges: home plus school. —
Nettle (Vic.).
Canberra’s Pentagon
Walter Burley Griffin,
American-born and Washing-
ton-minded designer of the
Australian Federal Capital,
would have been happy with
the latest projected addition io
the Canberra skyline.
This is the “Junior Penta-
gon,” a group of some seven
or eight buildings with the tall
needle-like U.S. War Memorial
as the focal-point, one of the
largest Governmental groups of
buildings ever conceived in
Australia, and said to be the
most significant civic design
in Canberra since the capital
was a blueprint.
The group will house for
Australia all the departments
which the original Pentagon
enfolds for the American ser-
vices in Washington, all the
chairborne of the three armed
services, plus the Department of
Defence.
With the official occupancy
by the Department of the Air
of the first of the new defence
buildings at Canberra, stage-
one of the Junior Pentagon
group is completed. The entire
group is scheduled for com-
pletion to the total cost of
four to five million pounds in
another couple or more years.
Most of Canberra’s history-
making has been Labor in ori-
gin—its design-competition, its
original prohibition of alcohol
(King O’Malley’s notion) and
John Curtin’s war-time S.O.S.
to Roosevelt—but this monu-
mental skypieee around the
Liberty needle on the Canberra
campus is the brainchild of the
same John Buchan who was
recently president of the Vic-
torian Liberal party and who is
credited with aspirations to-
wards a seat of a different sort
at the seat of Government. —
Haydee (A.C.T.).
Dairy Industry Report
Former Commonwealth
Prices Commissioner M. E.
McCarthy dropped a hot potato
into the Government’s lap when
he presented it with the report
of the Dairy Industry Com-
mittee of Inquiry, and it is
little wonder Primary Industry
Minister Adermann and his
colleagues kept the document
for several weeks before they
released it—four days after the
Calare by-election.
»Main points of the report
were the elimination (over the
next 10 years) of the £ 13.5-
million annual subsidy and the
reconstruction of the indus-
try on a more economical basis.
Any move to interfere with
subsidy payments to an indus-
’ tr y —particularly a rural indus-
try—is fraught with danger for
any Government, more so one
that represents the Country
party.
That’s why Adermann merely
said that Cabinet “would
study” the report —although it
had already had more than
six weeks to, do just that. No
action is now expected this
year.
So far, reaction from the
industry has been by no means
favorable. McCarthy recom-
mended an immediate start on
reduction of the subsidy, to be
balanced later by the imple-
mentation of economies. What
is more likely is a compromise
under which assistance to eco-
nomise and the provision of
loans to improve efficiency will
be granted hand-in-hand with
the start of the subsidy reduc-
tion.
The report revealed some
interesting facts about Austra-
lia’s dairying industry, not the
least of which is that in the
next few years about 3000 of
Australia’s 44,000 dairyfarmers
would have to leave the indus-
try because their farms were
economically unsound.
The report also called on the
industry to fix its own prices
and accept full responsibility
if "consumption dropped be-
cause of high prices.—C.M.R.
(N.S.W.).
Leigh Creek Coal Freight
As a former railway-officer
I was interested in “D.C.T.’s”
comments on the Common-
wealth Railways’ annual report
(B. 2/11/ ’6O), but I feel they
were rather misleading.
The rate of 11s. 6d. a ton for
the transport of Leigh Creek
coal to Curlew Point (near Port
Augusta) was agreed to by the
Prime Minister in April, 1956.
This rate was subject to varia-
tion annually to take account
of movements in wages,
materials, and other running-
costs.
It was based on transporta-
tion-costs on a million tons a
year, and an estimated subdivi-
sion of the cost per ton was
approximately: Operating
(labor, fuel and other material),
6s. Iyd. ; depreciation, 6yd.;
debt-servicing at 3y p.c. per
annum, 4s. lOd.
At that time only about
500,000 tons a year were being
transported, at estimated
operating-costs plus deprecia-
tion of about 9s. 4yd. a ton,
so that the rate of 11s. 6d. gave
the Commonwealth a margin
for debt-servicing of some 2s.
a ton. As virtually all the
capital had been supplied from
revenue it appears likely that
even in 1956, with only 500,000
tons of coal-traffic, the Com-
monwealth Railways received
sufficient freight revenue from
the Electricity Trust to cover all
actual costs.
In the four-and-a-half years
since the rate was agreed to the
Commonwealth Railways have
produced no figures to justify
the agreed annual review—
and one can only surmise that


this has been because the rate
has actually covered the cost.
During each of the years
1958-59 and 1959-60 the Rail-
ways have carried over 700,000
tons of coal. Allowing for
increased costs of labor and
materials, it seems likely that
the costs, excluding debt-ser-
vices, would be under 9s. a ton,
leaving at least 2s. 6d. a ton
as a contribution toward debt-
services. In other words, it
seems probable that during the
past two years the coal-traffic
contributed something like
£lOO,OOO each year towards
debt-services when virtually
the whole capital of the line
was provided out of Common-
wealth revenue and did not
involve debt-service.
It is anticipated that in 1960-
61 more than a million tons of
coal will be transported, rising
over the next six years to two-
million tons a year. The
notional £766,000 by which the
Railways are said to be subsi-
dising the coal-traffic arises
from a curious piece of arith-
metic. The nominal book-rate
for coal scheduled by the Com-
monwealth Railways is a little
over 30s. a ton for the haul
of some 164 miles. This is
a rate applicable to odd truck-
loads and possibly would not
be an economic rate for such
occasional traffic, being less
than 2yd. a ton-mile.
Excluding Leigh Creek coal,
the Commonwealth Railways’
average train-load of paying
freight is under 300 tons, and
that over varying grades at
varying speeds. The Leigh
Creek coal-haul is an ideal one
of some 3500 tons on each train,
or at least 12 times as great
over a virtually level or slightly
down grade. Even allowing
for empty-return running, a
revenue of 0.84 d. a ton-mile
(or about 35 per cent of the
book-rate) is obviously the
better proposition. Equally
obvious, to talk of any reduc-
tion below the book-rate for
an entirely different traffic as
being a subsidy is utter non-
sense.
The Central Australian Rail-
ways, 60 per cent, of whose
ton-mileage is Leigh Creek
coal and whose other traffic,
both passenger and goods, is
necessarily sparse and spas-
modic, showed a working profit
of £454,000 in 1959-60 and'
£510,000 in the previous year,
with coal paying 11s. 6d. a ton.
Can anyone possibly believe
that the other sparse and spas-
modic traffic produced all this
and another £766,000 besides
to subsidise the coal-traffic, or
something like £1,250,000 a
year? Some significant part
of this working profit must
have come from the coal-
traffic itself.
Criticism that the South Aus-
tralian Government “soaked”
the Commonwealth Railways
for an extra sd. on every 1000
gallons of water the railways
drew from the Morgan-Why-
alla pipeline is equally un-
justified.
In the first place, the charge
for water, in accordance with
the inter-Governmental agree-
ment, is at cost. Furthermore,
the water-costs are supplied in
detail to the Commonwealth
Treasury according to a mutu-
ally agreed formula, and are
certified by the Auditor-
General.
The cost of water pumped,
like the cost of coal-haulage,
will naturally vary according
to the amount handled. For
the last five years these costs
have been 3s. lid., 3s. 9d., 3s.
4d., 3s. 9d., and 3s. lid. per
1000 gallons.—S. H. Watson,
(Retired General Traffic
Manager, S.A. Railways.
January, 1935, to October,
1952.).
West New Guinea
It is surprising that the
Tengku Abdul Rahman, intent
on preventing what he termed
“another Korea” arising from
the Dutch-Indonesian dispute
over West New Guinea, was
not aware that the minimum
Indonesian demand was sove-
reignty over the area.
Holland and Australia have
been informed of this in em-
phatic terms over the years of
the dispute, and it is no use
believing that Indonesia would
be prepared to lose “face” by
modifying this stand. In view
of the fact that the Dutch are
prepared to relinquish sove-
reignty eventually under their
self-determination plans, it
seems possible that a starting-
point could be found, given
greater goodwill on both sides
than is now apparent.
Both Holland and Australia
must realise that one possible
outcome of their self-deter-
mination programmes (even if
there is no future agreement
between them on times and
methods) is that the whole
island may eventually decide to
link with Indonesia as a new
province or two of the Repub-
lic. This could be an admir-
able thing if, in the meantime,
Indonesia had been given guid-
ance through its economic and
political problems and assisted
to develop its immensely rich
natural resources.
There are plenty of Melane-
sians already in the Moluccas,
which are an acknowledged
(and Dutch-ceded) part of
Indonesia ; there are dozens of
different races in the Republic.
The best hope for the future
of both Indonesia and New
Guinea is that there will be
stable and responsible admini-
stration as a result of firm but
helpful policies towards the
area by Australia, the United
States and, perhaps, other Wes-
tern countries.
A rich and peaceful Indo-
nesia would be Australia’s best
assurance of security as well
as being a major and growing
market for our primary and
secondary products. — Charles
Meeking (N.S.W.).
Don’t Delay Decimals
Now that the Decimal Cur-
rency Committee has issued its
report, recommending the in-
troduction of the 10s. = 1
cents system as from the secon
Monday in February, 1963, i J
to be hoped the Government
will take early steps to imp e
ment the new system,
implement it, that is, without
any further argument, mVS
gation or appointment o
examining commissions
experts to go over the
ground agam—m short, wi
no more mucking-about.
The committee has done
thorough job. Th ®A a O fV
disadvantages, method f S , Lc t s
troduction and estimated
of the changeover have all bee
comprehensively surveyed,
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Well, I guess that's show business !”


ANYTIME ... ANYWHERE
Always be well groomed with a
LORD RIAM
battery operated
SHAVER . . .
SAFE,
DEPENDABLE
In PLANES,
TRAINS, BOATS
... In your CAR or
OFFICE, CAMP-
ING or CARAVAN-
ING, the LORD
RIAM will shave
you perfectly at the
touch of a button.
Made in Switzer-
land . . . fully guar-
anteed rugged com-
mutator motor . . .
self sharpening
cutters. Two 1.5-
volt torch batteries
guarantee months
of easy shaving.
MSI
wmPm l
>' 4 a'
<lBl
ESi
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
You’ll be glad
you did.
Complete with
batteries.
PRICE ONLY
92/8
POST FREE.
CUT OUT POST NOW
QUALITY _ APpiJIANCEs7
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money order
enclosed for £ :
NAME i.
ADDRESS
Please •print name and address in block letters.
as supplied to
U.S. ARMY ,
MAGNIFICENT
-£lO'lo-
h
N
<r
Q
§
SWISS MADE
17 JEWELS
INCABLOC
LUMINOUS
GUARANTEED
SHOCKPROOF
WATERPROOF
NON-MAGNETIC
HEAT-COLD RESISTANI
. SWEEP SECOND HAND
„ UNBREAKABLE CRYSTAL
UNBREAKABLE MAIN SPRING
A masterpiece of SWISS craftsmanship recommended
exclusively by leading JEWELLERS the world over. Write
CYNE WATCH CO.
Swiss Watch Specialists
201 ELIZABETH ST. BOX 2098, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Brancbeg in all States Agencies in nil Country Centres
L, recommendation has
I n i a de on the most expe-
-1 system for Australia to
l ' All that is necessary
L Canberra to give the
L an d the community can
L to prepare for the change.
L will the starting-word be
„ promptly? Although the
me Minister announced in
policy speech in October,
| that his Government
tpled the principle of deci-
| coinage, Governments
always translate policy
action as speedily as they
Rather do they tend to
tr the day of action, dis-
cing remarkable ingenuity
jading excuses for their pro-
bation.
Is a precedent for inaction
this matter the Federal
lament has one almost as
las itself. The first Federal
lament appointed a select
mnittee to inquire into “the
iableness and expediency
adopting a decimal-system of
nge.” After exhaustive
Btigation that committee
amended that the Corn-
wealth adopt a decimal-
lem of coinage and money
account, and in June, 1904,
[lament resolved (unani-
riy) that legislation be
raduced to give effect to the
act committee’s recommen-
lions. Nothing came of it.
lis clear that had the 1904
solution been implemented
u cost of the change would
a been trifling compared
ft what it will now cost the
untry. Further, we would
* had the benefits and sav-
?of a decimal-system over
s period of our greatest m-
Srial expansion. We cannot
® afford to let the chance
«by—Wusslean (Vic.).
ie Fitzroy
® will re-read my par
he will see that I was
% about Northern Terri-
fivers, not North Austra-
ones.
| agree that, of the
! ir, b Australian rivers, the
r°y (which is in W.A., not
MX, as “M.S.” says) has
' greatest agricultural poten-
; though the Ord must run
j ose - Such a river in Asia,
a ’ America or Europe
: .be carrying a population
f Millions. Distance from
operates to its disad-
as it does with all the
| er breams in the north.
ls to become closely settled
tarming, rail-communica-
pthe first essential. Derby,
I We . °f its very high tides,
[satisfactory port, and 250
s of railway would open up
ov ince as large as Victoria.
0l) td be better still if such
a railway were continued on to
Wyndham, via the Ord, through
the Victoria and Baines country
to link-up with a north-south
line from Darwin to Alice
Springs.
There are plenty of young
Australians who would tackle
that country were there ade-
quate means of communication.
The time is fast approaching
when all the railways in the
Commonwealth will have to be
placed under Commonwealth
control, and run by a board of
commissioners guaranteed im-
munity from political inter-
ference. The Commonwealth
Commissioner has demon-
strated over a period of years
that with efficient management
railways can pay. The job of
providing adequate transport to
the remoter parts of the Com-
monwealth is a national one,
and should be tackled on a
national basis. Then we might
really get somewhere.
Unified control of all
mainland lines might (I think
would) solve many urgent pro-
blems.—Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Young Men for the Land
There are many young men,
with experience, who want to
go on the land and acquire
farms of their own, but closer-
settlement schemes don’t offer
enough scope for all the land-
hungry.
There is one way, though, in
which young men can be
helped, but it needs the co-
op erat i o n of established
farmers. Many farmers have
no sons of their own, but
rather than sell-out they prefer
to keep going, as they have an
affection for the farms they
have built-up.
At least one N. S. Wales
farmer has preserved his own
property and helped two young
men to get a start. He picked
two experienced Junior
Farmers, made a share-farming
agreement with them and, as
soon as he had taught them
the ropes, took his wife on a
round-Australia caravan-tour.
From their share of the re-
turns the young men are accu-
mulating capital to buy their
own farms, while the owner has
a regular income and retains
an interest in his farm.
Others could do the same,
especially as members of the
Junior Farmer movement have
had more than an initial train-
ing and are excellent types of
young fellows. An expansion
of this idea into all branches
of agriculture would give it
an impetus and would satisfy
the land-hunger of many who
otherwise see little hope ahead.
—Mullengah (N.S.W.).


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
EstabHshed 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
OSUCUV\v
LV ptywb C.
te, iS £
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
J RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO RONALD lAN BEACH formerly of
75 Tangerine Street Fairfield in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAWN MILDRED BEACH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2801 of 1060 on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness and habitual cruelty during
three (8) years and upwards If you
RONALD lAN BEACH wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 9th day of February 1961 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Noticet
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS COWARD.—TAKE
NOTICE that LOIS ELLEN COWARD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3763 of 1960 on the grounds of deser-
tion for 3 years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 H
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 16th January 1961 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. MARSH HARVEY AND
CROPPER, Solicitors, 28 Martin Place.
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO HENRY NORMAN DUNCAN--
TAKE NOTICE that MONA MAY DbN-
CAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No-
-3499 of 1959 on the grounds ot deser
tion for 3 years and upwards D y
wish to defend you may enter an appe .
ance in the Divorce Registry •“
Building Macquarie Street Sydney
2nd February 1961 and obtain a V
of the Petition without charge
MESSRS. MARSH HARVEY A
CROPPER, Solicitors, 28 Martin
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, R S
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes J™ lBolo,ll '
No. 1820 of 1960. takß
0 ALFRED HENRY MO NOW
OTICE that HEATHER
ONDY has filed
Petition for Divorce
i. 1820 of 1960 on the s ‘7“ excus e
sertion without just caus w ish
r three years and upwards - ranc e
defend you may enter an uildin g
the Divorce Registry Mint lrt
icquarie Street Sydney 0 f the
bruary 1961 and obtain JlAD-
tition without clia^? ir iTTrßE, Soli-
DCKS COHEN & MAG UI dney> -
ors, of 38 Martini P «>
A. H. HARMS, Registrar
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of a poem, “Love,” which
includes the lines:
Love is indestructible,
Its holy flame for ever burneth.
At times on earth a troubled guest,
At times alone, at times oppressed,
It finds in heaven its perfect rest.
—3l.
Copy of Dalton on Bridge. —32.
Copy of The Surprising Adven-
tures of Mrs. Bridget McSweeney.
—33.
Information Supplied
The Bulletin novel competi-
tions :
On March 14, 1928, the Red Page
announced a competition for a
full-length novel, with a minimum
of £l7OO to be distributed in prizes
over a period of three years. This
was the inauguration of the series
of Bulletin novel competitions,
which merged into the S. H. Prior
Prize.
In the first competition M.
Barnard Eldershaw’s A House is
Built and Katharine Susannah
Prichard’s Coo'nardoo (the prize-
money having been increased by
£250) were awarded £5OO each.
Third prize went to Vance Palmer’s
Men Are Human.
The second Bulletin novel
competition closed on December
31, 1929. The first prize (£400)
went to Vance Palmer’s The
Passage, second (£250) to K. G.
Taylor's Wards of the Outer March,
third (£100) to J. J. Hardie’s Cattle
Camp.
S. H. Prior winners, each receiv-
ing £lOO, have been: 1935, Kylie
Tennant ( Tiburon ); 1936, Miles
Franklin ( All That Swagger ) ;
1939, Miles Franklin ( Who Was
Joseph Furphy ?) ; 1940, Eve Lang-
ley (The Pea Pickers ) ; M. H. Ellis
(Lachlan Macquarie ) ; Kylie Ten-
nant (The Battlers ) ; 1941, Gavin
Casey (It’s Harder for Girls).
Information Sought
My home has been freed from
white-ants, but I find them in the
fowlhouse, fence-posts and out-
buildings. How can I get rid of
them ?
They can be eradicated by direct
attack and by chemicals, but con-
stant vigilance is necessary as they
may return even after a clearance.
In a fowlhouse, if they are roughly
dug-up the fowls should finish them
—fowls relish them as food. For
outdoor woodwork, treat liberally
with creosote, sump-oil or kerosene.
Boiling water is also useful where
no plants are likely to be spoilt.
For deep nests, pour in a little
carbon-disulphide and seal the
opening with wet clay or a wet sack
to drive the vapor into the run-
ways. There are a good many
insecticides on the market which
would suit you. Kerosene on
poultry-perches could burn fowls’
legs if too liberally used where the
birds rest, so care must be taken.
* * * *
Could you give an account of
the early career of former N. S.
Wales Premier W. A. Holman ?
William Arthur Holman was
born in London in 1871, and as a
youth was apprenticed to a cabinet-
maker. In 1888 he came to Aus-
tralia with his actor parents when
they were engaged to appear at
the Bijou Theatre, Melbourne.
The theatre was burnt down shortly
afterwards, and the Holmans
moved to Sydney, where William
was employed as a cabinetmaker,
and where, having joined the
Sydney School of Arts Debating
Society, he came under the notice
of Edmund Barton.
Holman became interested in the
foundation of the Labor movement
and frequently lectured on Social-
ism and economics. In July, 1894,
he stood as a candidate for Leich-
hardt in the Legislative Assembly,
but was defeated by 95 votes. In
1895, at Grenfell, he was again
defeated. He was made a director
of the “Daily Post,” a Labor paper,
and became involved in a lawsuit
in which a man who had lent the
paper £2OO charged that he had
been defrauded. Convicted, Hol-
man spent nearly two months in
jail before the conviction was
quashed. It is generally accepted
that he should never have been
convicted, and the money borrowed
was later paid back with interest.
After this episode, Holman wrote
for the Grenfell “Vedette,” of
which he became proprietor, and
in July, 1898, he was elected to the
Legislative Assembly for Grenfell
—the-real beginning of his political
career.
Brief Answers
8.N.: Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott were married at St. Mary’s
Cathedral on September 16, 1935.
It was in 1946 that they appeared
at the Theatre Royal in Noel
Coward’s three one-act plays,
“Ways and Means,” “Family
Albums” and “Shadow Play.”
Their last Sydney appearance to-
gether was at the Palace Theatre
in “Private Lives,” which com-
menced on June 19, 1951. After
that season they returned to New
York. Madge Elliott died in 1955.
... .E.W.: Foxes certainly dig holes
in which to live. A “fox’s earth”
is the name given to them. The
term “earth” also describes a
badger’s lair... .E.P.L.: It is no
longer necessary to obtain an
import - licence for- motor - cars
imported from Europe, so there
are no formalities involved.
Customs-duty and sales-tax will be
payable, amounting to 85 per cent,
of the value of a British car
imported from the United King-
dom, and 99.8 per cent, of the value
of other cars. The value will be
assessed after examination on the
car’s arrival, and is normally
based on the price when new in
the country of origin, due allowance
being made for depreciation
T.L.P.8.: The copper (bronze?)
coin described seems to be one
struck for the island of Malta. It
was known as a “grain.” The issue
of the groat was discontinued in
1856, but a small number of four-
pences, of different design from the
groat, are struck each year as one
unit of “Her Majesty’s Maundy
Monies,” which consist of the four-
pence, threepence, twopence and
penny, all silver. Records of the
Australian Branch Mints dating
from 1855 show no issues of the
groat in Australia. It is possible
that some have been circulated
through other sources, but the
number would be negligible
F. 8.0.: The gold coin dated 1902
could be either a sovereign or half-
sovereign of the first issue of King
Edward VII. The half-sovereign
is about the same diameter as the
sixpence and weighs 61.637 grains
when new. The sovereign ,•
what smaller than a sfing K me '
m di - meter a »d weiehin g
123.274 grains... g{ d
name may be wrongly spelt S e
nearest word found * k « The
meaning clear water... .ffl"
Name of the poet from whom v
quote is Lex Banning K \ ou
You can almost take vm,, 1 •;
from “short fine-leg,”
and “short backwfrd-squaSfc,
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
N ZTMS d S ad N e VS' am *
inhn SS ' N °, llablll ‘y is under-
taken "contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will ti
returned unless stamps accom.
P an >’■ MSS. should be addressed
l ° the J Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.M.D.: It doesn’t stick to the
point either of hawks or of trout
Have another go at it, and don’t
get lost in beautiful words
8.A.8.: It’s not too bad. But it
takes you about 30 lines to say
that he’s an old-timer; then, when
you get to them, there’s not much
to his stories. Boil him down and
brighten him up 1.M.8.: Too
jerky P.G.: We note with
interest that the “vector idiom"
formula for writing poetry may be
summarised as: “Intention plus
dimension plus emotion equals
dynamic expression” E.W.: We
can never resist this one:—
Fair Australia, Fair Australia
• Beneath a gleaming sky,
And the sheer delight of sunbeams
Is to gild the gum trees high.
The golden wattle’s perfume
By gentle breezes fanned
Outpours its lovely fragrance
Which is wafted o’er the land.


)tlien , “Far in the west, the magical
i o f the Blue Mountains. And all
L aI y space of bush between. The
' as it were, invisible beauty of
ftralia •• • a sense su btle, remote,
Ljgss beauty more poignant than
(Lg ever experienced before.”
Lit is when the Somers arrive at
L ee ,” the cottage on the South
L that the writing of Lawrence is
tally inspired. This is the essence
Lrence, the poet of “Twilight in
L» “Mornings in Mexico,” “Sea
f Sardinia.” No quoting can do
L to- this sensitive personal,
Lely vivid spirit that could enter
j very soul of man and woman,
L birds, flowers, landscape and
Cape. ■ \ .
I may have been a coincidence, or
jay have been Lawrence’s intuition,
L caused him to make the main
jjatic action of his novel the
struggle for power between Fascist and
Communistic organisations in Aus-
tralia. Whatever the reason, Lawrence’s
choice was certainly prophetic when
one considers that nine years after the
writing of the novel the Fascist “New
Guard” movement, whose primary
object was the destruction of Com-
munism. was formed in this country.
But the theme of “Kangaroo” is that
of love. There is the pure, spontaneous
love of Somers and Harriet for Aus-
tralia. Then the love between Somers
and his wife which was tormented be-
cause Somers strove to prove that the
basis of marriage is not perfect love
but perfect submission of the wife to
the husband. Lastly there is the love of
Kangaroo, the leader of the “New
Guard” movement, for Somers. This,
Somers instinctively and finally rejected
because he realised that the love of
Kangaroo was that of the “Power of
Love rather than the Submission and
Sacrifice of Love.”
For his rejection of Kangaroo,
Somers suffers no physical violence,
but in a powerful scene he is made to
feel Kangaroo’s malevolent hatred to-
wards him. Later, when Kangaroo is
dying in hospital from wounds received
in a riot between Socialists and Fas-
cists, Somers refuses to tell the dying
man that he loved him.
A deep-seated, bitter, prolonged
quarrel had been going on between
Somers and Harriet. And then the very
land seemed to turn against them. A
cyclone came down the coast: —
Through the long, low windows
you saw only a yellow-livid fume,
and over all the boom you heard
the snarl of the water.
And before this Harriet had felt the
land turning against her:—
Sometimes from the interior came
a wind that seemed to her evil. Out
of the silver paradisical freedom
untamed, evil winds would come,
cold, like a stone hatchet murdering
you . . . Sometimes a heavy, reptile-
hostility came off the sombre land,
something gruesome and infinitely
repulsive . . .
But the Lawrences, Somers and
Harriet, lived through this, stayed to
know for the first time the unforgettable
experience of an Australian spring on
the South Coast. Somers hired a pony
and sulky and together they drove up
through the bush in flower. Soon the
sulky was filled with whole armfuls
of flowers they had gathered. And
still Somers kept jumping out from
among the flowers to gather a new
bloom. Nowhere, I think, in all
Lawrence’s writing, is there anything so
ecstatic, so vivid, so poetic and satis-
fying as. this experience in the last
chapter, “Adieu Australia,” written
and added in September at Taos, New
Mexico. Truly they were two children
gathering flowers in, as Lawrence
describes it, “the bush flowering at
the gates of Heaven.”
And I must confess that I have gone
and stood in a place where Lawrence
stood to make his farewell. “And he
knew that one of his souls would stand
forever out on those rocks beyond the
jetty, towards Bulli, advanced into the
sea, with the dark magic of the tor
standing just inland.”
Roland Robinson.
How to Sell
How Top Salesmen Sell in Aus-
tralia. W. R. Gresham. Angus and
Robertson. 255.
This stimulating work, with case
studies by J. Vanderveen, of North
Sydney Travel Agency, J. H. Lang, of
International Business Machines, R. A.
Becker, of TV-station ATN, Sydney,
K. R. Dalziel, of Larke Hoskins, E. A.
Belschner, of Jantzen, H. Alan Payne,
of Rocla Pipes, A. I. Davril, of Scott
and Bowne, Erl Calver, of Exide
Batteries, D. E. Hammond, of 1.C.5.,
John D. McClure, of Clive Allan, and
EGGS AND NESTLINGS
i( moss-rose and the palings made
min and a waiting shade
k eagerly the mother pressed
kitering curve into her nest.
r tranced eye, her softened stare
«d me when I saw her there,
perfect as the grey nest’s round,
it frail and powdered eggs l found.
; mother called me there one day.
nth the nest the eggshells lay,
I'm it throbbed the triple greed
(me incessant angry need.
Meyellow gapes, those starveling cries,
'•they disquieted my eyes l
(shapeless furies come to be
P shape’s most pure serenity.
IKNSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
THE CHOICE
i%, meeny, miny, mo,
V religions in a row,
mstian, Moslem, Jewish, Buddhist,
is baddest, which is goodest ?
H meeny, miny, mee,
a penny up and see.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
DEAD CARS
,° the rust-red skeletons survive
lr coiled brambles and their crop
, °f dew
I Scars do not engage ;
'Shifts of artifice return to clay
Snorts of an old green world survive.
Wc of pistons, flywheel’s pirouette,
w . ere the pleasantries of man’s best
friend,
Abandoned, stiff and cold
Where, tousled by the scrape and brush
of scrub,
Our fascinated children pirouette.
Tranquil sedans, rich artefacts that
throbbed
With borrowed power in someone’s
father’s time,
Have come at last to this
Unhallowed ground and this archaic
charm.
I saw them here half-shrouded ... a
chord throbbed ;
Something responded; something
lamented man
Whose sad creations haunt a scene
renewed
By tussock and sharp briar,
Gather a dignity and hunch to earth
In morning light—the infancy of man.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
ONE MINUTE
Couch grass, weathered brick
Are the dial’s creeping echo,
But the minute runs tick-tick
A sly-footed gecko.
Nor hindsight nor consequence
Mark its brief boundaries,
(When did our light commence ?
Where does our nightfall cease ? )
To the hot stab of murder
Or smile’s promised valley,
Thus far and no farther
A minute may sally ;
For land-ho and finis,
First shot of disaster,
Not mould’s quiet menace,
Not to build or to master.
At the green-fly-world
Snaps the minute then gone —■
Quick in its doomsday curled
But judgeless, alone.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


P. C. Boon, of Hoover, fires the
reviewer with the spirit of emulation:
Reviewer: Are you interested in out-
selling all your competitors?
Prospect: No; I’ve taken them all
over.
Rev,: In that case you will be able
to concentrate on attacking your dis-
tributors. This book tells you how to
do it. Look at it; large, clear type,
printed on both sides of the paper,
bright orange cover, only the title in
the red —-
Pro.: What gambit are you working
—CIDCA?
Rev.: I’m pleased you asked that
question. Yes, I’m working CIDCA on
you, as set out here by Mr. Davril in
Chapter 7, “Grocer’s Orders”: “C,” I
arouse your Curiosity; “I,” I build up
your Interest with a demonstration.
Will you pay for the book now, or shall
I send you an account?
Pro.: Wait a minute; that’s “A” for
Action —you’ve left out “D” for creat-
ing Desire and “C” for Consideration
being effected.
Rev.: I am applying to you Mr.
Gresham’s technique of the Trial Close,
where he says, “A trial close early in
the presentation may wrap the sale up
and save your time and the prospect’s
time.”
Pro.: I refuse to be slummed-over
and rushed into a buy. CIDCA, the
whole CIDCA and nothing but
CIDCA!
Rev.: Well, we’ve arrived at “D,”
where I arouse your Desire. You may
desire this book, says Mr. Gresham,
because of GRESHAM’s law: to
secure Gregariousness, Refreshment,
Economy, Security, Health, Affection
or Money. >
Pro.: I don’t need it to help me make
money. My products sell themselves.
Rev.: That is going to stop. Listen
to Mr. Boon, selling vacuum-cleaners
and washing-machines, speaking on the
collapse of the Sellers’ Market: “There
will be vast changes taking place in
these next ten years—-the marketing
decade.... A few firms today are
beginning to wake up to the situation
that is developing. They are beginning
to put their marketing men at the heads
of the companies.”
Pro.: Oh, pooh!
Rev.: You’ll say, “Oh, pooh!” when
your sales go down . . . And look at
you! Brown shoes with a grey suit!
And a plain grey tie with a plain suit
instead of a striped tie! And that
Hawaiian shirt, and those pants down
over your heel—what Mr. Gresham
would think I just can’t imagine!
Pro.: I’ve often thought I ought to
do something about my clothes, but I’ve
been too busy taking orders ... Does
this Gresham write about clothes?
Rev.: It’s all in the compendious
little book. Shall I telephone for a
special copy, or leave you this sample?
Pro.: Oh, no; no more trial closes;
I Want the full CIDCA treatment.
Rev.: All right; we’ve got to Second
“C”—Consideration. Because of my
sincere and truthful answers to your
objections you are now supposed to be
Considering buying my product.
Pro: I’m very unfavorable. You
were rude to me about my clothes.
Rev.: I was sincere and truthful.
Anyway, I can see it’s no good wasting
any more of your time. Good morning,
Mr. Prospect . . Oh, by the way iw
for my information— y ’ just
Pro.: That’s Gresham’s “Comnlnb
the Sale” technique Number 4 ng
go to the door, look casuX back fa
ask me why you’ve failed Jsell Then
I become mterested enough to tell yon
and gradually— u >
? ev 7 1 see youve been browsing
while I ve been talking. And you might
as well, because in a week’s time—
Pro.: That’s “Completing the Sale”
technique Number 3, entitled The Last
Chance: next week the edition will be
bought-up by everyone who wants to
sell services or stationery to Messrs
Gresham. Becker, Belschner, Boon
Calver, Dalziel, Davril. Hammond’
Lang, McClure, Payne and Vander-
veen; and I won’t be able to get one.
Rev.: Walk into any of those offices
with that book in your hand and you
can throw CIDCA out the window.
Will you have three copies or shall I
send you a gross?
Pro.: Just the one copy; I want to get
it dogseared and nicely thumbed.
Ronald McCuaig.
The Living Theatre
The theatre is often discussed as if
it were a passive receptacle for new
waves of playwrights, new methods of
production (or even old ones revived)
and new styles of acting; as if all or
any of these could solve its problems.
It is seldom realised that the theatre,
as Elmer Rice, clear-headedly shows in
The Living Theatre (Heinemann), is an
institution in itself, shaped by a com-
plex of social, cultural and economic
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 620
Across
I—A child of our Canberra opportunity for share-
holders. (7, 5)
B—Putting up a ghost as a candidate—not likely to win,
though. (7, 4)
10— Beard of the corn. (3)
11— Putting ghosts not in sheets, but in Union Jacks.
Hence less enthusiasm? (8, 7)
12— Haircut, but not that cheap these
days. (3)
13— Swear Neddy never stopped
eating. (10)
16 —Iron cotton with such an unusual
twist of the body. (10)
19—Playwright to go to the electric-
chair. (3)
22—Darius and Xerxes hide a prin-
cess in a net. (7, 8)
24 — Blow a Dixielander, perhaps;
not a Lincoln man, any-
way. (9, 6).
25 — Pat down as a result of this
reason why some of us are
quarrelsome by nature? (5, 7)
Down
1— Vessel damaged by the R.A.F.
ace. (6)
2 An old dotard to gasp over a
bird. (9)
3 Phenomena causing disturbed
nights. (6)
4 Toes or tales? (7)
5 How’s a car showing nothing on
an honest speedo. (8)
6 Vehicle I cast off passed from
view. (8)
7 Bounder and I are quite enough
for the magistrate. (4)
9—Follow. (5)
14— Not one of the scraps of tunes,
but a dogfight, perhaps. (3, 6)
15 — Dress with an anaesthetic
ensemble. (8)
16 — Frame the Queen’s son and
Princess Anne, as he knows
her. (7)
17— Treat mashed potato. (5)
18 — Monocle an adequate'aid to the
vision of any such parti-
san. (3-4)
20 — Suzanne owns it may be stamps,
or numbers of a paper or maga-
zine. (6)
21— Spirit alienated a disorderly
priest. (6)
23 —If lower after, this skin around
the head is vegetable. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 619


senkp l '« K ' ,{ox ‘‘-’ 67, > sxiuev.
iiii v i, tor readers. That difficult to
bonk- U | llie ' let us <or yon— fiction,
"wgraphy, history, etc. Moderut*
' it successful.
b ook scout
e service for your out-of-print
:,l » ease send your requirements to
Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
Now Available at Your Bookshop
MELBOURNE PAPERBACKS
71” x 4|”: flexibownd: the first four titles are
PETEK RYAN: Fear Drive My Feet (7/6)
An impressive story of endurance and quiet courage, on isolated patrols in New
Guinea in World War !!, set against the country’s savage beauty and its people
at their best. A book you will not want to put down West Australian (Perth).
One of the best yet on Australia s New Guinea war Nation (Sydne y).
ROBERT 'CROSSLAND: Wainewright in Tasmania (7/6)
Artist, reputed multiple poisoner, friend of Charles Lamb, transported for forgery
in 1837, ‘no writer .. . ever invented a character as baffling’ Brisbane Telegraph.
4 The blackest villain in history,” said Oscar Wilde. But his elusive story as convict,
hospital wardsman, ticket-of-leave painter of prominent citizens, suggests more
tragedy than villainy in his downfall. End-paper map; 29 plates.
VANCE PALMER: National Portraits (7/6)
Sketches the life-work of 23 significant figures whose creative impulses have shaped
Australia’s distinctive character. ”An Australian classic” Advertiser (Adelaide).
“The best thing of its (Melbourne).
R. C. HUTCHINSON: Food for Longer Living (5/6)'
An Australian authority on nutrition suggests how we may all hope to live longer
and healthier lives by sensible attention to food and dietary patterns. “A guide to
healthy living, whether long or short” Canberra Times. First edition: 4 plates.
H'BTHEB TITLES SOON: SUGGESTIONS FOR THE SERIES WELCOMED
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Parkville N. 2, Victoria, Australia FJ 0484, Ext. 294
-s, obeying its own laws first, and
ies as apt to master the drama
i serve it.
lof a long experience as play-
producer and spectator, Rice
j/ es many sharply outlined illus-
)llS of this important truth. He
us on a quick tour of the world’s
Ls, pointing out on the way how
Vand Kabuki theatres relate to
'i’s old hierarchical social struc-
. and how the present popular
je of Japan reflects the changes
•light by Westernisation, defeat and
jpation; how the political and
jinic problems of post-revolu-
iy Russia produced a theatre of
lie instruction, strong in techniques
;mpty of significant dramatic con-
■ (his incidental description of a
jiist “Hamlet” seen in Russia is a
•'tor’s item); how the English
Ire still bears the marks of the two
j periods of its growth (the Eliza-
ii and the Restoration); how the
irkable regional theatre of Ger-
j sprang out of the time when that
itry was a loose organisation of
ts with court and municipal
ires in almost every city; how the
itres of Canada, Australia and
in America (except for the interest-
ilndian theatre of Mexico) reflected
many years a cultural as well as
somic dependence upon a mother-
ly; and so on.
le bulk of the book, however, con-
ns the theatre Rice knows best—the
mean—and the picture he draws of
ril in places surprise many an Aus-
fci playgoer who has looked to
® York as a desert-dweller to a
a mountain.
Outmoded and uncomfortable play-
'*>; staggering production-costs, a
*°f good training-grounds and
®unent companies to bring actors to
■ lr peak and keep them there—all
familiar drawbacks to the develop-
of an Australian theatre are there
"d the Kazans, the Clurmans and
Strasbergs, the important differ-
* bdng wealth, population and
t !ra l cultural development .
™ r all his background knowledge,
~e? conclusions are discouragingly
!| d r - He likes the private-enter-
American theatre for its variety,
willingness to experiment, its free-
dom censorship; but he sees that
improvements it needs can hardly
'-itected without subsidies, Govern-
m or private.
Having seen the results of Govern-
ment control in Russia—for some
reason he leaves France, with its
admirable system of subsidies, almost
entirely out of account —Rice favors an
appeal for private subsidies: a not
altogether hopeless solution in a coun-
try whose rich have the engaging habit
of forming foundations (Ford,
Carnegie) to support the arts and
sciences,
John Abernethy.
Short-story Competition
Entries are invited for the second
short-story competition of the Tas-
manian Fellowship of Australian
Writers, open to residents of Tas-
mania, Closing date March 1, 1961.
First prize of £5O, second £3O, third
£2O. Details from the hon. sec., Mr.
D. H, Borchardt, 14 Alma Street,
Bellerive, Tasmania.
Reviewed Briefly
Sliver Brumby’s Daughter: Elyne
Mitchell (Hutchinson). In this book for
children, a sequel to “The Silver
Brumby,” Elyne Mitchell continues to
write of both landscape and horses
with knowledge and affection. The
story should be exciting, but the author
would have been wise to avoid any
attempts at dialogue between the horses
this remains an awkwardness
throughout. There are some pleasing
line-drawings in the text, but to these
are added photographs—and photo-
graphs in a work of fiction are not only
obtrusive but altogether out-of-key.
* * * *
The Grand Duke and Mr. Pimm:
Lindsay Hardy (Cape). Its publishers
call this fairy-floss concoction first-rate
entertainment, but it seems that even
romance and intrigue among million-
airesses and marriage marketeers on
the Riviera must be sustained by a
wittier touch than this author com-
mands.
* * * *
The Catch of Time: Donald Ford
(Bodley Head). This novel is curiously
unattractive. The characters all give
the impression of being physically
awkward and slightly repellent, how-
ever far from the author’s intention
this may be. There is little in the
narrative or style to encourage the
reader to hope for improvement as the
novel develops. On the back of the
jacket the writer is warmly praised by
J. B. Priestley.
* * * *
Letters from a Soldier: Lance-
Corporal Walter Stanley Robson
(Faber). The author was a stretcher-
bearer, Ist Bn. The Queen’s Own
Royal West Kent Regiment. The
letters, which describe his thoughts
during the campaigns in Tunisia and
Italy, were written to his wife. Vivid,
authentic and moving, they are pub-
lished exactly as they passed the mili-
tary censors (and, to that extent, their
record of events is guarded), because
Walter Robson eventually wore him-
self out in the service of others and
died in Greece in 1945.
* * * *
The Day the Mountains Played:
Judith Wright (Jacaranda Press), in
this little book for children Judith
Wright has set down an aboriginal
legend very pleasingly and with just
the degree of simplicity appropriate to
young readers. The copious illustra-
tions by Annette Wright are sometimes
clumsy, but have a satisfying narrative
simplicity.


0^
808 (BP PICK-A-BOX ) DYER SAYS . . .
“when i
you pick BP
you pick
k the best!”
TRACTOR FUELS and
ENERGOL LUBRICANTS
used and proved all over the world
• BP PETROLS —containing BENZOL • BP DIESOLEUM
• BP POWER KEROSINE • BP ENERGOL TRACTOR OIL UNIVERSAL
• A full range of BP ENERGOL oils • BP ENERGREASE
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL BP AGENT
C92L
