

The Bulletin
Lawson Festival Prizewinners
Wednesday , July 6, 1960
Price I/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
'Hof day, by Cli! Mus' be over the century!"


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to write and a love for
expressing yourself in words, you can learn to
write Successful Short Stories, Written
Sketches, Radio Talks, l’ars., Verse, etc.
“During the past six months my acceptances
have returned me oxer £200.”
“I am pleased to report further successes since
lesson 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the amount
of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.”
“During the Course I sold live stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
Stott's Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reugh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Hris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CVT aXn MAIL TIT IS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1300)
KOOKHINTKR, Box 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. Tliat difficult to
obtain volume, let 11s find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
GILBERT MURRAY
Gilbert Murray’s An Unfinished
Autobiography, “with contributions by
his friends” (Allen and Unwin), two
extracts from which were published
earlier this year in “The Bulletin,” has
now reached Australia in book form.
“The Bulletin,” having an eye to
specifically Australian interest, printed
condensations of the two chapters deal-
ing with Murray’s family and his
school-life in this country, and very
lively and charming pieces of writing
they were: one, the account of how his
family took-up the famous properties
of Yarralumla and Winderadene, with
droughts, bushfires and the story of
that wonderful Mr. Dulhunty who
came to lunch at Yarralumla and
stayed several years, being extremely
severe with any visitors of convict
ancestry who turned-up; and the other
chiefly reminiscences of that “very foul-
mouthed crew of young ragamuffins”
(some well-known names among them)
with whom he went to school at
Southey’s, at Moss Vale, N. S. Wales.
So great was Murray’s misery in his
first year at Southey’s, from bullying,
fighting and homesickness, that eventu-
ally he climbed up a tree with a rope
to hang himself. But, trying a few prac-
tice swings, he dangled himself onto a
nest of bulldog-ants, one of which stung
him; and so, abandoning suicide, he
spent the rest of the morning happily
murdering bulldog-ants. There seems
to be a moral in this, somewhere, for
one who was afterward to become so
celebrated a pacifist . . .
These chapters of early youth are
certainly, as is not uncommon in
autobiographies, the richest part of the
“Fragment”; but there is nevertheless
some charming, amusing and informa-
tive reading in the remaining section
about Murray’s early days at Oxford
and in the Chair of Greek at Glasgow,
to which he was appointed at the age
of 23. There is, for instance, his por-
trait of Robinson Ellis, the scholar who
befriended him at Oxford: —
He was a singular figure: very tall,
rather shabby, with a long overcoat
and with one boot —or sometimes
both —slashed open to give his toes
more room. The toes were rather a
mystery. There was nothing to see,
and they did not exactly hurt. He
sometimes got the landlady at our
lodgings to look at them. The land-
ladies were generally shy and could
only remark that there was not much
to see. “That,” he would say, “is
what makes me uneasy.” Once he
went to a professional orthopedist
with the same sad result. He was
genuinely [sic —generally?] rather
indifferent to the material amenities
of life. He was worried, for instance,
by the trouble of having to order
lunch. “What did we have yester-
day?” “Mutton and rhubarb-tart,
sir.” “Well, we’ll have that. Murray,
do you like rhubarb-tart? Yes?
Then we will have that every day.”
And we did.
Or, leading him away from scholar-
ship to the world of protesting politics
in which he also became prominent,
there were the days at Castle Howard
under the masterful eye of Lady
Carlisle, whose daughter, Lady Mary
Howard, he had married:—
It was fun. Of course it was fun.
But there was no luxury. It was
breakfast at eight and no nonsense.
There was no alcohol. Smoking was
not forbidden, but hardly anyone
smoked... .There was a vivid day-
by-day interest in the doings of the
House of Commons and, above all,
an interest in causes, causes to
work for, fight-for, at any rate argue
for. There was the Temperance
cause, a plain duty if ever there was
one... .There was the emancipation
of women... .There was Home
Rule for Ireland. There was the
protection of all who were, or were
likely to be, oppressed: Russians,
Egyptians, subject-nations and, of
course, “the poor” everywhere.
The two parts of the “Fragment,”
Australian and English, make-up only
about a third of the book—Murray died
before he could complete it—and the
rest comprises tributes to Murray and
accounts of his work and career by a
galaxy of celebrities including Dame
Sybil Thorndike, Bertrand Russell. Sal-
vador de Madariaga and Arnold Toyn-
bee. The first sentence of the intro-
duction by E. R. Dodds sounds a
trumpet-note that should reverberate
long and loud in the land of Gilbert
Murray’s birth; “With the death of
Gilbert Murray on May 20, 1957, at the
age of 91, England lost its most famous
Greek scholar, one whose voice and
personality were known to many thous-
ands who never opened a Greek text.”
PARROTS
[FROM A SERIES]
Loquats are cold as winter suns.
Among rough leaves their clusters glow
like oval beads of cloudy amber
or small fat flames of birthday candles,
Parrots, when the winter dwindles
their forest fruits and seeds, remember
where the swelling loquats grow,
how chill and sweet their thin juice runs;
and shivering in the morning cold
we draw the curtains back, and see
the lovely greed of their descending,
the lilt of flight that blurs their glories
and warm our eyes upon the lories
and the rainbow-parrots landing .
There’s not a fruit on any tree
can match their crimson, green and gold.
To see them cling and sip and play
loquats are no great price to pay.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
In Arnhem Land
If there is anything about aboriginal
man in Arnhem Land left unexplored,
unexamined and untabulated after the
investigations of the 1948 American-
Australian expedition it is hard to think
what it could be. Anthropology and
Nutrition (Melbourne University
Press) is Vol. 2 of the projected series
of four massive tomes in which the
records of the expedition are to be
published—Vols. 1 and 3 are out
already, Vol. 4, “Natural History,” is
still to come.
In the present book the contributors
examine what the aboriginal eats at
the missions and what he eats in the
bush, how he hunts and how he cooks,
how he sleeps and when he wakes up;
they look at his physique, his hair, his
fingerprints and his teeth, not to men-
tion anything else; they dig-up his
middens, they annotate his weapons
and tools, they count the fragments of
Macassar pottery to be found in his
tribal lands, they enumerate his 2400
cave-paintings, they fill no fewer than
96 pages with an illustrated account
of the curious “string-figures” with
{Continued on page 58)


A new type
LYSAGHT
SILO
is comma 1
You'll be able to order it in July in time for this
season's harvest.
Far ahead of any other silo you’ve ever owned or seen, the new
Lysaght silo marks an important step forward in Bulk Grain Storage.
Based on the experiences gained in the supply of over 20,000 units
in the last decade, this new-tvpe silo incorporates many features
personally requested by the Man on the Land.
A full-size ‘walk-in’ door enables the silo to be emptied and cleaned
with a minimum of time, effort and discomfort. It also permits the
silo to be used as a rodent-proof storage unit in off periods.
For further information, fill in and post the coupon below.
POST COUPON TODAY
To: John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,®
Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Please send me full information on the new Lysaght Grain Silos.
NAME
Name of Property Route or RMB No
DISTRICT. STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle. S33OC


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 6, 1960
Vol. 81— No. 4195
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 436-440 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE OVERLOADED SHEEP
nrHE conditions in primary industry
A in Australia, judging by recent
statements of people in high authority,
and by the increases in butter, sugar
and cheese prices, are far from what
they should be. They certainly do not
exhibit the same elements of boom
which so paradoxically characterise the
Great Wens where money is something
to burn.
Cities are developing at a breathless
rate. An earthquake could scarcely
demolish old and useful buildings in
Sydney and Melbourne with greater
speed than the new brand of land-and-
building barons, nor A-bomb mush-
rooms raise themselves skyward as fast
as the replacement tiers of glass-sided
boxes which are pushing into the sky
at enormous expense against every
horizon.
Money is going into city “homes,”
mostly hung in the air, without gardens,
selling at prices largely determined by
the required standards of luxury such as
air-conditioning and labor which de-
mands whatever it can get irrespective
of awards and margins. But the part of
the national production which used to
be the sole support of the country, and
still is its mainstay, is drifting.
However, as yet it frightens nobody
except its victims. Not even, apparently,
the banks and financial houses; cer-
tainly not the city voter preoccupied
with the payments on his motor-car,
his TV and his dwelling on 10 per cent,
deposit and fabulous interest.
The other day G. D’A. Chislett, sec-
retary of the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council and of the Federal Graziers’
Council, an economist by training,
declared that subsidising the wool
industry seemed inevitable. The idea
of a subsidy on wool, when it is yield-
ing this year something approaching
£3BO million, or about two-fifths of the
value of Australian exports, is surely a
matter for alarm, especially as Mr.
Chislett estimates that every penny-a-
pound subsidy would cost the country
£6.5 million.
Of course, subsidies have become a
commonplace. There have been periods
in the past two decades in which the
prices of household comestibles such
as potatoes have been absurd against
the background of the cost of produc-
tion. And the fact that any industry
lives by Government bounty in an over-
producing world and in a country in
which wages have no relationship to
solvency but only to the whim of the
unions and the power to resist of the
arbitration-court judges doesn’t worry
anybody.
/'''OLD has been subsidised from 1954
onwards, even when its price is
more than four times v/hat it used to
be in 1928. Persons producing less
than 500 ounces a year have got a
fixed subsidy of 30s. an ounce, and the
maximum has been £2 an ounce in
marginal and submarginal mines, which
is half the price of the highest quality
gold mined before World War I.
The grand total of Commonwealth
bounties and subsidies to primary
industries has risen as high as £3l
million (in 1951-52), but, except for
a bounty on wool products in Aus-
tralia, that industry has been exempt
from the need, and has always been
the symbol of wealth and the standard-
bearer of stability in the worst of times.
The saying that Australia has been
carried on the sheep’s back has been
true at certain periods, but there is no
doubt that the time has come when
even the increasingly broad back of
the sheep cannot carry the load that
is being placed on it.
The cost of improvements called for
by the splitting-up of larger holdings, is
swollen by Australian labor’s constant
demands. Short hours and go-slow are
putting wool into the cost-regardless
class.
This last fact is true whether it refers
to labor actually on the sheep-run or
labor producing the necessities of the
industry in the way of fencing,
machinery and transport.
The public is apt to .be easy in its
mind about such facts as are put for-
ward by Mr. Chislett. Their judgment
of the'industry is based largely on the
sensational prices brought for rams at
the sheep sales and observation of the
few fabulous and old-established large
stations of which the land was
originally cheap and basic development
carried out at low cost.
The hard facts are, however, that in
this industry, which provides 40 per
cent, and more of the Commonwealth’s
export return and in which wages and
costs have been steadily rising, there
has been a downward trend in prices
equivalent to about 5 p.c. a year
since 1954. There is little chance
of real improvement. In fact, while
the prospects as to costs are of con-
tinued rises both in wages and materials,
the trend in prices is still downwards.
This is happening not to an industry
which has defeated competition, but to
one which is feeling growing pressures
both of competitive materials and of
increasingly competitive prices.
Wool is now an industry in which
profit-margins have narrowed to the
danger-point. On an average, as
Chislett declares and as can be calcu-
lated, the margin between cash cost
of production and returns is 25 per
cent., out of which the future, in
equipment as well as the other charges
which come out of gross profit, must
be provided for.
On this basis, while there is a
section of woolgrowers favorably
placed as to quality and production
per sheep and general financial circum-
stances, the majority of small men are
not very far from the breadline, and
some must be sitting squarely on it;
especially if they have entered the busi-
ness in recent years and have had to
pay high prices for their land* stock and
improvements.
Mr. Chislett puts it that the average
grazier, with an investment of £40,000,
is getting a net income of only £2OOO
a year, which a good building-worker
can earn with less labor.
'T'HIS condition of affairs is a matter
of national concern. It is a
matter of even more concern when it
is realised in how much greater degree
the stresses which affect a highly
organised and scientific industry like
wool apply to primary products for
which the markets are more competi-
tive.
Mr. McEwen, Minister for Trade,
told the N.S.W. Country Party Con-
ference in Sydney on the day of Mr.
Chislett’s statement that while produc-
tion has increased, net farm income has
declined 11 p.c. in four years. The
basic wage has gone up more than
that figure in the period.
Now that import-licensing has been
removed, for instance, Australian
butter-producers, whose product is
selling to the Australian public at
just under ss. a pound, under price-
control by the Commonwealth ex-
factory, are faced with competition (so
Mr. Adermann, Minister for Primary
Industry says) from N.Z., where the
retail price is 3s. l^d.
High wages, short hours, go-slow,
high costs and transport inefficiency are
in a fair way to killing the golden-
egged goose.


TARGET-DATE
“This talk-talk longa United Nations mean when self-gubberment come I eatum you if I want to, WE eatum missionary,
then drink beer like white man.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Lowest Ebb
It is difficult to believe that the United
States today is the same nation which
three or four years ago was the diplo-
matic dictator of the Western world —
the nation that forced its traditional
allies, Britain and France, to knuckle-
under to its policies on Suez, which it
followed for the moment with almost
as much self-righteousness as its strange
bed-fellows in Moscow.
Then it established virtuous policies
fuelled with oil which led it to support
Nasser in his seizure of Suez, to use
the United Nations as an instrument to
care tenderly for stolen property in the
Canal Zone, marshalled its Sixth Fleet
to act as a shadow over British opera-
tions and to support the right of bandit
Middle Eastern Nations to flout treaties.
Though it was the voice of Cuba, shrill
and fevered, that formulated the U.N.
resolution which censured Britain and
France before a grinning and triumphant
Communist world, it was the hand of
Washington obviously that wrote it and
the voice of President Eisenhower which
admonished the Eden Government like
a headmaster putting a naughty child in
a corner.
Today the chickens have come home
to roost. The Eisenhower Plan which
was to control the Middle East is almost
forgotten. Nasser goes his own sweet
way. Iraq has drifted away from the
West; Yemen is dickering with Moscow.
The Cuba which was the voice of the
Americas has turned the policies taught
it by Washington in the Suez Canal affair
against its tutor by starting to seize
United States and British and Nether-
land oil-refineries to use them to refine
Russian oil, along with other huge U.S.
assets.
The Panamanians are employing the
very arguments the moralists of the State
Department used against the British and
French in the Suez incident to back the
slogan “Yankees, go home,” and to
establish a claim to the Panama Canal.
The doctrines taught to Nkrumah and
others in American universities have re-
sulted very largely in Africa ceasing to
be much use to the Western World and
set it teetering on the edge of Commu-
nist dictatorship.
It is the same story with Japan, which
General MacArthur “civilised” and
“Westernised” and “democratised” by
plastering it with several billion dollars
and a thin veneer of U.S. do-goodism.
Washington seems to be no better-off
at home than abroad. The hares that
Khrushchev has started, and the Japa-
nese-organised United Front has stam-
peded, are running about more erratically
than a week ago. The pre-Presidential
campaign is a shambles.
Khrushchev was not speaking empty
words when he said that Communism
was making the imperialists (that is the
leaders of the civilised West) “jump about
like peas in a saucepan.”
The sound of Senator Fulbright, head
of the greatest instrument of foreign-
affairs policy in the United States, justify-
ing a heavily armed and sinister enemy
over the U-2 incident would have been
the most shattering event of the week if
it had not come almost at the same
instant at which the Polish representative,
who was in the chair in rotation at the
Ten Nation Disarmament Conference at
Geneva, superciliously killed the confer-
ence.
He walked out with his Communist-
bloc colleagues, the whole bandit mob
of them laughing at the trap they had
laid and the fact that their secret plan-
ning had made it impossible for the
Western delegates to say a word in protest.
It is a horrible position all round ; one
fraught with vast danger. Control of the
United States is in the melting-pot; the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee is
miring its own nest and damaging its
own country, its allies, and its sick Presi-
dent at the end of his term.
It would be a bitter tragedy if the
United States were to fail to find leader-
ship, strong and directional, during the
next two or three months.
Bendigo Campaign
Following what now seems to be
accepted as Liberal protocol, the party
planned an opening for the Bendigo by-
election about a fortnight later than the
other two parties, with Harold Holt, the
Treasurer, to lend his vigorous support
to its last night, and the Prime Minister
giving the campaign a sort of grand
finale on July 12 at Bendigo Town Hall.
In the meantime, William Snell, the
Liberal candidate, has been door-knock-
ing in the country where his pleasant
personality is not as well known as in
Bendigo itself. He has been mayor of
Bendigo for more than two years.
Apparently the Liberals have decided
that an early, formal Town Hall open-
ing may not be as effective as a later
one and that any impressions made at
a first-in meeting are vulnerable when
the other candidates open theirs, answer-
ing criticisms and making points to their
biggest audiences which may be difficult
to counter. They have, of course, the
advantage of the services of Tom Lang-
ford, their resident organiser, who is re-
ported to have been preparing since the
last general election.
The Liberals have sensed the impor-
tance of Bendigo, where a win for the
Government would be of high prestige
politically. Most of the Federal Liberal
M.H.R.s will be in Bendigo at some
stage to give support, and many State
M.L.A.s. In the electorate are two State
seats, which also are Labor, but they,
too, are held by personalities, Stoneham,
the State Opposition Leader and Bill
Galvin, a former Deputy Premier.
Whatever the result, it must be close
because of the efforts the three parties
are making, and may provoke some of
the spirit of an English by-election,
despite the decorum with which it has
begun. Noel Beaton, the young Labor
hope, has apparently been coached by
Galvin, who knows, and is on good terms
with, almost every Bendigonian. He had
a successful opening meeting, but William
Drechsler, the D.L.P. candidate, had
turned on for him one of the best for
years in Bendigo.
Drechsler, a sheep-farmer , with a
country following, who got 5600 votes to
Clarey’s 20,800 and Snell’s 16,400 at the
general election, talks of increasing the
D.L.P. vote considerably.
During the campaign Santamaria has
popped-up on TV and has done
Drechsler .no harm. He answered his
interviewers satisfactorily on almost all
their points, as have Menzies, Calwell,
Holt and other old political dogs in
recent months, but they have had kid-
glove treatment compared with what is
handed out on overseas screens,
especially in the U.S. It is unlikely that
TV will become the political force it is
overseas with pat-ball sessions*
An "Unsolved Air Tragedy"
[From G. J. Jones, Auburn, N.S.W.]
I wholeheartedly agree with The
Bulletin (22/6/’6O), in commenting on
the loss, with nine lives, of the Heron
aircraft over the Timor Sea on January
26 this year, that “The whole circum-
stances of the tragedy, including the
taking-off of that type of aircraft in that
kind of weather, call out for inquiry.”
A Sydney “Herald” report from Dar-
win stated the crew was made up of a
pilot and mechanic. Who was the navi-
gator and who the wireless-operator?
What navigational aids were carried?
Aircraft of non-Australian domicile
should not be permitted to take-off from
an Australian international airport with
an Australian citizen aboard if manned
or equipped at a lower standard than
a locally licensed one. The landing-
ground of destination should be simi-
larly equipped in every essential to the
one of departure.
Inflation Facts
A first-class journalistic job has been
accomplished with Inflation, a new illus-
trated booklet just published by the
Institute of Public Affairs Victoria, deal-
ing in a popular way with the urgent
subject.
It discusses why inflation is bad for
Australia, how it unfairly penalises cer-
tain sections, who is to blame, how rising
costs affect export industries and hinder
efforts to compete in world markets, why
it is vitally important to increase effi-
ciency and productivity and why it is
everybody’s business to fight inflation.
Companies and other organisations in
all States are invited to buy copies (at
Is. 6d. each) for wide distribution among
associates and employees; but copies
will be sent on request, free of charge,
to schools and other education institu-
tions. (The address is 289 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.)
The Australian £, now worth 6s. Bd.,
one-third of its pre-war value, compares
unfavorably with many other countries.
Today the Swiss franc is worth 55
per cent, of its pre-war value, the Ger-


man mark 52 p.c., the U.S. dollar 49
p.c., the N.Z. £ 42 p.c., and the British £
37 p.c.
Because of the rise in prices during
the last decade, all goods and services
sold in 1958-59 cost the community
£3500 million more than they would have
had prices remained stable. The I.P.A.'s
chart shows 46 per cent, went to wages
and salaries, 20 p.c. to farmers, profes-
sions, small business and property-
owners, 12 p.c. in indirect taxes, 12 p.c.
to company profits and depreciation and
10 p.c. in higher import prices.
Possibly the most important point re-
made is that the Australian standard-of-
living and future development depend on
increased exports, and inflation is its
arch-enemy.
Calwell and Friends
Arthur Calwell’s line of argument
about the unity-ticket position in Victoria
makes good, clean reading for those who
enjoy such works of unconscious humor,
but they will scarcely be relished by the
Victorian A.L.P. executive or its fol-
lowers on the eve of the Bendigo and
Balaclava by-elections.
Calwell says that “there is a situation
in Victoria without parallel in any other
State,” and that this resulted in the Vic-
torian A.L.P. executive “facing a diffi-
cult problem.” The A.L.P., on the other
hand, seemed to have no difficulty—it
just did a little whitewashing when con-
fronted with the unity-ticket issue.
Some Labor men in his home State,
Calwell declared, were so bitter against
the D.L.P. for destroying the Cain Gov-
ernment that they would “prefer to give
their second preferences to the Com-
munists rather than to the D.L.P. or
Liberal candidates in industrial elections.”
It is, of course, true that the A.L.P.
Federal executive, in its statement made
two years ago, held that the D.L.P.
attack on Cain was “the most dangerous
and vicious subversive attack ever made
on the Labor party in Australia,” and
that the implementers of the defeat had
“demonstrated to all, without any doubt,
that they are as treacherous and vicious
an enemy of the Labor party as the
Communist party, and should be con-
sidered in the same category.”
It declared at the same time that
“between the Communist party and the
Labor party there is such basic hostility
and differences... .that no Communist
auxiliary or subsidiary can be associated
with the Labor party in any activity and
no Labor-party branch or member can
co-operate with the Communist party”
(because) the “policy and actions of the
Communist party demonstrate that that
party’s methods and objects aim at the
destruction of the democratic way of
life of the Australian people and the
establishment in its place of a totalitarian
form of Government which would
destroy our existing democratic institu-
tions and the personal liberty of the Aus-
tralian people.”
The conference added in its resolu-
tions :
We therefore declare that the A.L.P.,
through its branches, affiliations and
members, must carry on an increasing
campaign directed at destroying the
influence of the Communist party wher-
ever it exists throughout Australia.
In the circumstances it seems strange
to find the leader of the Australian
Federal Labor party letting the cat out
of the bag thus:
Tlie present executive of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, Melbourne
branch, consists of a D.L.P. president,
nine members of the A.L.P. and four Com-
munists. A group of 94 members of the
union has organised a campaign to return
this executive to office.... This group com-
prised members of all political parties....
They take their stand on the ground
that as trade-unionists they want to win
further concessions from shipowners and
they don’t want their union as a battle-
ground for political factions.
And he told reporters that the names
of the nine A.L.P. members would have
to remain joined with the Communists
at the Melbourne branch-elections be-
cause nominations for the elections had
closed.
With that position he is apparently
satisfied —so long as they win. for all
he cares, the A.L.P. candidates can
associate in a group with the Communists
whose “aim is the destruction of the
democratic way of life, institutions and
personal liberty of the Australian people”
and with the D.L.P. candidates who are
“dangerous, subversive.. . .as treacherous
and vicious an enemy of the Labor party
as the Communist party.”
They can, with his permission, asso-
ciate with these elements in order to
become illegal co-operators (according to
A.L.P. conference rulings) with the
enemies of Labor in a union of which
the Federal dictator is a notorious mem-
ber of the central committee of the Com-
munist party.
All that matters is that there should
be a combination to do down the ship-
owners.
Another Walk-out
The carefully calculated wMk-out of
the Communist delegates from the
Geneva Conference proves once more
how aggressive and how thorough is the
Russian initiative in the cold-war.
Everything is done with a careful fore-
thought which the divided nations of the
West cannot achieve. There are no argu-
ments within the Communist bloc about
where defence-bases and rocket-sites or
tank-divisions are established. Nobody
asks questions in a provincial Parliament
or an individual Parliament about these
matters. There is no “question-tirne,”
and, if there were, the so-called M.P.s
in “centralised democracies” value the
back of their heads as much as the helot
Ministries in satellites value theirs.
Therefore, everything is directed by
a commander-in-chief who resides in the
Kremlin and who meets his divisional
commanders of the satellite States and
his chief-of-staff in Peking only to discuss
plans and make up his mind.
The whole of the proceedings before
and after the Summit Conference show
exact designing, including propaganda to
make the world believe that there was
no design, and that, in fact, the two
leading allies of the Red bloc indeed
are at loggerheads.
Every gun has gone-off to plan, fired
at a time set so far back as 1953 when
Mao went to Moscow, that it would
form a corollary to the event before and
a platform from which the next shot
could be loosed.
The Egyptian and Iraq and Cuban
revolutions were all obviously timed to
take place with Communist help and
encouragement, at the right moment.
The Tibetan events were timed to bring
Nehru into a frame of mind in which
he would go to any lengths to support
a disarmament agreement.
The visit to New York with the Sum-
mit Peace campaign, followed by the
trip to Peking, the visits to Indonesia
and India, Mikoyan’s visits to Latin
America, and the proceedings before the
Summit Conference were all carefully
planned, as were the various upsurges
in which Communist agitators have had
a hand in Africa.
These movements are near culmina-
tion, by the look of events. Last week
more guns went-off on the eve of the
U.S. conventions for the election of
Presidential candidates. The Cuban up-
surge was intended to engage the atten-
tion of the people of the United States,
to embroil the U.S., if possible, and
provide a pretext for intervention of
some sort and for the beginning of a
campaign parallel with that in Africa
for breaking the American Continental
bloc.
It was curious that it should happen
just at the moment when the walk-out
at Geneva took place. Both these events
came at the close of the Communist
conference in Rumania at wmch, no
doubt, the next phase was set moving.
The Geneva tactics were cunning. First
a disarmament plan was put forward
far in advance of any offered or agreed
to before by the Kremlin: one that
seemed at last to present the world with
hope. It arrested the attention of Mr.
Macmillan and it secured the fervent
support of Nehru ; but the Communist
delegates saw to it that it just hung in
the air, enticing to the West and its press.
The British attitude, as expressed by
Mr. Ormsby-Gore, the leader of the
U.K. delegation, was that the negotiation
should be pursued with patience, which
was an echo of Khrushchev's earlier
statement of policy: “Let us not make
hurried statements. We must be patient
and give leaders time to consider our
proposals.”
Then, suddenly, waiting for a morning
when the delegate of one of the Krem-
lin’s helots, Poland, was in the chair by
right of rotation, the chairman prevented
any Western delegations from saying a
word or putting forward the new U.S.
proposals, which were a definite advance
and in agreement with the principles
laid-down in the Russian ones. The
whole Red delegation walked out.
The usual accusations that the U.S.
had wrecked the conference followed,
whereas the truth was that the conference
could not have gone on without a sub-
stantial advance being made or the good
faith of Moscow once more discredited.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A s long as men have been going
down to the sea in ships they have
been naming their vessels after the
females who came next in their affec-
tions ; wives, sweethearts, daughters,
mothers, sisters, even queens and saints
have been lovingly painted on every kind
of craft afloat. 1 didn't think anything
in that line could surprise me, but one
did —on a fishing-boat in a little South
Coast (N.S.W.) harbor I saw the name:
“Battle-axe.”—“Kerba.”
* * *
“Swelpme”: The propagandist who
used to chalk on Sydney’s pavements:
“Bring out more female migrants for
lonely bachelors” has of late become
much more specific and selective. His
latest demand runs: “Bring out 1000
beautiful German migrant girls.” An
afterthought is added in brackets, in-
spired, no doubt, by some experience with
Government departments: “(Alive).”
❖ *** *X*
“H.W.F.”: Cooktown (N.Q.) went
en fete to celebrate the 190th anniversary
of H.M.S. Endeavour’s arrival in the river
to have her bottom scraped. The
occasion was a great success, hundreds
of people arriving from distant parts of
the Peninsula and south from Cairns,
including many tourists. The Deputy-
Premier of Queensland, Mr. K. J. Morris,
and the member for Cook, Mr. H. A.
Adair, made speeches. A ball was held
in the evening, but consternation arose
around midnight when it was learned
that Captain Cook and Joseph Banks
had been pinched for being on licensed
premises after hours, to wit, the bar
of the pub at 2030 hrs. But the
law is the law and we are all equal
before it, dead or alive. Neither the
multi-millionaire nor the elected Senator
“Daddy, Mr. Hadley DOESN’T drink like a fish —
he does it like anyone else!"
has any more right to beg in the streets
or sleep on park benches than the
lowliest down-and-outer.
“Mugga Way”: Within 18 months
signals bounced off the moon have
improved from unintelligible noise to
what are considered “respectable”
responses. British scientists predict that
circuits via the moon will be economic
within a few years ; although the age of
most TV-films suggests that they have
already walked to the moon and back
before we see them.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wirihana”: Festivities to launch the
hew Lincoln Park Drive-in theatre in
South Australia included a give-it-a-name
contest. One contestant came-up with
the title “Pygmalion” because the drive-
in is situated between a pig-farm and
Maley Park. The name finally selected
was “Bel-Air.”
* ■* ■*
“Artie”: Notice in the window of a
teenagers’ frock - salon in a Brisbane
suburb: “Use our lay-by, pay as you
yearn.”
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
H. A. Lindsay: That article about
Guy Boothby (B. 24/2/’6O) has aroused
interest in his opera “Sylvia,” acclaimed
at Adelaide’s Theatre Royal in 1890 but
never staged since. There are several
copies of the libretto, but the S.A. Public
Library and the University of Adelaide’s
Elder Conservatorium have put out
appeals for a copy of the music, com-
posed by Cecil James Sharp, who after
his return to England became an authority
on folk-dancing. Somewhere or other
somebody must have a copy of the
music, and if it is sent to the Principal
Librarian, South
Australian Public
Library, Adelaide, a
photostat will be
taken and the origi-
nal returned to the
owner by registered
post.
*
“Lai”: Burwood,
the growing outer
suburb of Mel-
bourne, advanced a
further step when a
service - station put
up a 6ft.. rotating
neon - sign, the first
in Australia. It
stands 10ft. above
the driveway in
Toorak Road and
completes 3y-4 rev-
olutions a minute.
Around the edge
of the wheel are
marked treads
which give the sign,
especially at night,
the appearance of a
wheel suspended in
mid - air. The sta-
tion - owners are
going to erect a further 20 signs through-
out Australia, one as far up as Rock-
hampton.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“0.W.W.”: Nine-year-old Cutti was
standing at the kitchen-sink tossing boil-
ing water from a big jug out the back
door. “What the hell you up to?” his
angry dad demanded. “I’m just trying
to warm-up the cold air that’s coming
in,” the lad explained.
♦>
“Pip Tok”: Press fury over tough
training like the Rip incident, and the
so-called “brain-washing” of officers, has
at least exploded the popular belief that
the Army always trains for the last war
instead of the next one.
MISSLESS MISSILE
“With a British guided anti-tank missile an
average infantryman can ‘kill' a tank nine
times out of ten. ‘lf he can see a tank he
can hit it/ said the demonstrator.”
As I was going to the bank
l met a large and ugly tank —
The things I see that make me bristle
When out without my guided missile!
“Had I my missile here with me
I’d kill that tank immediately.
No brains are needed to transmit it.
If l can see it, l can hit it.”
“Perhaps it all is for the best —
The Army would be most depressed.
To kill a tank’s within your powers,
But this, you see, is One of Ours.”
“Unless you want a war, there’s none
But One of Ours to practise on.
There’s time enough, when Ours get
scarce
To think of killing One of Theirs.”
“I see you are the worst of cranks —
For such ideas you’ll get no tanks ! ”
“Let’s part, my friend, since we’ve grown
rancorous,
By tin-can tank-errors made can-
tankerous.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


It must have impressed her, for the
goddess who presides over our
switchboard hadn’t previously noticed
the undistinguished fragments of collar-
furniture that camouflage any beer- and
soup-stains that may invest my shirt.
My tie, she informed me, was quite
d la mode, a piece of toggery such as
the young men in her set flaunted.
Slightly wider than theirs, she conceded,
buF nonetheless on the fashion - spot.
Having unlimbered the veteran from my
neck and replaced it with something less
sombre —I had dredged it out of the
bottom drawer that morning for the
same purpose as I had hoisted it out
spasmodically for the last 30 years, to
wear to a funeral —I reflected that
nothing wears so well as a black, pure-
silk, knitted tie. I had busted 30-bob
on it in my salad-days, consigning it to
the limbo when stripes and spots muscled
it out of the fashion-picture. So now I
can once again fly it from the Adam's
apple, serene in the knowledge that I
am not reminding everyone of caskets
with silver handles. That hunk of sable
silk seems to have found the secret of
perpetual youth. Now, dammit, if I
can only land some rejuvenation-pills, it
and I may start-out once again as jauntily
as of yore!—“Bo.”
* * *
“H.S.C.”: At our annual bowls-tourna-
ment, 176 bowlers in action, two kids were
sitting on the edge of the ditch. Said
one, “I thought all bowlers was old pots.”
“No,” said his observant mate, “they’re
not all old, but they’ve ail got some-
thing wrong with them.”
❖, * *
“O-Twit”: It glided its superb length
and shine past our house, rocked gently
over the pot-holes, and turned, swinging
nose and tail like one of Adelaide’s old
centre-bogey trams, into our neighbor's
drive without the slightest yaw. Some-
where in the middle of the monster sat
our neighbor, a car-salesman, dwarfed
in the magnificence. “Yeah!” he said.
“The price should include training for
a pilot’s commercial licence. After a
bloke’d paid for it he’d feel guilty driving
without one!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Imperial 55”: The typist who pro-
duced four carbon-copies to her boss
as requested and destroyed the original,
was after all only giving him what he
asked for (B. 22/6/’6O). This argument
has raged in our office for years and I
still say that asking for four copies means
copies, carbon implied. Some of our
executives asked for an original and three
copies. Some asked for four copies.
Some, when asked to be concise in their
requests, couldn’t understand the point
of view respectfully but firmly put for-
ward by the typists. Well, we’ve com-
promised. Now, if they want an original
and more than one carbon they mark
the drafts, “1 plus 2.” If they want more
than one letterhead, the drafts are
marked, “2 plus 1.” It saves a lot of
misunderstandings, wasted time and
heartburning in just another field where
people using the same words are not
speaking the same language.
* 4 „
v ***
“Lyrel”: On that recent query as to
whether any clergyman had been inter-
rupted at a wedding on the “speak
now or be forever silent” subject,
two Presbyterian parsons of my
acquaintance were. The late Andrew
“ Please! Horace! Wronged husbands don't behave in that
corny Way any more."
Barber, of A.1.M.-fame, used to tell how
a young fellow in the front row jumped
to his feet and yelled, “Yes, I do!”
Andy used to say he howled him down
with: “How dare you interrupt a solemn
service! See me in the vestry after-
wards.” The late Dick Mitchell, of Vic-
torian ministries, had a young fellow
do likewise. Dick took him and the
bridal couple into the vestry and de-
manded the meaning of the interruption.
The reason he got was, “I want to marry
her myself.” The interrupter was
bundled into the churchyard and the
show went on.
* ♦> ❖
“Red-on-Top”: More apt bowls-in-
signia: Popular ex-commando, Sam
Grose, rolls-’em-up at the Tarra-
gindi (Q) show-place with a simple
“144.” In business, he advertises “Prizes-
by-the-Grose.” A prominent pharmacist,
of another Brisbane club, uses the sign
like R with a line through it that pre-
faces all prescriptions, although that
universal invocation is not one for the
dispenser. It’s reserved for doctors,
dentists, vets, and those who have the
licence to prescribe.
“Matey”: Our first time in Sydney,
and we were stuck in the middle of a
traffic-jam below St. James’s Station,
with cars and trucks nosing-in from all
directions. A taxi-driver next to us
evidently noticed our difficulties, and
called: “Hi, mate, sight your objective,
keep your eye on it, and drive to it
regardless.” He managed to disregard
all obstacles without mishap, but
“mate s” first call was the hospital,
#
“Ailsey”: The Jap manufacturers of
two cutaway diesel and combustion
engines received at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Technical School had a crack at
describing the parts in English ; plates
bore the examples: “Clank” (crank),
“nidle - valve” (needle - valve), “Chork-
valve” (choke), and “clank-case.”
A. A. iC
V V V
“P.0.M.C.”: Have you noticed that
the homes of people with private
swimming-pools seem to be uncomfort-
ably crowded during summer weekends
but utterly deserted during the winter?
❖ *
“Tyabb”: Met the two of them (aged
six and four) returning from a trip down
the garden. Just to be matey I asked
where they were going. After a pitying
look the reply came: “We aren’t going ;
we’ve been.” Well, elderly folk do ask
fool questions sometimes.
“Manamoi”: At 3 a.m. Johnno was
homing after a Gold Coast party. A
taxi-driver helped him from the taxi,
steered him round the empty milk-bottles
and little pile of milk-money, and up-
stairs to his door. Fumbling for taxi-
fare, Johnno sent about two-quids’ worth
of change tinkling down the steps and
grandly ordered the driver to leave it:
“We’ll pick it up in the morning.” But
when Mrs. Johnno opened the door in
the morning she found the change all


gone and the steps packed from top to
bottom with bottles of milk. “What on
earth did you do —take it back?” we
asked. “Certainly not,” said Johnno.
“Drank most of it before breakfast. Why
not? We had plenty of rum in the
house.”
THE GOLD AGE
'T'hose “sweated” coins were easily
detected by a peculiar metallic
ring. From 1906 until 1910 my job each
morning was to take a consignment of
gold to head-office. There I counted it
into coin-trays, and handed it over to
the teller. 1 well remember old Percy
“Her husband is TERRIBLY jealous !”
Hayles, paying-teller of the E., S. and A.
Bank, Sydney, for 20-odd years, calling-
out as I counted: “There’s a sweated
one in that lot!” even though he was
busily engaged counting himself. He
was an absolute genius at detecting
sweated sovereigns, and was never known
o miss. Badly-sweated coins had to be
taken up to the Sydney Mint and sold
for their gold content, at a oss to the
a a r? k '. S r°7u had ,ü be pr u l y carefu -
After I had been on the job for a year
S | * acquired (as did most others)
the knack of p.ckmg-out the defective
fk'? S ;k S °T e u h ? d . had S .° ns UCh trea, "' en
hat they had lost up to 25 per cent, of
their value, though usually 10 per cent
covered ,t The last large quantity o
“XU? InT %l me , f . r . o . m .' an old s . oul
n Warwick (Q.). She toddled in one day
o open an account and asked me to
let her undress in the manager s room.
When she had finished, she told me that
she always carried her money sewed into
her stays—£3oo in bright new sovereigns!
—and that she would have to buy new
J
stays, as the money had been a bit heavy
and had worn the old ones out. —“Sand-
patch.”
“Bert the Carpenter”: One way of
“sweating” sovereigns (B. 22/6/’6O) was
quick and easy: a wash-leather bag of
gold coins and a tablespoon of mercury
was shaken until sufficient gold had
amalgamated with the mercury to form
a thick paste. This was heated in a
retort, to drive off the mercury. In
sovereigns thus sweated the milled edges
and the design and lettering were blurred
and rounded, and a simple chemical test
would reveal the trace of mercury on
them ; they could be passed only where
money was handled in a hurry, chiefly
on racecourses,
. . .
“Sevenelms”: “Rose Flo" (B. 22/6/'6O)
could have less regret for spending her
sovereigns on soul-satisfying fripperies
instead of hoardj them to their present
(ourMd value j( she calculated the „. k
of safeguarding r lb ot go | d through
sund moves * nd 43 J The same
monetary appreciation is got by the
sjmpler rouline o£ investing the fiddleys
at compound interest of 3 ’ per cent,
when j j Hj|der , s „ Dora Cl^k » h
invitingly in Furlong's studio in 1912 I
was short b , 5s * f the asked 3
but with
no envious qualms about a
narrowly-missed intrinsic opportunity I
can still enjoy this watercolor gem in
the Naliona i Galle whi , e brag | ing to
e about juvenile art >f ic dis .
crimination
......
.. „ T , c
n , f , m In h ?' ly
onen,al f‘ the ,' dea ’ lhe „ days * hen
coins had smooth, not milled, edges,
“clipping” was an easy way of gold-
winning. The method was to shave or
scrape around the circumference of the
coin; because of continual clipping,
sovereigns soon had the diameters of
half-sovereigns. To counter this, coins,
both gold and silver, were struck with
milled edges ; but gold was still won by
“nicking” round the milled edge, which
required infinite skill and patience.
♦j *i* ♦>
“Mullbong”: Sovereigns were common
tender in my young days as cashier for
a big manufacturing-warehouse. Usual
Saturday-morning job was encasing 5000
in pay-envelopes. In 1921 a widow
brought in a canvas bag with more than
600 sovereigns to place on deposit at
interest. Sovereigns were then bringing
245. each in Campbell Street, and it
was rather a wrench to have to include
them at face-value in the firm’s bank-
deposit. In earlier days I had a rather
worried half-hour when, with 15
sovereigns loose in my hip-pocket, on
a fortnight’s holiday at Manly (Sydney),
I stopped in the surf-sheds to change.
As I took off my strides several of the
coins fell near the wooden uprights sunk
in the sand. After some frantic digging
I located them more than . Ift. below
the surface. I bought a sovereign-purse
at the nearest shop.
DUAL-PURPOSE DEFLATION
“Squeeze, knead and roll-up the fleshy skin
with your hands, working always in an upward
direction.” — Reducing-hint in women’s magazine.
You’re shaped like a silo ?
Let Venus de Milo
Statistics be your goal.
If you would be trimmer
By getting much slimmer
Do squeeze and knead and roll.
It’s quite a fatiguer,
But don’t be too eager,
Massaging yourself with your fin.
Remember this, sister:
You could raise a blister
Through rubbing your rind too thin!
Spread yourself on the table
{As well as you’re able),
And roll and knead and squeeze.
Too lumpy? Then roll it
Out flat. You’ll control it,
With practice, without a wheeze.
It could be extensive,
Yet so inexpensive ;
You need no roll—not a sou!
One-way-traffic’s the set-up.
Do that, and you’ll get up
Quite smooth, and so flexible, too.
It’s really your duty
To acquire form-beauty,
So roll and squeeze and knead.
Most important this fact is :
Invaluable practice
You’ll thereby obtain; so I plead:
Don’t waste what you’re learning.
Your hub. will be earning
This one of the due benisons :
So please be applying
This technique when trying
Your hand at the next batch of scones!
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


Husband-Wife Sagas
The Caseys and the Cottons—
also the Ryans
By Alec H. Chisholm
Now that Dick Casey has made his
bow to the House of Lords, he
may well leave that august body
to its own devices and get on
with a job peculiarly his own.
That job is the writing of the story
of his forebears in Australia, which he
has tentatively titled “A Hundred Aus-
tralian Years,” and which ought to be
a distinctly readable yarn and a signifi-
cant addition to the growing stream of
Australian biography.
The grandfather, Cornelius Gavin
Casey, was a physician and surgeon who
migrated to Tasmania in 1833, served
about five years as an official at Port
Arthur prison, and subsequently engaged
in private practice at Launceston, at
Buninyong (near Ballarat), and in Mel-
bourne. If Grandpa Cornelius' left
diaries covering most of his career (and
1 understand that he did) they should
provide Grandson Richard with much
fruity material.
Then comes the biographer’s support-
ing subject, his father, the first Richard
Gardiner Casey, who was born in
Hobart in 1846 ; and here again there is
rich promise. In fact, the career of R. G.
Casey, snr., was almost as varied and
useful, in its way, as that of his elder
son was to be later. lie was a pastoralist
in N. S. Wales, both a pastoralist and
member of Parliament in Queensland, a
gold-seeker in Western Australia, and
afterwards chairman of various big
pastoral and mining companies, includ-
ing Goldsbrough Mort, Mount Morgan,
and the shows which, about 1914, started
the industrial era at Port Kembla.
Those activities, no doubt, are all on
record in the Casey papers, and it may
be hoped that their compiler has also
left a few spirited sidelights on his Vic-
torian experiences, notably as one-time
chairman of the V.R.C. and as president
of an even more stately outfit, the Mel-
bourne Club.
Another worth-while hope is that
South Australia enters the record in some
fashion. If not, it will be the only State
lacking the Casey impact.
By the way, I wonder at what point
Lord Casey proposes to end his discus-
sion of one-hundred Australian years?
Since his medical grandsire came here
in 1833, and since his father died in
1919, he appears to meditate carrying
the tale forward into his own experiences.
But, as far as I can determine, 1933 was
just a middle stage in his career, and in
any event that career surely needs a
book to itself.
All things considered, Lord Dick
should push on biographically as briskly
as possible. For, apart from the im-
portance of his material, there’s the point
that he is no longer youthful (70 on
August 29), and there’s also the con-
sideration that if he doesn’t hurry along
his wife will beat him to the bookstalls
with a biography of her forebears.
And Lady Maie, too, has quite a story
at hand, which she is, 1 gather, augment-
ing and assembling in England at the
moment.
Presumably the chief subject in this
biography will be Lady Casey’s maternal
great-grandfather, John Cotton. He, a
product of Oxford University, who spent
a few years as a law-clerk, married at
an early age, and there were nine chil-
dren when in 1842 the family rtiigrated
to Australia. Cotton was then aged 41.
A year or so after arrival he took-over
a property named Doogalook, on the
Goulburn River (Vic.); at date of
acquirement it comprised 26,000 acres
and was carrying 1800 sheep and 400
cattle. Other areas were acquired later,
and in 1846 the enterprising Cotton held
more than 60 square-miles of country
and owned approximately 10,000 sheep.
In addition to a sound business sense,
Cotton possessed a considerable measure
of scientific, artistic and literary ability:
he wrote a good deal in both prose and
verse and he studied and sketched the
birds and plants of his district.
He had published a book on the song-
birds of Britain in 1836, and in 1847 he
attempted to produce a book on the
birds of Victoria ; this work, however,
was not published, and so his only
printed contribution to the subject is an
article, quite informative, that was pub-
lished in a Tasmanian scientific journal
in 1848.
This pioneering naturalist watched
birds in coastal areas as well as in the
Goulburn Valley. Soon after reaching
Victoria he became friendly with Andrew
and Georgiana McCrae (Hugh’s grand-
parents), and thus there occurs this entry
in Georgiana s Journal under date
August 22, 1843: “Mr. John Cotton and
his eldest son to breakfast ; afterwards,
with Mr. McCrae for la chasse aux petits
oiseaux.”
As a correspondent, Cotton was con-
sistent and interesting ; he wrote to his
brother William in England many letters
in which he discussed family matters, the
affairs of the country, natural history,
and other subjects, and in 1953 this
material was published by George
Mackaness, in three volumes, under the
title of The Correspondence of John
Cotton, a Victorian Pioneer.
Cotton died at his station on Decem-
ber 15, 1849, two days before his 48th
birthday, leaving a widow (who died
little more than two years later) and ten
children. Some of the daughters became
mothers of men who attained importance
in Australian life, including the
pastoralist Sir William Clarke, the
surgeon Sir Charles Ryan, and the
Le Souef brothers, three of whom were
to be directors of Australian zoos.
Lady Casey is the daughter of Sir
Charles Ryan, who, on his part, was
the son of a noted pastoralist and of
John Cotton’s eldest daughter, Marian.
Ryan became quite celebrated as a sur-
geon (his record included service in three
wars), and, fittingly enough, he emulated
Grandfather Cotton by rendering very
material assistance to the study and safe-
guarding of birds.
An early president of the Australasian
Ornithologists’ Union (1905-7), Ryan
stirred that body to action regarding
fauna protection, and in fact —although
usually considered a pretty formidable
type —he was one of the begetters of that
gentle and useful event, the annual cele-
bration of Bird Day.
Sir Charles died a few months after
his daughter married Dick Casey, in 1926,
and so he didn’t live to learn that both
his son-in-law and his son (Rupert)
would become members of the Common-
wealth Parliament.
There are, no doubt, various factors
in the Casey-Cotton sagas that have not
been touched upon here. But, clearly
enough, a mere outline of the two stories
indicates that Lord and Lady Casey have
at hand some first-class material —poten-
tially the best husband-wife biographies
in Australia’s annals.


POLITICAL POINTS
The Commonwealth Taxation Depart-
ment estimates that five out of six
taxpayers will receive refunds, and it
sounds as if it were giving a birthday-
party out of the boundless generosity
of its kindly heart. The refunds consist
of large amounts of the taxpayers’ own
money which has been earning interest
for the department instead of the rightful
owners.
• •
Two competing Melbourne firms in-
dulged in an advertising duel on TV
at £7O a half-minute. Now neither is in
business.
• •
U.N. Secretariat is becoming blase in
its old age—it cannot even be tempted
to send a mission to Dutch New Guinea
to examine Dutch military operations
because Mr. Hammarskjold cannot see
“a clear need or other compelling
circumstances.” He must be running
out of missionaries—it’s about the first
time on record he has refused to be
a dispenser of junkets.
• •
Africa’s rush towards independence is
becoming almost a stampede. Ten years
ago there were four independent nations
in Africa —Egypt, Abyssinia, Liberia and
South Africa. By the beginning of this
year Ghana, Guinea, Libya, Morocco,
Tunisia and the Sudan had been added
to the list, and in the last few months
these have been joined by Cameroun,
Togo, Mali, the Malagasy Republic
(Madagascar), Congo and Somalia. Be-
fore the year is out Nigeria will also
become fully independent and the British
Cameroons will be given the option "Of
joining Nigeria or Cameroun. Sierra
Leone, which already has an all-African
Executive Council and an elected legis-
lature, is due to become independent on
April 27, 1961.
• •
r T''HE Commonwealth War Graves Com-
mission has denied that a contract
has been let to a Japanese firm to build
new gates for the Bomana war-cemetery
at Port Moresby, or that there is any
intention of doing so. The denial is wel-
come, but what piece of departmental
ineptitude provided grounds for the
rumor?
• •
Calwell, Whitlam and McKenna
turned-up to help George Smith, the
Labor candidate, open his campaign for
Balaclava at Brighton Town Hall. “We
believe we will do well at the next elec-
tion and regard the sampling of air in
this electorate as extremely important,”
said the Senator, a crack-hardy fellow.
He was facing 70 electors.
The D.L.P. opening for its candidate,
J. T. Ryan, was warmer. Senator
McManus said he had invited Calwell
and other A.L.P. identities to the wharves
where he could show them A.L.P. and
Communist candidates who appeared on
a unity-ticket holding joint meetings and
collecting finance for „ printing their
unity-tickets.
• •
TT" hrushchev has confounded newspaper
wishful-thinkers by announcing the
obvious —that there are no differences,
ideological or otherwise, between Russia
and China. He didn’t add, but it’s true,
that any appearance of differences is
merely meant to confuse the West, in line
with Leninist tactics. At bottom both
believe that world Communism must
come by force.
• •
For nearly five hours on Friday morn-
ing about a thousand Sydney bus- and
tram-drivers created chaos among
250,000 would-be passengers in the Great
Wen’s Eastern Suburbs by holding stop-
work meetings to discuss arrangements
for conversion of Watson Bay’s thin
service of trams to a' bus service. About
250 customers were affected per one man
on strike, many of them women going
to do their week-end shopping. Whether
the busmen's journal will describe the
stoppage as a display of Australian
mateship or old-world chivalry remains
to be seen.
• •
Sugar, flour, bread, butter and cheese
have all gone up in price following last
year’s big wage-increases. In Sydney
there has been an application for a
higher price for gas. But tea (imported)
is to be cheaper. The Bulletin’s
prophecy of last January that Australia
was likely to become odd-man-out,
economically, in the world is proving all
too true.
• •
Sayings from the Orient famed for its
polished courtesy:
“If the U.S. imperialists do not with-
draw from Chinese islands at an early
date, the great Chinese people will drive
the aggressors back to their lairs” (Liao
Chen-chin, chairman of the Chinese
Committee for Asian-African solidarity);
“Eisenhower has the head of a greedy
wolf, but has covered his carcass with a
greasy sheepskin” (Kuo Mojo, at Peking
rally); “Eisenhower... .God of Plague”
(“People’s Daily,” Peking); “We despise
Eisenhower” (“Workers’ Daily,” Peking).
All this accompanied by a barrage of
shells which killed six civilians and
wounded 33 on Quemoy. In the face of
this friendly welcome, it appears that the
mild man from Abilene went to the East
to “sabotage Asian and world peace.”
• •
/'"'alwell and Whitlam are off to New
Guinea. Why they are braving the
discomforts of the journey is hard to
say. They already know that whatever
the Menzies Government thinks or says
is wrong. Perhaps they want to keep
an eye on each other—their most recent
utterances on New Guinea are very hard
to reconcile.
GOING TO TOWN!


Keepit Dam beat the Eastern Suburbs
Railway after all! Designed to
tame the Namoi River in northern N. S.
Wales, it was begun.in 1938, discontinued
in 1942 and recommenced in 1946.
Original estimates put the cost at £2
million. Latest figure is more like £l2
million. Conservation Minister Entick-
nap announced on Thursday the instal-
lation of the last of six flood-gates and
said the dam was now ready for use.
All it needs now is water.
• •
A Stone Age house has been dis-
covered in Norway with much of its
contents in good condition, if the dis-
covery had been made in Australia the
surprising thing would not have been
that its contents were intact but that it
had remained untenanted for so long.
% •
J. L. Geraghty, dead in Sydney at 63,
was one of the four Labor M.L.A.s
who were refused endorsement in 1950
and stood as Independent Labor candi-
dates. Two were defeated, but Geraghty
beat the endorsed Labor candidate for
his North Sydney seat and Seiffert re-
tained Monaro. With party-strengths
46-all, the McGirr Government was in
a ticklish position, but shrewd counsel-
lors discovered that Seiffert had infringed
no rule by contesting the election as no
official Labor candidate had been en-
dorsed for Monaro —for the good reason
that it was realised that no one could
beat him for the seat. Sqiffert was there-
fore deemed to be still in the party.
Geraghty was expelled and, as an In-
dependent Labor member, held the
balance of power in the Assembly for
three years—a situation he greatly en-
joyed. It was during this period that
the Maxwell Liquor Commission was
appointed. Geraghty lost North Sydney
in 1953, his vanquisher being Ray
Maher, now Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly.
• •
Water - conservation enthusiast Jeff
Bate, Liberal M.H.R. for Macarthur
(N.S.W.), is just back from a tour of
the Queensland channel country (with
other M.P.s and pastoralists), and has
been granted the use of an R.A.N. heli-
copter from the NoXvra naval air-station
to allow him to inspect State works-
development plans in the Nowra area,
including the Greater Shoalhaven water-
scheme. On this, his comments in the
House next session are expected to be
down to earth.
• e
British Somaliland, which became in-
dependent on June 26, must have estab-
lished a record for the shortest-lived
independent State. Five days later it
was merged with Somalia (the former
Italian Somaliland). The Somalis of both
countries desired the union, but the LJ.K.
Government had pointed out that this
could be effected only when both were
independent. As the date for Somali’s
independence had already been fixed for
July 1, a conference in London last May
decided to bring the date for the ending
of the protectorate forward to June 26
so that the two communities could join
to form the Republic of Somalia.
A. R. Cutler, V.C., Australian High
Commissioner to Pakistan, represented
Australia at the inauguration of the
independence of Somalia, at Mogadishu.
J. M. McMillan, Australian Minister to
Israel, went to Leopoldville on June 30,
for the Congo independence celebrations.
• •
Vic. Transport Minister Warner scored
a propaganda point in the slow-train-to-
nowhere dispute when he offered the
workmen the service-grants they’ve been
seeking provided they agreed to reduce
their superannuation-benefits to the level
of those of other Government workers.
Railwaymen who pay, from 21 years,
7s. 6d. a week ultimately get superannua-
tion of £lO 10s. a week, £6 11s. 3d. for
their widows if they die and £1 a week
for each child under 16. The A.R.U.
rejected this offer to level them with the
fellows they have been complaining are
better off.
• •
Police have seized large quantities of
arms and ammunition of Czech, make on
the way into South-west Africa to arm
plotters who allegedly planned to
massacre the white population. The arms
trade is all right with the Communist bloc
so long as it is aimed at the West.
• •
HThe British Labor Party has com-
promised with its conscience about
the H-bomb. In effect, it has decided
that it is wicked for Britain to have it
but right for Nato and a moral obliga-
tion for the U.S. to provide it.
• •
1.C.1.A.N.Z.’s projected £l|-million
chemical-pigments factory at Altona, a
Melbourne bayside suburb, has been
called off, and its site is <in the balance.
Altona residents and councillors had pro-
tested against the siting, but the reason
given is that the proposed area is subject
to flooding.v The Government says any
other council will be consulted fully
before a decision is reached, and the
company says that.it has always had an
alternative site at Villawood (N.S.W.).
• •
“Mugga Way”: Newspaper commen-
tators on the current boom in land, build-
ings and public works in Canberra are
either lyrical or bitterly critical, depend-
ing on whether or not they live in the
A.C.T. The fact is that no other expand-
ing community in Australia has such a
close and well-lined source of finance,
such a community of well-paid people
in assured jobs, and such prospects of
attracting traders, tourists, diplomats and
national conventions.
• 6
A fine example of the united-front
tactic was seen in the aftermath of a
deputation to N.SAV. Minister for Agri-
culture Nott from paid agitators of the
maintenance unions working at the
Sydney abattoirs. Nott told the deputa-
tion that the infiltration of Communists
into maintenance unions and their tactics
had caused *big losses and probably a
deficit for the abattoirs. The subsequent
abuse of the Minister made Khrushchev
sound like a curate turning the other
cheek. It came mainly from Com-
munists, but J. D. Kenny, of the Labor
Council, made the most awful charge:
“Mr. Nott at the couference was com-
pletely without culture.”
• •
TJRovision of additional universities is
A a matter of lively concern in several
States. Country-party leader Cutler is
advocating two new unis, in N. S. Wales
—one for the Central West and one for
the Southern district. There is also agita-
tion both in South Australia and Vic-
toria. If anything comes of Cutler’s
advocacy—he is, of course, merely the
latest, not the first, to make the sugges-
tion —Orange and Bathurst would prob-
ably be rivals for one new university ;
Albury and Wagga for the other. As
far as the latter is concerned it might
be an idea worth considering for the
Governments of Victoria and N. S. Wales
to co-operate in establishing a univer-
sity of Wodonga - Albury which could
cater for students from a large area on
both sides of the Murray.
• •
Next year's output from South Aus-
tralia’s only coalmine is set at a record
1,100,000 tons. The whole output of
the Leigh Creek field is earmarked for
the Port Augusta power-station and pro-
duction is progressively stepped-up to
cope with the growth of that plant.
Current target is geared to the needs of
the new unit to be opened at Port
Augusta on July 20. Maximum output
(two-million tons) is planned for 1964,
when additional units of the power-
station will be ready to take it.
• •
“Collins Street”: Melbournians have
been diverted to read reports that a man
was charged with duffing 30 head of cattle
in Melbourne, worth £1450. The oppor-
tunity to duff them occurred when 110
stampeded at South Melbourne abattoirs,
and the police did a conscientious court
job, producing the real owners, a meat-
worker who saw the cattle reach the
abattoir, a works-manager at Kyneton
abattoirs who received instructions to kill
them .and a dealer to whom the defendant
had previously undertaken to sell 30 head
of cattle. It was quite a neat case, except
that, as the J.P. pointed out in discharg-
ing the defendant, none of the witnesses
could identify the defendant with the
cattle at any stage.
TT'ictorian A.L.P. executive conducted
* a sham inquiry into the waterside
unity-ticket because of the imminence of
Federal by-elections. They appeared to
accept matey assurances from the A.L.P.
men that they had not allowed their
names to be placed on the ticket and had
not seen it before it was circulated. An
inquiry on the inquiry by a competent
cross-examiner would be entertaining.


Personal
ITEMS
Melbourne Anglicans (and probably a
handful of heretics from the other
denominations as well) gave Dr. Gough a
fine, ecclesiastic welcome to Melbourne,
2000 of them packing St. Paul’s for a
brilliant service dominated by trumpets
and scarlet robes. It was the Primate’s
first official visit to Melbourne. The
weather turned it on, too. So that Dr.
Gough could be disappointed in nothing
he had heard of Melbourne, it was one
of the frostiest nights of the year.
• •
“Metax”: Charlie Brown, of Laun-
ceston (Tas.), attributes his liveliness at
92 to drinking whisky neat. He says
there is enough water in it to begin with
without adding any —he should know,
having lived near it all his life as a hotel-
keeper in the north and north-west of
the Speck.
• •
Westralia’s Rhodes Scholar for 1959,
Jeremy Ellis is the first from W.A. for
some years to win an athletics full Blue
at Oxford. His sport speciality is the
long-jump.
• •
The Birthday Honors included the
C.B.E. for Noel Stanley Bayliss, Profes-
sor of Chemistry at the Westralian Uni-
versity since 1938 and holder of many
academic distinctions. Senior lecturer in
chemistry at Melbourne Uni. before he
moved to Perth, Professor Bayliss was
Chief Warden for Civil Defence in W.A.
during War 11, and he’s held a swag of
other important posts since, including
chairmanship of the W.A. State Commit-
tee of the C.5.1.R.0. for the last five years
and a Fellowship of the Australian
Academy of Science since 1954. He has
been nominated as president of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Association for
the Advancement of Science.
Dr. Cyril Fortune, 0.8. E., helped in
starting the Red Cross blood-transfusion
service in Westralia in 1935, was its
director from 1937 to 1946 and its chair-
man from 1950 to 1958. A Carnegie
Fellow in Medicine in 1947, he had held
a commission in the R.A.A.M.C., retifing
as lieut.-colonel.
• «
“J. 8.” farewells Kenneth Macqueen,
War I Digger, farmer and very fine
watercolorist, who has passed on at
Millmerran (Q.): —•
It was the rare gift of having something
individual and interesting to say about hts
beloved Australia that gives Kenneth Mac-
queen's work its greatest value. Heysen
referred to him as the artist who introduced
design to Australian landscape-painting. Most
of his inspiration was drawn from daily
contact with nature, as a farmer on the
Darling Downs, and his work evinces reflective
study of the essentials in many vivid and
serene summaries of his experience. Writing
to a friend in Sydney a few days before he
died, Macqueen referred to his recent water-
colors thus: “They are a long way from the
modern idiom I fear, but nothing will make
me paint other than the way I want to.”
His book Adventure in Watercolour, an
artist’s story written and illustrated by himself
and published in 1946, sold out, and the
edition is now a collector’s piece.
• •
“Stand By”: Returning from War II,
Tom McLean (here pictured) bought a
launch and started the 1946 season run-
TOURIST CRUISES
ning threerday tourist-cruises to- the Bar-
rier Reef and the islands of Whitsunday
Passage. Carrying only six passengers
each trip he was taking only £9OO for
the year; barely enough to cover
expenses. But that did not shake his
confidence. “Give ’em good fishing and
good service, and take ’em where they
want to go ; then they’ll come,” he said.
So he sold his launch and bought a big-
ger, faster craft —a sleek ex-naval hull of
122 ft., but without engines or fittings.
Working up to 20 hours a day he con-
verted this into a luxury-cruiser— at first
fitted to carry 12 passengers on five-day
cruises and later altered to take 20 pas-
sengers. He named the boat Raylen, and
her general design was to become standard
for the now-famous Raylen fleet of four,
which are able to carry 85 passengers a
week, lifting his annual takings from
£9OO to £BO,OOO. Is he satisfied? The
other day he told me he was planning to
build a really first-class hotel overlooking
the sea, where his passengers could relax
in comfort between plane-trip and sea-
cruise.
Frank Orr, elected president of the
Institute of Radio Engineers (Aust.), is
chief technical commercial-officer in the
apparatus division of the Philips Elec-
trical people. After graduating from
Melbourne University in 1937 he joined
the public service, worked in various
branches, and was a member of the Aus-
tralian delegation to the International
Civil Aviation Organisation convention
in Montreal in 1951 and also Australian
delegate to the special conference of the
International Radio Consultative Com-
mittee in Geneva the same year. Before
he joined Philips he was for two years
. chief-engineer with Stromberg - Carlson
(Australasia).
• •
“Jock”: Pier Luigi Nervi, who designed
a cathedral and abbey for the Benedic-
tine monks at New Norcia (W.A.), visited
London recently to receive the 1960
Royal Gold Medal for the promotion of
architecture. Nervi, M.R.C. (Master of
Reinforced Concrete), is the engineer-
designer of some beautiful and unusual
buildings, and reinforced-concrete is his
love. The New Norcia conception is a
revolutionary pattern of three parabolic
arches on top of an equilateral triangle
with the altar in the centre. Its designer,
now 68 and holding an hon.-professor
title, graduated as an engineer from
Boiogna University in 1913.
• •
Laurence Vass, just arrived in Sydney
as U!S. Consul-General, hails from
Colorado and has had a varied career
for a member of the consular service.
Starting as chief statistician, Securities
and Exchange Commission, in 1935, he
became executive-officer, Office of Price
Administration, in 1942 and U.N.R.A.A.
Direcor of Distribution in 1944. He
switched to European representative of
the Civil Aeronautics Board in 1946,
assistant-chief of the technical-assistance
branch in the Aviation Division, Depart-
ment of State, in 1949, and officer-in-
charge of European Regional Affairs in
1951. Deputy - chief of the Office of
Economic Affairs at Bonn in 1955, he
became economic counsellor in 1957 and
later that year was appointed -Consul-
General there. Since September, 1957,
he has been Director of the Office of
Transport and Communications in the
State Department, Washington.
• •
Bishop - Coadjutor of Sydney and
former principal of Moore Theological
College, Dr. Marcus L. Loane has just
published, under the title Archbishop
Mowll (Angus and Robertson), his
authoritative biography on the late
Archbishop of Sydney. A member of
the first group to be ordained deacon
by Archbishop Mowll after his arrival
in Sydney, and the last bishop to be
consecrated by him before his death, he
went with the Archbishop to China in
1956, has travelled in most of the coun-
tries where the Archbishop made
journeys, and in Sydney was always
closely associated with him. A Tas-
manian, born at Waratah, Dr. Loane was


educated at The King’s School, Parra-
matta, and at Sydney University, was
ordained in 1935, served as a chaplain
in the 2nd A.I.F. and held a canonry
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, from
1949 until his consecration.
• •
“Maitri”: Violinist Florent Hoogstoel,
who has passed on at 68, had been a
professor at the Brussels Conservatoire
before coming here on tour in 1916 with
a Belgian musical ensemble (The Belgian
Band). Belgium being then under Ger-
man occupation, he accepted an appoint-
ment as Professor of Violin at (he N.S.W.
State Conservatorium, a position he was
to occupy for close on 45 years. Fine
performer and thorough teacher, he
was conductor of the Conservatorium
Students Orchestra and also of many
operas presented by the Conservatorium
Opera School.
• ©
After 11 years as managing-director of
Welch Perrin Pty., Ltd., Ken Schoeffel
has retired to the Dandenong hills,
outside Melbourne.
He has been one of the most pro-
gressive men in the agricultural-
machinery industry. He developed much
of the existing range of strip-grazing
equipment and arranged for the manu-
facture and marketing of inventions and
gadgets produced by farmers in Aus-
tralasia and the U.K., especially the
electric-fencing reel and various portable
electric-fence posts.
As part of his advocacy of fodder-
conservation and silage, he published a
popular booklet on silage-making and
encouraged his brother, Rex, to develop
a forage-harvester. Perhaps his most
enduring claim to fame is his invention
the calfeteria and lambar, which won
honors at the Orange field-day in 1957.
Ken Schoeffel has been developing his
AGRICULTURAL INITIATIVE
farm home, Cotswold, in the Dande-
nongs, for 10 years and is now one of
the fortunate few who can give away
nine-to-five ; but he will continue his
contacts with farmer inventors here and
overseas as director of development of
New Zealand Pasture Implements, East
Oakleigh.
• •
About to retire as chief-engineer of
Sydney County Council, J. C. A. Fraser
has put in 46 years with the council,
starting in a clerking job. He went up
to the chief-engineer post in 1950.
• •
“C.S.”: After. 26 years of a service
truly dedicated to the Royal Children’s
Hospital orthopaedic section at Franks-
ton, near Melbourne, Dr. Douglas Gal-
braith, the medical superintendent and
physician, has retired with a full pro-
gramme still ahead.
After a short holiday at Noosa Heads
(Q.), he will be on medical call again
with the Flying Doctor Service and then
will have a look over what is being done
for the crippled children of North
Queensland and suggest what better could
be done, especially for the aboriginal
cases.
Dr. Galbraith’s work at Frankston is
known in many parts of the world,
especially the U.S. world. American
women in Melbourne have been very
generous supporters of the Children’s
Hospital. The oause and Dr. Galbraith’s
skilled devotion have made help just on
irresistible.
• e
Paul S. Godden, the U.K. agricultural
expert, is here to look at stock-feed tech-
niques used on poultry and other farms
in Victoria and N.S.W. He is area
agriculture-adviser of Spillers, Ltd.,
English associates of John Darling and
Son, and his work will be carried out for
Darling’s animal-feeds division, Clark
King Pty.
During his visit he will accompany
field representatives on their visits to
farms to get spot information on animal-
husbandry methods. He is also seeking
information on feeding methods in the
dairying and pig-raising industries.
• •
Appointed Professor of English Litera-
ture at the University of Queensland,
Andrew Kilpatrick Thomson is a recog-
nised authority on the work of Joseph
Furphy and was Commonwealth Literary-
Fund lecturer at the Uni. for 1950 and
1959. His knowledge has been of
special value to the Uni., where the
importance of studying Australian litera-
ture has always been stressed—in
fact, Queensland Uni. was one of the
first to include this study in its English
School.
Professor Thomson (pictured above)
began his career as a teacher at Ipswich
(Q.) Grammar, and went on to Scotch
College, Adelaide, and The Armidale
School (N.S.W.). He later joined the
State teaching-service in Queensland, be-
coming, president of the Queensland
Teachers’ Union and a delegate to the
Australian Teachers’ Federation and for
several years associate-editor of the
“Queensland Teachers’ Journal.” He
joined the Queensland Uni. staff in 1939
and until lately was reader in English.
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
Well known as a critic and broadcaster,
he is a member of the Library Board of
Queensland, vice-president of the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers (Queensland
branch), author of various textbooks and
editor of anthologies.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 81, Dr. Reginald Cyril Everett
Atkinson, former councillor of the B.M.A.
in Westralia and Commissioner for Public
Health from 1916 to 1944.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Ida Rentoul Outhwaite,
whose paintings were exhibited in London and
Paris and in book-form sold throughout the
world.
At Baulkham Hills (N.S.W ), at 86, Frederick
Wiley, veteran car-driver, whose first licence
dated from 1901 and who spent his retirement
touring isolated parts of North and Western
Australia and around the Centre.
In Melbourne, at 54, .John Bertram Plant,
president of the Australian Hospitals’
Association.
In Canberra, at 53, Hugh Gordon Dash,
press-secretary to the Prime Minister since
1953. A good and hardworking p.-r. man
and a happy personality.
In Sydney, at 65, Dudley Hardy, principal
of Hardy Brothers, Ltd., jewellers With the
British Army in War I, he was one of the
youngest officers in the Imperial forces on
Gallipoli.
In Sydney, at 63, James Leo Geraghty,
M. for North Sydney, 1941-53.
In New Zealand, at 85, artist Herbert
Tomlinson, who won many prizes with his
paintings and, in a rather different field,
invented the Tomlinson tattoo brand widely
used By stock-breeders in N.Z., Australia and
South Africa.
In Auckland, Alice Annie Kenny, author
and contributor to many Australian and N.Z.
periodicals. She was for a long time the
only N.Z. writer accepted by London “Punch.”
In Auckland, at 67, Vincent John Parkinson,
who served with the A.F.C. in War I and
the R.N.Z.A.F. in War 11. He represented
N. at the World Bridge Olympic in 1933.


ABORIGINALITIES
T istened to one Alligator—a Torres
Strait Islands lay-preacher, so named
because of his outsize mouth—discours-
ing to his flock on the difficulties besetting
a rich man’s path to Paradise. He thus
explained: “You poor feller savvee camel.
’E stop longa cigrette-packet at trading
station. That camel number-one clever
feller. You savvee needle and eye b’long
him. Eye b’long needle too mush small.
White man with altogether too mush
money, ’e no go through eye b’long
needle—too mush fat. But, camel, ’e
clever too mush. ’E go through
ee-asie! ” —“Laetitia.”
* * * *
“B”: To vary your drinking, try a
Diamantina cocktail: a pint of milk, a
pint of rum and an emu-egg, well shaken.
Quantity, according to outback Queens-
landers, sufficient for one.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Bundalinga”: None of the Merino
rams that made record prices at the
The lady from down south objects to mens shorts being Worn
higher than one inch above the knee.”
Sydney Sheep Show sales this year is
likely to become as well known as another
Austialian Merino-—-the ram whose head
appeiirs on our shilling-piece It was
bred by Nielson Mills when he was a
member of the partnership conducting
the Uardry stud. At this year’s ram-
sales Mills paid second-top price of the
sales—7ooogns. for a Haddon Rig ram
for his Wahwoon and Burrabogie studs.
“Myora”: Five specimens of a species
of venomous sea-urchin have been found
by a Queensland University party in the
beach-shallows off Stradbroke Island, in
Moreton Bay. Resembling a spiky ball,
these urchins are about 4in. in diameter
and are covered with half-inch-long
spines. They have scores of pincer-jaws,
armed with venom-glands, which open
between the spines, when they look like
beautiful bright-purple and white flowers
growing in the water. Their poison is
injected at the slightest touch. The
species was thought to be confined to
Japanese waters, and was known to have
caused several deaths among pearl-divers.
The specimens are the first to be found
on the Australian coast.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: National Aborigines’
Day on July 8 is to be celebrated by the
publication of a book, The Skills of
Our Aborigines, to be issued by the
Territories Department. The foreword
admits that in adapting themselves to
the new world of bewildering complexity
which confronts them the aborigines have
not y et s hown the resourcefulness which
characterised their adaptations in tribal
i ife _ which is hard , P urprisi seei
f y K & ’ . 5
bat a lo . t o£ white people are in the
sanl, T pr f I dlc l m f n ‘: H ?* ever : ,he de P ar !'
™ ent adds * hat th f skll !3 of OU J abo . r >-
*'?“ provlde a ” ple evidence of native
intelligence, patience and ingenuity,
“traits of the same order as are required
for their successful assimilation.” A
hopeful note —let’s hope it’s warrantee^
* * * *
“Snobby”: We were filling a wool-
shed for an early start in the morning
for shearing, and the sheep were stub-
born. We’d no more than got properly
started when darkness came down. It
was an old-time shed, holding a couple
of thousand sheep or more, 50 stands
(meaning 25 pens, races and other in-
conveniences), all of which had to be
filled. The manager, a wise old boy
who had served his time in the saddle
and not in an office, called us off: “We’ll
let the sheep settle down, have supper
ourselves, and come back after, dark.”
It seemed silly to us: if we couldn’t pen
them in a half-light, how were we going
to do it in the dark? He showed us.
Carrying a hurricane-lamp, he swung
it to and fro, and those sheep followed
the light as if they were mesmerised,
straight through half-a-dozen gates, right
up the ramp, into the shed, and along
to the farthest pen. It was all so easy
it was almost a shame to take the money.
I’ve used that lure of light many times
since then, and found it invaluable when
trucking wethers in a train.
* * * *
“Joanne”: A motorist coming down
Pacific Highway pulled into the ambu-
lance-station at Kempsey (N.S.W.); he
was afraid the tropical fish he had
bought in Brisbane wouldn’t last-out the
journey to his home in Maitland. The
ambulance-men supplied sufficient oxygen
to give the fish new life. The motorist
said afterwards: “They must’ve thought
I was mad, but they’re good blokes.
They said it was the first time they’d
ever resuscitated fish.”
* * * *
“Wulworra”: In spite of the doubts
held by “Kerba” (B. 15/6/’6O), quite a
swag of Australian birds often have
“itchy grubs” on their menus. Various
species of cuckoos appear to regard hairy-
caterpillars as special delicacies, and other
eaters of such larvae range from owls
and plovers to the little robins and thorn-
bills. Some of the small honeybirds, too,
occasionally have a dash at the grubs
of moths. All this has been established
by examination of the bird’s tummies,
as set out in a highly informative publi-
cation issued years ago (1918) by the
N. S. Wales Department of Agriculture.
Next to the cuckoos, the chief patron
of hairy-caterpillars is the crested bell-
bird, “Pan-pan-panella” of certain tribes
of the interior. Every self-respecting bell-
bird actually stocks its nest with “stinga-
rees” and other such larvae while the


\\
S/r i or<uy cp\
TO 7 >ortS*r£ A
L\ OF e>tOOP /


eggs are being brooded, the idea being,
apparently, to guard against a shortage
when the nestlings appear. Moreover,
the late A. W. Milligan, a competent
W.A. naturalist, recorded having found
in the stomach of a bellbird “scores of
the hairs of caterpillars, together with
segments of their bodies,” and another
observer in W.A., who watched bellbirds
closely, has written that the young are
fed almost entirely on caterpillars.
Whether or not this odd diet is a stimulus
to vocalism, the crested-bellbird is one
of the most melodious of all Australian
feathered songsters.
* * # *
“Smithy”: Don’t know if I can help
“Maitri” (B. 15/6/’6O) with his cloud-
fog and mist worry, but recall walking
up Hobart’s pride and joy, the Mountain,
when it was wearing some of this stuff
about halfway round the middle.
Approaching it I was informed it was
cloud; passing through we were in
mist, and on reaching the top we looked
down on fog. Right or wrong I never
found out; but Ido know it’s a wonder
the argument didn’t end in a free-for-all
with nailed walking-boots as the main
weapons.
* * * *
“Conif”: Did someone say we had no
indigenous pine-trees? What, then, are
those conifers called Murray-pines which
the first white settlers in the Victorian
Wimmera and Mallee found growing
thickly on sandy rises? The same shapely
conifer, in which foliage is simulated by
the division and sub-division of each
tiny twig, also grows in S.A., where I
have seen it near Port Pirie. The small
round cones, about an inch in diameter,
grow singly or in clusters on the
branches. When the seed is ripe the six-
segmented cones open flower-like and
lend themselves admirably to decorative
arrangements. These shallow - rooted
pines constitute a major hazard in storms
—l've sometimes seen them lying two-
deep across roads after a big blow in
the Wimmera.
THOSE TERRIERS
a few weeks ago the American Kennel
Q u b swallowed its long-held objec-
tions to the Australian Terrier and
admitted it to its book of registry as
a separate breed—No. 114. Previously
U.S. dog-fanciers had regarded the little
bloke as something not quite in the top-
drawer ; a fetching little chap, no doubt,
with pleasing enough
appearance and man-
ners, but —well, to be
quite frank and honest,
lacking in breeding.
The slur has been felt
rather keenly by local
representatives of the
breed, who point out
rather proudly that they
can trace their family-
tree back through seve-
ral of the most highly
respected branches of
the terrier-family—the
Skyes, the Norwiches,
the Cairns, the Bedling-
tons and the Dandie
Dinmonts; some also
claim a spot of Irish
in their ancestry, though
that’s probably just
bragging.
Moreover, they claim
that they’ve been fixed
in their present type for
something like 12 to
15 canine - generations,
and if that doesn’t make ’em purebred
they’d like to know what some human-
beings of their acquaintance have got
to feel so stuck-up about.
English kennels have welcomed the
Aussie as an equal for at least 25 years,
but it is only through the efforts of
Mrs. Nell Fox, a New Zealander who
now breeds Australian Terriers in New
Jersey (U.S.A.), that the breed has gained
social acceptance in America.
In the sketch above Scorfield depicts
the pleasure with which the news was
received by two young Australian
Terriers of his acquaintance. He reports
them as saying it’s not as if they set
much store by that sort of thing them-
selves, but it will be very nice for their
children who are boarded-out at one of
the most exclusive kennels, where such
things are considered most important.
* * * *
“Curio”: In The Red Bull H. A.
Lindsay has one of the leading characters
getting redgum fencing-posts from trees
growing high on ridges in association
with white-box. The story is set in the
Southern Tablelands. I do not know of
any “gum” that is favored for fence-
posts. Red-6ox, certainly—in fact, any
box —but gumtree timber, besides being
brittle and a bad splitter—it shatters
rather than breaks cleanly— rots quickly
in comparison with other timbers.
* * * *
“Kelanoa”: At Enngonia, in the road-
side pub, the shearer between sheds was
a beautiful case of the Hawkesbury
Rivers. Unable to get a glass to his
mouth without total loss, he pressed a
mate into service. One end of the hand-
kerchief the mate supplied was held
tightly around the glass, the other in the
left hand after the cloth had been passed
around the neck. A strong, downward
pull eliminated the shakes and the rumbo
found its home. I thought I had seen
everything, but Old Diggers tell me that
the practice dates from the dim past.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: What is the real origin of
the term beche-de-mer, used for what is
also called trepang (from the Malayan
tripang) and is known to others as the
sea-cucumber? In a radio quiz-session
its meaning was given as “Worm of the
sea,” and I was reminded of how I’d
fallen-in when up in Torres Strait 40
years ago by telling some interested
passengers on the ship that it meant
“Slug of the sea.” A French fellow-
passenger queried this, explaining that
the designation stood for “Spade of the
sea,” which I later verified by a dictionary.
But why “spade”? Is it because, after
being slit open and smoked, it bears some
resemblance to the French priest’s “shovel
hat,” or is the term derived from its sand-
burrowing?
* * * *
Although she professed to think
highly of them, the white house-
keeper was always making fun of the
colored housegirls. New to the island,
she said that they were almost afraid of
their own shadows, and, as for snakes,
the tiniest snake sent them into hysterics.
They were also terribly frightened of evil
spirits ( puri-j)uri ), which the housekeeper
thought ridiculous nonsense. Just now
most of the girls were out fishing.
Strangely enough, they had no fear of
water, and would fish waist-deep in water
that was known to harbor sharks. “1
let them cook their fish in the kitchen,”
she said rather smugly. “Nobody can
say I’m not good to them. Besides, it
saves on food bills. They have enormous
appetites and the more fish they cook
the less other food I have to supply for
them. When they come back I’ll take you
down to the kitchen to see them ; they
usually give me a fish or two.” When
we went down to the big kitchen there
was much sizzling and boiling on the big
range, and the housekeeper lifted lids
and peered into saucepans. “This must
have a big fish in it,” she said, lifting the
lid of an enormous pot. The lid fell to
the floor with a clatter, and she reeled
back with a cry of horror. Then a pierc-
ing scream followed, and I held her,
trying to quieten her. “In there!” she
gasped. “It’s a terrible monster!” I
peered into the cooking-pot and felt my-
self pale. Two enormous glassy eyes were
staring up at me. Then I heard hisses and
giggling and saw that the black girls had
returned ; soft sounds of bare feet hadn’t
been noticed in the commotion: “Him
octopus Missus; proper good kai-kai,”
they laughed ; “you get proper big pright,
eh?” The girls were all laughing.
“ ’Ousekeeper she say she not pright of
nothing ; but I reckon she proper pright
now!” —“Ashley Hill.”


/
w.
PI
T'
hhh
, v , ~.
mm
i ; . - :■ **r?":.,TZ ;'.
? ; , «*•? J£* ••• •.
i " : ; :.' •-w-. •«'.■«■
sxSmk ~
I f 1
*sT*
Whal has this scene
to do with the Railways ?
A great deal, to be sure. New South Wales, blessed with an abundance
of wonderful scenery, has built up an impressive tourist trade trade in
which the Railways has long been active.
Every Sunday, in fast, comfortable, diesel-hauled expresses, it conducts
rail, combined with motor-coach or launch, tours to popular beauty spots
—a different low-cost tour being undertaken each week.
It has established the Railway Travel Bureau, with branches at Sydney
Station and Martin Place, to cater for the travel requirements of train
passengers. The Bureau will arrange individual tours, hotel accommodation
at overnight stops or destination stations, and provide complete itineraries
and make full arrangements for interstate train travel. Sensationally priced
Gold Coast holidays may be arranged, too.
Touring by train takes the tension out of travel. It is peace-oi-mind travel
—leaving the tourist relaxed and refreshed and able to enjoy to the full the
scenic beauties which he is travelling to see.
OFp
5«5
<6
5*
&
q:
Ui
a
CO
©£s
<0
V
Sjfe
Ml
P*
N4027-B
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
J*jea**/ /6f&o/(iie*&y Ah' e?6wr- s£ta&.


r
fews
2 -
m
wm
»y%
mi:f
M
mm
**.>,,:: mm.
'- #&*&■#&
& *(*ok£' '
s I *'w
.■■>■■: - ■■■■:'. : : ■ W
A happier choice for every occasion . . ,
Aneoves WINE
E&CM
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove's TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia'!
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH. BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., REN MARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY . ST. AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
EARNINGS, 1959-60 —MARKET, 1960-61
'T'he financial year 1959-60
ended last Thursday, and
no ‘doubt profit-records have
been registered by many
Australian companies. But it
is unlikely, overall, that profits
for 1959-60 show the same
percentage-increase as that in
the price of shares of the same
companies during the same
period.
Production of most products
in Australia expanded in
1959-60, and it was undoubt-
edly the busiest year, generally,
that Australia has ever experi-
enced. Even some of the
N.S.W. public works that have
strung on for a quarter of a
century were at last completed.
And there was an inflow of
private capital from abroad
such as we have never seen
before. But while this over-
seas money gave impetus to
actual constructional and
developmental activity, it also
added to the speculative fever
that made our industrial pro-
gress look greater than it really
was.
The past year saw a. record
boost in the price of Stock
Exchange equities. For many
investors and speculators it
seemed like fairyland
-—almost impossible not to
back a winner. Between July
and December of 1959 bonus-
issues flowed in a way never
before seen, often for the pur-
pose of countering possible
takeovers. Even so, takeovers
continued to be the order of
the day, and became the main
subject of speculative interest.
Tn this atmosphere, calcu-
lations of prospective profit-
earning became a secondary
consideration, and present
yields were almost entirely
disregarded.
In no circumstances can
such a market mood or attitude
be maintained for ever. Just
how long it can be maintained
depends upon how long the
peculiar circumstances which
created it continue to last.
The inflow of overseas
capital, superimposed on a
shortage of Australian ordinary
shares and a general urge'
towards takeover and diversi-
fication, was the fuel which
sustained last year’s roaring
flare-up in share prices.
Australia is an attractive
country for investment, and
there has been a lot of foot-
loose capital from Africa and
Asia as well .as from the
United Kingdom and the
U.S.A. moving round the
world. But even the most
attractive proposition has its
price. And today the price
for an equity in Australia, in
land or industry, has gone
pretty high generally.
The inflation in land prices
has been promoted, to an
extent, by land-trusts and the
like which set out with the
express aim of raising money
from investors for the pur-
pose of making capital-gains
out of land-dealings.
The soaring price of
ordinary shares has likewise
been promoted by investment-
trusts which intensively
advertise their aim of seeking
capital-gains on the share-
market for their supporters.
The spreading of investment
interest widely among the
public is a good thing. But
it is essential that it should
not be over-promoted to the
point where the share-unit-
holder is disappointed (through
having paid too high a price)
rather than pleased with his
investment.
/Ather factors (and often
dangers to the general in-
vestor) include the recently
developed desire by some com-
pany-directors for a high market
price for their co.’s shares.
This has come about because
of a wish to take-over some-
one on to resist a takeover,
and has shown-up in share-
splits, asset-revaluations and
general pep-talks to share-
holders. It has all aimed at
boosting the price of the
particular co.’s shares.
There are now indications
that the sharemarket boom is
levelling-off. Since the March
setback it has reached new
peaks (June 14 was the record),
but the momentum appears
to be slackening, and in the
leaders generally there has been
some recession. Future trends
now will depend markedly
upon the results shown by
companies themselves, and by
the extent of continued inflow
of overseas money.
The disclosure of inner
strength such as has been a
feature of company-accounts
over the past two years is not
an inexhaustible process. The
revelations and revaluations
of recent years have often
involved inner reserves built-
up over a quarter- or half-
century. There can be no
repetition on the same scale
by the same companies in a
couple of years, even if some
cos. are forced into producing
consolidated accounts under
new company laws. Consoli-
dated accounts could, of
course, be a source of sporadic
cases of market appreciation
where they have not been
published before, and where
revaluations, if any, have been
modest.
The land-boom has been
taking a pasting from a num-
ber of critical authorities
recently, and it is something
to be watched with concern.
The Bulletin has made its own
view quite clear in the issue
of 15/6/’6O.
Summing-up the market out-
look for 1960-61, we should
bear in mind that Australians
have a habit of living with a
boom to its bitter end —of
completely exhausting it as a
means of speculation, and
then losing interest in it,
comparatively, as an invest-
ment. We have seen this in
the oil boom, the uranium
boom and the rutile boom.
While the true economic
potential of these mining
developments was unknown
the boom was exuberantly
maintained. Then develop-
ment brought disappointment
and market collapse.
It will not be the same with
industrial and financial shares.
In the main, these shares
have a solid, intrinsic value.
But the excessive “top” of
speculative froth on the market
prices for many shares is likely
to disappear like snow upon
the desert’s dusty face when
investors start to give reasoned
thought to prospects of actual
profits and actual yields in
connection with their invest-
ments. The higher shares go


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhaft, M. D. Passmore, K. \V. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
‘EMDECELEX.” Sydney
Cap • Yorf
\
QUEENSLAND
A
★
★A
X/
—
NEW SOUTH WALES /
rx
VICTORIA
Portland
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States—New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT23C
without corresponding increase
in their profit-earning the
more likelihood is there of
a setback in their market
price at a disconcerting time.
Once that becomes general,
and the market is obviously
levelling-off, it is likely to sag
further, because many specu-
lators have come into this
market only because it is a
rising one, and once they cease
to make capital-profits they
will find current dividend-
yields too meagre to live
with.
The chain-store boom is
over, and the intense interest
in h.-p. is departing. TV-
manufacture has settled-down
to extremely competitive
trading, and TV-stations have
a long way to go to justify
their market prices. Most of
the spectacular takeover com-
panies now have the job of
digesting their takeovers.
Problems of woolgrowers
in meeting rising costs —
especially those growers who
have paid boom prices for
their land—are now serious.
And the increases in the price
of sugar, butter, cheese and
bread have all been based on
the higher wages-costs follow-
ing the awards of 1959.
The effect of this wage-
inflation is now seeping
through the economy generally.
Bread and Shares
'T'he rise of a penny a loaf in
N.S.W. bread prices should
help those flourmillers who
have been extending their
activities into the bread-baking
business. Those who have not
done so have been feeling the
pinch of low export prices for
flour, which was not com-
pensated for when flour was
raised 255. a ton in N.S.W. last
December.
Among those flourmillers in
N.S.W which have gone into
the baking-trade on a planned
scale have been White Rose
Flour Milling Co. Pty. (a W. R.
Carpenter subsidiary), Allied
Mills, Ltd., and Gillespie Bros.
Allied Mills (two-thirds) and
Gillespie’s (one-third) are
.also interested in the manu-
facture of Daffodil table-mar-
garine. The proposed rise in
the price of butter should also
give margarine-manufacturers
more scope.
Allied Mills, following the
lift in bread prices, has
announced its fourth one-for-
four share-issue at par since
the end of 1958.
Gillespie Bros. Holdings,
Ltd., are making a two-for-
five issue at par, following a
three-for-eight issue last year.
Gillespie Bros, have had a
fluctuating market for their 10s.
shares during 1960, with a
“highest” price of 265. and a
“lowest” of 18s. 6d. Follow-
ing the lift in bread prices and
announcement of the new issue
the shares firmed from 20s. 9d.
to 225. 9d. Earnings for 1958-59
were equal to 21.2 p.c. on paid
capital of £400,000 (since in-
creased to £550,000), with earn-
ings for four subsidiaries taken-
in for less than a 12-months
period. Undistributed Daffodil-
margarine profits likewise were
not included.
For the year just closed,
after providing £57,49-1 (up
£17,121) for depreciation and
£48,103 (up £7576) for taxa-
tion, net profit was £9544
higher at £94,530. This is
equal to 18.9 p.c. on average
ord. capital employed during
the year, and again excludes
undistributed profits of
Daffodil.
The 8 p.c. div. (4 p.c. tax-
free) has been repeated, and
is exceptionally well covered.
Fixed-assets are in at old and
conservative valuations. Books
close for the new issue on
July 15, and applications must
be in by August 31.
At 225. 9d., cum rights, the
ex-rights price is 19s. 3d. On
an 8 p.c. div. basis the yield
is £4 3s. per cent.
The Gypsum Cos.
A lift to a record price of
61s. for Australian Gyp-
sum (Sydney) £1 shares and
to 60s. for Victor Electric
Plaster (Melbourne) £1 scrip
has followed the increase in
nominal capital of Australian
Plaster Industries Pty. from £2
million to £5 million and of
Waratah Gypsum Pty. from
£200,000 to £500,000.
These two cos. are sub-
sidiaries of Australian Gyp-
sum Products Pty., in which
Australian Gypsum holds two-
fifths of the shares, Victor
Electric two-fifths and Penin-
sula Plaster one-fifth.
Increase in the nominal capi-
tal of the sub-subsidiaries is
part of a move to finance a
new plaster-factory at Fisher-
men’s Bend (Vic.) and for
general expansion. The gyp-
sum industry is very busy and
profitable.
Australian Beef Cattle
esponse to the offer of
shares in a Santa Gertrudis
stud at Willow Tree, near
Quirindi (N.S.W.), has been
heavy. In view of the great
interest in beef-cattle in Aus-
tralia over the past 18 months
this was almost bound to be
the case.
The Santa Gertrudis is an
increasingly popular beef
breed, and the Ameroo stud
(formerly part of the A. A.
Company’s Warrah station),
which is the asset being
acquired by .the new float —
Australian Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Co., Ltd. —is considered
by James McGeoch, of the
A.M.L. and F. Co., to be
second only in rating to King
Ranch (Aust.) Pty.
Ameroo is of 2000 acres,
with an average 26in. rain-
fall, red soil, box ridges and
open blacksoil plains ; part of
it subject to light floodings.
An area is sown to lucerne.
It is divided into 15 paddocks,


CLOSES
SATURDAY!
THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5i%
LOAN
Covernment-Cuaranteed
For 7, 10 or 25 years!
You will find it very easy—and perfectly safe —to gain a
higher income from this Government-Guaranteed security.
The Sydney Water Board Loan assures an unfailing 5| per
cent, every year to short, medium and long-term investors.
Loan interest is payable on Ist February and Ist August
throughout the period you select—and the N.S.W. Govern-
ment also guarantees that your principal will be repaid in full
when the Loan matures.
All Trust Funds —including Superannuation, Provident,
Church, Benefit and others —can also earn 5£ per cent. The
Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queens-
land, Western Australia and Tasmania.
You can become a Loan Investor in a few
minutes at any office of the
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by
Ralph W. King & Yuill : : Ernest L. Davis & Co.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
'Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
14 of which are permanently
watered by three bores. Fenc-
ing is good, rabbit-netted ; the
buildings are substantial; the
property has been converted
from mixed sheep and cattle
to Santa Gertrudis exclusively.
P. L. Lavender, of Sydney,
has valued the property at
£62,100. D. S. York, of
Quirindi, has put a figure of
£70,000 on it. The directors
of Australian Beef Cattle
Development Co., Ltd., are
satisfied that the latter valua-
tion is fair, and that price has
been paid. To finance the
purchase 290,492 ord. shares
have already been issued.
Now 309,508 ords. at par are
being offered, and under-
written by Ralph W. King
and Yuill, members of Sydney
’Change.
When all the new money
comes in the property, includ-
ing homestead and plant, will
have a book-value of £74,147 ;
livestock valued at £39,250;
stores, etc., £2223. Liabilities
of £45,105 will be more than
offset by the net proceeds of
the present issue—-£73,877.
The co. will begin with a
paid capital of £150,000, and
net tangible assets with a book-
value of £144,392.
Though the board believes
that the co. will become profit-
earning during the current
year, it is intended to retain
1960-61 profits and to pay a
first div. in respect 1961-62.
In this second year “a first
dividend of about 10 p.c.” is
now spoken of.
On the board of Australian
Beef Cattle Development are
Felix A. Finn, John Patrick
King (managing-director), and
William B. Thompson.
Company Directors’ Meet
■poLLOWiNG the first annual
meeting of the Australian
Institute of Company Directors
in Sydney on June 27, Sir
Arthur Fadden, Sir Garfield
B a r w i c k, N.S.W. Attorney-
General Downing and A. W.
Buttrell addressed the guests at
a function chaired by the in-
stitute’s chairman and founder,
J. R. Partridge.
One of the principal objec-
tives of the institute is to pro-
mote the development of free
enterprise. Others are to study,
promote or oppose company-
law revision; to establish
standards of conduct among
company-directors; and to
provide information and guid-
ance on matters connected with
the duties and responsibilities
of company-directors.
In the United Kingdom a
similar body has grown to
prominence and influence dur-
ing the post-war period.
Among the guests at the
function were Sir Neil O’Sulli-
van, Sir William McKell, and
Sir Patrick McGovern (Com-
missioner for Taxation). .
Copper Concentrates, Ltd.
At Cloncurry (Q.), Copper
Concentrates, Ltd., pro-
poses to put-up a concentra-
tion-plant that will reduce
low-grade (5-15 p.c. copper)
ores to a concentrate of at
least 30 p.c. copper to allow
economical transport overseas
or to Port Kembla for refining.
The co. will buy ores
(oxides, carbonates or sulphides)
from small ore-producers in
the Cloncurry district in the
terms of a contract included
in its prospectus, and has
already arranged to take
25,800 tons of ore a year for
five years, with an expected
grade of 7 p.c. to 8 p.c.
copper.
The capacity of the plant
will be 42,000 tons a year, and
concentration will be by
flotation and gravity. Plant-
manager is to be W. Wilson,
a Kalgoorlie Mines graduate
and former W. A. mine-
man age r. Operations are
expected to start in October
this year. A. M. Thompson,
chairman of the co., estimates
profits, from the treatment of
25,800 tons of ore a year, at
£32,933 net, equal to 41 p.c.
on the proposed capital of
£80,500.
Depending, no doubt, upon
the success of the initial plant,
it is intended later to extend
and decentralise the co.’s
operations in order to help
meet producers’ transport
problems.
In association with Hurley
and Dewhurst Pty., well-known
ore-buyers of Sydney, the co. is
discussing a long-term contract
with Japanese interests.
An issue of 22,000 ss. shares
has already been made to the
company’s promoters—lo,ooo
to Ivan Dewhurst, 10,000
(Continued on page 31)


COPPER
INVESTMENT
OPPORTUNITY
SEE
PAGE
26
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Va
k
f
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS; CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY LTD
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Nolan in London
The fame which Australian
painter Sidney Nolan has won
abroad over the past several
years continues to grow. His
latest exhibition in London —a
series of paintings on the myth
of Leda and the Swan —has
been attracting considerable
attention, and novelist C. P.
Snow, for one, is reported to
have bought heavily among
them. (Nolan, who designed
the well-known dustjacket for
Patrick White’s Voss, has also
been commissioned to do the
jackets for a new uniform
edition of Snow’s novels.)
In a wad of Nolan press-
clippings airmailed from Lon-
don —most of them extremely
favorable —an almost full-page
feature from the “Observer,”
written jointly by art-authority
Sir Kenneth Clark and John
Douglas Pringle, former editor
of the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” gives some idea of
the impact Nolan’s work is
making.
Opening with the claim that
Nolan is “the first Australian
painter who has won fame out-
side his own country,” the
Pringle article goes on to
describe the new Leda paint-
ings :
“ . . . canvas after canvas in
which a great white swan beats
down on a naked girl. Some-
times the swan is flying, some-
times on the water, sometimes
on the ground beside the pale
body of the girl. Sometimes
it seems to have exploded in
the air so that all you can see
is a twisted neck, a great beak
or a wing like a cloud. The
girl herself may be lying sub-
missively on the sand or staring
into the sky or wading in the
water after her swan.
“But always these figures
appear to have a dreamlike
quality, appearing and dis-
appearing against a landscape
which may. perhaps, be best
described by the ironic term
which the first Australian
settlers used to describe the
outback —the Never-Never.”
Nolan, Pringle adds, became
attracted to the Leda myth
after a sojourn on the Greek
island of Hydra in 1955-56 and
a reading of Robert Graves’s
book of Greek myths. His
final “trigger” inspiration came
later in New York from a few
lines of an unpublished poem
by Australian expatriate Alwyn
Lee:
Until black Jupiter with snake-like
head
Has taken lubra Leda to her bed,
And everything, including tears,
are shed.
Pringle also reports that
Nolan has already returned to
work on an Australian “myth”
—the story of Gallipoli.
Sir Kenneth Clark, in his
article, parallels Nolan’s work
first of all with that of the
Douanier Rousseau:
“The importance of this
parallel seems to lie in the
Douanier’s sketches, which
are also the work of a natural
painter, to whom weight of
tone and disposition of mass
are the first means of expres-
sion ; and whose detail,
amiable and decorative though
it often is, would hold our
attention no longer than that
of any other ‘Sunday painter,’
were it not for the solid fabric
on which it is embroidered.”
About the special Austra-
lian character of Nolan’s
work Sir Kenneth holds that
although “he is the first
painter to give us [in Britain]
the real flavor of that strange
continent,” this element “can
be overstated”:
“For Nolan is not at all a
factual artist. He is, on the
contrary, a man of active and
disquieting imagination, and
one of the fascinating things
about his work is its un-
predictability.”
Sir Kenneth adds that
Nolan “deals his blows all
round him with any ifistru-
rr.ent that comes into his hand.
Realism and fantasy, Douanier
Rousseau and Giacometti,
Monet and the engraved rocks
of the aboriginals—all are
used, , and sometimes com-
bined ; but there is no feel-
ing of eclecticism, because all
these varying modes or styles
are seized upon, almost un-
consciously, as the most
effective means of making an
urgent communication.
“In this way Nolan’s paint-
ing seems to me to resemble
(this is my second parallel)
the music of Benjamin Britten.
Not, of course, that Nolan
has Britten’s immense techni-
cal resources; Britten could
beat the most skilful academics
at their own game. But both
are ready to assault, with a
sort of reckless innocence,
subjects from which more
prudent men would have
drawn back ; and in doing so
have employed a bewildering
range of instruments, from
nursery - rhymes and strip-
cartoons to Purcell and Man-
tegna, provided that, as a
result, we are roused from
polite indifference.
“Both draw their strength
from a locality, but transcend
it, so that the local becomes
universal.”
Durer and Rembrandt
An exhibition of etchings
and engravings by Durer and
Rembrandt, two of the greatest
masters of these media, is
currently on view at the N. S.
Wales Galiery. It has been
comp led from the gallery’s
own collection.
Stage and Music
A.B.C. Competition
All the men having been
knocked-out in the State finals,
the vocal section of the Com-
monwealth finals of the
A.B.C.’s annual Vocal and
Concerto Competition re-
solved itself into a contest
between two coloraturas, a
soprano whose timbre verged
on the dramatic and a con-
tralto.
Both coloraturas Nance
Grant (Vic.) and Margot
Robertson (W.A.) —chose the
extensive aria from “Traviata,”
“Ah, Fors’ e lui.” Although
neither quite reached the high
standard set by some colora-
turas in this competition, Miss
Grant won with singing which
did at least reflect much of the
despair of Violetja ; and she
surprisingly sang in English, in
which her diction was good.
She shaded the contralto
Yvonne Minton (N.S.W.), who
projected a rich timbre in her
singing of “O Love, From Thy
Power,” from “Samson and
Delilah”—singing which won
high commendation from the
adjudicators.
Janice Flearne (S.A.) drew
Aida’s conflicting emotions
very well in “Ritorna Vincitor,”
but her phrasing and produc-
tion in the legato periods
lacked smoothness.
Standard of musicianship
was higher in the instrumental
section, contested by four
pianists. Stephen Mclntyre
took the honors with a read-
ing of the last two movements
of Rachmaninoff’s Second Con-
certo that was marked by a
fine tone in the adagio and a
crisp and secure technique in
the following allegro.
Rhondda Gillespie (N.S.W.)
gained commendation for her
playing of two movements of
Edward Macdowell’s D Minor
Concerto, in which her left-
hand playing was quite the
strongest heard from any girl
in these competitions.
Ashley Tobin (S.A.), whose
well-judged adagio of the
Brahms D Minor Concerto
was superior to his version of
the subsequent rondo, and
Robert Cuckson (N.S.W.), who
needed much more incisiveness
and dynamism than he was


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
FOR SAFEINVISTING^
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURES
Kate of Interest Currency of Issue
7% . • . . 6 years
6Vz% ... 4 years
6% . . . . 3 years
SVz% • • • 2 years
5% • • • • 1 year
4Va% ... 9 months
4% . • • . 6 months
3Vi% ... 3 months
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Registered Debentures has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
The Prospectus is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
Every Branch of
The National Bank
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 43 Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
LIMITED
lAssets in Australia Exceed £ 80,000,000)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce;.
TO JEAN SYLVIA PALMER late of
Railway Camp Thirroul New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that BENJA-
MIN TEMPLE PALMER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1839 of 1960
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
by 12th September 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from A. S. BOULTON LANE REX &
CO., Solicitors, of 387 George Street,
Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
able to impart to the Bartok
Third, were the other finalists.
❖ ❖ ❖
Happy O’Neill
When Eugene O’Neill con-
sidered the family at all he was
apt to see it as Shaw and
Strindberg saw it —as a store-
house of “smallness and per-
fidy,” a crippler of human de-
velopment, a birthplace of
tragedy. Just once, however,
in “Ah! Wilderness,” he saw it
differently; saw it as most
people see it, or feel they ought
to see it—as -a place of warmth
and understanding, where every
problem is overcome by love
and laughter, where the fear of
a hostile world and the bitter-
ness of frustration can be dis-
solved in security and kind-
ness.
This vein of. tender humor
and optimism, appearing only
once in O’Neill, has provoked
many questions. Did he know
this sort of happiness before
the avowedly autobiographical
tragedy of “Long Day’s Jour-
ney Into Night” overtook him?
Was he deliberately bathing his
memories in that rosy glow we
all secretly enjoy? Or was he
wistfully projecting an ideal he
had wanted but never known?
Whatever the answer, the
play shares with much of
O’Neill’s other work a peculi-
arly compelling sincerity which,
together witty his deep feeling
for the complexities of charac-
ter and his astonishing skill at
building scenes truly around
them, keeps it away from the
soft edges of sentimentality
and even commands our
interest through a patch or two
of characteristic overwriting.
It makes an excellent addi-
tion to the Trust Players’ pre-
sent season (Sydney Elizabe-
than), for, apart from its own
qualities and the comparisons
it inevitably provokes with
last year’s remarkable produc-
tion of “Long Day’s Journey,”
it seems much better suited to
the company’s talents and
temperaments than any of the
other plays they have done this
year.
Robin Lovejoy’s production
memorably catches its tender-
ness, humor and light summery
atmosphere as well as most of
the small clouds that sometimes
briefly darken it. One objects
only to the occasional touches
of stylisation. Surely the gin-
mill scene, for example, should
be a little stained and tawdry
rather than colorful and
“pretty” in its setting and cos-
tumes if we are to feel the
adolescent son’s genuine revul-
sion/in his comically disastrous
adventure with the harlot?
And surely- there was a shade
too much romantic caricature
in Lewis Fiander’s otherwise
finely calculated playing of
this son whose emotional con-
fusion gives the play its move-
ment? If there is to be any
error in drawing the charac-
ters here, one prefers it to be
on the side of Australianising
them a little, as Neva Carr
Glyn did with her appealingly
soft outlines of the mother, and
as Des Rolfe did in his sketch
of bachelor Uncle Sid without
missing any of that character’s
essential amiability and inade-
quacy.
There could be nothing but
praise for Madeleine Howell’s
softly prim Aunt Lily, who
clearly indicated the pathos
underlying her odd relationship
with Uncle Sid ; or for Ron
Haddrick’s account of the
father, which was full of the
authority one has come to
expect from him.
Except for that gin-mill
scene, Anne Fraser’s costumes
and her comfortably spacious
setting for the household
scenes admirably matched the
mood and character of the
play.
❖ ❖ ❖
Musica Viva
At the society’s Town Hall
concert last week resident
musicans gave a programme of
chamber-music which included
two of the greatest works for
five instruments extant and
rose to uncommon heights.
In the Brahms Clarinet
Quintet, Ann Menzies was the
wind-player, with violinists
Ernest Llewellyn and Donald
Hazelwood, violist Robert
Pikler and ’cellist Lois Simp-
son, Volume-balance was sen-
sitively held in the sections
where stepped-up tempo was
called for ; in the tranquil and
contemplative adagio, where
the strings have to supply a
softly murmuring obbligato lo
the clarinet, Miss Menzies, as
well as admirably keeping her
instrument’s voice at well below
the assertive level, produced a
tone of melting beauty.
The Mozart G Minor String
Quintet, a work almost wholly
without the customary
Mozartian sunshine and gaiety,
found the players slightly less
in facile accord in the storm-
and-stress opening phases ; but
the chordal treatment in the
opulent allegretto was alto-
gether admirable, and in the
lovely slow movement full-
bodied tone and sensitivity of
phrasing were put to the service
of the deeply - felt emotion
which motivates it.
As contrast to the sombre-
ness and profundity of these
two giants, the Lilliputian 1938
Quartet in G of Jean Francaix
bounced in with almost impu-
dent bonhomie to fire-olf a
string of musical wisecracks
every few bars, and, without
waiting for the laughs, to shoot-
off on another tangent, poking
its tongue out at all the musical
conventions. Very bright, and
exhilaratingly worked-out.
❖ ❖ *
“The Magic Pudding”
Peter Scriven’s marionette
adaptation of the Norman
Lindsay children’s classic—the
Brisbane performance of which
was noted in B. 8/6/’60 —
opened at Sydney Elizabethan
last Monday afternoon and
will continue for a four-weeks
season of morning and after-
noon performances only. Book-
ings are said to be heavy.
Perhaps they would have been
even heavier had the show been


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GKEAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL, situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of tlie School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, I'ire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Cinims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Astute in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
put on during a school-holiday
period.
Concurrently, David Jones’
are showing a collection of
Lindsay’s portraits of~ “Pud-
ding” characters.
The Sydney performance of
the marionettes will be reviewed
in these pages next week.
Films
“A 1 Capone”
The career of Chicago’s
most spectacular gangster and
killer is detailed pretty
thoroughly in this bullet-
studded opus.
It begins when “Scarface”
A 1 was a small-time gangster
on the payroll of a big-shot
and was just beginning to
impress the higher-ups of
crookdom with his own par-
ticular way of rubbing-out
rivals, and finishes when, as
the arrogant crime-tsar who
boasted that he own efd
Chicago, he is done-over very
thoroughly by criminal
enemies in Alcatraz prison,
where he was serving 11 years
for the only crime the law
could pin him for: tax-
evasion.
The film is dominated by
Rod Steiger’s vital and pene-
trating appraisal of a character
who regarded both the sport
of murder and the singing of
operatic arias with the greatest
affection.
At Sydney Regent.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Our Man in Havana”
Satire at the expense of
Whitehall is prolific and pointed
in this Graham Greene tran-
scription of his own short
novel about the English
vacuum-cleaner salesman in
Cuba who is persuaded into
becoming a British agent,
who spoofs officialdom with
drawings of strange weapons
(actually parts of one of his
own cleaners) and who has
some trouble with murderous
counter-spies and a slimy
police-chief, but none at all
with his conscience, over the
matter of collecting from the
British Treasury for alleged
payments to fictitious assistant-
spies.
In his most serenely dead-pan
manner Alec Guinness deftly
juggles the dramatic and comic
elements of his role as “Our
Man” before winding-up back
at Whitehall in a cushy job
granted him by the F.O. brass
“But cant you see, the function of the artist is not the
mere imitation of Nature but the creation of new forms!”
to prevent their own gullibility
from being revealed in even
higher places.
Noel Coward struts pom-
pously with cane and gloves
as the middle-strata F.O. man
who presses Guinness into
service; and Ralph Richard-
son smoothly presents a top
official who, having been
gloriously fooled, takes the
easy way out in remedying
the matter.
. Leisurely paced, but a de-
lightful film—altogether enter-
taining.
At Sydney Lyceum.
*Z* *> ❖
“Oscar Wilde”
Though looking older than
the 39 years the poet-play-
wright owned at the time,
Robert Morley is the pontificat-
ing Wilde in this British film,
which gives prominence to the
slander-trial against the Mar-
quis of Queensberry, instigated
by his son Lord Alfred Doug-
las, at which the evidence
forced out of Wilde in the
witness-box led to his own
trial and conviction.
It is absorbing enough,
chiefly through the clashes be-
tween Wilde, with his initially
confident attempts to work-off
his biting wit at the expense of
Queensberry’s counsel, Sir
Edward Carson, and a Carson
patiently biding his time until
he finds the fatal opening in
Wilde’s armor, The latter role
is in the capable hands of Sir
Ralph Richardson ; Alexander
Knox is the prosecutor who
finds that Wilde has grievously
misled him.
At Sydney Esquire.
* ❖ *>
“The Young Phila-
delphians”
There are touches of comedy
in this smoothly conventional
drama involving murder and
a better-than-average murder-
trial, set among the Upper Ten
of the American city.
A brilliant young lawyer is
called to defend a friend
whilst aware that a powerful
family of which the accused
is an unwanted member are
ready to blacken his own
mother's name if he cuts too
rough with them during his
forensic forays. Naturally,
nobleness of mind prevails,
his potent deductions and
cross-examinations win the
day, and he even gets the girl
who had previously given him
the gelid hand.
Paul Newman gives a solid
account of the spellbinder
role ; Barbara Rush adds the
romantic interest; and Billie
Burke offers a neat vignette
as a wealthy old duck who is
shrewder than she looks.
At Sydney Century.
* ❖ <* *
“Chance Meeting”
A young Dutch artist living
in» London blithely goes for
the first time to a luxury-flat
for an assignation with the
weaLthy young wife of a diplo-
mat, only to find there a
corpse, and himself a conse-
quent murder-suspect. The
doings are chiefly concerned
with his efforts to establish
his innocence and pin the
guilty one, with at first the
opposition and then the co-
operation of Detective-
Inspector Stanley Baker.
The plot has feasibility and
is worked-out logically. Weak-
nesses lie in overacting by
Baker and the intrusion in
the plot of suggestions that
the Assistant-Commissioner of
Scotland Yard would bring
pressure to bear on a sub-
ordinate to hush-up one aspect
of the affair to save the name
of an influential friend. Young
German actor Hardy Kruger
does well as the artist, and
clever support is provided by
Micheline Presle.
At Sydney Prince Edward.


PROCESSING
With
/
COPPER CONCENTRATES
383 George Street, Sydney.
(Incorporated on the Bth day of June, 1960) *
Paid up CapitaL..22,ooo shares of 5/- each
Shares now offered for
Subscription....3oo,ooo shares of 5/- each
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
B. W. ROGERS BROKERAGE COMPANY
383 George Street, Sydney.
The general nature of the Company's
proposed business is to erect a treatment
plant for copper ore on the Mt. Isa-
Cloncurry Mineral Field and to concentrate
copper ore.
Applications will proceed only on the
form attached to the prospectus which may
be obtained by writing, calling, or mailing
the coupon below.
DIRECTORS:
ARTHUR MAXWELL THOMPSON, D.F.C.,
383 George Street, Sydney.
IVAN DEWHURST,
2 Pacific Street, Blakehurst.
MAX OPITZ,
95A Brook Street, Coogee.
MAURICE CONLON SHEIL,
Hospital Road, Cloncurry.
3'
«<»
aai
COPPER CONCENTRATES, LIMITED,
383 George Street, SYDNEY.
BX 7467 B-6
Prospectus and attached Application Forms,
To
AT


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatniax’-*" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: B\V 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the S.i/dney Stock Exchange
R. It. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, F. R. LEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COI'KSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —6“-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
South Australian Brewing Co., Ltd.
Disclosed earnings improved follow-
ing a three-for-five bonus-issue last
October, the gift-scrip ranking for divs.
as from September 1, 1959.
South Australians, and citizens of
N.S.W.’s Silver City, have not lost their
taste for the draught and the bottled.
Even if current rumors of a new jack-up
of excise-duty materialise, consumption
is not likely to be seriously affected,
although the rate of growth may be
slowed-down.
Accounts for the year ended February
29, 1960, are as cagily conservative as
ever. It is evident, though, that the
co. is doing well and intends to remain
independent. The bonus-issue is an in-
dication of that.
Incorporated in 1888, the South Aus-
tralian Brewing Co., Ltd., operates the
State’s two largest breweries, Southwark
and West End. Draught-beer production
is concentrated at West End, while
Southwark turns-out the bottled variety.
The West End plant is said to use the most
modern ' brewhouse in the Southern
Hemisphere. Recently, mechanised cask-
handling was introduced.
The co. has made heavy investments
in modernising and extending its plant,
and developing its sizeable chain of
hotels. Book-value of freeholds and
plant (after unstated depreciation pro-
visions) increased by £1,628,602 during
1955-60, excluding last year’s asset-
revaluation.
Australia’s beer - production increased
by two-million gallons to 228-million
gallons in 1958-59. Official statistics indi-
cate a continuously rising trend as popu-
lation and national income steadily grow.
Output of beer in Australia in the six
months to the end of February, 1960,
was 133 million gallons, representing an
increase of seven-million gallons in com-
parison with the' previous corresponding
period.
Reorganisation of production and
handling procedures, combined with a
“slightly increased turnover,” resulted in
“an improved return.” The co.’s chair-
man warns, however, that the full impact
of higher costs resulting from increased
wages during the year is not evident in
the accounts.
Production figures are not revealed.
Neither are provisions for depreciation
and taxation, both described as “ade-
quate.”. Accounts are not consolidated.
Gross earnings for the year ended
February 26, 1960, were £73,571 higher
at £1,279,824. Net profit was disclosed
at £341,169 (up £27,156), after deducting
directors’ fees and £934,655 expenses (up
£46,415):
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. f- —Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ V £
1950.. 92,270 10 p.c. = 72,208 20,062 465,627
Inner reserves disclosed, £194,681 . . 660,308
1951. .133,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 25,075 685,383
1952. .127,944 10 „ ~ 108,312 19,632 705,015
To staff fund, £10,895 .. .. 694,120
1953. .147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 39,110 733,230
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 723,230
1954. .180,945 10 p.c. = 144,941 36,004 759,234
1955. .204,649 10 „ ~146,944 57,705 816,939
Added reserves, £1,416,618 .. .. 2,233,557
Reserves capitalised, £1,083,120 . . 1,150,437
1956.. 74 p.c. = 219,774 36,616 1,187,053
1957. .244,638 7j ~ ~220,025 24,613 1,211,666
1958. .285,490 8f „ ~257,254 28,236'1,239,902
1959. .314,013 10 „ ~294,028 19,985 1,259,887
Asset-revaluation, £2,813,911 .. 4,073,798
Reserves capitalised, £1,764,166 . . 2,309,632
1960. .341,169 7J*p.c. = 323,430 17,739 2,327,371
* On bonus-enlarged capital.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of just over 7.9 p.c. on the bonus-swelled
average capital, compared with 10.6 p.c.
in the previous year, and 9.6 p.c.,‘ 8.3 p.c.
and 8.7 p.c. back to 1956.
Following the issue of the three-for-
five bonus-scrip, the div.-rate was fixed
at 7y p.c. The payout absorbed £323,430,
leaving £17,739 to the reserves.
Last September freeholds were written-
up by £2,813,911 and £1,764,166 capi-
talised to make the bonus-issue in Octo-
ber. Paid capital was raised to £4,621,312
in ss. ords. plus 83,132 20s. employee
shares.
The balance (£ 1,049,745) remains on
the books as an assets - revaluation re-
serve. Total reserves and undistributed
profits amounted to £2,327,371 at
balance-date.
There were £375,000 deposits at call
(included in advances, etc.), not in
evidence in the previous year. By con-
trast, creditors, etc., increased by £14,436.
Stocks decreased by £19,473 40 £384,358.
Debtors were £109,688 lower. On the
whole the balance-sheet reflected a shift
to higher liquidity:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital . . £2,940,278 £2,940,278 £4.704,444
Reserves .. .. 1,239,902 1,259,887 2,327,371
Creditors, etc.* .. 815,499 919,004 933.440
Staff fund . . 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final div. .. 147,014 147,014 176,416
£5,167,693 £5,291,133 £8,166,671
Freeholds .. 2,672,070 2,755,540 5,510,742
Plant, etc. . . 1,332,425 1,399,465 1,314,502
Shares subsid. . . 17,000 17,000 50,000
Shares other cos... 24,465 24,465 24,465
Stocks . . . . 438,247 403,831 384,358
Debtors . . . . 559,023 526,035 416,347
Advances, etc. . . 64,121 113,064 446,067
Cash .. .. 60,342 51,783 20,190
£5,167,693 £5,291,183 £8,166,671
* Includes tax provision, etc.
Investment in the subsidiary (Walker-
ville Co-operative Brewing Co., Ltd.) was
shown at £50,000 (up £33,000).
At the last sale in Adelaide the ss.
ords. changed hands at 11s. lOd. a unit.
The immediate yield is 3.1 p.c. on the
basis of the 1\ p.c. div.
Net tangible asset-backing (on figures
still conservative) works out at 7s. Bd.
for each ss. ord.
Malcolm Moore Industries, Ltd.
/"Vperating through seven subsidiaries,
Malcolm Moore Industries manu-
factures overhead and mobile cranes,
bulk - handling equipment, conveyor-
systems, road - making machinery,
mechanical farm-implements, hydraulic
equipment for use in tractors and with
tractor-attachments, power-steering units,
hydraulic-transmissions, pumps, valves
and structural steelwork.
The co. also distributes heavy trucks,
loaders and a large range of roadmaking-
machinery, tractors and associated equip-
ment.
Melbourne - based Malcolm Moore
Industries group comprises seven sub-
sidiaries: —
Moore Conveyor Co. Pty.
Moore Crane and Engineering Pty.
Moore Engineering (Cooma) Pty.
Moore Hydraulics Pty.
Moore Road Machinery (Aust.) Pty.
Moore Acceptance Corp. Pty.
Esperance Construction Pty.
The Cooma subsidiary handles struc-
tural and engineering work for the Snowy
Mountains hydroelectric project.
Improvement in turnover and earn-
ings continued during thejerm to June
30, 1959. But some drastic surgery had
previously been necessary. Unrealisabje
stocks were written-down by £190,000,
in addition to the £400,000 transferred to
provision for stock-losses in the preced-
ing year. The “very substantial core' 5 of
dead stock in the road-machinery section
(together with development-costs in pro-
jects abandoned or plagued by over-
estimation of profit-margins) was chiefly
responsible for the heavy stock losses.
Last year was “characterised by solid
progress and considerable development in
the way of new products.” All manu-
facturing divisions of the group were
“fully occupied.”
The crane, conveyor and hydraulic
subsidiaries recorded increased turn-
over. Values of orders and contracts
booked during the year were “much
higher in total” than in the previous
term. The once-delinquent road-
machinery subsidiaries mended their ways
and contributed to consolidated earnings.
Three new products (Scoopmobile four-
wheel drive-loader, Wayne sweeper and
Marshall-Moore road-roller) were intro-
duced. An agreement with Warner and
Swasey Inc., of U.S.A., provided Malcolm


A. L. NEViTT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, Tlie National Mutual Lite Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines)' P.O. Box No. 1887 W
ELECTRIC
LIFTS
HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Moore with a licence to manufacture a
wide range of Hopto digger-machines.
Consolidated net trading profit for the
year ended June 30, 1959, more than
doubled, rising by £113,587 to £213,595,
after charging all manufacturing, selling
and administrative expenses, directors’
and audit fees, and providing £55,434. for
depreciation (down £9660). Income from
investments netted a steady £37.
Consolidated net profit increased by
£108,587 to £188,632, after setting aside
£25,000 for taxation (up £5000):
(Consolidated Figures.)
f— ——Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. r— Ord. —serves, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1955. .183,310 20,000 15 = 97,500 65,810 877,354
Overprovisions for tax, £45,077 .. 922,431
1956. .153,087 20,000 74= 71,750 61,337 983,768
Profit sale assets, £16,834 .. .. 1,000,602
Tax overprovided, £7724 .. •• 1,008,326
Loss.
1957. .163,123 20,000 Nil 825,203
Profit sale assets, £29,733 .. .. 854,936
Tax overprovided, £2lBB .. .. 857,124
Div. overprovided, £3333 .. .. 860,457
To provision stock-losses, etc., £400,000 460,457
Profit.
1958.. 80,045 20,000 3 = 43,200 16,845 477,302
Asset revaluation, £246,120 .. .. 723,422
Stock written-off, £190,000 .. .. 533,422
Valuer’s expenses, £5233 .. .. 528*89
Loss sale assets, £7755 .. .. 520,434
Tax overprovided, £822 .. .. 521,256
1959. .188,632 20,000 7 =lOO,BOO 67,832 589,088
* Subject to intangibles, £21,046 at June 30, 1959.
After pref. shareholders received their
5 p.c. .(£20,000), profits were equivalent
to an earning-rate of 11.7 p.c. on the
average ord. capital, compared with 4.4
p.c. in the preceding term (adjusted for
tax overprovided) and £163,123 loss
incurred in 1957.
Ord. div.-rate was lifted by 4 p.c. to
7 p.c.—an encouraging rise, although a
far cry from the earlier 15 p.c. and 20
p.c. div.-cheques. Interim for 1959-60
was at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
Reserves received £67,832 and bene-
fited £822 tax overprovided, but were
reduced by £7755 loss on sale of fixed
assets. To offset the elimination of
unsaleable stock the co. revalued its free-
holds, wrjting the book-value up by
£246,120. Valuation-expenses absorbed
£5233, and £190,000 was used to write-
down stocks (in addition to £400,000 in
the previous term). The remaining
£50,887 took reserves up to £589,088,
subject to £21,046 intangibles.
The co. also obtained a valuation of
land under licence and lease at Fisher-
men’s Bend (Vic.) with a view to the
long-range plans to move to Springvale
(Vic.). This operation “disclosed a
surplus-value of £707,656 above book-
value,” not reflected in 1958-59 accounts.
Paid capital is £1,840,000 in 400,000
5 p.c. 20s. cum. prefs. and 1,440,000 20s.
ords. Creditors were £224,889 lower at
£473.751, but bank accommodation
£83,084 higher at £730,139.
Book-value of freeholds reflected the
asset-revaluation. Plant, etc. (£51,163
lower at £563,918) showed the effect of
depreciation provisions. Current stocks
at £1,789,362 were £296,019 down
(including £190,000 written-off). Debtors
showed a substantial decrease:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 1,440,000 1,440,000 1,440,000
Reserves .. .. 825,203 477,302 589,088
Overdraft .. .. 825,845 647,055 730,139
Creditors .. .. 633,605 698,640 473,751
Tax provision .. 39,619 20,000 25,100
Final divs. .. 10,000 49,867 64,267
£4,174,272 £3,732,864 £3,722,345
Freeholds .. 378,741 317,015 548,427
Leaseholds .. 282,074 291,388 297,136
Plant, etc. .. 645,788 615,081 563,918
Investments .. 5,087 87
Loan .. .. 59,775. 59,460 59,200
Stock .. .. 2,399,990 2,085,381 1,789,362
Debtors .. 368,371 331,567 425,950
Deposits, etc. .. 13,400 11,839 17,306
Intangibles .. 21,046 21,046 21,046
£4,174,272 £3,732,864 £3,722,345
Theoretical working - capital was a bit
lower. Current ratio was 1.7 to 1. If the
figures approximate market-values the
position appears satisfactory.
Current term began well. The volume
of orders received during the first quarter
was about twice as high as in the previ-
ous corresponding period. With an
interim of 6 p.c. p.a., the final (payable
October) is awaited with interest.
It seems that the co. is finding its way
out of the 1957 trough. Dangers of over-
ambitious thrusts on the highly competi-
tive tractor-market, coupled with carry-
ing large stocks, appear to be fully
realised. Earnings and divs. remain
modest, but the trend is encouraging.
The co.’s scrip is faring better on the
sharemarket. At the last sale in Sydney
the 20s. ords. fetched 235. 6d. a unit. The
immediate yield is 5.9 p.c. on the basis
of a 7 p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 120 s. sd. for the 20s. prefs. and
275. 1 lcR for the 20s. ords.
Bennett and Wood, Ltd.
"Dennett and Wood, Ltd., as a public
** co., has been a disappointment.
Converted in October, 1955, it ran up
initial profits of £146,232 (25.9 p.c. on
paid capital) to return shareholders a
17j p.c. div. In the following year, to
February, 1957, profits dropped £10,707
to £135,525 (24.1 p.c.). Div. was dropped
to 15 p.c. Twelve months later profits fell
£51,447 to £84,078 (14.9 p.c.) and the
div. was cut to 12| p.c. A further slump
in 1959 saw profits at £58,951 (10.5 p.c.
and down £25,127). Div., this time,
fell to 10 p.c. In the latest result, calcu-
lated after setting aside £9320 (down
£15,680) for tax and £18,126 (down £113)
for depreciation, profits work out at a
slender £23,209 (4.1 p.c. and down
£35,742). It would seem, in close-up,
that in the 1960 showing, poor enough in
itself, tax at £9320 falls a long way short
of the required 7s. 6d. in the £ decreed
by statute. Profits, as disclosed, figure
a liability nearer the region of £14,000:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. ( Dividend serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
To stock prevision, £20,000 .. .. 1,062,611
1956. .146,232 17* p.c. = 95,462 47,770 1,110,381
To stock provision, £20,000 .. .. 1,090,381
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 1,070,381
1957. .135,525 15 p.c. = 84,396 51,129 1,121,511
To long-service leave, £52,482 .. 1,069,029
Tax overprovided, £6314 .. .. 1,075,343
Profit sale assets, £975 .. .. 1,076,318
1958.. 84,078 12*p.c.= 70,330 13,748 1,090,066
1959.. 58,951 10 p.c. = 56,263 2,688 1,092,754
Ex stock provision, £40,000 .. .. 1,132,754
1960.. 23,209 10 p.c. = 56,263 1,099,700
The 10 p.c. div., requiring £56,263, was
adhered to at the expense of reserves,
which, however, supplemented by £40,000
written-back from stock-fluctuation pro-
vision, rose £6946 to £1,099,700.
Shareholders remain optimistic not-
withstanding the progressive decline over
the last five years. On today’s buoyant
market the scrip commands a substantial
premium. Shares were traded at 18s.
last week. Directors say “the company
is in a sound financial position and the
effect of reorganisation should materially
assist in restoring profitably to a more
satisfactory level during the current
year.” Investors who paid 255. 6d. for
the shares at the time of conversion are
nevertheless, and despite the present
premium, still out of pocket—they have
had little chance to recoup initial outlay.
Controlled from its head-office in Pitt
Street, Sydney, with branches in the
N.S.W. towns of Goulburn, Lismore,
Newcastle, Orange, Tamworth, Parra-
matta, Wagga and Wollongong and a
branch in Brisbane (Q.), the co.’s activi-
ties embrace the service of all types of
motor-vehicles, and the merchandising
of motor-parts and accessories, service-
station equipment, cycles and motor-
cycles. Over the years, agencies have
been secured for the sale of world-
famous B.S.A. and Sunbeam motor-
cycles and more recently for the Honda
motor-cycle. In 1957, the co. took over
distribution of the Lambretta motor-
scooter in N.S.W. and Queensland and
in the same year commenced selling
B.S.A. motor-scooters. The co. finances
its own retail hire-purchase sales through-
out N.S.W. and Queensland.
The downward plunge in earnings in
recent years is largely the outcome of
decreased demand for motor - cycles.
Motor-bikes reached a peak of popu-
larity in 1951-52. Since then figures for
both new and total registrations have
fallen heavily. The severity of the de-
cline has not been eased by increasing
competition in the spare-parts field. Last
term the co. wrote fairly substantial
business (turnover edged down slightly
to £3.4 million) but failed, in doing so,
to absorb rising qosts and lower profit-
margins.
High asset-backing rather than present
earning-power is the source of current
sharemarket support. The 10s. ords.


Lafec
investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £1 000,000
MORTGAGE
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% per annum 2 year*
6% per annum ] year
5% per annum £ months
o
.v
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS E)
FOR EACH £lOO i
ICEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1.086
3E REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
lATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA4344.
SY3O6IAB
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
are each supported by net
tangibles of 295. 6d. The co.
must present a juicy bait to
the right takeover merchant:
1959. 1900.
Paid capital .. £562,636 £562,636
Reserves .. 1,092,754 1,099,700
Overdraft .. 172,152 140,059
Creditors, etc. .. 301,700 285,243
Tax provision .. 08,179 34,813
Final div. .. 28,132 28,132
£2,225,613 £2,150,583
Freeholds, lease-
holds .. .. 684,952 683^442
Plant .. .. 94,388 94,375
Stock .. .. 856,580 767,348
Debtors .. .. 588,301 603,975
Cash .. .. 1,392 1,443
£2,225,613 £2,150,583
Working-capital ratio is high
(a shade under 3 to 1), but over
half of the £1,372,766 of cur-
rent assets is in stock (£767,348)
and the remainder book-debts,
£603,975.
“Substantial reorganisation
and cost-reduction became par-
tially effective in January,
1960.” Sales are said to be
improving. The co. is consider-
ing disposal of its Pitt Street
head-office with reorientation
of control in smaller suburban
premises. Relocation of its
headquarters could inject new
life into the organisation. It
would certainly release con-
siderable funds now virtually
dormant and tied-up in un-
profitable assets. Maintenance
of the present div. level is very
much dependent on the success,
one way or the other, of these
various actual and contem-
plated developments. At 18s.
the ords. would yield an im-
mediate 5.6 p.c. from a con-
tinued 10 p.c. div.
Australia Silknit, Ltd.
Oponsored by Silknit, Ltd.,
of Canada, the co. was
formed in December, 1927,
and is a manufacturer of
women's and children’s under-
wear and night-wear, various
rayon piecegoods and similar
products. Mills and factories
are located in Sydney, and in
N.S.W. country towns of
Young, Swansea and Wollon-
gong.
The industry is a difficult
one, with rapidly varying
tastes, _ fluctuating demand, a
brisk pace of technical
obsolescence pf equipment,
rising labor costs and severe
competition. In addition there
is the ever-present challenge
from efficient, comparatively
low-cost overseas producers,
watchful for an extra bit of
the Australian market.
That the game is not an
easy one can be seen from
the co.’s earnings-history. For
10 years, to 1947, ord. share-
holders received no divs. Then,
consumer-demand, pent-up by
war-time and early post-war
restrictions, soared. Earnings
reached their peak in 1953 and
1954. After that- the pattern
of mass-spending changed.
Motor - vehicles, various
domestic appliances, and then
TV-receivers, reduced the total
outlay on clothing. Profits
sagged in 1955. Next year a
loss was incurred. Over the
past three years earnings
remained pretty constant,
slightly above the 1955 level
but with a downward trend.
The situation remains diffi-
cult. Labor-costs are rising.
Consumers tend to favor
cotton, certain non-rayon
synthetics and mixed wool-
synthetic yarns. Relaxation
of import-restrictions was a
blow to domestic producers.
There has been a noticeable
rise in imports.
It is difficult for the Govern-
ment to grant increased pro-
tection to domestic textile-
manufacturers, as a large
proportion of imports comes
from countries which are good
markets for Australian exports,
notably wool.
The co.’s chairman stated
that, “due mainly to the
failure of a major competitior
during the year, and the con-
sequent release to the trade
of its accumulated stocks,
lingerie sales were more diffi-
cult.” Gross earnings were
lower, as profit-margins on
fabrics are smaller than those
on ready-made clothing. A
positive factor was the lower
incidence of taxation. Certain
provisions for expenditure


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
\
6 to 10 years *WO/
and 15 years # /©
4 years 61% 3 years 6% 2 years 51%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3|% p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros*
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Branch, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Assets exceed £60,000,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Nl
COPPER
INVESTMENT
OPPORTUNITY
SEE
PAGE
26
became allowable expenses
taxwise. Subsidiaries contri-
buted to group earnings.
Consolidated trading profit
for the year ended December
31, 1959, was £9OBO lower at
£47,046. After writing-off
- , . .
£14,403 for depreciation (up
£284) and providing £5666 for
f’ss.
taxation (down £9025), con-
solidated net profit edged-
, u
down by £634 to £23,769.
After covering the un-
rhnnoprl nrpf Hiv rpnnire
cnangea prer.-cuv. require
ments (£4200), net earnings
were equivalent to a shade over
15.5 p.c. on the slightly higher
average ord. capital. This com-
pares with 16.7 p.c. in the
previous year and 17.9 p.c. in
1957.
Ord. div.-rate remained
steady at 10 p.c., absorbing
£12,600. Reserves received
£6969, and benefited by £l5O
tax overprovision written-
back, £392 added on
consolidation and £l5OO share-
premiums:
parent and Subsidiaries.
n -Dividends Re-
Dec. Profit. Pref. r Ord. . serves.
31, 7 p.c.
£ £ p- c - £ £
. 20,600 4200 124= 15,125 323,262
Tax overprovided, £1940 . . 325,202
Loss.
’56. .23,912 4200 10 = 12,100 284,990
profit.
’57..25,925 4200 10 = 12,100 294,615
Tax overprovided, £l3OO .. 295,915
>5B. .24,403 4200 10 = 12,350303,768
Tax overprovided, £l5O .. 303,918
s F h T e twfit
Added on consolidation, £392 407,104
’ 59 - -23 >' 09 4200 10 = 12,000 414,0*3
The co. d i s c 1 o s e d £101,294
inner reserves. Of this,
£99,631 was a tax-paid pro-
vision for fluctuations in
world prices of raw materials.
The provision is no longer
regarded necessary due to
“lower quantity and value of
stocks now carried and more
stable world prices.”
Liquidity was higher. Cur-
rent ratio was over 4-to-l.
However, this improvement
was largely due to the £168,437
rise in stocks, shown at
£372,278:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital—- £ £ £
Pref. .. 60,000 60,000 60,000
Ord. . . 121,000 121,000 126,000
Reserves . . 294,615 303,768 414,073
Creditors . . 76,405 80,585 115,654
Staff funds . . 5,680 634 2,810
Tax provision 8,709 21,775 21,482
Dividends .. 8,150 8,400 8,400
574,559 596,162 748,449
Land, buildings,
plant .. 75,558 76,864. 94,204
Stock . . 252,263 203,841 372,278
Debtors . . 108,240 84,985 71,010
Cash, etc. .. 138,498 230,472 210,884
Intangibles 73
574,559 596,162 748,449
Creditors were higher, and
debtors and cash lower. Land,
buildings and plant were
£17,340 higher at £94,204
(after deducting £209,193
accumulated depreciation-
provision).
Plant and machinery are “in
first - class working - order.”
New units have been bought
and obsolete equipment sold.
Australia Silknit is well
equipped, financially and tech-
nically, to hold its own against
domestic rivals. The future
is hard to predict in the textile-
trade. Many material factors
are outside the control of an
individual producer or, for
that matter, of the industry
itself. There is an obvious
necessity to keep down pro-
duction - expenses, especially
labor-costs.
These inherent uncertainties
are reflected in the share-
market's cautious valuation of
the co.’s scrip. At the last
sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched Bs. 6d. each. The
immediate return is 5.9 p.c.
on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. dividend.
Net tangible asset-backing
works out at a solid 21s. 6d.
on consolidated accounts.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
'T'he Larut co. owns tin-
■*- mining areas in the Larut
and Taiping districts, Perak
State, Malaya. Due to restric-
tions under the International
Tin Agreement there have been
no active operations since
April 30, 1958.
Last term was difficult. No
tin was produced or sold, and
only a token profit earned.
Paid capital was reduced from
£120,000 (all figures are in
£ stg.) to £30,000 (in Is. f.-p.
ords.) by a cash-return to
shareholders of Is. 6d. for
each 2s. share in November,
1959. The 6d. scrip was then
consolidated into Is. units.
The dredge remained shut-
down for the whole year ended
December 31, 1959, and the
co.’s yearly quota of 3784
piculs of tin-concentrates was
“made available to an asso-
ciated co. under grouping
arrangements.”
In the absence of tin-sales
(£66,637 in the preceding
term), Larut’s earnings were
limited to £4197 interest and
sundry receipts and £10,361
sale of quota-rights. Gross
profit fell by £62,600 to
£14,558. After deducting
£12,725 expenses (no tax was
paid), net profit for the year
was £3161 lower at £1833.
Except for the capital-
reduction, and a substantial
drop in cash, there was little
change in the balance-sheet:
1958. 1959. !
Paid capital ..£120,000 £30,000
Reserves .. .. 120,838 113,660
Provisions .. .. 36,796 35,840
Creditors, etc. .. 7,143 29,791
Dividends .. .. 18,000 9,000
£302,777 £218,291
Mine property . . 16,311 16,311
Dredge, plant, build-
ings, etb. .. 19,432 19,600
Investments . . 1,692 1,692 j
Buffer stock .. 26,075 26,075 j
Current assets .. 239,267 154,613 ;
£302,777 £218,291
Current assets include £88,026
cash (down £74,832). Fixed
assets have been heavily
depreciated.
A dividend of 6d. a Is.
share (less 40 p.c. Malayan
tax) was paid last March.
Dredging will be resumed
as soon as “reasonable econo-
mic returns” can be expected.
Because of low-grade deposits
only modest results are
anticipated.
The first International Tin
Agreement will expire on
June 30, 1961. Details of the
second agreement, negotiated
by 35 countries under the
auspices of U.N. International
Tin Council, have just been
released.
Export-quota for Malaya is
slightly raised, improving the
future outlook.
At the last sale in Sydney;
the Is. (stg.) ords. fetched Bs.
3d. a unit.


INVESTORS ! ! !
INVESTMENT
ADVISORY BUREAU
offers a
'' ( *
T 2 MONTHS 1 SERVICE
© Keep informed on the latest Stock Exchange moves
by subscribing to our investment letter service.
• A.M.I. shareholders know of our amazing predic-
tions on these and other shares made last year.
• M.K.U. shareholders are still discussing our
predictions.
• These are but a few of the wonderfully accurate
forecasts subscribers have enjoyed from our service.
• Send £5/5/-, fill in the coupon below and receive a
FREE COPY of our June letter.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME
ADDRESS
Phone
to A. M. Thompson and 2000
to M. C. Sheil —as considera-
tion for preliminary work. This
is not an out-of-the-way pro-
moters’ consideration.
The public is now being
offered 300,000 ss. shares, pay-
able a shilling on applica-
tion ; this will be followed
later by one call of 4s.
Plant cost is put at £50,000,
working-capital at £20,600,
preliminary expenses at £4400.
The issue has been under-
written by B. W. Rogers
Brokerage Company, of
Sydney, at 3d. per share. The
brokers are not members of
Sydney Stock Exchange, and
the prospectus makes no men-
tion of listing the shares on
the Stock Exchange. But chair-
man A. M. Thompson says
approaches are already being
made for listing in Sydney.
The directors of the co. are
Arthur M. Thompson (chair-
man), Ivan Dewhurst, Max
Opitz and M. C. Sheil. The
office of the co. is in Sydney.
The Land Boom
A ddressing shareholders at
the annual meeting of
National Reliance Investment
Co., Ltd., in Melbourne on June
27, chairman Staniforth Ricket-
son returned to the subject of
high share prices and the land
boom. He mentioned that the
inflow of capital from Africa
since the Sharpeville shootings
had been of great significance
in Australia “in stemming the
ebbing tide of British invest-
ment in this country,” and
materially increased the flow of
overseas money to the Austra-
lian sharemarket. This had
been “one of the new and un-
expected factors” in stopping a
downward trend in Australian
share prices following the un-
paralleled boom earlier this
year.
Mr. Ricketson agrees with
The Bulletin’s contention of
15/6/ ’60 —which he quotes
that the land boom is more
serious than the share boom.
And he is also in agreement
with the opinion expressed in
the same issue that a grave
Weakness in the financing of
subdivisions and building pro-
jects is that short-term finance,
in the form of loans and
deposits, is being used widely.
Short-term borrowing for long-
term projects—projects whicn
may become longer in term
than at first anticipated if
plans go astray —is always dan-
gerous. Yet some real-estate
people seem to be of the
opinion that what is good for
the h.-p. cos. is equally good
for them. It does not follow.
However, Mr. Ricketson
would probably heartily agree
with The Bulletin that what
we should be wary of in Aus-
tralia is not development, but
speculation in anticipation of
development. An excess of
speculation always hinders
development in the long-run
because of the high costs it
encourages and the recession
that almost always follows.
Australians have a strong
gambler’s streak in them, and
often fail to see the difference
between speculation and deve-
lopment. This is nowhere more
obvious than"when an investor
(or speculator), having
the low yield offering from a
stock explained to him, airily
dismisses the aspect of yield
and says he is only interested
in capital-increment.
Yet the inevitable governing
factor in capital-growth is the
income that is obtainable from
an investment now or in the
future. Income-yields cannot
with safety be regarded as a
mere token. That yield still is
of fundamental importance is
shown as soon as a company
is forced to cut its div. The
market’s reaction is usually
violent.
Roma by Gaslight
'T'he stage is set for another
act in the Roma theatre
following A. A. Oil’s announce-
ment of a further gas-show.
A. A. Oil’s chairman, E.
Avery, has announced that
two layers of gas-producing
sands have been found in a
well at Pickanjinnie, 20 miles
east of Roma.
Short tests have been made
on the well, indicating an
initial daily flow of 3,500,000
cubic-feet.
Mines Administration Pty.,
Ltd., now plans to drill a
further three wells within a
five-mile radius to produce gas
for the Roma powerhouse.
Commercially, a gasfield at
Roma may not have the
significance of a similar find
in the United States. This
would be accounted for in the
long supply-lines to a market,
with the initial capital-outlay
being in the vicinity of £6
million. Oil circles have indi-
cated that to be a commercial
possibility, production on the
field would have to be main-
tained at a minimum of
10-million cubic-feet a day.
The audience, however, are
interested enough to caush a
run on the shares before seeing
just what is below the gas.
Getting Together on Rutile
A successful conference of
mineral-sands producers,
representing almost 100 per
cent, of the industry, was held
at Surfers Paradise on June 9-
10. An exchange of informa-
tion took place in a spirit of co-
operation, and several construc-
tive proposals were examined
which aimed at solving the in-
dustry’s present price-cost
problems.
It was unanimously agreed
that the industry should
rationalise its activities with a
view to obtaining a price-
increase for both rutile and
zircon. Working - committees
were set-up to achieve this end.
The conference will re-convene
this month.
It is the first time that pro-
ducers have enthusiastically
endorsed controlled production.
At present overseas buyers are
getting rutile at below the cost
of production, despite the fact
that Australia controls 90 p.c.
of the world’s rutile.
Parkville (Vic.) Motels
Rockman, who sold-
out of the retail-chain busi-
ness so handsomely, has had an
application for a 71-unit motel
to cost upwards of £200,000
approved by Melbourne City
Council on a Parkville site
almost identical with that
applied for by Carapark Motels
and refused last October.
In the meantime Carapark
has bought an adjoining motel
and is extending it, and the
Board of Works has approved
the area for motels.
The councillors are earnest
workers for Melbourne, and
conscientious, too, and their
rewards are no more than a
companionable drink in the
Lord Mayor’s cupboard and an
invitation to his annual ball;
but even in this clubby atmo-
sphere they should stick to
their rulings.


The Case of the Haunted Taxi
By
CYRIL E. GOODE
For many years I have
refrained from relating
this story. People simply
won’t see the obvious
truth of it, but a busi-
ness associate only the
other day told me a similar
story about a submarine he
was in charge of during the
Midway Battle. At the criti-
cal speed of its alternators,
when its turbines were running-
up, nobody in it could speak.
“Not because of the noise,”
my nautical friend explained,
“but because of the pitch of
the noise. A very different
thing, you know.”
I readily agreed.
This decided me to place
these facts on record. I know
I will have at least one reader
who will not break into an
incredulous laugh or a piti-
ful smile. That is, of course,
apart from the men who
worked with me on the Wil-
una Gold Mine during the
early years of the great depres-
sion.
It was after the big fall of
earth in the stope on the West
Lode at the 2800 ft. level that
Langston’s nerves went to
pieces. A couple of his mates
had been carried into the
stope along with thousands of
tons of ore, but Lucky, as he
had been christened after an
earlier accident in the construc-
tion days of the plant, was
down along the drive getting
more steel. The little trolley
loaded with steel drills had
fouled the turntable out from
the main shaft, and this had
saved him.
After the double funeral
Lucky went on a bender for
a few days, but we man-
aged to get him sober
enough to front-up for work
at the next change of
shifts; and this wasn't easy,
because he was independent
in such matters. His shift-
boss was a good bloke and
noticed that he was like a
duck on a hot plate, even go-
ing down in the cage. At the
end of the shift he suggested
a transfer to the surface for
This story received the Ampol award for prose in the
Grenfell Henry Lawson Festival Competition, 1960.
a while ; but Lucky reckoned
he couldn’t live on surface-
wages. At that time most
underground jobs carried a
bonus- which helped to boost
our pay-envelopes quite a
little.
We were waiting out on the
plat for the big double-
decker cage to take us up;
she could handle 80 men at
a time, this one. We heard
Lucky thank the boss, and
then he said: “I think I’ll
give the mine a rest for a while
and buy a taxi. I had the
offer of one yesterday.”
There were some yarns
going around about a new
taxi-driver. He had got mixed-
up in a stabbing-affray at a
Yugoslav boarding-house at
Lakeside, a wild ramshackle sort
of suburb on rocky slopes near
the dry salt-lake that the slimes
emptied into. This fellow knew
he’d have to move on, as
about the only thing frowned-
upon there was cheating at
cards.
Tt was an eight-day wonder
when Lucky joined the
rank of about a dozen taxis
running between the iron-and-
hessian town and the Big
Mine three miles away in the
Mulga. We fondly referred to
this country as mulga long
after* the arsenic dust from
the treatment-plant had killed
everything green for miles
around. We simply couldn’t
get around to calling it desert
—pride dies hard even in hope-
less regions!
After awhile the miners
started to call this new taxi
“The Roarer.” At its, cruis-
ing-speed some peculiarity of
its mechanism resulted in a
sound which made conversa-
tion in the car impossible.
It wasn’t a loud noise—many
other cars on the rank were
far noisier—it was the pitch
of the sound that was the
trouble. It immediately
affected the voice-box when
we opened our mouths to say
something. Some of the
fellows said it affected the
hearing, but a greater number
claimed it paralysed the vocal
chords.
It was only Lucky’s popu-
larity that kept him going. He
had always helped to run the
Saturday-night boxing; was
one of the best at the Fire
Brigade competitions and was
good at football. Of course,
we’d take his car when it
moved down to the front of
the rank, but for special jobs
(and these can mean quite
a lot in a boom-town) it was
never out of the garage.
He started drinking again.
Some thought it was only a
hangover from the tragedy in
the stope. I knew different.
He told me that when he ran
50 or 100 miles out to a small
mine or a cattle station, or
a State battery, no one could
talk going out, and he couldn’t
sing coming back.
“Why,” he growled, “I can’t
even talk to myself. The
damned thing’s haunted, and
yet I’m attached to it.; it’s
the first car I ever owned.”
Twice he had it pulled-down
at different garages, but it was
just as bad when it was fitted
together again. His girl-friend
said it was worse and refused
to have another ride in it. Then
she started going with someone
else . . . which was easy enough
in a place where men out-
numbered women by 50 to
one.
I’ve often been asked, *‘Why
didn't he sell it?” But it
wasn’t as simple as that. This
desert town was about 800
miles inland, and everyone
knew everyone else’s business.
He wouldn’t have got a bidder.
And anyway he had put every-
thing he had into it; also some
money he had borrowed. This
place had its effect on us, too.
After being here a few months
nobody could reach a decision
about anything, unless it was
about going and having
another drink.
Soon the bright happy
fellow we all liked, became
taciturn and difficult. I have
never seen such a change in
anyone ; and I’ve seen lonely
places break many a man.
Co this was how things stood
when it came around to
when Wiluna was to visit
Meekatharra for the annual
golf tournament.
Everyone seemed to be in
this show; even rough miners
who would fight anyone they
saw carrying a bag of sticks
would do the trip. All the
taxis and a number of private
cars were called-in for the
occasion. To most, I confess,
it was only a chance of a
change of scene for drinking-
activities. Men here were
driven to all kinds of stupidi-
ties to break the monotony.
Even cockroach - racing was
taken seriously.
We took pity on Lucky and
seven of us coming off the
first short-shift Saturday morn- j
ing booked him up. Two
would have to ride in the
dicky-seats but they were all
right. A few miles out the
mulga would be alive, and even
a few stunted mallees would


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■Jackson &
ti* PTYLTfi ~
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
be managing to earn a liv-
ing. I was looking forward
to all this and had left my
clubs in the compound—l
believed in enjoying myself.
It was late winter, a glorious
time on the Murcfiison, and as
we left a little after four we
found ourselves driving into a
magical furnace of golden sky.
Men cannot live by sky-displays
alone and soon they started
passing the bottles around.
Then someone tried to strike-
up a song. You know that men
who never sing, and who nor-
mally never want to, will get
operatic notions after having
a few drinks. The idea imme-
diately caught on ; but as soon
as they opened their lips, the
noise from the gear-box hit
them they mouthed and
gaped like fish out of water.
I have a good memory and
can still see the gentle greens
of the first mallees and the grey*
green mulgas trying out a
travesty of bloom after a
thunderstorm, but I have no
recollection of hearing a note
of that song. I knew by the
way the men’s lips moved
it was supposed to be a song
about Lakeside that someone
had made up a few months
before. I always regret not
having recorded this song in
my diary because I think it
was genuine folk-lore.
Our expedition must go down
in the social annals of the
Murchison as the greatest
failure of all time. The frus-
trated men soon gave up their
attempt at harmony and then
started to pick the driver, at
first jestingly and then in a
more nasty way. There were
six fights on the way down,
three before we had even
reached the Jump-up, that part
of the journey where the desert
had changed its levels in some
giant cataclysm of the past.
I stopped two of the fights
when I thought the driver was
weakening—l imagined he
had got out of form —but
no one stopped the next one
when he turned on me.
The rest of the fights didn’t
concern the driver; we were
just fighting amongst ourselves.
I was a bit savage about the
black-eye I had collected,
because I knew that it would
put me out of the running
for the circular waltz com-
petition that night. Believe it
or not, in those days I rather
fancied myself as a waltzer.
After the last fight the trip
went without anyone saying
a word ; without anyone trying
to say a word. . . And when
We reached Meeka there weren’t
enough bottles to go round,
but we all did our best and
drank in different bars of the
Royal Mail and Commercial.
TyjRiNG the Saturday and
Sunday I caught occasional
glimpses of Lucky, and I felt
a lot better when I noticed
that someone had given him
two black-eyes as well as other
blemishes. I couldn’t get into
the right mood at all and it
didn’t help to brighten me up
when I realised I had left a
parcel containing a new dinner-
suit in one of the bars, or
somewhere. I used to keep up
a bit of style at these golf
balls, but I sensed very early
that I might as well write this
one off as a bad debt.
The second night we all came
back in different cars.
I’ll always blame myself for
what happened. Lucky and
I had been mates when we first
carried our swags to the fields.
The rail-head had then been
Meekatharra and we got jobs
on the big transports bringing
mining-equipment on to the
new show at Lake Way—that
was the old name for Wiluna.
This job had cut-out when
the line was extended, and
while we were waiting for a
start on the mine we shared
the same abandoned boiler
for a camp.
When our names went-up
on the underground list, we
were on different parts of the
workings and got out of touch.
He started to board in town
and I moved into the Mine
Compound, four- or five-hun-
dred small limewashed hessian
camps clustered around a mud-
brick eating-house.
I’m saying all this as an
excuse, and yet all the time I
know it’s rather hollow. I
should have overlooked my
trifling complaints and re-
turned in his taxi —but I was
young and intolerant then.
The car I did go back in
carried a jolly crowd. We
caught up with and passed
“The Roarer” just before
entering the section where
nature, like a bad-tempered
brat, had turned everything
upside-down. Lucky was going
along quietly without any pas-
sengers and seemed to have the
small cabin-light on for com-
pany. I, felt a pang of remorse
seeing him there all alone;
but we were all singing, and
when I’m singing I can’t think.
Before I could make up
my mind about getting out and
changing cars, it happened.
Vs7e had only gone about
’ * another quarter-of-a-
mile when “The Roarer” came
up at about 70 or 80 miles an
hour. Our driver tried to give
way, but Lucky was inde-
pendent to the last and scooped
out a new path through the
scrub. It was superb, the way
he straightened her up again.
He was one of the best drivers
I have ever seen. As he flashed
by I had a vision of him tensed
over the wheel, with his hair
flying wild and his lips opening
and closing as be mouthed
out some ghastly song; but
I knew that, even with his inner
ear, he would be hearing noth-
ing. It was uncanny.
One of our team shouted,
“The Jump-up’s just ahead!”
Then the moonlight that was
bright enough to read a news-
paper by was ripped apart by
a sound like an exploding
bomb. A few seconds later
we pulled-up. No one now
would ever discover why the
car had made that maddening
noise. Although at that speed
the driver had never had a
chance, some trick of Fate
had thrown him clear of the
tangled mess.
There was something sym-
bolical in the relative positions
of his body and the wreck.
One of the fellows said,
“He’s free of the car.”
I nodded sadly: “Yes, free
of the damned thing forever!”
THE FOX
[Winning poem in the Grenfell Henry Lawson Festival
verse Competition]
Ho, the fox; he was a cocky one, oh yes,
With a ruff that would grace the cub of a lion
And a brush as full and long as he please.
Abroad with his mate when the moon was bright,
He walked as though he owned the night,
And he stepped as though he stepped on stars;
And came in his pride where a tethered dog
Slept by a piece of unwanted meat.
The fox walked up and gave him the treat
Of three fox-barks from six short feet.
The fat dog jumped out of sense and wit
To the end of his chain, and he strained at it
And barked till his lips and the ground about
Were specked with bubbles of foam and spit.
The fox stood off and barked again,
Then circled outside the sphere of the chain.
As the dog in fury followed him round,
The chain on its centre-peg was wound.
When it was short enough, the fox,
Showing how often the calm are wise,
Went quietly in and claimed his prize.
Then with the piece of stolen meat
He stepped as though on the points of stars
And he walked like the king to the queen of the night
And dropped it down beside his mate;
And, after her, he deigned to eat.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


COMPANY MEETING
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
FRIDAY. 24th JUNE, 1960
Held in Melbourne
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Meeting, Mr. C. Y. SYME, Chairman, said:
I will first refer to the Balance
Sheet where the main movement
has been in debtors —an increase of
just over £1.000.000 being recorded.
The total value of livestock sold
during the year was nearly
£10,000,000 higher than during the
previous year and the financing of
this higher turnover is one of the
main reasons for the increase in
debtors.
Better prices received for wool
during the current season are re-
flected in the increase in clients
balances.
Merchandise stocks are up
slightly due to a larger carry-
over of cornsacks and to the earlier
receipt of woolpacks for the forth-
coming season. .
Part of the cost of building
the wool store at Goulburn is
reflected in the increase shown in
Business and Station; Properties.
As mentioned in the Directors’ Re-
port, this store will be ready for
the coming wool season. Wool pro-
ducers and business people in the
area have welcomed the establish-
ment of this, our eighth wool-
selling centre.
Because of the effects of inflation,
adequate retiring benefits are not
being provided by the Staff Provi-
dent Fund for officers with long
service and, following on an actu-
arial investigation, a supplement-
ary pension scheme is being drawn
up which will make good the posi-
tion. A tentative estimate of the
cost at 31st March. 1960. was about
£600,000 of which £200,000 has been
set aside from the year's profits
and is shown in the Balance Sheet
as “Provision for Supplementary
Pension Fund.”
Profit and Loss Account
All activities of the Company
contributed to the improved earn-
ings during the year, but one of
the outstanding features was the
striking increase in wool sold.
At 633,000 bales, this was 122,000
bales more than the quantity on
which earnings were brought into
account last year, and although our
proportion of the total receipts
into Brokers’ Stores was well
maintained, we sold more wool
than was received. The carry for-
ward into the current year is less
than last year by 28,000 bales. The
average price per bale for the
year was 21% higher than that for
the previous year.
Sales of sheep were up 29%, the
total handled being 7.410,000, but
the average price per head for the
year was down 5%. mainly the re-
sult of the bad seasonal conditions
in South Australia where a large
number of sheep were sold at very
low prices. Sales of cattle were
relatively static in number but the
average price per head was 37%
higher than last year. The export
of boned meat, mainly, to the!
United States of America, is still
having a strong effect on the
market and it would appear that
the prospects of the cattle industry
should continue to be good for
some time. We are pleased to learn
that the United States Tariff Com-
mission does not favor the request
from some of their producer'organ-
isations to increase the tariff
against our meat.
Profits from the operations of the
Company’s stations were better
than last year, mainly due to the
improvement in wool values.
Expenses this year show only a
moderate increase despite a sub-
stantial increase in business
handled. Salaries were increased
during'the year by the Arbitration
Commission—from June following
the basic wage increase of 15/- per
week and from December follow-
ing the 28% marginal increase in
the Metal Trades Award. This
latter increase will substantially
add to our expenses during the
current year, and special attention
is still being given to control of
costs.
Owing to marginal and other
increases in salaries awarded or
granted during the past year, it
has been necessary to increase the
provision for Long Service Leave.
There is still some misunder-
standing regarding our income tax
provision which might appear high
in relation to our profits. I would
like to remind stockholders of the
explanation I gave in 1957 when
I said that, mainly because de-
preciation on wool stores and most
other buildings was not being
allowed for taxation purposes, we
are taxed on more than our true
profit. We strongly support the
adoption of the recommendation
of the Hulme Report that deprecia-
tion on buildings should be allowed
even if it is limited to depreciation
based on historic cost. We our
selves find it necessary to provide
depreciation on estimated present
replacement cost.
It was decided during the year to
bring the activities of Fenwick, &
Co. Ltd. under the direct control
of our Brisbane branch and accord-
ingly that Company is to be wound
up.
Wool Market
This wool selling season may, on
the whole, be regarded as satisfac-
tory although the continued rise in
costs is of special concern to all
primary producers and those
closely associated with them.
There was a sharp rise in priees at
the first sales of the season com-
pared with those ruling at the end
of 1958/59. There were fluctuations
as the season progressed but these
were within comparatively narrow
limits.
Receipts into Brokers’ Stores
should be in the vicinity of
5,000,000 bales which compares
with the previous record of
4,886,551 in 1956-57 and 4,790,282
last season. Except for that of
South Australia and some other
isolated drought areas, the stand-
ard of production was good.
The season’s average (11 months)
was 58.50 d. per lb. or 20 per cent,
higher than that for the previous
one. Total proceeds are expected
to be £368,000,000, which is about
£73,000,000, or some 25 per cent,
more than the £295,000,000 realised
in 1958/59.
Although greater quantities have
been offered, demand has been sus-
tained well and it is anticipated
that the season’s production will
be disposed of on time.
There has been a satisfactory
distribution of buying strength
over the period and, generally, the
tone of the market has been confi-
dent. Japan has become the lead-
ing buyer and has taken a wide
range of wools. Her wool manu-
facturing industries continue to ex-
pand. Great Britain remains as a
very important influence in our
market though some credit restric-
tion and heavy supplies of semi-
processed wools resulted in less
activity from that quarter. Large
purchases were made by Western
European countries, particularly
France, Belgium, West Germany
and Italy. Useful support was
received from Russia and Eastern
European countries. Scoured and
carbonised wools continue to be
shipped to Mainland China in addi-
tion to increasing quantities of
greasy wools.
Australian mills have figured
prominently in the market and
increased quantities have been
treated by local scourers and car-
bonisers.
Because of the increasing
volume of wool production it has
become -necessary to extend the
wool selling season and; after con-
sultation with the Australian Wool
Growers’ Council and the Aus-
tralian Council of Wool Buyers,
the National Council of Wool Sell-
ing Brokers of Australia has an-
nounced that there will be sales
held in most centres in July, 1960.
while sales in Perth are rostered
for early August. It is considered
that continuity of markets would
be of advantage to all sections of
the industry.
An event of considerable interest
was the opening of a Greasy Wool
Futures Market in Sydney on 11th
May last. As yet operations have
been on only a modest scale.
The Season
Good soaking opening rains have
made the outlook encouraging for
the whole of Western Australia, the
agricultural. areas of South Aus-
tralia. for Victoria and for the
Riverina. However, in some parts
of Victoria and the Riverina early
growth was retarded by the un-
usually cold weather experienced.
Provided normal follow-on rains
are received, the season should be
satisfactory. Much more rain is
needed to assure the season* in
New South Wales where in many
areas only moderate falls have so
far been recorded.
In north-west Queensland con-
ditions were developing unfavor-
ably until the falls in late April
and early May. As a result of these
recent falls there will be a light
body of freshened feed in most
areas. In Queensland generally
more rain is required to assure
the position for the winter months.
Company’s Properties
Seasonal conditions on our own
Station properties were satisfac-
tory during the greater part of the
year, but a dry Autumn in parts
of New South Wales is now causing
some concern and rain is needed to
ensure adequate feed.
Lambing results were above
average. Prices obtained for sur-
plus sheep were lower than in the
previous year, but this was offset
by increased returns from sales ol
cattle.
Rabbits have been kept under
control but noxious weeds are still
causing concern.
The coming wool clip is expected
to be well grown but lighter in
condition than usual.
General /
The improvement in wool priees
coupled with the substantial in-
crease in production has played
a predominant part in assisting
the Australian economy over the
past year. In fact, overall rural
production has been a major factor
in the increased value of our ex-
ports, accounting for approxi-
mately 78% of the total increase
of £175,000,000 recorded for the year
ended 31st March last. These
figures emphasise our dependence
on rural produce, the priees and
quantities of 'which are subject
to the vagaries of world markets
and seasonal conditions. The pic-
ture has not changed very
markedly over the years and rural
production still remains the key
to our progress. The remarkable
development achieved in this direc-
tion may be illustrated by the fact
that over the past decade wool
production has increased by some
1,500.000 bales or about 43%. De-
velopment on this scale has been
possible because of widespread use
of pasture improvement, better
equipment and better animal hus-
bandry. But the incentive and
ability to continue this policy de-
pends on the producer being able
to carry on his business profitably.
Many particularly the smaller
producers are already finding
their margins very narrow indeed.
Unfortunately, it is not yet suffi-
ciently recognised in Australia just
how serious are the effects of con-
tinuing inflation. People who
supply goods and services only to
the local market are frequently
able to increase prices in conform-
ity with the rise in their costs
and higher nominal incomes tend
to encourage free spending. All
this tends to create an atmosphere
of optimism and the serious danger
that we may price ourselves out
of the export market is being over-
looked or discounted in too many
quarters.
Earlier in this address I re-
ferred to the fact that a sum in
the vicinity of £600,000 will he
required to assure to our Staff
retirement benefits on a,scale which
is now generally accepted as reason-
able. The basis being adopted
is a pension (or its lump sum
equivalent) of 50% of retiring
salary provided the officer has
least 30 years with the
Company, and for lesser periods
of service on a reducing scale.
Your Directors have long recog-
nised the effects of inflation on the
value of the amounts contributed
to the Staff Provident .Fund by the
Company and its Staff and in
previous years have substantially
increased grants beyond the £ for
£ basis but still the provision has
been shown to be insufficient. This
state of affairs graphically illus-
trates what inflation is doing to
{Continued on next \page )


the savings of the whole com-
munity.
During the current year it is
also intended to liberalise the
insurance taken out on the lives
of male members of the permanent
staff.
As a result of adverse seasonal
conditions in the past year, it will
be necessary for many producers
to carry out a restocking pro-
gramme, particularly in South
Australia, and it is difficult at this
stage to estimate the amount of
finance required. In addition, the
improvement in rural income as
compared with the poor results of
the previous year, will result in
higher taxation commitments and
it is more than likely we will
be called upon to assist our clients
materially when these assessments
become due for payment early
next year. Recently the Common-
wealtTi Development Bank has
given considerable assistance to
some graziers to undertake sub-
stantial improvement programmes
which will require a few years to
become fully productive. I have
referred from time to time to the
need of the industry for finance
Oj- this nature, and we hope to see
substantial development as a result
ot assistance from the Bank.
,-- 0 “ e results for the year ended
at March last have been very
good but, on .present conditions, it
is most unlikely that they will be
equalled in the current year. In
l ) ® r '? cu ' ar . they will be adversely
affected by the lower carry for-
ward of wool.
Our success last year was in no
small measure the result of the effi-
,‘‘ en f7 and enthusiasm displayed
fy the Staff and I am pleased to
r?? C ' e , °n record the thanks of the
Board for their efforts.
The Booyoeg
Bushrangers
By PETER WARD
A huge grey sedan, im-
ported, thudding over
the wooden bridge
spanning the creek on
the outskirts of the town.
Three men in the car.
The banner strung across
the roadway:
Welcome to Booyong
Centenary Celebrations.
The service-station, modern,
eye-catching.
“That, sir? Well, the town’s
a hundred years old this year,
so we’re having these celebra-
tions. Going for a week, they
are. You fellers ought to stay
a few days, if you’ve got the
time. Here’s a programme.
Tells you all about it.”
Bright, dusty flags swaying
overhead in Settlers Avenue.
The old town face-lifted for
the occasion. Painted, tidy.
Shops eager for custom,
eager to please. Stickers in
the windows: Welcome to
Booyong.
The Wang Wang Hotel, the
pub with the bat-wing doors’.
The old prints on the wall:
Phar Lap, Young Griffo. Fly-
dirt. The bar, dark and
smelly.
And O'Shea, old and un-
hurried : “Sure and it’s got a
history, this pub. Ben Hall,
the bushranger, he came right
into this bar with two of his
gang, Dunleavy and White.
Held-up the licensee, robbed
the safe. Got away with six-
hundred quid, he did.”
“Ben Hall, eh? A real bad
egg.”
“Oh, a bit of a lad, to be
sure. Eighteen-sixty-four, it
was. And the police. You
know what they was doing?
The four of them, they was
trembling for fear of their
lives behind the locked doors
of the police-station. Of
course, I can understand that.
The Hall gang were wild men
and Ben never missed an
opportunity to take a shot at
a copper.”
“That’s all very interesting,
Mr. O’Shea.”
“Oh, and there’s a lot of
interesting things about this
town I could be telling you.
Interesting things, like the
gold-strikes, and so on. We’ve
got the big race-meeting this
afternoon, and a concert
coming up, and an art exhibi-
tion. Pity you weren’t here
sooner. You missed the
Show. Then on Wednesday
there’s the big parade through
the town, and Wednesday
night we finish-up with the
ball at the Town Hall.
“Thinking of staying?”
“Thinking of it, yes.”
“I could put you chaps up,
if you don’t mind sleeping on
the veranda.”
“We don’t mind that.”
“Fine. Now, if you’ll just
come through here and sign
the book.”
They signed: Higgins,
Hanna, O'Hooligan.
T2he police-station, neat and
■*- comfortable. Flower-beds,
lawn. Charge-room in front,
cells at rear, and living-
quarters.
The tally: one pickpocket,
two drunks, four brawlers, one
confidence-man sent back to
Sydney.
Constable Smith saying,
“We’ve got the town sewn-up
tighter than a drum.”
Sergeant Hinkler pleased.
“You see the look on the
con’s face when we nabbed
him stepping off the train?
He didn’t think we’d know
him. Those crims. come up
from Sydney expecting to find
the town run by a lot of
hicks!” '
Sky clear, sun warm, fresh
breeze. Perfect day. Every-
body busy, making prepara-
tions.
“What! And you’re leaving,
Mr. O’Hooligan? The three
of you? Can’t you wait for
the big parade this afternoon?”
“We have to be getting
along, Mr. O’Shea.”
“Well, that’s a shame.
You’ll be missing the best part
of the whole thing. There’ll
be everything you can think of
in that parade.”
The man mending the dray
in the yard outside the town:
“You the bloke rang me
about the horses, eh? They’re
over there. I’ll saddle ’em
up. Watch Polly. She bites.
Two quid each it’ll be for the
afternoon. Is that your name?
Hall?”
“That’s my name.”
“In those outfits you’d fool
anyone. Those guns look real.
Going in the parade, eh?
Should be worth watching.
Wish I could. Got this dray
to fix by tonight.”
The big parade coming down
Settlers Avenue.
Floats with bearded miners
and coaches with crinolined
ladies and a man on a penny-
farthing bike, and a 1912 De
Dion tourer ; a camel and two
elephants from the circus pass-
ing through, and three masked
bushrangers, armed with
pistols and looking very
ferocious ; an antique horse-
drawn fire-engine and the
circus band. Then the Cen-
tenary Queen, on a float
attended by the lesser beauties
of the town, smiling and
waving to the crowd; floats
sponsored by the Chamber of
Commerce, the football club ;
the Railway band. And, of
course, at the tail-end, the kids
of the town, stomping along,
acknowledging the cheers.
The parade turns from
Settlers Avenue into Wylde
Street, heading for the Town
Hall. The crowd screams and
roars and the car-horns honk
and blare and the bands play
louder than they have ever
played before. The bush-
rangers fire their pistols into
the air, and, all in all, it is
the loudest parade the town
has ever had.
The head of the parade
passes Woolworth’s store,
Joseph’s Hardware, the
National Bank of New South
Wales, the Post Office, nearing
the Town Hall.
The three bushrangers,
apparently overcome with
exuberance, break their place
in the parade and begin to
canter up and down the street
yah-hooing and firing their
pistols and generally trying to
hog all the limelight.
(Continued on page 45)


A Vital Policy Under Fire
White Australia Still a “Must”
Critics of the White Australia
policy come in all shapes and are
activated by various motives. In
their most extreme form they
seem not only to be ashamed of the
policy but also ashamed of being white.
Not being colored is apparently the
modern “White Man’s Burden.” Most
critics don't take this extreme view.
There are churchmen who feel that
they cannot conscientiously preach
Christianity and at the same time con-
done a policy which excludes from our
shores a large portion of the human
race. There are university students who
work and play with Asian students, know
them to be likeable folk and find it
embarrassing to have to explain, let alone
justify, a policy which prevents their
taking-up permanent residence here.
There are get-together clubs of back-
slapping businessmen who suffer similar
embarrassment at international jam-
borees. There are even those leftovers
from a previous generation who look to
Asian immigration to replace the lost race
of domestic servants.
In addition to these “personal-reason”
groups there are large numbers who have
been caught-up in the backwash of the
wave of nationalism that has ended white
dominance in Asia and Africa, and by
some strange distortion imagine that
recognition of nationalism in those con-
tinents necessitates the acceptance of
internationalism in Australia.
These people, with the very best of in-
tentions, seem to think that because 80-
odd nations give lip-service to the United
Nations Charter the brotherhood of man
is an accomplished fact and that it is
up to Australians to show that they are
just as good as the next man in global
bonhomie and goodfellowship and that
they can best do this by admitting
migrants from Asia.
“Control or Color Bar?”
'T'he Immigration Reform Group, a
Melbourne team of three-dozen men
and women who have published a
pamphlet Control Or Color Bar? cannot
be accused of having given no thought
to the problem. They have obviously
given it much serious thought; have
tried to be moderate and tolerant in
their criticism of upholders of the policy
and cautious in their suggestions for
changing it. But it is impossible to accept
their assurance that they approached the
subject “as a study group, not committed
to any particular policy as regards Asian
migration.” They were clearly already
committed to the belief that White Aus-
tralia was wrong. Otherwise why should
they say, in the very next paragraph,
“At every stage we kept asking ourselves
why we felt it to be important that non-
Europeans should be allowed to enter
Australia more freely?”
As the group started-off with the con-
viction that it was important that non-
European migrants should be admitted,
and was merely searching for reasons
why, it is not surprising that they found
some. Human beings seldom fail to find
reasons to justify beliefs firmly held.
No Change Needed
nr'HE Bulletin does not believe that it
is necessary for Australia to receive
non-European migrants. It was support-
ing the principle of a White Australia
before the policy was ever proclaimed
in those words ; at a time when power-'
ful bodies of opinion advocated Chinese
and Kanaka immigration. It takes pride
in the fact that it had some influence
in getting that policy adopted nationally
and accepted almost universally for well
over half-a-century. It believes that the
policy has been necessary for the well-
being of Australia and that the mass of
the Australian people of the present day
are better-off because of it.
Holding these views, The Bulletin
sees no need to change the White Aus-
tralia policy ; it feels no guilt-complex
either for its own part in fashioning the
policy or for the successive generations
of Australians who have upheld it. For
that reason it finds the answers which the
Immigration Reform Group gave them-
selves to the questions they asked them-
selves singularly unconvincing. These
answers are:
The first and perhaps the more import-
ant is the effect of the policy within
Australia. We need at least a small inflow
of Asian migrants for Australia’s sake.
We need them to enrich our culture. We
need them to increase our understanding
of our Asian neighbors and to prepare
us for participation in the inter-racial
councils of the world. We need them if
our present efforts to help Asia are to
be well directed and successful. Secondly,
the policy should be changed because of
its disastrous impact on non-European
opinion.
The Bulletin agrees that the most
important factor is the effect of the policy
within Australia. That, indeed, is the
whole purpose of the policy. It does not
agree that at least a small inflow of
Asian migrants is necessary for Aus-
tralia's sake. What arguments are
advanced to support this claim? “We
need them to enrich our culture.” What
that means the pamphlet doesn’t say,
but it is a statement that proves abso-
lutely nothing. Does Norway need
Asian migrants to improve its culture?
Does Holland? Does Italy? Does
Ireland feel that it is becoming a cultural
desert because no Indians or Burmans
are seeking a permanent home there?
“We need them to increase our under-
standing of our Asian neighbors and to
prepare us for participation in the inter-
racial councils of the world.” This
sounds very well, but is it true? As indi-
viduals how many of us would be
personally affected? A,nd as to the second
half of the argument, surely the group
is underrating us? Any new-fledged
African republic feels fully confident of
its representatives’ ability to participate
fully in world councils. Why should we
Australians have to be “prepared” for
the task by meeting transplanted Asians
in our own country?
“We need them if our present efforts
to help Asia are to be well directed and
successful.” Again, why? Our efforts
can best be directed by finding out from
Asians in Asia where they can. be best
applied.
The real test should not be whether
the White Australia policy is offensive
to non-whites, but whether white Aus-
tralians are offensive to non-whites. We
should be judged by how we treat Asians
already living here ; by how we treat
non - Europeans who come here as
students or visitors ; by how we behave
towards non-Europeans when we meet
them abroad.
Little Color Prejudice
HPhe group admits that there is very
little racial discrimination in Aus-
tralia. Asian students “are generally
pleasantly surprised at the rarity of
discrimination in everyday life.” Most
of them “are intelligent enough to realise
that there is not a great deal of color
prejudice in Australia.”
But, for all that, the group feels that
the White Australia policy “militates
against the success of the national policy
of welcoming Asian students,” because
they are not permitted to stay here.
This is twisted thinking. The Asian
students are welcomed here because
there are not sufficient facilities in their
own countries at the present stage of
development. They are being educated
to help in the advancement of their own
countries. To persuade or permit them
to stay here permanently would be to
do a disservice to the new nations which
need every trained man they can get.
We would not win much friendship with
Asian nations if we were to educate their
bright young men and keep them here
for our own advantage.
The group advocates a carefully
balanced inflow of non - European
migrants, small at first, the number to
be stepped-up or lessened in the light
of experience. The danger in this is
that while it would be easy enough to
step-up the number, once such a scheme
started it would be virtually impossible
to reduce it without ruining all the
friendships on which the group sets such
store.
The safest thing is to leave well alone.
The present policy is clear and it is
understood. It may not be palatable to
some of our neighbors, but no nation
has ever made that the main criterion
of its national policy. If this country
had 50-million people it could, perhaps,
afford to make experiments of this sort.
At the present stage of our we
do so at our peril.


start the day right!
/j
m
ut o^ c
F
‘vVmc
S«*
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Doomben
Hopes for a Brisbane-
trained winner of the
Doomben Cup next Satur-
day don’t look bright in view
of the form already shown
by visiting horses.
Selections: Mediterranean, 1;
with Somain and Polo Prince
the chief dangers.
Though the Cup field is
still uncertain at time of
writing, Mediterranean’s win
in the 11-furlongs Homestead
Handicap at Warwick Farm at
the weekend looked tiptop
form for the big Doomben
race, run over 11 furlongs
27yds. He carried 8.9 on
Saturday, and drops 81b. in
the Cup. Also, he won at
Eagle Farm on June 11 with
8.4 and was sixth in the Bris-
bane Cup to Valerius, after
racing well till the closing
stages of the two-miler. He’s
a good one from New Zealand,
where he’s had several wins.
Somain cleared out with
Doomben’s 10-furlongs Car-
nival Handicap, beating
King’s Idea and Polo Prince,
and at 7.8 he has a tidy pull
in the Cup weights. Polo
Prince will drop from 8.5 to
Bst., and he might well run
a better race in the Cup. In
Love, winner of the Ten
Thousand, has copped a 51b.
penalty in the Cup, and Dow
Street, on 7.11, would appear
a better chance. In Love was
this page’s selection for the
Ten Thousand.
* * *
Nationals Double
Unlike the Grand National
Hurdle, which has gone more
often than not to lightweights,
the National Steeple is a good
race for heavily - burdened
horses. The slower pace helps,
and five of the last 11 Steeple
winners have carried list, or
more. A couple in that cate-
gory this year look dangerous
—Tranquil Glow, with 11.10,
and Irish Sun, list. However,
Mudeet on 10.5 has won four
’chases in a row, and looks
the logical National winner.
Trainer Alec Fullarton has
scratched Grand Reward in
Mudeet’s favor a good
pointer.
Selections for the Grand
National Steeple: Mudeet, 1 ;
Irish Sun and Tranquil Glow
next.
• • • •
A Grand National Hurdle
field that looked well below
average—only one final accep-
tor had more than lOst. —was
further reduced in class when
“Win ONE race — that's all—and I'll get you
better accommodation."
leg-injuries prevented Regal
Copy and Asprey from meeting
their engagements, and a
bruised heel held-up Locharn’s
preparation at a critical stage.
In the weakened field Justifica-
tion was backed to favoritism
and rewarded supporters with
a most courageous effort to
land the money by a" neck
from Line Ahead. At the
furlong-post the South Aus-
tralian seemed beaten to the
world when Line Ahead ran
up to him, but, with Cleghorn
wielding the whip vigorously,
Justification came again to
score narrowly. Thompson, on
Line Ahead, entered an unsuc-
cessful protest. Fair Counsel
was third, three lengths behind
Line Ahead.
The winner is a five-year-old
chestnut gelding by Confessor
from Bandana by Dhoti (imp.).
His owner, A. B. Rugless, gave
only 80gns. for him, and that
through mistaken sentiment. Rug-
less’s father was a close friend
of Richard Bradfield, trainer of
four Melbourne Cup winners, and
Rugless bought Justification because
he mistakenly believed that Brad-
field had trained the gelding’s
grand-dam, Dunloe.
The Keilor Hurdle was on
Saturday’s programme to cater for
jumpers not considered up to
National standard, but it provided
some interesting thoughts for the
future. The winner, Logic Lad,
gave a sparkling display over the
last half-mile to beat the favorite,
Sundial, by six lengths. His time,
3.36 J, on a typical winter track
was outstanding—the course record,
held by Bridge of Mar, is 3.34 J.
A six-year-old gelding from a
Great Legend mare by Logical, the
winner has not had much experi-
ence over jumps, and he could
have an outstanding future.
Another runner well worth remem-
bering was Grey Jet. The smart
pace left him hopelessly astern
for most of the journey, but he
ran home very strongly to finish
fourth. He, too, is a novice at
the game, but he could be a
National hope next year.
There was great jubilation
in the press-box at Flemington
after Billowing Sails won the
Kensington Steeple. The
winner is owned by a coterie
of Melbourne pressmen, J. C.
Waters, H. Bailey, Bert Wolfe
and Jack Elliott.
A half-brother to Kingster,
Billowing Sails is bred more like
a Cup winner than a steeplechaser,
being by Bob Cherry (imp.) from
Canvas Back (imp.) by William of
Valence. Last year he won a
couple of Hurdle races, and since
being switched to ’chasing this
season he has shown gradual
improvement, leading up to Satur-
day’s win. He gained favor for
the National next Saturday, but at
time of writing was an uncertain
runner. Last year’s National
winner, Irish Sun, was pegging
Billowing Sails back over the last
furlong of the Kensington, and he
has a good chance of winning the
big race for the second time.
Luck was with Fred Astaire
when he invested some of his
“On the Beach” earnings in
bloodstock. He bought two
expensive youngsters, Far Out
and Anything. Far Out has
already won a couple of races,
and on Saturday Anything
added another win for Astaire.
By Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Persist by MacArthur, Anything
cost Astaire’s agent, Stan Murphy,
6100gns. Anything had been
rather a disappointment, and in
the first heat of the Two-year-old
mile Murphy asked Jack Purtell
to test him as a stayer. At the
home-turn, the colt was a long
way from the leaders, but he ran
on brilliantly to score going away.
The New Zealand-bred
Blue Pelt, by Blueskin II from
Cachette, is proving a bargain
for his owners, W. E., A. W.
and W. M. Hollier, who gave
only 450gns. for the gelding.
He has raced three times at
Flemington since June 11, for
two wins and a third, and he
gave a stayer’s performance
to come from eighth at the
half-mile to win the second
heat of the Two-year-old
mile.
However, Softly Spoken, a
gelding by Judicate from Soft
Answer, looked unlucky.
He missed the start, quickly made-
up his ground to lead a furlong
out, but had nothing left for the
last little bit. He ran third, and
looks certain to score soon.
It was mentioned here last
week that Geoff Lane, troubled
by weight, had only one ride
at Moonee Valley for one win.
It was the same story at
Flemington. With his only
engagement for Society Beau
in the last, Lane spent most of
the day cheering Collingwood
to victory in the footy, then
made a quick dash to Fleming-
ton. His mount was favorite,
and, beautifully handled, had
the second Braybrook Handi-
cap won at all stages.
* * *
At Warwick Farm
Main feature of Saturday’s
racing at Warwick Farm was
the superb display of horse-
manship by Ray Selkrig, who
won half the eight-event pro-
gramme. His winners were


<z7 J /((/e -
ti/ie %/mce
9 •
'A
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
As.
/* *
v u
i
■ ~
.... v«
White Label
Dt WA* s r.Nt S(OTf M Wml
John Dewur k Sons l
Street scene, hong kong, Photo by Qantas.
“White Label”
Dewars
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
DWII7
Broulee (9 to 1), Gene San
(7 to 1), Central (2 to 1) and
Ramazan (6 to 1), and he
finished second on Fair Share
and third on Neutron,
Selkrig is running second in
the jockey’s premiership with
68 winners, but Sellwood, with
85 so far, is well in front.
* * * *
Selkrig landed the first of his
quartet—Broulee, in the First
Two-year-old Handicap—
on a protest against Pavan for
interference over the closing
stages. Few who supported
Pavan expected he’d lose the
race, and didn’t bother to save
their money, though they
could have secured as much
as 6 to 1 about Broulee getting
the verdict,
. . • ;•
r t u„ absence of T J.
Smith in England his fore-
man, Gil Ings, is doing a good
job with the big Randwick
team. He added two more
winners to his list at Warwick
Farm Winnipeg, in the
Juvenile Novice and Central
in the Bossley Park Novice.
Penalised 51b. for his Canter-
bury Park win in Maiden
company three days earlier,
Central again won impres-
sively. Winnipeg, who hadn’t
been produced since finishing
second to Primrose Lane at
Randwick on February 27,
had won there late in January,
and evidently is a filly with
a bright future.
• • • •
Alec Higgins, of Piercefield
Stud, Muswellbrook (N.S.W.),
races a few foaled on his
property ; one of them, Thesis,
surprised him with an un-
backed very easy win in the
Second Two-year-old Novice.
Thesis had started favorite in
two-year-old Maiden com-
pany at Canterbury a week
earlier, but had dropped out
after being third for home.
That day Higgins strongly
fancied the gelding, who evi-
dently appreciated being ridden
much more patiently at the
Farm. Thesis belongs to the
family which produced Talk-
ing and Bankstream. His
dam, Maytest, is by Mayfowl
from Contestor by Constant
Son (imp.) from Poetaster
(V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
winner) by Absurd (imp.).
• • • •
Doomben Ten Thousand
winner In Love started at 7 to
1, but at this Warwick Farm
meeting he was favorite,
local punters accepting as
little as 3 to 1. He won the
Brisbane sprint brilliantly,
ridden by N. Sellwood at his
best. Queen of the May (12
to 1) was second, with Second
Earl (40 to 1), last year’s
winner, in third place. The
rush for In Love at Warwick
Farm wasn’t surprising; he'd
been unlucky in big Sydney
races, including the Doncaster
and Epsom.
When in training about six
months ago three - year - old
Gene San struck a patch of
brilliant form and in succession
won three races, two at Rand-
wick, and one in open company
at Rosehill, the latter success
followed by a sound third in
the A.J.C. Anniversary Handi-
cap to Boorala and Essayist.
He resumed racing at Warwick
Farm, where his well-forward
appearance secured him many
backers for the George's River
Handicap, which he duly won
in good style. Grenoble, one
of the favorites, was seen in
the unusual role of pacemaker,
with Wales, to the home-turn.
Grenoble ran on well, but
didn’t have anything left when
it came to a close finish, and
was third behind Man of Iron.
$ * *
Wimbledon
Neale Fraser is a big,
heavily-built fellow, but at the
same time a fast mover round
a tennis court. Not surpris-
ingly, as he approaches his
27th birthday his legs have be-
gun to protest against the sort
of day-in and day-out pound-
ing involved in underpinning
a tennis champ, for the past
decade or so.
For this reason as much as
any, this year looked like being


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. ~ .. 2Jr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
ww
as supplied to
U.S. ARMY
TODAY
“MAGNIFICENT"
FOR ONLY
N
3
SWISS MADE
4 17 JEWELS
« INCABLOC
4 LUMINOUS
4 GUARANTEED
4 SHOCKPROOF
4 WATERPROOF
4 NON-MAGNETIC
■4 HEAT-COLD RESISTANT
4 SWEEP SECOND HAND
4 UNBREAKABLE CRYSTAL
UNBREAKABLE MAIN SPRING
A masterpiece of SWISS Craftsmanship recommended
exclusively liy leading .JEWELLERS the world over. Write
CYNE WATCH CO.
Swiss Watch Specialists
BOX 2098, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Fraser’s last big chance (at his
seventh attempt) to win the
Wimbledon title, and even so
there were a few “ifs” to his
prospects; “if,” for instance,
he didn’t strike too gruelling a
passage with a succession of
tough five-set matches.
As it happened, things couldn’t
have panned-out better for the
Victorian left-hander. When the
Wimbledon draw was announced
the Australian team - manager,
veteran Adrian Quist, ran an eye
over Fraser’s draw and remarked,
“Cripes, I could beat that lot
myself!” That may have been
stretching it a bit (Quist had a
lash in the doubles this year' but
didn’t progress far). Nevertheless
the draw did give Fraser only
one likely stumbling-block on his
way through to the final —the
American Earl Buchholz, whom
he met in a quarter-final.
Buchholz made things pretty
willing for Fraser, leading him
6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 15-all, and holding,
only to lose, several match points.
But at that stage it was Buchholz
whose legs gave in, and Fraser
won the match on default. After
that, Fraser had another easy
match in the semi-final, beating
India’s Ramanathan Krishnan in
straight sets to reach the final.
Others of the large Australian
contingent found the going
tougher. Two, apart from Fraser,
reached the quarter-finals, where,
unfortunately, they were drawn to
meet. Last year’s runner-up Rod
Laver, seeded No. 3 this year,
eliminated his team-mate Roy
Emerson in this quarter-final,
6-4, 5-7, 6-4, 6-4. Then Laver
struck another tough hurdle in his
semi-final, when he tangled with
the Italian Nicola Pietrangeli, who
had earlier eliminated the No. 2
seed, American Barry Mac Kay.
Pietrangeli took Laver to five sets
before Laver won 4-6, 6-3, 8-10,
6-2, 6-4.
The final waS a tough four-setter
played at blistering pace by these
two prime exponents of the “big”
serve and volley game. And on
the day all Fraser’s big guns were
working to perfection—particularly
his backhand, and a serve which
is simply unplayable when he cuts
loose the really big one. For the
second year running Laver had
to settle for the runner-up’s medal,
Fraser walking off with the cham-
pionship 6-4, 3-6, 9-7, 7-5.
Brazilian Maria Bueno won her
second successive Wimbledon
Ladies’ title when she blitzed South
Africa’s Sandra Reynolds 8-6, 6-0.
Unfortunately Jan Lehane, who
downed the Bueno girl and several
others of the world’s best on our
own courts a few months ago,
injured a leg and was unable to
contest the singles.
Possibly the most surprising
feature of this year’s Wimbledon
was the failure of any Australian
pair to reach the doubles final-
tong an almost exclusive Austra-
lian preserve. Men’s doubles
finalists were the youthful Rafael
vJsuna (18) and American Junior
champion Dennis Ralston (17),
who downed the British pair
Michael Davies and Bobby Wilson
7-5, 6-3, 10-8. In the mixed doubles
Darlene Hard and Rod Laver
defeated Maria Bueno and Bob
Howe 13-11, 3-6, 8-6.
* * *
Canada Cup
After two rounds of the
Canada Cup, America’s Snead
and Palmer were three strokes
ahead of their nearest rivals.
The host nation, Ireland, was
their biggest threat, and the
others were so far behind
that an American collapse
looked their only hope. No
collapse came, and though
Snead faltered over the last
nine holes —giving another of
the old brigade, Van Donck,
the individual title—the Ameri-
can pair finished with a com-
bined score of 11-under-par.
Palmer has been widely
tipped to win this year’s cen-
tenary British Open at St.
Andrews, with four-times-
winner Peter Thomson and the
reigning champion Gary Player
providing most of the opposi-
tion. Palmer’s form this sea-
son has certainly been phe-
nomenal, and Snead’s refusal
to play will make his task
much easier, but if Player is fit
in time Palmer will have to
fight hard to complete his
“grand-slam.”
With only two holes to play,
Ben Hogan was in line for his
fifth U.S. Open victory. Level
with Arnold Palmer at four-
under-par, the 47-year-old
seemed about to spring another
surprise on the golfing world.
Then, inexplicably, he went to
pieces, and it took him 13
strokes for those vital last
holes. No doubt he will keep
trying, but it is likely that his
last chance for a big tourna-
ment win to climax his career
has gone.
* * *
“Golfer”: The Irish got their
feast of Canada Cup golf fairly
cheap. Unlike other countries,
where spectators are heavily
slugged, Ireland’s charges were
on a sliding-scale each day.
Cost of a ticket for the first
three days was 7s. 6d., rising to
£1 for the final day. ' Ireland
didn’t embark upon a costly,
glamorous show. Outlay was
about £lB,OOO, most of which
went in payments to the players
who appear on a guarantee of
500 dollars.
%
“Buggy”; Arnold Palmer’s
last round of 65 in winning the
U.S. Open was the lowest shot
in the Open. Previous best, 66,
was shot by Gene Sarazen in
1932. Palmer’s first nine holes
(30) equalled the nine-hole
record made by amateur Jim
McHale in 1947 ; his second
nine (35) equalled the 1957
record of Wal Burkeme ; his
283 for the 72-holes four under
par was the best since 1953.
Ben Hogan won that year with
the same four-round aggregate
and the same sub-par total. By
making up seven strokes from
when the final 18 holes com-
menced Palmer set a tough
record. He beat by two strokes
the performances of Walter
Hagen, Johnny Farrell and
Byron Nelson, each of whom
got up when five strokes behind
at the start of the final round.
* * *
Other Sports
Any notions that the French
Rugby League visitors had
been “foxing” were well and
truly knocked in the second
Test, played in Brisbane last
Saturday, when they were
slaughtered by 56-6, a League
Test record. The first four tries
came from two players making
their Test debuts —half-back
Bobby Bugden (always a
danger when he gets the ball
from the scrum) and Brisbane
favorite Lionel Morgan, each
getting over for two, and
Bugden later crossed again.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby League, still-
improving Canterbury made it four
in a row by downing Balmain
15-5; Wests beat Parramatta
25-15; Norths just shaded Souths
12-10; Manly, in a tough game,
beat Newtown 7-4; and in the
Sunday match Easts also beat
Test-weakened St. George 7-4.
In the Sydney weekend Rugby
Union round Northern Suburbs
massacred Eastwood 54-3, with
five-eighth John Dowse’s 24 points
breaking his own club record;
Manly, leading Randwick 8-6 at
half-time, were still 8-6 at the
finish; Drummoyne narrowly beat
St. George 22-19;. University were
30-16 too good for Easts; and
Gordon belted Parramatta 27-12.
In Saturday’s V.F.L. clashes
Essendon beat St. Kilda 12.4-10.14;
Fitzroy beat Norths 20.10-15.18;
and Collingwood downed a slightly
improved Richmond 14.13-12.12.
* * *
Stuart Mackenzie, taking it
very easy at the finish, did his
expected share in an altogether
remarkable Australian week-
end in sport by paddling home
ahead of Teodor Kocerka
(Poland) to land the Diamond
Sculls at Henley Royal Regatta
for the fourth year in succes-
sion.
* * *
Breaking the Rheims track-
record twice in two days of the
French Automobile Grand
Prix trials last week, Austra-
lian world - champion motor-
speedster Jack Brabham, in a
Cooper, won the luscious prize
of 200 bottles of the best
bubbly. Whether or not he
cracked any of the 200 before-
hand, he duly cracked still more
records in winning the Grand
Prix final, with his Cooper
doing an unofficial 131.6 m.p.h.
* * *
“Slugged”: When Floyd
Patterson and Ingemar Johans-
son slugged each other for the
five rounds that gave Patterson
the world heavyweight title they
entered the “million” ranks in
their profession. The gate of
1,473,000 dollars (ringside seats
cost £A44) brought them into
the same drawing - power
bracket as other heavyweight
sluggers of the past, including
Dempsey-Carpentier (1,789,238
dollars), 1921 ; Dempsey-Firpo
(1,188,000), 1923; Dempsey-
Tunney (1,895,700), 1926 ;
Dempsey-Sharkey (1,100,000),
1927; Dempsey - Tunney
(2,658,600), 1927; Louis-Baer
(1,000,800), 1935; Louis-
Schmelling (1,015,000), 1938 ;
Louis-Conn (1,920,000), 1946;
Marciano-Moore (2,248,000,
including TV rights), 1955.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. CHINA POLICY: A CHANGE?
“AS China’s industrial power
develops, and its direct
military dependence on Russia
diminishes, th e inherent
dangers of the situation in the
Formosa Strait are bound to
increase ; and on the day the
Chinese have their own
nuclear weapons, whether
these are given by Russia, or,
more probably, locally manu-
factured, the temptation to
call America’s bluff may
become irresistible. Indeed,
on that day American nuclear
power may cease to deter,
and Soviet advice may no
longer serve to restrain, the
Chinese leaders, who make a
distinction between ‘just’ and
‘unjust’ wars, who believe war
to be inevitable anyway, and
who profess to consider that
China’s enormous population
will guarantee the survival of
their regime even after a
world war fought with nuclear
weapons.”
Thus London “Economist,”
drawing attention to what it
sees as a growing need for
change in U.S. policy towards
Communist China.
A change is needed, the
argument runs, because a
Communist China inexorably
nearing nuclear capability will
have to be made a party to
any world disarmament plan
that is to be effective. But
what kind of policy would be
acceptable, not only to Com-
munist China, but also to
Nationalist China and
America’s other allies in
South-east Asia and the
Pacific, including Australia and
New Zealand? Certainly not
the already proposed “two
Chinas” policy, which has
been repeatedly rejected by
both Peking and Taipeh:
“Thus presented, the
American dilemma seems to
offer no way out, and indeed
there is no sign that the present
Administration intends to seek
one. There are, on the other
hand, important signs of a
change in the climate of
informed American opinion
—London “Observer.”
“ITS TIME WE HAD A DIRTY PROVOCATION
FROM THE IMPERIALISTS .”
which the next President and
Congress may find difficult to
ignore.
“One such sign was the
report prepared late last year
by Conlon Associates, Ltd., a
San Francisco research-firm,
at the request of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee.
The Conlon report (which of
course was not binding on
the Senate committee) rejected
the present China policy and
advocated de facto recognition
of Communist China and the
creation of an independent
‘Republic of Taiwan’ (For-
mosa) which would remain
under the protection of the
United States.
“There is further evidence
of new thinking in an import-
ant new book, Communist
China and Asia, in which A.
Doak Barnett, now of the
Ford Foundation, examines in
exhaustive detail every aspect
of the present American
policy and of possible alter-
natives. Like the authors of
the Conlon report, Mr.
Barnett lists the disadvantages
of the ‘two Chinas’ thesis as
well as its possible benefits.
Nevertheless, again like the
Conlon report, he comes to the
conclusion that the benefits
would ultimately outweigh the
disadvantages. Specifically, he
advocates a series of steps
designed to enable the United
States to emerge from the
present impasse and to assume
a policy which —at the very
least—its allies would find it
easier to support than the
present one. These steps
are: —
Increased action to open-up
certain channels of non-official
contact with Communist China and
the gradual relaxation of existing
restrictions on trade, except on
strategic goods
Effective action to persuade the
Nationalists to evacuate the off-
shore islands and decisive moves
to disassociate the United States
from their defence.
Efforts to induce some of the
United States’ major allies to
commit themselves to the defence
of Taiwan, as well as to persuade
a larger number of nations that
neutralisation of the Taiwan Strait
should be an international respon-
sibility.
Moves to redefine the United
States’ view of the status of the
“Republic of China” on Taiwan,
which would make it clear that,
while recognising the Nationalist
regime’s authority over Taiwan and
the Pescadores and re-emphasising
its pledge to defend these islands,
the United States no longer recog-
nises the Nationalists’ claim to be
the Government of the mainland
of China.
Action to indicate that the
United States acknowledges the
de facto control of the “People’s
Republic of China” on the main-
land, but that it specifically rejects
Peking’s claim to Taiwan. Either
simultaneously with this action or
at an appropriate later time, the
United States might indicate a
willingness to consider formally
recognising the Peking regime, and
establishing relations with it, if
the Chinese Communists, accepting
the fact that the United States
intends to continue to defend and
support the Nationalists, were
willing to reciprocate.
An effort within the United
Nations to link the seating of
Peking with the simultaneous
admission of Nationalist China as
a new member, on condition that
Communist China purged itself of
aggression in Korea by fulfilling
certain clearly defined
ments, which should be determined
by the United Nations. The
United States should continue to
oppose the seating of Peking except
on these terms, but at the same
time it should be willing to accept
the majority view, whatever it:
might .be, on the question of
China’s seat in the United Nations.
“Mr. Barnett does not claim!
that any of his proposals ■
would solve the basic problem'
of United States relations '
with China. But it is impos-'
sible to quarrel with his view'
that if the United States moved
in the direction he prescribes,'
it would both reduce the‘
present dangers and acquire v
wider support from its allies, r
including this country [Britain]/
The next Administration can.
hardly avoid the obligation toj
reappraise a policy which, iir
its present form, has had its?
day.” v
TOO TIRED TO LOVE?
Many marriages are wrecked
or blighted because of a single,
hidden cause. In July Reader’s
Digest, a well-known woman
doctor frankly discusses this
intimate problem . . . and tells
what to do about it.
Keep yourself informed
read the 31 fascinating new
articles in July Reader’s
Digest articles such as,
Should You Keep Your Fears a
Secret?, She Bridged a Gap of
5,000 Years, Privacy is Everyone’s
Privilege, A Birthday Cake for the
King, Is There Life in Outer
Space?
Get your reading enjoyment
from July Reader’s Digest. On
sale NOW at all newsagents
and bookstalls. Only 2/-.
East German Unrest
/Commenting on recent signsc
of social unrest in Easti
Germany —West German Social-
Democrats have even beenl
accused of stirring it up—thea
Manchester “Guardian” notes(
that Herr Ulbricht, the Easta
German Communist leader,!
“knows, of course, that any
open resistance to his
would be hopeless, so long
he has Russia’s backing. But* l
he also knows that, in spite oft
some improvements, discontent
is widespread. s
“Supplies of food and essen-
tial cons Timer-goods are often
wildly erratic. Repairs are un-
obtainable. Housing is in-
adequate. Production in many!
fields is still poorly organised- 1
and ill-co-ordinated. The sys-4
tern of centralised politicalb
planning paralyses the spirit of/
enterprise. The truth is that theg
‘heroes of Socialist labor’ are!
getting tired, and the people 41
discover, as the Leipzig secre-b
tary told his party-conference,c
that they cannot feed onl<
slogans. b
“But the trouble goes deeper
than that. In a revealing
the same party-secretary told-':
his delegates that all their
Communist organisations were M
‘ideologically becalmed.’
only their members but their g


Feuffi in ilie
Fuhu*c
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme
stands out as the greatest proving operation in our
national life—a measure of our capacity to get big
things done, once we decide to act on someone’s
courageous and far-sighted vision.
And because it is exactly that, I believe we
should be making it a standard and a pattern
for quick, concerted action in development of
Australia’s north.
Nearly forty per cent, of the Australian land
mass lies above the Tropic of Capricorn. It is
under-developed, sparsely populated. Its richness
shows out occasionally in some new mineral
discovery, in a C.S.LR.O. report on the agricultural
worth of much of its unused land, in a survey
estimating the increased wealth that proper access
would bring out from its beef cattle runs.
The grand composite is still seen only partially,
and in flashes. Governments pursue their separate
programmes in gradual work on its three sections
—in Queensland, the Northern Territory and
Western Australia.
Yet there has been no co-ordinated drive to
win the north as it is inviting to be won—and
must be won, under each of its headings of
wealth-creation, in any plan fpr secure and
balanced expansion.
A strong inter-governmental Authority could
supply that drive. The division of State and
Commonwealth powers need raise no barrier to its
creation; that has already been well resolved in
the Snowy project.
Nor need we dim our sights with the fallacy
that additional attention to the north implies
subtraction from the south. Actually, the opposite
is true. It jneans an accretion of wealth to the
whole Australian economy in which everyone, east
and west and south and north, will be sharing.
To bring an over-all scheme of northern
development into reality will, of course, require the
statesman’s touch. But that, too, is surely in fund.
For without some statesmanship along the line, the
builders and their big machines would not now be
adding enormously to Australia’s strength amid the
heights and depths, of the Snowy.
// //<zs7u*jz
y
1 leaders, he said, are anxious to
, avoid discussion and conflict,
j It may be, of course, that they
1 have good reasons for their
discretion. Mr. Khrushchev’s
i recent actions, for example,
seem to have raised some awk-
-1 ward questions.
1 “Some party-members drew
' odious comparisons between
the U-2 incident and the spy-
ing activities organised by
‘other States’ —so much so that
Herr Ulbricht had to explain
sharply that the collection of
military information by ‘peace-
lovers’, was not spying, but a
humane duty.
“But this may not convince
those who are ideologically
backward, those and they
appear to be the majority of the
only ask: ‘ls the
money all right?’ In spite of
all the chances they have had
to learn about Communism,
the East Germans, it seems, are
still hoping for an affluent
society.
“That is the present outlook
against which the delegates
were told to ‘unleash a wide
ideological struggle.’ Yet, as
the same speaker told the dele-
gates, the only reaction in many
factories is: ‘Leave u 6 alone
with your education—we have
enough worries about fulfilling
the plan.’
“And what is worse, perhaps,
Western standards have be-
come the yardstick for measur-
ing Communist achievements
thanks probably to Mr.
Khrushchev’s 'insistent talk
about overtaking America.
(‘When we do, just let me off
at America,’ is said to be a
popular reaction.)
“Meanwhile, all the confer-
ences [June is ‘party-conference’
month all over East Germany]
have ended by passing resolu-
tions pledging firm allegiance
to the party and to ‘the leader-
ship of Comrade Ulbricht.’ ”
"Pravda" on Dogma
'JDecent articles in the Soviet
I press commemorating the
40th anniversary of Lenin’s
[book Left-wing” Communism:
An Infantile Disorder are re-
garded by the “New York
iTimes” as indications that
: Premier Khrushchev and his
■basic political line have suc-
cessfully met whatever chal-
lenges the Paris debacle may
have brought.
The Soviet people have been
.told what the free world has
jknown for many months—that
[there are ‘Left sectarians’ in the
.world Communist movement
twho oppose the Khrushchev
line. Although the language
employed in ‘Pravda,’ and also
in ‘Sovetskaya Rossiya,’ was a
fine example of Communist
‘esoteric communication,’ there
are presumably large numbers
of people in the Soviet elite
who know that the head-
quarters of contemporary ‘Left
sectarianism’ is Peking.
“Mr. Khrushchev has been
subjected to many thinly veiled
Chinese Communist attacks on
him during the past year. That
he has felt it necessary to
answer in kind may indicate
that his patience is wearing
thin. But that he hopes matters
will not come to an open ideo-
logical break with Peking is
clear from the fact that even
in this counter-attack he has
reiterated the old line that
‘revisionism’—that is, Yugo-
slavia’s brand of Communism
—is still a greater danger than
‘dogmatism.’
“Behind the barrage of per-
sonal attacks on President
Eisenhower, Mr. Khrushchev
has been careful to emphasise
that the Soviet Union has no
intention in the near future of
using the Berlin issue to put
the world on the brink of World
War 111. And while the Com-
munist war of subversion and
propaganda against the West
has been stepped up this past
month, there has been no overt
act of Communist armed
aggression—as many feared
might happen—since Mr. Khru-
shchev torpedoed the Paris
Summit meeting in mid-May.”
Victor Zor z a, a corres-
pondent of the Manchester
“Guardian,” writes that these
criticisms of China, echoing
pre-Summit criticisms of a simi-
lar kind, may suggest that “Mr.
Khrushchev’s withdrawal from
the Summit was due not so
much to Chinese as to internal
opposition to his foreign
policy.
“Indeed, ‘Pravda’s’ article
might conceivably be seen as
part of the ideological struggle
that is going on in Russia itself,
with the Chinese being used
merely for the sake of conveni-
ence, in order not to reveal
that the argument is in fact
raging between different - sec-
tions of the Soviet leadership.
“For ‘Pravda’ argues not just
against the ideological devia-
tion implicit in overhasty
attempts to introduce Com-
munism but also against views,
generally ascribed to the more
orthodox Communist leaders in
Russia as well, which might
provide the ideological justifica-
tion for the deliberate wrecking
of the Summit.
“ ‘Pravda’ says:
Certain people erroneously con- '
sider that the line for the achieve-


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order f0r....
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year —£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to 'The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
ment of peaceful coexistence
between countries of different
political systems, the struggle to
end the arms-race, the consolida-
tion of peace and international
friendship, negotiations between
the leaders of Socialist and
capitalist countries, is a deviation
from the tradition of Marxism and
Leninism.
“To those who have accused
Mr. Khrushchev of this kind
of deviation ‘Pravda’ replies
that Lenin had always thought
it necessary to resort to com-
promise and even to seek
temporary aHies, even among
unstable elements. The Com-
munists, it said, could com-
promise on anything —except
on basic Communist ideology.
And it proceeded to quote Mr.
Khrushchev to show that this
was one kind of compromise
he did not intend to make, for
he had said: ‘We firmly stand
and will stand like a rock on
the foundation of Marxism-
Leninism.’ ”
Dragnet Digest
London “Economist”: “It
has become abundantly clear
that America cannot afford to
ignore the views of what is,
after all, a substantial section
of the Japanese community,
The difficulty of fitting demo-
cratic principles to the military
needs of alliance against the
Communist bloc is a familiar
one along the entire periphery
of the East - West conflict,
Japan, by far the most im-
portant of the Asian nations in
direct association with the
United States, may be a deci-
sive test for Western policy.
The revised security-treaty con-
tains substantial concessions to
the Japanese point of view com-
pared with the treaty of 1951,
but Mr. Kishi’s interpretation
of it would seem to involve
Japan in a conflict that might
begin in the Formosa Strait.
Although the treaty does in-
crease Japanese control of
American military movements
to and from Japan, the practi-
cal power of veto over the use
of nuclear weapons is question-
able.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide’’:
“The significance of the recent
unrest can be exaggerated. The
bulk of the Japanese people,
outside the cities and student
bodies, remains orderly and
patriotic, prepared to agree
with the powefs-that-be that the
American connection is in-
evitable for Japan. The Gov-
ernment is probably not alto-
gether displeased about the
riots ; they strengthen the. tire-
less demand for more dollars.
But the forces on which demo-
cracy rests are still precarious.
A few more Rugger scrums in
the Diet, and the house of
cards may totter. The West
must respect Japanese fears,
however unsound they seem
from a safe distance.”
* * *
London “Times”: “It is hot
only Japan’s external relations
which have been upset by the
riots. The domestic implica-
tions are no less serious. The
Kishi Government had an over-
whelming electoral majority,
yet yielded unashamedly to
force. The whole flimsy fabric
of Japanese democracy has
been shaken. American doc-
trination has instilled democra-
tic discipline into the police
but not into the Tokyo mob.
Any Japanese Government will
be faced with this unpalatable
truth, which can no longer be
hidden. Either the laws govern-
ing security and the methods of
—London “Daily Herald.”
“YOU WON’T NEED THE POST—THERE CAN’T
BE A WINNER!”
enforcing it will have to be
brought more into line with
those in other Asiatic countries
or Japan will be weakened by
instability which she cannot
afford either economically or
politically.”
¥
Edinburgh “Scotsm a n’’:
“The Kishi Government has a
clear majority in the Japanese
Diet, although his party has
many factions. It is true that
Mr. Kishi himself is not popu-
lar, but Japanese voters have
had opportunities of voting into
power the Socialists who oppose
the treaty with the United
State?, and they have not done
so. Misgivings about the treaty
are not confined to the parties
of the Left. Some of its critics
are in Mr. Kishi’s fold.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“In Britain there is now general
agreement that a solution to
the European trading problem
must be found. It is both
politically and economically
essential. Britain’s political in-
fluence must suffer if she
stands aloof from Europe. The
Six are a rapidly growing
market in which British indus-
try should be allowed to com-
pete freely. From the purely
economic point of view there
is, however, another and, in ths
long run, even more importan
reason why Britain should bi
closely associated with the Six
During the past few month
attention has again been con
centrated on this country'
[Britain's] performance in thi
export field, and it would bi
idle to deny that it has in somi
ways been disappointing. Ex
hortation by itself will brie
no improvement, for we ha'
learned time and again that
is not particularly effective ;
an instrument of econom
policy.” .
Various Voices
Thomas Gates (U.S. Sea
tary of Defence): “Commum
leaders remain dedicated to tt
achievement of their goal i
world domination. The
tactics consist of threats at
blandishments, warnings at
false promises. The recei
history of South-east Asia at
the South-west Pacific is reple
with evidence of such Cor
munist actions. They may wf
resort to military force if tfe
believe it will be successful.”
»!• *i»
Vice-President Nixon: '‘Whi
we do not rule-out any met
ing which might contribute
the cause of peace, certain
the world will now have great
confidence in the tradition
methods of diplomacy and
discussions in the Unite
Nations than in the Summit
on which Mr. Khrushchev It
in the past insisted.”


C.S.R. Co/s ANNUAL REPORT
POINTS FROM CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO SHAREHOLDERS
In his annual address to shareholders the chairman of the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. Ltd., Mr. J. W. Dunlop, referred to:
• record production at C.S.R.’s raw sugar mills
• increased sales of C.S.R. building products
• joint ventures in petro-chemicals
Mf. Dunlop, at the annual meet-
ing held on 29th June, reported
on the Company’s activities in
Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.
Some of the points from his
speech are:
RAW SUGAR
Total production: Production
of raw sugar from the Company’s
mills in Australia and Fiji during
the 1959 season was a record
572,000 tons. Although production
was less in Australia than last
year, it was so high in Fiji that
the Company’s total output ex-
ceeded the 1958 record by some
70,000 tons.
Raw Sugar Production at the Company’s Mills
TONS ACTUAL SUGAR
N.S.W.
1954 24,700
1955 34,800
1956 34,700
1957 „ 35,600
1958 56,400
1959 67,900
Queensland Fiji Total
230.400 132,900 388,000
196,200 163,100 394,100
198.500 134,500 367,700
239,600 196,100 471,300
245.500 198,300 500,200
221.400 283,000 572,300
Australian Mills
The Company owns 7 of the
34 mills in Australia—4 in
Queensland and 3 in New South
Wales. Production controls in
Australia, whipji are necessary
to keep production in line with
available markets, imposed limits
on the output of our Queensland
mills in 1959. Profits were con-
siderably lower than in the pre-
vious year, due mainly to higher
costs and to the lower production
in Queensland.
Fiji Mills
Production was 43% greater
than in the previous record season
(1958) and greatly exceeded
available markets, which are re-
stricted as to exports by the
International Sugar Agreement.
Profits from the mills in Fiji
were very poor despite the large
crop, mainly because of high
costs, a prolonged season, low
sugar content of the cane and a
type of contract with the growers
which, in the circumstances that
haVe arisen, resulted in too high
a price for cane.
C.S.R. position in Fiji: There
can be no long-term future place
or function for private enterprise
capital and the expertise that
goes with it if economic or
political circumstances take
away reasonable security for
assets or satisfactory prospects
for the rate of earnings required
by the owners of the capital and
available to them elsewhere. Great
importance for our future pros-
pects in Fiji attaches to the new
contract for the purchase of cane
and to the general attitude in
Fiji towards capital investment,
especially capital from outside
Fiji.
Shareholders are assured that
very great efforts are being made
to And a solution to the problems
in Fiji on a basis which will
enable the Company to continue
to play a constructive part in
that Colony, in accordance with
our tradition and continuing
policy, while not foregoing the
legitimate interests of share-
holders. We remain hopeful that
a fair solution will be found.
But failure of income-earning
ability in Fiji, or even loss of
assets there, would be much less
detrimental to the Company’s
overall financial position than it
would have been some years ago,
before the diversification and am-
plification of our activities in
Australia.
SUGAR REFINING
Australia: Sales of sugar pro-
ducts from our five refineries in
Australia were 526,000 tons for
the year ended March, 1960, an
increase of 5% over 1959. Higher
usage by fruit canners, milk con-
densers and soft drink manufac-
turers was mainly responsible
for the improvement, although
stockpiling by manufacturers in
anticipation of the increase in
the price of refined sugar inflated
sales sharply towards the end of
the financial year and afterwards
until the price rose on 16th May.
New Zealand: A wholly-owned
subsidiary, the New Zealand
Sugar Company Ltd., has been
formed to handle the refining
and selling of sugar in New
Zealand.
RESEARCH
We have recently decided, as
a move to develop canes which
will be better for milling and to
increase cane-growing efficiency
on the farms, to establish an ad-
vanced type of plant research
centre devoted to sugar cane. It
will be at Brisbane and will
primarily consist of a special
type of building', called a phyto-
tron.
SUGAR INDUSTRY
Australian refined sugar
price increase
The new price operated from
16th May and will apply during
the remainder of the period of
the Australian Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement, which expires
in August, 1961. None of the pro-
ceeds from this price increase is
retained by the Company as re-
finers and sellers of the sugar,
but in respect of our seven mills,
we benefit as members of the raw
sugar industry, in the same way
as the 27 other raw sugar mills.
BUILDING MATERIALS
The value of sales of C.S.R.
building materials increased by
20% for the year ended March,
1960, compared with the previous
year. This increase does not take
into account the sales by the
companies acquired by C.S.R.
during the past year.
Masonite: The Masonite group
of companies, now wholly-owped
by C.S.R., is making good pro-
gress.
Bradford products: The Brad-
ford rockwool group of com-
panies in New South Wales and
Victoria, in which, through B.I.
Holdings Pty. Ltd., we acquired
a large majority interest during
the year, has had a year of
record sales.
I*ynebonrd: The factory of
Pyneboard Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.)
at Oberon was completed to
schedule and has recently been
officially declared open.
This factory makes flakeboard,
under the trade name of Pyne-
board. It is strong, rigid board
which has rapidly developed a
big market overseas, mainly in
the field of high-quality furni-
ture and joinery.
Timbroek: Construction work
has begun for the new £2 million
Timbroek hardboard mill at
Bacchus Marsh, in Victoria. The
factory is expected to commence
operating in January, 1961.
Yinylflex floor tiles lind
Gyprock board: Although sales
of all C.S.R. building products
have improved during the year,
the increase in sales of Vinylflex
floor tiles and Gyprock plaster
lining board has been quite out-
standing.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
Overall sales of industrial
chemicals and plastic and solvent
Mr. J. W. DUNLOP,
Chairman of C.S.R.
materials produced at the Rhodes
and Lane Cove factories of
C.S.R. Chemicals (60% C.S.R.)
again showed a substantial in-
crease during the past year.
However, the effect of the recent
lifting of import licensing has
yet to be fully felt. Prices of
certain chemicals have been re-
duced to meet severe overseas
competition. This has had to be
done in the face of rising costs
and will have an adverse effect
on profits.
Joint Ventures in Petro-
chemicals: In March this year
a company was formed jointly
with the B. P. Goodrich Chemical
Company of U.S.A. (to be known
as B. F. Good rich-C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty. Ltd.), for the
manufacture of the extensively
used plastic, polyvinyl chloride
(PVC). C.S.R. Chemicals has a
40% holding in this company.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50%
C.S.R. Chemicals) is expected to
start manufacturing styrene
monomer in 1961 and, meantime,
further expansion has been an-
nounced. The raw material for
PVC is ethylene dichloride, and
this also is to be made by
C.S.R.C.-Dow.
OTHER HATTERS
Distilleries
Sales of distillery products
have continued to increase and
both our Pyrmont and Melbourne
distilleries achieved record pro-
duction.
Consolidated Accounts
It has been decided that next
year shareholders will be presen-
ted with consolidated statements
which will include the assets,
liabilities and profits of the sub-
sidiary companies.
C.S.R. SHARES
Suggestions have been made at
various times that the Company’s
£20 par value shares are now
somewhat of an anachronism and
that they should be split into
units of smaller par value —say
£1 or 5s. Od.
To put an end to conjecture,
I think I should say that the
Board expects to recommend a
change to £1 shares in associa-
tion with and as part of the next
major capital issue whenever
this may be necessary.
Copies of the C.S.R. Company’s complete annual report and chairman’s address are available from:
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD., 1 O’Connell Street, Sydney.


Between
Ourselves
s*
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives — : if you want
lo keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Not Altogether Wasted
The Cooktown - Laura Bridge
By HENRY G. LAMOND
The Cooktown - Laura
Railway in North
Queensland was, and
perhaps still is, unique
in the State; it may be with-
out parallel in the whole of
Australia.
One man, and one only,
serves as stationmaster, ticket-
collector, porter, guard, engine-
driver and in sundry other
capacities. It is possible there
would be another official at
the other end who would
double his stationmastering
with half-a-dozen other jobs.
There are doubtless some
hands to keep the line in repair
for the once-a-week motor-
train.
That, I read and hear, is
how that line is at present.
I prefer to remember it when
its glory was on the wane,
when it was slowly dying, but
when it was a real railway
and its many officials wore
brass braid on their caps. That
was during ’97.
A little history and geo-
graphy which may not be pre-
cise to a week or two, though
near enough to be taken as
correct; The Laura line was
surveyed and built to serve the
Palmer goldfield. That reached
its peak in the late ’seventies
of last century. It would,
approximately, be in the late
J 880’s or early 1890’s when the
field began to fade.
Old-timers, optimists to a
man, still claim there is more
gold in the Palmer than has
ever been taken out of it. But
that is stated with equal vigor
of every worked-out goldfield
in Queensland.
HThere were no engineering
A difficulties in the construc-
tion of the line from the port
of Cooktown to the township
formed on the banks of the
Laura River, and named
after it.
Laura is 67 miles from
Cooktown, 297 ft. above sea-
level, and the highest point the
line reaches is when crossing
a low range at a siding called
Battle Camp, 376 ft. above sea-
level.
The rest is heavily-grassed
plains, some stately timber in
the background, abounding
with kangaroos, wallabies, bird-
life in plenty. In addition
there are mango-trees and
other fruits which, perhaps,
have grown from seeds tossed
through windows by passen-
gers. In my time citrus-fruit
did remarkably well, and
citrons as big as footballs
looked most tempting to youth-
ful eyes.
The big engineering hurdle
was to bridge the Laura River.
That, as I remember it, was
a fast-flowing stream in flood,
a couple of hundred yards or
more wide, plenty of patches
of quicksand; a layer of
dazzling sand with a clean
stream oozing its way in cork-
screw twists along its bed. And
spanning it, noble in design,
strong in its outline, beautiful
in its architecture, was a mighty
bridge of concrete and steel.
I know not what it cost to
build. But I do remember we
school-kids used to tell with
awe in our voices and wonder
in our tones how it used to
cost £l2OO to paint and repair
it—and that at a time when
£1 a week was a big wage!
That information doubtless
came from some boy whose
father was employed on the
railway.
HP he bridge had been com-
pleted, the last spike
driven, the final rail laid about
the time the Palmer petered-
out.
There was no need to lay
the rails further. They stopped
abruptly at the end of the
bridge the river and town)
of Laura on this side, the port
of Cooktown in the distance;'
the stoppage of the rails and
the hinterland on the other 1
side of the bridge.
But that bridge was not 1
entirely wasted. One of the'
many thousands of Chinese 1
who had invaded the Palmer
had stayed behind and, in the.
inevitable manner of a China-
man of those days, had planted!
a vegetable-garden on the other'
side of the river. He supplied*'
the town of Laura with vege-!
tables. He used to trot over*
the bridge every morning, his
two baskets, each slung at an/
end of a bamboo pole over hisr
shoulder, full of vegetables, i
Yes, he used that bridge!;
He used to trot over it with


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
F. W. DUESBURY, Chairman; H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
ALFRED S. WHITE ; A. G. PARKER ; DOUGLAS WADLEY ; T. K. MAGNEY.
» B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States ) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Then one of them shouts,
“Let’s rob the bank, men! ”
The other two greet this
suggestion with noisy approval,
They turn their mounts and
canter towards the bank
building.
At the bank steps they dis-
mount and point their
pistols at Constable Smith,
who has been standing in the
oorway to get a better view
of the parade.
Hands up, constable. Im
Ben Hall and this is my gang
and we’re going to rob the
bank. That right, men?”
“Yeah! ”
The people standing near-
by laugh and Constable Smith
feels foolish
“That's all right,” he says.
“We want you as a hostage."
Constable Smith looks away,
pretending he hasn’t heard.
He blushes.
The smallest bushranger
looks up at Constable Smith
and whines, “Aw, go on,
Sarge, be in it. It’s only for
a laugh,” and voices from the
crowd say, “Be a sport, Sid.
Be in it!”
So the three bushrangers
escort the policeman into the
bank and the doors close after
them.
The parade continues along
the street. The camel tries
to eat a string of overhead
flags, a wheel comes off the
De Dion, and the Centenary
Queen, a pretty girl named
Janice who works behind the
counter at Harper’s Phar-
macy, arrives at the Town
Hall to be presented to the
mayor.
The bushrangers step out
of the bank and close the
doors behind them. They
announce jovially, “Yah-
hooooo! We ’ ve ro bbed the
bank! ” But they have been so
long in there " that no one
a pp ears to be interested in
them now
, ~ . .
P” 5 ?, moun ‘ the,r h ?l ses
and § abo P U P the street. They
fire ,' heir P istols ,nl ° tha air
as **“? , nde P ast **jf Town
Hall, and again as they pass
! he P°lice-station Then they
‘ urn down a slde street and
disappear,
’y'ANiSH completely. O’Shea,
Y busier than he has ever
been, coping with the
travellers passing' through:
“Sure and they stood right
here at this bar, right where
you’re standing now. O’Hooli-
gan had double-whiskys and
Higgins and Hanna had
schooners,
“I’m glad they didn’t catch
’em. They put the town on
the map more than any fes-
tival could have done, even
if it did cost the bank eight-
thousand.”
ill the certainty of a Blondin,
reading the middle planks
vhich ran parallel with the
ails. „ ,
The bridge had not been
:ntirely wasted. Its upkeep
.howed some return.
fN those days of last century
L and thereabouts we had
lone of the present motor-
rains and other notions: we
lad the good old Puffing Billy
. ype of steam-locomotive,
s There was no discovered
t ;oal in that country then —or
■lone which had been mined —
md costs of shipping would
l lave been heavy. Some
pconomy had to be shown:
puffing Billy burned firewood.
! There were some magnificent
forests along the line. That
was easy.
1 If I remember aright, there
were a couple of wooding-
tations along the line’s 67
t niles. Each of those “stations”
vas a big pile of cordwood
tacked handy.
When the engine came
.breast of one of those heaps,
nd was in need of fuel, the
[hing used to stop. What
•assengers were irf the train
|/ould poke their heads
.hrough windows to see what
aused the stoppage.
! The driver and fireman
i/ould climb down leisurely
>rom the cab of the engine,
it on the heap of wood, start
a talk, and perhaps fill a pipe.
,’he guard would stroll along
nd join them. They would
vidently discuss something or
ther.
After a while, and when the
;ats of their trousers had
een dusted with their hands,
couple of them would seize
length of cordwood and toss
into the tender. They might
ven do two or three. Then
ley would sit down to con-
fer things again.
3y that time the passengers,
if there were any, would
e growing restless —train-
assengers always are
npatient.
One or two of them would
roll along to join the party
t the woodheap. In next to
o time—and, such was the
cul the crew had acquired by
ractice, it was a perfectly
ainless operation—the pas-
mgers would be loading the
" n and *he rail-officials
ould be directing operations,
then, with a final look
round, the passengers would
:turn to their carriages, the
til.men would get back to
>eir proper places, Puffing
uly would spurt a jet of white
steam and whistle derisively,
and the wheels of progress
would revolve once more.
The mango-trees would wave
as the train whizzed past, and
mounds of earth thrown up
by prospectors’ holes —with
which the country was pock-
marked —would be temporarily
bared as bladey-grass was
blown aside.
When the train reached
Laura there were immense
preparations at Bessie Donald’s
pub—the only hotel in Laura.
Postal officials and others
assumed an air of importance ;
passengers conducted what
business they had to do;
Puffing Billy, with an immense
amount of whistling, flag-
waving and groans, would back
and twist along a spur until it
was righted for its run back
to Cooktown that afternoon.
That used to happen three
or four times a week in those
days. Now it is reduced to
one miniature a week, and it
might be only one a fortnight.
Shame!
Though I’ve heard it said,
and seen it written, that
no train ever crossed the Laura
Bridge, that is incorrect. I
was a barefooted youngster
running about the platform
when the train made its
official trip across.
It would be about May-lune,
1897. A party of half-a-dozen
or so v.i.ps.—l think they were
mainly members of Parliament
or some similar thing, with a
high railway-official or two
among them —were inspecting
the line. I know Mrs. Donald
had some poultry killed when
she heard they were coming.
I don’t know if it was pre-
arranged, or if a sudden whim
took those v.i.ps. ; but they
decided to make history by
being in the first train to cross
the bridge—their special train
of an engine, one carriage and
k guard’s van.
I distinctly remember that it
was about the time Marconi
and his wireless-waves burst
upon a startled world —or
when the news reached the
sleepy hollow which was
Laura. I overheard one
medium-sized gentleman with
a pointed beard stating with
emphasis that those wireless-
rays meant the end of all war:
ammunition and explosives
could not be stored —they
would be fired by the rays.
Another gentleman with a
flowing moustache and a lean
flank was more apprehensive
about the safety of the bridge
than he was concerned with
the cessation of war. He
seemed inclined to back-out, ’
only for the shame of it. He
was on the point of writing
home to let his family know,
if the bridge crashed, he had
died a hero’s death.
'T'he train crossed. It pulled-
up on the other side. The
passengers got out, and may
have had their photographs
taken that was about the
time pocket-Kodaks came into
use. Then they sat in their
carriage and were hauled back
to Laura. Billy gave a shriek
or two with his whistle, puffed
stertorously, and the party
headed back to civilisation and
Cooktown, their duty done and
the bridge crossed,
And now that bridge has
gone. It withstood many
floods. It was regarded as a
permanent feature of the
country and a monument to
the riches that never came,
After many batterings one
particularly violent flood a
few years ago undermined the
thing, swept it away, left only
tattered remnants of what had
been a noble structure,
And if now there is a
Chinese gardener on the other
side of the river he will have
to boat it or fly over.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO, LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman),
hi KUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
liranchcg In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Imported Placenames
As one who knew the site of
Surfers’ Paradise when it was
a mere strip of sand and man-
groves intersected by two or
three houses, I agree that the
creating of the subsidiary
“Paradise City” (B. 15/6/’6O)
is a remarkable job ; also, I’m
disposed to agree that the man
behind the enterprise, Bruce
Small, is “equally remarkable.”
What puzzles me is why a
fellow of such vision should
have sunk his Australianism to
the extent of allowing frothy
names from Florida and the
Riviera to be plastered all over
his new landscape. Surfers’
Paradise itself is an outstanding
example of this tawdry prac-
tice, but that’s no reason why
the Small outfit should be com-
mitting the same sin.
Presumably the idea is that
such names are alluring from
the tourists’ angle. But, accord-
ing to an official of the Aus-
tralian National Travel Asso-
ciation, J. T. Constable, that
idea is all askew, at least as far
as Americans are concerned.
“They think,” he said recently,
“that Australians are stupid to
use names such as El Dorado,
Miami, Florida, and Las Vegas
in tourists’ resorts. They want
to know why we borrow slick
American names when there
are many aboriginal and local
Australian names that could be
used.”
“In fact,’ Constable added,
“Americans have long been
amused by this silly practice
and now they regard it as a
standing joke.”
The Royal Australian His-
torical Society is one body that
has set itself against vulgar
borrowings of placenames, and
it lately established a com-
mittee to attempt to remedy
the situation, beginning with
the labelling of subdivisions
and “estates.” That committee,
1 understand, has been in touch
with the Local Government
Association and the ReaLEstate
Institute, with some prospect of
improvement ; but, in all prob-
ability, the upsurge of exotic
namings will continue in some
degree until we have statutory
bodies with authority to ap-
prove all new names and pro-
hibit corny imitations. — Siosal
(N.S.W.).
Unity in Diversity
Mr. Menzies’s remarks on
the advantages of “unity in
diversity” in his Smuts Mem-
orial lecture at Cambridge Uni-
versity had no relevance to a
problem like that of the owner-
ship of West New Guinea, as
“Ever tried to go straight ?”
Charles Meeking seems to con-
tend (B. 22/6 / ’6O).
The Prime Minister was
obviously referring to an estab-
lished political society. There
is a world of difference between
supporting the continuance of
an existing association of
peoples diverse in race, religion
and culture, and advocating the
extension of a particular State’s
authority over a neighboring
territory the inhabitants of
which have no affinities with it.
That is what the Indonesian
demand over West New Guinea
really means. Terry The
Tory (N.S.W.).
Dental Mechanics
Surely the people of N.S.W.
are not gullible enough to be-
lieve without inquiry the state-
ments that the licensing of den-
tal mechanics is working satis-
factorily in Tasmania and that
cheaper dentures will result
from the legislation proposed
in N.S.W. .
The Tasmanian public is
rapidly learning the folly of
licensing illegal backyard
operators under the name of
“registered dental mechanics.”
Prior to the passing of the Tas-
manian Act in 1957 the dental
profession was accused of
charging unreasonable fees for
denture work, and the public
was told that dental mechanics
could do the same work at half
the fee. At present there is
little difference between the
fees charged by the mechanics
and those of the dentists. The
patient of the former has the
additional expense of certifica-
tion, gets no taxation-rebate
and has not the benefit of a
qualified man to do any follow-
up surgical work if necessary
after the dental mechanic has
finished with him.
As there had been no recog-
nised course of training for
dental mechanics, persons en-
gaged in all manner of occupa-
tions applied for registration as
mechanics, and as a result of
the low standard set most have
now been licensed to deal with
the public directly. Many of
those now doing so were, prior
to the Act, engaged in illegal
dentistry.
The dental profession L
repeatedly pointed out tl
such legislation will lower t| J
standard of dental treatmet
Already in Tasmania this
evident by the quality of w i
being done by mechanics
there is no supervision of wof
—the advice being given
patients by those untrained 5
give it and the rapidly
ing number of private deni 1
practitioners. §
In spite of Government
surances that the public woii V *
be protected, there is no pot
ing of the Act; and some vef
questionable practices ha n
arisen. f
Having achieved their ini|d
goal, some Tasmanian
mechanics” have started a mg
campaign of complaints agaif
the profession with a view! l
extending their activities in
other fields. —B.D.S. (Tas.), s:
P
T
The Textbook Row j S g
While agreeing with “Teih
the Tory’s” defence of l\A
school textbook (B. 22/6/’fh
I feel some of his commesl
are misleading. rr
His statement that “historic
generally date the establi tc
rnent of the Church of Engla
from . . . a.d. 664” is ambifh
ous. If it means that id
present established Church o
England was established in tfa
year, few historians would agi
with it. Anglicans wou“,
accept such an interpretatio c l
Roman Catholics would not
I suppose it all depends a<
how much or in what watcc
thing has to change in orise
to cease to be what it was.fi-
Among historians who c(ti l
tend the Church of Englith
dates from the 16th centi__
are F. W. Maitland, W.
Holdsworth, H. A. L. Fist.
and Powicke. To be m ll
precise, it began in a.d. I.'t*
when Henry repudiated pa* 1 '
authority and proclaimed hi 0 £
self head, of the Church 01
England by the Act of Ro V<
Supremacy. u
W. S. Holdsworth, Profeste
of English Law at OxfOj/
wrote: ”... in order d
create the illusion that the r Si:
Anglican Church was indf 1 *
the same institution as 1 T(
medieval Church, it was nef
sary to prove the historic
continuity of these two vij£
different institutions,” and l ™
was done by “manufacture
history on an unprecedeit i n
scale.”
Such “manufacturing” l° f
led some writers into the pa cfj
doxical position, described k 1


Divorce Notices
( IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES- — In Divorce.
'TO ERIC HIRSCH.—TAKE NOTICE
(that RUBY ELIZABETH HIRSCH has
■filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1592
'of 1960 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
'you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building- Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 12th Scp-
ftember 1960 and obtain a copy of the
jPetition without charge from MESSRS.
MARSH HARVEY & CROPPER, Soli-
citors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—-
Ip. A. H. HARMS', Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
JO ELLIS RAYMOND PRIEST.—TAKE
S°i IC ?, that EL S IE MAY PRIEST has
Vocn a Petltion f or Divorce No. 2010 of
i 960 on the grounds of desertion for
thiee years and upwards and is asking
tor the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
rnoma l Causes Act 1899 If you wish
t defend you may enter an appearance
J" Divorce Registry Mint Build-
-1-Rl, , Street Sydney by the
nf *v ep i en ?k. er 1960 and obtain a copy
MP-s:<jT>e Petltlon without charge from
CROPPER qv U I SH HARYEY &
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sidney.—c. A . H. HARMS, Registrar.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
K W Maitland, of maintain-
in'./ that the English Church
Vas Protestant before the Re-
formation and Catholic after-
' wards!
! 0i “Terry” thinks if Henry had
feared a son by Catherine it
is unlikely that he would have
, sought a divorce. Perhaps ;
but it should be remembered
Jhat although his third wife
gave him a son (later Edward
yi), he still divorced his fourth
Wife and beheaded his fifth.
Concerning Henry’s divorce
, e from Catherine of Aragon, it
may be, as “Terry” says, that
fear of Charles V was the
ijd ecis i v e factor in Pope
n; Clement Vll’s refusal to
K grant the divorce. However,
j t Clement’s decision was surely a
just one, whatever his motive,
in Henry had obtained a dispen-
sation from Pope Julius II to
permit him to marry Catherine.
This was necessary because
she was his widowed sister-in-
law. Eighteen years 1 a tje r,
"having fallen in love with
Anne Boleyn, Henry claimed
his marriage to Catherine
"should never have been per-
mitted. This was a rather
belated twinge of conscience
to put it mildly.
i Incidentally, Pope Clement,
having been warned by Car-
dinal Wolsey, was well aware
of the likely consequences of
ta refusal to grant Henry’s wish.
! Finally, did Elizabeth allow
i “only a moderate degree of
in doctrine”?
1 The pre-Reformation Church
acknowledged papal authority,
Mass, recognised
(seven Sacraments, believed in
the doctrine of Transubstantia-
ttion, the existence of Purgatory,
jthe efficacy of prayers for the
dead and the invocation of
saints.
The doctrinal standard of
the Elizabethan Church was
settled by the 39 Articles,
sanctioned by the Queen in
1563. These were a revision
of the Articles of 1553, one of
their chief sources being the
Wiirtemburg Confession. None
of the beliefs and practices of
the pre-Reformation Church
listed above, apart from two of
the Sacraments, were allowed
by the Articles.
Admittedly, the Articles were
not implemented overnight.
But an efficient policy of per-
secution and propaganda was
rewarded before the close of
Elizabeth’s reign by “a degree
of change” in religious doc-
trine somewhat more than
“moderate.” —C.A.M. (N.S.W.),
Youth Recreation
According to anthropologist
Mrs. Caroline Kelly, engaged
on a survey for Cumberland
County Council of the social
aspects of town-planning in
relation to Sydney’s develop-
ment needs, children in the new
suburbs developing on the out-
skirts of the metropolitan area
are growing-up “without the
benefits of Scout movements
and other recreational organisa-
tions. The delinquency rate is
high. Children in many of
these new suburbs have rft>-
where to go after school.”
Whatever the deficiencies of
the outer suburbs, they should
be good-enough places for
children and even teenagers.
Their houses are mostly de-
tached cottages, often in sub-
stantial allotments. There is
plenty of vacant land where
football and cricket can be
played. Bushland, where
youngsters can ramble, is with-
in easy reach of most of them.
And hobbies can be indulged-in
without their being a nuisance,
as is sometimes the case in
more-crowded suburbs.
There were no better recrea-
tional facilities in the outer
suburbs of a generation ago,
but these were not considered
notorious for a high child-
delinquency rate. In the
western Sydney suburb of my
boyhood there were no large
parks with cricket and foot-
ball grounds within easy walk-
ing-distance ; the neighborhood
boys had to use a little park
that was too narrow for
cricket and unsuitable for foot-
ball because it was studded with
trees and seats ; yet there was
always a good roll-up of lads
there after school on fine after-
noons, winter and summer.
Besides these games we mostly
had hobbies to fill-in our spare
time.
Nowadays youths living near
playing-areas don’t seem to
make much use of them. I live
near two suburban parks, each
of which has three concrete
cricket-pitches. In winter one
park is divided into two foot-
ball-grounds, the other into
three hockey-grounds. Except
when these are needed for
organised junior and school
fixtures they are readily avail-
able to local youth. School
games always end at 3.30 p.m.;
but the grounds are seldom
used for unorganised games,
even in the long Christmas
vacation, and there must be
dozens of secondary - school
boys within a quarter-hour
bicycle-ride of them,
Doesn’t youth in general to-
day take the same interest in
traditional games as it did
years ago? Or is it that the
moderns can’t organise their
own recreation? Whatever the
cause, these fine playing-areas
are largely wasted when not
being used for organised games,
jl’ve been told that the situation


is similar in neighboring
suburbs. —Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).
Unions and H.-p.
The reasoning of Labor and
trade-union leaders who refuse
to accept Treasurer Holt’s sug-
gestion that unions should
start hire-purchase schemes is
hard to follow.
The trouble with hire-pur-
chase is that it penalises those
who can least afford it. Many
years ago I bought an ice-
chest, cash down. When it got
too old I bought a refrigerator.
The only way I could get it
was on hire-purchase, with the
result that a £126 refrigerator
cost £lBO. Being better-off
with the passing years I lately
bought a new refrigerator, and
got 10 per cent, off for cash,
bringing the price down from
£l2O to £lOB.
This process applies to many
articles. When you can pay
cash, even if you can’t get a
discount, you can save nearly
half the final price of the
appliance by avoiding hire-
purchase.
The people most in need of
help in this matter form the
bulk of the membership of
trade-unions. And who could
better help them than their own
organisations? They could
slash interest-rates by half, pay
rebates to members, and still
make enough profit on the
“usury” to enable the Labor
party to fight its election-
battles with clean money in-
stead of with contributions
from highly suspect pressure-
groups.—N. O’Sirrah (N.S.W.).
Hamilton Hume
I must say I admire Frank
O’Grady as a doughty scrapper
(B. 15/6/’6O), even though I
still believe he has an
erroneous impression of the
man who was perhaps the
greatest bushman Australia has
produced.
Concerning Mrs. Hamilton
Hume and her sister, O’Grady
quotes Mrs. Felton Matthews’s
journal. Has he ever recol-
lected that the word “ladies,”
used by Mrs. Matthews, had a
different meaning in 1835 from
its present usage? A century
ago (even later) it was applied
to women of gentle birth.
Some 40 years ago I met a
niece of Mrs. Hume and she
spoke highly of her aunt’s
intellect, though she admitted
that as a young woman Mrs.
Hume was afflicted with extra-
ordinary shyness, which may
account for the impression she
made on Mrs. Matthews.
As for the remark made by
a Mr. Watson about Hume, 1
take this with a large grain o!
salt. Hovell, as a witness foi
the defence, is in my opinioi
unreliable, and I can’t accepi
his obiter dicta on -> Hume';
habits. In his journal Hovel
is careful not to mention tha
he left Hume and was twkf
hopelessly lost, being saved bi
the bushcraft of the man will
him.
On the face of it, the lette:
to Governor Brisbane froir
Hume ’would seem to indicati
that the latter really did 'believi
the party had reached Western
port and not Port Phillip. Bn
consider the following extrac
from an interesting bool
Latest Information from Am
tralia Felix, etc., published t
Armstrong and Strode ii
1840:
-It seems that, on their arrivi
in Sydney, the fellow-travelk!
disagreed between them, as to tt
exact position of the southei
coast, they had so fortunately an
with so much difficulty succeed!
in reaching. Mr. Hume was i
the opinion that it was at Pu
Phillip he had seen the sea; M
Hovell differed, declaring the pla;
to have been Port Western. 1
decide the matter, Mr. Hovell w
sent in a Government schooner i
Port Western by his Excellem
Governor Darling.
One imagines that on the
return, with Hovell so insistei
that it was Westernport tt
party had reached, Hun
would have given way to It
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 598
Across
I—Sheltered1 —Sheltered mate of Barney in the “Doll” had a feed. (6)
3 —Not one associate of Roy Rene is sound, but dull. (8)
B—They8—They sing when the sun’s gone in windy weather. (12)
11 — Bandage with which he shortened State articles. (8)
12 — Frank bowling before tea. (5) •
14 —About some French grog salts in yours. (10)
16 —Woe, woe! It’s in Australasia. (4)
18 — Derision star is back. (4)
19 — The largest antelope from
Nairobi and thereabouts. (5, 5)
23 — Who is ignorant as taken from
cash liquor. (5)
24 — Missouri status of Princess
Margaret before her marriage
characteristic of 3-across. (8)
26—Cross nine set in a court
report? (6, 6)
28 — 19-across confused America. (10)
29 Indolently. (4)
Down
1 and 2 —Wild kangaroos train in
a film empire. (4, 12)
4 Give an ovation like Googie. (5)
5 Order a little boy to be a fairy
king. (6)
* 6 —Figure a stage whisper is not
enough to make a regulation
cricket match. (5, 1,4)
7 —Grab the South, naturally! (6)
9—Pulling to an organ of flight. (6)
10—Civil enough to make all new
men red. (4-8)
13 —Injured race horse misrepresented
in this part of Wales. (10)
15—It carries water to the Danube;
most would prefer it for other
drinks. (3)
17—Know food for a schoolboy
state, as it’s affectionately
known. (7)
20— The Spanish hombres of a
tree. (5)
21— Pulls the population of 28-
across. (5)
22 The photographer asks you to
say it in order to capture the
illusion that you’re smiling. (6.)
25 —A secret-agent infested by
snakes. (4)
27 —Yours Truly had a Gilbertian
feminist. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 597


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office: ASSETS EXCEED £20,000.000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street,- Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 I (4 lines). H. G. CRAY, Manager.
Navigation on the Yarra
Many thousands of pounds
have been spent on making
Melbourne one of the most
highly mechanised and efficient
cargo-handling ports in the
world; nevertheless winter
always brings port-congestion.
More and bigger ships are
using the port, but three-
quarters of the berthage is
accessible only by the narrow
"You sure you re not in a draught ?”
and winding waters of the
Yarra.
This channel is the bottle-
neck. Pilots reckon it’s reason-
ably safe to handle only ships
under 450 ft. long during the
hours of darkness. Distances
are deceptive over water at
night, and big ships are difficult
to steer in narrow and confined
channels. The greatest danger
lies in negotiating bends in the
river with long ships ; and this
danger is enhanced by tankers
being berthed at oil-installations
on two of the tightest bends
in the Yarra.
Similar considerations mean
also that most of the bigger
ships using the Yarra must have
one - way traffic. And, with
each ship taking almost an hour
to navigate the channel and
berth or unberth, movements
in daylight are confined to 10
or 12 ships in the -winter.
Tugs are another matter.
Two are needed for most berth-
ings and unberthings, and as
many as five for supertankers
berthing at Breakwater Pier.
Total tug strength of the port
is seven, two of which are
not powerful enough to assist
larger ships. Their crews’ meal-
break of an hour each day
means a precious hour of win-
ter daylight lost.
Some shipping interests think
that navigation of the Yarra
can be achieved with reason-
able safety day or night: that
if existing pilots will not under-
take it, others should be sought
who will. This is a simple
solution to the recurrent winter
port - congestion. But it’s a
dangerous solution—dangerous
not only to shipping but to
public safety. For pilots con-
sider the principal hazard to be
the tankers at the oil-berths,
and they know just how easily
a major disaster could occur.
Proof that pilots consider
restricted navigation of the
Yarra for big ships really neces-
sary lies in the fact that the
same pilots take similar ships
in apd out of Geelong day or
night. The Geelong channels
are similar in width to the
Yarra but are straight and have
no dangers flanking them. The
biggest ships using the Port
Melbourne piers also berth and
unberth at any hour of the day
or night.
During tug disputes, and
when they have considered it
safe to do so, Port Phillip pilots
have kept most of the ships
calling at Melbourne moving
without tug-assistance. If they
considered it safe to do so they
Would lift their restrictions on
navigating the Yarra. The
obvious remedy is not in relax-
ing safety-margins but in re-
moving the dangers—widening
the river and finding alternative
berths for oil-tankers. — Look-
out (Vic.).
Disappearing Landlords
Probably no class of Austra-
lian is disappearing so quickly
as the landlord. Fifty years ago
two of every three houses were
rented, and today less than one
in three is.
/
The landlord isn’t even in the
well-to-do class now. -Just on
70 per cent, of all rentals, for
buildings and properties as well
-as houses, go to people whose
income from all sources is less
than £2OOO yearly.
“Facts,” the Victorian I.P.A.
publication, gives as the
reasons the rout of the house-
investor by 20 years of rent-
control ; the easier financial
position of most people enab-
ling them to buy their own
houses ; the active encourage-*
ment of house-ownership by
Governments; and the gener-
ous borrowing terms from
Governments.
Taxation figures for 1955-56,
the latest available, show this
distribution of rents received
by landlords: Annual income
from all sources before tax,
£lO5 to £499, 15 per cent, of
total; £5OO to £999, 24 p.c.;
£lOOO to £1999, 29 per cent.;
£2OOO to £4999, 22 p.c.; £5OOO
and more, 10 p.c. Total gross
rents received (before tax) were
£4l million. —C. S. (Vic.).
elder man. Hovell was a sea-
captain, supposed to have a
sound knowledge of naviga-
tion and some familiarity with
what charts there were of the
Victorian coastline. Hume was
a superb bushman, with an
almost uncanny knack of find-
ing his way through a track-
less jungle, but it is unlikely
that he had ever seen any of
the charts made of Port
Phillip or Westernport. Yet
he always stuck out that it
was the former place his party
had reached.
Men like Sir Thomas
Mitchell, Captain Sturt, Sur-
veyor Meehan and Alexander
Berry paid high tribute to
Hume’s ability, but I can find
no similar references in any of
their available correspondence
to Hovell, whose chief merit
was that he paid half the cost
of the overland journey, and
so made it possible ; Hume in
1824 could not have financed
the whole of it himself.
Now for Cornelius and
Henry O’Brien, Cornelius was
certainly under a sentence of
life-transportation, but for a
purely political offence. He
was a member of the Irish
landed gentry and a staunch
Protestant, but sympathised
strongly with the Irish pea-
santry, who were certainly
very badly treated by the land-
owning classes. Because of his
education and ability he was
regarded as a very dangerous
man, so he was sent out to Aus-
tralia for life. His crime, if
any, was far less heinous than
that of Peter Lalor, who, in
spite of his Eureka activities,
later became a Minister of the
Crown in Victoria.
I agree that Henry O’Brien
came to Australia to escape the
consequences of a duel. But
18th-century duels were usually
fought under very rigid condi-
tions, designed to give both
parties an equal chance. Being
the victor cast no aspersion on
a man’s character. Did not
Aaron Burr, who killed Alex-
ander Hamilton, later become
Vice-President of the United
States?
Also I agree with Stuart
Hume (B. 3/4/’6O) in his assess-
ment of Hume’s literacy. At
least half the letters I have
perused, signed by him, are in
his own handwriting—which, I
think, disposes of the “profes-
sional scribe” theory.
I m glad O’Grady admits
that Hamilton Hume was
neither illiterate nor uncouth.
But that is the impression many
readers of his book will retain.
D.C. TILGHMAN (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
INITIATIVE IN IRRIGATION
[From “KAEX”]
"O ural development which is
probably unique in
rapidity is in progress at
Thangooi in the Callide
Valley, Central Queensland.
The Valley was long known
to hold a store of underground
water in most of its alluvial
areas, but irrigation came
slowly, although the district
was first opened for closer
settlement in 1923. The exist-
ence of the sub-tertiary belt
was first revealed in the early
days of settlement, when all
bores and wells sunk for
watering stock struck plentiful
supplies between 30ft. and
50ft., but supplies of up to
500 gals. an hour were then
considered excellent.
More than 20 years later a
geological survey made by the
Bureau of Rural Development
showed the capacity to be far
greater than had been
imagined. But obstacles lay
ahead. The water-bed consists
of a stratum up to 35ft. deep
of semi-coarse and coarse
It is gratifying to note
the continued high-
level of prices that our
wool brings, because,
as we all know, Aus-
tralia depends largely
on its wool cheque,
that ultimately provides
the vital services neces-
sary to maintain its high
standard of living.
Graziers everywhere are
grateful to Elastrator,
because Elastrator —the
safe, sure humane
method of castrating
and tailing—has helped
considerably in the
decline of setback, fly-
strike and diseases
associated with old-
fashioned methods of
castrating and tailing.
Use the antiseptically-
treated Elastrator Green
Rubber Rings next time
you castrate and tail
your lambs or calves.
gravel. Wells sunk yielded up
to 30,000 gals. an hour, but
would not last —terrific suction
often caused a cave-in. Then
the Irrigation and Water
Supply Commission (a branch
of the Lands Department)
really got to work. Its drillers
“2900 guineas.. . 3000 guineas... 3100 guineas ...
3200 guineas... 3300 guineas. ..
studied overseas methods, and
one of its employees invented
a bore-screen which would
keep out the gravel while
allowing the maximum of
water to be drawn from-it.
Even quite recently, how-
ever, irrigation technique was,
relatively speaking, in the
dark ages. In 1956 the com-
mission sent two Bin. boring-
plants to the Valley. Though
results from the bores put
down were astounding, farmers
generally showed little interest,
mainly because of the high
cost. The majority of these
bores were used to irrigate
fairly small areas of improved-
pasture or lucerne for dairy-
herds, and the venture gave
little more than partial security
against drought.
Development on a big scale
was started around Thangooi
in 1955, when former grazier
T\ R. Philp disposed of his
interests in southern Queens-
land and went searching for
irrigation-land. After inspect-
ing many irrigation-areas in
N.S.W. and Queensland, Philp
finally bought a property of
less than 400 acres, a mile
south of Thangooi. Here the
big valleys of Kariboe and
Grevillea Creeks emerge from
the hills with not much more
than a mile between them
and open out into a wide tract
of high-class, level alluvial
land to form the southern end
of the Callide Valley. Most
of this tract is completely free
from flooding, and the creek-
beds are dry almost all the
year. The property had pre-
viously been used for growing
wheat and cotton, and for
dairyfarming.
Philp’s aim was to grow
irrigated lucerne on a commer-
cial basis—and he has cer-
tainly struck it rich. It took
him a couple of years to whip
the property into shape and
learn by trial-and-error the
most effective methods of get-
ting the water above ground
and the best way of growing
lucerne in an area where the
crop had hardly been tried
before. In 1959 he had 100
acres under production, and
now he has almost 200 and is
still expanding.
Contrary to local opinion,
Philp found a ready market
for baled hay at all times of
the year, and, in fact, opened-
up a vast western and northern
market many times beyond his
capacity to supply. Guarding
against wet seasons and a
possible temporary glut, he
erected the first of a projected
series of storage-sheds. That
shed will hold 7000 bales, but
the demand for his lucerne-
hay has been so great that
the shed has never been
filled.
Philp’s lead has given other
farmers the incentive to
follow, and today irrigation-
bores dot the Callide Valley,
It looks as if the Thangooi
section will become the most
productive area of this riel
tract. Here a large numb«
of bores are concentrated and
water-yield is fantastic —up to
50,000 gals. an hour being
obtained from single bores.
This is the highest part of
the valley’s irrigation-belt, and
freedom from flooding makes
it ideal for lucerne, which is
fast becoming the chief
irrigated crop.
Situated just below the
Tropic of Capricorn, the
Callide Valley has perhaps the
most favorable climate is
Australia for lucerne-produc
tion. It is about as far nortl
as lucerne can be grown it
satisfactory commercial quan
tities, because it is not fai
south of the area where the
long “wet” occurs, yet it is fai
enough away from harsh
winter conditions which retard
growth for several months of
the year. Soil is ideal ant
underground water suitable
It has been proved that wei
a ton an acre can be cut abort
every three weeks for mosf
of the year, with about four
weeks between the wintei
cuts. The winter here rarelj
extends beyond 10 weeks and
since cloudy weather is t
rarity, hay cures rapidly to i
high quality in the sunn)
climate.
Today the way of would-b
irrigationists has been madr
easy. Early difficulties ant
costly failures in boring foi
water have disappeared. Tht
Irrigation and Water Suppl)
Commission, finding it impos
sible to meet the demand witf
its own few plants, madf
experts available to train loca
drillers.
In 1958 the Governmen
instituted the Farm Watei
Supplies Assistance Act, whict
authorises long-term loans t<
landholders through thi
Agricultural Bank, covering
up to 90 per cent, of the cost of
bores and equipment.
Farm Water Advisory Depart
ment was appointed withil
the commission and put undei
the charge of senior riven
and streams engineer K. M
Carmichael. It includes at
engineer and a geologist, whil*
at Rockhampton two advisory
officers are at the service o!
farmers for technical advici
and supervision of installs
tions at all times.
A strange feature of tht
Callide Valley is that develop
ment has been so swift tha'
it has got ahead of land
values, so here it is possibh


-to • * i
The
Conomatic
Here, at last, is perfection in portable space heating a blue
flame, straight-wick heater of entirely new design, as notable for
its many labour-saving features as for its neat dimensions and
streamlined elegance.
% The TILLEY CONOMATIC is inexpensive, economical, efficient and
safe. Wonderful warmth wherever you want it with unique automatic aids
to take all the trouble out of filling, lighting, extinguishing and wickcontroL
® double warmth—from
above and below the
gold-toned grille;
# ever-ready, quick-
lighting straight wick;
automatic accessi-
bility;
9 perfect stability; safe;
easy to use; clean,
simple filling;
Q fashionable two-tone
design a thing of
beauty in any
surroundings
The Tilley Conomatic burns for up to 42 hours
on only a gal'on of kerosene. Output range:
6,250 8.T.U./hour at maximum. 3,570
8.T.U./hour, at minimum setting.
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest stockist to:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 MT ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSEN DON W.S VICTORIA
Rhone : FX 4747
to buy the cheapest high-
quality irrigable land in Aus-
tralia, near to rail and market.
While a few highly-developed
farms have become unbuyable,
plenty of land equipped with
high-yielding bores can be
had for less than £lOO an
acre, and sometimes as low as
£so.’ Farms partly developed,
with great irrigation-potential,
are still on the market for
£3O to £4O an acre, much of
this being virgin country,
where almost any irrigable
crop known can be grown.
Buyers of lucerne in western
and northern Queensland
have become aware of what
is happening at Thangool.
Previously drawing their
supplies from N.S.W. and
southern Queensland, they find
they can now save pounds a
ton in freight-charges alone,
seeing the Callide Valley is
much nearer, and at present
demand far exceeds supply.
Asparagus
“Waxy”: Asparagus - grow-
ing reached such proportions
last season in the Lachlan
Valley that the canning-factory
at Cowra (N.S.W.) is claimed
as the biggest asparagus-can-
ning centre in the Southern
Hemisphere. Continued and
widespread demand led to the
increase in acreage.
Cutting usually starts in mid-
September and continues until
mid-December. If the quality
of the asparagus declines be-
cause of bad weather or from
any other cause cutting is
stopped at once. Quality actu-
ally governs the length of the
cutting-season.
The plant provides much of
its own manure, since the
green fern is allowed full
development, and is then
chaffed and returned to the
soil.
Australia Lagging?
“R.R.D.”: Gerald M.
Rankin, of Westdrums, Craig-
eassie, Angus (Scotland) —he’s
coming to judge Shorthorns,
Angus and Poll Shorthorns at
the 1960 Melbourne Royal—
is a man whose opinions on
stud-practice and breeding
count. Sires from around
Westdrums (where he is
manager for Boots Pure Drug
Co.) have played a large part
in the development of Short-
horn and Angus studs in Aus-
tralia, and Rankin has judged
at leading shows all over the
world, including the Royal
Highland Show this year
(Shorthorns), the Palermo
(Argentina) Show last year
(Angus) and the 1955 Sydney
Royal Easter (Shorthorns).
So it may be worth ponder-
ing on what he was reported
as saying after judging at
Palermo in 1959: “Truthfully
it can be said that, on a quality
basis, Australia is many years
behind Argentina, which is
fast catching-up in the export
of high-quality beef that will
challenge the world. From
what I saw, it will be a long
time before Australia has an
exportable surplus of meat of
a quality acceptable to Smith-
field (Eng.).
“The [Australian] Govern-
ment ban on imports of pedi-
gree-cattle, which could help
the upgrading, will further
retard progress. The un-
doubted high quality of
Argentine cattle is the logical
conclusion to years of sound
breeding by a nation of
inherently good stockmen who
have long recognised the value
of using good bulls.”
Provocatively he added that
a further aid to progress in
Argentina has been “the
scarcity of non-practical scien-
tists and geneticians talking to
the Government and the
breeders.”
Maize
“Pat O’Day”: Maize has
proved a great fodder-crop in
the Gundagai (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. Farmers have grown it
with success along the
Murrumbidgee around Tarra-
bandra and it has kept their
flocks in excellent condition.
Also they had enough sown
to sell some profitably to
neighbors who had made no
provision for this year's bad
drought. Mingay station, near
Tarrabanda it’s now sub-
divided—looked a picture
even in the height of summer,
and, in striking comparison
with conditions elsewhere,
sheep there were saleable as
fats.
Maize holds a store of
vitamin-A, which is badly
needed when grasslands have
dried-up. Even now, when
there’s green grass in every
paddock, it will still take some
time to restore vitamins lost
during the drought. That’s
where the nutritive value of
maize comes in. In the leafy
stage its succulent plants are
palatable and nutritious for
all stock, and the grain has
a high starch-content, though
it is inferior in protein. It’s
particularly good for fattening.
A summer-autumn crop,
maize makes excellent silage
when chopped. Extensively
grown in those parts of N.S.W.
and Queensland where there’s
higher rainfall or irrigation—
and to a lesser extent in Vic-
toria, S.A. and W.A. —it also
makes good green-fodder,
particularly for dairy-cows,
and it’s just about a “must” on
grazing properties.
It grows particularly well
in deep, rich, self-mulching
alluvial and volcanic loams.
It does best with good summer
rains, and it can’t stand heavy
frost.
In most parts it’s best sown
in September or October, using
a- special maize-drill with a
fertiliser attachment to put the
fertiliser well below and out
of contact with the seed.
Preparation of the seedbed
means working the land well,
so that the bed is deep, moist,
firm and free from weeds.
(Here, it’s usual to apply to
the seed between 2cwt. and
3cwt. an acre of super, and
bonedust or blood-and-bone
mixture.)
Seeding-rates are: for grain,


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring: Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
, 406 Collins Street, Melbourne
81b. to 151 b. an acre, accord-
ing to variety, in rows 3ft.
apart; for fodder, 281 b. to
581 b. an acre, cross-drilled in
rows 3ft. apart each way. The
seed is broadcast at about
1-ly bushel an acre. (A bushel
of maize weighs 561 b.)
Varieties, as classified,
include :
Very early: Sixty-day, Early
Morn.
Early: Golden Superb,
Dunk’s Yellow Dent, Silver-
mine.
Mid-season: Hickory King,
Loaming, Fitzroy.
Late: Fitzroy, Large Red
Hogan.
Fitzroy, the most important
variety grown in Australia,
produces a heavy main crop
for green-feed and a good
yield of yellow grain. Hickory
King, a round, white maize,
is much sown in second-class
soils.
The crop is cut and fed
green to stock at any time from
tasselling to glazing. For
silage, it is cut while the leaves
are still green and the grain
is starting to glaze. The grain
is best crushed before being
fed to stock.
"Heavy" or "Draught"
Horses?
“M.F.D.”: I was surprised
to hear in an A.B.C. broadcast
from Adelaide a speaker refer
consistently to the important
part the “heavy” horse had
played in the development of
South Australia.
There may be a distinction
with only a very slight differ-
ence’ between the terms “heavy”
and “draught” for the big
toilers, but I’ve yet to hear any-
one in N.S.W. refer to a
“heavy” horse. There are
heavy-draughthorses and light-
draughthorses, but “draught”
is always used to describe the
working farm-horse, be it
heavy or light. Is “heavy”
used anywhere else than in
South Australia?
There can be, of course, no
argument about the valuable
part which the draught (or
“heavy”) has played in the
development of rural industry
in every State in the Common-
wealth. I was born on a farm
on the North Coast of N.S.W.
when only horses were used
for farm-work or cattle-muster-
ing.
Still earlier, of course, we
had the bullock, which also
played a great part in country
development. Even in my early
years there were scores of
bullock-teams up that way,
where they were used almost
exclusively for hauling heavy
mill-timber from almost in-
accessible areas. Teamsters told
me that bullocks were much
more effective than horses in a
tight corner, and cheaper to
maintain, too.
One of the many uses to
which I specially remember
draughthorses being put in my
very early years was to haul
“ambulances”—usually a dray
with a bed-tick on the floor on
which the patient rested. I
recall being transported 10
miles from the Grafton hospital
to my home lying on the bottom
of a dray which was drawn by
one of my father’s farm
draughthorses. It was Christ-
mas Eve, and I was sheltered
from the blazing sun by an
umbrella held by my mother,
who sat beside me on a box.
That “ambulance transport”
will always stay with me as a
special occasion: a boy of
seven years, I had been in hos-
pital for just on 12 months and
was being allowed home for
Christmas.
Cattle and Beef
Research
Newly appointed by Minister
for Primary Industry Ader-
mann, the Australian Cattle
and Beef Research Committee
held its inaugural meeting in
Sydney on June 17. J. L. Shute,
chairman of the Australian
Meat Board, was elected to ti
chair, and, among other bus
ness, it was agreed to recon
mend to the Minister that
levy of 2s. a head should app;
on all cattle slaughtered f(
human consumption and ov ;
2001 b. dressed weight (220!
for carcasses with the skin on
Accepting the recommend;
tion, Mr. Adermann said tl
levy would operate from July
1960. It’s expected to profit
about £320,000 additional funt
in a normal year for cattle at
beef research, and the Cot
monwealth Government i
make a matching contribute
on a £-for-£ basis, total pr
ceeds to be paid into a cat!
and beef research trust-accou:
administered by the commits
Kangaroo-meat
.“Acacia”: Long consider;
an utterly useless and serious
damaging pest in inland pa;
of various States, the kangar;
has become a good overse
money-earner.
A Brisbane company er
ploys 20 teams around !
George, 801 l on and Cunn
mulla shooting the ’roos
night by spotlight. Carcass
are taken by insulated true
to freezers, where they a
cleaned, dressed and hung f
transport to Brisbane; the
boned and packed in cartor
they are exported to German
Belgium, Singapore, Japan ai
Hong Kong, and inquiries ha
also come from potential eti
tomers in South Africa, Bora
and Switzerland.
The meat is shipped as gat
to be used as pet-food, b
much of it probably finds
way to the dinner-table in t!
importing countries. A bam
its being sold for human co
sumption in Australia has be
in the press lately, the objf
tion being that it isn’t slaus
tered at registered abattoirs.
Those who have tried ’ro
steak praise it as being tend
and tasting like a combinatif
of duck and pork. With be
selling at such high prices, t!
’roo-meat could become pop
lar at its present price of Is. 4
a pound wholesale, but then
little likelihood of export!
supplying the local marl
while the present overse;
demand continues. A Sydc
restaurant - keeper declares
has “the tenderness of fillet ai
the flavor of rump.”
Apart from the meat, the!
port-trade in ’roo-skins earn
shooters in Queenslafl
£150,000 in dollars last yes
when 1773 shooters operatf
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(23/6/’60)
In Queensland rainfall should be light and mainly below
normal during July, except for moderate falls on the eastern
part of the Darling Downs. In August there should be
good rains along the coast, on the central highlands and
Darling Downs, and about the Maranoa and Warrego.
Patchy rains are then likely until November.
N.S.W. should have only light or moderate rains,
generally below normal, during July, with better falls on the
Southern Tablelands. In August'"heavier falls are likely in
the coastal and north-western districts, and the Tablelands
areas. Patchy rains should follow in September and October,
with good general falls in November.
Victoria should have good rains during July, with best
falls in the north-eastern and east-central districts, along
the west coast and in East Gippsland. Rainfall may be
variable during August, with good rains following in Sep-
tember.
There should be good rains in South Australia during
July, with moderate falls extending into the north interior.
Moderate rains are likely in the agricultural areas during
August, with better falls in September.
Rainfall should be reasonably good, though below
normal, in the s.-w. agricultural areas of Western Australia
during July. There are likely to be good rains along the
central coast, with light to moderate falls about the Gas-
coyne, but poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
The Perfect Hotel
For BUSY Men and Women
Right in the heart of the city, the
Hotel Metropole is the ideal place to
stay during your Sydney business
tiip and at the same time you’ll find
its pleasant atmosphere really
relaxing.
Only a step away from Sydney’s
main business offices and handy to
shops and all forms of transport—
The Hotel Metropole combines
convenience and comfort with the
relaxed, friendly atmosphere that
has for years made it Australia’s
friendliest Hotel. Over 400 rooms
ail with telephone and hot and cold
water (95 with private bathrooms),
luxurious ultra-modern suites, day
and night room-service, fine, enter-
taining facilities and magnificent
dining-room and cellar make the
Hotel Metropole THE hotel for
busy men and women.
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Wherfc It’s Never
Too Much Trouble
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
marketing well over half-a-
million skins.
Caftie Round-up
Poll Herefords
At the Sydney Fat Stock
and Carcass Show and Sales
heaviest single steer was a
poll Hereford, weighing
11951 b. This steer, exhibited
by P. A. and J. Kobel, of
Walclia (N.S.W.), was pasture-
fed, in the class for a single
steer not showing any per-
manent teeth.
Another heavy Poll Here-
ford steer—lloolb., exhibited
by W. A. Davey, of Bungen-
dore (N.S.W.) —was placed
second in the same class on
the hook.
In the pens-of-three class
the heaviest steers were again
Poll Herefords, entered by
E. G. and G. J. Mclntosh, and
with live-weights of 13311 b.,
13241 b. and 13591 b. Unplaced
on the hoof, they were placed
first by carcass-judge C. C.
Nichols.
Red Polls
Extract from a letter from
Wendell H. Severin, secretary-
treasurer of the Red Poll Cattle
Club of America:
May I submit to you the thought
that in the IJ.S.A. the Chicago
carcass-contest results tend to
indicate that Red Polls now come
the closest to producing the
modernly consumer-desired “meat-
type” carcass? We do not con-
tend that the beef-breeds in time
cannot meet it also, but as ol
now we come close to having a
meat-type carcass; the beef-b‘reeds
on the average are quite a distance
from having it. The new standards
or breeding-goals being suggested
by authorities include a weight-tor-
age requirement. The one beef-
breed consistently highest in average
carcass-quality falls far short on
weight-for-age at the present time.
At Walgett (N.S.W.) Show
A non-competitive exhibit
of Santa Gertrudis-cross cattle,
exhibited at the special invita-
tion of the committee by the
Lyal Kirby Pastoral Co., Glen
Prairie, Moree (N.S.W.),
caused great interest. Nine
pens of various crosses were
exhibited —all paddock-reared
and having received no special
feeding or pellets—and their
size and early maturity were
outstanding. Five of the
bullocks had a total live-
weight of 87801 b. and an
estimated dressed-weight of
50161 b. (approximately 2\
tons).
Details of exhibits were:
First-cross Bullocks
Angus, 3yrs. lOmths., paddock-
weight 20201 b.
Shorthorn, 2yrs. 6mths., paddock-
weight 17101 b.
Hereford, 2yrs. llmths., paddock-
weight 17801 b.
Guernsey (champion steer Goon-
diwindi Show, 1960), 2yrs. 4mths.,
paddock-weight 14801 b.
From Jersey-Hereford-cross cow,
3yrs. llmths., paddock-weight
17901 b.
Averages: 3yrs. lmth., paddock-
weight f7561b.
First-cross Heifers
Poll Shorthorn, paddock-
weight 13601 b.
Poll Shorthorn, 2yrs. 2mths.,
paddock-weight 12451 b.
Poll Hereford, 22mths., paddock-
weight 12401 b.
Averages: 2yrs. 2mths., paddock-
weight 12811 b.
First-cross Heifer
Angus, 2yrs., paddock-weight
11501 b.
Angus mother, Byrs., paddock-
weight 10871 b.
First-cross Bull-calf
Angus (exhibited with mother),
7mths, paddock-weight 6601 b.
A.I.S.
Champion A.I.S. cow at the
1957 R.N.A. Exhibition,
Sunny View Thelma 39th,
owned and bred by J. Phillips
and Sons, of Sunny View,
Kingaroy (Q.), was last month
admitted to the elite section
of the Register of Merit for
dairy-cows. Ninth dairy-cow
in Queensland to qualify for
this section, Thelma has yielded
38.6 tons (86,9431 b.) of milk
and 1.8 tons (40561 b.) of
butterfat in five milking-
seasons.
A tenth cow, Lauraven
Mermaid, owned and bred by
E. G. Evans, of Maleny (Q.),
has since been added to the
elite section. Mermaid, an
11-year-old A. 1.5., has pro-
duced 36401 b. of butterfat in
nine lactations and yielded
95,9991 b. of milk, with an
average butterfat-test of 3.8
per cent.
Disorders of f he Apple
“Lyra”: Four deficiency-
disorders of apple-trees are
wither-tip, little-leaf, internal-
cork and measles.
Wither-tip aptly describes a
condition where shoots that
grow vigorously in spring die-
back about December or Janu-
ary, with leaves turning yellow
and their margins brown and
withered, while criss-cross
cracks appear on the bark.
Young trees are most fre-
quently affected.
The disorder is caused by
deficiency of copper, and appli-
cation of Bordeaux mixture in
November will overcome it.
But the treatment should be
applied only to young, non-
bearing trees, because the spray
will cause “russeting” of fruit
on older trees. A dressing of
ilb. of bluestone, chipped into
the soil about each tree in late
winter or early spring, is an-
other remedy.
First symptoms of little-leaf
are shortening of the inter-
nodes on a number of terminal
shoots and slight mottling of
leaves. These shoots do not
come into leaf until late spring ;
when they do, the leaves are
small, stiff and clustered. Ter-
minal growth ceases, and when
it is removed at pruning time
there is no subsequent growth
to replace it, so trees gradually
become smaller and unfruitful.
This disorder is caused by
zinc-deficiency. A mixture of
101 b. zinc-sulphate in 40gal.
water should be sprayed
on affected trees during
July or early August, prefer-
ably before pruning. If this is
not possible, postpone spray-
ing until three weeks after
pruning, so that the spray does
not come in contact with freshly
cut wood and cause injury. If
the disorder is severe, make the
strength of the first spraying
201 b. zinc-sulphatee to 40gals.
of water. Apply the treatment
two years in succession, then
every second year.
Symptoms of internal-cork
vary in different kinds of apples.
Granny Smiths show the most
striking effects. In early stages
greenish patches appear in the
flesh of the fruit (if near the
surface they may be seen
through the skin). Later, these
areas become brown and
spongy or corky, and are scat-
tered throughout the flesh.
Granny Smiths are also subject
to malformation, notably dimp-
ling or knobbiness on the skin,
and this, too, comes from in-
ternal-cork lesions. If the dis-
order appears when the fruit
is small, the apples remain
stunted and often fall before
ripening.
Internal-cork is caused by
boron-deficiency—as are two
allied disorders ; corky-core
and drought-spot. Borax at
the rate of £lb. to a tree
should be sprinkled widely
around each trunk and lightly
worked-in. A spray of 21b.
borax to 40 gals, water, applied
every November, will also
correct the deficiency.
Measles, another disorder
due to boron-deficiency, affects
particularly Delicious and
Jonathan. It appears as in-
numerable blisters or pimples
on the bark of the trees. These
first appear on the youngest
wood during autumn and win-
ter each year. The next year,
blisters enlarge, bark cracks
and becomes very coarse, and
affected areas may merge into
one another. The bark about
these areas is reddish, and red
streaks may appear in the
wood. This condition may
affect one or more branches oa
a tree and invariably causes
serious stunting of growth.
Treatment recommended for
internal-cork control will
remedy the trouble.
Crosscut
“Jayem”: Sydney ram-sales
hit the headlines this year when
a Merino ram from G. B. S.
Falkiner's Haddon Rig stud
was sold for the all-time record
price of 8300 guineas. The first
Sydney sales were conducted
by Mort and Co. in 1875 and
the first offerings were from
James Gibson (Belle Vue stud)
and David Taylor, both of Tas-
mania. Gibson soild 18 rams at
an average of £57 16s. 2d., the
top price being 235gns. Tay-
lor’s St. Johnston rams sold to
200gns. and averaged £9 2s.
The first four-figure sale was
in 1890, when Matchless, a ram
bred by T. McFarland, was
bought for lOOOgns. by P. Mc-
Farland.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEO It OH AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. 0. LEWIS, General Manager.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Identity of the subject of this
George Lambert pencil-sketch,
dated 1895. Thought to be a writer
of that period.—6995.
Information Sought
Can you give me a recipe for
brine for corning meats ?
To 4 gallons of water add 161 b.
brown sugar, 21b. saltpetre, 161 b.
common salt and 31b. bay salt.
Bring to the boil and boil for a
quarter-hour, then let stand till
cold. Put in the meat, and turn
it every day for a week. When
cooking, wash the meat in cold
water and soak it to lessen salti-
ness. The brine may be used
several times and can be strength-
ened after a few uses by adding
more salt.
* * * *
What English or American
gardening-books give information
on special plant-feeding ? What
are the best fertilisers for gerberas
and Rex begonias ?
No suitable books are available,
but gerbeias will be greatly
assisted by old cow-manure dug
in deeply before planting. Regular
watering with dilute liquid cow-
and poultry-manure should supple-
ment this during the flowering-
season. Suitable fertilisers for Rex
begonias include blood-and-bone,
old cow-manure and light dressings
of fowl-manure.
* * * *
How are crystallised cumquats
prepared ?
Clip the fruit from the trees so
as not to injure the skin, then
remove calyx and portion of stem.
Wash in clear water, place in pot
and cover with cold water. Bring
slowly to the boil, throw away
water, and repeat the process
twice. At the third boiling, add
|lb. sugar to every pound of fruit
and cook gently until the fruit can
be pierced with a steel knitting-
needle. Then they should be
almost transparent, with most of
the water evaporated. Drain the
cumquats on white paper, roll in
sugar, and dry off slowly in the
oven with the door open. Roll
in sugar again and store in a
cool, dry place. The process is
slow to allow sugar syrup to
replace the water in the fruit;
hurried boiling will cause cracking.
* * * *
Could you supply a description
of the appearance, manner of
growth and fruiting-habit of the
plant dasheen ?
Dasheen is another name for
the taro - plant, well known
throughout the tropical Pacific as
a source of useful food, exten-
“It doesn't shoot!"
sively grown for its root-tubers,
treated like potatoes in cooking.
No real tubers are formed above
ground on any plant; the edible
parts formed on the stems are
true fruits following flowering.
All parts of the plant may be
eaten, tubers, shoots, fruit or
leaves, cooked as you wish. Plant
your tuber in July or August in
rich soil, and keep well supplied
with water. The plant does well
only in hot climates.
* * * *
A method of tanning wallaby-
skins, with fur on, that does not
use sulphuric-acid.
Scrape the skins clean of pieces
of fat or flesh, trim ragged edges,
brush the fur free of clots or
knots, then wash in cold water.
Dissolve 12oz. alum and Boz.
salt in a half-gallon of boiling
water. Allow this solution to cool
and add a paste made from yib.
flour and a little water. Make-up
to a gallon.
Give the skins a liberal coating
of this mixture on the flesh side
and fold them over. Repeat daily
for three or four days, then dry-
out. For a softener add a half-
pint of neatsfoot-oil. When the
skins are drying-out, work them
about to keep them flexible and
rub in oil if stiff. When dry, shake
and brush. When the first
washing is made, tan" at once, and
do not let them dry or soak.
Brief Answers
J.C.: Some States are more
liberal than others in making
available building-finance, and your
failure to indicate in which State
you reside makes it difficult to
give you more specific advice.
However, there are several sources
open to you. If you have collateral
security, a bank may accommodate
you; if you hold, or are willing
to take-out, policies (provided
you are a good life-risk), a life-
assurance co. might put-up the
money. The Repat. Dept, would,
if you are eligible, be interested,
though you would need to put-up
some money yourself; and a build-
ing co-op. society might come to
light. If you fail with these, write
again, but this time giving more
details... .J.V.T.: “Rebecca” was
directed by Alfred Hitchcock and
starred Laurence Olivier, Joan
Fontaine and Judith Anderson.
A.C.: American Joe Ezar is
credited with a “perfect” round
of golf. He shot a 65 which he
had nominated hole by hole. On
two occasions he had to hole-out
with chip-shots to keep to his
schedule B. J.: The Capitol
History of Jazz, in four volumes,
should best suit your purposes.
K.P.: The Scharnhorst was
a battleship of 26,000 tons. It
was sunk on December 23, 1943.
. ...C.A.: One system used to
remove tram-tracks is to rip them
out in lengths, using a mobile
crane. The tracks and sleeper
are loaded onto trucks followinj
the crane, and behind the trucks
the blue-metal is laid and the road
sealed. By this continuous process
it is possible to complete a milt
of road a day P.D.: Cadiiceus
was the magic wand of Mercury
L.W.F.: (1) Probably the
globular cluster, Omega Centauri,
which appears to the naked eye
as a rather fuzzy star. (2) A good
book of maps is Norton’s Stai
Atlas, published by Gall and
Inglis... .G.S.H.: Santa Gertrudis
cattle evolved from a Brahman-
Shorthorn cross, but since 1941)
they have been recognised as a
pure breed. Australia’s first Santa
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
Gertrudis herd was imported ii
1951, when they were a well
established breed... .CJ.: Thf
founder of the philosophy oi
stoicism is usually held to be Zent
who was born towards the en(
of the fourth century, b.c. Hi
stoicism, however, differs radical!
from that of later generations
which contained little of tls
materialism that he professed
though the doctrine of stoic ethic
remained fairly constant.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear tt
all MSS. No liability is unde
taken re contributions votuntarl,
submitted; and no MS. will l
returned unless stamps accon
pany. MSS. should be addresss
to the Editor; they will be cot
sidered for publication on lk
understanding that they may l
shortened or altered as the Edilt
thinks necessary.
F.A.: Artistic walue? Sow
Commercial? You can only t
a woman's paper... .A.A.: All
two lines:
I came to the city for a change
But all it gives me is a pain . . •
....Tone: They’re unusual, a»!
h0w....N.5.: Poems on ® l
mining-towns, deserted goldfield
abandoned selections, ruined mai
sions, etc., come in and go oi
incessantly.... Ruby McC.: End
with cat:
B.G.K.: The lambs were'
the verge of something-
G.D.H.: The Martians f
mised to be more amusing.
THE EARNEST CAT AT THE
BOOKCASE
I think that I will read all day.
I'm keen on culture, so they say,
And know among these books I’ll ft®
Something to improve my mind.
In another, ancient age
We were gods, so said a sage.
I will read of this and that
To uplift my fellow-cat.


THE HOLLIDAYS
“I must apologise for my husband, Mrs. Holliday-he's a bad loser!"
New Recordings
Rhythms, Occidental and
Oriental
It is one of the curiosities of
music that, though Spanish
composer Manuel de Falla, one
of the most gifted exponents
of nationalism in Iberian music,
came so strongly under the
influence of the French im-
pressionists Ravel and Debussy,
he made no attempt to invade
the musical citadels of France ;
on the other hand, Ravel, De-
bussy, Massenet and Bizet
helped themselves freely to the
Spanish idiom, Bizet con-
tributing the most Spanish
of all operas in the repertoire :
“Carmen.” Both Bizet and de
Falla are represented in Tempo
Espahol (P 8487), a Capitol disk
on which Carmen Dragon, with
the Capitol Symphony Orches-
tra, puts together nine engaging
Pieces cast in the rhythm-inode
°f Spain, with the Frenchman
seeming to out-Spain the
“P an 'ards. His Intermezzo from
the “Carmen Suite No. 1,”
W'th its rippling nuances, is all
hfngorous beauty, whilst de
Falla’s Spanish Dance No 1
from his opera “La Vida
Breve” hammers more forth-
right rhythms. Massenet tosses
' s hat into the bullring with
“y 6 from his opera
• e Cid”—a graceful contribu-
tor 1 to the dance. Rodriguez’s
ascjnating tango, “La Cumpar-
-isL___^° u ld make any red-
blooded Spaniard, or Aussie,
grab, if not for a guitar, at
least Rarest senorita,
and Fad,! a s Vaiencta cer
tam V wo y ld lndu “ one do
an y thin § but suck an orange,
The traditional “Ay Ay, Ay,'
? nd long ago
leaped the Adanttc, g ve strong
<»<*'»* to Gade s Jalousie
wh, f everyone who has danced
a tango knows backwards-
rLad>' o£ SP ai " " remorselessly
beatmg-out he rhythms of
Castlle > completes the set,
With the. “Le Coq d’Or”
Suite of Rimsky - Korsakov,
from Coronet (KLC 2720) the
rhythmic pattern is spun 1000
miles or so east of Madrid,
straight from the mythical
palace of King Dodon and
other fanciful places of
Pushkin.
This is insidious music ; and,
whilst the rhythms haven’t the
intoxicating qualities of the
Spanish, they are nonetheless
attractive; and, though the
composer * doesn’t reach here
either the melodic invention or
the gorgeous harmonic colors
that invest his “Scheherezade,”
melody is pleasant and the har-
monies acceptable. For good
measure the platter also holds
the same composer’s “Russian
Easter” Overture and Glinka's
“Russian and Ludmilla” Over-
ture, and all are played beauti-
fully by the Philadelphia
Orchestra under Ormandy.
Good for Laughs
Wayne and Shuster, two
Canadian entertainers who have
had a great run on radio and
TV, first in their own country
and more recently in the U.S.,
aren’t very well known in Aus-
tralia, though some Australian
comedians are obviously
familiar with their records.
F’rinstance, it’s only fair that
anyone who has heard on TV
the one about the Roman
citizen who walked into the
cafe on the Via Appia and
asked for a martinus should
know that the gag came from
a Wayne and Shuster skit,
“Rinse the Blood off my Toga,”
in which a Roman private-eye,
one Flavius Maximus, is en-
gaged by Brutus to investigate
the bumping-off of Big Julie —
Julius Caesar to you and Shak-
speare. In case you haven’t
heard it, the bartender comes
back with “You mean mar-
tini.” “Lissen,” says the cus-
tomer. “I mean martinus. When
I want two, I’ll ask for them.”
This opus, dripping with
gore and quotes from the Bard,
is one of four items on
Coronet’s Wayne and Shuster
(KLP 863). It’s the best of the
four, but the others run it close
in nicely balanced mixture of
slapstick and sophistication.
“A Shakspearean Baseball
Game” (with Macduff wield-
ing a bat made of Birnam
wood and the team-manager
arguing with the umpire—“So
fair a foul I ne’er have seen”)
is a laughable bit of tomfoolery
that makes one wish the pair
would try the same treatment
on football and cricket. “I
Was a TV Addict” is a sort of
“Lost Weekend” with channels
substituted for bottles, and
“Frontier Psychologist” a truly
adult Western, in which it is
made clear that gunmen only
shoot folk because they’re mal-
adjusted—for example, the one
whose home ran away from
him when he was a little boy
(it was a covered wagon and
he fell off the back while cross-
ing the prairie)—and there’s no
such thing as an outlaw —
they’re just mixed-up cowboys.
Sample snippet from the
psychologist’s casebook: “Well,
madam, you can go back to the
reservation and tell your hus-
band there’s nothing at all
wrong with his legs. He can
walk all right. It's just his
mind and his subsconscious
that’s stopping him. He can
walk all right. Goodbye, Mrs.
Sitting Bull.”
Humor in different vein is
provided by Anna Russell’s
“How to Enjoy Your Bagpipe”
(Coronet, KEP 240). For this
lecturette Miss Russell pro-
duces an undressed “bag,” sans
pipes, says various uncompli-
mentary things about it and
then proceeds to dress it and
attach its pipes, explaining
their functions the while. “This
pipe is called the drone. Named
after the male bumble-bee,
apparently because it makes a
lot of noise and can only do
one thing.” The music, we are
told, comes on the “blow,
squeeze, push, twiddle” prin-
ciple. Not the funniest of
Anna’s monologues, this one
obviously is intended to be seen
as well as heard. But her fans,
no doubt, can fill-in plenty of
the blanks.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
It would be hard to pick the Party
of the Year in Sydney, but there is no
doubt that the revue given by members
of the Black and White Ball committee
at the Phillip Street Theatre is the most
hilarious. Everyone in the audience
knows everyone in the cast, so applause
is generous, to say the least. A dinner
(at Romano’s) precedes the show, which
begins at 11.30 p.m. and a champagne
supper follows it. Dressing-up, whether
in satins and furs (for the audience),
gay-’nineties costumes (for the cast) or
mad wigs and masks (for the usherettes)
makes for a really gay atmosphere, and
the permission to smoke during the
performance (though not to spit, throw
orange-peel, empty bottles and the like)
gives regulation-ridden show-goers quite
a sense of daring.
The standard of performance was
enthusiastic rather than high, but Elsa
Jacoby, with Caroline Anderson, Leslie
Walford and John Unicomb in the
background, made a very good thing
of “If Jack Were Only Here.” Several
professional actors helped-out the male-
voices considerably, and there were lots
of pretty young girls, including Virginia
Hyne, Annabelle Boekemann, Sandra
Walker, Sally Spurgeon, Margaret
Coote and Dekyveres Jacqueline and
Simone, to decorate the piece. Altogether
a gay affair—yes, a very gay affair.
ft ft ft
Elegantly printed cards indicated
what each dish and glass contained at
the luncheon given at Mrs. J. A. Steven-
son’s Bellevue Hill home during the
week, so there was no danger of anyone
getting sweet sherry when she wanted
it dry, or of choosing a fish mornay in
mistake for cauliflower au gratin. The 4
party, in aid of the Special Purposes
Fund of the Royal Commonwealth
Society, was attended by 57 guests,
including Lady Berryman, Lady Durrant,
Mrs. George Colvin, Mrs. Carl Wilson
and Mrs. D. Lindsay. A fur-parade and
the Stevensons’ black poodle, Alphonse,
helped with the entertainment.
☆ ft ft
To farewell Mrs. Ray Maisey, of Sea-
forth, before she set off on a world-tour
by way of New Zealand, Mrs. Harry
Twigden (Fairlight) gave a delightful
dinner-party at the Pickwick on Thurs-
day. Mrs. Maisey, who travels by air,
will spend two weeks visiting relatives
and friends in New Zealand, where she
is known as a singer of distinction. Her
mother, Mrs. Mary Bond, also a New
Zealander, was one of the guests at the
luncheon, and others were Mrs. Harry
Timbs (Seaforth), Mrs. A. E. Richards
(Balgowlah), Mrs. Sylvia Donohue
(Manly) and Miss Mollie Scott (Wool-
lahra).
Mrs. Charles Walton has accepted the
presidency of the National Heart Foun-
dation Women’s Auxiliary, and is now
busily engaged forming a strong com-
mittee. One of the main objects of the
Foundation is to send doctors overseas
to study new methods for the treatment
of heart-disease, and it is hoped that
£600,000 will be raised in one year for
the whole project. The women's auxili-
ary will seek to raise one-sixth of this
amount. Mrs. Walton, who is well
known as Nancy Bird, a woman-pioneer
in the field of aviation, has been a speaker
for practically every women’s charitable
organisation in N.S.W., and it is hoped
that these in turn will help her in the
important task she has undertaken. Photo
by Ken Prentice.
Though the music is really the thing,
one couldn’t help noting how pretty and
beautifully dressed were the four girls
who competed in the vocal section in the
A.B.C.’s Vocal and Concerto competition
at the Town Hall on Saturday night. The
winner, Nance Grant, from Victoria,
looked striking in royal-blue, and she,
together with Rhondda Gillespie
(N.S.W.), contralto Yvonne Minton
(N.S.W.) and soprano Janice Hearne
(S.A.) impressed everyone with their
wonderful poise and dignity of bearing.
As one member of the audience said, we
have seen visiting overseas artists with
less concert-presence.
ft ft ft
“Ah! Wilderness,” by Eugene O’Neill,
though it sounds rather like one of the
more stark kinds of American play, is
really a most amusing light-hearted
family-comedy. Among those who
chuckled sympathetically at its nostalj
situations on the opening night at n
Elizabethan were Mr. and Mrs. L.
Scott (he is one of the few men
Sydney to dress-up an opening-nig
by wearing an opera-cloak), the Er
Kennedys with daughter Joan, Mr. an
Mrs. George Foster (just back from
trip round the world), and Miss Ma
garet Gillespie, who will* have a Sout
of the Border Showing of Sprit
Millinery and luncheon at Caprice »
July 26 in aid of the Elizabethan Theati
Ball. “The border” in this case, oa
should mention, is the river Murray.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sixty ex-pupils of Shirley Colb
Edgecliff, attended the annual dinner;
Prince’s last Wednesday night, a wonde
fully enthusiastic response, as the collej
has been out of existence for 27 year
The Ex-students’ Union, however,
still very active with a membership i
over 100.
On this occasion a presentation of
beautiful brooch was made to Mrs. Nin
Barden, who has just completed 25 yet
as treasurer of the union. Miss Dorott
Saunders, sister of the former hear
mistress, was guest-of-honor, and gues
were welcomed by the president, Mr
Lyall Moore (Killara). Among the
present were Mrs. G. M. Turner (ft
merly Colleen Taylor), now visiting An
tralia from her home in Burlingan
California; and Mrs. Jessie Yeomar
(formerly Jessie Huxtable), who can
down from New Guinea specially to!
present at the dinner.
☆ ☆ ☆
Our women-athletes for the Ron
Olympics are to be much more smarl
dressed than in the past. The old gre
and-white, which they said made the"
feel dowdy, has been replaced by a subt!
muted shade of yellow and a deep gree
The blazer is 3in. shorter than formerl
is unbraided, has matching buttons aj
links-up with the green pleated skirt
make a Chanel-like suit. Of wool as
terylene, the outfits are washable ai
easy to care for. Though not in at
way extravagant in design, they a
fashionable and a credit to the design!
Mrs. Dorothy Ryman, of Sydney.
ft ft ft
Received, a saucy invitation to a “Ga
Nuit avec D. & B.” at Prunier’s on J«
11. The dishes served and the son
sung will be French, and everyone
requested to wear something Frent
Perhaps we’ll see the ladies of the cot
mittee doing a can-can—who kno*
The D. & 8., by the way, stands fort
social committee of the Deaf and Bit
Children’s Institution, so the cause is
good one.
ft ft ft
The Younger Set with the long!
initials on record, the N.S.W.L.T.AA'
(tennis-types) is also going in for so®
thing exotic. Their Nuit Bohemienne
the Rushcutter Bay clubhouse on July
will feature a Caribbean supper and
dance-group called the San Jac®


Stompers, to the accompaniment of New
Orleans jazz. The price of the tickets is
bohemian, too—£l a double.
MELBOURNE
The first function to be hostessed by
j Dame Mary Herring during her
r husband’s term as Acting Governor was
j a morning tea-party at Government
j Douse for over 100 division- and district-
commissioners and headquarters-advisors
of Guides as a finale to the Com-
missioners’ Conference held at Sher-
brooke over the week-end. The guests
were introduced to Dame Mary (who
wore a wool suit in grey-blue tonings)
by assistant-State Commissioners Mrs.
Stuart McKay and Mrs. R. G. Orr. Mrs.
Henry Bolte, who is on the executive
of the G.G.A., chose a frock-and-jacket
ensemble of delphinium-blue wool and
a matching velvet toque. Dame Mary’s
daughter Margaret assisted her mother
with the .entertaining and wore her uni-
form as a Tawny Owl. Guests included
Lady McDonald, Division Commissioner
for the Shepparton area ; Mrs. D.
Davies, advisor for the Lone section ;
Mrs. C. Osbourne Shave, who convened
the conference; Mrs. Phillip Russell,
District Commissioner for Beaufort, and
daughter of Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn, State
Commissioner; Mrs F. Stevens, District
Commissioner of Victoria .South, Hong
Kong. The last-named, who is also cap-
tain of the Third Hong Kong Company
(which is made up of 24 English-speaking
Chinese girls), is staying with her sister,
Mrs. J. Paton, of Ashburton.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Town Hall reception-room was
gay with bowls of poinsettias, lceland-
poppies and greenery for the reception
given by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans,
at which the guests-of-honor were the
Primate of Australia, Dr. Hugh Gough,
and the Honorable Mrs. Gough. The
official party included the Archbishop of
Melbourne, Dr. Frank Woods, and Mrs.
Woods; Federal Treasurer, Harold
Holt; and the Premier and Mrs. Bolte.
Mrs. Gough wore a russet-brown velvet
c °at, a frock of blue-floral wool and
a small curved cap of velvet feathers in
Pale-pink and blue tonings. A frock-
and-coat ensemble in forest-green wool
and a swathed toque of the same material
were chosen by Mrs. Evans. Mrs. Bolte’s
black-and-tan velvet toque was worn with
a suit of fine black wool. Mrs. Woods
Wore a charcoal-grey suit which had a
black velvet collar, and a tiny cap of
feathers. Other guests were the Air
Officer Commanding R.A.A.F. Support
command, Air - Vice - Marshal A. L.
Walters, and Mrs. Walters ; Judge and
Mrs. Norris ; Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Kil-
°ugh; Mrs. James McGauran, Mrs.
Leith Crow, Mrs. Hylton Dale, Mrs.
"c Rogers, Mrs. L. Reichstein and Mrs.
Howard Norman.
☆ ☆ ☆
A late-afternoon reception at Ciro’s
as given by Canada's Commercial
Counsellor, T. Grant Major, and Mrs.
Major to celebrate Canada’s national
day. The hostess chose a frock of tur-
quoise-blue velvet and a stole of beige
fur. Mrs. Evans wore with her black
fine-wool frock a mink-stole and a
high-crowned cloche of black velvet.
Mrs. Fraser, wife of the Minister for
Forests, was also in black wool, the skirt
having a side-drape of faille ; her petal-
cap was in tonings of lipstick-pink and
pigeon-grey. Mrs. Edgar Brownbill
added a sapphire-blue velvet toque to her
classic black suit.
Ann, only child of Mr. and Mrs. C. Q.
Wilkinson, of South Yarra, educated at
Mandeville Hall, and is now secretary
to Mrs. M. Burke, p.-r.-o. for the Oppor-
tunity Youth Clubs. Three years ago
Ann became a member of the Wool Ball
committee which works for the Ramsay
Mailer Opportunity Club, and this year
she is one of the. ticket-secretaries for
the ball, which will be held in the Roy ale
Ballroom on July 25. Tickets, at £2
single, may be obtained from Ann
(BJ 2307), Ann Montague ( 245334 ) or
Mrs. Sidney Franklin (BJ 5194). Photo
by John Warlow.
The premiere of “The Pleasure of His
Company” at the Comedy introduced
American actress Cornelia Otis Skinner
and welcomed home after his too-long
absence Cyril Ritchard. The stage
setting is superb, and through a wide bay-
window is caught a glimpse of San Fran-
cisco’s Golden Gate. Miss Skinner’s
clothes were stunning, and pretty Sydney
actress Patricia Kerr, who plays the
daughter, also wore several attractive little
numbers. In the audience were Lady
Lloyd Jones, in a party which included
Mrs. Hector Livingston and Mr. B.
Blodgett (he is Miss Skinner’s husband) ;
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hordern (she wearing
a short mink jacket over a poinsettia-red
taffeta frock); Mrs. Jim Shackell, who
wore with her mink jacket a short theatre-
frock of hibiscus-red satin ; Lady Clapp
and her daughter Mrs. Geoffrey Smith;
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside and Margaret
Cochran ; the Premier and Mrs. Bolte
(her short brown velvet frock worn
under a dyed-ermine jacket); Mr.
and Mrs. George Griffith ; Mr. and Mrs.
Keith Laycock and Mr. and Mrs. Bill
Gluth (the latter in nut-brown velvet
frock and mink stole).
☆ ☆ ☆
Furs were the order of the day for the
Grand National at Flemington—mink,
dyed-ermine, lynx, beaver and leopard
were in profusion, and were seen on high
Cossack-caps, beehive-hats, in trimmings
and even on shoes. One woman had
perky mink cockades on her bronze calf
shoes. One of the smartest outfits was
worn by Mrs. Ronald Nott, whose suit,
with its three-quarter-length coat, was in
warm beech-brown tweed, the coat fea-
turing a three-quarter-length jerkin of
snow-leopard attached to the lining ; her
> black velvet pillbox-cap ended in a high
forward-jutting twist of velvet. A lynx-
fur toque was worn by Mrs. John
Faulkner with a brown-and-white-check
suit. Mrs. Roy Ricker’s high hat was of
black Persian-lamb. A red rose orna-
mented the mink-toque worn by Mrs.
A. G. Silk with her mink coat. A wide,
flat toque of mink was worn by Mrs.
Harry Sinn with a mink coat. With her
black-and-white-check coat Mrs. Maurice
Mead wore an outsize toque of silver-fox
fur. Mrs. L. R. Buxton topped her black
Persian-lamb jacket with a Cossack-cap
of matching fur.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 120 members of the Australian-
Asian Association turned up for the
monthly luncheon at The Victoria, when
Dr. Clive Fitts was guest-speaker. The
president, Sir Charles Lowe, with Lady
Lowe, received the guests, among whom
were Mr. Justice Sholl and Mrs. Sholl,
Sir Samuel and Lady Wadham, Lady
Paton, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. C. Taylor,
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Rosenthal, Mr.
S. Dimmick, the wife of the Chinese
Consul Mrs. K. Y. Leung, Mrs. Don
Tracy, Dr. J. Ringland Anderson, Lady
Dunstan, Mrs. Dare Holyman, Mrs. John
Dynon and her mother Mrs. Percy
Shelton, Dr. Stella Braithwaite and Mr.
and Mrs. A. Leaver.
☆ ☆ ☆
Several members of the “My Fair
Lady” company were entertained by the
voung-contingent of the Victoria League
at a luncheon held in the League’s club-
rooms. Patricia Moore (Eliza Dolittle)
and her husband Maurice Moore,
Patricia’s understudy, Gina Curtis, John
Bascomb (Dolittle), Robert McPhee,
Keith Lee and ballet-mistress Dolores
Kerr were the guests-of-honor. They
were welcomed by the new chairman of
the y.-c., Mrs. T. Firth, assisted by
Margaret Beck. Among those at the
luncheon were the senior vice-president
of the League, Mrs. Guy Bakewell, Mrs.
Robert Hamilton, Bevrley West, Betty
Leslie, Peggy Williamson and Max
Chapman.


which the women wile away their idle
hours and practise magic, religion, art
and social relations. If it has taken all
this time since 1948 to get the book out,
at least there is the explanation that
there was an enormous mass of
material to be sifted; and many contri-
butors to persuade to come to light
with their essays.
The report of the Nutrition Unit,
which is edited by Margaret McArthur,
surveying the missions at Umbakumba,
Yirrkalla and Oenpelli, says amongst
other things that “blankets are now a
common possession, but often several
individuals have to share one.” The
natives took little interest in the un-
skilled work they were asked to do.
Fish and animal bones, scraps of vege-
table matter, tin-cans, old clothes and
litter “were a common sight in the
camps”; and “At one station leprous
children with open sores intermingle
freely with other children in ill-venti-
lated, overcrowded dormitories —such
practice cannot be too strongly con-
demned.”
Continuing into the fresher atmos-
phere when the natives are on walk-
about, the report usefully describes how
to cook a bandicoot and, later, some-
what out of sequence, how to catch it
in a hollow log. There is quite a fas-
cinating chapter, which will doubtless
be plundered by novelists and writers
of children’s books, describing exactly
how the aborigines spend their day in
the bush: waking by the campfire, eat-
ing breakfast if there happens to be any
scraps left over from the previous night,
then the women going off to gather
fruit, nuts, lily-rhizomes or honey and
the men to fish and hunt. Spearing a
kangaroo, when you come to think of
it, is no mean feat; and this is how it
is done: —
Shortly afterwards a large male
kangaroo was seen asleep under a
tree only 100 yards away and
directly ahead. There was much
excited whispering and gestures with
the spear-throwers to work-out the
plan of attack until Wundu-lu-unga
ran rapidly to the left to approach
against the wind and Namirki
stalked ahead very slowly. Wundu-
lu-unga held his spear and spear-
thrower in position 1 at first, then
in position 2 until he was down-
wind ; he finally adopted position 3
and stalked at a rapid walk, stooping
and using low bushes as cover. The
kangaroo dozed on unsuspectingly
until Wundu-lu-unga speared it in
the ribs from a distance of twelve-
feet . . .
The blacks, incidentally, had a pet
emu on the walkabout with them which
used to eat their breakfast if they were
not careful. It was fond of swimming
and would roll happily from side to
side in the lakes while the men and
women dragged nets for the little pike.
After nutrition comes hair, studied
by Mildred Trotter, Oliver H. Duggins
and Frank M. Setzler; and if the
unscientific reader wonders why on
earth an elaborate study should be
made of the aborigines’ hair there is
a reason: it might be possible to tell
from the hair whether their origin is
Negroid, Mongoloid or Caucasoid.
And, after the natives have been
examined, hair by hair, and the hairs
compared with Caucasoid samples
taken from a collection made in St.
Louis in 1928, Negroid samples from
Zululand and Mongoloid hairs “col-
lected from Chinese students at the
University of Wisconsin in 1922,” the
conclusion is reached that “the hair of
Australian aborigines is more nearly
like the hair of Caucasoids (except in
color) than of either Mongoloids or
Negroids.”
Harold Cummins and Frank M.
Setzler, who under the formidable
heading of “Dermatoglyphics of Aus-
tralian Aborigines,” look at hands and
fingerprints, having also available the
more recent report by Macintosh on
“82 males from Old Beswick Native
Settlement and.... the prints of 52
males in the files of the West Australian
Police Department at Perth,” report
that “The Yirrkalla and Groote
Eylandt series are outstanding, in com-
parison with other known populations,
in presenting so high a frequency of
whorls” —which is jubilantly, if mys-
teriously, celebrated by other learned
contributors as “a new high.”
So to archaeology, by Frederick D.
McCarthy and Frank M. Setzler, and
the sifting of graves, middens and; so
it seems, the entire foreshores of Arn-
hem Land and its attendant islands, in
the hope of establishing, by the frag-
ments of pottery which the early
Malayan or Macassan fishermen left
behind them, a “time-sequence” for
their visits. As the Macassans seem to
have brought with them pots from
many sources and many ages—from
206 B.C. to A.D. 1800, in fact —this
investigation was somewhat inconclu-
sive; but it is nice to read of these
devoted scholars digging-up Arnhem
Land to discover, at a depth of Ift. 4in,
beneath some rocks, the carapace of a
turtle to which “no significance could
be attached”; and more stimulating
still to have pieces of Ming pottery
from the 15th or early 16th century
turning-up in Arnhem Land.
So, then to the 2400 cave-paintings
examined in a total of 45 sites; to
numerous illustrations in which, unfor-
tunately, their nuances of line and'
color are lost in uncompromising black-:
and-white; and to Frederick D. Mc-
Carthy’s very interesting confirmation
of Tindale’s theory that a lot of these
paintings were simply done as “illus-
trations” to a tale —the tale-teller draw-
ing them on the cave-wall to illustrate,
his points as he went along, just as the
aborigines today will draw a map or a 1
figure in the sand. Those who are
inclined to see all primitive art as
magico-religious, equally with those
who see the most sublime aesthetic)
intentions in it, will have to consider
this awful possibility that much of it
is—of all things! —illustration.
And so, finally, to the string-figures;
of Yirrkalla, also described bf
Frederick D. McCarthy, where you cal
see hundreds of examples of this:
strange, most perishable artistry, repre-
senting everything from a Man Sitting
Down to a Gecko and signifying every l
thing from a simple pastime for the!
somen to records of tribal mythology
or messages (usually very frank) about
love.
Essentially, of course, a scientific!
work, the book has been edited b|
Charles P. Mountford. It is mos|
handsomely produced and remarkable)
in its thorough and meticulous cover-
age of so many aspects of aboriginal
life.
THE STAR-TRIBES
[Related by Fred Biggs, of the
Ngeamba tribe.]
Look, among the boughs. Those stars
are men.
There’s Ngintu, with his dogs, who guards
the skins
of Everlasting Water in the sky.
And there’s the Crow-man, carrying on
his back
the wounded Hawk-man. There’s the
Serpent, Thurroo,
glistening in the leaves. There’s
Kapeetah,
the Moon-man, sitting in his mia-mia.
And there’s those Seven Sisters, travelling
across the sky. They make the real cold
frost.
You hear them when you're camped out
on the plains.
They look down from the sky and sse
your fire
and, “Mai, mai, mai!” they sing out as
they run
across the sky. And, when you wake,
you find
your swag, the camp, the plains all white
with frost.
\y o
ROLAND ROBINSON.
More Nabokov
The “Lolita” scandal has apparent!)
sent publishers digging for earlifl
Nabokov. Heinemanns put out |
book of his short-stories last yearl
Weidenfeld and Nicolson have _ j uS |
issued Bend Sinister, which was writtel
about fifteen years ago and has n°
previously been published in England
and another novel, written twenty-fi'
years ago, is said to be on the waj


BOOK SCOUT
f ree search service for your out-of-print
°oks. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0.,
BOOK BARGAINS
Biographies of two great
Australian Explorers
THOMAS MITCHELL by
J. H. L. Cumpston. 30/-.
GEORGE BASS by Keith
McR. Bowden. 21/-. ..
Both fully documented and
illustrated, extremely read-
able.
AUSTRALIAN ROADSIDE
by Edna Walling. 30/-. ..
Beautifully produced collec-
tion of line photographs of
Australian native trees,
shrubs and flowers.
WESTERN HORIZON.
32/6
Lavish production, mainly
photographs (many in
colour) of the Western
District of Victoria. Boxed
ready for posting.
BLAMEY by John Hethcr-
ington. 19/6
Frank uncensored biography
of the man and the soldier.
Illustrated.
THE TRIBE THAT LOST
ITS HEAD by Nicholas
Monsarrat. 23/9
Sensational long novel by
the author of “Cruel Sea,”
made topical by events in
South Africa. Sheds light
on colonial administration.
NOW Post
12/6 1/-
10/6 lOd.
10/6 1/-
12/6 1/8
7/6 lOd.
7/6 1/9
AUSTRAL BOOK SHOP
263 Collins Street,
Melbourne. MF 3475
DISCOVERING ROME
Alex Randall
A definitive guide to Rome. The tours and walks which are intended to cover not
only the famous monuments, Roman relics, museums and churches, but to give
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
We may expect a complete picture
before long.
“Bend Sinister” adds to the display
of Nabokov’s virtuosity. Its scene is a
brilliantly invented Central European
country that has lately been taken over
by the “Party of the Average Man,” a
largely Fascist party with Communist
overtones. The new dictator is trying
to force the country’s one great man,
an apolitical philosopher, to lend the
new regime the world prestige of his
lip-service. The philosopher, grief-
stricken over his wife’s recent death,
and unable to take the dictator seri-
ously because he can recall him only
as an absurd schoolboy, refuses.
Empty-headed young police arrest his
friends, detain him, and by a bureau-
cratic blunder send his eight-year-old
son to an institution where psychopaths
are allowed to torture him to death in
the interests of-science. The philoso-
pher goes mad and in a scene which
eerily parodies an earlier flashback to
his schooldays runs amok and is shot.
The end? Not quite. With a last
flick of his stylistic wrist the story-
teller, ingeniously turning the act of
storytelling into part of Ihe story, as
he has already done a couple of times,
remarks:—
I knew that the immortality I had
conferred on the poor fellow was a
slippery sophism, a play upon words.
But the very last lap of his life had
been happy, and it had been proven
to him that death was but a question
of style.
The reviewer has little to add to this,
except that he cannot explain the
sophism, finding it too slippery with
irony and word-play to catch hold of;
that not only death but everything else
in the book—life, philosophy, totali-
tarianism, cruelty, madness—seems also
to become a question of style; that
Nabokov’s performance, page by page,
is compelling, like something done on
the high wire without a net, but, as a
whole, just as meaningless, just as
gratuitous, because he seems to care
more about the performance than the
human agony it is made of.
Reviewed Briefly
The Little Infanta: Gladys Taylor
(Phoenix). Velasquez painted a superb
Portrait of a little, blonde, doll-like girl
!l ? one of those fantastic skirts about
six-feet in diameter; and Miss Taylor
has set out to tell us who this “little
Infanta" was—Margareta Teresa, who
married her cousin Leopold of Ger-
many, uniting the Spanish and German
Hapsburgs. Of her four children three
died in extreme infancy, and she herself
died at 21 from a tumor of the throat.
It is a pity that Miss Taylor’s
excellently-conceived biography should
be so sentimental and, with its invented
conversations, unreliable; but it does
give a clear picture of the gruesome
and colorful world of the Hapsburgs
and might do for older children.
* * * *
I Can Take It AH: Anthony Glynn
(Hutchinson). A well-told story of life
in the upper business-reaches of
modem Finland. It is mainly interest-
ing for its insight into the peculiarities
of the Finnish character and its infor-
mation on attitudes and customs. This
is all supplied with great urbanity and
sophistication, while the love-story
around which the book revolves has
enough originality and color to make it
worth following.
* * * *
The Reluctant Farmer: Margaret
Macdiarmid (Barker). Mrs. Mac-
diarmid, when her husband died, kept
their farm going in bleak and remote
Argyleshire; and writes pleasantly
about what was wrong with the old
“coo” and how she found the “wedder”
among the ewes—all among the granite
and the heather and the “rivers of blue-
bells streaming down through the
feathery green of hazel and birch
coppice to the shining loch.”
* * * *
I Am My Brother: John Lehmann
(Longman’s). The second volume of
autobiography by the well-known
editor of “New Writing” and the
Penguin “New Writing” series. It is,
as you would expect, books and
writers Virginia Woolf, Robert
Graves, Louis MacNeice, Henry Reed,
Grahame Greene; anyone you like to
mention—with some fine and moving
descriptions of London during the blitz.
Altogether, an invaluable piece of
literary history.
The Dandy: Ellen Moers (Seeker
and Warburg). From Beau Brummell
to Max Beerbohm—a somewhat for-
midable monograph for so light a sub-
ject, approaching dandyism not so
much for its entertainment-value as for
its sociological significance. Neverthe-
less, if it is loaded with detail it is also
loaded with interest—as in the discus-*
sion of the relation between Carstone
and Harold Skimpole in “Bleak
House” or the careful consideration of
whether Oscar Wilde should strictly be
regarded as a dandy dressing for
elegance or a showman ’dressing for
advertisement—according to Frank
Harris, Wilde took the latter view of
himself and said he was like Pear’s
soap.


fei
mu
>/ ,
<5
/
w
kn* A**
W
k_ •
s
j&
£.
t
1
v«
<N£W
a
v 3
(S
V 5
W.
'«z&
*».
a^r\i
a
-j
s^>
1
V.
r
a
«■
DW
VL.
ca>
a
§*
9110
SJ9UUDJ 9SBl|| |jy
TRACTOR FUELS and
LUBRICANTS
BP Super and C.O.R petrol—the Benzol
blends • BP Power Kerosine • BP Diesoleum
• BP Energol Tractor Oil Universal and
a comprehensive range of BP Energol
automotive oils and greases.
Prompt deliveries of BP tractor fuels and
lubricants are available from your local BP/C.O.R agent .
BP'CO
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refine,ries Limited
