

The Bulletin
Sam Hordern (and others) in Action—page n
Wednesday, August 17, 1960
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a .newspaper.
Tweed Banana Festival
Ciral Maher and Pam Blanchard, candidates in this year's Tweed (N.S.W.) Banana Festival, held the last
week in August at Murwillumbah, give a helping hand on Mr. Norm Douglas’s plantation on the Tweed
(See feature, pages 30-31).


WANTED
MSS. OF ALL KINDS
There is an unlimited market in Aus-
tralia for well-written work make
your pen pay!
Learn how to translate your ideas
into successful stories, articles, radio
plays, etc., by studying under the guid-
ance of STOTT’S experienced Literary
Instructors.
For free Prospectus about Stott’s
Literary Courses, mail the coupon to-
day.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 J'linders Lanr, Melbourne; 149
reusch M., Sydney; 290 Adelaide Sit., Bria-
buue; 21 Brenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
BOOK HUN TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. Tliat difficult
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Modet
fee only if successful.
Iney.
t to
tioa,
jrate
WRITERS
under f 1
availakk'
criticI*® 1 *®
Expert marketing service,
of successful author, aval
fee £3 per MS, complex
sale if suitable at normal c MSwi^ |S
For prompt service submit
LITERARY ASSOCIATION
Box 124, Benalla, V*
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN CHILDHOOD
Jon Rose’s Peppercorn Days
(Andre Deutsch) is a remarkable little
picture of Australian life to have crept
in untrumpeted and almost unob-
served from an English publisher.
About childhood in a rustic setting
which, at the end, is surprisingly
revealed to be Melbourne, it is a bit
like “Saturdee,” Gerard Hamilton’s
“Summer Glare” or Margaret Trist’s
novels and short-stories, but it has a
quaint, rare flavor all its own.
Whether it is regarded as auto-
biography or a novel it has faults
enough. It is all-over-the-place in con-
struction, using a sort of flashback
device most abruptly and bafflingly to
shift the scene from the outskirts of
Melbourne to a farm and back to Mel-
bourne again, so that one is never quite
sure how, when and where it is all
happening. It seems as confused in
period as in place. It is sentimental in
spots, particularly when the boy-hero,
Paul, yearns to have the wings of a
butterfly and fly away to his grand-
mother’s; distorted echoes from Dickens
seem to have drifted into it when Paul
talks to a tramp named Pip under the
bridge; and. short though it is, it is
vastly overcrowded and overloaded.
Sex, particularly in the opening
scenes, is laid-on with the proverbial
trowel. Many of the incidents, such
as the invasion of Paul’s house, when
his parents are away, by the wild
daughters of a neighbor who have
apparently ravished every boy and man
in the neighborhood, are exaggerated
beyond belief; and the dozens of
adventures, rude or otherwise, which
Paul can crowd into any one day are
impossible.
Yet out of this crowded and tumultu-
ous picture, painted in warm, clear
water-color, emerge the most amusing
and delightful scenes and characters
and incidents: whether it is Paul nightly
tucked-up in bed with the two odorifer-
ous tomcats with whom he likes to
sleep; or the account of Ma Jenkins
living in a shanty with her brood of
nineteen sons whom Pa Jenkins fathers
by returning home once a year for a
few days before (“Well, Ma, it’s time”)
setting off for the outback again; or
the wild neighbors, overdrawn as they
are; or the kids swimming out to play in
the old wrecked ship; or Paul on the
roof trying to scare his sisters- by pre-
tending he is God and threatening them,
down the chimney, with hellfire; or the
flood that destroyed the poultry-farm;
or the vague uncle who, to escape his
severe Salvationist wife, built a boat
and, always dreaming of taking-off for
the islands, lived in it in his backyard
until (apparently) it was burnt-down.
The plot, which would serve well
enough if only the flashbacks had been
managed more intelligibly, is no more
than the fun which Paul and his sisters
had for a few days when their parents
went away and left them in the easy-
going care of Ma Jenkins. The pervad-
ing and total effect is of richness, humor
and delicacy of observation. Take, for
instance, the pet magpie and the
chickens:—
Maggie.. . .patrolled the farm,
overlording everything with a large
eye. He couldn’t bear the fowls,
quite appreciated the ducks, but used
to sit looking with a quite stupid
expression at the little yellow
chickens ; head on one side, he would
desperately try to think of some-
thing to say to them as they peeped
all around their small wire-netting
worlds. He did once speak to them
and in his most soothing manner said
to them, “Heelloo-looves.” But they
fled like wattle-blossom on the wind
If, however, any of them got out of
their miniature pens he would run
all the way up to the house yelling,
“Jane! Jane!” Paul’s mother
would come dashing out, Maggie
would be patted and in return he
would rub his beak on Mother’s
stockings.
The publishers say that “ ‘Pepper-
corn Days’ were the days of an Aus-
tralian childhood... .recalled by Mr.
Rose in a form which is not strictly
autobiographical.” The book is best
regarded as a novel, and it is obvious
that the author, heightening and color-
ing his facts, has tried to cram into it
everything he could remember Z
his childhood and everything
platypuses and koalas, he I
remember, or thought he T
remember, about Australia t
plausibility, for a true picture of
tralian life and for the sake olds
manship it really should have!
sorted-out and toned-down a bill
an essential truth remains in it £
the exaggerations, and it is a charm
piece of reading, A more cob
dustjacket might greatly have heir
its sales.
Ogilvie Rides On
It is pleasant to think that wi
there is still an Australian audience
Will Ogilvie’s verses, sufficient
“Fair Girls and Gray Horses” toh
been republished a year or soagoj
is also an audience in Scotland n
ous enough for John Murray Hod
High Street, Hawick) to have selec
and reprinted The Border Poei
Will Ogilvie.
Light and musical like all
Ogilvie’s verses, never at a loss in
deft double-rhyme and gay and cl
rous in spirit, these poems deali
Border landscapes warmly if sometii
a little sentimentally observed-
Up here where the winding shetf
tracks go
By the knoll and the naked boulder
The old hill's plaid of the wints
snow
Has slipped from his wind-swept
shoulder . . .
or with the raids of the old Hot
cattle-thieves whose exploits, dep
able as they were, all good Scots!
still cherish with pride, much asi
tralians cherish their bushrangef
with the difference that the Sci
raiders were usually members ofo
own family:—
Ho! for the blades of Harden!
Ho! for the driven kye!
The broken gate and the
hate
And a banner red on the sky.
As a whole the little book cob
one’s impression that Ogilvie wro
best, the liveliest, the most vigor'
his ballads in Australia. He was
here—and we were lucky, too
ballad and the themes of balla ,
living things in the years when
the outback. The Fire Q uee
the swamp and the f. U
from Queensland immediate;
(Continued on pag e


'■*% \i **%®&"*? „ r y%t' ,
i/.i:
m
s%
*£ **
~9C
atm*.
ff
m
<-
a tale of two cities
• v .•'.xC--?.'i«\-.™ ytw? WSttSSg
• r-~ T
.:• *
sf
Cj
W :
;Mj3
$
&
&
yr,
ki
Q
CO
■»«*
-0-1
IHE major role played by the Railways in the
development and growth of the Port of Sydney is
being duplicated at Port Kembla. Here, within sound
of the full-throated chorus of many of the industries
that centre on the steel mills, a great port of natural
and artificial harbours is emerging.
Keeping pace with this massive growth and drawing on its rich
experience in the servicing of ports, the New South Wales Government
Railways is providing a comprehensive rail service for the State’s
newest gateway to the markets of the world. New tracks, crossovers,
bridges, buildings, signalling systems, repair shops and marshalling
yards are swiftly rising from the flimsy outlines of myriad engineering
blueprints.
History in the making? Yes, but it is also a repetition of history.
As the Railways helped Sydney and Newcastle to greatness, so is it
helping in the emergence of Port Kembla as one of the most efficient,
best served, and most modern of the world’s ports.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 17, 1960
Vol. 81— No. 4201
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 436-440 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
EUROPE RESURGENT
SECRETARY of State Christian
Herter last week warned Russia
not to count on American foreign policy
falling into a paralysis of inertia during
the next few months just because this
happened to be Presidential election-
year. This statement is reassuring to
the West, though it was already obvious
that on the really vital issue of main-
taining a strong stand against Soviet
threats there was no division between
Republican and Democratic policy.
For the present U.S.-Soviet exchanges
will continue to be mostly slang-
whanging. At levels lower than pos-
sible world-catastrophe U.S. inter-
national parleys are likely to be kept
to a minimum until the election is
decided.
Russian utterances in the inter-
national field, if Khrushchev’s recent
form is any guide, will alternate
between boasting of the Soviet’s ability
to beat the world on its own or any
ground in economic and industrial pro-
gress and threatening to blow it to bits
with pinpoint-accurate rockets if it
does or says a thing out of place.
The men whose words and actions
in the immediate future may be really
significant are the leaders of Britain,
France and West Germany. That the
world of 1960 is a very unsettled place
is a truism no conscientious observer
from outer space could fail to report to
his superiors if his flying-saucer
managed to get back to its starting-
point without being shot-down for
infringing Russian air-space or interned
for suspected un-American activities.
In the Americas the Cuban invita-
tion to Russia to flout the Monroe
Doctrine has created a situation with-
out parallel for a hundred years, while
in Africa the whole accepted order of
things has been overturned, and it is
anyone’s guess whether the Dark Con-
tinent is headed for Light and Progress
or about to slink back to the jungle.
Of Asia’s progress much has been
written, and it cannot be denied that
the new nations to Australia’s north
have made very considerable material
and technical progress—so much so
that many writers speak glibly of this
century being Asia’s. The prediction
is based largely on Asia’s huge popula-
tion —though that phenomenon is by
no means a new one—and on an
assumption of a unity of thought and
action which so far shows few signs
of developing. There is too great a
tendency to take Red China’s claims
and statistics at their Peking face-value.
The one thing about China that is
indisputable is that none of its
neighbors is safe from subversion,
threats, infiltration and actual invasion
and conquest.
In a world in which there is less real
peace and security than at any “peace-
time” period in the last two-hundred
years it is a curious paradox that
Western Europe, which only 15 years
ago lay in ruins after the most devastat-
ing war in its history, is now enjoying
a general prosperity without parallel
in its experience. Much of the credit
for this recovery must be given to the
United States, which, through Marshall
Aid and other post-war programmes
of relief and assistance, buttressed the
economies of the prostrate nations of
Europe until they were able to struggle
to their feet again. Successive Adminis-
trations in the U.S. must be given credit,
too, for having the courage to scrap
outdated policies of insularity and
maintain troops in Europe, first as
occupation forces and then as part of
the Nato defence shield—an action
which, backed in the critical early
stages by the nuclear deterrent, saved
Western Europe from becoming a
Soviet colony.
T>UT although American aid and pro-
tection enabled Europe to recover
from the ravages of war, they cannot
be given the credit for the remarkable
expansion which followed the recovery
—and which is still in progress. U.S.
foreign-aid in billions has been poured
into other parts of the world without
producing comparable results. Europe’s
re-emergence as a force to be reckoned
with, economically and industrially, has
been due to the exertions of its own
people. Britain’s drive for exports,
which began about 10 years ago, pro-
duced spectacular results, reversed the
drain on the nation’s reserves and
reduced unemployment to a level
unknown in peace-time. More recently
Germany, France, Italy and other
countries of Western Europe have also
had spectacular rises in exports.
In the nine years between 1950 and
1959 the exports of Europe (including
Britain) more than doubled, and the
area’s share of world-exports rose by
22 per cent., while there was a corres-
ponding drop in the U.S. share. In
many fields European manufactured
goods are underselling American „
ducts; some lines (notably small T
have even invaded the Us i '
market. >“*
Europe’s recovery has g OK W,
domestic industrial expansion. Britil
French, German, Italian and Dutch
engineering concerns are successful
tendering for construction jobs alln!
,the world. A “U.S. News aadfi
Report” survey published last
showed that this prosperity trend is stil
continuing, and that in 1959 the rate of
increase in production in Western
Europe exceeded that of both the US,
and Russia, not only in terms of total
industrial output but also on a per
capita basis.
YX/ITHIN Europe the rate of increase
TT is by no means uniform—last year
it was highest in Italy and lowest in
Belgium—and the future is complicate!
by the rival trade groupings, the Com.
mon Market and the Free Trade Area,
When the Common Market (“the Six,"
comprising France, Germany, Italy,
Holland. Belgium and Luxembourg
grew out of the old Organisation for
European Economic Co-operation
Britain stood aloof and gathered intoa
Free Trade Area Norway, Sweden
Denmark. Austria, Switzerland an!
Portugal (“the Seven”). Britain’s chief
objection to the Common Market was
that it ran counter to the interests ol
British agriculture and to Britain’s
commitments to other Commonweal
nations.
These objections still hold, but then
are signs that some compromise be
tween the two groups may still be pos-
sible. It is a fact that Britain’s rati
of economic growth has slowed-doi
and is below that of the Comm
Market countries. On the other haul
there are strong divergencies amoog
“the Six” on the matter of political
integration of the member-countne
not all of whom are attracted to tl
concept of a dominant (and perhaps
dominating) France.
Dr. Adenauer, after talks wl
General de Gaulle last month, invited
Mr. Macmillan to Germany, and wheo
the British Prime Minister, accom-
panied by Foreign Secretary L° ri
Home and trade advisers, went to Bo®
last week there was a feeling that f
posals might be made which could P
to closer co-operation between
Six” and “the Seven.”
TT is certain that both groups recog
A nise the desirability of an agreed •
although they differ on terms.
Europe working as a single tra
community could be a tremendous!
in the world. With a population
about 250 million it would
“home” market bigger than
Russia or the United States, ano
in which rising living standards i
ample scope for expansion, quite
from a still-growing export trad


THE NEW IMPERIALIST


PLAIN ENGLISH
Red China and U.N.
[From Dr. W. G. Goddard, Sussex, England]
This hot question is likely to become
hotter between now and when the
Assembly meets in September. Here in
Britain, campaigning in favor of Red
China has already begun, and in U.S.A.
some “liberal” politicians and certain
university pundits are commending
Peking’s claim for membership of U.N.
During a recent visit to the Far East,
where 1 spend part of each year, I learned
some things which should interest my
fellow-Aussies. Somewhere in South-
east Asia (it is not wise to disclose
locality) I contacted again a former
official of the Peking Foreign Office. He
had been trained in Moscow, had been
on close terms with Mao Tse-tung and
Liu Shao-chi, and for a period was an
associate of Minister of Personnel, An
Tzu-wen.
When Peking leased Yai-chow Bay in
Hainan Island to Russia as a submarine-
base, he was appointed liaison between
the Chinese and Russians there. He
never carried out the assignment, as he
defected and left Communist China. I
met him in 1958 and have since kept up
our association.
During our latest contact in January
this year he explained to me why Red
China is so keen on entering U.N.
Peking plans to use the U.N. to become
leader of the Afro-Asian Group. If and
when this has been achieved, Red China
will attempt to use the U.N. to force
Australia to open its door to Asian
migration on the pretext that population-
pressure in South-east Asia and China
in particular can become a threat to
peace. Objective is to migrate selected
groups from Red China to North Aus-
tralia as the spearhead of future
aggression.
Red China plans to use the U.N. for
its own sinister ends, very much as
General Mark Clark pointed out in his
radio interview, which was written-up
in The Bulletin of April 27. Indeed,
all that the General said was in line
with what my Chinese friend, the former
Peking official, told me. Right ta the
letter.
He also told me that the Indonesian
plan to transfer the population of the
islands between Java and West New
Guinea to areas throughout Java and
settle selected groups of Reds in those
islands was drawn-up in Peking during
the time he was at the Foreign Office.
That plan is now being carried out.
Those islands, where many Aussies are
buried, and whose people were our firm
allies during the last war, are now vir-
tually in the hands of the Reds. The
former Christian population is being
scattered, far and wide, many miles away.
One journal here in London reports
that Red agents from those islands are
now working among the Fak Fak natives
in West New Guinea.
Australia needs to wake-up to the Red
danger from the north, or we shall all
lose our inheritance. Seato cannot save
us, as it does not operate in the field
in which the Chinese Reds are scoring
their major victories. As for Anzus, it
remains to be seen whether U.S.A. would
honor its commitment if Moscow
threatened to bomb U.S.A. cities if that
country interfered with Red Chinese
moves.
The one immediate weapon Australia
can use is its vote at U.N. to keep Red
China out.
Congo and Katanga
The Congo’s sixth week of “freedom”
ended with a surface appearance more
approaching calm than had previously
been achieved, but there were indications
that real unity in the former Belgian
colony was further off than ever. When
the week began Moise Tshombe, Premier
of the breakaway province of Katanga,
seemed to have won a temporary victory
in the last-minute postponement of the
entry of U.N. troops into Elizabethville,
and Patrice Lumumba, Prime Minister
(in name at least) of Congo, was threaten-
ing to throw-out the U.N. troops by whose
grace he was still in office and to replace
them with troops from other African
nations because of U.N.’s failure to enter
Katanga.
At the end of the week, following
instructions from the U.N. Security
Council and by agreement with the Bel-
gian Government, U.N. troops were
formally taking-over from the Belgians
at Elizabethville airport. At first glance
this would look like a victory for
Lumumba and a defeat for Tshombe,
but evidence points the other way. U.N.
Secretary-General Hammarskjoeld and
Premier Tshombe seem to have con-
ducted talks on a cordial basis, and the
first U.N. troops sent to the area have
been Swedish —a concession to the view-
point of the Belgians and Tshombe, who
advised that it would be better not to
send African troops at this stage.
Far from being elated at Tshombe’s
reverse Lumumba, back in Leopoldville,
is shrieking at the “injustice” of sending
white troops to Katanga and asserting
that African troops are “quite capable
of carrying out the U.N. mission.” His
own Congolese troops showed in the
first weeks of “freedom” that they were
incapable of carrying-out even his own
orders—unless it was his order, as well as
his rabble-rousing speeches, that gave
them their licence to rape, murder and
plunder.
Lumumba is in reality fighting to re-
tain personal leadership of a Govern-
ment which is a name only and which
is torn into factions even in his own
capital and ignored in other provinces
besides Katanga. He has clamped-down
on the press, used force against the
political followers of his rival, President
Kasavubu, and was apparently lucky to
escape v/ith his life when a mob of
demonstrators stoned him. His barn-
storming visits to Ghana, Guinea and
other African States have brought him
promises of support, but this is unlikely
to be forthcoming if he is
command respect even in Leon J-„ to
Meanwhile, HammarskJST '
Ralph Bunche a week earlier i
meeting Tshombe and has had ’thelk”
tumty of contrasting conditio?!’
Katanga with those in Leopoldville t
U.N. Secretary-General cannot afford t
back a loser, and at this stage he m!
be having serious second-thoughts abn
the noisy and hysterical Lumumba. ”
• -«*>- ______
New Price-index
The Commonwealth Statistician’s C
series index, which for several decades
ruled the roost in the wages field y
which in recent years had been cold,
shouldered by most wage-fixing authori-
ties (though those of N. S. Wales hart
remained faithful to it), now has a hush
rival. ’
The Consumer Price-index, announced
last week by Assistant Commonweal
Statistician K. M. Archer, is designed
as an answer to criticism that the C-series
index no longer represents a true measure
of price-changes because the regimen on
which it is based is no longer representa-
tive of the household-expenditure il
the community. Critics have asked, for
example, what sense there is in a price'
index regimen which accords importance
to changes in the price of tallow-candles
and lighting kerosene when not oat
family in a hundred has occasion to buyj
such items; or to oatmeal porridges
when most homes use Crumbly Pops®
some other form of prepared breakfast- r
food.
The new index is based on a regime!
considered far more representative i
normal household consumption than tie
old one. It is much more comprehend
Some items from the old list have to
eliminated and many new ones added
The food-group contains 69 items'
nearly twice the number on the C-series
list—-and is up-to-date enough to include
instant-coffee. Two-dozen items to
been added to the 54 in the C-seit
clothing-group. The index gives recof
nition to the Gadget Age by allow?
the inclusion of toasters, electric 0
refrigerators, washing-machines, radios
TV-sets ; carpets and linos are also®
eluded, and there is provision for P ri *
motoring costs, liquor and tobacco,®!
cleaning and post-and-telephone cm
Another important difference is
weight given to rent. The old index
concerned only with the rent of i°
and five-roomed houses. The new
considers also costs of
such as rates and taxes and repairs-
it is estimated by the Common"'
Statistician that not more than ,
per cent, of Australians now P
rented homes the commonsense o
last change is obvious.
Having compiled his regime o *
completed his costing back to.tn -
1952-53 the Statistician is noW p in e
tion to issue Consumer J riC ' g.
figures from that year onwards
poses of comparison with the out j
C-series. And what does he n
comparison with 1952-53 the


v for Sydney rose by 20.2 per cent.
"tah turner Price-index rose in the
period by 19.6 per cent. The
s ? ,e n F ce —0.6 per cent. —is equivalent
f cr ® so f the basic wage to one shilling,
nhe Sydney figures were typical of
i rest the Statistician’s work would
£ to have been a waste of time —
Si !!,t to demonstrate that the composi-
tsC of the regimen is of little impor-
ll® Rut the difference in other capitals
Melbourne 6.2 per
i n Brisbane, 3.7 p.c.; Adelaide,
IjVJc.; Perth, 11.3 p.c. and Hobart,
I p C ’The average for the six capitals
5(4 per cent.
Statistically the new index is no doubt
(utter guide to changes in living-costs
Ijj the outmoded C-series index. As a
gctical guide to fair wages the position
pins unchanged, as the court has
iE teral times reiterated that the real
tiiterion for basic-wage movements is
g needs or prices, but the capacity of
industry as a whole to pay an increased
tage.
fiji—and White Australia
[From “M. T. Pezet,” Fiji]
Some years ago I was of the opinion
lat the White Australia policy was not
only out-of-date but could be taken as
u insult by darker races, especially
tens. I thought there should be a
regular quota of Asians admitted into
Australia.
Now, after several years in Fiji, I
am wondering.
Immigrants do not create problems
lien they are easily assimilated. But
»b these immigrants keep up their
m non-Christian religions, their own
languages at the expense of (in Austra-
lia’s case) English, their own culture, the
inevitable high birth-rate, and practically
no inter-marriage with the indigenous
bple, sooner or later the host-country
tea problem on its hands,
h Fiji, the Indians outnumber the
h/bs, with whom there is as good as
no inter-marriage. They have their own
their own culture, religions, etc.,
have nothing in common with
™ er the Fijian or the European. They
Jte a race apart.
Yet they are ambitious. A good deal
01 b]i’s economy depends on them. They
are land-hungry, but the Burns’ Commis-
b reaffirmed the Fijians’ right to their
tolu ’ t^oLl Bb they did suggest it
ld be put to better use. Indians would
e more say in the Government of the
country.
l. er ® as no fair solution to the prob-
l. , j Cause the British Government
fen * to looking after the
ton’ COU l < l not introduce self-
be enm as we know it, as it would
tie lIVI IV r nt to handing the running of
The ° Ver t 0 the Indians-
’gain d I s stated again and
fe ‘they owe their allegiance to
countrv ° to India as their mother-
I n natura lly enough,
that certa^ reSCnt s^ ar cr isis> it is obvious
the whnlp 11 thoir leaders would wreck
though econom y of the colony. Even
dn agreement with the C.S.R.
Company was signed by the majority
of the cane-farmers’ leaders two weeks
ago—at time of writing—the cane is still
not being cut, because the farmers are
being threatened with arson and violence
No doubt the majority of Indians
haven’t their hearts in all this. But the
point is that so far the troublemakers
have had their way whether the others
agree with them or not. The Indians
have incurred a great deal of unpopu-
larity anyway. To be the direct cause
of financial ruin to thousands of people
throughout the colony could only in-
tensify this unpopularity into something
worse.
It seems that while immigrants keep
together, retaining their own language,
worshipping their own gods and noi
inter-marrying with the host country’s
people, trouble will follow.
Co-ordination
The most extraordinary feature about
what is happening in the world in the
second half of 1960 is the co-ordination
of events all round the globe by Com-
munist and Communist-influenced bodies
and Governments.
Two years ago in Tokyo a plan was
made for industrial disturbance by the
transport unions to force the hand of
“imperialist Governments”; and, after a
lulling interval, everything that was
planned is coming to pass.
It will be remembered that Mao, in
the 1953 plan which fell into the hands
of Western Intelligence services, placed
1960 as the crucial year ; and a crucial
year it certainly is.
Two years ago there were numerous
world conventions and movements of
Communists which had considerable sig-
nificance. Followed various events which
included the institution of the communes
in China to provide Mao with his com-
pletely disciplined population, and with
the 25-million organised men and women
who were to be the flood which would
overrun south-eastern Asia.
Next followed the Tibetan adventure
to intimidate the Indians, hard on the
heels of the Iraqi revolution —Communist-
organised behind the scenes, though per-
haps its leaders did not know it.
Then came the “soft” period during
which it was propagated everywhere that
Russia had now become anxious to settle
its differences with the West, so that
capitalism and Communism could lie
down together. It was publicised, world-
wide and from fellow-traveller sources,
that China and Russia had two entirely
different kinds of Communism —Chinese
and Russian, which had become inimical
to each other. It has also been 1 advertised
in every country where there is a Com-
munist party that that party is different
from every other Communist party in
outlook and objective.
The fact is that the world Communist
organisation is as tight and unified as
ever it was, and is engaged in a tortuous
campaign of action to weaken the de-
fences of the West.
This is manifest in Europe, where
Khrushchev threatens Berlin; in the
borders of Tibet, where more violence
has bred more slaughter; in Indonesia,
where the Communists are working hard
to shake-off the control of the Army ;
in the Philippines, Okinawa and even
in Japan.
“soft” period before the Summit
Conference ; the shock tactics to destroy
it —the fact that immediately after his
visit to the United States Khrushchev
made a beeline for Peking now has a
significance—the subsequent development
of resistance by Cuba to United States
policy, seeded with insults to the United
States (which Khrushchev says “needs
taking down a peg or two”) and cul-
minating in the complete breach with the
U.S.A.; the transport-union violence all
round the world wherever the Commu-
nists are in control, Australia included,
are all part of a devastating programme.
Now Khrushchev and Mao are both
scheduled for the Caribbean.
Rarely outside periods of war have
attacks been made on heads of States
by other States comparable to those
which have been made by Khrushchev
on President Eisenhower. They are con-
sistent only with the use of violence at
the first opportunity, and they are in
tune with the attitude of the Commu-
nist unions to authority in Australia.
Santamaria and A.L.P. Jobs
Santamaria, protagonist of the industrial-
groupers from whose strength emerged
the D.L.P., is no fool when it comes to
political repartee. He also can more
than hold his own in dealing with re-
porters on television, something that
requires a skilled technique because the
attacking reply, which can be used effec-
tively against a political opponent, would
damage his own case.
These verbal talents carry their own
burdens: he becomes in the popular
mind a propagandist and in the more
politically perceptive a smooth debater.
Nonetheless, he has made in Mel-
bourne a quite devastating reply to Pro-
fessor Webb’s assertion that in Australia
the greatest obstacle to the development
of the Communist party is the strength
of the A.L.P., and to Labor propagan-
dists who have been cockahoop about
the professor’s misguided logic.
Santamaria says that in the 1940’s the
A.L.P. leaders had so little chance of
holding the Communists in the unions
or in their own party that they asked
for an organised R.C. effort to help them.
How can the A.L.P. be regarded as a
bulwark against Communism when its
foreign policy is practically indistinguish-
able from the Communist party’s, he
asks, and when its members at A.C.T.U.
conferences and on Brisbane, Sydney
and Melbourne Trades Hall Councils
vote consistently for the most obvious
items of Communist policy?
Santamaria cites Vic. Stout, the late
Percy Clarey, Broadby (A.C.T.U.) and
Senator Kennelly as among those who
sought his help when their positions in
the unions were threatened by the Com-
munists.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
At a radio party: “You’ve done so
well in radio plays I wonder you
haven’t tried TV.” “I often think of
it, old boy, but I still don’t feel bad
enough.”—“Nunk.”
♦&
“Eke”: You have to hand it to the
chain-stores when it comes to a helping-
hand. Just to save you the bother of
that long address when you send in your
tax - returns and aren’t too sure how
you spell it they have those nice long
envelopes with the address correctly spelt.
♦j*
“Narumee”: Is gentle jollying of the
patient, and mild banter with those in
charge now considered as out-of-date as
cupping and purging? When I called on
the services of a partnership of six young
medicos for my small daughter, one or
the other visited her daily ; they spoke
in hushed cadences, wielded their glitter-
ing new array of shiny-cased weapons
with portentous solemnity, and dealt
with efforts at light conversation on my
part with shocked monosyllables. They
induced, in a normally exceedingly
friendly and talkative child, a state of
speechless awe, and in me a horrid
nostalgia for the garrulous and con-
fidence-giving old-timer whose shabby
bag held lollies and a glove-puppet, and
to whose visits my daughter, and every
other child in the district, looked for-
ward. And I couldn’t imagine the case-
books of those unsmiling youngsters
producing, for their successors, such
enlightening gems of diagnosis as this
from another old-timer: “Patient com-
plained of burning eyes. No flames
visible.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“N.S.”: A friend who is a patient of
a fashionable city doctor was making her
booking for a maternity hospital. She
suggested a suburban hospital, but the
secretary was dismayed: “Oh, no, Doctor
• doesn’t deliver in the suburbs!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: At the annual dinner
of the Old Grey Mares one member
brandished a pretty jewelled watch T,
my nose, saying, “Blacksmith"!?
catch-on, and said, “Did von m D|
blacksmith?” “Don’t be so JRV
snorted; “Blacksmith, twenty«’
one, and I had a fiver on it Jfn b
this, and a frypan as well!" Dou^
* ❖ *
“Plato Mulligan” : N.Z. is ala
the mounting hooliganism of teenl?
Following on a donnybrook at AuS
Zoo (six girls thrown into a pond,
molested and knife-throwing) the
decided to call a meeting. Drinti,
smoking and drug-taking are rife a,,
the youngsters, and the juvenile cor
are as brisk as a kid quiz-session. Mam
regard the rising storm as an inevitable
result of Welfare State pampering.
»> *
“N. O’Sirrah”: When the same nj
ber won first prize in consecutive Mel
bourne lotteries, a mathematical 1 ,
minded person came up with the im
formation that the odds against fc L
happening were 39,999,999,999 to one.
I was duly impressed with such fig®
tive know-how until I realised that if j
marble is put back into the drum eat:
time it has been drawn and recorded,
and if 100,000 marbles are used in the
lottery, the odds against any one mai
coming out at any stage of any dm
can only be 99,999 to one. It’s like tfc
old problem of the odds against tails
showing in a one-coin toss after they
have shown in 100 successive tosses:
the odds always remain (no. pun i
tended) at evens.
"I Want my true Weight. Otherwise I'll call the Inspector of W eight
and Measures."
ONLY
Are you, too, sad ? Are you, too, lonely ?
Let’s be each other’s one-and-only !
Well only need a house and grounds
At only seven-thousand pounds,
A washer for your only pinnies
At only just two-fifty guineas;
A motor-mower’s not so dear —
Only eighty quid, l hear;
Machines for mixing cakes and crackers
Are only fifty-seven smackers —
What’s that, my Only? Ah, too funny!
You say we only need the money !
You can have anything today
For only what you want to pay:
Refrigerators, full of tricks,
For only thirty-one-and-six,
All the furniture■ you seek
For only fifty-bob a week,
And carpets like the floors of heaven
For only fifteen-and-eleven —
But now what ails my only pet ? —-
You only feel you can’t stand debt!
You only are a bit run-down,
You only need a rest from town,
You only need to get a car
At only what their prices are '
And, looking back at city life
Full of only care and strife,
You’ll only find you’ve only lost
Double what it only cost.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


r we ll-known Sydney foot-
f£ suffers the indignity
1 . ba t 0 his calling of having his
inadentai there will be revealed a
shortS .f the duckiest pink swami pantees
P al ll a nl an snitched from an amply-
tba nnned spouse. In the dressing-
doesn’t attempt to hide his
, in fact, he is gaining converts.
S; with hips and thighs badly
2 by the rough texture of football-
-8 s or male underpants are inclined
° n a gnarled ear when an advocate
10 n out that feminine undergarments
P be wonderfully sleek and smooth
free from the friction that causes
grazing. —“Bellfipld. ”
* <s• *
“Buderim”: When Miss Fletcher won
the Open Golf Championship of Queens-
land the A.B.C. said she had an easy
victory in the final, winning by 10 and
9 They must be tough girls up here ;
even the pro.’s don’t include the 19th in
their competitions.
❖ * *
“Janus”: My neighbor chattered-on
about her erstwhile erring daughter’s
wedding: “It’s so satisfactory; he
doesn’t mind about Allie” —Allie being
the five-year-old daughter her daughter
had acquired without a wedding-
ceremony—“And they’re to be married
next month. She’s wearing white, but
with a colored petticoat —you know,
because of Allie.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Sister Ellell”: One of my young
ladies fetched-up with a pair of badly-
grazed knees. I said, “How come?”
She replied, “I fell over in the street —
and I’m supposed to go dancing tonight,
too.” She added, “I can’t take a trick
this week; my engagement was broken-
off a few days ago.” I said it sounded
as though it had been a complete sur-
prise to her. “You can say that again,”
quoth she. “Me fiance did it; I never
S‘ve it even a passing thought! ”
❖ *X* *i*
Q. Ree” (Fiji): Australian postage is
re< my something these days. I sent a
money-order for 30s. to Australia for
rawing-paper and gummed paper. I got
o parcels back, with 75.-worth of
ra y' n S'P a per in one parcel, and 10s.-
tJ i oP gummed paper in the other.
a Postage, for sea-mail, was 13s.
* ❖ *
Way”: It’s a wonder Australia
a cnmrn^ n f and to Pi° neer the “boatel,”
and ya £ ht ' club > sailing - school
can atv ‘ auncbe d at Dartmouth, which
cabins rTu te 80 in 40 two ' berth
has twr, flatlets, and
brine thei Coc^tad ' bars - Visitors can
boatel’s crafr n^ ats or use one of the
for yachtin' Tbere a re drying-rooms
park laiin l^ ear ’ showers, a - dinghy-
*“4 workshop.’ trollieS and “ emer -
Will°?nrr like the boatel
Of the w S< T the totel
hotel and the motel.
“Actually, I'm not one of his wives — I'm just gate-crashing."
“Gundy”: On Gundagai station in the
early 1920’s one Ephrain O’Sullivan,
who kept a bookshop in the town, used to
cry his wares to the evening train ; as he
walked the platform on a Saturday after-
noon his cry was something like this:
“ ‘Herald,’ ‘Telegraph,’ ‘News,’ ‘Bulletin,’
‘Catholic Weekly,’ ‘Sportsman,’ ‘Watch-
man,’ ” ending with, “A peep into the
future for threepence—Sunday’s ‘Truth’
on Saturday for threepence! ” Three com-
mercial travellers thought to have a joke
at Ephrain’s expense. One called him
back and asked for the “Watchman”; the
other said, “I’ll bet he hasn’t got the
‘Catholic Weekly’ ”. Ephrain pulled it
out of his bundle. Then the third asked
for “Truth.” “Here you are,” said
Ephrain, “and now if you three b ——s
aren’t fighting before you get to Coota-
mundra, well, it isn’t my fault!”
+;♦ *> ❖
“Maitri”: On my way to the school
where I still do a spot or two of teaching
I arrived on Sydney Town Hall station at
the same time as a large party of our
boys returning from an orchestral con-
cert. When the train came in, the master
responsible for them caught sight of me
and in stentorian tones ordered the
youngsters to stand back and let me get
on first. Definitely, his was the voice of
authority: not only the boys but also the
adult travellers drew back to allow me
to make a blushingly embarrassed
entrance.
“Doric”: I knew that he had been
ill, and asked him how he was feeling.
“Never better in my life,” he said, “but
I’ve had a tough time, what with X-rays,
specialists, and so on. I spent pounds
and pounds without result.” “Well,
what cured you?” I asked. “These,” he
said, pulling a little packet of what looked
like sweets out of his pocket; “they cost
sevenpence a packet!”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Dix”: The real heroes of the mara-
thon walk by Dr. Barbara Moore from
Albury to Blacktown were the two
policemen who rode their high-powered
motor-cycles at walking-pace for 13 days
in a row and remained reasonably cheer-
ful the whole time. I had expected the
police to compel Dr. Moore to walk on
the right-hand side of the road, facing
oncoming traffic, but the number of
vehicles which accompanied her made
this impracticable, so her safety was
ensured by the two constables riding
their machines, one at the back and the
other at the front, close to the centre-
line, thus preventing overtaking vehicles
from cutting-in on her. When I came-up
with the party a few miles on the
Katoomba side of Springwood late on
the Friday afternoon before Dr. Barbara
completed her walk she was sitting by
the roadside, proclaiming between sips
of fruit-juice that she had walked far
enough for one day and would rest come


dawn on the Saturday. The “tour
organiser,” having failed to induce her
to change her mind, walked away, and
the two police-officers took-over. “Get
me to my feet then,” Dr. Barbara
exclaimed .after listening to the honeyed
tones of one of the officers, “and I’ll do
another mile.” The two men knew that
if they could get her into her stride again
she would go on indefinitely, so, each
grasping an arm, they hoisted her up,
patted her on the back and whispered,
“Go to it, Doc!” The Doctor went to
it, and was soon in Springwood, where
the cheers of the crowd made the extra
effort worth while.
❖ ❖ *>
“Mullbong”: Twenty years before
“Peter Simple’s” Grafton youth (B.
27/6/’6O) essayed his
pioneer flight, one of the
Pickett lads of Pickett’s
Valley (B. 3/ 8 / ’6O) had
been fired by the story of
Icarus, dramatically told
by his schoolmaster, Mr.
Lane. He had always
been interested in the
flights of the birds round
his home, particularly the
pelicans on the Broad-
water. If a pelican could
lift his heavy body from
the water and progress
through the air on slowly
moving wings he reckoned
that a smart boy, fitted
with wings, could also fly.
He rigged-up a weird
Heath Robinson contrap-
tion of wire and canvas
thickly covered with
feathers glued to the can-
vas, and secured it to his
arms with loops of wire.
Set for the takeoff, he
mounted a ladder to the
barn roof, and, after a
cheery goodbye to his
admiring family and
friends, leaped into space.
Fortunately a plum-tree by the barn
broke his fall and only his pride was hurt.
❖ ❖ *
“Derwent”: A Launceston (Tas.) man
who found his TV unresponsive and
went out to check the aerial couldn’t
find it; some quick-minded collector
had scrounged it, extension-mast and all.
❖ »>
“Penulis”: The stationmaster who
used to check both original and carbon-
copies (B. 27/7/’6O) of his letters
reminded me of a Government officer
who retired full of honors ; I was his
secretary for two years and had to face
a weekly embarrassment of explaining-
away coinciding appointments. He would
insist on keeping two diaries ; a large one
in his briefcase for official visits, and a
small one in his vest-pocket for social
occasions. In spite of the brilliance that
won him a double-first at Oxford, he
could never understand that two diaries
must lead to trouble if used concurrently.
A mong the manifold advantages
of the long - playing record is its
unbreakability. The vulnerability of the
vintage-kind caused the biggest financial
disaster of my single days. I had an
arrangement with a city music-store to
get my records on appro., returning those
I didn’t want after a weekend’s hearing.
This time I’d gone off the deep end with
a fiver’s-worth —quite big money in those
days. For protection I’d parked ’em be-
hind my back as I sat in one of Sydney’s
toast-rack trams, and failed to notice
while reading a book that they’d rolled
along the seat about a foot. Then a
dame who went about 14-st. got in,
and when she sat down she spread. There
was a bang! like a .22 revolver going-off
—my records, including a white-label
H.M.V. of the Sextet from “Lucia di
“Roger! I hope you're not annoying Mrs. Kane."
Lammermoor,” worth a quid! The old
girl didn’t bat an eyelid, let alone
apologise. Could I have been assured of
a jury of music-lovers I might have
pushed her off the speeding juggernaut
. . . I could only glare at her. When
she got off a bloke on the other side
of me said: “Struth, mate, that was
pretty hot.” For I was holding the ruins.
“She busted a whole week’s screw there,”
I replied gloomily. “Gorblime!” he said.
“That must just about be another record
busted! ” —“Bo.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Ceg”: Banks are not gloomy places—
never have been ; and with the approach
of spring I expect seasonal frivolities will
be in full-swing. The flicking of pens so
that they become embedded by the nib
in the ceiling will not be so much in
vogue in these days of ballpoint-pens,
many of them chained to the desks and
tables ; but wads of wet blotting-paper
will be catapulted from elastic-bands, to-
gether with paper-clips fired, in the same
way. Which brings me to the pay-off:
an office-boy in New York has been
awarded 228 dollars workmen’s cnm„
sation by the State Court of Appeal?'
injury to his eye when struck bv a nJ 0t
clip so fired. That the boy himself <?'
the clip didn’t matter ; it was held ft!
this idle-hour pastime was properly as s
dated with his job, and couldn’t h
regarded as skylarking ; it was an activitv
so close to his employment that the
employer’s appeal against the payment of
damages failed. So there you are, boys'
why not have a shot at the manager with
one of those large pewter inkpots? Th ert ,
must be a few of them still lying round
the office. Or better still, why not drop
one of those old letter-presses on the
accountant’s toes? They might be glad
of a bit of compensation!
»!♦ ❖
“Croid”: What’s become of all the
“Jack’s?” Small boys christened “John"
invariably used to be called “Jack,” but
one never hears it now. There are quite
a few “Johnnies,” but they are usually
crooners. Old Chinese peddlers were
usually called “John,” now they’re always
“Charlie.” But it’s strange to imagine
the Royal Navy being manned by “Jolly
John Tars,” and one wouldn’t feel se
elated at winning a “Johnpot.”
♦♦♦
“Jock”: Brisbane Water Historical
Society will begin restoration of the
cottage near Gosford (N.S.W.) where
Henry Kendall lived for two years. The
society hopes that the home will become
a tourist attraction.
DANGERS OF DEHISCENCE
“An American Senator, after haying spent
several weeks in the U.S.S.R., said on B
return to the U.S.: ‘The only way. a Russ*
can open his mouth in complete safety i>
to yawn.’ ”
A tight-closed map is just a “must"
Where workers in their Paradise
Endeavor happily to bust
Norms which no longer may suffice.
Even their wives,
Feared for their lives,
Practise perpetual obmutescence.
None but a goon
Denies this boon
Must lead to conjugal quiescence.
This need to keep tight-shut the tty
Lest all-too-careless words be spi <
Means dentists can no longer yap,
Nor, obviously, can tatts be pile •
Inspecting throat
That's cronk, you’ll note, ~
Is done, perforce, now, via the g<&
That's why each doc.
In the Soviet bloc
Develops into such a wizard.
For yawning purposes the gob ,
May open. But in safety 7 p a r
Comrade Bumptoffski lost his ]0
(As well as all things else) the
That he acquired
Some hot lead, fired 0
By drawn-up squad. Just like a, -
Was he. You see
He noisily l.wo
Yawned during pep-talk by a
N.S.W,
S.W.K.


Matildas Waltz in New Guinea
Sam Hordern (and others) in Action
By BILL HOWARD
As the big Matilda tanks squatted
at the bottom of the Sattelberg
track the tough, green-clad Ninth
Div. infanteers marched past yell-
ing “When are you bereted s gonna
take the cellophane off those
tanks?”
Later the Ninth Div. boys found the
matronly Matildas a great comfort and
were reluctant to go in without them.
The 20th Brigade boys were pretty
terse and sore after the very torrid time
they’d had in the big, surging battle
around Scarlet Beach and the Song
River. They had lost a lot of cobbers
and had nearly been pushed back into
the sea they had come from. So the sight
of these untried Matildas, as complacent
as squatting hens, irritated them to
billy-oh.
The tank boys had been anxious
enough to go. They’d had it, too, being
hidden for weeks under the coconut-
palms at Morobe and being done-over
nightly by Nip bombers, who sensed
something big and vulnerable lay there
Army Intelligence had considerably
underestimated Japanese strength at
Finschhafen. They sent a brigade for
that invasion instead of a division. At
he, south, in the same Huon Gulf
campaign, they put in a division instead
of a brigade for that relatively pushover
show.
& the tanks were not called for until
the Japs had retreated up the Sattelberg
track.
C Squadron of the Ist Armored Regi-
ment, under the command of Major Sam
Hordern, came up from Morobe. It was
on November 3, 1943, that the first
Matilda tanks lumbered up the narrow
SlunH 8 tFaCk leading to Satte ' ber 8
Don’t tell me, ever again, about the
passive Oriental face,” said Corporal
of Berry gunner in
eadmg tank. “I’ll never forget the
~l l: °* surprise on the little Nip who
the R S fSt ' * § ot tbe leg with
dreco- eSa ' sat down and put a field-
with'i?- 8 came on at us again
bloke ” S n^C and ba y° net •• • game little
fai* l^oo^. 0^sur P r i s e on the little Nip’s
planning tbe reward for months of
horn si a ? d str ategy to get these tanks
without Ih 610 / 1 N - S - w -) to Sattelberg
on that l * " a P ane se knowing. Even
ashore fr , wbe n the tanks came
ru mble S.T.’s that distinctive
tanks on the move was
smothered by a bombardment of 25-
pounders.
This intense secrecy paid very worth-
while dividends, because when the Nips
finally retreated up what they imagined
was the impenetrable Sattelberg for
other than infantry—they took no armor-
piercing shells above a 37mm. The
Matilda’s hide was impervious to a
37mm.-sting.
The Matilda tanks were not the first
tanks used in New Guinea. The light-
armored General Stuart tanks of the
2nd/6th Armored Regiment really
copped it badly at Buna from a shore-
placed 6in. naval gun.
The Ist Armored Regt.—formerly the
New South Wales Lancers, later the Ist
Light Horse—fought three campaigns in
World War 11. A year or so in New
Guinea, a year or so in Southport (Q.),
and nearly a year in Borneo. The middle
campaign was the toughest.
We had been sent to Southport to
recover from the rigors of New Guinea.
We were sent to Borneo to recover from
the rigors of Southport!
Major Sam Hordern’s mob, C Squad-
ron, consisted mainly of cow-cockies
from the N.S.W. South Coast. However,
the Matildas, with their 650 grease-
nipples to do-over daily, made them feel
almost at home.
It was Sam Hordern’s job that day to
accompany the tanks, walking outside,
directing the fire of the limited-visioned
tanks by walkie-talkie! No cop, being
Sam —or being Sam’s batman, either;
he was with him as a bodyguard.
Major “Bull” Ryrie, two years later
at Balikpapan, was killed doing the same
sort of job as Sam Hordern had that day.
The Ninth Div. boys nicknamed Major
Hordern “Rommel”; also “the Long
Bomber.” There was a distinct facial
resemblance to Rommel; and the Long
Bomber, translated, meant “The tall
bloke with 'an astonishing vocabulary
when things weren’t going too well.”
One tank, away out in front, com-
manded by Sgt.-Major Norm Faulls, of
Canberra, got hit in on the tracks and
became immobilised. The Aussie in-
fantry, further down the track, were
badly pinned down and could do nothing
about relieving the crew. The crew of
four men, battened down, had to literally
and mentally sweat it out for hours. It
wasn’t very pleasant, they said later, to
listen to the Nips on top of the tank
trying to get at them with grenades,
gelignite, picks.
Those boys thanked the sturdy British
armor that day. Sgt.-Major Faulls said
later: “Those four hours aged me ten
years.”
At dusk, under Major Hordern’s
wireless-instruction, the crew, by then
much leaner, got through the escape-
hatch at the bottom of the tank, crawled
through the mud, and, with half-a-
hundredweight of New Guinea dirt ding-
ing to them, broke evens back to the
Aussie lines.
The presence of Sam Hordern and the
Matildas, which in their low-geared way
could go incredible places—at Sattelberg,
at Wareo and along that fantastic Rai
coast —saved many good Australian
infantrymen’s lives.
“Is that all he said?”


POLITICAL POINTS
The trial of U.S. pilot Francis Powers
begins in Moscow today (Wednes-
day), and will apparently be made the
occasion for a gigantic propaganda
spectacle—the hall will accommodate
2000 people. As Powers has been kept
incommunicado and has already been
adjudged guilty by Khrushchev and the
Soviet press there has been speculation
whether he has been “brainwashed” and
will make one of the detailed “con-
fessions” made familiar by the Russian
treason-trials of the 1930’5. The U.S.
State Department has admitted that
Powers was on a photographic-recon-
naissance flight. It is almost certain that
his route would be minutely planned
beforehand and that his task was to
follow it accurately, the actual “spying”
being done automatically by his camera.
Any detailed “confession”, he may give
at the trial must therefore be suspect.
• •
“I wouldn’t want to deport the Leader
of the Opposition. I’ve got to look at
him on the other side of the House and
there’s nothing I like better.” —N.Z.
Prime Minister Nash.
• •
In a session without precedent in U.S.
history, Congress is now meeting with
three of the four candidates for the
Presidency and Vice-Presidency sitting
in the Senate. Vice-President Nixon
presides over the Senate and Senator
Lyndon Johnson is majority - leader.
Somewhere in the back benches sits
Senator Kennedy, junior to Johnson in
the Chamber, but now very much his
boss outside.
• •
A meeting of the Federal Inland
Development Organisation to be held in
Canberra on August 23 will urge the
Government to survey a “Pioneers’
Highway” from Bourke (N.S.W.) to Mt.
Isa (Q.); it wants the highway to be a
bitumen road linking the railheads of
western lines in the two States. F.1.D.0.
also wants an investigation of northern
water resources “with a view to irriga-
tion, hydroelectricity, diversion inland
of coastal streams and control of
channel-country floods.” C. W. Russell,
former Country-party M.H.R. for
Maranoa, is a member of the committee
of F.1.D.0., which was formed only
recently, but hopes to get things moving
in the inland.
• •
TVfo shock announcements followed the
Macmillan-Adenauer talks in Bonn,
but both parties seem pleased at the way
the other received whatever it was they
said. The set-up seems to be that Britain
will work on its partners in the Free
Trade Area and Germany will do the
same with its Common Market col-
leagues (especially de Gaulle’s France)
with a view to coming to a sane work-
ing arrangement that will reconcile the
differences between the two blocs.
• •
Lithgow (N.S.W.) lost its steel-making
industry when the Hoskins organisation
transferred to Port Kembla, and since
the war it has felt the economic effect
of the closing-down of small collieries
on the Western field. But it is on the
way back. The Small Arms Factory now
employs more than 1500 men and
women, and more are being engaged
each month. Now the town is to be
the site of a custom-treatment plant for
zinc, lead, silver and copper, Australia’s
first. The operating company claims that
experiments have shown it is possible to
produce a suitable metallurgical coke
from Western coal.
• •
Vince Gair, ex-Premier of Queensland
and leader of the Q.L.P., is still unde-
cided whether he will stand for the
Senate next year. In 1958 Condon Byrne
led the Q.L.P. team and finished up with
100,804 votes —about 15,000 short of a
quota. Both Gair and Byrne say they
are satisfied to leave the decision to the
party. It is possible Gair’s prestige might
swing more votes to the D.L.P. than
Byrne could, especially as the latter will
not have the advantage of being a retiring
Senator as he was in 1958. But anyone
outside the two main parties has
almost impossible task to win a Senat
seat, unless his group has the luck I
draw first position on the ballot-paper
In 1958 this could have just made the
difference for Byrne, as it did for Senator
McManus (D.L.P.) in Victoria in 1955
• •
Australian exports to Japan rose by
£32.6 million in the financial year just
closed, to a total of nearly £135 million
The Japanese market was second only
to that of Britain, £245 million (down
£l2 million) and well ahead of exports
to our third best customer, U.S., with
£76 million (up £l5 million). Britain
remained our main source of imports
with £330 million (up £23 million), and
U.S. second, with £lso| million (up £42
million). Imports from Japan were
valued at £4 Li million, compared with
£3O million in 1958-59.
• •
A merican space-research men have had
a field-week! At long last they have
succeeded in retrieving a capsule ejected
from a satellite in orbit. It was a case
of 13th-time-lucky; a dozen previous
attempts had failed. Then they placed a
100-ft. balloon in orbit 1000 miles above
the earth. This was clearly seen over
Sydney on Sunday night, as bright as any
star. Messages, including one from Presi-
dent Eisenhower, were bounced-bad
from the satellite, that being the purpose
for which it was launched.
In the lower bracket an Atlas missile
was fired 5000 miles down the Atlantic
and a Polaris missile (the type designed
for use from nuclear-powered sub-
marines) passed its 1100-mile test. Along-
side these toys the Xl5 plane seems
almost orthodox, so the ascent of one
to a height of 25 miles —the greatest
height ever reached by man —passed
almost unnoticed.
“By the way, Clarkely, since when have you been on the thirty-hour week!"


according to an American space-
A authority all monkeys used for trips
. tn SDa ce are volunteers. How do they
volunteer? Well, ‘l llll6 simple. The
v key i s offered its choice of a banana
m an apple- If it takes the banana it is
considered to have volunteered. So far
very monkey tested has picked the
Lia. It just goes to show that you
> t w j n . The monkeys take the banana
an(i are fired into space. Adam took the
apple and was fired out of Eden.
* •
“Actin’’: When the Prime Minister
was invited at his press-conference to
comment on Clyde Cameron’s activities
j n New Guinea, he replied, “Well, I
would have to rely on hearsay if I said
what I would like to say about them.”
In the reflective pause which followed
this statement, he added, “Get that down
accurately that’s a good sentence.”
Presumably he will unburden himself
about Cameron when he discusses with
Arthur Calwell the proposal of a joint
committee on New Guinea.
• •
Asian-quota advocates are fond of
citing U.S. and Canada as examples of
countries in which the system has proved
successful. But is it so successful?
Sydney “Herald,” on August 5, ran a
story from a correspondent in Ottawa
which told of “an intensive manhunt” by
the Canadian Mounties who are “seeking
the organisers of a big and profitable
plan to smuggle thousands of Chinese
into Canada as illegal immigrants.” It
was estimated that in the past decade
11,000 Chinese, mostly from Hong Kong,
had entered Canada on forged papers by
passing themselves off as relatives of
Canadian citizens. The “smugglers”
charge these “New Canadians” about
W dollars a head, payable in monthly
instalments after they’ve placed them in
jobs.
• •
Natural-gas is to be given another
chance to show that it can supply the
Power-needs of Roma (Q.). Over 50
years ago there were high hopes of light-
,n § the town by natural-gas, but the
supply petered-out after a short trial.
. P re sent plan is a sequel to the
mr\f! 8 r° f a stron § flow of gas in a
J uuu - bore at Timbury Hills last March,
y agreement with the State Electricity
, fi rr n the operating company,
to 70 S nrf ministration ’ Ltd., Will pump up
W.OOO cubic feet of gas each day to
'» m«T^!f e o r ‘ Stat i 0n - This is enou S h
havp „ ; r aa Roma s needs. Pipelines
lead th C t 0 -^ e but it is hoped to
the P nH 8 ? s , mto tfl e Power-house before
e e nd of the year.
• •
a setback at the meeting
States lacf 2 Organisation of American
tration of i when Communist infil-
agenda f ln A me^ ca was Placed on
°f Ameripf' ° r discussion at a conference
held in ore *8 n Ministers to be
P°sal wac o Sta lca this week. The pro-
the shriu by 20 votes to one —
lc e of the Cuban delegate.
Melbourne City Councillors are look-
ing favorably on a proposal to limit
candidates’ election costs; the few who
oppose it claim it would bring-in the
political parties Whose expenditure can’t
be policed. Election expenses have be-
come a lively August subject since a
councillor, opposed again by a candidate
he defeated at a by-election a few months
ago, claimed his opponent spent £20,000
on his campaign. The challenger says he
spent a mere £lBOO.
• ' •
Queensland Local Government Asso-
ciation is asking the Nicklin Government
to vote itself power to create new local-
government areas. As the law stands
it can make variations in boundaries or
amalgamate two or more shires, but it
can’t create additional municipal areas.
The association wants it to assume power
to create new cities, towns and shires,
and quotes as an anomaly of the out-
moded system the fact that Mt. Isa is
for local-government purposes a part of
the Shire of Cloncurry, with headquarters
in Cloncurry, 50 miles away.
• •
"VTow that Jack Tripovich has been
elected to the Victorian Legislative
Council and Chamberlain has announced
he will not be a starter for his job,
there’ll be a big field for the A.L.P.
secretaryship in Victoria. In comparison
with most other A.L.P. branches the
pay is not so hot. The general rule in
other States is to pay Parliamentary
rates ; Trip.’s successor is being sought
at £35 a week.
• •
Pre-Budget references to the excise on
beer have prompted the economist of a
Melbourne newspaper to dive deeply
(theoretically speaking) into the subject,
and to discover that beer is already taxed
more heavily in Australia than any other
single item. He found that last year
excise on beer contributed about £lO9
million to the total Federal revenue of
£1431 million, and he stressed that there
was a fall and a flattening-out in con-
sumption (to a mere 223-million gallons
for last year) after the last excise increase
in 1956. He also discovered that in most
capital cities the present duty on beer
amounted to about one-half of the cost
of a drink bought over a bar, and that
the “cheapest” beer was a 15oz. schooner,
which, in a Sydney public bar, cost
Is. 9d., or 1.4 d. an ounce.
• •
“H.G.”: The A.L.P. will probably
do to Tom Uren (B. 10/8/’6O) what
it did to other Labor men fraternising
with Communists. The acceptance
by State branches of the A.L.P.
of their members’ explanation that
“they were not aware of being placed
on a how-to-vote ticket with Commu-
nists” will probably be applied to Tom
Uren, who stated he was not worried
about political expediency and that he
was “an advocate of peaceful co-
existence.” A.L.P. men who still ignore
the truth behind the Communist slogan
of “peaceful co-existence” should be
referred to the Polish Communist leader,
Gomulka.
In a speech published in the Polish
Communist press on July 8 and 9
Gomulka stated:
The strategic purpose of the policy of
“co-existence” is world victory of
Socialism over capitalism. The most
important task of the Communist parties
at present is the avoidance of war. In
the activities of our party, as well as in
the activities of all Communist parties,
the battle for peace is of paramount
importance. All Communist parties have
the same aim, but each one has to use
dilferent and appropriate methods and
techniques.
The most effective forms in this fight
in the capitalist countries are peace
demonstrations and political strikes of the
workers... .This co-existence and peace
propaganda must be continued until the
capitalists, who today are still capable of
conducting a war, are overtaken b'y the
Communist countries and rendered
incapable of conducting a world war.
• •
An unusual by-product of boom
employment is reported from West Ger-
many, where unemployment is only 0.7
per cent. —some jails have had to be
closed and prisoners transferred so that
unreplaceable warders can take their
holidays. Last year more than 100,000
Italians, Spaniards and Greeks went to
Germany for seasonal work, but this year
their own countries’ expanding industries
are holding them.
• •
“Newsawk”: Even Melbourne Trades
Hall isn’t making any claims about sig-
nificance in the voting for the Legislative
Council provinces of Doutta Galla and
Melbourne, won by Doug Elliot, a radio
and TV personality, and Jack Tripovich,
the A.L.P. secretary, in direct contests
with the D.L.P.
Seventeen per cent, of Doutta Galla’s
and 27 per cent, of Melbourne’s electors
didn’t vote. The percentages of the
parties were therefore meaningless,
especially as there were no Liberals
standing. The Trades Hall reckons the
A.L.P.’s popularity in relation to the
D.L.P. can only be gauged when a
Liberal stands, as the D.L.P. doesn’t then
collect Liberal votes.
• •
T abor seats in N. S. Wales are tending
to become hereditary. T. J. Cahill
now holds his father’s Cook’s River seat
in the Assembly, and a son of George
Booth seems to have the A.L.P. nomina-
tion for Kurri Kurri sewn-up. In the
Reps. Rowley James’ Hunter seat went
to Dr. Evatt for a space, but when the
Doc. was elevated to the N.S.W. Chief
Justiceship it reverted to Rowley’s son.
But the system failed in Wagga a few
years ago when Labor nominated a
nephew of the former Minister for Agri-
culture and M.L.A. for Wagga, Billy
Graham, to fill the vacancy caused by
his uncle’s death. He was beaten by the
Liberal candidate W. C. Fife, and even
more decisively when he stood again at
the subsequent general election.


Personal
ITEMS
“Ney”: Due to pass his 91st milestone
on Sunday (August 21), early Bulletin
bush-balladist and writer of Scottish
Border ballads Will Ogilvie, whose home,
Kirklea, near Ashkirk, seven miles from
Selkirk (Scotland), has had many Aus-
tralian visitors during recent years.
• e
Leonard William Hamilton, M.H.R.
for Canning (W.A.), has decided not to
seek re-election when the present Federal
Parliament dissolves. With the A.I.F. in
War I, he joined the R.A.A.F. as an
aircraftman during World War 11, and
was a squadron - leader, liaison - officer
with the American forces, at the finish.
• •
Retired after 49 years’ service, Bruce
Smith has been a commissioner of the
Rural Bank of N.S.W. since 1953. Start-
ing as a telegraph-messenger at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) in 1908 he changed to banking
three years later —at £3O a year. He was
chief-accountant for 15 years, then chief
superintendent of the Rural for another
five before he became a commissioner.
His successor as commissioner is S. M.
Norton, who has followed him some of
the way—he took-over as chief-super,
after Smith’s promotion and did a stint
as chief accountant and registrar of in-
scribed stock. Norton is a former vice-
president of the United Bank Officers’
Association.
• •
Recently elected President of the
Westralian Legislative Council, Leslie
Charles Diver is a Yorkrakine farmer
who has represented Central Province
as a C.P. member since 1952. He
succeeds Sir Charles Latham, who has
retired from politics.
• •
“Judee”: At the Olympic Games in
Rome Australia will have a representa-
tive who came from where the Games
originated—Arthur Shannos, who juggles
enormous weights and at 18st. is a fair
sort of weight himself. Now 22, he
came here from Greece 12 years ago,
and first went to a gym. not to lift
weights up but to get his own weight
down a bit. He found the lifting much
more to his liking than the reducing.
• •
“Bunda”: George Hoy, re-elected
president of the N.S.W. Farmers and
Settlers’ Association for his third succes-
sive term the other day, piloted the
decision of his association and the
Wheat- and Woolgrowers’ Association to
amalgamate and form the strongest body
of primary producers in Australia. With
upwards of 16,000 members, the new
organisation is to be called the United
Farmers’ and Woolgrowers’ Association.
Hoy, who with his sons grows wheat and
raises pigs at Peak Hill, is a producer-
member of the Australian Wheat Board
and has many other interests.
• •
A. Donald Trounson (here sketched)
—First Secretary, United Kingdom In-
formation Service, N.S.W. looks the
right man to make a good job of explain-
ing all that anybody may want to know
about the U.K.
Raised in Cornwall —he was born at
U.K. INFORMATION
Redruth —he was a company director
when War II broke-out, joined-up and
served in North Africa, Sicily and there-
abouts, and from 1943 was a staff-officer
with A.F.H.Q. at Caserta in Italy. When
the war ended he married a Scottish girl
who had been on the staff of Harold
Macmillan (then Resident Minister at
A.F.H.Q.), and he and his wife lived on
in Italy, where, in the British Embassy,
his first job as economic advisory officer
was supervising the British equivalent of
Marshall Aid Then the economic
blizzard hit Britain ; that aid was no
longer possible, and he turned to work
cn the peace-treaty, becoming British
representative on the Four Power com-
mittee handling the liquidation of Ger-
man assets.
Back in England in 1954, he became
Foreign Office spokesman in the news
department, holding this post during the
Suez affair: “A tricky time,” he says.
In the autumn of 1957 he was sent to
New York as one of Sir Pierson Dixon’s
two press-officers for the 12th session
of the U.N., sitting as a member of the
British delegation on the Security Coun-
cil and on various committees. He re-
turned to England in 1957, did a stint
with the Commonwealth Relations Office
as press-officer in the information div'
sion, and was posted to Australia
October.
One of his pastime interests is bird-
watching—he’s busy with a tape-recorder
getting the songs of Australian birds-
and he also hobbies with watercolor
painting and music.
• •
“Jock”: Although in Australia for 5]
of his 69 years, George Booth, who was
M.L.A. for Kurri Kurri (N.S.W.), never
lost his Lancashire accent. Recently
passed on, he was for many years Chair,
man of Committees in the State House
where he spent 35 years—longest of any
present A.L.P. member. He was chair,
man of the Co-operative Wholesale
Society, a Federal organisation, for more
than 20 years.
. • •
“Yeno”: Making his first trip to Aus-
tralia, Edward Jackson, of Newbigp
House, Stainton, Penrith (Cumberland),
will judge the Dairy Shorthorns at this
year’s Melbourne’s Royal. Besides breed-
ing Dairy Shorthorns he conducts a stud
of Galloway cattle in Cumberland ail
another of registered Clun Forest sheep.
Victoria is Australia’s stronghold ot
Dairy Shorthorns, but the breed is gain-
ing a good foothold in other States,
Of his other specialist interests, some
Galloway cattle are bred in N.S.W., but
Australia has no Clun Forest sheep.
• •
“Jayem”: From Durham University,
where he was lecturer in Agriculture,
M. R. Patchell has gone to the Uni-
versity of New England, Armidale
(N.S.W.), as senior lecturer in Appb
Genetics in the Faculty of Rural Science
He gained the degree of Master of Agri-
cultural Science with first-class honors
in dairy-husbandry and animal-nutrition
at the University of New Zealand, and
has published several papers on h
special subject.
• •
“Joanne”: Living on lonely islands
the Indian Ocean is becoming a ha®
with J. W. Stokes, who takes over«
Australian official representative i
Christmas Island on October 1, replacm?
D. E. Nickels. Stokes, a Melbourne mao,
has for some time been official represen
tative in the Cocos Islands.
• •
“Two Dozen”: The Red Page
of Randolph Churchill’s life of L
Derby reminded me of A. B. (
Paterson’s pen-pictures of the s
notability in that excellent and
book Happy Dispatches. Here is
Banjo”: f co) i-
Born in the purple, an inheritor * oJ(
mines, town-houses, country-houses , p
of the most successful studs in ' a pj
was the typical John Bull, solid, se | $
gifted with the clear commonsens
unimaginative man. He might n eor ge,
made such a Prime Minister as U°y
for Lord Derby’s outlook on We > v o» !
of the golf-professional—there was > #
way to play each shot. I worked [ ( i
orders when he was chief P ress " a tlio® 1
Lord Roberts in South Africa; a V
he knew nothing about the P reSS


■ • job nor about censoring either for
began 11 J o £ t hat, he soon made a success
the rnat Anv correspondent could wake him up
of hour of the night and get a message
atan u- and he worked on such methodical
censor .u,; vve soon found what could go and
bf, not. Like Jim Bludso, in the wreck
'fl Prairie Belle, “he seen his duty, a dead-
sure thing, and he went for it there and
lt "rnrd Derby was about the only man among
, „ rM f o nes who had no fear whatever of
Churchill He wasn,t a f rai d of this big bad
L lf for the press-censorship job meant
ling in his young life, and he would not
f e cared if Churchill had tried to write
r' out of it, nor do I think that he worried
Lch about the Prime Ministership. Why
Lid he? He was Lord Derby, and any
attacks on him by Churchill or by similar
small destroyers would be like trying to take
Gibraltar with a rowing-boat.
• •
Now on his way back to Germany
via the Far East and the U.S. —where
he will give concerts —Gerd Kaemper has
just completed an intensive recital-lecture
goodwill-tour of Australia under the
aegis of the West German Foreign Office.
A talented pianist, urbane but modest
on the concert-platform, and genial off
it, he was a very good ambassador. Born
in’Cologne 28 years ago, Kaemper had
three years as Saarbriicken University
and at 20 won an international competi-
tion sponsored by the German Radio.
The following year he notched another
first in a competition for all-comers'-at
Rio de Janiero, a win that led to his
being appointed Professor of Piano at
Mexico City State University. He fills
this Chair for brief periods every two
years, between other commitments which
usually take him over three continents
a year. A pupil and disciple of Walter
Gieseking that master-pianist used to
devote his spare time between concert-
appearances to giving free tuition to
promising young pianists—Kaemper, be-
sides becoming a first-rate concert-
P'anist, is a lucid and fluent lecturer on
piano-music as taught by his old master.
Hes due back here in two years’ time—
WMg and lecturing at the Adelaide
Festival.
PIANIST-LECTURER
“Ailsey”: There’s more than a pinch
of salt in the veins of the Deed family,
of Carey Bay, Newcastle (N.S.W.). The
other night Captain E. J. Deed and his
wife had a radio-telephone call from
their son Michael to say he’d got his
first-mate’s ticket at Southampton Nauti-
cal School. Michael went to England
from India, where he was with the
British-India Steam Navigation Co. His
father is Newcastle harbormaster —and
so was his grandfather.
• •
“Judee”: Now 66, Walter Viggers, of
New Lambton (N.S.W.), can claim the
remarkable record of having, in one
capacity and another, served the Boy
Scout movement for no fewer than 49 of
his years—he’s a foundation-member of
the Newcastle Scouts. In 1930 he was
awarded the Certificate of Merit by
Empire Chief Scout Lord Somers, and
in 1956 Sir William Slim, as Chief Scout
for Australia, handed him the Medal of
Merit. After the Ist Newcastle Troop
was formed in 1911, Viggers became a
First Warranted Scoutmaster, holding
that title for 46 years and meantime
forming the Ist Mayfield and Ist Stock-
ton troops. With seven “old boys” of
the Ist Newcastle, he served in the First
A.1.F., and for 40 years has recited the
Ode at the Anzac Day ceremony at New
Lambton Memorial Gates. Now retired,
he says he’ll be at the Australian Jam-
boree at Bankstown (Sydney) later this
year.
• •
Lindsey Browne —extinguishing him-
self as “L. 8.,” the “S.M. Herald’s”
famous music-, film- and theatre-critic
—attended his own wake at the Film
Club in Sydney last week. Julian Russell
led a rejoicing of Sydney critics because
that tireless voice, so often embarrass-
ingly right, was to be heard no more.
Now other critics might get a hearing:
“And Scotchman meet Scotchman and
cheat in the dark.” So seldom does a
critic retire to anything but penury that
it required the announcement of the
uncontrovertible “L. 8.” himself to con-
vince the critical gathering that his new
role would be in Sydney Stock Exchange
with Roland Walton. So, as producers
relax, promoters will tremble. It turns
out that, besides being a secret cross-
word-puzzle factory, cricketer and foot-
baller, “L. 8.” is also a secret political
and financial expert.
• •
Sketched above, William Neville Scott,
Bulletin writer—he’s been contributing
verse and short-stori.es off and on for
the last 20 years—collector of old bush-
songs and singer of considerable talent.
He sang “Hurrah for the Roma Rail-
way” in The Bulletin office the other
day while the accompanying sketch of
him was being drawn, and on the
Queensland Centenary disk “Folksongs
from Queensland” (Wattle Recordings)
he sang “The Freehold on the Plain,”
“The Old Palmer - song” and “Billy
Shean.”
Scott, born at Bundaberg (Q.), had 20
jobs before War 11, then did four years
in the R.A.N., mostly in small ships.
Afterwards he tried prospecting at Mount
Isa, went broke at it, spent an interesting
and instructive time as fireman of a cane-
loco., served in a lighthouse-vessel up
the coast on the run to Thursday Island,
BUSH-SONGS
and now lives in Brisbane, working in
McLeod’s bookshop and pursuing his
hobby of music and singing with the
Moreton Bay Bushwhackers.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 53, Donald Graeme McCall,
chairman and managing-director of P.C.D.
Pty., Ltd.
In Sydney, at 87, D. L. Dowdell, who, born
in Tasmania, was the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s shipping representative in London during
War I, and was general-manager in Australia
for the Orient line from 1919 to 1937.
In Sydney, at 70, J. O. Alexander, former
Commonwealth chief film-censor and film
appeals-censor.
In Melbourne, at 67, Dr. Kenneth Arthur
McLean, vice-chairman of the Victoria
Amateur Turf Club, Digger of War I (M.C.
and Bar), R.A.A.F. m.-o. in War 11, and
one of Melbourne’s best-known medical men.
In Melbourne, at 81, Corris Henry (“Corrie”)
Gardner, former Olympic hurdler.
In Adelaide, at 84, L. W. Gebhardt, Mount
Bryan grazier and stud-owner for more than
50 years; cricketer, polo-player and former
S.A. amateur billiards title-holder.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 72, John Heaton
Rhodes, a director of the Christchurch Press
Co. since 1924 and widely known in business
and law.
In Perth, at 64, Herbert William Rigg,
War I Digger, an'd father of State cricketers
Bert and Basil, and of State women’s hockey-
captain Marjorie.
In Perth, at 86, Captain Robert Gee, once
of the Royal Fusiliers and the Queen’s Own
(Royal West Kent) Regiment, who won the
V.C. and the M.C. in War I and was three
times wounded and three times “mentioned,”
and, captured, escaped. He was a member
of the Commons from 1921 till he came to
Westralia in 1926.


ABORIGINALITIES
A N item on Pedestrian Education
Enforcement Week in the “Trundle
Star” will cause some query from
those familiar with the town its
only claim to fame being the widest main-
street in N. S. Wales, gravelled and com-
pletely devoid of signs and crossings. I
fear the police will be hard-put to find
even a pedestrian there, let alone a
genuine jay-walker. The only known and
recommended way of getting from the
Union Hotel to the Trundle Hotel on
the opposite side of the street is by
reliable car: and then travellers are
advised to carry a supply of water in
summer in case of a breakdown. —
“T.M.C.”
* * * *
“Aubithol”: Ever seen a musk-duck?
No? Well, if you came across one in
a remote and murky billabong at half-
light you’d realise why it rates highly in
the bunyip legend. This fantastic fowl
sits low in the water, and is given to
whizzing circular-wise, flipping feet-high
spray with wings and tail, and applaud-
ing this ridiculous act with occasional
lewd chuckles and whistles of the lost-
soul order. Add to the grotesque mask
of a head a tail that can do a complete
reverse to lie flat on the back, and there’s
a sight to make persistent cases lay-off
even the three-star stuff. If this were not
enough, the ungainly creature has
another trick up its wing—the under-
carriage being set far back, making for
awkwardness on land, the queer one is
given to slithering across dewy paddocks
and down creek banks a sight that
should certainly swell A.A. membership.
Not rare, but sparsely distributed, the
musk-duck can actually be seen today in
Sydney—l won’t say where .. . they seem
happy enough, so let ’em be. Seen in
full-light they don’t resemble any known
Then I said, ‘I don't care if your father IS Sir
Lancelot—you tell him my dad'll belt the daylights
out of him!' ”
bunyip—just odd and slightly unbeliev-
able —you could be for saying
bird it never wert.
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: An American business-
man who has complained that Australia
won’t allow live kangaroos to be ex-
ported but allows them to be shot (and
the meat exported to the U.S.) because
they are a “plague on many Australian
ranches,”, seems to have cause for his
grievance. He wants to buy several
hundred ’roos for about 20 dollars each
and breed them on his property north of
New York city for sale to zoos and
parks, and says he can guarantee to tab
$50,000-worth a year. He added that k
has some 3200 animals on his ga®.
farm, including Arabian camels -from
Australia!
* * * f
“Admirer”: Georgie’s usually mem
black face was woebegone as he came
into the hospital. “What can Ido for
you, Georgie; whatever’s the matter
with you?” I asked. “Not me, Sister, I
bring ’em in Hattie,
she dead pfella four
days.” Shocked,!
asked why sit
hadn’t been brougli
in beford. “She:;
wanta come, Sister,
and she more tij
than me, so I can’
make ’er come,”
“But if she is dead!
Oh, Georgie, thisis
horrible! Where is
she?” With that
Hattie walked inti
the hospital, looking
terrible, but far from
dead. “Georgie!
You said sir
was dead! ” lat
monished him—bu'
the Doctor toot;
over. In his calm
voice, in which l!
could sense the i
den laughter, k
said: “When w®
you realise ft
‘dead’ to thesi
people means sick!
Georgie s m
then: “You tbi
I mean dead#
nish?” And tit
doctor smiled, W
“Yes, the Si#
thought you meant
she was ‘dead
finish’! ” he ®
swered. “After am
white people #
much the safl
thing, Sister. Haven’t you ever W
anyone say they were ‘dead on their $
or that, when they slept heavily, t !
‘went to bed and just died’?
* * * *
“Narumee”: The waiting-room at jj
fauna-physicker’s was crowded.
available bench-space was filled by
tough, tweedy type with the blast
nace pipe, the twittering lass in t*
colored school-tunic, the arty ge nt ||
hair didn’t need combing as much
NOXIOUS WEEDS
Even weeds have their moments: bees
can tumble
As tipsily through blossoming cobbler’s-
pegs
As in an ordered dahlia-settlement.
The movement that annoys the bumble *
bees
Is small boys burrowing to villainies,
Emerging all giggle - quaking, dusted
white
As from a bakery.
A little girl’s not quite a little girl
Who’s never made a daisy - chain of
clover
(Flapping off bees ) or gold-star pee-the-
b'ed,
Yards upon yards of flowers, to wreathe
and twine
So prettily round wrists and hair, a chaste
And skimpy Proserpine,
Then toss the whole lot over
A fence with never a pang for waste.
Blackberries are a pest. But what fruit
bought
From tidy, polished fruit-mart pyramids
Is sweet as that whose acquisition s
fraught
With pricks and thoughts of hidden
snakes?
Wild lantana is a most
Pestiferous, obnoxious host
For bandicoots and ticks,
But is a holiday paradise
For brown, gold-spotted butterflies.
And wicked ticks and bandicoots — and
even dogs and boys —
Are happy rooting through it.
N.S.W.
AGNES MILLROSE.


'$4S Mypne seBH
srAM ? //
c
%
/&w ite LOST
we Stamp. /y


his face-fungus, the small boy with the
red thatch, black knees and tear-tracked
countenance, and the perfumed lady
whose beautiful legs were carefully-
crossed and fur stole carelessly-draped ;
and there was standing-room only for the
overalled artisan whose steel-wool hair
was receiving constant raking from
carrot-sized fingers, and the middle-aged
man who registered only as overall fawn-
color animated by a piston-like Adam’s
apple. The patients were a beefy, brindled
boxer, a jittery Australian terrier, a
superbly-aloof, emerald-orbed cat, a fat
and suspiciously-inert black-and-white
puppy with a bloody paw, a milk-coffee
miniature poodle of a clip the most
fantastic and a collar the most chic, a
“As far as I know it's not part of the display.”
rat- or fight-hungry bull-terrier, and a
nondescript fawn-colored mong. Per-
fect matches for their owners? Well —no ;
the tweedy type was soothing the Aus-
tralian terrier ; the twittering lass clung
grimly to the boxer’s leash; the arty
gent nursed the puppy ; the small boy
tried to keep a blanket wrapped round
the cat; the perfumed lady’s pink-tipped
fingers caressed the mong’s fawn ears ;
the poodle struggled and yapped from
beneath the artisan’s colossal biceps, and
the Adam’s apple pistonated above the
white, squirming bolster of bull-terrier.
* * * *
“Dusty”: At Bellata (N.S.W.) they
have their own lottery, tickets a fiver
each, in aid of the Memorial Hall. The
prize is a mob of bullocks.
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Donald McLeod, former
Teader of the Pindan (W.A.) Native Co-
operative, has started a new company,
Nomads Pty., Ltd., with 100 or so Pindan
natives who are loyal to his leadership.
The show has native directors and share-
holders, because, says McLeod, this is
the only way in which aborigines who
have no citizen-rights can gain any legal
standing.
“Nor”: He had just returned from an
outback mining-camp and was asked
about the living-conditions there.
“Slightly primitive,” he replied laconic-
ally. “Open a cupboard; snake falls
out.”
* * * *
“Villefair”: “Jay Kay” talks of a
surfer in W.A. “duck - diving” for
his disgorged dentures (B. 15/6/’6O).
As "kids in N.S.W. we always
called that kind of aquabatics “pearl-
diving.” A “duck - dive” was the last
method we’d have used when trying to
explore the bottom; it was executed
with a swift run and a launching into
space, head thrown back, spine concaved
and chest protruding farther than a
starlet’s. The hands noisily slapped the
water in front of the chest in the manner
of a judo “break-fall.” The dive was
performed to avoid striking bottom in
shallow water, to swamp a swimming
mate, or just to act the giddy goat,
“Sevenelms”: An Australian achieve-
ment meriting publication beyond the
columns of technical journals it’s an
outstanding “world-first” —is the corn-
mercial high-pressure (10001 b. per sq.-in.)
preservative-impregnation of timber. The
P lant went int o operation at Pemberton
(W.A.) last May on Karri telephone-
crossarms. Karri is a wood of great
virtue and interlocked grain. Eastern
States, using it as factory-flooring, appre-
ciate its resistance to the abrasion of
feel-tyred trucks and hob-nailed traffic.
* n b f a m-sf ess it s a high performer, and
bends fan astically before it breaks. Its
ver y interl ° ck fd grain in the open air
I s pror f to on lts ba c k-cut
To prevent these splits, which do
L n tiri \ e facilitate decay and mechanical
breakdown, and to sustain its good
qualities in outdoor use is the target of
the new P roce ss. The recipe is 3 per cent.
pentachlorphenol in furnace-oil with the
pressure-impregnation sustained for one
hour at 160 deg. F., and surplus surface
oil finally steam-stripped off the Wo
A disarming statement by the C.SIRn
that they “are proud to have be
associated with- all concerned in
successful inauguration of this unique
plant” gives us a clue as to whose chest
the medal should be pinned on.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Lyrebirds must sometimes
move a fair way from favored haunts
I’ve heard them in the Brown and Tan-'
tawanglo Mountains (N.S.W.) give clear
imitations of railway-yard shunting, yet
the nearest yard was 20 miles away. Th ey
must also have good memories. r Ve
heard them mimic sounds of a crosscut-
saw, and of wedges being driven i»
years after such sounds have been heard
in the area where the birds performed,
* * * *
“Judee”: Several Newcastle (N.S.W.) I
mercers are selling men’s odd socks at i
9d. a time. There are plenty of takers-
men in industry who don’t care if their
socks match or not, as well as far®
and men wearing rubber boots.
* * * *
“Kelvin”: Description of the unhappy |
policeman’s lot in the “Good Old
Nyngan” article (B. 20/7/’6O) recalled
another tough customer who troubled
the cops—a one-time squatter who, on
occasions when he bibulously extended
his periodical visits to town, would
resort to bullocky vocabulary at its
strongest and be duly jugged. Through
the bars of his cell in the watchhousf
right in the centre of the town, he woui
keep up a condemnation of the cops in
such volume and voice that none oft
inhabitants would have got any sleep
had not mass representative gatherings
assembled with offers to bail him oil,
which were quickly acceded to. NeJ
morning he would show no rancor tot
Law’s minions, contenting himself wit.
boasting to them that he was the only
man in the district who could sweat
himself into and out of jail.
ROCKS ON THE COAST
Across the sand they run out to the^ l.
All in a line in perfect symmetry,
And then go back and, by the vaW
brink, ,
Sit gravely down as if they have totlM:
Up on the cliff the family lie in rows, .
Heads pressed to heads and toes P res
unto toes, _ , .
’Tween earthy blankets piled on
Where they lie snug and strong om I
asleep.
One day they’ll wake and tumble f rt>l
their bed, .. J
Eyes puffed with sleep, their faces si’ l ’
red, .
And all go stumbling out into the s j
To splash, and sink and drown
century.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSION


tTP north on a Torres island I
U was teaching a school of little
.. rk children. Other than boats, the
i„ transport they had seen was taxis,
len they visited Thursday Island. They
I d never seen an animal; horses and
”Ls sheep and zoo-creatures were just
c tU res to them. I was trying to get
L m to use their own imaginations, and
the class was of teenagers up to 16
wondered how much they had learned
from previous lessons. “How do you
imagine they carried their dates and
other foods when they travelled over
the deserts?” I asked. “Remember, this
is over a thousand years ago.” “Ships! ”
said a boy who had only travelled that
wa y. “On dry land?” I asked. “Surely
you know that is not right!” “Of course,
Missus,” said a superior older child,
“they would have to use taxis, wouldn’t
they?” I went on to describe camels
and donkeys, and asked them to draw
these animals carrying loads of fruit. I
showed them pictures to copy, and asked
them to draw different things in the load.
Most of them wrote beautifully and drew
well. “You, Mapa, draw a load of dates.
Pd can draw grapes being carried on
her animal, and Gabidah can draw a
load of figs.” I collected the papers
afterwards, and admired the drawings, all
except Gabidah’s ; his was well done,
but he had drawn a camel loaded-up with
pigs! It took me a long time to convince
them that the animals are spelt with a
“p” and the fruit with an “f,” as they
always transpose these letters —it was
Gabidah’s sister, a nurse, who had
labelled the bottle containing a favorite
laxative: “Syrup of Pigs.”—“Ashley
Hill.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Quite a trip J. C. Shelley
took us “Over the Mountain to Candy”
(B. 13/7/’6O) steep grade, narrow
road, thick fog and 10,000 super.-feet
of wet tallow-wood flooring. That’s nigh
°n 30 tons, so if the M.R.B. boys were
about we can’t blame the truckie for
dumping the flooring en route and sub-
stituting a log, which in the illustration
Slts up nonchalantly innocent of chock
? r chain and should long since have
joined him in the cabin. Let’s not be
Pedantic and ask how he did it. He had
a chestnut-haired, brown-eyed” frizzgig
°n board, and love will find a way.
* * * *
Dinny”: Quite agree with many
cobbers that imported names are out of
P ac e, so driving into Eugowra (N.S.W.)
! Was a pleasant surprise to se£ our pub
a $ named The Fat Lamb, fitting in a
best 1 at ra * ses woollies equal to the
* * * *
’ : Not only birds of a feather
a hi , For more than six months
with §engar our district flew and fed
a j Wa a m °h °f spags, and another was
. ys to be seen with some pigeons.
Coast n8 ° ng ’ on the N - s - w - South
the ctr ma £Pi es had a strange recruit on
who ~e ngtaT a Major Mitchell cockatoo,
as with them for at least eight
months. But the most unexpected I’ve
seen was accepted as one of the boys
by a mob of seagulls at The Entrance
(N.S.W.). There was something wonder-
fully ridiculous in the spectable of that
galah waddling along the sand amongst
his web-footed cobbers.
* _ + # #
“Croajingolong”:j The hierarchy of
red-tape is sometimes capable of re-
sponding to light-hearted correspondence
in the same vein. A Victorian forest-
officer, ordering some cooking-gear,
“Good boys! I'll show you another good deed tomorrow."
requisitioned for a camp-oven. The
head-office wallahs queried this, and
asked for a description. The reply left
no doubt: “Picture the intrepid white
explorer about to make a fine repast for
the hungry savages, take a much smaller
version of the cooking-utensil, and there
you are.” The effect this produced on
the h.-o. staff wasn’t recorded, but the
camp-oven arrived in due course, accom-
panied by a sketch from The Bulletin
showing an unlucky explorer, with the
eager savages standing round the pot
smacking their lips.
BIRD-SONG
all male birds have a song
distinct from their call-notes. The
call-notes are fairly standardised among
each species, though, like human dialects,
they vary in different regions. Females
as well as males use the call-notes, which
have definite meanings, such as “Where
are you?”, “Hawk coming!” and (notice-
ably among zebra-finches) “Let’s go over
here.”
The song of the male (females don’t
sing as a rule, though there are excep-
tions) varies' greatly in individuals of
the same species. The object of the song
is generally to impress the prospective
mate; but, from my observations, the
male also sings for his own amusement,
I’ve often seen a silver-eye sitting alone
in some secluded spot, singing away, his
feathers ruffled and eyes half-closed in
ecstasy. The moment a female comes
he stops, embarrassed, goes off to sing
elsewhere, or gives it up and searches
for something to eat. Mistletoe - birds
often sing while feeding. Apparently
they like dinner-music,
I have watched aviary finches hand
down a song from generation to genera-
tion. The adolescent males cluster round
their father to listen intently while he
sings, their necks outstretched and heads
inclined so they can hear to the best
advantage, as well as watch his beak
and throat movements, often scuffing and
fighting for a better view. The perfor-
mance over, each young male retires to
a quiet corner, to rehearse as much as
he can remember of the song, sometimes
adding his own slight variations, prob-
ably unintentionally.
In addition to the hereditary song,
many birds, such as bush-larks and
heath-wrens, borrow the calls of other
birds. In as brief a period as five minutes
I have heard a bush-lark mimic the calls
of twenty-eight other birds. They are
apparently not content with only their
own song, so include those of other birds
to add to its variety and beauty. Each
individual bird selects and arranges its
own repertoire to its own taste.
It is highly probable that the young
of a mimicking species learns some of
its foreign notes while listening to its
father, regarding such notes as part of
the parent’s song. But each young bird
alters the hereditary song slightly, and
as it grows to maturity the variations
mount-up, so that after a few generations
the song may be completely changed.
DAVID WHO.


&
mi
VS
M
t g
Mi
VS?
mu
'- U
- Xv-
'*<***£
:•* <
S%ss*K»«¥
| • jSWj« ~ ~•
I *** ■■••'•>'.-.^v~
A happier choice for every occasion . , 4
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’i
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF. TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY. CLARET.
HOCK. RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT. MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of coarse I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY. ST. AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
CREDIT POLICY AND INFLATION
Aweek before presentation
of the Federal Budget the
governor of the Reserve Bank,
Dr. H. C. Coombs, asked the
trading-banks for an immediate
and significant reduction in the
rate of new lending.
The banking system has been
called on for much greater
assistance by industry and
business generally during the
past six months ; there has also
been unusual activity in build-
ing and construction, as well as
a speculative boom in land and
shares. In May advances went
over the £lOOO million, com-
pared with £915 million a year
earlier. In June this year they
rose again to £lOl5 million.
On the other hand, export
values have tended to fall in
recent months, while the lifting
of licensing - restrictions has
given some impetus to the im-
portation of overseas goods.
During the financial year to
June 30 Australia’s overseas
balances fell by £4 million.
The expansion in bank lend-
ing has been going on at a time
when wages and other costs
within the economy have been
rising and causing considerable
concern in responsible quarters.
Those people who have been
in the habit of regarding the
export industries as a foreign
affair are being disillusioned
now that Australian costs of
production have become a real
problem even with regard to
the export of wool.
It can be said that the
greatest difficulty which has to
be met by central-bank policy
and by Budgetary action stems
from the increases in wage-
rates during 1959 and from the
inflationary effects of an un-
usual inflow of overseas capital.
The chairman of the Com-
monwealth Banking Corpora-
tion, Warren D. McDonald,
said that the tightening of bank
credit was a realistic and neces-
sary approach to current
economic problems. If infla-
tion were not controlled there
would be serious repercus-
sions on the whole economy.
Mr. McDonald deprecated
fears that the credit-restrictions
would seriously affect employ-
ment or the financing of export
industries or housing. The
restrictions were aimed purely
at countering obvious inflation-
ary tendencies and would un-
doubtedly be administered with
commonsense and discretion by
the banks so as to avoid dis-
location of production or
trade.
Speaking for the Common-
wealth Banking Corporation,
Mr. McDonald said that every
effort would be made to main-
tain, as far as possible, the
traditional high rate of housing
loans. Export industries, both
primary and secondary, would
continue to receive special con-
sideration.
There is, partly because of
the fall in wool prices, partly
because of higher imports in
relation to exports, but also
because of the discouraging
rise in costs of production, a
“pinch” in the banking position.
Apart from current anti-infla-
tionary measures, there is
already a strain in the banking
system that needs attention.
Bank liquidity fell from 24.7
p.c. in March to 18.9 p.c. in
June.
In applying a policy of
credit-restriction the banks wall
be required to separate the
wheat from the chaff to some
extent —to assist industries
which will earn us more over-
seas funds and industries
engaged in production of essen-
tials for the domestic market.
Unfortunately it is not al-
ways the essential functions
that show the most profit.
Certainly not in the case of
banking. It is more profitable
to finance hire-purchase trans-
actions than it is to lend money
to, say, the wheat industry.
B.H.P.’s Profit and p rn
visions
TNGOT production by Run
A and subsidiaries roseT
414,012 tons to 3,506,692 1 „^ :
during the year to Mav ?
The rise was 9.8 p.c. Wot
Depreciation and P i a '
replacement provision!
£18.7 million rose £l2 m
lion—up 7.2 p.c. Tax-provision'
lifted by £201,000 to £
million —barely changed "
Net profit at £13,862,999 was
£3.6 million higher (of
£921,940 came f rom jj
creased income from invest,
ments). The growth here, ws
34.5 p.c., and the result shown
was equal to 12.3 p.c. on funds
employed, compared with
10.7 p.c. in the preceding year
That net profit rose Is j
almost as much as gross ’
working-profit seems to haw
been due, as far as can be •
seen on the surface, to com-
paratively smaller increases in j
depreciation, etc., provisions
and to the small lift in its
allocation for taxation.
This barely changed pro-'
vision for tax on a 34.5 p,c,:
greater net profit is one of tht |
intriguing features of B.H.P.’s i
latest accounts, and leads one |
to wonder whether a “softer"
accounting policy is being pur- j
sued'in r-espect of ploughing-
back of profits.
Heavy capital - expert
ture is .still going on—oii
on fixed assets last terra w
£27.8 million, compared will!
£26 million the previous year. [
But there has been a surpris-
ing increase of £23{ million |
(to £B4| million) in current
and liquid assets compart
with the preceding year.
seems to support the view tM
the, immediate need for pro®'
ploughback is not as great q
it was. i
Last year the greater proa
earning rate was accompany
by a lift in the final div., fro®
lOd. to lid. a share.
Gillespie Bros. Holdings
A T under 7s. the rights
A Gillespie Bros. Hoi J
shares seem particularly cnJ
Purchase at that price r e P
sents 17s. for the 10 s - f ,
paids, and on the basis
last year’s 8 p.c. djstnb
(tax-free) the immediate y
would be 4.7 p.c. g
Gillespie’s have a ,
financial structure based
framework of fi xec * , | es s
acquired in days of
inflation, and then j
down, plus an enterprising


, „ MULLENS & CO.
1 RQuhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
R "Sl7wl e ?. hone
1 J lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts —
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment—can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
2 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
• management that
exP anSl f difficult flour-
has.ma ide of the business a
’“"“for t variety of diverse
b 7more profitable ventures,
"t co has a one-third
.Jest (Allied Mills has the
tr two-thirds) in the manu-
0f - of Daffodil table-
marine and the new Tulip
"’Sme-margarine, and it has
i itself purposefully into
1 baking business This
recently got some relief by a
jf of a penny a loaf m
have made two
thare-issues since conversion
L a public co. in March,
1959 The first was in the
ratio of three-for-eight, at par,
j„ October last year. The
present issue is two-for-five at
L Following the issue
capital will rise to £770,000 in
10s, shares, compared with
£lO,OOO at the time of con-
version.
Last term disclosed profit,
excluding the undistributed
profits of the margarine asso-
ciate, were equal to 18.9 p.c.
on average capital, and the
$ p.c. (tax-free) div. was
repeated with great ease.
Like Allied Mills, Gillespie’s
are expanding vigorously, and
are not hesitating to increase
their equity capital in the pro-
cess. It seems to indicate great
confidence on the part of the
management.
Jaywoth Industries, Ltd.
Dealings opened in Sydney
u in Jaywoth Industries, Ltd.,
25.-paids (3s. to be called) at a
wy slight premium, but later
tlie scrip firmed to 3s. in
spite of the present super-
abundance of stags.
Jaywoth made an issue of
five-million ss. shares in June,
the co. intends to quarry blue-
metal, distribute ready-mixed
concrete, contract for asphalt
mad-surfacing, and to supply
P r eca st concrete - masonry
locks for domestic, commer-
cial and industrial buildings.
n the allocation of capital re-
crements the prospectus put
most em phasis on the concrete-
masonry plant. Columbia
machtnes are to be operated
. , a U in Sydney, Brisbane
3? %woth board is com-
E p «T. J. Wotherspoon,
• Slade Slade, W. S. John-
son, William Clinton (of Cam-
den), J. G. Wotherspoon (foun-
der of the original co. which
made concrete masonry-blocks
in Australia), C. C. Nicholas
and W. P. Brown.
Warburton, Franki Shares
the present sharemarket,
the 7 p.c. convertible (July
1, 1965) notes at 30s. 9d. or the
ords. at 38s. in Warburton,
Franki, Ltd., seem to have
attractions.
At the back of 601,171 £1
ords. and 160,000 £1 con. notes
there were reserves of £861,046
at June 30, 1959, which meant,
on book-values, over 20s. per
share and note.
Freehold land and buildings
in Sydney, Melbourne and Bris-
bane were in at £562,634,
representing “1952, 1956 or
1957 valuations or cost,” less
provision for depreciation on
Sydney properties. Plant at
£195,420 in the consolidated
accounts seems to be a modest
figure.
During 1958-59 the co. ac-
quired all the outside share-
holdings in Warburton, Franki
(Brisbane), Ltd., and Warbur-
ton, Franki (Melbourne), Ltd.
This should help to co-ordinate
operations and aid overall
planning.
The business is old-estab-
lished and highly regarded as
an electrical and refrigeration
engineer and merchant, with
good agencies and established
connections. In 1958-59, after
adequate provision for depre-
ciation and taxation, it showed
a consolidated net profit equal
to 16.2 p.c. on ord. capital.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
With a bit less than five years
to run, the convertible notes
offer a present yield of 4.5 p.c.,
and, compared with the present
market-price of the ords., a
conversion premium of 7s. 3d.,
equal to about another 4.8 p.c.
p.a. expressed as interest-
return.
The immediate yield from the
ords. on a 10 p.c. div. basis is
5.2 p.c.
Reed Paper Products
Acceptances have been re-
ceived by Albert E. Reed
and Co., Ltd. (a big U.K. paper
and packaging group) from
over 90 p.c. of the shares in
Paper Products (Holdings) Pty.,
Ltd., parent co. of the large
Australian packaging co., Paper
Products Pty., Ltd.
The name of the Paper Pro-
ducts group will be changed to
Reed Paper Products (Hold-
ings), Ltd., and there will be
access to Reed techniques and
know-how, but a continuance
of Australian management.
A public placement of a
parcel of Reed Paper Products
(Holdings) shares is to be made,
followed by Stock Exchange
listing. The issue is bound to
be in great demand. It is in-
teresting to note that there
appears to be no obligation on
the part of the new owners of
the shares in the Paper Products
group to invite the Australian
public in ; they are doing so of
their own free will, and should
cement public relations in this
country by their action,
■
.
Governments in Oil-search
[From “H. Yona”]
A key factor in oil-search
in any country is the
attitude of the host-country in
apportioning permits to ex-
ploration organisations. Does


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
AMC
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
and 15 years M /©
4 years 6J% 3 years 6% 2 years Sj°/o
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros-
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Branch, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Nl
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS , ...
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (*>
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney-
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
the host-country block-out the
areas or does it leave that to
the applying company? Is
the tenure short- or. long-
term? Are the exploration-
areas small or unlimited in
size? Is there an unrealistic
work-commitment, or is the
Government being overly lax?
Finally, and of great import-
ance, does the Government
hold the companies to their
agreements?
In Australia, the Federal
Government issues permits in
the Northern Territory and
Papua - New Guinea. The
several States have their own
separate laws and administer
them separately. Under this
situation, a divergence in policy
has arisen. In the N.T. a
permit is issued for one year,
but is renewable each year for
several years, providing that the
company holding the permit
carries out its work-commit-
ments. The State Governments
usually extend permits for an
initial period of several years
with escalating expenditure
requirements.
On the surface, it appears
that the net effect is the same
—insuring continuous and
ever - increasing expenditures
on a permit. In effect, how-
ever, it is not the same.
The Federal Government has
shown that it can and will
refuse to renew permits if the
exploration - companies drag
their feet. The State Govern-
ments have to initiate the
positive action of taking back
the permit. This it not such
an easy step, especially as there
is inbuilt inertia in any form
of Government. The result
is that companies can, and
do, hold permits in the States
while doing nothing, or next
to nothing. In the Northern
Territory, however, there is a
regular coming and going as
the speculators are separated
from their permits.
The States argue that they
failed to attract oil-searchers
until they offered long tenure.
However, it seems clear that
a company truly interested in
searching for oil in Australia
would not require a long-term
contract, since it could rest
assured that in Australia ade-
quate performance would
guarantee tenure. As a matter
of fact, long tenure had the
opposite effect of attracting
speculators who reasoned that
they had three to five years to
turn a profit on what often
has involved no more effort
than applying for a permit.
Perhaps if the States had
truly enforced the contract
provisions for the various
permits they would have
fared better. But as soon as
it was demonstrated that oil-
searchers were not being held
to the agreements, then the
quick-gain specialists flocked
in.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, on the other hand, has
shown the less-than-serious
operator that the Northern
Territory is a place where
fooling around is not per-
mitted.
Bradford Cotton Mills
A profit (before tax) of
about £1 million has been
earned by Bradford Cotton
Mills, compared with £867,131
in 1958-59, which was reduced
to a net figure of £537,741 by
a £329,390 provision for taxa-
tion.
The co. has again shown
its pre-eminence in the cotton-
spinning and -weaving busi-
ness, and exhibited its remark-
able financial solidity in times
of keen competition.
Bradford Cotton has always
been a favorite in these pages,
and at the time of the Bur-
lington takeover its shares
were recommended at around
335. For a long period they
showed a see-saw trend
between 425. and 355., and
could be banked on, when at
the lower figure, to rise to 4?,
again within a few weeks
Those days have now L
The stability of this £
stock even in times of genJr ‘
adversity in the trade £
been recognised by the share
market, and before the
into ss. shares last week th
£1 units had been moving h?
tween 465. and 495.
The ss. shares have opened
at around 12s. They give!
above-average yield of 5,2
on a 12} p.c. div. basis, and
are worth attention by %
seeking an equity invest®*
with a reasonable boot
attached to it.
Sulphates, Ltd.
'T'here has been a spurt o!
•*- interest in the £1 share
of Sulphates, Ltd., of M
bourne, since its account,
closed on June 30. In 1
30/3/’6O the comment i
made that “as a key into
supplying expanding mark
Sulphates, Ltd., has not sk
the growth in profits «
might have expected over tl*
past few years. It seems!
be just short of a gallop.”
The comment went on i
say that the co. was an to
esting industrial enterprise,
seemingly well conducted tei
nically, and, was an invest'
ment with possibilities as wel
as problems. It seemed to k
increasing its turnover in spit
of competition and inhere!
freight problems.
At that time the shares wfl
at 345. They later dropped
to under 335. Last weekthej
were around 38s.
The Sulphates group j
engaged in the mining <
chemical-grade bauxite ®
the manufacture of sulpha®
and alums, as well as the cos
struction of water-purificaW
plants, sewage-treatment equip
ment and swimming-pools.
The co. has been kept W
as water-purification plants®
installed both publicly a”
privately, the Australian 0
making industry expands, a®
interest in private swimnw
pools increases. But a P 1 ®
lem has been that, in relah
to bulk and sdling-PjJ
freight-rates have been W
especially on inter-State s
The group is now cap»
of providing a complete r«
of sewage - treatment
effluent - treatment equip®


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Watercolors
The outstanding painting in
(his year’s Australian Water-
color Institute exhibition at
| p a vid Jones’ (Sydney) is prob-
ably Ronald Steuart’s “Banksia
Tree,” with the soft, warm
I greys of an aboriginal bark-
painting but drawn with beauti-
ful precision. It is certainly,
in its sensitivity of feeling and
largeness of scale, the best
rafercolor Steuart has ex-
hibited for many years, since
I be abandoned straightforward
landscape for a fresh approach
influenced by Chinese tradition.
Perhaps because he has sent
a big one-man exhibition to
Brisbane, G. K. Townshend’s
panel falls a bit below his usual
high standard ; nevertheless, if
you give his deceptively quiet
“Foreshore” time enough to
show what it is doing it has a
aotable strength and simplicity.
J. W. Maund makes clean,
clear, attractive statements
about the Hawkesbury River in
'After Rain” and “Lower
Portland”; Margaret Coen in
“Forerunners of Spring” con-
tinues to find silk a finer vehicle
to paper for reproducing the
delicate textures of flower-
petals; and J. Lindsay Sever in
Cross Street, Double Bay”
and “Bushland” continues to
display unusual promise—these
works have the freshness, the
immediacy best suited to the
medium of watercolor.
The most striking individual
p f nel is that of Carl Plate’s
abstracts; but these vivid,
Wer-like paintings fade a little
on close inspection. The tech-
Dl que is not pure watercolor ;
n even as gouaches they have
tae suavity of Ivor Hunt’s
fril ,. °1 and imaginative illus-
ions of West Indians in the
sa me medium.
ml! 16 sartle cr iticism applies to
ey °T the other abstracts,
uenm f Ra h Fizelle’s cubist
bu<h n Fy and R °y Fluke’s
g-hke “Tangle.” They en-
whw l! 16 ex hibition, but n00n,.,?
on,.,? ao y° u find the technical
abet the surrealist semi-
J acts which Daryl Hill has
been showing at the Macquarie
Galleries; and, whether the
subject-matter is to be an inter-
pretation of Nature or an ad-
venture of the imagination (and
both are equally valid), techni-
cal quality—the pleasure of the
paint itself —is something that
watercolor simply cannot do
without.
On the whole, it is a reward-
ing if not remarkable exhibi-
tion, in which many more
pictures than usual around the
town are worth looking into:
among them the works by J. L.
Allen, Frederic Bates, George
Duncan, John Eldershaw,
Mollie F 1 axm a n , Ronald
Fletcher, Maude C. Franks,
Kenneth Jack, Lilie Lowe,
Louise Perry and Max Ragless.
Stage and Music
“Richard II”
Sydney Independent has the
unrewarding task of . demon-
strating that a fine dramatic
poem can be a poor play.
Here the young Shakspeare,
aware that poetry counts for
little in the theatre unless
presented in action, over-
reached himself in his eagerness
for visual effects.
For a lord to top a dqfiant
speech by throwing a glove on
the floor is let-down enough,
but when (V;l) speech after
speech is followed by the plop
of gloves it is like the comedian
tripping: every time he repeats
it the laughter grows. Then,
when a mother and son kneel
to pray for the son’s life
while the father kneels with
them to beseech that the son
be hanged (V;3), young Shak-
speare no doubt felt that this
would slay ’em, but all the
audience gets out of it is the
titillating picture of young
Shakspeare thinking this would
slay ’em.
And when Richard sends for
a looking-glass so that he may
say a poem to it (LV; 1) it is
as though a prisoner, asked if
he had anything to say before
being sentenced to death,
demanded a grand-piano on
which to move the court to
tears with a funeral march.
Such strainings after effect,
and what you might call the
early-Shakspearian twitter of
the dialogue, stick out of the
acted play like sore thumbs,
and there is not much actors
can do about them. In the
same way, Richard is an im-
mature straining after Hamlet;
brave as a boy in the Wat Tyler
rebellion, and even in the play
making a valiant end: how
explain the vacillation of his
middle years?
Here John Faassen might
have helped by making Richard
mannered and supercilious in
his early scenes and by suggest-
ing better that stultification of
the will that beset Richard on
his return from Ireland; a
suave, insinuating menace in
the early scenes turning to soft
and querulous complaint in
adversity. But Faassen sat
upon the ground and told sad
stories of the death of kings
with all the honest bluster of
Harry Hotspur, who in this
play had all the quietness of
Richard 11.
Keith Buckley was excellent
as the harsh, businesslike
Bolingbroke, and never better
than when he defied the Bishop
of Carlisle (Kenneth Whiteley)
by wordlessly dropping into the
throne and sneering at the
Bishop. John Brunskill, as
John of Gaunt, put his dying
curse on Richard like an aged
head by Leonardo. Marcel
Wattel, as the Duke of York,
got the idea across that he was
an honest clubman perplexed
between the wretched Richard
and that bounder Bolingbroke.
Stefan Gryff, as Green, re-
peated his “Oedipus Rex” suc-
cess as a! superfine announcer
of offstage tribulations, and as
the gardener acted with an
exquisite sense of style.
Settings and costumes, ex-
cept Queen Isabel’s and the
Duchess of Gloucester’s, were
bare and threadbare. But were
The Globe presentations more
sumptuous? And, if not, should
Leaving Certificate students
demand more? Well, the re-
viewer’s No. 2 son giggled as
Northumberland (Peter Wag-
ner) trooped off the fore-stage
and said: “See that cove going
off? He was looking directly
at me while he was speaking,
so I poked my tongue out at
him.” “And what did he do?”
the reviewer asked. “He made
a face at me,” replied the grace-
less boy. “Well,” the reviewer
said “don’t you do it again.”
It is pleasing to speculate
that he might have been sitting
on a chair on the side of the
stage at The Globe and Mr.
Wagner could have kicked him.
R.Mc.C.
❖ *l* ♦>
Galina Vishnevskaya
The Russian dramatic-
soprano, at her Sydney Town
Hall concert on Saturday night,
revealed a voice of easy pro-
duction which she was able to
move quickly from the heaviest
volume to the most delicate
mezza voce without the
slightest loss of fine quality.
She has a big range; she
“works” tone-color over the
three registers with skill to
avoid that monotony to which
big voices are particularly sub-
ject ; and she gave abundant
evidence, both in her choice of
song and the manner of its
delivery, that opera of the
heavier kind is her true forte.
She began with “Mi Parto,”
by Ricci (which of the three
19th-century composers of that
name—Federico, or Luigi, snr.,
or jnr.—the programme failed
to state), a song obviously de-
signed to display her command
of smooth-phrased legato. Then
came the multi-mood “Casta
Diva,” the great cavatina from
Bellini’s “Norma.” Moving
from prayerfulness to threats
and on to final longing, the
soprano threw her voice about
with fine abandon, and in the
big leaps never failed to land
clean on the middle of the note.
This was as exciting an exposi-
tion of dramatic operatic sing-
ing as one would wish to hear.
Two of Schubert’s best-
loved songs—“To Be Sung On
the Waters” and “The Trout”
—were disappointingly sung. It
was “straight - up - and - down”


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
qSUUJVaaj
PTYLTD A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
GOOD MEDICINE
FOR
DISSATISFIED
INVESTORS
$
Learn what we, in °®
professional judgm enti
would suggest to ® ee |
your personal investm^ 1
needs.
JUST SEND THE COo''
BELOW.
ABSOLUTELY NO
OBLIGATION.
INVESTMENT ADVIS 0 I
BUREAU, (
Suite 19, 377 Bourke » tree ’ |
Melbourne, t.n
NAME
ADDRESS
. phone ••••'O
stuff, totally failing to capture
the essence of either song.
Neither was the rendering of
Wagner’s “Dreams” thoroughly
evocative, though it was better
than the Schubert.
Miss Vishnevskaya who
here began to act her operatic
arias—gave declamatory sing-
ing in the heroic style a
thorough work-out in
Leonora’s exacting recitative
and aria from Beethoven’s
“Fidelio.” By contrast, the
“Ave Maria” from Verdi’s
“Otello” was devotional sing-
ing both poignant and moving.
An unusual offering, delici-
ously sung, was Prokofieff’s
“The Ugly Duckling.” Of the
same genre as his “Peter and
the Wolf,” this extended song
is touched with sardonic humor
mixed with touches of senti-
mentality. The accompani-
ment crackles with witty asides,
and these were pointed-up with
admirable sharpness by
Alexander Dedyukhin, who
here as elsewhere proved him-
self an accompanist of excep-
tional gifts.
Surprisingly well sung, for
one who had so signally failed
to get to the core of Schubert,
were two of Faure’s most deli-
cate songs, “The Cradle” and
“After a Dream.” The singer
also made much of the elegance
of Granados’s “Eternal Elegy.”
Miss Vishnevskaya wound-
up the programme with three
operatic arias. There was the
urgent appeal of Massenet’s
Manon to her lover who has
renounced the world; “They
Call Me Mimi,” from
“Boheme”; and the heart-rend-
ing aria of the demented Mar-
garita in Boito’s “Mefistofele,”
“L’Altra Notte . . .” In all
of these the singer put strong
emotion to the service of a
voice which, at the end of an
exacting programme, still
showed no sign of fatigue,
though in a few high notes
a hard edge showed-up.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Complicated’ Simplicity
To mark the centenary year
of Chekhov’s birth the W.A.
University Dramatic Society
has entered “Uncle Vanya” for
the Intervarsity Festival, first
presenting it in Perth at the
new Dolphin Theatre.
No work of his better dis-
plays Chekhov’s genius for
revelation of personality from
multiple angles. All the prin-
cipal characters are projected
as they see themselves, as they
are seen individually by the
other characters, and as they
present themselves in action to
the audience. Chekhov’s in-
tense awareness of everyman’s
inner concept of self, often so
fantastically at variance with
the estimates of other people,
in this play leads to conflicts
arising from sudden insight and
disillusionment either with self
or with others, thus creating
both theme and situation.
Uncle Vanya (Malcolm
Treadgold) sees himself as “the
good steward” who has given
his life to safeguarding an
estate held in trust for Sonya,
daughter of a beloved dead
sister ; at the same time he has
supported Sonya’s father —an
erudite, egotistical professor,
honored as a critic.
Feeling the pinch of age and
curtailed means, the professor
comes back to the estate, bring-
ing his young and beautiful
second wife, Yelena. The local
doctor (Ron Erceg), on the
edge of middle-age and person-
ally cynical, nevertheless fos-
ters a private vision that ranges
the future of mankind with
practical as well as idealistic
vitality ; this contrasts sharply
with the theoretical preoccupa-
tion of Vanya’s stately old
mother, a feminist tied to
academic principles regarding
rights for women, etc.
The doctor finds himself
shaken into more than clinical
interest by the riddle of
Yelena’s marriage; but, al-
though he is prepared to
entangle himself, shirking his
self-imposed obligations to-
gether with some of his pro-
fessional zeal, Yelena, attracted
by his vigor and wit, yet prefers
to retain her inner integrity—
despite an earlier realisation
that the old man she had
married from admiration and
respect is indeed a whited
sepulchre. She even does her
best to enlist the doctor’s in-
terest in Sonya—a shy, plain,
generous creature, deeply in
love with him —only to meet
the inevitable reaction.
When the professor calls
together the family to suggest
selling the estate, Vanya, in an
access of shocked misery and
self-pity, tries to shoot him/
Failing in that —as in every-
thing else —he allows the quar-
rel to be patched up. The pro-
fessor and Yelena leave for
town ; the estate settles back
to its old routine, to the
pleasure of Vanya’s mother and
the old nurse; Sonya is left
trying to bolster her uncle and
herself with thoughts of service
to others and reward in heaven.
David Bradley’s production
and the beautiful period-dress-
ing (1899) were extremely satis-
fying. The very young cast
spoke and moved agreeably, the
girls having undoubted advan-
tage in being close to the age
of their characters, the men
handicapped by the wide gap
between youth and middle-age.
The subtle scenes between an
exquisite Yelena (Juliette
Adderley) and an appealingly
natural Sonya (Elizabeth King)
served to highlight Chekhov’s
brilliant apprehension of
feminine character.
H.D.-B.
❖ <♦ *
New Theatre Venture
Since Wal Cherry dropped
out of the affairs of the Mel-
bourne Union Theatre Reper-
tory Company—he had been its
director for three years, resign-
ing after the 1958-59 season—
there has been much specula-
tion as to what the next move
of this undeniably vital, if
somewhat erratic, young man
of the theatre would be. There
is no need to guess any more.
A group of Melbourne busi-
ness- and university-men have
announced the formation of a
new professional theatre-group,
to be known as Th** t
Company, with Che? y 5*
tor of its first producfaf''-
of Th parSariy
aims allied to its main
to present important J
temporary plays and a selects
of works from the past W S
have contemporary signified
m a way winch is f rdl *
mannered and vital”— andl
creation will be hailed byC
who are fast tiring of the Z
mercialism and the lack
imagination and taste thathav
marked so much allegedly
serious theatre in Melbourn
recently.
The company’s opening w
duction will be a double bill-
“ Shadow of a Gunman” k
Sean O’Casey, and “All’hi
Fall,” by Samuel Beckett.
These will be staged “in | {
round” at the Melbourne
National Theatre from August
20 to September 10.
Later the company intenS
to establish itself in a theatrt
of its own.
Films
“A Tale of Two Cities”
Competently acted and
clearly directed in plain black-
and-white, this remake from
the Dickens novel gives mod
the same, account of villain;
love and sacrifice during tin
French Revolution as did tli
original with Ronald Coin
in the role of Sydney Carl*
This time Dirk Bogarde is M


ARALUEN
By ROLAND ROBINSON
A languorous day, the sky without a
cloud.
Winding, doubling round, the red-brown
road
climbed through sun and bird-song
shafted gloom
towards receding smoke-haze and grape-
bloom
mountains. There, emerged at last, it ran
into a valley drenched by the golden sun.
Inside the pub the burning day still filled
my consciousness. I heard the talk that
spilled
over with the beer as, riotous to the last,
a gold-rush, shanty-town rose from the
past.
Bushrangers feared neither the noose nor
gyves.
Men lost their gold and troopers lost
their lives.
As though the thought I still pursued
awoke
another’s thought, the man beside me
spoke
of Kendall and the grave his daughter
has
out from there among the stones and
grass.
1 heard the dead poet, still unreconciled
to death, intone his elegy over his child .
This man who spoke had children of
his own.
“Children ?” he said. “They leave you
when they’re grown.”
“My wife ?” He pointed downwards
with his thumb :
“You can’t live in the past. Better be
dumb
about it. No one listens to what you say.
They light a cigarette and walk away.”
Outside, the mountains rose into the clear
opal of the sky. He said, “Out here,
the mountains make a man forget the
past.”
I thought, “Even the mountains must
crumble at last.
Nothing endures. Content yourself to
find
poetry remembered, treasured in an old
man’s mind.” *


NOW OPEN!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
55%
Cash and Conversion
LOAN
Government-Guaranteed
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and half-yearly interest payments are uncondi-
tionally guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government.
CASH APPLICATIONS will be accepted for a short,
medium or long-term. If you wish, you can pay 10%
deposit on application, and the balance by 30th November,
1960.
\
CONVERSION APPLICATIONS. If you hold securities
in Loan No. 89 (maturing Ist October, 1960) you are
invited to convert to the Loan, and secure your higher
interest without interruption.
YOU GAN INVEST OR
CONVERT TODAY
At any office of the—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN N.S.W.,
QUEENSLAND, WESTERN AUSTRALIA AND TASMANIA
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
Divorce Notices
A Divorce Petition has been fid
against MAURICE WILLIAM PH
BRICK late of 33 Beecham Road M
ing Berks who may apply to the District
Registrar District Registry of the High
Court 39 Blagrave Street Reading Eng-
land for a copy of the Petition II
within one month he has not cm-
municated with the Registry the Court
may hear the case in his absence.-
BENJAMIN CHILTON, District
Registrar.
IN THE' SUPREME COURT OF NE 1
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND JOHN DEAN late(
Orange New South Wales— TAKE
NOTICE that VALERIE DAWN
has filed a Petition for Divorce ft
892 of 1960 on the grounds of habit*
drunkenness and cruelty and habitual
drunkenness and failure to suppct
during three years and upwards and ■
asking for the exercise of the Court
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of
Matrimonial Causes Act 18 9 9-1960
you wish to defend you may enter*
appearance in the Divorce Registry®
Building Macquarie Street Sydney
the 19th October 1960 and obtain
copy of the Petition without w
from MESSRS. SERISIER, HAWED
CO., Solicitors, 142 Lord’s
Orange, or their city agents, ME"
PETER G. KEARNEY & COm ®
citors, 60 Hunter Street, »)«
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF -«>
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jubismcw
No. 2605 of 1959.
TO KATHLEEN MURIEL DIXON®
of 39 Penkivil Street Bondi “j
State of New South Wales A . ( j
ERNEST WERNER DAHL m
39 Penkivil Street Bondi m‘i-Affll
of New South AVales. —TAKE *
that DONALD DOUGLAS WH"
DIXON has filed a Petition for »
No. 2605 of 1959 praying for “ “
from KATHLEEN .MURIEL
the ground of her aduite. „
ERNEST WERNER DAHL »■’ „
either of you wish to defend .
enter an appearance at t® e g u ji(j-
Registry Supreme Court Old M
ing Macquarie Street Sydney ■
11th day of October 1960 a .pi
of the Petition can be obta'd ..-g, jj
charge from MESSRS. HI. l(f-|
GREENLAW & SISLEY, Sohw* j,
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
HARMS, Registrar.
cynical-seeming, world-weary
advocate who finally sacrifices
himself on the guillotine to
save the fiance of the girl he
loves; and, like his dis-
tinguished predecessor, he
succeeds in conveying genuine
sacrifice without any mock-
heroics, and without smugness
in mouthing those juicy ulti-
mate lines: “It is a far, far
better thing . .
For the rest, the Revolution
with its heavy scene-traffic is
admirably projected, and such
characters as Pross, Defarge
and his bloodthirsty wife stick
close to the Dickens tradition.
Dorothy Tutin’s Lucy looks
appealing enough, but, like the
original, rather insipid. The
only departure from the earlier
film is the splitting-up of the
roles of Darnay and Carton
—a sound move: after all, the
men were supposed to be
rather like each other, not
identical twins.
At Sydney Lyceum.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Subterraneans”
Although its main story-line
—concerning a love-affair
between a couple of neurotics,
one of whom is a psychiatric
case—is pretty feeble, this film
about phony-intellectual beat-
niks who forgather in San
Francisco’s North Beach dis-
trict to mouth weird jargon,
write unprintable books and
paint unsellable pictures is not
lacking in pungency. There
are plenty of ironic touches,
such as the outsize banner
hung from the walls of their
habitat bearing the pronounce-
ment, “Shakspeare is dead!”
while underneath it these
brightly-plumaged birds preen
themselves, peck grains of
consolation for not being
“squares” and salt their talk
liberally with Shakspearian
quotations.
But the spectacle of. late-
teenagers groaning about the
world having nothing more to
offer them in experience—as
if they had already sucked it
dry and tossed it away like
the peel of an orange —does
draw a grin or two.
Leslie Caron, as a nerve-
edged girl who doesn’t know
where she’s going and gets
frightened about it, gives a neat
study.
At Sydney Liberty.
❖ ❖ ❖
“South Seas Adventure”
Frozen - boned Sydneysiders
can thaw-out vicariously at the
Plaza with sun-drenched coral
isles, waving palm - fronds,
grass-skirted hips and all the
other manifestations of K a i
tropicality that stud most"!
this latest Cinerama advent,,;
A sort of glorious Cook's Ton!'
it starts on board an America’
liner coming into Honoln
proceeds aboard a pW
schooner bound for Hawaii
then on to Tahiti, Fiji
Tongan Islands, New Zealand
and finally to Australia’s out
back (after a preliminary whiz?
over Sydney’s Bridge), W j til
special emphasis on the Flying
Doctor and School of the Ait
services.
It takes in native customs
mission influence on culture
(with some magnificent singing j
by a huge native choir), mostly
with the fun-and-games aspect
of people whose primary aim
is the enjoyment of a life jg
which abundance of food is
taken for granted.
The color - photography-
whether of seascapes from sea I
and air among tropic islands I
or of snowscapes around Ml I
Cook in N.Z.’s South Island- j
is superb.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Patons & Baldwins (Aust.), Ltd.
Becord sales, both in weight and value,
K and a stable market during most of
the trading-year resulted in a marked
improvement in earnings. The div.-rate
was raised from 8| to 10 p.c., and
accumulated reserves increased appre-
ciably.
Stocks at £2,456,218 were £303,905
higher than a year ago, reflecting the
larger wool-intake at higher prices.
Current stocks are the biggest single item
in the balance-sheet (on book-values)
and are taken-in at the lower of cost-
price or market-value at balance-date.
The Victorian - registered Tasmanian
yarn-spinner doesn’t juggle various stock-
fluctuation provisions, etc., and the level
of wool prices on the day the accounts
are ruled-off plays a major part in deter-
mining net earnings.
Established as a branch of the U.K.
woollen-yarn manufacturer towards the
end of last century, Patons and Baldwins
(Australia), Ltd., joined the public list
in 1951. The co. manufactures a variety
of woollen and orlon yarns at its big
mill at Launceston (Tas.) and also pro-
duces high-grade hand-knitting and
embroidery wools. A merchandising
department handles a number of local
and imported lines, including synthetic
tes, angora yarns, rug- and tapestry-
canvas, knitting-needles, etc.
Responding to higher sales in spite
of competitive conditions, and aided by
More stable wool values, the profit on
hading for the year ended April 30,
1960, was £390,678 higher a: £1,139,564
(including £3573 interest on investments).
Net profit was £195,099 higher at
£571,829, after writing-off £171,659
depreciation (up £43,533), and providing
£391,200 for taxation (up £136,900):
—-—D i viden ds —^
May ' 5 p.c. f —I—Ord. 1 —Ord. serves. Reserves.
inco 00 £ £ p.c. £ £ £
m^ 9 - 605 37,500 6 = 90,000 202,105 199,934
lot/ etc., £66,454 .. 266,388
p'lfl, 4 37 -500 6 = 90,000 132,904 399,292
rront sale assets, £619 .. 399,911
1955 i« l °l e , rprovided - £ 7B 399,989
To 1,740 37 - 500 6 = 90,000 34,240 434,229
1956 I ° n V , e l rprovidod - £2OO •• •• 434,429
-an,°n 37, 500 73 = 112,500 221,011 655,440
1957 I °o^ provided > £ 3096 .. .. 659,436
t 1; 1,070 37 >500 8i - 127,500 346,070 1,005,506
Pm«f° Verprovided ’ £24,916 .. .. 1,030,422
1958 Si, investments, £9354 .. 1,039,776
- t 0,045 37,500 6 = 90,000 32,545 1,072,321
PrAfli° Ver 1 P ' ovided > £ 1227 .. .. 1,073,548
1959 assets, £lBB .. .. 1,073,736
M6o"b7i loS H’ 500 81 = 127,500 211,730 1,285,466
" 'LB49 37,500 10 = 150,000 384,329 1,669,795
seems a bit high at current
is rmi° n net earnings, but that
““"‘y at first view.
the unchanged pref.-
div. requirements (£37,500), net profit
was equivalent to an earning-rate of 35.6
p.c. on the average ord. capital, amply
covering the increased 10 p.c. ord. div.-
rate (including 2\ p.c. “bonus”), which
absorbed £150,000. Reserves were allo-
cated £384,329, rising to £1,669,795 free
of intangibles.
The balance-sheet reveals a strong and
conservatively-stated financial structure.
Bank accommodation, creditors, stocks
and book - debts (up £525,495) all rose
appreciably. Working - capital was ade-
quate at £3,077,260 (up £207,500), com-
prised mostly of stock and book-debts:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Old 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 1,072,321 1,285,466 -1,669,795
Deferred liability 1,350,000 P,350,000 1,150,000
Overdraft .. ~ 377,081 92,234 397,908
Creditors . . .. 222,596 185,771 317,796
Provision 1-s. leave 59,000 59,000 68,000
Tax provision .. 293,000 303,694 456,827
Final divs. .. 90,000 127,500 150,000
£5,713,998 £5,653,665 £6,460,326
Freeholds .. .. 708,512 743,819 737,775
Plant .. .. 1,082,811 1,185,550 1,168,423
Stocks .. .. 2,327,871 2,152,313 2,456,218
Debtors .. ~ 1,507,412 1,484,379 2,009,874
Cash, etc 87,392 87,604 88,036
£5,713,998 £5,653,665 £6,460,326
Book - values of freeholds and plant
showed little variation. More funds were
employed.
Last term, with the best results to
date, gave the sharemarket considerable
heart after a long wait. The future
depends on the wool-market and the co.’s
ability to withstand competition from
domestic and overseas rivals.
Current outlook is fair, subject to
variations in wool prices and consumer-
tastes.
At the last sale in Melbourne the 20s.
ords. fetched 445. 3d. (against 31s. earlier
this year) for an immediate yield of
4.5 p.c. p.a. on the basis of the increased
10 p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 425. Bd. for each 20s. ord. unit. Fixed
assets are valued on a most conservative
- basis.
Prestige, Ltd.
HPhe Australian textile industry depends
for its existence on protectionist
policies. Had it not been for the imple-
mentation of Tariff Board recommenda-
tions in May initiated following the
relaxation of import - controls last
February the industry would already
be facing a crisis. At that time the lifting
of import-restrictions—licensing controls
were not revoked in all instances ; they
remained in vogue as regards a wide
range of textiles —presaged an avalanche
of low - cost, low - priced textiles from
abroad, notably from Japan. It was only
averted by the prompt action of the
Tariff Board.
The Australian textile industry is, even
so, subject to intense internal competi-
tion and to fashion changes. It is esti-
mated, if all looms installed and on
order are taken into account, that capa-
city is three times above market require-
ments.
The situation demands astute, far-
sighted and efficient management, and
Prestige, Ltd., one of Australia’s leading
textile manufacturers, meets these speci-
fications. Directors, commenting on latest
figures, say “the policy of re-equipment
and diversification of production in
which the Prestige group has been
steadily engaged during recent years has
resulted in a satisfactory increase in con-
solidated turnover.”
Diversification is apparent in the range
of activities —the manufacture of hosiery,
fully-fashioned and seam-free, of lingerie,
of rayon-, woollen- and worsted-fabrics,
of rayon- and nylon- knitted fabrics and
of printed furnishings ; the processing of
nylon-, rayon-, and terylene-yarns and
dyeing and finishing.
The subsidiary complex comprises
Prestige Fabrics Pty., Dyecraft Pty.,
Johnson Bros. Pty., Dapco Pty., Prestige
(N.Z.), Ltd., H. G. Foletta and Co. Pty.,
Australaine Fabrics Pty. and Decor Tex-
tiles Pty. Factories are established in
Victoria at East Brunswick, Sunshine,
Ararat and Horsham and in N.Z. at
Wellington and Stratford. The distribu-
tion network extends throughout all
States.
Competition made business difficult for
Prestige last term, and even unprofitable
in some divisions, but higher aggregate
sales and profits in other divisions more
than made up the leeway.
Calculated after writing-off £7408 (up
£6686) to bad debts, paying out £65,195
(up £903) in interest on unsecured notes
and fixed loan and £7684 (unchanged)
to directors, setting aside £159,127 (up
£17,928) for tax, £209,802 (down
£20,406) for depreciation on buildings,
plant and equipment and £55,921 (up
£31,002) for special depreciation, net
profit at £189,392,' including £23,059 (up
£7210) income from investments, was up
£25,029, and equal to 23.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, allowing for the prefs., against
19.5 p.c., 25.6 p.c., 20.8 p.c., 22.2 p.c.
and 23.8 p.c. back to 1955:
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.?
£ p c. £ £ £
1953.. 620 8 & 5 74p.c. = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £5149 . . 908,555
1954.. 8 & 5 74 p.c.= 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
Tax overprovided, £2513 .. .. 1,003,385
Net reduction reserves, £2918 .. 1,000,467
1955- 8 &5 9 p.c.= 81,422 104,077 1,104,544
Loss sale assets, £7446 .. .. 1,097,098
Tax overprovided, £3229 .. .. 1,100,327
Unexplained reduction, £2963 .. 1,097,364
1956- 8 & 5 10 p.c.= 98,440 84,159 1,181,523
Tax underprovided, £BOB .• ..1,180,715
Loss sale assets, ££B3o .. .. 1,175,885
From plant reserve, £183,621.. .. 992,264
Intangibles written-off, £19,384 .. 972,880
Unexplained additions, £2776 .. 975,656
1957- 8 & 5 10 p.c.= 98,632 74,251 1,049,907
Loss sale assets, £8312 .. .. 1,041,595
Tax overprovided, £4070 .. .. 1,045,665
Intangibles written-off, £93,513 .. 952,152
Unexplained additions, £lOl4 .. 953,166
1958- 8&5 10 p.c.= 99,176 107,257 1,060,423
Profit sale assets, £3854 .. .. 1,064,277
Taxation overprovided, £2530 .. 1,066,807
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£3083 1,063,724
1959- 8 &5 10 p.c.=100,691 63,672 1,127,396
Profit sale assets, £2528 .. .. 1,129,924
Tax overprovided, £970 .. .. 1,130,894
Unexplained addition, £493 .. .. 1,131,387
1960- 8 & 5 10 p.c.= 97,192 92,200 1,223,587
* After eliminating outside shareholders' interests.
f Subject to intangibles, now written-off.
Tax appears to be disproportionately
high in relation to profits shown. The
anomaly is explained in that special
depreciation allowances —recognition of
the textile industry’s susceptibility to
plant obsolescence —are not deductible
for tax purposes.
The attractive earning-rate enabled
maintenance of the usual 10 p.c. div.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS* N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771 —BW 8088
Reserves lifted £96,191 to £1,223,587.
Last July, after close of accounts (the
books are ruled-off on March 30),
Prestige favored shareholders with a one-
for-five bonus-issue, capital rising, in
consequence, by £140,395. At balance-
date, and prior to the gift-issue, paid
capital comprised 103,050 20s. 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., 375,000 20s. 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 2,807,912 ss. stock units, amounting,
in all, to £1,180,028. Directors expect
to pay 10 p.c. on the enlarged capital.
Prestige’s balance-sheet is little changed
from that of the previous year:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £478,050 £478,050 £478,050
Ord 701,978 701,978 701,978
Reserves . . .. 1,060,423 1,127,396 1,223,587
Outside interests.. 63,840 68,472 71,297
Loan . . . . 400,000 375,000 362,500
Notes .. .. 635,878 635,878 632,078
Overdraft .. .. 372,805 466,168 309,994
Creditors .. .. 453,842 391,741 419,751
Tax provision .. 179,401 147,281 159,747
Final divs. .. 69,246 69,361 66,145
£4,415,463 £4,461,325 £4,425,127
Freeholds .. .. 892,782 905,080 926,451
Plant .. .. 1,046,143 1,012,331 920,403
Shares .. .. 55,087 55,079 65,132
Parent’s capital held ,
by subsidiary ..
Stocks .. .. 1,724,789 1,737,126 1,733,366
Debtors .. .. 665,141 730,117 756,204
Cash, bonds .. 31,521 21,592 22,690
£‘4,415,463 £4,461,325 £4,425,127
The book-value of plant is, however,
sizeably reduced, down £91,928 at
£920,403 —reflecting directorial recogni-
tion of potential obsolescence —and there
is a marked shift towards improved
liquidity. Thp bank-overdraft fell from
£466,168 to £309,994. Investment in
stock settled slightly, a good sign,
especially so with turnover on the in-
crease and the risks, inherent in the
textile industry, of carrying excessive
stock on hand.
Prestige ss. stock-units fetch Bs. on
’Change, yielding 6.2 p.c. Net tangibles
weigh up a solid 13s. Bd. per unit. So far
in the current term it is claimed “both
figures and prospects are encouraging.”
Swans, Ltd.
'T'he city-centred Swans’ head-office, and
branch-stores located in the Sydney
suburbs of Hurstville, Chatswood and
Parramatta and in the bustling industrial
city of Wollongong on the N.S.W. South
Coast, traded busily and profitably last
term.
The 60-year-old N.S.W. builders’-hard-
ware distributor reports a substantial
increase in sales. Net earnings jumped,
and the div.-rate was raised from 10 p.c.
to \2\ p.c.
The building industry generally, is in “a
most buoyant state.” Turnover was not
disclosed, but had improved sufficiently
to absorb rising costs (including the basic-
wage hikes) and still leave a substantially
higher earning-margin.
Net profit for the year ended May 31,
1960, increased by £33,503 (or about
30 p.c.) to £136,850. This was after
charging all working expenses, providing
£10,835 for depreciation (down £B5) and
setting aside £85,000 for taxation (up
£13,000):
f— Dividends Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1953 . . 68,328 6 12J 39,226 201,600
1954 . . 72,442 6 12$ 39,227 234,815
1955 . . 80.125 6 12i 48,642 266.298
Share-premiums, £49,839 .. 316,137
To staff fund, £10,000.. .. 306,137
1956 .. 82,797 6 10 49,862 339,072
1957 .. 79,010 6 10 56,714 361,368
1958 .. 90,620 6 10 57,987 394,001
Long-service leave, etc., £25,000 369,001
Profit sale shares, £1975 . . 370,976
1959 .. 103,347 6 10 71,029 403,294
1960 . . 136,850 6 1-2 £ 89,605 450,539
After paying 6 p.c. on the prefs. (£1500),
net profit was equivalent to 19.2 on the
average ord. capital, compared with 14.6
p.c. in the previous term and 16 p.c. in
1958.
The bigger p.c. div.-cheque
(absorbing £88,105) was well covered.
Reserves benefited by £47,245, rising to
£450,539, unencumbered by intangibles.
No dramatic changes were evident
from the balance-sheet. Creditors, stocks,
debtors and cash and investments were
higher. Theoretical working - capital
appeared adequate at £785,397, but the
bulk of the figure was in stocks and
book-debts:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref. .. . . £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Ord 657,026 704,842 704,842
Reserves .. .. 394,001 403,294 450,539
Creditors .. 355,872 343,522. 360,438
Tax provision .. 82.J26 84,650 105,148
Final div. .. 29,630 35,992 53,613
Provision for 1.-s.
leave, etc. .. - 51,376 48,897
£1,543,655 £1,648,676 £1,748,477
Freeholds, plant, etc. 408,569 441,390 448,598
Stocks . . . . 665,000 684,475 719,082
Debtors .. . . 414,685 510,903 549,106
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 55,401 11,908 31,691
£1,543,655 £1,648,676 £1,748,477
Net tangible asset-backing works-out at
325. 9d. for each 20s. ord. unit.
On the face of it, the co. has success-
fully digested the £47,816 increase in ord.
capital made in the previous term.
Market conditions remain favorable.
The board is confident that the new 12|
p.c. div.-rate can be maintained if the
present trend in sales continues. Further
expansion may call for fresh capital,
allowing shareholders to increase their
stake in the business.
A lot depends on economic climate.
Serious credit-restrictions could dampen
the buoyancy of the building industry
and reduce demand.
At the moment the situation looks
promising. Sharemarket rating is high.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
fetched 50s. a unit for an immediate yield
of 5 p.c. on the basis of the 12| p.c.
div.-rate. This time a year ago Swans’
scrip was traded at 395. a unit.
Australian General Investments Ltd
incorporated in Victoria in 1928 a
tralian General Investments, Ltd US
a co. holding shares in a wide ’ selecti B
of listed investment stocks. In additi ° n
there are holdings in the mining industr’
Investment cos. are useful for investo
with limited capital. Large investors m
find merit in avoiding the strains of por
folio-management.
The board makes it clear that AG I
has “pursued a consistent policy 0 {
investing the co.’s funds to earn income
and the co. has not sought to make profits'
by trading in investments.” The virtual
absence of the speculative element in
the co.’s activities gears it to the rate
of growth of the Australian economy
as a whole.
A.G.l.’s investments are diversified and
carefully selected. The wide spreading-out
of the portfolio and the relatively small
number of shares held in each co. mini-
mise risk and ensure a steady and grow-
ing income. Basis of valuation is cost
at acquisition, and the book-value of
investments in the balance-sheet must
be treated as conservative.
Earnings have grown steadily in ft
last four years. Income from divs. anl
interest for the year ended June 30,
1960, was £2098 higher at £16,211
Profits from underwriting (a subsidiary
line of business) amounted to £1261,
Expenses were £248 higher at £1921.
Tax absorbed £1093 (up £876), leaving
net profit at £14,459 (up £705):
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, —Dividends serves, senes.'
£ £ £ £
1957 . . 12,672 9 p.e. = 9,982 2,690 19,085
1958 . . 13,304 9 „ „ 10,890 2,414 21,198
1959 . . 13,754 9 „ „ 10,890 2,864 24,363
1960 . . 14,459 10 „ „ 12,100 2,359 26,722
* Excludes investment fluctuation reserve, £21,91!
at 30/6/’6O.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of a shade over 11.9 p.c. on the average
ord. capital, compared with 11.4 p.c. in
the previous year and almdst 11 p.c. in
1958.
The div.-rate was raised from 9 p.c
to 10 p.c., absorbing £12,100. Reserts
benefited by £2359, rising to £26,1-2-
This excludes the £21,913 provision fo [
fluctuations in the value of investments,
deducted from the total book-value ot
shares held in other cos.
Last term the co. was in dispute with
the Commissioner for Taxation about
its method of valuation for the purposes
of “taxing surpluses and deficiencies
arising from disposal of investment 5
This could result in a somewhat higher
rate of tax levied on the co.’s profits.
Paid capital has remained unchange
since 1957, when the issue of 161,300 >
ords. brought it to the present streng
of £121,000.
No significant moves were reflecte
in the balance-sheet. Investments w
conservatively valued at £159,890 (J


La tec
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £l,OOO 000
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% per annum 2 years
6% per annum | year
5% per annum £ months
O
,V.!.V
‘•V*
■VtVi
yXvXvlvlv!v!vX;
mky*y>>sssAK'W
o
•Vi
mlmam
X
•Vi.M
Vi
MORE
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1.086
FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE OEBENTORE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers, /
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: 8W1057,
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
f 7871) net
provision for fluctuations in
share- values •
1959. 1960.
.. £121,000 £121,000
paid capital 24,363 26,722
Reserves • • *
488 594
Creditors •
provision for tax-
ation . • •
Pr dend° n . 01 • 19,890 12,100
£157,091 £161,566
Shares m other J 52019 159,890
COb * * * I on
gr\. :: <■»«
£157,091 £161,566
Net tangible asset-backing
works-out at 6s. 2d. for each
ss. ord. on conservative book-
values.
Although windfall gains
cannot be expected by share-
holders, the scrip is interesting
j n its class. The ratio of
management expenses to total
shareholders’ funds remains
satisfactory at 1.3 p.c. (1.15
p.c. in 1959).
Funds invested in A.G.I.
shares seem safe, and assured
of a slow but steady growth.
At the last sale in Melbourne
the ss. ords. changed hands at
10s. 3d. a unit, for an imme-
diate yield of 4.9 p.c. on the
basis of the new 10 p.c.
dividend distribution.
Wyong Minerals, Ltd.
A steady downward trend in
prices for Wyong Minerals
scrip has concerned the board.
The ss. f.-p. ords., quoted at
ss. 3d. last November, have
since dropped to 3s.
The directors say they “con-
sider it proper to advise stock-
holders that in their view the
current market price does not
reflect the true value of the co.’s
shares.”
R. R. Miles, the co.’s secre-
tary, refers to the “more than
ordinary difficulties” encoun-
tered in bringing new plant “to
the stage of satisfactory operat-
ing performance.” The co. is
experiencing a “temporary set-
hack only,” which is expected
to be overcome shortly.
“Experience to date confirms
the soundness of the original
operating estimates,” and the
Project overall “is still as attrac-
tive as was at first presented.”
The co. was formed in June,
19 59, to acquire all the issued
capital of Wyong Alluvials
Tty., which worked rutile and
2 'rcon areas at Budgewoi (760
acres), Tuggerah (1326 acres),
* e dhead area (1060 acres) and
North Hunter River (40,000
acre $), all in N.S.W.
Paid capital is £607,725 in
2,430,900 ss. ords., f.-p., includ-
ing 870,900 ss. ords. issued to
shareholders in Commonwealth
Mining Investments at par
(three Wyong Minerals ords.
for every 10 10s. units in
C.M.1.) in August, 1959.
Initial subscribers to Wyong
Minerals were Wyong Rutile
Pty. (479,000 ss. ords.), Bellin-
gen Titanium Pty. (719,500 ss.
ords.) and Commonwealth
Mining Investments (Australia),
Ltd. (358,993 ss. ords) plus
2507 directors’ ss. shares.
Capital raised on formation
was applied to purchase from
the subscribers all the issued
shares in Wyong Alluvials Pty.
Prospectus dated July 14,
1959, estimated annual net
profit after tax at £122,500
before allowing for amortisa-
tion, equivalent to 20.1 p.c. on
the present subscribed capital.
The estimate was based on
selling 15,000 tons of rutile at
£29 a ton (cost £2O a ton) and
10,000 tons of zircon at £lO a
ton (cost £6 a ton).
The emphasis was on low
production-costs. It was also
hoped that rutile and zircon
prices would improve over the
next five years.
These expectations seemed
optimistic at the time, although
rutile and zircon prices have
steadied over the past six
months.
A lot depends on forward
contracts. Forward sales for
1960 were made by Wyong
Alluvials Pty. for “approxi-
mately half the planned pro-
duction” and some contracts
were made for 1961 and 1962.
The considerable element of
risk involved in marketing
beach-mining minerals gener-
ally seems to be a factor in
the sharemarket’s discounting
of Wyong Minerals’ scrip. To
(Continued on page 32)




TW[?]BANANA FESTIVAL
PICTURES
TOP LEFE : [?] sponsored in the Queen Competition by Murwillumbah
Apex Club [?] banana-yoke race. TOP CENTRE: The Banana Boat
Race, w [?] fesaving clubs on the Tweed on August 20 over six miles
for a [?] a case of bananas. TOP RIGHT: Banana Jim parades
the 1959 [?] Murwillumbah. BOTTOM LEFT: Bananas growing on
the steep [?] Ranges in the Tweed district. BOTTOM RIGHT :
Marlene s he king” banana during the 1959 festival. It was crowned
The Tweed Bananai niist inaugur-
ated with the aim of pi dweed River
(N.S.W.) district. Muff fc chief town
in the area, is only 20m !ueQueensland
Gold Coast, and is tiiii bis of the
Tweed.
The chief industrit ia-growing,
sugar-cane, dairyfarminj ling. The
Tweed Valley district to lof around
30,000 people.
An outstanding la* it Warning
(named by Captain Cool TOft. From
the summit of Mount i Ificent view
of the Tweed Valley* weed River
can be traced for its m lit enters the
Pacific at Tweed Heads. Kis the wild
mountainous country® bon Range,
made even more picturesque by the many banana-
plantations which seem to be perilously perched
on the sides of the mountains. The district has a
sub-tropical climate, and tojurists from the south
find their way to the Tweed to get away from
severe winters.
This year the Banana Festival will run from
August 20 to 28, and will be officially opened by
the Chief Secretary, C. A. Kelly, on August 27.
The main feature is the Banana Queen Competi-
tion. Another highlight is the banana-packing
championship of Australia. Then there is the
Biggest Banana in Australia Competition. The
official proclamation is to be made on Friday,
August 26. by J. D. Anthony. M.H.R. It is antici-
pated that on the final day there will be an
attendance of 14,000 people.
b y J - D. Anthony, M.H.R.


CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LTD.
/SgWtt
stfSs^l
Per Annum
4-10 years
Currency and
Interest per annum
4-10 years
3 years
2 years
1 year
6 months
7 days’
call
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
CUMULATIVE DEBENTURE STOCK
8 % per annum for 4 20 years compounded on yearly rests.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
RENEWAL INTEREST
RATES
apply to all investments.
FUNDS MAY BE WITH-
DRAWN
in a personal emergency.
For PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION
FORMS—CALL at, or WRITE to:—
ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or the
UNDERWRITING BROKERS,
RALPH W. KINO & YUILL,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE FOR QUEENSLAND:
CORRIE & CO.,
Cnion Trustee Chambers, 400 Queen Street, Brisbane. Branches
at Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton and Surfer’s Paradise.
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
or The COMPANY’S OFFICES at
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. BC 5542.
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus, a copy of which has been lodged with the
Registrar of Companies, Queensland.
CLIP and POST COUPON
Investment Manager,
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the Prospectus with
Application Forms.
NAME
B. 17/8/’6O
ADDRESS
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC SAMUEL LOFDAHL late of 8
Keir Avenue Hurlstone Park. —TAKE
NOTICE that MELBA CECILIA
MANZIE LOFDAHL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1205 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for .3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
20th October 1960 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. BUCKWORTII & BUCK-
WORTH, Solicitors, Broken Hill, or from
their city agents, MESSRS. CLAYTON,
UTZ & CO., Solicitors, 136 Liverpool
Street, Sydney.—C. A. 11. HARMS,
Registrar.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Jj. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Fines) p.O. Box No. 1887VV
this have been added present
plant troubles.
Until the plant is performing
satisfactorily it is unlikely that
the true profit-earning position
will be apparent.
Oil Development, N.L.
/~\il Development, N.L., has
entered into a “farm-
out” arrangement with General
Exploration Co. of Australia,
Ltd. (in which Santos holds a
50 p.c. share-interest) in respect
to that co.’s titles in south-
eastern South Australia, next to
the Victorian border.
‘The area concerned forms
part of the Mt. Gambier
basin. Directors say it has
“attractive oil and gas
potential.”
Under the arrangement, Oil
Development has the right to
select an area of 200 sq.-miles
in which it is to commence
drilling in the current year.
“Comprehensive geological
and seismic surveys” carried-
out by General Exploration
over recent months “enable
early selection” of the area,
which will be made by Oil
Development by the - end of
October.
If oil or gas are found in
commercial quantities the two
cos. will jointly own and
develop the finds.
Oil Development, N.L., was
registered in Melbourne on
April 13, 1960. An issue of
three-million ss. ords. closed
oversubscribed on July 29.
The co. holds permits in
Torquay (Vic.), Bonaparte
Gulf (N.T. and W.A.), Bathurst-
Melville Islands (N.T.), the
Hunter - Sydney basin and
Tibooburra district (N.S.W.),
Alpha (Q.), Anderson’s Inlet
and adjacent offshore continen-
tal shelf (Vic.) and other areas.
Roma Natural Gas
Tn August, 1958, Associated
A Australian Oilfields, N.L.,
Associated Freney Oil Fields,
N.L., and Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co., Ltd., agreed to
the joint-exploration for oil
in a combined area of over
120,000 square-miles composed
of sedimentary basins scattered
throughout the Commonwealth
and Papua. Service and tech-
nological work is rendered by
Mines Administration Pty
independent contractor.
Last week, at a meeting
held in Queensland, represen-
tatives of Mines Administra-
tion Pty., the Roma (Q.) Town
Council and the State Elec-
tric i t y Commission (Q,)
announced an arrangement
covering supply of natural gas
from Pickanjinnie, the group’s
operational well at Roma, to
the Roma power-station. The
gas will be supplied at approxi-
mately 70,000 cubic-feet per
day for a trial period of 12
months.
It is emphasised that the
project is entirely experimen-
tal, that at various times it
will be necessary to interrupt
the flow of gas to the power-
house while carrying out tests
at the bore, and that, likewise,
it may be necessary for the
council to cease taking supply,
pending adjustments at the
power-station. At the expiry
of the trial period, however,
and depending on results
achieved, consideration will be
given to the supply of gas on
a more permanent basis.
The announcement has, so
far, had little effect on ’Change.
There have been so many
disappointments about flows of
natural gas in the past that
there is a natural caution
about the present Roma show-
ing. A.A.O.’s 10s. ords. are
currently fetching 6s. 4d.,
A.F.O.’s 10s. ords. are fetch-
ing 35., and P.A.P’s ss. ords.
last sold at 3s. lid. P.A.P.’s
options, which expire on July
26, 1961, are still hovering
around and 9d.


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN, SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
To get the smooth ,
mellow Scotch that's
renowned the world over ...
< \
r
Wfs
just ask for it by name!
JW215.16
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
„,p are wondering
P *ther there is anything
Id the timing of Mr Mac-
in's Cabinet changes,
i is a suggestion of a
Late leak over the con-
La and generally un-
-5* appointment of Lord
JL, as Foreign Secretary--
r P tepare, as it were the
lit for the shock. And the
appointments were made on
E eve of the Parliamentary
rec&ss and August Bank
Holiday.
Although the Prime
Minister’s hand was forced by
the resignation of Mr. Derek
Walker-Smith, who is return-
ing to the Bar, and by Mr.
Heathcoat Amory’s long-
expressed wish to be relieved,
it is possible that he feels that
the furore will have died by
the time Parliament re-
assembles.
He had ample warning, both
from the Opposition and from
his own back-benchers, that
Lord Home’s translation would
be unpopular. In the event,
press comment on the changes
as a whole was disappointed
and caustic.
Mr. Macmillan has laid
himself open to two main
charges— Chamberlainism and
Daddyism. Chamberlain loved
to have about him old and tried
colleagues and his repeated
general posts contributed
largely to the decline of the
Conservative party in the late
’thirties. The second charge
is that the only real promo-
tion is for the Prime Minister
himself, who will now virtually
he also Foreign Secretary and
Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Dynamism and sense of
originality are certainly lack-
jog in the appointments, and
i( is ironic that the two men
™ resigned two-and-a-half
yoors ago on the grounds that
ho Government’s fiscal policy
; as no f tough enough have
ee n reinstated to “spending”
departments, Mr. Thorney-
jott to Aviation and Mr.
P °well to Health.
, o. Macmillan being no
fi. oc on t where political
is concerned, an
Pinion is now held that this
man™ lnter i m or standstill
judkTth 6 S ° aS not t 0 pre '
K he suc . ces sion. At 66,
)av« r J m ® Minister may well
)renar deci d e d that he should
Dent ,£ tPle Wa y f° r retire-
say, two years’ time
and that he considers it
unwise to have too challeng-
ing a personality as an imme-
diate lieutenant. After another
15 months or so he may think
fit to make more significant
changes than the present.
Land Boom
As in Australia, land prices
have risen fantastically in the
U.K. Not everywhere, though.
The boom in office-property,
which has accounted for
several fortunes, is past its
peak. But land for house-
building in the more pros-
perous towns, on the South
Coast and around the green-
belt, is particularly scarce.
Land value in Middlesex has,
for example, increased three-
fold in 10 years.
One of the indirect conse-
quences of the boom is that
the large property-owning
companies, previously content
to have “good” tenants at
moderate rents, feel compelled
to increase their rents “so as
to bear a more realistic rela-
tionship to other properties in
the neighborhood.” The result
is an exodus from the more
modern and well-situated
blocks of flats, where many
tenants were already living up
to their income and now must,
if they can obtain a mortgage,
buy their own property. More
serious, socially, is the plight
of old people, living on fixed
incomes who can neither afford
the higher rent nor undertake
the commitments of house-
purchase.
The boom is less in evidence
at present, due to the scarcity
of money for mortgages, but
everything points to a per-
sistent and inflationary rise in
values over the long term.
Amazing Twist
Lionel Bart’s flair for the
theatre has made him
immensely rich (his royalties
are said to exceed £25,000 a
year) and he has the enviable
gift of apparent ease of
accomplishment. His pop.-
songs were instantaneous suc-
cesses. His music for “Lock
Up Your Daughters,” while
not pastiche, echoed the
eighteenth century, and that
for “Fings Ain’t Wot They
Used To Be” is in the idiom
of gangster’s Soho.
He has now extended his
natural talent by adapting
Oliver Twist and writing the
whole affair —books, lyrics
and music himself. The
immediate success of this play
has caused tycoons of the
American theatre to beg at
his feet for the rights,
Altogether, a wonderful rags-
to-riches story, for not only
was Bart, the seventh son of
a Whitechapel tailor, a poor
boy, but he is also illiterate,
musically.
The adaptation took him a
year and is something of a
labor of love, since Oliver
Twist is one of his favorite
books. Undoubtedly the
genuine affection he holds for
the original is in large part
responsible for such an enjoy-
able and entertaining “Oliver.”
He has, of course, altered
the shape of the novel and
turned some of its values
upside-town, but, nevertheless,
preserved the Dickensian
essence. So effectively, in fact,
that the episodes which might
easily have been sickly or un-
bearably priggish are genuinely
touching; there are, too, real
pathos and unaffected senti-
ment both in, and in between,
(Continued on page 49)


Concluding...
Hamilton Hume —
and All That
By S. H. HUME
In Little Hamilton, I think,
the explorer saw the best
of his own father all over
again. Though - much
steadier, he was adventurous,
enjoyed life to the full and was
to develop into one of the
most noted sheep-breeders of
his time. This suited the
explorer down to the ground.
As early as 1830, W. E.
Riley, of Raby, noted in his
journal that Hamilton Hume,
apparently then living at
Humewood (Yass), had five or
six flocks of sheep (between
4000 and 5000), a herd of cattle
and a number of pigs.
Although Riley does not say
so, the explorer was using
sheep bred from Raby ewes
joined to imported Saxon
Merino rams. Riley got a cool
reception from both John
Kennedy and Hamilton Hume,
for he had a grant of 10,000
acres in his pocket and was
prepared to exercise it on any
suitable country he could get,
even if it meant dispossessing
anyone with a doubtful tenure.
He makes that clear in his
journal, and it was doubtless
this possibility occurring, if
not with Riley with someone
else, that dissuaded the
explorer from accompanying
Sfurt down the Murray.
Hamilton Hume had found it
necessary to protect his
interests.
It has always been accepted
that Hamilton built Cooma
Cottage, and I still think this
is true. It has been estab-
lished, however, that in 1839
he bought 100 acres with a
“substantial dwelling thereon”
for £6OO from “Con” O’Brien.
The “Cooma” of 1870 —its
heyday—or even 1839 cer-
tainly could not have been
bought for anything like that
figure. The 1870 photo shows
older buildings which have
since disappeared. These, I
believe, were all, or part, of
“Con’s.”
At Humewood from the late
’forties through the 1850’s
Little Hamilton was rapidly
developing under the explorer’s
guidance, gradually relieving
him of practically all respon-
sibility for the enlarging and
developing of Humewood,
Marchmont and Eurolie. This
left Hamilton Hume free to
interest himself in the town-
ship. He became a magistrate,
a pillar of the Church of
England, a benefactor to the
hospital and, with many other
minor activities, an excellent
townsman.
With Rawdon Hume and
his big family at Boorowa
“But the mere fact that it's the spitting image of you
doesn't make it a two-hundred-guinea masterpiece!"
(25 miles away), and the
Barbers, his sister’s relations,
marrying and intermarrying
with them and the John
Kennedy Humes, the explorer
collected “his own” around
him. That he liked having
them around is undoubted,
but woe betide the lad or lass
that showed-up untidy!
In 1853 came the Melbourne
reports of Hovell’s feting.
Hamilton Hume marshalled
his forces and the whole clan
went to war. Judging from
the correspondence I’ve been
receiving, it’s still prepared to
do so ; and furthermore, I’m
told, being the present head
of the family, I must lead it
into battle!
Little Hamilton from ’55
onwards continued to improve
the sheep. And he married
Euphemia Furlong, daughter
of Captain Richard Tasker
Furlong, O.C. 80th Regiment.
Euphemia played hard to
get, so Little Hamilton hired
the smartest turnout he could
get in Sydney Town, picked-
up the attractive daughter of
a blacksmith who (I’m told)
had his smithy on the site of
Sydney Town Hall (where
Frank O’Grady works) and
drove up and down outside
the Furlong residence. That
brought Euphemia to her
milk, he said!
They had three sons and
several daughters. From ’55
to ’65 was a great period for
both Hamiltons despite the
“war.” In 1862 wool sent to
the London Exhibition brought
a bronze medal. It was to
be the first of some 200
trophies worth mentioning
between 1862 and 1896.
In 1865 disaster overtook
the “partnership” and for the
reason we must look at Uncle
Dick, Euphemia’s brother.
Aristocratic of praft
. Uncle Dick bad a fe
like a wedgetailed-easle |
“piercing blue eyes” bek t
of novelists, and wore sij
tight trousers (whenever-
bought a new pair he
them to the first wot
handy with a machine to m
up the seams and maketld
tighter still). He loved i
beautiful women and beat
horses. The love of tkk!
two was reciprocated;!
Dick could do anything ait
horses and some women
It is not on ml
that he ever did si
work. He was culti
and a good corapamj
and Little Hamit
made him a comrai
in prank and pleaa
particularly the “Sp
of Kings.”
With many a sqi
ter in those days ill
horse first, wife sea 1
and the devil at
have the rest. Hal
ton Hume, though I
bred and liked j«|
horses, had no timet
racing, and sonw
unreasonably reqw
that Little Haw
have nothing to I
with it either. Cattij
him and Uncle |
at it, he warned M
Uncle Dick then sj
gested that he «
Hamilton should J
the latter’s “dead ce|;
in a syndicate’s name. H
home, all right, bringwSl
only the “clean-up M
notoriety that didn t escape s !
explorer. a
Hamilton might have let J
pass, but at the w i
Dick, with the aid of a 1
fellow and a holloW ,
carrying on a cn J
correspondence witn
of a neighboring
He was doing all r Lj
until the squatter, %
day with his two J
happened to be; n ? ng p‘
tree. “That’s the tree # , \
gets the letters
squeaked the offsp«


Gillette -a real man’s shave
in
■HHHH SplilS
'-, ' ",,- 1
W&Mmm Wmm
-: -'■ ■■ " p ,; yr; p
, ■-- |
.. ' s " ■•■• <Pb ::; ' " --flfelii
" ■.-®1
\
, ~ .-5|ii05 : :'......., -. o-.v.-.v ■
»•■1
lllllliiillii
■mmm
SSw-'flli
Wi
fill
«
Real men shave with Gillette! Water... lather
... and a Gillette razor with a Blue Gillette
blade. For men need a man’s shave.
When you’re a man with real bristle, you need
a blade a good, sharp blade. Nothing else
will shave so cleanly, so close to the skin. The
best and sharpest of good, sharp blades is
the Blue Gillette. Slip one into a precision-made
one-piece Gillette razor and you’re ready
for the cleanest, most refreshing shave ever.
A 2648
• One of the Gillette three-weight razors,
Light weight, Medium weight or Heavy
weight, is just right for your beard, 15/-
each. Other Gillette one-piece razors up
to 45/-, and the magnificent new Gillette
Adjustable with nine blade settings,
£7.10.6.
Blue Gillette the world’s sharpest
blades are in handy, quick-feed dis-
pensers, with a place for used blades in
the back. .
10 blades, 4/4; 20 blades, 3/8


unison. Up went the squatter’s
hand and out came a letter.
Uncle Dick had to make him-
self temporarily scarce.
It is conceivable that
Hamilton Hume may even
have turned a blind eye to
this escapade—he was very
human if some of the tales
told of him are correct —but
for one thing. Uncle Dick
had chosen to carry on his
amorous excursion in the
midst of a family whose fore-
bears had befriended Andrew
during his first stormy years
in N.S.W. That was un-
pardonable. To Little Hamil-
ton came the ultimatum “Shed
Uncle Dick —or else!”
Married to Euphemia, it
wasn't easy for Little Hamil-
ton. He objected. Here were
two proud men and an ultima-
tum. It could only have ended
the way it did. Little Hamil-
ton chose his wife and
brother-in-law.
Just how reasonable the
explorer could be, even at
such a time, is evidenced by
Hamilton insisting that his
nephew take 2000 of the
beautiful ewes he’d so care-
fully bred and 250 head of
cattle. With a wife and large
family to consider, Little
Hamilton swallowed a large
chunk of pride and took them
on to the Pudman Creek at
Rye Park, 25 miles away. The
pick of them in that fateful
year of 1865 were then joined
to Bayley’s Havilah rams, and
the once-great Everton Stud
was formed.
Of Hamilton Hume there is
little more to tell. He
had lost his favorite nephew,
his “son,” his right-hand man.
He was rapidly going deaf;
his memory was failing (he
admitted it to Bonwick in
’67); he had little to do but
brood over the slights and
insults, real and imaginary,
arising out of the controversy
with Hovell. Helped along by
that false friend the bottle, he
became morose and more
irascible and quite unreason-
able.
He seems to have spent the
last two years of his life
unnecessarily seeking to justify
himself and his actions on
that historic journey of 1824.
That he became obsessed there
seems little doubt; the 1873
edition of the “Statement of
Facts,” published after his
death, was the result, and the
“Courier” was not forced to
publish it. It must have been
hard on Elizabeth.
That he earned a respect
tinged with a certain amount
of deference due to his ex-
ploring ability from such men
as Sturt and Sir Thos. Mitchell,
and that he could and would
work under a man whose
respect he returned, places him
in virtually an unassailable
position as a man among men.
He was, however, too short-
tempered and too determined
to be able to tolerate incom-
petence. The whole story of
the overland journey in 1824
should tell anyone that.
Had Hovell pulled his
weight I’m sure the two men
would have remained friends
for life. Even after the return
Hamilton was prepared to
forget and be generous. It
was the lionising and report-
ing and/or the misreporting
of Hovell in Melbourne in
“Can you tell us where the caravan-park is?”
1853 that fanned the smoulder-
ing fire of resentment in
Hamilton Hume —a fire that
was to burst forth and blast
Ho veil for 18 years. Even
after Hamilton’s death many
of his old friends and rela-
tions were prepared to stoke
the embers.
To consign Hamilton Hume’s
“Statement of Facts” sum-
marily to the flames, as Frank
O’Grady suggests, is absurd:
it is to imply that it was a
fabrication. Hume made mis-
takes, undoubtedly, but he
wasn’t a liar. And even to
infer that Hume employed a
professional scribe is laugh-
able.
'T'he explorer died in 1873.
He left the bulk of his
property to his nephews and
nieces. Only one was not
mentioned —Little Hamilton,
who had been promised
Humewood.
I think the explorer may
have unbent had Little Hamil-
ton been in real need, but the
latter had made a great job
of Everton and the stud. He
became as “lazy as a prize
pig,” to quote a relative ; took
to astronomy for recreation
and turned the stud over to
his eldest son, H. R. F.
Hume, who was just as good
a breeder.
T ittle Hamilton died in
■*-' 1911. Uncle Dick? He was
at Everton till the end. He
never married, but at one
stage got himself engaged to
a lass as lively as one of his
fillies. A big party was held
at Everton to celebrate the
occasion. In the midst of it
Uncle Dick and his fiancee
had one helluva row. Fol-
lowed by him, the lady
scuttled down the hillside
from the homestead to the
banks of the Pudman Creek.
Here, while her lover did an
anguished fandango on the
bank, she threw, not herself,
but his valuable engagement-
ring, into the drink!
I remember him as an old,
old man in skin-tight trousers
coming round from his little
room at the back of Everton
to get a billy of tea from the
kitchen —still being fed!
In his day bushrangers used
his horses, but, with a sneak-
ing regard for this likeable
wastrel, invariably brought
them back. He died soon after
Little Hamilton.
All the family had the
ability to handle and earn
the affection of the abos.
Weeping and wailing remnants
of the Boorowa tribes fol-
lowed Rawdon Hume to his
grave. Little Hamilton’s Ever-
ton was virtually run by a
tribe ruled by “Queen Caro-
line,” a remarkable half-caste,
well educated (she, too, read
widely).
She ruled the tribe with the
proverbial rod of iron. If any
lad or lass stepped out of line
shed go completely •!
shed all her clothes aJI
the offender almost 1
with a nulla-nulla ? Sl |
dared to interfere. Nn r 1
her charges work f O J 3
they pleased. To L 1
family was her family
On one occasion a ' n J
squatter and his l ady 1
to Everton to ask 3
Hamilton to use his J
with her, as the squat]
wife badly needed ho J
help. Caroline was sent 3
and Little Hamilton expl j
The old lady’s beautiful I
smouldered, and when ?
spoke it wasn’t an old gi n J
a true queen in whose J
flowed the blood of a J
Wiradjuri chief on
mother’s side and that j
Gabriel Marie Louis Hutj
Kerrileau de Bourbon (j
cousin of Louis XVI) onifj
father’s. In a simple »|
searing sentence she bW
their high hopes: “No daf
ter of mine will ever «
for a bloody cattle-thief! )
was magnificent and it f j
true.
Great sagas have been®
out of far _ less mW
than the foregoing, and it
only a fraction of
available. To take Ham
Hume- out of it f° r ? v
romance is but to ski® <
cream ; and Frank 0 .
doubtless found how m
that can go sour
country.
Just one more tW. ■
“me mate” Frank 0 J
trailing the tail ot J
across the pages ° J
Bulletin and I’ve. J u jj
them to stab him w „ |
side with the faflidy, 5 j
dirk —“Shure thin, a j S
done wid mah ce
thought!”


Start the day right:
jfj
ft?
uU>n* c
VIM?
srt*
afeM”
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
: fl, prods in Papua
i On Saturday this page found
* felf agreeably off the beaten
the Inaugural
j Aid Meeting of the Papuan
' fScV at June Valley Park
| Lourse, Port Moresby It
> L but the fourth meeting held
|| Moresby since the troops
m giving the Nips a long
inland a lacing—and the first
; to be staged by the
new club.
Venue was a track more-or-
less hewn from the scrub on
He old Ward Airstrip—
; familiar ground to many
troops. The road into the
course is what was once the
bitum “speedway” for trucks
serving the busy war-time air-
field, Now it is about fifty-
fifty bitumen and the mother
i earth showing through in pot-
holes up to a couple of feet
deep.
: Bouncing over it we asked
■ oi native driver-boy if he had
ever been to the races there
r before. “Yes,” he said, “four
! times now. First time car
lacing. Next time motor-bikes.
Hen cars again. Now the
horsies”
That rather sums-up the state
of the Turf in the Territory to
date. But now they have this
lively new club, keen to get the
game on a sound footing.
The amenities so far are
picnic-style, but all the ingredi-
ents are there for develop-
The architecture tends
to green sapling uprights sup-
porting a variety of top cover
j-galvanised-iron for the pad-
dock “stand”; green, ex-Army
entrng for the bar, refresh-
ment-room and tote; kunai-
yass thatch for the horse-stalls.
A sapling running-rail marks
e course proper, with, for the
L esent > an outside rail only
Ji re , all y needed—over the
%ds. of the straight up
for .^ s ma V account
rJk , notice P rint ed in the
L°;, k: ,“ No Person will be
ProJ t 0 °* ter on fh e Course
Z r h at any time ” The y
on, , extended that to
®ibble f at^!n horsies we had a
100 eat on pretty good oil,
s tnixL neC^es Themselves are
with J e ~~ as . °ne might expect
them n at J acing t 0 cater f° r
still cnm d nags °f an y sort
hrr?v Pa A at i Vely rare in the
evid en „;■ T rew showed some
°f blood-stock in
their near ancestry. Others
ranged from nice-type hacks to
obviously affectionately re-
garded ponies.
But whatever the standard of
the prads and the size of the
fields (four starters was the
average, governed possibly by
the number of hoops on hand)
there was no mistaking the
enthusiasm of either those run-
ning the pleasant meeting or
its patrons.
One thing noted also was
that, with the counter-attrac-
“Try not to hit the cross-bar."
tions of betting available on
Melbourne, Sydney and
Queensland races, there was a
sight more enthusiastic punt-
ing on the “locals” than we’ve
seen at times on courses not
50 miles from Martin Place.
The big race —the Turf Club
Cup (6f.), carrying £lO0 —was
won as comfortably as you like
by W. K. Boughton’s Miss
Yeulba. Just as they jumped
a bloke standing on the remains
of a 40gal. aviation-fuel drum
behind us declared, “Miss
Yeulba will walk this in ; she’s
won a couple down South.”
Whether or not his form-guide
was accurate, we wish he’d de-
livered it about five minutes
earlier.
One thing in which the
Moresby meeting was not out-
classed by Randwick, Fleming-
ton or anywhere else was its
Paddock Band. The native
boys of the Royal Papuan Con-
stabulary Silver Band, under
the baton of Senior Instructor
Crawley, were a treat to the
eye in their very smart outfit
of black lap-laps, black shirts
with red trimming, black berets
with the gleaming brass bird-
of-paradise badge and the
bandsman’s lyre-badge on a
sleeve. And they played some
darned good music from their
tent-roofed, sapling bandstand.
* * *
At Caulfield
It was worth a day’s march
to see Tranquil Glow win the
Australian Steeplechase at
Caulfield last Saturday. He
carried his huge burden of
11.10 out in front for every
yard of the 3| miles journey,
and, except for one faulty
jump, fenced like a show-horse.
There are 29 jumps in the race,
and he soared over the 29th
as cleanly as he fenced the
first.
For most of the long journey
the National winner, Blacksmith,
looked a danger, but, instead of
weakening over the last lap, Tran-
quil Glow finished as well as his
pursuers, and on the line had 10
lengths to spare from Blacksmith,
with another dozen lengths to
Mudeet. Les Moore rode Tranquil
Glow wonderfully well, and his
skill was severely tested when his
mount dipped on landing over a
fence during the second round
of the course.
Tranquil Glow is quite the best
fencer Melbourne has seen since
Pedro’s Pride. He won the Godfrey
Watson Steeplechase on the pre-
vious Saturday, and it is a remark-
able thing that every winner of
the Godfrey Watson since 1954
has gone on to take the Australian
Steeple,
This page selected the
winners of the Australian
Hurdle-Steeple double.
• • • «
The Moloneys, from Vic-
toria’s Western District, were
a happy family after Bilstar
won the Arkaringa Hurdle at
his first start in a jumping
race. Father of the family,
veteran trainer Jerry Moloney,
bought Bilstar as a yearling
for lOOgns. and presented him
to his son Bill. Bill’s brother,
Jim, trains the Bilbao gelding,
while the owner himself acts
as strapper.
The Moloneys had planned a
jumping career for Bilstar from
when he was first put to racing.
He has jumped hundreds of
obstacles in schooling-lessons, and
connections took plenty of money
out of the ring, backing him from
fourteens to eights. It wasn’t much
of a field, but as a first-up effort
Bilstar’s run suggested a good
future in the jumping business.
After a couple of weeks of
unseasonably good weather
Melbourne went back to
winter on Saturday, and heavy
rain for 24 hours before the
meeting began made the going
very heavy. That made a lot
of difference to form, and
should be remembered in cal-
culating the value of some
winning runs. Glenpedder, for
example, looked good in stag-
ing a strong finish to win the
mile Chatsworth Plate for
three-year-olds. His owners,
R. D. McKellar and Mrs.
D. F. Fairbairn, have thoughts
that the Empyrean gelding
might be a Caulfield Guineas
and Victoria Derby hope.
Glenpedder’s only other win
was gained over heavy ground,
and to be a classic hope he
will probably need the track
to suit him.
• • • •
The Malakoff Stakes is one
of the few two-mile races on
the Victorian racing calendar,
and in the heavy going it pro-
vided a fitting test of stamina.
The race went to Summer
Honeymoon, who, despite her
pleasant name, is much at home
in wintry conditions. She
finished very strongly to hold
off the consistent Chatoul.
Summer Honeymoon is by
Helios, sire of Tranquil Glow, and


s.:
£SV'*.
nr
m*
3
Aj
BY APPOINTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
|OHN DEWAR & SONS LTD.. PERTH, SCOTLAND
3cot/amlti cP/tide - t/ie Aotee
Dewar’s
The famous name in the History
of
Scotch Whisky
White Label”
Dewars Scotch Whisky
it never varies
OWAttOtft
50C..»
.J2K!«L. v#
h “White Label
“Ewars Fine Scotch Wi#
OF RARE ACE J
Dewar & Sons v
DISTILLERS
''C,r„3„„ pE s R c T oiK
Her coHrtnrs tpntr. eei
WHOU.T w,,u«. «II*I » W*“,
Guaranteed wholly distilled , matured and blended in Scotland
as that sire also got Shamash,
winner of Saturday’s 10-furlongs
Cambria Plate, his well-established
reputation was further enhanced.
There is a romantic background
to Helios. He was sent here by
the late Duke of Kent, who
intended to race him during his
projected term as Governor-
General of Australia. Subse-
quently Helios was acquired by
E. A. Underwood, who hoped
to win the Melbourne Cup with
him. Helios, however, broke-down
in training and was retired without
racing in this country. But Under-
wood certainly received satis-
faction in full when he won the
Melbourne Cup with a son of
Helios —Wodalla.
• • • •
Whatever the calendar says,
Melbourne racegoers will count
next Saturday as the beginning
of spring. The Melbourne
Racing Club (which will race
at Flemington) is staging the
first weight-for-age race of the
new racing year—the J. J.
Liston Stakes.
This Liston should be an ex-
tremely interesting race on several
counts. It should indicate whether
Lord is still Victoria’s best w.-f.-a.
horse; if Olive Branch’s rating as
Caulfield Cup favorite is justified;
the progress of But Beautiful under
the care of her owner, H. G.
Raymond; whether Master Rane,
who has been off the racing scene
for nearly two years, can come
back; how good are the newly-
turned four-year-olds; and whether
Nilarco is as good as his Victorian
admirers think.
Track reports suggest that Lord
will win the race, but this writer
has heard very good accounts of
the proved weight-for-age performer
Webster, and selects Webster to win
from Lord and My Peak.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Owned and trained at New-
castle, Wanton Lass justified
her favoritism for last Satur-
day’s Canterbury Stakes, in
which the line-up for the
£1750 prize was one of the
weakest w.-f.-a. fields for
years. Only eight horses
accepted, and of those Hydrell
and Sea Hound were with-
drawn on the day—not that
either would have troubled
Wanton Lass, winner of 12
races to date and at four of
her last six starts. Her time
was slow—l.l3i —but she was
being eased at the finish, beat-
ing Grecian Vale and Quiet
Life with a lot in hand.
Bardshah (fourth) shaped well
enough to remember for a
longer race.
• • • •
Given the mount on Irish
Folly in the August Handicap,
A. Mulley rode as splendid a
race as you’d wish to see.
Halfway through the running
Irish Folly was several lengths
from the pacemakers, but
Mulley sat pat, keeping to the
rails and fairly driving
through, to score by inches
from Rock Mai, with Edspell
the closest of thirds.
Press-boomed on the strength
of his three wins from as many
starts —the third of them last
November! Hydrell was
made a hot favorite for the
Three-year-old Handicap. The
Hydrogen gelding ran nowhere
near the boom —but how many
times has that happened after
a long absence from racing?
The race was easily won by
Prince Wilkes, favorably
handicapped at 7.11. He had
also won at Warwick Farm a
week earlier; then tests
revealed dope, and he was
relegated out of the places,
though all bets, of course,
stood.
• • • •
Rose of Persia, easy winner
of the Canterbury Welter, was
one of a number of horses
taken by their trainers to
Rosebery when rain made the
going soft at Randwick earlier
in the week. She went well
in her Rosebery trial, though
not ridden out, and she
improved on it, lumping her 9.8
in what looked a particularly
good effort. Her stablemates
Persian Lyric and Prince
Darius, nominated for the
coming Warwick Farm meet-
ing, also worked well at Rose-
bery. No doubt there’ll be
somewhat classier fields for the
Warwick Farm meeting,
especially in the Hob™
Stakes, nominations f or 1?
included Wenona Girl T
sian Lyric, Sky High ft?
Benalla and The *2
Over the years quite , „
ber of placegetters \ n t
Hobartville have gone J
fill places in the Derby\
only a few have won U
among them Rampion (1%
Ammon Ra (1931), MaJ
cent (1945) and MaJ
Towers (1959).
King’s Wish, one of Mon*
Anderson’s team and raced to
H. Gordon Munro, easily wot
last week’s Hawkesbury Thnt
year-old Maiden for fj|
The Munro livery— pink-an*
black stripes, pink cajHj'
been familiar on Sydney a«
northern tracks down th
years, and King’s Wish mj
well go on to much belle
things. She’s bred on interest
ing lines, being by King’s On
(imp.) from Ladies’ Lodge, i
imported mare and winitn'r
England, by Grandmaster in®
Miss Pecksniff by Dastur. hi!
filly was bred by Miss H
Quinn, of Greylands, Owner
Gap, up in the Scone (N.SI)
country. At the same meetiij
Our Someo, from the Jati
Denham stable, won tk
Three-year-old Maiden fi
colts and geldings, and shol


■ „„ a citv track. Bred
Zealand, he’s by
1B „ /imp.) and Casablanca
Serozshah (imp.).
; * *
Air showed a good profit
for th a ivelv little was spent on
facilities and less prize-
•»r« "bated, large-scale
®° Aments are mooted for the
gpr °Sre and no doubt the
*,2 aimed at consolidating
commute additional source
Sue will be the Warwick
L motor-racing circuit, which
JSd prove very popular. Mr.
! e Dovey has been under news-
-0 r fir» a»ain on the question
Bolding a position on the AJ.C.
committee.
• •
Retween them the A.J.C. and
the S.T.C. Paid well over the
million in various taxes A.J.C.,
Si S.T.C, £500,970. With
M’paid, the AJ.C.’s profit was
£108147 the S.T.C.’s, £22,514.
sTC. report states that its
proposed to sell portion of Rose-
bery racecourse at auction, but
with provision for training there
till December 31, 1961.
t * *
The Trots
Despite the icy evening there
was a crowd of 14,507 at
Harold Park last Friday night
to see up-and-coming trotter
All Clear open the new season
with a comfortable win from
36yds. behind in the first
event. It was All Clear’s third
in a row at Harold Park ; he
won the last two trotters’ races
Wore the winter recess.
Making a debut at the Park,
New Zealander Battle Fling
showed promise of becoming
a top-liner with his courageous
win in the Handicap. He had
to be taken wide over the last
bit but responded very gamely.
He’s been set for the Spring
Cup (October 21), and needs
two more wins at the Park to
be eligible.
* * *v
Goff Champs.
With Kel Nagle and Frank
Phillips the only “big-name”
Professionals in this year’s Aus-
trian Open, most of the in-
terest in the National titles has
een Reused on the amateurs.
The four-man team for the
isenhower Cup, to be played
~n 7 ir ica h rom September 28
aft C t °^ er W *U announced
n.. er Open, and selection,
f n ea sy task with such a
form eam ’ w *h Hinge on per-
7 an ces in the current titles.
nice Devlin has not been
showf r C£ 7 Hh but a forward
ST § * the stroke-play
iim me . nts s bo u 1 d make
) - rta i n a Place.
£?etd I \l Ck CooBan ’
matcbpc Cd -i l . ll tbe Inter-State
displace’ W * also be hard to
he two new members of the
N.S.W. feam, Ted Ball and
Kevin Donohoe, have strong
claims for selection.
Kevin has had a fine season
in N.SW. in club matches,
tournaments and the State
titles, was undefeated in the
inter-State matches and, with
Barry Warren, finished runner-
up in the National foursomes.
Ball’s record this year would
be hard to beat: Club cham-
“And then I thought — what’s the obvious thing for a
cricket-umpire to do in the winter-time?”
pion, State champion, National
foursomes champion, he won
three of his five matches as No.
1 for N.S.W. and was under
par in one of his defeats. Inci-
dentally, those two long putts
Ted sank on the last two holes
of the foursomes are not as
unusual for him as they would
be for most golfers. He is one
of the best putters I have seen.
He takes the line of the putt
very quickly, and always makes
sure he is up to the hole. I
have seen him go too strongly
for a difficult putt and then,
without any hesitation, walk
over and bang in a return of
six-feet or more. There aren’t
many golfers who consistently
follow the rule of playing for
the back of the cup with short
putts —Ted follows it with 20-
footers,
Victorians Bachli, Hartley
and Routley, together with
N.S.W, Vic Bulgin and Phillip
Billings, Peter Toogood from
Tasmania and possibly South
Australian Bob Stevens, are the
other “form horses.” The
selectors will face an unenviable
task, and it will be interesting
to see how much reliance they
place on experience. Australia
is defending the title, and the
selectors may not feel it to be
in good faith to “experiment”
with too young a team.
C. Brown.
Other Sports
“Lai”: Melbourne, after
annihilating Collingwood in
that August 6 “match-of-the-
year” before a crowd of 81,099,
are now reckoned certainties
for the 1960 flag. If they win
this year’s grand-final it will
be their second successive
premiership and their fifth in
six years—they’re won every
V.F.L. premiership since 1955,
with the exception of 1958,
when Collingwood caused “the
upset of the century” by
downing the Demons. Lou
Richards, ex-Collingwood star
and now on radio and TV,
rates the Melbourne “machine”
the greatest team ever.
Yet on Saturday Melbourne, and
Essendon as well, bit the rather
damp dust —the Demons downed
9.13-11.10 by Hawthorn, and the
Dons beaten 7.15-6.8 by Carltom
Hawthorn is close to the “four”
(Melbourne, Essendon, Fitzroy,
Collingwood), but the Blues are
well down the list. In the other
clashes Fitzroy beat Footscray,
7.11-4.6; Collingwood beat St.
Kilda, 8.12-7.7; Souths accounted
for Richmond, 13.13-7.12; and
Geelong trounced Norths, 10.14-4.10.
* * sit
In Sydney’s Rugby Union the
leading bunch —Norths, Manly,
Gordon and Randwick —all held
their places with wins on Satur-
day, Norths beating Easts 17-11,
Manly 19-11 too good for Parra-
matta, Randwick downing St.
George 21-11, and Gordon
beating University 20-12. Drum-
moyne added Eastwood to the
defeated, 11-8.
* * *
Wests proved far too strong for
Easts in the Rugby League play-
off for second place at Sydney
Cricket Ground last Saturday,
beating them 18-7. Keith Holman’s
grand display behind West’s pack
puts him right back in line for
World Cup selection. Western
Suburbs are this year’s winners of
the Flower's Memorial Pennant for
the second time —last winning it
in 1948. In a do-or-die effort at
the Sports Ground on Sunday ex-
Queensland captain Brian Davies’s
men also downed Balmain 18-7.
Canterbury, though they lost the
first four of their five matches, go
into fourth place—Canterbury’s
best season since 1947.
* * *
Sounds like one for the
Marines, but it’s in the record-
books that in their annual tri-
angular Rugby Union cham-
pionships this year—decided at
the R.A.A.F.’s Richmond h.q.
—the Navy and the Army and
the Air Force all won! In the
opening match Army beat
Navy 24-12; R.A.A.F. beat
Army 14-11 ; and Navy beat
R.A.A.F. 13-11. As title-
holders, Navy could have held
the Championship Cup for an-
other year, but good sports-
manship decided to allow all
three to take turns with the
useful utensil for four months
each.
* * *
“Selja”: Doug McLean,
who died suddenly at Ipswich
(Q.) recently, was one of the
few to have represented Australia
at both Rugby Union and Rugby
League. A winger, McLean toured
South Africa jn 1933 and N.Z. in
1936 at Union, and then went to
England with the 1937-38 Rugby
League Kangaroos. (Two of
McLean’s brothers, Jack and Bill,
also played for Australia at the
amateur code; Bill, I think, led the
1939 Wallabies —the team that
arrived in England at the onset
of war, and was recalled without
playing a game.) Two Australian
Rugby League champions of recent
years, Mossop and Kearney, have
also represented Australia at both
codes; but Union stars don’t
always succeed when they change-
over. It may be due in some
cases to “tougher competition,”
but usually it’s probably due to
inability to adapt one’s play to
League; and the two codes do
demand, in some respects, different
techniques. However, former
Queensland Rugby Union Test lock
Kevin Ryan, on current form with
St. George, would look to have a
pretty fair show of becoming a
League international.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPANESE TRADE PRACTICES
Allegedly unfair trading-
practices by Japan are
causing some concern in
British wool-textile centres.
Bradford “Wool Record’
reports that at a recent press-
conference arranged by the
National Wool Textile Export
Corporation and the Wool Tex-
tile Delegation samples were
displayed of exported Japanese
cloth bearing in English such
descriptions as “Serge 100%
Wool” and “Extra Fine 100%
Wool” without mention of the
country of origin, thus giving
the impression that the cloth
was manufactured in England.
This practice breaks an inter-
national agreement signed by
Japan:
“The Japanese could hardly
cla ; m that the descriptions were
added after manufacture, as
they were woven into the
selvedges. Nor could the
Japanese Government claim
that it knew nothing about
these practices, because all
cloth exported from Japan had
to pass through the hands of
Government inspectors.
“This was only one of a
number of unfair practices to
which the Export Corporation
and the Textile Delegation
directed attention at the press-
conference.
“Japan’s methods of sub-
sidising the production of cloth
for export were revealed and
the ‘link’ system described.
This is a method introduced
by Japan in 1950 to link access
to raw material with export
performance. Those who ex-
ported wool-textiles were given
valuable rights to foreign ex-
change for importing raw
materials, and these rights were
saleable at premiums varying
from 15 to 60 per cent.
“This system, which is still
in force, has resulted in a price-
level for exports of wool-
textiles from Japan much lower
than that at which they are sold
in the domestic market. Eighty-
eight per cent, of the wool-
cloth produced in Japan is sold
on the domestic market and
subsidises the other 12 per
cent., which is exported. In
October, 1959, a spokesman of
the Japanese Ministry of Inter-
national Trade and Industry
was reported to have said that
the gap between domestic and
export prices in Japan was as
wide as 40 to 50 per cent. This
is dumping, and as such is con-
demned by the General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade
(G.A.T.T.).
“In a statement the Export
Corporation and the Textile
Delegation said they appre-
ciated that, like the United
Kingdom, Japan had to export
to live. They realised, too,
that it was in the strategic in-
terests of the Western nations
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
POOR BUTTERFLY!
that she should be helped and
encouraged to trade. The
British wool-textile industry,
for its part, had no desire to
see Japan kept out of world
markets, provided her com-
petition was fair.’’
Commenting on the same
press-conference, the “York-
shire Post” notes that the issue
of Japanese practices “assumes
new significance on recurring
requests .by Japan that she
should be given most-favored-
nation status by member-
countries of the General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade,
and that restrictions now im-
posed on Japanese goods under
Article 35 of G.A.T.T. should
be removed.
“Japan argues that if she
is to function as a bulwark
against Communism there
should be no trade-discrimina-
tion against her by the West.
The argument does not lack
point, but wool-textile and
other trading communities feel
strongly that Japan should not
be admitted to any equal-
trading relationship with other
countries until she discontinues
her unfair trading-methods.
“Meanwhile, it is considered
that other countries should
deal with this unfair competi-
tion not by general increases in
tariffs (under which all coun-
tries suffer) but by anti-dump-
ing duties against the goods of
the offending country. By that
means, the cause of greater
freedom in international trade
could be advanced and Japan
made to see the error of her
ways. Finally, the remedy is in
Japan’s own hands.”
Ceylon Elections
Come press comment on the
results of Ceylon’s general
election in which the Freedom
party, led by Mrs. Bandara-
naike, widow of the Prime
Minister who was assassinated
last year, won a decisive
victory:
London Economist” l ttP ru
landslide victory of the Free
dom party has allowed it u
form a Government of j t !
own. This is really the raost
significant fact of the election
Even Mr. Bandaranaike’s fairly
cohesive Peoples’ Front Gov
eminent four years ago began
to wobble dangerously after
one year. Mrs. Bandaranaike
has no such problem. Though
her party lacks the dynamism
of the Government formed in
1956 and has no clearly defin-
able ideological position, the
election results have saved her
from any reliance on her
Marxist allies. She herself \y as
never too happy about the
electoral tie-up with the ex-
treme Left and never lost an
opportunity of declaring that
the electoral pact would end
with the elections.”
The same: “Mrs. Bandara-
naike now has an opportunity
to provide Ceylon with the
stable Government it has lacked
for so long. Her success will
largely depend on how reso-
lutely she tackles the economic
and financial problems.
“The recent reduction in the
price of subsidised rice and a
new commitment to increase
the pay of public servants, after
the publication of the present
salaries-commission, may force
her to take unpopular decisions
and resist the natural tempta-
tion of new Governments to
make extravagant gestures.
“In the composition of the
Cabinet and in the statements
she has so far made, Mrs.
Bandaranaike has shown a
surprising firmness of judgment
and will. Discipline is what
Ceylon'' needs first. Having
failed to learn it from a series
of men, admittedly abler than
its new Prime Minister, the
Sinhalese may yet learn it from
a woman.”
* * *
John Ardagh, in London
“Time and Tide’’: “The firs
declarations of the new Oov-
ernment have been encourag-
ing. The Sinhalese are not 1J
ready to run the largely Britis
managed tea-estates themselves,
and Mrs. Bandaranaike is«
to postpone indefinitely w
plan to nationalise them. I
lon’s most urgent need no
for more foreign investment,
wNch was frightened away
the severe political and ... j,
upheavals last winter.
and other Western fi™ l ■
need guarantees for the
vestments. . ~; h D s e
“But the trade-unions, whos


The same
in a fine
new bottle
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
Now,
*
more
than ever..
One Scotch stands out
NZ1.8 766
frikeS crippled Colombo har-
fnr several months last
b !r are still largely controlled
Scanning Trotskyist
l « Dr. Perera, who is
Lading nationalisation of
Sea-estates and other ioreign
lerns and would like to see
Russ ia taking a hand in Cey-
L’s economy. It will require
lthe new Government’s skill
' carry-out its economic policy
ge dissauding Dr. Perera
tom starting fresh trouble.”
* * *
Edinburgh "Scotsman”: “The
most difficult issue before the
jeW Government is still the
position of the Tamil minority,
[Jose Federal party has in-
pvitably won the same 15 seats
as before. The Freedom party
»as accused of what many
Sinhalese unfortunately tend to
consider ‘softness’ towards the
Tamils. It is to be hoped that
this accusation is well-founded,
for some compromise will have
to be reached on the rights of
this important minority and in
particular on the official status
ofthe Tamil language. No one
wants to revert to the passions
nd violence of two years ago.
Int attempts to settle the ques-
tion are fraught with danger ;
in Opposition can all too
easily exploit communal feel-
ings.”
British Cabinet
Reshuffle
Selected editorial comment
J on the Macmillan Govern-
ment's Cabinet reshuffle:
London “Economist”: “By
[ke litmus-test of politics—
‘Where is the responsibility?’—
the one Minister who certainly
fcbs higher on the ladder of
Political power as a result of
™ changes is Mr. Macmillan
Both the key posts,
the Treasury under Mr. Selwyn
u °yd and the Foreign Office
ti u orc * Home (with Mr.
heatli as his Commons and
winet shadow), now have the
I°f being his personal depen-
Cle l’ an< d’ altogether, the
w Government looks un-
®fortably like a contempor-
-2 ,ch of bishops all waiting
lw. i and clearance from
te , et .b. before taking any
f °ral initiative. (All except,
is ,Jf Se ’ ®rshop Butler, who
yj , ver y carefully undis-
aumb ese moves in his
Com ° ? ac ®’ the
of r n °^ Ce ’ fading the House
Tory and chairing the
"Spectator”: “The
> — w bich has aroused most
interest is, naturally, the ap-
pointment of the Earl of Home
to be Foreign Secretary; the
most reckless appointment, as
the ‘Mirror’ put it, ‘since the
Roman Emperor Caligula made
his horse a consul.’
“The parallel is apt; the Earl
of Home at his best has shown
signs of equine intelligence, and
Mr. Macmillan has long since
made it clear that he likes the
relationship of Prime Minister
to Foreign Secretary to re-
semble that of Miss Pat Smythe
to Prince Hal.
“Indignation about the
Foreign Secretary being in the
House of Lords is consequently
misplaced. In the days when
the Commons was a democratic
body there was something to
be said for the idea that all
important Ministries should be
held by commoners. Now that
it is run in the interests of the
two big political parties—
which means, in effect, that the
Commons are responsible not
to the electorate but to the
party Whips—there is little to
be said against having Minis-
ters in the Lords.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post’’: “On per-
sonal grounds, Lord Home’s
should prove an admirable
appointment. He has long
experience of policy-making in
the Cabinet room, and he com-
bines marked strength of
character with an inborn cour-
tesy. He has shown in his work
as Commonwealth Secretary
that he can hold to the right
policy with excellent firmness
and can win respect by his
candor and integrity. Though
he knows the Prime Minister’s
mind and no doubt is in close
sympathy with his aims, he will
be no ventriloquist’s dummy
merely serving as his master’s
voice.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The P.M., very much taken
with the glamorous role of
DiploMac, needs to have in the
large corner - room at the
Foreign Office- a well-tried
friend who is not going to want
to conduct his own foreign
policy. Partnership with Home
solved that problem: it left
DiploMac with the work and
his amiable titled friend with
most of the show.
“But Home also provided a
way out of another problem:
how to make an important
Cabinet appointment without
encouraging or discouraging
any of the would-be heirs to
the succession. Home at the
Foreign Office equals no
change of positions in the race
for the Premiership.”
* * *
Manchester “G uardia n':
“The Treasury will be a test
of Mr. Lloyd’s mettle as a
politician. Next to the Prime
Minister the Chancellor of the
Exchequer is the most promi-
nent in the public eye. It is
also the recognised place in
which to stake out a claim for
eventual succession to the


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE —MARINE-ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Premiership. As Foreign Sec-
retary Mr. Lloyd has not dis-
played much command of the
House of Commons, nor has
he shown great originality.
Will he show more as Chan-
cellor? For most of his term at
the Foreign Office he was over-
shadowed by the two Prime
Ministers under whom he
served (Sir Anthony Eden and
then Mr. Macmillan). But he
started Without the advantage
of foreign experience;
he may be more at home in
dealing with economic affairs.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“The three things the Cabinet
as a whole will require in the
next year or so are strong
nerves, decisiveness and the
courage to jettison old policies
if needs be. Foreign policy is
perhaps the field where least
change will be needed; the
Prime Mini s t e r’s patient,
reasonable persistence is surely
the right approach. Africa will
require an iron nerve, and
perhaps an iron control over
the back benches. The gaping
void that represents defence
policy has still to be filled ; the
main need here is determina-
tion to cut our losses and
perhaps start again.”
Dragnet Digest
Roderick MacFarquhar, in
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Peking cannot use Chinese
nationalism among the over-
seas communities unless she
can protect them. After Indo-
nesia, no Chinese community
can really feel that Peking can
protect it —for the present.
“So, despite all the Chinese
Communist study-groups scat-
tered throughout the [South-
east Asian] area, the overseas
communities cannot yet be
effective fifth - columns. They
must make their peace with the
local Governments or be treated
with great severity, even ex-
pulsion. What the situation
will be like in another 10 to 15
years is another matter.”
* * *
Adlai Stevenson, in London
“Sunday Times”: “The United
States has a profound security
interest in strengthening the
—London “Daily Express.”
“AFTER WHAT I’VE BEEN THROUGH, MR.
KHRUSHCHEV WON’T HAVE ANY TERRORS
LEFT FOR ME!”
links between Africa and the
free world and, for Africa’s
sake, in helping to secure the
continuance of one profoundly
beneficial consequence of the
Western connection —a century
of almost complete absence of
inter-African warfare.
“I do not have in mind a
specific African commitment to
support the West in the power
'conflict. On the contrary, the
happiest outcome would be if
cold - war pressures could be
excluded from the African con-
tinent altogether. We are not
trying to create clients. We
only seek to leave people’s
destinies in their own hands.
This is incompatible with
Communist control. But it is
perfectly compatible with
neutrality.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “In
the Cpngo, every day reveals
the enormous difficulties that
the United Nations will have
to surmount. The neutral
countries cannot by themselves
provide the necessary technical
aid to keep the wheels running.
Nor can the Belgians, although
they may be willing to bail the
Congo out from month to
month for a short period, be
expected to put the clock right
back to before July 7. Sooner
or later if the Congo is to
remain a coherent entity, it
will be necessary for the Powers
to come to terms among th|m-
selves about how they mean to
shoulder the burden of running
the country under United
Nations auspices.
“But even this may seem
to be a vain hope in the
current state of East-West
relations. Will the Russians
even agree to pay a share
of' the upkeep of the troops
that have already gone
in? They have not given a
pen n y towards the lv (
Nations force at r, Uai!eJ
Sinai. ItisaL o®l- 0 ® 1 -
whe t her M f Khrushcffi
for African fnends will carl
him as far as the creatil]?
practical international!
organisation.” aiai «
* *
Tvone Kirkpatrick i„ r„
don “Times”: “The" transit *
to a democratic regime
many has not been without,;
difficulties. Yet there are tod
large numbers of men atJ
women who are sincerelv
attached to democratic ideal
and our [Britain’s] policyJ
be firmly directed towards kit
ing them to anchor Geri®
in the Western bloc,
should be in a better posits
to do this if we were mu
closely associated with Europe
but at least we can give syj
pathy and support to the k
elements in Germany, parin’
larly when opponents of d»
cracy raise their heads. \
ex-Nazis and the Commis
are doing all they can to tel
existing ties with the West and
we shall be doing their wort
if we indulge in indiscriminate
condemnation of all thing
German and thus lead ti
German masses to believe that
there is no place for them in.
Western association.”
* # *
A special correspondent
London “Economist”: “I
patience for less-fettered»
tact with the outside world s
evidently becoming so i
spread [in Russia) that I
authorities feel iti®
somehow be diverted ®
controllable channels. It
no longer enough for J
Soviet papers to get old t
trusted ‘Western’ contribute'
(such as Dzheyms Old#
who claim to voice the
of the British and Arne®
peoples, to write, with hyp* l ;
repetition, that: 'Mr. 0*
chev is right when he ’
that . . . Khrushchev is f;
and Mr. Macmillan even
with him in private, • • •
know that Mr. Khrushc#
absolutely correct
so on, and on.
“A more ingenious
tion is the revival of the
Za Rubezhom’ (‘Abroadh®
sisting mainly of e xtra
the foreign press., ®
these extracts are fr ® f(j
munist sources, ano jfl;
are chosen because th ,
American policy
Soviet achievements, J
and there a nonc4 3
sentence slips m-


FmMi mi iiie
A flag is a symbol of a nation’s being. Salute
it, and we honour those whom it represents as
living people.
That is why the flags of member countries are
raised at the headquarters of the United Nations.
It explains why rows of national flags line the
entrance to some of the great international airports
of the world: a grand courtesy, expressed in the
simplicity of a piece of coloured cloth!
The origin of our own Australian flag has
been recalled this year by the death of Mr. I. W.
Evans, of Beaumaris, Victoria, who in 1901, as a
boy of fourteen, won a contest sponsored by the
Australian Government to produce a design for the
flag of the new Federation.
From that evolved the six-starred pattern
incorporating the Union Jack which we reverence
as the Australian Flag today.
There are two touches to this which I think
we should remember when we see the national
standard flying.
First, it arose out of the spontaneous will of
our people in six States to merge as a nation in
common union. Later events were to invest the
flag with special glory through the deeds of its
heroic defenders. But the blood of conflict
was not in its forming. For that we should be
humbly thankfulry
And secondly, it is notable that the designing
of our flag should have excited the imagination of
a young boy. For a country itself so young, that
is supremely fitting.
There are companion thoughts to this subject,
of course. We can recall, for instance, that many
a once proudly flown flag has been changed in
design, while some have disappeared altogether,
under the pressures of history.
And in all love for what Australia means to
us, this should strengthen our determination to see
that our flag is kept waving high and free above
us; and that all the service of which we are
individually capable shall be applied, under it, to
give our country her still greater place among
the nations.
. wee kly have been
jjsues of m is —evidence
eagerly o° ° for any-
enough or £ a j n tly ‘outside.’
thing ® ven . s ieved stuff, in
But will s mere ]y w het the
tlie lon pLci’an’s appetite for
younS ”,. 9”
t *
a Kissinger, in the
Wutterly “Foreign
r ”■ “If we [the West] are
ie progress in the field of
10,113 C o n trol, the military
Tblishment must come to
“BUT, PRIME MINISTER, YOU PROMISED THAT
ONE DAY I COULD BE FOREIGN SECRETARY.”
London “Spectator’s” cartoon comment on the transfer of Selwyn
[?] from the post of British Foreign Secretary, where he was
widely thought to be overshadowed by the Prime Minister himself,
to Chancellor of the Exchequer.)
understand that in the present
state of technology an arms-
is the most unstable of all
forms of security, and that
properly conceived arms-con-
Pol may increase the security
0 countries. And many
enthusiasts for arms - control
must realise that ardor is no
substitute for precision. A
dea f depends on the
tity to be concrete. In the
I few years we may have
. ~P S our last opportunity to
Jf arms-race. Perhaps
mot Curacy will foil our
Il e t meSt efforts - it
failed K 6 Un f° r givable if we
to lJ ecau L Se we have refused
or the the importance
lenge- Plexit y of the chal-
* * *
kujfr S ' Za S° r ia, in “Prob-
« tveT""™"”' “I" the
Chinese ! years > as the
efforts tn PI K SUe e * r fm'ious
in dustrial an?!??. a modern
• nd barring a milltar y Power,
ln ra<^ica l change
Mao r egim e P °tK Cy towards the
present neo-
Stalinist characteristics of
Chinese Communism are likely
to persist, causing an accentua-
tion of Sino-Soviet divergences,
Khrushchev, therefore, can
probably find little comfort in
the words of General Liu Ya-
lou, commander of the Chinese
Communist Air Force, who in
May, 1958, asserted that when
Communist China has ad-
vanced industrially and tech-
nologically to the point of
being able to produce its own
nuclear weapons, ‘another new
turning-point will probably
appear in the international
situation.V’
Various Voices
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“We are not to be separated
from our allies by threats, nor
unduly worried by propaganda.
At the same time we have a
deep desire to see the present
tension in the world relaxed.
But if this is to be done all
sides must co-operate to mini-
mise and not magnify incidents
which must inevitably arise in
the present sad state of the
world.”
•f* «!•
Commander A. T. Courtney,
0.8. E. : “If we believe there
is any continuity in Russian
history we should not be par-
ticularly surprised at the failure
of the Summit talks. For
two-hundred years British
statesmen have been puzzled
by the inconsistencies of Rus-
sian policy. Formerly, we
called it the Eastern question
or the Russian question. Now
we call it the cold war.”


THE AIRBORNE
SCOOTER
By
GAVIN CASEY
Most motorists who take
it seriously sometimes
have dreams of in-
stalling a Wright
Whirlwind motor in an old
Austin Seven or something
like that. There is a great
romantic appeal about the
small, ancient, shabby vehicle
that can (theoretically) snarl
along the highway at an easy
100 m.p.h., giving a series of
staggering shocks to the
drivers of Buicks, Jaguars and
the like.
It was like that with Tiny,
except that he was a motor-
scooter enthusiast. He used to
get around on his screaming
little machine sitting up like
a Qantas kangaroo with its
tail chopped off and wearing
a glamorous sort of crash-hat
to protect his brain, in case he
had one.
He did have a passion for
motor-scooters, and this grew
as he experienced the wild joys
of a little motor of about
99c.c., then the surging power
of a 125c.c. model, and
eventually the crazy delight of
nearly a mile a minute with a
giant 250c.c. engine under him.
■OUT the trouble with Tiny
was that he was never
satisfied.
“You know,” he said to me
one night, “I’d like to have one
of these things that could
really go.”
“That one seems to go all
right as long as you put some
juice in it,” I said, nodding at
his 250c.c. Bubbler.
“G oe s beautifully,” he
agreed. “Steers like a dream.
Comfortable as an armchair.
Brakes that stop her in her
own length from 30 m.p.h.
Never misses a beat. But I
mean go fast —really fast.”
“Well, we could tune her up
a bit,” I suggested. “Lift the
compression and time her for
it, and go in for a bit of polish
here and there. We’d probably
get an extra five miles an
hour.”
“Nuts!” snorted Tiny
scornfully. “I mean real speed.
Three figures or nothing.”
“You’d better make it
nothing, then, and avoid dis-
appointment.”
“I don’t know,” said Tiny,
with a dreamy, lost look in
his eye. “Listen to the idea
I’ve got.”
Then he told me all about
his mad scheme for installing
the motor of a 600c.c Super
Savage Streamliner under the
engine-cowling of the little
Bubbler, and giving everybody
on the roads the shock of their
lives.
“Think of when I zing
through town at about sixty
and Snooper takes-off after
me,” he enthused. Snooper
was, of course, our traffic-cop.
“When my little darling leaves
that dirty great twin of his for
dead he’ll never recover.”
I pointed out that it would
cost a fortune, but he didn’t
care. He had more money
than sense, anyway. We con-
fided in Fat Burns and Greasy
Jack, who is supposed to be
a first-class mechanic, and we
had to tell Julie, too, because
she usually decorates the
pillion-seat of Tiny’s scooter,
and she might fall off with
astonishment if he suddenly
revved it up, to more than 100
m.p.h. without warning her.
We swore them to secrecy.
Tiny went to another town,
and came back in the middle
of the night with a magnifi-
cent, 120-m.p.h. Super Savage
Streamliner. It was just nicely
run-in and ready to give its
maximum performance. It
seemed to me a shame to muck
about with it, but Tiny was
set on his idea, so we hid both
models away in the garage at
Greasy’s house, and started
working on them at nights.
\\f ORKING I s the word. You
look at a motor, and you
look at a frame and transmis-
sion, and you see how you
can fit the two together by
altering or making some new
engine-lugs and changing the
size of a sprocket.
But when you’ve done that,
the transmission doesn’t line-
up, and if it did, one of the
bars of the frame would be
where the chain would run,
and the controls won’t fit, and
you’ve forgotten that there’s
no room for the bigger car-
burettor of the new motor.
You fix all these things, at
great cost in time and money
—and then the cowling won’t
go on until you’ve spent
another week and another £2O
at the panel-beater’s.
It wears you down.
But nothing could stop Tiny.
His jaw stuck out further and
further, and he cursed us into
renewed activity when we got
discouraged, and his bank-
manager began to regard him
with suspicion, under the im-
pression that he must have be-
come a heavy punter to get
through money as he was
doing. But the day came
when, at last, we could proudly
display our new and surpri
machine to Julie before itsfc
trial run.
“Doesn’t it look funnv' 5
said Julie.
Unfortunately, the girl J
right. The machine wouldhaui
looked pretty much like ai
ordinary 250c.c Bubbler fe I
a distance of half-a-mileu 1
dark and rather foggy ity,
From any closer, in any better
light, it looked like a Bull
with the mumps, abdominal
swellings, and all sorts of deni
and lumps in places whtrtj
there were not dents and tap!
on the standard model.
Tiny didn’t care for tit
comment, though.
“She’ll go so fast noW
will notice those details," 1
snarled, looking at Julie;
though he wondered what I
had ever seen in her.
Then Fat, who was a com
petition rider, started Ik
engine and took to the saddk
The motor purred as a go!
Super Savage should, and li
looked contented again. B
lifted the clutch-lever i*
found low gear. He revved I
engine into a mild, subdefi
roar, and eased the clutch s
again. The whole mad*
gave a convulsive shudder.
Fat revved the motor al®
more, and there was a so*
like a load of kerosene®
falling down a shaft. Ajatf
tear appeared in the cow®
over the gearbox, and in
with the peculiar noises seven
pinions and shafts fell J 1
The clutch next came on,
larged the hole so that it co
reach freedom, and went no
ing off along the road.
Fat stopped the engine I
“I was afraid of that.
Greasy, our. star nnechan
wisely, stroking his r
After we had ,
off him, picked him up,
dusted him a little* j
plained brightly that he ,
have known that the (
and transmission oi . »
Bubbler would not be 3 (
handle the more-thaiw


W doH t>y * great beaSt ° E
>Stove to put in the
J.of the Savage transmis-
* that’s all,” he announced,
flf’e did.
,„ok about three weeks
1 and all sorts ok special
L and sprockets had to be
Se, and the rear wheel had
, It’ re-spoked.
Tiny began to go and
iniestarted riding on the back
the traffic-cop’s twin, be-
L e Tiny’s scooter was
lays out of action. But once
more the great day came and
this time the model moved off,
wt h the wheel-spokes bending
and whipping about a good
heal as the engine poured out
its mighty power, and Fat
wobbling alarmingly.
Fat looked pale and shaken
when he brought her back,
tell, how’d you go?”
asked Tiny.
“Only had her up to
seventy,” Fat confessed.
“What’s up? Something
wrong with the motor?”
“No, motor’s all right,” said
Fat. “Only she won’t stop.” '
“Won’t stop?”
“Yes. Brakes. I put them
on at seventy in front of
Riley’s and she went over the
level-crossing, past Wilkins’s
windmill and half-way to the
Railway Dam before she
pulled-up.”
We all looked down at the
brakes, Small clouds of smoke
were oozing and puffing out
of them, and bits of lining and
melted alloy were falling out
on the ground. They had been
good brakes, but they had been
made for the weight and speed
of a standard Bubbler, not for
a bellowing monster such as
they now had to stop. And
that was that.
Re - spoking both wheels
onto the hubs and brake-
drums of the Super Savage
didn’t take long, though it was
costly, and of course it in-
volved substantial alterations
to the axles and the controls.
Anyway, when it was done
the performance of the Savage-
Bubbler was impressive.
Fat was really shaken when
he came back from the trial
ride this time.
He couldn’t talk for several
minutes, and when he
could his voice was a sort of
terrified croak.
“She took to the air. She
took off,” he gasped.
“Oh, goody! ” exclaimed
Julie. “We’ll be able to leave
the Scooter Club and join the
Aero Club, Tiny.”
“Don’t be silly,” Tiny
barked at both of them. He
seemed to be losing his sense
of humor, and he turned
savagely to Fat. “How could
she.take to the air?”
“So help me, she did,” Fat
swore. “She took off at the
culvert near Glassop’s gate
when I was doing eighty-five,
and we sailed clean over the
top of Old Mother Davilak’s
chook - house. She never
touched the ground again till
three posts from the corner
along the fence of Rafferty’s
bull-paddock.”
“It’s them wheels,” said
Greasy, as though he had
known all about it all along.
“Too small, them scooter-
wheels. All right for slow
speeds, no good when you
open the taps too far.”
vy'ELL, we got to work, and a
"" considerable job it was,
getting the brake-drums out of
the scooter-wheels, and back
where they belonged in the
wheels of the Savage, and then
getting the big wheels into the
little scooter. They just
wouldn’t fit without altera-
tions that would have made
the whole think look like a
camel with a broken back. So
Greasy decided that the light
scooter frame would probably
whip about a lot with the big
engine tearing at it, and upset
the handling, and we fitted the
Savage frame, too.
At last, it all worked. Fat
came back from the trial run
glowing with satisfaction, and
reported that he’d had her up
to 6000 r.p.m., which equalled
well over 100 m.p.h. She
handled like a dream, he said,
and as for the brakes, they
were real anchors.
We felt at last that none of
our time and Tiny’s money
had been wasted. We had
achieved our end, surmounting
all sorts of obstacles and show-
ing the true British spirit in
refusing to admit defeat.
We were all gathered out-
side the chemist’s shop on
the main corner when Tiny
took his first ride. Snoopy,
the traffic-cop, was there, too.
Tiny pulled-in to the kerb,
cutting the motor quickly so
that'Snoopy should not detect
from its throaty burble that
the machine was not a Bubbler
250c.c. scooter. Snoopy strode
over to him.
“Well, Tiny, old boy,” said
Snoopy, in the manner he
assumes when he is trying to
be affable, “so you’ve gradu-
ated from scooters to a real
man’s bike at last. A Super
Savage, too! Congratulations,
old boy.”
He stood back, to examine
the machine, and the rest of
us were stunned. Then we,
too, looked more closely. And
it was true. We’d altered the
scooter so much, and of neces-
sity put so many Super Savage
parts into it, that it simply
wasn’t a Bubbler any more,
It was now a Super Savage
Streamliner, with all the per-
formance expected of such,
but also immediately recognis-
able as what it was. The main
difference between it and an
ordinary Super Savage was
that this one had cost
£973 2s. 4d., not counting our
time.
“Nice job,” said Snooper,
approvingly. “Interesting new
cowling and streamlining
they’ve got on this model,
What about this tinny old
rear number-plate, though?
Surely that wasn’t a standard
fitting on a Super?”
“No,” said Tiny, dispiri-
tedly, as he kicked feebly to
start the motor and go away,
“That’s not standard, Snoop,
The original one was a bit
bent, so I took that one off my
little old Bubbler.”
THE HOLLIDAYS
"H enr y. if you MUST read in the original French, how about browsing through the menu at Maxims — I'm starving!"


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Our Shrinking Waterways
The opening of a low-level
bridge over the upper Clarence
River (N.S.W.) provided an-
other example of how Austra-
lia's waterways are playing a
diminishing part in transport.
The Clarence, one of the
finest coastal rivers in Aus-
tralia, at one time carried a
heavy volume of steamer-traffic
on its upper and lower reaches,
but during the past 30 to 40
years other forms of transport
have superseded it; and on a
recent visit there I was dis-
mayed to see that not one pier
remains of the many fine
wharves at which ocean-going
and river steamers used to
berth in my early days there.
The point at which the new
bridge crosses the river—lo
miles out of Grafton by road
and 20 miles by river—was
navigable until 20 or 30 years
ago, and two steamers used to
trade daily between Grafton
and Copmanhurst, 30 miles up-
river, carrying light cargo fo
residents along the banks and
providing an ideal trip for
tourists.
North Coast Steam Naviga-
tion droghers also made two
trips weekly, bringing maize,
pigs and other produce to Graf-
ton for shipment to Sydney.
In those days it was common
for one of the droghers to
arrive in Grafton with 1200
bags of maize aboard as well
as 100 prime pigs.
During the slaughtering-
season at the Ramornie meat-
works, on the Orara River, a
tributary of the upper Clarence,
the droghers used to take
cargoes of canned meat, often
exceeding a thousand cases,
twice weekly to Grafton for
shipment to Sydney and thence
to London to fulfil a contract
with the Imperial Army.
Cangai coppermines were
also flourishing about 40 years
ago, and the droghers used to
bring heavy shipments of ore
weekly from Copmanhurst to
Grafton for shipment over-
seas. The ore was brought
from the mines, about 30 miles
above navigation, to Copman-
hurst by horse- and bullock-
teams.
All the old river-traffic used
to pass the point where the low-
level bridge, lately opened by
Minister for Works P. N. Ryan,
cut-olf navigation between
Grafton and the upper river.
The river was kept open in the
early years by frequent dredg-
ing ; but when motor-transport
began to make inroads into
water-traffic the dredging
ceased and periodical freshes
and floods silted-up the chan-
nels, making it possible now to
walk halfway across the river
at points where it was once
deep enough for navigation.
The new bridge, which spells
progress for the present genera-
tion of farmers but saddens
“old hands,” replaces punts at
Eatonsville and Whiteman, thus
“You just scream ‘Open Sesame ’ in high C and a
sonic-reciprocating electronic device ..."
quickening and cheapening the
transport of stock and produce
to market.
In an attempt to meet the
flood-problem the bridge has
been built at a level where it
will be covered by water before
logs and heavy debris begin to
come downstream, enabling
them to wash over the railing
instead of piling up against it,
and thus obviating any risk of
a washaway.
It has been calculated that
the bridge will be out of service
for an average of four to five
days a year through floods, and
that it will be free of water at
about the same time as the
roads leading to it. —M. F.
Dixon (N.S.W.).
Control of School-children
The question whether
teachers have any control over
children after they leave school
is a burning one in my
(N.S.W.) district at present;
and I was interested to compare
the theory outlined in the Ser-
vice Department of B. 27/7/'6O
with actual practice as appar-
ently dictated by the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation.
Nearly 400 boys and girls
travel daily by train to and
from the local high-school.
Their irresponsible behavior in
alighting from the train before
it has pulled-up, and again in
standing close to the edge of
the platform when the train is
coming in, prompted the
stationmaster to appeal to their
headmaster to discipline them.
The headmaster replied that his
instructions are that children
are no longer under his or other
teacher-control once they leave
the school-grounds, and while
he is prepared to take “appro-
priate action” if he sees children
misbehaving he has no control
over them outside the school-
grounds.
He produced to th»
master a circular fJ tatl0 ‘
Teachers'
his statement. tui. pr °'
places control of child®*
railway premises sanJ* 0
the Railways Department 0
The head of our local Qa.
lie school says, on the J
hand, that he and his staff '
responsible for the cond Uc
their pupils until they !
their front-door. Theßu LLe ;
Service article says, i n e ff
that although it’s not a £
point of law it seems pr 0 U
that teachers have control
children going to or J
school, and that this certain;
seems to be the case *!
children are in uniform.
As most school-children tf«
uniforms today it would fc
appear that the Teachers'
Federation has sought to relieve
teachers of a responsibility
which properly belongs to their
in certain circumstances. Ift
now the task of the Deparf.
ment of Education tori
authoritatively on this pit
What is happening in mj
district could be happenings!
scores of other centres through,
out N.S.W.
In order, as he put it, to “save
the children from themselves’
our stationmaster has not
directed his staff to hoi
children outside the stationead
afternoon until two minute
before the train pulls in. 1
still gives them plenty of til
to reach the platform and jon
the train without running!
risks they previously rao
jostling and pushing adult
aside in their efforts to end
the carriages before the tail
pulls-up.—D.M.F. (N.S.W.).
More Schooling Needed
The N.S.W. Department j
Education has remains
strangely silent about the com-
ments made recently by to
fessor Harry Messel, of Sydtfl
University, and the NT
Teachers’ Federation, tta
children in this State are®
getting sufficient schooling.
Professor Messel would o«
come the problem by extendi
school hours, which now,
says, total only about-*'
week. The Teachers’ W*
tion says this would not ac
anything, but it strongly tav
extending the high' s .
course from five ye a J? .j.
It is now up to the Edu .
Department to say w l h
either, of the
approves and whether
take steps to introduce
From an economic vi
Professor Messel s P,;
has much to com


Between
Ourselves
ft
"Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
Ef tlCal T Wa Y. t 0 enSUre
. H ? Wlfe brings variety
interest to her cook-
; ' ,e e that she alwavs
pages in Kltche ™ft
Australian
WOMAN'S mirror
rice Nin EPENCE only
«ach week.
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
. the school week,
Lengtt l e v adding to daily hours
either nCg schools on Satur-
ot ° would enable greater use
\» 3 e 0 f existing accom-
lo be ma This in turn would
1 n ol the school life of the
! Jf students and make
< r he B reater numbers
<•'« Jh year, without
% the State with a vast
liWing-programnte which
finance anyhow. To
5 the high-school course
[Sirw™ 16 ' 0 * 6 P resent
I suspect few secondary
(eac hers would support the
Federation’s view, even if
additional teachers could be
recruited to maintain the
present teacher-pupil ratio.
Nineteenth-century reformers
maj have argued that compul-
sor; education would open the
gates to enthusiastic learners ;
tut the s ad truth is, as some-
one has said, that it shuts the
‘ gates to enthusiastic leavers.
The biggest problem in a
secondary school is the 14-
year-old who can’t wait to
leave and spends his final year
learning nothing in a spirit of
passive resistance. He is a
nuisance to the school, and his
presence slows-down the pro-
ps of the handful of pupils
A) expect to stay on after
reaching school-leaving age.
It would be much better to
leave the school-leaving age as
it is, while encouraging suit-
able pupils, by means of a
feral scheme of scholarships,
to remain at school until they
matriculate. This would pro-
tean incentive for 15-year-
®s, offset one of the main
attractions of leaving school
« assist families on small
'"comes, particularly where
their children attend non-
Government schools. —S.A.E.
(N.S.W.).
Impact of Immigration
Immigration Minister
Downer’s 1960 Roy Milne
lecture on the influence of im-
migration on Australian
foreign policy (B. 3/ 8 / ’6O) was
a thoughtful assessment of the
possibilities involved in bring-
ing large numbers of migrants
to Australia from Continental
“YOUR sensitive intuition, coupled with MY vivid
imagination, should solve this case, Inspector .”
Europe. However, his con-
clusion —that this is likely to
weaken Australia’s links with
both the U.K. and the Crown—
was unduly pessimistic.
The newcomers have been
drawn from all parts of Europe.
They are not so much settled
in specific localities as scat-
tered throughout the popula-
tion ; their children attend the
same schools as Old Austra-
lians ; and many will inter-
marry with them. Such fusion
indeed, has already begun ; and
the children of such marriages
are likely to conform in out-
look with the older Australian
population.
Europeans in general are
not anti-British. This senti-
ment is found only among
certain elements - particularly
nationals of countries with a
strong tradition of rivalry with
Britain. The proportion of
migrants from such countries
is not likely to have appreciable
influence. Certain migrants
who settled here in the past
were inspired by far more
positive anti-British feelings
than can be expected from
most migrants today “rebel
Irish,” for example, and radi-
cals from urban England and
Scotland. Many of these were
bitter, yet their grandchildren
are in the main as loyal to the
British connection and the
Crown as anyone else,
Mr. Downer’s belief that the
European influx may weaken
Australia’s allegiance to the
Crown is apparently based on
the fact that so far only 53
per cent, of those eligible for
naturalisation have sought it.
Some had declined naturali-
sation because they questioned
the relevance of having to
swear allegiance to the Queen
and be termed British
nationals. These can hardly
have been very numerous.
Some European countries are
still monarchies, and even in
republics there is often a strong
monarchial undercurrent. In-
deed, it is safe to say that
practically everywhere in
Europe most conservatives are
not unfriendly to royalty.
Migration from Europe to
Australia for political reasons
also differs radically from the
same type of migration from
Europe to the U.S. and even
to Britain and its colonies in
the 19th century. Then “politi-
cal” migrants were mostly
liberals or radicals who dis-
liked the atmosphere of the
conservative monarchist re-
gimes that ruled practically all
Europe. Most of the refugees
from countries now behind the
Iron Curtain could not
stomach life under Commun-
ism. Far from being likely “to
inject into the stream of Aus-
tralian political thought ideas
which [have] little sympathy
with things British and with
the monarchy,” any influence
they exert is likely to be in the
opposite direction.
In any case, immigration
from the U.K. will still be
substantial. On Mr. Downer’s
own showing, Australia’s popu-
lation is still between 85 and 90
per cent. British-extracted. It
will take a long time, even with
a heavier influx from Europe,
for that proportion to be
appreciably reduced. Terry
the Tory (N.S.W.).
Re-dating History
An archaeological storm has
broken in England over the
dating of the destruction of
Knossos, capital of the Minoan
civilisation in ancient Crete,
some 3000 years ago.
Sir Arthur Evans, excavator
of Knossos, put the date at
1400 b.c., which has been uni-
versally accepted ; but now an
English philologist, Professor
L. R. Palmer, after studying a
logbook kept by Evans’s assist-
ant, Duncan Mackenzie, sets
the beginning of the decline of
Knossos at 1200 b.c.
Does such recasting of
ancient historical dates really
matter? I think it does. I
think, too, that there will be
more of it in time —some of it
resulting from the work of the
American Immanuel Velikov-
sky.
In his book, Ages in Chaos,
Velikovsky claims that 600
years of Egyptian history have,
somehow or other, become
repeated in conventional
chronology.
Although he seems to have
been dismissed as a crackpot in


learned circles (how many other
great discoverers have met the
same disbelief at first!), his
arguments have completely
convinced me ; and everyone I
know who has read his works
has been equally captivated,
and convinced.
Briefly, Velikovsky claims
that the “unknown” Hyksos, or
“Shepherd Kings” barbaric
rulers of Egypt for a time —are
identical with the Amalekites.
(Amalek of the Bible: “Thou
shalt blot out the remembrance
of Amalek from under the
heaven”); that the Exodus
occurred at the time the Ama-
lekites were advancing on
Egypt, whereas historians
usually place it during the
reign of a much-later Pharaoh
(the Bible gives proof that the
Israelites fought Amalek in the
wilderness); that the eventual
liberator of Egypt from Hyksos
rule was Saul, though, of
course, because of conventional
chronology, he has never re-
ceived the credit for it —in fact,
the Hyksos and the Israelites
have been evaluated as one and
the same ; that the Queen of
Sheba was in fact the famous
Egyptian Queen Hatshepsut and
that Palestine was the mysteri-
ous land of Punt (in orthodox
chronology Queen Hatshepsut
lived about 600 years before
Solomon); that the son of
Solomon and Hatshepsut was
Thutmose 111, one of the most
famous of Egyptian con-
querors, who is identical with
the Biblical Shishak (in present
history Thutmose 111 conquered
and captured many cities in
pre-Israelite Canaan, which we
know actually had no cities
until the arrival of the Israel-
ites) ; and much else of the
same nature.
Relating it back to Knossos,
the dating of everything Cretan
so far has had to be made from
contacts with Egypt. That is,
unless the recent “cracking” of
the Minoan script has given
Crete a new dating. (Possibly
Professor Palmer has been
working on this angle.) But
anyway, if Velikovsky is
correct, new dating for Egypt,
Crete and Palestine will need to
be done. —K. Ross (Vic.).
HEALTH SCHEME ANOMALIES
“Pieter Nuyts’s” comments
on anomalies in the Common-
wealth Health Benefits Scheme
(B. 3/ 8 / ’6O) will be widely
supported.
In particular, I have always
resented having to be referred
to a specialist by a G.P. in
order to be able to claim from
the Benefits Fund the full
amount allowable on special-
ist’s fees.
If so referred, I can claim
£2 13s. for the first visit and
£1 6s. 6d. for each subsequent
visit. If not referred by a G.P.,
I can claim only £1 Is. for each
visit.
What is the reason for this?
Is it to screen cases, or to in-
crease the incomes of G.P.s?
It certainly is unnecessary in
many instances—a waste of
time and money to the tax-
payer and fund.
“Pieter Nuyts” is incorrect,
however, in stating that a tax-
payer’s rebate-claim for chem-
ists’ supplies covers “only
medical supplies obtained on an
order from a doctor.”
The Act and income-tax
form make no reference to a
doctor’s order. Anything
bought from a chemist to treat
an illness, including patent
medicines, can be claimed.
Toilet preparations, of course,
cannot be claimed, and there
are a few borderline items
which the Taxation Depart-
ment does not allow. —K.A.P.
(N.S.W.).
Doctors Viewpoint
It’s enlightening to realise
the impact the Government’s
so-called free-medicine scheme
has had on the man on the
wrong side of the prescription.
However, the two “Peters”—
“Simple” and “Nuyts” (B.
3/ 8 / ’6O) —have made certain
statements which, though super-
ficially true, are actually in-
correct. I feel it’s time the
doctor’s viewpoint was more
widely understood.
Basically, the average G.P. is
not against free medicine. Any-
thing which makes it easier for
him to treat his patient is, and
always will be, welcome. And
he knows better than most that
in this era of high prices it is
the chemist’s bill which hits
hardest. How often he hears
the statement: “I can pay you
and the hospital, doctor ; the
Medical Benefits takes care of
most of that. But my chemist’s
bill is the big snag. There’s no
scheme on which I can claim
for that.”
This is true. Drugs have
simply skyrocketed in price
since this writer first signed his
name to a script. And the
much-abused pharmacist is not
altogether to blame for this.
Prices are set —together with
mark-ups —by drug-manufac-
turers, and The chemist is
bound to abide by their
decisions. If he undercuts he
risks losing supplies from the
firm or firms concerned; so
naturally he keeps in line. Only
members of one of the friendly-
societies can manage deduc-
tions from their drug-bills, the
benefits taking the form of
periodic rebates.
Certain anomalies in the
scheme border on the absurd.
For instance, a widely-used
sedative is put up in capsule
form. The Government in its
wisdom has seen fit to limit the
number of capsules prescribed
at any one time to 12. This
costs five-bob. fiv tw
victim of insomn a H
ceived lOOcapsufc >'
mg visits to his GP .1
more scripts—he 'h,^
roughly 455. If ]n H
place his doctor had 2
a script for 1(H) Jj 1
would have cost him ft
Another instance
caused medicos son* 5
is the provision of a
drug limited to pensioner •
Asked why it was not* ,
for the public generally!
Minister replied that it*
powerful and dangerous I
and should be limited in
cation. One can only J
either that pensioner,!
expendable or that by|
pensioners they have ad 3
immunity to the baleful i
effects of the drug.
added that the Treasury*
final say on which drugsr
included in the list!
Doctors are not undulyJ.
by the extra paper-woriM
upon them, making fa
effect unpaid bookkeepfe
the department. One car!
deny that being saddled (j
petty officialdom is a nuiJ
and every day or twok
chemist’s messenger timj
the surgery with a scripts
which one has forgotten tor
a pension-number or then
“Specified Purpose” or “Sf
fied Disease,” which ant
quired in certain circums*
before the department wild
for the drug.
Nor are doctors s||
worried by the extra ail
of work caused by large
bers of pensioners conra
repeats of medicaments#
are limited in quantity, Ij
No, the big objection if
practitioners is that their j
fessional freedom is beinjl
stricted with every revisif
the list.
I was recently present*
session in which some 1
pertinent objections
Government scheme*
levelled at a senior
officer of the Comnw**
Department of Heal®,
most frequent objection •
the restriction on w!
doctor could pr escr f
amount and frequency.


the musical numbers. Dickens’s
children and the characters
associated with them must be
seen through a child’s eyes.
This Bart seems to do. Every-
thing is so much larger than
life, romantic and black-and-
white, but the approach is
neither patronising nor
written-down.
Nonetheless, the play could
not stand on its own and has
not been allowed to. Sean
Kenny’s set, an elaborate mul-
tiple construction which
permits a dozen scenes and the
tremendous climax (murder
of Nancy and end of Bill
Sikes), demands architectural
and engineering resource. A
chorus of 11 and two princi-
pal actors (Oliver Twist and
the Artful Dodger) have to be
boys who can sing as well as
act. And the producer and
stage-manager need exceptional
skill and authority.
Peter Coe, the young pro-
ducer who came to London
with the Mermaid Theatre, has
these qualities and shares the
adaptor’s sensitivity. Every
look, gesture and inflection
seems to have been thought-
out and developed to give the
play style and point. The
result is stimulating and fresh.
Some of the minor charac-
ters lack technique, but the
children, apart from thinness
of voice, are confident and
engaging. Mr. Bumble, Mr.
Sowerberry, Noah Claypole,
Bill Sykes and Mr. Brownlow
are more or less what you
expect them to be. Nancy is
an exacting and intensely
dramatic role, superbly carried
out by Georgia Brown. Fagin,
surprisingly, is the comedian
of the piece, played with
immense relish and finesse by
Ron Moody.
The music is in the pop.
idiom, with both catchy and
melancholy tunes ; some of the
numbers have affinity with the
traditional London music-hall,
and others (Fagin’s) with
Yiddisher melodies.
"My own idea-a hide, a decoy and a retriever ,
all rolled into one.”
k r C * was to this effect: In
lift democracy the final deci-
Jjott is in the hands of the
1 Minister.”
b otto words my freedom
P to choose the drug I think best
ttfa any condition is limited.
«]am (old how much of any
particular medicament I may
Sinister at any one time ; I
'•an told how often I may repeat
it tit drug; I am required to
f adhere to a set of regulations
drawn-up a couple of thousand
; »miles away in my prescribing
■ for children ; and in the case
‘ of certain more expensive pre-
f parations I am required to
‘: certify that the preparation is
jfei/ped only for “a specified
■prase.” If these words are
not added to the prescription
■the chemist will not be paid.
As many of these drugs are
indeed expensive and beyond
the patient’s pocket, many a
doctor quietly commits perjury
when prescribing them outside
the Government list of per-
mitted diseases, thereby laying
himself open to the possibility
of having to pay for every dose
prescribed for diseases not “on
the list” should a department
inspector choose to investigate
that doctor’s prescribing.
In the case of cortisone—now
widely used in everyday medi-
cine—one has to ask permission
from one’s State Deputy Direc-
tor of Health before the drug
may be prescribed. It is only
fair to say that permission is
almost invariably given, but the
situation is wrong in principle.
No doctor can do his best when
tied to a list of permitted drugs
for permitted diseases or when
tied to the apron-strings of a
distant department.
Only devotion to his patients
keeps the average G.P. using
the scheme. He unfortunately
knows only too well that if he
doesn’t most of his patients will
just have to do without the
drugs they need.
The Federal Council of the
B.M.A. has advised its mem-
bers to continue to co-operate,
on the understanding that the
association is drafting its own
scheme —which is a good one
and will do everything the
Government scheme does, only
a good deal cheaper and with
less red-tape. Whether the
Commonwealth Department
will accept this effort to teach
it its business only time will
tell. — Medic (Q.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 604
Across
produced many a novel way to finish off Harry. (8)
IH-across’s party tried to find ways to finish off this
I Hairy. (6)
B~S whose disguise reveals an American. (10)
fjjMers activity gives aspiration to 9-across. (4)
Ip °‘ 1-across’s novels translated the South African
l Government’s estimate of present rebels. (3, 3,5)
14 — Duck-wing kept in view. (7)
17 — Some of Africa as any adapta>
tion shows. (5)
18— Age. (3)
19 — Implied thanks expressed by a
Sheridan citizen. (5)
20 — A good round also affected a
brolly. (7)
21 — Not in the secretariat like Federal
Labour. (3, 2,6)
25 — One law propounded by holly. (4)
26 — A miss put back one behind
the clock digest. (10)
27 — She who’s plump relatively
speaking. (6)
28 — Staff European is urged to
slacken in energy and effort. (8)
Down
1— Dickensian garageman’s advice
when you take delivery? (10)
2 A seed scattered reduced
strain. (5)
3 Nude in action, (anagram) (12)
4 Devastation is to be expected
from such a native doctor. (1-4)
6 Corseted parent among the chief
supports. (9)
7 Coward when there’s such a
blackout that candles have to be
used. (4)
8 — Car going over a cliff favored
by the suiciding point where
Hitler’s armies burst into
France. (5, 3)
11—South ruler providing Kon-Tiki
transport for a branch of
surgery. (4-8)
13 —Apostle ordained before an
American horseman. (4, 6)
15— M . . . centre is like this
increase. (9)
16—Stop mine having undue
favoritism shown to kins-
folk. (8)
22 — Ruffle forty rebels if lesser
Leninists are initiated so. (5)
23 — Imagines the plural of 1000
swallowed by Othello’s des-
troyer. (5)
24 — Secret file willingly disclosed,
dear. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 603


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SOYABEANS IN SUB TROPICAL AUSTRALIA
By D. E. BYTH
(C.5.1.R.0. Division of Tropical Pastures)
r T'HE Soyabean, regarded as
-*• one of the most ancient of
cultivated plants, was first
recorded in ancient Chinese
literature in 2838 b.c. though
it is thought to have been
cultivated for several centuries
before that. It was regarded
as one of the five sacred grains
essential to the existence of
the Chinese civilisation.
Before War II mainland
China was the world’s major
soyabean producer. In pre-war
U.S.A. it was a relatively minor
crop. Increased war-time
demands for vegetable-oils
stimulated a huge expansion of
the crop in the U.S.A. This
production is continuing to
increase, and the U.S.A. is now
by far the world’s major pro-
ducer of soyabeans.
The bulk of the Chinese crop
is used directly for human con-
sumption, whereas most of the
U.S.A. production is processed
for the production of oils and
In Bombay, India, the
Australian Government
Trade Commissioner
reports that existing
farms in the Hima-
layan regions may be
used for rearing sheep.
This idea was sug-
gested by the Goat,
Sheep and Wool Com-
mittee of the Indian
Council of Agricultural
Research, who felt that
the western regions of
the Himalayas were
suitable for breeding
Rambouillet and
Spanish Merino sheep.
We in Australia, in
fact the world over,
are indeed fortunate
to have available Elas-
trator for castrating
and tailing of lambs.
As we all know Elas-
trator Green Rubber
Rings provide safe,
sure and humane
castrating and tailing
because Elastrator is
bloodless, thus lessen-
ing any risk of infec-
tion due to open
wounds.
protein-meals. It is to be
expected that Australia, with
its relatively small human
population and. extensive live-
stock industries, will concen-
trate on oil-extraction and pro-
“‘ Woolloomoo-moo!' That's just a bit of slang she
picked up in Sydney .”
duction of protein-meal for
stock.
The potential of the soyabean
has been recognised here for
many years, and attempts have
been made over the last 30
years to establish the crop.
These projects have failed for
two main reasons: the first
is alternating interest in the
crop by both research-workers
and commerce. There was no
real effort made to study the
crop, and anyhow, the market
was not certain. The second
reason for failure was that the
varieties introduced to Aus-
tralia came from the wrong
areas of the world, with the
result that they were photo-
periodically and thermoperiodi-
cally out of balance in this
country.
In Australia the soyabean,
which is a summer-growing
annual, could be grown in the
southern winter-rainfall areas
only under irrigation—a doubt-
ful proposition economically.
It would also have to compete
with the horticultural crops and
irrigated pastures which are al-
ready established and of proven
value in these areas. So it ap-
pears that the establishment of
this crop will be favored in the
areas of natural summer-rain-
fall dominance, such as north-
ern N.S.W. and Queensland.
Here large-scale production of
the beans would be economi-
cally possible in spite of their
low world-price.
If the crop is to be used
for oil-extraction and for pro-
tein-meal there would have to
be large-scale production of
beans to make processing eco-
nomical. It has been estimated
that in the Darling Downs and
brigalow region of Queens-
land alone there is an area of
20-million acres on which soya-
beans could be produced. In
addition there are other exten-
sive areas of self-mulching clay-
soils having a summer-rainfall
dominance in parts of central
N.S.W. and central Queensland.
For several reasons soya-
beans should be a particularly
attractive crop in the summer-
rainfall areas at present devoted
to cereals. Using wheatfarm
machinery, the crop can be
completely mechanised with no
further capital outlay. This,
and the fact that the summer-
growing soyabean will fit easily
into a rotation with winter
cereals, should result in a rapid
expansion of the crop in these
areas.
The soyabean is a legume,
50 d p h er S cent n nf° Wntofixs »
ju pci cent. ot m
when inoculated?
efficient rhizobium strain
economy of N-usage
useful on most of OUr P
lands. r
The soyabean has also £
shown to be extremely
to its climatic environment!
alteration of the
conditions brings aboau
marked change in the develS
ment and maturity of the 4
For example, many variet
which have a prostrate hi
under temperate coo%]
tend to become more upril'
more tropical regions, 1
In general, the summer uj
soonal planting - rains Jj t
after December in sub-tro(sj-i
Australia.- For this
soyabeans planted at thisfe 1
would have to grow into i j
creasing day-lengths and «|]
have to tolerate increasii '
humid conditions as then ;
progressed. This climaticip i
is characteristic of the tropicj' i
Therefore we require «(«i
inherently suited to these tii
ditions and having a shortiij<
flowering response and tok i
ance to humidity.
‘ Most American varieties!* 1
been bred for adaptation tof
median latitudes—from if
deg. N. These varieties!
planted in the spring anil 1
sequently grow into increl
day-lengths. Their physitjM
cal make-up is incomw
with conditions in sub-trof
and tropical Australia. If
the varieties grown in r
southern low-latitude parti'
America are spring-pin* *
and so have a long day-flow
ing response. However, |
do have a greater tolerf
humidity than the no#
U.S.A. varieties.
Because of these inconw
bilities it is not surprsiff
varieties from the US..I
performed poorly in tn®l
ducted by C.S.I.R O s I
Cooper Laboratory,
(Q.), at a latitude of 4
27deg. S. J
Since the early J
C.5.1.R.0.’s policy onl
bean introductions has I
place greater mfm
varieties of tropical an J
tropical origin.
have been obtained n J
tudes ranging from the i
to 30deg. N. and a- J
African continent sort
were obtained from Jj
yika, Nigeria, Anglg
Sudan, Ghana, J
Congo and South J|
Varieties have also J
duced from Indonesi ■ J
Taiwan, Southern Ch ’j
Europe and the u • I


It’s got the 10t...
It's a Tilley!
There’s only one kind of portable kerosene heater worth having—the
best! And that’s the Tilley. It’s warmer, cleaner, safer ... and it burns
for 12 hours on only \\ pints of kerosene. The Tilley Portable Pressure-
Kerosene Heater is a first-class engineering product. . . and 100 %
British Made.
£8.8.0
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
A
O
"a
REGD.
TRUST TILLEY
for lighting and heating
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE*
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victorif.
. tl >« from temperate
jo ° varieties I been
o Tl and tested at the
since 1954.
introduced and
Van u rsiß.O. in s.-e.
tested by • be generally
TSd on lheir latitudina l
cclassinea Equatorial
otiS®?'., p\ low-medium lati-
from rnonsoonal
«!• (3) medium to high-
I latitude material.
: equatorial material includes
; L from the Belgian
Jo Malaya and Indonesia,
vary in maturity from
Reason to late, and in plant-
■ fooi from strongly upright, to
decumbent rambling or twining
‘ habit. The vegetatively
rfy late-maturing varieties
have a definite potential for
forage-production, but show
n 0 promise as grain-producers.
The varieties which show some
grain-producing potential are
the mi d- to late-maturing up-
i right-growing types and the
i mid-season semi-prostrate twin-
nog varieties. In general this
class is considered most valu-
i able for its tropical tolerance,
aid this character must be in-
elided in future varieties bred
: for our conditions.
: Monsoonal material includes
[Varieties from Tanganyika,
Nigeria, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan,
South Africa and Ghana,
and varies markedly in matu-
rity-rate and plant-habit. It con-
tains the most promising pool
of material for the sub-tropics
-the mid-maturing semi-pros-
i tra te twining varieties and the
id-late-season upright types.
The hybridisation of the high-
fielding potential of the semi-
pstrate types with the good
pant-type and shattering resist-
F °f the upright varieties
wild produce valuable
pieties.
1 Medium to high - latitude
r eies come from the U.S.,
Fthern China, Japan, Hun-
iMi Czechoslovakia and
IP.’ the Y have shown little
|° ' s i under sub - tropical
# sland conditions. They
li i ° ng days for flo wer-
Ijj. on ’ as a result they set
s asn seed / ery early in the
Ni a and w ield poorly in
Letie 'f H ™ ever > several
N of°d us - have
sL/ definite value in
Li,, ' n B'Programme here,
S »E Cause of their P ar_
f«i r f eavy > rob ust pods.
Ned tH Jf ral years of re '
Dave s u n aSj several varieties
kgS * su P er i° r ity in
ki f thou Sh yield
No, fo * toed enough
Kiercj*/ t} ? e selection of
CJiercial varieties.
A large - scale commercial
trial was held in the 1959-60
season, using nine of the most
promising varieties from Tan-
ganyika, Nigeria and Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan, which showed
contrasting habits of growth
and varied from strongly up-
right to semi-prostrate in type.
The commercial variety Nanda,
of American origin, was used
as a control in this experiment.
The trial was treated as a, com-
mercial crop, and all farm-
operations were mechanised.
Harvesting was done with an
“all crop” autoheader using a
standard rasp-bar drum. Bean-
bars were not used.
The plot was planted on
February 2. About two weeks
after germination, the area was
covered by floodwater for
several hours. The season was
generally unfavorable, and as
a result it was impossible to
control the weed-growth (to
give an idea of the weed-com-
petition involved, the seed was
cleaned after harvesting and
there was an average yield of
three bushels of weed-seeds an
acre).
Five varieties from Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan and Nigeria—
Congo E.C.R./973, Batavian
Yellow, Hernon 49, Avoyelles
and another from Sudan —sig-
nificantly out-yielded the Nanda
variety. These yields can be
considered to represent what
the farmer would obtain under
similar conditions. With more
satisfactory treatment yields of
at least 20001 b. an acre would
probably have been produced.
The average American yield is
between 12001 b. and 14001 b.
an acre, although very much
higher yields are obtained in
restricted areas. The yield of
these five varieties can be con-
sidered economic for produc-
tion on wheatland in Aus-
tralia.
In the 1959-60 season a
humid harvesting-period re-
duced the incidence of seed-
shattering to a minimum in all
varieties. With regard to plant-
habit, no variety showed exces-
sive lodging. Occasionally the
lower lateral branches had
lodged, but this was of little
importance and could easily be
overcome by using a pickup-
reel on the harvester.
As a result of this trial the
C.5.1.R.0. feels that all varieties
tested against Nanda have
shown sufficient promise to
warrant further trials. For
this reason these varieties have
been handed over to the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture for regional test-
ing and subsequent release to
farmers. There will be regional
testing this year on the Darling
Downs, in the northern and
southern brigalow region and
around Kingaroy. All regional
testing will be on a commercial
scale ; only in this way can the
varieties be adequately
evaluated.
Most of the varieties tested
by C.5.1.R.0. in south-east
Queensland have shown some
degree of plant-to-plant varia-
tion. Several varieties which
have shown this variation were
obviously a mixture of a
number of varieties originally.
As a rule, however, there is no
mechanical mixture of varieties,
and this variation between the
plants is true genetic variation.
In my experiments, the soya-
bean flower has shown a high
degree of self-pollination. It is
possible that a small percentage
of cross-pollination would
occur on hot days or under
insect - attack. However, this
genetic variation may be due
more to exposure of varieties,
which were apparently stable
in the country of origin, to a
new environment in south-east
Queensland. Differing physio-
logical responses of the indivi-
duals in the population then
reveal the presence of distinct
types. These can then be
selected, and they then breed
true at the Cooper Laboratory.
The important point is that
this variation does occur, both
in yielding-ability and agrono-
mic form of the plant. If this
variation can be exploited by
plant-selection there is a good
opportunity' to soon obtain
some rapid and probably sub-
stantial varietal improvement.
The question, “Why is one
plant superior to another?” is
relatively easy to determine for
purely agronomic plant-charac-
ters, such as vigor, uprightness
and branching, and is largely a
matter of field-observation.
Superiority in yielding-ability
is a different matter. For
statistical reasons it is neces-
sary to identify which charac-
ters of a plant cause it to yield
so well. Once these plant-
characters have been identified,
there can be selection for yield


i
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney. ,
using these characters as the
basis.
In tests the first requirement
was to determine which plant-
characters had the greatest
effect on yield. Six characters
were studied in this investiga-
tion: (1) Number of pods ; (2)
average number of seeds to the
pod ; (3) average weight of in-
dividual seed ; (4) number of
nodes ; (5) average number of
pods to the node ; (6) weight of
plant. These were used because
of their direct effect on yield,
and they are relatively easily
and quickly determined —essen-
tial when large populations of
plants have to be analysed.
One - hundred plants were
investigated in each of 10
varieties, which ranged from
strongly upright to semi-pros-
trate in habit. In the analysis
of results a technique of mul-
tiple regression was used. It
was found that plant-weight
either showed a weak negative
correlation with yield or no
correlation at all. Consequently
plant-weight does not exert a
significant selective pressure,
and so was discarded.
Not much has been done yet
with regard to the chemical
composition of the soyabeans
being tested at the C.5.1.R.0.
Division of Tropical Pastures,
owing to the shortage of
finance. Our immediate con-
cern must,be to develop high-
yielding varieties adapted to
commercial production in sub-
tropical Australia.
Some 20 of the most promis-
ing varieties were analysed
using seed harvested in the
1958-59 season and tested for
content of crude-oil and pro-
tein. The results over this
range of varieties showed a
variation in protein from 38.22
per cent, to 29.13 per cent,
while the oil-content ranged
from 18.81 per cent, to 13.37
per cent.
Even over this small range
of types the existence of a
significant amount of varia-
tion between varieties in chemi-
cal composition was obvious.
Results from overseas centres
reveal a striking variation in
protein- and oil-contents. Pro-
tein-contents as high as 45 per
cent, have been recorded at
some stations.
Part of this variation in
chemical composition must be
due to environment, but there
can be little doubt that chemi-
cal composition is a heritable
factor, and so can be altered
by genetical techniques.
It would therefore be possible
to breed varieties specifically
designed to give either higher
protein-yields at the expense of
the oil-content of the bean or
to increase the oil-content at
the expense of protein, depend-
ing on which product is in the
greatest demand at the time.
The Americans are doing a
lot of work on this aspect.
Similar work at the Cunning-
ham Laboratory in Brisbane is
to be initiated in the next two
years.
As a result of the rigorous
quarantine-system and a fairly
restricted introduction of seed
the soyabean in Australia has
remained relatively free of
pathological diseases. At
present the major disease is
bacterial pustule. This, by far
the most common and import-
ant disease present in soya-
beans here, is present over
large areas of the U.S.A. The
symptoms are most commonly
seen on the leaves, as small
yellow-green spots on the upper
surface of the leaf with a
pustule in the centre of the
lesion on the lower leaf-
surface. The lesions tend to
join-up into large, irregular,
necrotic patches which finally
drop out to give the leaf a
ragged appearance. The disease
can be seed-borne.
Like many of the varieties
maintained in the nursery at
the Cunningham Laboratory,
the present commercial variety
Nanda is quite severely affected
by the disease in most seasons.
The actual effect on yield has
not yet been determined, but it
is thought to be of major im-
portance. Several varieties of
more tropical origin in our
nursery show a complete resist-
ance to the disease, while many
other varieties appear highly
tolerant. The inheritance of
resistance to bacterial pustule
is relatively simple, so little
difficulty will be found in pro-
ducing resistant varieties by
hybridisation.
Several other diseases occur,
but in very minor proportions
at present.
It will be seen that progress
has been made in the develop-
ment of adapted soyabean
varieties for the summer-rain-
fall areas of Australia, and the
breeding and genetical pro-
characteristics needed Z
Plete adaptation £*
tropics. *4
We in Australia llt
position very similar totk,
America in the early sta ™
its soyabean developmJ®,'
varieties to give good
are available, and the fal;
keenly interested in fc' 1
A farmer, however, m;
incentive to make him »
large areas of a new J,
is up to Australian J,'
and the oil-extraction fir® i
particular, to supply this he-'
tive by paying slightly W
prices for Australian soyabo,'
until the crop is established,}
price of at least 6d. a pounda
the farmer for the next fes
years would result in api
expansion of this crop.
The period of establish;
of a new crop is very
and the Australian farmer m
not be scared off soyabeans ai
this stage by an unreliai
market or low returns. 1
crop promises to be of g®
value to Australia, and even
effort must be made to ay
its establishment.
From Kenya j
“Pongo”: Admiral of tr
Fleet the Earl Mountblj 1
of Burma, Chief of the lie
Kingdom Defence Staff, 1
consented to open the I 1
Show of the Royal A*
tural Society of Kenya a i
Mitchell Park, Nairobi, j
September 28. Accompli
by the Governor of fe l
Sir Patrick Renison, If
Mountbatten will fly hal
copter to the Shower®]
touching-down in front of
president’s box.
Mitchell Park, where J
Show is held, has
described as the most
ful park of its kind ml
world, with its treej
avenues and wealth of tr h
shrubs. The Show a |
about 80,000 pe°Pl'
four days it lasts, they J
not only from East Aft j
other parts of Africa 1
from overseas, P a J®J
from the United M
and the British C \
wealth. J
The standard of
exhibits is high and 1
judges from TanganyJJJ
U.K., South Africa
mania have accepts r
tions to attend the S
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/ 8/’60)
Queensland can expect light rains, mainly below
normal, during September, though there may be better falls
along part of the coast and in the central highlands. Rainfall
is likely to be poor in October, though good falls should
follow in much of the State during November.
Most of N.S.W. is likely to have light rain during Sep-
tember, though there may be moderate falls on part of the
Southern Tablelands and about the South-west Slopes and
Riverina. Moderate rains are likely along the coast and on
the tablelands during October, although falls may be light
elsewhere, with good general rains in November.
Victoria should have general rains during September,
with best falls on the Warburton ranges and along the west
coast, though varying from light to moderate in East Gipps-
land. Light to moderate rain is likely during October and
November.
Good rains are likely in the agricultural areas and along
part of the west coast of South Australia during September,
with lighter falls in the interior. Light to moderate patchy
rains are likely in the agricultural areas during October and
November.
There should be good rains during September in
Western Australia’s agricultural areas and about the Gas-
coyne, and light to moderate falls are likely in the south-
eastern districts. Elsewhere, though, rainfall may be poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d, Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
4 goitre in am^s
| ’fgoiSeTa
SSeSiny H UnB S S
a- caU kS W. Southern Table-
f„f s S Will be held at
La yass for the
j, fSt beginning August 22,
! Sfcoia for the fort-
s, from September 12.
H W Goulburn survey wi 1
4 Z the Bialla, Crookwell,
S« and Taralga areas and
» I viss survey the Btnalong,
H L o wa and Bowning areas
% The surveys will be conducted
l L veterinary officers working
I; jn conjunction with the respec-
si t i V e Pastures Protection Boards.
» Graziers whose dead lambs
jre examined will be advised
:i - 0 f the results of the examina-
k tion 0 f the lambs, and a public
in statement will also be issued.
“ D. Dickinson, district veter-
-16 inary officer at Goulburn, said
that a similar survey conducted
tl > fast year had led to the dis-
covery of goitre in lambs on
*' three district properties where
i; considerable lamb-losses had
6 occurred.
15 He added that research-work
is in progress on two of the
properties to determine the
* met cause of the goitre and
the best way to overcome the
problem. Now the aim is to
find out how many other
I properties have this problem,
wen though it may be causing
t only minor lamb-losses at this
E; %•
Urea for Stock
Myall”; During dry periods,
! and when frost has browned-
■ the grass, numbers of
graziers and dairymen spray
“ rea an d molasses mixed with
Z er on dry pasture to im-
c lts nutr |tive qualities, a
Queensland’s
5 Husbandry Adviser with
Agriculture
L f bas given a word or
< w jof warning:
,sd2m , ava ii of a cheap
I? Inch wffl convert rank,
•J as S mto gOQd feed is
CS ver y attractive to
■tended to erS ’ and P ubllcit y has
fIL s j? read the idea that
answer Urea &nd molasses
itcannof £ roceed i n g further,
:.C v °, b t e dressed too
..to stock ., l j Urea is poisonous'
prefuliv’ even wben used
*•«Uf - e , re is stm an
fi“°fnsk attached.
tot be COn ? US f urea should
Mown P n e^P ated uoless the
“Urea is not a protein but
a chemical compound synthe-
sised industrially by combining
carbon-dioxide and ammonia.
It normally contains about 46
per cent, nitrogen and it is this
nitrogen which the rumen bac-
teria utilise for building pro-
teins which later become avail-
able to the cow. In this way,
3oz. urea is roughly equivalent
to |lb. protein. It is important
to note that with productive
animals only about a quarter
of the protein - requirements
should be supplied by urea.
“For bail-feeding in normal
conditions 3oz. a head daily is
the limit for reasonable safety.
Even this amount should be
carefully mixed with other feed,
as too rapid an intake of even
small quantities is dangerous.
“Consequently, urea must
never be trough-fed or used in
drinking-water. Preferably, it
should be dissolved in water,
and thoroughly mixed with hay
and grain or silage, which pro-
vide a reasonable bulk of feed.
“Some observations have
been made on the use of urea
with molasses fed ad lib, but
this method is open to so many
variable factors that it is at best
a risky proposition.
“Pasture-spraying with urea
and molasses is a possibility,
but it requires a dense body of
grass and is rather time-con-
suming. Also it is not a pro-
position with dairy-cows, which
need high-quality roughage for
production, unless accompanied
by other supplementary feed-
ing.
“It has been shown, however,
that provided there is a suitable
body of mature grass available
the use of urea-and-molasses
spray can be effective in reduc-
ing loss of weight in beef-cattle
during winter.
“Molasses is necessary both
as a source of energy to enable
the bacteria to utilise the urea
and also in order to make the
sprayed pasture more palatable.
The weight of molasses should
be from eight to ten times the
weight of urea. The amount
of water should be sufficient to
completely dissolve the molas-
ses and urea —usually about
three times the amount of
molasses. Thus, to supply 2oz.
of urea a head to 60 animals
a suitable mixture would be:
71b. urea, 6gal. molasses, 15gal.
water.
“At first, it is best to spray
only one day’s feed at a time,
but as the cattle become used
to it, up to five days’ feed may
be sprayed at once. Naturally,
it takes some observation to
get to know what area the
cattle will eat in a day.
“When sprayed, the grass
should change in color to a
medium-brown. Almost any
fine spray is satisfactory, but
the solution must be strained
before spraying, and the spray
flushed out after use.
“At the moment, pasture
spraying with urea cannot be
generally recommended, though
it may serve in individual cases.
With supplementary feeding of
dairy-cows or fattening beef-
cattle under intensive condi-
tions, urea does offer a cheaper
means of providing part of the
protein requirements.”
If more information on urea-
feeding is required, contact the
local Cattle Husbandry Adviser
in your district.
Impacted Crops
“Raddo”: Outsize or im-
pacted crops are sometimes
caused in fowls by long, tough
grass, straw, barley - husks,
feathers, pieces of sacking or
other fibrous material. Often
a victim can be cured by being
put on a milk diet and given
no feed for a few days, or a
gentle kneading of the crop
may remove the trouble.
If these fail, pluck a few
feathers from the top portion
of the crop and make an in-
cision of about lin., which will
reveal the white skin of the
crop. Make a similar incision
in the crop, and then remove
the whole of the contents with
the handle of a spoon. Wash
the incisions with a solution of
disinfectant, then stitch each
separately and knot them with
white silk or white cotton.
Two needles should be
threaded ready for use before
the incisions are made. One
stitch of each skin is sufficient
unless the cuts are irregular.
Treated fowls should be
isolated on a sand-floor and fed
with soft food for a few days.
Crosscuts
“S.U.R.”: To celebrate its
golden jubilee Sydney Univer-
sity’s Faculty of Agriculture is
arranging a special exhibition
on August 16, 17 and 18. The
exhibition—open from 9 a.m.
to 10 p.m. each day in the
Agriculture Faculty’s buildings
and in the Department of Elec-
trical Engineering—will show
research-scientists at work, and
will include demonstrations,
films and displays of many
kinds.
“R.S.”: The new class for
Poll Herefords at Sydney’s
Royal Easter (B. 3/ 8 / ’6O) will
be for one Poll Hereford bull,
three years and over, not for
three bulls as was first an-
nounced. This class will be the
only one for Poll Hereford
bulls in that age-group.
“Clix”: At their annual
meeting the Australian Associa-
tion of Stud Merino Breeders
decided to recommend to State
sheepbreeders’ associations and
show-judges that small pig-
mented patches on the noses of
Merino sheep should not be
regarded as a serious defect,
since there is no evidence that
they are related to color in any
other part of the sheep.


Missing Friend
HARMAN.—ARTHUR HARMAN, for-
merly of Tasmania, who came to Vic-
toria about the year 1936, or any
relative or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, is requested to communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, of
601 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Quote B 2752.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Who was the American card-
magician who is reputed to have
saved the American soldier and
the “small player’’ millions by his
exposes of cheats and their
methods ?
The card-manipulator is John
Scarne, generally recognised as the
best exponent of card effects in
the world. During the war it was
estimated that he saved millions
for the G.l.’s by his lectures on
cheating both at cards and dice
games. -He has written Scame
on Cards and Scarne on Dice, and
covers all aspects of crooked card-
play in the former, as well as teach-
ing elementary strategy. Scarne
first achieved fame by proving that
he could cut any card from the
pack at will. His method was,
as he explains, the only one pos-
sible : as he shuffled the pack he
noted where the card he wanted
fell; then he counted the number
of cards that fell on top and,
when he cut, counted down that
number and produced the right
card. He was offered thousands
for the secret of this effect when
he first displayed it, but he showed
thatr it was worthless to anyone
not prepared to devote a lifetime
of practice to its perfection.
* * * *
A man receiving an age-pension
owns the house in which he lives.
If he leaves his house to live with
a relative, can he leave it un-
occupied and still collect his
pension ? If he sells the ho’use
would the proceeds make him
ineligible to receive his pension ?
If he lets the house would the rent
make him ineligible ? Does the
Department o’f Social Services send
its own valuer to value the
property ?
The effect of property on pension-
entitlement is that the maximum
annual rate of £247 is reduced by
£1 for each £lO of the pensioner’s
property, excluding his permanent
home, furniture and personal
'effects, between £2OO and £2250.
No pension may be paid where the
value exceeds £2250. If the pen-
sioner vacates his house it can no
longer be regarded as his permanent
home, and it would be necessary to
take the value of the property into
account in determining the entitle-
ment to pension. If the house
were sold the proceeds of the sale
would have to be taken into
account, and if it were sold for
less than its market value, con-
sideration would have to be given
to taking into account the differ-
ence between thS amount received
from the sale and the value, in
addition to the actual proceeds.
Any rent the pensioner might
receive from letting the house would
not, in itself, affect the rate of his
pension, because, being income
from property, it would be dis-
regarded for pension purposes.
Generally the Valuer-General’s
valuation is accepted, but where
the property is let consideration
is given to arranging for a special
valuation having regard to the
tenancy of the property.
* * * *
My recipes for tuna all begin
“Take a can of tuna . . Can
you give me a recipe for fresh
tuna ? Are normal kitchen utensils
satisfactory for its cooking ?
Any kitchen utensils may be used
as for other fish, and any recipe.
It is classed among the oily fish,
separate recipes for which are
always given in cookery-books of
standing. In boiling or steaming,
“I’m afraid, Mrs. MulloWay, testator Was a bit of a
bigamist, and the legal Mrs. MulloWay is the sole
beneficiary.”
a small quantity of vinegar, say
a teaspoon, is added, and lemon-
juice will counteract the oiliness in
other recipes. Only the younger,
smaller fish are good for the table.
Recipe: 1 smallish fish or fish-
steaks, breadcrumbs, chopped
parsley, small quantity butter, salt
and pepper, lemon-juice and a
little water to keep from burning.
Butter a pie-dish, sprinkle with
crumbs, parsley, pepper and salt.
Lay fish on, add lemon-juice, water
and pieces of butter on top. Cover
with buttered paper, bake in a
moderate oven for 15 minutes or
more, according to size, test with
skewer and serve with a slice of
lemon.
Brief Answers
P.L.: The President of the United
States must be 35 years of age.
His salary is 100,000 dollars (tax-
able), with 50,000 dollars expense
allowance (also taxable) and a
non-taxable travelling allowance of
up to 40,000 dollars J.W.: The
six ships of the second fleet were
the Guardian, the Justinian, the
Lady Juliana, the Surprize, the
Neptune and the Scarborough....
L.D.: Shinplasters was a term
applied to paper money that used
to be issued by outback store-
keepers. The name originated in
America, probably from a com-
bination of Dutch and German
words. They were issued as 1.0. U.
notes, instead of cash change, to
station-hands and drovers who had
been paid by bank cheque, as
it was difficult to keep enough
cash on hand to meet the demand.
The notes bore a duty-stamp, the
amount for which it was issued,
the name of the firm and a
signature. They were freely used
either as tokens for more goods
or as change, or were cashed at
a bank J.McK.: There were
two teams of brothers playing in
the 1959 Canada Cup golf tourna-
ment. One was the Brazilian pair
Mario and Jose Gonzalez and the
other the Spanish Anguel and
Sebastian Miguel. Germany’s
Friedrich and Herbert Becker are
not related T.R.: The Arthur
Miller play, “A View from the
Bridge,” was originally produced
on Broadway as a long one-act
play in a two-play programme.
The curtain-raiser was “A Memory
of Two Mondays.” Many of the
ties with classical “high tragedy,”
the geographic allusions and signi-
ficance of the characters’ nation-
ality, are lost in the two-act version,
which did not retain the original
prologue and epilogue J.A.:
At the end of 1959 the population
of Hong Kong was 2,919,000, plus
an estimated 30,000 illegal immi-
grants not included in official
figures. There are still certain
groups who could be classified as
boat-dwellers, but they comprise
only about 5 per cent, of the total
population K.M.F.: If a pen-
sioner lets part of his premises
and obtains rents then he obtains
income which affects his pension
unless the Director-General of
Social Services orders otherwise.
J.A. (Burwood): The only
redress you have is action in the
appropriate court. The amount
involved makes this impracticable,
and the only other remedy avail-
able is to go to these people and
make so much nbise that they will
have to listen to you.
answers to
CORRESPONDED
Name and address muit „„
all MSS. NolS,; *
taken re contribution, , ‘,""
submitted; and no M?
returned unless stamm !
pany. MSS. should fi 1
% the j E f Uor; ‘ hey wil t
sidered for publication ‘
understanding that the »l
shortened or altered as M
thinks necessary.
T.K.. The chaos in the sta
yard WR SLU h CeSSf ! llly
W.R.: Ten lines do no-
sonnet make... .F.L.: Coins ,
but tread more softly... jj?
“ not sur e how it'cojij,
used.” Try setting it to r
and sing it in the bath «j
Nymphs and shepherds go'm
H.A.: You took a risk n
“Burnt Offering”...,K.L; «
spiral staircase is well’ obsenj
but leads nowhere. By the <,
token, the other piece is
photographic G.T.; One«
ing couplet:
You too are mortal, Mr. K.,
And other dogs will have their &
... .D.Y.; The last move®;:
your “Symphony” was the te
even if only because it be
last.... J.0.T.: Allusion mh
apt, and there is so much4ip
really need an index...,Fklt
a good idea for a story, bid.
be so highbrow about if,,
J.R.T.: Morbidity isn’t an essejg
part of any story, nor is 1
happy ending always unreal, &
teenagers get a kick rati
life occasionally.... Hori Mate
Sing:
MACANDREW'S STORY
Macandrew wrote a story thiti
simply awful tripe,
It had neither rhyme nor reajd
the plot was of the type
That gets the sanguinary goat oil
editor,
And makes him wish that murder 1
thing within the law.
Macandrew sent the effort to a]»
near at hand,
And copies of it reached each s
paper in the land;
But, very like the cat that once w
to drown or burn,
The stories lost but little t« !
starting their return.
Macandrew was dismayed a bit, I*l
defeated yet, ]
(There is something rather subtle»j
editor’s “regret”) «
So he sent ’em to Australia
heard, there ne’er abates
Demand for breezy stories—pw
paid for, double rates; ,
But once again the postman br4'
package to the door. .
Now, Macandrew hadn’t tried
lish magazines before.
So he moved to conquer Fie# 11
and they tell you to this a .
How they tore their hair an
him, ere they flung the ®
The ’States all had the story nest
voted it a dud, u,
Ail si it. hit each waste scrap ”,
a dull and sickening ttiua.
’Twas the same in darkes
Bolivia, Peru, .a
And it nearly, killed with
editor at Timbuctoo.
Macandrew’s worldly wealth at 1*
dwindled down to nil, j,
His stamps were gone, and
his stationery bill, , ~ $
And then, -while seated in
anguish and in sham , , ( j
The fickle Goddess we can
interest in the game.
“Dear Sir,” a letter reach«j
the morning mail one
“I hear you have rejection
which I wish to pay, id
From every known editor
’neath the sun — yon," ’
Ten thousand pounds I 0
Mac’s reply was u


New Recordings
Two Slavic Fiddlers
TWO Of the three most popu-
, violin-concertos extant are
J this week-the Beet-
f f snd the Tchaikowsky
Srole Paying *e Russian
J 3 Russian playing the
taColumbia(33oCX 1672)
Min's Wing virtuoso, David
ft!* plays Beethoven s
Concerto in D Major, with the
French National Radio Orches-
tra under Andre Cluytens. It
is a strong performance as to
the faster end-movements, with
strong-argument dialogue be-
tween soloist and orchestra.
The set of variations which
make-up the adagio brings a
stream of eloquence. Fritz
Kreisler’s cadenzas beauti-
fully spun out of the thematic
material— are used.
Henryk Szeryng wields the
how in Tchaikowsky’s Violin
Concerto in D, an R.C.A.
release (L 16243), in which
- Munch and the Boston Sym-
phony collaborate. At its
premiere that vitriolic Viennese
critic Hanslick made the cor-
rosive comment: “The violin
is no longer played; it is
yanked about, torn asunder,
heaten black-and-blue! ” —an
opinion that certainly isn’t
shared by today’s audiences.
With its opulent melodies, its
vigorously pulsing rhythms and
•ts bold Slavic colors, the con-
certo calls for both dynamism-
-and sensuousness in ex-
ms. The many violinistic
passages specially designed to
| Jow-off the performer’s tech-
y sources are exploited
7 and convincingly by the
InvT’ • a^so P r °duces a
H singing tone.
* ❖ ♦♦♦
Tw ° Symphonies
J 1 their music-making at the
.. p onic l eve l a wide abyss
and
Wo v l ,. . en The Bohemian
manv SU ] sl “T llty , h is aim, and in
' ls §ia Q t expositions
p on h,S fauh t 0 melody and
-flepM-nl? 0 / 1011 , Tchaikowsky
his ultimate in
io T°7 No ■ 6 * B
G °ldLah P C i 0I i d t d 0n a Phili P s
Van Kemn P dlSk v GL 3 ) b y Pau l
Sebou w m n r n , and the Concert-
W orche stra of Amster-
dam. The reading is solid and
wrings pathos from the ultimate
adagio “suicide-music” this,
of great dramatic power.
Mahler’s Symphony No. 4 in
G (L 16241) is on an RCA
record, in which the Chicago
Symphony Orchestra is con-
ducted by Fritz Reiner. Here
is grandeur without the pom-
posity of some of the com-
poser’s later works ; the best of
it is in the third movement,
which is flooded with glorious
harmonies.
❖ ❖
Musicomedy
Highlights from two success-
ful musicals are microgrooved
on Decca’s ACLA 1025
“He’s the disk-jockey."
“Can-Can,” the Cole Porter
musical which (in its film ver-
sion) shocked Khrushchev
when he visited the set in
Hollywood during production,
and “Kismet,” the Knoblock
P to which Wright and
Forrest adapted Borodin’s
music. Eula Parker and Bryan
Johnson sing half-a-dozen
numbers from “Can-Can,” in-
eluding “C’est Magnifique,” and
“I Love Paris.” Johnson also
supplies the main male voice
for the “Kismet” selections, and
is ably supported by Rosalind
Page (“Baubles, Bangles and
Beads”) and Ross Gilmore
(“Night of My Nights”), who
team-up well in “Stranger in
Paradise.” The Eric Rogers
orchestra is backed up by the
Michael Sammes Singers.
❖ ❖ ❖
Chain-gang Chants
Harry Belafonte, now in
Australia, has a varied
repertoire and is probably
most popular in his calypso
and Island-In-the-Sun moods.
Swing Dat Hammer (R.C.A.
L 10893) is vastly different
from these. It’s a collection of
chain-gang songs, reputedly
based on work-songs and
chants of negro convicts,
chained together for road-gang
work. No humor here, except
of the most sardonic kind, and
no light; all stark despair and
passionate intensity. There are
songs about cracking stones
and making roads; about
working in the pitiless sun;
about the boss of the road-
gang (“I say the Cap’n was the
grizzly bear”); about the
bloodhounds whose job it is
to find runaway convicts —
especially one too - efficient
hound whose exploits are cele-
brated in “Here, Rattler,
Here.”
Rattler is the Captains friend.
Here, Rattler, here.
Nine got away,
Brought back ten...
* * ❖
w
Love > Dreams, etc.
German-born Andre Previn
has lived most of his 31 years
in the U.S. and in recent years
has been kept busy writing
successful film-scores. Three
times nominated for an Aca-
demy Award, he collected one
last year for the musical scor-
ing of “Gigi” ; he also super-
vised and conducted “Porgy
and Bess” for the screen. On
Coronet’s Like Love (KLP
868) he serves as solo-pianist
and conducts his orchestra in a
dozen Cole Porter, Gershwin,
Berlin, Rodgers and Kern songs
each of which has “Love” in
its title. Two of the twelve,
“Looking for Love” and “Like
Love,” are his own.
Love isn’t expressly men-
tioned in the titles listed on
Capitol’s Hi-fi T 1252 More
Dream Dancing, but when
Ray Anthony and his orchestra
invite you to “Dream While
You Dance” they obviously
don’t intend you to dream
about pork-pies. “April in
Paris,” “Blue Hawaii,” “There’s
a Small Hotel,” and “Meet Me
Tonight in Dreamland” are a
few of the dozen arrange-
ments presented smoothly by
Anthony’s trumpet and team.
Primarily intended for those in
dancing mood, but equally
pleasing for those who prefer
to listen and dream —or even
just listen.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
Lure of a different kind and
tempo is offered by Reg Owen
and his orchestra on R.C.A.’s
L 10894 You Don’t Know
Paree. The insouciante lass in
blue tights and with tousled
hair who kneels beside the
river on the cover of this disk
has no direct connection with
the sound-track and except for
the name-piece the tracks have
no apparent connection with
Paris, but, after all, no one said
they did. And if when you’ve
heard the dozen songs on the
record you still don’t know
Paree, what of it? Reg Owen’s
aim is to entertain, not educate.
And this he does, pleasantly
and tunefully.
♦Jt
Horowitz
From R.C.A. comes Beet-
hoven I Horowitz (L 16240),
in which the great Beethoven
“specialist” plays two sonatas.
In the tempest-of-the-soul one
in F Minor the pianist makes
no bones about the effective-
ness of the sub-title “Appasion-
ata” in the outside movements,
with the sandwiched-in andante
a beautifully-contrasted piece
of serene meditation. An early
masterpiece, No. 3, of Opus 10,
its symphonic-style first move-
ment built on four descending-
scale notes, its minuet and
rondo altogether bewitching,
is Horowitz at his best.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
“And what’s that to do with the price
of beef?” is quite likely to be the Sydney
housewife’s response to any comment
these days, for it is not only the price
but the quality that’s causing trouble.
If the family-budget is upset to give Dad
a nice, thick T-bone steak and it’s so
tough he can't eat it, there’s trouble all
round. He’s cranky, she’s furious, the
butcher’s pitiful (“It’s all I can do to
keep my doors open,” he says) and the
greyhounds, who must have their fillet-*
steak “just-so,” are going to the dogs.
Thank goodness the kiddies like sausages!
Beef is apparently our national dish,
according to recent findings by Army
investigators. (These poor chaps, martyrs
to science, ploughed through the scraps
left by the troops to see what was
rejected.) Steak-and-eggs were always
popular, but stews and bully-beef were
also eaten-up heartily. Pork, strangely
enough, was the least popular of the
meats, and chicken was only liked “for
a change”. Well, if the price of beef
goes higher and the quality of beef goes
lower, our .menfolk will just have to
rough it with pork and chicken. Perhaps
we might let them have a nice, juicy
steak at Christmas.
☆ ☆ ☆
Talking about quality, there’s a cam-
paign at present to help customers
recognise good quality in various things,
hence the standards-labels, the con-
sumers’ magazines, etc. One example is
the much-advertised ‘Bri-nylon” which
isn’t a new yarn or fibre, but a guarantee
that the nylon used and the garment
■ itself is good quality. In the past (re-
member back to 1947?) every woman
wanted “nylons” and by that she meant
stockings. Later on we all got used to
the idea and accepted the word into
the language along with all the other
new ones, sputniks included. But now-
adays all sorts of things can be made of
nylon-thread and they’re not all of an
equal upper-class standard. So the name
Bri-nylon has been given to those that
are right out of the top drawer. If it
doesn’t create too much class-conscious-
ness among nylons, it should be a good
thing.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a really exotic afternoon-tea
that members of the Teamakers’ Club
enjoyed on the M.V. Australia during
the week. Little cakes shaped like straw-
berries and finger - sized bread - rolls
wrapped with ham-slices were among
the delicacies served from decorated
baskets (one of these was a garden of
sugar-violets standing in massed fresh
parsley). The occasion was the presenta-
tion of a cheque for £2OOO by the presi-
dent of the club, Miss Del Cartwright,
to Mrs. G. B. Kater, representing the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children.
The money had been raised by the mem-
bers, who come from all parts of Sydney
and who specialise in the serving of tea
at social and official functions. Appro-
priately enough the £2OOO is to be de-
voted to equipment for food-servicing
for the society’s new Central Hospital
and clinic for crippled children.
Patricia Hardwick, who appears as the
painstaking violinist at the Ensemble
Theatre’s “olio” between acts of “The
Drunkard,” is really an accomplished
musician who has been studying the
violin since she was seven and until
recently taught music at a country high
school. Also interested in painting, with
a particular love of watercolors, she is
pursuing her art studies in Sydney and
is a member of the Hayes Gordon School
of acting. She is the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. G. Hardwick, of Pymble. Photo
by Peter Theodore.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dancer Beth Dean was very excited
last week because her ballet “Corrobo-
ree” (the music by John Antill, of
course) was being filmed by an American
unit for inclusion in the Dinah Shore
TV show. Beth danced the role of the
Lightning Woman and Cletus Ball that
of the Thunder Man. The section of
the ballet to be shown will run for six
minutes, and although, being in color-
TV, it will not be seen in Australia, it
will be an effective means of advertising
Australian talent all over the U.S.
* ☆ ☆
Some idea of what Australian women
are doing for the arts will be given by
the exhibition which the National Coun-
cil of Women is arranging for the week
starting August 31. It is to be held at
David Jones’ Gallery and will be opened
by Lady Woodward. I n ad(1lt; ’
exhibits, which include paiSS lO
tralian women (some lent bv
Gallery) and manuscripts
books, there will be talks p.T® 3
the lunch-hour by distinguish?
(the chairman in each instance k ®
will be a man). Speakers include n
Helmrich, Gwen Selva, p 0 ? 1
Rosemary Dobson, Elaine
Elollinworth and Kylie Tennant ’
☆ ☆ ☆
Migrants’ bewilderment at the F r
language is quite undersb?
“Dressed poultry” is really S
poultry, is it not? “Shelled” peas 2
be de-shelled peas, and “peeled ba
un-peeled bananas. At the Internal
Ball this week there were 1000 ball#!
at the Trocadero, to represent J
and, it is reported, “it took two mr
afternoon to blow them up W j t L
vacuum-cleaner.” But an H-bomb | t
ing up a real world is quite awl*
matter.
☆ ☆ it
The Governor and Lady Wood®;
will be present at the “very first
of the Chevron-Hilton Hotel at It
Point. September 16 is the date, anil
function to christen the ballroom «|
be a gala-dinner and ball organised!
the Black and White Ball committee, lb
donation of 10 guineas per ticket isi
the upper reaches of ball-tickets to 1
sure, but it is all-inclusive and will ti
to buy a talking-book for the blind, li
Royal Blind Society is seeking £1
by special appeal for these talking-bod
and the gala-night at Chevron-Hilt
should give it a great impetus.
☆ ☆ ☆
Interested in nautical art? Them!
be an exhibition by Mr. Harry Rap
formerly Senior Art Master in the!
torian Education Department. It will
opened by Lord Mayor Jensen i
August 24, at 1.45 p.m., at the s)*
Mission to Seamen, 100 George S®
and will remain open until Septemto
* ☆ *
Cutest invitation to hand for n»
long day is for the gala-dinner at 4
Middle Cove home of Mr. and Mrs. G,
Dusseldorp on Saturday, August 20. »
card shows a parrot with (real)«
purple feathers for his tail. The part)
in aid of the Royal N.S.W. InstitutK
for Deaf and Blind Children, which
celebrating its centenary this year.
This centenary was also celebrated oj
pageant given by the children at
School for Degf, Darlington, on Mop
as their contribution to Education W
Between 50 and 60 children between
ages of four and 17 showed “GW*
of the Institution’s Past” from the
when 11 little ones were enrolled
Liverpool Street in 1860 to the P r 3
day, when there are 160 children 3
school. A former pupil, Mr. J a “.
Gregor (Rockdale) portrayed the
superintendent, Thomas Pattison, a®
resident-pupils from country a reas,
ing Cooma, Captain’s Flat^J^


„ ,„ n£ Flat ( near Wauchope),
'Grafton, L 0 s th e River, Taree
ife, Junction took part in the
, and ( aS l honor of the centenary, too,
' illustrated history of the
produced by the deaf
n a nd printed on the school’s
* *
‘ L season of garden-fetes, which
1B jn w ith the spring, will soon be
CO fL in full flow, and one of the
S 7* will be held at Admiralty House
f Liber 10, when the gardens there
® a perfect picture. Held by the
if * AmWance Brigade, it will be
iLd by Lady Lloyd Jones at 2.30,
S special arrangements have been
i to have visitors taken tree-of-
L»e to the grounds from the Orpheum
'TTieatre at North Sydney, or they can
take the ferry to the jetty at Admiralty
House. Given a sunny day, it should
be a delightful outing.
MELBOURNE
f j Dm Mary Herring entertained a
u lumber of women-guests at morning-tea
j at Government House prior to a meeting
,5] arranged to help the Spastic Children’s
J Society appeal in November. In her
'J address Dante Mary stressed the import-
to (“ aoce of this appeal, which would give
IJpt opportunities to spastic children
Ito carry on with their education. A
men's committee has been formed, but
Jlk women, who at this meeting formed
Jtaselves into a committee, have been
aiedto raise £lO,OOO. Mrs. H. D. Giddy
is president, with Mrs. James Buchanan
chairman. Vice-presidents are Mrs. John
Bloomfield (her husband is Minister for
ill Education), Mrs. Frank May and Mrs.
I,' Elsa Hallenstein. Mrs. F. D. R. Evans is
i hon. secretary and Mrs. J. McCoy hon.
treasurer. Among those at the meeting
is were Mesdames W. Schraeder, E. K.
it; Smart, D. G. Harper, R. Blackwell, P.
1 fjw W. Gluth, Leo Curtis, J. Johns
«P. Faggeter. Plans for future func-
1® will be discussed at a meeting of
P committee at Mrs. Giddy’s home on
i September 14.
n * * *
a'i Naudience of almost 3{)0() filled the
' n tu a Palais to give Harry Belafonte
tn enthusiastic welcome. Noticed among
1 n man P> Mrs. Belafonte, the John Mc-
( y ms and Mrs. McCallum’s mother,
| .Withers, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, Mr.
i u r . s ; W. Gluth, Mr. and Mrs. Max
A^ rs - J- Wilkinson and Mr. and
” ■ it. Money.
I
* ☆ -flr
*Sr an a °d Dame Mabel Brookes
[ aorne Ihe Monterey after a
y overseas, during which Dame
M thf C r\ V j rom French Govern-
iDnr.e-^er °f the Legion d’Honneur
on a f la f L 0n her gift to the French
St u i e am hy-estate, The Briars,
mL e , ena - Sir Norman has been a
i n the or der for 25 years. In
: l a „Lu Uame Mabel was present at
“ u «chmg of her book, St. Helena
Story, which deals with Napoleon’s
exile and his life at The Briars, which
was the home of her ancestors, the Bal-
combe family. Dame Mabel, whose
autobiography, Crowded Galleries, was
published in 1956, has been asked to
write a book based on her research into
diaries from the First Fleet. Having sold
Kurneh, Sir Norman and Dame Mabel
will shortly move into Elm Tree Cottage,
a few minutes’ walk from Kurneh. Their
new home includes the original four
rooms of the first house to be built in
South Yarra ; it was bought about 40
years ago by Dame Mabel’s father to
save the elm-tree from being cut down.
Educated at the P.L.C., Dawn Odgers,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Odgers, of Black Rock, is now an
L.O.Sc., one of - six women-optometrists
in Victoria.. A fashion-show is to be held
at the House of Youth Salon on August
24 to raise funds for the new Victorian
College of Optometry. Tickets are avail-
able from Yvonne Raphael or Dawn (at
MF 3221). Dawn’s other interests are
golf, music, the theatre and photography.
Frocks by Phillipa of Melbourne and
spring hats by Nance Bannon were
paraded during a luncheon at the Hotel
Australia, when proceeds were donated
to the Save the Children Fund. Dame
Mary Herring and her daughter Margaret
were guests-of-honor, and the organiser
of the luncheon, Mrs. Douglas C.
Harper, presented Dame Mary with a
box of orchids. Topping the sapphire-
blue tailored suit worn by Dame Mary
was a curvette of toning blue, misted
with veiling. Margaret also chose blue
for her belted suit, to which she added
a miniature Garbo-type hat in matching
blue felt. Mrs. Harper wore with her
black woollen frock and mink stole a
high-crowned black toque swathed with
rose-pink silk. Also at the official table
were Lady Martin, Mrs. E. Kinnear,
Mrs. A. Wimpole, Mrs. J. Todd, Mrs.
F. Tracey and Mrs. A. Reid. Among
those at the luncheon were Mrs. Alfred
Fowler and Mrs. Jack Launder (who
were accompanied by Sydney visitor Mrs
Chisholm Cameron), Lady Thomas anc
Mrs. E. Fitzgerald.
* ☆ *
At the annual meeting of the Victoria
League at the Town Hall, Dame Mary
Herring, its deputy-president, was in the
chair. The guest-speaker, Dame Pattie
Menzies, spoke of having attended
service dedicating the Chapel of the
Order of the British Empire in St. Paul’s
Cathedral. As her husband, the Prime
Minister, is not a member of the Order
Dame Pattie had to get special permis-
sion for him to attend the ceremony
The annual report of the League dis
closed that membership is now 2300
during the year the bush-library com-
mittee had sent out 11,833 books on
loan as well as books to children doing
education by correspondence, and to
migrant-hostels and the Mission to Sea-
men. Mrs. Guy Bakewell’s term as
senior vice-president has expired. Electee
in her place is Mrs. Frank May ; vice-
chairmen are Mrs. Robert Hamilton and
Mrs. O. V. Nilsen.
☆ ☆
Madame Mario Vigano, president oJ
the Italian Auxiliary to the Royal
Children’s Hospital, was hostess at an
afternoon-tea party in the foyer of
Mario’s, at which she presented a cheque
for £1205 to the president of the hospi-
tal’s auxiliaries, Mrs. A. J. Mclntosh,
the proceeds of a dinner-dance held in
July by the Italian auxiliary on the
Castel Felice. At the party were Lady
Murdoch, president of the hospital; the
Italian Consul-General the Marchese
Serafini; the general-manager of the
Sitmar Line, Dr. F. Mihellic, and
Madame Mihellic ; Mrs. C. Sargeant;
the vice-president of the auxiliary,
Beatrice Mattei; Mrs. J. Perillo, Mrs.
F. Vigano, Mrs. A. Alloti, Mrs. Dixon
Herder and Mrs. Paul Fiddian.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Australian steeplechase meeting at
Caulfield was preceded by a luncheon
given by the chairman, Sir Norman
Robinson, and the committee of the
V.A.T.C., at which the guests-of-honor
were the Acting Governor, Sir Edmund
Herring, and Dame Mary Herring. On
this occasion ladies were invited to the
luncheon, which made it a memorable
day, as women rarely penetrate to the
members’ sanctum. Also at the luncheon
were Lady Robinson and her son-in-law
and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. J. Pitt;
V.R.C. chairman Sir Chester Manifold
and Lady Manifold ; Major-General Sir
Samuel Burston (chairman of the
Moonee Valley Racing Club); Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. A. L. Walters ; Mr.
and Mrs. John Carrodus ; Mr. and Mrs.'
S. G. Garnsworthy ; Mr. H. Way (sec-
retary of the V.A.T.C.) and Mrs. Way ;
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Grey Smith ; Chinese
Consul K. Y. Leung and Mrs. Leung ;
Thai Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs.
Fader ; and the wife of the Consul for
France, Madame Le Bas de Plumetot.


THE AUSTRALIAN
By Bill Wannan
A fascinating b'ook of legends, yarns, ballads and traditions of the
Australian people. At all booksellers or send to AUSTRALASIAN
BOOK SOCIETY, 96 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
25/-
233 pages
illustrated
Post Free.
ALSO: “The Swagless Swaggie,” Bush Ballads by Ed. Harrington, 16/6.
his eyes; his verses about them were
creating, not repeating, a tradition. In
Scotland, as he says himself, everything
is far away and long ago and reaches
the reader like an echo: —
I said, “Oh Wind of Lammermoor,
the night’s too dark to ride,
And all the ghosts that fill the glen
are ghosts of men that died!
The floods are down in Bowmont
Burn, the moss is fetlock deep ;
Go back, wild Wind of Lammer-
moor, to Lauderdale and
sleep! ”
But the verses of old memories, if
never as vigorous as ballads taken
direct from life, have their own validity,
since the memories do linger on as a
tradition and, remotely, as a part of
life; and it is easy to see why, whether
they call up the echoes of the past or
paint the landscapes of today, these
verses should give great pleasure to
Ogilvie’s readers in Scotland. They
should also—if some bookseller would
import a few copies—interest Ogilvie’s
readers in Australia.
The Brothers Alsop
Joseph and Stewart Alsop’s The
Reporter’s Trade (Bodley Head) is not
a manual for newspapermen but a
selection from the political columns
the authors wrote together for the New
York “Herald Tribune” between 1946
and 1957, with a running commentary
and a few introductory chapters on
how they did it. The result is a clear
picture both of the main drifts of the
cold war and the authors’ part in
reporting it.
Their methods, on which they lay
much stress, boil down to one: “Go and
see for yourself.” Only such minds as
Walter Lippmann and Raymond Aron,
they say, can get at the truth in their
studies; lesser mortals must look, ask
and probe unceasingly, never taking
anything as read. So, while other com-
mentators covered the Indo-Chinese
war from Paris, the Formosa flare-up
from Singapore and thg Korean war
from New York, the Alsops went to the
scene itself, and some of the columns
they sent back will be worth reading a
long time from now.
But mostly they were in Washington,
commenting on national affairs. Here
their golden rule meant ceaseless inter-
viewing of Government officials, “going
to school” on technical subjects related
to defence, even doing their own door-
to-door work at election times.
All this inquiry led them to some
notable scoops, including the French
collapse in Indo-China, the U.S. deci-
sion to make an H-bomb, the U.S.
slip-back in the arms race and the first
Soviet 1.C.8.M. test as well as many
accurate forecasts and warnings. In-
deed, they schooled themselves so well
to read between the lines of defence
statements that they were twice sub-
jected to security investigations by a
Government convinced that they were
getting access to classified documents.
Though “Republicans by inheritance
and registration” and “conservatives by
political conviction,” they were among
the severest critics of McCarthyism and
the two Eisenhower Administrations,
which they charge with having swept
too many unpleasant defence problems
under the carpet for fear of “disturbing”
the American public. Basic to all their
writing is the belief, repeatedly *
that the American people w il i
support the right course of ac !
only they are given all the f ac '
matter how unpleasant the fart/'
be. It is a good belief f or a re !
to have, and the Akops’ obvious!
tion to it in this age oi the oi
handout places them among the i
remaining members of what mi*
called the classic tradition of pi
reporting.
WHITE CEDAR IN WINTER
Other than what it is this cedar is .*
the sum of leaf and time and branch and
shade
is sum of dance and light and form and
need
and all beyond themselves these verities
touch out again until the universe,
the world enough for me, is held and said
by this one tree, as essence in one word,
as word made plain and surest para-
phrase.
That this tree moving in the will of day
with darkness in its limbs, and its brief
seeds
and winter in its bone-thin branches,
hides
so wide a territory is a way
I may account the darkness in my veins
and my lean bones and my brief loins as
gains.
QLD.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.
Moss Hart's Autbiograp
Although Act One (Seeker and %
burg) is an autobiography, its domioi
subject is not so much its flesh-ai)
blood author, Moss Hart, as
abstraction —success. Apparent!}
could hardly have been otherwise,!
Hart, by his own telling, decided f
early in life that he would k
“success” (in the American, or fi
and-fortune sense); that, whatever I
cost, he would lift himself anil
Jewish family out of their ®li
poverty in the Bronx; and he m\
have set about it with the impeia
zeal and singlemindedness of a i
pursuing salvation.
Before he decided for success, to
ever, he had become stage-staid
which made things particularly toi|
An eccentric aunt with a loud
capacity for playing the great ladvi
the most sordid surroundings tool!!
to the theatre; he caught a glimps
Times Square during a celebrate
some kind, thought Broadway!
always like that, and from then on
it was to be the theatre or nottat
only remained to decide which brand
Forced to leave school early,
wangled a job in a theatrical ajS
wrote a play for a “road” coif
before he was twenty (it was alf
worked for several years as ass
director (a sort of all-round enter®
and organiser) in
side New York, ultimately bee©
with Dore Schary (later of M.-W
one of the most popular directors
the circuit, and a wintertime direct®
a couple of New York little-®*
The camp chapters are easily the
of the book; the camps have chans
lot since the ’twenties, ana
description of them is _ the near
comes to evoking the life of a r
most of the time he was too J
look at anything that went on
a stage-door.
At the height of his succe j
social director he decided, ,
shrewdness he was often to sn j
his career was concerned, tna.. (
he was, he would never get 0 *
that way: he switched back .
After several abortive a
“serious” plays he turned t
and the result, “Once in a


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
>ks. Please send your requirements to
Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
r, wiJv into his celebrated colla-
¥ ,L with the already established
S. Kaufman.
riman liked the play, but said it
1 j e d working-over; so away they
J 'several hours a day, dismantling,
Ring, refitting, tuning. It was an
■ET partnership. Kaufman was a
gj a ; n d abstemious man who hated
PJshow 0 f emotion and seldom
flLhtabout food; Hart was nervously
fSgant in expressions of admira-
ls! f o r the master, and early poverty
li left him with an almost patho-
faal appetite. They embarrassed
0 other often and comically.
| yith Kaufman directing, they tried
lie play in the provinces; it failed.
Pey stripped it down again, rewrote
{and tried again and failed again,
jtoother round of the same and Kauf-
iman had had it; but Hart talked him
fjito one more tty. This time it was a
Lit, and at the end of the book we see
li Hart family walking out of their
i Brooklyn apartment, leaving everv-
. dig as it stood, and heading for a
LlWattan hotel in a taxi, laughing
f uncontrollably, as well they might.
1 The later Kaufman-and-Hart hits —
fe Man Who Came to Dinner,”
“You Can’t Take It With You,” etc—
and Hart’s years as one of Broadway's
wp directors (“My Fair Lady” is his
■ notable recent effort) are yet to
[,«; but clearly the sweet smell of
is never going to leave his
lirils for long.
He describes all jthis w ith disarming
candor about his motives and feelings,
«1 with an often sharp eye for
character, but with a prolixity that is
astonishing in a man whose plays make
ife points so swiftly and exactly.
Almost half of the book’s 400-odd
B® ® given to describing how
Once is a Lifetime” was turned from
2 good idea into a hit, and although
pis interesting to learn something about
;we elusive and intricate mechanics of
Roadway success, and to see how'
craftsmen work, not many
Pf rs . are likely to get through the
Pc without feeling that much of it is
[C Im i )()rtarit to Hart than it is to
Nevil Shute's Farewell
| , ls ast novel. Trustee from the
L ro ° m (Heinemann) is possibly the
Shute ever wrote. He
m o be on firm ground, having hit
y ° P et kernes—modei-enuineering
f* 1 seamanship.
subjects allow him to launch
a ncate technology where few
i fault 0 u- h ave enough knowledge
rt,. him. Certainly fairweather
tesiv” Mdth nd h * s , seamanship
the model-engineering
should be equally fascinating for
makers of miniature-engines.
Apart from these technical details,
which are minutely described, Shute
has told a vivid story.
It is about Keith Stewart, an
ordinary middle-aged man who lived
happily in an unfashionable London
suburb until his life was turned upside-
down. In the quest for a fortune, which
belongs to his orphaned niece and
which he has helped to hide, Stewart,
the “trustee from the toolroom,” makes
his first excursion from England—in a
freight-plane to Honolulu and thence*
on a 2000-mile voyage across the
Pacific in a yacht with one companion
—and ends among the top-poppies of
American big-business. On his way the
hero discovers that he has more friends
than he knew about.
THE SHOES
[From a sequence for children]
“Please take my shoes off, Miss Straw-
berry,” I said;
Miss Strawberry took me by the ears
And removed my head.
“Please take off my jumper, Miss Straw-
berry,” l said;
Miss Strawberry took my left arm
And removed it instead.
“Please take off my trousers, Miss Straw-
berry,” l said;
Miss Strawberry look my legs off
And l had to go to bed.
“Miss Strawberry,” / asked her, “will you
put them on ?”
Alas, there was no answer:
Miss Strawberry was gone.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
Reviewed Briefly
Fuel for the Flame: Alec Waugh
(Cassell). With his customary effici-
ency Alec Waugh brings up-to-date the
theme of life in the tropics and handles
with aplomb a large and complicated
cast of characters. It is set in an island
in the South China Seas where a
British oil company operates in har-
mony with the native and traditional
way of life. But there are. of course,
tensions and conflicts between the many
individuals who make up the com-
munity, and these are complicated by
hints of Communism, international
intrigue and big-business plots.
* . * * *
Big River, Big Man: Thomas
Duncan (Longmans). There is tre-
mendous vitality in this long novel
about the development of the timber
lands along the Mississippi during the
19th century. The great river, the
forests, the logging camps, the towns
that appear (to become cities or to be
swept away by fire or flood or simply
to fade away), and most of all the great
diverse gatherings of peoples who built
up this part of America, are presented
with such magnificence of line and pre-
cision of detail that one feels, after
devouring its 1022 pages that one has
been assisting at the birth of a nation.
Intricately convoluted round the for-
tunes of one man, it tells a hunared
stories of the people who even from
generations back and from far parts of
the American continent contributed to
his destiny and to that of the U.S.A.
* * * *
The Ballad of Peckham Rye: Muriel
Spark (Macmillan). The ballad is about
a young man of Peckham who said
“No” at his wedding, but the novel is
really about another young man, a
mischievous fellow from Edinburgh
University who is engaged by a Peck-
ham factory to improve employer-
employee relations. Instead, through
his shocking and gleeful grotesquerie,
he creates discord wherever he goes.
This is one Dougal Douglas, and he is
quite a contribution to the literature
of eccentrics. The book, which relates
comedy and horror with an equal com-
posure and economy of words, is extra-
ordinarily funny.
* • « •
Advise and Consent: Allen Drury
(Collins). A first-novel by a profes-
sional writer who has spent 16 years as
press-reporter in the U.S. Senate. It
is the classic story of power and ambi-
tion in high places, interesting for its
insight into the political and social life
of Washington.
* • • *
One Spoilt Spring: Beata Bishop
(Faber). Written in English by a
Hungarian-born woman, this novel
covers the period in Budapest from
just before the Nazi occupation until
the arrival of the Russians. The story
is displayed from the viewpoint of
Gitta Balogh, a young girl still at a
convent finishing-school when the book
opens but already an important mem-
ber of an underground radio group.
It is an adventure-cum-spy tale with a
difference: Beata Bishop sees people as
people, so that “our side” and “their
side” are depicted in various shades of
grey rather than white and black, and
from this the book gains its tone of
sincerity and credibility.


%
! I
■: .W:,:
?y.ys
*m
PWW»:
::ull
:; x:f: s
y*,
%
m
A
%
e
%
a
%
%
©
a
«n
%
45
*
>
a
a
%
&
ms
«
%
%
<5
<6
*
«
■*
%
©
C
u!
-■v
<j!
©
ft*
t V :
TO
The man on the land
knows from experience:
f there is no satisfactory
substitute for STEEL PIPE
After experimentation with other types of piping, j
experienced land men invariably come to one i
conclusion there’s no really satisfactory sub-
stitute for Steel Pipe.
Steel Pipe, for instance, is not susceptible to j
damage by stock, fire, rodents or termites and :
can, therefore, be laid above ground saving J
trenching costs.
In addition it has greater strength, longer'life* j
and can stand greater pressures. Steel Pipe } s I
easy to handle or store without fear of breakage. -
and is adaptable to innumerable uses. -
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, ;
shorter-lived types of piping!
FOR GREATER STRENGTH ... FOR LONGER LIFE
INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
FOR VALUE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY.
BRANCHES: Al! Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong;
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: ,Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie-
