

The Bulletin
"A Net Cast into the C reek,”—page 44
Wednesday, April 27, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Animals just don't seem to like him."


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
MODERN ART
The more I look at art-shows or at
books such as Kym Bonython’s
Modem Australian Painting and
Sculpture (Griffin Press, Adelaide) the
more puzzling it becomes how anybody
manages to decide what is modem art
and what isn’t; and it seems the most
amazing act of decision or incompre-
hension when such a body as the R.A.S.
in Sydney can actually hold separate
competitions for “modern” art and
“traditional” art.
It may indeed just be possible to
draw a distinction between purely
abstract art and other kinds of art. But
even abstract art is neither new nor
startling. It is as old as a Roman
tessellated pavement or the scrolls on
an aboriginal shield. Every sheet of
wallpaper, every chessboard, nearly
every man’s tie and every woman’s
dress is abstract art of a kind. It is a
design and can surely be judged for its
aesthetic qualities as such, just like any
other design.
But if some sort of distinction can
still be made here, for landscapes and
portraits are not concerned only with
design, some of the classifications that
are made of these other categories of
art into “modern” or otherwise remain
utterly baffling. How, for instance, do
you find an essential difference between
a Dobell and a Lambert? Both artists
paint portraits; both try to get a like-
ness; both use curious and dramatic
poses to heighten their effects. Surely,
indeed, Dobell really has more in com-
mon with Dargie (whose excellent
portrait of Lionel Lindsay in the last
Archibald competition should have got
more notice than it did) than with some
of the abstract painters with whom, in
this book and in fashionable artistic
gossip, he is classified.
How, again, do you find an essential
difference between Tom Roberts, who
was (amongst other things) a painter
of genre in the outback, and Russell
Drysdale, who today is likewise paint-
ing genre in the outback? What
essential difference, leaving aesthetic
quality aside, was there between
Sidney Nolan’s first pictures of the
desert and Heysen’s original discovery
of the same territory? By what mystical
processes of definition has Kym Bony-
thon been able to decide (if indeed
that is why he has excluded them) that
such original and stylish artists as A. J.
Murch and Donald Friend are not
“modern” while Jack Carington Smith
and Charles Bush are?
The more I think about it. the more
I am inclined to agree with M. G.
Skipper, who used to do “The
Bulletin’s” art-criticism in Melbourne,
that purely aesthetic considerations
(with which must be included fresh-
ness of vision and style) are the only
valid test you can apply. There is no
real conflict between “traditional” and
“modern” art: there are only the age-
old questions, is it well-painted, is it a
fresh, personal approach? If a realistic
painting looks dull and meretricious,
it is so; if an abstract looks coarse,
niggling or elementary, as some but not
all of the abstracts in this book do
look, then that also is so. But when
an artist such as Clifton Pugh (who
is not represented at his best here)
makes a genuinely fresh, slightly
stylised approach to the landscape
and artists such as Lance Solomon,
William Salmon or G. K. Townshend
(who are not represented at all) make
another, more realistic kind of fresh
approach, there is no real conflict. The
search, as it always has been, is not
so much for new mannerisms (which
soon come to look familiar) as for new
artists of genuine, original force and
ability: and now, as in the past, they
don’t grow on every bush.
It seems to me, consequently, vitally
important not to make rules as to what
is “modern” and what isn’t, what is
permissible and what isn’t: otherwise
you find yourself forced, as Laurie
Thomas is in his introduction to this
book, to dismiss Norman Lindsay as
an “illustrator”—as if illustration, any-
how, if that were all that is to be said,
was not a valid category of art —or to
be suspicious, as Thomas obviously is,
of the very lively group of Melbourne
painters (Boyd, Perceval, Pugh) who
have turned against abstraction.
Thomas finds himself inclined to reject
Arthur Boyd’s fantastic brides and
shearers as “subject-pictures”; but
subject-pictures are also a valid
category of art; and the real problems
to be decided about these particular
pictures of Boyd’s is the aesthetic one,
whether their liveliness of style and
imagination is enough to compensate
for their primitiveness and repetition.
But Laurie Thomas’s foreword is
on the whole a very fair account of
the emergence of the art of today out
of the art of the past, and it is pleasing
to see not only his affirmation of
Roberts, Gruner and Streeton but also
his application of the test of aesthetic
quality to some of the more recent
paintings.
It is idle to attempt a final assess-
ment of any painting on a reproduc-
tion and in fairness to some of the
abstract painters whose works look
crude here it must be said that they
often depend on the force of the large
canvas. However, at least one may
say how attractive or striking in their
various styles are, especially, the works
by Albert Tucker, Godfrey Miller, John
Passmore, Arthur Boyd, Drysdale,
John Perceval and Lloyd Rees. The
book is incomplete, as any such selec-
tion must be, but it will give a fair
general idea of the kind of work that
has been done in the last ten years by
the more experimental painters. It is
beautifully produced, with 52 plates in
color.
S.
European Pilgrimage
In his autobiography, The Owl of
Minerva (Hart-Davis), Gustav Regler
tells a story which is by now familiar
in its broad outlines but has lost little
of its fascination because it is the story
of a whole European generation.
Born in Saarland. Regler was a boy-
hero in World War 1 until shell-
shocked out of it. He drifted as a
student through the revolutionary
turmoil of post-war Germany, in and
out of marriage to the daughter of a
tycoon, and became in rapid order a
journalist, a novelist and a Communist.
A spell in Stalin’s Russia shook his
faith in Communism, but he became a
political commissar with the Inter-
national Brigade in the Spanish Civil
War and toured the U.S. collecting
dollars for the cause. His faith got a
further shaking in a French internment-
camp, and by the time he had got to
Mexico, where he still lives, he had
split with the party.
He describes all this graphically,
with little breast-beating or wisdom
after the event, and much candor about
his motives, or lack of them, at the
time. His finest chapters concern the
confused and tragic idealisms of Ger-
many in 1919; his first taste of Stalin’s
tyranny; the siege of Madrid, the battle
of Guadalajara and his meetings with
Malraux, Koltsov and Hemingway; and
loyal, honest and passionate Marie
Louise Vogeler, the painter who was
his mistress and later his wife until her
death in Mexico.
Kendall
The main news in the Bishop of
Adelaide’s effort to rekindle Kendall,
Henry Clarence Kendall, by Thomas
Thornton Reed (Rigby), is the
announcement that the Bishop has
completed an 80,000-word biography
of Kendall. Taking-off from Hartley
Grattan’s remark of 1929 that Kendall
was “barely a respectable minor poet,”
Bishop Reed’s remonstrative survey
comes to only a slightly better conclu-
sion. He says very neatly:—
His [Kendall’s] bush songs fail
to reach the height of poetry on the
one hand, while on the other they
are too poetical to achieve the easy
(Continued on page 58)


ONE 8AG...0r
One Thousand Bales!
RECEIVE THE SAME PERSONAL ATTENTION FROM
TRAINED WOOL STAFF
i
&
mm?'
Also you can be sure that your wool will be displayed to advantage on our well lighted,
spacious show floors in all major centres of Australia.
Complete Service to the Man on the Land
Elders 200 Branches give Nation-wide Service to the Man on the Land . . . covering Wool,
Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides, Land, Livestock and
Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 27,1960
Vol. 81 — No. 4185
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St„
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE END OF U.N.?
QENERAL MARK CLARK’S
advice to the United States to
withdraw from the United Nations
might well be the first sentence of the
writing on the wall for that inflated
organisation.
Clark is a man well listened-to in
the United States. During the past 20
years he has held most of the high
commands, battle and otherwise, rang-
ing from Commander-in-Chief of the
U.S. Ground Forces in Europe to
Commander of the United Nations
Forces in Korea and Commander-in-
Chief of the American Forces in the
Far East.
He has had diplomatic experience
as a Deputy Secretary of State and as
an adviser at various top-level confer-
ences between Heads of State in
Europe. His advocacy of American
withdrawal from U.N. is scarcely less
interesting and significant than the
reasons he gave for his views.
In a radio interview last week he
said that the admission of new nations
into U.N. posed a great threat to the
United States, since many of them must
gravitate to the Russian bloc, which
he believes to be motivated only by
dishonesty. He foresaw, he said, a
time when “the balance of power will
be against the United States.” More-
over:—
Nothing good will happen in the
United Nations. I have seen them meet
time after time on grave questions which
affect the well-being of the whole world.
Never have they solved any of them
except by a slap on the wrist or some
other weak action.
This, of course, has been only
partly true. If Clark had said that
this has been the trend of events when
U.N. has been left to its own resources
and has not been used to effect the
purposes or policies of the United
States or Russia, he would have been
nearer the mark.
f
r T'HE United Nations was not able to
prevent Russia throwing one of the
five veto Powers off its throne and
handing China over to the Com-
munists. It only prevented Chiang
Kai-shek’s Government from disap-
pearing altogether because the United
States virtually took-over his Army,
armed it and guaranteed its integrity.
The Red Chinese Government would
have taken as little notice of U.N., in
its own right, as it would have taken
of a fly. One carrier of the Seventh
Fleet has more influence than U.N. in
the Taiwan Strait.
Similarly, U.N. has no influence in
persuading Russia to loose its grip on
the satellite countries of Eastern
Europe. Its emissaries were treated
with contempt by the Soviet Command
in Hungary after the bloody events of
1956, and it still admits the murderous
Kadar Government to its councils as
a separate Government, along with
others which are only satellites to one
of the great Powers.
U.N. settled the Suez Canal affair
against its two staunchest and most
law-abiding supporters, the only two
nations which have shown any sign of
obeying its laws and dictates when their
own interests are menaced. And it
settled that only because Russia was
willing to take a poke at those two
countries and allow the United States
to intervene by having its Sixth Fleet
in the way of invasion—and because
all its arrangements were made through
the United States and all the work
connected with the Canal was carried-
on under American control and super-
vision.
r pHE influence of U.N. in taming
Nasser, in quietening-down the
violence, illegality and boycotts by
Egypt against the Israelis and other
small nations has been nil. It wasn’t
able to handle the Lebanon situation
without a comic-opera landing of
fully-armed Marines of the Sixth Fleet
among the picnicking bikinis of the
Lebanese beaches.
The organisation has no influence on
the threatening situation in Indonesia,
none on the turmoil of Indo-China or
on the genocide of Tibet, or military
invasions of India. Its part in the
disarmament conferences is nil.
Even when it—technically—made a
display of heroic force to repel the
invaders of South Korea, we have it
on the authority of General Clark
that “he did not get one word of
instruction from the United Nations
Organisation,” whose role in South
Korea seemed to be to act as host to
a swarm of do-gooder organisations—
acting in its name, but almost entirely
staffed by Americans and financed with
American money—who had complete
command of the military forces.
Nation after nation within U.N.
has gone rapidly along the road of
Communism or dictatorship, and in
many cases where this has happened,
U.N. headquarters have been used as a
gun-platform from which the organisers
of disruption and revolution have fired
their propaganda-bullets.
The last stage of its futility has been
marked by the resolutions of the
Security Council on the South African
crisis, procured by a resolution from
the little republic of Ecuador and
carried with the British and French
representatives—two of the five veto
Powers—abstaining from voting. The
result has been exactly nothing.
TT is to be noted that General Clark
calls for the dissolution of U.N.,
not so much because of its futility, but
because it may be perverted into a
regular instrument of Russian policy,
or perhaps Russo-Chinese policy, if
the Peking Chinese succeed in gaining
entry, they being about the only coun-
try bigger than a suburban doormat
which is excluded.
This possibility is the more danger-
ous to America and to the free world
with the rise of people like Castro and
the development of rebellious moods
against Washington dictation in
Canada, and in some of the South
American countries which have hitherto
been ready to allow their foreign
policies to be tailored to order by the
Pan-American Union headquarters in
Washington.
The Great Powers have recognised
that agreement on disarmament can-
not come through U.N. and that the
only nations that now matter in the
world are those that have nuclear-
weapons and industrial potential on a
large scale. This seems to write the
death-knell of the organisation which
has grown into a huge excrescence
providing rich meal-tickets for thous-
ands of satellite-employees throughout
the world, none of whom can contri-
bute anything real to the main objec-
tives of the United Nations Charter.
The United States would be better
off, as would the British Common-
wealth, free of entanglements with
unworthy States, little and big, who
have no intention of living up to their
pledges under the Charter.
They could at least form a bloc with
a common language, largely common
racial and cultural origins and
common sincerity for a long-term policy
of development and mutual progress.


ALL-CLEAR IN MALAYA


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Heffron Quandary
The New South Wales Government will
find itself in a remarkable dilemma when
Parliament meets on May 11. It held
its joint-conference, as prescribed by the
Constitution Act, to deal with the Legis-
lative Council Abolition Bill, but it
turned-out to be not even half a con-
ference, with even the Labor President
of the Legislative Council, plus all the
members of the Council in the Liberal,
Country party and rebel Labor section
absent.
Legally it is very doubtful whether
the conference was held in terms of the
Act at all; it probably was not a con-
ference of the two Houses, but of one
House, plus a number of individuals
who had elected to come in defiance of
a resolution of the House of which they
were members.
The Crown Solicitor had advised the
President of the Council that, whatever
his private views, he should carry-out
the decision of the Council that it would
not take part. If the President was
so bound, logic would suggest that so
were all the others. Therefore, those
who did attend had no official status
as M.L.C.s and if that was so, the Con-
ference had no official status, either.
Premier Heffron who, when it suits
him, is usually ready to interpret the
law at any tick of the clock, obviously
sensed the weight of this point and
vigorously prevented any discussion as
to whether the meeting was in order in
terms of the Constitution or not.
Heffron is convinced that the Bill has
been Constitutionally rejected by the
Upper House and that therefore he is
now free to move the Assembly to hold
a referendum on its own account.
He is in a hurry to see this referendum
take place because if there is much delay
the whole business might drag on till
next election and then he’d have to start
all over again. The Council majority
will naturally do everything it can, with
the help of the Opposition in the
Assembly, to draw-out proceedings,
leaving it as late as possible to take legal
action in the hope that by the time the
issue reaches the Privy Council the
present sorry crowd may be out of office.
All sorts of issues may be raised before
the matter is finally settled, since the
N. S. Wales Parliament is in a different
position to the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, and the Constitution Act is a
patchwork enactment full of holes.
One of the holes seems to be in the
wording o£ Section sb, which pre-
scribes that “if after a free conference
between managers there is not agree-
ment . . . the Governor may convene
the joint conference of the two Houses.”
This, in the view of some members, does
not make the free conference mandatory,
but makes it possible to hold a joint-
conference only after a meeting of
managers has been held.
Sydney lawyers should have a wonder-
ful year ahead.
Reunion in Brisbane, Perhaps
[From “Collins Street”!
In the expectation (by the A.L.P. Federal
executive) that the Q.L.P. will lose
ground at the forthcoming Queensland
elections, renewed activity has begun in
Victoria towards healing the breach with
the D.L.P.
The forecast that the Q.L.P. will lose
ground in Queensland seems wishful
thinking if the D.L.P. vote in Latrobe
is any criterion of a national trend, but
the belief that it will is firmly held, and
the Federal executive, or some members
of it, consider the time would then be
opportune to make the Q.L.P. listen to
reason.
A successful reunion in Brisbane
would be a satisfactory basis for open-
ing direct negotiations in Victoria with
the D.L.P.
Victoria remains the stumbling-block.
The reason the Federal executive does
not take strong action against the Left-
wing Victorian A.L.P. is that this would
almost certainly split the party again,
making three groups in Victoria instead
of two.
This explains why the Victorian A.L.P.
is permitted to support the unity-tickets
the Federal executive has specifically
forbidden, and why, near the head of
affairs in Victoria, are tolerated Com-
munists, near-Communists and dead-
heads supported by the Left.
One fact that has perturbed the
Federal executive is the realisation that
the D.L.P. vote in Latrobe was too large
to be merely sectarian, ex-Liberal or
lukewarm Labor, but did represent a
leakage from the A.L.P. that actually
meant the difference between winning
and losing. Swallowing the D.L.P. pill
would have become a pleasure for
success in Latrobe.
Another Murray Dam
Tom Playford has announced details of
the new Murray River dam he hinted at
a few weeks ago—and it’s a big one by
any standards. In recent years the South
Australian economy has come to depend
more and more on Murray water and
Playford begrudges every drop that
escapes to the sea. It was the pipeline
tapping the river at Morgan and carrying
its water arqund the top of Spencer
Gulf that made possible the establish-
ment of shipbuilding yards, a blast fur-
nace and other industries at Whyalla,
and but for Murray water piped from
Mannum to Adelaide the South Austra-
lian capital would have been in sad
straits in the last two summers. Already
it has become imperative to duplicate the
Morgan-Whyalla line and the need for
a second pipeline to Adelaide is also in
sight.
The average annual flow of the
Murray in South Australia over the past
21 years has been about 9-million acre-
feet, which is more than enough for the
State’s requirements for a long time to
come. Why then the concern about addi-
tional storages? Playford explained this
in a radio-talk. The v,ital figure is not
the average annual flow, but the mini-
mum annual flow. In the 21 years the
flow has been as high as 39-million acre-
feet and as low as 760,000 acre-feet.
With additions to the Hume Weir and
diversion of Snowy water the minimum
(before evaporation) would probably be
raised to 1 - million acre - feet. Without
further storages the growth of South
Australia’s industry. and population
would be limited by this minimum. This
prospect, said Playford, called for “a
bold and positive approach.” Hence the
proposed new dam.
The proposal is to build an earth-dam
three-and-one-third miles long, with a
concrete section 1000 ft. long across a
bend in the river at Murtho, 37 miles
above Renmark. This would create a
vast artificial lake stretching back nearly
to Wentworth at the junction of the
Murray and Darling. It would be 60
miles long, with an average width of
seven miles and when full would im-
pound 4j-million acre-feet of water. This
would be by far the biggest reservoir in
Australia, nearly a million acre-feet
bigger than Lake Eucumbene.
As most of the land to be inundated
is in Victoria and New South Wales the
consent of those two States and of the
Commonwealth would be necessary.
Premiers Heffron and Bolte have agreed
that the River Murray Commission
should investigate the plan. If the report
is favorable and the other parties to the
Murray Waters Agreement don’t object
Playford hopes to get the job under way
by the end of next year and finished
by 1964.
A Lesson from Japan
Railway authorities in Australia could
learn much from Japanese plans of re-
construction now being implemented.
The Japanese have planned to con-
nect their two main cities, Tokyo and
Osaka-Kobe with super-express trains
which will cover the 480 miles on a new
4ft. Biin.-gauge in three hours. The
lines will be either below or above
ground-level, thus eliminating all cross-
ings. The trains will be capable of
200 m.p.h.
Because of the wind-pressure at such
high speeds carriages will be streamlined
like aeroplane fuselages, with double
windows of unbreakable glass. The
carriages will be of light alloy about a
third the weight of steel carriages, com-
pletely air-conditioned and fitted with
radio.
This line, which is to be completed
before the Tokyo Olympic Games in
1964, will be all-electric and there will
also be a freight-service of comparable
modernity, with freight-cars over 10ft.
wide and loading five “piggy-backs”
capable of taking 50 tons of freight. The
freight-trains will be slower than the
super-express but will cover the journey
to Osaka in 5| hours running-time on
a line roughly parallel to the main line,
but about 30 miles shorter.
The enterprise being shown in Japan,
in an area in which many of the cities
were almost razed to the ground by fire-
bombs only 15 years ago might well be
emulated by Australian Government


railways whose trains especially be-
tween the capitals—are empty because
of inability to compete with the up-and-
coming enterprise of air-transport.
How Many Natos?
The weaknesses of Nato as a weapon
of Western defence is illustrated by the
position of Spain, which isn’t a member
of the organisation, but which occupies
a strategic outflanking position and has
specific agreements only with the United
States and Portugal. There are now
really six “Nato” systems instead of one.
These are \a) the whole-hog countries,
which house independent nuclear-defence
set-ups by the United States ; ( b ) France,
which has lost U.S. nuclear-defence posts
because it wishes to supervise them ; (c)
West Germany, which is prohibited from
having nuclear-defence of its own ; ( d)
Spain, in which there are U.S. bases with
which Nato has nothing to do; and ( e )
Eire, which is as bare of all kinds of
defence as the stern of a baboon, and
yet which, if seized by a sudden descent
of a few battalions of parachute-troops,
might be used as a base to wreck Nato
defences ; (/) Italy, where the provincial
Aosta and Sicilian Communist provincial
Governments are doing everything they
can to forward the advance of Russia to
the West.
Who Are the Bunnies?
Thanks to myxomatosis and poison-
-1080 the rabbit-menace has in recent
years been reduced to a degree that
would have seemed incredible 20 years
ago, but in some areas bunny is still
causing trouble. Up round Walgett, in
nor’-west N. S. Wales, for example, he’s
causing strife between the landholders
and the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture. Not so much by his depreda-
tions as by disagreement as to the extent
of them and on the method of dealing
with him.
In August last year the department
told the Walgett Pastures Protection
Board it would have to appoint a rabbit-
inspector before January 1, 1960. The
P.P.B. replied that there weren't enough
rabbits in the district to warrant the
employment of a full-time inspector,
asked for an exemption and suggested
that the ranger was capable of doing
the work. The ranger was sent to a
school at Bathurst to study the use of
poison- 1080.
Next move was a meeting in Walgett
at which members of the Rabbit Advisory
Council discussed the matter with the
Walgett P.P.B. At this meeting it was
decided that the committee would inspect
the district (at the expense of the
P.P.8.) before making a final decision.
No inspection was made, but the
P.P.B. was instructed to “immediately
proceed with the appointment.”
Members of the board apparently have
no recourse but to go ahead with the
appointment, although they feel it is a
waste of money and that the job could
be quite adequately handled by the
ranger.
They are asking what is the use of
having an advisory board if its advice
is ignored and if decisions are to be
made in Sydney without even a proper
inspection of the district. In other words,
they feel that someone in Sydney is
trying to make bunnies of them.
Vital Exports
Australian exports will have to be
increased by another £SOO to £6OO mil-
lion a year over the next decade if
national development and living-stan-
dards are to be maintained at the present
rate, according to “Facts,” one of the
publications of the Institute of Public
Affairs, Victoria.
As Australia gets bigger, its population
expands and its industries grow, the
appetite for imports will increase. Ex-
ports provide the money for paying for
the imports needed by our rapidly
developing economy, and each year more
tobacco, cotton and cotton-goods, rubber,
crude petroleum, tea, coffee and other
products will be required, as well as
more of the world’s most up-to-date
machines and equipment for our grow-
ing industries.
Last year’s export - cheque was £BIO
million, so the £SOO or £6OO millipn
extra needed represents a lift of about
70 per cent.; therefore, how to increase
our exports is the most vital single
economic problem confrofiting Australia.
Primary products account for more
than 80 per cent, of Australian exports—-
wool 50 per cent., and wheat, meat,
sugar and dairy products another 20 per
cent. But the rising population in other
countries should assist Australia to ex-
port more, and it is significant that half
the world’s population lies within our
reach. Much depends on wool in its
fight against synthetics.
A contribution can be made by ex-
panding exports of manufactured goods,
but, to meet low-cost competition of
highly industrialised countries, ever-
increasing efficiency and productivity in
factories is necessary.
Rural Air Progress
Reconstruction of its airport cost
Gunnedah (north-west N.S.W.) £45,000 ;
a new terminal building cost £3600. The
all-weather ’drome, officially opened on
April 9, is capable of taking the most
up-to-date modern rural air-transports.
Little wonder the people of Gunnedah
and district subscribed willingly and
generously to the cost of the new field.
East-West Airlines, dynamic force be-
hind the project, has now begun a daily
return-service from Gunnedah to Sydney,
DC3s handling the traffic on week-days,
Fokker-Friendships on Sundays.
The Bulletin, present at the opening
ceremony as guest of E.-W.A., was duly
impressed not only by the airport but
by Friendship service as well. Gunne-
dah, centre of a thriving rural com-
munity with rich coal resources and the
largest wheat-terminal in N.S.W., is now
within 90 minutes flying-time of Sydney.
E.-W-A. is the only independent air-
line operating in the eastern half of
Australia, and it aims primarily to meet
the needs of the rural areas. By a
policy of decentralisation the co.
operates over a 27-port network in
N.S.W. and Queensland —by serving
country districts as well as metropolitan,
E.-W.A. can and does make a valuable
contribution to the development of
Australia’s outback.
Airports now receiving regular Friend-
ship services are: Sydney, Brisbane,
Tamworth, Cowra, Coolangatta, Armi-
dale, Jnverell, Glen Innes, Grafton,
Quirindi and Gunnedah.
Rainmaking
The success of the rainmaking methods
of Dr. E. G. Bowen after more
than a dozen years of experiment adds
another item to the debt which Australia
owes to the C.5.1.R.0.
Next to the almost complete annihila-
tion of the rabbit it is the biggest thing
the organisation has done—both with the
support of Lord Casey, who made them
his hobby and encouraged the heads and
workers to boldness and enterprise equal
to that which he forced sometimes on
an unadventurous Treasury.
Dr. E. G. Bowen is one of the younger
of the great group of scientists who made
radar possible—the man, in fact, who
carried the magnetron valve to the
United States and instructed its scientists
and technicians in its use.
What has been accomplished by his
rainmaking section has cost several mil-
lion pounds and vast hard work in all
sorts of regions. It does not mean that
ways have been found by which rain can
be conjured out of thin dry air. Neither
does it mean that rainfall can be much
increased over the great bulk of Aus-
tralia. But it does mean that in limited
areas more rain can be made to fall,
and that within strict limits it can be
made to fall at a time to suit the district
if the requisite cloud-formations exist.
It is now certain that an increased
fall can be guaranteed for the Snowy
Mountains area, which will irrigate a
district as large as Denmark and
probably capable of carrying a popular
tion of two - million people. It should
work, on the basis of the results, over
large areas of the New England and
Dividing Range country in which the
right cloud - formations occur, and in
some of the monsoon areas of the North.
There is still a long way to go before
rain can be “made” for the drier areas.
And it is still an expensive business to
make it in areas where the right clouds
at the right levels are available.
At the same time, what has been done
already seems to have brought rain-
making in the right places to economic
level, as well as providing some con-
trol over the timing of rainfall which
would be obtained naturally.
Its value is not confined to Australia.
Indeed, it will probably be much more
valuable to some other countries where
the right cloud-formations are more
general.
But it is a great triumph for Aus-
tralian science and enterprise.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tlorn on the N.S.W. northern coal-
fields, son of a miner, more than 50
years ago, I’ve seen some changes, but
1 wasn’t prepared for the new installa-
tion at Huntley colliery, Avondale
(N.S.W.). The unit cost £112,000: two
bath-houses, administrative offices, con-
ference-room, ambulance-station . . .
showers, locker-rooms and toilets are
“tiled with industrial tiles in shades of
blue”:
The miner enters the clean-clothes locker-
room (240 lockers) and leaves his clothes
in a numbered locker. Going into the
dirty-clothes locker-room, he takes, his
working-clothes from a correspondingly-
numbered locker. Passing through to the
lamp-room, he pjcks-up his lamp, then
boards the shuttle-car to take him under-
ground.
At the end of the shift, I learn, the
grimy worker enters over a large iron
grille on which he scrapes his feet,
“ensuring a minimum entry of dirt.” The
shower-room is “extremely efficient,”
and over the 70 showers are exhaust-
fans that suck out the steam . . . Dad
used to come home from the pit as black
as a West Indian and repair to the bath-
room, detached from the house. Then
his stentorian voice would call—to wash
his back. The miner of 50 years ago
always felt that no back, impregnated
as it was with coal-dust, was ever effec-
tively washed unless it was scrubbed
down with soap and hot water. None
of your fancy hot showers for him in
those days!—“Jock.”
❖ ❖ <♦
“8.J.L.”: When chaps like “N.A.B-”
(B. 6/4/’6O) start talking about the
Kokoda Range it’s time a few essays
about the famous Trail were written.
Kokoda is a plantation, with airstrip, on
"How do you spell thermo-nuclear reactor ’?”
the flats close to the northern foothills
of the Owen Stanley Range. The Trail
runs from there to Überi in the south,
crossing not one range, but seven, and
that’s not counting small spurs up to
1000 ft. The ranges vary from 3000 ft.
to 6500 ft. Nine A.I.F. battalions
belonging to the 2/16th, 2/21 st and
2/25th Brigades crossed and fought on
the Trail, besides a number of Militia
units. I think the percentage of 2/A.I.F.
who trod the Trail would compare with
the percentage of 1/A.I.F. who were at
the Landing.
vern (Vic.) Methodist parsonage (surely
the most optimistic of safe-breakers!):
no money ; only the notes for the par-
son’s Sunday sermon —‘“Shall a man
rob God?”
* * >:♦
“P.0.M.C.”: Funny, but I’ve visited
several friends living in modern home-
units lately and from the gist of their
remarks I gather that there’s really no
place like a home.
“Rehab”: A London surgeon -comes
up with a plea for women to do more
back-seat driving, .claiming a nag-
ging woman passenger in a car could
help reduce accidents. The surgeon, no
doubt, would break even, picking up
on ulcers what he lost on accident
victims.
“Joe”: Toorak (Melb.) people are
honored. State Minister for Housing,
R. G. Petty, M.L.A., frequently delivers
Toorakites their daily newspapers, in-
cluding The Bulletin. He owns a news-
agency there, employs invalid and age-
pensioners, but still can’t get enough
newsboys!
♦> <*
“Dido”: Father regales the boys with
many stories of his Air Force days—
and yet he does his block when they
play Cowboys-and-Indians with appro-
priate sound-effects!
♦>
“Patti”: Disappointment for safe-
breakers who opened a safe in a Mal-
TIME-MACHINE
“Russian experimenters have predicted a
time-machine that will fly from one century
to another.”
Flying from century to century
ts possible, the Russians say,
Since Einstein s calculations bent your
eye,
And they will manage it some day —
To find, no doubt, an exile drearia,
For divergationists, than Siberia.
Friendless, marooned in Twenty-sixty,
One’s great-great-great-great grand-
children
One’s only, and suspicious, fixed-tie:
Who’d be Old Fuddyduddy then ?
“Tell us about Old Sydney, dad —
That little Ft arbor Bridge they had !”
“You mean to say they once sang opera
In that old barn on Benelong Point
We use for storing wool and copra!
Say, who designed the cockeyed
joint ?”
And: “Hark to another of Pop’s
tales —
Liberals once ran New South
Wales !’’
1 think I’d rather be a rider
On a reversing time-machine
That gave me time to reconsider,
Arriving just before I’d been,
Going beyond the point Pd got to —
/ well might say : “Much better
-not tot”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


r have for long been cynically in-
A different to the exaggerated claims
made by manufacturers. To the printed
and spoken asseverations that flavors and
qualities never vary I give a polite
1 horse-laugh ; when some TV-character,
I with tears in his voice, and in the sub-
I dued tone of one comforting the
I bereaved, assures me that this is the
“genteelist soap I’ll ever use,” I make
( it a point, next time I pass a bull in
' a paddock, to raise my hat. My reaction
j to claims made for some “unbreakable”
; product is immediately to vow that I
| shall handle it with greater care than
I I would my best crystal decanter. The
delectable sweet whose gustatory excel-
! lence, they claim, I could never forget
will, I know, be long out of my memory
before next I push my knees under a
table. Yet I must concede an exception.
j A difference of opinion at an intersec-
I tion with a fellow-road-user about
priority had reached the stage of per-
sonal criticism, his taking the form of
a rude gesture : I had then remarked
that a quarter-witted ape at the wheel
would have had a greater sense of
responsibility than he. At that the fellow
I leaped out of his truck and shot across.
Big, brutal and uncouth, he had a large
hand that he wrapped-up into a fist of
gigantic proportions. Now, I have made
ja study, purely theoretical 1 must admit,
of boxing, apd I know that one of the
1 essentials is to look, not at the oppo-
nent's glove, but at his eye. This know-
ledge stood me in good stead, for I saw
his decision telegraphed in sufficient time
to swiftly wind-up the window while his
punch was, as it Were, in mid-flight. The
claim, modestly etched on the window,
that it was made of shatterproof glass
was almost incredibly true ; and I com-
mend their work to the -Standards
j Association.—-“ Bo.”
❖ * *
“Leepat”: In Bairnsdale (Vic.) high-
school fifth - form art students painted
two large Easter murals for the window
of one of the stores. It is believed this
project is the first of its kind in Victoria.
❖ ❖ *>
“Robbo”: Just noticed the multiplying
dates for 1960.
20. 3.60
15. 4.60
12. 5.60
10. 6.60
6.10.60
5.12.60
Pity there aren’t 30 days in a February
Leap Year. By my reckoning it's the
most for any decade year. Any correc-
tions? i
[No; but you forgot to add them up.J
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“0.G.”: At Sydney’s Royal Show a
firm did brisk business selling one
farthing for 2s. 6d.—a mark-up of 11,900
per cent. To make the profit less
obvious (and perhaps more legal) a well-
stocked sample-bag was given at no extra
charge. But it was the farthing that the
customers were rushing.
“ He's cheating!"
“0.W.W.”: Work is well under way
in Wellington (N.Z.) on St. Paul’s
Cathedral (it’s to cost round the million-
mark), but there will need to be a general
cleaning-up of the ancient shops in the
neighborhood. It would be hard to find
a more depressing outlook anywhere in
the city than Molesworth Street, even
if N.Z. Parliament buildings are not
many chains away.
* ♦» *
“True”: Hire-purchase, as a Victorian
County Court judge sees it:
“A great part of my time on this
bench is concerned with people who are
persuaded by persons whom they don’t
know to enter into contracts that they
don’t understand to purchase goods that
they don’t want with money they haven’t
got.”
♦l* ♦J* ❖
“Lazio”: Martin Place, Sydney, is
not the only street of that name in N.S.W.
The other is on a lovely little mountain
spur at Linden on the Blue Mountains.
They were both named after Sir James
Martin, who was Premier of N.S.W. in
the 1860’s and ’7o’s and who, on his re-
tirement from politics, was made Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court. Sir James
in 1876 bought at public auction 286
acres at Linden for £286. He mortgaged
it some years later and, sad to relate, the
mortgagor foreclosed on the Chief Justice
and sold-up the land.
* ❖ ❖
“Jock”: Sale of Sydney’s taxi-plates
used to be a profitable deal, and prob-
ably still is, but the transfer of city
and suburban milk-runs seems to be
bringing in more cash. Often £lO,OOO
is paid for a milk-delivery district which
these days is as safe as a newsagent’s
“blocked” run. But there’s this dif-
ference: you meet your newsagent, and
you are on speaking-terms with your
butcher, baker and candlestick-maker;
but I’m blessed if you know or even
see your milk-oh. The account is left
weekly, the money put out. A North
Shore burgher, 1 was served for 15 years
by a local milk-oh who ran his own dairy
and called each Monday for the money.
But the demand's of progress must be
met; the milk-oh sold-out to someone
who took supplies from the Milk Board
and the property was “developed,” the


present-day euphemism for land-subdivi-
sion. The new supplier’s billhead showed
we were being served by a couple of
brothers over Erskineville way, on the
other side of the Harbor. Finally our
custom and that of a lot of other citizens
was sold like so many milch-cows —the
treatment goes on at both ends—and
now we are being served by someone
living at Mortlake, even farther out.
A relative lately moved to Gordon,
another North Shore suburb, where even
the neighbors and a milk-bar didn’t
know who would supply her. She rang
the board, officials of which seemed in
doubt but advised her to contact a milk-
depot at Chatswood. “Yes,” the Chats-
wood folk said cheerfully, “your man
is X ; he gets his milk here, but
he lives at Tamarama.” From Tama-
rama to Gordon must be a good 20 miles.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emel”: Understatement of the week
surely the stipendiary magistrate’s
comment, “It does seem to be unneces-
sarily complicated,” when the prosecu-
tion, the Transport Board, took some
150 words, 16 closely-typed lines without
punctuation, to charge a truckdriver with
omitting to fill-in his log-book!
“It frightened him out of his skin."
'T'he Lady Gowrie Hospital at Gordon
(Sydney), run by the Red Cross,
houses 60 or more war vets., a few of
them nurses of the First A.I.F. The
magnificent building, put up for financier
Woolcott Forbes, is of two floors with
a stairway—but no lift. The society,
backed by R.S.L. sub-branches, par-
ticularly on Sydney’s North Shore,
launched a campaign for funds, and with
these a lift has been installed. Some of
the Diggers upstairs, the crippled ones,
at least, had never been downstairs for
years. On the opening-day one wheel-
chair patient wheeled himself out of the
lift, glimpsed the gardens and beauty
around him, and dug his toes into the
soil. “Ah!” he said. “I’ve not been able
to do this for fourteen long years.”
Which recalls that just after the 1939-45
war ended a ship bringing A.I.F. men
from Singapore after 3| years in Jap
hands berthed in Brisbane. As the gang-
way was lowered the first man down it
was a Digger who adopted the prone and
kissed the soil of his homeland.—“ Say
ninety-nine.”
♦j *j»
“Jude”: The balding old Digger had
his hair dragged off in about 40sec. and
then was asked for the 6s, “You won’t
be seeing me again at that price,” he
told the barber, “even though you’ve
been cutting it for twenty years.” The
barber countered: “I’ll be seeing you
again,” and dropped Is. into the O.D.’s
hand. He will, too!
❖ *t* ❖
“Sunray”: Recovering from measles,
he was asked each morning what he would
like for breakfast. It had progressed from
“Nothing” through “Some medicine” to
“An egg. Salt. Pepper. A banana. An
apple. Don’t forget the salt and pepper.
And you needn't worry about any bread.”
His aunts were inclined to be doting, but
when his mother heard that she reckoned
he was better.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Metax”: The sound of a persistently-
blowing horn from a closed body-
builder’s shop in Burnie (Tas.) in the late
evening puzzled a next-door workman.
He found the ghost, an elderly panel-
van which had been left inside awaiting
repairs, ablaze. The van, because of a
wiring-fault, had sounded its own alarm;
a phone-call brought the fire-hoses in
time to save the building.
RUSE FOR A ROSE-RAISER
“An experimenting Sydney horticulturist has
found that dregs from beer-barrels have
stimulated plant-growth remarkably and given
the plants greater resistance to disease.”
A rose that I had wouldn’t drink
The nitrates and sulphates I gave it.
It was starting to go on the blink ;
1 knew I’d be hard-pressed to save it.
Epsom-salts first I tried
(For gardenias it’s jonick );
For the rose’s inside,
Though, it proved NOT a tonic.
I plied it with gin,
And I soaked it with brandy ;
Its petals got thin
And its branches went bandy.
In despair, then, 1 gave it some “suds.”
Do you know what ? It must have
been thirsting
For beer! Very soon all its buds
Into wonderful flowers were bursting.
All of dinner-plate size,
No sight rendered me gladder.
As you’d doubtless surmise
I’d to use a long ladder
To pick one. You’d say
This with irony’s branded:
In the rose-show array \
The blue-ribbon it landed I
Now I use a nine-gallon each week.
If I don’t all my roses go sappy ;
Besides, some distinctly show pique,
And I do like to keep ’em all happy.
Very florid, some get,
With their roots most unsteady.
Still, they like to get wet
With a brew somewhat heady.
But I still can’t get Used,
When they’ve fust had their pick-up,
To hear roses, boozed,
Giving vent to a hiccup!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


TVTear the end of 1917 two Jewish
battalions of the Royal Fusiliers
(City of London Regiment) were formed
for service in the Palestine. campaign.
The lommies of other units called them
“The Jewsiliers” and suggested that the
regimental motto should be “No Advance
Without Security.” A pre-embarkation
religious service was the occasion of one
of the most amusing boners of the war ;
the new battalions marched through the
streets of London to the service with the
regimental band playing “Onward
Christian Soldiers.” No one enjoyed
this more than the Jewish soldiers them-
selves. One of them said afterwards:
“What is it? We don't know the words
of the hymn, but the music’s grand.”—
“Pip-tok.”
>*♦
“Lilydale”: In Australia sovereigns had
been called-in early in World War I,
but Diggers Europe-bound still ballasted
their money-belts therewith. On any
crowded, dimly-lit transport your pre-
hammock shower was taken after
buckling your money-belt round your
mate’s waist, and vice versa. On my first
London leave I surged up to the counter
of the London County and Westminster
Bank, unharnessed the treasury, unloosed
60 fiddlys and some Andy Fishers and
told the teller I wished to open an
account. He gravely intimated that he
would take me to the manager to see if
it could be arranged. On a subsequent
visit to this polite old-world atmosphere
of mahogany and striped pants I cashed
a £2O cheque and found later I had been
given five brand-new fivers. * Luckily I
was with a City businessman, who
cautioned me adamantly against any
heinous attempt to return the surplus.
I got back on the teller with some Aussie
food-parcels. His gratitude made me
blush.
❖ +♦♦ ❖
“Wusslean”: With, TV turning us into
a race of stay-at-homes, and wowsers
whispering darkly of unseemly dress and
still less-seemiy conduct at some Mel-
bourne dance-halls, proprietors of these
resorts are finding it hard to attract
patronage. One advertises itself as a
place “where romantic tunes lead to
honeymoons,” a pair of hearts trans-
fixed by Cupid’s arrows reinforcing the
suggestion that single patrons will receive
excellent value for their five-bob a night.
But the effect is somewhat marred by the
accompanying emphatic caption: Noted
for Respectability.
*l* *> ***
“Macquarie”: I’ve never been entirely
happy with the application of “legiti-
mate” to the flesh-and-blood stage;
still, the people who have the say in
these things apparently were, and “legiti-
mate theatre” seems here to stay. But
it raises other points. An acquaintance
describing a TV-show answered my
question as to whether it had been tele-
vised direct from the theatre with: “Oh,
no ; it was an illegitimate show.” That
could have been just his polite way of
putting it.
“Now We'll have someone to chop the Wood."
PATROL
Do you remember, George, the night we
camped at the Roper ?
And what a dry track it had been for a
couple of days;
And how we drank and soaked and
soaked and drank
In the muddy water below the crossing,
and somebody said :
“It smells like dead ’gator, but it’s wet”?
And how Charley Ring said: “If only I
was back in Brissy !
—Even if they were just throwing me
out of the Transcontinental
Along George Street or the Prince Con-
sort down the Valley ! ”
And how some of the blokes were a bit
cranky with the heat ?
And how Young Briggsy (who didn’t
come back from Ambon )
Wanted to fight me because I called him
a clumsy bastard
When he upset my messtin and pan-
nikin ...
And how I mollified him by explaining
that I didn't mean
He was born out of wedlock, but just
grew up to be one ?
And how they all thought it was funny,
and he, too, joined in the laugh ?
And the slow voice of Matt Waters tell-
ing one of his yarns:
“There’s a big copper at the Isa, and ’e’s
got a set on me, see ?
So I wait fer ’im one night when ’e’s left
the station,
And just as ’e passes under a pepperina
I step out” . . .
And how the old black gin (they’d been
tracking with us for tucker )
Kept going crook half the night,
And I said to the grey-whiskered black-
fellow with the limp :
“What name along that mary; bin yabba
allatime, eh ?”
And he shrugged and said: “Oh, dat
nuttin, mista; bin pfashion along
mary ! ”
And you said, “He must be an old
married man ! ”
And how we held our breath as a big
comet streaked across the sky
Until it faded into the purple velvet of
the night
And Ted Dunn (who died on the Burma
railway ) muttered:
“Somebody’s gonna die”; and we looked
at each other in the dark,
Sensing the shape of things to come.
And how we’d been out of tea for a
couple of days,
And at daylight Spicer sat up and
growled:
“By cripes, I’d give a tenner for a billy
of black tea
With plenty of sugar, and so strong l
could bite it! ” . . .?
Bully beef; em and vee; sweat; red
dust; chafed shoulders
Where the pack-straps bit in : wingeing,
then the quick shout of
Sudden, derisive laughter. Glaring days ;
cool nights —
Do you remember those times, George,
those hard, dusty, thirsty, lovely
times
When you’re swinging the hoe along the
rows,
The long, long rows of pines, and chew-
ing things over?
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES WHYTE.


POLITICAL POINTS
Malaya’s “State of Emergency” is
almost at an end. This euphemism
for the civil war that began 12 years ago,
when Chinese Communist guerrillas
started a terrorist-campaign in the jungle
with the intention of bringing the Malay
States into the Red empire, doesn’t hide
the fact that several thousand people
were killed and that for a long time a
large portion of the population lived in
hourly threat of death.
At first the terrorists were able to
enlist some support by their pose as
Malayan patriots, but the grant of inde-
pendence to Malaya lost them this
weapon. Australian soldiers and airmen
have played a part in the liberation of
the country from the terrorists and have
earned the warmly-expressed thanks of
the Malayan Government. For the time
being they will remain in Malaya as part
of the Commonwealth strategic reserve.
• •
The South Australian Government re-
tained the Light seat in Saturday’s by-
election for the Assembly when L. C.
Nicholson (L.C.L.) polled 1103 more
votes than his two opponents, but the
Government vote was considerably
lower than in last year’s general election.
State of parties in the S.A. Assembly is
Liberal-Country-League, 20 ; Labor, 17 ;
Independents, 2.
• •
N.Z.’s National party is taking a leaf
out of the Australian Libs’ book, and
sending its leader, Keith Holyoake, on
a new “Meet the People” campaign
through both islands. Menzies did like-
wise in Australia not so many years
ago with outstanding results. New
Zealand is preparing for an election
later this year, and Holyoake will travel,
speak and listen until Parliament
assembles on June 22 for its closing
session. The campaign follows his recent
tour of 10 Asian countries and is de-
signed to equip him further as the next
Prime Minister. "
• •
With the Summit Conference due in
a fortnight East Germany (which means
Russia) seems to be seeking compromise
over Berlin. The demand that the
Western Allies should get out at once
has been dropped. All now asked for is
no propaganda on East Berlin, step-by-
step abolition of Berlin’s occupation-
status and, eventually, the retirement of
the West. In other words, cunning has
replaced the threat of force. East Ger-
many must settle the trouble soon or
there’ll be no East Germany. Refugees
to the West now number a total equal to
one-fifth of the East German population.
Nearly 4000 got out in one day recently,
despite the threat of death to escapees.
• •
Biggest joke of the week in the
Sydney daily press:
Union officials fear that the [North
Sydney bus] dispute may develop into a
bitter fight between the Government and
the unions. Mr. Enticknap says he will
fight to the last ditch.
The Government has been in such
bitter fighting mood that it hasn’t even
the courage to allow long - distance
private buses to pick-up unfortunate
passengers along the routes deserted by
the busmen.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Australians who have
followed recent developments in Ceylon
were hoping that the new Prime Minister,
Dudley Senanayake, was correct when
he said the other day that the most
significant feature of the mandate given
to the Government was “the positive and
overwhelming verdict against the Marxist
parties” and those who had tried to in-
flame racial and communal passions to
gam political power. He added that
the unity and harmony of the country
had been shown by the vote to be abiding
values—as well they might be after the
civil disruption and disorder of recent
years. But a few days later the Sena-
nayake Government was defeated on a
censure-motion. New elections have
been ordered for July 20.
Tn its preoccupation with nuclear
weapons the military world seems
almost to have forgotten the Russian
and Chinese efforts to pin charges of
chemical- and biological-warfare on to
the Americans in Korea. The old lesson
that Moscow • first accuses its enemies
of some outrage which it proposes to
commit itself was last week driven
home by evidence before a U.S. Con-
gressional Committee —that one-sixth of
the weapons now available to Russian
troops in Eastern Europe are chemical
and that 10 missiles or bombers could
spray enough biological agent to knock-
out 30 per cent, of the U.S. population.
• •
“C.S.”: Before Rupert Murdoch, who has
lately been actively buying-up Sydney
suburban-newspaper chains, went overseas a
week or so ago he told friends he intended
to bid for the London “News Chronicle.”
Rupert was left a substantial holding in the
Adelaide “News” and controlling interest in
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” by his father, in addi-
tion to other assets. He has been very success-
ful with the “News”; the “Courier-Mail”
interest was sold to Melbourne “Herald” under
an arrangement made by Sir Keith Murdoch
to be effective on his death. Last year Rupert
made what amounted to a £l4-million otter for
the Adelaide “Advertiser.” This offer was
reported to have caused many cases of
apoplexy in the Adelaide Club at the prospect
of Popular Journalism in the “ ’Tiser”; it was
instantly rejected.
The chief proprietors of the “News-
Chronicle” are the Cadburys, the chocolate
family, who are represented on the 11-man
board by G. A. H. Cadbury. The “Daily
News” was founded in 1846 under the editor-
ship of Charles Dickens. In 1912 the (even-
ing) “Star” was acquired, and is still published,
and in 1930 the “Daily Chronicle” was amalga-
mated with the “News.” The “News-
Chronicle” has a Liberal-party policy, and on
some issues has been more Left than the Labor
“Daily Herald,” or, at least, more anti-Tory.
It has never made very much money, but has
been respected in the newspaper world as a
paper with A Cause.
“If you can do it you’re a better man than I was—and they used to say
I was greater than Lenin.”


Nothing better illustrates the ludicrous
depths to which the conduct of inter-
national affairs has fallen than the latest
Cook’s-tour of President Soekarno, who
flits from capital to capital collecting
autographed approval of his claim to
Dutch New Guinea. His latest call was
at Budapest, where the president of that
puppet-State dutifully’ put his signature
to a joint-statement supporting Indo-
nesia's “just and lawful claim.” And for
good measure the two affirmed their
hatred of “racial discrimination” and
condemned “the cruel measures taken by
the South African Government.” Soe-
karno was no doubt horrified at the
contrast between these cruel measures
and the kindly way in which his hosts,
the Kadar Government, and their
Russian friends treated the rebels in
Budapest in 1956.
• •
Calwell went on the air last week to
claim the Federal Government would
have to justify sending counsel before
the Arbitration Commission to oppose
the A.C.T.U. claim for a higher basic
wage, and also its refusal to do anything
about profits and dividends while attack-
ing the living standards of wage- and
salary-earners. Next day the Institute
of Public Affairs Victoria gave the facts:
since 1945 wages have risen 219 per cent,
and retail prices 134 per cent.
In Australia 50 per cent, of house-
holders own cars, 25 per cent, in the
U.K. and 76 per cent, in the U.S.; 33
per cent, of Australian households have
telephones compared with 21 and 75 ;
60 per cent, of houses in Melbourne and
Sydney have TV-sets compared with 60
and 85; 60 per cent, of Australian
households have washing-machines com-
pared with 30 and 86; and the re-
frigerator figures, also respective, are
(Melbourne and Sydney) 90, 15 and 93
per cent.
• •
South Korean events must have Peking
and Moscow chuckling. Riots inspired
by the accusation that the election of
the ancient President Rhee and his Vice-
President Lee Ki-poong was fraudulent
have cost at least 150 lives, several
hundred casualties and the Cabinet —
which resigned to take responsibility for
the police firing on student-crowds. All
that seems to survive of U.S.-imposed
democracy is Syngman Rhee, who has
resigned his dictatorship in favor of
cabinet government.
• •
When South Australia gets a second
university it should not be in Adelaide
Premier Playford told a questioner in
the S.A. Assembly last week, but he
added that Cabinet had not discussed the
matter and he had no site in mind. The
University of Adelaide is close to the
limit of expansion and plans have been
made for the S.A. Institute of Tech-
nology to grant Bachelor of Technology
degrees.
• •
At the Fishing Rights conference at
Geneva, Britain has pledged support to
the joint U.S.-Canadian compromise
proposal of a six-mile territorial zone
with an additional six-mile fishing zone
in which those States which have fished
there regularly for five years or more
shall continue to do so for another 10
years, after which the outer six miles
shall be for the exclusive use of the
ccastal States.
• •
Melburnians were surprised to find in
their evening paper last Thursday a large,
youthful, smiling photo of a fellow they
had regarded as politically interred in
a pleasant seaside cottage at Point Lons-
dale, Tom Hollway. The former Premier
reappeared on TV on Sunday, too, as
assessor in a youth debating session. It
was Hollway who broke the Victorian
Liberal tradition of kowtowing to the
Country party. Events have since vindi-
cated him, but the surprise of the Bolte-
Rylahs at his sudden re-emergence must
be tinged with apprehension.
• •
A large lemon prize has been earned
by Melbourne Tramways Board for
the sourest report presented to the Vic-
torian Parliament in years. Its vehicles
carried fewer passengers than in 1922-23
when cable-trams were dashing around
Melbourne at a dizzy rate and when the
board’s predecessors were assuring the
Government that electrification would
answer all problems, although even then
forward-looking people were saying that
buses were best.
Passenger-loadings for last year were
down six per cent, compared with a
drop of three per cent, in the previous
year, and the board blames for it such
modern horrors as suburban-shopping-
parking areas, cars and taxis.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Moscow has been
making a great fuss of N.Z. Prime Minis-
ter Walter Nash, especially after Nash’s
airport statement that “peace is within
our grasp.” There was a lot of secrecy
in N.Z. about the Moscow visit, the
invitation having been brought from
Moscow by the Russian charge d’affaires,
Rodionov. A statement on the “impor-
tance” of the visit was made not at the
Russian Legation in Wellington, but by
Rodionov at the Christchurch branch
of the Societv for Closer Relations with
the U.S.S.R.
• •
As an afterthought to the destructive
Agadir earthquake with its 10,000 dead,
G. A. Eiby, a seismologist at the N.Z.
Govt. Observatory in Wellington, is re-
ported as saying that Auckland could
suffer as great a calamity. He points out
that N.Z. has already had severe quakes
and, of course, very many lighter ones.
He believes Auckland has many more
quakes than are reported ; tremors are
so often mistaken for city-traffic vibra-
tions. The quake that shook the Murchi-
son area a few years ago and the one
that destroyed the city of Napier were
recorded as about magnitude 7.75 on
the Richter scale. The Agadir quake
was of less magnitude. N.Z.’s worst re-
corded quake was in 1855, when Welling-
ton recorded the maximum magnitude of
8, which is classed as a “world-shaker.”
Eiby warns against allowing any relaxa-
tion in earthquake building-standards.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Punishment for pecula-
tion by a youthful bank employee (B.
20/4/’6O) recalls the case of a promi-
nent ex-businessman whose post as
chairman of a great public utility
brought him into daily contact with
banks and other big financial institutions.
His son, a junior in a bank, succumbed
to gambling and consequent temptation.
The wealthy father, who was a close
friend of the chairman of the bank,
offered full restitution and appealed for
clemency. His request was refused, and
the young man was charged, convicted,
and sentenced to imprisonment. The
bank’s quite logical reason was that if
one crime were forgiven then other em-
ployees might fee] they could also get
away with wrongdoing.
• •
Last Thursday Rio de Janeiro ceased
to be the capital of Brazil, a distinction
it had held for two centuries. The new
capital is Brasilia, an entirely new city
carved-out of the jungle, but for the
time being many Government depart-
ments will remain in Rio. If Canberra
is any guide the complete transfer will
take a long time—and the chair-bound
officials will take a lot of shifting.
• •
“Ailsey”: Are Communists getting
into the N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board?
The N.S.W. poultry-section of the Aus-
tralian Primary Producers’ Union has
asked Minister for Agriculture Nott to
take steps to see that Reds aren’t allowed
to sit on the board. A majority vote
adopted a motion that it would be
against the interests of the industry to
have one or more members on the board
who have views opposed to the industry
as a section of the community. The
constitution of the A.P.P.U. excludes
Communists from membership—but that
doesn’t keep them out of the Egg Board.
• •
Treasurer Holt said that Calwell in
his attacks on the Arbitration Commis-
sion for having failed to restore quarterly
adjustments or increase the basic wage
had “gone cheer chasing.” The Com-
munists should sue him for plagiarism
—that’s what they said about Eddie
Ward when he failed to support their
change of front on conscription during
World War 11.
• •
Wharfies in Syria and N'York are
conducting their own private war.
U.S. seamen were last week picketing an
Egyptian ship in retaliation for Nasser’s
refusal to allow Israeli cargoes through
the Suez Canal. Syrian wharfies at
Latakia replied by refusing to allow
American ships to land cargoes there,
and a “please copy” notice was sent to
Alexandria.


Personal
ITEMS
Appointed to succeed Dr. A. J.
Metcalfe as Commonwealth Director-
General of Health, Major-General
William Dudley Refshauge has been
Director-General of Army Medical Ser-
vices since 1955. Over the last 12 months
he's been attached to the Department of
Defence, planning the amalgamation of
Navy, Army and Air Force medical ser-
vices as part of the current defence
reorganisation. Tall and active, younger-
looking than his 47 years, he has done a
good job in the Army and brings to the
top post in public-health administration
wide experience in both military and
civil medicine.
• •
At present Executive Officer of the
Navy air-station at Nowra (N.S.W.),
Commander G. V. Gladstone, R.A.N.,
has been appointed Chief Staff Officer
to the Flag Officer in command East
Australia Area. He moves into the new
job in Sydney in September.
• •
Lieut.-General Sir Ragnar Garrett,
Chief of the General Staff, is making
a week’s farewell-visit to Australian
troops in Malaya and Singapore, before
handing-over his G.S. job on June 30.
When he left he was counting on spend-
ing Anzac Day with the Diggers of the
28th Commonwealth Brigade.
• •
Among those who lately received
B.Sc. degrees at Sydney University,
William Carlisle, of Bundanoon
(N.S.W.), was, at 18, one of the youngest
of the crop. He started at the Uni. at
15, after winning two scholarships. He’s
now in his third year of engineering.
• •
Winners of the 1959 Journalists’ Club
Award for the best Australian-written
TV-play—they tied for first—were Philip
Mann, of Sydney’s North Shore Chats-
wood, and J. V. Warner, of Modbury,
(S.A.). A former officer of the R.A.N.,
and at present doing radio-script work
in England, Mann has already produced
two plays in England and had won the
Lux radio-play competition in Australia
with “The Seas Between.” Warner, an
Englishman with his home now near
Adelaide, is manager of the Bristol
Aeroplane Co.’s weapons division in
Australia, and is responsible for all the
company’s guided-weapon activities at
Salisbury and Woomera.
• •
S. P. Sjoquist, lately knighted by the
King of Denmark for services to the
Danish community in Australia, had
proved himself a good Australian citizen
also by serving overseas with the 2nd
A.I.F. He came here in 1937, is a Sydney
businessman and an elder of the
Presbyterian kirk at Chatswood.
• •
Sketched by Heth, Thomas William
Ellis, District Commissioner of the
Western Highlands, New Guinea, has
spent most of his life in the islands. He
was born at Creswick (Vic.), home-
town of the Lindsay clan, but was no
more than a toddler when he moved in
1920 to Rabaul, where his father was in
the Government service. Later, off to
England, to school for a few years, but
education finished back home in Bal-
larat. In 1933 he joined the New Guinea
service as medical assistant, and served
DISTRICT COMMISSIONER
in the Rabaul and Sepik districts until
the R.A.A.F. beckoned in 1940. Posted to
the famous Beaufighter Squadron 31 he
was soon back in the tropics, flying in
turn from stations at Darwin, Noemfor,
Morotai, Borneo and the Philippines,
collecting en route a gong (over Ambon)
and a “mention.”
Rejoining the New Guinea service
after demob., he was stationed awhile
in Moresby, then in medical-training
schools at Lae, Rabaul, Giroka, Hagen
and Wewak. At this stage his Creswick
blood took him goldmining on the Sepik
for a couple of years. Fun and hard
work, but no future. So back to the
service again as senior patrol-officer in
the Sepik district, with promotion in due
course to District Officer and District
Commissioner.
Tom Ellis holds the New Guinea
natives in high regard. In his view the
best service that can be performed for
them is to teach them the value of a
cash-crop economy —instead of subsis-
tence-farming—and, with it, the impor-
tance of assuming responsibility. In his
new district, which stretches from the
upper Sepik to the Dutch border, he
won’t lack pupils; the population is
about 200,000. Asked what the greatest
need of his district is, he says, “Roads.”
And the second? “More roads.”
• •
Eighty-nine-year-old Chief Walking
Buffalo, of the Canadian Rocky Moun-
tain Sioux, disembarked in Melbourne
last week for a short stopover in the
course of a world tour which he’s under-
taking in the hope of bringing white
and colored people together in peace and
harmony. With him were six other Red
Indians and two members of his family
—his grandson, 18 - year - old Henry
Holloway, who’s a full-blood Sioux, and
his “adopted son,” the Hon. Miles Phil-
limore, son of Lord Phillimore, of Ship-
lake, Oxfordshire.
• •
N. E. Ekblad, Sweden’s new Consul
in Australia, is a strikingly good ad.
for his country in one respect especially
—it was there that modern scientific
physical culture was evolved, and the
Consul stands 6ft. 7|in. in his socks and
used to be a heavyweight boxer. He
says that, as a wine-drinking country,
Sweden could be a good market for
Australian wines if Australia had diplo-
matic representation there. As things
are, Sweden imports its wine from South
Africa.
• •
Calling it a day after 38 years as
superintendent-secretary of King’s Park,
Perth, John Ernest Watson was born at
Charters Towers (Q.) in 1895, but moved
early to the West, arriving with his
parents at Kalgoorlie as a four-year-old.
In War I on Gallipoli and in France,
collecting three stripes and the Military
Medal, in War II he was with the V.D.C.
for over three years and ended as a
brigade-major. He’s had 40 years’ ex-
perience of bushfire-control, at this game
learning to scale-up trees so well that
he made what’s claimed to be the world’s
record climb, in a karri-tree near Pem-
berton. Among interests in general he’s
had a lot to do with the Boy Scout
movement, Y.M.C.A. and Rotary.
• •
Headed for the U.K., Europe and the
U.5.A.,C.5.1.R.0. chairman Dr. F. W. G.
White is booked to attend the second
International Wool Textile Research
Conference in Yorkshire and also be at
the tercentenary celebrations of the
Royal Society in London. On the way
to England there’ll be short stopovers
at Bangkok, Delhi and Karachi, to see
something of Asian progress in research.
• •
Hedley Cousins, a director of Jackson
Wain and Co., advertising agents, is off
on a three-months’ world tour that will
take him to the U.S.A., Canada, Ger-
many, Switzerland, France and the U.K.
Objectives, of course, include having a
look at latest techniques in TV-advertis-
ing, and he will also visit headquarters
of the companies his agency works for,
and talk over plans for expansion in
Australia during the next year or so.


“C.R.”: Frank Norris, recently met
here in Perth, has resigned from his job
as building-inspector for the Singapore
City Council after nearly 35 years’ ser-
vice there. He says that, though Singa-
pore's Prime Minister is not a Commu-
nist, he is also not anti-Communist, and
many in his party are Reds. The
influence of these Communist sympa-
thisers (Norris said) has halted Singa-
pore’s building-programme and seriously
affected local business. They aim at
making life hard for the council’s long-
term employees, evidently hoping to
induce them to resign. Norris has been
looking for a house, intending to go back
to Singapore and collect his family.
• •
“New Zeal”: Keith Morton, N.Z.
construction worker, has been through
two upheavals. In the Napier earth-
quake, when 11 years old, he wasn't
hurt, but was temporarily buried and
badly burned on the legs and right arm
in the Wairekei upheaval. He took shel-
ter under a truck and was almost buried
by hot mud as the vehicle slid to one side.
• •
Off again to stir-up the export of Aus-
tralian dairy - products this time in
Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan and
London —W. L. Kraft is general-manager
of Drouin Co-op., and latest member
of the board of K. L. Ballantyne Pty.,
Ltd.
He's been actively engaged on the
DAIRY-EXPORTS
manufacturing and processing side of
the dairying industry for the last 42
years, building the co-op. at Drouin, in
Gippsland, into Melbourne’s greatest
supplier of milk that a cow would
recognise, and one of the principal sup-
pliers for export-markets. The smile
Qvenden has caught here, however, is
best seen at the lush pasture of Drouin
Bowling Club, of which Bill (as they
know him there) is a foundation-
member.
• •
For a lifetime addiction to sport —as
a side interest, at any rate —the record
of H. F. B. Castle, of Turramurra, on
Sydney’s North Shore line, might take
some beating. Starting young (he’s now
82) he has in his time played first-grade
cricket, tennis, football —Rugby Union,
“Rules” and Soccer —and baseball. And
golf..
A Queenslander —born at Bundaberg
and educated at Maryborough Grammar
—he was a Rugby Union half-back at
a shade over 13, and he’s been either a
player of some sport or keenly interested
ever since. After schooling he joined the
Union Bank in Melbourne. Not long
afterwards he got himself into training-
camp with the South African contingent,
but peace arrived before he could get
away from Australia. His sport-record
about this time includes 96 runs in 37
minutes in a cricket-match in Brisbane.
In 1915 he joined the A.1.F., went off
with 29th Battalion reinforcements to
England, was battalion adjutant on
Salisbury Plain, then was wounded and
captured at Polygon Wood (September,
1917) and spent the last 14 months of
the war in Germany. Back in Australia
eventually, he joined the Royal Bank in
Melbourne, moved to Sydney and be-
came chief-inspector, and when the
Royal amalgamated with the E.,S. and
A. he was appointed inspector for N.S.W.
His sporting-list includes umpiring for
Davis Cup matches —in 1912 in Mel-
bourne and in 1919 at Wimbledon —and
also for the Australian championships
in Sydney in 1921. He won the “weight-
for-age” competition at Pymble Golf
Club for 23 years until he gave it away
three years ago ; and when he'd given
that up he went and won a Dulux prize
from Jack Davey.
• •
Just arrived in Sydney to take-up his
appointment as Professor of Pathology
at the University of N.S.W.. Professor
Donald Wilhelm had been studying in
England. Originally from Adelaide Uni-
versity, he had a year at the depressively-
named Department of Morbid Anatomy
at the University College Medical School
in London and put in seven years at the
Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine.
• •
Yarned with at a party given for him
by Coronet, for whom he records,
Philippe Entremont, the young French
pianist now touring Australia under the
A.B.C. house-flag, confided with dry
humor that he had decided to make his
first Australian visit because his family
is shortly moving from their Paris flat.
He’d bought a house, he said, and —by
this nice stroke of strategy —his wife is
back home managing the shifting! As
adept at talking—and in English—as he
is at the keyboard, he can track his career
back to when he won first-prize at the
PIANIST FROM FRANCE
Paris Conservatorium as a 15-year-old.
From then on he’s been collecting top
trophies all over Europe and has
appeared as soloist with almost every
first-class orchestra up and down four
continents, as well as doing a lot of work
at recitals. He’s the son of musical
parents ; his first music-teacher was his
mother.
• •
Into the Silence:
In London, at 59, Sir Archibald Mclndoe,
New Zealand-born plastics-surgeon, who treated
hundreds of badly scarred airmen at East
Grinstead Hospital in Sussex during War 11,
and who founded the Guinea Pig Club to
encourage those whose faces he remade.
In Auckland, at 90, Alfred S. Clarke, who
came from London to N.Z. in 1874, later
crossed over the Tasman, took part in the
Westralian gold-rush, served in South Africa
with the Sixth Contingent, and went to England
in 1902 with the N.Z. Coronation troops.
In Hikutaia (N.Z.), at 91, John Alexander
Bevan Johnston. Born in N.Z., he went at
18 to join in the gold-rushes in Australia,
setting down his impressions in verse in The
Bulletin and other Australian journals, and
later writing prose and verse under the pen-
names of “Raupo” and “Porangi Patai” lor
N.Z. journals.
In Goulburn (N.S.W.), at 46, Dr. R. Lloyd-
Jones, Government District Medical Officer.
In Melbourne, at 80, W. S. Reid, chairman
of directors of the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia and of La Mode Holdings, and on the
board of the New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency.
In Melbourne, at 65, War I Digger R. R.
Thomas, managing-director of the Bearing
Service Co. of Australia.
In Adelaide, at 63, Lieut.-Colonel H. G.
Loveband, who “deserted” his garrison-company
on Thursday Island at the age of 17 to join
the Ist A.I.F. by swimming out to a transport
berthed offshore and stowing-away. A member
of the Ist N.S.W. Machine Gun Company, he
fought on Gallipoli, won the M.M. and bar,
later became a Regular and fought in War 11
at El Alamein.
In Melbourne, at 73,- Henry Ayling (“Matt’ )
Arnold, crime-reporter on Melbourne “Herald”
from 1920 to 1951, with a break of three years
on Melbourne “Sun.”


ABORIGINALITIES
A shining example of how Nor-
therners battle against the many
odds besetting them, not least of which
is the indifference of southern-centred
Governments, is the development of
Mitchell Aerial Services, now called
Masair, in its new grandeur, operating
over Cape York Peninsula out of Cairns.
M.A.S. was founded five years ago by
the brothers Frank and Neville Mitchell,
Frank the engineer, Nev the pilot, with
a fleet of one old Wackett Air Force
trainer capable of carrying one passen-
ger at a time or a couple-of-hundred
pounds of freight. They added a Tiger
Moth ; then they were able to do a deal
with the Cairns Aero Club, swapping
both these crates, the very best for basic
and secondary training, for a four-seater
“You should've seen the one that got away!”
Auster Autocar that was not proving
effective as a trainer.
Next they went after an old Dragon
(a kind of outsize Tiger Moth) that they
heard was to be had cheap in New
Guinea. New Guinea flying is the
toughest in the world. Nothing daunted,
Nev Mitchell went in there with a couple
of Aero Club boys and flew the old box-
o’-tricks out and across Torres Strait
and down the Peninsula, home. It
wasn’t so easy. They had just about
to hold the old-timer together with their
hands to get her through. But she was
a great buy. Known affectionately
throughout the Peninsula as “The Fly-
ing Fowlhouse” because she once trans-
ported a load made-up entirely of chooks
from Cairns to Thursday Island, she has
done a great job in the recent great
development of that region.
Next addition to the M.A.S. fleet was
a Procter, bought cheap from a grazier.
The Procter is well-and-truly out-of-date,
an expensive aircraft to maintain,
designed for military reconnaissance in
World War 11. But it is speedy. The
Mitchells built up their mail-runs with
that veteran. Then came their first new
buy, a Cessna 180 of the tail-wheel type,
for short-landing on any claypan or
beach. Meanwhile they had been train-
ing flying-staff in the Aero Club, of
which-Nev was C.F.I. and Frank presi-
dent, and training their own engineers
in the corner of the hangar at Cairns
lent them by A.N.A.
Unhappily, Frank Mitchell didn’t live
to see the great things that followed
acquirement of the Cessna, which was
to bear his name. He was killed in a
crash of another company’s aircraft, in
which he was flying as passenger, at
Horn Island.
Loss of his brother was a great blow
to Nev But he k the show in
c , . A
wlth , th f, he| P ° f hls A %° Club b °^>
eventually to fly a mi!hon-and-a-halt
rniles to the last reckoning, and that
without a single mishap.
Now things have gone far beyond any-
thing the Mitchell brothers had dared
even to dream. Newly-added to Masair’s
line are three brand-spanking-new light
aircraft, with airline comfort and speed
—two twin-engine Piper Aztecs and a
single-engine Piper Commanche. And
from that humble corner in A.N.A.’s
hangar the show will shortly be moving
into a £20,000 building of their own.
They’ll need it all to do the job before
them. They have just secured the mail-
contract for the whole of Cape York
Peninsula for the next five years, which
will mean flying a total of 2500 miles a
week.
At Cairns Airport a plaque com-
memorates the grand work done by
Frank Mitchell for aviation in the North.
It is to be hoped that his brother Nev
doesn’t also have to wait till he has
passed on to be publicly honored.
Nummiook.
* * * *
“Craft Teacher”: The Torres Strait
Islander, a middle-aged woman, was
learning under my direction to make
felt-toys, and was so enthusiastic that
she couldn't await directions for finish-
ing her dressed frog. Clad in morning-
trousers, cutaway coat and top-hat, Mr.
Froggie had his head sewn on sideways.
“Is he all right?” she asked doubtfully.
“If you want him to look that way it’s
all right,” I replied, “but I usually face
the head to the front.” In haste she
began pulling-out stitches. “You don’t
have to undo your work!” I protested,
for it was beautifully done. “I no like
my proggie ’e look me one eye!” she
growled, then with a broad smile when
she had corrected the position: “Look,
Missus, ’e look me two-eye now! Proper
good, eh?”
* * * *
“Norque”: In this western township,
on my way to get my Bully at the
post-office, I sighted a dark couple walk-
ing down the street, the long-haired half
wearing a colorful print-skirt freely
splattered with squares inscribed . “My
Fair Lady.” ,
* * * *
“Sirius”: The hanging of a wreath
on the roof of a newly-built house is an
old European custom (B. 30/3/’6O).
Don’t know its origin or significance, but
Ibsen makes it the climax of one of his
best-known plays, where the Master
Builder falls to his death after hanging
the wreath on the weathervane of his new
house.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: When the Americans came
to Australia to help buck things up in
World War II they brought with them
neatly-produced little Pocket Guides
issued by the War and Navy Depart-
ments at Washington (D.C.) as an aid
to closer understanding and relationship.
I’ve been browsing through one owned
by an ex - service friend. It includes
several chapters of useful general infor-
mation, prints “Waltzing Matilda” in full
(“Music by Mary Cowan”), and gives
specimens of our accent: “The - trine is
lite todi.” It also informs the troops
that “Two-up” is a very simple version


/flg fLAce: seens <zwhsr.
StAfr/ To^ght."
V MOST HAV£ ADPfcP UP TTIStfZ.
- expenses for. rue night,
(NCtyPiNG TNC BANP Aa/P
I H
PNiofo it 6>y US /


of an old American pastime, “matching
coins.” Cooee is translated “Yoo-hoo,”
a Collins Street squatter is a drugstore
cowboy, to smooge is to “pitch woo,” a
“fair cow” means a louse or heel, and
to feel crook is to feel lousy. A wowser
to the Yank is a stuffed-shirt or sourpuss,
and bastard (“pronounced barstud”) is
“sometimes a term of affection.” With
sheila as “babe,” diner as “another
babe,” and sninny as “a third babe,” no
doubt the uncultured visitor from the
States could get by, but one term I’m a
bit hazy on myself is “drongo,” equiva-
lent to “rookie,” but defined as “A
clumsy Australian insect.” Now, what
part of Australia does this insect breed
in?
* * *
“Mulga”: We returned to our N.T.
cattle-station after the holidays to find
Georgio surrounded by a heap of
empties—tins, not bottles. “Too hot for
"Backward crowd—still doing the Charleston !”
cooking tucker,” he complained. “By
golly, she so hot some chooks they conk-
out and I nearly conk-out too, and the
thermometer she say one-hundred-thirty,
too true. I tell you if I touch any iron
it nearly burn me, and I can no longer
walk about because the sand burn my
bare feet and to wear boots too hot by
far. When I breathe, the wind it feels
heavy in my chest and nearly chokes
me, and when I look out the window
I see the fence-posts rise to ten-feet in
the air and dance in the heat, and the
wire in the fence she dance too, only
worse. And then I go and drink lots
of water and take plenty aspirin and
go to bed, only the bed so hot it burns
me, and when I get up and go under
the shower to get cool the water comes
out so hot it nearly is steam like railway-
engine, dinkum I tell you.” We doubted
Georgio’s 130 deg.-reading, but some
chooks did conk while we were away,
and it did reach 115 after we got home.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: My dictionary
doesn’t list “possum” except as an
abbreviation of “opossum,” which it
calls “an Amer. and Austral, marsupial
carnivorous mammal.” The American
opossum is certainly a polyprotodont,
which means it has more than two front
teeth on the lower jaw and well-
developed canines, and consequently is
carnivorous (it’s also savage). The Aus-
tralian possums are diprotodonts —they
have only two front teeth in the lower
jaw, and are vegetarians. These Aus-
tralian animals are related to the Ameri-
can only to the extent that all are
marsupials; and the scientists who
classified them seem to have seen. in
the brushtail-possum a greater simi-
larity to the fox, for they named it
Trichosurus vulpecula (“an animal with
a hairy tail something like a fox”). The
ringtail-possum they called Pseudo-
cheirus laniginosus (“an animal with
false hands and fleecy fur”). There’s
little doubt Captain Cook named our
possums after the American marsupial,
and he may deliberately have made a
distinction. He was already a world-
traveller when he discovered this con-
tinent ; no doubt he knew the opossum
of the American continent and was astute
enough to have seen the great difference
between it and the Australian marsupial,
while noting a vague similarity.
* * * *
“Dee”: In Cowra (N.S.W.) back in
the ’thirties two of the best-known older
residents had become bitter enemies.
Their families, embarrassed, had tried to
patch-up the old-timers’ differences, but
they remained embittered, and shunned
one another’s company, till they met by
chance in the office of a local business-
man. An awkward silence, broken by
old Jack: “Tom, did you tell Smithy that
I was a liar and a cheat?” “No, Jack,”
said Tom, “I didn’t tell him ; I thought
he knew !”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Bricklaying “records”
depend on what kind: the neater
and more exacting the type of
work the fewer bricks the brickie can
lay in a day. Bringing up the outside
“skin” in face-bricks and “striking” or
“ironing” the joints (making ’em smooth
and neat), a fast brickie doing his best
couldn’t lay half as many bricks as a
slower man on the inside skin of the
same wall, where the common bricks are
left rough for plastering. On corners or
around openings his figures would be
lower still, but they’d be higher on wider
rough walls. The wider the wall the
easier to lay a lot of bricks in a hurry,
since only the outside course of bricks
need be kept straight to a line, while the
rest can be, and generally are, bunged
in any old how. The mighty tallies are
made in “the guts” of huge buttresses
or the yards-thick walls of kilns. But a
skilled bricklayer is not really required
for such work ; any laborer with a strong
back and plenty of stamina could dump
bricks down in a mass of masonry that
doesn’t have to be plumb, level or
straight, because it is all hidden by the
outside work, which does have to be ail
that, and neat besides. As a general rule,
the best brickie on a job lays the fewest
bricks —he does the work that only a
really skilled tradesman can do.
* * * *
“Flight”: I am convinced that Kelly
the crow, in his way something of a
comedian, rather likes to masquerade as
the raven and thus assume a villainy
which isn’t really his, for he is basically
a berry- and insect-eater. But, like his
all-black cousin, the crow will have a
crack at a sheep, though neither can
kill one outright—they take its eyes,
tongue, lips, bare patches in the groin ;
but they have to wait until either the
eagle, the dingo or the fox has done the
murder before they really get to work
as the scavengers they both are.
* * * *
% * .
“Sunray”: The discussion had been
on the assimilation of New Australians.
The chairman asked a silent member
if she had anything to say. She said
we might be interested in her impres-
sions of her first few days in this country.
Her father had been an officer in the
army of the Czar and had fled to Aus-
tralia after the revolution. Times were
hard and he ended-up as a miner in
North Queensland. After a year he sent
for the family, who had been wander-
ing about in Korea and China. When
they arrived they found that father had
a house—corrugated-iron, bag floor, iron
windows opened by pushing a stick
which rested on the sill to hold them
in place. He had collected fruit they
had never seen: pineapples, papaws,
bananas and so on. They felt they were
the owners of the earth. They had
dinner, and to celebrate, some wine.
Their mother suddenly remarked, “But
for the fact that I’ve had wine, I’d say
there was a big snake crawling across
the ceiling.” The father said, “That’s
not the wine,” and quietly disposed of
the big carpet-snake. Next morning
there was another snake, and a big
goanna. The mother was bewildered
by the abundance of wildlife, and talk-
ing through an interpreter with an
Australian neighbor mentioned the fact.
The neighbor said, “Oh, they’ve just
come out specially to welcome you.”
The lass concluded, “You know, we
have no sense of humor as Australians
understand it, and Mother just thought
the woman was completely mad.”


NOTHING MATCHES
TODAY’S WONDER FUEL!
r
Boron high-energy fuel is today helping to power
advance-stage missiles through space at fantastic speeds
. . . speeds of more than fifteen times the speed of sound.
In Ampol Boron, this same high-energy element will
dramatically increase power and mileage in your car!
Ampol is the only petrol that gives you'Boron.
Ampol Boron is an entirely NEW petrol. Fill your
tank and prove for yourself that your best buy is
Ampol Boron. - " .
Boron high-energy fuels will power missiles and
Super-Jets of today and tomorrow to almost unbe-
lievable speeds!
mNew Power! %New Smoothness!
%New Pick-up! JSetter Mileage!
» i^TRALIAN
OMPOL
OWNED


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
mv«-17l *J» lines> BT 5827
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX. Sytlaev
2&CNT
m
m
V ■>/■:.
jt. ••. •• «••• /yyX,
O
it - s?&^p
- • -.•>■-.
33588®
Wfcs*;
->:■■ ■
WS?
PP
A happier choice for every occasion . . #
Aneoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you'll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK. RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY...ST. AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc .
Defence—and Oil
[From “Old Opencut”]
Qpf.cialist-officers and men
from the three branches of
our armed forces could Well
form a composite unit to put
into practical operation the
recommendation of W. Hall
(B. 6/4/’6O) that Australia’s
oil-search programme should
be accepted as a defence-
measure.
In the past decade scientific
progress has necessitated the
acquisition in all services of
men with high professional
training and experience for
staffing the specialist branches.
Geological- and geophysical-
survey teams working in col-
laboration with photo- and
magnetic-reconnaissance squad-
rons and ground-cartographic
sections are adding to the
scanty knowledge of our con-
tinent by mapping to anxopti-
mum standard of accuracy. To
be added to this source of
valuable information are the
Army's mechanical-, electrical-
and field-engineering units com-
petent to provide efficient drill-
ing teams for the big rigs im-
ported by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources. With the
bureau’s directive brains such
a collective assembly should be
capable of being moulded into
a high-efficiency entity.
There need be no concern as
to the workability of a com-
posite force. The three ser-
vices are working together most
happily in another top-priority
project, which now, in the
light of our dire need to find
or produce oil, assumes much
lesser importance.
Suitable transport is avail-
able from the Army’s many
large reserve-vehicle parks.
Though the parks are orderly,
the cars and trucks must deteri-
orate by exposure. Their use
would obviate the present
arrangement whereby subsi-
dised oil-search companies are
permitted to purchase large
fleets of four-wheel drive and
other heavy tracked-vehicles.
With all these arrangements the
defence-budget should not be
unduly bulged and, with the
search in the right areas, any
useful discoveries would remain
in the family.
W. Hall is right in emphasis-
ing the importance of trap-
making elements. The tech-
nique of the French Petroleum
Institute, headed by Dr. Daniel
Trumpy and operating from
Alice Springs in preliminary
air-surveys, appears to be to
search for the impermeable
barriers likely to have trapped
oil migrating from distant sedi-
mentary basins and not to
spend much time on orthodox
surface-features. A study of
some 1150 boreholes drilled
in the Great Artesian, Murray
River and Eucla basins from
1873 to 1940 shows no porosity
changes likely to create im-
permeable traps. The early
stratigraphic records are primi-
tive, but many are surprisingly
informative. Though many of
the bores were water-probes
there is evidence the drillers
had an interest in the mineral
possibilities.
To summarise: it would
appear that our three great
basins consist of aquifers of
hydro-dynamic pressures and
gradients, the pressure forming
aqueducts and channels which
would certainly aid the migra-
tion and ultimately the escape
of any oil formed in the marine
beds of the sedimentary strata.
The whole central area of the
continent south of the Tropic
of Capricorn appears to have
suffered an orogenic cataclysm.
There is no other explanation
for the extraordinary
phenomena found in the sedi-
mentary rocks. In the north
conditions are much more
stable and more in conformity
with a normal geological pat-
tern. In the north-west of the
continent I would expect to
find oil held in traps well in-
land from the known and
possibly unknown submerged
sedimentary basins. It will be
interesting to read the opinions
of the French experts after
their early probes. In the in-
terim, since the Petroleum In-
stitute is an advisory body only,
we could be building a com-
posite work-force to implement
any recommendations likely to
result in active field operations
in the vital search for oil.
Trans-Tasman Steel
{From Wellington, X.Z.]
Mew Zealand industrialists
are not happy about the
Government's plans for the
development of an iron-and-
steel industry. They fear that
control is being given to over-
seas interests.
Not long ago the Minister of
Industries and Commerce, Mr.
Holl owa y, stated that a
£250,000-investigating company
would be set-up in which 51
per cent, of the shares would be
held by the Government, and
49 per cent, by private enter-
prise.
Subsequently, officers of the
Industries and Commerce
Department met persons in-
terested in subscribing to the
proposed company. The meet-
ing was private and no state-
ment on the outcome was
made, but according to un-
official reports it was decreed
by the department that the
greater proportion of the
private shares in the company
would be granted to a combina-
tion of companies controlled
by the Korman group, and the
rest doled-out in diminishing
parcels to N.Z. commercial in-
terests.
Of the 122,500 £ 1-shares
available, the Korman interests
are reported to have received
62,500, or more than half;
Pacific Steel, Ltd. of Auckland,
40,000; the New Zealand
Development Company, 7500;
William Cable Holding, 1000;
and other local companies
smaller amounts.
It is understood that the in-
tention is that when the operat-
ing-company is set-up this basis
of share-allocation will be
maintained.
Local businessmen are re-
ported to have written to Mr.


PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. Li. Hunt, J. A, Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Unwar, Sydney.
a
I i MU
' ' >
V ' *?.-'?<■ '
in
, v
mm
■ ; : v
p s *
-
S 3
ft
■ v y.
Show your apprecia-
tion on Mother’s Day
with a beautifully de-
signed Bank of New
South Wales Gift
Cheque. This Gift
Cheque combines an
appropriate greetings card with a personal cheque.
Gift Cheques may be obtained at any branch,
whether you have an
account or not. The cost
is only 1 /3d. (including
stamp duty) plus, of
course, the amount of the
cheque.
jmMrnmmtstmmmsmmmm
r M;
»AN« or NEW SOI'TH WALES
" *r-r.y.- 9.,
M
m ,<r >«»
On Mother’s Day, give a
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Issued by the Bank of New South Wales
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Also available: Gift Cheques for Birthdays, Weddings,
Christmas, and General Purposes.
A5907C
Holloway making proposals
concerning the future control
of any final company, to en-
sure that it is kept in N.Z.
hands, even if most of the
money is to come from over-
seas.
Opposition-leader Holyoake
has said:
The time is overdue for the
Government to come out frankly
and honestly and state what is
happening behind the scenes. As
matters stand there are disquieting
reports of a “secret meeting” called
by the Government, at which senior
public-servants presented a most
unsatisfactory cut-and-dried pro-
posal to interested commercial
parties. It is time the mystery
was cleared-up.
If N.Z. investors cannot raise
sufficient capital to investigate and
form an industry, then there may
be a case for the Government
coming-in initially, but it should
come-in on the clear understand-
ing that it will divest itself of its
shares, with priority for N.Z. share-
holders, just as soon as that is
practicable. Company-promotion
and participation is not the normal
function of government.
On the aspect of overseas invest-
ment, we have made it abundantly
clear in the past that we will
welcome capital-investment in N.Z.
by overseas interests, especially in
partnership of co-operation with
N.Z. interests. But we oppose the
suggestion that such a potentially
big and important N.Z. industrial
i undertaking should be dominated
by interests outside N.Z,
The New Zealand Develop-
ment Manufacturing Company,
Ltd., sponsored by the Korman
group, is expected soon to
submit to the Department of
Industries and Commerce a
. detailed proposal to manufac-
ture the bulk of N.Z.’s require-
ments of heavy-gauge steel and
wrought-iron pipes in diameters
under four inches.
The Development Company
has agreed that, if and when it
becomes desirable to do so, its
pipe-making industry will be
integrated with the basic iron-
and-steei industry. It has also
submitted a scheme for the
manufacture in N.Z. of the
bulk of the country’s require-
ments of bright and galvanised
steel-wire.
Mr. H. Kormati announced
recently a proposal to set-up
the New Zealand Development
Manufacturing Company, Ltd.,
initially with a paid-up capital
of £3 million and a nominal
capital of £2O million. Since
then there have been discus-
sions with the Capital Issues
Committee and the Department
of Industries and Commerce.
John Fairfax, Ltd.
John Fairfax, Ltd., holding-
co. with publishing
interests,, proposes a one-for-
four bonus-issue after sub-
dividing present 20s. stock-
units into units of ss. each.
The issue, which will be
financed from a revaluation of
the co.’s investment in its sub-
sidiary, John Fairfax and Sons
Pty., will raise paid capital by
£1 million to £5 million. Sub-
division will be effected on
June 23 next, stockholders
then registered to qualify for
the bonus-issue.
The new stock-units will
not share in the recently
announced interim div., but
will benefit fully in the final
distribution and in all subse-
quent declarations. Directors
anticipate continuance of
existing div.-rates on enlarged
capital.
H. C. Sleigh Convertible
Notes
The Melbourne-based Ff. C.
Sleigh, Ltd., importer and
distributor of petroleum-
products, with ancillary
shipping-, export- and mer-
chandising-interests, will raise
approximately £1,800,000 in
June next by the issue at par
of 6y p.c. registered un-
secured notes of 10s. each.
The notes will be convertible
to fully-paid ss. ords. in June,
1968 —four ss. ords. for every
three notes.
Proceeds of the issue, it is
claimed, will be applied to
finance immediate expansion of
existing functions. They will
not be used in the contem-
plated lubricating-oil refinery
project announced earlier this
month.
The notes will be offered to
holders registered in the books
at May 5: one note for every
10 ords.; two notes for every
five options and/o, five 20s.
p.c. registered unsecured
notes. They will carry the
right to participate in future
issues for cash to the extent
to which they would have been
entitled to participate had they
previously been converted to
fully-paid ss. ords. Note-
holders will derive proportion-
ate share-benefits upon con-
version in the event of any
intervening bonus-issue not
now contemplated.
The issue is payable in full
on application by June 30 next
and interest will be paid from
then on at half-yearly intervals.
Worldwide Trade-War?
[By “Ex-Act”]
TX/hat is the world coming
* * to? The answer seems to
be a world-wide trade-war of
staggering dimensions.
For Australia, in its present
stage of emerging from the
easier ways of living, the out-
look is stimulating and disturb-
ing. This may be the reason
why Jack McEwen has re-
tained the Trade portfolio,
because he knows that our
future trading may well mean
whatever future we have as a
nation. v
Some of our trading prob-
lems, including the costs of
our exports, are wholly or
partly within our own control.
Others are quite beyond our
influence, except by argument
and, perhaps, persuasion.
Some, such as the Russian bid
to grow much more and better


Made in
KENT
FILTERS BEST
257
r>
MtCAOH'T*
"IK
tKTuf*
tm
Fon,
U4HI
REGULAR •KING SIZE •CRUSH-PROOF BOX ,
wool and the price-structure of
Japanese manufacturing, for
instance, are matters on which
we must be impotent, although
they affect and will affect us
deeply.
The moves in Europe for the
formation of “one community”
are of great and growing im-
portance to us. Our relations
with the United States, on
which McEwen was recently
outspoken, but almost certainly
in vain in an American Presi-
dential election-year, will have
immense reactions on our
future markets in Asia and else-
where, as will the growing in-
dustrialisation of Asian and
Eastern European nations.
Tariff-structures at home and
abroad must grow in import-
ance-even if the trend is to-
wards their gradual elimina-
tion. We must decide whether
to help traditional customers,
or to give as much trade as
possible to our newer and
better ones —such as Japan at
present.
It may be that in this coming
hectic and ruthless race for
survival and growth we shall
have to forego a lot of the
things we cherish, including
ample leisure. We shall have
to adjust our view of what we
call our “standard of living”—
a phrase which has, quite
wrongly, come to mean
material gadgets from cars and
boats to TV-sets and cake-
mixers.
Plain living, hard thinking,
the use of imagination and
talent to the maximum, and
reasonable amounts of hard
work will be needed by every-
"I'm afraid you've got the Wrong number. This is
double-one six nine."
one if we are to remain an
integrated and productive
nation in this new competitive
world. What are we going to
do about it in Australia?
Faster Freighters
[By “Lookout”!
HThis year’s wool-clip will be
lifted by a fleet of modern
freighters that varies between
10,000 - ton turbine - steamers
capable of 19 knots and
3000-ton, 17-knot motorships.
This is the size-power ratio
that has proved most success-
ful for present-day conditions.
When larger and more
powerful motorships were put
on the European service the
machinery and fuel-space
needed for the extra speed was
uneconomic. Fantastic amounts
of extra fuel were needed to
boost the speed from 17 to 19
knots, and refuelling in Aus-
tralian ports at considerably
higher prices than the usual
Middle East bunkering ports
was inevitable. But at 17 knots
sufficient fuel could be taken
on at Aden for the voyage to
Australia and back.
Blue Funnel, Clan, Ellerman
and British India Lines favor
the turbine-propulsion. Their
timetables are fixed to coincide
with the wool-sales, and maxi-
mum power is needed only on
the long outward and home-
ward voyages and to make up
time lost by unforeseen delays
around the coast.
But Shaw Savill's smaller 17-
knot motorships, Afric, Arabic,
Alaric and Aramaic, have no
difficulty in keeping-up their
regular monthly sailings. The
disadvantage of their slightly
lower speed is offset by the
faster turn-round in port result-
ing from their smaller capacity.
British India Line has also
streamlined its Persian Gulf
and Indian services with the
introduction of Bulimba and
Bank u r a, 3000-ton ultra-
modern motorships that, with
their latest cargo-handling
equipment, can make-up time
in port as well as at sea. Cranes
supersede conventional der-
ricks, and push-button-con-
trolled sliding covers will close
and seal hatchways in seconds.
The crew can open-up and
cover-up and thereby enable
the wharfies to handle cargo
from turn-to to knock-off time
with consequent big savings in
labor costs.
Japanese services have also
been improved by faster ships.
Not long ago the turbine
steamer Eastern Queen broke
the record from Brisbane to
Japan with an average speed
of 17| knots. Accepting the
challenge, Osaka Shosen Kaisha
took their fast motorship Hono-
lulu Maru off the New York
run to send her on a record-
breaking voyage to Australia.
Averaging more than 19 knots
each way she broke the Eastern
Queen’s record, and her 467-
mile passage from Port Phillip
Heads to Adelaide in twenty-
four hours will not be bettered
by many freighters.
Competition on this trade
could result in slightly better
wool prices. Japanese buyers,
knowing that they will not be
faced with storage and tran-
shipping costs, will confidently
bid to their ceiling-prices.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
4
4
4
u
k
r
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
FRENCH COMPANY IN SYDNEY
IT seems strange to have to
report that the most deeply
satisfactory evening’s theatre
one has had for years was pro-
vided at Sydney Con. last Satur-
day —in a language in which
one can only, so to speak,
paddle—by the visiting com-
pany of the Theatre du Vieux
Colombier de Paris in its one-
day season of Moliere’s “Le
Misanthrope.”
One took a translation along,
hoping to supply one’s own
sub-titles in the gloom, but soon
closed the book and, relying
for sense on the v scattered
phrases and sentences one
understood, took it all more-
or-less as opera, revelling in
the stagecraft of the actors —
which is truly under test in
such circumstances —and the
wonderfully varied and sugges-
tive music they made out of
Moliere’s couplets. (This way
it was also possible to feel and
enjoy the air of intense com-
munication between the actors
and a largely expatriate audi-
ence hungry for the flavors of
a language it loved.)
It was a richly instructive
experience—a lesson in what
can be done, without tricks or
undue ornamentation, when a
group of expert players are ex-
pertly directed and left alone
with a play and their talents.
And what a play to be left
alone with! Written when
Moliere was at the height of his
powers, it argues-out its cen-
tral conflict between the wrong-
headed honesty of Alceste and
the empty worldliness of his
beloved Celimene with an
almost mathematical thorough-
ness, yet with warmth and
gaiety, holding the subsidiary
characters in an exact balance
around it; its wise comedy
everywhere emerging from that
union of intellect and heart
which provides the peculiar
triumphs of French literature.
Bernard Dheran’s modern-
dress production had striking
gowns by Pierre Cardin for the
women and discreetly elegant
formal-dress by Pierre Larsen
for the men ; but its emphases
were so justly distributed
throughout that it was impos-
sible to regard the costumes as
anything more than what they
should be details finely
studied, but only details.
The acting throughout was
cool, almost didactic, but com-
pelling in its richness of detail,
its precision, its flexibility. One
recalls the women best, for by
the end of the play one was
wildly infatuated with them —
with Madeleine Delavaivre’s
agile and seemingly weightless
Celimene, delicious in every
movement and tone; Giselle
Touret’s supple and feline
Arsinoe, with its fascinating
suggestions of a passionate
nature gone sour ; and Anouk
Ferjac’s softly firm Eliante.
The reviewer’s infatuation
with these wonderful creatures
reflects on himself, not on the
male actors. Jacques Dumesnil
vehemently measured-out the
dogmatic rages and seething
constraints of Alceste; Jean-
Pierre Delage, as Philinte, gave
an impression of easy and
fluent projection ; and Jacques
Francois drew Oronte in a set
of sharply comic attitudes.
Thanks must go to the
French Embassy and the Alli-
ance Franeaise for bringing
this company out, with hopes
that it won’t be the last one.
J. A,
* *> *X*
Tommy Steele
Tommy Steele is the best
bundle of joy Sydney Tivoli has
had since Sabrina. The twin
peaks of extitement in his case
are on the one hand Rock and
the other hand Roll; he has a
toothy grin, the best-cut three-
button jacket in Sydney, and
excellent support in the form
of unobtrusively excellent
arrangements conducted by his
arranger, Harry Robinson, with
a band dressed in blue denims
(the Steeleworks band, see?),
and a male quartet, also in
overalls. The act with the male
alto of the quartet going “la-la-
la-la” in a piece one thought
was called “L oue 11 a,” but
according to the expert advice,
aged 16, that one took along,
is called “Little Darling,” was,
as they say, real fab.
Before the Steele-part of the
evening Joe Church held a
couple of services; he has a
tie that clanks like a door-
knocker and more gimmicks in
his pockets than any five other
comedians, including a card-
trick and juggling-act that are
good because they’re bad. He
is one of these comedians who
give the audience marks for
seeing his jokes, and get cute
about the quickness of their
response, which is all right if
you like that sort of thing
and the seats stacked with
waifs and strays from the
Stadium obviously did.
There were also the Star
Sisters, the Flying de Pauls, a
big troupe of big-girl tumblers,
Terry Wilkinson and his All
Stars, and the Four Clefs, per-
formers on guitar and mouth-
organs; but the reviewer would
have given the lot for the tall
zany of the Crocker and Clark
duo, who capered like some-
thing made of Meccano-strips.
Leaving the theatre half-
deafened by the clapping which
Tommy Steele insisted on as
accompaniment for his lyrics,
one's two expert advisers still
savoring the nutty flavor of Joe
Church’s corn, one pondered
the mysteries of personality:
although Tommy Steele can
hold together a package-show
as well as Sabrina, he doesn't
really do as much ; his best
ability is to diversify the two
stereotyped gestures of pop.-
singers into a wide variety of
seemingly spontaneous whoop-
ings, jumpings about the stage
and little-boy antics, with an
occasional dropped-aitch and
turn of English dialect to re-
mind us that he’s really no
better than any of us.
SWILLIAM.
*** ♦> ❖
“St. Matthew Passion”
Last week’s performance by
the Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra, the Hurlstone Choir,' the
St. Mary’s Cathedral Boys’
Choir and five soloists under
the direction of Charles
Mackerras certainly missed no
chance to put full emphasis
on the essential drama of this
Bach portrayal of epic
tragedy.
Perhaps it is too much to
expect full expression of
mystical fervor and ecstasy in
chorales sung by a choir com-
posed partly of boys; this
quality was missing; but of
solid devotional approach
there was no doubt. The
closest to ecstasy was achieved
by the sopranos in their soar-
ing flights and here the
massed tone was excellent.
The tenor’s long and
demanding solo-part is largely
pitched high in the range. In
these phases Raymond Me-'
Donald was very much not at
home. He was forced into
long stretches high in the head-
register for which his light
voice isn’t fitted, and as a
result his quality became thin,
at times seeming perilously
close to falsetto ; but when he
descended to the ' /ruddle
register his voice took on
greater sureness and his singing
became more authoritative.
His diction, however, was at
all times unimpeachable.
Stewart Harvey projected
his rich bass-baritone with
splendid sombreness and
poignancy. Noel Melvin,
another bass, also sang well,
but in more forthright fashion.
Elaine Blight used her good
lyric-soprano with fine judg-
ment, and Joan Milford’s con-
tralto was heard to advantage
both in solo work and when it
blended smoothly with Miss
Blight’s voice.
Mackerras went through the
lengthy and complex score
with great care, created rich
polyphonies, drew neat obbli-
gatos from strings and wood-
winds, whittled the strings to
devout whispers when the
voice of Jesus was singing, and
generally succeeded in gaining
an atmosphere of brooding
melancholy in the more com-
passionate phases.


Start the day right!
m
■
OLD' 140
FA
*y
vi*»y
Scoop 111
Scoop 111, the intimate revue
of the University of Queens-
land, has come a long way
since its first number in 1958.
This year brought several
brilliant scripts, a generally
high standard throughout, with
only one or two plainly dull
passages.
“Nothing sacred” could well
have been the motto of its
writers as they covered all
aspects of the contemporary
scene, from the future of Mr.
Menzies to the current State-
Council traffic wrangle in Bris-
bane.
By far the best material came
from, and was presented by,
John Helm an —first, a parody
on the social-climbing first-
nighters at an Elizabethan
Trust production, and on the
newspaper-jargon which usually
clothes such events; and,
second, a witty imitation of a
reader of one of the fort-
nightly “cultural” journals
(Sydney, of course).
Less -topical, but equally
funny, was Joan Lyndon’s
array of “Fair Ladies” with a
flair for the tragic: Ann Boleyn,
Joan of Arc, et al.
On the debit-side was the
failure to reduce the revue to
anything less than Wagnerian
proportions. A producer must
be relentless even with items ho
has commissioned, and any
“straight” numbers —such as
the Indian dance, the orchestral
interlude and the “Stardust”
song—unless they are superb,
only make the whole structure
flabby.
Until Brisbane gets a Phillip
Street Revue of its own, this
ingenious Uni. show seems the
best thing of its kind the city
is likely to enjoy.
VAL VALLIS
Artbursts
Melbourne Art
' John Perceval’s latest ex-
hibition (Australian Galleries)
bears all the characteristics
that one has come to associate
with this artist: paint thick and
vigorously applied; colors swirl-
ing and lyrical; form in the
main conspicuously absent;
conception vital, often original.
Though the exhibition re-
veals little evidence of any
advancement in the way of
observation, it does suggest
that Perceval is gradually gain-
ing more control (with no
accompanying, loss of spon-
taneity) over his rather turgid
style: when, for instance, he
now takes as his subject a river
seen through a cluster of trees
the water fits into the land-
scape with a sense of inevit-
ability; in every way it is seen
to be in perspective; there is
none of the confusion that
mars much of his earlier work.
Elizabeth Patterson and
Rollo Thompson (Athenaeum)
describe their subject-matter
from points of view that are
vastly different both from each
other and from Perceval.
Miss Patterson seeks out
broad, simple patterns in her
landscapes; Miss Thompson’s
overwhelming concern is with
tonal relationships. Miss Pat-
terson gets her best results in
several vibrant, atmospheric
studies of hills, trees and rivers;
Miss Thompson in her care-
fully considered portrait of J.
Ford, a far superior work to
the flashy, overstated version
of Lieut.-General Sir Horace
Robertson.
At Gallery A, Roger Hallett
displays in his smaller oils a
wonderful feeling for color and
for its potential to express, in
purely abstract terms, various
shades and intensities of emo-
tion. When his canvases are
larger, however, the limitations
of either the artist or the non-
objective approach (probably
the former) become patently
obvious.
On the evidence of these
it would seem that without
concentration of movement
and tonal harmonies Halletl’s
painting very quickly arrives at
an artistic dead-end.
At first glance the same
artist’s pencil head-studies seem
to suffer rather than profit from
their author’s training as an
architect: the lines have much
facile draftsmanship but little
animation or subtlety. A closer
examination, however, reveals
that the unusual power and
vitality of these drawings lies
in their slight tendency to
abstraction and in the sensitive
simplification of the sitter’s
features.
In conclusion, those who are
still under the impression that
poster-advertising and aesthetics
don’t mix should lose no time
in paying a visit to the inter-
national poster-display at the
National Gallery.
A.S.J.
❖ ❖ ♦>
New Guinea
Guy Warren’s paintings at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries
(Sydney) could be described as
an attempt, in more abstract
terms, to do for New Guinea
what Sidney Nolan did for the
Australian outback a few years
ago; and Warren has certainly
caught a good deal of the spirit
of that green and savage coun-
try.
His more abstract abstracts,
though he calls them “Rain
Forest” or “Images,” tend to
look like machinery. This com-
mentator likes the paintings
much better when, though still
symbolically treated, recognis-
able forms manifest themselves
among them: as in “Torokina,”
with its engaging suggestions of
witchdoctors and tropical
fruits; “Warrior,” with its
plumes _and palm-fans; or
“Warrior and Nude,” with its
unmistakable warrior and nude.
These are mostly green-and-
blue paintings, soft and attrac-
tive in color; but some of the
red ones, such as “Bathers” and
the “Rain Forest No. 2,” also
succeed in their bolder, more
vivid style. The general effect
is posterish, taking weight and
form only from a considerable
distance.
Films
“Les Amants”
This French film has the
simplest story imaginable. The
bored wife of a provincial
newspaper-owner finds diver-
sion with a lover in Paris. The
husband, suspicious, grimly
invites this gent, along with
his wife’s Parisian woman-
friend, to a weekend at his
country house. On the way,
the wife, stranded in her car,
gets a lift from a personable
young stranger. Husband in-
vites the obliging young


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JA.CKSON 4
OSULUVaju
: '^' ,TYl - TD *1
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafer Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
stranger to stop the night,
which he does —in the wife’s
bed. Then they shoot-through
together, leaving husband and
boy-friend holding the bag.
Very sophisticated, very
frank, treated with artistry and
even restraint. But if there
were an Oscar given for the
most prolonged seduction on
celluloid, this one would beat
allcomers by at least 15
minutes Acting all round is,
however, first-rate.
At Sydney Lido.
✓ ❖ ❖
“Operation Petticoat”
Comedy is kept at high levels
of drollery in this enga-ging
tale, told in flashback style, of
the trials of a submarine-com-
mander during the early part
of the Pacific war when he has
foisted onto him a brash
young officer who got into
uniform the easier to land an
heiress but who reveals a
redeeming genius for
scrounging material in a
time of eternal shortages.
The fun gets into top gear
when he rescues from an
island five Navy nurses whose
presence aboard the already
overcrowded craft touches-off
a whole series of snappy situa-
tions, from trying to trick a
hunting destroyer overhead by
blowing a bunch of scanties
and bras out of the escape-
tube to using a pair (or is it
set?) of three-way-stretch step-
ins for emergency engine-room
repairs.
Tony Curtis, as the bright
boy, exercises the talent for
comedy which he used so
brilliantly in “Some Like It
Hot.” Cary Grant is the long-
suffering skipper.
At Sydney State.
❖ ❖ *
Other Sydney releases:
“Please Don't Eat the Daisies”
(St. James): Very lightweight
comedy about a drama-critic
and his feud with a playwright
and an actress,, both of whom
he has slammed. What success
it has owes much less to the
script than to the comic skill
of David Niven as the critic
and Doris Day as his some-
times understanding wife.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Shaggy Dog” (Liberty):
A poor one, this, from Walt
Disney, who tries vainly to
work some laughs out of an ill-
conceived story about a youth
who keeps turning into a
long-haired pooch with, super-
imposed, a weak spy-plot. A
large real hairy dog is the only
likeable inhabitant.
"THE BLOKE" ON RECORD
T}ROm Bri-tone Records, Box
16, Post Office, Brighton,
South Australia, comes the
first 16f Australian record one
has seen, a 12in. of good
surface that does the complete
book of The Songs of a Senti-
mental Bloke, by C. J. Dennis
(Angus and Robertson), in
about Ihr. 20min.
It is read by Gordon
McDougall, a 44-year-old
Glaswegian who has lived in
Australia since only 1951 ; in
those nine years he has made
himself a reputation as an
“ Fantastic , isn't it? We couldn't achieve such
neo-primitive naivete in a lifetime of painting.”
actor on S.A. radio, and has
managed to lose whatever
Scottish accent he may have
had.
Listening to the record
before reading the publicity,
one can only say that it was
surprising to find that
McDougall was not Austra-
lian: one had him fixed, in
his version of the Bloke, as a
banking or business type.
That, in itself, is a fault; the
Bloke was not as tough a guy
—what is one saying? —as
rorty a lair, as Ginger Mick,
but he certainly hadn’t grown-
up on nine-to-five at a city
office—a tenor, maybe, but
with a hard stridency that
perhaps no one not Australian
could really achieve.
That is part of the appeal
of “sentimental” in Dennis’s
tide; the strong, uncouth sap
blackmailed by love into
drooling pleasantry—and here
is an unexpected effect of
McDougall’s reading, that is
brought out by speaking the
verse and cannot be put down
completely to McDougall’s
treatment: it is written for
women; scene by scene the
presentation serves the Bloke
up as the hero of a musical-
Comedy, for the delectation of
girls hoping to reduce some
caveman to servitude and
wives trying to see as a hero
the thing they have nagged,
reduced, and otherwise cooped,
into matrimony. Very right
it was of J. C. Williamson’s
to take an interest in having
it made into a musical —it’s a
long while since we’ve heard
anything about that effort, by
the way.
McDougall's reading of the
verse is clear and natural, and
maybe there are some who
would rather have the verse
read than characterised or,
worse still, hammed. Some
of the stanza-endings don't
seem quite right—this might
be Dennis’s fault ; often
enough verse that looks all
right plays curious tricks on
a speaker.
But in the famous “Romeo
and Juliet” description,
McDougall doesn’t make quite
enough of the boy upstairs
saying “Peanuts and lollies!”
In perhaps the finest section,
“Mar,” —“ ’Er pore dear Par,”
she sez, “’e kept a store” —
he lacks poise and pause
enough to bring out the full
flavor: —-
“ ‘Er Par,” she sez, “me poor late
’usband, kept
An ’ay an’ corn store. ’E’d no
faults ixcept
Tm failin’ ’eavy orf a load o’
chart....”
One must also mention
“ribuck” with the “i” as in
“rib”—not until one read the
publicity did one see how a
mistake like that could be
made in Australia.
On the other hand, the com-
plete recording is a clear and
even presentation of an Aus-
tralian masterpiece in as near
to an “international” style as
one could imagine for a slang
epic. A half-cellophane outer
envelope allows the record-
folder to open like a book on
a large four-page “pro-
gramme,” a story-synopsis,
news about the poems
(183,000 copies published),
lives of Dennis, Gye (whose
illustrations are on the cover)
and McDougall, and a
glossary of the slang.
The publishers say that the
record, which costs 575. 6d.,
will be sent post-free.


MISS STRAWBERRY
[From a series of rhymes for children ]
By ERIC C. ROLLS
1.
Miss Strawberry keeps a cat
that barks
And a goldfish bowl so full of
sharks
That there isn’t room for any
water:
There Miss Strawberry’s ugly
daughter
Spends her days without a
care
Watching the sharks splash in
the air
While the awful cat that barks
Scratches the tails of the angry
sharks.
2.
Miss Strawberry’s ten and twisty toes
Go everywhere Miss Strawberry goes.
She declares it isn’t neat
To shop in town without her feet.
She likes to wear the finest shoes
Of handmade calf and nylon hose
In pastel shades of green or red.
She always carries both her arms
For they accentuate her charms
Unlike a street-corner lounging lout
Who looks better yvith his arms pulled
out. ~~
Likewise she always wears her head,
For headless she says that no one knows
Whether she is alive or dead
And if friends unknowing passed her by
She’d have no eyes with which to cry ;
And her head must come to bring her hair
So long, so beautiful, so rare
That except on wet days she does not dare
To leave it at home on bed or chair
Lest some idle careless maid
Try it on and get it frayed.
“Indeed,” Miss Strawberry says, “I’m glad
To go about as I was made.”
3.
Miss Strawberry fat,
Miss Strawberry thin,
“Miss Strawberry, open the
door;
Please let me in.”
Miss Strawberry angry,
Miss Strawberry kind,
“Miss Strawberry, let me
out;
I’ve changed my mind.”
Miss Strawberry short,
Miss Strawberry tall ;
Miss Strawberry everywhere
Or not there at all.
“Miss Strawberry, Miss
Strawberry,
Miss Strawberry,” l shout.
Miss Strawberry wont hear
me
And l cant get out.
4.
Miss Strawberry has a garden
Where the snapdragons snap
And the flowers on the butterfly-bush
Fly away flip-flap.
Snails and many slimy things
Crawl upon the ground
While overhead like a buzzing cloud
Bees and wasps, abound.
Red-hot-pokers guard one side
Of her heavy iron gate
While growling on the other side
Tiger-lilies wait.
If you wish to see Miss Strawberry
Ring a bluebell out aloud;
This soothes the snarling tigers
And dispels the buzzing cloud.
•
5.
Miss Strawberry has a long fat purse
To keep her money in.
It is a rare and handsome purse
Made of crocodile-skin.
It is crocodile-skin without a doubt
For she did not take the crocodile out
And when she walks to town to shop
He follows behind her clop, clop-clop,
And opens his mouth and bellows aloud
Arid swishes his tail amongst the crowd.
Now and again there’s an angry mutter
As a man is swept into the gutter.
When in a shop it is time to pay
Shopkeepers look with deep dismay
When Miss Strawberry says “Crocky,
open wide,”
And “Shopman, reach down there inside,
Deep beyond those ugly jaws,
And take whatever money is yours
But l warn you if you make him cough
He’ll probably bite your arm right off.”
The shopkeeper usually says “No worry.
Pay next month. I’m in no hurry.”
But a grocer once, owed four-pounds-
ten,
Said “That’s worth more than one of my
men.’’
He called his errand-boy, “Hey, son,
Come over here, we’ll have some fun.
I’ll hold your legs and guard you while
You crawl in this quiet old crocodile
And collect in his vitals four-pounds-ten.
If you bring it out again
I’ll give you sixpence for your trouble.
Come here, son, and at the double !”
Now the length of Miss Strawberry’s
crocodile’s throat
Is four times as long as a shopkeeper’s
coat.
The croaodile opened fearfully wide
And the errand-boy crawled right down
inside.
When he had gathered four-pounds-ten
And hurriedly tried to back out again,
The crocodile closed his jaws with a smile
Saying “One of the joys of a crocodile,
Indeed you might say, his only joy,
Is making a meal of a messenger-boy.”
6.
Miss Strawberry wrote a letter :
“Mr. Lemon, dear kind sir,
Would you please to come to dinner
Wednesday night ? If you prefer
Saturday would be well, sir,
Or Monday may be better;
But whichever night you choose, sir,
Would you kindly let me know ?”
Mr. Lemon wrote a letter:
“Miss Strawberry, dear kind miss,
I would be pleased to come on Monday
If you will promise this —
That you will not eat me, miss—
Or if it please you better
I’ll grant you just a little, miss —
You may have my little toe.”
Mr. Lemon went to dinner :
What he ate I do not know :
Miss Strawberry ate with relish
Mr. Lemon’s little toe.
7.
Miss Strawberry’s ugly daughter’s dog
Hops on his hind legs and croaks like a
frog.
He sits all day on a stone by the pool
And watches the little birds dip them-
selves cool.
He sits all day on a stone by the creek
And watches last Monday become
Monday week.
He sits on a stone by the long lagoon
Which mirrors the sun , till it mirrors the
moon.
He sits all day on a stone by the river
And watches the water-weeds quiver and
shiver
As a fish swims by,
Then he winks his eye
And says “I’m a frog
But they think I’m a dog;
Goodbye.”


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1?J1—BW 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
K. H. ALLEN
P. B. LEVY
M. R. P. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 —(10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mac. Robertson (Aust.), Ltd.
Pounded in Victoria almost 80 years
ago, Mac. Robertson (Australia), Ltd.
acquired public status in June, 1950. The
group occupies a prominent position in
the confectionery trade and is the largest
of the Australian-owned chocolate-, con-
fectionery- and cocoa-manufacturers.
Manufacturing activities are concen-
trated at the group’s large Melbourne
factories. The wide range of confec-
tionery is distributed through subsidiaries
in the five mainland States and agents
in south-east Asia, Japan, West Indies,
New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
The co. is efficiently and imaginatively
managed. New products are launched
periodically, enabling Mac. Robertson to
keep abreast of changes in consumer-
tastes vitally affecting demand in this
active and prosperous, but competitive,
industry.
Several years ago the co. began
developing an experimental cacao-plan-
tation, “Wanaru,” at Lae, New Guinea.
Last term 65 acres were cleared of forest,
50 acres planted with cacao-trees and 48
acres with shade-trees. Total develop-
ment-cost to balance-date w'as stated at
£81,428, after depreciation. “Wanaru”
was last valued at £110,978 in the books.
The first substantial shipments of
cacao - beans were received from the
plantation late in 1959 and were said
to be “of good quality.” It is anticipated
that “Wanaru’s” output in the current
term, valued at current prices, “will
almost defray the operating- and main-
tenance-costs of the project” for that
period. Subject to favorable growing
conditions and satisfactory prices, the
plantation will be operating profitably
by 1961. The co.’s own fermentary for
processing the raw cacao has been com-
pleted, and is now operating successfully.
This is a very encouraging develop-
ment and eventually the group may con-
trol a considerable proportion of its
supply of raw materials, easing the strain
of violent fluctuations in the prices of
cacao-beans purchased on the world-
market.
At present, West Africa continues to
be the main producer of cacao-beans.
The extent of price-variations can be
better understood if it is recalled that
Gold Coast beans fetched £670 a ton
in 1954, tumbled-down to £250 in 1956,
and recovered to £440 in 1958. On the
other hand, confectionery-producers find
it hard to pass-on cost-increases to the
consumer. Competitive markets, and the
sheer impossibility of frequent price-
changes, make such adjustments very
difficult.
On the whole, the last two years have
seen some stabilisation in the price-
situation. In 1958 the jJrice of beans
fluctuated between £440 and £338 a ton.
Last term there was a further gradual
easing-down from £3BO to £295. Current
year began with prices of beans sliding-
down to £276 a ton.
Trading conditions last term were
fair. Total sales of the entire chocolate
and confectionery industry in Australia
were a bit higher than in the preceding
year. Mac. Robertson retained its share
of the slightly increased total turnover.
Overall sales of the co. were “fractionally
higher” than in 1958. During last term
some new products were introduced, in-
cluding “Hazel Cup” (produced under
licence from John Mackintosh and Sons,
of U.K.).
Disclosed earnings were" much the
same as in 1958. Consolidated gross
profit from trading for the year ended
December 31, 1959, was £31,391 higher
at £1,674,208. Income from investments
was a bit higher at £62,238.
Selling, handling, distribution and
administration expenses amounted to
£1,207,394 (up £30,110) and depreciation
and amortisation to £148,217 (down
£17,147). Another £3OOO was paid out
in directors’ fees. All the subsidiaries
traded profitably.
Consolidated net profit was £10,617
higher at £262,921, after providing
£114,914 for taxation (up £14,039):
Parent and Subsidiary.
f —Dividends To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Pref. , Ord. •, serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £31,032 ~ .. 770,570
Legacy from founder, £60,276 .. 830,846
Subsidiary assets written-up, £19,759 850,605
1953.-238,022 15,000 8 = 137,910 85,112, 935,717
Profit sale assets, £5851 .. .. 941,568
Tax overprovided, £47 .. .. 941,615
1954..242,890 15,000 8 = 137,910 89,980 1,031,595
Profit sale land, £63,500 .. .. 1,095,095
Less added intangibles, £17,526 .. 1,077,569
Investment written down, £6020 ..1,071,549
Less sundry adjustments, £32 . . 1,071,517
1955- 15,000 8 = 137,910 93,830 1,165,347
Tax underprovided, £22 .. .. 1,165,325
Prov. accrued long-service leave,
£26,000 .. 1,139.325
1956- 15,000 9 = 155,148 77,436 1,216,761
Tax overprovided, £4597 .. .. 1,221,358
1957- 15,000 10 = 172,388 93,924 1,315,282
Tax overprovided, £982 .. .. 1,316,264
1958- 15,000 10 = 172,388 64,916 1,381,180
Capital profit, £81,405 .. .. 1,462,585
Tax overprovided, £ll4 .. .. 1,462,699
To staff fund, £12,075 .. .. 1,450,624
1959- 15,000 10= 172,388 75,533 1,526,157
* After deducting intangibles, £886,676 at 31/12/’59.
After satisfying the unchanged pref.-
div. requirements (£15,000) the con-
solidated net profit was equivalent to
an earning-rate of 14.4 p.c. on the average
ord. capital, compared with 13.7 p.c. in
the previous term, and 15.4 p.c. in 1957,
13.5 p.c. in 1956 and 13.4 p.c. in 1955.
The steady 10 p.c. ord. div. (including
a 2 p.c. “bonus”) was well-covered.
Reserves received £75,533 and also
benefited by £81,405 capital profit and
£ll4 tax overprovided in the previous
term. After transferring £12,075 to the
staff fund reserves and undistributed
profits totalled £1,526,157, net of in-
tangibles (£200,000 goodwill and
£686,676 excess of cost over par value
of shares in subsidiaries).
Paid capital remained unchanged at
£2,023,882 in £300,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 3,447,765 10s. ords. Bank-accom-
modation was £62,054 down at £226,886,
but creditors increased by £449,846 to
£953,691.
Book-values of land, buildings, etc.,
were £29,757 higher at £874,154, and
of plant £93,132 higher at £1,137,656.
During 1959 the installation of a modern
Jensen depositor was completed. The
new machine is operating “extremely
efficiently.” New plant was acquired by
two subsidiaries, Mac. Robertson Pty.
and Colorprint Pty. (producing the
group’s supply of cartons and wrappers).
Work has commenced on a modern
store and office-building in Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Land was acquired in a
northern suburb of Brisbane, where it is
proposed to erect a new modern ware-
house to replace existing overcrowded
premises. The 30 acres bought near
Melbourne in 1946-47 and originally in-
tended as a factory-site were sold at a
profit of £81,405. Late in 1959 the
subsidiary, Mac. Robertson (S.A.), Ltd.,
acquired a freehold property and plant
from a former supplier at Adelaide. This
factory will be used to distribute the
group’s products in S. Australia.
Mac. Robertson’s investments in other
cos. were disclosed at £482,362. The co.
holds a 20.07 p.c. share-interest in Aus-
tralian Licorice Pty. (manufacturers of
Meloine. a standardised invert sugar), a
13.52 p.c. interest in Lifeguard Milk
Products, Ltd. (manufacturers of con-
densed milk), 24.27 p.c. of the issued
capital of Life Savers (Australasia), Ltd.,
and 22.89 p.c. of the share-capital of
Maize Products Pty. (producers of
glucose, cornflour, starch, etc.). In addi-
tion, there is a 50 p.c. shareholding in
Waxed Papers Pty. and 34.67 p.c. in
Gibson Confectionery Pty. (W.A. con-
fectionery manufacturer).
A romantic link with the past is
provided by a 47.26 p.c. share in the
paid capital of Mac.Robertson-Miller
Airlines, Ltd., which operates com-
mercial airlines in W. Australia and has
an interest in Air Beef, Ltd.
Formal liquidity of the well-padded
group was just a bit lower than in the


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Bussell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange .)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 3 3775, 3 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
previous term, working-capital sliding-
down by £3736 to £1,399,131:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. .. .. 1,723,882 1,723,882 1,723,882
Reserves .. .. 1,515,283 1,581,181 1,726,158
Loan, etc. .. 228,825 228,825 228,825
Overdraft .. .. 97,764 288,940 226,886
Creditors, etc. .. 995,039 503,845 953,691
Prov. long-service
leave . . . . 51,963 53,290 72,168
Tax provision .. 377,786 325,906 219,822
Final div. .. 103,433 103,433 103,433
£5,393,975 £5,109,302 £5,554,865
Land, buildings, etc. 744,186 844,397 874,154
Plant ' .. .. 1,038,366 1,044,524 1,137,656
Plantation . . 96,998 89,558 110,978
Shares in other cos. 480,256 480,316 482,362
Stock .. .. 2,102,342 1,876,425 2,148,586
Book debts .. 526,778 569,520 596,949
Cash .. i. 205,049 4,562 4,180
Goodwill .. .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
£5,393,975 £5,109,302 £5,554,865
The shift was due to a considerable
increase in stocks of raw materials
bought on forward contracts towards the
end of last term, but not delivered by
balance-date. Current stocks were shown
at £2,148,586 (up £272,161) after adjust-
ments for the fall in international prices
of beans.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at 18s. lOd. for each 10s. f.-p. ord. Net
excess of tangible assets over liabilities
improved from £3,405,063 to £3,550,040.
Current term started-off with lower
sales in January and February, due to
heat-wave conditions in the south of the
Commonwealth. This follows the normal
pattern of seasonal fluctuations and the
board is not alarmed, anticipating that
“sales during the remainder of the year
will be satisfactory.”
Increased expenses resulting from the
recent margins-judgments, State basic-
wage rises, increases in some awards,
etc., will result in higher costs in 1960.
However, it is expected that this will
be offset by the lower prices of beans.
The recent rejection of the Federal basic-
wage increase claims should al&o help
to control production-costs.
Profits and earning-rates have re-
mained fairly static and competition is
serious, but there is every indication that
Mac. Robertson is capable of maintain-
ing a creditable performance, and a slow
but steady rate of growth.
At the last sale in Sydney Mac. Rober-
tson’s scrip was doing well, fetching
235. 3d. for ,each 10s. ord. The imme-
diate return is 4.3 p.c., on the basis of
the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
'T'his experienced 60-year-old Eastern-
produce merchant, miller and trader
showed considerable improvement in
earnings last term. Subsidiaries operated
profitably, contributing £62,320 in divi-
dends to the consolidated profit of the
holding co.
Reconstructed into a public co. in
1951, Sydney-registered Waters Holdings,
Ltd., processes and exports peas, rice,
barley, etc. It is subject to the vagaries
of selling Australian primary products
on world markets. Trading conditions
often become difficult due to weakening
prices and stiff international cpmpetition.
Other sections of the business are
engaged in importing spices, beans
(mostly from S. America and Japan), and
other Eastern-produce. The group is also
interested in floor-coverings and coir
goods, hoods, rugs, etc., which normally
are a good source of earnings.
The organisation comprises the hold-
ing-co., which holds all the issued capital
in the operating Waters Trading Co.,
Pty., and two smaller subsidiaries, Mex
Cereal Co., Ltd. (of Adelaide), and
Barossa Valley Co., Ltd. (of Tanunda),
operating in S. Australia the group’s
main source of field-peas. The shares are
listed in Sydney and Melbourne, but the
scrip is fairly tightly held and trading
infrequent.
Last year business was more buoyant
than in the preceding term and the
group’s takings correspondingly better,
although the peak profits earned in 1958
were not matched.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended March 31, 1960, was £22,410
higher at £104,286, after providing
£7201 for depreciation (down £655),
setting-aside £52,989 for taxation (up
£9468) and paying £l5OO directors’
fees:
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiary.
March Profit. , Dividends Deficit.*
31, £ £ £
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 . . 239,871
Loss sale assets, £34li .. 243,282
1952 .. 72,232 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 . . . . ) Ifta
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 } ib8 ’ UO4
To staff fund, £2500 .. . . {
1954 .. 107,440 74 p.c. = 46,162 }
1955 .. 67,506 7| „ „ 46,162 87,932
Profit sale assets, £17,915 .. 70,017
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. | .. „„„
1956 .. 63,446 7* p.c. = 46,161 (
To staff fund, £2500 .. . . \ <570
1957 . 90.201 « nr -*0 142/
Reduction intangibles, £10,134. . 13,539
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Reserves.*
1958 .. 117,218 9 p.c. = 64,383 39,296
1959 .. 81,876 9 „ ~64,627 56,545
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 54,045
Net addition reserves, £350 .. 54,395
1960 .. 104,286 9 p.c. = 64,628 94,053
* After allowing for intangibles, £199,861 at 31/3/’6O.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 14.5 p.c. on the unchanged average
ord. capital, compared with 11.4 p.c. in
the previous term, 16.4 p.c. in 1958,
12.8 p.c. in 1957 and 10.3 p.c. in 1956.
The steady 9 p.c. div.-rate was well-
covered, leaving £39,658 to reserves.
Staff fund received £2500.
Larger funds were at work in 1959-60,
although paid capital remained at
£718,085 in 20s. f.-p. ords. The last
capital change took place in 1956-57,
when a one-for-six par-issue brought the
share-capital to its present strength.
Creditors (including bank accommoda-
tions, open accounts, deposits, tax-provi-
sion, etc.) and staff-fund increased by
£232,120 to £713,425.
Current stock was £200,333 higher at
£662,772. Debtors increased by £40,208
to £290,169. Liquidity improved. Work-
ing-capital was adequate at £167,495:-
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £711,964 £718,085 £718,085
Reserves .. 239,157 256,406 293,914
Creditors* •. 569,516 \ asi qd* aor
Staff fund .. 25,768 } 4S1 ’ 80j '*3,425
Suspense a/a .. 5,590 642
Final div. .. 35,905 32,314 32,314
£1,587,900 £1,488,110 £1,758,380
Freeholds .. 396,294 427,262 458,830
Plant, etc. .. 131,226 156,106 160,887
Shares .. .. 26,073 24,926 24,926
Stock .. .. 573,746 422,439 622,772
Debtors .. .. 260,622 249,961 290,169
Cash .... 78 196 935
Suspense a/c .. 7,359
Intangibles .. 199,861 199,861 199,861
£1,587,900 £1,488,110 £1,758,380
* Includes tax-provision, overdraft, etc.
Book-value of freeholds increased by
£31,568 to £458,830. The group owns
land in all mainland States. Work on the
fourth stage of the gradual modernisa-
tion of the co.’s property at Richmond
/(Vic.) was completed during the year.
“Further improvements” will soon be
undertaken.
In S. Australia additional storage-
facilities were installed last term and
are now operating satisfactorily.
Investments in other public cos.
remained unchanged at £24,926.
Waters Holdings has been characterised
by its cautious policy both as regards
trading and dividend distribution. How-
ever, the payout to shareholders has been
steadily improving, in spite of the rather
erratic earnings-record.
The co. appears to be in a sound
financial position, although the intang-
ibles continue to loom large in the
consolidated accounts, amounting to
£199,861 at March 31, 1960.
Net tangible asset-backing worked-out
at a visible 225. 7d. for each 20s. ord.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
ord. units changed hands at 28s. 3d. each,
and this seems a fair enough price for
the investment. This immediate return is
6.4 p.c. on the basis of the steady 9 p.c.
div.-rate.
Miller Anderson, Ltd.
"p arnings were just a shade lower. The
return on the unchanged ordinary
capital covered the steady 10 p.c. divi-
dend distribution leaving little to spare.
Miller Anderson, Ltd., a well-estab-
lished Adelaide retailer - draper and
general outfitter, was incorporated as a
public co. in South Australia in March,
1927. The Sydney-based Marcus Clark
organisation continues to hold a con-
trolling interest, but enough ords. are
around in the hands of general investors
to qualify for ’Change listing.
The first 20 years were frugal for
the ord. scrip-holders, but the situation


Divorce Notice
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD THOMAS McGREGOR
late of 37 Windmill Street Darling
Harbour in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
FRANCES McGREGOR has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1681 of 1958 on the
ground of your desertion during 3 years
and upwards without just cause or excuse.
If you wish to defend you may' enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Old Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the Fourth day
of July 1960 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from E. M.
JURD, Solicitor, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
INVEST WITH SAFETY
Hastihcs duhihG
3 months . 5%
6 months 5Vz%
9 months 6%
12 months 6Va%
18 MOUTHS AND OVER
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
3O DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
Jiastm4fs / 2)ee^^
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 5 dated 31/3/60 with audited balance
sheet as at 31/12/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS DEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
MAIL THIS COUPON**.
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD659
improved in the last decade.
A 10 p.c. ord. div. has been
paid continuously since 1955.
Things became a bit more
strained in the past two terms
when profits slipped-down, but
the div.-rate was maintained.
Trading continued at a
steady pace last year. Sales
“again exceeded all previous
figures,” despite being ad-
versely affected by the abnorm-
ally dry seasonal conditions in
South Australia during the
greater part of last term.
Net profit, slightly lower
than in the previous term,
“reflects the actual result of the
year’s trading.” For the second
year running “it has been neces-
sary to make certain adjust-
ments in the accounts.” This
time the move followed a
change in management and a
“variation in the basis of
valuing stocks.”
The co.’s undisclosed stock-
devaluation provision, deducted
from current stocks shown in
the balance-sheet, was used for
this purpose.
All in all, net profit for the
year ended January 31, 1960,
was £554 lower at £31,329,
after providing £19,830 (down
£8770) for taxation, deprecia-
tion, renewals and replacements
and other “contingencies for
the year”:
r— —Dividends Re-
Jan. Profit. -Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
31 £ p.e. p.c. £ .£_
From tax provision, £12,000 35,532
1048. .24,297 6 6 11,100 48,729
1949.. 31,175 7 7 12,950 66,954
Unexpl’d addition, £5249 72,203
1950.. 28,165 7 7 12,950 87,418
1951.. 35.986 8 8 20,000 103,403
1952.. 35.137 8 8 20,000 118,540
1953.. 33.325 8 8 20,000 131,865
1954.. 37.516 8 8 20,000 149,381
1955.. 41.726 8 10 23,400 167,707
Assets revalued, £263,373.. 431,080
1956.. 39.092 8 10 24,250 445*922
1957.. 35.373 8 10 28,500 452,795
From tax provision, £7OOO 459,795
1958.. 39.404 8 10 28,500 470,699
1959.. 31.883 8 10 28,500 474,082
To staff fund, £9OOO . . 465,082
1960.. 31.329 8 10 28,500 467,911
Tax-provision proper was dis-
closed at £10,200, the £BBOO
drop exceeding the proportional
fall in earnings. Pre-tax profit
from trading dropped from
£47,797 to £38,368.
After satisfying the un-
changed pref.-div. requirements
(£6400) the net profit repre-
sented an earning-rate of 11.3
p.c. on the unchanged average
ord. capital, compared with
11.5 p.c. in the previous term,
and 15 p.c. in 1958, 13.1 p.c.
in 1957, 18.5 p.c. in 1956 and
20.8 p.c. in 1955
Staff-fund received £9OOO.
Reserves benefited by £2829
and were shown at £467,911,
free of intangibles. Paid-up
capital remained unchanged at
£301,000, in 80,000 6 p.c. cum.
20s. f.-p. prefs. (participating
to 8 p.c.) and 221,000 20s. f.-p.
ords.
The most important capital
movement was the issue of
£48,000 71 p.c conv. notes,
maturing in February, 1964.
Mortgage was reduced by
£BOOO to £152,000. Bank-ac-
commodation increased by
£73,188 to £134,562 and credi-
tors by £16,681 to £92,516.
Book-values of stocks and


Lai fee
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% per annum 2 year*
6% per annum f year
5% per annum £> months
o
o
v.
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phonei MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LfITEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
debtors were £26,966 and
£10,433 higher respectively.
Liquidity was tighter, but
satisfactory. Working - capital
was sufficient at £190,534.
Book-value of freeholds and
plant was appreciably higher:—
Paid capital— 1959. 1960.
Pref .. .. £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ord 221,000 221,000
Reserves .. 474,082 467,911
Mortgage .. 160,000 152,000
Convertible notes 48,000
Overdraft .. 61,374 134,562
Creditors, etc. .. 75,835 92,516
Tax provision .. 48,690 33,297
Final div. .. 14,250 14,250
£1,135,231 £1,243,536
Freeholds .. 641,509 687,419
Furniture, fittings,
etc 66,112 90,958
Stock .. .. 285,758 312,724
Debtors.. .. 141,390 151,823
Cash .. .. 462 612
£1,135,231 £1,243,536
In the latter part of last term
extensive alterations were
carried out in the internal lay-
out of the co.’s Adelaide .store
in order to provide more
efficiently operated and modern
premises. Modernisation is
progressing further in the cur-
rent financial period.
The co. has adopted “a
revised merchandising policy”
from which it expects to derive
“early benefits.” If these hope-
ful expectations prove correct,
Miller Anderson may be back
in the pleasant times of bettei
earnings. A good commercial
background and a strong finan-
cial structure is certainly
present.
The sharemarket is appar-
ently confident, paying 41s. 6d.
for the 20s. ords., each backed
by a massive 625. 4d. of net
tangible assets.
The immediate return is 4.8
p.c. on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. div.-rate.
Western Titanium, N.L.
nPHE co. dredges mineral
sands for the recovery of
ilmenite, monazite, rutile,
zircon, etc., at Capel (W.A.).
Paid capital is £890,000 in
3,560,000 ss. f.-p. ords.
World market for ilmenite
continues to be fully supplied.
Some consumers established
their own sources of supply,
making sales even more
difficult.
Low prices left only a
very small profit-margin on
ilmenite. The continuity of
production and retention of
Customers were considered to
be the most important aspects
of the co.’s policy in 1959-60.
All secondary minerals
except monazite were “dis-
posed of freely and at satis-
factory prices.” The situation
with monazite continues to be
“disappointing.” Prices de-
clined from £l5O to £4O a ton.
The situation is unlikely to
improve until stocks of the
residual rare-earths, accumu-
lated during the period of
heavy demand for thorium, are
used-up.
Mining operations were con-
tinuous during the year ended
January 31, 1960, but on a
“restricted two-shift, five-day
week basis.” Actual produc-
tion of marketable minerals
amounted to 54,716 tons of
ilmenite (up 6415 tons), 526
tons of monazite (up 238 tons),
465 tons of rutile (up 130 tons),
414 tons of leucoxene (up 217
tons) and 6294 tons of zircon
(up 3873 tons).
No additional areas were
acquired during last term,
Ore-reserves at January 31,
1960, were estimated at 10.9
million tons of heavy minerals
(10.95 million in 1959).
Revenue from production
fell by £26,508 to £268,676, but
mine-expenses increased by
£36,939 to £223,567. Profit on
mining operations fell very
heavily, dropping by £63,447 to
£45,109. After providing
£30,000 for depreciation and
paying £20,021 administrative
expenses, etc. Western Titanium
incurred a net loss of £4912,
compared with £53,283 net
profit in 1959.
Balance-sheet disclosed
£69,413 easily realisable cur-
rent assets, £52,986 concen-
trates, £12,881 stores and
£815,553 depreciated mine-
assets, against £21,833 creditors
and £12,500 balance of con-
sideration for extension-areas,
payable in cash in June, 1960.
The ss. ords. last fetched 2s.


London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
TpOR the Socialist “Daily
Herald” to praise a Tory
Chancellor’s Budget as honest
and sound is something rare.
Just as unusual was the “Daily
Telegraph’s” “undistinguished
at best, inconsistent at worst.”
Certainly, the immediate re-
action was of a Socialist, even
a Crippsian, Budget and this
was confirmed by the forth-
right criticism in the House
of that doughty rebel, Gerald
Nabarro. Perhaps the pertest
comment came from the
“Scotsman,” which claimed that
Mr. Heathcoat Amory had
not quite measured-up to the
situation and, emphasising
financial, not economic, con-
siderations, had given no
positive lead to the nation.
The net gain in tax-revenue
is negligible, for against the
£22 million must be set £9 mil-
lion for additional release of
post-war credits. Of the two
main impositions, the raising
of profits-tax from 10 per cent,
to 12y per cent, is justifiable
since it reflects the Govern-
ment’s impatience with manu-
facturers for not heeding
repeated warnings to keep
prices down ; furthermore, it
can be well-absorbed by
profits. But the addition of
twopence to a packet on
cigarettes is more questionable.
Otherwise, the Chancellor
seems to have taken the oppor-
tunity of some tidying-up
measures. He has introduced
a graduated scale of estate-
duty on gifts inter vivos,
repealed (perhaps too late) the
entertainments-duty on cinema-
seats, reduced the duty on
fortified wines and estate-
bottled table-wines and encour-
aged small savings by
increasing the top limits and
by making premium-bonds a
more attractive flutter —the
last concession is expensive
enough to be considered un-
economic, since a very high
rate of interest is involved.
He has also come down
firmly against high-level tax-
avoidance by attacking hobby-
farming and other ingeni-
ous means of setting a loss
in one trade against profits
in another. The end of the
“golden handshake” is wel-
comed generally, for the enor-
mous tax-free fortunes granted
for loss of office (one chair-
man received £38,500) are out
of proportion and psycho-
logically bad.
Rather less enthusiasm is
felt for the Chancellor’s atti-
tude to the “particularly
serious matter 0f... .manipu-
lating stocks and shares with
the object of depriving the
revenue of its proper tax.” He
confessed, in effect, that the
agile experts who operate
“bond-washing” and “dividend-
stripping” manoeuvres were
altogether too smart for the
Inland Revenue. Although it
is impossible not to sympa-
thise with him, purists are very
suspicious of the peremptory
authority given to the Inspec-
tor of Taxes to nullify,
“Can't say that I'm too keen on these ultra-moderns .”
retrospectively, a transaction,
leaving the taxpayer concerned
a right of appeal only to the
Special Commissioners.
It is held that the Chancel-
lor might have taken the
opportunity of a more
thorough basic reform of the
taxation-system on the lines
recommended by the Royal
Commission.
In the broader view, Mr.
Amory has contrived to repress
slightly the pressure of
consumer - demand without
impairing the rate of indus-
trial investment. But he has
not used his Budget in the
traditional sense as a positive
directive of fiscal control. He
merely uttered a statement,
half-warning and half-threat,
that “the time may soon
arrive when it would be right
that we should take other steps
to restrain further expansion
of private credit, and we stand
ready to do so.” Hire-purchase
controls? Special deposits at
the Bank of England?
He probably feels that the
economy is sufficiently healthy
as not to need any ostentatious
check, provided the banks
and finance-houses take the
hint he has dropped.
Also Running
There is at present very
little for the discerning play-
goer to get excited about. A
glance down a baker’s dozen
of titles reveals only two of
outstanding promise.
“A Passage to India,”
adapted from E. M. Forster’s
novel, is due at the Comedy
after an unusually successful
opening at the Oxford Play-
house. An Indian lady, Santha
Rama Rau, of international
background (she was educated
in London and is married to
an American), has done the
adaptation. The venerable
author of the novel, who lives
in college at Oxford, ~has
praised her work but, indiffer-
ent both to money and the
cinema, is said to have refused
permission to sell the film-
rights.
The Royal Court Theatre is
getting ready for another
“Entertainer” and for the
same reason. Sir Laurence
Olivier is to head a distin-
guished cast in “The Rhino-
ceros,” an lonesco play to be
directed by Orson Welles.
Two musicals, one English
and one American, are shortly
opening. “Johnny the Priest”
is based on a lfttle-known play
by R. C. Sherriff about a dock-
yard settlement, while “The
Most Happy Fella” is the
Broadway success, set in
California, by Frank Loesser,
who wrote the book, lyrics and
music.
The established writers are
below their best. Agatha
Christie’s latest, “Go Back For
Murder,” was not only dully
contrived but also cheated the
amateur detectives in the
audience; it lasted only 31
performances. Julian Slade
and Dorothy Reynolds, in
“Follow That Girl,” have
repeated the innocuous pleasan-
tries of “Salad Days”; the
tunes have the expected jingly
insouciance, but the jokes are
unbelievably naive.
“Flower Drum Song,” the
Rodgers-Hammerstein musical
about a strip-tease artist in
San Francisco’s Chinatown,
attracted fantastic advance-
bookings but is ordinary, to
say the least. “The Gazebo,”
which failed to captivate Mel-
bourne, is off to a firm start
at the Savoy, thanks largely
to the fooling of lan Car-
michael. And on the legiti-
mate stage, a play about the
reactions on mother and wife
of a conviction for homo-
sexuality has had to be taken
off; this once-taboo subject
appears to have lost its interest.
It is pleasant to record that,
among this welter of greater
or less mediocrity, a little
revue at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith, makes a thoroughly
enjoyable evening. A student’s
affair, which started on the
campus of the University of
California, “The Billy Barnes
Revue,” took Broadway by
surprise and then by storm.
Since Equity conditions pre-
sumably forbid the importa-
tion of the entire American
cast, the four original girls
have English partners.
The show is remarkable for
the quality and evenness of its
talent, for its verve and, oddly
enough, for its profession-
alism. Names that will cer-
tainly be more widely known
in the future are Joyce
Jameson, for mimicry and
burlesque; Patti Regan, for
her high comedy, and Ronnie
Stevens, for his versatility.
Occasionally, as in an up-
roarious skit on American
education, the satire is
deliciously astringent.


CHANNELS
By GEORGE CLIVE
The trim grass, the ordered
buildings, the white
coral roads of the
administrative post cut a
clean wedge out of the jungle
which mantles the south coast
of New Britain.
The arrival of the Kazan
stopped all work. The Kazan
was a 300-ton vessel which
only called at this station about
once a year to deliver the
annual allocation of heavy
building-materials. Various
projects were in suspense,
awaiting essentials from
Rabaul.
Two Australian officers were
watching the unloading rather
glumly. Their pet project was
too recent a brainchild to have
been included in the estimates
submitted six months pre-
viously.
“Look at all that lovely
cement! ” exclaimed Clem
Butler, a tall patrol-officer, his
black brows drawn in a frown.
“Just what I want for the in-
land road.”
“What you want!” Young
Peter Swire’s fair hair flashed
in the sun as he spun round.
“It was my idea. Your co-
operatives are only going to
use it.”
“What do they plan to do
with it, anyway?” asked the
older man, who had just come
in from the bush.
“It’s all earmarked,” replied
the cadet. “New house for the
medical assistant. I’ve tried
to get some out of the assistant
district-officer already, but you
know how stubborn he is!”
“Too right! Plans all laid
last year. Not a peanut if
you were starving.”
The 19-year-old cadet was
loyal: “Let's face it. Sullivan's
getting on. He must be thirty
at least. No imagination.”
“I can’t understand it,” said
Butler. “He was keen about the
road to open-up those inland
villages. The road depends on
the Walog bridge, and if we
don’t put in ferro-concrete
abutments the bridge will be
washed away by the first
flood.”
“I reckon the case is open-
and-shut. Let’s try him again.
He’s in his office now.”
The two young officers had
made no plans, and the patrol-
officer, being the senior, was
about to speak when Peter
burst out:
“John, we’ve been watching
the Kazan unload. That cement
looks good enough to eat. You
know our road is finished
except for the Walog bridge.
Won’t you please give us
enough ferro for the abut-
ments?”
The a.d.-o. shook his head:
“Sorry, Peter. It’s all ear-
marked. I’ve told you.”
Outler took-up the case :
that road is almost
finished. If we leave it now,
it’ll be bush again in six
months. If we build the bridge
the co-operatives will guarantee
enough traffic to keep the road
open.”
“I'm sorry, blokes. The
bridge wasn’t on last year’s
estimates, and the medical
assistant’s house was. That’s all
there is to it.”
“But the road’s urgent.
Surely they don’t need all that
cement for the house!” Butler
swiftly changed his line of
attack. “You’re losing touch,
John. You're desk-bound.”
“I’m not!” indignantly. “You
two clots haven't a clue. Tofi,”
he called to the chief clerk,
“bring me the finance-file. It’s
about time you two found out
how these things are done.”
“Or not done,” interjected
Peter irreverently.
“I don’t care what the file
says,” muttered Butler. “Surely
you’re not going to put all
that cement into the medical
assistant’s house? Why, it’d
be a palace! ”
The assistant district-officer
had been stung by the accusa-
tion that he was out-of-touch
with the real needs of his dis-
trict. Actually, the road and
bridge meant more to him than
to the younger men. In fact, it
wasn’t until he had successfully
badgered the authorities to
bring his staff up to the strength
of the establishment that he
could put the project in hand,
because it needed constant
supervision.
Sullivan was uncomfortably
conscious that he was the meat
sandwiched between the higher
administration and the enthusi-
asm of his young officers. At
all costs he felt he mustn’t
blunt that enthusiasm. But at
the same time the younger
officers had to realise how they
fitted into the general admini-
strative pattern.
“You must use the proper
channels,” he heard himself
saying. (Good Lord! he
thought. Did I say that? Am
I becoming a bureaucratic
echo?)
“Look,” he went on desper-
ately. “This is the general
picture: I don't allot funds.
I ask Rabaul for them. Money
and materials are allocated for
specific purposes, under defi-
nite headings. It’s got to be
spent or used under those head-
ings or there's hell to pay. If
you’d dreamed up your blasted
bridge in time for the esti-
mates” —
“If!” cut in Clem. “Look
at it from our angle, from the
commonsense angle. Inland
there's copra rotting that chaps
want to market through the new
co-operative. We’ve got hand-
carts. We've got the road. All
we need’s a bridge.”
“That’s all very convincing.”
argued Sullivan, “but there's
another complication. You're
up against an inter-depart-
mental hurdle. This cement
has been forwarded for the use
of the Department of Health
for the medical assistant's
house. I’m responsible in a
general way because the house
will be built on this station,
but I can’t interfere with
another department's alloca-
tion.”
“Look,” Clem Butler spoke
with all the appeal of a man
with a bright idea, “can't
we borrow six tons? That's
all we need. Can't you get
an extra six tons put on the
next supply-trip? It's only
a month away. They can’t use
all that cement by that time.”
Butler and Swire were grin-
ning cheerfully when they left
the office.
Sullivan soon forgot them.
Litigation, directing the police,
supervising the station labor,
checking the cash and office
work, and assuring himself that
the monthly returns were
correct and dispatched on time,
all these duties and the thou-
sand-and-one incidentals that
cropped up daily kept him
absorbed and busy.
Come weeks later Sullivan
was surprised to see the
Government trawler, M. V.
Poseidon, gliding across the
calm harbor waters. He hurried
down the hill and onto the
wharf just as the trawler-
master jumped ashore.
“Hullo John!” Harry Bishop
whispered in a theatrically


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE —MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVI3.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
hushed tone. “My port pas-
senger - cabin is full of
auditor! That’s why I’m early.”
“Oh, so that’s it. Glad to
see you, anyway.”
A neat rotund figure, the
white coat and black tie, the
shiny briefcase, silently speak-
ing of desks at Moresby,
appeared on deck and came
mincingly ashore.
“Mr. Greening, this is the
assistant district-officer. Mr.
Sullivan, Mr. Greening.”
“How do you do, Mr. Sulli-
van? I know your name well
enough, of course, but I don’t
think we've actually met. I’m
sorry I didn’t give you notice
of my arrival, but auditors
seldom do, you know. Perhaps
it’s kinder that way.”
Sullivan smiled. His con-
science was comfortable.
“Glad to see you, Mr. Green-
ing. How long d’you plan to
stay?”
“I expect to go back on the
regular flying-boat in four
days’ time. Could I have your
keys, please?”
This was the usual thing.
Sullivan produced the key-ring
from his pocket and handed
it over, remarking casually:
“I think you'll find everything
in order. I suppose you want
to get down to it at once.”
“Yes. I’ll do the cash and
stamps immediately, so as not
to interfere too much with your
office.”
Officers in the field are con-
stantly faced with human prob-
lems, calling all the time for
give and take, and the search
for satisfactory compromises.
They also think more of doing
something than of using the
regulation way of doing it.
They regard auditors as taking
on something of the cold calcu-
lation of their computing-gad-
gets. The visit of an auditor
can be upsetting because the
a.d.-o. is moving in the world
of figures and accounts, for
which he has not been trained
and from which, in many cases,
he shrinks with abhorrence.
In Sullivan’s mind there
lurked the uneasy suspicion that
something might have been
overlooked. Just because Toti,
the chief clerk, was so reliable
Sullivan wondered if he had
left too much to him.
On the third day of his visit,
the auditor snapped the catches
on his briefcase: “That com-
pletes my audit, Mr. Sullivan,
and I’d go as far as to tell
you that it was satisfactory.
Consumable stores as close as
they ever are. Cash right and
station equipment accounted
for.”
“Thank heaven!” ejaculated
the a.d.-o. with real relief.
‘‘Nothing else I can do for
you?”
“No. I believe that’s every-
thing. Wait a minute, though!
There’s a consignment-note
for cement for the medical
assistant’s house. Quite a
large quantity. Have you used
it?”
“Er. . . cement?”
The query brought back the
argument in the office with
Butler and Swire. The Walog
bridge . . . caught flat-footed!
“Yes,” Sullivan temporised.
“Most of it. We’ll have a look
when the rain lets-up a bit.
Tomorrow perhaps . . .”
TDut the rain didn’t let-up. In
** the grey of the next morn-
ing a dripping clerk reported
that thirteen inches had fallen
during darkness, a station
record! On the leeward side
of the a.d.-o.’s house, through
a veil of water sluicing off the
deep eaves, the open louvres
disclosed sheets of sweeping
rain.
“D’you think the Sandring-
ham will be able to land here
today?” inquired the auditor
in a hopeless tone of voice.
“I’ve been listening on their
frequency. The flying-boat
left Rabaul three hours ago,
but there’s not much chance
of them being able to get down
here.”
A little later the rumble of
the flying-boat’s four engines
broke, fitfully, through the
gusts of rain.
“There it is now! ” the
auditor exclaimed.
“Yes, but there’s not twenty
yards’ visibility. He’ll never
make it. Oh well, no fresh
meat, no mail . . .” And, Sulli-
van thought to himself, another
day of you! Aloud, he added:
“You watch, as soon as he
gets out of earshot, the rain’ll
clear like magic. Never
misses! ”
And so it happened.
Just before lunch Peter
Swire shouldered his way up
the hill, drenched with spray
but exultant. He’d pressed a
racing-canoe crew into service
the minute the rain had stopped.
“John, it’s magnificent!
The Walog’s running a banker.
Nobody round there
remembers it so high. The
bridge stood like a rock!”
“Really?” Sullivan wished
his impetuous young cadet at
the bottom of the Walog ; any-
where but in his office at this
time. “Good trip?”
“Oh! The trip?” The
cadet was thrown off balance
by the coolness of his reception.
“That was wizard! Came like
an express-train. But Clem and
I wanted you to know about
the bridge. With those founda-
tions it’ll stand anything. It’s
a whizzer!”
“Mr. Greening, I’d like you
to meet Peter Swire, the cadet
on this station. Peter —Mr.
Greening is an auditor !”
“Hullo, sir. I was just telling
Mr. Sullivan . . . Oh!”
Enthusiasm and words
evaporated together.
Mr. Greening was beginning
to enjoy himself in a refined,
bureaucratic sort of way: “The
Walog, I take it, is a river
near here?”
“Nothing important, really,
just a creek. As you’ve heard,
Peter’s just bridged it.”
“Really? Would it be pos-
sible for me to see this bridge?”
“Nothing to it!” Peter’s
enthusiasm spontaneously
rekindled. “Take you up there
in an hour or so. My canoe’s
waiting at the wharf.”
“I thing we’d all better go,”
said Sullivan fatalistically.
A midships, a bamboo plat-
form had been lashed
across the hollow log of the
canoe and secured to the out-
rigger. This gave room enough
for the three men to sit. Four
paddlers, two in front and two
behind the platform, thrust the
canoe through the earth-
browned waters. The swollen,
swirling Walog River was toss-
ing and catapulting bushes and
narr- trunks into the estuary.
“I’m particularly interested,”
remarked the auditor as the
paddles fought the racing
current, “because you had no
financial vote for bridges.”
In spite of the steamy, oppres-
sive heat, the tubby auditor’s
comment sent a chill through
Sullivan. He blessed the leap-
ing and writhing of the canoe,
which made an excuse for
silence.
They tied-up, got off the
canoe and plodded up the
slippery track in single file.
Half a mile above the turbu-
lent mouth, the creek of a few
days ago was now a river some
40 yards across. This was
spanned by a long straight
bridge, supported by a single
pier at the centre. Handcarts
and trolleys had already started
to roll the copra to the coast.
Clem Butler met them and
was introduced.
Greening walked to the
approaches and tapped them
with his muddy shoe: “Con-
crete ! ”
“Ferro-concrete,” admitted
Sullivan. “I’ll have to confess.
We needed this bridge and I
borrowed six tons from the
cement for the medical
assistant’s house. Here it is.”
“I’m terribly sorry about this,
John,” broke in Butler. “We
persuaded you to do it and I
suppose we’ll be in trouble
now.”
“I suppose so. Mr. Green-
ing’s caught me redhanded
juggling fund-certificates. I
can’t imagine anything worse.”
“I’m relieved, but not entirely
surprised to hear you say that,
Mr. Sullivan. It’s not diffi-
cult for me to imagine some-
thing much worse. Six tons of
cement and steel reinforcing-
rods. . . Government stores
have been sold to plantation-
owners before this, you know.”
Sullivan’s tan deepened to a
dull red. Before he could open
his mouth to expostulate, Mr.
Greening tactfully took him
aside from the others.
“Mr. Sullivan, has it ever
occurred to you that burglars,
forgers and embezzlers are
rarely worried by their con-
sciences? It is the saints who
worry most about sin. While
I don’t wish to imply for a
minute that you are a saint —
you get the idea? —in a case
of this sort, I suggest you take
a little more time off bush work
to study the regulations. If
you read them carefully you
would find that under Section
44 (d) (2) an a.d.-o. can apply
for a re-allocation of materials
provided that good reason can
be shown why it was not
included in the earlier estimates.
“Mr. Sullivan, you must use
the proper channels!”


A Neglected Inheritance
By OLAF RUHEN
It is long past time that we
in Australia succeeded to
the practical cash benefits
deriving from the undeni-
able fact that we are joint heirs
of Shakspeare and Beethoven,
of Homer and Praxiteles, and
indeed of every creative artist
whose works have passed into
the public domain.
Sympathy is wasted upon
any heir who deliberately
neglects his inheritance, for he
deserves his impoverishment;
the inheritor who is in fact
unaware of his hidden fortune
falls into a different category,
and it may well be that most
of us are in this sad predica-
ment.
I am not concerned here
with the aesthetic values
accruing from this tremendous
accumulation of created
property, nor with the
secondary benefits, the tech-
niques and technologies which
have derived from it; although
in my belief every facet of
human existence (as opposed
to artimal existence), every
joy, every glory, every success
and every triumph which we
hold unique to the human
experience derives at not too
great a distance from some
achievement of a creative
artist.
What I am trying to spot-
light is the existence —addi-
tional to this estate, and
neglected except in some
instances by certain specialists
who have no more right to it
than the rest of us —of valu-
able, assessable property
originally in the estates of all
deceased artists.
Tn common law, supplemented
-*• by various copyright laws,
this property is held to be in
the public domain, and the
public, as a public, is making
no use.of it. My proposition
is that, it should, and in a
direction which would earn the
unqualified approval of all
those artists, dead or alive, who
are now concerned, or who
will be in the future.
I feel that every effort to
increase the well-being of
creative artists in this coun-
try should be paid for, not by
hand-outs from the Consoli-
dated Fund, directed by the
random generosity of harassed
committees, but immediately
from the hard-earned wealth
donated by the artists of the
past and hitherto neglected.
From this source also should
come every manifestation of
culture presented to the public
—an opera-house in Sydney,
for example.
Put simply, my scheme is to
ensure that royalty payments
are made by publishers on be-
half of the authors of all
publications, and that where
the works are in the public
domain these payments should
be made to a public fund. In
this latter event the royalties
should in no instance be less
than the royalties paid to living
authors, and they should be
based upon the retail prices of
the works.
Further, and most import-
antly, a similar provision
should exist and be rigorously
applied in respect to all repro-
ductions of art works, all
copies of statuary, all presen-
tations of drama and all con-
certs of music.
TTolding for the moment to
the literary scene, we see
that the immediate effect would
be to remove such works from
the publishers’ domain to the
public's, where they belong.
It is not for nothing that
the average publisher speaks
in reverent terms of Shak-
speare. If, say, the secondary-
school curriculum in Queens-
land calls for 65,000^copies of
“Hamlet” the publisher who
meets the order wins in two
ways, over and above the
normal profits of publication.
In the first he has a prac-
tically guaranteed sale ; in the
second * he pays no royalties.
And his works do not normally
sell at a price much reduced
from the figure he would set
if a living author had to be
paid. In the second considera-
tion he is merely picking up the
ignored property of the
public.
By far the majority of works
in the public domain sell for
educational purposes, and their
extensive use is dictated by
educational authorities. They
do not have to run the hazard
of public acceptance, and their
publication is not a gamble.
In this category are some
books in which extensive
editing has entitled some savant
or other to a royalty of his
own. This does not alter the
case: the full royalty should
be paid to the public fund as
in the untrammelled work.
Such editors do not deserve —
if they get it —the royalty rate
to which a creative artist is
entitled ; their function is less
than that of the translator of
foreign books.
A secondary consideration,
not without importance to
the living writer, is that works
of his dead precursor are to-
day, in effect, subsidised to the
publisher by the absence of
royalty payment ; and conse-
quently, if the choice is other-
wise even, the printing presses
will be occupied by the subsi-
dised work and the living
author’s more liable to rejec-
tion.
Throughout the community
the creative artist is; normally,
the man who least fears com-
petition ; most creative artists
help to establish their own
competition, with eyes wide
open, in the assistance they
give to their fellows and their
juniors. Pride of function and
pride of achievement help to
make the better men in the field
welcome a large and riotous
growth in the numbers, the
energies and the output of
competitors. When you hear
a writer complain of the over-
crowded literary field you are,
typically, listening to a half-
confessed failure, a figure well
back in the race.
Yet it is well to look at such
an example as one Sydney
press-baron provided. It
seemed that whenever the
budget did not run even to the
miserably poor payments living
authors could expect from his
publications (indeed, from
almost all Australian pub-
lications, and damn their
scrabbling souls) he’d carve off
for his readers another chunk
of “culture.” His experience
of the classics did not stretch
far beyond Guy de Maupas-
sant. But of that author he
must have printed several times
every story that could be
chiselled into the appropriate
length, and had a woman in it
for an artist to portray
lusciously.
At least a compulsory royalty
payment would eliminate the
unfair aspect of competition
from the dead. And, inci-
dentally, if royalty payments
were made compulsory, that
might also eliminate a lot of
unfair competition from the
living. Honest work has a
value, and should be paid for.
I recently listened with the
utmost horror to a writer who
suggested that thoughts of pay-
ment were not worthy of a
creative artist I cannot
believe, by the way, that the
individual in question had
much to worry about on that
score.
AAy feeling is that every least
contribution to the world's
art should be written or created
of a sense of integrity, for the
purpose and to the effect that
the author in his heart desires
—but that once it has been
created the artist owes it not
only to himself but to all his
fellows in the trade to sell it in
the appropriate market for the
highest rates he can squeeze.
My admiration for the late
Dr. A. J. Cronin stems largely
from the fact that, of all the
world's authors, he alone is
reputed to have gouged a
straight 23 per cent, on the
retail from his publishers; I
cannot imagine, however, that
he wrote Hatter's Castle and
a few of the others with the
figures “23” uppermost in his
mind.
A small aspect here con-
cerns the question of the book
from behind the Iron Curtain.
It has been the fashion during
most of this century to print
Russian books in the English
language without recompense
to the authors. Russians do
it rather better —they set aside
the money for you to spend in
Russia, suppose you should
happen to go there.
My feeling is that Russian
authors, reprinted outside the
Curtain, would feel less
aggrieved if their money,
instead of being added to pub-
lishers’ profits, were turned
into a literary fund. Then, per-
haps, the fund might see it as
part of its function to invite
such authors to this country
for the purpose of lecture-tours
and the like. The Australian
public would still benefit. Of
course, it might be more honest
here simply to put an end to
piracy.
r T''HE question of the disposal
of the funds accruing from
this proper public appreciation


of bygone artists is almost
elemental.
To keep the subject confined,
a little longer, to the literary
scene, the royalties from litera-
ture in public ownership
would, I take it, go to the
Commonwealth Literary Fund.
I am not alone, I know, in dis-
agreeing with the Fund’s pre-
sent conception of its function ;
I think that the current prac-
tice of making hand-outs to
individual authors is danger-
ous, and to a degree degrading.
But that literature in this
country is languishing for lack
of the shot in the arm that
ample finance could give it is
hardly open to argument.
The organisation of research
needs attending to without
much further delay—a central
correlation of the works not
duplicated in the country’s
major libraries, with access to
reference-files, plus a record of
the treasures uncovered by
archivists in universities, civic
and municipal offices, Govern-
ment Departments, and even
private companies of long
standing.
I think it is true to say that
libraries everywhere in this
country suffer from a lack of
trained and dedicated staff, as
well as from a shortage of
accommodation and an absence
of the more modern aids to
storage and filing.
There is the question of pro-
viding a satisfactory legal
advisory service for authors—
one has to look no further than
the forms of receipt demanded
by a big metropolitan daily to
know that the average Aus-
tralian writer has lacked sound
advice, and has suffered be-
cause of it. An advisory ser-
vice for authors would need
funds, but it would increase
the standard of living in
literary circles and possibly
give a small lift to the com-
munity’s standard of business
morality. Not before time.
A nother avenue for the
investment of funds is
suggested by the fact that pos-
sibly the worst handicap the
Australian writer has had to
carry in recent decades has
been the lack of a great Aus-
tralian editor.
It can be claimed that the
prominence of American litera-
ture today owes a very great
deal to editors like Maxwell
Perkins, H. L. Mencken,
Harold Ross, Bernard de Voto,
Ben Hibbs, Arnold Gingrich
and many others. The promo-
tion of a course of study which
ensured that the editorial func-
tion was understood, if only
by an individual here and
there, would wonderfully bene-
fit the young writer.
But funds would be par-
ticularly useful in the adequate
training of the writer of
promise who has just set his
foot upon the literary road, a
road that in Australia today is
a rough and rocky track, paved
in a few suspect stretches with
nothing other than good inten-
tions, and beset with traps and
snares cunningly contrived by
one or two uncommonly able
looters. True it is that the
surface becomes smoother as
the road opens upon the plain
of international acceptance;
"No, sir! I cannot sue the Government. As a citizen of a
democracy, I AM the Government!”
the majority of travellers have
run screaming into the wilder-
ness before then.
suggestion, then, for the
Fund, is that it take in
hand the arrangements for a
trade conference.
The writer, by the nature of
his art, is a solitary character
while he is in the throes of
production, yet he needs the
frequent stimulus of company,
and responds to the com-
panionship of others like him-
self.
I’d like to see an annual
residential conference for
writers, to run for two or three
weeks in a place where they
are segregated from the out-
side world. I suggest the
Armidale Teachers’ College
(without knowing anything of
commitments for the building).
I suggest also that the writers
pay for their residence there
and the lectures round which
the symposiums would be
formed; but that fares be sub-
sidised by the Fund so that
the Perth writer, for example,
could attend for the same sac-
rifice as the man from Bris-
bane.
Young writers would be
chosen, more-or-less, by recom-
mendation, and the field of
recommending authorities kept
wide. Scholarships provided
by the Fund would pay the
fees of some. Lecturers con-
ducting the symposiums (of five
to seven hours a day) would be
salaried for the term of the
conference, and selected lec-
turers or potential lecturers
sent abroad to attend the more
virile of the overseas confer-
ences. Remoter subjects (mak-
ing the best use of library
facilities, publication problems
in the specialised technical pub-
lishing field, and so on) would
be covered by special lecturers
brought to the conference for
a day only.
My experience is that two
weeks is hardly sufficient to
examine the aspects of writing
for the public, even when the
conference components are
individually well-versed in
literary subjects. An even
greater value of the get-
together comes from tossing
the ball back and forth during
meal-hours and the recreation
period. One or two lecturers
in each year, by the way, would
be invited from overseas ; if a
man like John Ciardi could be
persuaded to come, Australian
poetry could acquire new
dimensions, at least in the
junior league.
A young, aggressive, hopeful
literary circle whose com-
petitive efforts were based on
hard work and a mutual under-
standing, and were guided by
the practicalities disclosed in
abundance at such conferences
would make a tremendous
impact upon the Australian
consciousness. More, it would
pay for itself a thousand times
over in the increased publicity
given gratis to Australia in
overseas publications.
And assistance of this kind,
through such channels as I
have described, would not carry
the stigma which I, for one,
feel attaches to the Common-
wealth Literary Fund hand-out
as it is dispersed today. That
money has not been earned by
the literary group here, and its
distribution seems to have been
left very largely to chance. I
don’t say this at hazard. A
list of the books assisted by the
Fund looks impressive—until
you put it alongside a list of
the books produced, of their
own effort and initiative, by
Australian writers in the same
period. As at present consti-
tuted and administered I do
not see that the Fund has justi-
fied its existence. I admit its
good intentions.
It’s important, I feel, that
the writer should know himself
part of an inspiring upward
movement that is spearheaded
by creative artists but carries
the whole community with it.
It would help him to know
the nature of the problems
which have inhibited others.
The poet should know the
sweat and strain that produces
a good book for children, and
vice versa.
X>ut if the literary coipmunity
needs assistance, what of
the composers?
The only good thing that
can be said of serious composi-
tion of music in Australia
today is that it is set so
arduous a road that only the
most dedicated could survive.
That might be good—except
that survival is accomplished
at the cost of a division of
effort; composition is achieved
largely by men who have to
expend their best and freshest
energies in other directions so
that they can eat.
Where a concert is based
upon the music of a man whose
work is in the public domain,
I say that a royalty on admis-
sions should be paid to a fund
concerned with composers and
their problems. If Beethoven’s
music is played over a quarter
of the programme and the
(Continued on page 43)


Are We Overloading the Land Men?
FARMERS AND COSTS
IT is traditional for farmers to grumble ;
so traditional that when they have
a legitimate cause for complaint they
often find it hard to get a sympa-
thetic hearing. After all, when a man is
in the habit of grumbling in a bad season
and then grumbling again in a good
season because it’s bound to be followed
by a bad one, he needs to produce some
pretty sound arguments if he wants to be
taken seriously.
For 40 years the Australian Country
Party has been acting as a clearing-
house for complaints from men on the
land and it learnt quite early in its career
the necessity for producing facts and
figures to back up its arguments. It
can still winge with the best of ’em, but
it has found that informed wingeing has
a better chance of getting results than the
old-fashioned take-it-or-leave-it grumble.
The party’s pamphlet The Crisis in
Farm Costs and Incomes is the fruit of an
inquiry instituted last year by the Federal
Parliamentary Country party into the
reasons for “the growing unbalance
between farm-costs and -incomes.” A
comprehensive analysis of the problem
was presented to the party’s Federal
Council last November and its main
conclusions have now been published “so
that public thought may be directed to
the correction of the disabilities which
assail .the primary industries, affect the
supremely important export-trade and
threaten both the expansion of Australia
and its economic stability.”
The inquiry was prompted by the fact
that because Australia’s primary pro-
ducers must sell a large proportion of
their produce overseas their income is
largely determined by world prices, while
their cost of production is governed by
a wage- and price-structure geared to a
home-market economy. Other industries
are able to pass on rising costs by raising
their prices, but the primary industries,
so far as their export-produce is con-
cerned, are unable to do so.
While these industries have produced a
greater volume of goods than ever before
and exported a greater quantity under
generally favorable overseas price condi-
tions, the extent of the increase in local
costs has denied them a return commen-
surate with their efforts.
Paying for Exports
TPhe pamphlet argues that despite the
phenomenal growth of secondary
industry in Australia the basic nature of
the economy has not altered and it is still
true that national prosperity and stability
depend on the level of export-income.
From this income Australia has to meet its
external obligations in the way of interest
on Government loans and pay for its
imports, which include not only con-
sumer-goods but also raw materials and
equipment for secondary as well as pri-
mary industries. Yet the primary indus-
tries still earn 80 per cent, of all Aus-
tralia’s export-income. In addition they
supply 90 per cent, of the food and fibres
required for feeding and clothing 10 mil-
lion Australians.
More than half the output of primary
industry is exported. In recent years
the proportion of individual products
exported has been 95 per cent, in the
case of wool, 50 per cent, for wheat,
barley and sugar, 30 per cent, for beef
and 25 per cent, for dairy products. The
survey comments ruefully:
While farm-incomes have declined, farm-
costs have continued to rise steeply. It
is true that rising export-prices tend to
heighten domestic prices, but while export-
prices tend to fluctuate considerably,
experience shows that domestic prices
.remain static or even increase when prices
fall abroad. A rise in export-prices and
in the volume of exports is taken as the
signal for new wage-demands and are
accepted as justification for increased retail-
prices. But there is no parallel movement
when export-prices drop.
Backing their case with figures, the
compilers of the pamphlet show the
worsened condition of the farmers by
comparing the two four-year periods
1951-55 and 1955-59. (The abnormal
wool-year 1950-51 is rightly excluded
from the comparison). The tables show:
# Average total costs rose £139.5 million
while gross value of production
increased by only £99.5 million.
# The bulk of the rise in production
was absorbed "by increased cost of
labor and materials (£B9 million).
# Increased cost of labor, materials
and services (£lO2 million) exceeded
increased value of production.
0 The depreciation-rate increased very
substantially, reflecting the ageing of
assets and the tapering-off of new-
equipment purchases.
0 Despite an increase of nine per cent,
in value of production farm-incomes
declined by 14.2 per cent.
Reference to the White Paper on
National Income and Expenditure shows
that no other sector of the economy has
been affected in the way primary indus-
try has been hit. Between 1950-51 and
1957-58 the national income increased
from £3141 million to £4735 million.
Company-income from manufactures
doubled ; that from the wholesale and
retail trades rose by about 40 per cent,
and income from other companies and
unincorporated businesses improved by
more than half. Wages almost doubled.
The primary sector alone showed worse
results at the end of the period than at
the beginning.
At the moment Australia is pinning its
faith to record exports by the primary
industries which, it is hoped, will boost
our export-income to at least £9OO million.
This would be £lOO million more than last
year, but even if we can get it we cannot
afford to be without a very substantial
inflow of capital... .Our present gamble
depends not only on a handsome export-
income but on a reasonable voluntary
restraint in import-buying, which may be
too much to expect. The gamble seems to
have excellent prospects of success in the
current financial year. But what if we
meet seasonal adversity in 1960-61?
That is a fair question, as the general
tendency seems to be to hope for the
best and assume that good seasons will
continue.
Factors in Progress
Summarising progress on the land since
war, the pamphlet notes that the
acreage of improved pasture has trebled
since 1946 and doubled since 1951.
Factors contributing to this have been
the use of trace-elements in deficient
soils, more efficient use of fertilisers,
improvements in mechanical equipment,
new pasture-plants and success in com-
bating pests and diseases. It is estimated
that something like “80 per cent, of
eastern Australia's 600-million rabbits
have probably been liquidated by myxo-
matosis, modifying a pest capable of
consuming pasture sufficient to support
75-million sheep.”
A new problem facing the pastoralist
is that of finding a way of conserving
for future use the excess fodder now
grown in many parts of the country in
good seasons. This needs money and
the reduction in farm-incomes reduces
the amount available for capital-invest-
ment.
Much of the developmental-capital
found in the good years was invested in
depreciating assets. If those assets cannot
be replaced because of falling income or
rising costs there will be a gradual decline
in the plant of production.... In 1954
54 per cent, of the tractors were less than
five years old; in 1957 only 37 per cent,
were less than five years old, and today
we are faced with a rapidly ageing force
of mechanical aids which cannot be
replaced for economic reasons.
It is accepted that the present drive for
immigrants will continue. This means
that Australia’s population could reach
14.1 million by 1976. Tables have been
produced to show that to maintain that
population and to allow for a corres-
ponding increase in industry the produc-
tion of primary goods would need to
increase by 66 per cent. Can this be
done in the face of falling farm-incomes,
rising costs and a decline in the number
of rural workers?
If we are to succeed there must be a
diversion of capital now being used to
hiake the large cities bigger and more con-
gested ; more capital must be devoted to
water and power for rural production;
to improved transport to serve the primary
industries and the country centres they
support; to the establishment of more
secondary industries in the country
adjacent to the raw materials.
Observing that the bulk of migrants
are remaining in the cities and that
Government policy gives little emphasis
to decentralisation, the pamphlet con-
cludes that a high cost-structure can only
accentuate the drift to the cities and
retard country-development.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Grand Garry, winner of
races in three States, * is ex-
pected to have another shot
at the two-mile Brisbane Cup,
in which Macdougal narrowly
beat him last year, with Bay-
stone third. The time was
3.22}. In winning the Sydney
Cup Grand Garry (6 to 1)
finished too strongly for
Valerius (6 to 1) and outsider
Melroy (16 to 1). Melroy
came from a long way back.
Time for the two miles was
3.20 7/10, a Randwick record.
Sellwood gave a polished and
brainy riding exhibition on the
winner. Breeding-lines show
that Grand Garry is from a
half-sister to Caulfield Cup
winner Basha Felika, and is
related to Spellman, winner
of the Q.T.C. St. Leger, which
Grand Garry also won, Dal-
ray, sire of Grand Garry, won
14 races, including* the Mel-
bourne Cup, and £39,678 in
stakes. Grand Garry was the
first foal of his dam, Lanky
Lass, by Highland Laddie
(imp.) from Perfect Morn by
Rivoli from Perfect Night by
All Black (imp.) from Midilli
by Tressady (imp.).
• • • •
In Melroy, Warwick Farm
trainer Ernie Fellows pro-
duced a galloper above average
in the staying sphere, and likely
to make it interesting in the
distance events when spring
comes round. Still eligible for
Encourage company, he’s a
four-year-old, and had scored
a win in a 12-furlongs Novice
at headquarters on April 13
prior to giving the Sydney Cup
field a start from the home-
turn and finishing third to
Grand Garry and Valerius.
Melroy’s sire, Edwardsii (imp.),
was got by Nasrullah and also
won at 12 furlongs. The young
stayer’s dam, Ferocious Lass,
a Randwick winner, is by
Ruthless (imp.) from Aboyne
by Paper Money (imp.) from
The Linnet by Kilbroney.
Melroy is related to former
stayers The Dimmer (Perth
and Sydney Cups), Epilogue
(V.R.C. St. Leger and Hotham
Handicap) and Saxony
(Williamstown Cup).
• • • r *:
Mulley rode in excellent
form at Saturday’s Warwick
Farm meeting—three wins, a
second, and a third. Winners
were Jack’s Count (Fraser
Handicap), Tulsa Queen (Silver-
dale Novice Two-year-old) and
French Descent (Wilson Han-
dicap). Jack’s Count, bought
a while back for lOOOgns. by
L. Moss and Malcolm Rich,
probably put himself on the
credit side for them, prize-
money and bets returning a
tidy sum. He hadn’t done
"Well, it's appropriate, isn't it?"
much racing in their colors.
Near the rear at the half-mile,
he made-up ground fast and
won easily from Sea Hound,
with Compass a close third.
Sea Hound tried to lead all
the way, but failed to run the
11 furlongs right out. Jack’s
Count is now likely to have
a shot at the Wagga Centenary
Gold Cup next month.
• • • •
Both Jack’s Count and
Mulley’s first winner, Tulsa
Queen, are from the Smith
stable —Smith secured the filly
for 1400gns. at the Randwick
yearling-sales last year. Raced
by Americans G. Goff and
C. C. Brann, she’s due to be
sent to the U.S. in June ; one
of about 35 horses purchased
by Goff all bound for the
States. They also include
promising two-year-old winner
Primrose Lane and several
yearlings bought at the recent
sales. Tulsa Queen, who had
an easy win, is by Pan II
(Fr.) from Alluring by Salma-
gundi (imp.) from All Clear
by Beau Soult,
An interesting seven-year-
old galloper, Leigh Cherry,
cleared away with the
Encourage Handicap, for
which he had solid backing.
Ridden by the very ,good
apprentice Peter Miers, the
Elysium gelding won-as easily
as his country record sug-
gested he might in this grade
of company. The win fol-
lowed 40 country successes,
mostly in western areas.
Another promising appren-
tice, Dick Henson, rode a nice
race to land Surabey a winner
in the Encourage for fillies and
mares. An 18-year-old attached
to Jack Ryan’s stable, Henson
can go to scale at 6.7. Surabey,
like Leigh Cherry, had done
most of her racing in the
country, chiefly in northern
centres. A very speedy three-
year-old Port Vista filly, she
has now scored eight wins
from nine starts, including a
previous win at the Farm.
• * • c
Though French Descent
finished last in the Doncaster,
he beat a field of smart
sprinters in the Warwick Farm
Wilson Handicap. Mulley had
him near the more nippy gal-
lopers from the start, and he
went on to beat Heroic Victory
and Diamond Vista in a close
finish. In the Doncaster he
had been near the lead to the
straight, but did not see out
the mile. Diamond Vista’s
jockey, H. Molloy, was.
cramped for room at a vital
stage of the race, otherwise he
might have made it more
interesting for the winner.
• • • •
Royal Courage, promising
two-year-old brother to Bard-
shah, was ridden out by G.
Podmore to beat Artistic in the
Casula Novice (two-year-old
colts and geldings) at the Farm,
recouping losses incurred when
he was beaten into third place
at Randwick five days earlier
in the Fernhill Handicap, won
by Persian Lyric. Artistic, a
Genetout colt, was also second
in the Fernhill, and should
soon win.
* * *
For all that visitors (notably
from Sydney) say to the con-
trary, Melbourne has a sensible
climate which rarely runs to
extremes. Last week, how-
ever, really was dismal, with a
blustery gale driving rain into
the faces of the inhabitants day
after day. By Friday morning
four inches of wet had fallen in
three days, and the Moonee
Valley Racing Club reluctantly
decided to abandon the Charity
Meeting set down for the next
day. It’s very rare for the
M.V.R.C. to put a meeting off
•—last time it happened was on
July 14, 1941, and, oddly,
that, too, was a Charity Meet-
ing.
• • «r
Those at first least perturbed
by the races being off were the
bookmakers. About the only
irritant in the otherwise serene
life of the bagmen is their in-
ability to see a V.F.L. Aussie
Rules game—and then even the
footy was out! So they’ll have
to just go on following a team
in the Sunday Amateur Com-
petition, which has grown in a
few years from a bit of a joke
to an important association.
It is rumored that big money
changes hands over the Sunday
games; which may have noth-
ing to do with the bookmakers’
support.
Bill Williamson got away by
plane to Ireland last Wednes-
day—but only just. A couple
of hours before the plane was
due to leave, Williamson was
involved in a car-accident in
the Melbourne suburb of
Elwood. The driver of the
other cpr was treated at hospi-
tal, but Bill got off with a
shock to his nervous system.
Melbourne will miss William-
son during the six months he’s
away. He’s a very good rider,
and one of the best features of
his riding is his kind handling
of his mounts. He will not
punish a horse unless the situa-
tion is desperate. Some of the


lads riding in Melbourne at
present are altogether too fond
of the whip.
• • • •
Melbourne Cup winner Dal-
ray, as suggested here some
time back, looks like becom-
ing a sire successor to" The
Buzzard. Grand Garry is his
most important stayer to date,
but Qalray’s dozen or so other
winners include the exception-
ally promising Brisbane two-
year - old Refulgent. Yet
another was added to Dalray’s
list when the bay filly Ray buzz
won the First Maiden Two-
year-old at Ipswich last Satur-
day. She’s from the unraced
Aftermath, who’s by The
Buzzard (imp.) from Splitting
Head by Highfield (imp.). Ray-
buzz is a half-sister to Town
Buzz, a smart winner on Bris-
bane tracks, while family-lines
also include Basha Felika
(Caulfield Cup) and Spellman
(Q.T.C. St. Leger).
Brioche, highest - ranked
stakewinner ever to come from
Great Britain to Australia, is
now installed at the Silk
brothers’ Glen Devon Stud at
Werribee (Vic.). In three sea-
sons Brioche won £17,264 in
races from five furlongs to two
miles. He’s by Tantieme from
Eudemis, and-should get sturdy
stayers, which is all to the
good. Racing is the poorer
for the current mania for
speedy horses that can win in
their first season on the turf,
but that have no hope of de-
veloping into winners of Cups
or distance w.-f.-a. events.
Brioche cost the Silk brothers
£IO,OOO.
He $
The Trots
In a sensational—repeat, sen-
sational—comeback at Harold
Park last Friday night eight-
year-old Sky High (20 to 1)
beat Southern Van (20 to 1) by
a half-length in the £SOOO Lord
Mayor’s Cup (13fur. 98yds.) in
race-record time of 3min. 3lf
sec. And Sky High was driven
by one also, like himself, a
little long in the tooth—64-
year-old Jim Simonds, who
secured the drive through B.
Parker having sprained an ankle
in a fall in the previous race.
Sky High broke-down, appar-
ently hopelessly, early in 1958,
was retired to the stud, had
three more runs early in 1959,
again broke-down and was
again at stud for that season.
This season he had had one
run previous to the Cup,
finishing a bad last in a Free-
for-all. His whack from the
Cup prizemoney was £3750.
Roxy Volo landed the Easter
Handicap final from Victorian
Heroic Action; consistent four-
year-old Big Time finished
strongly to take-out the final
of the Carnival Handicap from
Enzedders Adroit and Jimmy’s
Fortune. First heats of the
N.S.W. Sapling Stakes next
Friday night.
* * *
Other Sports
“Hinemoa”: On Easter
Saturday Auckland (N.Z.) saw
one of the most unusual cricket-
matches you’d come across. A
team of Samoans residing in
“Hold your fire, Carstairs. Let me shoot first!”
Auckland met a visiting team
of Samoans from Tokoroa, a
papermills- and timber-town,
both teams 59-strong. The rule
was one-ball overs, and every
dismissed batsman received a
haka. Such a full field made
runs hard to get, and few bats-
men remained at the wicket for
more than five minutes. Auck-
land\Samoans won, but it was
such a friendly match, and
Island courtesy still ruled, so
Auckland gave the match to
Tokoroa Samoans.
* * *
“Morris the Tinker”: Chalk-
up among the most entertaining
of the current footy season’s
records so far: All 32 Eastern
Suburbs and Newtown reserve-
grade Aussie Rules players
reported for continuous fight-
ing in their meeting at Trumper
Park. That’s it down there
back a bit from the Stadium.
'* * *
“Joe”: “Wild Bill” Cerutti
often captained St. George
Rugby Union team several men
short during War 11, and how
he kept the second-grade and
third-grade sides together was
“Wild Bill” and wonderful.
Spectators, crocks, a.-w.-l.
troops and whatnot were all
piled into sides to keep the
amateur code going then. Con-
stable Jack Crow, another
mighty veteran, played hun-
dreds of unpaid games, too,
inspiring and fostering the
youngsters.
* * #
Indicating the remarkable spread
of the game, the N.S.W. Country
Amateur Squash Championships—
held for the first time —were
organised over the Easter weekend
by the Illawarra and District
Squash Racquets Association. In
the men’s amateur championship
the favorite, K. Binns (Newcastle),
a State seed, had little difficulty
in winning. Helen Blundell, of
Queanbeyan, won both the junior
girls’ and ladies’ titles., A very
promising junior, David ‘Ainsworth,
of Wollongong, was runner-up in
both the junior boys’ title and the
men’s Plate. Results: Junior girls’
(Country), Miss H. Blundell
(Queanbeyan) defeated Miss C.
McLachlan. (Wollongong) 10-9,
9-1, 9-2; junior boys’ (Country),
Alan Holden (Wollongong) defeated
David Ainsworth (Wollongong)
3-9, 9-2, 9-6, 6-9, 9-3; men’s open
(Country), K. Binns (Newcastle)
defeated J. Simpson (Wollongong)
9-1, 9-0, 9-1; men’s Plate, A.
Mulloy (Bathurst) defeated David
Ainsworth (Wollongong) 9-4, 9-3,
9- ; ladies’ open (Country), Miss
H. Blundell (Queanbeyan) defeated
Miss E. Marjoribanks (Newcastle)
10- 9-1, 9-2; ladies’ Plate, Mrs.
J. Hilliar (Wollongong) defeated
Miss B. Travers 7-9, 7-9, 9-3,
9-1, 9-3.'
* * *
“Lai”: In the 1960 Stawell
Gift, Dimboola (Vic.) postman
Bill McCann (6fyds.) defeated
Norm Thompson (7f) by three-
quarters of a yard, with John
Vavasseur inches away third.
Time, 11.8 sec. McCann, 25,
started a hot- favorite and
caused bookmakers their
heaviest loss on the race for
years. The 12,000 spectators
gave old-time champion Arthur
Postle a great hand when he
appeared on the rostrum. Now
81 and whitehaired, he’d come
down from Queensland as a
guest of the Stawell Athletic
Club. In his day he was known
as the “Crimson Flash” and
was rated the fastest 75yds.
spr : nter in the world.
' * * *
Driven by Bob Scarlett, of
Greensborough (V i c.), a
Triumph Herald coupe was
outright winner of the 1960
Melbourne International Motor
Show Invitation Trial. Organ-
ised by the One Make Car
Club of Australia, the trial
covered a gruelling course of
230 miles through the rugged
Yea, Mount Slide and King-
lake areas of Victoria and was
one of the stiffest tests yet for
car, driver and navigator. Of
the 39 entries, 10 failed to
finish the Course. With his
navigator, Victorian police-
man David (“Joe”) Dunlop,
Bob Scarlett completed the
course with a loss of only five
points, to win the outright
trophy and the up to 1000 c.c.
K. Class Award. Scarlett
and Dunlop also won last
year’s event in a Standard
Vanguard. The team-prize
award went to the Volkswagen
entry.
*_ * *
“Athlete”: Around 1956
millions of people heard of a
quiet, pipe-smoking Victorian
named Len Cutnow. He was
the man who really made the
Melbourne Olympic Games
such a success, because it was
through his work as an en-
gineer-designer that Melbourne
introduced so much in the way
of b 7 uilding and equipment new
to the Games. At the time
Curnow was a foremost official
in the Victorian Amateur Ath-
letic Association, and he had


<z/re//aw/'4 cZ/tAe -
/Ate TAAf/cAttZpAoiee
'A
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
£5
Vj
«*>>.
9
m
••••?
in
H
M
it
■
White I-obel’
Dtw*#s KiNf S(orcH Whisk*
iobn Dewar&Sonsu
f t scBTUN'»
Street scene, hong kong. Photo by Qantas.
“White Label”
Dewar’s
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
DWII7
held the post of chief debater
for Vic. at the annual confer-
ence of the Amateur Athletic
Union. His skill was more
than a match for other dele-
gates, and he won many points
fpr Victoria, now one of the
great athletic States of Austra-
lia. Curnow also was an ath-
letics rep. on the Olympic
Federation, ably doing a vital
job there, especially in times
of crisis. In such a position
his influence would have been
of great assistance to athletes
when this year’s Olympic team
is being graded. He knew
everyone on the Federation.
Now he’s lost his seat. He
spoke too freely and forcefully
in Perth, the weaker States
didn’t like it, and he was axed
for the Federation position.
* * *
“Plunge”: Perhaps it isn’t
generally appreciated that a
terrific amount of individual
keenness backs-up pretty well
every Olympic prospect. As
an example, Japan’s Yama-
naka, beaten by Murray Rose
in Melbourne’s Olympics, but
superior to the Australian last
year in Tokyo, is spending
eight hours a day in the water
getting ready for Rose and
Konrads in the Rome swims.
For his part, Rose, back in
Australia from the U.S., is
already doing light training in
Sydney, and proposes going to
Townsville ahead of the main
team for the solid final train-
ing there.
* * *
“Crystal B.”: Recent state-
ment of Olympic Federation
secretary Edgar Tanner,
M.L.A., that he now had
almost 200 nominations for the
Rome Games in August left
me gasping, especially when he
added that it would cost about
£7OO for each person. That’s a
whole lump of money, and the
proposed team will certainly be
the largest to leave Australia
for either Olympic or Empire
Games. The Federation thinks
it will get the dough, and prob-
ably it will. Since 1948, the
first post-war Olympics,
Australians have forked-out
£284,000 to send teams to
London (1948), New Zealand
(1950), Finland (1952), Canada
(1954) and Wales (1958). They
shouldn’t haggle at another
£140,000.
• * *
“Jude e”: In Australian
Pacific Coast spearfishing titles,
decided at Shoal Bay (N.S.W.),
no more than one type of
each fish was to be speared by
contestants, many of whom
weighed-in with six apiece. K.
Hitchcock, of Newcastle,
bettered that—he speared one
each of 11 varieties.
* * #
“Lai”: The Fifth Test be-
tween England and the West
Indies ended in a draw, leaving
England victors in the series
with the only decided Test (the
second) to their credit. Alto-
gether, a close and interesting
tussle, with England a fraction
the better. Most significant
factor was the prolific scoring
of Garfield Sobers. Perhaps
the brightest feature to West
Indian cricket fans was Frank
Worrell’s successful return to
Test cricket. His fine perform-
ances resulted in his selection
as captain of the team to tour
Australia later this year. Many
of the young England players
improved tremendously; they
can now feel confident of ex-
tending Australia on their
wickets next year.
“ H.F.B. ” : Queensland's
famous one-armed sportsman
Bert St. John (paragraphed
here a little time back) could
have been chosen for inter-
state cricket as well as for
Rugby football, and in his day
he was easily the best tennis-
player in the State. He was
also above the average at
billiards. When serving atf
tennis he tied a handkerchief
over the stump of his right
arm, and held the ball momen-
tarily in position with the
racket before tossing it high
enough to make the stroke.
He needed one serve only as
a rule. The knot acted as a
rest for the cue in billiards.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BUSINESS, APARTHEID, Etc.
After “discussions with
prominent South African
industrialists,” London “Fin-
ancial Times” concludes that
the South African business'
community has for some time,
and especially during the recent
disturbances, been entertaining
“the gravest possible doubts
about the wisdom—or, any-
way, the practicability—of the
present Government’s racial
policies.”
The views expressed by the
industrialists, the same paper
notes, “can be most simply
understood with reference to
standard business objectives.
“The businessman in the
Union, in so far as he is simply
—London “Daily Mail.”
THE CHANNEL BRIDGE.
a businessman, is basically
looking for three things. He
wants general stability; he
wants an expanding market;
and he wants a labor-and-cost
structure which will ensure that
his products can be sold at
competitive prices.
“On the matter of general
stability he is increasingly com-
ing round to the view that, in
so far as it applies to the 3-4
million urbanised Africans who
live in the European areas the
policy of apartheid must be
abandoned. Having personal
contact with these Africans in
the relationship of employer to
employee, he realises much
more clearly than the poli-
ticians in Capetown how im-
possible it is to expect them to
look to remote tribal chiefs as
their political spokesmen. He
also knows from first-hand of
the dangers of intimidation if
the effective political leadership
of the urban African is trans-
ferred from the moderate
African National Congress to
the much more extreme Pan
Africanist Congress.
/‘From the standpoint of
costs the South' African busi-
nessman has two main interests.
First, he is concerned lest the
location of new industries on
the perimeters of Dr. Ver-
woerd’s Bantustans should lead
to an enormous increase in the
overheads bill.
“Secondly, for all the sup-
posed advantages of cheap un-
skilled African labor, the South
African businessman is now
pressing increasingly hard for
the abolition of the industrial
color-bar. Unskilled (African)
labor in the Union is. paid at
roughly 20 to 25 per cent, of
the skilled rate (compared with
76 per cent, in the U.S. and
88 per cent, in the U.K.).
Nevertheless, the disadvantages
of having two separate labor-
pools is becoming increasingly
apparent.
“This general point can be
underlined with an example.
There was a recent instance in
which negotiations took place
with the European union about
the job-classification on a newly
introduced machine. The job
itself was a demonstrably
simple one. Nevertheless, the
European union would only
agree to its performance by
Africans if it were handled by
two operatives instead of one.
A simple and straightforward
single operation was thus more-
or-less artificially cut in two.
“The economics of this
arrangement on the present
wage-scales are clear enough.
Two Africans could be em-
ployed to do the job at rather
less than half the European
rate. One African would have
probably cost rather less than
a quarter.
“The continuation of the in-
dustrial color-bar and of the
two distinctive labor-pools,
which gives rise to such situa-
tions, is bound, in the view of
South African business, to
make industry uncompetitive.
Multi-racial unions, it is be
lieved, must be established, and
while the interests of the Euro-
pean artisans must be protected,
this can best be done by
adherence to the traditional
union principle of the rate for
the job.
“Finally, business opinion is
critical of the Government for
its failure to increase minimum
African wage-rates at a reason-
able pace. This is partly a
matter of expanding the
domestic market—and clearly
the opportunities of expansion
are far greater among the
Africans than elsewhere. But
there is also a growing body of
opinion which attributes a part
of the recent troubles to low
living-standards.
“None of these criticisms
means that the business com-
munity in the Union would
favor drastic liberal ‘one man,
one vote’ solutions to the
present problems, or that they
accept the more radical ac-
counts of the existing arrange-
ments which have appeared in
the overseas press.
“But, more important, they
believe that the existing elec-
torate would absolutely reject
a wholesale enlargement of the
franchise at the present time.
What conceivably could *be
won, in the view of South
African business, is a mandate
for a change of direction and
perhaps for a much greater
measure of industrial integra-
tion.
“And if this were acceptable
to European opinion there is a
reasonable prospect, it is be-
lieved, that the moderate
majority of the Africans would
agree to it. For the majority
among the urbanised Africans
are moderate men. They are
determined to go on working.
And if they are anxious for
wider opportunities in industry
—-and elsewhere —they are fully
conscious that their present
standard of living is among the
highest in Africa.” <
Cricket and Politics
Tn London “Daily Express,”
■*- former Australian Test-
cricketer Keith Miller deplores
English batsman David Shep-
pard's decision not to take part
in any game against the tour-
ing South African team this
year as a protest against apart-
heid :
“If you boycott the South
African cricketers for their
Government’s activities where
is the thing going to stop?
“How can you justify play-
ing fpotball against Russia,
Hungary, Germany, Spain—
and half the countries of the
world? You don't approve of
their Governments either. And
how can you go to Rome to
rub shoulders with these fellows
whose political backgrounds
are so offensive to you? If
you are going to bring politics
into sport you might as well
go all the way.
“Lastly, here is a warning.
This boycott business could
come whizzing back like a
boomerang. You know, you
Englishmen are not the most
popular people in the world.
Start the idea rolling and some
other country might take
exception to the political make-
up of one of your teams and
slap a boycott on an M.C.C.
tour.
“In fact, if this business
catches-on we might even see
the day when a political adviser
sits in with the selectors at
Lord’s!
“Fantastic? Perhaps. But
no more fantastic than hearing
Englishmen suggest that cric-
ket should become just another
brawling ground for politics.”
But, notes the “Yorkshire
Post,” David Sheppard’s reply
to all this “is that it is not
he who is introducing politics
into cricket. That was done
by the South African autho-
rities when they created con-
ditions in which no Negro can
play in a club side, in a
Province side or in a Test-
match” :
“Their racial policy excludes


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription i 3 paid direct to *‘The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
the possibility of any of the
thousands of non-white
cricketers in the Union com-
ing over to this country
[Britain] with South Africa’s
touring team. ‘I believe,’ says
Mr. Sheppard, ‘that at this
moment cricket is touching on
the most important single issue
in the world, and I believe as a
cricketer and a Christian I
would be wrong to keep silent.’
“In the United Kingdom the
vast majority of us share Mr.
Sheppard’s view that racial
discrimination as practised in
South Africa is wrong. Should
we in consequence stay away
from this summer’s Test
matches?
“That is a matter for the
individual conscience. But it
should be possible for us
to make our attitude on apart-
heid clear (as v Mr. Macmillan
succeeded in doing during his
visit to South Africa) without
showing rudeness to innocent
and inoffensive people.
“For this reason it is to be
hoped that it will be recognised
that the South African tourists,
when they visit this country
to play cricket, are our guests
as well as the M.C.C.’s, and
that we shall treat them
accordingly.
“It may be said that, in
taking this line, we are putting
cricket above the needs of
the victimised Negroes. We
do not agree. Cricket is a form
of strife without malice. The
more its spirit prevails in the
world, the less we shall have
of these hellish .racial hatreds.”
Chomo Lungmo
TThe Manchester “Guardian”
sees China’s claim that
Mount Everest stands wholly
in Chinese territory as “a piece
of effrontery supported by pre-
posterous arguments”:
“It is said, for instance, that
all the earlier mountaineering
expeditions sought permission
from the Tibetan Government
(now taken over by the Chinese
Government) for leave to
approach the mountain ; natur-
ally, since at that time the
southern route w,as riot open to
explorers, and the only ap-
proach lay through Tibetan ter-
ritory. The southern approach
lies wholly through Nepal.
“Another argument is that
the mountain really bears a
Chinese (i.e., Tibetan) name,
and therefore must lie wholly
in China. No one here has
ever claimed that the mountain
lies in Britain because for a
century it has been known by
the name of a British surveyor.
In any case, the name on which
the Chinese rely, Chomo Lung-
mo (there are various spellings)
is only the name by which it
was known on the Tibetan side;
on the other, as the Prime
Minister of Nepal has pointed
out, it has the Nepalese name
of Sagarmatha.
“Moreover, there is consider-
able doubt whether the name
Chomo Lungmo refers to the
mountain or to the adjacent
district ; and in the passport
granted to the first Everest
expedition in 1921 the name
is spelled Chha-mo-lung-ma
which (according to Dr.
Dyhrenfurth) really means the
Kama valley on the east side
of Everest, and not the moun-
tain at all.
“A less flimsy ground for the
claim is that Thyangboche
Monastery, on the south side of
the watershed, was at one time
spiritually subject to Rongbuk
Monastery, on the north side.
The religious affiliations of the
Sherpas with Tibet and Bud-
dhism are well known, but to
recognise spiritual authority as
carrying with it temporal
authority may land the Chinese
in Queer Street.
“But this argument brings
out the point of the claim ; it
is not so much the mountain
which the Chinese want as the
populated territory beyond it.”
Banda Free
Editorial comment on the
release of Dr. Hastings
Banda, Nyasaland political
leader, who was imprisoned
last year during the civil dis-
turbances in his
London “New Statesman”:
“The release of Dr. Hastings
Banda, and the consequent
hopes for peaceful progress in
Nyasaland, redound to the
credit of Dr. Banda himself
and of Mr. lain Macleod, the
Colonial Secretary. In his
latest move to reverse the
intransigent policy of Mr.
Lennox Boyd in the multi-
racial territories Mr. Macleod
has had to face not only the
Right wing of his own party
in Britain but the combined
opposition of Sir Roy Welen-
sky, Prime Minister of the
[Central African] Federation ;
Sir Edgar Whitehead, Prime
Minister of Southern Rhodesia,
and Sir Robert Armitage,
Governor of Nyasaland. It
says much for the insight which
the new Colonial Secretary has
already gained into the realities
of African life that he has
realised in time that peace and
progress are impossible in
Nyasaland without negotiating
with Dr. Banda.”
London “Daily Express'
“He [Banda] demands ‘inde-
pendence’ for Nyasaland. He
is airily evasive when it is a
question of how Nyasaland
would support itself as an
independent country. The
truth is that Banda expects that
he would be the political boss
of Nyasaland and that Britain
would supply the cash he
needed.
“Mr. Macleod should make
it clear to Banda without
delay that Britain has no
intention of giving-up her
responsibilities in Nyasaland
to make room for him and his
friends. And that she has no
intention of giving him money
to play with.”
* * *
London “Economist”:
“Although a cover of secrecy
is being kept over the sub-
stance of his [Banda’s] talks
with Mr. Macleod, it is quite
evident what the aim df
British policy is now: it is that
Nyasaland should have Dr.
Banda as its African Prime
Minister, but that it should
maintain the closest possible
ties (especially economic ties)
with the other two members
of the Central African Federa-
tion.
“Nobody can tell whether
Mr. Macleod will manage to
achieve this aim. But the
critics of the Government’s
African policies on the Left
are increasingly finding them-
selves in the same remarkable
position in relation to Mr.
Macleod as they do, over
Algeria, in relation to General
de Gaulle. After all the talk
about both situations, once
two master tacticians have
appeared, personalities are
shown to matter far more than
policy-debates. All that any-
one can do now is to cross
his fingers and hope that each
of these two contrasting pres-
tidigitators somehow comes up
with his rabbit in the end.”
* * *
Manchester “Guardian”: “It
is also clear from Dr. Banda’s
statements that, although he
is demanding self-government
and secession ‘now,’ he is pre-
pared for the first to precede
the second. Bearing in mind
that the need for a substantial
advance on Nyasaland’s exist-
ing Constitution, in which all
the authority is in the hands
of Europeans, would be appar-
ent even to a less forward-
looking Colonial Secretary
than Mr. Macleod, the pros-
pects of agreement at the talks
seem good.”
Colored Cardinals
T ondon “Daily Telegraph"
comment on Pope John
XXIII’s creation of the first
African Negro Cardinal and
the first Japanese and Filipino
Cardinals:
“Hitherto, the color black
was missing from those privi-
leged to wear the princely crim-
son. Cynics might suppose that
the decision to fill the racial
gap was taken as a belated con-
cession to the ‘winds of change’
—a last-minute attempt to
curry favor with a continent
showing every sign of casting
out European influences.
“The truth is, however, that


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
the Roman Church’s influence
in Africa is on the increase.
With 20-million adherents and
25 bishops there its former
missionary basis has had to be
replaced by a diocesan frame-
work. It would be quite wrong,
therefore, to interpret the
Pope’s break with precedent as
politically inspired.
“It is necessary to underline
this point because the conjunc-
tion this year of secular con-
cessions in Africa, brought
about by European political
weakness, with the appointment
by the Roman Church of the
first black Cardinal, could very
easily and very misleadingly
suggest that Christianity, too,
was acting under duress.
“This, indeed, is precisely the
line which the Kremlin has
taken. Communist propaganda
is busy equating Rome’s deci-
sion to appoint a Negro Car-
dinal with London’s rapid
handover of power in East
Africa.
“The fact is, however, that
colonialism and Christianity
must not be confused. Whereas
the former is in full retreat the
latter is still advancing in
Africa.”
Dragnet Digest
Bradford “Wool Record”:
“It was said to us recently,
with nothing to suggest ner-
vousness or the putting-across
of a tenuous joke, that man-
made fibres were now helping
to sell wool. The ‘rationale’
of this was that the great
strength of certain man-made
fibres enabled manufacturers
to produce cloths —especially
‘worsted’—of a lightness in
weight hitherto unachievable,
and that these cloths sold in
fropical places where wool
clothing was normally never
seen.
“It may be that our pre-
judice is showing, but we have
never heard of a place where
wool is not worn. Even in
the hottest parts of the Sahara
Desert the Arabs wear a
burnous of white wool (in the
first two dictionaries we con-
sulted, a burnous was described
as (1) ‘a white woollen mantle
with a hood, worn by Arabs,’
—London “Observer."
“THERE’S ONE THING—WE NEEDN’T WORRY
ABOUT HIM HAVING ANY SECRET TESTS."
and (2) ‘a hooded cloak, esp.
an Arabian mantle of wool’)
“That certain man - made
fibres can enhance the qualities
of wool in the matter of
strength and wear-resistance we
should not attempt to deny.
But to those who will persist,
in considering wool a ‘poor
relation’ in such contexts, all
we can say is: go away and
try wearing suits of 100 per
cent, man-made fibre- —any
man-made fibre.”
* * s
St. Louis (U.S.) “Post-Dis-
patch”: “A resume of Geneva
conferences indicates that dip-
lomats have more difficulty
with furniture-arrangements
than a housewife has in an
efficiency-apartment:
“In 1958 the Communist and
Western Powers arranged
themselves on opposite sides of
a rectangular table for the con-
ference on surprise-attacks.
“In 1959 the Russians sought
and obtained a round table, but
the West insisted on placing
the East Germans behind the
table so they would not seem
part of the conference.
“In 1960 the 10 Powers at
the disarmament talks finally
agreed to return to a rectangu-
lar table, but to arrange them-
selves alphabetically instead of
on opposite sides. The Russians
urged this to display their
satellites as equal and in-
dependent Powers.
“G en 11 eme n, please be
seated.”
* * *
London “Economist’’: Out-
side South Africa individuals
can criticise the Union Govern-
ment with as much breath as
they have in their bodies or
ink in their pens. The njore
difficult question is what can
usefully be done from outside
at national or international
level. Respect by one Govern-
ment for the privacy of the in-
ternal affairs of another is a
good general rule. The reverse
can, and often does, result in
trouble all round. But by
general accord there are ex-
ceptions to this rule ; and the
fear of creating precedents for
the dragging of other skeletons
out into the light should not
prevent their recognition. It
is now no more to a Govern-
ment’s credit to be mealy-
mouthed about South Africa’s
repression of its majority than
it was once to turn a blind eye
to Hitler’s treatment of his
Jewish minority.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “When
he met de Gaulle, it now seems
clear, Khrushchev met his
match. The man who is con-
vinced his mission in life is to
hasten the ‘inevitable’ victory
of world Communism proved
unable to move the leader of
France who sees his task as the
restoration of France’s world
importance and grandeur to the
highest point in history.
“As he recuperates in
Moscow, Khrushchev prob-
ably understands better than
he did earlier the qualities of
France’s President which have
enabled him successfully to
defy others—such as Hitler and
Stalin —who had earlier and
similarly sought to use France
as pawns in their own gapies.”
* * *
Manchester “G uar d i a n’’
editorial: “Mr. Khrushchev
does not intend to preserve the
existing balance of power: he
wants to change it. Coexist-
ence to him is simply a means
of achieving that purpose with-
out resort to force —not because
he dislikes force but because
it would put everything in
jeopardy. Moreover, he thinks
he will not need it.
“Russia’s growing military
strength has already given her
security and may give her
ascendancy over the West.
Meanwhile her growing econo-
mic strength can be translated
into more international power.
Above all, the ideological offen-
sive is to go on, both to win-
over the uncommitted nations
and to enfeeble the will and the
unity of the West.
“War used to be the ultimate,
means for imposing your will
upon the enemy. In the nuclear
age, coexistence has to be em-
ployed for that purpose.”
Various Voices
Sir Toby Low (Conservative
M.P. for Blackpool North
[U.K.]): “There is nothing new
about splits in the [British]
Labor party. But the giant
chasms that have opened-up
simultaneously about nationali-
sation and defence —that is
something not even they have
ever produced before. They
have already begun to try and
paper-over these ‘cracks.’ But
let there be no mistake: they
remain a Socialist party, com-
mitted to doctrines of Marx —
even if they now use the rela-
tively more modern- words of
Lenin. And they remain
violently divided about prac-
tically everything else.”
* * *
General de Gaulle: “What-
ever arrangements may be
made one day either for reduc-
ing the means of war, for bring-
ing peace to this Europe of
ours or for bringing about a
detente from one end of the
world to the other, peace will
remain precarious so long as
two-thousand-milliard human-
beings remain in the depths of
misery alongside their more
fortunate brothers.”


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 Jr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Fuith in the
Future
►
The flow of investment from overseas has
become a big factor in the Australian economy.
In volume it has reached a point where it can
be bracketed with the “majors” that govern our
rate of prosperous growth: with such considerations
as export prices, levels of production, and public
and private investment within Australia itself.
The double attractiveness of foreign investment
is that it helps our economic expansion and is a
declaration of the faith of others in our
country’s future.
But welcome as it is, and much as it is to be
encouraged and invited, I believe Australia would
be mistaken, in the long term, if she were to allow
her need for developmental capital to drift into a
policy of “investment at any cost.”
With the actual and potential asset we possess,
we have a right and a duty to be selective. And by
that I mean we should be looking past the mere
volume of investment, to see whether it is applied
to the best productive ends.
Asset, you see, implies liability under any
balanced heading; and that is true when we consider
our responsibility to the living resources Australia
has in its youth. Within the next ten years our
population should have increased by nearly
one-quarter, our work-force by more than one-third,
over present numbers.
Assuming migration is maintained, jobs will
have to be found for an additional one-and-a-half
million workers between now and 1970. How is
that to be done —how are the services and facilities
to accompany it to be provided—unless the
investment in the country is purposefully and
intelligently applied?
After all, it is the rate of our progress in
developing Australia that is going to measure our
success in the eyes of the world. And the best
form of investment for Australia—now and in the
long years ahead —is that which will accelerate
production, raise efficiency and translate this
country’s expansionary hopes into action.
remaining three-quarters con-
sists of music by a living
composer, then the living com-
poser should get 75 per cent,
of the royalty, and the public
the remainder, through the
fund.
In the instance of drama it
might be argued that the
royalty payment is restrictive ;
that it is difficult enough to
stage Shakspeare, and that an
additional payment might pre-
clude the possibility. But it is
for just this reason that this
part of the fund would be
raised ; an essential to helping
the living dramatist would be
the assistance of the presenta-
tion of dramatic works.
The living painter is, of all
the creative artists, possibly the
best equipped in the current
world. His transaction is
normally between man and
man. But he more than any-
one is in competition with the
dead. It is shocking to think
that Namatjira prints are sold
everywhere without royalty
being paid to the Namatjira
estates. It is shocking to see
prints of Norman Lindsay
filched from published works
and framed, and selling for a
good price without payment to
the artist.
Of every print sold a per-
centage should be taken and
paid to the artist or to the
community—perhaps Sydney’s
National Gallery would at last
order more bronze plaques to
complete its building as it was
ofiginally conceived. Perhaps
the community could then pay
for an inspiring statue or two.
No fund could grow too large
for the needs of the.community
or the art group within it.
Tn this plea I have used the
words “art” and “artist”
throughout to indicate creative
art and the creative artist ; I
do not feel that these thoughts
can apply, except incidentally,
to that applied art which con-
cerns, for example, the archi-
tect and the designer ; nor to
that interpretative art which is
the joy and the strength of the
actor and the musician.
And in this short exposition
I have hardly formulated the
principles which I urge are the
sound and honest approach to
a stronger creative community.
That a stronger nation follows
is another tenet of my total
belief; I do not propose to
examine that here; but for
those who do not see the prac-
tical value of creativity (and
are still able to read in spite
of this limitation) I’d like to
emphasise a possibly extraneous
thought.
This is that the money which
Australia earns in, say, the
export of wool, is obtained at
a price. For every cent or every
penny a certain amount of
solid value has been sent out
of the country, a certain weight
of Australian topsoil; and
there is no accurate gauge of
value to say that we are not
getting the worst of the bar-
gain ; that we will not be
shown, in a thousand years, to
have made a bad trade. But
the products of creativity, sold
overseas, cost the v country
nothing. The actual weight of
paper which carries the stories
that I sell in other countries is
returned a thousand times over,
it seems to me, in letters, docu-
ments and copies of magazines.
And the money I earn is added
to Australia’s wealth at no
cost to her.
There’s another way in which
this scheme can be compared
with the grazing industry, in
that the graziers do not seek or
obtain Government assistance,
but pay for their own research
and advertising, and stand
upon their own feet. This has
brought about a great deal of
their strength ; I feel that the
creative arts would gain a
comparable, rather an even
greater stature if they did the
same. And the way is open:
the moneys neglected in the
public domain belong to the
arts by right.
I see this as an Australian
scheme. It does not matter
whether or not other countries
follow suit. It does not matter
whether the works of art con-
cerned have other origins. I
feel that every art work sold
in this country should pay its
proper due to its creator, or to
the heirs of its creator, and that
the arts should rise in the pride
of self-sufficiency.
I know that the artists of
the past would be proud of a
substantial and concrete con-
tribution to the welfare in this
country of their own loved
avenues of effort, and I think
we owe it to them as well as to
ourselves.


A Net Cast
into the
Creek
By NIALL BRENNAN
Two old priests were sun-
ning themselves on the
porch ; Monsignor
Strongbow was inform-
ing them of the problems of
the clergy.
“Few people realise,” he
said, “the things we have to
put up with. Only last Sunday
1 had to drive nearly fifty
miles to say Mass.” He
paused. “Nearly fifty miles,”
he snorted ; “you’d think a
priest was married to his car.”
“Heheheh!” chuckled the
first old priest.
“I travel eighty miles every
Sunday,” murmured Father
McLash. He was doing a
crossword puzzle.
“God help us,” said the
second old priest, “what’s the
younger generation coming
to?”
Monsignor Strongbow arched
his eyebrows. He was not
accustomed to that sort of
remark. Father McLash licked
the end of his pencil, and
buried himself deeper in his
crossword.
“Fifty miles indeed!” said
the first old priest. He paused,
nodded furiously for a moment
and then added, “Bah!”
“It’s a long way, these days,”
said Monsignor Strongbow;
but there was defence in his
voice. His purple shirt gave
no immunity against the aged.
“Times have changed,
Father,” he said benevolently,
“much more to do. Indeed,
I sometimes regret the passing
of the leisure of the old days,
the gentle flow of events with-
out all the furious hustle and
bustle”
The second old priest cut
him short: “Yah!” he snorted.
The first old priest added,
“Times never change. Men
just get softer, me lad!”
. “It stands to reason,” said
the second priest, “that there’s
less to do as time goes on,
because we’ve already done it.”
“I wish they were the stuff
we were made of,” said the
first old priest; “then they
might get more done nowa-
days.”
Monsignor Strongbow felt
that he had not been under-
stood. He returned to his
original point.
“I still maintain,” he said,
“that on a Sunday morning, in
the line of parish duty, fifty
miles is a long distance to
cover.”
He added, with the firmness
that comes of strong feelings:
“Before breakfast! ”
“And with the softening-up
of all the rules and regula-
tions, there’s no ‘before break-
fast’ any more,” said the first
old priest; “you have your
cups of tea, which was more
than we could have.”
“I’m minded of a young
man I knew,” said the second
old priest, “who was a good
example of what we had to
put up with.”
He stretched his legs, and
looked at the ceiling of the
veranda.
Monsignor Strongbow
plucked at the buttons
of his stock. He could see
narrative looming.
“This young man was sent
to Mansfield,” said the old
priest, “as a curate. He was
as soft-boiled an egg as was
ever hatched by a seminary,
a demon for his books, but
contact with fresh air was
anathema to him. And in
those days Mansfield was a
parish where they thought a
papal bull was good breeding-
stock.”
“What year?” asked Father
McLash, looking up from his
crossword.
“I don’t remember, but it
was before the first World
War. It was anyway before
the motor-car had become very
popular; and certainly . .
the old priest’s eyes narrowed
with the effort to retain his
charity, “certainly it was
before every priest thought a
motor-car as necessary as his
breviary.
“Well, the parish priest said
to him the moment he arrived,
‘Young man, can you ride a
horse?’ And the young curate,
he said, ‘No’; which was true,
for it is likely he had never
seen a horse. And the parish
priest said to him, ‘You will
be able to ride well in a
week’s time because tomorrow
morning, being Thursday, you
will set-off on the parish hack
to say Mass at Jamieson on
Saturday morning, and on
again to say Mass at Gaffney’s
Creek on Sunday morning.’
“The young curate was
upset, and he said: ‘ls it im-
portant to say Mass at
Gaffney’s Creek? Does any-
body live there?’ And the
old parish priest said to him:
‘Father, there are several good
people live there, and we only
say Mass there once a month.
This is important, however,
because this is a holiday week-
end, and there are trippers and
holidaymakers there wasting
their time in pursuit of the
fish, and they have spiritual
needs above the ordinary.’
“You complain,” said the
old priest, “of fifty miles ; but
this was eighty miles, spread
over two whole days, and all
of each of those days clinging
to a horse's back on a moun-
tain track. That was how we
used to be broken-in in those
days. None of this reclining
lazily in a cushioned seat, and
covering fifty miles in one
hour. One hour.”
The second old priest
snorted: “One hour is sacred.
The Lord Himself said, ‘Can
you not watch with Me for
one hour?’ And some object
to taking an hour to travel
for fifty miles.”
“It should be,” said his com-
panion, “an admirable oppor-
tunity for meditation.”
“A brief meditation,” added
the other, “but commendable
as far as it goes.”
“To resume my story, which
has a tragic ending,” he wgnt
on: “The young priest
mbunted his horse the follow-
ing morning, with the assist-
ance of the sacristan. He
carried his' things in a saddle-
bag. He was told the track
to follow; and the - parish
priest himself gave the horse
a smart cut across the back-
side to set him on his way.
“VX7ell, I need not go into
* the details of that young
man's sufferings. It rained.
His knees became cramped
with premature aches and
pains. At first he did not dare
dismount for fear he could
never regain his seat. Then
he had to dismount for per-
sonal reasons, and it was a
long time before he could
regain his seat. He travelled
up steep slopes when he sat
on the horse’s tail, and down
steep slopes when he sat on
the horse’s neck. The meek
suffering dumb brute bore it
all, and the pair of them
suffered together.
“Twice on the first day the
young curate hit his head on


an overhanging branch, and
once he fell off. He reached
Jamieson in a low state of
debility and went to bed with-
out supper. The poor hotel-
keeper’s wife, who mothered
him like he was her own son,
said she doubted whether he
would ever rise again.”
“I know the sensation of
horseback the first time,” said
the first old priest, “and I
grieve for the young man.
You have ridden a horse,
Monsignor?”
Monsignor Strongbow shook
his head. He was feeling
glum, but his sadness was not
for the young curate.
“The following day, the
Saturday, the young priest
Mass in Jami-son. There
were four people there. The
collection yielded one shilling ;
and there were eight who
should have been there who
were not. And with this fur-
ther burden on his soul the
young man went on his way
to Gaffney’s Creek.
“Now, mark this,” said the
old story-teller, jabbing his
pipe towards the purple shirt
of the Monsignor, “if the first
day on a horse is purgatory,
then the second day is hell.
For in the night it is the
muscles which are sore that
become stiff, and the agony
begins from the moment of
awakening.
“The young man could
hardly stand to say his Mass.
He stumbled around the altar
—well, the hotel table, that
was all they had for an altar
—bandy-legged and bowed,
the sweat pouring from his
brow with the effort of mov-
ing his legs at all.
“It took three of them to
load him onto the back of his
horse. And when they said
to him, ‘Father, do you have
to press on to Gaffney’s
Creek?’ he replied—all praise
to him for his devotion: ‘The
people are expecting me, and
I must go to say Mass there.’
“You see, he knew, as many
another has known, that there
would be many good people
and some not so good, but
obliging, so to speak, who
would be hunting the fish at
Gaffney’s Creek for the holi-
day on the understanding
that there would be Mass on
Sunday, for such had been
announced in the press under
‘Holiday Arrangements.’ And
so the young man pressed on,
enduring his agony for the
sake of those whom he could
not let down.
“The second day of his
travail was worse than the
first. For when, in more con-
fidence, he dismounted for
lunch —a sandwich, mark you,
by a creek —he found his
extremities locked in such a
paroxysm of paralysis that for
a while he could not even sit
down, except in a leaning sort
of a way against a convenient
slope of rock.
“He could not walk to the
stream for water, but had to
edge himself crabwise in such
a manner that he was glad of
the privacy of the bush, for
it would not do for a man of
the cloth to be seen so gyrating
as if he was under the
influence.
“His black trousers were
covered with dust, his black
coat was torn by a thornbush
on the path. His face was
lathered like the flanks of his
horse, and from passing the
dusty sleeve of his coat across
his face he had drawn channels
of dirt across the sweat of
his brow which gave him the
aspect of a ferocious —almost
“Think of it, you’ll be the first man to do a
three-minute mile!”
a tattooed —tribesman of the
hills. You know the sort,
Monsignor; you’ve been in
the missions?”
But the Monsignor had
withdrawn, and merely nodded
sagely. “I have seen them,”
he said gravely, “on films.”
“Co the poor young man con-
tinued his journey into
the dusk of Saturday evening,
when by all accounts the rest
of the world is at peace, and
even imbibing freely at some
hostelry.
“As the sun dropped down,
and the cool of the evening
drew around those steep and
rocky valleys, this young man
had no thought of the revelry
that might be waiting at the
hotel at Gaffney’s Creek. He
had only one thought, and
that for the faithful whom he
would serve on the Sunday
morning; a true servant of
the servants of God. And so
he came at last, in the fullness
of time, to the outpost of
Gaffney’s Creek.”
“It must have been diffi-
cult,” said Father McLash,
“but then times do change,
because now it is possible for
the one priest to do all three
of those churches on a Sun-
day morning.”
“I’m not disputing it,” said
the old priest. “It is better
for the faithful that the big
country parishes have motor-
cars as one day no doubt they
will have aeroplanes and such-
like. I recalled the young
priest’s agony because I was
reminded of it.”
“Yes,” said Monsignor
Strongbow, “times have
changed, haven’t they? But
then think of the tremendous
spiritual consolation it must
have been to him to know
that his promise was fulfilled,
that there was indeed Mass at
Gaffney’s Creek that Sunday,
and that the faithful who
expected it were able to assist.
I think that would largely
offset the merely physical”
“Tosh, man!” said the old
priest, “I have not finished my
story. You and your talk of
bringing spiritual consola-
tion ... As he rode into the
town and towards the little
hotel there was a roar of
approval from the veranda to
welcome him. He lifted his
drooping head, pleased in a
human way that his mission
was recognised by those who
disported themselves in such
frolic, and what did he see?
There, on the veranda of the
hotel?”
“What?” asked Monsignor
Strongbow, eyes wide: “Some
atheisL,. ”
“Not on your life, me boy.
He saw three priests of the
cloth, whom he knew well,
tinkering with their fishing-
lines on the veranda, three
reverend clergy with leave due
to them spending not a week-
end but a week in pursuit of
the fish at Gaffney’s Creek,
and who watched the arrival
of their travel-stained and
dusty colleague with a mirth
that bordered on cruel irony.
For, as they explained to him,
there would already be three
Masses in Gaffney’s Creek that
Sunday, and now there would
be four; and that schedule,
fit for the busiest of big
parishes, was most unusual at
Gaffney’s Creek.”
HPhere was silence on the
porch. Father McLash
went inside to put the kettle
on. Monsignor Strongbow
opened his mouth to say some-
thing, but could not remember
what it was.
“Sometimes I think the tele-
phone is a greater invention
than the motor-car,” said the
first old priest.
“It sounds an apocryphal
story,” said Monsignor Strong-
bow, remembering his thought:
“Such things grow like
legends.”
“I remember it well, me
boy,” said the first old priest,
“because I was sitting on the
veranda to welcome that young
curate.”
“And I remember being wel-
comed,” said the second old
priest, “because I was the
young curate, and there’s not
the word of a lie in the story
except maybe”
“Maybe what?” snapped the
first old priest.
“Maybe me thoughts were
not always so elevated during
the course of the ride,” said
the second old priest. He
straightened-up: “And now, I
must be seeing to those new
hooks for my lines for to-
morrow. You’re still driving
up to Gaffney’s Creek with
me?”
“I am, indeed,” said the first
old priest, as Father McLash
came out with the tea-tray.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Beef-cattle
Sydney papers recently
reported a move by the
Graziers’ Federal Council and
a number of kindred bodies to
discuss and urge the construc-
tion of a bitumen highway
linking Bourke and Mount Isa.
A few days later the Adelaide
“Advertiser” reported the com-
ments of W. S. Kidman, chair-
man of directors of W. S. Kid-
man, Ltd., whose pastoral hold-
ings embrace most of the far
south-west of Queensland and
a large part of northern S.A.
If there’s one man with R
really comprehensive grasp of
the economics of beef-produc-
tion in Australia, 1 believe it is
W. S. Kidman. In his opinion
railways are more important
than roads in the north Austra-
lian cattle-country. Number-
one priority, he thinks, is the
extension of the branch-line to
Quilpie out to Windorah on
Cooper’s Creek; and, second, a
line from either Dajarra or
Mount Isa to the Barkly Table-
land. He added that road-
transport was much more ex-
pensive than railways.
One of the problems of either
a sealed road or a railway is
that of providing a crossing
over the Diamantina, Georgina
and Cooper’s Creek, all of
which might be up to 15 or 16
miles wide when in flood. And
those floods don’t just come up
and go down in a couple of
days: they may last for weeks.
Kidman might have added
that railways in that country
are actually cheaper to build
and maintain than roads, be-
cause there is hardly any suit-
able metal. When I was shire-
clerk in Bourke, bluemetal
screenings cost £6 a cubic-yard;
they’d be much costlier in the
far west of Queensland, where-
as suitable ballast is available
here and there.
Some day we may have to
rush troops up to the N.T.
With a standard-gauge line
from Bourke to Darwin a
whole division could be moved
there in a matter of days. With
motor-transport only it would
take weeks. Further, a war
would disrupt our oil-supplies—
—probably cut them off alto-
gether—but our steam-trains
would not be affected.
So, taking an overall national
view, railways win by a good
many lengths. The comments
of one of our top-flight soldiers
would be interesting on this
aspect.
The sponsors of the railway
move are to be commended.
In a very few years both N.S.W.
and Vic. are going to be des-
perately short of meat, and the
“ D'you want to get into the Games or spend your
life clowning ?”
obvious source of supply is the
Territory and N. Queensland.
But I do hope they will give
due weight to Kid m a n’s
opinion.
Perhaps one solution to the
problem of linking north and
south of the continent is for
the whole of the various main-
land rail-systems to be handed-
over to the Commonwealth
Government. One Chief Com-
missioner, with deputies in each
of the five capitals, and en-
tirely free of political control,
would work wonders—D. C.
Tilghman (N.S.W.).
Wildlife Refuge
Whoever he may be, the
author of “Wildlife Refuge
Idea” (N.S.W 7 . Fauna Protec-
tion Panel) has written, in the
main context of this little
pamphlet, a remarkably fine
treatise on a subject which
should be, but isn’t, very close
to the conscience of every Aus-
tralian.
Generally speaking, preserva-
tion of wildlife, except for
those directly interested in it,
hasn't much popular appeal—
especially when presented as a
“public responsibility.” But
in “Wildlife Refuge Idea” it is
handled with such skill and
vision as to go straight to the
reader’s imagination.
Take the opening para-
graph :
Most of the community is inter-
ested in some fashion in our wild-
life. A good Nature story seldom
fails to attract a large audience
....and there are few who fail to
respond to the brilliant show ot
color from a parrot or the sym-
metry and rhythm of a bounding
kangaroo. But it is the failure to
carry these interests through to an
understanding of fundamentals
necessary for the preservation of
wildlife that is a major obstacle
to Nature conservation.
The author then goes straight
to the white-man’s first intru-
sion on Australian wildlife,
when various species of animals
and birds which served as food
were labelled by early settlers
as “good,” and those found to
be too harsh on the white
human palate were tagged
“bad”: —
This assault.... began just as
soon as members of the First Fleet
in 1788 began to lay-out the gardens
behind Farm Cove, and it has gone
on to this day. In less than two-
hundred years of the white man’s
occupancy of this country many ot
Australia’s rare and beautiful
animals and plants have been so
severely reduced that they are
seldom or never seen.
Many are presumed to be extinct.
The problems of wildlife con-
servation, the author adds, go
hand-in-hand with the coun-
try’s development, and “the
solution isn’t always simple
because prejudices, faulty
thinking and man’s arrogance
cloud the issue.”
Probing the statutory back-
ground the pamphlet says:
Fauna occupies the anomalous
position among our resources ot
belonging to everybody and, there-
fore, under the earlier interpreta-
tion, of belonging to nobody. The
ownership of other resources
usually goes with the land.... but
the title of fauna does not go
with the land. Centuries of British
tradition, under which wildlife
belonged to the Crown, led to the
Australian concept that wildlife
belonged to the Australian repre-
sentative of the Crown and hence
to all the people.... However, it
was a, long time before the people
through their representatives in
State Governments assumed their
responsibility. Legislation on these
matters did not appear in N.S.W.
until (he turn of the twentieth
century.... but still the reduction
in numbers went 0n....
In recent years, the author
says, more enlightened legisla-
tion conformed to the know-
ledge that habitat is the con-
trolling factor in the mainten-
ance of wildlife populations:
If the list of animals now rare
or threatened with extinction is
examined it will be found that
they are animals living in habitats
that must in no way be disturbed.
Their “road to survival” is obvious,
we need to extend their “living
areas.”
Which brings the reader to
the subject-title: “W ildl i f e
Refuge Idea” —or the need to
include wildlife conservation in
our land-use planning and pro-
grammes, “our farming lands,
our grazing lands, our forests
and our recreation lands.” This
need is distinct from faunal
reserves (“living museums”):
Few good lands can or should
be reserved for wildlife, but if the
wildlife is fitted into land-use
programmes the burden will be
spread even though it will still be
a factor in the economy of the
country. It is well to remember
that the policy would be to con-
serve wildlife, not just those....
having special attraction to tourists.
It would be most unfortunate if


■- r;
<&M
IGH
Teachers
rnmneim
yj
'
.-■l}
Section of
Wh*»Hr
er jk. Sons -
SC o w
- .
When the occasion calls for that
there’s always
Teacher's
HIGHLAND CREAM
Scotch Whisky
Only long experience could produce Scotch
of such unvarying quality and good taste as
Teacher’s Highland Cream. Today, as since
1830, the Teacher family still
personally supervises the
making of this world famous
product of Scotland.
Agents N.S.W.: Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited, Sydney. Queensland: The Australian
Estates Company Ltd., Brisbane. South Australia: Goldsbrough Mort & Company
Limited, Adelaide.
TwTsT
future generations were denied
first-hand knowledge of the variety
of wild animals which have accom-
panied and influenced man through-
out his evolution and spread over
the earth. There is an increasing
feeling also that wild-land and
wildlife may be strangely important
for the preservation of man himself.
The whole pamphlet is full
of this kind of thought-provok-
ing stuff. The pity is that its
circulation is limited to the
Fauna Protection Panel’s 3000-
or-so honorary fauna-rangers
and about 4000 schoolteachers
and teacher-students.
It’s worth a couple of million
reprints for household distribu-
tion. — Frank Snow (N.S.W.).
The Ruthless Realist
The reviewer of Never Kill
a Dolphin (Red Page 6/4/’6O)
says “you do not find Chekhov
or Maupassant or Conrad
opening their short-stories with
dead animals, facial eczema
and dismal housewives all over
the place.”
In the opening of one of his
most finely-wrought stories
“Love,” Maupassant had his
narrator say: “I love hunting
above all things: to see the
beast bleeding, blood on its
fur, or on my hands, makes my
heart contract until it almost
stops bleeding.”
In the opening of “The
Wolf” Maupassant has his
characters spend their whole
dinner-time talking “of scarcely
anything but the massacre of
animals.”
There is certainly no facial
eczema; but in the opening of
Chekhov’s “Antagonists” there
is a dismal wife who “had just
sunk on to her knees at the side
of the cot, in the first paroxysm
of despair” because her six-
year-old son has died of
diphtheria.
Indeed, for dismal openings
aplenty you may go to Chek-
hov and Maupassant. Surely
those of “Ward No. 6” and
“The House with the Mezza-
nine” or of “Our Friends the
English” and “The Child” can
hardly be called cheerful.
One may also ask at the
beginning of Che k h o v's
“Sleepy” (and some other
stories) the same question your
reviewer asked himself at the
beginning of Noni Braham's
“The Leany Tree”—“ls it....
to be about the miseries, the
disillusions, the despair of child-
hood again?”
It is—and why not? Others
wrote of these things before
Chekhov, and many have
written of them since. The
question the reader (and the
reviewer) should busy himself
with is whether the author will
find a new way of presenting
and analysing these problems,
Anyway, the openings the
Eyes, Ears and Poetry
Douglas Stewart’s review of
Cecil Hadgraft’s Australian
Literature (B. 6/4/’6O) con-
tains a strange statement.
He says he is not quite
sure what is meant by “aural
imagery,” and adds: “an image
should be something one sees,
and you don't see with your
ears.”
Doubtless one doesn't see
with one’s ears, but is an image
necessarily something one sees?
A respectable definition of
“image” is “a revived sense
experience in the absence of
the sensory stimulation.” R. G.
Howarth, when dealing with
imagery in his Notes on
Modern Poetic Technique-,
quotes W. H. Davies —“The
poet must see things with his
own eyes, hear them with his
own ears” —and then speaks of
simple imagery as the repro-
duction of a mental image,
derived through sense: e.g.,
“tree,” “house,” “blue,” “thun-
der,” “acrid,” “furry,” “bitter.”
Howarth goes on to deal
with compound (figure) imagery
derived through two or more
senses, and provides an ex-
ample from Norma Davis :
“Crows .... rasped the ear
with voices harsh as hessian.”
Presumably, then, Hadgraft’s
“aural imagery” is imagery
which depends mainly on a
revived aural experience.
BED. (N.S.W.).


reviewer quoted, while noti
entirely original, are a change
from the dozens of stories
Maupassant begins with des-
scriptions of the sunlight, or
the many which Chekhov
begins with descriptions of
night. — Peanut (N.S.W.).
Spell as You Please?
On “K.A.L.’s” evidence (B.
13/4/’6O) the “Look and Say”
method of teaching reading
suits the top 25 per cent, of
pupils, while the remaining 75
per cent, progress faster under
the “phonics” system.
If this is the general experi-
ence it would seem that in the
interests of the majority the
phonics method should be the
one chosen—the top quarter of
a class wpuld probably learn
equally quickly by any method.
But can the teaching of read-
ing be isolated? Surely the aim
is to teach children to read
fluently and to write good Eng-
lish. Unfortunately, it doesn’t
follow that a child can write
correctly merely because he is
a good reader.
Here the “phonics” method
has the serious drawback of
concentrating on the sound of
words and syllables, as deter-
mined by an arbitrary (and in-
exact) phonetic-system, applied
to a hopelessly non-phonetic
language. The result is to give
the learner the notion that
spelling is of comparatively
small importance.
Anyone with experience of
junior clerical staff will agree
that a serious deficiency of
the average junior clerk is that
he or she cannot spell correctly
—they just don’t attach much
importance to accurate spell-
ing. Employees born a genera-
tion previously, however, are
in general good spellers; which
suggests that modern teaching-
methods are turning-out a high
proportion of pupils who can
read fluently but are weak in
spelling. For this state of
affairs the “phonics” method
must be held largely respon-
sible.
But perhaps too much im-
portance can be attached to
this matter. After all, it has
only been in the last two cen-
"Where are the educated apes? We Want to teach
the kids table-manners."
turies that written English has
conformed to a more-or-less
standardised spelling. In Shak-
speare's time writers (not ex-
cepting Shakspeare himself,
who spelt his own name in
several different ways) paid
little attention to spelling.
After a few more generations
of the “phonics” method we
might be right back to the
spell-as-you-please ways of the
16th and 17th centuries. —
Doynest (Vic.).
Telegram Charges
“Stromlo” (B. 30/3/’6O) re-
ferred to “a decrease in the
volume of internal and external
telegrams, undoubtedly a
reflection of the higher charges
imposed during the year re-
viewed.”
It is incorrect to impute the
decrease in volume of telegrams
to increased charges imposed
during 1958-59. The charges
for telegrams have remained
unaltered since 1956.
It is only fair to point out
that the annual report of the
Postmaster-General for 1958-
59 specifically referred to the
slight decrease of 1 per cent,
in the number of telegrams and
indicated that this was due to
greater use of leased private-
wire and Telex services, the in-
fluence of International Telex,
increased availability of
“demand” telephone trunk-
line service and the extension
of air-mail services.
There has been considerable
improvement in the financial
results of the telegraph service,
a loss of £1.2 million in 1955-
56 having been reduced to
£41,503 in 1958-59. The pro-
gressive fall of the annual
losses to virtual “break-even”
at present is proof of the
success of the department's
policy of application of modern
methods to reduce operating-
costs.
Incidentally, overall revenue
for 1959-60, following the in-
troduction of new charges, is
well up to the estimate for the
year. — E. W. Easton, Assistant
Director-General, Finance and
General Services, P.M.G.’s
Department (Vic.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 588
Across
I —See a low welfare aerodrome in Queensland. (9)
s—An5 —An influence from the neighborhood of Armenia is
very much astir. (4)
8 — Names listed by her who now rules one of the
waves. (6)
9 Skinny in a sack is having a swim. (7)
12— -Tiles can be made from this Mexican fibre. (5)
13 — Obscure isle is a part of Europe. (7)
15— Ponder 100 on 10-down (11)
16— It survived excessive rainfall in
the surroundings of Little
Rock. (3)
17 — I work back to make a Maori
woman’s yoyo-like toy. (3)
18 — Chopped willows have an opinion
of no profundity. (7, 4)
19— Caramel Eva tested too long to
raise. (7)
20 — Woman who is badly chewn. (5)
21— A boy to fuss with another boy
who had some friction with a
light. (7)
24 — 1 say it’s partly Italianised grain
associated with lilies. (6)
25 — Cab gratification shown by
some cricket team. (4)
26 — Accumulations including a
parent’s chants. (9)
Down
1 — Bronco pace is not too erratic
for the records. (6, 6)
2 Factory island to anger a rich
man. (11)
3 Toler vanished enigmatically
when raising Oceania. (4, 3,7)
4 Article written by the French on
a meadow. (3)
6 A black in Geneva. (3)
7 Poet hibernates, according to a
film-star. (7, 7)
10 —Mould at the interior of the
temple. (8)
11 —Birds related to 7-down? (5, 7)
13— Transmits from mouth to
stomach birds. (8)
14— Madre in Caribbean waters,
etc. (7, 4)
22 One in sixty is slovenly and
lazy. (3)
23 — Another state is after the I.Q.
mount. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 587


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE AT SYDNEY ROYAL
Beef Cattle
SHORTHORNS
Grand-champion bull: Bolinda
Illinois (Sir Rupert Clarke).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Coombing Empress 30th (Whitney
Pastoral Co.).
Champion bull: Bolinda Illinois.
Reserve: Lochinver Tarzan
(Williamson Brothers).
Junior: Lochinver Tartan
(Williamson).
Reserve: Lochinver Typhoon
(Williamson).
Champion cow or heifer: Green-
wich Lustre Keepsake (Kyalla Pty.).
Reserve: Round Hill Belladonna
(Round Hill Pty.).
Junior: Coombing Empress 30th.
Reserve: Lochinver Orange
Blossom (Williamson).
Bull, 2y. and under 3y.: Bolinda
Illinois, 1; Icianz Geranium (1.C.1.),
2; Round Hill Crepello, 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Weenya
High Monarch (A. and W.
Lambell), 1 ; Widgiewa Admiral
(Mrs. J. H. Field), 2; Kywanna
Grand Parade (P. Hood), 3;
Russley Inca (T. H. Fleming and
Sons), 4.
18m. and under 21m.: Lochinver
Tarzan, 1, and Lochinver Talisman,
5; Cobbora Ironclad (Cobbora
Pastoral Co.), 2; Round Hill
Diomed, 3; Kelso Officer (G.
Starritt and Son), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Lochinver
Tartan, 1, and Lochinver Typhoon,
In 10 months of 1959
the total imports of
wool in France were
303 million lbs., or an
increase of 9 per cent,
more than the previous
year. Austr a 1 i a—
France’s main supplier
—exported over one-
third of the total im-
ported, while New
Zealand, the second
highest exporter, sup-
plied 90 million • lbs.,
which was 10 per cent,
more than previously.
Individual production of
Australian producers
can be increased with
the use of Elastrator —
the bloodless method
of Castrating and Tail-
ing, because it reduces
the risk of infection
and disease which con-
tribute to lamb mortal-
ity. Use Elastrator the
scientific proven method
of Castrating and
Tailing.
2; Icianz Rhenium, 3, and Icianz
Ruthenium, 5; Greenwich Kilt
(Kyalla), 4; Kelso Orontes
(Starritt), 6; Dauntless Perfect
(W. R. Ross), 7.
12m. and under 15m.: Woomar-
gama Banker (C. P. Fairbairn), 1;
Coonong Gallant Chief (F. J. and
G. F. Freudenstein), 2; Faversham
Discovery (R. A. Norris), 3 ; Round
Hill Diplomat, 4; Omaru Debonair
(W. J. Freudenstein and Sons), 5;
Weenya Helios (Lambell), 6.
6m. and under 12m.: Dauntless
Journeyman, 1, and Dauntless
Juniper, 4 (Ross); Greenwich
Lucknow (Kyalla), 2; Round Hill
Eureka, 3; Woomargama Bar-
barian (Fairbairn), 5.
Cow, over 3y.: Woomargama
Jennifer 4th (Fairbairn), 1.
2y. and under 3y.: Coonong
Fancy Eyes sth (Glen Mitchell
Pastoral Co.), 1.
21m. and under 2y.: Round Hill
Belladonna, 1; Calare Lady Glen
6th (O. E. Ingrey), 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Greenwich
Lustre Keepsake, 1; Fulham Beauty
2nd (Alberni Brothers), 2; Lochin-
ver Princess 267th (Williamson),
3; Round Hill Flossy Virginia
4th, 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Coomb-
ing Empress 30th, 1; Greenwich
Averne Kilobell, 2; Greenwich
Summerton Kerrie, 3; Greenwich
Rosebud Keepsake (Kyalla), 4';
Omaru Ethel Dora (Freudenstein
and Sons), 5.
12m. and under 15m.: Woomar-
gama Lena Clara, 1; Woomargama
Crocus Ann (Fairbairn), 2; Round
Hill Martha 3rd, 3; Kelso Sweet
Minstrel (Starritt), 4; Cobbora
Ruby 50th, 5.
6m. and under 12m.: Lochinver
Orange Blossom, 1; Round Hill
Miss Ramsden, 2; Woomargama
Fancy Lady 2nd, 3.
POLL SHORTHORNS
Grand-champion bull: Gundibri
Champagne 88th (Gundibri Estate
Co.).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Milly Milly Debutante 2nd (H. and
H. McFarlane).
Champion bull: Gundibri Cham-
pagne 88th.
Reserve: Kaluga Orion (T. B. C.
Walker).
Junior: Prongorong Good News
(J. N. Keynes).
Reserve: Karoola Kirsch (W. P.
Johnson).
Champion cow or heifer: Milly
Milly Debutante 2nd.
Reserve: Albinia Maritana
(J. D. Robertson).
Junior: Bogan Robin 3rd (K. G.
Mackinnon and Sons).
Reserve: Merryville Lassie sth
(Merryville Pty., Ltd.).
Bull, over 3y.: Gundibri Cham-
pagne 88th, 1; Milly Milly Igloo,
2; Merryville Gay Robert, 3;
Glenmitchell Alban Matilda Boy
(Glen Mitchell Pastoral Co.), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Fullerton
Endeavour (Fullerton Station), 1;
Gundibri Champagne 124th, 2;
Gundibri Champagne 18th, 3;
Merryville Magnet, 4; Kyeamba
Nugget 5 th (Department of Agri-
culture), 5.
21m. and under 2y.: Newbold
Blender’s Buccaneer (W. J. Daw-
kins Newbold, Ltd.), 1; Linburn
Killowood (C. E. Baker), 2; Lone
Pine Acorn (D. S. and M. S.
McLarty), 3; Silver Pines Adroit
(J. D. McLarty Estate), 4; Gundi-
bri Coupt, 5.
18m. and under 21m.: Kaluga
Orion, 1 ; Kaluga lan, 2; Buringa
Highland (R. A. Kingham), 3;
Milly Milly Kayak, 4; Milly Milly
Kaiser, 5.
15m. and under 18m.: Prongo-
rong Good News, 1; Karoola
Kirsch, 2; Russley Iceberg (T. H.
Fleming and Sons), 3; Milly Milly
Kansas, 4; Highbank Royal (R. J.
Browne), 5; Wargandinna Aristo-
crat (F. G. Marshall Pty., Ltd.), 6;
Merryville Rover, 7.
12m. and under 15m.: Milly
Milly Kipling, 1; Prongorong
Harmony, 2; Bogan Regal, 3;
Camoola Echo, 4; Camoola
Excelsior (Mrs. I. M. Browne), 5.
6m. and under 12m.: Bogan
Spectrum, 1; Merryville Topper,
2; Kyeamba Nugget 13th, 3;
Kulkine Napoleon (B. J. McKay), 4.
Cow, over 3y.: Merryville
Dorothy Perkins 9th, 1, and
Merryville Lassie 4th, 2.
2y. and under 3y.: Albinia
Maritana 4th, 1 ; Merryville Butter-
fly 4th, 2, and Merryville Mistress
12th, 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Fullerton
Fairy Princess, 1; Merryville
Dorothy Perkins 10th, 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Milly
Milly Debutante 2nd, 1; Karoola
Jewel 13th, 2; Gurley Royal
Empress, 3; Gurley Emerald
(Gurley Station Pty.), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Merry-
ville Lassie sth, 1; Milly Milly
Elusive 4th, 2; Peel Whisper (Peel
River Land and Mineral Co.), 3;
Karoola Muriel 63rd, 4; Peel Rose-
wood, 5.
12m. and under 18m.: Bogan
Robin 3rd, 1, and Bogan Dingle,
2nd, 5; Gundibri Sultana 15th, 2;
Merryville Duchess, 3; Wargan-
dinna Mistress Butterfly, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Merry-
ville Dorothy Perkins 11th, 1;
Keirstone Kiltepora \G. C. Perry),
2; Thanet Rosewood 2nd (R. J.
Madden), 3.
HEREFORDS
Grand-champjon bull: Myall
Supreme 2nd (Fenwick Brothers).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Ardno Corisande 21st (R. L.
McEachern).
Champion bull: Myall Supreme
2nd.
Reserve: Bexley Reflection
(Hays Brothers).
Junior: Ardno Lavender
(McEachern).
Reserve: Ardno Kestrel
(McEachern).
Champion cow or heifer: Ardno
Corisande 21st.
Reserve: Ardno Corisande 20th
(McEachern).
Junior: Ardno Marinda 92nd
(McEachern).
Reserve: Dalkeith Dividend 3rd
(Miss T. McMaster).
Bull, over 3y.: Myall Supreme
2nd, 1.
2y. and under 3y.: Turee Kins-
man, 1, Turee Kentucky, 3, and
Turee Kipling, 4 (all Turee Pty.);
Bective Brimfield (Bective Here-
ford Stud), 2.
21m. and under 2y.: Gobarra-
long Imperial (J. H. Crowe), 1;
Rae Bon Inspiration (J. E, Davies),
2; Laurimar Delightful (L. P.
Mitchell and Son), 3 ; Myall Blimp,
4; Cuppa Chiltern (F. N. Snow
and Sons), 5.
18m. and under 21m.: Bexley
Reflection, 1, and Bexley Clipper
2nd, 5; Ardno Intrigue, 2, and
Ardno Intrepid, 7; Turee Laird, 3;
South Caramut Captain (J. E. de
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST.
(14/4/’60)
South-east Queensland should have good rains during
May, with heavy falls in the south coastal districts. Moderate
rain should extend into part of the central highlands and
the Maranoa, although falls may be poor elsewhere. The
eastern half of Queensland should have heavy rains during
June, with flooding on the coast south of Mackay.
N.S.W. should have general rains during May, with
heavy falls on the Central and South Coasts, the Southern
Tablelands and part of the South-west Slopes and in
central-western districts. Serious flooding is likely in the
eastern half of the State. Rains should continue in June,
with further flooding in the central and southern divisions.
Except in August, rainfall looks like being patchy until
November.
Victoria should have general rains during May, heaviest
in west coast districts and in East Gippsland. General
rains are likely in September, but otherwise rainfall may be
patchy until November.
The agricultural areas and west coastal districts of
South Australia should have good rains during May, although
rainfall may be poor elsewhere. Light to moderate patchy
rains are likely in June, but there should be general rains
in July, extending to the north interior.
The agricultural areas of Western Australia should have
good rains during May, especially about the Fortescue and
West Gascoyne. Rainfall is likely to be moderate around
Eucla and in the north-east, although rainfall may be poor
in the rest of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


Little), 4; Gobarralong Impul-
sive, 6.
15m. and under 18m.: South
Boorook Princhester, 1 ; South
Boorook Lawrence, 2 (both. J. R.
Allen); Ardno Expert, 3 ; Rae Bon
Inspire, 4; Rae Bon Instruction,
5; South Caramut Clinker, 6;
Cuppa Charmer, 7; Fairymead
Defiant (Fairymead Sugar Co.), 8.
12m. and under 15m.: Ardno
Kestrel, 1; Timor Vitality, 2, and
Timor Venture, 7 (both Timor
White Brothers); Red Hill Magician,
3; Red Hill Magnum, 4; Red Hill
Melbourne, 6 (all H. Field Pty.);
Bexley Finale, 5.
6m. and under 12m.: Ardno
Lavender, 1; Ardno Legacy, 2, and
Ardno Diamond, 4; Rae Bon
Jumper, 3; Timor Vanward, 5;
Laurimar Delightful 2nd, 6.
Cow, over 3y.: Myall Frolic
45th (Fenwick Brothers), 1.
Over 2y. and under 3y,: Turee
Fancy Fair 9th, 1.
21m. and under 2y.: Ardno
Corisande 20th, 1; Myall Carissima
73rd, 2; Turee First Day 31st, 3;
Tiverton Miss Loyal 2nd (S. J.
Field), 4; Fairymead Last Day
10th, 5.
18m. and under 21m.: Ardno
Corisande 21st, 1; Ironbark Prin-
cess Royal 3rd (Ironbark Pastoral
Co.), 2; Dalkeith Coral 4th, 3;
Windsor Purity 30th (Town and
Country Land Pty.), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Rae Bon
First Morning Bth, 1; Timor Olive
137th, 2; Bexley Albany Lass 30th,
3; Runnymede Maritana 9th (Mrs.
Morrow), 4; Fairymead Constance
17th, h.c.; Ironbark Golden
Minerva Bth, h.c.
12m. and under 15m.: Turee
Fancy 16th, 1, and Turee Pinky
2nd, 4; Dalkeith Victoria 22nd,
2; Bexley Minerva'" 85th, 3 ; Gordon
Brook Elaine 6th (Field), 4; Fairy-
mead Last Day, h.c.
6m. and under 12m.: Ardno
Marinda 92nd, 1, and Ardno
Marinda 90th, h.c.; Dalkeith
Dividend 3rd, 2; Bexley Quill 3rd,
3; Turee Angela Bth, 4.
ANGUS
Grand-champion bull: Kahlua-
Antiquity (Kahlua Pastoral Co.).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Wambanumba Dignity (R. Tout).
Champion bull: Kahlua-
Antiquity.
Reserve: Booroomooka Baldur
(H. G. Munro).
Junior: Strathdown Emphatic
(S. G. Greenslade).
Reserve: Trangie Pro Ben 17th
(Department of Agriculture).
Champion cow or heifer: Narran-
gullen Glimma 2nd (G. T. Reid
Estate).
Reserve: Booroomooka Zoe
(Munro).
Junior: Wambanumba Dignity.
Reserve: Narrangullen Elvira
4lh (G. T. Reid Estate).
Bull, over 3y.: Narrangullen
Euripides (G. T. Reid Estate), 1;
Victoree Erwin (A. J. and P. M.
Thompson), 2; Booroomooka
Arrogant (F. J. and W. Brom-
ley), 3.
2)y. and under 3y.: Kahlua-
Antiquity, 1; Booroomodka Bias
(Munro), 2.
2y. and under 2|y.: Booroo-
mooka Baldur, 1 ; Woolamia Vernon
Sailor (E. C. and B. L. Hawkins
and Sons), 2; Trangie Pro Ben
9th (Department of Agriculture),
3; Bald Blair Brem (Bald Blair
Pastoral Co.), 4; Milong Beddie
(Milong Pastoral Co.), 5.
21m. and under 2y.: Wallah
Eridy (Wallah Pastoral Co.), 1;
Booroomooka Caledon, 2; Trangie
Pro Ben 13th, 3; Mount William
Generalissimo (Thompson), 4.
18m. and under 21m.: Trangie
Anthony 13th (D. of A.), 1;
Sutherland Robin (J. Jackson), 2;
Kilmarnock Commander (A. S.
Boyd), 3; Strathdown Clipper
(Greenslade), 4; Wallah Floridy,
5; Mt. William Vagrant (Mrs.
W. J. R. Wilson), 6.
15m. and under 18m.: Trangie
Pro Ben 17th, 1; Booroomooka
Commodore, 2; Wambanumba
\A \ /(( K\ > / if
g (?av mate: g pay math;
Cedar, 3; Ardellyn du Lac (J. H.
and S. E. Hulme), 4; Woolamia
Captain Ebony (Hawkins), 5;
Sutherland Davidson (Jackson), 6'.
12m. and under 15m.: Strath-
down Emphatic, 1; Bald Blair Earl
4th, 2; Milong Davey, 3; Wallah
Aburdy, 4; Booroomooka Cash, 5.
6m. and under 12m.: Trangie
Pro Ben 24th, 1; Strathdown
Director, 2; Mt. William Graph
(Mrs. Wilson), 3; Booroomooka
Dalray, 4.
Cow, over 3y.: Booroomooka
Zoe, 1; Sutherland Genista (Jack-
son), 2.
and under 3y.: Kahlua-
Anchita, 1; Narrangullen Rou-
lette, 2.
2y. and under 2-1-y.: Narrangullen
Romantica, 1 ; Sandhurst Cuddles
(C. H. A. Plain), 2; Narrangullen
Unity 3rd (Thompson), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Narran-
gullen Glimma 2nd, 1; Booroo-
mooka Calina, 2; Sandhurst Char-
maine (Plain), 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Suther-
land Faithful, 1; Kahlua-Rueena,
2; Ardellyn Francesca (Hulme), 3 ;
Sandhurst Colleen, 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Narran-
gulleri Elvira 4th, 1; Booroomooka
Caress, 2; Woolamia Nadya, 3
Bald Blair Candy, 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Narran-
gullen Gerbera, 1; Booroomooka
Cathay, 2; Milong Delight, 3.
6m. and under 12m.: Wamba-
nurnba Dignity, 1; Narrangullen
Emma, 2; Kahlua-Tarcoola Bth, 3 ;
Booroomooka Damascene, 4.
DEVONS
Grand-champion bull: Ban Ban
David 17th (C. D. Judge Estate).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Whisloca Jenny 86th (A. A.
Laidlaw).
Champion bull: Ban Ban
David 17th.
Reserve: Flavilah Civil Servant
116th (Havilah Pty., Ltd.)..
Junior: Havilah Briton sth.
Reserve: Ban Ban Marksman
(C. D. Judge Estate).
Champion cow or heifer:
Whisloca Jenny 86tb.
Reserve: Woodbong Flirt (W. D.
Wood).
Junior: Havilah Apricot 1279th.
Reserve: Newstead No. 1567
(Newstead South Pastoral Co.).
Bull, 2y. and under 3y.: Ban
Ban David 17th, 1 ; Havilah Civil
Servant 116th, 2; Glen Moan
Brick 22nd (Taiping Invest-
ments), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Retford
Mr. Brent, (Gibraltar Pty., Ltd.),
1 ) Glen Moan Napoleon 56th
(Taiping Investments), 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Havilah
Forester 194th, 1; Newstead No.
1528, 2; The Hill Barrister
(Laidlaw), 3.
15m. and under 18m.: Havilah
Briton sth, 1 ; Havilah Candidate
105th, 2; Havilah Briton 11th, 3;
Table Top lan (Table Top
Estate), 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Ban Ban
Mustang (C. D. Judge Estate), 1;
Flavilah Stockman 34th, 2; Ret-
ford Head Stockman (Gibraltar), 3.
6m. and under 12m.: Ban Ban
Marksman, 1; Retford Superman
(Gibraltar), 2; Glen Moan
Napoleon 68th (Taiping Invest-
ments), 3.
Cow, over 3y.: Havilah Brassy
427th, 1.
2y. and under 3y.: Whisloca
Jenny 86th, 1; Havilah Weekday
37th, 2; Havilah Brassy 461st
(W. D. Wood), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Woodbong
Flirt, 1; Retford Pink Gin, 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Glen
Moan 43rd (Taiping Investments).
15m. and under 18m.: Havilah
Apricot 1279th, 1; Havilah Dainty
36th, 2; Lister Esther (Mrs. J. M.
Officer), 3.
12m. and under 15m.: New-
stead No. 1567, 1, and Newstead
No. 1651, 3; Retford Apricot
Wine, 2.
6m. and under 12m.: Havilah
Brassy 472nd, 1 ; Woodbong Joyce
2nd. 2; Lister Apricot 11th (Mrs.
J M. Officer), 3.
SANTA GERTRUDIS
Grand-champion bull: Risdon
Emperor (King Ranch Australia
Pty.).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Risdon Eve (King Ranch Australia
Pty.).
Champion bull: Risdon Emperor.
Reserve: Risdon Federal.
Junior: King Ranch Excalibur.
Reserve: Risdon Foreman.
Champion cow or heifer: Risdon
Eve.
Junior: Risdon Fancy.
Reserve: Risdon Pelita.
Bull, over 2y.: Risdon
Emperor, 1.
18m. and under 2y.: Risdon
Federal, 1.
12m. and under 18m.: King
Ranch Excalibur, 1, and King
Ranch Excelsior, h.c.; Goonoo
Brocade (Peel River Land and
Mineral Co.), 2; Risdon Fore-
caster, 3.
6m. and under 12m.: Risdon
Foreman, 1; King Ranch Ensign,
2; Risdon Canasta (King Ranch,
Bowral), 3.
. Cow over 2y.: Risdon Eve, 1 >
Risdon Conchita, 2.
12m. and under 18m.: Risdon
Fancy, 1.
6pn. and under 12m.: Risdon
Pefita, 1.


every test
&
a
7
V
\
Whether you are looking for
efficiency, simplicity, economy or
dependability, the Tilley Storm
Lantern represents incomparable
value for money. It gives you 12
hours of 300 candle power light
on only 1J pints of kerosene.
It gives years of reliable, trouble-
free service under all conditions —it’s wind and weather proof!
£6. 17.6 (freight extra outside metropolitan area)
REGD.
you can trust your Tilley
IT’S 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all good hardware ttoret throughout Auttralia. In eaie of difficulty
write for name of your nearett stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
VETERAN CAR RALLY
”Bombs away!"
POLL HEREFORDS
Grand-champion bull: Castle
Bend Liberty (J. W. Williamson).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Ardno Daisy Lass 20th (R. L.
McEachern).
Champion bull: Brewarrana
Diamond (W. J. Lenehan).
Reserve: Blandford Rocket (Mrs.
N. P. Wright).
Junior: Castle Bend Liberty.
Reserve: Forktree Illustrious
(G. V. Bennett).
Champion cow or heifer: Ardno
Daisy Lass 20th.
Reserve: Springfield Silver 4th
(S. T. Hawkins and C. H. Hawkins
Estate).
Junior: Brewarrana Jewel 2nd.
Reserve: Deepfields Hyacinth
11th (K. G. Luke).
Bull, over 2y.: Blandford Rocket,
1; Lingwen Marvel Mischief (P. J.
Adams), 2; Castle Bend Leander,
3 ; Springfields Sergeant 4th (H. F.
Worthington), 4; Blandford
Atlas, 5.
21m. and under 2y.: Brewarrana
Diamond, 1; Hilandale Chimes
(W. Robinson and Sons), 2; Bland-
ford Rex, 4; Braewood Memento
(J. Mclntosh and Son), 5; Deep-
fields Noble, 6.
18m. and under 21m.: Dimby
Glen Rollo (E. Gulliver), 1; Ardno
Billy, 2; Dimby David Arne 2nd,
3; Springfield Silverman, 4; Castle
Bend Voyager, 5.
15m. and under 18m.: Castle
Bend Liberty, 1; Forktree Illus-
trious, 2; The Braes Gem Mixer
(J. A. and D. J. Hanson), 3;
Brewarrana Ampol, 4; Ardno
Trumpeter, 5; Springfield Crusader
3rd, 6.
12m. and under 15m.: -Castle
Bend Ajax, 1; Dale Alan 2nd
(J. H. R. Rousel), 2; . Springfield
Starlight, 3, and Springfield
Trouper, 5 ; Deepfields Numode, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Brewar-
rana Ensign 4th, 1, and Brewarrana
Ormonde, 4; Springfield Bargee
3rd, 2; The Braes Loch Levin, 3 ;
Salt Creek Novelist (Karoo
Partnership), 5; Yalgoo Jason
(F. W. Nivison Estate), 6.
Cow or heifer over 2y.: Pylara
Coral 9th (G. A. Pockley and
Pylara Pty.), 1; Springfield Hya-
cinth 4th, 2; South Calabash
Adeline (R. Parkman Estate), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Ardno
Daisy Lass 20th, 1 ; Ardno Marinda
Lass 10th, 2; The Braes Adorn
Bth, 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Spring-
field Silver 4th, 1; Deepfields
Empress sth, 2; Castle Bend
Beauty 6th, 3.
15m. and under 18m.: Deepfields
Hyacinth 11th, 1; Springfield
Hyacinth Bth, 2; Yalgoo Kismet,
3; Blandford Doone 7th, 4;
Ophir Minonette (R. K. Gordon), 5.
12m. and under 15m.: Harring-
ton Sheena (W. O. Fairfax), 1;
Yalgoo Helene, 2; Dale Winifred
2nd, 3; Springfield Wattle 2nd, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Brewarrana
Jewel 2nd, 1, and Brewarrana
Laura sth, 3; Springfield Hilda
2nd, 2.
GALLOWAYS
Bull, any age: Big Tinderry
David, 1, and Swatchfield Donald
(J. W. Prowse and Sons), 2; Big
Tinderry Duncan (C. R. Prowse), 3.
Dual-purpose Breeds
RED POLLS
Grand-champion bull: Larkhill
Defaulter (Brigadier G. S. Hurst).
Grand-champion cow or heifer:
Plymouth Chicory (W. G. J. Beer
and Sons). ,
Champion bull: Larkhill
Defaulter.
Junior: Larkhill Skipper.
Reserve: Bundaleer Beau Joker
(G. C. Perry).
Champion cow or heifer:
Plymouth Chicory.
Reserve: Larkhill Sea Urchin.
Junior: Larkhill Christmas.
Reserve: Sherwood Park
Kwinana (C. E. and Mrs. D.
Elsenhauer).
Bull, over 3y.: Larkhill
Defaulter, 1.
15m. and under 18m.: Larkhill
Skipper, 1; Bundaleer Beau
Joker, 2.
6m. and under 12m.: Plymouth
Banker, 1; Larkhill Torchlight, 2.
Cow, over 3y., in milk: Plymouth
Dorcas, 1; Larkhill Red Ruby, 2;
Larkhill Speedwell, 3.
Over 3y., dry: Plymouth
Chicory, 1.
2y. and under 3y.: Plymouth
Faithful, 1.
21m. and under 2y.: Larkhill
Sea Urchin, 1 ; Plymouth Fairy, 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Sherwood
Park Beltana, 1.
15m. and under 18m.: Larkhill
Necklace, 1.
6m. and under 12m.: Larkhill
Christmas, 1; Sherwood Park
Kwjnana, 2.
DAIRY SHORTHORNS
Champion trull: Willow Park
Gay Lord 33rd (S. T. Howe).
Reserve: Orma Wild Stockman
(Atkinson Brothers).
Champion cow or heifer: Willow
Park Comet 77th (Atkinson).
Reserve: Willow Park Moss
Rose 98th (Atkinson).
Bull, over 2y.: Willow Park Gay
Lord 33rd, 1; Orma Wild Stock-
man, 2.
18m. and under 2y.: Willow
Park Emperor 31st (Atkinson), 1;
Strathburn Count Rubio 6th (Aj K.
Buchanan), 2.
12m. and under 18m.: Willow
Park Gay Baron 57th (Atkinson),
1; Bonnie View Gay Lord 9th
(S. T- Howe), 2; Coreena Dairy
Premier (I. Gibson), 3.
Cow, over 3y., in milk: Bonnie
View Pearl 16th, 1; Bonnie View
Pearl 12th, 2; Willow \ Park
Duchess 172nd (I. R. Biddle), 3.
Under 3y., in milk: Willow Park
Moss Rose 98th, 1; Bonnie View
Countess 6th, 2; Lubra Bend Gay
Marie (R. N. Stokes), 3.
Over 3y., dry: Willow Park
Comet 77th. 1 ; Willow Park Fairy
44th, 2; Willow Park Blush 59th
(Biddle), 3.
Under- 3y., dry: Bonnie View
Rosette 4th, 1; Willow Park Blush
66th, 2; Strathburn Stareen 3rd,
3 ; Coreena Fairy, 4,
, _ ~.
Dairy Cattle
. -
Champion bull: Parkview Share-
holder (H. Dudgeon and Son).
Reserve: Widgee Waa Townsend
(A. Wills). >
Junior: Parkview Recompense
(C. P. Sternbeck).
Reserve: Midlands Baritone
(C. R. Chittick).
Champion cow or heifer: Rose-
view Flora 7th (Richardson
Brothers).
Reserve: Lyndale Fossy 2nd
(H. Dudgeon and Son).
Junior: Tabbagong Flora 2nd
(Richardson Brothers).
Reserve: Parkview Fussy 168th.
Over 2y., in milk: Bali H’ai
Beauty (Miss. E. A. Kernahan), 1.
2y. and under 3y., in milk: Den-
brook Dove 4th (E. M. and Mrs.
Nydegger), .1; Parkview ' Fussy
156th, 2, and Parkview Beauty
86th, 4; Tabbagong Ruth 110th, 3.
3y. and under 4y., in milk:
Lemon Grove Fussy 71st, 1, and
Lemon Grove Princess 143rd
(C. R. Chittick), 3; Raedella
Brenda (K. J. and Mrs. T. M.
Dwyer), 2; Parkview Fussy 152nd,
4; Tabbagong Fussy 66th, 5.
4y. and under 5y., in milk:
Lemon Grove Fussy 68th, 1; Roo
View Cherry 12th (A. W. Downes),
2; Grafton Camera’s Lullaby
(N.S.W. Department of Agriculture),
3; Parkview Pansy 26th, 4;
Tabbagong Jean 27th, 5.
Over 5y., in milk: Roseview
Flora 7th, V; Lyndale Fossy 2nd,
2; Parkview Pansy 22nd, 3 ; Park-
view Pansy 15th (all H. Dudgeon
and Son), 4.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Den-
brook Jane, 1, and Parkview Beauty
80th (both Dudgeon), 4; Tabba-
gong Dairymaid 67th, 2; Kaleula
Joyce 3rd (Chittick), 3; Tabbagong


Virgin 16th (W. Waddell and
Son), 5.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Parkview Fussy 146th, 1, and
Parkview Fussy 141st, 4; Tabba-
gong Gertie 44th, 2; Roo View
Cherry 11th, 3.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Rossathol Gem 6th (Chittick), 1;
Tabbagong Ruth 108th, 2, and
Tabbagong Gracie 50th, 4; Nydross
Ettie JNydegger), 3.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Parkview Beauty 88th (P. A.
Heuston and Son), 1; Tabbagong
Flora 2nd, 2; Lemon Grove Ethel
96th, 3; The Pines Mabel 76th
(P. H. E. Chittick), 4; Roo View
Shamrock 4Vd 5 • Parkview Laurel
17th 6 ’ ’
18m.. and under 2y.: Tabbagong
Beauty 137th, 1 ; Lemon Grove
Princess 164th, 2, and Lemon Grove
Ethel 97th, 4; Parkview Pansy 30th,
3; Roo View Gem Bth, 5.
e d, 2 g m F,r 2 „r.“ s,;e„ T ss
3 ™ 8 2 1 Grafton Silver Queen 3 j
Grafton Camera’s Silver (D. of
A) 4 • Raedela Olive 5
3m. and under 12m’.: Parkview
F.ussy 166th, 1, and Parkview Rose
55th, 3; Tabbagong Ruth 133rd,
2, and Tabbagong Beauty 147th,
4th; Widgee Waa Dewdrop Bth,
5; Grafton Silver Princess, 6.
Bull, over 4y.: Parkview Share-
holder, 1; Oakleigh Major (P. H. E.
Chittick), 2; Widgee Waa Design,
3; Parkview Dominate, 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Kiltankin
Wattle’s Royal (P. V. O’Keeffe),
1 ; ulemawn Indicator (C. K.
Smith), 2; Roo View Request, 3;
Cranbrook Peter (J. H. Haddin), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Widgee Waa
Townsend, 1; Blackburn Reward
(Richardson), 2; Lemon Grove
Romeo 2nd, 3; Tabbagong Furber
(Waddell), 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Parkview
Recompense, 1; Midlands Baritone,
2; Widgee Waa Designer, 3; Park-
view Placid (Edwards), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Raedella
Director, 1 ; Ellen Grove Dobbie
(S. K. Edwards), 2; Glencoe Royal
Red, 3, and Glencoe Surprise
(P. A. Heuston and Son), 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Glencoe
Generous, 1 ; Parkview Factotum,
2; Parkview Basilo (Edwards), 3;
Cranbrook Success, 4; Raedella
Demonstrator (Smith), 5.
AYRSHIRES
Champion bull: Denbigh Canyon
(Mclntosh Brothers).
Reserve: Broughton Silver Minx
(A. P. Garratty).
Junior: Woodside Park James
(F. A. Mclntosh).
Reserve: Denbigh Dandy.
Champion cow or heifer: Wood-
side Park Afterthought.
Reserve: Denbigh Mandy.
Junior: Woodside Park Solitaire,
Reserve: Denbigh Lapping.
2y. and under 3y., in milk:
Denbigh Mandy, 1; Denbigh Prin-
cess Poppy, 2; Denbigh Canary
Queen, 3; Woodside Park
Applause, 4.
3y. and under 4y., in milk:
Denbigh Favour’s Future, 1; Den-
biah Olympia, 2, and Denbigh
Dresden, 4; Woodside Park
Cinderella 3.
A m ;ir • n»n
4y - f! d n ,|‘ d Q 7 .u- ’ ,
Gentle 97th, 1, Blackwood
Park Ruth ( F - A ‘ Mclntosh), 2;
mil ( p ?u % A H } ’
ard H tllzabeth H-
”
Over 5y., m milk: Woodside
Park Afterthought, 1, and Wood-
-5 i Broughton Farm Philida, 4.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Wood-
side Park Nola, 1; Woodside Park
dimmer 2; Denbigh Badge 3
w and y ’. ,n calf ’, dry:
Woodside Park Quaker G.rl, 1
Denbigh Bright Star, 2; Spaniard s
H,u A PP Ie B1 °ssom, 3.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Woodside Park Capri,. 1, and
Woodside Park Orange Blossom, 3 ;
Bathurst Quality’s Sonnet, 2.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Spaniard's Hill Bimby, 1; Spaniard’s
Hill Helena, 2; Woodside Park
Olwyn, 3.
18m. and under 2y., in milk:
Woodside Park Solitaire, 1; Den-
bigh Lapping, 2; Bathurst Major’s
Siesta, 3; Bathurst Siesta’s
Dream, 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Broughton
Farm Philipa, 1 ; Bathurst Siesta’s
Sonnet, 2; Denbigh Eveleen, 3. -
12m. and under 18m.: Denbigh
Star Spangle, 1; Broughton Farm
Just Judy, 2; Broughton Farm
Rarity, 3; Spaniard’s Hill Pride, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Woodside
Park Afterglow, 1 ; Bathurst
Command's Repose, 2; Rockville
Sue (E. E. Bentley), 3; Spaniard’s
Hill Fashion, 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Denbigh Canyon,
1 ; Broughton Farm Silver Minx,
2; Woodside Park Andrew, 3.
3y. and under 4y.: Denbigh
Paddy, 1; Spaniard’s Hill
Emperor, 2.
2y. and under 3y.: Epping Forest
Plasto (E. E. Bentley), 1 ; Bathurst
Madame’s Reward, 2.
18m. and under 2y.: Bathurst
Carry’s Quality 3rd, 1.
12m. and under 18m.: Woodside
Park James, 1 ; Bathurst Flower’s
Major, 2; Denbigh Sambo, 3.
3m. and under 12m.: Denbigh
Dandy, 1; Broughton Farm Peer-
less Peter, 2; Epping Forest
Glenden, 3; Spaniard’s Hill Earl, 4.
JERSEYS
Champion cow or heifer: The
Meadows, Orchid (T. Grey and
Son).
Reserve: Oaklaw Virginia (W.
Greenaway).
Junior: Oaklaw Illusion.
Reserve: Glenavon Lilian 17th
(W. J. Clark).
Champion bull: Arawa Rochette’s
Jester (J. Andrews).
Reserve: Glenavon Eagle Cliff
(W. J. Clark).
Junior: Oaklaw Lawson (W. J.
Crowe).
Reserve: Wilgo Silver Sultan
(H. I. Salway and Son).
2y. and under 3y., in milk:
Malmay Valiant Primrose (F. E.
Thomas), 1; Llanillo Leading
Duchess (A. B. Poole), 2; Wilgo
Dreaming Janette 9th (H. I. Salway
and Son), 3; Glenallan Butter
Queen (Mrs. S. R. Askew), 4;
Oaklaw Fancy, 5; Beaumont
Dreamer’s Lotus (M. B. Goard), 6.
3y. and under 4y., in milk:
Elston Dreaming Lady (J. M.
Kirton), 1; Hunterfield Royal
Skyette (P. R. Weidmann), 2;
Austral Park Easter Giggles (E.
Chegwidden Estate), 3.
4y. and not over 5y., in milk:
Austral Park Envious, 1, and
Austral Park Regal Cowslip, 3;
Wilgo Loyal Lady, 2; Huntertield
Supreme’s Ruth, 4.
Over sy. in milk: The Meadows
Orchid, 1; Wollingurry Nita 14th
(C. Brown), Mimossia Kitty (Mrs.
E. B. and H. J. Slater), 3; Bemer-
syde Buttercup 10th (G. and R.
Cox), 4.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Oaklaw
Virginia, 1 ; Bemersyde Eileen 76th,
2; Kathryn Vale Sweetheart
(Poole), 3; Ingalala Pompey’s
Nobleman (Johnston Brothers), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Stillorgan Cute’s Gamboge (J. M.
Kirton), 1; Oaklaw Dolores, 2;
Bemersyde Eileen 88th, 3; Glen-
male Design’s Delight, 4.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Wollingurry Goldje 4th, 1; Oak-
law Ladora, 2; Oaklaw Gayleaf,
3; Beaumont Dreamer’s Glow, 4.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Melton Park Faithful (W. J.
Crowe), 1 ; Beaumont Dreamer’s
Girl, 2; Elston Beau’s Petal, 3;
Wollingurry Buttercup 23rd, 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Miandetta
Rosebud 4th (Braithwaite and
Sons), 1 ; Parrabel Eckermann’s
Princess (R. and C. Cochrane), 2;
Hunterfield Royal Myth, 3; Beau-
mont Dreamer’s Lotus 2nd, 4.
Heifer, 18m. and under 2y.:
Beaumont Dreamer’s Pert 2nd, 1;
Ingalala Dairylike, 2; Sanvale
Fancy Choice (Sydney Sanitarium
and Hospital), 3; Pendle Park
Posy (C. P. Gallard), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Glenavon
Lilian 17th, 1; Glenavon Love
Lies 43rd, 2; Oaklaw Deimae, 3;
Wollingurry June 4th, 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Oaklaw
Illusion, 1; Gannon Vale Dreaming
Blonde 2nd (W. J. Daley), 2;
Crystal Side Berice (H. J. Slater),
3; Pendle Park Super Gold, 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Arawa Rochette’s
Jester, 1 ; Glenavon Eagle Chief,
2; Lawrence Blue Light (W. J.
Daley), 3; Wilgo Silver King, 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Oxford
Brilliant Dreamer (T. Grey and
Son), 1; Francliff Rocket 3rd
(Sydney Sanitarium and Hospital),
2; Llanillo Opa’s Dreamer, 3;
Balmaha Royal Reserve (A. J.
McPhee), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Francliff
Ensign, 1; Oaklaw Radiant, 2;
Bemersyde Eileen 35th's Greek, 3;
Lawrence Baroness’ Design
(McPhee), 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Bemersyde
Scotty, 1; Oaklaw Royal Rex
(Crowe), 2; Hunterfield Ruth’s
Prince, 3; Pertwood Ringmaster
(W. R. Allen), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Raywyn
Ambition (Mrs. S. R. Askew), 1;
Crystal Side Golden Legislate, 2;
Wilgo Polly’s Lad, 3; Miandetta
Fairy Jester, 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Oaklaw
Lawson), 1; Wilgo Silver Sultan,
2, and Wilgo Supreme Uesign, 4;
Oaklaw Draconis Royal (Green-
away), 3.
GUERNSEYS
Champion bull: Kiilarney Aristo-
crat (D G. McKenzie).
Reserve . Vermont Dot’s
Enchanter (J B and j M Dav ison).
Junior: Vermont Dot’s Ideal
(Dr F G Stephens and Son).
Reserve: Bodalla Lucky Charm
(Bodalla Co., Ltd.).
Champion cow or heifer: Wol-
longbar Flares Marjorie (D. of A.),
Reserve: Glenoak Lady Dawn
(A. Phillis and Son).
Junior: Inglevale Lady Alice
(C. H. Ball).
Reserve: Violet Hill Alvetta
(McKenzie).
4y. and under 3y., in milk:
Wollongbar Flares Marjorie, 1;
Wollongbar Flares Vera, 2.
Over 5y., in milk: Rose Villa
Gwen, 1; Rose Villa Peggy
and Wicklow Angel (all A. W.
Simpson), 4; Tristania Brenda (A.
Phillis and Son), 3.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Glenoak
Lady Dawn, 1; Wollongbar Flares
Melody, 2; Glenfield Blossom


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton’s
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
X !
$
r:
rt:
%
£
%
l;
.f" •
%
Vf:
a*
%
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to iOs. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please, post. copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS...
STATE
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free )
Amount enclosed
(McKenzie), 3; Tristania Dainty
Girl (Bodalla Co.), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Tristania Miss Dainty (Phillis), 1.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Glenoak Hazel, 1; Capri Velvet
(G. L. Donato), 2; Violet Hill
Fairy Floss, 3.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Glenoak Cora, 1 ; Tristania Twink-
ling Star, 2.
18m. and under 2y., in milk:
Inglevale Lady Alice, 1; Violet
Hill Alvetta, 2; Carwendy Dell
Christine (Simpson), 3; Yanco
Champion Twinkle (D. of A.), 4.
18m. and under 2y., dry:
Bodalla Dainty June, 2; Glenoak
Goldie, 3. (No first awarded.)
12m. and under 18m.: Mount
Penang Noreen 4th (Child Welfare
Department), 1 ; Violet Hill Grace-
ful, 2, and Violet Hill Bena, 3;
Yanco Champion’s Vamp, 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Murri-
brook Ella (Phillis), 1; Violet Hill
Joan (S. Wood), 2; Kentucky
Dainty (Phillis), 3; Inglevale
Perfect Girl, 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Killarney Aristo-
crat, 1 ; Balnakyle Minstrel (L. A.
Moran), 2; Shady Valley Sapper
(F. Harrison), 3; Wollongbar
Karama’s Royalist, 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Carwendy
Dell Victor (Simpson), 1 ; Tristama
Rose Chief, 2.
2y. and under 3y.: Vermont
Dot’s Enchanter, 1; Overport
Viceroy (Bodalla), 2; Neots Park
Laddie (Phillis), 3; Capri Stan-
dard, 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Bodalla
Lucky Guy, 1 ; Mount Penang
Auditor, 2; Glenfield Bosker (H. J.
Kennedy), 3; Yanco Vera's
Montrose, 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Vermont
Dot’s Ideal, 1 ; Murribrook Wood-
leigh, 2; Yanco Chrysalis Cham-
pion 3rd, 3; Capri Chieftain, 4.
3m. and under 12m.:
Regal Pride (R. L. Gunning), 1 :
Glenoak Monty 2nd, 2; Violet Hill
Aristocrat, 3 ; Inglevale Reward, 4.
FRIESIANS
Champion bull: Indiana Gold-
mine (J. H. Wilson Pty.).
Reserve: Hawkesbury Prince
Regent (D. of A.).
Junior: Hawkesbury Lady King.
Reserve: Meadow Glen Reunion
Horace (J. Calcraft).
Champion cow or heifer:
Joselyn Newyear Rosebloom (W.
Clifton).
Junior: Meadow Glen Reunion
Princess 3rd (J. Calcraft).
Reserve: Meadow Glen Reunion
Betty.
18m. and under 2y., in milk:
Meadow Glen Reunion Princess
3rd, 1 ; Meadow Glen Reunion
Betty, 2; Wyoming Supreme
Brenda, '3; Wyoming Lad Moon-
beam (A. S. R. Shearer and Son), 4.
2y. and under 3y., in milk:
Laurel Betty Chance (E. R.
Armour), 1; Hawkesbury Con-
queror Belfrette 2nd, 2; Hawkes-
bury Conqueror Lenora, 3; Brun-
dell Echo Luntas (Mrs. D. L.
Boyce), 4.
3y. and under 4y., in milk:
Meadow Glen Reunion Princess,
1; Meadow Glen Reunion Bee, 2;
Andes Colantha Lass (H. E. Smith),
3; Brundee Supreme (V. J.
Lamond), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in milk:
Joselyn Bub, 1; Joselyn Mercedes
Violet, 2, and Joselyn Demsel
Pietje, 3; Glenorma Imperial Pearl
(S. G. Nelson), 4.
Over 5y., in milk: Joselyn New-
year Rosebloom, J; Wyoming
Mary May, 2; Joselyn Pride Gaye,
3; Glenorma Jill, 4.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Sunshine
Walker Eve (T. Egan), 1; Brundee
Mercedes Dekal (Clifton), 2; Sun-
shine Walker Maida 7th, 3; Elm-
wood C.H. Supreme (Lamond), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Picton Salmon, 1, and Picton
Sabrina (Ross Brothers), 4; Carmar
Charm (S. A. Hayes), 2; Meadow
Glen Colantha Dinah, 4.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Hawkesbury King Beverley, 1;
Meadow Glen Reunion Pie, 2;
Glenorma Lady Joanne, 3;
Wyoming Dobbie Star, 4.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Meadow Glen Reunion Tweedle-
dum, 1; Hawkesbury Hope Bonnie,
2; Hawkesbury Conqueror Yulene,
3 ; Meadow Glen Reunion Janice, 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Hawkesbury
Fond Bonnie, 1 ; Sunshine Romeo
Eve, 2; Glenorma Mercedes
Bonnie*- 4; Wyoming Jewel Nona, 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Meadow
Glen Reunion Opal 2nd, 1;
Hawkesbury Fond Countess, 2, and
Hawkesbury Victory Yulene, 4;
Belvedere Park Ideal Judy
(Clifton), 3.
3m. and under 12m.: Hawkes-
bury Fond Beverley, 1; Wyoming
Elect Justina, 2; Severn Vale
Dekol Echo (H. T. Willcox), 3;
Belvedere Park Ideal Jump, 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Indiana Gold-
mine, 1 ; Brundee Pride Mercedes
(Lamond), 2; Joselyn Royal Lad,
3 ; Nepean California (C. O’Day), 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Meadow
Glen Reunion Thomas, 1; Sunshine
Recount, 2; Brundee Marion
Dandy, 3; Indiana Pathfinder
(Nelson), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Hawkesbury
Prince Regent, 1; Meadow Glen
Reunion Stanley, 2; Carmar Stately
Snowman, 3; Wyoming Blue
Royal, 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Meadow
Glen Reunion Horace, 1; Glenorma
Sundowner, 2; Laurel, Prince
George, 3 ; Brundee Kay Romeo. 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Galaview
Royal Silver (E. R. Armour), 1;
Joselyn Lunta Lad, 2; Brundee
Regent Transvaal, 3; Glenorma
Tarzan, 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Hawkes-
bury Lady King, 1; Restholme
Damsel Dandy, 2; Meadow Glen
Reunion Samuel, 3; Sunshine
Romeo King, 4.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of A History of Aberdeen-
Angus Cattle, by MacDonald and
Sinclair. —6978.
To buy Mo Burdekin, Bonanza,
and The Tommy Cow, all by Sarah
Campion.—6979.
Copy of Frank Blake the Trapper,
by Mrs. Hardy.—69 Bo.
Information Supplied
Inquirer No. 6974 will find “A
Gentil Parfit Knight” in Chaucer’s
Canterbury Tales, now obtainable
as a Penguin publication.
Information Sought
Details of life and career of
Edgar Wallace ?
The English novelist and drama-
tist was born in 1875. A found-
ling, he was brought-up by a
Billingsgate porter. After receiv-
ing a Board-school education he
worked as a street-newsboy urffil
he joined the Army and went to
South Africa. He became a jour-
nalist in 1902 and published his
first story, The Four Just Men,
in 1907. From then onwards he
produced a multitude of novels,
plays and "press-articles. These
included further stories of The
Four Just Men, the River Stories
(of life in West Africa), a great
number of detective-thrillers, such
dramas as The Ringer, The
Calendar, On The Spot, and the
film-scenario of King Kong. His
stories and plays are not only
ingenious in plot but they contain
a gallery of excellently-drawn
characters. Wallace died in Holly-
wood in 1932.
* * # *
Details of the sinking of the
Titanic: (a) the year and date;
(b) number of survivors, if any;
(c) were any ships nearby at the
time ?
(a) The White Star liner, at that
time the largest ship afloat, was on
her maiden voyage when at 11.45
p.m. on April 14, 1912, she struck
an iceberg in the Atlantic while
going at full speed. She sank at
2.20 next morning.
( b ) Of the 2224 souls aboard,
1513 were lost.
( c ) The Californian was only 20
miles away from the Titanic, but
the wireless-operator had gone off
duty and missed the SOS call;
rockets were seen by someone on
the same ship, but he assumed they
were signals from one fishing-smack
to another, as th»2 location of the
disaster was close to the Grand
Banks. The Californian could
have reached the Titanic long
before it took the final plunge.
The Carpathia was 58 miles away
and it was this ship which picked-
up the survivors.
* * * *
What is the word “sic” used in
brackets after a phrase or word
intended to convey, and when should
it be used ?
Sic is Latin for “so” and is
inserted after a quoted word or
phrase to confirm its accuracy as
a quotation, or occasionally after
the writer’s own word to emphasise
it as giving his deliberate meaning.
It amounts to “Yes, he did say
that,” or “Yes, I do mean that,”
in spite of your natural doubts.
It should be used pnly when doubt
is natural, but some reviewers and
controversialists are tempted to use
it over-freely, because [s/'c] provides
them with an easy form of sneer.
* * * *
Why the name Tammany Hall,
and how did it became associated
with graft ?
The Tammany Society took its
title from the pre-revolution, anti-
English Sons of Tammany, named
after a revered Indian chief, who
was popularly dubbed a saint. At
"You re being too soft with that dog."
first a non-partisan middle-class
organisation, it gradually became
under Aaron Burr an influential
political club supporting the
Republicans (afterwards Demo-
crats). In 1805 it was registered
as a charitable organisation. The
Irish were specially welcomed, and
the new street-gangs were brought
under control for political purposes.
Under W. M. Tweed, an aider-
man of New York City, who
assumed the leadership of Tammany
Hall, the society’s headquarters, in
1867, wholesale corruption and
peculation became rampant. The
city debt rose by 60m. dollars
in two years, with misappropria-
tions calculated at 200 m. dollars.
The name ever since has been
synonymous with political corrup-
tion at the civic level.
Brief Answers
K.H.G.: Strictly speaking, the
Union Jack is only a “jack” when
flown from the jack-staff of a ship-
of-war. The correct name is Great
Union... .J.H.: Pope Joan was a
mythical Englishwoman alleged to
have been Pope for two years,
a.d. 853-855... .T.8.C.: Fortified
wines such as sherry and port will
retain their condition up to a
month after opening provided the
bottle is kept corked. Burgundy,
claret, hock and chablis should be
consumed within two days of
opening... .E.R.1.: There is noth-
ing to stop a company being
formed for the ownership ot
property, and there does not seem
to be any reason why the eldest
son should join in the arrangement,
although from a practical point ot
view it might be desirable for him
to do so. It is quite possible
to introduce the wife even though
she is without income, but you
should bear in mind that the for-
mation of these companies is a
very difficult matter and should be
put in the hands of a competent
solicitor... .J.A.M.: There certainly
is a law against it. Unless you were
grossly overcharged in the first
place for the panel-van it should
have been sold for a great deal
more than £5O and the hire-purchase
people should owe you money.
If they take any action against
you, you should go without delay
to your solicitor... .E.C.L.': You
don’t give enough information
about your retiring-allowance. It
would be necessary to know whether
it was a sort of present from your
employers, whether' it was to be
paid for long-service leave, or
whether it was part of the agree-
ment of your employment. As to
your second question, claim as a
deduction the amount that you
have contributed for your wife’s
convalescence... .J.F.: The Mel-
bourne Little Theatre does not plan
to hold a play-competition of any
sort this year, and as yet has not
decided whether to hold one in the
future. The theatre held a £lOOO
play quest last year; it was won
by Oriel Gray, of Melbourne, with
“A Burst Of Summer.” This was
produced at the Little Theatre last
February... .E.R.: Neither the
Oxford Dictionary nor the Encyclo-
paedia Britannica makes any men-
tion of the word “Oeweid.” Cannot
trace it in any other known source.
Will advise later re fish... .R.A.S.:
Frank Forde was Deputy Prime
Minister at the time of Chifley’s
death. The voting in the party-
room which gave the leadership to
Chifley over Forde was never dis-
closed. Sorry, cannot assist you
regarding C.P Mrs. C. 8.: We
have no copy of that book; have
inserted it in the Wants section
and will let you know should it
meet with a response... .L.P.: No
copies of Edward Harrington’s
book of verses available at present;
Tyrrell’s Bookshop has made a
note of your request and should
one come in will advise you.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributio'ns voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.S.: You’ve a tremendous
name to live-up t0....H.C.:
“Dad’s Speech’’ corny.... R.K.G.:
You touch poetry in the last line
of “The Storm”... .G.L.F.: Nice
to hear front you again....
H.G.F.: Article amateurish....
D. 8.: “The Man from Further
Out” went back there... .F.L.S.:
“Let us sit at yonder table.” Why
“yonder”?....J.D.: Just for Gang
25 this time; it doesn’t make a
picture for the public... .J.H.
(Tas.): The shortening, alas, seems
to have shortened the spirit of it.
... .G.R.McC.: Will let the bugs
in here:
The bitumen bugs are going to town,
Their enamelled shells crawl up then
down.
They jostle each other,
You’d think they would* smother
Each human speck in its metal case.
If they don’t get to town they’re not
in the race.
The race is so hard that life is a
fetter,
But the bitumen bugs they know no
better.
The motes in a sunbeam know when it’s
sunny,
But the life motes in cars only know
about money;
The poor harrowed coots, they think
they live on it,
So why in the world should I write
them a sonnet 7


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JAMES EDWARD MURPHY late
of 13 Byrnes Street Marrickville.—
TAKE NOTICE that EVA EMILY
MURPHY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 187 of 1960 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 29th June 1960 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN & CO., Soli-
citors, of 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD DAVID KEATING late
of 47 McClelland Street Chester Hill. —
TAKE NOTICE that BESSIE IRENE
KEATING has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4428 of 1959 on the grounds
of repeated assaults and cruel beatings
during one year If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 29th June 1960
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. A. R. BALD-
WIN & CO., Solicitors, of 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“They cant grow trees like that nowadays!"
New Recordings
Classics on Parade
Wilhelm Backhaus, one of
the greatest living masters of
the keyboard, is soloist with
the Vienna Philharmonic
Orchestra under Clemens
Krauss in Beethoven’s Piano
Concerto No. 4, a Decca mono
release (A CL A 36). It is
doubtful if a more thoroughly
satisfying combination could
be found anywhere, and cer-
tainly the performance is
worthy of the material. Back-
haus has all the gifts of mind
and temperament to compass
its nobility and the blazing
virtuoso episodes with which
it is so liberally studded. The
crisp precision of the orchestra
is a complementary feature.
Columbia has come to light
with a young pianist hitherto
unknown here: Samson Fran-
cois. In his Chopin Recital
(330 EX 7510) he begins with
the B Flat Minor Sonata, but it
is not till he reaches the Scherzo
that we get the first true taste
of his quality. Here he em-
ploys an extraordinary tech-
nique to hammer the move-
ment’s many rhythmic motives
into a vivid impression of
elemental forces on the ran-
tan. In the Funeral March —
the greatest threnody extant for
the instrument —the rolling of
the muffled drums in the bass
is beautifully stated against
the sombre melody in the right
hand.
The disk’s reverse side offers
a variety of delights: The Noc-
turne Op. 15 No. 1, a piece of
pure poetry in chords; two
virile Studies, one of them the
“Revolutionary,” in the savage
outbursts of which Francois
builds big volumes; two grace-
ful waltzes (Op. 70, No. 3 and
Op. 64, No. 2) both pointing-up
in their haughty elegance Schu-
mann’s dictum that these pieces
should never be danced by
anyone below the rank of
countess; and the “Polonaise
Brillante,” a fine exposition of
all-round pianism.
Coronet’s latest symphony-
release on LP is the Cesar
Franck D Minor, and it is a
true collectors’ piece. No other
French composer, not even
Berlioz, wrought so beautiful
a symphony as this. The New
York Philharmonic conducted
by Leonard Bernstein succeeds
admirably in capturing not
only its serenity but the mystic
quality which, after his organ
music, is contained more abun-
dantly in this than in any
other of Franck’s works. The
glorious harmonies are served
by well-judged tone-coloring,
and the work of some of the
principal desks in solo-passages,
notably the French §tnd English
horns, the oboe, clarinet and
harp, is of the highest class.
Philips continues its ballet-
excerpt series of 7-in. EPs with
“Faust.” This is a perfect com-
plement to the recording of the
opera. The interpolated 7-
piece ballet is never performed
in Australia owing to time-and-
expense problems. The Nut-
cracker Suite is another cap-
tivating rhythmic feast, with
the elfin charm of Tchaikow-
sky’s music liltingly forged by
the Vienna Symphony con-
ducted by Karel A n c e r 1.
Etcheverry, who conducts the
Lamoureux Orchestra in~Faust,
also pilots the same players
through the sunlit melodies of
Delibes’s Sylvia.
Paul Robeson is on a Coronet
7-in. EP (KEP 232). Two
songs: Oley Speaks’s “Sylvia”
and “The House I Live In,” are
fine examples of relaxed use
of his deep rich bass, but the
reverse-side spiritual, “Joshua
Fit De Battle of Jericho,” is
too repetitive and has a weak-
voiced singer in support.
❖ ❖ ❖
Pops from Germany
“Morgen,” top-pop on the
hit-parades a few months ago,
came to Australian teenagers in
American pressings, recorded
by U.S. orchestras. Now it’s
here on a Philips Polydor disk
(LPHM 46328) “One More
Sunrise,” as one of a dozen
current German favorites, pre-
sented by two of Germany’s
most popular band-combina-
tions. This version of “Mor-
gen” is arranged and conducted
by Bert Kaempfert, whose
team of instrumentalists give it
gentle and appealing treatment.
Kaempfert’s other contribu-
tions to the collection are Ger-
man and American pops in
varying mood, including Neu-
mann’s “Wonderland at Night,”
Phillips’s “Sweetwater Bay”
and the conductor-composer’s
own “Dreaming the Blues,”
which could probably get by in
New Orleans without naturali-
sation papers. So, for that
matter, could “Mr. Greger’s
Blues,” composed for Max
Greger and his orchestra by
Max’s friend Alsner. Greger
sticks to the same theme-color
with “Wild Cat Blues” and
deepens it into Duke Elling-
ton’s “Mood Indigo.” Kaemp-
fert and Greger have big repu-
tations on German radio,
both as band - leaders and
solo instrumentalists; Kaemp-
fert on stations in north-west'
Germany, Greger on Radio
Bavaria.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The Opera Ball, held at the Town Hall
on Friday night, was a spectacular suc-
cess. The guest-of-honor, Lady Dun-
rossil, was a glittering figure in silver
brocade with an amethyst tiara, and led
the dancing, partnered by Lord Mayor
Jensen. Then followed Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere, in a scintillating sheath-dress,
on the arm of Sir Malcolm Sargent (who
undoubtedly would have won the prize
for the best dancer, had there been one).
The decorations were large pink baskets of
pink and orange roses suspended from
the ceiling and contrasted by a curtain
of turquoise roses on the stage, the effect
bright and lively. The winner of the
Opera Ball Vocal Scholarship, Miss Jan
Bartlett, sang an aria from “Tosca” so
beautifully that she held the full attention
of the assembly at mid-dance-time (quite
a feat!). Mrs. Gladys Schartl, donor of
the scholarship, made the presentation at
the ball.
Perhaps it was the prize for the best
tout-ensemble that brought forward so
many glamorous full-length gowns, or
perhaps it was just the beginning of the
season and everyone has a fresh new
gown. ' At any rate, the judges—Mrs.
Healy, Mrs. Sam Hordern and Mr. Noel
Vincent—had a very hard task in choos-
ing. Mr. V. said he was looking for
“simple elegance,” and it was certainly
to be seen in the slim dress of midnight-
blue satin with white satin bodice and
white-lined stole worn by prizewinner
Mrs. Donald Quirk. Second-prize went
to Mrs. Gordon Johnston in a slim, white
dress, silver-embroidered, worn with a
bright-red coat of Italian-silk.
<r ☆ ☆
The audience at the Tivoli, always
lively, bubbled-over for the opening of
the “Tommy Steele Show” on Friday
night. The enthusiasm of the teenagers
infected the oldsters and made them feel
young too. Tommy Steele, who is said
to be receiving £50,000 for his Austra-
lian tour, is a perky Cockney-type of
entertainer who dances, sings, plays the
guitar (and Soccer) and reminds a far-
frorn-teenager of George Formby. To
meet he attracts by his freshness and
complete lack of self-consciousness. For
instance, he is quite likely to take off
his coat at a party in his honor, don
an apron and serve “the eats.” He makes
the teenagers swoon.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is a rumor, by the way, that
famous stage - and - screen comedienne
Billie Burke will be in Sydney in July
to attend the opening night of the
modern-day “Ziegfeld Follies,” to open
at the Tiv. on July 18. Billie Burke was,
of course, the wife of Florenz Ziegfeld.
The Sydney Hunt Club is to have its
opening Meet at Springmead Farm,
lngleburn, on Sunday morning, May 1.
There’ll be about 90 members in the
field, so the pink coats and the hounds
and the horses should all make a striking
spectacle. Mrs. John Amory is among
the riders, and Rebel Russell, the six-
year-old daughter of the Paddy Russells,
of Springmead, will be the youngest of
the hunters, as she has been since she
started at the age of three. Mr. Neville
Carpenter is Master. There is to be a
huge buffet-luncheon at the house for
Hunt servants and personal friends,
whilst outside members will have barbe-
cues.
Mrs. Neil Hutchison, wife of the
Elizabethan Trust’s new executive-
director, is an English girl who has lived
in Australia since the age of 14 except
for three years abroad. A journalist, she
has worked for leading women's maga-
zines in London and has written for
London “Punch.” She met her husband
and was married in London five years
ago when she was visiting her sister,
Yvonne Nightingale, now married to
well - known London fashion - photo-
grapher John Adrian (the Adrians have
just had a baby daughter called Tacye).
Mrs. Hutchison shares her husband’s
interest in theatre and is also an expert
on fashion. A member of the Eliza-
bethan Ball committee, she will be one
of the models at the fashion-parade to
be held at the Warrawee home of Mrs.
B. E. Capper next Friday, April 29, in
aid of the ball.
Another fashion-parade in aid of the
Elizabethan Ball will be the millinery-
show and luncheon at Caprice on
July 26. Miss Margaret Gillespie, who
is organising it, says the hats will all
be spring-models specially flown over
from Melbourne lust now, as we feel
the first tang of winter, it is nice to think
of these hats helping to carry us over
to spring again
o * ☆
Other harbingers at spring from Mel-
bourne were the repie?>enlauyes of the
Wool Bureau, who showed during the
week lightweight garments suitable for
the season after this one. There were
washable-wool blouses for girls and
shirts for men, a non-crushing light-
weight-wool men’s dressing-gown simi-
lar to those presented to the Olympic
team by the Wool Bureau, a beautiful
wool-raincoat designed to cope with the
extra rain that the C.5.1.R.0. seems con-
fident of creating, shoes of waterproofed
check-wool, and a pretty printed wool
cocktail-dress with a jacket which would
really be quite suitable for Sydney in
midwinter.
Then down at Prince's the Ben-Hur
Fashion Parade, in aid of the Deaf and
Blind Children, showed knitted slacks
absolutely skin-tight and shorter than
short, a hood lined with fur parka-
fashion such as American college-girls
wear, and the most expensive cardigan
this Letter has ever seen. It was made
of sapphire mink with knitted cuffs,
collar, edging and basque in grey wool.
IT you really believe that “mink is for
football,” this is just the thing for you.
Mrs. Bill White, president of the social
committee of the Royal N.S.W. Institu-
tion for Deaf and Blind Children, wel-
comed the guests, who included Mrs.
Bernard Freeman, Mrs. Kev Chaldjian,
Mrs. Bill Christie (just about to take-off
for Surfers’ Paradise), Mrs. Joe
Dougherty (in a big black brushed-wool
hat), Mrs. M. Alldritt (in a big white
one), Mrs. Roy Harrison and Mrs.
Charles Lane. The latter had just re-
turned from Melbourne, where she fare-
welled her niece, Penelope Lane, who
went off with a party of 12 girls and a
chaperone to get to London in time for
Princess Margaret’s wedding.
Dressed in scarlet capes and wearing
white veils with the Red Cross emblem,
over 1000 Junior Red Cross members held
their Service of Song in the grounds of
Government House on Anzac Day. Lady
Woodward, president of Junior Red
Cross in N.S.W., issues an invitation for
this service to be held at G.H. every
year. Marching six abreast, the children
moved-off from Shakespeare Place at 8.30
a.m. and at 9 a.m. the service was con-
ducted by Miss K. Riach, Divisional
Secretary of J.R.C. The songs were led
by Mr. Terence Hunt, and a short
address given by Matron C. Fall. After
the service flowers placed at the foot of
the dais were given to the children from
the Plunket Street School, who carried
them to the Gates of Remembrance,
Woolloomooloo.


MELBOURNE
Although the weather had changed
overnight from Indian - summer to
autumn with cold winds blowing in from
the bay, the enthusiasm of the audience
in the St. Kilda Palais for the opening
night of “Salome” was warm and
appreciative. It was the first opera pro-
duced in the Elizabethan Trust’s season,
and Joan Hammond, who sang the title-
role and gracefully performed the Dance
of the Seven Veils, received special
applause. But the weather forced
audience dressing to be less glamorous.
Theatre-coats were well in evidence.
That worn by Lady Grimwade was
striking, fashioned as it was of green
and fuchsia shot-silk taffeta ; it was very
full and short, and fell from an upstand-
ing frilled collar. Striking also was the
short full coat of apple-green Honan-
silk chosen by Mrs. John McCallum,
with its deep shawl-collar tied in front
with long fringed ends. Mrs. John
Inkster chose a frock of deep-bronze
brocade and a white Arctic-fox stole.
One of the outstanding gowns noticed
was the full-length black velvet worn
by Marie Balfour —it was caught at the
hemline into a ruffle in which nestled
a red rose. Mrs John Casson’s velvets
were midnight-blue, and they were worn
with a matching stole. Minister for
Forests Alex Fraser and Mrs. Fraser,
Lady Angliss and her granddaughter
Diana Knox, Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck, Sir Arthur and Lady Smithers,
Mr. and Mrs. John Sumner (her sheath-
frock made from a bronze silk sari), Sir
Robert and Lady Knox and Mrs. F. H.
Wright were other first-nighters.
☆ ☆ *
Twenty-seven years ago Sir Harold
Gengoult Smith was Lord Mayor of
Melbourne, and he was the first to marry
while in office. His bride was Cynthia,
daughter of Sir Norman and Lady
Brookes. Many of the women who
stood outside St. Paul’s Cathedral on
the day of that wedding were there again
when Marion, the Gengoult Smiths’ only
daughter, was married last week to
Rodney Davidson. Given away by her
father, Marion chose a simple elegant
gown of ivory satin which featured a
rounded neckline, and slimly-fitting
bodice with long sleeves. A panel of
rose - point Brussels - lace mounted on
Madonna-blue satin swathed the low-set
pannier-hipline and tied in a loose bow
at the back of the crinoline skirt. The
wide skirt fell into a long train and was
misted with a Venetian point-lace veil
mounted on a diamond tiara, lent by her
mother. Pinned in the bodice was a
diamond brooch, the gift of the bride-
groom. She carried a trail-bouquet of
tuberoses, lily-of-the-valley and gardenias.
The six attendants were the bride-
groom’s sister Mrs. Alan Calvert, Diana
Wood, Deirdre Leviny, Natasha Triko-
jus, Elizabeth McKean and Jennie
Mackay, while seven-year-old Penelope
Smith was train-bearer. Their long
frocks were of white embroidered Swiss-
organdie. The fitting bodices had a deep
pleated fichu-neckline, drawn into the
waist with a belt and continuing as a
pleated floating-panel at one side of the
skirt. Tiny veils .held organdie coronets
in their hair, and they carried long-
stemmed roses and carnations mixed with
blue flowers. The bridegroom, who is
the only son of Mrs. Charles Davidson,
of Toorak, and the late Mr. Davidson,
had Anthony Osborn as best man.
Groomsmen were the bride’s brother
Norman, Alan Calvert, Richard Metcalfe,
Donald Macarthur and Fred Grimwade.
The reception was held at Raveloe,
South Yarra, the home of the bride’s
parents. Lady Gengoult Smith chose an
ensemble of deep-red satin. The sheath-
frock was topped with a sleeveless coat
of the same material, contrasted with
black-fox fur on the cuffs of the frock
and hemline of the coat. Her turban
was made of the same red satin as her
ensemble. Mrs. Davidson wore a slim
sheath-frock of coffee-beige French-lace,
a beige mink stole and small hat of
shades of green and beige flowers.
Marion’s grandmother, Dame Mabel
Brookes, chose a frock of aqua-blue lace
with a toque of blue and grey feathers.
Among the presents received by Marion
was a set of lace dinner-mats from her
godfather, the Duke of Gloucester.
English-born Patricia Moore, who has
been chosen to take-over Bunty Turner's
role of Eliza Doolittle in “My Fair
Lady,” is 23, 5ft. 4in., and the Leslie
Caron-type. A brunette, she has been
living for the past four years in London,
having come from Birmingham to the
West End stage. She has been married
five years to pianist Maurice Moore.
Like Bunty, Patricia trained for opera,
and in common with both Julie Andrews
and Bunty has appeared in "The Boy
Friend.” When auditioned in London
for the role of Eliza she was playing lead
in the pantomime, “The Sleeping
Beauty.”
Light, frothy and amusing, “Dear
Delinquent” had an excellent reception
when it opened at the Little Theatre,
with youthful Joy Mitchell as the star.
Joy, a student of classical music, has
been seen in several productions at the
Little, and has also appeared on the
professional stage. Among first-nighters
were Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe, Mr.
and Mrs. R. F. G. Fogarty, Mr. and
Mrs. S. Prentice, the John Heaths,
actress June Clyne (attractive in gold
satin theatre-coat and black silk frock),
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce Hallows, Mr. and
Mrs. George Hallows, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Mardlin, Mrs. Geoffrey Tebbutt, Carole
Potter, Labor Minister George Reid and
his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Calder,
Patricia Lehman, Robin McKay, Mary
Cromb, Wayne Madera and Gordon
Thomas.
* ☆ ☆
When Helen, twin-daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Bryan Duffy, of Woodlands,
Euroa, was married to John, eldest son
of Mr. and Mrs. John Sutherland, also
of Euroa, at the Euroa C. of E., she
wore a gown of white delustred satin
fashioned on princess-lines and featuring
a panel of pleats at the hemline of the
long skirt. The tulle fingertip veil was
caught with a curvette of white satin,
and the bouquet was of white gardenias.
Her twin-sister, Mrs. M. Scott, of Benalla,
was matron-of-honor, and bridesmaids
were Mary Stack (Bathurst, N.S.W.) and
Sandra Cavanagh, of Yarrawonga.
Their frocks were of white silk-taffeta
made with full bell-skirts and highlighted
with sashes of cornflower-blue. They
carried posies of cornflowers to match
the bandeau of cornflowers in thein
hair. lan Urquhart was best man, and
Ross Sutherland and Rod Ferguson
groomsmen. Reception was at the home
of the bride’s parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most important project undertaken by
the Young Contingent of the Victoria
League is assistance for the Northcote
Farm School at Bacchus Marsh. The
first function arranged this year as a
money-spinner for this objective is a
dinner-dance -at Ciro’s, to be held next
Friday night (April 29), tickets being
£2 ss. each. A large committee is work-
ing for its success. Ticket-secretaries are
Lesley Cran (50 4304), Eve Fasken
(LB 1112), and Dianna Holyman
(WF 4214).
☆ ☆ ☆
Tawny autumn-leaves and yellow
chrysanthemums decorated International
House when 300 members of I.H.
auxiliaries attended a luncheon, the
guest-of-honor for which was Lady
Casey, who was welcomed by the presi-
dent, Mrs. A. V. Jackson, members of
the executive, and the Warden of Inter-
national House, Mr. S. Dimmick.
Thirty students assisted with the enter-
taining of guests. Lady Clunies Ross,
Mrs. Gillam Hunt and wives of Consuls
of countries represented in this city were
at the official table. In the very repre-
sentative gathering were the wife of the
Chancellor of the University, Mrs. Arthur
Dean; Lady Paton, wife of the Vice-
Chancellor ; the chairman of 1.H., Sir
Samuel Wadham, and Lady Wadham;
Lady Burnet; Mrs. R. T. Breen; and
Mrs. Ringland Anderson.


familiarity which marks the true
bush ballad.
Again: —
His love of description led him
to overlay his ballads, as he overlaid
his narrative blank-verse, with an
ornateness which changes them into
something which is neither ballad
nor lyric.
In considering “Rose Lorraine” “the
most beautiful love lyric ever written
by an Australian.” the Bishop is per-
haps using other than literary standards
of beauty or ordinary standards of love.
It represents the beauty of the mortified
soul, maybe; the love of loss. Or per-
haps he exaggerates the quality of this
poem (written to the woman who
turned Kendall down) in order to
protest more strongly against the criti-
cism by Kendall’s eldest son. in a letter
to the Bishop, of Kendall’s blaming his
wife for his failures in life.
Indeed, when you consider what
that life was. as set out in the beginning
of T. Inglis Moore’s recent anthology,
it is easier to understand why most who
read him want to be kind to Kendall.
At a time when there was hardly any
Australian poetry, he tried to make it;
his poetry is a record of a struggle to
be beautiful against a background of
suffering and want. That his beauty
was a preconceived beauty, his music
sugary, his narratives obscured by
scenery, does not take away from this
struggle of the soul —but as a soul-
struggle Kendall’s work fits him
more for the attentions of the
biographer than of the literary critic.
As the life of a struggling soul, the
Bishop's biography of Kendall could
be more forceful than Kendall’s own
writings.
The present booklet consists of a 45-
page critical essay, with a chronology
of Kendall’s life and a bibliography.
S.A . Picturebook
The Sunny South, a Pictorial Review
of South Australia, put out by Rigby’s
of Adelaide aided by a four-man'team
of researchers, is as good an advertise-
ment for South Australian printing as
for the State. Its 79 color-photographs
portray South Australian scenery,
buildings, sea, rivers, orchards, vine-
yards, farms, opals, airfields, uranium-
plants. cathedral, flowers and goannas
with imperishable and impossible
lustre, as such things should, corrected
by the sober greys of the 153 black-
and-white pictures of buttermakers.
pelicans, salt-pans and gypsum deposits
(at Lake McDonnell): —
South Australia possesses the major
gypsum deposits of Australia....
Gypsum is processed into plaster-of-
Paris, which then becomes plaster
for walls and ceilings and chalk for
schools.
If one were to ask a question, it
might be: what is the huge Queen
Elizabeth Hospital doing in Section
Four, Secondary Industries, between
General Motors - Holdens 66 - acre
motor-body works and Waterfront at
Port Pirie? Is this to suggest that the
Australian body needs as much care
as the motor-body, or that, sport being
Australia’s primary industry, the care
of crocks is a secondary industry?
In any case, it gives one to think—-
as. indeed, do all these quietly and
informatively captioned pictures,
especially such unusual ones as that of
flood-irrigation at Langhorne’s Creek,
in which the river is relied-upon to
flood the vines, which thereupon pro-
duce an average of six tons of grapes
an acre.
THE STAIRWAY
Here are twelve steps that lead into the
sky ;
Sometimes a thin brown boy with cap
and ball
Comes bounding down them, or a bird
will fall
Stiffened with salt and death where the
waves cry.
A child once climbed them, saying the
moon was there,
Hoping to clasp it from the berg-blue
roof
Of the midwinter day : some fair, aloof
Creature, her marble face’s beckoning
stare,
And plunged from the stern headland at
the top ;
On chilly nights you still can hear her call,
“Moon . . . moon,” where the granite
steps curve in their fall,
And see her rush there, eager for the
drop ;
And catch that last hooroo as the body
lies
In the tide, and the ghost within her
shivers on
To climb the steps again where the moon
shone ;
To feel its icy tendrils on her eyes;
Or on summer days, when the surf throws
gulls like spume
Out of its ravening mouth, and the riders
fling
Their hopes down the long breakers,
shuddering;
When the blood races, greedy for that
royal boom
Of waves that buck like horses —1 see
her stalking
That drowned girl, ever and ever up the
stair ;
Weeping for the silver bauble of the air.
And seek to hymn her in her endless
walking.
N.S.W.
CHARLES HIGHAM.
Sarajevo
Joachim Remak’s Sarajevo (Weiden-
feld and Nicolson) tells for the first
time the entire objective story of the
planning, execution and result of the
assassination of the Archduke Franz
Ferdinand.
It seems that at one point in the
investigation carried-out by Judge Leo
Pfeffr into the assassination —Ferdi-
nand was heir-apparent to the throne
of Austria-Hungary—the affair might
have remained merely a local murder.
But the Sarajevo police diligently
rounded-up a number of suspects,
friends of Gavrilo Princip. who fired
the fatal shots on June 28. 1914, and
of Cabrinovic. who threw the bomb.
Among those arrested was a school-
teacher. Danilo Ilic. friend of Princip
and member of the Serbian Black
Hand (“Ujedinjenje ili Smrt”). Ilic
lost his head when questioned by the
judge and, in the hope of saving his
life, confessed that the assassination
had been the result of a conspiracy.
The circle widened. It was never
discovered that the Black Hand —a
secret organisation of Army officers,
lawyers, journalists, professors, school-
teachers and the like, which existed for
the creation, by violence, of a Greater
Serbia —had taken any part in the
affair, but it was certain, beyond
reasonable doubt, that the decision to
assassinate Franz Ferdinand had been
made in Belgrade.
Therefore Austria-Hungary sent an
ultimatum to Serbia and, not satisfied
with the Serbian reply, declared war.
Russia, protector of all Slavs, mobilised
in support of Serbia; Germany,
demanding an end to the Russian
mobilisation, but receiving no answer,
declared war against Russia on August
1 and against France on August 3;
Great Britain came in on August 4; and
ten-million soldiers and civilians were
eventually killed, with another 20-
million wounded before War I ended.
The book explains why Colonel
Dragutin Dimitrijevic (“Apis”). Black
Hand member and head of Serbian
military intelligence, decided on the
Archduke’s murder. It describes how
the conspirators were enlisted and how
they acted, and recounts the course of
their trial. It also .gives a vivid picture
of the Archduke and his wife, who both
fell victims to Princip’s shots, and an
insight into the affairs of Austria-
Hungary under the rule of the Emperor
Franz Joseph.
It is accurate history (the sources of
each chapter are quoted in an appen-
dix), well illustrated and written in an
interesting, readable style.


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
"The Auk"
Field-Marshal Sir Claude Auchin-
leck, the subject of John Connell’s
( biography, Auchinleck (Cassell), is one
[ of the most fiercely criticised leaders of
j War 11.
m Churchill, who chose Auchinleck for
C.-in-C. Middle East Land Forces,
[ never ceased bewailing his disappointed
i hopes long enough to recognise his
I own misjudgment and misunderstand-
l ing. Montgomery, who took-over
I command of the Eighth Army from
; Auchinleck, never stopped blowing his
own trumpet long enough to acknow-
ledge that the plans for the El Alamein
position were laid in front of him by
Auchinleck when command changed.
Nehru, who accepted the old Indian
Army as the only stable force avail-
t able in the impossible situation of
partition, never had time to remember
that its Supreme Commander had
stopped a war in Kashmir, never
, scrupled to use innuendo and accusa-
| tion to get rid of Auchinleck because
, his position was “derogatory to Indian
s sovereignty.”
If these powerful critics had not
Teen so articulate that could have been
ithe end of the matter. The fortune of
war is capricious, Auchinleck has
| reached the highest rank he could
possibly hold and he is too good a
soldier to seek to justify his actions
beyond his dispatches. But John
Connell quotes Dr. Johnson: “If
a fife be delayed till interest and envy
are at an end, we may hope for
impartiality, but must expect little
intelligence,” and his biography might
be described as “favorably detached.”
It is a long book (952 pages), but
authoritative and extremely well docu-
mented. The services of Australian
and New Zealand troops are very
thoroughly and accurately described,
and there is a factual record of the
exchange of telegrams about the relief
of the Ninth Australian Division in
Tobruk.
The politico-military history’ of
Auchinleck’s campaign in the Western
Desert, and his reasons for eventually
superseding General Neil Ritchie and
taking command of the Eighth Army,
are given in great detail.
The book, dedicated to “The
Memory of The Indian Army, 1759-
1947,” does justice to that magnifi-
cent body of men. It describes how
Auchinleck transformed India into a
great base for Mountbatten’s victorious
campaign in Burma. It also gives the
complete record of the transfer of
power to the Governments of India
and Pakistan and shows how Auchin-
leck, last Field-Marshal and last
C.-in-C. of the Indian Army, fulfilled
his greatest service when he handed it
over to the new nations at the highest
point of its fame, reputation and
efficiency.
Apart from historical value, John
Connell’s book should be read as the
story of a great man who has known,
in full measure, grief, loss, disappoint-
ment, fear and loneliness, but who has
never forgotten the plain, hard fact
of duty, which alone makes a soldier
worth his pay.
R.G.
Siamese Cats
Doreen Tovey wrote a delightful
book about Siamese cats in “Cats in
the Belfry”; won fame and went on
television with the cats for the 8.8. C.;
and that, of course, made it extremely
difficult for her to write an equally
pleasing sequel in Cats in May (Elek;
Angus and Robertson).
Gerald Durrell, with whom as a
humorous writer about animals Mrs.
Tovey might almost have been com-
pared on the first book, manages to
write captivating sequels to his
Nature-books, and even sequels to the
sequels, by going to new countries and
getting new material; but the writer
who stays at home and tries, in quick
succession, to write another book on
the same subject, can hardly hope to
have anything to offer except the same
material beaten out thin. Mrs. Tovey
has, in fact, hardly any new material
to beat; except her husband, poor
Charles, whom more and more, as he
fails to fix a tap or falls off a ladder,
she beats without mercy—in fact, when
one thinks what can be done to cats,
she begins to sound quite sinister about
him:—
Something, said Charles, would
have to be done about those cats.
He said that quite regularly. It
came in jolly handy for changing
the subject at times, particularly
when there was a slight suggestion
in the air that something ought also
to be done about Charles.
Mrs. Tovey gets off on the wrong
foot by saying that the cats have
become selfconscious after their appear-
ance on TV —which, if meant to be
nonsense, is still nonsense; it is the
author who has suffered from fame—
and thereafter (if this metaphor isn’t
getting too mixed) never really comes
down to earth again: except, one must
add, when the cats go to their earth-
boxes, which they do every second
page or so; and when the cats aren’t
doing that the visitors at the Toveys
are trying to flush the toilet, which
Charles hasn’t fixed properly.
However, it is all bright enough; and
here and there a little genuinely fresh
information about Siamese cats does
make its appearance. At one period a
new Siamese kitten is introduced to
the household, driving the original
Solomon and Sheba wild with
jealousy; and there is a lively, if not
quite relevant, account of the life of
a pet squirrel which used to store nuts
behind the beds and down the backs
of the armchairs.
Lawson Prizes
Prizes for art and “Oscars” for verse
and prose are offered in connection
with the 1960 Grenfell (N.S.W.) Henry
Lawson Festival.
The principal art-prizes are £5O for
an oil and £25 for a watercolor (any
subject), and there are other prizes for
photographs and for child-art. Entry-
forms are to be returned by May 30.
The awards in the literary competi-
tions will be “Oscars” from Ampol,
which is also awarding an “Oscar” for
the best work of art. Verse is to be
not more than 60 lines on any aspect of
Australian or New Zealand life associ-
ated with Henry Lawson; prose is to
be a sketch or short-story “chosen from
the general area of subject-matter
treated in the works of Lawson.”
Closing date for these competitions is
May 16.
Details of all competitions may be
obtained from H. J. Goodwin,
organiser, Lawson Festival Committee,
Grenfell.
Reviewed Briefly
A Tiger Walks: lan Niall (Heine-
mann). Panic and publicity descend
upon the Welsh village of Pentre Ddu
when a starving Bengal tiger escapes
from a circus, kills two men and
makes-off into the misty hills. The
police and the Army are called to deal
with the situation. The author tells an
exciting story and, at the same time,
gives an exact picture of life in “Welsh
Wales,” understanding what makes
people tick.
* * * *
The Murder and the Trial: Edgar
Lustgarten (Odhams). Himself a
barrister, Lustgarten is gifted with clear
exposition and is perfectly equipped
to bring-out every point of law. In this
book he has chosen a dozen true-life
cases, including those of Edith Thomp-
son, Adelaide Bartlett, William Henry
Wallace and Norman Thorne. In each
history, though never missing the cut-
and-thrust of legal technique, he shows
all sides of the case, never neglecting
the responsibilities of judge or jury and
never forgetting the human side of the
men and women in the dock.


STEEL PIPE
Underground
* _
♦
-T^
s*
Whenever water
has to be conveyed—
there's no satis-
factory substitute
for STEEL PIPE
Before ordering, think of these advan-
tages that steel pipe has over other
types of piping.
★ Because it is not fragile or susceptible
to damage by stock or fire, it can be
laid above ground, thereby saving
cost of trenching.
★ Greater strength gives far longer life.
★ Steel pipe does not deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure.
★ Is not damaged by termites or
rodents.
★ Has much greater pressure capacity.
★ Steel pipe is easy to install, handle or
store without fear of breakage.
★ In-built structural strength and rigidity
permit overhead vertical and
building installations.
★ No other type of pipe Is so
economical ... so enduring . . . s©
versatile in its application.
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, shorter-lived types of piping!
TOR VALUE... GREATER STRENGTH... LONGER LIFE... INSIST ON STEEL PIP
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong,
Launceston, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
SSA 2-59,
