

The Bulletin
April 26, 1961
and The Observer
Price 1 -
INSIDE
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
CANBERRA
Beef-cattle
Supplement
Communists
in Cuba
A. D. Hope and
the English Critics


WOOL SELLING
LIVESTOCK
i
TRAVEL
-■S'
MERCHANDISING
%±i
SKINS and HIDES
b ~*±t. .
I i]
INSURANCE
HKt
j*Jv
RURAL FINANCE
v 'ir
- 7 /
LAND and PROPERTY
/
Guiefas
complete Service
MAN on the LAND
with more than
120 years' Service to the Pastoral
Industry . . . their 200 Branches
throughout Australia . . . their
high standard of efficiency . . .
are in the position to render you
a Complete Service.
As Elders are equipped to
handle all aspects of business,
you may rest assured that all
your needs can be readily and
satisfactorily attended to.
There
is an
Branch within telephone distance
of your home.
Wherever you are —whatever you need phone Elders.
r
D<»'
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Gouf burn,
Brisbane, London.


Society
Unemployed ? No,
Just Not Working
Conversation at the inquiry counter of
a large Sydney shop:
“Can you tell me what department
Mrs So-and-so is in now?”
“Mrs So-and-so? Oh, she’s been stood
down. She’s still with us, but she’s been
stood down.”
No Sayle
Students of the Australian novel have
wondered why expatriate Murray
Sayle's recent effort, “A Crooked Six-
pence,” a send-up of the London popular
press and its methods (Sayle worked at
one time for the London paper “The
People”), has not been on sale in Aus-
tralian bookshops.
The fact is, “A Crooked Sixpence” has
been suppressed. A person who identified
himself with one of the characters sued
the publishers for libel soon after it
appeared, and the book was immediately
withdrawn, pending settlement of the
ease. Worse still for Mr Sayle, he had
just signed a contract for a paperback
American edition when the libel suit was
registered, and that deal also fell through.
Since the reviewers are certainly not
going to write their reviews again after
the libel matter is settled (even if it does
go to court, which it may not) the book
has been well and truly killed.
We understand, however, that Mr
Sayle is now considering a novel about
novelists and the law of libel.
No Holding That Tiger
Will Tiger Balm, the fragrant-smelling
” cure-all of the Orient, soon appear
in Australian pharmacies and chain-
stores? Head of the Tiger Balm empire,
Mr Aw Cheng Chye, of Singapore, who
is visiting Australia, thinks it may.
Smiling and rotund, Mr Aw wears a
“I said they're playing ‘our tune'!"
Burmese sapphire as big as a pigeon’s
egg on his left hand. He is the son and
nephew of the two brothers who founded
the business in Rangoon over 50 years
ago.
Tiger Balm ointment, a cure for every-
thing from colds to goitre, and allegedly
containing extract of tigers’ bones, soon
became the East’s favorite patent
medicine. It made a fortune for its
makers, who soon spread into other
medicinal lines. Today the Tiger Balm
enterprises controlled by Mr Aw include
banks, insurance companies and news-
papers. Branches and subsidiaries operate
as far afield as the Caribbean and
Holland.
Mr Aw refused to tell the ingredients
of Tiger Balm ointment. “Modern in-
gredients,” he said cryptically, “exactly
the same as Father and Uncle used.”
The Disappearing Nudes
C\ne of the most interesting events
before and during the case in Mel-
bourne in which the Collins Book Depot
Pty Ltd was charged with having kept
certain obscene articles for the purpose
of gain in Swanston Street was not
referred to in his decision by John Dillon,
S.M. This was that some of the exhibits
disappeared from the office of Mr A. E.
Woodward, who appeared for the Crown
Solicitor ; and in a German book, full
of nudes, one of the most striking was
nipped out while the book was in the
custody of the court.
Mr Dillon found that the exhibit maga-
zines were “sheer pornography” and that
an exhibit book contained 24 obscene
photographs out of 32,. In imposing the
maximum fine of £5O he said he found
it, in all the circumstances, inadequate.
He agreed to a stay of proceedings.
This means the booksellers may
appeal. In cases such as this, when
defendants are convicted on mere
opinion, it would be interesting—and,
more important, just—if the magistrate
were put in the box to justify his convic-
tion and cross-examined to determine his
authority.
The appeal court should be given the
opportunity of testing magistrates’ fit-
INDEX
• Inside Canberra 7
• Hope for the English 9
• From Madang to Moresby 12
• Nothing “Swampy”
About Seymour 14
• A Night with Winifred 16
• Some Dosh for a Party
(Short Story) 59
Special Beef-cattle Supplement pages 47 to 58
Aboriginalities 28
Business, Robbery, etc. 36
Consumer-Observer 26
Letters 44
Look Back At Anger 35
Personal 18
Plain English 6
Political Points 22
Red Page 30
Shows 39
Service 67
Society 3
Sport 42
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 62
The Bulletin Newspaper Co Piy Ltd. Box 2521 G.P.0.. Sydney.


ness to make a damaging, official opinion,
their background, and their knowledge
of the 1961 world.
It may well be, of course, that the
English practice of giving questions of
moral opinion to juries to decide should
be adopted and such issues removed from
the personal opinions of magistrates and
juries.
Kangaroo Furs
■p ASH lON houses in Britain, Germany,
France and the United States are
putting in such large orders for kangaroo
pelts that the Melbourne suppliers, C. W.
Martin and Sons, are going to appoint
a designer to work exclusively with
kangaroo fur. It seems that elegant girls
are-demanding the shaggy look without
bulk, which the efficient kangaroo pro-
vides. it would be strange if hounding
kangaroos off the sheep stations resulted
in cramping the overseas market for
sheepskins.
Reign of Chaos
A/felbourne University’s student weekly
-*■*-*• is called “Farrago” (Latin lor “a
hodge-podge fed to cattle”). Students at
Monash University brought out the first
issue of their paper with the front page
headed “Nameless, Priceless.” Since then
they have settled on a name —“Chaos.”
Exporting a Poet
Pveryone is always in favor of sending
poets abroad. Ovid, Suckling,
Byron, Heine, Brecht, for instance, had
that made very clear to them. But it is
with the kindest feelings that a group
of jazzists, folk-singers, lutenists and
actors are getting together one of
Sydney’s most inclusive weekends of
entertainment on behalf of Lex Banning’s
“Mummy, you're getting much too fat —what will the new baby
think of you?"
voyage: the spastic double-honors Arts
graduate is hardly- in a position to save
the money himself.
The weekend, April 28-30, will contain
somehow, Menotti’s opera, “The Tele-
phone,” readings of plays by Ray
Mathew, Nino Culotta and Stan Nicholls,
and of Australian poetry by John
Croyston, Dixieland and jazz by the Ray
Price and John Sangster organisations,
Scottish folksongs, Elizabethan lute
songs, and a world premiere of the Aus-
tralian film, “Forgive Us - Our Tres-
passes," produced by Gunnar Isakson.
All at the Sydney Theatre Club, 590
George Street.
That was Society
The removal of the Queen’s statue from
the site it has occupied for many years
at the top of King Street, Sydney, was
made an occasion for recalling the names
of the “Echo’’ and other newspapers that
had been placed under the foundation of
the pedestal. But other more remarkable
things —things above rather than beneath
—might have been recalled. A tree stood;
according to tradition, on that site, and
from one of its branches in the first
days of Australian history a youth of
17 was hanged for stealing a loaf of
bread. All these years, as his dangling
ghost waved in the breeze, his spectral
feet have brushed the image of Victoria
and been unpleasant company.
— “Bulletin”, July 9, 1908.
In Adelaide, at the Court of Industrial
Appeals, Justice Gordon has been trying
to find out what a “living wage’’ is; and
when, after a long hearing, the parties
came into court and said that they had
agreed to call it 7s. a day, the chirpy
Judge looked like a man who had just
been found not guilty of 17 awful crimes.
Up to then his Honor had been getting
all sorts of advice; the last adviser who
got into the witness box before the agree-
ment was come to assure the Judge'that
he earned £ I a week and was “happy
with his lot.’’ Certainly his lot consisted
only of a wife and no children. But -even
so the judge Was interested in getting him
to go into details. This was how he did
it—Rent (two rooms) ,3/6; groceries, 2/6;
bread, 1/9; butter 1/4; milk 10id.; meat,
45.; fuel, Bd.; vegetables, 1 /6; lighting,
4bL; tobacco, 1/3; fruit and drink, 1/6;
boots and clothes, 2/-. That looked like
21/3, but perhaps there was something
wrong about the calculation. Anyhow, if
you cut out the butter it is 19/11; and
that would leave as much as a penny,
which he no doubt cut up amongst
theatres, cricket club subscriptions, news-
papers and literature, trips home to see
mother, doctors anti chemists, crockery
(the handles will come off cups, some-
how) , furniture, seed for the canary, and
stamps. With -what is left he gets his
hair cut, and buys “a little thing for the
wife’’ at Christmas. It’s marvellous what
you can do for a penny.
—" Bulletin”, December 24, 1908.
THE COLD SHOULDER
The off-the-shoulder frocks arrive
As the weather’s getting colder,
So it’s up to someone to contrive
An off-the-shoulder shoulder.
With such a shoulder, subtly planned
For being screwed apart
A girl could give a man her hand
And still retain her heart.
It could be left at home without
A feeling of alarm,
Since any thief who sought it out
Would only come to arm.
And quarrelling would lose its zest
And arguments would smother:
On one hand everything would rest,
And nothing on the other.
Such excellent reduction begs
The right of being more so :
Removal of all arms and legs,
Leaving just the torso.
And then if you removed the head,
So full of useless twaddle,
You'd have at last what might be said
To be a model model.
SWILLIAM


POLITICAL POINTS
“A native member of the Papua-New Guinea Legislative Council welcomed a suggestion that members should visit
the Federal Parliament to see Parliamentary democracy at work.’ -Pesreport.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Smearing of
Professor Crawford
No sooner had Professor Crawford
written his moderately expressed
but firm letter to The Bulletin on
the possible excesses of Communists
in university staffs than a trail of irre-
levancies and smears was laid which
are likely to distort the substance of
what he wrote. Whispering campaigns
produced the blunt assertion that he
had been misled by his wife (who also
runs a university department), then
attempted to destroy both their reputa-
tions.
Not all of the people—by any
means—who started the whispers or
carried them on were Communists, or
even Leftists; the facts from which
Professor Crawford argued in his
letter are so distasteful to the liberal
imagination that many of us would
sooner deny them and talk gossipy
titbits than explore the truth of an
unpleasant issue which challenges our
system of beliefs.
But it was not as easy as that. In
the following issue of The Bulletin
we published a moderate statement
giving some of the facts about what
has happened in the Melbourne Uni-
versity Social Studies Department.
Here was an even more serious matter
than the letter from Professor Craw-
ford. The article was at once attri-
buted by gossip to either Professor
Crawford, or his wife, or Dr Frank
Knopfelmacher, whose attacks on
Communism in the universities are
well known. It does not really matter
who wrote the articles, but the author
was in fact the editor of this publica-
tion. Thereafter the private smear
campaign heightened, giving further
evidence for the belief that the chief
exponents (or tools) of McCarthyist
tactics in Australia are now the anti-
anti-Communists.
To bring this discussion back to
where it belongs it is necessary to say
that the main controversial points in
Professor Crawford’s letter were:
1. “I have in recent years seen a dissident
group, which I believed to be Communist-
led and to have used the known tactics of
fractional politics, attempt to drive the
heads of two small departments and those
■ loyal to them either into acquiescing . . .
or even into resigning.”
2. “Behavior of the type referred to would
once have earned dismissal for those engag-
ing in it, and might still do so if there
were clearly no question of political belief
involved. But Australian university adminis-
trations in general fall over backwards to
avoid any possible appearance of attempting
to punish or control dissident political
beliefs.”
3. “Universities must be allowed to solve
these problems for themselves. Any
attempt at outside intervention is dangerous.”
4. “If fractional politics are played in
universities, we need to become aware of
them. And it is just as proper for academic
selection committees to take into considera-
tion any evidence leading them to fear that
an applicant may indulge in fractional
politics as it undoubtedly is to take account
of defects of personality.”
And the points to be established in
discussing our article, “Melbourne
University Communists At Work,”
are: How relevant is Communist-party
membership to what happened? Why
was action not taken? As to the truth
of what we said: if that is to be con-
tested it would best be judged in a
court room or a properly conducted
(and perhaps public) university
inquiry.
Castro’s
Cuba
Tt is a sign of something that so
many Australians are pro-Castro.
Partly of ignorance, perhaps ; partly
of anti-Americanism ; perhaps they
just like beards. But irrespective of
the issues involved in the failed in-
vasion they like Castro and hail him
as liberator of the exploited and sup-
porter of the weak and oppressed. He
is the champion of the workers and/or
peasants (whatever they are), he is
a genuine Socialist (whatever that is),
he is a symptom of an intellectuals’
revolt (we know what this is), he is
(of all things) a great democrat.
In fact Castro is an adventurer par
excellence. He made various kinds of
promises when he was struggling for
power. Since then it has been the
maintenance of power itself that seems
to have prompted his actions. He
controls the press, despises elections
and practises the economics of a
pirate. He runs his Labor movement
as Peron did, or as Mussolini did,
or as Khrushchev does —as a racket
that helps keep him in power. His
associate in this particular depreda-
tion is a powerful Communist, and
under him the union movement has
even less power than it had under
Batista; it is a mere propaganda
device to give the regime a “demo-
cratic” flavor. He has turned on some
of his friends of the revolutionary
days, destroyed the democratic
camaraderie of the Rebel Army and
partly handed the military forces over
to the Communists. He has stacked
his jails with dissidents and made a
virtue of executions ; his appeals to
the people are in the form of Hitlerite
mass demonstrations and organised
baby-kissing.
None of his fellow political bosses
are peasants or workers. They are
power - hungry middle - class profes-
sional men —doctors, engineers, and
so on—who have been made what
they are not because they represent
anything but because they are the
favorites of Castro. Castro’s feeling
for the workers is so great that on
an occasion when union leaders pro-
tested against his rule he screamed
at them: “Do you know what is the
first goal for which the working class
should fight, the only goal for which
a working class in a modern country
should fight fundamentally? For the
conquest of political power!”
What has happened in Cuba was
not engineered by Castro as a cynical
trick. He fluked power in the first
place: someone was going to replace
Batista and it turned out to be Castro.
But he represented—beyond a few
platitudes—no policy at all. And he
had behind him no social force, no
party, no army, no programme —
nothing. After that he began to
improvise: he had power and he
wanted to keep it. He had to find
something in the way of supporters
and policies. What he found was the
Communists. Now he uses them and
they use him, all desperate crooks
together.
The tyrannical regime they have
improvised out of Cuba is of the
Messianic kind. Castro is simply a
little Hitler. And this is what a num-
ber of Australians admire. These same
people attacked General de Gaulle as
a Fascist when he assumed control
of France to restore order and make
the country work. The demagogic,
tyrannical, arbitrary and fiendish
Castro is a hero ; the authoritarian
but conservative de Gaulle was a
Fascist. De Gaulle has stopped being
a Fascist for the moment, of course,
because he is defending France against
Right-wing generals. If he were de-
fending France against Castro-type
generals he would be a Fascist all
over again.
By OBSERVER


Inside Canberra
Robert Kennedy, who recently resigned after three years as
Special Assistant to the Prime Minister, here casts a purpose-
fully over-critical eye over what he calls the eerie smugness
of the Canberra way of life.
By ROBERT KENNEDY
When referring to New York G.
Henry used to call it Baghdad-
on-the-Hudson ; a plagiarist
looking for a similar tag for
Canberra might well be tempted .to call
it Moscow-on-the-Molonglo.
Not, let me hastily say, that nearly 12
years of Liberal-Country party Govern-
ment have inspired the happy Utopians
of A.C.T. to swing Left any more than
usual —although the A.C.T. is, of all the
silvertail areas in Australia, certainly
the furthest to the Left, and returns a
Labor M.H.R. each election with a
thumping majority.
However, Canberra has a most efficient
M.V.D. and he is a poor Permanent
Head who does not know—if he cares
to know —what members of his depart-
ment are up to in their spare time as
well as in their working time. A Research
Officer, Grade 11, has but to have a cup
of coffee with the wife of an Assistant
Secretary, and the grapevine is rustling ;
an Assistant Secretary has only to meet
a member of staff of a politically suspect
Embassy —and the fact is recorded in a
dozen heads and a few notebooks.
This, of course, is exactly what one
might expect of a country town —which
is what Canberra is in size, services, and
general outlook. However, Canberra is
not just a biggish country town: it has
all the disadvantages of a country town,
and none of the advantages.; it also has
all the disadvantages of a big city, and
none of the advantages.
This is all petty criticism—but it is
easy to be critical of Canberra and easy
to be goaded into snarling at the eerie,
smug self-satisfaction of the Canberra
mind. In fact it is this smugness which
is the most dangerous factor from the
national point of view. You have to
live in Canberra for a good period before
you really wake up to it. It sneaks up on
you.
Everybody in Canberra is mightily
struck with the importance of Canberra.
It is no exaggeration to say that most
People in Canberra —and this applies to
permanent heads, professors, journalists,
bakers, grocers, and secretaries —believe
that the whole nation spends its time
thinking about the National Capital.
Yet if you took a poll in Martin Place
°r St George’s Terrace and asked 100
People to identify Sir Roland Wilson,
W. A. McLaren, J. W. Overall or M. L.
Tyrrell, it is pounds to peanuts you
w °uld draw a blank. Some might know
Wilson, but Bill McLaren, head of the
Department of the Interior, J. W. Over-
al{, National Capital Development Com-
missioner, Murray Tyrrell, official
Secretary to the Governor-General would
almost certainly not run a drum. Neither
would the score of more of other Can-
berra Top Men whose names are bywords
in the Capital.
But. if you put this to the average
Canberran, he will find it impossible to
believe. The average public servant
cannot comprehend that there are people,
even tycoons, who do not think about
Canberra for weeks on end —often for
months on end, or even hardly at all.
I have written my way through this
somewhat elaborate build-up believing
the point I am trying to make is im-
portant to Australia: because, as the
people of Canberra become more and
more convinced of their importance and
power, so they tend to arrogate to them-
selves more and more power —if you
believe you are infallible, it is mentally
impossible to believe you should not
control all that is controllable.
The Hierarchy
YTl7hat sort of community is this, then,
that produces such a way of life?
Canberra, socially, is divided into three
parts, but it is divided in a circular
manner, in the way of a rifle-shooting
target. In the central, bull’s-eye area,
circulate the socially elite, people who
know when to sign visitors’ books, when
to leave cards, how to get invited to
Government House, how to address an
Ambassador, how to hand around sand-
wiches at tennis parties.
The next area —corresponding to the
“inner” in rifle-shooting terms —is a
smallish expanse filled with people who
are neither “in” nor “out.” Sometimes
they get invited to Government House,
if the affair happens to be a big one
(the Slims ran three farewell receptions,
and you were fairly accurately cata-
logued according to which of the three
you were bidden to attend). Occasionally
the Inners might be invited to a Parlia-
mentary luncheon if the guest of honor
has some connection with their job or
department; in short, they are teetering
on the verge of greatness, and if they
keep their noses clean, they’ll make it
and become a permanent part of the
Bull’s-eye. Not all the Inners are public
servants: the public service is in the
majority because, of course, public
servants control the guest lists . . . but
outsiders do get in—people like Keith
Newman, the brilliantly effective national
secretary of the R.S.L., who has proved
that organisational ability and inherent
political nous can do more for ex-
servicemen than any amount of sabre
rattling and medal-tinkling-cum-flag-
waving. His (and his wife Amy’s) success
is in rather stark contrast to that achieved
Robert Kennedy
by others of equal rank, such as the
resoundingly-titled Director of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures, Mr
Bob Anderson, who works on the old-
fashioned principle that political progress
is made through measured inches of press
space—which can only be gained quickly
and easily by criticising the Government,
and is therefore almost pre-guaranteed
to lose friends and un-influence poli-
ticians and public servants. Mr Anderson
is not included in many guest lists.
'The preparation of the guest lists is an
interesting study. I am sure it will
be of engrossing interest to many
members of Australia’s cafe society to
know that they are wasting their time
working on their local members and
senators The man with the power in
this field is a likeable and frighteningly-
efficient public servant named Jim
Scholtens who bears the title of Chief
Ceremonial and Hospitality Officer.
Scholtens, who bears a startling resem-
blance to Danny Kaye and possesses the
same extrovert quality of bonhomie and
dynamism, has the final word on who
gets invited where and when in the Com-
monwealth field. Acting on a set order
of precedence and a tried-and-trusted
set of working precepts, Scholtens directs
the Commonwealth social scene with a
rod of iron. Members and Senators can
(and do) plead with him for extra cards
of invitation. . Scholtens turns his thumb
up or down —and is secure, because he
knows what he is doing to a degree that
would leave Mrs Marcel Dekyvere gasp-
ing. Virtually, it is on his say-so that
people move from the Inner Group to
the Bulls-eye.
There is, of course, an Outer Group
consisting of lowlier public servants,
tradespeople, local dentists, and lawyers.
Some of the Outers get a guernsey to
certain functions, some turn up at
Government House now and then, but
they rank low in the social hierarchy.
In the Bulls-eye
r T~'HE Bulls-Eye Group is an amorphous
mixture. Dominating it is the
Prime Minister. To be invited to the
Lodge is an honor ; to be invited to
dinner is to walk with the mighty. Few
people receive the accolade, because the
Prime Minister is not a gregarious soul.


The Governor-General has, by virtue of
his office, an almost cast-iron requirement
to entertain at home occasionally ; the
Prime Minister is bound by no such
rules. Whatever rules there were have
been forgotten —Ben Chifley refused to
use the Lodge ; the Prime Minister has
long since made his own rules.
He dines out only when he has to, or
on rare occasions because he wants to.
He holds a dinner party at the Lodge
usually only when he has to, although
he can be (and always is) the most
charming and perfect of hosts, with
a rare nose for a good wine and the
world’s most delicate hand with a
Martini. Only one member of Cabinet
can qualify as a regular diner at the
Lodge: the amiable and earthily-amusing
Athol Townley who, more than anybody
else in Australia, has made a fine art of
knowing how far to go with the Prime
Minister —who is so perfect an actor, so
accomplished a listener, that many fall
into the trap of going beyond the bounds
of what the Prime Minister considers a
reasonable thing. Many a promising
political career has foundered on this
rock.
After the Prime Minister (and, of
course, after the Governor-General) in the
Bulls-eye come seried ranks of the Corps
d’Elite—Ambassadors, headed by the
American Ambassador and the U.K. High
Commissioner and followed by assorted
Ambassadors Extraordinary, Ministers
Plenipotentiary, and one or two Profes-
sors with good table manners. Permanent
Heads of Departments, particularly those
with the Knighthoods which have become
one of the perks of office if one can last
long enough, rank high in the Bulls-eye
listings, although not all Departmental
Heads make the grade continuously. It
would be invidious to name those who
do not, especially because many of them
do not know themselves from day to day.
And some, like Sir Roland Wilson, do
not care.
A few local doctors and graziers fall
into this category, and some lawyers and
eminent jurists make a hobby of travelling
to the National Capital to take part in
the regular social uprisings. A few Heads
of Bureaux in the Federal Parliamentary
Press Gallery persevere with earnest
attempts to make the social grade, but the
most successful of them has done no
better than hit the bulls-eye occasionally.
Several Heads of Bureaux own white tie
and tails, and one even owns, or at least
wears, morning suit and a black top hat.
He is generally regarded as an Ornament
To His Profession. He has been invited
to lunch at Government House —a fact
well-known to the Bulls-eye and Inners,
all of whom study the day’s press release
from Government House, printed in the
“Canberra Times,” with avidity and in
the fixed belief that this press release is
studied and read throughout the length
and breadth of Australia with equal
avidity.
Commissioner Overall
'T'his then, is Canberra’s social scene —
A the product of an unreal community
making an unreal approach to the real
problems of life: an atmosphere in which
the children of the Bulls-eye and Inners
grow in a make-believe world unlike
anywhere else in Australia and pos-
sibly the world because where else
in the world can you find a com-
munity so small, and yet ranked
so high by its masters of protocol
that, for instance, Royal Visitors devote
large chunks of time to Canberra, so that
it is possible for most of a large section
of the local community to be invited to
some sort of Royal function? Young
people, therefore, are bitterly disappointed
at not getting an invitation to a Royal
affair while the rest of Australia’s youth
does not even think of the possibility of
such a thing.
The physical growth of Canberra is
astonishing. In the last decade the popu-
lation has grown by round about 20,000
to a little over 50,000 and the experts or
some of them estimate a 100,000 popula-
tion in the 1970’5.
The experts are the members of the
National Capital Development Commis-
sion, headed by Commissioner John
Overall—an architect and town planner
who was given this top job in Canberra
when the Commission was formed some
three years ago. He faced a tough road:
The rambling Department of the Interior
suspected him, because his Commission
took away some of the department’s
duties and powers: The oldest inhabitants
suspected him because he was a new man
popped into a top job, and therefore to
be watched 'lest he took over someone
else’s job. However, he has made a
great success of his task by a combina-
tion of ruthlessness and well-played
politics: His policies are fully and posi-
tively backed by the Prime Minister,
which effectively quietens all argument.
TTis approach to housing has been
imaginative and the result is the
best-housed community in Australia. The
Lakes Scheme, involving the construction
of two huge new bridges and a massive
dam to bank back the Molonglo into a
vast lake in the centre of Canberra is
now under way at a cost of millions a
year. A civic centre —a sort of town hall
—is almost finished and an expensive and
apparently completely unnecessary scenic
road has been built on City Hill in the last
year.
The imponderable in Canberra at the
moment is whether Overall will be able
to persuade the Government to go ahead
with the new Parliament House, destined
to stand on the lake shore. A new Par-
liament House is undoubtedly necessary
—the present building, apart from having
a roof which leaks every winter, is over-
crowded to the point of absurdity. How-
ever, it will be a brave Government which
takes the bit in its teeth and orders work to
begin on a new Parliament House which,
one imagines, would not cost less than
£10,000,000. It is possible that Mr
Menzies, when returned to power for an-
other three years at the next election,
may decide to authorise his own memorial
and order building to begin: if he doesn’t,
we may not see the project start for an-
other 20 years. And this would be a
pity: even though one may consider that
the establishment of Canberra was a
national disaster, we now have it, and it
is a national duty to ensure that it is a
capital of which the country may be
proud.
This is the Overall doctrine, and it is
sound. It is unfortunate, however, that
Overall himself has fallen into the Can-
berra way of thinking. When he first
took on the job, he was eager to spread
the word about Canberra to all parts of
the nation; to encourage Australia
generally to be proud of Canberra ; to
explain what was going on and why to
every taxpayer in the land. Now, how-
ever, he is apparently working on the
Canberra principle: that it is necessary
only to worry about the people of Can-
berra itself because what Canberra
thinks today, Australia will think to-
morrow.
The Experts
All this atmosphere must, of course,
have its effect on the political activi-
ties and the general day-to-day work of
the capital. Certainly, there is material
for the cynic in the political manoeuvring
that goes on, the over-zealous considera-
tion of the political possibilities inherent
in a certain course of action ; the public
posturing compared to the private
practice, the obsession of everybody—
politicians, public servants, journalists,
lobbyists—with the subtleties of political
finesse as opposed to creative activity.
But a lot of work is done in Canberra.
The Commonwealth Public Service is as
efficient and hard-working as can be
expected of such a widespread and com-
plicated organisation. Its top men —the
Allen Browns, the Jack Buntings, the Dick
Randalls —are enormously proficient. It
has its drones—but private enterprise, too,
has its drones and its sections which build
on themselves and feed on their own
activities. The only worry about the
Public Service is how much of its activity
is justified: Canberra is full of experts;
each department has its quota of, say,
economists. When a submission is put
forward to Cabinet by Treasury, these
economists appear from every corner and
advise their respective Ministers on the
proposal.
I choose economists as an example
because they seem to proliferate in the
Canberra climate more than other species,
but the example holds good for many
other avenues of expert Government
endeavor. It is good —and most neces-
sary—to have second thoughts on a
proposal and constructive criticism of it;
but it is another question whether it is
necessary to have so much, and whether
it is good when much of the criticism is
caused by inter-departmental rivalry, or
empire building or (much more com-
monly) a fear of empire-losing.
This latter factor is one which causes
more activity than anything else in the
Public Service. The tigress guarding her
cubs is no more savage and devoted in
their defence than is an Assistant Secre-
tary watching over the most junior posting
in his section’s staff; the fury of a
scorned woman is evenly matched by that
of the Permanent Head who scents in the
wind a move by another department to
take over some minor duty or activity;
the reaction of a Minister who thinks he
is being white-anted, or having a portion


of his power or publicity purloined, is
reminiscent of a fat lady who has been
stabbed with a hat-pin. These are, no
doubt, human foibles, human reactions ;
it’s just that it hurts to see them taking
up so much of the taxpayer’s money.
An example of this was the take-over
bid by the Australian National University
against the Canberra University College.
Xhe eventual outcome is now ancient
history but the furore behind the scenes
in Canberra was prodigious. Often the
members of the A.N.U. are not seen by
the public for months at a time but on
this occasion, they covered the lobbies
and the departments like a rash of
righteousness. The C.U.C. also fought a
gallant action. All this was to be ex-
pected, but to the observer it seemed that
this rather minor matter occupied more
time of senior public servants and
Cabinet Ministers than might have been
s P ent on a declaration of war.
But it was an interesting symptom of
the obsession in the Canberra mind of
the supreme importance of anything to
do with Canberra. It was, of course, an
important issue—but its moral brings us
back to where we started this article:
Sometimes one could wish for Canberra
to take a little more interest in Australia
and a little less interest in Canberra.
Hope for the English
To show what happens to a distinguished Australian poet
when the London critics get at him we have asked Ray
Mathew for a round-up of reactions to an English edition of
A . D. Hope's poetry .
By RAY MATHEW
Australians have had at least six
years to grow accustomed to
Hope’s place ; the English have
had since February 2. Those
Australians who still believe that England
knows best and have no opinion of their
own will be interested to learn what
Hope is.
He “is an important writer” (“Spec-
tator”), a “forceful poet’’ who is “never
quite realised” (“Observer”); he, “with
James McAuley, represents the Brennan
tradition at its most defiant in modern
Australia” (“Guardian”). The “Oxford
Mail,” baffled by either Hope or the
necessity of reviewing half a dozen books
at once, merely blurbs away: “There is
a swingeing anger, a caustic indignation
in many of these intensely felt poems
in which he comments on the manners
and morals of modern society.” End of
review!
The three more earnest reviewers
attempt to analyse Hope’s work. They
find much the same qualities, but value
them differently. In the “Spectator,” the
poet Donald Davie sees “Imperial Adam”
as having “splendid moments” although
it “betrays itself with the facile pay-off
in the last line.” This same last line—
“ And the first murderer lay upon the
earth”—is called an “epigrammatic close”
hy lecturer W. W. Robson in the
“Observer”; a close that “has a force
that makes the rest of the poem seem
blurred and wordy.”
Another lecturer, Frank Kermode,
declares in the “Guardian” that Hope
is a “derivative poet ... his Yeats too
Yeatsian, too much a matter of rigid
rhetorical process. Baudelaire broods too
closely over some poems ; and there are
other uncomfortable presences.” There
ls » however, “a superb imitation of
Gongora’s ‘Soledades.’ ” Mr Robson
says “it is significant that the volume
begins with an elaborate imitation of
the ‘Solitudes’ of Gongora” and describes
the whole book as “cursed with
literariness.” Mr Davie, cunning phrase-
maker, sees that “the shade of late and
lustful Yeats broods very heavily indeed”
around Hope, but he thinks that “at the
level of verbal execution Hope’s poem
(“Pyramis”) survives the comparison
(with Yeats’s “Leda and the Swan”);
which is remarkable. But Yeats’s poem
has far more wealth of meaning . . .
Hope’s style is very conservative . . .”
It is “the quite unYeatsian rigor of his
syllable-counting metres which permits
him to go close to Yeats in other respects
without losing his own voice.” He is
“a very literary poet indeed.”
All three reviewers are disturbed by
Hope’s “insistent eroticism.” It is
Mr Davie’s phrase and he goes on to
point out that “Hope’s sensuality seems
to get all its urgency from having to
break through his inhibitions. When he
writes of incest ... or bestiality ... his
object is simply to compel his imagina-
tion to regard such matters with
equanimity.”
Perhaps. But “the trouble with poems
which dwell so much on the sexual act,”
according to Mr Robson, “is that in this
story of expulsion, evacuation and
exhaustion we tend to lose the sense
that as a rule two human beings are
involved. The result is a loss in human
value, a loss which the accomplished
fluent movement makes only more
evident; the verse comes to seem
merely words, the violence of the ex-
periences described comes to seem only
a matter of assertion.” Perhaps Mr
Robson is describing Hope’s achievement
of equanimity. Mr Kermode will not
think about Hope’s sexuality at all. “The
astonishing verse epistle ‘Edward Sack-
ville to Venetia Digby,’ ” its “seventeenth
century elegiac measure with appropriate
imagery and deep passion ; it is here,
rather than in the chaos of violent sexual
imagery that this strong, delicate talent
flourishes.”
It is Mr Kermode who remarks that
“with one or two exceptions his poems
could have been written in London—
except that they have a bitter directness
of feeling and great technical accom-
plishment.” One can imagine the white
hopes of English poetry migrating im-
mediately after reading this astonishing
assertion, but Mr Kermode stops them
by adding that “Hope is often and
frankly bard and martyr . . . rooted in
life, the terror and dirt of the body.”
In England, say the white hopes, we
wash.
Mr Davie says much the same. “We
read for a hundred pages before finding
out, from the poems themselves, that
Hope is Australian. And yet to the
English reviewer it seems that with him
Australian poetry comes of age.” (Mr
Davie has not revealed knowledge of
any other Australian writer.) “This has
nothing to do with subject, everything
to do with style. Hope . . . when he puts
himself in touch with the English poetic
past is straightforward and unabashed
about it, as no British or American poet
is.” (Australia is no longer British ; is
this what is meant by “comes of age”?)
“It may be that he is never so Australian
as when he writes expert pastiche of
seventeenth and eighteenth century styles.
To do this naturally, and for serious
purposes, requires technical sophistica-
tion and historical naivete. And perhaps
this naivete is just a personal peculiarity
in Hope ; but it will be well for Aus-
tralian poetry if on the contrary it has
something to do with being Australian.”
'T'he publishers think this all the notice
Hope will get in the dailies and
weeklies, but look forward to “the treat-
ment” in the monthlies and quarterlies;
Only one example has so far appeared.
The poet George Macbeth writing in
the New Series “London Magazine”
notices Hope’s use of “Heredia’s gim-
mick of the big last line” (he is referring
to that same “epigrammatic close”), but
comments that “Heredia would never
have allowed himself the sentimental
vagueness of that epithet dumb (in the
line, “Saw how her dumb breasts at
their ripening wept”); this is the kind
of literary bad manners that used to
get corrected at Mallarme’s evenings. It
still does in the American schools of
creative writing. The masculine brash-
ness which goes hand in hand with the
muzziness in ‘lmperial Adam’ reminds
me of that South African Parnassian,
Roy Campbell . . . But Campbell did
have the advantage of living in Europe.
Hope doesn’t pull it off because he’s
trying to write sophisticated poetry in
an unsophisticated environment.” Mr
Macbeth then goes on to praise a young
Brisbane-born writer whose book, “Once
Bitten, Twice Bitten,” has just appeared
here. Mr Porter, the poet, is able to
write so that “the wit, the envy and the
wry pity fuse into a sustained personal
style.” These are presumably the qualities
Mr Macbeth would like to see in Hope.


A Modern Child’s Alphabet
BY DAVID SWAIN
s for Austerica which we oucjkt to avoid
for wT'mustn't 'antagonize dear Rohm Eoud
Q is for Banks : they have lots of Monty
but Daddj cant borrow it. Isn't that funny?
Cis for Censor - a virtuous man
. -I
who spends his time looking for something to ban
is for Decimal: it's onhj a dot
but some people like it and others do not
JEE s for Espressos - they all look so met
but a vtru short black is a rather tall price.
jFI s for Fertility : if ours were increased
perhaps there' d bt nothin to fear fwntTkEast.


is for Green Belt: Unde Bill's tjof a piece
and held like Id find out when its due for release.
/_/ is for Harbour - did uou sau 'where'?
/ 7 I I i t IAI i i i i •/ i i
It's behind those tall buildinps. Hope its still there.
I s for Inflation : whatever's in store,
I
it means more or less that well get less for more
■— y i
f is for Judges - they're terribly wise
and worth every pound of their salary rise.
j/is for Knighthoods - it's such a great toss
that there's no Bam Bondi or Count of Kinqs Cross.
/ is for Leader -the humblest of men:
he's shy and retirina-the question is, Men?"


From Madang to Moresby
The old way of life in New Guinea is ending and an ugly incident in Port Moresby
shows how
By PETER HASTINGS
After the clamor and strife of
Hollandia, Madang with its
curving roads, gold and scarlet
African tulips, its coffee trees
growing in the shade of kapoks was a
very pleasant place to be. It was partly,
too, because the pressure was off. There
was only the opening of Madang General
Hospital to be covered and that, we
decided, could be safely left to AAP.
Not that we weren't busy. We still
, , . . ~ ■ f \ u , •. ,
had to go to the opening of the hospital
when we could have done with a swim.
And there was the huge afternoon tea
prepared by the ladies of Madang who
managed to look cool and comfortable
despite the humidity and heat. And
there was the District Commissioner s
reception to be followed by the Red Cross
ball at the Madang'Hotel. No a single
correspondent made the ball. They
collapsed m the homes otthetr kindly and
hospitable hos s and had the first night s
sound mosquito-free sleep since leaving
y ne y -
There were plenty of people to talk to.
There was the building contractor who
gave me a lift along the road in the brief
sunset after the hospital opening. He had
been in the Territory eight years. He
was young and serious and thoughtful.
Yes, he liked it all right. Yes, he would
stay. He didn’t know for how long,
Perhaps for another eight years. Why
only eight? “I reckon things will be
changing fast then and it might be time
to get out?” Was business good? Yes,
but there were labor problems. Builders
came up from the south and they weren’t
much good, most of them. A few were
real good. Did he mean Papuan labor?
*0 he was talking about white labor.
As tor native labor he didn t go so much
Qn .. xhese , e take of (each .
; .. he sajd hjs (humb at the
ch s ee rful faces , nj f he road ,
c i earest mem ory of a day and a half
in ' Ma dang was the phrase "these people. •
Qne won J ered wh £ her those X f, scd
he hrase were even conscious of
.-f hese peop | e> - host said . jerking
his thumt T contemptuously towards th?
kitchen „ T| run a bloody
kind arten Vou saw those straggly
lookin | cocoa trees a , , he road , y he
ones X a „ the undergr ° owth that hasn't
been cut back? Native owned you can
bet. You teach them how and then they
only do half a job. Remember those
swamps 1 showed you? Well, they were
pretty bad for anopheles until we started
regular spraying. They’ve got the prob-
lem licked now except for the native. He
Moti/I
You can
look like
a Film
Star...
"I Want to look like Marlon Brando !”
starts spraying and then only does half
a job. Hopeless.”
And there was the old hand I talked
to at the reception. His face seemed
brick red in the dim light. Perhaps it was
long exposure to an unkind climate,
perhaps sustained anger, perhaps my
imagination. But he was angry. “I
bloody well know,” he said pointing to
Paul Hasluck talking in a corner, “that he
is going to pass legislation to let these
people drink next year. He's bloody well
mad. Things are bad enough now.” As
gently as possible I said that Papuans
drank on the other side without bad
effect. That everyone took it for normal
and there was no fuss and that one of my
most vivid impressions was the quiet way
in which Australian New Guineans like
Taureka and Guise and Sigob had sat
around and drunk beer with Kaisiepo,
Wonsiwor and Jouwe in Netherlands
New Guinea. It had all seemed quite
natural. “That's the top,” he said
angrily. “They're putting on a show.
It’s the average native I’m thinking of.
You know nothing about this place.”
That was true enough and 1 dropped the
subject. Others spoke differently of
“these people,” with faith and affection
and resignation. These people could do
double entry book keeping, were excellent
drivers and mechanics and needed only
patience and education. They could do
it all right. My problem was that I knew
nothing about these people. They drifted
along the roads laughing and talking in
a variety of makeshift clothes.
/“Vr they ruined one of my shirts and
laughed apologetically. Or they
waved cheerfully from a Burns Philp
truck on their way to work. Or they
stood in stolid silence outside Madang
General Hospital—“people of Madang"
was the Administrator’s phrase —while
Somu Sigob in rapid pidgin told them
they were fortunate indeed to have such
a hospital, that hospitals don't grow on
trees and that they need to be more than
grateful for it, they would have to work
for their future. You could watch them,
a solid, well built race of people. What
they thought and what their reactions
were I could not say. But in the midst
of this barrage of “these people,” I re-
called the young New Guinean doctor
who had come down from his highlands
station for the hospital opening. He was
handsome and well bred and had shy,
beautiful manners. Like Reuben Taureka
he had done the Suva medical course
which is supposedly only about fourth
year standard on the mainland. He
spoke, too, of “these people” but from
the inside looking out, as it were. He
had spoken of immediate problems and
long range ones, of the enormous difficul-
ties and frustrations and, like everyone
else, he had spoken of time, I don ’


suppose I spoke to a single person in
the whole of the Territory who did not
at some stage or another mention time.
There was nothing particularly frighten-
ing about it nor were they being
dramatic. In fact time for what or whom
wa s seldom specified. I remember talk-
ing to a lady in Port Moresby on the
verandah of a pleasant home high on a
hili overlooking the harbor. She was
born in the Territory, I think, had married
there and except for a trip to England
and spending the war period in Australia,
had spent all her life there. She was an
intelligent and intuitive woman and had
given a great deal to the Territory. “I
don’t like talking about time,” she said,
“because none of us knows just how long
it will take. There's a tremendous job
on here and changes are coming fast.
“The old way of life ended with the
war forever. The new way is altering all
the time. Most people up here are accept-
ing it. A few are not. But I don't think
that most people quite understand what is
happening. It’s not that they’re against
the native or his emergence but that
they’ve never given any real thought to
what it is going to mean. A lot depends
on the individual and whether he thinks
of staying on indefinitely or of getting
out some day and never returning.” I
found plenty of controversy on that, too.
1 talked to some who made no bones of
being glad that they were retiring one day
and would be out.
I met others who vehemently insisted
that they had no thoughts of leaving the
Territory—ever. And that they wouldn't
dream of investing their money down
south That what they had made they
had made in the Territory and would
leave there. And there were a few, a very
few, like Goroka’s irrepressible Mr lan
Downs who is both intelligent and articu-
late and in whom confidence in the Terri-
tory, in its future economy, in its
emerging Papuans, in a successful part-
nership of black and white, is a burning
article of faith. He had changed his mind
at times but no one can accuse him of
insincerity. He had been to Kenya not
so long ago and the potential economy of
New Guinea, especially the highlands,
was far greater. There was plenty of
arable land to support an increasing
population. There were Asian and other
export markets for New Guinea crops.
There were markets, too, for coffee, cocoa
and rubber. And continuing markets for
copra. What was needed was energy,
determination and faith and a good deal
less of the defeatist talk of the main-
land. How long had I been in the Terri-
tory? Eight days. A sly smile: “You
need a few more days yet to become an
expert.” A fair point. But then most of
toe points he and others had made were
fair one way or another.
They lived there and worked there and
had built homes, businesses and planta-
tions. If they didn’t know nobody else
tod. And then one thought wearily “of
the world of telegrams and anger,” of
toe U.N., of the Pan-African Congress,
°f Indonesia and the other, explosive half
°f the island. They all seemed so far
a Way from these placid, provincial
towns, calm, windless bays and night
?xies blazing with stars. It was both
‘conic and a little sad that we should be,
along with the Portuguese, the last
“ There's no such Word as CAN'T!”
colonial people on earth for there can
never have been a people less colonialist
than ourselves. All over the world the
British, the French and the Dutch were
going home. Even the Portuguese would
go eventually. In one sense we never
could.
A/Toresby was Hollandia all over again,
to™- Not quite such a Turkish bath but
a rat-race to cover a series of improb-
able news contingencies let alone the
purpose of the visit—the opening of the
Papua-New Guinea Legislative Council.
However, there was one episode in which
I was involved and about which I had
no intention of writing. As it has already
been leaked out in other newspapers, it
might be as well to put it in perspective.
On Sunday morning I arranged to see
Reuben Taureka, the native doctor who
is a nominated member of the Legis-
lative Council. We had met at odd times
in Hollandia and he had promised me
an interview. He rang me at my hotel
and suggested he come down and see me
at half-past ten that morning. I was
typing in the shade of a tiled verandah
when one of my press colleagues came
out to tell me that Taureka had come
to the lobby, asked for me, had been
asked to sit down by another journalist
and had more or less been thrown out
of the hotel. I immediately went to see
the manager and asked him if he had
refused admission to Dr Taureka—a
member of the Legislative Council.
The manager denied he had been
refused admission but said that Taureka
had asked for a drink and that this was
forbidden by law for natives. I went
outside and found Taureka sitting in his
car, very upset. I told him there had been
a misunderstanding, that the manager had
thought he had asked for a drink. “For
an orange drink,” Reuben said stonily.
“I am most upset. This sort of thing
happens far too often.” I went back into
the hotel and asked the manager whether
he had refused Dr Taureka an orange
drink. Yes, he had. Serving Papuans in
the lounge was against the law. It was
tough on him, he said. Papuans became
familiar and Europeans complained.
Furious and nonplussed, I stalked out and
talked to Taureka. If he liked, and as
we had to talk somewhere, we would try
the other hotel where the Minister was
staying. We drove up there and in the
lobby I saw one of the officers from
Territories who was travelling with the
party. He was at once kind and helpful.
“It’s bloody nonsense,” he said and rang
the District Commissioner.
Taureka and I sat down in the lounge.
He ordered a tomato juice and so did I
while, as best we could while people
came and went, we had the interview.
The wife of the manager came in to
assure me that no “natives,” so long as
they were properly dressed and behaved,
were ever refused admission to the hotel.
We finished our talk and Reuben went
home. Outside the hotel I bumped into
the District Commissioner himself. “It’s
absolute damn rubbish,” he said angrily ;
“there is no reason on earth why he
shouldn't have come and seen you at your
hotel and had a drink. They’ve no sense.
I’ve had a piece of the general-manager
of the company owning the hotel and
he’s hopping mad, too, because incidents
like these are against company policy
anyway.”
When I arrived back at the hotel I
found that the story had been sent by
the A.B.C. I wasn’t happy about this
because although it was an excellent
story, as such, it seemed a pretty damag-
ing curtain-raiser to the opening of the
Council.
The A.B.C. representative, on thinking
it over, agreed and so did everybody else
representing the press in Port Moresby.
The story wasn’t filed and the A.B.C.
never used it on representation from
Port Moresby. Perhaps they would never
have used it anyway. Nor do I wish
to make too much of it. It was unfortu-
nate and arose more out of mulish
ignorance than as a result of a pattern
of deliberate racial discrimination. The
latter may exist in a dozen flagrant or
subtle ways. I just don’t think this was
a deliberate instance of it, any more
than I think that the anger expressed by
Administration officials was anything
else but genuine.


Nothing “Swampy" About Seymour
Alan Seymour hopes that his new play about Anzac Day, which was banned at
last year's Adelaide Festival but opens in Sydney today, will not be labelled—
and dismissed—as "provocatively controversial." It is meant to be more than that.
By LINDSEY DROWNE
One Anzac afternoon in Sydney's
Summer Hill about five years ago
a sparrowy young man went home
to boiled mutton and caper sauce
at his boarding house and wore such x
look of disgust on his face, mouth twisted
right down into a button, that his land-
lady got the huff, followed by a bout of
conscience, followed by a secret resolu-
tion to sharpen up the standards of the
cuisine. Its table soon became the talk
of the neighborhood ; now smiling
trenchermen, with glowing cheeks, emerge
happily from it every morning and mouth-
wateringly bustle home to it of nights.
What the landlady never knew was
that the sparrowy chap’s disgust had
nothing whatever to dc with her or her
works. A thinking man, so full of
thoughts that he hardly cared what he
ate (though his manners were agreeable
arid he always carefully folded his ser-
viette and caressed the drip from the lip
of the sauce jug), he had just come home
from seeing sights which he regarded as
quite horrible —festive vomiting on the
pavements, reeking urine around the lane-
ways, beer spilling and squabbling in the
pubs, and far, far too many Australian
and New Zealand Army “corpses” in the
gutters.
“Somehow you see more of the horrible
side of this Anzac Day binge in the
western suburbs than in the eastern
suburbs.” the sparrowy chap said to me
over coffee the other day. “1 don't know
why it is—but it seems to be worse there
than in other parts of Sydney. 1 don't
mind fun, I grog a bit, but what I saw
made me sick. There was something
‘funny' in it; you know, a great national
day and all these animal goings on ... .
1 wanted to write something in protest
against it all ; worked on the idea for a
while, then forgot all about it for a couple
of years.
Then, much later on, I was working
on an idea for a play with a conflict
between the older and the younger genera-
tions. and some of the thoughts of that
Anzac Day—what it means to different
people—came back to me. Don’t get me
wrong on this. I’m not a knocker of
Anzac Day ; it is just as the various
characters for my play began to grip my
interest and come alive for me that Anzac
Day somehow seemed to contain their
drama.”
'“The sparrowy young man, of course, is
33-year-old Alan Seymour and the
play is “The One Day of the Year” which
is to be given its Sydney premiere by the
Elizabethan Trust at the Palace Theatre
today (April 26) —and I rather got the
impression from my talk with Mr
Seymour that nobody will feel more upset
ALAN SEYMOUR
“Obsessed”
or misjudged than he if the essential thing
of his play, a battle between generations,
is obscured by attempts to pretend that
the Anzac Day stuff is all provocatively
controversial.
“Is it controversial, Alan?” 1 asked
him —and he, as a one-time radio publicity
man used to publicity men's ways of
manufacturing “controversies” where
there aren't any, knew well enough that
I wanted to know whether it was really
controversial, or whether it was only
publicity man's “controversial.”
“I don't think so,” he said. “But
apparently they thought so over in Ade-
laide. This play was to have gone on
at the Adelaide Festival last year. The
Festival's drama committee was for it,
and recommended it, but the higher-ups
of the Festival, without even reading the
play to see what it was about, said they
couldn’t possibly do anything that took
any sort of offbeat view of Anzac Day.
A row went on about it in the Adelaide
papers for weeks before I went over there
for a special amateur production of it
a while after the Festival had finished.”
Adelaide can be like that, of course,
and I rather got the impression that Mr
Seymour would not have too readily
rejected my own idea of official Adelaide
as a place which seems bound to con-
duct itself as if Queen Victoria is expected
to arrive any minute. Anzacs behave
themselves ; any other behavior is not to
be thought of, let alone believed!
Possibly the thing which most pleases
Alan Seymour about the coming profes-
sional production of his new “realistic”
play is that it will free him from the curse
of his own “Swamp Creatures,” a night-
mare play in the mood of slimy macabre
which he wrote some five or six years
ago and which soon had him typed in
our higher theatrical circles as (the quota-
tion is his own) “that dreadful young man
who writes those horrible plays.” The
clear fact that, since then, he has written
with extraordinary versatility, has still
not reached many who persist in the idea
that if you are Alan Seymour you only
write plays about Drakenstein and Fran-
cula. Bats flit everywhere. Gore is the
menu. All thought is octopustulence.
Poor Seymour! He doesn't deserve to
be thought of that way, not only because
he has proved his ability and delight in
other kinds of dramatic writing but also
because in “Swamp Creatures” itself
there is a distinction of vision and writing
for all of his failure to give taut order,
meaning and design to horribleness. A
man needs to be obsessed with the play-
writing urge to bring forth work like Alan
Seymour's “Swamp Creatures.” The play
is his own need, and he fulfils it. Obses-
sion is too scarce a thing in all Australian
art.
I wish I had said so in print at the
time of the premiere performance of
“Swamp Creatures” by the Canberra
Repertory Society some five years ago -
but a daily paper critic, as I was then,
is often a man in too much of a hurry
to be able to record the impressions of
leisure, no matter how obsessed he might
be (as 1 always was) with the need to
foresee what the impressions of leisure
might be as a factor in formulating im-
mediate valuations.
All told, I didn't like the play—but was
morbidly curious about the mind out
of which it had come, because, up till
then, I had only known Alan Seymour
as a very lively and enthusiastic young
man, whose abounding zest as a producer
for the Sydney Opera Group (three very
plausible Menotti productions were part
of his record) seemed to indicate supreme
health of both body and soul. At the
after-show celebrations in Canberra that
“Swamp Creatures night, an event in
which a woman hypnotist tried to relax
all the guests after the refreshments ran
out, I tried to find out whether Alan
Seymour had acquired a bat or two in the
belfry. Unassuming, cordial, naturally a
little jumpy about his big occasion, he
didn't give the faintest sign of being of
a piece with the characters in his own
ghoulish play.
“I’d read a newspaper story about two
elderly sisters in an old residence up
Bacchus Marsh way, in Victoria,” he ex-
plained to me. “One of them had dis-
appeared. And it was also mentioned


mmii
4*
9b-
• m r:
-
?«!
-
m
• r
5 .
B&K-Xy: ;
«:■■
M
r;
.<« <S ;
i
Reflecting the vigour,
enterprise and
enthusiasm of a growing
nation.
A great
Australian enterprise
TH£
NATIONAL MUTUAL
Life ASSOCIATION OA A/ASIA LTD.
(Inc. in Vic.)
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. PHONE 62-6541
SYDNEY: 350 GEORGE STREET. PHONE BL 1271
BRISBANE: 293 QUEEN STREET. PHONE 31-1711
ADELAIDE: 91 KING WILLIAM STREET. PHONE LA 2091
PERTH: 81 ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE. PHONE 23-1341
HOBART: 119 MACQUARIE STREET. PHONE 2-2851
t the end that a pet dog had recently
disappeared in the swamp nearby. 1 was
interested in all the atom bomb talk at
tha't time, and the suggestions that radio-
activity would produce curious mutations.
I set out, from the ideas these things gave
me to write a play which would give
audiences an exciting theatrical experi-
ence even if they didn't get any deeper
message.” " "
The deeper message, apparently, was
that the scientific world is creating mon-
sters to destroy itself. The theatrical ex-
nerience was of two old ladies sometimes
trying to re-iive their belle-of-the-ball girl-
hoods in their murky, creeper-strangled
mansion when the stronger of them, a
bully, was not out in the swamp furtively
experimenting with the cross-breeding of
the creatures there. Compared with her
achievements, pink elephants were in the
category of lapdogs
It struck me, as Alan and I were talk-
titg the other day.that possibly, in.finding
attraction in is ind o ea rica
writing, at rea 11 y° ul )S ' ,ian ®
wr ,tes those horrible pays had been
which'he had produced so effectively at
the Sydney Conservatorium a year or two
before. Menotti's creeping: crawling
dread might have seemed worth parallel-
j n „ in a play
S p y '
Al\n Seymour, born in Perth, lost both
his parents when he was about ten
years old, and was brought up by his
eider sisters. It is his view that this did
not do him the slightest harm. “For
goodness sake don’t try and make senti-
mental sob-stuff out of all that!” he
admonished me. (“There’s nothing
swampy in that part of his background
then” I mentally noted.)
' ... frelful sort of chao Alan 7”
™ yOU a trettUl S ° rt 01 Chap ’ Aldn *
'
‘'No. I made up my mind years ago
that 1 was never going to let my emotions
get dammed up inside me. I'd seen the
damage it could do to people.”
“How do you stop yourself from
getting dammed up?”
. . . , .. , ,
Let it all off to frien s i eps.
No, there was nothing at all “swampy”
about Alan Seymour. Instead, there was
a level-headed man of method who knows
where he's going. It is part of his method
to begin writini on one or other of his
various freelance projects at about 8.30
each morning, knock off for lunch down
at the corner shop about p.m. and most
of the year he can work effortlessly to
this system.
“Sometimes,” he says, “I have a spell
t|)ree weeks Usually after I've
had to do a rush job) when l hnd it very
hd^ a J° , , \° t , , . .
° u of *° n I ilr " A
1 do '^ rite H a i th ' /‘S'h Lun
understand the people who find hings to
like in my writing at these periods.
He is always busy. In continual
demand as a radio script-writer (a good
many of the A.B.C.’s television features
for schools are his) he is the sort of man
to whom leisure is burdensome. There
are seldom less than half a dozen jobs on
hand At present on the stocks is a stage
adaptation of his own radio play on the
Chopin-Georges Sand affair, “A Winter
Passion,” which was written for the A.B.C.
to mark the Chopin centenary—a tour de
force which for its control of dialogue,
situation, character and period style still
has the excited admiration of the A.B.C.
officers who commissioned and broadcast
it. Another play, “Donny Johnson,” re-
cently shared first prize in the General
Motors-Holden drama contest,
The many-sidedness of this output—a
horror play, a costume play, an up-to-
date piece of family realism—suggests that
Alan Seymour has not yet settled for any
particular “school” of playwriting. But,
of contemporary stage writers, it is Harold
Pinter who appeals to him most,
..p inter gets the characters established
a( , he b inni so that you beUe ve in
(h anJ once believe in the m they
• k anywhere. That’s what
, ooesco do ' sn - t d ' . the greatest fraud
G f [be a g e i b ]j s characters aren't real,
and you can’t believe in the things that
happen to them!”
B ut. a t present, the characters Mr
Seymour most believes in are the person-
nel of his “° ne Day of the Year ” and he
most ho P es that aud,ences Wlll believe m
the jou on which these charact ers are
to take them. And even if they don't,
well there’s always the consolation of
knowing that a boarding-house full of
Sydneyites out Summer Hill way are now
dining off chicken where, had one man’s
look of disgust been different, they might
still have been wincing over hogget.


A Night with Winifred
You learn a lot but some questions are left unanswered when you spend a night
in jail .
By GEORGE F. KERR
IT was about ten at night that I poured
the first glass of the wine that, a
long twelve hours later, was to
bring me to the dock. By two in
the morning, instead of ringing for a taxi,
I drove my friend home myself. On the
return journey, I stopped for a ham-
burger, got back in my car, backed a
couple of feet to pull out, went three
inches too far and hit with my back
bumper the front bumper of a taxi.
Immediately the driver of the taxi was
standing over me . . . .
“That’s going to cost you five quid.
Are you going to pay up or shall I get
the police?”
I was disappointed it was a New Aus-
tralian demanding money with menaces.
It could only add to the prejudice against
them, and I didn’t share it. Whereas
for one of Ned Kelly’s countrymen to
bail me up ... .
“Get them,” I said and waited, hoping
I had called his bluff. Three people
separately advised me to pay and go. I
hung on Then the police van arrived.
A glance at the two cars —no damage.
“Are you the driver of this vehicle?”
“Yes.”
“Have you been drinking? I can smell
drink on your breath ”
This, apparently, is a police technique
—the seemingly open question that is,
in fact, closed. I had it from the same
policeman later that morning, in the cells.
“When did you have your last drink?”
“About an hour ago.”
“What time is it now?”
“I’ve no idea.”
“Well in my opinion you are under
the influence. Get in that van.”
As the van bounced me on my way to
Darlinghurst, I had slipped quietly back
through the years, to my five and a
quarter years in German prison camps.
I felt I could take anything these boys
threw at me . . .
Bail, I was told, would be two pounds.
Was my wife on the phone? No. I
gave them the address. Did I want tc
see my own doctor? I did. I gave them
his number. Half an hour later, the grille
of my cell-door opened. “There’s no
reply from that number.” The grille shut
again, just in time to stop me calling
him a liar. Two hours later it re-opened.
“Woollahra police say they can’t get
anyone at that address.”
“Oh, look now! Wait ...”
The grille shut, and so severed all con-
tact with the outside world. But it had
really been severed by the doors of the
police-van. Moral: always travel with
enough money for bail, and enough
cigarettes for a night in the cells.
I looked down at my cell-mate, sleep-
ing on a bed-board on the concrete floor.
Crumpled, dirty flannels and a tatty-look-
ing cardigan. I stood by the cell door,
arms folded, handkerchief showing at my
breast pocket, and waited confidently for
the visit to my cell by my doctor, my
solicitor, my wife, my bailor, perhaps by
the Prison Governor . . . Two hours later
I was still waiting, and suddenly there
was thunder on the cell doors in turn.
We were to be moved. I had no idea of
the time. And strangely, in all the ques-
tioning that night, I was repeatedly asked
the time. But I had no watch and I
hazarded no guess.
We filed into another van. No dialogue.
Apathy only. And no curiosity about
each other —yet. I thought I recognised
Hyde Park in the early morning light.
Wasn’t there a court at Queen’s Square?
Another at Taylor Square? And where
exactly was the Central Criminal Court?
And wasn’t there another place near
Central Railway?
\T7herever it was, there they took my
* * money (7s. 6d.), comb, pen, personal
papers. I was glad I had been wearing
a suit at the time of arrest. Most of the
others were in shirt sleeves, no tie, thongs
or bare feet. I didn’t feel their appear-
ance would help them much. We were
allowed to keep our cigarettes, news-
papers. When they had finished frisking
me and I had joined my fellow-prisoners
in the mass cell, I was down to my last
three cigarettes and well prepared to give
the quick refusal. Mateship’s one thing,
being without a cigarette is quite an-
another . . .
The cell was 30 by 30 feet —accommo-
dation, I suppose, unlimited. There were
only thirty odd that night. It was like a
large cow-byre, with only three stalls, and
these used as open and very public lava-
tories. For the rest —bare concrete, a
few duck-boards, glaring artificial light,
heavy wire mesh and thick metal doors.
I sat against a wall, hands clasped round
my knees, occasionally nodding off.
Constant interruptions throughout the
night If the police wanted somebody,
his name was shouted, and everyone else
was wakened by the din. Groups of
names were called out, and groups of us
moved off —for finger-printing and photo-
graphy. Our names had been printed
and placed on boards which we were to
wear round the neck. Also the date and
a file number. Present: a photographer,
a “clapper boy” with the neck-boards, a
“director,” “assistant director.” Also ten
or a dozen police spectators. A brilliantly
lit “studio,” the walls lined with thousands
of filing boxes with, presumably, the
photographs and finger prints of any
citizen who had ever been charged—
charged, not convicted with a mis-
demeanor. This room seemed to be the
pqlice social centre as well. Perhaps they
were attracted by the light as they came
in on early morning duty, or by the show
itself —every two minutes another artiste,
a new face. But always the same direc-
tions: “Look this way and don’t blink.”
At the other end of the room, the finger-
print man: “Relax your finger. Wipe
it on that cloth. Sit over there.”
Now it was my turn. In the back-
ground, blonde, ruddy-faced and youthful
policemen with thickish necks greet each
other .
“G’day Kev . . . g’day Mike, isn’t
that tea boiled yet? . . . Look this way
and don’t blink ...”
I looked dead-pan at the lens and
beyond it to the grinning “spectators” and
for the benefit of the Police Photograph
Albums, kept saying to myself: “I hate
Australia, I hate Australia ...”
Back then to the mass cell, the duck-
boards, the concrete, the artificial light.
It could have been midnight, midday,
Christmas or breakfast time . . . Another
thundering on the door. It was break-
fast: three cold sausages, two slices of
unbuttered bread, a battered and white-
hot aluminium bowl of scalding water
called tea. I ate the sausages. One man
still slept.
“Don't you want your breakfast,
mate?”
“He feeling crook.”
“Someone else might want it though
. . .” A rattling on the grille. “There’s
a bloke here’s missed his breakfast.” An-
other ration is passed in and the Good
Samaritan begins on his fourth, fifth and
sixth sausage ...”
Two hours later, people are rousing
themselves, thinking now about their
court appearance. A constant checking
of lists by different policemen.
“Winifred Hall?”
A big man acknowledges this. “It’s
Wilfred though.”
“Wilfred Hall is it?” The name is
altered on the list but no one has thought
of laughing.
Oeveral are now pacing like Richard 11,
back and forth, four paces up, turn,
four paces back, turn . . . Side by side,
the big man, “Winifred” and a little Scot,
pace it out, talking earnestly together.
They seem to have some sort of
authority, for once or twice a seedy-look-
ing vagrant rolls a cigarette, takes a few
drags on it before offering it to the little
Scot. I had heard of Tobacco Bosses
establishing their empire in prison. Was
the Scot one? Or were these two Master-
minds who had slipped up on some
triviality and would go free again this
morning to continue their crime organisa-
tion from outside? Two others gave a
similar impression. They both wore good
suits, hats. And these two certainly did
have the doors of the cell flung open
for their exit a little later on. They


simply walked out, giving the sergeant
as they passed through a friendly greet-
ing: “G’day John. How’re things?”
But “Winifred” and the Scot re-
mained, and walked and talked. About
what? Their giant narcotics ring? A
bank haul of £30,000 they had pulled
off last month? I felt some deflation
when subsequently I heard “Winifred”
questioned by another prisoner: “What
you in for then?” A pause and then
. “Language.” And he resumed his
pacing of the cell.
The direct question, apparently, is
permissible. Towards nine, there was a
constant exchange of such information,
the reply generally short but complete:
“Stealing” . . . “Breaking and entering”
. . . “Disorderly conduct.”
And now, until the court opens, visits
by various police, due soon to present
their evidence of arrest, by plain-clothes
men, still investigating, and occasionally,
rarely, by a lawyer. A name is shouted
. . . “Patrick O’Hara.” O'Hara goes to
the thick wire mesh. The rest of us
listen attentively. “Now Paddy, this chap
you say you were with at four . . ” The
Christian name means that they want
something from Paddy, that the detective
is still building his case. It’s man-to-man
stuff through the wire. “We picked him
up in Redfern, Paddy. He says you were
the one that did it.” A pause. “What
are you going to do, Paddy? Plead
guilty?” Paddy has changed his attitude
by now. “What will I get if 1 do?” The
detective’s attitude also changes. He is
strictly official now. “Oh, I'm not advis-
ing you. O'Hara. But if you plead not
guilty, there’ll have to be a remand over
Easter and I don’t know when you would
come up . . .” Another pause. More
talk. “So you’ll be pleading guilty? AH
right.” And he’s gone.
Someone else at the wire. “When did
you last work?” “Seven years ago. I’m
an epileptic, see, and there’s some tablets
I should have. They’re pink and white.
Two sorts ...”
VCY name is called. A policeman out-
side the wire. “Are you going to
plead guilty or not guilty?” “What’s the
charge?” He consults his papers.
“D.U.1.” Driving under the influence.
“Why are you asking me?” An evasive
reply . . . something about the court
defence, or was it the prosecution?
“What do you advise me to do?” I am
trying the man-to-man touch. No good.
“I’m not advising you one way or an-
other! So what are you going to plead?
Guilty? You were drunk when I saw
you this morning.” Ah, the closed
question again. And now I recognise
him. This morning he had had his hat
on. “Guilty, I suppose.” There doesn’t
seem any point in disputing it. I want
to get out of this place, not stay here
over Easter. Would they ever get in
touch with my wife? “So you’re plead-
ing guilty? All right.”
It must save a great deal of the court’s
time if it is known in advance how each
case is likely to go. I return to my place
hy the wall. A slight air of tension now.
Nobody asleep. People running water
through their hair, trying to spruce them-
selves up a bit. We are joined from
some other cell by a one-legged plonky,
with a big purple plum under one eye.
“Got a smoke for an old digger?”
No one listens to him. He relapses
into curses. I am surprised still to be the
only one here of my own—I hesitate even
to think the word—of my own “class.”
Where are the well-dressed, well-spoken,
car-owning people who last night had,
as I had, one glass of wine too many? ,
Now, four of us are moved into a cell
adjoining the court. Cases are already
being dealt with up above us. The one-
legged plonky has a running gag as each
man comes down the steps into the cell—
but it isn’t meant as a gag.
“How much? Ten bob?”
And always, although they know it
isn't even a question, they answer him.
“Four pounds. Seven days to pay. ’
. . . “Two quid” . . . “One month . . .”
IVTow I am in the dock. A grey-haired
' magistrate. My policeman ready to
give his story. A policeman-typist with
a noisy machine. Police on every side.
It's thick with them. 1 plead guilty.
Do I understand that if I am convicted
I can lose my licence for a year?
1 hadn’t realised this. Then how do I
now plead? Guilty. Do 1 wish Legal
Aid? No. Thank you. Sir.
The police witness outlines the case,
carefully timing his delivery so that the
typist can get it all down. Have 1 any-
thing to say? 1 speak of a faulty clutch
that contributed to the accident. The
Prosecutor—an elderly sergeant —exam-
ines the witness, and leans over back-
wards, apparently, to present my case
as well as he can. The distance between
the cars? A foot. The damage? None.
The driving record of the accused?
Absolutely nothing against him And in
fact it was the taxi-driver who called the
police to the case? Yes. A significant
pause here for this to register. Could it
be that the court was familiar with such
stand-over tactics? Perhaps it was lucky
I had forgotten to mention it in mitiga-
tion.
Now the sergeant is summing-up. He
mentions —slightingly —the clutch.
I interrupt.
“1 beg your pardon, but I certainly did
use the clutch ...”
A silence in court. The magistrate is
looking straight out at the opposite wall.
I fancy that I have committed some in-
describable breach of court etiquette.
The sergeant turns to me at last.
“The magistrate is listening to you
“Oh ...” Then I explain how since
last week my clutch has become a rather
dangerous weapon. How I plan to have
it repaired . .
The magistrate addresses me —or so I
guess for I cannot hear over the noise
of the typewriter.
“ ... so do you accept this?”
A pause.
“Do you understand the question?”
“No sir. 1 couldn’t hear over the type-
writer.”
That shuts the typist up!
Then 1 get the message. I am being
discharged. I am giving—‘my verbal
bond’ is it? For a year? Not to mis-
behave on the roads? Otherwise . . .
“Thank you, sir . . . ” and I get out of
the court.
“This way” a policeman says, and I
go through a door. To freedom? It
clangs behind me. lam back in the cell
with the others —“Winifred,” the little
Scot, Paddy O'Hara, the man with the
tablets . . . And the one-legged plonky.
“How much? Ten bob?”
I tell them. “Nothing. I'm discharged.”
“So what you doing back in here?”
It’s a good question. The grille opens
for a moment. I try to state my case
as a freed man, but it closes again in my
face. An hour later I again shout my
problem through the grille. “Excuse me
. . . could I talk to you about my case
.... I’m pretty sure I’m in the clear
... if you could look at my papers . .
Others are trying to contact a Salvation
Army man through the grille.
“Ask him to collect your wage packet
for you . . . call him Captain though,
and tell him . . . tell him to take the
taxi-fare out of it . . . but call him Cap-
tain ...”
“Oh, excuse me, Captain ...”
A policeman calls my name. He is
grinning.
“I thought I told you to clear off home
half an hour ago! What are you still
doing in there? Come on, out of it . .
The cell door is opened for me. I
collect my money and my car and drive
off. I have had a nasty fright, but I am
three cold sausages to the good.
Three small questions remain: 1, Were
they entitled to finger-print and photo-
graph before conviction? 2, How do I get
my finger-prints back from them? and 3,
Wouldn’t it be a good idea to shave the
heads of every citizen under arrest for
a misdemeanor? That is, if the police
state is really here to stay . . .
“Not those, Malcolm — these!"


PERSONAL
Keeping up with Taxes
‘“yi7 E ’ VE made the fortune. Now we just
’ * have to keep up with the taxes,”
said Billy Daniels, carefully selecting
a tie to go with his olive-green suit.
The quiet-spoken singer, whose con-
torted rendering of “That Old Black
Magic” 15 years ago brought him fame
and royalties of six million times 15 cents,
is in Sydney for a four-week engagement
at Andre’s nightclub.
His hair stylishly white, an easy smile
gleaming in a smooth brown face, a
dapper figure moving relaxedly about his
room at the Chevron Hilton, Mr Daniels,
now in his forties, admitted he wouldn’t
know what to do if he stopped working.
“Sure, l’ve made a million or so,” he
said. “I’ve got it in oil, gas, real estate,
uranium. There’s no need for an enter-
tainer to die broke these days. You
hire the professionals to look after it
for you. We all do it —I’m involved in
an investment situation right now with
Harry Belafonte and Johnny Mathis.
But what would I do if I retired —just
sit around?”
Billy Daniels has moved up consider-
ably from the speakeasies and clip-joints
where he Began his career as a 14-year-
old singing waiter during the depression
years in New York and Chicago.
“Have I ever been shot at? I’ve been
shot. They got me in the leg one night,
a couple of gangs shooting it out across
the floor. But you had to work those
places, sing for the gunmen, the under-
world racketeers, the bookies, because
it was the only source of any money in
1932, 33, 34.”
Daniels sang with others unknown
then above street level Fats Waller,
Billie Holliday. He was also in vaudeville
for a while with Bill “Bojangles” Robin-
son, the dancer.
“We did a show together—‘Memphis
Bound’,” Daniels said. “It was a hot
version of ‘HMS Pinafore.’ But it was
never a success like Bill’s other Gilbert
and Sullivan show, ‘The Hot Mikado.’ ”
Today Daniels divides his time between
travelling to Europe and Australia, and
the nightclub circuit in the U.S. Las
Vegas is the show-business capital now.
“Sure, Vegas is largely run by former
gangsters, racketeers, gamblers,” he said.
“They're the ones who ran gambling
before it was legalised, so who else would
know how to do it? But now they’re
legitimate. It pays entertainers well to
play there, but it’s hard work. Most
people listen more to the crap tables and
slot machines than to the singer.”
“Mr Black Magic” smiled gently, and
picked up the morning paper to check on
share movements in oil, gas, real estate
and uranium.
Welfare Chief Retires
Vou hear a good deal about the Parra-
matta Girls’ Home these days, but
you don’t hear much about the Gosford
Boys’ Home. Twenty years ago the
Gosford Boys’ Home was pretty con-
RICHARD HICKS
The Years with Delinquents
sistently in the news. In 1944, when
Richard Hicks took over as Director
of Child Welfare in N.S.W., 36 boys
absconded from the home in his first
week on the job ; in the first year 400
absconded. Last year only 17 boys tried
to get away from the home.
Mr Hicks, who retires this week,
tackled delinquent boys before he tried
to do something similar for wayward
girls, simply because Child Welfare
comes up against far more delinquent
boys than girls. Government finance
being what it is, it was a case of first
things first. However, Child Welfare has
long-prepared plans for dealing with
delinquent girls and Mr Hicks has no
doubt that these plans can be carried
through successfully.
One of Mr Hicks’s first steps in
reorganising Gosford was to segregate
incorrigibles, whose influence on the
younger boys there often defeated the
whole purpose of the home. Recalcitrant
boys are now in a “closed” institution at
Tamworth, but the number of these boys
is small. When full, Tamworth takes
only 30 boys.
Gosford now provides a varied pro-
gramme of training for about 200 delin-
quent youths of 15 to 18. Classes are
provided in sheetmetal work, motor
mechanics, bootmaking, carpentry and
rural activities. The boys visit concerts
and theatres and take part in their own
hobbies at the home.
Mr Hicks, who is a qualified solicitor,
had earlier spent 17 years in Court of
Petty Sessions in 50 towns in all parts
of N.S.W. He was in Broken Hill during
the 1917 strike, when 33 police were
rushed up from Adelaide and rioters
tore the palings off the courtyard fence
to use as weapons. At the subsequent
trial of 13 I.W.W. men (it lasted three
weeks) Mr Hicks was deposition clerk.
Sympathisers of the men on trial marched
into the court and smashed every window
in the building. “For all that,” said
Hicks, “Broken Hill was one of the
happiest places imaginable to live in.”
Israeli Soldier
taciturn, 41-year-old Major.
General Haim Laskov, recently re-
tired Chief-of-Staff of the Israeli Defence
Forces, now in Australia on a hurricane
six-day tour, is voluble when discussing,
in an Israeli-Oxford accent, his two
favorite subjects: Israel and the Israeli
Army.
Though he has a heavy programme of
luncheons, dinners, etc., this tall, strongly
built, bespectacled soldier is not touring
Australia for pleasure ; he is here on
behalf of the United Jewish Appeal, the
organisation formed to support large-
scale immigrant absorption into Israel.
And, if past performances and personality
are any guide, his mission will be suc-
cessful.
Entering on a military career at 14,
he completed 23 years of Army service
in January. When only 29 he was already
being acclaimed as liberator of Nazareth
against Iraqui troops during the 1948 War
of Independence. Eight years later he
was being compared with Patton and
Montgomery for his lightning armored
strike against Rafah in the 1956 Sinai
Desert Campaign.
Possibly his greatest contribution to the
i datively new State of Israel is his anxiety
to give Army men a broad education.
Talking of Laskov, Jewish people who
know say that “No soldier leaves Laskovs
Army without completing a basic educa-
tion.” No believer in only a basic educa-
tion himself, Haim Laskov's student days
at Oxford were interrupted seven years
ago when he was recalled by his Govern-
ment to become Deputy Chief-of-Staff.
His days as a freedom fighter began
back in 1930 when 10-year-old Haim's
father was killed during Arab riots in
Palestine. Soon after he became a runner
for Haganah, the pre-Statehood Jewish
defence force. Whilst at Haifa’s Reali
secondary school, he was a Haganah
platoon commander and chief of the
school’s Communications Group. In the
typical Alma Mater tradition, the General
will remind you that Reali has already
turned out two other Chiefs of Staff,
Generals Yaacov and Mordecai Makleff.
Into the Silence:—
At Bowral (N.S.W.), at 85, George Bradman,
a retired carpenter whose son is Australia s
most famous cricketer.
In Sydney, at 76, W. J. Kell, managing-
director of builders Kell and Rigby, who con-
structed the Grace Building and the Anzac War
Memorial.
In Sydney, at 70, Pastor L. A. Butler, ®
former State President of the Seventh Bar
Adventist Church.
In Sydney, at 61, Cecil Taylor, who had
been with the Stamp Duties Department sine
1921, and was last year appointed Lom-
missioner.
In Sydney, at 83, H. J. Barncastle, for
years managing-director of Balm Paints, an
the first chairman of the paints section of tn e
Chamber of Manufactures.
In Adelaide, at 61, J. O. Lyons, f° rlll f
Director of Public Works in Papua. Fro®
1930 to 1940 a member of the S.A. Tow
Planning Appeals Board, he had also been
member of the Woomera Town Planning
Advisory Committee since its inception.


This Australia
The Collinsville Crisis
Queensland is on the verge of a major
industrial crisis—mainly because the
Government has done the right thing for
the wrong reasons.
When the Nicklin-Morris coalition's
peripatetic Cabinet lately “met the
people” in Bowen the rural scene was
disturbed by a procession of about 300
coalminers, complete with the traditional
slogans and camp-followers. They came
from Collinsville (pop. 2000), 60 miles
south-west of Bowen, one of the State’s
last remnants of “people's ownership.”
Sitting astride a magnificent seam (20
million tons) of probably the best coking
coal in Australia, Collinsville’s State-
owned mine has been in existence since
1922 (the first bore was sunk by the State
in 1885), and its debt to the Treasury
totals £700,000. A nearby privately
owned mine (Scottville) makes a tidy
annual profit.
The Collinsville mine has broken the
hearts of successive Labor Governments
in Queensland. Everything has been done
to make it pay. In 1952, about £500,000
was spent in mechanisation —described
as a failure by a 1954 Royal Commis-
sion into an accident which resulted in
the death of seven men. Reasons for
the failure listed by the commission
included the “unco-operative attitude" of
employees—and here lies the real story
of Collinsville.
With the possible exception of Cess-
nock (N.S.W.), Collinsville is the only
completely “closed” mining town in
Australia. And it is run by militant
Communists. It is a dangerous town for
critics of Communists or Communism.
Pressmen, and even counsel, concerned
with the 1954 Royal Commission, were
extremely careful where they walked and
talked in Collinsville. The town's history
of pillage, incompetence and deliberate
provocation is appalling.
Former State Premier Vince Gair,
when Mines Minister during the war
years, thought he had won a major vic-
tory when he persuaded Collinsville’s
men to work on Saturdays to coal ships
engaged in the struggle against Japanese
sea power. True, the men worked at
penalty rates —but still, they worked.
Last week Mr Gair recalled ruefully that
most of the men took Monday off by
Way of compensation. He got them
exempted from the meat ration —but
found it going to greyhound dogs. At no
s tage of the war did the Collinsville mine
ever compare with nearby Scottville, a
comparative rabbit warren, for man-hour
production. Gair, no coward at any
time, told the miners in 1943 from a
Collinsville picture-theatre stage that the
Word comrade was one of the loveliest
m the dictionary, but the ugl est in the
language as it was used in that town.
“ e also told them that the mine was a
“wartime funkhole for scabs.” Then,
with police protection he got out of the
place.
With such a history, Collinsville could
expect little sympathy if it was slapped
down good and hard by any Govern-
ment. But Cabinet appears to have shut
the mine down in a fit of pique—not be-
cause of its appalling industrial record, or
because of its £70,000 deficit this finan-
cial year, but because the miners held
a stop-work meeting to hear the results
of the deputation to Cabinet in Bowen.
To most unionists it looked like an
old-fashioned lockout by a Government
committed to arbitration. Mines Minister
Ernie Evans has announced that the
mine is closed, but he doesn't know for
how long. He has announced that it
might be sold to private enterprise, but
on the eve of miners’ talks he disclosed
that the buyer did not seem interested.
Militant unionists led by Communists
or Communist stooges have been look-
ing for trouble in Queensland. Now the
Government may have played right into
their hands. The Miners’ Union last
Wednesday called a State-wide 48-hour
strike in sympathy with the Collinsville
miners, and railway unions have de-
clared their “support,” which could re-
sult in a major strike when coal is used
from anywhere but Collinsville.
Other comparatively moderate unions
are perturbed at the situation. “If only
they’d pulled them on for the right
reasons,” a top moderate wailed. “They’d
have everyone on their side. Now it
looks as if they’ll finish up with everyone
against them.” “They,” of course, are
the Government.
Story of a Wreck
since last December, when they
discovered an old wreck off the
coast of Queensland, a couple of Aus-
tralians have been doing their best to
rewrite our early maritime history.
The two Australians, Alan Darcy, a
Darwin businessman, and Donald Smith,
a Sydney commercial photographer—
have been trying to convince the pub-
lic that the wreck they found is of a
ship that was on the eastern Australian
coast years ahead of Captain Cook’s
“Endeavour.”
The wreck was found when Darcy,
Smith and two other men were cruising
from Sydney to Darwin, in Darcy’s
racing sloop, Alvis. One day their
anchor snagged on something in the
waters near the Great Barrier Reef.
Smith went over the side to investigate
and found an old wooden wreck that
“seemed like a galleon standing proudly
in the half light.” It was accordmg to
him in “a remarkable state of preserva-
tion.” When other members of the
Alvis’s crew went down in aqualungs to
have a look at the wreck they recovered
a bell bearing the inscription: “The
gift of Lady Herbert, daughter of Sir
John Knatchbull, of Mearchim Hatch in
Kent, in the Kingdom of England,
November 30, 1711.”
Darcy, who told his story to the press
in Darwin, said that the wreck was about
five miles offshore, 200 miles north of
Cairns. “I hope to organise an expe-
dition to salvage the wreck,” he said.
“If we can’t raise it, we will thoroughly
examine it. Aboard might be old books
or papers still readable. There might
even be sunken treasure.” Darcy added
that he had written to the British Ad-
miralty asking them to try to identify
the wreck.
In publishing Darcy’s statement every
southern paper emphasised the mys-
terious nature of the wreck. It was
pointed out that the date on the wreck’s
bell was 59 years earlier that Cook’s
visit to Australia, the inference being
that the wreck might be that of a ship
so far unknown to history.
However, in an article in the Adelaide
“Advertiser” on December 28, Mr
Robert Langdon pointed out that there
was probably no mystery about the
wreck at all. It was almost certainly
that of H.M.S. Pandora, the 24-gun
frigate commanded by Captain Edward
Edwards that had been sent from Eng-
land in 1790 to find and arrest the Bounty
mutineers. The Pandora had been
wrecked on the Barrier Reef on August
28, 1791. She was the only ship both
likely to have had a bell with an 18th-
century inscription and known to have
been wrecked there. And ships’ bells,
noted Langdon, were frequently handed
down from ship to ship.
The publication of the Pandora theory
evoked interest in both Australia and
Britain. Everyone seemed to be delighted
that the wreck of the Pandora had been
found. Everyone, that is, except wreck-
finders Darcy and Smith.
In Darwin, Darcy promptly and
strongly denied that the wreck was that
of the Pandora. His wreck, he claimed
was “300 miles north of the Pandora
site” which placed it somewhere in the
Gulf of Papua, or possibly on the New
Guinea mainland. Meanwhile Smith told
the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” that he
and his codiscoverers believed that the
wreck was that of a Spanish galleon and
that “a fortune in bullion” was probably
stowed in its hold But Smith did not
explain why a Spanish galleon would
have been carrying an English bell.
At the end of March, Smith appeared
in Brisbane, where he told the “Sunday
Mail” that a six-man team was to start
assembling in Cairns during the week


ending April 1 to investigate the wreck.
Despite the fact that Darcy had stated
on January 8 that the Admiralty
“thought it certain that the wreck was
not the Pandora,” Smith told the “Sunday
Mail” that “London inquiries” indicated
that the wreck would pfove to be “either
the Pandora or a privateer.” However,
Smith was still peddling the idea that, the
wreck was stuffed with bullion.
Two days after these statements were
published, the “Northern Territory News”
revealed that Darcy was leaving Darwin
next day to investigate the wreck with
a team of underwater experts. On March
29 the Adelaide “Advertiser” quoted
Darcy as saying that the Admiralty.had
told him that the description of the bell
he had taken from the wreck fitted that
of a bell “known to be aboard a ship
which was last heard of in Timor in
1711.” Yet the date on the bell —
November 30, 1711 —makes it plain that
the ship could not have reached Timor
from England until at least 1712.
It will be a great pity if Darcy and
Smith are allowed to investigate the
wreck without, at least, the supervision
of a representative of that legally omni-
potent personage, the Receiver of
Wrecks. After lying on the ocean floor
for more than a century and a half,
the wreck is no doubt solidly encrusted
with coral; so no worthwhile investiga-
tion of it will be possible without the
•use of explosivesand explosives in
the hands of inexperienced people could
easily damage the wreck irreparably.
W.A.’s Bid for Heavy Industry
Tt may be a happy coincidence that
the route of the proposed standard-
gauge railway from Kalgoorlie to
Kwinana on the Western Australian
coast, just south of Fremantle, should
run parallel to the pipelines of the gold-
fields’ water scheme. The standard-gauge
line may become the key to W.A.’s
second big leap forward, just as C. W.
O’Connor's ingenious water scheme made
possible the Kalgoorlie goldrush, which
gave W.A. its first glimpse of prosperity.
This time the prize is an iron-and-steel
industry which will turn Western Aus-
tralia into the industrialised State she
has always yearned to be. The iron-ore
deposits on which the industry will be
based are Koolyanobbing, a desolate spot
312 miles east of Perth, near Kalgoorlie.
The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which
has gained the rights to mine the 100
million tons of high-grade ore there, says
it cannot economically set up foundries
at Kwinana unless a standard-gauge rail-
way is laid down to carry the ore to the
plant.
If the Commonwealth agrees to lay
down the standard-gauge line, which will
cost £35,000,000, the Commonwealth
will pay 70 per cent, of the cost. The
line will provide W.A. with one gauge
from Fremantle to Port Pirie in South
Australia. At present passengers and
goods are switched at Kalgoorlie from
the Trans-continental to Western Aus-
tralian railways.
The timetable for the whole operation,
which is a development scheme com-
parable to the network of all-weather
roads planned for West Queensland
and the Northern Territory, is a long-
range one. It calls for the ratification
of the State-Commonwealth agreement
on rail standardisation by the end of
this year, the installation of a blast
furnace at Kwinana with a capacity of
450,000 tons of basic iron a year by
1968 and the completion of a steel-
making plant and rolling mill by 1978.
Western Australia’s energetic Minister
for Industrial Development, Mr Charles
Court, flew to Canberra last week to
argue the State’s case for the standard-
gauge line with the Commonwealth and
came home confident that it was in the
bag. In view of the Commonwealth’s
export drive and the world demand for
steel his confidence would not seem to
be misplaced. If Court has succeeded
in his mission to Canberra, he will go
down in the Western Australian history
books as the architect of the new era.
Though the steel-industry agreement
has been criticised as being too much
in B.H.P.’s favor, both in time allowed
and in such concessions as rail-freight
rates, it is clear that Court and his Indus-
trial Development Committee accepted
delays in the interests of an integrated
plan for industrial development. The
Commonwealth Government, which has
far more influence with B.H.P. than the
W.A. Government, is said to be talking
the company into hastening the construc-
tion of the blast furnace and steel-making
plant. For its part, the State is plainly
content to rely on the industrial symbol
of iron and steel as a lure for other
industries, rather than press for an earlier
transformation to reality.
The reason for its kid-glove agreement
with B.H.P. is not hard to find. By
combining rail - gauge standardisation
and an iron and steel industry, it can
achieve far greater gains than by bargain-
ing for each benefit, separately. Ore
transport will make the railway line an
economic proposition and the one-gauge
railway-line will work to Western Aus-
tralia’s industrial advantage in markets
in eastern States. If the rail-gauge stan-
dardisation agreement is ratified, the
western third of the Commonwealth will
really be on the move.
Pressure
Tactics?
/~\N April 19, Dr H. C. Coombs’s
announcement that the Reserve Bank
had instructed trading banks to continue
restraint on lending was published, and
the Federal Treasurer asked for restraint,
especially in financing imports making
no reference to any Government action
to curtail them. The Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures acted promptly.
A very quickly prepared (or prepared-
in - expectation) page advertisement
appeared in the “Melbourne Herald'’ i a
the form of an open letter to the Federal
Government, and inviting those, whose
job or income had been affected by the
credit squeeze and the lifting of import
controls, to read it.
Signed by Gordon More, the president,
the letter was mildly phrased, consider-
ing manufacturers’ difficulties in facing
up to the credit squeeze at the same time
as they are meeting increased competi-
tion from overseas. He wrote that con-
cern in many quarters had developed
into alarm, and that unless the Govern-
ment moved immediately a situation,
which was obviously never intended,
could develop where substantial unem-
ployment would extend far beyond the
manufacturing industry.
Mr More suggested that the situation
would become tragic unless there was
appropriate and effective action, and
what was needed was the imposition of
selective import restrictions and the
easing of credit restrictions.
The advertisement also appeared in the
following morning's dailies and attention
to them was called in the news columns
with an invitation to read them. They
certainly were newsy.
The attack by backbenchers on Minis-
ters over economic policy in Canberra
the same day was followed by a telegram
to Mr More from Hubert Opperman,
the Minister for Transport, who said
he was astounded to read the advertise-
ment, and that “nothing could be more
calculated to destroy confidence... .than
such extraordinary and costly pressure
tactics.”
Mr More in reply pointed out that
Mr Opperman was the member for
Corio. This is a car-manufacturing area,
and the Minister is highly vulnerable
since he wins Corio on a personal vote.
Mr More said nothing, as he might
justly have done, about the right of
citizens to protest when they have been
hurt by Government action, or inaction,
without being described as “pressure
tacticians.”
The Chamber of Manufactures can
hardly be accused of acting impetuously.
In January the Associated Chamber of
Manufactures were asking in Canberra
for the Government to reimpose selective
import control immediately. The Vic-
torian Chamber was silent. .
A month later, however, the Victorian
Chamber was calling for a resumption
of selective import restrictions. Mr
More pointed out then that his cham-
ber had deliberately refrained from
making statements on the current
economic situation in the expectation
that the Government would have intro-
duced effective remedial measures, but
the position was becoming difficult.
In the light of what has happened to
Australian industry, the “general trend,”
forecast by the Department of Trade and
published on December, 15, is very in-
teresting :
Rising production and greater employ-
ment ;
Cost and price stability ;
Industries working closer to their
capacity ;
Increasing rate of investment to add
to capacity and efficiency ;


Fewer shortages of labor and
materials ;
Expectations of further rises in output.
The Mess in
Brisbane
City Council polls on Saturday for the
election of a Lord Mayor and 28
aldermen merely offer the Brisbane
people the choice between Tweedledum
and Tweedledee.
The Citizens’ Municipal Organisation
may retain its majority at the City Hall.
It is possible, but not probable, that the
A.L.P. men will overcome the obstacle
of a vote, split by the Queensland Labor
Party, and be first past the post. What-
ever the outcome, not one major prob-
lem inherent in the Greater Brisbane
Scheme can possibly be solved as a
result of the poll.
The City Council theoretically services
the world’s largest metropolitan area —
375 square miles—with a population of
600,000. Basic, servicing of this huge
municipal area is so far behind require-
ments that two-thirds of Greater Bris-
bane’s roads are dirt-surfaced. In all
the outer suburbs the council has long
since abandoned the pretence of pro-
viding footpaths. Householders make
them of grass and keep them mown,
or go without. Parklands are neglected
or non-existent.
Roughly two-thirds of Brisbane con-
tinues to be unsewered, but the percent-
age is growing as the limited expenditure
on sewerage lags annually behind the
rate of house construction.
A financial miracle is required to re-
move this enduring shame from Queens-
land’s capital. Estimates of the sum
necessary to sewer Brisbane completely
to the point of present growth is in the
neighborhood of £SO millions.
Capital expenditure on the council’s
electricity undertaking, which does show
an operational profit, and on the trans-
port system, which has losses climbing
towards a yearly £500,000, draw off be-
tween them more than half of the city’s
annual loan funds. What is left has to
be spread over water, sewerage, roads
and other works.
The blame for Brisbane’s alarming con-
dition lies with the academic Socialist
planners of the Labor party, who, 36
years ago, fastened this experiment in
grand-scale municipal Socialism upon
the city.
These planners have mostly been
gathered to their fathers, leaving behind
them one large, god-forsaken municipal
mess. They had not the vision to see
that ahead of them lay a city of many
hundreds of thousands of people. Nor
did they realise that the complete control
of all public utilities by a city requires
money beyond the possibility of rate-
payers’ funds to provide or petty borrow-
ing to stimulate.
Then 21 years ago a State Labor
Government, learning nothing from the
past, and anxious to discipline Labor
aldermen who had got out of hand, by a
new City of Brisbane ordinance, stripped
them of most of their power. It set up
a number of boards, staffed by per-
manent council officials. These boards
function through the Department of City
Administration, of which the Town Clerk
is head. In everything to do with the
administration of Greater Brisbane, the
Town Clerk’s Department, and not the
aldermen, is the authority.
What Labor started the present
UNITY TICKETS
“I can’t smell anything.”


Country-Liberal Government has done
nothing to end, probably because the
whole subject of Brisbane’s government
poses a problem which would be more
complex in the solution even than it is
in the running.
Religion with a
Beat
people are rather staid,” says
Mr Eric Smith, organist of St Luke's
Angkcan Church in the Sydney suburb
of Concord. “They have ideas of their
own and it is hard to change them.”
Mr Smith is certainly out to change
them. Most of the good ladies who go
along regularly to the Methodist Mis-
sion's Pleasant Sunday Afternoons with
their sewing can hardly be described as
“red-hot mommas” —but a few reverently
discreet foot-tappings were seen last
week when the “Mass in Jazz” was put
on at the Lyceum theatre.
Although sponsored by the Methodists,
“Mass in Jazz” was written by an Eng-
lish Anglican minister, the Rev. Geoffrey
Beaumont, in 1953. New to Australia
(this was its first radio broadcast here),
the idea of “Mass in Jazz,” as Eric Smith
says, is “a sincere attempt to break down
the wall between the Church and the
secular world —to make people of the
secular world feel at home in church.”
“At home” means using the jazz idiom
right through the “Mass,” particularly at
moments of praise, such as at the Creed,
Gloria and Introit. In the quieter
moments of the service, rhumba and
beguine rhythms are used. Most people
are accustomed to a rather solemn but
traditional rendering of the Lord’s
Prayer —but Pleasant Sunday After-
nooners found it sung to a beguine
rhythm “reverentially treated.” The
rector of St Luke’s, the Rev. K. F.
Sanders, referring to the “Mass,” said:
“It seems to grow on you and you get
caught up in the swing and the beat.”
Although the English work was
originally scored for a choir and an
orchestra of 60, Anglican Eric Smith
rescored it for a choir of two sopranos,
an alto, a tenor, a bass, with either an
organ or piano accompaniment. Taking
40 minutes in all, the “Mass in Jazz”
was acclaimed by most of the Sydney
P.S.A.’s older and not so old “red-hot
mommas.” Like most changes in church
liturgy, the serious attempt of the
churches to reach out and put religion
into modern life has had a mixed recep-
tion. But the sponsors of the P.S.A.
feature regarded the performance,
although not a church service, as
encouraging, and a number of its clergy
are not so sceptical of this “new-fangled
notion” as they once were.
As an example of what can be done,
Eric Smith has written tunes for three
traditional hymns: “Lord, Thy Word
Abideth” is in the style of a modern
ballad such as “I’ll Walk Beside You”;
“There’s a Wideness in God’s Mercy” is
set to a Viennese waltz tempo ; and “Now
Thank We All Our God” is in grand-
finale style, with all stops out, such as
“Land of Hope and Glory.”
POLITICAL POINTS
A/hCTORiA’s Premier, Henry Bolte,
* pulled one out of his shallow
political box when he refused to see
a deputation of trade unionists seeking
to interview him as part of their cam-
paign for equal pay for the sexes.
The Premier said he doubted their
sincerity because when his Govern-
ment had suggested the employment
of women bus-drivers to alleviate the
shortage in Melbourne, the Tramway
Union had refused to consider the
suggestion. This, said Mr Bolte,
despite his offer to give them equal
pay.
• •
T atest figures released by the
Department of Statistics show that
Victoria’s population growth is still
faster than any other State’s. Victoria’s
population of 2,925,533 is an increase
of 2.91 per cent. The other State
figures, with the percentage increase in
parthentheses, are: New South Wales,
3,872,809 (2.18 per cent.); Queens-
land, 1,466,879 (1.36) ; South Aus-
tralia, 956,939 (2.41); Western Aus-
tralia, 740,245 (1.89); Tasmania,
359,789 (1.47); Northern Territory,
20,704 (1.72).
Australia’s population increased
during 1960 by 231,997. It is now
10,398,170. Canberra has 55,272
people—an increase of 10.65 per cent.,
caused mainly by public servants
transferring to the national capital
from Melbourne. Of a total migra-
tion intake of 90,135 Victoria gained
43,152, the equivalent of 48 per cent.
• •
A long with the Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures, another busi-
ness group which is harassing the
Federal Government is the life-
assurance companies. In Melbourne
last week, Sir Robert Knox, chairman
of National Mutual Life Association
of A’Asia Ltd, said he hoped the
Government would abandon the
“unfair retrospective provisions” in its
pending legislation. The long-estab-
lished British principle of freedom
and non-interference of investment of
life companies’ funds should continue.
Under the new proposals by the
Government, life offices would have
to build up the public sector share of
assets to 30 per cent, as well as having
to invest 30 per cent, of future
accruals of assets in this sector.
Finishing his speech angrily, Sir
Robert said: “The Government has
made no case for its choice of a figure
as high as 30 per cent.”
• •
"Cxcept for the most avid of politi-
cal party supporters, people of
New South Wales are generally un-
interested in the referendum to abolish
the Upper House being held/ this
Saturday. Two things can be deduced
from what must be the dullest referen-
dum campaign in Australia’s history;
the number of people who vote will
probably be the lowest on record ; and
the referendum won’t be carried. The
lack of efficient and enthusiastic cam-
paigning by the New South Wales
Labor Government has possibly
assisted the “No” campaigners more
than their own propaganda. My
attitude is; a bad House is better than
no House. Fortunately, if the referen-
dum is lost, reform may be considered.
• •
T\ifferent colored faces can still be
seen in Federal Government
party-rooms following the plea by
Roy Crawford Wheeler (Member for
Mitchell, N.S.W.) for the reimposition
of selective import controls. Mr
Wheeler said the Government’s action
last year had been too drastic —par-
ticularly with luxury goods such as
foodstuffs and wines. The goods
imported were no better than the Aus-
tralian goods and sold only because
of their “snoo appeal.”
TA7hat will decide the current issue
in favor of a five-day week for
banks in those States (W.A., Victoria
and N.S.W.) which have not yet
adopted it has been mentioned by
neither party to the dispute: the diffi-
culty of keeping staff. One Australian
bank in a lovely Victorian seaside
town has a normal staff of four. In
the last six months the manager has
had 32 men through his hands.
According to the Victorian under-
ground at the Trades Hall, N.S.W.
is attempting to get rid of the Federal
Executive president Vic Stout. The
N.S.W. bounders aren't very interested
in the old man’s obsession —keeping
the D.L.P. out. They want to win
Federal seats.
N.S.W.’s chances of unseating him
are slim. Under the rules there will
not be, after May, another executive
meeting until September, when the
Leftists expect he will be left where
he is on the plea of not upsetting the
apple-cart so close to the Federal
election.
By MUGGA


OVERSEAS
France as a Third Force
By NEIL McINNES
Tihe date of President Kennedy’s visit
here has been determined with the
Franco-Algerian negotiations in mind.
First fixed for early May when it
appeared that these negotiations would
open in Evian in April, it was pushed
back to end-May and early June when
the Evian parleys had to be postponed.
Meantime, on presidential instructions,
an American Ambassador for the first
time officially received the Algerian rebel
leaders, to urge them, to begin the peace
talks with France as early as possible,
i.e., before President Kennedy went to
Paris. The point is that Mr Kennedy
does not want to arrive here while the
North African war is still raging. By the
time he has to go through the ritual
junketings at the Elysee and swear the
customary vows of eternal friendship
for the U.S.A.’s oldest ally, he would
like the Algerian question to be well
on the way to a solution—as it will be
once the Evian talks open, since both
sides want to settle everything in secret
before they start to negotiate in public.
The President’s views on the issue
are well known from the days when
he was a senator and spoke more freely.
He supports Algerian nationalism and
favors Algerian independence ; the
U.S.A. must support all such movements,
in order to retain the graces of the Afro-
Asian world ; and European allies who
oppose them are dangerous liabilities to
the Western cause. Since the Algerian
issue is within an ace of settlement, but
still in the dangerous last phase where
spectacular gestures from outside could
influence the outcome, Mr Kennedy
would prefer to arrive in Paris just when
France is emerging from quarantine, her
hands clean of the imperialist stain, her
last and dearest colony on the way to
liberation. The journey is, after all, the
first foreign mission of his presidency,
imposed upon him by de Gaulle’s rigid
insistence on protocol (he refused to go
to Washington like Messrs Macmillan
and Adenauer), so its sense must be
perfectly clear to the Afro-Asians.
The psychological calculations on
which this attitude is based are no doubt
much too simple. In the eyes of Afro-
Asians, such displays of delicate anti-
colonial scruples are quite hypocritical
In the enemy of Fidel Castro, who,
whatever we might think of him, is a
hero of the poor and resentful peoples
°f greater stature than Ferhat Abbas.
In general, the Americans can never win
more than ephemeral victories in anti-
colonialist competitions because they are
not free to decide which are good
nationalist causes nor which are just
settlements: in the eyes of Afro-Asians,
°nly Russia can decide those two points.
P°r them, no colony is “really” free until
Russia recognises its sovereignty ; in the
particular case of Algeria, the struggle
will not be concluded until Russia
declares the settlement “just,” never mind
what the Americans say about it. Still,
The London “Daily Express. "
"OF COURSE , MONSIEUR KEN-
NEDY, YOU’RE ALREADY USED TO
SKYSCRAPERS ..."
though the general attitude to European
imperialism might be mistaken, it could
nevertheless be true that the U.S.A.
would find France a less embarrassing
ally once she had liberated the Algerians.
Less embarrassing in one way, per-
haps—but a sight more awkward in every
other. Quite apart from the Algerian
liability, General de Gaulle has been an
uncomfortable bedfellow for the mem-
bers of the Western alliance ever since
his return to power in 1958. Yet that
has been nothing to the exhibitions of
cussedness, independence and obstruc-
tion for which he is now bracing his
muscles, as the Algerian burden slides
from his back. After all, he has had the
realism to see that the shame and disgrace
of the Algerian mess he inherited from
the Fourth Republic set limits to his
pretensions. His earnest and courageous
efforts to pay off the colonial mortgage
have been inspired, less by sentimental
objections to imperialism, than by
anxiety to free his hands for more
ambitious tasks. The day the Algerian
war ends—and it cannot be far distant
now —Mr Kennedy’s troubles with Paris
will be just beginning.
By himself, de Gaulle can do no more
than paralyse the Atlantic alliance and
obstruct American action in West
Europe and much of Africa —which is
already serious enough. To be trouble-
some beyond that point, he requires the
co-operation of a group of French-
speaking African States and the tactical
collusion of the Russians. These will
probably be given him once the Algerian
affair is closed and his potentialities as
a disruptionist of the Western alliance
become clearer. Short-term prophecies
in international affairs are so often
wildly wrong as to be ludicrous, but it
is hard to refrain from forecasting a
radical revision of Franco-Russian rela-
tions in the months after an Algerian
settlement, as Moscow perceives the con-
siderable possibilties of a totally inde-
pendent third force inside the Western
camp.
The General has already given a token
(for in his mind the Algerian question is
as good as wound up, but for the
formalities) of the forms his indepen-
dence could take. In Laos, where he
vetoed the solution the Americans first
favored, and thus earned precisely the
plaudits from the neutralist States that
American ears are hungry for. In the
Congo, where he has denounced the
U.S.-supported U.N. enterprise and
refused to pay for it, thus not only
satisfying the Russians but gratifying
all the neighboring French-speaking
African States. In the U.N., where he
has served notice of a demand for a
constitutional amendment at least as
radical as that proposed by Russia, and
which delights the vanity of the Con-
tinental nations, called upon to play a
more aggressive role in that assembly.
Finally—and no doubt most important
in the long run —in the Mediterranean,
where the Algerian settlement will be


the prelude to a regional organisation
designed to check both Russian and
American ambitions. The important
thing about these sallies is not their
success or lack of it, but the demonstra-
tion that there is a wide field for indepen-
dent action in which France can always
count on winning some clients (Asian
neutralists here, young African ad minis-
trations there, Continental neighbors
elsewhere), while she encounters at least
the passive tolerance of the Russians.
This policy, barely sketched in outline
for us so far, will be tested in the months
ahead as Paris regains freedom of move-
ment from her imperial coils. Freedom
of movement, indeed, is the essence and
only meaning of it; alongside the
grander designs of the Americans and
Russians it is quite incoherent and will
be severely judged as such from the
U.S.A.—less so from Russia, where its
disabling effect on Nato will be -appre-
ciated. It is a senseless policy, in that
it aims to encompass no global objectives,
but simply to demonstrate, in action, that
there is still plenty of room to move and
win clients in a world thought to be
frozen into power blocs and fence-sitters
—plenty of room, that is, for a restless,
imaginative and somewhat demagogic
European nationalism that has been
cleansed of the imperialist smear and is
not afraid to antagonise the Americans
short of losing their protection in the
unlikely event of a war with Russia.
Cuba
Communist Take-over
By THEODORE DRAPER
TPhe outbreak against Castro was no
surprise for a new stage has been
reached in the Cuban revolution. It was
foreshadowed last August at the Eighth
Congress of the Partido Socialista
Popular, the official Cuban Communist
Party. In his main report, the Secretary
General, Bias Roca, called for the
“fusion” of all the revolutionary forces
“in a single movement.”
In December, Major Ernesto “Che”
Guevara, the new Minister of Industries
but then still head of the Cuban National
Bank, publicly announced in Moscow
that the Castro regime “wholeheartedly
supported” the statement of the 81 Com-
munist parties, and he also held forth
the prospect of a “united party” in Cuba.
Unlike Fidel Castro, Guevara is not in
the habit of wasting words unnecessarily,
and again unlike his nominal chieftain,
past performance indicates that what he
says should always be taken seriously.
The Italian Communist organ, l’Unit a,
published an important interview with
Fidel Castro on February 1 of this
year. At one point, its correspondent
in Havana, Arminio Savioli, asked
Castro: “Major, what is your opinion
of the Partido Socialista Popular, the
party of the Cuban Communists?”
Castro replied: “It is the only Cuban
party that has always clearly proclaimed
the necessity for a radical change of
structure, of social relationships. It is
also true that at first the Communists
distrusted me and us rebels. It was a
justified distrust, an absolutely correct
position, ideologically and politically.
The Communists were right to be dis-
trustful because we of the Sierra, leaders
of the guerrillas, were still full of petty-
bourgeois prejudices and defects, despite
Marxist lectures. The ideas were not
clear to us, though we wanted with all
our strength to destroy tyranny and
privileges. Then we met, we understood
each other and began to collaborate. The
Communists have given much blood,
much heroism, to the Cuban cause. Now
we continue to work together, loyally
and fraternally.”
The Manchester “Guardian.”
“AFTER YOU. K. .."
This was a new Castro speaking. In
the old days (a year or two ago!), he
never spoke of himself or his movement
disparagingly. He used to insist that the
Cuban revolution had its own superior
ideology.
Now Castro has begun to deprecate
and inferentially to repudiate his past
when he was much further from the
Communists than he is now. In this
new stage of fusion, the Communists
have gained the upper hand, and Castro
himself heads the procession of penitents.
This is an unwonted role for him to play,
a role secondary to that of the party.
There has always been only one party
in Castro’s Cuba, the Communist P.S.P.,
but it was not good form to show too
much deference or attribute too much
prominence to it publicly. All that has
changed. The old - time Communist
leaders, formerly content to work in the
background, have boldly stepped into
the limelight. The Government press
devotes columns of space to their talks
and lectures for Government employees.
Communist leaders like Bias Roca,
Marinello, Rafael Rodriguez and Pena
have gone through every twist and
turn of Soviet policy for a quarter of a
century and more. They are products of
the school of Stalinism who have sur-
vived in the era of Khrushchev. They
were capable of addressing Batista, as
“Hoy” did in 1944, as the “idol of a
people, the great man of our national
policy, the man who incarnates the
sacred ideals of a new Cuba” —the same
language with which they address Castro
today
And the Cuban Ambassador to the
Soviet Union, Faure Chomon, recently
returned from Moscow and declared in a
public address: “The Cuban revolution
is loyal to Communism. We and the
Communists march together. The
students of tomorrow will tell how the
people of Cuba became Commumst;
and we shall see how the peoples of Latin
America will become Communist.”
For whatever the nascent “united
party” may be called, it will merely be
an enlarged version of the official Com-
munist Party. It will, in effect, represent
the entrance of top-ranking Fidelistas into
the P.S.P. under a new name. It may
very well be, judging from Castro’s
obeisance to the Communist party, that
this step has already been taken. In any
case, whatever the timing, it is the mean-
ing of Castro’s public admission that
not he but the party has always been
right. By placing the party’s interests
above his personal prestige or historical
accuracy, he is demonstrating that he,
too, can be a good, disciplined Com-
munist.
Thus the official Communists have
gone very far since they accused him
and his personal followers of petty-
bourgeois putschism. I have reason to
believe, based on documentary evidence,
that negotiations between Castro and
the Communists began in June-July,
1958, only about two months before
Batista’s flight. For several months after
Castro took power in January, 1959, the
“united front” was an uneasy one and
various issues arose to disturb the part-
nership. By the end of 1959, however,
the die was certainly cast, and Castro
has moved steadily towards the present
perspective of fusion. The process has
been complex and novel, surely one of
the most fascinating and significant of
our time.
Tn his interview with Arminio Savioli,
-*• Castro was asked: “What has the
Socialist camp contributed to the Cuban
revolution?” To which the Lider
Maximo answered: “My boy, what
would have happened to us if Khrushchev
had not sent us oil, if he had not bought
our sugar? And if the Czechoslovaks
had not sent us the arms to defend our-
selves? And machines, spare parts,
technicians?” Indeed, the Cuban press
reports such massive deliveries of every-
thing from guns to buses that the entire
Soviet bloc must be making a gigantic
effort at no small cost to equip Castro’s
armed forces and support his economy.
The Soviets are notoriously tight-fisted
in these transactions and it is most
unlikely that they decided to invest so
much in Cuba without adequate
“guarantees.”
Yet Castro’s newborn humility before
the Communists is not merely a pose.


His g reat advantage over them goes back
to the struggle for power, not the uses
t 0 which he has put his power. While
they were still timidly advocating “clean,
democratic elections” to get rid of Batista
(declaration of the National Committee,
signed by Marinello and Roca, June 28,
1958), he celebrated force and force
alone.’ But in that period, his political
programme betrayed little originality;
h was if anything less radical than that
put forward by Grau San Martin in
1933. Since he took power without a
real ideology, a real army or a real party,
he could conceivably have survived with-
out them only by making his power
consistent with his promises. But this
is precisely what he chose not to do.
In the State which he has established
in Cuba in less time than it took the
Bolsheviks in Soviet Russia —80 per cent,
of the Cuban workers, according to
Anibal Escalante, are now employees of
the State —a new ideology, a new army
and a new party were urgently needed.
Thus for all his old boasts that the
Cuban revolution was unlike any other
and needed no ideology, army or party,
Castro has turned to all three for sur-
vival. His apologies for his former
“weakness” in the department of ideology
are especially noteworthy, though the
confession is far more surprising than
the fact.
Fidel must certainly be ranked with
the greatest pseudo - messiahs of the
century, but no one is likely to mistake
him for a creative political thinker. For
a long time, indeed, he has been in-
creasingly dependent on the superior
intellect of Che Guevara, who once told
Mme. Simone de Beauvoir that he would
“spend hours explaining a complex
economic problem to Fidel” who would
then successfully boil it down to half
an hour on television the next day. This
is the inestimable gift of a populariser
and demagogue, not the genius of a
pathbreaking social revolutionary.
And yet 1 cannot suppress the feeling
that the new, self-critical Fidel is totally
out of character. Whatever may be the
reasons for submitting to the ideology
and discipline of the party, he can hardly
transfer his mystique to it. He has already
worn several different political coats in
his relatively short career, and the latest
is not necessarily the last.
But the practical effect of the new
stage of Fidelismo cannot be over-
estimated. The open emergence of the
official Communist party as the dominant
force, the blatant build-up of its own
top leadership, and Fidel’s abject sub-
mission to its ideology have opened the
way to the most acute crisis of the
regime. There was a time when the most
ardent and authentic non-Communist
Fidelistas did not think of their leader
as merely a Communist stalking-horse
°r a Soviet puppet. Many, if not most,
cannot think so without disillusion and
revulsion.
Thus the old issues of agrarian reform,
nationalisation and anti - Americanism
have been superseded by a new one —for
° r against el Partido. This choice has
become the crucial test of loyalty, and
f v en those closest to Fidel face it. This
ls w hy the fate of Castro’s regime must
now be decided.
Pointers
EUROPE
POLAND
The whole country was decorated with
national flags and red-and-white bunt-
ing, and every paper carried banner
headlines calling upon people to vote in
the elections held on April 16. Electoral
speeches and slogans concentrated on
economic progress, a higher standard of
living, “independence and security of
Poland” and “democracy and socialism.”
Controversial issues were avoided. West
German rearmament was fairly lightly
treated in the election campaign as such.
The formal results were a foregone
conclusion. The seats in the new Sejm
were allocated in advance, under a com-
pulsory pre-election agreement between
the Communist P.Z.P.R. (Polish United
Workers’ Party) and its “allies.” The
Communist alliance will have 547 seats
(P.Z.P.R. will hold 387, the balance
divided between the United Peasant
Party and the Democratic Party). In
addition, there will be 61 non-party
members, including five genuine Catho-
lics. Another six “Catholic” seats will go
to the fellow-travelling, reactionary
“PAX” group, headed by Boleslaw
Piasecki.
During the October, 1956, revolution,
which brought Gomulka to power,
Piasecki and “PAX” sided with the
Stalinist Natolin group and openly called
for armed Soviet intervention. A
notorious pre-war Fascist, Piasecki has
been called “the only thriving capitalist
between the Elbe and the Pacific.” His
“PAX” commercial empire, operating tax
free until last April, controls several
major dailies and weeklies and supports
the dissident “Polish National Catholic
Church,” ostensibly headed by the Old
Catholic bishop Maximilian Rode.
“PAX” demanded 20 Sejm seats, but was
cut down to six. Unlike other Soviet-
bloc countries, Polish elections, although
pre-arranged, give a good indication of
popular feelings. There were 156 more
candidates than seats, and the voter is
allowed to exercise some degree of per-
sonal preference for candidates, a factor
weighing heavily against the neo-
Stalinist Natolin group. Contrary to
expectations, the Catholic episcopate
remained neutral. Acrimonious exchanges
between Gomulka and his lieutenants and
the Primate, Cardinal Wyszynski, ceased.
Characteristically, most people voted after
attending Sunday mass. Voting was
heaviest in the western country districts,
and it has strengthened Gomulka’s
position.
AFRICA
ANGOLA
When asked why he had assumed the
portfolio of National Defence on April
13 Dr Salazar, the Portuguese Prime
Minister answered—Angola. He faces the
resentment not only of Africans but the
160,000 whites in Angola who suffer from
Salazar’s economic policy which means
they lose a quarter on money they transfer
to Portugal and also pay exorbitant taxes.
On April 16 a Lisbon-Luanda air lift of
men and arms began, while liners have
been diverted from the Portugal-Goa run
to act as troopships and on their return
trips are carrying women and children
who are evacuating the inner areas of
Angola to avoid increasing terrorist
attacks. One of Portugal’s leading bull-
fighters, Diamantino Vizeu, has found
himself in his element during the fighting
in the Balombo area. At the head of the
local European security squadron he has
already rounded up 41 terrorists. He has
become the local hero and has cancelled
forthcoming appearances in Lisbon.
ETHIOPIA
A group of African nationalists had
their first experience of Africa when
they arrived in Addis Ababa on April 16.
They were 10 pilgrims of the Rastafarian
sect who, although they have lived in
Jamaica for many generations, believe in
Africans for Africa. Some say there are
10,000 of the sect around Kingston alone.
The pilgrims will visit Nigeria, Ghana,
Liberia and Sierra Leone in search of
their Africa but their preference is for
Ethiopia. They named themselves after
the Emperor Haile Selaisse who was
called Ras Tafari when he was Regent
and they have long regarded him as their
king They are inclined to let their
enthusiasm go to their head: one of them,
on arrival in Addis Ababa, wore a peaked
cap knitted in the yellow, green and red
colors of the Ethiopian flag.
ASIA
INDIA
The National congress of the Indian
Communist Party, held at “Lumum-
banagar,” seems to have ended in a
victory for the right-wing faction but the
balance of power in the party has not
greatly changed nor have differences been
resolved. Mr Ajoy Ghosh was re-elected
general secretary, a post he had held for
nearly a decade, and the left wing has
assured that the party’s co-operation with
the Congress Party will be limited to “the
struggle for peace” and the fight against
communalism.
MIDDLE EAST
ISRAEL
Dr Israel Beer, the country’s lead-
ing military analyst and head of the
faculty of military history at Tel Aviv
university, has been arrested on a spying
charge. He has lectured before military
groups in West Germany and Sweden
and claims to have fought in the Austrian
socialists’ uprising against Dolfuss in
1934 and in the International Brigade in
Spain. There have been conflicting
reports about his relationship with Mr
Ben-Gurion: he has been called a close
adviser to Mr Ben-Gurion but a Govern-
ment spokesman said that Mr Ben-Gurion
had not seen him since May, 1960. Mr
Ben-Gurion is reported to have fainted
when told of Dr Beer’s arrest.


FOR THE CONSUMER
Standard-size Dresses—
or Customers?
A t first thought there wouldn’t seem to
be much point in having standard
sizes for clothing until we get standard-
sized people. To study one of the
pamphlets brought out by the Standards
Association of Australia on clothing
sizes and then go out and have a look
at the assorted shapes of a group of
women picking over the racks of dresses
in a shop is a rather baffling experience.
To try a rather dreadful pun, there are
so many figures in the pamphlet and so
many figures in the shop.
However, the association, which began
the project of establishing sizes for cloth-
ing several years and endless committee
meetings ago, is pressing on. The asso-
ciation is generally concerned with
stresses and strains in engineering and
not with the stresses and strains of women
shopping. A project to establish a
standard for measuring spoons is perhaps
the only other one the association has
in train which affects the average
shopper.
Although the clothing project has occu-
pied the association for several years,
it is not yet finished. Standards for
many types of women’s and children’s
clothing have been established (two
further standards came out this month),
but the association is still working on
women’s underwear and some types of
industrial clothing.
The clothes-sizes project should lead
somewhere. Women’s figures aren’t so
disparate as they sometimes seem to
be. The association has fairly well
established that nearly 80 per cent, of
women would be able to buy off the
hook if all manufacturers adopted the
sizes set out in the association’s
pamphlets. Also, between 60 and 70
per cent, of children should be able to
fit the standard size for their age which
the association has set.
The most asked-for size for women
will be A. 5.14, which means that more
women are sft. sin. with a bust of 35|in.,
waist of 27 and hips 38 than any other.
It is rather comforting to find out from
the association’s figures that, no matter
how much you let yourself go, it’s exceed-
ingly rare for a woman to have hips
more than 6in. larger than her bust, and
vice versa. However, it’s not so cheering
to realise that between 18 and 45 the
average woman’s waist increases by 7in.,
although the average waist of women
between 18 and 60 is only 28in.
The basic figures used to establish the
women’s body measurements were
obtained by corset-makers, Berlei Ltd.
The first set of figures were taken on
Australian beaches. Lest it may be that
only women with well-proportioned
figures go to the beach, later figures have
been taken in fitting-rooms, where, it
may be safely presumed, women with
less well-proportioned figures go. So,
taken all round, the figures would be
about as close as you can get to proper
averages.
The Australian sizes were statistically
compared with American ones, and,
apart from the fact that Australian
women have an average waist nearly an
inch smaller than the American, most
sizings are within points of each other.
Incidentally, the Australian woman’s
smaller waist, taken the other way, means
slightly larger hips. Many women feel
that Australian manufacturers, particu-
larly those who have taken American
standards, don’t allow for this, particu-
larly in slim skirts. Some, troubled by
this extra inch, try to buy skirts a size
larger than suit jackets, others have to
have skirts let out, which is never very
satisfactory.
Measurements for children have come
mostly from those taken regularly by
Education and Health Departments. The
main ratio for children is height and
weight in relation to age. Measurements
taken of children in the past 20 years
tend to show that children are growing
taller and broader at an earlier age,
although the final height and weight is
not significantly different. The average
child may grow 3in. in a year.
The difficulty, of course, is not in
establishing standards but in getting
manufacturers to adopt them. The com-
mittees which have set each sizing pro-
ject in train (the association always works
through committees) have representatives
of clothing factories, retail stores and
the Chambers of Manufactures and
Commerce. However, although the
manufacturers sit on committees, some of
them do so with a sceptical mind and
an unwilling heart.
The attitude of some is that they sell
what they make, so why bother to change
their methods. There are the diehards
who’ve been doing something the same
way for 30 years and see no need to
change. There are also small factories
the work methods of which are so primi-
tive that accurate sizing is pretty well
beyond them. For example, it is not
unknown for makers of knit underwear
to “size” simply by steaming a garment
and stretching it from small women’s to
women’s size. When it's washed, of
course, it shrinks back to small women’s.
What would a manufacturer like that
have to do with accurate sizing?
The association has set out seven differ-
ent sizes for women’s body measure-
ment, and it is these which add up to
nearly 80 per cent, of women. The
categories are misses (the terms are
borrowed from the trade), which accounts
for 21 per cent, of women ; misses, full
hip (8 per cent.); womens (9); womens
short (7); womens half-sizes (9); womens
tall (12) and junior (11).
There are two smaller categories—
very large women, with an average bust
measurement of 47in. (2 per cent.) and
womens, slender hips (4 per cent.). It is
interesting to note that this last is
regarded as the “typical” Continental
figure. This percentage may rise as more
migrant women are incorporated into the
total from which the averages are taken.
The association gives only body
measurements for women’s clothing
styles. Fashions, such as the sack,
obviously cause more deviations than
they do for children’s wear. However,
from these seven categories it should be
possible for smaller manufacturers to
concentrate on one or two and know that
his clothes will fit a sufficient percentage
of the population. Groups of tall women
are always pleading with manufacturers
to consider them and they make up 12
per cent.
Many manufacturers do concentrate
on certain sizes, and, of course, a lot aim
at the junior market. Junior sizes have
approximately the same bust and hip
measurement, and no woman need waste
her time in this department unless she is
so endowed.
To come down to the important point,
how will all this sizing affect women
shopping for themselves and their
children? It is easy to see how a woman,
whose size, or, at least, whose height
is fixed, can establish her size. Women
who make their own clothes have got
used to accurate sizing with paper pat-
terns for which these days the whole
figure is cut to a set proportion. Shoes
and gloves are fairly accurately sized.
Most of us think we are a size 12 or
wear women’s, or something, and can
see it would be a merciful relief to know
that a dress marked A. 5.14 was always
the same size.
In a rather dim fashion, standard sizes
will help the 20 per cent, who don’t con-
form to them, because at least these
women won’t waste time looking.
With children, sizing is slightly more


difficult. It’s not much use establishing
this year that Johnnie, aged seven, is a
perfect size seven (children’s sizes are
based on age), because at eight he may
have shot up to a size nine. However,
the association hopes, perhaps by
making leaflets available to shops (most
of the big stores are solidly behind
sizing) to enable shop assistants to become
familiar with the measurements for each
age. An experienced salesgirl will then
be able to gauge size at a glance, and
mothers, particularly those who shop by
mail, will be able to work out what size
the child is by the use of tape-measure
and scales.
for the observer
Cooking, without Garlic and
without Elizabeth David
Those who can only approach the
kitchen with a garlic press in one
hand and a volume of Elizabeth David
in the other would regard a book called
“English Cooking” merely as proof that
the English have a keen sense of humor.
And, in truth, most of us feel that the
only thing the English have learnt about
food is to wrap plenty of newspaper
around the parcel of fish and chips to
soak up the excess mutton-fat.
Rupert Croft-Cooke, who calls his
book (published by W. H. Allen) “A New
Approach” is no longer subjected to the
repeated assaults on his stomach of
cornerhouse cooking. He lives in
Tangiers with a wall-eyed Moorish cook
whose wages are £1 a week, and with his
memories of the meaty sausage, the
delicious porridge, the marvellous apple-
pie he ate as a child in Surrey 40 years
ago. Where is the half-pint of cream that
the most modest family demanded from
the milkman once a week for the Sunday
apple tart? he asks. Where is the sausage
of my boyhood ? Knowing damn well
where they are, he stays in Tangiers.
Croft-Cooke’s publisher claims that it
is the first cook-book by a professional
writer since a “minor effort” by Norman
Douglas. Expert cooks have become
lucid writers, but not vice versa, says the
dustjacket. Croft - Cooke certainly is
lucid. It is a cookery book to be read
at leisure, not one to be propped up on
the kitchen-table and thumbed by floury
hands. He doesn’t offer recipes as such
and he takes it for granted we know how
much salt we need.
The bravest thing Croft-Cooke does is
to keep away from that “best in the
world” nonsense which regularly over-
takes most of the cooking writers for the
London Sunday papers. They go off to
Europe, eat of the finest that is available
to those with a generous expense account,
then, attacked both by conscience and
liver, come back to England and declare
that English food is the best in the world,
just give me a Wiltshire whimsey and a
jug of good old English beer, they
implore. They follow this up with
recipes for Devonshire dimsies or Stoke
Poge pie or some other unlikely and
uneatable mess. Then, nationalism
appeased, they go off and have a good
meal at that little French place in Greek
Street.
Croft-Cooke doesn't for a moment
suggest that English cooking or English
cooks are the best in the world. After
paying graceful tribute to France, he
merely claims that there is such a thing
as English cooking and pleads that Eng-
lish cooks are not entirely incorrigible.
Where he does seem to go wrong is in
suggesting that the raw material avail-
able to the English cook is the “finest
in the world.” This, he says, accounts
for the tradition of simplicity in English
cooking.
Croft-Cooke was living in England
after World War I, and he must know
it is a very long time since the finest
materials were available in England. It's
no use going back to the marriage feast of
Henry IV and Joan of Navarre in 1403.
What's that got to do with the contents
of a 1961 pie? It’s no use writing about
the “Davs of Good Queen Elizabeth,
when mighty Roast Beef was the English-
man’s food.” In the days of Good Queen
Elizabeth II the mighty roast beef is a
measly rissole.
There are probably only two foods—
cheese and marmalade —which the English
still make better than anyone, and these
are really only available to top people
at top prices. Most of the present genera-
tion of English have never tasted a decent
meal and nobody has done a thing about
it.
Any cook worth her salt is by nature
an improviser. The whole art of French
cooking is making much of little. The
sorry record of English cooking since the
turn of the century is to make indifferent
materials taste terrible.
However, Croft-Cooke has shed a good
deal of light on what has become an
esoteric study. He is constructive about
cabbage. He makes the old English
dishes, such as syllabub, fool, even
blancmange (with a quart of cream)
sound just as exotic and delicious as
zbaglione or creme brulee. Who knows?
Perhaps it needs only a crusader such
as Croft-Cooke to start a minor vogue,
and we shall all be draping the dinner-
table with a Union Jack and serving
Huntingdon fidget and Bucks bacon
badger.
Feiffer
i mr to thamk hoo
FOR- A WtVi tmitib,
SVT I UhWi
Ml&f 60 IK) MOO.
OH
'HUH
HA HA- HOU Ci£lA\m
m %mM.wT
IT \b AmilH
l Aft
UH
HUH
/
if m vmv Me om
inswap
of hujom oti rue*>PAYs
1 COUID SfAM WT LATER.
HOU)
mur
fWM ?
ft WW MOT REALM
M LMMW. A WHM
r wash m hair ov
mm.
mi tmi
/ WM,
16 FIMF
iu m
pou up
AT
rum.
me it tern
TH6fO WBL
HAVF t(Me
C?I/0M5£ .
OH
u)6u
THeee pzom-
' lh wem m
6CW pAtm
ARCWV Ott SAT-
op m
muon


ABORIGINALITIES
The Waiting Time
October in the Northern Territory.
The sun shone with crushing heat
on the blacksoil plains of the vast
buffalo lease. Inside the tea-tree thicket
it lay like shredded gilt on the drifts
of dusty leaves and on the coarse hide
of the young buffalo who lay near a
broken ant-hill. He shifted fretfully
under its weight, then lurched to his feet
to stand for a few moments, head
lowered under the enormous sloping
horns.
His tail flicked irritably at the flies.
His left eye-socket was a raw wound ;
a recent wound, little more than a day
old, and the pain was intense.
The morning before he’d been wallow-
ing with the herd in some shrunken pools
of muddy water. A strange noise had
surprised them and they had scrambled
out and stood, staring curiously, their
wet grey bodies flashing back the sun’s
rays. There was another loud and
frightening noise, and they had turned
and galloped blindly over the cracked
black soil. The noise came again and
the young bull beside him crashed to
the ground. The other stopped in be-
wilderment and looked back. Once again
the dreadful shattering report and the
animal knew a tearing pain in his eye
and had started galloping again and had
not stopped until he stumbled finally
and fell in the tea-tree scrub.
That day had passed in hours of pain,
and then the night, and now it was noon
again and the agony still remained in
his head. He stumbled through the tea-
trees down towards the lagoon, a few
hundred yards away. Once out of the
trees, the ground was spongy, and there
were clumps of pandanus, and ant-hills
raised grey sculpture. Some of them had
areas coated with mud where buffaloes
had rubbed their hides after coming from
the mud of the lagoon, now a small
shallow patch of muddy water sur-
rounded by oozing black mud where
swarms of tiny insects spun ceaselessly
Vaguely in his slow brain he remem-
bered how the lagoon had been—how
long ago? Full and clear, it had welled
right out to the trees where he stood.
The sun's touch was kind then, and a
wind brought hot sweet gusts of the
paperbark blossoms and the strange
spiced breath of pure-frilled water-lilies.
He’d ripped aside their purple - veined
stanchions as he’d waded into the water
and seen their trembling yellow hearts
as the cool water laved his back.
Turning, he left the lagoon and walked
back through the tea-trees and out on
to the plain. Here there were big clumps
of pandanus, their leaves grating in the
wind, a scatter of fallen leaves under
them and sometimes the spilt reddish
gold of the fruit. Far off, marking the
curve of the river, sprawling figs and
big - leaved Leichhardt pines stood,
moored in their noon shadows. He
walked towards their shade, head
lowered, little puffs of white dust rising
from his hoofs.
Lying there in the shade, the long
pain-shot hours of the afternoon went
by ; and at last the shadows pointed long
and soft across the plains. The sun had
almost gone, its last rim shining wine-
colored on the tree trunks, when he saw
the herd.
TThe animals were coming towards him,
the fluffy hides of the calves showing
against the sun.
He rose and crossed the river at a
point between two pools. As he
approached the others stood still, heavy
horns sloping away from slightly raised
heads.
The wounded buffalo came on, but the
young strong leader barred his way.
The other jerked his head irritably and
one of his long horns scraped the leader's
shoulder. That began the one-sided and
short-lived battle. It consisted of a series
of sickening head crashes. The impetus
of the last smash of bone on bone forced
the half-blinded buffalo backwards over
the edge of the deeply cut river-bank,
into the treacherous morass at the edge
of a pool. He fell heavily and his
struggles rapidly imprisoned him in the
mud. Lying on a downward grade, his
muzle half-submerged in mud and water,
his despairing bellows were a bubbling
of blood and water.
TTHis was a hard time for the wild
creatures of the plains. The country
was drying up. The rivers ran more
slowly each day until they were a mere
string of muddy pools where the great
shining barramundi flung themselves in
desperate leaps onto the steaming banks
in attempts to find deep water. They
rotted, their silver tissues sucked dry by
the greedy sun, and the circling hawks
picked the skeletons. The hunters came
from the town and maimed the buffaloes,
leaving them to struggle to the water,
where the mud caught and held them.
They wasted and died, wrapped in their
shrouds of mud.
But soon the rains of the wet season
would come, and the great plains would


be changed to a world of water and
green mystery. Water rushing down
the river beds, assaulting the clumps of
bamboo, savage on the rotten limbs of
the low hanging trees. Water —covering
vast areas of the baked soil, bringing
back the wild geese whose flocks would
scarve the red-smoked evening skies.
Water —making the plains a safe world.
But the time had not yet come ; and
it was cruel, the waiting time, before
the rains.
K. KEAIN
the measles mirage
One of the amusements of Northern
Territorians is reading in southern
papers about events in the north and
comparing the account with something
that might have happened. The report
in the Sydney “Sun” of April 15 of a
measles outbreak on Bathurst Island “a
hundred miles North of Darwin” indi-
cated that nobody would be allowed to
land until the measles outbreak was
under control and that Mr I. D. Burns,
Director of Health, was ready to fly a
doctor and nurse to Bathurst Island. By
the next morning the measles had
dwindled to an “allergy.”
“Could be a bit of ringworm,” one
of the mission fathers from Bathurst
Island said doubtfully. In the 50 years
that the missionaries of the Sacred Heart
have been in charge of over 900
aborigines on Bathurst Island they have
never had a serious outbreak of any
disease. Several years ago there were
a few chicken-pox cases, but none
serious.
Bathurst Island is 40 miles north of
“Daddy Wants to speak to you about us.”
Darwin, not 100. It is the largest mission
in the Territory with 15 or 16 missionaries
on the staff and there are always nursing
sisters among them. They have a fine
hospital and the doctor from Darwin
flies over every fortnight for a routine
check. Medical supplies are delivered
regularly, but the Tiwi tribe on Bathurst
Island and Melville Island just across the
strait is remarkably healthy. On the 840
square miles of Bathurst Island they are
engaged in cattle-raising, timber-milling,
agriculture. There is, on Melville Island,
a Government settlement at Snake Bay,
35 miles from the mission. Prisoners
are sent there from the mainland. The
anti-T.B. unit which covered the Terri-
tory last year found the incidence of
that disease, which was once quite lethal,
was now very low. All in all, the in-
creased expenditure on the health of
both white and black residents in the
Territory seems to be paying dividends.
It is good to know that at even the
slightest rumor of an outbreak of any
sort the Department of Health is ready
to take emergency measures.
K.T.
That Was the Country
Here in Tamworth (N.S.W.) you are
very lucky to get anything from your
plate to your mouth at all. The flies will
have it in the passage, and very often
you have to eat a few hundred flies to get
your meal. People get used to anything,
and three or four dozen flies are not
noticed here in the soup. In fact, through
eating flies, some residents can walk on
the ceiling head downwards. At a dance
the other evening a young lady forgot
herself, and went waltzing with her part-
ner up the wall. — ■“Bulletin”, May 16, 1903.
Recently, at Clifton (S.Q.), a religious
maniac ran amok in a harmless way in
the bush. His chief crime was talking
mainly to himself and a few jackasses and
a leatherhead or two. The constable
coaxed him to the township’s cells by
singing hymns, in which the lunatic
joined. The scene of a stout cop leading
the way, singing “There is a Happy
Land”, followed by the blaring idiot, is
worthy of a picture. The only sad thing
is that the elusive “happy land” was the
woodheap at the lockup.
— “Bulletin”, November 26, 1908.
The pretty Victorian township of Yea,
which has 1100 people, is to be blotted
out, being located in the area mapped
out for the great local water-storage
scheme. On completion of the reservoir,
Yea, 40ft under water, will have become
Nay. — “Bulletin”, November 12, 1908.
The average sane citizen should class
the man who first placed trout in the
Australian streams with the man who
first brought the rabbit and the fox, for
he has done precisely the same for Aus-
tralian waters as the rabbit has done for
the Australian land. When the white man
came to Australia, the streams were fairly
well filled with native fish, almost all of
them edible and of commercial value. In
most of the streams into which imported
fish have been introduced, the native fish
have disappeared, and in their place are
a handful of inferior imported things,
which serve solely for the amusement of
a few alleged sportsmen. When it is said
that the trout is good to eat, nothing
more can be put forward in his favor.
He is a small fish only mediocre in flavor,
and his sole virtues are what are called
his “fighting qualities.”
— “Bulletin”, July 23, 1908.
YOUNG HOPEFUL
TIE was a newly graduated vet., and
one of his first calls was to a
belligerent Hereford bullock, wide-
horned and wild - eyed. They regarded
each other with mutual apprehension and
distrust from opposite sides of the stock-
yard fence, the bailey lowering his head
and kicking up a young dust storm every
time anyone moved. At last the new
vet. took his courage in both hands:
“Will he bail up?” he asked hopefully.
A.B.
MARBLE BAR
What’s to be said of Marble Bar
Depends in which of them you are :
In heat, in West Australia, slogging,
Or pleasantly, in Sydney, grogging.
IAN HEALY.


The Red Page
100 Many Children
Coast to Coast 1959-1960. Edited by
Cecil Hadgraft. Angus and Robert-
son. 21s.
There seem to be a great many stories
about children and stories written
from the child’s point of view in this
issue of Angus and Robertson’s invalu-
able short story anthology and I am not
sure that the editor and his contributors
are wholly justified in thus forcing the
adult mind to frolic in the kindergarten.
When I had read the appealing child’s
eye view of an old Kashmiri grand-
mother by Mena Abdullah and Ray
Mathew (but why not, as well, one of
Ray Mathew’s stories of contemporary
Sydney?) and Thea Astley’s attractive
but not quite credible story of child
love and the middle-aged businessman
who climbed up the apricot tree to find
that lost lyric again, and Hugh Atkinson’s
lively account of policemen and fighting
coalminers in the sort of over-rhythmical
prose that is admirable in youth but
precious afterwards —when I had read
these three childhood stories and then
got on to Clive Barry’s extremely adult
story about the prisoner-of-war and the
pet rat, I thought that Mr Hadgraft might
be cleverly using childhood and adoles-
cence to lead into the adult world. And
so, in fact, he is.
Mr Barry’s story, “Frugal,” is a pretty
good one ; hard, clear, cruel, quite
moving without the slightest trace of
sentimentality. It has one most effective
and uncanny moment when the prisoner
learns to twitter in rat-language. I think
it is marred by Mr Barry’s addiction to
complicated, Heath Robinson machinery
—marred for me at any rate, for I never
can understand any mechanical process ;
and how he got the electrocuted guard-
dog really to look like an Australian
soldier stepping across the prison com-
pound must remain for ever a mystery —
but at any rate it is a good story, and
grown-up.
Then there is an incomprehensible
story about trains by J. P. Caroll ; C. B.
Christesen interesting about scandals in
a country family but not always satis-
factory in his dialogue (would the bar-
man really say the property “comprised”
12,000 acres, and then go on with all that
“real beaut shiela” stuff?); David
Forrest trying to be funny in an un-
successful stylised way about a cricket
match ; Jack Lusby amusingly but very
lightly sketching an artist; David Martin
with an unconvincing story about an
elderly husband who poisons his older
wife ; John Morrison’s portrait of a
hatter, which is better for its surrounding
bush than for the hatter ; Nancy Phelan’s
story of the necessary ruthlessness of
nurses which dissolves into easy pathos
when it ought to come out grimly comic
. . . all adult material, as also of course
is Hal Porter’s dazzling “Fiend and
Friend,” even though he is writing about
schoolboys as well as masters ; and as
also is Eric Schlunke’s sardonic study
of family feuds and family feeling at a
country funeral.
But then, admittedly after this fair
slice of the adult world, Mr Hadgraft’s
writers and his own predilection for
childhood stories defeat his plan for the
collection ; and back comes Peter
Shrubb with a most amusing and poetic
picture of a boy who was going to keep
a list of all the people in the world so
that they wouldn’t be forgotten ; and
(after some slight comic fantasies of
which Colin Thiele’s in its absurd way
is the best) back comes Keith Thomas
with “A Family Christmas”—l suppose
it is a childhood story ; I don’t really
know what it is about, though it has a
certain oomph—and, after a couple more
exceptions, we wind up with Amy Witting
telling us with fine verve why Grandpa
would never carve dinner for Father
(Father had once “helped himself” by
eloping) and, last but not least, Judith
Wright telling us about Vivi and her
mother in the park: with a bizarre and
pretty scene when the little girl, while
her mother is talking to her admirer,
dances step by step with the caged
brolga.
I don’t think it would be sensible to
try to fault any of these stories in them-
selves, nor can one dismiss the childhood
story as a genre. It is a way of getting
fantasy, poetry, grotesquerie and the
authentic life of reminiscence into the
short story, and it has occasionally been
practised by some very respectable
writers, including Chekhov, Katherine
Mansfield, H. E. Bates. David Campbell
and a host of “New Yorker” contribu-
tors. But perhaps it is a thing to do
once and have done with, or not to do
too often — certainly not to do so often
as is done in this anthology for it
begins to look like a formula, it weakens
by repetition, and it is not quite the
same thing in full creative art as coming
robustly out of childhood to grapple with
the world at large. You will not find
many childhood stories —if any —in
Maupassant, Maugham or Conrad.
For that reason I was glad to see
Margaret Trist, who has written much
(and excellently) about small girls,
coming out into the open here with a
historical story of a spinster who couldn’t
find a home on the Hawkesbury River;
and M. G. Vincent, in a story that has
been waiting around for a few years to
get into “Coast to Coast” since it was
first published in The Bulletin, moving
clearly if a little wordily to her
memorable denouement when we dis-
cover that the farmer’s wife has murdered
her mother-in-law by making her fall on
the polished floor. And if I have a
suspicion that, with these and a few others
in broadly the same category, we could
have too many of what you might call
hillbilly stories —the hatter, the sinister
farmer, the dotty old spinster, the decay-
ing old family—any complaint about that
can wait till we do have too many.
What we obviously need is more
variety: more adult stories, more city
stories, more stories about cultivated
people and, surprisingly enough, more
stories of action, adventure and far
places. Maybe they did not contribute;
but such writers as R. S. Porteous, Olaf
Ruhen and Xavier Herbert could help
a lot to strengthen this anthology.
DOUGLAS STEWART
A Novel Nobody Noticed
June in Her Spring. Colin Macinnes.
Ace Books. English price: 2s. 6d.
T’m afraid this review is longer than
you like but I’m not sorry for it—
it’s a damned good book and should
have space. Why didn’t anyone tell me
about it when it first came out fin 1952)?
I wouldn’t have read it if Patrick White
hadn’t mentioned Macinnes’s name.
Incidentally I can’t really understand
why the book works—which is why it
is interesting to review it —even after
three readings. By all my normal stan-
dards it’s built of literary horrors
Drunkenness, madness, suicide , homo-
sexuality and joyful loss of virginity;
horse-play, attempted rape and half-
pathetic attempted incest in a world
divided between grazier and townsman,
a world where boy and girl are sur-
rounded by portents and signs, trapped
by the old who prophesy from the past
and force the young into their concept
of the future. This is the world of the
novel; a world that is without real
division since young and old, artist and
philistine, farmer and worker, all —all-
are trapped by past and family. They
live in a world where to remember is to
be afraid and to be involved in relation-
ships with others is to be shackled by
the demands of land politics or the
gratitudes of love.
By the end of the book, they are
struggling with even the place itself—
Australia in the 30’s—and are faced with
the despair of the long remembering
summer days and the brief oblivion of the
nights.
June, the 16-year-old of the title, acts
out the story of her spring in the crowded
isolation of station life, that world within
world that the Palmers compared with
life on the great estates in the 19th
century Russian novels. It is, in fact,
the world of Brent of Bin Bin. Its author


AUSTRALIAN
SCIENTIST
SUCCESSFULLY
LAUNCHED
Mi
mm
■ -
The new monthly journal on research, development
and application. Easily read by the educated layman
EDITORIAL BOARD
Prol A A Abbie
Prof S. T Butler
Dr A S. Fraser
Prof R J W Le Fevre
Prof H Messel
Prof. Sir Mark Oliptiant
Prof K N Robertson
Prol R. FI Thorp
Prof. Sir Samuel Wadham
EDITOR Dr. E. P George
The Australian Scientist is
available ON SUBSCRIPTION
BASIS ONLY and you may
back date your subscription to
include the Ist (February
1961), issue
Complete the form below and
despatch early to ensure your
immediate inclusion on the
mailing list
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
1 year £4 4 0
2 years £7 7 0
3 years £lO 10 0
Contents for April
RENDEZVOUS WITH VENUS
Angela Croome
RADIO ASTRONOMY
Dr. J. L. Pavysey
CRUMBLING WICKETS
Dr. J. R. Harris
NUCLEAR PHYSICS II
Prof. E. W. Titterton
CONSCIOUSNESS
Dr. J. M. Rendel
RECREATION MATHS.
Prof. S. T. Butler
STELLAR RADIATION
Dr. L. H. Aller
SOLID STATE COUNTER
Dr. J. K. Parry
LASERS
Dr. G. S. Bogle
NAME .......... -
PROFESSION
A D D R E SS
Please find enclosed cheque, m/o, p/n for £ * S .to cover
m _ year(s) subscription to
“THE AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST”
9-23 Upward Stree' Leichhardt, N.S.W.
TELEPHONES 56-9604 56-0464
Melbourne Enquiries
Phone 50-1164
has the same love of the properties of
the Australian world, a love so intense
that it turns them into a stage-set, a sort
of super-reality —selecting details of land-
scape and living, climate and kinship not
to re-create the observable-to-all-of-us
“natural” world but for some lyrical-
image purpose to contrast with and com-
ment on the action.
It is a more terrifying world than
Brent's; his youthful inheritors, living
their lives of courtship and wedding,
were broken always by accident. They
were incapable of understanding motive,
were at the mercy of impulse and un-
known nature, even their violences and
deaths —their whip-lashings and drown-
ings—could not disturb their innocence.
They lived in an unquestioning world
and their author killed them rather than
be forced to examine their natures.
Mr Macinnes’s youngsters are doomed
from the start; the platypus June sees
on the first page “had not understood
her affection and respect.” Although they
do ask questions and find terrible
answers, they are as innocently intent
on themselves and their sexual fulfilment
as anyone in Brent, as refreshing in
their candor and confidence, as engag-
ingly certain that the world is theirs to
make.
But “life turns my innocent acts against
me”; this is their discovery and their
cry. Action means involvement and
involvement is a prison. Their world
of hope is prisoner's folly, the dream
that looks like sanity until one realises
that one is forever and forever trapped
in the past—and will be punished. “Why
do they make life so hard for me. when
all I want is to do what 1 want to?”
It is the mad boy talking but he speaks
for them all, speaks especially for the
lovers who do know what they want.
What we see in this book is June’s
awakening physically and mentally to
what life might mean. “Love is a big
word” and June is already old enough
to know it not as a rapturous affair but
as herself—“the prisoner of accident and
time”—in conflict with herself, her love
and her lover. The book ends with her
grown, finding all that once delighted
her—family, home, position, passion—“a
weight she had to carry,” realising for
the first time that she and the Benny
she loves are really “separated as lovers
always are, always, always, if they are
lovers.”
There is the father who savagely
suicided to be thought of, the grief-
stricken neurotic mother, the mad
brother, the fear that these things might
determine her own children’s future, the
knowledge that her life is made. Her
innocence has gone but, unlike Brent’s
heroines, she is not spared the necessity
°f existence. Somehow, on some terms,
she has to accept and to go on living.
To summarise the novel’s plot is to
reduce it to a grand guignol, to make
>t seem coincidence, a game with loaded
dice. The author, knowing this pre-
sumably, has given the reader every
chance to reject it as unreal: he names
the station-girl Cleopatra, lets his charac-
ters speak dialogue from the rillabong
books, writes lazily and even in so
short a book—uneconomically, packs his
revelations of past and present incredibly
close together—as though he were Ibsen
and his novel a tight-wound play—
deliberately asks the reader to compare
his novel with the Russians and their
great world of high and low. Somehow,
out of all this, a reality grows. The
author and the muses know how.
The book’s method is lyrical, working
from one image to another—with just
enough dialogue and action to pull us
from one to the other. The images are
set-pieces: the gymkhana, the ride
through the bush, the knowledge of love,
the fancy dress ball, the fight at the pub.
They are gay, sad funny exciting; they
could almost stand as stones, but June
and her contemporaries fill them out with
comment and dental while they - the
realities of local life comment on Junes
joy and anticipation June and her
Benny longing for what these reaht.es
ough to be, extend hem ana play hem
out to the.r log.cal contusion: there
is no escape from what is loved w.th ail
ones understanding—and understanding,
of course, is the end of innocence.
RAY MATHEW
Follower of Gandhi
The Spirit’s Pilgrimage. Mira Behn.
Longmans. 31s.
Madeleine Slade was 15 she
played Beethoven’s sonatas on the
pianola and was at once in enraptured
contact with “the spirit of Beethoven.
Yes, I had found him.” But filled with
anguish she fell on her knees and prayed:
“Why have I been born over a century
too late? Why hast Thou given me
realisation of him and yet put all these
years in between?” Beethoven seems to
have had a lucky escape: it was left for
some living person to receive this flow
of temperament.
Beethoven’s music led her to the
French writer Romain Rolland and she
learnt French in order to meet him.
He in turn told her of Mahatma Gandhi,
of whom he had just written a book.
After reading the book she determined
to devote herself to Gandhi. Her first
meeting was like the Beethoven-rapture:
“I was conscious of nothing but a sense
of light. I fell on my knees. Hands
gently raised me up, and a voice said:
‘You shall be my daughter.’ ”
So she became “Mira behn,” one of


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D* Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
Gandhi’s closest associates. After
Gandhi’s death she carried on in India
for some years and then, while she was
reading a book by Romain Rolland on
Beethoven one day, the wheel came full
circle and she was once more rapt in
contact with Beethoven: “I became
conscious of the realisation of my true
self. For a while I remained lost in the
World of the Spirit, and when 1 finally
came back the former tension and rest-
lessness had passed out of me. The third
and last chapter of this present birth
had begun.” This third period is being
lived in the forests above Baden near
Vienna “which breathe the spirit of him
whose immortal music they inspired.”
The soulful verbiage, and the shoddy
notion of music being “inspired” by
inanimate objects, are typical of this
rather frightening woman.
The “tension” she was referring to
above is not fully explained. Early in
her autobiography she confesses that in
spite of “the intense reverential love” she
felt for Bapu (= Dad = Gandhi) she
was very tense, and later felt that it
was because she was progressively crush-
ing her natural independence of nature
and putting herself wholly under the
will of another. Late in the book she
makes an embarrassing return to this
subject: “As I contemplated the past I
realised clearly how I had never been
able to give Bapu full satisfaction, for
there had always been something sup-
pressed that caused the tension which
Bapu noticed . . .”
Disappointingly, one gets only slight
and veiled glimpses of the everyday
reality of Gandhi's world. Everything
becomes a blur just when one would
like precise truth. Thus she was sent
on one occasion to rest up in an ashram,
not controlled by Gandhi, in which the
inmates drank bhang (prepared from
hemp)—a not uncommon thing in slich
places. She wrote to Gandhi about it,
and he sent one of his people to visit
the ashram. But all we are told there-
after lies in the cryptic sentence: “Ulti-
mately the bhangy atmosphere wore off.”
We get one or two glimpses of the
comic dietary experiments in Gandhi’s
own community, and of the tensions and
emotional storms of that gathering of
mixed types. But nothing at all comes
clear about one of Gandhi’s central pre-
occupations, his ideal of abolishing
sexual intercourse. She says nothing,
either, of Gandhi’s sons, whom he forbade
to marry, and whose lives he ruined.
Nothing of course is said of Gandhi’s
prowess in sleeping (literally) with
young girls as a demonstration of his
renunciation of sex, which Arthur Koest-
ler complains of as one of the suppres-
sions in the record.
Still one can understand how in the
long run Beethoven proved more satisfy-
ing than Bapu.
JAMES McAULEY
Problems of the Schools
Australian Education, 1788-1900. A. G.
Austin. Pitman. 325. 6d.
A notable gap in Australian social
studies till recently has been a com-
prehensive history of education. The six
States, not only when federated, but also
when separate and often isolated from
each other, developed educational
systems and practices surprisingly alike,
and very different from those of other
countries, including Great Britain. In
each was a centralised system, where the
State supported its own but not other
schools.
Why this distinctive pattern should
have developed in each State is important,
as it is closely related to other aspects
of the development of Australian charac-
teristics. No one wrote about this till
recently. The difficulties were daunting
—the scatter of evidence, the paucity
of general social history, the merely
narrative quality of the histories in the
several States. However, a beginning,
and a very distinguished beginning, has
been made. Following Fogarty’s book
on Catholic education in 1958, “Austra-
lian Education 1788-1900” has now
appeared. The title, as the author’s
preface shows, is a misnomer, because
there is no reference to private schools,
universities, general adult education, and
secondary and technical education. It is
also true that there is little reference
to schooling ; the interest of the author
is in the control of education, and what
went on in the schools is adduced as
evidence in that study.
Within these self-imposed limits, Mr
Austin’s book is a very valuable one,
directed at the key problem. It is founded
on extensive and accurate research, which
is the more admirable in that it was done
by a working member of a faculty of
education. Though it leans on unpub-
lished works such as those by J. Gregory
and K. Cable, the author’s own contri-
bution is great, and nowhere better than
when, as in the delightful pages about
the work of Rusden in 1848-53, he is
recounting the fruits of his own earlier
research.
Mr Austin has not explicitly mar-
shalled his evidence on why education
in Australian States became so highly
centralised ; but much of the evidence
is there. Again, he has been forced to
neglect important aspects of social
history—for example, the effects of the
New' South Wales gold rushes on educa-
tion are not mentioned ; but the political
relationships between the States them-
selves, and between the States and the
Governors’ home country, are thoroughly
observed and acutely interpreted. M r
Austin is also writing well within his
powers when he considers how the
growth of liberal and agnostic thought
affected the opinions of thinkers about
education a hundred years ago, and con-
tributed to the widening of the gap j n
attitude between secularists and church-
men which preceded and largely caused
the withdrawal of State aid to Church
schools. The perception that this
philosophical movement lay beneath the
surface quarrels between politicians and
bishops is one of the major contributions
of the last few years, and Mr Austin
has dealt with it carefully and objectively.
This book is designed in seven chap-
ters. The first deals with the origins of
education in New South Wales, and
particularly well with Archdeacon Scott’s
disastrous first attempt to govern Aus-
tralian schools centrally. The next four
chapters take the States separately; an
inevitable approach, perhaps, but only
in Chapter 5 it is perceived that the
author has been tracing analogies be-
tween the States. A few paragraphs
introducing the guiding principles before
these chapters would have aided the
reader greatly, as would also a dated
summary of parallel events in the States,
for which the rather redundant maps at
the end of the volume are a poor substi-
tute. The last two chapters admirably
cover two aspects of the establishment
of State systems of education, taking
examples from various States to illustrate
what was happening in all.
One might cavil at the stress on Vic-
torian events here, but it is true that
in Victoria the principles behind the
general movement of ideas from 1860 to
1890 were earliest and most clearly evi-
dent. No doubt, also, there are cases where
the successful attempt to show general
trends has led to too sweeping statements,
such as the very inaccurate summary
of teacher training in 19th-century New
South Wales: “short, improvised courses
were conducted in borrowed rooms from
1867 on.” (p. 259). There are however,
remarkably few of these causes for
regret. This book, a first study in a
necessary correlation, will stand for
many years as a work of fine scholarship
and careful, often attractive writing.
D. C. GRIFFITHS
Science Magazine
The Australian Scientist. Tasman Pro-
ductions. Vol. 1 ; Nos. 1 and 2. Sub-
scription : £4 4s.
TVTo one seems to be happy these days
about the role of the scientist in
our world. He is blamed for atomic
warfare and he is thought of as barbaric,
not knowing Bartok from behop ; unin-
terested in the visual arts and almost
illiterate apart from a technical vocabu-
lary. To me this is a defence mechanism
used by many with some culture who
have neglected the one great aspect of
the 20th century—its spectacular scien-
tific achievements. And by these I do
not mean jet planes, nuclear weapons-
T.V., etc., but the great intellectual
syntheses which have given us tremendous
new visions of the nature of the universe.


The philosophers of the past have
given us great moments ; I still recall
the thrill of reading Spinoza for the first
time. But all these writers become dull
after the brilliant flash of understanding
which comes from a glimpse of the mean-
ing of Relativity; the notion of an
expanding universe or the concept of
evolution.
But there is so much to do in every
field of modern science that scientists
all become specialised ; we tend to lose
track of what others are doing and often
miss the meaning of our own work.
“The Australian Scientist” is a remark-
ably fine contribution towards the solu-
tion of the problems I have mentioned.
Many of the articles in the first two
issues give an exciting picture of the
general impact of science on the under-
standing of the world around us ; they
are essential reading for the partly
educated whose culture has so far been
based on literature, music and perhaps
the visual arts but who have missed
the proudest contribution of this century,
science.
And all Australian scientists should
read this journal ; it is a wonderful
relief after poring over “Biological
Abstracts” or trying to make sense of a
group of specialised papers which are
quite inconsistent and almost unintel-
ligible. Some of the articles are models
of clear, well-illustrated exposition of
important ideas: e.g., Dr Fraser’s “The
Inconstant Constant.” Prof. Thorp’s
“Drugs and the Heart” gives a lucid pic-
ture of a field of pharmacology which is
of interest to everyone in an age when
the heart has become the limiting factor
to man's life span. Again the illustra-
tions are excellent. Dr Bogle writing on
the Maser gave me quite a thrill despite
the fact that I’d read a few general papers
on this device quite recently. I won’t tell
you what a Maser is: it is a tremendously
important “break through” in physics
about which you may read on page 128
ofVol. 1.
Professor Trethowen writes with great
clarity and learning on “Drugs which
affect the mind” —a subject which may
change the direction of psychology and
ppen up new pathways into the exceed-
ingly difficult field of the physiology of
thought processes. Another article 3
enjoyed was by Mr Leech on science in
civil engineering. This outlines the role
°f mathematics, chemistry, physics and
biology in the development of the Snowy
scheme. This article illustrates the ways
the various sciences may be brought
together in attacking a really tough
Problem on an enormous scale.
Not all of the papers are quite as good
as the ones I’ve referred to. One on
the Mossbauer effect could have been
exciting instead of being just informative,
as the subject has great implications,
yonietimes the illustrations are poor, as
! n an article on Portland’s all-weather
harbor in which the diagrams are
obscure.
However, most of the illustrations are
excellent and the paper and printing
Tide
Just by pouring a cup of sea-water
over the rocks
I can emulate the slow creep of the
tide.
But who is it pouring cup after cupful,
mocks
Me with a thought that challenges my
pride
—I am no giant here, I am no god.
For should I start bailing out cupfuls
I imagined I’d add,
There would be more and more, and
more than any man
Or all men, could drink, carry away,
can,
Cope with, channel, cancel in any
way,
Even within the margins of our
narrow bay,
In a half day. Which only goes to
say, that the tide
Comes in and goes out without notice.
Except when poets or sea-captains
decide
It's phenomena which they, on their
divers accounts, must quote us.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Familiars
[A sonnet for David Campbell]
To each his symbolic beast! But was
it quits fair
That, in one morning fishing the
mountain water,
Out of some lair in the rocks or hole
in blue air
To me should have stumbled this dark
and humble ant-eater
So clumsy and prickly and wary, hasty
to hide,
Fumbling the stones and driftwood
with his black claw,
While my companion meets round the
mountainside
“The biggest, reddest fox I ever saw”?
That dark and secretive creature,
snuffling for danger,
Flugging so close to the earth and the
roots of the rocks,
Spiny all over for tooth or touch of
the stranger
—I do detect some resemblance . . .
And that great fox
Who makes the rabbits run, the pullets
tremble —
Well, if the brush fits, wish you
good hunting, Campbell!
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
The Peppercorn
Tree
The peppercorn tree, on the siding,
stands
against the amber dusk
and the evening star and the wide
wheat-lands
left in stubble and husk.
And night after night the birds come
in
to the long-tressed peppercorn tree:
lorikeet, sparrow, and finch and wren
streaming over me.
And after the cries and the wings are
still
the dark tree does not stir,
hiding the sleeping birds, and shrill
the ceaseless crickets chirr.
The dark tree stands against the skies
and then, in sudden fear,
shudders with myriad wings and cries
as though some hawk were near.
And the fear has passed; and the
dark tree sleeps ;
and its leaves deep refuge make.
And the bright, vivacious wagtail
keeps
the moonlight night awake.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.
A Naked Ghost
Mats, 6 corps leger que Vamour emporte,
Vous bondites nue, eploree et gaie . . .
Verlaine.
Naked in a room clothed with walls
and roof,
Opening to a closing door,
Anonymous, alone and poor,
Your body spread like sunlight is the
proof
Of memory, and also a kind of
laughter
That what has been dies in what
comes after.
Then all lies there between your skin
and mine,
Geography from breast to knee,
Those opening stars, astronomy
Wildflowers, cool rivers and the warm-
ing wine
Being the knowledge no idea made
thin,
Being the battle no enemy shall win.
For you are not all women, nor I
all men,
Your language only your skin unlocks,
And your shudders vanishing like
shocks
Of far earthquakes a touch can release
again.
Your eyes that waken on me from
no sleep
Are my own dreams, such intimacy
do they keep.
But nakedness grows icy at midday,
That dress I know so well makes you
A stranger, foot stiff in a shoe,
Your words sewn up in what vou
ought to say.
Your house is closed although the
doors are wide ;
A naked ghost haunts the floors inside.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


good. I like the general layout but I
would like to see the advertisements
together at the beginning or the end but
not throughout the journal.
W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Not Quite Chekhov
Early Stories. Anton Chekhov. Trans-
lated by Nora Gottlieb. Bodley Head.
14s. 6d.
A ll but three of these pieces—they were
written between 1882 and 1886 when
the young Chekhov was learning hjs craft
in Moscow and Petersburg magazines—
have never been translated into English,
and the translated three have long been
out of print. It is easy enough to see
why they have been neglected. They
have the curiosity value that anything
by a writer of Chekhov’s stature inevit-
ably has ; for the rest, they contain only
the faintest undertones of the master who
was to write such stories as “The Grass-
hopper,” “Ward No. 6” and “Peasants.”
He is already in command of the
opening sentence that dives through the
necessary introductions and placements
into the main flow of the action ; he
already knows how to fix the passing
character with one significant detail"; he
already has the familiar economy of
descriptive means, the ability to select the
most telling elements of a story and the
discipline to reject all the rest, which he
early learnt from Turgenev and which
he was later to practise with a quiet pre-
cision and daring that none of his
followers has been quite able to match ;
he is already tough-minded and anti-
romantic.
What one chiefly misses in these pieces
is the poetry uncannily discovered in
the mess of day-to-day banalities, the
exactly poised sentiment, the range of
sympathy. Chekhov is still too much the
young man amazed that an uncle can
break off a discourse on “art and
humaneness” to thrash a small nephew ;
that a maestro can blame himself more
for ruining a soprano for an operatic
role than for wounding her emotionally ;
that a wastrel needs to be bribed by a
servant to visit his old aunt each year
on her name-day; that an ageing
bachelor should amuse himself by
extracting from a young female visitor
the whole story of her misfortunes in
love before telling her that the man she
is seeking for help lives next-door, by
which time it is too late for her to see,
him.
One also misses Chekhov’s later
ability to make a fable or a symbol out
of the purest realism without in any way
faking or forcing its shape—even though
he foreshadows it here with character
sketches of a petty reactionary of the
period who turns the laws upside-down
in his search for irregular conduct, and
of a small-time rebel who can assert his
rights over a trifle yet, eagerly accept the
larger injustice.
All this could hardly be otherwise. In
the early eighties Chekhov was, after all,
still studying medicine and writing to
support his family. Also, as David
Magarshack notes in his excellent bio-
graphy, the magazine Chekhov wrote
most for at this time was too much given
to slightness of form and content, and
the political censor’s blue pencil was as
active as the editor’s.
In a sensible introduction the trans-
lator shows an awareness that Chekhov’s
dialogue is very important to the final
effect of much of his work. It is strange,
then, that she goes on to enfeeble some
of it with renderings like “Chuck that
carry-on!”, “Devil take it!”, “I’m all
a-tremble” and “The twister!”
JOHN ABERNETHY
N.Z. Humor
The Kiwi Laughs. J. C. Reid (ed.). A. H.
and A W. Reed. 16s. (N.Z.).
TAR Reid’s introduction to this
anthology of N.Z. prose humor is
good strategy. He buttresses himself
cleverly against attack. The trouble is
that N.Z. writing has always been
deficient in humor. We have not had
a Lennie Lower, a Nino Culotta or a
“Kodak.”
It is only within recent years that any
real humor has been apparent and this
in a land that boasts of the humor-
making Maori. Possibly the reason is
that we (the pakeha) take ourselves too
seriously and our Maoris too lightly.
The only laughs we have squeezed out
of Hori and co. have been in the once
proliferating “py korry” yarns, which, in
the opinion of Reid, and to a certain
extent he is right, were “crude and
patronising.”
Reid has done his job with thorough-
ness. His selections date from 1863 to
1959. He has been wise in limiting his
earlier pieces. Their interest is only as
patterns of a period and come from the
pens of Maning, Lady Barker, Vincent
Pyke, Tregear and others.
We enter the ’thirties in the company
of John Guthrie, John Lee and F. S.
Anthony. A story or two by Douglas
Stewart and Rod Finlayson convey also
the N.Z. scene. Here you are laughing
in and not at N.Z., as Fairburn, Glover
and John Gillies do in later pages.
Fairburn was a blessing for, through
ridicule, he sharpened our sense of
laughter. The anthology gains strength
also through Katherine Mansfield, Mary
Scott, C. V. Smith and a few others.
There are a number of notable
omissions. These comprise mostly those
whom Jack Barr used to refer to as
“the men on the fringe.” They are to
be found in that period earlier in the
century when magazines encouraged the
humorous story, “The Bulletin,” “The
Lone Hand,” the N.Z. edition of
“Aussie” and later N.Z. “New Writing.”
Here were stories by F. L. Combs, Ken
Alexander, Claude Olsen, Alice Kenny,
Dick Harris (he wrote his funny pieces
under the pen-name of “Dircke Jensen”)
and “Riverina,” more widely known for
his bush ballads. And how about A. A.
Grace (his “Te Wiria’s Potatoes” is good)
and, more recently, Isobel Andrews and
Gloria Rawlinson?
The lively illustrations in Dr Reid’s
anthology were drawn by Ron Stenberg.
PAT LAWLOR
Investment
Invest Your Money Wisely. W. H.
Roberts. Angus and Robertson. 21s.
many people the problems of in-
vestment today are more complicated
than ever, because of the wide and open
advertising that seeks to lure their capital
into relatively or totally new avenues,
promising on the surface a combination
of security and high return. With stock-
exchange yields on good shares generally
low, it is a temptation perhaps to fill
in on the ‘Don’t delay post today’
coupon that goes with the advertisement
and learn more. Return post will bring
some alluringly printed brochures, setting
out prospective benefits in fairly convinc-
ing fashion.”
For those who tend to forget that not
all that glitters is gold, W. H. Roberts’s
attractive little volume provides a useful
and salutary tour through the Australian
sharemarkets.
The book will be handy to the begin-
ners on the stock exchange, and should
appeal to anybody interested in finding
out some oi : the essential financial facts
of life in Australia. Written by a Sydney
University economics graduate it will be
useful to many first-year students in
Economics and Commerce.
Definitions are down to earth and un-
encumbered by professional jargon.
There are 37 short chapters dealing
with the various types of securities, unit
and land trusts, takeovers, charts, oil and
mining shares (“mines come and mines
go, but industrials go on for ever”),
speculating, etc. In addition, six useful
appendices and an informative glossary
are thrown-in.
Mr Roberts seems quite justified in
viewing the land trust as largely a con-
comitant of inflation. While “it is prob-
able that the earlier-established trusts in
the real-estate field can expect to do as
well as those that invested in stocks and
shares, when prices were reasonable by
comparison with the boom era,” it must
be realised that “advertisements, which
graph the huge rise in real-estate values
over the recent years, only draw atten-
tion to the inflation the country has
passed through.”
In the chapter on cumulative trusts
there is a pertinent reminder of “the ever-
present risk that some day the Taxation
Commissioner will come along with a
capital-gains tax.”
The witty preface by G. C. Harrison,
formerly the manager of Sydney Stock
Exchange Research and Statistical Bureau
and a leading investment consultant, is
well worth reading although one may
dispute his opinion that the “intense
mobilisation of savings into appropriate
forms of investment” has been achieved
in a sufficient degree.
E.B.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Low on Faiths
PRESS/TERJAN
ENGLAND.
METHODIST".
Plymouth
RCXKS
RC.
ISR^ELITET
SALVAf?My
®UAK.eR
7 1 ? DAY APVENTiST
Baptist.
ATHEIST.
CONFUCI/\NIST
From THE BULLETIN, May 28, 1914.
FAITHS AND FACES
At the Presbyterian Assembly the Rev. W. G. Taylor said that the different creeds
produced different faces.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Industry's Debt to Wool
By P. STROM
HThe investment of many
-*• millions of overseas money
in Australian industries in re-
cent years has undoubtedly
given a great boost to industrial
production. There is room for
speculation, however, on the
future of these industries. What
will keep them going?
In what way, apart from
asset value, do they affect
our national welfare? The one
outstanding effect they have is
to save money otherwise spent
overseas to pay for imports.
Every industry which produces
here anything which we for-
merly imported effects this
saving.
At first sight this appears to
be a good thing. On the basis
of “saving is next best thing to
making” this would seem to
have a marked benefit on the
national economy, but is that
benefit costing us more than it’s
worth?
Mining, and allied metal in-
dustries do, of course, add
appreciably to the national in-
come, but these cannot be
regarded in the same category.
They produce both wealth and
income directly from the coun-
try’s natural resources. Their
effect on the national welfare
comes under the same heading
as our other primary products
—that is, exportable, and there-
fore income-producing.
■Out, unfortunately, few, if
any, of the new industries
are producing anything export-
able—that is, not against cur-
rent world prices. Putting all
economic and social conten-
tions and theories aside, and
dealing only with the hard cash
aspect, not much of this sudden
new development in industry is
such a wonderful thing, after
all! Apart, of course, from
any fixed asset value. Beyond
that, their general effect is
somewhat like taking money
from one pocket and putting it
in the other. There may not be
any actual spending, but there’s
certainly no gain.
Most of these new industries
are concerned with producing
consumer goods, but this does
not necessarily mean that
there’s any advantage to the
consumer. In fact, it is often
to the contrary. When these
goods were imported they were
landed here at world-competi-
tive prices. When anyone starts
to make them here the first
thing that happens is a yell for
protective tariffs. Then prices
rise to take full advantage of
the tariff protection, and the
next thing is another yell for
higher wages. Then prices rise
again.
This Gilbertian situation
would be more amusing than
otherwise were it not for the
drastic effect it is having on the
nation’s source of income. It
will be recognised that Aus-
tralia’s income is almost wholly
derived from the export of
primary products. For ex-
ample, what would happen if
there were no annual wool
cheque? Money would become
so scarce that a threepenny bit
would look the size of a dinner
plate within twelve months!
But an industry such as wool,
bringing in, between low and
high peak levels, from £3OO
million to £6OO million per
year, is something which must
be safeguarded—if Australia is
to keep alive!
T Tnder present-day conditions,
however, this industry is
more threatened than safe-
guarded. World wide syn-
thetics are a threat, but an
even greater one is our own in-
ternal economy. The goose
that lays golden eggs is being
slowly killed by plucking it
feather by feather. The goose
isn’t dead yet, but it’s visibly
weakening.
Every rise in the cost of
machinery, every increase in
wages, every price rise for
fencing and maintenance
materials, every addition to the
living costs, every new Govern-
ment method of cash extraction
—all combine to raise produc-
tion costs of wool to a un-
workable level, with the wool
producer tied as he is to a
market which he cannot con-
trol. Even the Government has
recently had to admit that wool-
production costs are unduly
high.
Attention must be drawn
here to the sharp difference
between internal and external
marketing. Prices of consumer
goods and wages can skyrocket
to fantastic heights within Aus-
tralia without attracting interest
from the rest of the world. If
we like to play monkey tricks
with our internal economy —
that’s our affair. Nobody else
cares a burnt match.
But when it comes to external
marketing, that’s another story.
In this case the outside world
dictates the prices, not us.
What our production costs are
is our own concern, but the
rest of the world doesn't take
them into consideration. If our
products come within the
world’s price range, the world
will buy. If they don’t, the
world will say we can keep
them!
"1117001. is mainly an external
market item, with outside
buyers saying what they will
pay for it. The wool pro-
ducer, therefore, has to take
what the world is prepared
to pay. All this talk of
floor prices, etc., is so much
hot air. The world isn’t going
to worry! If wool-production
costs are too high except at
high peak price levels —well,
that’s too bad for the wool-
grower. But the world isn’t
paying peak prices all the time,
just to suit us. Synthetics are
always available, peak prices
for wool or otherwise. The
higher the prices for wool the
better for synthetics!
These factors have to be
borne in mind when consider-
ing the wool situation. If we
can’t get wool-production costs
down low enough to permit of
selling at moderate prices, it's
a grim outlook for the wool in-
dustry—and for us! If wool
goes, all our much vaunted new
secondary industries will go
with it. It is only the returns
from wool which in the last
analysis provide the public with
sufficient money to buy their
products.
This statement will probably
be challenged, but it will stand
all arguments. As a further
statement, it might as well be
pointed out here that, if it had
not been for wool, few, if any,
of these new industries would
ever have been started. The
£6OO million wool cheque of
1951-52 gave the idea to over-
seas investors that Australia
was a good place to invest in,
and they did. But if industry
in general continues to retard
wtrol production as it is doing,
they’ll wish they hadn’t.
As it is, we have a rapidly
expanding industrial dev-
elopment, ninety-eight or more
per cent, dependent on local
trade and consumption to keep
it going, and a shrinking wool
industry which provides most
of the national income on
which these industries, and we,
ourselves, depend for support.
Yet, industrial conditions are
doing more to kill the wool
trade than even the govern-
ments are.
What, then, is the answer?
It can be kept in mind that
there is no shortage of wool
buyers if prices are moderate.
We have just cleared, without
carry-over, the second largest
wool clip in our history—but
not at any peak prices.
Australia seems to have for-
gotten, with the excitement of
other developments, that wool
is, still, its sheet anchor. With-
out it, there is nothing what-
ever to keep the country drift-
ing to leeward —with plenty of
rocks on the foreshore. But it
is costs, not prices, which are
the cause of the present posi-
tion.
The only safe course is to
gear the economics of the
nation in with wool economics,
otherwise we’ll go under. As
wool economy is geared in with
world economy, the only thing
to be done is to place wool at
the head of all economic con-
siderations, and adjust all other
conditions accordingly.
Tight Money Policy Continues
TThe decline in Australia's
overseas reserves will exer-
cise a restrictive influence on
bank credit for some time yet.
Employment outlook is not
happy, despite the approaching
federal elections in November.
Overseas reserve funds held
by the Reserve Bank at April
12, 1961 totalled £313 million,
a fall of £129.4 million com-
pared with June 30, 1960. Last
year there was a gain of £31.7
million (to £451.2 million) in
the corresponding period. In
the last two weeks there has
been an encouraging upward
trend in overseas funds, but still
insufficient to materially im-
prove the general balance of
payments situation.
Unemployment figures for
last March showed 81,800 per-
sons to be out of work and
29,700 receiving unemployment
benefits (against 21,400 unfilled
vacancies). It is generally
agreed that these figures some-
what understate the actual un-
employment position, not tak-
ing into account several classes
of labor (part time workers,
many categories of married
women, pensioners, etc.). Un-


Public Notice
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
COLONY OF NORTH
BORNEO.
Applications are invited from
suitably qualified persons for two
vacancies of EDUCATION
OFFICER (man or woman).
Qualifications:
(1) Honours Degree in Science
with Chemistry as main sub-
ject and Diploma in Educa-
tion.
(2) Honours Degree preferably in
Science with Mathematics as
main subject and Diploma in
Education.
Duties:
(1) To teach Science and par-
ticularly Chemistry up to
Advanced Level.
(2) To teach Mathematics up to
Advanced Level.
Both at Government Secondary
School (Sabah College), Jesselton.
Take part in general school duties,
but not residential boarding duties.
May also be required to examine
for Departmental and public exami-
nations, lecture, supervise or assist
with educational activities and
possibly administrative work outside
the college.
Conditions of Appointment:
On Contract for 3 years. Salary
in the scale (£87.10 x £3.10
£101.10: £lOB.lO x £3.10—£122.10
x £4.1.8d. —£147 x £4.13.4d.
£165.13.4d. per month). Efficiency
Bar at £122.105. Incremental credit
given for experience and war ser-
vice ; plus gratuity at 15 per cent,
of final basic salary for each com-
pleted month of service plus
terminal leave. Free first-class sea
or tourist air passages for officer
and family on first appointment
and end of contract. Child allow-
ance at 1\ per cent, of salary with
maximum of £11.3.4d. per month
for child or children under 17 years;
provided that if the child or chil-
dren are between 17 and 21 years
allowance is still payable for as long
as the child is receiving necessary
full-time education. Children’s
Education Allowance £11.13.4d. per
month per child up to two between
5 and 17 years inclusive if at school
overseas. Outfit allowance if
eligible. Accommodation with fur-
niture at 10 per cent, of basic salary
with maximum of £l4 per month.
Generous leave with full pay on
conclusion of contract. Applicants
should write to:
PROFESSOR Z. COWEN,
University of Melbourne,
Parkville, N. 2, Victoria,
for full particulars and application
forms.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated, under the Companies Act of New South Wales, on
March 8, 1950.
9i%
PER ANNUM
10 YEARS
9%
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE OF EXCHANGE
through the BANK OF N.S.W.
Obtain prospectus and application forms from all
branches of the Bank of N.S.W.; any member of a
recognised Stock Exchange; the Company’s Offices,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone BU-5542.
Underwriting Brokers:
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Corrie & Co. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Leonard G. May & Son (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustee for Stockholders:
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Company Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers:
Smith Johnson & Co.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
CLIP AND POST COUPON 1
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION j
TOUTED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 ■
George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy |
of the prospectus with application forms, j
NAME |
J
ADDRESS
skilled and semi-skilled labor
has been the hardest hit, as
expected.
The latest policy statement
by Dr Coombs dampens the
hopes of prophets who had
forecast a radical improvement
in credit and employment
situation by June.
Dr Coombs, the Governor of
the Reserve Bank, said that “in
the light of the balance of pay-
ments position and the econo-
mic situation generally the
trading banks have been asked
to continue the policy of
restraint in lending.”
This policy, he said, had
produced a substantial fall be-
tween October and March in
the level of advances outstand-
ing but the reduction took place
during a period when seasonal
influences tend to reduce ad-
vances. During the next few
months, the seasonal influences
would operate in the reverse
direction and it was important
that the resultant increase in
advances should be kept to the
minimum necessary to meet
essential requirements within
the selective policy announced
last November.
As part of this policy, Dr
Coombs said that the trading
banks were required to be
especially restrictive where
bank finance was contributing
to the demand for imports and
to give preferential treatment to
export producers, particularly
in the rural and mining indus-
tries.
Dr Coombs added that, be-
cause of the continuance of
restrictions on credit, the
liquidity of the banks had been
kept very tight, and that they
had entered the period of
seasonal rundown with little
“free” liquidity in hand. It
was not intended to ease this
liquidity pressure and reduc-
tions in the Statutory Reserve
Deposit ratio would be kept to
the minimum found necessary
as the run-down developed.
The ratio was being reduced
from 17.5 per cent, to 16.5 per
cent, as from April 19, which
would only partly offset the
fall in banks’ liquidity since
February. Further reductions
in the ratio could be expected
but these releases of funds from
the Statutory Reserve Deposit
Accounts would be regulated to
support the current restrictive
credit policy and would not
imply any change in that policy.
The coming seasonal demand
on bank advances may make
the credit situation very diffi-
cult. By November the Govern-
ment might find itself in an
embarrassing situation.
E.B.
Bankers Study
Trade
A group of 21 Australian and
New Zealand bank officers
from 12 banks represented in
Australia have just begun a
four weeks’ course to study
overseas trade. They will reside
during the course at the Reserve
Bank of Australia’s Staff Train-
ing College, Kirribilli, Sydney.
The course, arranged by the
Reserve Bank of Australia, has
been designed to deal with
various aspects of overseas
trade, its part in world affairs
and the Australian economy,
and the role played by banks in
facilitating the movement of
Australian exports and imports.
During the course members
will be addressed by specialised
bankers as well as representa-
tives of the Australian Meat
Board, the Department of
Customs, the Department of
Trade, the Export Payments
Insurance Corporation, a
marine insurance office, a ship-
ping office, the Sydney Cham-
ber of Commerce, the Sydney
Greasy Wool Futures Ex-
change, the University of Syd-
ney and a woolbroking house.
Also, to enable members to
gain first-hand knowledge of
practices and procedures fol-
lowed by importers and ex-
porters, visits will be made to
a wool store and the wool sales.
Shipping facilities will also be
examined and the members will
be shown the operations of a
manufacturer specialising in a
wide range of heavy industrial
equipment.


Your Ist
financial
responsibility
/
/
Adequate
LIFE ASSURANCE
through the
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD
The Metropolitan Bldg., Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
BW 8061.
hTi
m
i&s
:'y.y>
m
cm
Ss
::?.M
mi
m
m
A happier choice for every occasion . . ,
APOOVt’S WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia'*
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY. VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET.
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY. ST AGNES BRANDY
Speculator 's Diary
Friday, April 21
It worked! After weeks of
plying my broker with
cigars and his secretary with
flowers the mail finally
brought forth that prospectus
bearing the magic words,
“John Lysaght (Australia)
Limited.” With it came a
note “suggesting” I apply for
no more than 100 shares and
adding, in blunter tones, that
if I applied for more than 100
my money would be returned!
Anyway, I had no com-
plaints as I feel the fully-paid
shares could well be worth
60s. when they come on the
market and perhaps 80s. before
too long. And I certainly don’t
object to having £lOO or so
dropped in my pocket, especi-
ally as I only had to pay out
20s. a share at this stage with
the other 20s. not due until the
end of July.
Now, being of suspicious
(and probably unsound) mind,
I didn’t altogether trust my
brokers’ motive in letting me
have 100 John Lysaghts. And,
sure enough, a day or two
later he casually suggested I
take a few shares in a ten pin
bowling company he is floating
in Newcastle. I scoffed.
“Have you been to one of
these bowling centres yet?”
was his retort. I had to admit
that I hadn’t as much as seen
the outside of a bowling centre.
So he promptly offered to take
me bowling at the Enfield
centre. I accepted. I must
confess the whole set-up
impressed me immensely. Not
a lane was vacant at any time
while we were there and liter-
ally hundreds of people were
swarming about.
My broker became lyri-
cal about the prospects for his
company in Newcastle, the
smallness of its capital, the
high profit estimate, the pro-
mise of early dividends, and
so on. I hate to say it, but I
think he’s right. So I signed
up for 500 Newcastle Ten Pin
Bowling shares.
Probably out of gratitude,
my broker then advised me to
buy some A.O.G. and Albert
G. Sims. The latter, you will
remember, I dropped like a hot
brick in February (at 7s. 6d.)
on rumors of difficult trading
and delays at Mort’s Dock.
But apparently the trouble
isn’t too bad after all so once
again I’m a shareholder in
A. G. Sims.
Now with A.0.G., I’ve been
on the verge of buying for
months, but each time have
just managed to control my
impulses. This week, however,
I gave in and bought 200 at
14s. What really convinced
me was the way the shares
have kept on slowly firming
even though it is nearly five
months since the first news of
oil or gas in the Cabawin
well.
You might well ask where
the money for all these pur-
chases was coming from, par-
ticularly as I still had to pay
the £96 for my 200 Concrete
Industries. And this week’s
purchases had run me into
another £423. I decided on
Motels of Australia and
Wattyl. Both of these had had
good rises and looked as
though they wouldn't go much
further for the time being. So
I sold them both for a very
welcome profit of £Bl. But this
still left me owing my broker
£144, at least until next week.
The we e k’s transactions
were:
SOLD
400 Motels of Aus-
tralia at 8/9 .. £l7O
400 Wattyl at 10/6 £205
BOUGHT
200 A.O.G. at 14/- £143
200 Albert G. Sims
at 5/3 .. .. £55
100 John Lysaght at
20/- .. .. £lOO
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling at
5/- .. .. £125
Now I am holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
200 Antill R. £123 12/- 13/6
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 86/6
500 Merica 165 6/4 7/3
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 S/3 7/3
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 24/3
400 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 16/9
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 26/-
200 Par bury
Henty 174 17/- 16/3
200 F. W.
Wiliams 275 27/- 31/3
200 Marriekville 225 22/- 26/-
200 Mai ley
Reliance 160 16 7 6 17/6
300 Bayview 240 16/3 18/3
200 David Jones .
notes 101 0/10 10/10
200 Concrete Ind.
eontribs 06 9/5 10/
400 N. B. Love ~
eontribs. 04 4/8 5/5
200 A.O.G. 143 14/- 14/9
200 A. G. Sims 55 5/3 5/3
100 John Lysaght 100 20/- 20/-
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/-


Shows
Picasso Ceramics
At the rate at which the expensive
Picasso ceramics are selling in Mel-
bourne, it is hardly likely other than a
few pieces will be left to send for
exhibition and sale in under-
ART
privileged Sydney. They will
not be shown in the other
capitals. Within a week of the
opening 45 of the ceramics had been
sold for about £l6OO, and as the exhibi-
tion will remain open at the Museum
of Modern Art until May 3, it is likely
it will all be sold.
The exhibition was brought out not
by the museum’s trustees but by Art
Forum, a Melbourne group, of whom
one protagonist, Alec Biencardi (who is
a textile man and naturally absorbed
in modern design) makes frequent trips
to Europe.
These Picasso pieces are very much
prized in the Northern Hemisphere, and
Mr Biencardi couldn’t get the Vallauris
Potteries to give him a representative
collection to bring to Australia, but
ultimately he persuaded them to put
aside an occasional piece for Art Forum
and this collection of 120 is the result.
Picasso visited Vallauris after the war,
when it was on the rocks, and decorated
a few pieces. The process grew out of
that pottery doodling by the master. Now
the article, vase, jug, bowl or plaque is
made at the pottery, decorated by
Picasso, and from this a mould is made
and a limited number of articles struck
off by Georges Ramie, the master potter,
from the original. Picasso supervises, and
each article is stamped a Picasso Edition.
The show is precisely what you might
expect a Picasso exhibition to look like,
and varied enough, although there do
seem to be many jugs, nearly all in the
form of hippy women with their arms
resting on their bellies and bottoms.
Art Forum has no gallery and the
museum was delighted to open two of
its three galleries for it. On the afternoon
a Bulletin reporter visited the show,
the museum’s director, John Reed, was
°n the door (admission 25., catalogue
35.) and quietly gratified by its success.
He said the exhibition was averaging
about 250 visitors a day, and the sales,
°n which the museum collects a com-
mission, w'ere surprisingly good. The
visitors seem to be predominantly well-
to-do matrons with a sprinkling of down-
at-heel students in the afternoons; a
ttore representative crowd attends at the
Weekends.
The prices range from 215 to 22
SUineas. These are typical: rectangular
msh with bullfight (engraved), 65 ; light
Plaque with bull, 22 ; lamp in the form
°t a woman, 52 ; dish with face (re-
porter’s note: one eye upside down),
IP; plate with pinched nose, 108 ; little
owl with fish (white enamel), 35; and
Gothic jug with birds, 129 guineas. (Not
too cheap when you remember there are
probably 49 or 99 others.)
The Chief Justice of New South Wales,
Dr Evatt, bought two pieces after open-
ing the show, and the new Melbourne
university, Monash, was breathing on his
neck to buy a piece, too.
D. Symmons
ADELAIDE ART NOTES
Francis Roy Thompson’s exhibition at
the R.S.A. Society of Arts covers many
years and several different styles. His
heavy, flat abstracts are interesting proof
of just how difficult it is to paint good
abstracts. A demoniac display of energy
can carry a few painters through, but
mostly what is required is a cool and
ordered intelligence. Thompson’s
abstracts have had plenty of paint and
emotion poured into them, but intellectu-
ally they have been about as strenuous as
a game of noughts and crosses. The one
exception at this show is “Shadow and
Light,” with its non-typical rectangular
construction and the subtle technical
handling of the beam of light striking
across the painting.
Thompson needs a natural form to get
him going. His earlier bold, shove-it-in-
your-face style occasionally works very
well, as in “River Murray” or “Sailing
Ships,” where the paints jostled together
seem to employ the inherent energy of
matter. But easily the most lively and
Australia’s TV University
Tn a fine flurry of mutual gratulation
A between the academics and the big-
wigs of the A.B.C. a television “uni-
versity” has been launched. Zelman
Cowan, Professor Baxter, Harry
Messel and an assorted bunch of
dignitaries compered by Michael
Charlton spent half an hour’s viewing
time telling each other and the vidiots
of the nation how valuable an innova-
tion it will be.
It seems that there will be two pro-
grammes a week. One lecture course
on the sciences will be viewed on
Tuesdays, a course on the humanities
on Fridays. One cannot look such gift
horses in the mouth, particularly at a
time when the A.B.C. has been
abandoning its Third Programme
responsibilities on television. This is
more dismally true of the provincial
cities. Adelaide is now reduced to one
solitary live “intellectual” programme
each week from its Adelaide studio, a
programme called “I Remember,”
distinguished only by the fact that you
couldn't possibly conceive a more
elementary or inexpensive form for a
dull half-hour.
But one gathers that at this stage
the TV “university” course will consist
of formal lectures, glorified at most
by the occasional blackboard or
lantern slide. And this gives rise to
the old chestnut, whether lectures
aren't an archaic, redundant and
wasteful way of imparting informa-
tion. Inside universities lectures are
a dismal and useless survival, persisted
in only to gratify the academic sense
of theatricality. Invaluable in those
dark ages before the invention of the
book, or when books were a luxury
beyond the reach of youthful Fausts,
the lecture has become a sleepy waste
of time. In some subjects, in the
mathematical sciences, certain
branches of philosophy, in fields where
demonstration is important, the lecture
has its uses. But for the most part an
hour with a book produces greater
results than 60 minutes of endless
droning from a tired academic. The
tutorial is the central and essential
core of tertiary education.
The value of a TV lecture, even with
blackboard and slides, is sorely
limited. The course is supposed to
appeal not to undergraduates them-
selves but to eager people untrained
in note-taking or rapid aural assimila-
tion. In this context the lectures de-
vised for Australian TV viewing are
primitive conceptions, for TV can
exploit a variety of economic tech-
niques which are quite revolutionary.
There are plenty of models. The
B.B.C’s famous “Eye on Research”
series is a perfect example of how
advanced scientific concepts can be
imparted through organised visual as
well as verbal detail. With a little
more scholarly intent the 8.8. C. pro-
gramme “Lifeline” could do the same
thing for modern psychology. In
social history some of the N.B.C. pro-
grammes have been powerfully evoca-
tive and sound interpretively. Could
any lecturer implant the principles of
Socratic thought as powerfully or
lucidly as the recent Robert Herridge
“Life and Death of Socrates”?
In other words, educational material
on TV calls for the whole gamut of
film production techniques. This is
no doubt expensive, but if Australia
can’t afford its own production unit
for educational material it should draw
on the world pool of such material in
an organised way. At the same time
it should at least contribute to the pool
by producing material of our own—on
Australian anthropology, for example.
Nonetheless, the lectures at present
in progress are something. Before
that there was nothing. And, who
knows, Professor Baxter might even
turn out to be TV’s Digby Wolfe of
tomorrow!
MAX HARRIS


Kstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SbXUV'AV
;T, PTV LTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•MACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the day right!
sauld»w c
k^SS*
RUPTURE PAIN BANISHER
New scientific principle IIYO-
PLASTEX is result of years of in-
tensive research. Holds severest
rupture in complete safety. Acts
softly as with fingertips. Why
suffer discomfort a day longer when
MYO-PLASTEX can give you per-
manent relief immediately. Send
for free booklet.
MYO-PLASTEX CO..
T. E. Turner, proprietor,
152 Hereford St., P.O. Box 1547,
Christchurch, N.Z.
rewarding works in this exhibition are
“Fish under Water” and “Fish in Glass,”
particularly the former. Here he has
purged his clogged palette and flashed
into clean movement. A very early paint-
ing of a gum-tree in the sunlight has
some of the same quality, at an extreme
of realism.
At the Kym Bonython Gallery there
is a show of paintings by the Sydney
artist David Strachan. Some years ago
he and Alister Kershaw produced in
Paris one of the most exotic books ever
to appear in the history of poetry or
painting by Australians. The lushness
of imagination and richness of color in
Strachan's lithographs for this book are
kept under strict control in this latest
show. There are empty walls and empty
rooms painted with affection, but there
is nothing in them.
Geoffrey Dutton
PROFESSIONALISM
Earle Backen’s small one-man show
of etchings and engravings from zinc
and copper at Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries is so much more attractive than
the Society of Artists' autumn exhibition
of prints and drawings at David Jones’
that one inevitably asks why.
The basic reason seems to be simply
that Earle Backen is setting out to be a
professional in etching and engraving,
working with the utmost care and
thought, while many of the Society of
Artists’ exhibitors, though they paint as
professionals in other mediums, seem
here, by comparison, amateurs —dashing
off a drawing or a print because the
Society is holding that kind of exhibition,
or putting in a rough working-drawing
for an oil because that is all they have
on hand.
The central panel by Thomas Gleg-
horn, John Coburn, Carl Plate, John
Ogburn and L. Hessing looks a striking
display in the distance and stands up
well enough to closer inspection, but
there is little finesse about most of those
works, very little drawing in the real
sense of the term and the general effect
is just patchy. And if one does see
some more finished works by Robert
Campbell, Imre Szigeti, Guy Warren,
Roy Fluke, A. J. Sibley, Thea Proctor,
George Lawrence and Guy Grey-Smith,
still for a total effect of charm and
assured craftsmanship one comes back
to Mr Backen
Mr Backen seems almost to have solved
the problem, lately discussed here, of
what the Chinese should do about their
art, for his work is as modern as you
like, abstract and semi-abstract, yet in
design and color he keeps calling to mind
the Chinese landscape and the Japanese
color-print. Surely those are the origins
of the rolling mountains and trees loaded
with snow in “Mountain Landscape,”
the patterns of foam and sand in
“Summer” and the impression of sails
and river-water in “Saeta in Green.”
But his work certainly does not look
unduly derivative. Whatever he has
taken, whether from ancient China or
contemporary abstraction, he has made
his own ; and his strength lies equally
in his firm and clearly disposed forms
and in his sumptuous color, mostly
luminous blues and greens. He is the
sort of artist in which the “conflict”
between abstraction and representa-
tionalism —over which the Society of
Artists is having some ructions —simply
does not exist. You can take him either
way.
Douglas Stewart
MOLLY G. JOHNSON
At Brisbane Moreton Galleries Miss
Johnson is showing 33 oils of landscape.
Her sense of values makes her com-
positions, usually uncomplicated, well
integrated and organised in the relations
of their elements. And she has delicacy
and charm due possibly to her individual
palette, chiefly in the range from violet-
blue to yellow, as in her ideas of open
roiling country, for which she uses dark
foliage green, a cool light green and the
greenish yellow of grass in dry autumn
weather. She likes blue water in rivers
and broad expanses.
In “Chinese Holiday” the eye is caught
by a group of figures in gay clothes in
the bottom corner and led away across
deep-blue sparkling water to distant grey-
blue hills. She makes some adventures
into a more abstract style: “Burnt Trees
of Warrumbungles” is a very good pic-
ture, semi-abstract, austere, thoughtful
and full of feeling. In a small piece, she
handles very deftly problems of color,
light and form and solves them in splashes
of sombre green and crimson.
J. V. Duhig
BRISBANE PAINTERS
Although the pleasures to be found
there are limited to enjoying the works
of three artists, the exhibition of Bris-
bane painters at the Rudy Komon Gal-
lery offers a refreshing change from the
usual Sydney scene.
So used to being shocked and startled,
I enjoyed being seduced by Margaret
Olley’s tigerlilies and agapanthus, being
led over the surfaces of gently brushed
paint which forms itself into images of
these flowers. Suburban landscape by
the same painter has a similar charm.
It is surprising that these pictures are
not dominated by John Molvig’s “Meta-
morphosis of Adam,” an awkward,
unpleasant but arresting picture which
for all that is by no means a contrived
shocker. Tipped sideways, making it
more uncomfortable, it forcefully states
the discomfort of Adam in accepting
his new state. Molvig’s “Hotel Lounge
shows that he is capable of less turbid
thoughts and, beginning with vague
shapes and decorative colors, swells up
and breaks into crests of definition and
rolls to its climax of depth and color in
the hovering form of the waiter in the
background. There is an occasional
carelessness in the placing of a color or
the somewhat trite elaboration of some
forms.
Molvig’s influence is seen too strongly
in the “Spring Hill Residential” oi
Andrew Sibley, but the same painters
“Wedding,” which contrasts a complex
three-dimensional form half church,
half alert bride—with the flat form of
the groom, is much more original and
successful.
John Rigby’s “Hide and Seek” is wel
composed in a competent art school
manner but the abstracts of Bronwyn


Yeates are formless decorative daubs and
along with the more figurative but dull
paintings of Kenneth and Joy Roggen-
kamp are hardly yet ready to go on their
travels.
Salmon
MUSIC
ALLEGRI QUARTET
England’s Allegri Quartet gave per-
formances of an engaging and com-
panionable kind at its opening Sydney
concert for the Musica Viva Society, but
there, was room to question whether the
total quality of its playing was in due
proportion to the length of the journey
made to bring it here.
Throughout a programme which con-
sisted of a teen-aged Mozart essay in
darlingness, the string quartet from
Britten’s outsmarting Auden and Isher-
wood period, and the suite-like B Flat
Quartet (op. 130) of Beethoven, the
Allegri violins produced a tone of in-
sufficient color and bite for the whole
ensemble to make a considerable impact.
One had the sense, in almost every move-
ment of every work, that the drive in this
ensemble came from cellist William
Pleeth, himself a quite brilliant performer
°f sensitivity and penetration.
The programme itself offered a work
by a man thoroughly content to accept
Quartet form as his generation gave it to
him, and to work happily within the given
form with shining and endearing ease,
a nd two works by composers in protest
Against prevailing conventions. The Beet-
hoven, possibly the most songful work of
ms last period, is in six movements of
somewhat snippety dimensions at times
"though there is great charm (and much
underlying pathos) in his movement which
has for its theme the “When I Grow
ffich” phrase from “Oranges and
Le mons.” Autobiography, surely?
The Britten’s protest is against chamber
music solemnities, and these players made
the protest eloquently without being
waggish or clownish in tossing off the
jests. From its opening bars of high
strings squeaking mysteriously in their
higher harmonics as the ’cello snorted
nervously about putting its feet on creak-
ing boards in the dark, this quartet was
in no mood to be ponderous or spiritual.
The players clearly enjoyed it, conspicu-
ously in the movement where, with the
general texture of tone very quiet, each
instrument had a turn at letting forth
a rough little blast —droll irreverences,
like sneezes during prayer.
Lindsey Browne
THEATRE
“THE WORLD OF SUZIE WONG”
Melbourne Palais
Probably no play has passed this
country’s censors so densely populated
with prostitutes, pimps and other un-
savory characters, and certainly none with
more talk of going to bed. And yet since
the play’s glittering opening there have
been no protests from the letters-to-the
editor writers. Why? Simply because
this extraordinarily sentimentalised tale
of how a vivacious young prostitute had
to lose her livelihood and her child in
order to find respectable love hangs its
head with requisite shame at every illicit
turn, and takes the issue no further.
One comes to the point of wondering
what on earth is the issue at stake which
playwright Osborn is jerking so many
tears for. Primed by advance publicity,
we entered the theatre imagining it would
be the tragedy of commercialised sex;
we left with tender memories of a pretty
pleasant boy-meets-girl affair. Glimpses
of Hong Kong’s notorious seamier side
were there for most of the play’s two long
acts, but never did we get a whiff of their
renowned seediness. The air was always
too perfumed with pretty young women,
boisterously good-natured sailors and in-
sights into the artist hero’s romantic
attic. Playwright Osborn, being in no
way a relation of John, is not angry ; and
the result is a play which challenges
only our capacity for keeping awake.
Making the most of a woodenly unreal
part the much publicised Jacqui Chan en-
deared herself nonetheless by her vital
stage presence, if not her singing voice,
while Kevin Miles as her large but
negligible young man filled out nicely the
required image of Robert Lomax, an
artist and a gentleman.
“THE AMOROUS PRAWN”
Melbourne Comedy
On the eve of his retirement, Blimpish
Major-General Sir Hamish Fitzadam goes
to America to look at new nuclear mis-
siles. His wife, left in charge of a small
staff of privates and W.R.A.C.Ss decides
to turn the family manor-house into a
guesthouse for rich tourists, behind the
backs of both husband and Army.
The tourists arrive, the money rolls in,
and so does, most unexpectedly, her hus-
band. But he is turn becomes party to
the intrigue, only to discover that one of
his guests is the Secretary of State for
War. And just as they are about to be
exposed ...
There is really no need to continue.
The ending is quite predictable, as indeed
is every stock situation and trite “charac-
ter.” The production was appropriately
inept and the actors, endowed with some
of the most prosaic dialogue outside of
television Westerns, invariably com-
municated more embarrassment than
humor.
All this, plus, it might be added, some
gloriously funny moments which one
suspects were never intended by the
author
A. S. Jorgensen


Ruffi in Ihe
r4ihu*e
The tapping of a heavy flow of natural gas at
Roma, Queensland, is another reminder of the great
resources of power Australia will need to draw
upon to energise its industry in the future.
The importance of such a discovery may not
be fully realised by many Australians, since the
use of natural gas in commercial supply is
something new in our fuel economy. But in the
United States and Canada it is a cheap and
plentiful form of power.
In the U.S.A., from fields where it jets up
freely from the earth, industrial and domestic gas
is reticulated across the country through more than
fifty thousand miles of high-pressure pipe lines.
A huge source of Canadian gas is the rich oil
province of Alberta.
Hundreds of millions of dollars have been
spent on piping gas to industrial cities of
North America.
The hopes to be centred on Roma —apart
from the significant fact that the occurrence of
gas in large volume is usually associated with the
neighbouring discovery of oil —is that the gas could
be fed to power stations for the generation
of electricity.
And that would lead to both the strengthening
and the dispersing of secondary industry in just
the way that Australia’s balanced development, in
every part of this Commonwealth, requires.
In whatever State its presence is proved, a
commercial gas field is of value to the whole
nation. It means adding to that pool of energy
on which our expansion will increasingly depend,
whether the tributaries be the coal-fuelled networks
of electricity in the various States, a hydro-electrical
system such as the Snowy is providing, a local
stream of natural gas—or the nuclear power
stations that will surely come in the future.
With atomic energy still held newly in the
hands of man. surveys have shown that the world
demand for electrical power will be rising at a
rate that will double every ten years from now to
the end of this century.
Gili to Make Amends
at Doomben?
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
/THli is to go to Brisbane for the Stradbroke Handicap and
the Doomben Ten Thousand and, on his showing at
Warwick Farm on Saturday he may redeem his failure in the
Newmarket Handicap which cost his backers a great deal
of money.
Gili is a four-year-old by Makapura (imp.) from Syncopa-
tion, and his trainer, former jockey Ted McMenamin, has
developed him with great patience, regulating his starts so that
the horse would not be over-raced.
Gili won three races in succession before he was taken to
Melbourne for the Newmarket Handicap in March. He won
at Warwick Farm at 6f. and at Canterbury at 6f., then beat a
very smart galloper in Flash Time in the Challenge Stakes at
Randwick, also run at 6f.
On those performances he was made favorite for the New-
market Handicap, a position he did not lose even though at his
preceding start he was beaten in the Hawksburn Handicap at
Caulfield.
However, Gili failed badly in the Newmarket, and not even
the slight lameness he showed after the race could satisfactorily
explain his poor form.
On Saturday at Warwick Farm, ridden by the country
apprentice L. Fox, Gili ran a course record for six furlongs of
lm. 10jS., beating by a slight fraction the record held for some
years by the outstanding sprinter, Gay Vista, at lm. lt
was a remarkably good effort because Gili gave most of the
field a start from the beginning of the turn into the short
straight.
Leon Fox was eligible for a 71b. allowance on Gili even
though he has ridden 198 winners at country meetings.
A ustralian Consolidated Press will sponsor a race at the
A.J.C. Spring Meeting to be called the Daily Telegraph
Stakes. Stake money is £lO,OOO and handicaps will be adjusted
with a fixed maximum and minimum.
At the Autumn Meeting at Randwick Australian Consoli-
dated Press sponsored the Daily Telegraph Doncaster Handicap
of £lO,OOO and the Sunday Telegraph Invitation Stakes of
£lO,OOO.
The Daily Telegraph Stakes will be run on the opening day
of the spring carnival, and will be an excellent rehearsal for
the Epsom Handicap, which the A.J.C. now will stage on Six-
Hour Day holiday on the Monday. The Metropolitan also will
be run on Monday.
The change in programme will have an interesting side-
light. The Epsom Handicap-Metropolitan double is one of the
biggest pre-post betting mediums in Australian racing.
When the Epsom Handicap was run on Saturday and the
Metropolitan on Monday the doubles bookmakers had plenty
of time in which to balance out their liabilities in accordance
with the risks incurred on the first “leg.”
With both races run on the one day the position will be
very different and may effect the turnover on this form of
betting. However, the club is likely to gain on turnover on
the doubles totalisator, especially if the starting times of the
races can be arranged to allow the maximum period for betting.
VXfiTH these two £lO,OOO sprint races, the spring carnival puts
* * the A.J.C. back on top in the sprint field, a place both
Sydney and Melbourne has had to surrender in recent years to
the Brisbane clubs.
Racing prize-money has gone up considerably in the last
two years and the rewards for buying one of the best of the
gallopers at the yearling sales is great.
The Caulfield Cup this year will carry £15,000 added money,
the Melbourne Cup £20,000 and the V.R.C. will have a £6OOO
sprint and a £lO,OOO sprint to boost its distribution for the spring.


Sham-amateurism Smashing Tennis
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
No sport has ever been in
such a muddle internation-
ally as tennis is now. The
drift to sham-amateurism and
the development of professional
tennis are to blame.
The sad experiences of the
official Australian team now
abroad Ken Fletcher, Bob
Hewitt, Fred Stolle and John
Newcomb —reflect the mess into
which world tennis controllers
have allowed the game to sink.
The Lawn Tennis Association
of Australia sent these young-
sters abroad, under the man-
agership of Mr Alf Chave, to
develop them for the future.
But the youngsters face a “cold
shoulder” in Britain and
Europe. Italy already has
turned them down for its
national championships. So
has Britain for its hardcourt
championships.
Britain’s “Daily Mail” pub-
lished this jibe: “Australia
is trying to sell a second-rate
tennis team around Europe and
is getting snubbed. The Aussies
were offered to the Italian
championships for £350 ex-
penses, but the Italians replied
that the Aussies were not worth
it. The British Lawn Tennis
Association invited the Austra-
lian women's team to play in
the British hardcourt cham-
pionships but turned down the
official men’s team.”
Meanwhile Davis Cup stars
Neale Fraser, Rod Laver and
Roy Emerson, whom the Lawn
Tennis Association of Australia
allowed to make a private tour
late this year, seemingly are
having no trouble to get ex-
pense money. Everyone wants
them.
T'he situation with Australia’s
official team and the Italian
Tennis Association jogs my
memory about a statement
Italian Davis Cup star Nicola
Hetrangeli made in Sydney last
November when he refused to
Play in the New South Wales
singles championship and jibed
that Australia had a paltry
attitude on expenses for visit-
ing players. In the heat of the
moment he said good players
could get up to £l7O a week for
expenses in Europe. He de-
clared that he would see that
future Australian teams got
nothing in Italy.
There is no proof that Piet-
r angeli had any influence on
me Italian Tennis Association’s
eurrent attitude to the official
Australian team. But the Lawn
Tennis Association and the In-
ternational Lawn Tennis Feder-
ation should not hesitate to
find the cause of the discourtesy
to the team in Italy and Britain.
If such an attitude is allowed
to develop, Australian tennis
will be in for a sorry time if
it loses the Davis Cup in the
near future. None of the top
class overseas players will want
to play the Australian circuit.
Australia has been a splendid
host to visiting tennis players,
but has received little thanks.
In recent years Australia has
“gone out of its way” to make
Englishmen Billy Knight,
Roger Becker, Michael Davies,
Michael Hann Sangster feel at
home here. No effort was
spared to help these players.
They received advice and
tuition from experts. Even only
last December Australian Davis
Cup captain Harry Hopman
attached Sangster to his squad
so that he might learn some-
thing from Neale Fraser, Rod
Laver and Roy Emerson. This
broadminded attitude certainly
did not justify the snub the
British Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion has given our young team
who were sent abroad for the
same reason as the Englishmen
came here—to get experience.
TThe Lawn Tennis Associa-
A tion should remind the
Italian Association of how it
looked after the junior member
of the recent Italian Davis Cup
team, Sergio Tacchini, who
stayed on here after the 1960
cup campaign. Like the Eng-
lishmen, Tacchini received
advice from Hopman and close
friendship from all of the top
players. Any other country
that may be thinking of sniping
at Australia should recall that
many players have received
help and support from Austra-
lia. Frenchman Jean Noel
Grinda and Spaniard Andre
Gimeno are among those who
come readily to mind in recent
years.
There is no doubt that the
European and British snub to
the official Australian team is
an off-shoot from the tolera-
tion of sham-amateurism in
tennis. These countries seem-
ingly are only interested in
players who have “missed the
bus” for professional tennis
and hawk themselves around
the world looking for the best
they can get in expenses. Some
of them travel so far and so
long that there is little doubt
they are making a business of
tennis.
Sham-amateurism and pro-
fessionalism are crippling tennis
today. The revival of interest
in professional tennis just after
the war had a bad influence
on the game. Too many players
became too money - minded.
Officials failed badly to get con-
trol of this sort of thing. Now
they are talking about open
tennis to bring amateurs and
professionals together, even at
Wimbledon. But there is no
certainty that this will bring
tennis back to what it used to
be.
'T'he inroads of professional-
ism and talk of open tennis
is not new. It first became a
topic of conversation in tennis
society back in the middle
19305. Lady Wavertree, a noted
British authority, in 1935 fore-
cast all that is happening today.
Lady Wavertree said: “There
seems no necessity for inter-
national tennis to become pro-
fessional. But as things are
shaping now, I think that the
professional movement in ten-
nis will grow; that in due
course it will unquestionably
embrace the wo r 1 d’s best
players. Unless the lawn tennis
associations in the larger coun-
tries of the world take steps to
meet the rapidly developing
situation, they will become
superseded and lose their grip
on world tennis. The actual
star player, who is the man who
produces the enormous profits,
will not continue to stand by
and see others profiting from
the game while he is forbidden
to do likewise.
“It would not be too much
to suggest that the Davis Cup
was worth £30,000 net profit to
England for the years 1930-34.
This great asset was created by
the players H. W. Austin and
F. J. Perry, but these two
players were forbidden by
tennis law to make any pecuni-
ary gain from playing tennis.
Officials may derive pecuniary
gain by not playing tennis.
This does not affect their
amateur status. Officialdom
penalises the man who pro-
duces the profits. How can
they expect any reasonable,
sensible players to carry on
under these conditions.
“Professional tennis will
grow as long as shortsighted
governing bodies insist upon
driving decent, well-meaning
amateurs out of the field. The
solution is, of course, the open
championship, as is held in
other forms of sport. Lawn
tennis governing bodies are
not, it seems to me, in line with
the advanced times in which we
live.”
On that score it seems we
might have to blame the
officials of the 1930 s for the
muddle of sham - amateurism
that tennis is in today.


LETTERS
Hook versus Stone
sir,
In his article “A Net to
Catch Professors” (4/2/61,
Observer), Julius Stone made
three charges in criticism of
views expressed in my book,
“H e r e s y, Yes Conspiracy.
No.” He maintained that I
advocated:
1, “Political tests prior to
appointment and for a proba-
tionary period after it, in-
dependently of party member-
ship.
2, “The exclusion of Com-
munist party members regard-
less of their submission or not
to the discipline of the party.
3, “Political tests, before and
after appointment, for Com-
munists who are not members
of the party.”
In my reply (18/3/61) I
asserted that every one of
Stone’s charges was demon-
strably false. I cited passages
from my book which contra-
dicted his assertions and chal-
lenged him to present the evi-
dence on which he based his
allegations.
In his rejoinder (Bulletin,
5/4/61), Stone claims that the
evidence will be found in a
piece of his published six years
ago in a literary journal,
“Meanjin” (Spring 1955). I find
this an extraordinary method of
conducting a discussion. Why
did not Stone indicate in his
article in The Observer that
the evidence was contained else-
where and refer his readers
to it? Why should he have
assumed that everyone was
aware of his earlier discussion?
Further, why did he not cite
in his rejoinder the relevant
passages from his earlier piece
to substantiate his charges so
that readers could judge for
themselves? He had sufficient
space to do so. But neither in
his attack in The Observer nor
in his rejoinder in The
Bulletin does he cite so much
as a single line from my work
in support of his allegations.
Is this not passing strange?
The explanation, however, is
not far to seek. I have now
carefully read and reread
Stone’s piece in “Meanjin”
(which neither he nor its editor
ever sent me) to which he
belatedly refers as containing
the evidence. It contains not a
single passage of supporting
evidence from my work in justi-
fication of his charges! This is
true both for the texts and the
footnotes. There is nothing in
the “Meanjin” piece which adds
an iota to the validity of the
charges made in The Observer
article. On the contrary. He
summarises my view in one
place in such a way as to be
flatly incompatible with his
third charge that I advocate
political tests for Communists
who are not members of the
party. Thus, he writes on
p. 236.
“The second distinction to be
examined is that between
scholars who honestly hold
views more or less similar to
or identical with the official
views of Communism and the
scholar who, whether by formal
membership or other analogous
channels, has submitted to the
discipline of the Communist
party. Hook held academic
freedom to secure the tenure of
the former absolutely, (my
italics).
I am inclined to think on the
basis of his rejoinder that Stone
himself is aware that he has no
evidence for his allegations.
For he now talks about “the
likely consequences” of imple-
menting my principles and
suggests that his animadver-
sions were directed only against
them. But his charges quite
explicitly attributed certain be-
liefs to me. They were the
target of his criticism, not the
“likely consequences” of acting
on them. I hold that he is
mistaken about “the likely con-
sequences” of implementing
them, but this is a horse of an
entirely different color, a clear
case on his part of an ignoratio
elenchi. The charges Stone
makes against me are un-
mitigatedly false.
The statement that the evi-
dence for them is contained in
“Meanjin” is also false. And
his present plea of extenua-
tion : “While some of the
materials for judgment and in-
terpretation are factual, the
correctness of the judgment or
interpretation itself cannot be
proved as if it were itself a
fact”—in this context is sheer
double-talk. It is no justifica-
tion for attributing to me views
which I do not hold, and opens
the door to all sorts of smears.
Despite his talk about “likely
consequences,” Stone still re-
peats hi s attributions. He
writes that he regarded it as his
duty to dissent “from those of
the more intricate, oblique and
often casuistic and controver-
sial corollaries offered by Pro-
fessor Hook ...” I do not
object to Stone’s dissent from
any view I hold. I object to his
unsubstantiated claim that the
charges he made are corollaries
from anything I have written.
I repeat my challenge to him to
cite the evidence from my
writing and to make explicit the
argument by which he infers the
“corollaries.”
Stone now admits that only
at one point did he use “a mis-
leading phrase.” He acknow-
ledges that I never said that
mere membership in the Com-
munist party would condemn
an academic “regardless of
evidence of his probity.” He
maintains, however, that his
false statement did me and my
position no injustice since I
expect the Communist party
member to produce the evi-
dence of probity. This, accord-
ing to Stone, would entail the
impossible burden of proving
“innumerable negatives at in-
determinate times and places
Stone is mistaken about this,
too. On my view, it would be
sufficient for a member of the
Communist party to show even
once that he had repudiated the
dishonorable instructions of the
party to betray his educational
trusty that he had publicly con-
demned any important party
dogma or Soviet outrage. This
would be sufficient for many
reasons, among them, as the
history of the American Com-
munist party shows, that he
would not be tolerated for long
in the party for his breach of
discipline. Only a fanatic re-
quires absolute or mathematical
certainty of probity.
Stone objects to my state-
ment that he disregarded my
plain distinction between mem-
bers of the Communist party
and individuals who happen to
hold views in common with
them on the ground that I
should have rebuked Dr Knop-
felmacher, too. This is a weak
and unacceptable defence since
in his “Meanjin” article he him-
self acknowledged that I stress
this distinction. As I read Dr
Knopfelmacher, it seemed quite
clear to me from the context
that he recognised this distinc-
tion, too. Stone’s reading is
very unfair to him. At any
rate, even if I am mistaken
about this, Stone’s guilt is not
any less because it may be
shared by others.
As for Stone’s final piece of
advice, that “Professor Hook
. . . should be content to leave
his views, expressed with both
eloquence and subtlety, along
with views that dissent from
his to our fellow men to whom
they are addressed” —I have
this to say: my concern has
been not with Stone’s dissent
from my views but with his
imputation to me of views I do
not hold. I am quite content
to leave judgment about this to
any fair-minded reader of my
book, of Stone’s articles and of
my replies.
SIDNEY HOOK
New York University
New York ( U.S.A. ).
THE CRAWFORD
LETTER
We have received several
replies to Professor Crawford’s
letter in The Bulletin of April
12. Since these were written
before The Bulletin article on
“Melbourne University Com-
munists at Work” appeared,
and since they demanded details
that were given in that article,
it would be unfair to their
authors to publish some of
them now. But here is a selec-
tion containing the more
general points:
Sir,
There seems little point in
underlining your clear misuse
of Professor R. M. Crawford’s
name to support an editorial
policy which goes far beyond
the views that he expressed in
his letter. No doubt Professor
Crawford will himself com-
ment on this.
However, I would like to
comment on some of the things
he does say. Professor Craw-
ford says that a Communist-
led group has engaged in uni-
versity politics in such a
manner as to deserve The
Bulletin - Knopfelmacher
description of “intimidation of
colleagues.”
As to the facts of the case,
only people in Melbourne have
any chance of arriving at a
reasoned conclusion. I suspect
that many of them will inter-
pret the same facts differently
from Professor Crawford. But
even if the facts are as Pro-
fessor Crawford sees them, do
they support the general con-
clusion that he arrives at and
The Bulletin exaggerates?
Some experience of dissident
groups and individuals in uni-
versities and other large insti-
tutions would suggest to me
that there was a much higher
correlation between dissidence
and frustrated ambition ° r


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 229 of 1961.
TO JOHN ADAMS (also known as
RICHARD. JOHN McGREEVEY) of
address unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
JUNE ADELE ADAMS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 229 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 27th June 1961 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. S. WOODGATE, Soli-
citor, 27 Watt Street, Newcastle.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALFRED HUTCHISON late of
Sussex Inlet in the State of New South
Wales but. his present address is un-
known—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
JORIE RYAN HUTCHISON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3706 of 1960 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House Mint
Building, Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 26th June 1961 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
JOHN W. PERRY & SON, Solicitors, of
44 Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILSON NORMAN SCHOMAKER
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
GWYLDA EDITH SCHOMAKER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 402 of
1961 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 4th day of
July 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
No. 3499 of 1960
TO FLORENCE IRENE THOMAS late
of 27 Cook Road Centennial Park in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that ERIC THOMAS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3499 of 1960
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or. excuse for three (3) years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an Appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 13th June 1961
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from PHILIP GOLDMAN,
Solicitor, of Anzac House, 26 College
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HILTON DARRELL MILLS.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET ANNE MILLS
has Hied a Petition for Divorce No.
2636 of 1960 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the Twenty-sixth
day of June 1961 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO MARY MATILDA COOKE formerly
of 70 Abbot Street Cairns in the State
of Queensland but now of parts unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your husband
LESLIE ALBERT COOKE‘has instituted
proceedings against you- for divorce on
the ground of desertion Unless you enter
an appearance -in the Prothonotary’s
office of the Supreme Court ; in Mel-
bourne on or before the 6th day of June
1961 the case may proceed in your
absence.—MOßGAN, FYFFE & MUL-
KEARNS. Solicitors, 108 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
genuine unredressed griev-
ances, than between it and the
holding of any particular
political opinions. But I
wouldn’t generalise from so
few instances.
R. GOLLAN
Canberra.
Sir,
When Professor R. M. Craw-
ford refers to “the heads of
two small departments and
those loyal to them....” per-
haps he means the Depart-
ments of Social Studies and of
Criminology at the University
of Melbourne.
If so, I can understand the
bias that produced the distorted
views he expresses on the
point, since his wife is head
of one of them and has con-
nections with the other. But I
am aghast to see a trained his-
torian putting his name to
such a statement, unless, in-
deed, he has succumbed to the
very sort of danger he later
refers to and the scholar has
been overcome by the husband.
For the information of Pro-
fessor Crawford and those of
your readers who may be
wondering what he meant, in
recent years repression, “driv-
ing” and chicanery have not
been unknown in the Depart-
ment of Social Studies (his
wife’s department), but Com-
munism has had nothing to do
with it. The Vice-Chancellor,
Sir George Paton, is aware of
the situation and has expressed
his personal horror at it, but
has not intervened on the
ground that “one should riot
interfere with the freedom of
heads of departments.” A
small investigatory committee
was set up with little result —
perhaps for similar reasons.
This committee was not asked
to investigate the activities of
dissident groups attempting to
drive out or repress the free-
dom of departmental heads.
Quite the contrary . . .
B. D. SHIELDS
Turner (A.C.T.).
Sir,
It is encouraging to discover
that there are still academic
staff such as Professor R. M.
Crawford willing to discuss
Communism in Universities.”
While it is true that he repre-
sents a view which is safe and
far from unpopular, I am
sure many will welcome it if
°nly to express their disagree-
ment.
Professor Crawford refers to
his experiences with a Com-
munist - led faction which
to gain control of
tw ° small university depart-
ments. I assume that these
departments are to be found
in the University of Mel-
bourne. Details of the inci-
dent are not supplied, and the
names of the departments re-
main anonymous. Now, this
raises an interesting point, for
if this information cannot be
supplied, then the veracity of
the claim depends purely on
Professor Crawford’s say-so.
Most people seem to think that
if an allegation cannot be
backed up with facts for some
reason or other, then it should
not be published.
Not having the vaguest idea
of what incidents are referred
to, I would, nevertheless, like
to make one or two comments.
Can some worthwhile assur-
ance be given that these
quarrels were, in fact, between
a Communist-led faction and
the established order? A
quick inquiry by Professor
Crawford among his friends
should reveal that university
departments do not have a
monopoly of inter-group ten-
sions and power - seeking
clashes. Let us face the fact
that in any organisation there
is always the likelihood that a
dissentient group may arise
and attempt to gain power in
order to implement their ideas
on how the organisation’s
affairs should be conducted.
It is also sometimes the case
that a person positioned on the
Communist - to - parlor - pink
political scale, joins one of the
belligerent groups, for reasons
only vaguely related to his
political beliefs. As any red-
blooded American will tell you,
currently the fastest way of
dealing with any opposition is
to cry “Communist.” Can I
therefore be assured that other
issues were not at stake in these
two incidents, and that the red
bogey was not raised in order
to enlist support?
K. M. BENN
Flemington (Vic.).
MELBOURNE
UNIVERSITY
COMMUNISTS
Sir,
Your article on the Mel-
bourne University Social
Studies Department attempts
to excuse the University
administration, but does not
succeed. The fact that
the University administration
knows that if it acted a noisy
campaign would be run against
it by a combination of malig-
nant and silly people might be
a reason, but it is not an excuse.
Dr Knopfelmacher and Pro-
fessor Crawford have had the
courage and sense of responsi-
bility to speak out, though they
doubtless know the sort of
penalties they may have to pay
in the present climate of aca-
demic opinion. Why should
the University administration
be excused from a display of
cowardice in the face of
attacks on the rights of indi-
viduals and a threat of real
academic freedom?
JOHN MOONEY
Springwood (N.S.W.)
Sir,
The letter of Professor R. M.
Crawford (B. 12/4/61) and the
revelations published in the
subsequent issue of your paper
tend to prove two very dis-
quieting facts: that in some
Melbourne University depart-
ments Communist teachers are
not only enjoying their right
to propagate their views to
students and to publish them,
using the prestige of their
academic standing in so doing,
but are also engaged in a con-
spiracy to control their depart-
ments, push their friends into
positions and remove those
who get in their way. The
other no less disquieting reve-
lation seems to be that by being
Communists they enjoy a
special immunity in carrying
out these anti-academic opera-
tions, because the University
administration is frightened to
protect genuine academics
under attack lest it appear
illiberal, dictatorial, reactionary
and so forth.
If Professor Crawford’s
allegations and the facts pub-
lished subsequently are true,
then a most sinister attack on
academic freedom in general
and the rights of particular
persons has been unearthed.
One hopes that the Federal
Council of Staff Associations
will become at least as vocal
in its protests against the Com-
munist perpetrators of this
attack as they were in the other
cases where non-Communists
were implicated. One should
also hope that the Federal
Council will make it quite clear
that the Communist affiliations
or leanings of the accused
should not protect them from
whatever disciplinary action
might have to be taken if the
University decides there are
grounds for taking such action.
The bona tides of the Federal
Council is clearly at issue.
ALYN N. FOSTER
Wentworth Falls ( N.S.W.).
Sir,
Professor Crawford’s letter
and your article about Com-
munists at Melbourne Uni-
versity raise a great number of
very serious issues. The


FOR THE CONTROL OF
LUNGWORM IN CATTLE
'HELMOX'
A DEPENDABLE, EFFECTIVE,
EASY REMEDY
Extensive laboratory research has
resulted in the development of
‘Helmox,’ the safe treatment for
lungworm. ‘Helmox’ can be
given in the food or as a drench
—it mixes easily with water and
can be administered by any good
drenching gun. ‘Helmox’ con-
tains sufficient proportion of
phenothiazine to kill larvae
passing through the animal,
therefore reducing pasture con-
tamination. Your local ICI
representative can give you
further information about the
easily administered, effective
‘Helmox’ treatment for lungworm
in cattle.
In cases where veterinary diagnosis is available,
‘Dictycide’ may be given by injection.
‘Dictycide’ is stocked by veterinary surgeons
and chemists only.
Biological Department-IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
69 Macquarie Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
nSil
following questions demand
answers:
(1) Are there proper selec-
tion committees for all teach-
ing and research positions, and
how are they chosen?
(2) What is the difference
between selection committees
choosing professors and those
choosing other staff?
(3) On what principle are
selection committees for posts
other than professorial ones
set up, what are their guiding
principles and are they not
mere extensions of the power
of the Head of the Depart-
ment?
(4) Can Heads of Depart-
ment who have used their
power on selection committees
for purposes of political per-
secution or preference be dis-
missed from their posts?
(5) To whom are decisions
made by selection committees
referred to for ratification and
appeal, and is there an effec-
tive check on profesors who
might abuse their administra-
tive power for political pur-
poses?
There are also these ques-
tions :
From what department or
departments did B recruit his
followers? Were they all
recruited from the University
of Melbourne, and, if so, did
they come from several depart-
ments, or were they all students
in B’s former department?
How does one ensure that in a
university such as Melbourne,
where Communists and fellow-
travellers have played an
important part for such a long
time, they will not continue to
use unscrupulous methods to
perpetuate their influence of
like-minded fellow-travelling
mediocrities and incompetents?
W. S. NOWAK
Newborongh (Vic.)
THE CHURCHWARD
PAMPHLET
Sir,
Mr Churchward’s letter (B.
12/4/61) bears out Professor
Crawford’s contention that
“the pompous hypocrisies be-
loved by factions are believed
by some of their members.”
It is a matter of complete
irrelevance how Mr Church-
ward regards his pamphlet
“The Myth of Soviet Imperial-
ism.’’ The fact is that it was
presented to the public not as a
party-political tract but as the
work of a lecturer in political
science in the University of
Melbourne ; that it was pro-
vided with an academic
apparatus, albeit a one-sided
one, and that it did not con-
tain a single reference to the
Soviet-Nazi Pact or to the
Berlin blockade.
Mr Churchward’s retraction
of his “uncritical acceptance of
the official reports of the Rajk
and Kostov trials” only serves
to drive home the point that
he will accept only whatever
is proclaimed as truth by the
current leaders of the U.S.S.R.
—both Rajk and Kostov hav-
ing been rehabilitated by
Khrushchev. I cannot believe
that Mr Churchward is
genuinely puzzled by my point
that objectivity is, according
to Communist teaching, a class
prejudice.
Mr Churchward was, as he
tells us himself, appointed in
December, 1944. The head of
the Political Science Depart-
ment was then Mr 1. F. G.
Milner, a Communist who later
defected from the Australian
Department of External
Affairs, via U.N., to Czecho-
slovakia. The present profes-
sor has been in charge of the
department since the establish-
ment of the Chair in Political
Science in 1949. He should
have had time to learn, if he
did not understand it before,
that it is as dangerous to let a
Communist teach subjects re-
lating to the U.JS.S.R.
Communism as it would be to
let a Nazi lecture on the “Third
Reich.”
I am not questioning Mr
Churchward’s qualifications in
political science. But the mini-
mum of sophistication or even
commohsense should have
prompted a professor of politi-
cal science to keep a Com-
munist away from courses
where his subjective goodwill
—which I do not doubt—is
overshadowed by beliefs based
on considerations and orders
formulated in Moscow— 01
nowadays, perhaps, in Peking'
A. W. STARGARDT
Camberwell {Vic.).


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Beef
Cattle
Supplement
The Value of Beef Carcass Competitions
By J. L. SHUTE, O.B.E.,
Chairman and Commonwealth Government Representative, Australian Meat Board
Beef - carcass competitions
are aimed at showing the
Australian beef-producer the
type of carcass most suitable
for our export trade, and as
such, reflect the changes in
preference compared with
earlier years.
At the conclusion of War II
the Australian Meat Board
gave much consideration to
the anticipated postwar
demands for meat. Due to
controls in the U.K., which
continued until 1953, it was
not easy to determine the class
of meat which would be
sought when the butchers and
their customers had freedom
of choice.
It was fairly obvious, how-
ever, that —in the case of beef
-postwar tastes would differ
materially from those that pre-
vailed before 1939.
Of necessity, during the war
years, quantity became more
important than quality, and
whilst efforts were made to
maintain reasonably normal
practices, accepted standards
were adversely affected.
In the U.K., for instance,
milk supplies became of para-
mount importance early in the
war, and all available cattle
were virtually utilised for the
Production of milk, their meat
qualities being only of second-
ly importance. As the war
Progressed, except for the weli-
ostablished beef studs, gener-
ally speaking the cattle of the
were used for milk
Production.
This remarkable change-
®Ver was guided by John (now
S>r John) Hammond, who is
so well and worthily known to
many Australians.
At the conclusion of hostili-
les > John Hammond and his
Associates set out to rebuild a
bee f industry—based largely
°n dairy cattle.
So effective have been their
e aorts that whereas in 1939 the
U.K. provided approximately
49 per cent, of her beef require-
ments, in 1960 home produc-
tion of beef amounted to 66
per cent. During the expan-
sion of beef production, milk
requirements were maintained
in full. The remarkable
achievements referred to were
brought about by mating beef-
bulls with selected dairy-cows,
whose progeny were not
required for replacement pur-
poses within the dairy-herd.
Artificial insemination played
a prominent part in this
remarkable transformation.
The class of cattle being
used today, and the type of
meat being produced in both
instances, however, differ
materially from what was
regarded as being ideal before
1939.
With this background in
mind, might we examine the
early steps taken by the Aus-
tralian Meat Board in 1947 to
sponsor beef-carcass competi-
tions, designed to assist pro-
ducers to determine the type
of cattle which should be bred
in order to provide a carcass
suitable for our export markets
for beef, which were then in
the United Kingdom?
Most Show societies, includ-
ing the “Royals,” had been in
recess during War 11, and at
this time were concentrating
on rebuilding their organisa-
tions and, in the main, beef-
carcass competitions were con-
fined to local trade classes.
The Board decided that ,the
most effective and expeditious
means of illustrating the class
of beef preferred on the U.K.
market would be to sponsor
competitions based on dual
judging—the cattle being first
judged alive on the hoof, then
slaughtered, and the resultant
beef appraised on the hook.
The points scored were then
aggregated to determine the
results. Competitors were
encouraged to follow their
cattle through both judging
stages, and participate in
demonstrations arranged at the
conclusion of the judging.
The type of competition
referred to was not universally
popular in the initial stages.
Much organisation was neces-
sary as the timing of judging
on the hoof, selling the cattle,
slaughtering and judging on
the hook, followed by a dis-
play of the beef and addresses
by judges occupied, in many
instances, a period of five days.
The Board, however, per-
sisted with its determined
policy, and the first competi-
tion was conducted by the
Queensland Royal National
Agricultural and Industrial
Association in 1948.
Today all the mainland
“Royals,” with the exception
of Adelaide, are conducting
export-beef dual judging com-
petitions. In the case of the
Adelaide Royal, the month of
September, when the Show is
held, is not suitable for a com-
mercial cattle show, so the
South Australian Department
of Agriculture and the Austra-
lian Meat Board conduct a
beef-carcass competition in
January of each year.
In addition, eight similar
competitions are being con-
ducted, in association with
export meatworks, in the
States of Queensland, N.S.W.
and Victoria.
Australian Meat Board com-
petitions embrace pens of three
steers, it being considered this
is the minimum number neces-
sary to test the ability of com-
petitors to select animals which
collectively will score well on
both the hoof and the hook.
Uniformity and evenness of
these pens of cattle are import-
ant. factors taken into con-
sideration by commercial
buyers.
J. L. SHUTE


He
k PROOf
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
wpmm
M
mm
■
X*.’.
mm
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg'd Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSASHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
Since 1946, beef - carcass
competitions, in addition to
those conducted by the Aus-
tralian Meat Board, have
multiplied throughout the
Commonwealth. Most of these
competitions, however, are con-
fined to separate on-the-hoof
and on - the - hook judging.
These competitions, while not
having the same educational
value as those based on dual
judging, are serving a very
useful purpose. It must be
realised, too, that special facili-
ties are necessary to conduct
dual judging and these are
often limited, even at export
establishments.
In some States, competitions
are being conducted for trucks
of steers, usually nine in
number. These competitions
are exacting and really test the
selective capacity of exhibitors.
The conditions of the Aus-
tralian Meat Board competi-
tions have been varied from
time to time in order to meet
changing conditions. For
instance, the age limit has been
progressively reduced, as has
the dressed carcass weight,
whilst points for finish have
been adjusted to conform with
the trade’s desire for a leaner
carcass.
Industrial organisations have
been consulted from time to
time before making such
adjustments.
A pleasing feature of recent
developments is that the type
of animal bred to produce beef
for our best export markets
approximates the animal neces-
sary to produce meat suitable
for home consumption. Vary-
ing degrees of maturity and
finish are necessary, but not
different types of animals!
Beef - carcass competitions
generally have assisted the
industry during a provocative
and, at times, difficult transi-
tion period, which is perhaps
still with us. The industry is,
however, better equipped today
than ever before to adapt itself
to changing conditions.
Judging of Australian Meat
Board competitions has also
moved with the times. Initially
cattle were judged on the hoof
and on the hook entirely by
visual means in accordance
with predetermined scales of
points. With the advent of
the McMeekan carcass-
appraisal method, the Board,
after investigation, agreed that
this system of judging car-
casses could be used if desired.
Recently the Board also
approved of the Yeates carcass-
appraisal method. So today all
three methods are being used.
From experience gained, it is
hoped ultimately to evolve a
standard of judging which will
be adopted by those organisa-
tions conducting all major
beef - carcass competitions
throughout Australia.
Beef - carcass competitions
are attracting heavy entries.
In some cases it has not been
possible to display all the beef
—usually one side is exhibited
in these circumstances. The
demonstrations associated with
the competitions have created
great interest throughout the
Commonwealth, these func-
tions being attended by repre-
sentative cross-sections of the
industry—as well as exhibitors.
Beef-cattle schools and field-
days in all States are regular
features associated with an
industry which is developing in
keeping with the demand for
increased production and
export. There is no doubt that
beef-carcass competitions have
assisted materially in stimulat-
ing greater interest in the beef-
cattle industry. Sir John
Flammond’s second visit to
Australia some three years ago
was timely, and has been
another contributing factor to
the progress of the beef
industry.
The success of beef-carcass
competitions has been very
largely due to the full measure
of co-operation that has been
evident among industry
organisations, which have had
the strongest support from
Agricultural Societies, State
Departments of Agriculture,
Universities and the Veterinary
Branch of the Department of
Primary Industry.
The future of beef-carcass
competitions is assured while
such teamwork persists
Indeed, the unqualified success
of beef-carcass competitions
might, with advantage, be
taken as an example of what
perhaps could be done by co-
ordinated effort in the direction
of solving some of the other
problems with which the beef
industry is confronted.
Sleek-coated Cattle for Tropics
Something close to a revolu-
tion in cattle-raising in our
north should follow discoveries
made by the Division of Ani-
mal Genetics, C.5.1.R.0., at
Belmont, near Rockhampton
(Q.), where for three years, tests
have been carried out on about
1600 beasts.
These have revealed a direct
relationship between the coat of
the beast and its rate of growth,
as well as the percentage of
calves, in a tropical or sub-
tropical region. Those with the
sleekest coats —Zebus and some
of their crosses —showed fastest
growth rate and highest per-
centage of calves. The lowest
growth and the lowest per-
centage of calves were found
in breeds with heavy, woolly
types of coats.
Weaners of the Zebu-British
breed cross, having short hair
lying close to the skin, made an
average weight gain of 2001 b a
head more than those British
breeds which have shaggy and
more or less erect coats.
The nature of the coat also
has a marked influence on re-
production. Fifty woolly-coated
cows produced 24 calves but
the same number of sleek-
coated cows produced 38 calves.
These discovereies open up
great possibilities for northern
cattle-breeders. Given a good
line of suitable beasts as a start
it is not necessary to keep
elaborate records of breeding
and weight gains in order to
select the cows which should be
kept and cull those which
should be sent to market. The
coat “score” alone is sufficient
guide.
Coat judging should be done
in midsummer and the eye
alone is not sufficient as a
guide. Given two cows which
look alike, the one whose coat
feels the sleekest when rubbed
with the hand is the better of
the two.
It must not be thought that
the nature of the coat of hair
alone produces such surprising
results. There is now strong
evidence that the actual factor
is the efficiency of the sweat
glands, with the type of coat
serving as a guide.
A great deal of research has
now been carried out on the
functioning of animal sweat
glands, chiefly in the U.S.A.
Some of the basic work was
done in Australia by a young
American woman, Dr Frances
Benedict, who came here on a
Fulbright grant to study the
skins of our marsupials, whose
sweat glands are more primitive
than those of any other ani-
mals.
H. A. LINSAY


A LOVELY GIFT FOR MOTHER’S DAY
THE RIAM GROOM HOME MASSAGE UNIT
BATTERY POWERED
Made in Switzerland and fully guaranteed. Complete
with Plastic Massage Brush for the hair. A few
minutes’ daily use definitely removes dandruff and
revitalises the hair. Rubber Massage Sponge for the
face. Wonderful for eliminating facial blemishes and
toning up the skin. Rubber Massage Brush for the
body. Regular body massage removes surplus fatty
tissue and tones up the muscles.
Give a Riant Groom for Mother’s Day
PRICE ONLY
99/6
Complete with
Batteries
POST FREE
('rTOrT— P O S T N o w
<iUAJLIT V A I*PE l ANCES,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
4>e Uestre Place, Sydney.
Please post it once ....... 11l AM
GROOM. Clieque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ :
NAME
ADDRESS
/‘lease print ‘name and address in Meek'letters.
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
The famous Riam Groom
comes complete with self
contained batteries safe,
simple “on” “off” switch.
Made in Switzerland, home
of precision instruments,
fully guaranteed against
faulty workmanship.
Australia's Top Half
By A. S. BINGLE
This age-old country with
its monsoonal influences,
bounded on the east by the
Pacific Ocean, on the north by
the Coral, Arafura and Timor
Seas, and on the west by the
Indian Ocean, forms more than
half the Continent of Aus-
tralia. Of this great area less
than half the land is occupied.
The remainder is of little
economic value except perhaps
in the field of mining. This
unoccupied area is classified by
the prospector as being as yet
unscratched.
The most important industry
is the pastoral industry. The
land is mostly used for grazing,
principally cattle, yet in the
western part of Queensland
lies some of the richest sheep
country of Australia. The
number of beef cattle within
that vast area has been said
to be approximately half the
cattle population of Australia.
When reviewing the pastoral
areas it is interesting to note
that the big cattle stations of
Australia are all situated in
this northern portion. Their
position generally can be
classified as remote, particu-
larly when considering means
of transport —and its cost —
which handles their produc-
tion. We look now to the
facilities and markets avail-
able to handle this production.
There are meatworks estab-
lish ed at Rockhampton,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns and
Wyndham. Rail communica-
tion from Western Queensland
leads to these marketable
points in Queensland. Ship-
ping facilities to export markets
are of course available from
these points. Wyndham, how-
ever, does not enjoy any
rail communication. Gener-
ally speaking, the transporta-
tion of all stock, until very
recent years, whether fats or
stores, both to railheads and
trucking stations, as well as
shipboard at western ports, has
been dependent upon adequate
provisions being provided on
stock-routes. It is really a
primitive method of moving
stock and, of course, seasonal
conditions can seriously inter-
fere with their free movement.
The long treks by droving
mobs of cattle are fast
disappearing, so in the last two
°r three years, wherever road
construction will allow, diesel
road-trains have come into
economic use and many thou-
sands of both fat- and store-
attle have been moved. The
vantages can be expressed
y saying that all classes and
l> r ades of cattle can be landed
at selected destination in
attractive condition, not for-
getting that under drought
conditions, when stock-roads
cannot be traversed, many
thousands of cattle have been
saved by using this fast method
of transport.
But in order to develop this
class of transport more bal-
lasted roads need to be con-
structed in tapping areas where
there are concentrations of
cattle. Drovers are fast disap-
pearing so cattle-owners look
for Government assistance to
provide such roads and help
them solve their transport
problems.
Cattle-owners in the North
have done much to improve
the quality of their herds by
transporting bulls of good
blood by road-trains. The
animal husbandry associated
with such movements has paid
good dividends as compared to
what was the practice of years
ago to drove in stages, so often
losing several seasons in the
usefulness of the bull’s life.
Station management shows
marked improvement and the
general interest shown by
owners and managers in
efficiently handling marketing
problems shows that there has
been very progressive develop-
ment within the pastoral
business.
There has been marked
development in the provision
of more water-points for many
of the difficulties in boring
operations have been overcome
by the introduction of up-to-
date boring-rigs whose drilling
is fast and effective.
Taking into account the
wide progressive policy in pro-
viding constructional improve-
ments of all classes on the
cattle properties in this north-
ern half of the continent, the
potential of stepping-up the
numbers in our breeding herds
appears more assured.
Shipping facilities operate on
the west coast taking fat-cattle
to Robbs Jetty (Perth market);
also in recent cattle seasons
modern cattle-freighter ships
of light draft have been work-
ing northern Australian ports
handing over their cattle
freight to meatworks for killing
at Cairns and Townsville.
It has been authoritatively
said that in Queensland coastal
areas where rainfall is favor-
able development to increase
the numbers of cattle that can
be fattened is possible.
If such a policy is followed
then the inland areas must
step-up and breed more cattle.
This brings into consideration
the use that can be made of
what has been considered for
many years marginal country.
This particular class of coun-
try in selected areas should
have the attention of our
Government, so that terms of
attractive tenure may en-
courage private enterprise to
put such areas on productive
levels.
The Commonwealth Scien-
tific and Industrial Research
Organisation has already
shown what can be achieved
with experimental work in
pasture improvement and
animal husbandry through
their research - stations at
Katherine and Ord Rivers. In
association with State Agricul-
tural Departments and the
Australian Meat Board, the
C.S.LR.O. is now organising
demonstrations and field days
suggesting possible solutions to
many existing problems asso-
ciated with the industry and so
furthering the potential of pro-
ducing more and more beef.
Already the importance of
access by good roads has been
stressed ; it is essential to any
effort to step-up the production
of the North. A further essen-
tial for all types of develop-
ment is an adequate labor
force. Encouragement must be
given to entice more people to
settle in the North. The urge
is no longer solely governed
by a spirit of adventure or a
wish to be a pioneer. Motor
cars and wireless communica-
tion, coupled with medical
attention and the School of the
Air, provide services mainly
augmented under the Royal
Flying Doctor scheme to give
the women of the outback a
mantle of safety to deal with
the many problems that crop
up for those that live in the
outback.
Many more people are
needed to explore and develop
the potential of the cattle and
beef industry in this huge
northern area, for the produc-
tion can be effectively handled
through the meatworks so
situated that they can con-
veniently handle big numbers
for export or internal con-
sumption and so improve our
national economy.


PORT LINE
Regular service of sneedy, Modern Cargo Vessels to United Kingdom
and Continent for carriage of livestock, wool,
General and Refrigerated Cargo
• Accommodation for a limited number of Saloon passengers.
m
mm
m
For further particulars apply to . . .
PORT LINE LTD.,
(Inc. in England)
50 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY 27 5301
or GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle and Hobart.
A. G. WEBSTER & WOOEG ROWERS LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD.,
Townsville and Rockhampton.
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO., Cairns.
Beef Cattle in Central Queensland
By R. S. WILSON
Calliope Station, Gladstone (Q.)
The area known as Central
Coastal Queensland, which
comprises the lands within a
radius of 200 miles of Rock-
hampton, has for several
decades been the most heavily
populated beef-cattle area in
Australia. At present the
western districts of Victoria
have usurped this position, but
not with their own produced
ca ttle.
This area, which comprises
the country from Bundaberg in
the south to Mackay in the
north and inland to the
Clermont - Springsure areas,
consists of a coastal rainfall
area of 30in.-40in., the good
lands of the Dawson and Fitz-
roy River basins of 25in.-35in.
rainfall, and the Central High-
lands with a slightly lower
average rainfall. Between the
coast and the Highlands lies
the brigalow belt, until recently
undeveloped.
Hereford cattle dominate the
area with Shorthorns on the
inside, and these are respon-
sible for the high percentage
of top-grade fat-stock which
are produced and fattened in
this comparatively small area
of Queensland
Taking he last sta.is.ics as
a guide, the beef-cattle popu-
lation of Australia is approxi-
mately 12-million head, of
which half this number are in
Queensland. Of Queensland’s
6,000,000 head, 25 per cent, (or
lj million) are in this small
area of Central Coastal
Queensland. The figures have
remained static for some years
in this particular area. As the
country has been developed,
the farming and dairying indus-
tries crept into the. better lands
and thus pushed the beef-herds
further back all the time. Also
the land laws of the State
virtually prohibit the mtroduc-
tion of outside capital for
development purposes, owing
to lack of security of tenure
and antiquated methods of
land valuation for rental,
which imperceptibly penalise
a tenant who has improved his
land.
it is interesting to note at
this stage that 93 per cent, to
95 per cent, of the land in
Queensland is owned by the
State, and the small balance
which is freehold is so heavily
taxed in the form of land tax
that no one is anxious to con-
vert from leasehold to free-
hold tenure, even if it were
possible to do so in larger than
token areas. No one, but those
already established or involved
in the industry (who virtually
can’t get out), can afford to risk
an unsa.isfa,
to , r y bas !* o£ > e " and lack
o£ secu " t y at the termination
of “V lease '
However over the last
decade there has been tremen-
dous development in these
areas. This has been the only
period of reasonable prosperity
in the beef-cattle industry
(apart from the two world
wars and their immediate
aftermaths when development
was not possible). In the
brigalow areas scrub has been
pulled and cleared at a rate
previously undreamed of, and
planting of improved grasses
and subsequent building of
water supplies have increased
the potential tremendously.
On the lower coastal fringe
with its need for improved
pasture, the efforts of the
C.5.1.R.0. to develop a suit-
able legume and frost-resistant
grasses will definitely increase
the carrying capacity in the
near future.
In the call by the Federal
Government for increased
development of export indus-
tries as far as beef cattle are
concerned, Central Queensland
has the greatest potential for
quick and permanent expan-
sion. This area has railways,
comparatively reasonable
roads, and sufficient small
towns ; it is close to the sea-
board with its adequate
harbors, and to existing export-
killing facilities. The rainfall,
whilst unreliable —as for most
of Australia —is sufficient for
the necessary development and
general expansion of popula-
tion which would go hand-in-
hand with increased produc-
tion.
Production can only be in-
creased at considerable capital
expenditure and will come
provided the producers have
reasonable assurance that there
will be a market for their pro-
duct. Today this previously
export- earning area, like
others, has only one market —
the domestic market within
Australia. At time of writing
there is not an export-killing
facility operating between Bris-
bane and Cairns, and most
have been shut down since
September. The operators
claim that the market for
export beef is too low to war-
rant the operation of their
works. It is high time that
other than privately owned
and monopolistically controlled
killing facilities were available
to assist the industry to
increase production.
Costs within the industry are
rising rapidly, based, generally
speaking, on the internal Aus-
tralian economy, which has no
relation to the export markets
which Central Queensland has
to sell on during the periods
of peak production. If we
are not careful, these rising
costs will price beef off the
table of the average Austra-
lian, who, after all, is our best
consumer. The introduction of
controlled working hours, as
in Queensland, is a fantastic
innovation for any livestock
industry to bear, and has its
effect in destroying the p re .
viously extremely good
employer - employee relation-
ship, and causing a general
rise in production costs, which
is not in the best interests of
anyone attached to the beef
industry.
For some obscure reason
Australia is at a disadvantage
compared with its competitors
on freight-rates, and as 80 per
cent, of export beef comes from
Queensland, this alone has an
adverse effect on increased
production. The failure of
chilled beef to get away in any
quantity must be attributed
largely to the position created
by freight-rates from Australia
as compared with other
countries.
So far I have made no refer-
ence to probably the greatest
scourge to the beef-cattle
industry in the coastal areas
of Queensland, the Northern
Territory and Western Aus-
talia. That is the cattle-tick,
with its resultant problems.
The Bureau of Agricultural
Economics, on work done four
years ago, reported that the
cattle-tick was costing the
industry (beef and dairying)
£10,000,000 a year. If costs
were brought up to date that
figure today would be closer
to £15,000,000 —and I believe
that to be a very conservative
figure. The actual tick itself is
problem enough with its deter-
mination to overcome all
efforts to kill it out with new
insecticides, and the resultant
loss of production caused by
its bloodsucking habits. The
ravages caused by parasitic
diseases the tick - fevers-
transmitted by the tick make
the problem more involved
and the control more difficult.
Considerable work is being
carried out by the C.S.I.R-0.
and some individuals on the
so-called exotic breeds, to find
what (if any) advantage they
have in this region. 1 am ot
the opinion that, while this
work is valuable in assessing
various factors, we will find
that selection within the estab-
lished breeds will in the long
run do more to improve the
reputation of our beef in the
countries which purchase our
product.
Queensland given the
opportunit y —has a bright
future, particularly for in-
creased beef production.
Central Queensland is an area
which has the potential to g e
off to a flying start, given co-
operation by the powers
that be.


THE
MANY
SKILLS
IN THE
SCIENCE
OF
Discover
wool's quiet
elegance
Through many years of patient study,
work and experiment, the stock breeder
is ever inching closer to his ultimate
goal—perfection. He has developed
many skills which he applies to his
science with benefit to the industry and
the nation.
One special skill which he readily
recognises is that which must be applied
when selling or selecting stud animals.
That is why so many breeders rely on
the Stud Stock department of A.M.L.&F.
when buying or selling stud stock.
AMLF
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.
(INC. IN ENGLAND 1863)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
TELEGRAMS: “AMLANDFCOY"
Branches and Representatives throughout New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland
| AM. 149.94


POLL
SHORTHORNS
M.rwz J
Site
a
m
:
r
m
■ r
*%
'
-ate.
WHEN YOU BREED BEEF CATTLE YOU NEED
Adaptability - Size - Ruggedness - Quality
POLL BEEF SHORTHORNS FOR AUSTRALASIA
Full particulars: F. H. BERRYMAN, Secretary, Poll Shorthorn Society of Australasia, Box 4317, G.P.0., Sydney
The American Market
By A. S. JEFFERY
General Manager, Northern Co-operative Meat Co. Ltd
T am appreciative of the oppor-
tunity given to me by The
Bulletin to meet its readers
and give to those especially
concerned in the meat industry
some of my observations on the
position of the meat industry in
North America.
During the six months from
July to December last year,
whilst acting as Special Repre-
sentative for the Australian
Meat Board in the U.S. and
Canada, I was able to observe,
at close hand, particularly in
the U.S., all aspects of their
meat industry right from the
feed-lots to the consumer. I
will restrict my remarks here to
the more important local aspect
of Australian meat exports to
the U.S.A. and the effect these
and other exporting countries
have on their own meat indus-
try.
Before War II manufac-
tured goods were not important
in the general business of the
meat industry in the United
States of America. Conse-
quently, domestic supplies of
low-grade beef were sufficient
to meet their needs. However,
since War 11, the demand for
sausage products and for lower-
grade beef to be used in the
manufacture of these products
has increased substantially.
As a result of the cyclical
nature of beef-cattle produc-
tion in the U.S., domestic sup-
plies of low-grade beef at times
falls far short of the expanded
market for this type of meat
and supplies have been sought
from other countries.
In the expanding phase of
the cattle cycle, the American
cattlemen, in order to take
advantage of favorable prices,
hold back cows that would
normally be culled. They pur
chase additional breeding ani-
mals and they feed their cattle
to greater weight and finish.
This happened from 1956
through to 1959 and resulted
in higher prices for slaughtered
cattle and calves.
Until the 15-year Meat Agree-
ment with the U.K. was relaxed
in 1958, in respect to third-
grade meats, Australia was not
able to participate in any
volume in the U.S. market for
manufacturing beef. In 1959,
the U.S. was looking for large
supplies of manufacturing beef
and Australia was able to meet
this demand with the many
cattle of this type which we
had available for slaughter,
That was an extraordinary
year and would, in ordinary
circumstances, not repeat it-
self.
The year 1960 saw a settling
down of the market with
America, as first of all, Austra-
lia did not have the surplus
quantity of cattle on hand for
slaughter that existed in 1959
and, also, the U.S. was not
looking for the same volume of
manufacturing meat that they
were ready to purchase in 1959.
In all, approximately 60,000
tons of beef and mutton were
exported to the U.S. by Aus-
tralia during 1960 and this
quantity could be taken as the
firmer pattern for the future of
the market rather than any
reference to the activities of
1959.
The future of this market is
the all-important factor and I
would, in general terms, ex-
press the opinion that, properly
handled, we should be able to
maintain the market we have
developed in the U S. for manu-
factoring meat The volume of
the market will depend on the
state of the U.S. beef-cycle and
the nature of their seasons and
our ability to meet the demands
of U.S. processors in compet-
ing with other countries ex-
porting to the U.S.
The U.S. is a great country
for productivity and, even
though they expect their popy.
lation to increase from the
present estimate of 180-million
to 196-million in 1965 and 214.
million in 1970, they are confi.
dent that the American stock
producer will match this in.
crease with increased produc-
tion by improved procedures
and greater overall agricultural
efficiency. Much of this pro-
duction increase will be partial-
iarly on the beef side in the
high-quality bracket. The U.S,
is the only country in the
world that has extensive cattle-
feeding operations and, as a
result, much of their produc-
tion is of top quality so that,
with the continuation of the
present demand for sausage
products, this proposed in-
creased production will not fill
the gap between the demand
and the domestic supply of
manufacturing meat,
Other countries which export
to the jj s A are New Zealand,
Canadas Mexico, Ireland, Costa
Rica and Argentina. Argentina
has been restricted in its ex-
b the embargo placed
/ , u., nc
° n that country by the US.
Department of gricu ure in
1959, due to evidence foun
which indicated that toot-and-
mouth virus, might be carried in
beef that was lightly salted.
Since then, only canned and


MO A \
DEVON STUD
YOUNG HERD BULLS—TOP QUALITY-READY NOW
PHONES:
WILLOW TREE 88 U
SYDNEY —27-4301
ENQUIRIES:
WILLOW TREE, N.S.W.
26 JAMISON ST., SYDNEY.
other fully cured beef has been
imported from Argentina.
1 mentioned before the need
for the Australian exporter to
m eet the demand of the Ameri-
can processor. His require-
ments are not excessive, he is
prepared to pay a price for our
product and sets down a speci-
fication. As the processors in
the U.S, work on production-
line techniques which allow for
only slight variation in stand-
ards and quality, he insists on
supplies which adhere strictly
to specification. In addition to
what is in the package, the
American has a keen eye for
presentation and it is all-
important that the carton in
which our product is trans-
ported should be neatly pre-
pared, clearly branded and
firmly bound. All this allows
for clear identification and
ease of handling and puts our
product in good light with all
the sections of the industry
concerned in its import and
processing. Anything that de-
tracts from this quality or ease
of handling of our product
reacts against us, particularly
when local supplies are good
or volume offering from other
countries is extensive. It is a
pity that some exporters do
not grasp the importance of
this need to adhere to the speci-
fication laid down by the
American buyer and also the
importance of presentation of
pack.
We are fortunate in having
an organisation like the Aus-
tralian Meat Board in Austra-
lia to watch over the develop-
ment of these new markets.
The Australian Meat Board
has played an important
role in establishing standards
and smoothing the way for a
build-up of our trade with
America. Everyone concerned
in the meat industry should
recognise this fact and pay par-
ticular attention to the Austra-
lian Meat Board’s requests in
respect to all exports, irrespec-
tive of destination, for there is
always a market around the
corner waiting to be developed.
Another factor which reacts
against the Australian trade, or
for that matter all countries
importing into America, is
irregularity in volume supplied
from one month to another.
Large quantities of meat arriv-
ing on the market at one time
was detrimental to the price
offering and, in particular, did
this occur if large quantities
arrived in the period from
August to December when the
American cattleman is culling
his herds. The American pro-
ducers are a very strong organi-
sation and if there was any fear
on their part that imports were
having an effect of a decline in
prices they were very quick to
react against this decline. It
was, therefore, to Australia’s
benefit to regulate the supply
and volume of meat going for-
ward to the American market
each month. However, there is
the fact that America has
always had a considerable
quantity of by-products from
its meat industry in excess
requirements of the local
demand. This was particularly
so in regard to lard, tallow,
hides, skins and variety meats
and it is necessary for them to
seek markets overseas to sell
their surplus. They are aware
that any effort on their part to
place tariff or import restric-
tions on meat coming into the
country would actually affect
their ability and lessen the
scope for the sale of their
surplus by-products from their
meat industry.
The price of beef in America
is an all-important guide in
regard to its market. If there
is a decline in price occurring
when there is a big number of
cattle in existence, then there
is a tendency on the part of the
cattleman to reduce his herds :
this naturally provides surplus
quantities of meat and a fall
in price occurs until livestock
numbers are reduced to a point
where there must again be a
build-up. Past history indi-
cates that, as long as prices are
high, imports also are high.
A few words in regard to the
15-year Meat Agreement with
the U.K. which is to cease on
September 30, 1961. I do not
think that there will be any
market for our better-quality
cattle in America, except in
limited quantities. As 1 men-
tioned earlier, America is the
only country in the world that
has extensive cattle - feeding
operations and, as a result,
much of its production is of
the higher quality. In fact,
America’s top quality would be
two or three grades higher than
ours and, as a large volume of
the production is in this
bracket, I confirm that I do not
consider there would be any
market of any volume for our
grade meats.
I have every confidence in
the meat industry in Australia,
It is most important to us that
we have America on our side
because of their value to us, in
particular for manufacturing
meats and with certain quanti-
ties of the better class of meat
in cuts. I am of the opinion
that we can safely say that
America would be looking to
Australia to help them out
when the need arises and, at
the same time, have a steady
market throughout. One of
the important things is for us
to foster our local market and
give to the Australian consum-
ing public the type of meat that
will make them develop meat-
eating habits. This should be
first and foremost. Secondly,
there are other countries of
the world who are beginning to
become meat-eaters, but they
are prevented from buying any
volume by the price. Can we
have a general examination of
the cost-structure, to determine
whether our cost of production
is too high? I am of the
opinion that, with an all-out
effort by the whole of the in-
dustry, there could be an adjust-
ment of price which would
mean a greater output, which
would, in turn, bring greater
security to the whole of the
industry. To me, it appeals
at w ,f„ ave to ° rn } °j a
trough in our beef produc-
tion We have huge quantities
friable, »y fro ™ February
to J%, anc * en t^iere 1S at
ra P l( t f a h away,
I was most impressed with
the American idea of feed-lots
which gave them more of an
even put-through throughout
the year. In this direction, Ido
not fail to realise that there
are 187-million people in North
America and only 10-million
people in Australia. Can we
make a start?
The Long Walk
By OLAF RUHEN
A couple of years ago I
accompanied a drove of
cattle down the spine of York
Peninsula, primarily because I
wanted to recapture some part
of what remains of the pioneer-
ing atmosphere of the North.
Nothing much has changed
there, over a considerable area
of country ; the amenities to
which station households have
become accustomed —two-way
radio and visiting aircraft —are
seldom at the service of drovers
who, two or three months on
the road between the cattle
station and the market, face a
good many of the same prob-
lems as harassed the early
pioneers. They establish a
relationship with the country
which civilisation, inasmuch as
it consists of improved com-
munications, is rapidly losing
us, and they are masters of
survival tactics in emergencies
unlikely to be encountered by
the average twentieth-century
man.
I had made the appointment
nearly a year before with
Roddy Heinemann, owner of
a two- to three-hundred square-
mile station, Bramwell, which
is just about the most northerly
in Australia. Heinemann was


If I%#'"®.
■I
BALTIC SIMPLEX
HAMMER MILLS
than anii other make f
BALTIC SIMPLEX
MACHINERY COMPANY LIMITED
191 Parramatta Road, Auburn. YX 3281 -2-3
481 Townsend Street, Albury
There's no mystery about the
universal popularity of the Baltic
Simplex Mill. It’s the biggest seller
because it's the most recommended.
And farmer recommends it to
farmer because, in actual held use,
it fulfils every claim made. The
bigger capacity, faster grinding
and dependable trouble-free
performance make it by far
the best value for
your money.
Chances are
your neighbour
has a Baltic
Simplex Mill. Ask
him—or arrange with
your Baltic dealer
to demonstrate
one on your
property without
obligation.
There’s a model
for every farm!
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORY:
210-220 Hall Street
Spotswood, Victoria
QUEENSLAND:
115-117 Merivale Street
South Brisbane
TEST A BALTIC SIMPLEX HAMMER
MILL ON YOUR FARM; SEND
COUPON NOW!
Baltic Simplex Machinery Company,
191 Parramatta Road, Auburn.
Please contact me regarding a demonstration of
your Hammer Mills.
NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE
BHM-4-61A
not accompanying the drove,
but had instructed his men to
take me along.
The head drover was Alfred
Hudson. His legal status was
that of an aboriginal, and his
height, his good stature, his
deliberate movements, and the
way he considered every state-
ment before he replied were of
that race. His father's father,
Willie Hudson, had been
white: a wild Irish cattleman
who inhabited the Australian
northland and left an exceed-
ingly numerous progeny.
Except for Willie, Alfred’s son
by his aboriginal wife, my other
companions were all of pure
aboriginal blood, members of
the Kanju-speaking tribes of
the Peninsula, at one time
reputedly the most savage of
the Australian people.
It was not much of a reputa-
tion to live down: the abo-
riginal is gentle and polite ; but
these were people whose
ancestors had the will, though
not the strength, to resist the
robbery of their lands and the
rape of their women, and who
in consequence, I think, carry
themselves a little more
proudly than the rest. Since
their tribal lands extend to
within a few miles of the out-
posts of Melanesia, it is pos-
sible, too, that they have
inherited a small share of the
more defiant and the more
bloodthirsty island charac-
teristics. Darker skin and hair
tonings than most aborigines
seem to confirm this.
I had some hours in the
empty camp before I made
contact with most of my com-
panions.
TT was a bedraggled kind c {
a camp.
The cattle that filed out from
the gate of the yard next morn-
ing were thin and wiry, a ha«.
ridden lot, battered by the p
days of storm. Five had been
lost since they left the station.
Two, made blind by fly attacks
had stubbornly resisted ail
efforts to drive them in the right
direction, and had so battered
themselves by charging into
tree-trunks that they had been
abandoned; one had been
slaughtered to provide beef for
the men ; one had died ; and
one had been altogether lost,
As the drove headed into the
bush the animals took up an
accustomed formation and the
personalities amongst them
began to assert themselves.
Those at the tail of the herd
were, for the most part, an
obdurate and unattractive lot
and suffered from a variety of
ills, though two were fat and
placid, milk cows, that had
served their purpose. The wet
weather had induced foot-rot,
and seven or eight cattle were
limping badly. Two bullocks
and a cow carried the inheri-
tance of zamia poisoning, and
lurched drunkenly over the
roughnesses of the pads. Forty
or 50 of the herd suffered from
“sore eyes,” a cataract caused
by fly which affected the first
cattle ever brought to the dis-
trict. In later years it has been
aggravated by the attentions of
the introduced buffalo-fly, and
it develops with speed. It is
possible to see a week-old calf
completely blinded.
These afflictions were soon
overshadowed by a new factor,
a virus disease called locally
“three-day sickness.” This was
a short and sudden fever the
onset of which was announced
by a groaning and moaning in
the night camp. In the morn-
ing the afflicted animal had
stiffened joints; its eyes
became bleary an inflamed, and
its whole outlook was charac-
terised by a desire to seek soli-
tude. It would not eat and
would seek every opportunity
to lie down. Towards the end
of the third day, typically, it
was itself again ; but during
the period of its illness it had
to be watched almost con-
stantly lest it slip away among
the trees. The tracking ability
of the drovers, magically effec-
tive, minimised loss.
The buffalo-fly hovered in a
grey cloud above the shoulders
of each beast, a tiny gnat-like
insect that bit savagely into the
animals and sometimes into the
men. Cattle that had b ee j|
newly branded had the fresh
scars eaten into great sores by
the fly ; in some of the youngei


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
warm ray
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
STANDARD
'H.»/
has over 7,000 cu. ft.
heating capacity,
equipped with a non-
jamming shaker
grate.
• BURNS ANY SOLID
FUEL AND NEED
NEVER GO OUT.
SgSffi;
a
★ Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model
H.D. is available in CERAMIC GREY,
HAWAIIAN CREAM, and MAHOGANY to
suit the contemporary or traditional home.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS
NOTHING! Reduces fuel bi!l at least 75 per cent.
r
mm
Installs in rooms
ivith or without
fireplaces
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
★ Capacity
Over 10,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large
firebox for
long burning.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the
patented Heating Tubes (illustrated
below) which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an
even, overall warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
m
WARM RAY
HEATING TUBES
British Ministry of Power and Fuel gives Warmray an
efficiency rating of 83%.
★ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray”, #25-2216.
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call
for illustrated brochure and name of nearest
agents.
WAR/102-32
Leasts the sores extended right
ver the back. The March-fly
Lit the men and the horses.
,[ v two mounts, a chestnut
fliare unaccountably called
Chocolate, and a gelding
referred to as the Ringlet Colt,
sometimes almost begged me
to slap at the flies on their
foreheads and their chests.
When I did so my hand was
splashed with blood. Some-
times hornets would send the
cattle momentarily mad. Once,
when my horse jumped away
ter me I felt the brilliantly-
piercing red-hot needles in my
arms.
Green-ants dropped on the
rider in swarms from the trees.
There was a caterpillar to
avoid ; it made large nests in
the trees and when it was
touched its irritations inflamed
the skin for six months to a
year. In the rich river bottoms
were two kinds of stinging
trees. Men and horses in an
urgent pursuit have crashed
into one and died, more from
the shock of instant and over-
whelming pain than from the
poison.
As our route south took us
increasingly over stony ground,
Alfred began to shoe the
horses. His anvil was the back
of an axe driven into the
ground, or, when the work
required it, the long double
handle of the hoof-pliers.
Although he did not use a
forge and bent his metal cold,
he matched up to all the tests
of a good farrier. Having pre-
pared the hoof with a mini-
mum of rasping, he thereafter
fitted the shoe to the foot and
n °t, as the amateur is often so
guilty of doing, the foot to the
s hoe. He cut the nails well
olear and hammered the ends
down into the wall to act as
r *vets. The shoe fitted without
an y projection and the horses
Walked away without any trace
°f awkwardness.
Alfred also carried a supply
of worn horseshoes with which
o shoe cattle. This is an
f ° s t forgotten art ; in the
ew y ea rs in which the bullock
earns here travelled metalled
it never became well
oown. It is necessary today
n y, I believe, upon this York
b enins ula drove, when hoofs
ti ec °me stone-bruised in nego-
a ln § the difficult Byerstone
Ranges, and it takes an excel-
lent drover to affix the shoes
to bovine hoofs. Technically
a bullock-shoe is a “cue”; in
the Peninsula version it is a
worn horseshoe chopped
through at the clip with an axe
to accommodate the movement
of the cloven hoof,
The most crucial periods of
the journey were undoubtedly
the swimming of the rivers,
flooded, racing and crocodile-
infested, the Kennedy, the
Hann, the Laura and the Mus-
grave, each offering an experi-
ence which demanded qualities
of courage and generalship
from each man ; there is not
space here to deal with them.
There is not space, either, to
describe in adequate terms the
magnificent but empty country
through which we passed,
except to note that at the end
of three weeks in which every
day brought trials and difficul-
ties, the cattle and horses were
glowing with health, and their
weight had been increased out
of all proportion,
They had been through a
time of incessant storms ; the
cattle-ticks which had been
eliminated at the start of their
trek had secured a new hold,
they had endured a dozen
kinds of pests, suffered fever
and foot-rot and blindness and
negotiated the many weary
miles of swamp and stones.
The secret of their well-being
was the same as that which has
prompted the use of tranquil-
lisers in the preparation of fat
stock for market —their fears
were not eliminated, but they
had become identifiable: the
beasts had learned to know
their enemy and to live with
him. At this stage, after only
six weeks of travel, there was
no longer much risk of the
blind panic which brings about
the stampede ; the acceptance
of destiny which replaced it
had induced contentment, and
the bodies had responded to
the placidity of the minds. In
three weeks more, when they
reached the saleyards, they
would be in fine fettle in which
condition they would be de-
livered to their final betrayal by
their trust in the enemy.
On the range, such cattle
would rarely become fat.
Their brief annual contact with
man would enhance their fears,


MEAT
stands at the top
of all foodstuffs
Meat brings to the diet a happy alliance of taste
appeal with a wide variety of nutrients. Its aroma
and flavour are an incentive to eating and they
promote good digestion. The usual serving of 6 to
8 ounces per day provides high proportions of
protein, B vitamins, iron, phosphorus, potassium and
magnesium, all of which the diet must contain to be
right for good nutrition. Also, meat protein is top
quality protein. It furnishes all the different amino
acids needed for good growth in children and for
the maintenance of protein health during all ages
of life.
MEAT has —
Excellent quality PROTEIN for the building,
repair and maintenance of body tissues.
-Je IRON necessary for the formation of the red
blood corpuscles.
PHOSPHORUS, which is an essential com-
ponent of bones and tissue and is essential for
muscles.
THIAMIN —necessary for growth, appetite
and digestion.
RIBOFLAVIN —necessary for growth and
proper skin health, particularly of the lips.
NIACIN or nicotinic acid, the lack of which
causes the disease known as pellagra.
BI2, the latest of the vitamins discovered,
which is necessary for maximum growth and
to prevent anaemia.
-fa FOLIC ACID, necessary to prevent anaemia.
MEAT IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AND ALWAYS IN SEASON
MEAT & ALLIED TRADES' FEDERATION
OF AUSTRALIA (N.S.W. DIVISION),
109 Paul Buildings,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney
so that every shadow would
contain a menace and the sight
of a rider send them bolting
to the horizon. When the
cattle muster first put them
under discipline and direction
they revolted and rebelled ;
acquainted with the torture of
the branding-iron, they feared
something worse. Most of
them would never cease to
regard qian as an enemy, but
as the days passed and they
could do nothing to escape his
presence they would come to
realise it safeguarded them
from the other nameless terrors
of their world.
And just as the inmates of
a well-conducted prison form,
as a rule, the healthiest sector
of the community it serves, the
cattle benefit from the regular
hours, the controlled exercise
of daily walking a computed
number of miles, the enforced
rest in the night and noon
camps, and the lack of neces-
sity to hunt for feeding-
grounds, or the company of
others of their kind.
In fact it could be said of
these cattle that they had never
been better off, and the only
flaw in their condition was that
they had no control over their
destination. Their future was
planned for them, and while
this planning had a due and
considerate regard for their
creature comforts, the end to
which they were being driven
was not, from their point of
view, a desirable one.
It struck me that people are
very like cattle ; that once com-
mitted to a planned routine
they can be sure of content-
ment and a naive and hedonis-
tic happiness until the end of
the journey. They can be sure
of everything desirable, in fact,
except self-determination. It
struck me, too, that the
material benefits enjoyed by
individuals on the drove greatly
outshadow, for the period,
those accruing to the material-
ists who still roam the range,
and that the tail-end, of
objectors, is mostly composed
of misfits, the halt and the
blind and the over-pampered,
Beef Merchandising
By S. H. YOUNG
President, Meat and Allied Trades’ Federation of
Australia (N.S.W. Division)
Tn between the beef cattle
producer and the women-
folk who buy meat and cook
our meals, are the meat mer-
chants —; wholesalers and re-
tailers who convert the beef
cattle into meat and by-
products such as hides, tallow',
stock-foods, fertilisers, hooves,
horns and hair.
The live animal is bought by
the meat wholesaler or retailer
in a livestock auction market
or by private treaty and the
price he pays will depend upon
the quantity and quality of
meat required for his business,
the return he hopes to get for
the by-products and the particu-
lar class of cattle that happens
to be in the market.
To the Australian consumer,
beef is a preferred meat and the
per capita consumption in 1958
was:
Beef and Veal .... 1211 b.
Pork 191 b.
Lamb and Mutton .. 781 b.
During the last two years,
the wholesale and retail meat
trades have been faced with a
scarcity of beef cattle with
consequent high prices which
made trading most difficult, un-
profitable and embarrassing,
especially for the retailer who
has to meet sales resistance
ftom consumers whose budget
is stretched to the limit with
hire-purchase commitments and
other forms of spending that
seem to take precedence over
basic foodstuffs.
A retail butcher must keep
his shop open and stocked 52
weeks in the year. He cannot
escape a high market by closing
down his business until the
market improves. During 2
period of high livestock and
wholesale meat prices, he must
keep his trade going even
though it is unprofitable. He
is loath to pass the full cost on
to the consumer for the sake
of his goodwill and, to that
extent, he subsidises the con-
sumer.
The retail trade is made up
of a large number of com-
paratively small business units
independently owned and
keenly competing with one an-
other. In Australia, there are
approximately 7000 retail shops
of which over 3000 are in New
South Wales and they specialise
in one thing only—preparation


LOOK
SUPER SPECIAL Never to be Repeated
• Write for all your shooting requirements and
save £££’s.
We carry the largest range of new and used
rifles in Australia, over 4,000 to choose from.
m
.•' , ?-;*p ;
mt
; ;
Brand New
LEE ENFIELD .303 S.M.L.E. direct from factory to
you at ONLY £B/10/- each.
Plenty of Ammunition at £3 per 100.
We can only make this offer now as our entire stock
consists of 1200 rifles.
OFFER No. 2-
S.M.L.E. .303 SERVICE RIFLES IN Al CON-
DITION. EX-ARMY ISSUE —£5/10/- EA.
For sale to graziers only in N.S.W. No permit
required in other States.
Simply send cheque, postal note, money order or
cash, and goods will be sent post tree same day.
OFFER No. 3 =
Genuine 4X High Power night scopes to suit
above rifles, complete with mounts fitted to
rifle. ONLY £2O EXTRA.
WRITE .voir . . . SAME DAY SERVICE ASSURED
OFFER No. 4:
.303 LEE ENFIELD SPORTING RIFLES,
CONDITION £B/10/-
and a host of other popular firearms and
accessories at Australia’s lowest prices.
JACK HOCHSTADT'S H. & R. SPORTS CENTRE
758 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. MA 3972
THE ONLY STORE IN AUSTRALIA OFFERING BRAND
NEW .303 RIFLES.
and the sale of uncooked meat.
The proportion of beef going
through these shops depends on
the season of the year and the
location of the shop. Autumn,
generally speaking, is the time
when fat cattle flow in increas-
ing volume on to the market
and spring is the time when
lamb comes on to the market
jn volume.
However, apart from seasonal
factors, the ratio of mutton
and lamb to beef is influenced
by the availability of the types
of meat in a particular area.
In Queensland and some parts
of New South Wales, more beef
and less mutton and lamb is the
pattern of consumption. In
other areas, the reverse position
is the case.
While beef is a preferred
meat, there is more waste in
processing it than there is with
mutton, lamb and pork. Jt
would lead to a better under-
standing in the industry if the
cattle producer took a note of
the yield of saleable meat in
the cattle he markets. A live
steer weighing, say, 10001 b.
would yield about 6001 b. of
dressed carcase. This in turn,
would yield to the retailer
approximately 61 per cent, of
retail cuts (i.e. 3661 b.). The
other 39 per cent. (i.e. 2341 b.)
would have a minor residual
value and consists of kidney,
sausage trimmings, fat and
bones. Mutton, lamb and pork
give higher percentage yields
e.g., mutton 79.5 per cent.,
lamb 85 per cent, and pork
84 per cent.
These figures are not guess-
work, as they are the average
of a great number of cutting
tests made by the trade under
the supervision of both Com-
monwealth and State prices
authorities in 1940’5.
The biggest single factor in
stability in price level and
increased demand by the con-
sumer for beef is the supply of
the right type of beef cattle for
the local market. The vagaries
of the auction market add to
the price of meat a margin for
scarcity over and above pro-
duction costs and on the other
hand, the fall in the auction
market may yield to the pro-
ducer a return less than his
production costs. Wholesale
and retail prices of meat react
to fatstock prices like a baro-
meter and let it be clearly
understood a meat market,
either wholesale or retail, can-
not be artificially kept up in
the face of increased supplies.
Keen competition for the con-
sumers' patronage causes a
downward trend in retail meat
prices close on the heels of a
drop in livestock prices.
Retail prices of beef in post-
war years have risen in line
with all other costs of produc-
tion and reflect our depreciated
£ but leaving aside those extra
ordinary rises due to scarcity,
meat is still the best buy as far
as basic food values are con-
cerned.
We in the trade know this to
be true and we deplore the lack
of knowledge that the average
person has of meat generally.
Processed foods are extensively
BEEF CUTS


ANGUS TOP AGAIN
HOOF and CARCASES
AGAINST ALL BREEDS —— 1967 ROrAL EASTER SHOW
ANGUS
Champion on the
Hoof
The International Judge, Dr.
A. E. Darlow, Oklahoma
College, Stillwater, U.S.A.,
said:
“The Champion Steer had an
Easy Win.’’
ANGUS
Champion Carcase
Angus, at the principal Royal
and International Overseas’
Shows, have won more Cham-
pion and Major Class Prizes
in Inter-Breed Competitions,
than all other breeds com-
bined.
On tilt* hoof—BOO ROOM DOHA I»ANI»V. H. <i. Munro, liingara, N.S.W.
ldveweight 1159 Ihs., age 17 months. Sold to T. A. Field I’ty. 1.t<1.,
for top price of £220.
CARCASE —-Milong Dividend, Milong Fty. Ltd., Young, N.S.W.
OTHER ANGUS 1961
AUSTRALIAN SHOW
WINS
Stunthorpe, Q’ld. —Champion Pen
of :i steers. Pen of b chillers.
Fat Cow. Reserve Champion
Steer Six Firsts ami a Second.
Toowoomba Q'land Champion
Carcase.
Walcha N.S.W. —Combined Show
Pest Steer.
Guyra, N.S.W. —Champion. Won
all eligible classes.
West Maitland, N.S.W.— Overall
Champion, also First. Second,
Third in Sniitlifield Export
class, on the lioof. Australian
Meat Board Competition-
Champion on tlie hoof and car -
case, also First, Second. Third
Portland, Vic. —Champion Car-
ease. First, Second, Third, Aus-
tralian Meat Board Competi-
tion. Angus gained 10 Major
I’riy.es.
Ballarat, Tic. —Champion Hoof
and Carcase. Five Firsts. 1 ]
Specials.
South Australian State Competi-
tion. —Champion Hoof and Car-
cases.
COMMERCIAL FAT CATTLE BREEDERS
THE ABOVE IS YOUR YARDSTICK FOR ECONOMY AND PROFIT
For Further Particulars Apply
The Angus Society of Australia, 56 Young St., Sydney. (Tel. BU 2049)
Commercial Membership Subscription £3/3/- per annum
advertised, boast of additives in
the form of vitamins, and offer
ease of preparation, colorful
packages and gifts for the child-
ren, with a whole superstiuc-
ture of nonsense which is unfair
to those who have no basic
knowledge of nutrition or of
the nutiitional importance of
the natural foods meat, yege-
tables and fruit. Ironically
enough many of these pro-
cessed foods when compared in
food value with meat are ex-
tremely dear.
The blame for the consumer s
lack of knowledge of meat rests
largely with the meat industry
itself—from the primary pro-
ducer to the retailer. The selec-
tion, cooking, carving and serv-
ing of meat and the nutritional
values of meat are not pub-
licised to the extent they could
be and should be.
The producer of fat cattle
must be interested in what he
is producing and why he is
producing it. Eighty per cent,
of our Australian beef is con-
sumed in Australia and the
Australian housewife should
get —and pay for —the quality
she needs and should be in-
structed, guided and advised
how to get the best out of
every ounce of meat she buys.
The cattle producer and the
meat merchant will have to get
together on this —the consumer
will benefit and so will the
whole industry.
The Past Year
By E. S. PLAYFAIR, O.B.E.
President, Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
The past year has been a
very difficult one in the
beef industry, both for local
trading and export to the
United Kingdom and the
United States. In May, 1960,
our livestock markets began to
firm and by July had reached
very high levels. This, of
course, is not unusual in the
winter months, but numbers
were far shorter than those
required to fulfil local demands
and overseas contracts. The
E. S. PLAYFAIR
position of most exporters was,
and still is, very difficult, but
it was hoped that by October
last that supplies would have
increased. This, however, did
not happen to the extent
anticipated and so most firms
were placed in a very difficult
position.
Local demands for beef
were meeting strong competi-
tion from lamb and mutton
which were selling at a fa r
lower price than beef and so
local wholesalers were also
confronted with difficulties,
The rain throughout New
South Wales has been patchy
and so supplies have remained
on the scarce side, while, ; n
spite of price reductions in
overseas markets, our livestock
have remained altogether too
high to enable competition of
other foodstuffs to be met.
I feel that insufficient rain
has fallen in the past three
months to ensure improved
conditions in most parts of the
country and unless we receive
good rain in the next three or
four weeks it is certain we will
be faced with a most difficult
winter.
Many steer and beef com-
petitions are being held
throughout Australia which
are helping very greatly
towards demonstrating the type
required for good Australian
beef, but unless we are favored
with good conditions not very
much can be achieved in this
regard.
Beef in the last few weeks
has shown signs of weakening
whilst lamb and mutton have
become considerably dearer.
This, I feel, can only be tem-
porary with the approach of
winter quite near.


SOME DOSH FOR A PARTY
The exciting
adventures of a
cadet
in the Bodgie
militia
By
GAVIN
CASEY
u/r-iHE boss don’t want people who come here thinkin’
I they’ve got into the monkey’s cage at the zoo by
JL mistake,” said Styles.
He was King of the Kids at the place where Danny
Higgins worked, where there was quite a large squad of boys.
Now the youngsters stared back at him, those in ordinary
clothes amused and unconcerned, but those with the cool
costumes and the hot haberdashery surly and sulky, and
indignant at heart.
“We’re clean and neat.” said Leopard.
“I dunno if you're clean—haven’t looked behind your ears —
but you certainly ain’t neat,” Styles told him.
Danny looked down at himself, and liked what he saw.
“We’re entitled to wear what we like, as long as we’re clean
and neat,” he protested.
“Sure,” said Styles, heavily sarcastic. “You can wear a
football guernsey and your sister’s hat, and nobody can stop
you—only you won’t work here any more, that's all.”
“I got no other clothes,” said Leopard.
“Then you get some, or you don’t work here no more,”
Styles told him. “Don't blame me. It's the boss himself that
says the sight of you makes him sick, and he don’t want the
customers vomiting all over the floor.”
Danny contemplated rebellion, but he knew he wouldn’t do
d. There’d be too many questions, too much trouble at home.
He didn’t have the excuse that he had no other clothes. The
old man was enough trouble as it was.
“Anyway, the reputation you bodgies have got, who’d want
a mob of you workin’ for him?”
“I ain’t a bodgie, mister.”
“Then what are you? You look just like one, to me.”
‘l’m a progressive dresser. I’m no bodgie.”
“Well, like I said, if you want to dress progressive you can
oo it somewhere else. Ordinary slacks and shirts and coats
“ ere from now on. None of them shoes, neither. And git
y°ur hair cut, all you progressive dressers.”
. Danny didn’t get his hair cut, but he parted it and plastered
u down. It looked horrible, not being trimmed to go that way.
After work, when he ran his comb through it to sweep it
joto a duck-tail at the back of his head it looked worse. It
«ad been upset, and now it came up in lumps where it should
n °xi seet hed over his humiliation and the injustice of it.
Naturally, he didn’t say anything at home. The old man
°uld have sneered. His grey, vague, gentle mother would
have said, “Perhaps Mr Styles knows best, dear. You have to
do what you’re told if you want to get on in the world.”
A nyway, he had his sympathisers, the ones his own age who
understood and were smooth dressers themselves, at the
place. When he got there that night and relaxed under the
neons with the juke wailing and thumping they listened to him,
and condemned Styles and the boss and all the squares in
the strange, loosely-rhymed shorthand sort of talk that was
their jargon these days.
“Ain’t that the most, ghost?” growled the Prince. “Who they
think they are, Pa?”
“You walk out, Scout. Tell ’em shove the job, Bob,” Knucks
advised.
“That I’ll do, Foo,” Danny promised, warmed by encourage-
ment and made reckless. “I’ll say, Dip your eye, Guy. I’ll
say, Up your jumper, Bumper.”
But that was moving too fast for them. This thing wanted
kicking around, Hound. Losing Danny, the firm wouldn’t be
hurt, Bert. They wanted clouting and snouting, and giving a
lesson they’d remember till September.
“Wait a minute. This place you work, what’s their lurk?”
Danny told Knucks, and Knucks looked disappointed. He
said, “Nowt fer us, Gus.”
“Wait a sec, Hec,” the Prince put in. “They have a canteen,
old bean?”
Danny said they did, a big one. Sold a million cigarettes
a day, which wasn’t hay, and the stock was big, pig, ’way up
to the sky and falling over the edges.
The place brightened up, and the cats started to look keen.
The Prince took over, Rover, but he took over good, Pud.
“We need dosh for some squash, gonna have a party, Barty.
We do this joint, we get it, Pettit. An’ we level the squares,
bears.”
Danny felt himself begin to tremble. As usual, the idea of
the big stuff both attracted and repelled him. And this was
it, Kit. If they were going to do his firm, worm, he’d be in
it for sure. And in the party they wanted the dosh for.
There'd be girls, pearls, hags, bags, it was a chance to prance.
But Jees, it would be dangerous! Right where he worked,
where they knew his face, where they had a set on him,
anyway.
But it’d teach ’em, Beecham. It would cost, and they’d pay,
and he’d play, with the hay. It was what they deserved,
nothing less, Bess. But he was afraid of it, all the same.
He hesitated, and the others saw the hesitation and fear on


his face. The Prince looked
hard at him, with his eyes
narrowed, for a long time.
“Come with me, Flea. I
wanna make with the mouth,”
the Prince said.
'T'hey went outside, and
slouched along the street,
away from the bright lights of
the place. They stopped in
front of a dark building,
between two street lights that
reared their brilliance up into
a fuzz of flying-ants and moths
and beetles.
“You case the place, Face,”
the Prince ordered. “We go
for the nicotine, old bean, just
a chocolate or two for us to
chew. Smoke’s the joke. They
go down to Charlie Barley, at
the beach.”
“How’d we get ’em there?
Your car, Prince?”
“Be your age. The Rooster
rustles a rod, an’ we dump it,
but quick, when we’re through,
Roo.”
The whole business became
big, and complicated, and more
dangerous.
Danny said, “I dunno, Joe.
They know me, see? Any-
thing goes wrong, end of the
song.”
“Nothing goes wrong. You
a man or a mouse, Louse?”
“I’m smart, Bart,” said
Danny in anguish. “I’ll be in
anything but that, Bat. Too
close to home.”
The Prince stared at him,
blank and hostile, for another
long moment. He said, “You
like the place, Face? You like
us, Gus?”
“Jees, yes. I’ll be in any-
thing but that, Brat.”
“You want to get among the
kittens with their mittens?
You wanna have gay times,
Grimes?”
“That’s for me, Pea.”
“Then you help get the dosh,
Frosh. You wanna invite, you
gotta act right.”
The idea of the party, and
the girls, glowed in Danny’s
imagination. In the crowd the
girls had nothing to do with
the small-time boys, like him-
self. They were strictly for
the big-time boys, the Prince,
Knucks, the Rooster. What
was the use of hanging around
the place if you were going to
stay on the outside edge for
ever? But he was still afraid
of it.
The Prince stood back from
him, deeper in the shadow,
looking angry and dangerous.
The Prince said, in a voice that
was soft, but supercharged with
fury, “You know Flatty,
Batty? You wanna get like
Flatty, you just stay out, lout.”
Flatty got around the suburb
with his lower jaw hanging,
walking on his heels like a
punchy boxer. The story was
that he had been that way ever
since the Prince and Knucks
had done him over, for getting
cheeky around the place. It
probably wasn’t true, and
another story was that he’d
been like that always, ever
since he was born. But the
first one might be true.
Danny shivered. “I’m game,
Flame,” he said hastily. “I take
a risk, so what? It’s me that
wants them squares at the shop
done, and done good, Pud,
ain’t it?”
“You better stay that way,”
the Prince told him, more
relaxed, but still quiet and
ugly. “Now come back, Jack,
and we'll plan, Man.”
r T'HE small hours of the morn-
ing were crouching over a
dark and dreary world. The
Rooster was waiting half a
block from the canteen with a
rod that belonged to somebody
who was careless about lock-
ing his car doors.
Danny was scared but
fascinated, on a job for the first
time —a big one, too, and right
where he worked, so that he
almost expected old Styles,
who was the firm’s King of the
Kids, to step around a familiar
corner at any moment, with a
familiar expression of disap-
proval on his face.
The kids drifted from here
and there to a side wall of
Mulligan’s Garage, where an
old ladder leaned against the
bricks, looking as if it had
been there for ever. They
came out of the darkness like
cats, noiseless in shoes with
rubber soles an inch thick.
They felt like cats, lean and
limber, long-legged in their
tight jeans, vague and grey in
the black night. They were
excited, and felt invincible.
Without any orders given or
received they acted like a team.
They went on to the garage
roof, and from there it was
only a step and a heave on to
the big roof of the works.
Then they could stand up and
move erect, for there was a
ledge of brick around the roof
that meant nobody on it could
be seen from the streets, or
from anywhere except opposite
buildings, which were quiet
and empty now.
There was a quick, quiet
move to the panel of the sky-
lights Knucks had selected
when he had cased the roof
a couple of nights earlier. Sky-
lights were always neglected,
away up where they were over-
head in the weather, and they
were easy to open up.
“This’ll be over the canteen
Bean?” Knucks whispered.
“Near enough, Duff,” Danny
told him in a quiet, anxious
croak.
Knucks and the Prince, the
men who knew this sort of
job, went to work, and the
panel was up in a jiffy. The
thick rope somebody had
hitched to a solid ventilator
was dropped down into the
canteen, and they swarmed
down there like sailors going
over the side of a ship. There
wasn’t much talk, of course, it
wasn’t a time for making with
the mouth, and when they did
whisper to each other they were
tense and busy enough to forget
the crowd’s jargon of crude,
jerky rhymes.
“On the nose!” the Prince
hissed, happily.
The stock-room door was
locked, but what a lock, Jock!
It came away with only a small,
tired creak, and they were in,
Skin. With silent speed the
cartons started coming out,
going up the rope in a net
they’d brought, and into bags
Jovial Joe had up there on the
roof. It was easy enough to
see, once your eyes got used to
the gloom. Everything went
like oiled clockwork.
“You cased the joint good,
Pud,” whispered Knucks to
Danny.
T'Vanny had forgotten one
thing, though. The round
followed by the night watch-
man, old Flynn, was in more
important parts of the build-
ing than the canteen, but Flynn
was human, and got tired and
thirsty. There was a time of
night when he needed some-
thing to keep him awake and
on his feet, and that was when
he always went to the canteen,
clicked on an electric urn, and
made himself a cup of tea.
Jorgensen, who had the can-
teen concession, reckoned it
well worth the cost of the
makings and the electricity and
a left-over scone or two or a
cinnamon roll to have his part
of the place checked at least
once during the night.
So just when the kids were
working like beavers, smooth
as levers, all the lights in the
canteen flashed on. They threw
glare and shadows from and
over the white enamel of the
fittings, and the stainless steel,
and they flickered for a
moment, dancing and jumping
as fluorescent tubes always do
before they settle down to
brilliance.
“Stand where you are. I’ve
got a gun here,” ordered old
Flynn, from just inside the
main doorway.
Danny, with his heart sud-
denly thumping and a sick
taste in his mouth, slid behind
one of the big fridges before
Flynn could recognise him.
The Crooner, who was
closest to old Flynn, reached
out and switched the lights off
again, before the electricity had
gripped the gas in the tubes
properly. Wordlessly, silently,
all of them except Danny, who
stayed where he was, went into
action.
They began to circle old
Flynn, quietly, ominously,
without a sound, loping on
their rubber soles like hunt-
ing wolves. It made recogni-
tion almost impossible, and an
effective shot almost impossible,
too. They slid past, quick on
their quiet feet, dodging the
tables, in sight and out of
sight, evil, threatening shapes.
Fear gripped the old man,
suddenly.
“Still, blast you, or I start
shooting,” Flynn screamed,
backing for the wall.
X)ut before he could get his
** back against something, the
movement of the circle brought
Knucks behind him. Knucks’
heavy motor-bike chain swished
through the air and landed with
a thud like a rubber hammer
on a hard motor-tyre. It hit
the back of Flynn’s head, and
the old boy went down, with a
strangled grunt and lay on the
floor, gasping with pain before
he passed out altogether.
“Well, that’s the end of
him,” said Knucks, with satis-
faction.
“We’ve got the stuff. Let’s
get,” said Danny, filled with
terror and anxious only to get
away.
“Nix,” said the Prince. “We
got the stuff. Now we do the
place.”
“What if he wakes up?”
“You get his gun, Crooner.
Point it at him if he wakes up.
Hit him if he don’t shut up.”
Crooner got the gun, and the
rest of them spread out,
through the building. They
put all the toilets out of action,
not by smashing porcelain or
anything that would make a
noise, but by twisting the con-
trol rods in cisterns, levering
pipes off the walls. You don’t
have to make much noise to
wreck £IOO worth of type-
writer, either, and a flick-knife
will tear a furrow in the top of
a desk so that it looks like
something ploughed by a
tractor.
They vented hate and fury
on everything within easy
reach, enjoying it more than
the theft. It was pure revenge
there was nothing in it f° r
them, but man, were there
some headaches for these
squares that ran the place.
They had fun, Bun, but they
should have gone when Danny
said, Ted.
Out on a lazy beat a police-
man noticed the canteen
lights flare up and then, '


mediately, go out. Who’d do
that, not even leaving them on
j on g enough to have a look
around? There was something
wrong, up there.
These days constables don't
have to rush in where angels
fear to tread, and this one
didn’t. There was a reception-
committee waiting when the kids
came out of the building and
went over the roofs with their
bags of cigarettes. Chairman
0 f the committee was Sergeant
Ricketts, a very sensible, prac-
tical man, but who let the
situation get a bit out of hand
because he hadn’t calculated
that there would be so many
of the brats.
Suddenly there seemed to be
kids everywhere, going like
the wind in the grip of pure
terror. The policemen went
after them, hurling themselves
forward in the great bursts of
speed and energy of which all
good policemen are capable
until they get too old and fat,
and sometimes even Jhen.
The sergeant nearly got one,
but the hoodlum flung his bag
down and the copper tripped
over it and fell on his face.
This annoyed him very much.
But it wasn’t mere annoyance
that made him shoot.
Like all sensible policemen
the sergeant could tell you that
it was the kids, the bodgies,
that you had to be afraid of.
A grown man, no matter how
murderous a thug he might be,
knew what he was up against.
Unless he was all hopped up,
or gone with the grog, he knew
approximately what would hap-
pen to him if he got caught.
He could have a gun in every
pocket, but you could gener-
ally talk him out of using them,
on the score that if he did he'd
only make a bad show a bloody
sight worse.
Even if you couldn’t talk
some sense into a grown man,
you could see his mind work,
in his eyes and his attitudes
and his movements. If you
knew the signs ; he signalled
punches, like an inferior boxer,
and you could get in first, if
you had to. There was a time
for talk, and a time for shoot-
ing.
“But them brats, they’d blast
your brains out just because
they’re scared. They act on
fear, not on any sort of sense
or experience. Them little
oastards, you shoot first and
as k questions after, if they
m ake just one move. That’s
what you do if you want to
live to get your pension.”
. Sergeant Ricketts had every
Mention of living to get his
Pension, so that was what he
oid when the kid who had
tri Pped him with the bag full
°r cigarettes and was towering
over him reached for his
pocket. How was he to know
th'at there was no gun in the
pocket, just a bike-chain? They
could kill you with a bike-
chain, anyway. And what the
hell? Crims were better dead
and the younger they got dead
the less grief they had time to
make for decent people.
The sound of the shot made
Danny and the others run
faster, when they had already
thought they were running as
fast as they could. On the
wings of fear they sprinted and
doubled along the alleyways
and between the buildings, and
the policemen were soon slow-
ing down and gasping for
breath.
The rest of the kids all got
away, and Danny went trem-
blingly home, because where
else was there to go? His
parents were long in bed and
asleep, that was one thing.
There wasn’t much sleep for
Danny, in the few hours of
night left, that was for sure.
TTe was out on the lawn in the
dawn, for the paper, but
of course, the events in which
he was interested had happened
too late for the morning paper.
He threw the rag back on the
lawn, because it would certainly
look unnatural if he took it in
at that hour. Then he did the
equally unnatural thing of
going into the front room and
turning on the radio, to listen
to the static and the testing
until the first news came over.
They were still on the over-
seas and interstate news when
his father came fumbling in, in
his pajamas, rumpled and
heavy with last night’s beer, and
only half awake.
“What you doin’?” the old
man said in surprise. “Not
listening to the news,' surely—
they don’t play the news in
boogie-woogie.”
He then went out, to the
kitchen or somewhere, and
that was lucky, because it came
on then. It might have made
the old square wonder.
Danny found out that he
didn’t have to worry about the
victim of the shot talking. It
was Knucks, and he was well
and truly dead, punctured
where it would do most good,
right through the heart.
But old Flynn was still alive.
He wasn’t even in much danger,
though he had a cracked skull
and hadn’t been able to talk
yet. It would come, all too
soon. But why should the old
man have seen or recognised
him, when he’d been so quick
to dive behind the fridge and
stay there? Would the old man
have recognised anybody, in
those brief seconds, and would
he remember it, after that
crack on the scone?
He couldn’t go to work. He
couldn’t face the people there.
But he did, because he had to,
because his absence would be
all that was needed to bring the
cops on the run. They were
all over the place at the shop,
of course, and they questioned
him with the rest, but took no
particular interest in him. That
would come later, when they
found out more about Knucks,
who he associated with, all
about the place, and the cats
there. It would come, sure
as death, but it wasn’t here yet.
He didn’t want to go to the
place that night, but he went.
It was like home had been been
in the early hours of the morn-
ing: where else was there to
go? And if he went missing
from there so soon, wouldn’t
that look suspicious, too? He
went, and it was just the same,
except no Knucks, and except
that the people already seemed
to treat him with a new
respect.
“Poor old Knucks,” he said
to the Prince. “That deadly
dee must be good with a gat.”
“Knucks?” said the Prince,
looking at him, coldly. “Aw,
that guy that used to come here
sometimes, the one that got
bumped?”
“Yes, that one,” said Danny,
beginning to get the drift.
“Hard luck, Buck,” said the
Prince. “Not like it was one
of our mob, though. S’pose
we’ll have the cops in, just
because he came here now an’
again, even if he did belong to
another mob, Bob.”
“Well, they got nothin’ on
us, Gus,” said Danny, as airly
as he could.
“No, Joe. We run this
crowd right, you and me, see?”
the Prince was suddenly warm
and affable, all smiles, and for
some reason it struck another,
new fear into Danny’s heart.
“What you mean, Bean?
You’re the guy, not I.”
“Gotta have help, Whelp.
Just lost a man, replace him
quick as I can.”
“ Couldn’t do, just a new
shoe. Need an old hand to lead
the big band.”
“You got their respect,
Hecht,” said the Prince, earn-
estly. “No loose talk, Gawk,
but they go for you since you
hammered down the old square
last night. That was guts,
Nuts, they like it all right,
Skite.”
'T'he new fear took definite,
terrifying shape. The
Prince looked cold, hard,
malicious, and amused.
Danny knew he was far out
of his depth. They were build-
ing up belief in the place that
he was the one who had hit
the watchman, and there were
reasons, dirty reasons, for that.
He’d be second string, old
thing, but if the cops got too
close he’d be the mug, thug.
They’d get stories going about
him like the one about Knucks
having battered poor old Flatty
into permanent imbecility, the
one about the Prince having
once knifed his father. The
small ones around the place,
the ones like what he’d been
until now, would do what he
said, because they were afraid.
But if the cops got too close,
there’d be plenty to say he was
the one who had hammered
down old Flynn. The Prince
would be able to keep him in
order with that.
Danny knew that he was out
of his depth and he knew,
suddenly, that he wanted no
part of it. What came could
come, but he wouldn’t be in
this. Suddenly the Prince and
all the rest of them made him
sick, and his rage towered up
over his fear.
He stood up.
“You can go to hell, Bell.
I’m through,” he said. He #
shoved his face down into the*
Prince’s, and added. “An’ you
come after me with your chain,
an’ I’ll take it off you and
strangle you with it, see, Pea?”
The Prince wilted, and that
was the last impression he had
as he strutted out of the place
—the Prince, looking uncertain
and half-afraid, looking smaller
and weaker and not at all like
his usual self. It looked good,
and he felt the elation he had
experienced before, when he
had made a decision to be in
the robbery.
Tt was home again, still
because where else was
there, and the old man was just
back from the bowling club,
drinking a bottle of beer in the
kitchen. His mother was out.
“Have a beer?” the old man
said, with what was affability
for him. “Or isn’t beer good
enough for you bodgies—you
prefer marihuana or shots in
the arm or something?” he
added, just to spoil it.
“I’m no bodgie,” said the
boy. “You think I’d run with
a crowd that done what they
done at our place last night?”
“Hope not,” said his father.
“But if you’re not a bodgie
what are you? You look like
one to me.”
“I’m just a progressive
dresser,” said the boy, pouring
himself some beer. “Just a
progressive dresser, that’s me.”
It was the stock answer, but
this time he meant it, really
meant it. And come to think
of it, he was getting a bit sick
of the clothes, too, the clothes
as well as all the rest of it.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
I ast term the snowballing H. C. Sleigh,
having decided to retain a completely
separate identity, rejected the much-
publicised takeover bid from its only
Australian-owned rival, Ampol Petro-
leum Ltd.
Ampol’s bid for H. C. Sleigh, described
as the largest takeover offer ever made
on the Australian sharemarket, would
have resulted in the exchange of five
Ampol ss. ords. for every four H. C.
Sleigh ss. ords. or, alternatively, 20s.
cash for each H. C. Sleigh ss. ord.
Proportionate offers were made for
prefs., notes and options. The offer was
subject to the prime condition that it
be accepted by all directors in respect
of their personal holdings. Ampol’s idea
was to combine the two directorates and
join the marketing outlets but preserve,
as far as possible, separate business
identities. After examining the pro-
posals “with extreme care,” H. C. Sleigh
rejected the bid. At the time the news
was received with mixed feelings.
Although Sleigh’s stand emphasised the
competitiveness of the oil industry in
Australia it, by the same token, prevented
the only two major independent Aus-
tralian petroleum distributors from
establishing a more powerful national
organisation, capable of withstanding
the pressure from local subsidiaries of
international oil giants. The Ampol-
Sleigh merger could have resulted in an
Australian company strong enough to
undertake importing and refining crude
oil on its own, taking into account the
present state of the international oil and
tanker markets.
Incorporated in Victoria in June, 1947,
H. C. Sleigh Ltd is the second largest
independent Australian distributor of
petroleum products, which are retailed
under the popular “Golden Fleece”
brand. In addition, the co. owns ships
and trades as a general merchant on
domestic and export markets. The ship-
ping department has valuable agency
connections.
The group’s fleet of tankers carries
crude oil from Sumatra to the Caltex-
owned Kurnell refinery near Sydney in
N.S.W. Aviation fuel is supplied to
R.A.A.F. and R.A.N. The subsidiary
Hardie Rubber Co. Ltd is a successful
producer of tyres and other rubber
products.
Sales to industrial concerns and gov-
ernment bodies were maintained at a
very satisfactory level. The chairman
reports that all engine oil consumed by
R.A.A.F. piston aircraft, and R.N. sub-
marines based on Australia, is supplied
by the co. Transformer oil sales “main-
tained a steady high level.” Lubricating
oil business improved, turnover rising
from 4.5 million gallons to 5.3 million
gallons. The rate of growth of lubricat-
ing oil sales “obviously justifies our
interest in the establishment of the new
lubricating oil refinery at Kurnell.”
Demand for fuel oil was 62 p.c. higher.
Sales of aviation fuel were satisfactory.
Gross income of the export division
last term rose by £1,400,000. Exports
included dairy produce, primary and
agricultural products and 335,000 tons of
coal.
Group sales for the year ended June
30, 1960, rose by 53 p.c. to £33.9 million.
Net profit from trading was £479,078
higher at £2,507,245 after transferring
£89,752 to staff fund (up £13,301) and
providing £785,800 for depreciation and
amortisation (up £160,177). Income from
investments brought in an additional
£4898.
After setting aside £1,088,524 for taxa-
tion (up £256,109), consolidated net profit
was £242,398 higher at £1,454,539:
Parent ani> S u id-i diaries.
, Divs. —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Piofit. 5 p.c. r- —Ord.— -> serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Share premiums, £114,050 .. ..
Profit sale assets. £4319 . .
Tax underprovided, £3056 . .
To insurance res., £14,081 .. .. -1,411,668
’56.. 608,690 30,000 121=314,383 264,207
To staff fund, £IO,OOO ..
VV/off share ex<s., £18,750 .. ..
Share premiums, £191,860 ..
To insurance reserve. £16.864
Loss sale assets, £26,405 .. .. |
63 p.c. L9l (I
’57..1,077,054 39,000. 121=400,843 637,211. (
W/off goodwill, £34,098
VV/off share exes., £16,250 ..
To staff fund, £15,000 .. ..
Profit sale assets. £3099 ..
Tax overprovided, £13,603 ..
To insurance reserve, £24,866
To shipping reserve, £IOO,OOO .. 530911
’58..1,366,022 39,000 121=587,041 739,981 ’’ ’
Share premiums capitalised, £485,172
Share exes, written-off, £5030
Goodwill written-off, £26,276
To insurance reserve, £19,667 .. ]
Profit sale assets. £264 .. .. |
Tax overprovided, £27,992 .. .. [ „ 797
To shipping reserve,' £170,223 .. f
’59..1,212,141 44,417 121=641,028 526,696
Shaie exes, written-off, £14,036 .. J
Asset revaluation, £1,530,079 1
,Share premiums, £2,737,559
Decrease shipping reserve, £90,055..
Profit sale assets. £66,096
Less tax underprovided, £11,965 -7,887,137
Less intang-ibles w/off, £32,545
Unexplained reduction, £125
’60..1,454,539 82,012 121=846,161 526,366
Less transfer to staff fund, £IOO,OOO J
* Subject to intangibles, £1,067,759 at 30/6/60.
The p.c. dividend on higher preference
capital absorbed £82,012. The ordinary
dividend rate was steady at \2\ p.c..
despite the increase in capital. The
cheque absorbed £846,161 (£641,028 in
1959). Visible profits ploughback
amounted to £526,366.
The earning rate on the considerably
higher average ordinary capital was
20.3 p.c. (after deducting the preference
divs.) compared with 22.8 p.c. in 1959
and 28.3 p.c. in 1958, both on lower
capital.
Important movements in reserves illus-
trated the expanding financial structure
of the group. Freehold property was
written up by £1,530,079. Premiums
arising from share issues made before
balance date netted the co. £2,737,559.
Shipping reserve was reduced by
£90,055, after £38,000 was added from
last year’s profits and £128,000 applied
to reduction of goodwill in respect of
costs in excess of par values of “relevant
investments.” A further sum of £32,545
was used to write off other intangibles.
Sales of assets resulted in a profit of
£66,096. Tax underprovided in the
previous term absorbed £11,965, and
there was an unexplained reduction of
£125. Staff fund received £IOO,OOO
leaving total reserves and undistributed
profits (including £180,168 shipping con-
tingencies) at £7,887,137, subject to
£1,067,759 intangibles.
This gave a net asset tangible backing
of £l2 14s. 3d. for each 20s. pref.,
£3 3s. 7d. for each ss. pref. and 10s. for
each ss. ord., on the basis of consolidated
figures at balance date.
Major developments to June 30, 1960,
included the acquisition of Hardie
Rubber Co. Ltd as a wholly owned sub-
sidiary for approximately £3,421,000.
This was financed by the issue of
£888,564 ss. ords. plus £161.715 ss. prefs.
The subsidiary Hardie Rubber Co.
Ltd. manufactures tyres, tubes, hoses,
mats, foam rubber, etc., from two main
factories at Auburn and Paddington
(Sydney suburbs). Production is sup-
plemented from a well-equipped plant at
Yeronga (Brisbane). Marketing activities
of the subsidiary have been expanded,
“and naturally greater emphasis has been
placed on tyre and tube marketing
through service stations.”
Substantial progress was made on the
new 27,000-ton tanker being built for
the co. in Scotland. It was announced
that H. C. Sleigh will have a 25 p.c.
interest in the new £13,000,000 lubricat-
ing oil refinery to be built at Kurnell,
N.S.W. A branch office was established
in Perth.
In addition to scrip issued to finance
the takeover of Hardie Rubber, H. C.
Sleigh issued £IO,OOO in ss. ords. at 12s.
premium as purchase consideration for
certain assets. At balance date paid
capital amounted to £9,401,614, in
1,100,000 6y p.c. 20s. cum. prefs., 646,858
p.c. ss. prefs., 29,590,236 ss. ords. and
742,340 20s. deferred ords. Deferred ords.
have no voting rights and do not par-
ticipate in new issues. They are entitled
to a dividend of one-fifth of 1 p.c. for
every 1 p.c. in excess of 15 p.c. paid on
ords.
After balance date the co. issued £3625
in ss. ords., at 11s. 6d. premium, in
acquisition of assets, and subdivided the
20s. prefs. into ss. units. In December,
1960, the co. issued 10,350,000 ss. ords.,
at a premium of Is. 3d. a share, on the
basis of one new share for each four
ss. ords., or for one option, one regis-
tered 74 p.c. 20s. registered note or one
for every three 64 p.c. 10s. conv. notes.
In addition, the co. issued at p ar
approximately 3,600,000 10s. 64 P c '
registered unsecured convertible notes
maturing in June, 1968.
Consolidated balance - sheet gives a
snapshot view of H. C. Sleigh’s rapid
pace of growth to balance date. Pain
capital rose from £6,970,562 1°
£9,401,614. Creditors increased hy
£3,874,109 to £7,321,634. Bank accom-
modation was higher at £3,325,669.


J. B. & Frank Charlton
F. B. Charlton, J F. Charlton, J. M. Fay,
Q. A. B. Marjason, J. L. Russell.
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building,
309 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349
Branch Office: A.M.P. Building, 445
Buthven Street, Toowoomba
Telephone: 2 5206
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING.
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Del&n House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 <2O lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Membert of Brisbane Stock Exchange).
STOCK AND SHAREKROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 81 2761 P.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
Minority interest increased from £3627
lo £88,530.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
.MrWtal— 1958. 1959. 1960.
»Wpvence .. £600,000 £1,100,000 £1,261,715
Eirv .. 5,128,222 5,128,222 7,397,559
Urred ' •• 742,340 742,340 742,340
jgerves •• 2,530,921 3,261,727 7,887,187
306,411 306,411
Xde interests 3,626 3,627 88,530
K aZ e6 .. 521,940 537,000
S .. 500,000 1,725,644 1,793,709
| l ScriptiODs e - 990,954
nSaft .. 1,138,549 1,011,370 3,325,669
Store .. 3,366,073 3,447,525 7,321.634
K funds .. 28,370 58,931 134,562
tnrovision.. 1,221,141 1,012,027 1,172,898
Final divs. 404,298 345,431 492,644
£16,185,480 £18,680,255 £32,915,762
freehold' •• 4,457,306 5,872,413 10,810,566
wholds . . 554,853 622,086 766,487
Plant etc. .. 5,853,792 6,292,351 9,509,144
f are’s other cos. 248,264 247,136 3,009
“ ks .. 2,014,628 2,228,188 5,035,774
Debtor' •• 2,735,408 3,082,552 5,663,023
Intangibles .. 321,169 335,529 1,067,759
£16,185,480 £18,680,255 £32,915,762
Freeholds increased by £4,938,153 to
£10,81u,566, including £1,530,079
property write-up. Book value of plant,
(ships, tankers, etc., was £3,276,793 higher
at £9,569,144. Current stocks increased
by £2,807,586 to £5,035,774, and book
debts by £2,580,471 to £5,663,023. Intan-
gibles were much higher.
New bulk storage facilities for diesel
fuel and furnace oils were completed at
Birkenhead terminal in Adelaide. Two
>other country bulk depots were put into
operation, and another six were under
construction at balance date. Huge tank
wagons, with a capacity of 5700 gallons
leach, were introduced. The petroleum
division of the company now operates
213 delivery and service vehicles and 61
rail tank cars, bringing the total number
of vehicles operated by the company and
its subsidiaries to over 800. The number
of solo “Golden Fleece” service stations
at June 30, 1960, was 1623 (up 161).
Prospects seem encouraging despite
stiff competition, intensified by a strong
'campaign by coal interests to prevent a
complete domination of the fuel market
by petroleum products.
; At this stage H. C. Sleigh seems com-
mitted to pursuing an independent
policy. The group remains vulnerable
to a takeover offensive by overseas
capital, but political implications make
such a move appear unlikely at this stage.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 13s. 9d. for an immediate return
°f4.5 p.c. on the basis of the steady 12i
Pc. dividend distribution. The 2s. 6d. paid
contributing ords. were traded for 9s. 6d.
a unit. The 10s. conv. notes fetched
14s. 3d. for an immediate yield of 4.6
Pc. and the 20s. conv. notes 375. 6d., to
return 4 p.c. The ss. 6 p.c. prefs.
changed hands at 4s. 10d., to return
W p.c. p .a.
McDowells, Ltd.
on February 28, 1961,
McDowells’ trading in the fourth
quarter of last term felt the impact of
cderal Government’s and Reserve
ank’s restrictive fiscal policies. This was
Partially offset by a successful Christmas
Period.
th^ n e w hole, the rate of growth of
e retail industry was slowed down and
earnings dampened. Inventories built
up. But McDowells seemed to do well
enough, with another record turnover
and a substantially higher earning rate.
Incorporated in New South Wales as
McDowell and Hughes Ltd in 1912, and
reconstructed and re-registered under the
present name in 1920, McDowells Ltd
is a busy and prosperous Sydney retailer,
trading from a strategically situated
department store on the corner of George
and King Streets in the centre of the
city.
Last year, the installation of several
new departments and changes in others
resulted in improved shopping facilities,
more buyers and bigger sales.
Turnover was not disclosed. Con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
February 28, 1961, rose by £27,377 to
£139,990, after paying directors' fees
(£3400), providing £IO,OOO for deprecia-
tion (down £300) and setting aside an
undisclosed amount for tax:
, Dividends —, To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1948 .. 87,737 8 „ 15 „ 44.709 43,028 332,063
1949 .. 89,530 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 44,821 377,484
1950 .. 70,868 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 26.159 403,643
From tax provision, £58,545 .. .. 462,188
Reserves capitalised, £58,545 . . . . 403,643
1951 .. 78,910 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491 25.419 429,062
1952 .. 72,187 8 „ 15 „ 53,490 18,697 447,759
1953 .. 70.398 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 16,907 404,666
1954 ..101,330 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 47,839 512,505
1955 . ,122.022 8 ~ 15 „ 53,491 68,531 581,036
Assets revalued, £175,635 .. ..756,671
1956 ..110,213 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491-56,722 813,393
Reserves capitalised, £175,635 .. .. 637,758
Share premiums, £117,090 .. .. 754,848
1957 . .106,023 8 p.c. 10.p.c. 90,081 15,942 770,790
Parent and Subsidiary.
Net ad lition on consolidation after de-
ducting; intangibles . . . . . . 828,029
1958 .. 97.251 8 p.c. 12 J p.c. 81,299 15.952 843,981
1959 .. 99,366 8 p.c 124p.c. 81,299 18,067 862,048
Net addition reserves, £1 .. .. 862,049
1960 . .112,613 8 p.c. 12|p.c. 81,299 31.314 893,303
To prov. branch store development,
£20,000 ..873,363
1961 . .139,990 8 p.c. 121p.c. 81,299 58,691 932,054
* After deducting intangibles, £7346 at 28/2/61.
This represented an earning rate of 21.6
p.c. on the average ord. capital (after
paying the unchanged preference divi-
dend), compared with 17.4 p.c. in 1960,
15.3 p.c. in 1959, 14.9 p.c. in 1958 and
17.7 p.c. in 1957.
The steady 12y p.c. ordinary dividend
rate absorbed £81,299, leaving £58,691 to
reserves.
During this term new stores will be
opened at Hornsby and Caringbah,
Sydney outer suburbs. “In view of the
prevailing economic climate . . . directors
deem it prudent to make some further
provision for the future, out of profits
of the year under review. Accordingly,
they recommend that the sum of £20,000
be set aside in a new . . . provision for
branch-store development.”
The new provision reduced accumu-
lated consolidated reserves and undistri-
buted profits by £20,000 to £932,054,
after deducting £7346 intangibles.
Liquidity was a shade better. Theoreti-
cal working capital increased by £11,047
to £56,749.
Stocks rose by £30,207 to £324,478.
Book debts were £79,354 higher at
£364,231.
Bank accommodation increased by
£19,671 to £76,096. Deposits were con-
siderably lower. Creditors rose by
£71,265
Paid capital remained unchanged at


£653,996 in 10,000 20s. prefs. and 643,996
20s. ords., are fully paid:
Consolidated Accounts.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
I>ref .. £lO,OOO £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
Ord .. 643,996 643,996 643,996.
Reserves .. 862,048 893,363 982,054
Mortgage .. 232,000 182,000 174,000
Overdraft .. 60,188 56,425 76,096
Deposits .. 57,356 105,13/ 63,666
Prov. branch store
development . . 20,000
Creditors . . 219,115 213,004 284,269
Tax provision . . 122,613 130,839 153,295
Final div. .. 48,700 48,700 48,1 00
£2,256,016 £2,283,464 £2,406,076
Freeholds . . . 1,294,861 1,301,633 1,303,157
Plant . • • 259,598 258,293 271,024
Stocks .. .. 289,704 294,271 324,473
Mortgage . . 60,000 60,000 60,000
Shares other cos.,'
etc, . . . . 54,286 63,731 69,120
Debtors . . . . 272,645 284,877 364,231
Cash, etc. . . 24,922 20,659 14,066
£2,256,016 £2,283,464 £2,406,076
As with all other retailers, McDowells’
prospects depend largely on the general
economic conditions, particularly in
N.S.W. So far progressive changes in
methods of city transport have favored
the company, which has remained in the
centre of the commercially valuable
business sector.
Expansion into Hornsby and Caring-
bah is an interesting venture. These two
rapidly growing Sydney suburbs, on the
far north and south fringes of the
N.S.W. capital, have become major
shopping centres, serving many thou-
sands of customers. However, competi-
tion is severe and it is imprudent to
expect quick profits. The company’s
financial structure seems solid.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
fetched an impressive 575. a unit. The
immediate yield is 4.4 p.c. p.a. on the
basis of the steady 12/ p.c. dividend rate.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at £l5B 12s. Id. lor each 20s. pref. and
495. for each 20s. ord. unit.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
HThe Sydney-registered spice miller and
rice merchant had a disappointing
year, , despite favorable expectations
earlier in the term. The lifting of import
restrictions increased competition and
dampened earning rates. Actual group
turnover improved, but lower profit
margins and rising costs halved consoli-
dated net earnings. Dividend rate on the
unchanged one-class capital was reduced
from 9 p.c. to 7 p.c. p.a.
Founded 61 years ago, the Waters
Holdings Ltd organisation now com-
prises the holding company (which holds
all the issued capital in the operating
Waters Trading Co. Pty) and two smaller
subsidiaries, Mex Cereal Co. Ltd
(Adelaide) and Barossa Valley Co. Ltd
(Tanunda), both in South Australia.
Commodity prices fell steadily during
the year. The profit advantage of
fluctuating markets could not be utilised.
Many large buyers operated on indent,
instead of drawing on stockists, such as
Waters Holdings.
All subsidiaries “operated profitably”
except Mex Cereal Co. Ltd, which
showed a loss on the year’s trading
“because of inadequate supplies of field
peas, caused by the severe drought con-
ditions which prevailed in South Aus-
tralia during 1959-60.”
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended March 31, 1961, decreased by
£52,387 to £51,899, after providing £4442
for depreciation (down £2759) and setting
aside £26,900 for taxation (down
£26,089):
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiary.
March Profit. r~ —Dividends Deficit.*
31, £ £ £
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale assets, £3411 . . 243,282
1952 .. 72,232 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff tund, £2500 .. .. ) Ifis (\za
1953 .. 79.356 6 p.c. = 36,930 j 100, 0
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. t ino 976
1954 .. 107,440 7i p.c. = 46,162 ( °
1955 . . 67,506 7j „ „ 46,162 87,932
Profit sale assets, £17,915 .. 70,017
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 1 cc 909
1956 .. 63,446 7$ p.c. = 46,161 j 00,0
To staff fund, £2500 .. . . f 991179
1957 .. 90,201 8 p.c. = 56.112/
Reduction intangibles, £10,134. . 13,539
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiaries,
Reserves.*
1958 .. 117,218 9 p.c. = 64,383 39,296
1959 . . 81,876 9 „ „ 64,627 56,545
To staff fund, £2150 .. .. 54,395
1960 .. 104,286 9 p.c. = 64,628 94,053
To staff fund, £2150 .. . . 91,903
1961 . . 51,899 7 p.c. = 1,634 93,537
* After allowing for intangibles, £199,861 at 31/3/61.
The earning rate on the average capital
declined from 14.5 p.c. to 7.2 p.c., barely
covering the reduced 7 p.c. (down from
9 p.c.) dividend rate. This compares with
11.4 p.c. in 1959, 16.4 p.c. in 1958, 12.8
p.c. in 1957 and 10.3 p.c. in 1956.
After covering the £50,265 dividend
cheque, reserves benefited by a meagre
£1634, rising to £93,537 (after allowing
for £199,861 intangibles). This gave a
net tangible asset backing of 225. 7d. for
each of the 718,085 20s. fully-paid ords.
The fall in earnings affected liquidity.
Theoretical working capital fell by
£39,301 to £128,836. Current stocks at
balance date appeared at £645,745 (up
£22,973), and “were comparable with last
year’s (1960) holdings.” Stocks were
valued at replacement costs, and included
a substantial tonnage of Australian
agricultural produce prepared for export.
Creditors were £65,214 higher at
£778,639:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £718,085 £718,085 £718,085
Reserves .. .. 256,406 293,914 293,398
StTfflund } 481 ,305 713,425 778,639
Suspense A/c . . 642 42
Final div. . . 32,314 32,314 17,952
£1,488,110 £1,758,380 £1,808,116
Freeholds . . .. 427,262 458,830 473,267
Plant, etc. . . 156,100 160,887 166,926
Shares ’. . . 24,926 24,926 42,635
Stock .. .. 422,439 622,772 645,74.3
Debtors . . . . 249,961 290,169 276,151
Cash ... 196 935 3,531
Suspense a/c .. 7,359
Intangibles . . 199,861 199,861 199,861
£1,488,110 £1,758,380 £1,808,116
* Includes tax-provision, overdraft, etc.
Freeholds (up £14,437) and plant (up
£6039) appeared at higher book values.
The fifth stage of “progressive modernisa-
tion” of the co.’s freehold property at
Richmond (Vic.) is nearing completion.
This will enable the rented stores in the
centre of Melbourne to be vacated, with
some anticipated subsequent savings in
operating costs.
Mr T. A. J. Playfair, the co. s chair-
man, reports that action has been taken
to reduce operating costs. Current term
has commenced with “substantially
reduced overheads.”
Unless the Government introduces
some degree of import control during
current term, Waters Holdings and other
eastern produce merchants will f ace
another difficult year. However, the co’s
financial structure has not been damaged
and, in better circumstances, earnings
may improve.
Last traded in Sydney just below par at
195., the 20s. ords. look interesting
The immediate yield is a high 7.4 p.c. on
the basis of the present 7 p.c. dividend
rate. It is too early to speculate about a
definite return to the 9 p.c. dividend
distribution this year, but on that basis
the immediate return would have been
9.2 p.c.
Yates Seeds, Ltd.
Warnings of the Sydney - registered'
Yates Seeds Ltd have followed a I
rather erratic course since the co. opened
its share register to the public in 1951,
but the average showing has been more
than satisfactory, a steady 10 p.c. div„
laced with a 24 p.c. anniversary bonus
in 1958 and stepped up to 121 p.c. last
term —the 12 months to February 28,
1961 —enabling reinvestment in the busi-
ness of almost 40 p.c. of total profits won,
in the last five years.
Well known to the home gardener as j
a grower and merchant of flower and!
vegetable seeds, the 78-year-old Yates
organisation also enjoys an extensive
trade in agricultural seeds {pasture grass,
clover, lucerne, maize, etc.), bulbs,
nursery supplies and garden sundries. ,
Branches in Melbourne and Brisbane I
assist in the wholesale and retail distribu-,
tion of the group’s products throughout I
Australia, exports (particularly to the
Pacific Islands and Far East) helping to
swell total income.
There have been no changes in the
one-class share capital since the public
issue in 1951, the scrip issued at that time,
at a 12/ p.c. premium, raising paid capital i
to £258,015.
Latest results are a reflection of in-
creased turnover accorded the group as
a whole. All the subsidiary cos., Arthur
Yates and Co. Pty (the main subsidiary),
Arthur Yates Seed Growers Pty and
Guy Yates Pty, showed profits and “all
divisions of our main subsidiary operated
successfully.” Consolidated net profit
came home, finally, a much improved
£48,821 (up £9655) after tax £29,936 (up
£9798) and depreciation £14,479 (down
£1559). Expenses were carefully con-
trolled, overall increases measuring up
insignificantly:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re I
Feb., Profit. —Dividends —serves. serves. I
£££ C I
1954.. 49,956 10 p.c. = 25,801 24,15 5 69,69 I
1955.. 55,464 10 „ ~25,802 29,662 99,36 i
Tax overprovided, £5OOO .. .. 104,36
1956.. 28,715 10 p.c. = 25,802 107,2'L
Profit sale assets, £825 .. .. 108,Wj
1957.. 44,394 10 p.c. = 25,802 18,592 126,69 I
Loss assets, £4?88 .. •• 122,30
1958. . 06,974 12£p.e.=32,253 33,721 15W‘(
Tax overprovided, £4821 .. .. I6oi6jfl
Profit sale assets, £3572 .. .. 164,11 I
Less research donation, £2500 .. 161,91 f
1959.. 37,670 10 p.c. = 25,802 11,868 lwjfi
Capital profit, £978 .. .. I'R',, ;
1960.. 39,166 10 p.c. = 25,802 13,364' 188,1'
Tax underprovided, £1325 . . . l^'Sj
1961.. 48,821 . 124p.c = 32,252 1 6,56 9 203,3"
The 12/ p.c. div, was easily covered
earnings coming in at the rate of 18 9 p c
on share capital, as against 15 2 P- C:
14.6 p.c, 25 6 p.c., 17.2 p.c. and H 1
p.c. in the five years back to 1956.
Undistributed profits and reserves, f re(
of intangibles, totalled £203,371 M


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows
■* '-w <y
•:->••:
V
ii
SB
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
4113 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
REID
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,000,000 ISSUE AT PAR
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
8 Vtf>
7Vi%'
7%~
P.A.
4% , _;
P.A.
5 YRS.
2 YEARS
..... 1 YEAR
6 MONTHS
3 MONTHS
.... AT CALL
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
f}5?44) at close of the
accounts ; after offsetting tax
underprovided in the previous
year, £1325.
Ploughed back profits play a
major role in the co.’s finances.
Mortgage liability was reduced
last term (down £28,600 at
£16.500). bank overdraft also
(down £21,670 at £72,159), and
creditors, too (down £21,670 at
£72,159):
Consolidated Balanc.e-siieet.
1959. 1960. 1961,
St St £,
Pail capital. . 258,015 258,015 258,016
Reserves .. 173,785 188,127 203,371
Mortgage .. 46,200 45,100 16,500
Overdraft . . 30,567 23,019 10,929
Creditors 70,777 93,829 72,159
Snndrv pro-
visions, etc. 49,586 49,166 49,134
Tas provision 66,249 36,308 51,256
Final div. .. 12,901 12,901 19,351
714,080 708,465 680.715
Fifeholds .. 224.158 225,224 220,485
Plant . . 78,811 70,539 08,005
Investments . . 891 1,015 . 773
Stocks .. 293,034 271.340 204,414
Book-debts .. 117,186 140,341 180,978
714,080 708,465 680,715
Liquidity is satisfactory,
theoretical working capital
slipping £11,901 to £182,563.
Stocks, conservatively valued,
fell £66,932 to £204.414. Book
debts were higher (up £40,637
at £180,978).
The co. continues its policy
of devoting considerable atten-
tion to research and testing—
Yates recently acquired 25
acres of land on long lease at
Castle Hill (N.S.W.) to estab-
lish a new research station —
and last term, in December, the
co. acquired the business of the
well-known Gro-Plus ferti-
lisers and associated garden
chemicals.
Profits are expected to be
maintained at a satisfactory
level during the present year
and so far sales have continued
an upward trend.
The 20s. ords, each backed
by 355. 9d. of net tangibles, at
balance date, are currently
trading around 355. on
Change. A month ago, they
were fetching 325. ; six months
ago they sold as high as 38s.
There are prospects of short-
term capital gain pending
sharemarket recovery. Imme-
diate yield works out a not
unreasonable 5.7 p.c.
COMPANY NOTES
General Industries
Qeneral Industries Ltd is
raising its ordinary dividend
tor the year ended February 28,
to 5 p.c., compared with
I. Pc. in the previous term,
/his follows a further recovery
1(1 consolidated net profit, which
rose by £83,623 to £415,002,
Wording to a preliminary an-
nouncement.
1 I* 12 .Sydney-based General
industries group is a manufac-
u,er of various agricultural,


%
Your investment
backed by the
resources
, of..
cr
o
o
5
Y *4*
S
I
o
2
O
55? Hi
>
****
9
$
O
o
m
2*t*t
m
'REGISTERED
FIRST
DEBENTURE
\ STOCK /
Australia's
largest Radio, TV and Electrical
Retailers.
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY A
YOUR MONEY EARNS <1
THESE LIBERAL RATES
SHORT
TERM
„ 3 MONTHS
NOTICE
51% P.A.
6 MONTHS
NOTICE
7% P.A.
12 MONTHS
NOTICE
8% P.A.
LONG
TERM
4 YEARS
8% P.A.
5 AND 6
YEARS
81% P.A.
7 TO 20
YEARS
9% P.A.
Assets
Exceed
£24,000,000
Applications will be accepted
only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus.
Trustees for Debenture Stockholders:
The M.L.C. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Investments in short term stock ore for an indefinite period. Repay-
ment is obtained by giving notice selected on the application form.
WHERE TO INVEST:
• Registered Office
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown,
N.S.W.
• Any H. G. Palmer Showroom
• ANY BRANCH OF:
Australia & New Zealand
Bank Limited.
The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co.,
9-11 Hunter Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: V inton Smith, Dougall &
Co., 401 Collins St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Ernest H. Corser, Hen-
derson & Hale, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUST.: Woodhead, Needham
& Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
TASMANIA: H. W. Bayley & Co.,
A.M.P. Building, cnr. entrance Collins
and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart.
WEST AUST.: Geo. H. Newtown,
Fuller & Co., 105 St. George's Terrace,
Perth.
POST THIS
COUPON TODAY
To: H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Limited,
321-5 Chapel Road, Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send without cost or obligation one copy of the
prospectus to.
NAME
ADDRESS
Positions Vacant
HONG KONG
Scientific Officer (Medical) who
would be responsible to the Govern-
ment Pathologist, required for work
in biochemistry section of Govern-
ment Institute of Pathology and for
duties connected with training of
technologists. Candidates must
possess Honours degree in Science
(Biochemistry) of a British Univer-
sity and have had one year's post-
graduate experience in a hospital
clinical biochemistry laboratory.
Appointment on permanent basis
with pension (non-contributory).
Salary scale £1350 to £2865 Ster-
ling per annum. Income tax at local
rates Government quarters nor-
mally provided at nominal rental.
Passages for officer, wife and chil-
dren not exceeding five passages in
all. Application forms from
Professor Z. Cowen,
University of Melbourne,
Parkville, N. 2, Victoria.
Public Notice
Lake view and star
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND
No. 92
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Directors have declared an
INTERIM DIVIDEND in respect
of the year .ending June 30, 1961,
of ONE SHILLING sterling per
share, less United Kingdom Income
Tax at Standard Rate in force at
date of payment, namely May 31,
1961.
The Transfer Books will be
closed from April 28 to May 1,
both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on April
27, 1961.
Net Dividend payable to non-
resident Shareholders entitled to
United Kingdom tax exemption is
ELEVEN DECIMAL POINT
SEVEN FOUR EIGHT PENCE
sterling per share, if there is no
change in rate of tax as result of
United Kingdom Budget and this
rate of Dividend will apply to all
exemption authorities received for
Dividend.
For—LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED,
R. C. BUCKETT,
Attorney.
Fimiston, W.A.
April 7, 1961.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
commercial and industrial heat-
ing equipment, domestic metal
ware, hospital ware, lighting
and radio towers, etc., and
operates through six main sub-
sidiaries. In addition, the
group holds shares in Metters
(N.Z.) Ltd and a half-interest in
Admiral of Aust. Pty Ltd.
At the last sale in Sydney the
20s. ords. changed hands below
par at 15s. 6d. a unit. The im-
mediate return is 6.5 p.c. If
the recovery in earnings con-
tinues the scrip may prove in-
teresting at this price in the
long run. However, the credit
squeeze may dampen turnover
and profits in current term,
especially through its effect on
the building industry.
OIL AND MINING
Santos Ltd
TAirectors of Santos Ltd and
Delhi Australian Petroleum
Ltd have announced that the
drilling rig and equipment are
being moved to Mornington
Island in the Gulf of Carpen-
taria for the drilling of a test
well.
A drilling contract has been
signed with Mines Administra-
tion Pty for use of their
National T-32 rig on the pro-
ject. “Present plans call for the
well to be spudded early in
May. The well is projected to
a depth of 6000 ft., and will be
the first exploratory well to be
drilled in this area, which is
considered to be a sedimentary
basin having a similar geo-
logical history to the Great
Artesian Basin.”
Woodside Oil Co. N.L.
VX/oodside (Lakes Entrance)
* * Oil Co. N.L. reports that
the seismic survey now being
carried out by Austral Geo-
prospectors on behalf of the
company in the Lake Welling-
ton trough in Gippsland (Vic.)
“is progressing very sacisfac-
torily. Excellent records are
being obtained and particularly
good progress has been made
to date.”
So far the survey has dis-
closed the presence of an anti-
clinal structure at depth, on
present indications about five
miles long by two miles wide.
The site for a test well will be
selected on completion of the
survey.
Oil Development N.L.
/"Vil Development N.L. re-
ports that the Penola No
1 Well in South Australia
advanced 350 feet to a depth
of 4890 feet. Cores were taken
at 4600 to 4619 feet, and 4766
to 4776 feet. The section con-
sisted mainly of mudstone and
siltstone with some interbedded
sandstones.
The gas sniffer indicated a
rise in hydrocarbon content of
the drilling mud from 4596 feet
Core taken from 4600 to 4619
feet included a few feet of low
porosity sandstone from which
some bubbling of gas was evi-
dent when taken from the core
barrel.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
How- should a turkey be carved
Should a chicken be carved in the
same way ? ...
When carving a turkey the legs
should first be removed, and the
meat, from the upper half only ol
the legs, cut in vertical slices. T hen
either remove the wing with a part
of the breast before slicing the
breast meat, or start to carve the
breast meat straight away. The
breast should be carved in long,
thin slices. With a chicken the legs
should be cut in half after they
have been removed and the wing
taken with part of the breast. With
very small birds it is olten more
convenient to cut them in half, as
with squabs.
« * • *
What is the legend of St
Catherine of the Wheel ?
The legend is that she was
martyred by the Emperor Maxi-
minus, because of her attempts to
convert him. She first pleaded
with the Emperor, who could not
answer her arguments and sent
scholars to argue with her. These
her arguments defeated also, and
when the Empress tried to reason
with her both she and a Roman
general who accompanied her were
converted. She was ordered to be
broken on the wheel, but it broke
at her touch. The axe proved
fatal, and her body was taken by
angels to Mt Sinai. A variation of
the legend says that she was taken
to Heaven in vision and betrothed
to Christ by the Virgin Mary.
Whatever the truth of the legend
her existence is not denied, and she
was a popular saint in the middle
ages and the patron saint of wheel-
wrights.
What is the Church of the
Brethren ?
The Church of the Brethren is a
Christian church which began in
Westfalen province, Germany, in
1708 as a result of the Pietist move-
ment. The Pietists withdrew to the
mountains of Witgenstein after
persecution for their faith, which
was founded on a revolt against the
formal religion of the State
churches. It was not for some
years that some of the Pietists, led
try Alexander Mack, formed a
church. They were then, and until
1908, called the German Baptist
Brethren. The mother church was
at Schwarzenau and two others
were established at Marienborn and
.vie felt.
Persecution followed the forma-
tion of a proper church, and this
led to their almost complete migra-
tion to Pennsylvania, which was
nearly complete by 1740. Mission-
ary work began in 1876, with a
mission to Denmark, and missions
became established in India, China
and Nigeria, apart from home
missions. The church quickly
spread in America.
In 1732 the Ephrata Society was
founded by Conrad Beissel, a former
member of the Church of the
Brethren, but the Society has little
in common with the original church.
In 1881 a small, conservative group
calling themselves the Older
Brethren left the church. They
believed neither in missions, Sunday-
schools or higher education. A
larger, this time more progressive,
body left in 1882, who are called
the Brethren Church, or, popu-
larly, the Progressive Brethren.
When the Church of the Brethren
was first established, those early
Pietists took the New Testament
as the basis of their faith, and
followed it literally, recognising as
its main doctrines those of Peace,
Temperance, the Simple Life and
Brotherhood. Religion meant obedi-
ence to the teachings of Christ
rather than creeds and formal
worship, though baptism and com-
munion were adhered to. The
Church of the Brethren is to be
distinguished from another group
of Pietists who settled in Penn-
sylvania and who, in 1862, took
the name Brethren in Christ.
* * * *
When did Peru achieve independ-
ence from the Spanish ?
The Spanish viceroy at Lima
withdrew on the arrival, in Sep-
tember, 1820, of the Argentine
General San Martin with an Argen-
tine and Chilean army. The
independence of Peru was pro-
claimed in Lima on July 28, 1821.
San Martin established a protec-
torate until September 20, 1822,
when the first congress of Peru
became the sovereign power. The
first president was elected the next
year (Jose de la Riva Agiiero), but
was unsuccessful in completely
destroying all Spanish power, which
was eventually achieved in 1824 by
Bolivar. Upper Peru was declared
an independent republic (Bolivia)
■n 1825.
* *
What is the meaning of Camorra,
which seems generally to be a term
of abuse ?
Camorra is an Italian word which
is an equivalent to English “crook”
or “thug.” The origin of the word
itself is probably from the Spanish
word of that spelling meaning a
quarrel, and the origin of its
present meaning dates from the
early 19th-century Italian secret
society of this name.
This society was an interesting
one which began as an organisation
amongst prisoners in Naples and
became a highly organised criminal
group, run by released prisoners
and often abetted by merchants,
even Princes. Its activities grew
from robbery to smuggling and
blackmail, and it flourished without
Government opposition until in
1848, it became political. Till the
end of the 19th century its power
gradually diminished, and the
famous Cuocolo murder case of
1911, when about -0 members
leceived heavy sentences, des-
it.
. , * "
W hat is the e^ ,ent °f the ruins
of Persepohs? When was the city
ooilt ■
Persepohs, an ancient Iranian
city, was built by Darius 1 (521-485
b.c.). He built there a magnificent
temple and his tomb, and another
temple was built by his son Xerxes.
Because the city was too remote to
b’e a useful centre lor government,
it gradually became neglected but
it was defended as late as 330 b.c.
against Alexander the Great.
Alexander sacked and burnt the
city after he had successfully met
the resistance.
The site is marked by a large
terrace whose east side leans against
the “Mount of Grace.” The other
three sides are formed bv a retain-
ing wall; on the west side a large
double stair leads to the top. On
the terrace are the ruins of a
number of huge buildings, all con-
structed of "marble from the
adjacent mountain, with a few tall
columns still standing. Behind the
terrace are the tombs of seven
kings, hewn from the rock face.
* * * *
What were me voting figures for
the two conscription referendtuns
held during World War I?
In the first referendum, held on
October 28, 1916, three States and
a majority of voters rejected the
proposal. New South Wales,
Queensland and South Australia
were the “No” Slates and the total
figures “Ye5”—1,087,557;
"No 1,160,033.
The second referendum was held
on December 20, 1917, when the
same three States and Victoria, and
an even larger general majority,
voted “No. lhe total figures
were : "Ye5’—1,015,159; “No' —-
1,181,747.
*. *
What battle, or uprising, in Eng-
land was known as Peterloo ?
Peterloo, or the Manchester
Massacre, was the name given to a
meeting in St Peter’s Fields, Man-
Chester, in 1819, which was forcibly
broken-up by charges of horsemen,
with a huge loss of life,
T h e meeting was held to demand
Parliament reform, and about 60,000
people attended. None was armed
and there was no suggestion of any
riot, but the magistrates, apparently
fearing something of the sort,
ordered the Manchester yeomanry
to seize the spea kers. The yeo-
manry, an untrained group, did not
stop aL but charged the crowd,
cutting them down with lheir
sabres
The c h a irman of the bench of
magistrates then ordered the 15th
Hussars and the Cheshire
yeomanry also to charge, with the
result lhat at kast 6(K) were kll | ed
nr W mmHed
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 640
Across
I—Executive who handles the brass? (7, 7)
7—Foreshadowing a sailor who’s speechless! (11)
10—It holds screenings, according to road-makers. (3)
11 — Generals who aren't afflicted like
7-across? (8. 5)
12— Depth determinable by this item
not to be confused with 11-
across. (8, 4)
16 —Time in plenty, (anagram) (12)
21—Negatived native rover drops
over the unhandsome part of our
country. (8, 5)
23 — Tile age of a Hardy heroine. (7)
24 — Ruler. (7)
25 — Stockmen who make better red
laces. (6-8)
Down
1 — King George (current one) has
nothing like this movement. (8)
2 Disastrous to marry on this,
though unbored for a change. (7)
3 A right which is foreign. (5)
4 Arab leg injured a subject. (7)
5 Runs sex art quite improperly. (6)
6 Coarse dozen by itself. (5)
8 — Open. (6)
9 An immortal poet of centuries
ago, and before movement. (7)
13 — Stationery achievement of a
hen? (4, 5)
14 — Way a dominion gets a part of
poem. (6)
15 — Ghastly’s the word for this New-
castle enterprise. (8)
j 7 —Least generous crossword-maker
on a hatchery? (7)
18— out with them with a neat
change. (7)
19 — Weaves an offence to any nose
which is turned up. (5)
20 — Pal Sam injured—this might help
if the injury's serious. (6)
22—Give a fine speech nothing to
tax. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 639


: -
■
* ■
ST
1.
■
>■■: : :
il
hy
W I
:-A
1
V
WBKKKk
m
mm
A
u
I
Wmßmm
m
I!
W
■■-■■■
.
i--:"
mmtsf
;,X->>.,; ..
:
/
'
Wmm
■■-■■' '
DIVERSITY
Atlantic and Esso have something to do with just about everything . . . from
hurricane lamps to solid propellent research for long-range rockets. There’s an
Atlantic or Esso petroleum product used in virtually every branch of industry.
Atlantic, through affiliation with world-wide Esso, can help in your business. Call on
Atlantic’s Advisory Service for a preliminary informal talk.
Atlantic and Esso products include Motor Spirits, Solvents, Waxes, Power and
Lighting Kerosenes, Diesel Fuels, Process Oils, Lubricating Oils, Home Heating
Oils, Fuel Oils, Liquid Petroleum Gases, Petroleum Resins and Synthetic Rubbers.
(mum
an affiliate of world-wide
Esso
Atlantic Union Oil Company Pty. Ltd., 66 Pitt Street, Sydney, and State branches.
t * < t
2214/FP
