

The Bulletin
"The Coming Drought” — page 34
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
February 15, 1961
Price 1/-
WHAT’S
HAPPENING
TO RADIO
PAGE 13
Mistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper..


WANTED
MSS. OF ALL KINDS
There is an unlimited market in Aus-
tralia for well-written work make
your pen pay!
Learn how to translate your ideas
into successful stories, articles, radio
plays, etc., by studying under the guid-
ance of STOTT’S experienced Literary-
Instructors.
For free Prospectus about Stott’s
Literary Courses, mail the coupon to-
day.
ue
159 Hinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagli St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 251 Murray
St., Perth.
—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 461)
The Red Page
The Nude and The Abstract
By NORMAN LINDSAY
The Nude. Kenneth Clark. Pelican,
15s. V
Kenneth Clark’s book ends on a
formula common to all such works
dealing with the past masterpieces of
painting and sculpture. It begins with
the Greeks, covers the Renaissance,
touches on the eighteenth-century
painters and arrives at the nineteenth-
century via Ingres to the Impressionist
movement with examples from Manet,
Courbet and Renoir. There it abruptly
jerks downward to a couple of the
products of Matisse and Picasso.
Kenneth Clark is a disciple of Beren-
son, the most authoritative opinion on
plastic values who has ever affirmed
them by the written word. And Beren-
son. contemplating the deliberate dis-
tortions of form by Picasso and Matisse
and their like, foresaw in them a threat
to civilisation which might yet lead to
another dark age such as that which
culminated in the distortions practised
by medieval painters and sculptors,
with humanism thrown overboard in a
holocaust of gargoyles, devils, hellfire
and the damned.
That threat remains. There may be
a few artists of quality, such as Anni-
goni, practising today, but they are not
accepted as having any significance to
the movement labelled contemporary
art which is now being practised by the
whole studio world of students, who
constitute a minor population of this
earth's denizens. An ominous symptom
for moral economics to contemplate.
It must be accepted, therefore, that the
Picassos and their like are the salient
effect of a more-or-less universal state
of mind that has violently rejected the
most potent of all procedures which
have generated human consciousness:
that which relates the act of seeing with
the faculty of knowing. Roughly stated,
it means that a form must be known
before the eye can recognise it, or even
see it. <■:
Just consider the mechanism of the
human eye if you wish to realise what
a Picasso is trying to do to it. The
iris is merely a lense which focuses on
an external object and reflects it on
the retina, which is a two-sided mirror,
designed to absorb a thing seen and
re-project it by nerve ducts connected
with those brain cells which store a
knowledge of external phenomena.
Thus the mind is able to identify the
thing seen for whatever it may be in
the multitude of forms which mankind
has laboriously learned to recognise,
analyse and tabulate in its memory
cells. The whole faculty of thinking
is involved in this procedure of seeing
and knowing, and what we call civilisa-
tion is the effect of what capacity man-
kind has of thereby clarifying its
thought processes.
Very well, then, we must ask what
happens to those processes if the eye
is presented with some externality
which it cannot identify—something as
formless as the average product of
abstract art, or even as distorted as the
exhibits of a Picasso. The iris records
the thing seen, and the retina reflects
it. There the procedure stops. The
memory cells have no recorded data
which may identify the thing seen.
There is a hiatus between seeing and
knowing—a perfectly blank space.
Put aside any assumption that
aesthetics have anything to do with
contemporary art as defined by its
above addicts. What mankind must be
concerned for is its objective for form-
lessness as an end in itself, the logical
sequence of which is chaos. And don’t
submit to the illusion that the studio
world is the only section of humanity
to be impelled towards that objective.
If one selects a definitive word for
the mass mind today it must be “im-
patience,” which manifests itself by a
frenzied obsession for hurtling its body
through space with insensate speed.
Optimists see in this passion an in-
spired objective for conquering space,
which overlooks the simple physiologi-
cal law that wherever man moves
through space he must carry his own
space with him. Even if he lands on
the moon he will still be on earth.
However, I leave that aspect of his
obsession to fantasy adventure books
designed for small boys: in which
mental status the major portion of man-
kind “exists. The psychological impera-
tive of impatience is to throw off dis-
cipline; and to arrive swiftly at an
objective without effort and without
toil. The long struggle to sustain a
civilised concept of life, which can
only be done by intensive thought and
a practised control of the physical
reflexes, has become too much for
human endurance. It wishes to get
the whole thing done and done with,
and it has arrived at the power to do
that very thing. The atomic bomb is
the logical inevitability of formlessness
in art. It merely substitutes physical
chaos for its mental equivalent.
If there was any connective link
between contemporary art. or post-
impressionism as it first labelled itself,
there might be some hope that out of its
frenetic experimentalism a new aesthetic
impetus w'ould be begotten. There is
no such hope. There has never yet
been a seemingly new movement in art
which did not derive from a preceding
one. The impressionist movement got
its impetus from Constable, conveyed to
France by Delacroix, while Manet's
study of Spanish art added to it the
influence of Valasquez and Goya. In
both Manet and Degas, the two big
figures of the impressionist movement,
Delacroix is the focal point who
brought all other influences to bear
on the handling of brushwork.
There is no part in post-impression-
ism of any link with the above move-
ment. It is a violent regression with
its attack on all technical virtuosity,
its formlessness, tonelessness. its
opacity to the existence of light itself,
and its obscurantism which is just out-
right buffoonery. In short, it skipped
the six thousand years of struggle by
which man achieved great mastership
in all the arts and found its genes : in
the negroid carvings and crude cave
scribblings of Palaeolithic man. When
Picasso acclaimed a distorted negro
carving as greater than a work by
Praxiteles he had announced that the
objective of post-impressionism was a
return to outright barbarism.
We scoff at such a fantastic
absurdity, conceived by a witless pro-
duct of a small group of Parisian art
students. And an absurdity it would
be if it had remained only at that
group. Its significance is that they
were merely the surface effect of a
state of mind which has penetrated
(Continued on page 26)


A disc by day...
a lamp by night.. •
SO:
a
1
■ *
m
X ■>:.
c
/!t
: a
wX*
sri
sssss
ICT*
***>
£&**?**>
i
s?rs
f
mm
OF2
&
&
ec
UJ
£—j
CO
SC
Co
<g
*
Right throughout the State, in the great lonely
stretches of the rural scene, unattended platforms stand
like travellers’ rests along the railway system. Many
of them you’ll not find on every map, for often no
roads or aeroplane strips touch here. But you will
find people.
To these people in lonely places, the Railways provide
essential services, many of which are financially
unrewarding but are maintained because service ,
rather than profit making, is the prime function of
the Railways.
Those same trains that a traveller may flag to a stop
at an unattended platform, are moving over a vast
network twenty-four hours in every day, carrying
mails, freight and people in a never-ending contribution
to the State’s prosperity and progress.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
srfafa


The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 15. 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4227
INDEX
COVER STORY
What’s Happening to Radio 13
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
U.S. Investment Coming ? ;
Cost of Divorce ; Choos-
ing the New Governor-
General 8
Political Points 11
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 32
Personal 16
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
The Engineers’ Revolt 18
The Umbali Massacre ' 45
Drunken Drivers and the Law 47
Australian School-days. No. 3:
G. Drake-Brockman 51
FICTION
Go To It, Madden, by Jack
Lusby 48
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
So Far So—What ? 40
Wild Cat Pages 56
LETTERS 53
MAN ON THE LAND
“The Coming Drought” 34
Curbing the Fire Terror 35
OVERSEAS
Castro or Democracy? 19
The Release of Djilas 20
Overseas Pointers 21
REVIEWS
The Red Page
The Nude and the Abstract 2
Verse 28
Shows 23
SPORT
Centres for Assimilation 37
Poaching for Players 38
John Schofield 39
WOMEN
Best Dressed ; Ideal Diet; At
the Top 30
NEXT WEEK
A 800 for Bradmania
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFTCE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Thousands for Art
over Australia money is being lavished on art, or at any rate art
competitions, as never before. Sydney has just seen, one after another
the Archibald, Wynne and Sulman competitions, now worth a total of
T 1020; the Journalists’ Club competition of £ 500; and, currently, the Blake
Prize in which the three awards total ,£5OO.
Soon there will be the Royal Show competitions for £ 1700; later the
Helena Rubinstein travelling scholarship, worth with competitions
galore in Sydney suburbs—Concord, Hunter’s Hill, Mosman, Rockdale—
for prizes around £2OO, and similar amounts on offer in such country
towns as Tumut, Maitland, Bathurst, Albury, Wagga and Grafton. Victoria
has—among heaven knows how many more—the Bendigo Prize, the Crouch
Memorial at Ballarat and the John McCaughey Memorial Prize of
In Adelaide there are the Cornell Prize of £5O and the Maud Vizzard
Wholohan Prize of £2OO. Perth has a prize for contemporary art and the
Claude Hotchin award. Up in Queensland the “Toowoomba Chronicle” is
to celebrate its centenary this year with (as well as literary prizes) art prizes
of and Brisbane gives the Johnsonian Club prize of 100 guineas and
the H. C. Richards Memorial of the same amount.
The grand total comes to thousands; yet how much is the average
individual artist getting out of all this? Mostly nothing; occasionally a few
pounds from a sale; rarely, for the lucky few, a handsome windfall which,
welcome though it is, only temporarily solves the artist’s great problem of
how to make a steady living practising his art without having to waste his
time in teaching or commercialism as most of them have to do.
The truth is that by and large artists are getting a very small share
of the general increase in income. The reason is simple. The average buyer,
the person who simply wants a picture to decorate his living-room, still
expects to buy his paintings cheaply—hence the popularity of the useless
ten-guinea shows.
The competitions do a great deal of good in stimulating public interest
in art; but the great trouble with them all is that only one man can win them.
They have other disadvantages, too. They stimulate a special kind of
competition painting, large and strident. They are an expensive sort of lottery
for the artist to go in for. And, above all, it is slightly degrading for the
artist to have to try to make his living by snatching a £5OO prize from his
fellows, and, what is worse, humiliating if he fails to snatch it.
For these reasons few of the competitions really succeed in their object
of attracting a high level of work from all over the Commonwealth. The
majority of artists don’t send in to them, or certainly don’t regularly send
in to all of them, and more and more the prizes tend to go to a few painters
willing to play the lottery.
One simple remedy would be for anybody who wants to spend money
on art to spend it at the ordinary exhibitions of the established societies:
split the or £lOOO up and, instead of giving one whacking prize witn
it, buy a dozen or two-dozen pictures. That would give an enormous fillip
to the societies, most of which are sadly in need of more sales. It would
encourage the public to buy more. It would help a great many more artists
to make a living and enable them to raise their prices a bit. And whoever
spent the money would have something permanent to show for it —a dozen
or more pictures to hang on whatever walls he chose.
If suburban councils and country towns still want to hold their own
exhibitions, as doubtless they would, the same principle could apply: dont
give one big prize, but buy a dozen paintings.


MR JUSTICE SPUD


Socity
He That Plays the King
Actors in the lona Passion Play that
is to tour Australia in March are
not professionals ; none of them con-
sidered himself worthy to play the leading
role.
*X* *X* ♦♦♦
Moomba ’6l
TV/Telbourne’s annual Moomba Festival
is all set to start moving on March
3. During its two-weeks run there will
be fishing contests, furlong races through
city streets by wine waiters, fluorescent-
lit ballet girls on water skis, power boat-
ing on the Yarra, a Mardi Gras, a soap-
box derby and a procession of 50 floats
sent out by city business houses and
other institutions and said to be worth
over £75,000.
As for culture, a nature show will
again replace the Book Fair in the
Lower Town Hall ; dramatic and other
ventures of highbrow cultural interest
will have to take their chance in such
beautifully equipped places as the Fitz-
roy Gardens.
Writers of letters to editors have
reacted to this customary emphasis on
Moomba gimcrackery and small-town
mediocrity in an equally customary way.
They have damned the festival as a
“farce,” a “product of smug bureaucratic
Philistinism” and a “pathetic affair” when
compared with such festivals as the one
held in Adelaide last year. But their
passionate suggestions of alternatives —
such as the replacement of Bing Crosby
by the aboriginal tenor Harold Blair
(Crosby, anyway, has since written to
the festival committee to say he is too
busy with a new film right now) have so
far achieved nothing.
The Book Fair has had a strange fate
since it was ousted last year from the
Lower Town Hall. It has now been
taken right out of the hands of its
founders, the Book Fair Council, and
placed under the control of a commercial
enterprise, Collins Book Depot. Despite
cries of “preposterous impertinence”
from the B.F.C.’s president, Dr Fabinyi,
“Same again, Mathers, and you might help here—do you have
any notion how the other half lives ?”
the Depot’s four city stores will have dis-
plays of Australian books and lectures
by local writers and craftsmen on all
aspects of the literary business.
❖ ❖ *
Dirt in Fashion
is chic for the sick, sick, sick
* this summer? In other words, what
do the beatniks, or their more conserva-
tive cousins, the off-beats, wear when the
hot weather has them beat?
Most of them cling to their swaddlin"
clothes of heavy black sweaters until the
last bearable moment. In the cool can-
yons of Kings Cross with the tempera-
ture in the nineties you can still see an
occasional beat stomping round in clothes
suitable for a Paris winter. But most of
them finally shed their second skin.
The male generally is more timorous
of losing the conventional trappings of
his unconventionality than the female.
The female compromises easily. For
summer she wears a black chiffon scarf
over her hair. She twists it round her
throat to tie in a knot at the back of the
neck. This is the only thing which sets
her apart. However, she generally wears
a very short, straight-up-and-down gar-
ment rather than the low-necked, many-
petticoated dress favored by the squares.
When members of the cult go to the
beach (although no true beat would ever
go so close to so much water) it’s not to
swim, but a proportion of the fringe does
go to 101 l about on the sand. After all,
the beach is a better place than most to
do nothing.
It's when you see them in the clear
light of day that you realise that the local
beats don’t just put up an appearance of
being dirty. They are dirty. ,
Dirt is a new fashion factor in Aus-
tralia. Until the summer most of us
naively believed that the local beats
looked like those in London or San
Francisco, but that they did wash. Aus-
tralians cling desperately to the idea that
we are physically cleaner than anyone
else. They might say our morals are
sha-bby, but, the average Australian
thinks, we do at least take showers.
However, observation at city beaches
shows that the beatnik fringe is prepared
to sacrifice all, including the shower, to
the cause. You see youths with filthy feet
thrust into filthy thongs. Girls don’t just
have untidy hair ; it’s matted with grime.
Many of them wear black jeans, and its
hard to be sure that they were black
originally.
“That’s the thing about jeans,’’ one
of them remarked. “You don’t have to
wash them. You can wear them until
they stand up.”
SOCIETY STILL OPEN
TSEADERS are reminded that the
Society pages are still open to con-
tributors of short, bright paragraphs
about city life in Australia. Pen-names
have been dropped, but rates of payment
have been lifted. All MSS. should hem
the contributor’s name and address.
Contributions will now be paid for on
publication; no claim need be lodged-
Outstanding claims for contributions
over the past year should be made ns
soon as possible.


Complex Complex
For many a year now Queensland has
held fast to the belief that it is the
Cinderella State, crucified by vaguely
specified “southern interests.” Trans-
planted to the field of sport, this neglect
complex has had a great airing since
controversial Queensland cricketer Ken
Mackay ’s match-saving stand in the
fourth Test.
A “bob-in” testimonial opened by the
“Courier-Mail” the following morning
has since raised a total of over £5OO and
brought a flood of correspondence indi-
cating deep-rooted antipathy to “southern
interests,” this time in the shape of
nationally-known commentators on the
game who had criticised Mackay’s selec-
tion. Mackay’s “miracle” stand has been
taken as routine proof of southern
antagonism.
The fact is that any testimonial for
saving the fourth Test should have gone
to Lindsay Kline, who was not supposed
to stay there, while Mackay was.
Forgotten also is the fact that Mackay,
with England’s Trevor Bailey, for years
now has represented the type of cricket
that is generally conceded to have killed
the game as a spectator sport—so much
so in Queensland itself that the State
has produced easily the worst gates of
the West Indies tour, with the farcical
attendance of 4000 on the last day of
the now legendary tie in the first Test.
❖ ❖
Sydney* s French
A look through recent columns or
birth notices in the Sydney daily
papers shows that, among others, the
name Denis is becoming very much more
popular than it used to be, Whatever the
reason for this, Denis seems a specially
suitable name for a Sydney child. The
reference books tell us that the name
Sydney itself is an Anglicised version of
France’s Saint Denis. Sydney even sounds
faintly like the French pronunciation of
Saint Denis—-roughly, “Sanda-nee.”
PERPETUAL motion
feathers no crow I know his nest;
The crow considers golf-balls best,
fje steals so many of them that
He’s always building habitat:
Each nest too full of Slazengers
And Dunlops to hold passengers,
He has to go and build anew.
The silly bird is never through.
IAN HEALY.
That was Society
Is the alderman of Disunited Sydney
dvilised, or is he a banshee or something
of the sort? At North Sydney last week
the consent of municipal Bumbledom was
asked for a subdivision by which a back-
yard was to be cut off from a house and
two new houses built on it. The result
would be three houses and three back-
yards—each of the latter being four feet
across. And the proposition was actually
approved! By all means let us have a
Greater Sydney. It may lead us to a
Greater Backyard, and it assuredly can’t
lead to a smaller one.
— “Bulletin”, June 5, 1913.
Vic. Labor-man Elmslie, in evidence be-
fore the Dominions Commission, plumped
for the nominated-passage system of im-
migration. But has he seen the nominated
passenger in his lair? The system is largely
a means of bringing into this country the
rejects of the emigration agencies. Bill
gets through and Percy doesn’t; but it’s
all right for Percy, as his friend Bill fixes
him up with a passage as soon as he gets
settled. Once Bill tells Percy to come
there is nobody to stop Percy from avail-
ing himself of the Government’s generos-
ity. In recent shipments of human cargo
to these parts, Bill’s friend has prepon-
derated greatly, and he is generally a van-
driver’s clerk or a hod-carrier’s amanuen-
sis, or something equally valuable to the
development of sunny Australia.
— “Bulletin”, May 29, 1913.
The recent lowering of the Melbourne-
to-Sydney motor record was written up
everywhere in heroic fashion. Two men
an d a moving gas engine had fled from
one large city in the ghost-walking hours,
an d had whirred and bounded over 572
miles of “bush road” in 19 hours and two
minutes. At the very end of their peril-
ous rush up and down hill, round hair-
raising turns, past and over real and
imaginary obstacles, they skimmed, on
scarred wheels and mud-caked wheels, into
—the next bloated metropolis! It is all
very splendid in a muddy, reckless fash-
ion, but, when all the mud has been
scraped off and the tyre bill paid, it is
merely a reminder of three dreary facts—
i.e., that it is a long way between cities in
Australia, that said cities are absurdly
bloated and expensive when you get to
them, and that the “bush” roads be-
them are d d bad.
—“Bulletin”, May 22, 1913.
I have discovered what keeps people
alive in those dingy houses. Sometimes it
is a black-leaded window-sill or a door-
stop, and other times a door-knob. Oppo-
site my humpy is a terrace of five cot-
tages. The windows are hung with fly-
blown lace curtains, and tousled-haired
youngsters are usually squashing their
noses against the glass. Cobwebs of a gen-
eration prevent any sun penetrating the
fanlights, and the varnish is coming off
the front doors in flakes. But each portal
is provided with a large brass knob. This
artful addition by the jerry builders keeps
the inhabitants from being rushed off
to the lunatic asylum or the jail too fre-
quently. At most times of the day a
female can be found attached to one or
other of the handles with a rag and some
polish, doing her best to make the knob
outshine the one next door. The woman
in the end house dropped out of the
competition recently, so I was not sur-
prised when she strangled herself effectu-
ally in the woodshed with a clothesline.
— “Bulletin”, May 8, 1913.
AWAY FROM IT ALL
/ was a bit astonished wl.en
The item met my gaze
That Yanks were training married men
For shooting into space :
It seemed a little far to roam
Merely to get away from home.
Yet sending single men up there
Might make the girls upset;
They’d say, “Don’t let them see we care —
They’re playing hard to get”;
While married men among the stars
Could just be going home to Mars.
Still, it’s unfair for men to go
And leave their wives in tears
When wives migk. be exalted to
The Music of the Spheres,
Replacing that outmoded vogue
With miles and miles of monologue :
“The moon is such a charming man . . .
I hope you’ve paid the rent . . .
Come up and see me if you can,
Or are you pleased l went . . . ?
It’s dry along the Milky Way,
And just as well; it’s washing
day . .
SWILLIAM


PLAIN ENGLISH
U.S. Investment Coming?
Every Australian State Government
' maintains an office or sub-department
which tries to attract overseas capital
to its particular realm. In recent years
most States have sent missions to the
U.S., Britain and Western Europe to
make first-hand contact with prospective
investors and to sell them on their State’s
economic attractions. In this activity
there is no difference between Liberal
and Labor Governments ; each tries to
lure the investor with dollars or pounds
sterling to spend. Victoria's Liberal
Premier, Mr Bolte, has been abroad to
woo captains of industry in the U.S. ;
the late Labor Premier of N.S.W., Mr
Cahill, did the same.
In the next few weeks the State
Premiers will be able to sit at home and
have the refreshing experience of an
American economic mission calling on
them. The mission, which has already
visited Canberra and Sydney, is headed
by Eugene J. Kaplan, a top official of
the U.S. Department of Commerce. It
includes a banker, a retailing expert and
leading figures from the chemical,
machine-tool and food industries.
Although it is described as a trade
mission, its six-weeks visit is certain to
stimulate the already rapid flow of
American investment into Australia.
The Americans are not here to con-
clude trade or other deals. They are
concerned with giving facts about Ameri-
can markets and with gathering informa-
tion about Australian business conditions
and opportunities. They wilt visit each
State capital with Melbourne (March
14-21) as their last call.
By this time the visitors should be well
aware of the keen rivalry between the
States once it is known that a new in-
dustry is looking for a site in Australia.
One very public example of this developed
around an American firm’s decision to
start a carbon-black industry in Australia
a few years back. The news was no
sooner out than it was faced with the
Governments of Victoria, N.S.W. and
W.A. trying to outbid each other with
offers of help to the infant industry if
the owners would locate it in their State.
Cost and availability of land, relative
labor costs, transport facilities, power
and water supply are some of the cards
played in these interstate investment con-
tests. In the carbon-black battle, Vic-
toria’s Mr Bolte started favorite and won.
The plant w'as built at Altona, on Port
Phillip Bay.
There are already just over a thousand
American firms with some kind of a stake
in the Australian economy. Often it is
a very small one, consisting of a licensing
agreement under which a local firm
manufactures an American product and
pays a royalty on each item produced.
At the other end of the scale are the
multi - million - dollar investments of
General Motors, Ford and Caltex.
In American eyes, Australia is fast
becoming one of the world's most attrac-
tive countries in which to invest. Some
of the reasons are obvious —our rapid
rate of economic growth, high living-
standards and the increasing local market
arising from population growth. Other
reasons for liking Australia have a more
novel ring—absence of graft among Gov-
ernment employees and our political
stability.
When these points are made they in-
variably come from firms which have
seen investments go down the drain as
a result of South American or Middle
East revolutions or which have conducted
business in countries where graft is so
common that bribes can be claimed as
income-tax deductions.
Cost of Divorce
T awyers in every State are becoming
angrier about the new rules of pro-
cedure in regard to the Matrimonial
Causes Act.
In the past few weeks they have been
exploding all over the place. One solicitor
said: “An average undefended suit under
the State Act could cost £9O to £lOO.
Under the new Act, with paper work
increased nine or ten times, it could be
about £150."
Similar unlawyer-like assertions are
being made throughout the Common-
wealth. So far, of course, this point of
view has hogged the headlines and only
a relatively small group has had anything
good to say about the change of pro-
cedure these comments have become
muffled in the interests of more sensa-
tional pronouncements.
Supporters of the new procedure
readily admit that there is more paper
work to be done under the rules. They
point out that under the old Act the only
question clients cared about was a quick
and painless decree nisi. One solicitor
said some divorce lawyers operated on
a production-belt technique. First the
divorce hearing, then an alimony hearing,
then a custody hearing—three separate
charges to clients. Both the petitioner
and respondent worked in the dark be-
cause of the court’s watchful eye for
possible collusion. Parties were scared to
get together and settle matters out of
court. Alimony, custody, etc., could wait
until the divorce was granted. The courts
normally couldn’t discuss custody and
related issues because they were rarely
introduced into the initial hearing. The
aim of the new rules is to enable each
suit to be finalised as soon as possible
with the minimum of applications and
hearings—saving the court time and the
divorce parties expense. The necessarv
new paper work defines, as
possible, the nature and extent of the
dispute.
Some lawyers point out that the new
rules only formalise matters which, pre-
viously, should have been done “by any
conscientious solicitor.” The yelping
about increased costs, they add, is only
one way of pressing for a rise in solicitors’
fees which should have been made long
ago. Even though they say that fees
should go up, nevertheless it is unfair to
blame Sir Garfieid Barwick’s draftsmen
for it. The fuss is said to be the usual
reaction against change: “Give the rules
time to work. After solicitors grow
accustomed to being more careful and
familiar with the new procedure Austra-
lians will find that they have been care-
fully looked after. The rules are designed
to encourage parties to settle their
differences prior to a court hearing, and
in any event to substantially reduce the
points in dispute which must result in
substantial savings all round.”
Perhaps Sir Garfield Barwick’s words
on the bill and procedure may turn out
to be correct after all: “It represents a
genuine effort to cope with the problem
of strained or broken matrimonial rela-
tionships—to maintain marriage, to
protect the family, to take care of the
child, to specify just and temperate
grounds of divorce where it is unavoid-
able, to do right by the innocent and to
further the public interest in the regu-
larity and productivity of human unions.
Choosing the
New G.-G.
Though the power of the Governoi-
General has been gradually whittle
away, his office is not merely that of a
figurehead. Selecting the right man,
especially when he is chosen from over
seas, is a headache for those who have
to do it.
Under Section 2 of the Constitution,
the Governor-General is the Qu een ,
representative in the Commonwealth an
exercises “during the Queen’s pleasure,
subject to the Constitution, such
and functions of the Queen as B e


Majesty may be pleased to assign to
him.” He may appoint times for holding
sessions of Parliament “as he thinks fit,”
, prorogue Parliament, dissolve the House
of Representatives, in certain circum-
stances grant a double-dissolution, assent
or withhold assent to bills or send them
tack to Parliament with amendments
which he may recommend, or reserve
■hem for the Queen's pleasure.
But, in plain fact, all the prerogatives
lof the Crown involving personal judg-
ment are dead —either killed by statute or
destroyed by precedent. The Governor-
general survives, if not as a “useless
Wage and a bauble,” as somebody once
Sa >d, then as the chairman of the Execu-
te Council who acts purely on the
advice of his Ministers and whose one
function is to proclaim the decisions of
Parliament and the Ministers through use
his signature.
The days have gone when, as in Chris
Watson’s Prime Ministership, the
Governor-General could refuse a request
irom a Prime Minister for a dissolution
and exercise his powers (vide Griffith,
C. J.) to give a double-dissolution “only
in cases in which he is personally satis-
fied, after independent consideration of
the case” about the conditions on which
he “must form his own judgment,” being
“an independent arbiter . . . not bound
to follow the advice of his Ministers,”
even though bound to ask for it.
These powers belonged to the time in
which all communications from the
British Government to the Prime Minister
passed through th 5 Governor-General.
Now, the resolutions of various Imperial
Conferences and the adoption of the
Statute of Westminster have wiped out
the last vestige of independent free-will
left to the Crown in Australia.
At the 1926 Imperial Conference it was
recognised that the Governor-General “in
all essential respects held the same posi-
tion in relation to administration as the
King in Great Britain.” And the 1930
Imperial Conference changed the old
order under which the Governor-General
was appointed on the advice of the
British Cabinet. It recognised that the
parties interested in the appointment are
“the King or Queen and the Dominion
concerned”; that “the Ministers who
tender and are responsible for such advice
(i.e., on appointment) are his Majesty’s
Ministers in the Dominion concerned.”
Beginning with Sir Isaac Isaacs, who
came to office before the change was for-
mally operative on the insistence of the
Scullin Government, this has been the
position ever since.
Sometimes Governments must wish
that the old order could be reverted to.
The appointment of a man with the right
qualifications—one of dignity and
balance, stamina and social charm, a
proper gift of expression and a proper
sense of ceremony, a good host, a sound
chairman and adviser to the Executive
Council and capable of being on inti-
mate terms with the Prime Minister (all
this while making neither political friends
nor enemies) —is not easy. Moreover, it
is, in these days, a primary condition that
he must have the constitution of a Rugby
League forward and a capacity for
rocket-speed travel about equal to that
of a rather tough astronaut. Also, a per-
sonable and tactful wife with a constitu-
tion equal to his own.
If one G.-G. in five can be picked to
come near these specifications, Govern-
ments do very well, especially when the
whittling away of powers has rendered
the position less attractive than it once
was to men of personality and ability.
Slims come only once in a long time.
Most of the men suited to the position in
Australia are either committed politicians
of strong views or have positions they
would scarcely forsake for one which
would end their normal careers.
The best bets under the present circum-
stances, when speed of appointment is the
essence of the necessity, might be one of
the experienced State Governors —Sir
Dallas Brooks, the Administrator who
has been in Victoria for 12 years, or Sir
Henry Abel Smith, whose wife belongs
to the Royal Family and who himself is
one of the most liked and efficient
Governors Queensland has ever had.
Through the transfer of an experienced
State Governor to Canberra, Australia
had, in Lord Cowrie, the most popular
Governor-General ever appointed before
Sir William Slim.
Nature in
Hazard
T>efore congratulating the Victorian
Government on the planning scheme
it has announced for preserving much
of the 39 square-miles of Phillip Island
for wildlife and tourist attractions, it is
worth considering what has happened
since similar protection was given to
Mornington Peninsula.
After some much-publicised inspec-
tions, Sir Thomas Maltby, Minister for
Public Works, announced in February,
1958, that indiscriminate subdivisions of
Coal and Railways
Nearly all the railway systems of
Australia are in trouble, the
I causes being long haulage - distances
and sparse traffic, or lines that will not
carry the heavy traffic developed in
recent years, steeply rising costs and
wages, and road-transport competition.
Two remedies seem to be applied
universally to fend-off bankruptcy ;
and neither shows signs of producing
results. One is to pay an American
firm to make a report at immense cost,
as N.S.W. did with city transport and
Queensland is doing to find a means of
combating road competition. The
other is to replace steam locomotives
with dieselised traction.
The whole trend of railway develop-
ment in Australia has been toward oil
traction. Sydney's electrical trams
have given way to diesel and other
buses. Heavy haulage is all going over
to diesel. The position will soon arise
that if, in case of war, a few oil-
storage plants are wrecked and the
sea-lanes cut off or unduly restricted,
Australia's main railways—the very
lifeline of defence transport —will
freeze up.
Nobody has calculated the loss of
life through delays, the cost of muddle,
time and extra manpower involved
during the last war through the breaks
of gauge on Australian lines. But the
difficulties of transport in World War
II could be nothing to what might
happen if the made-over, half-worn-
out and outmoded juggernaut systems
of today were applied to the problems
of a World War 111.
True, coal directly applied to firing
has become an expensive and some-
times economically impossible fuel on
many of the long-haul, low-freight-
potential Australian lines, and diesel
oil is more convenient. But diesel oil
is not a cheap fuel, even though coal-
producers complain that it is over-
protected and sold at an inequitable
price in order to drive coal out of the
market—in other words, that the rail-
ways and other heavy oil-users are
taking the benefit of sweated Asiatic
labor costs in a way that is hampering
Australian production.
Australia’s railways this year are
using far less coal than N.S.W. alone
used in 1930; and during 30 years
N.S.W.'s usage has fallen off by 75
per cent.
It would be safe to say that there
would be a market for another six-
million tons of Australian black coal
if steam locomotives were used, and
the export market for the time being
would be of relatively little
importance.
It is true that diesel traction is
almost universal in America and
Canada, which have oil sources in
their own continent. But experts say
it is not basically cheap or fully
efficient transport, and it certainly has
not got American railways out of the
red, even in their high-density traffic
areas.
France —and, above all. Russia,
which was able to start from scratch—
are turning to electricity. At least 19
main Russian lines are electrified. If
electrification were generally adopted
in Australia it would almost certainly
lead to immensely increased coal pro-
duction, increased employment in the
coal industry, and probably increased
development of many new areas of
settlement.
In place of numerous inquiries by
oil-obsessed Americans, the Australian
Governments might well combine to
inquire into both the coal and electri-
fication aspects of railway traction,
aided by somebody with Swedish,
Swiss (all Swiss lines are electrified)
and French experience.


Mornington Peninsula would be banned
to protect the natural beauties of the area.
Legislation was promptly introduced,
giving the three shires concerned —Frank-
ston, Mornington and Flinders —power
to halt the bulldozers among the tea-tree,
the destruction of natural beauty, the ugly
subdivisions.
Today there are more subdivisions in
the area than ever before, and the three
shires have even voted £3OOO a year to
an organisation, the Peninsula Develop-
ment Association, to industrialise the
peninsula.
The explanation of this is that the
three shires are strongly influenced by
local builders, tradesmen and shop-
keepers, who can hardly be expected to
show much interest in natural beauty
when they are likely to profit from its
destruction.
Campers along the foreshore are
destroying the matting of natural growth,
which cannot be replaced ; but campers
are permitted to remain, many of them
the year round, because ol their trade.
Many small shopkeepers on the penin-
sula are well-to-do ; some are very rich
indeed.
So the Phillip Island ukase may not
be as effective as proclaimed. The Gov-
ernment had to act: the world-famous
koalas, mutton-bird rookeries and fairy-
penguin colonies were endangered. There
were 3215 building-allotments on the
island in January, 1956 ; 5069 had been
created in the last four years ; and
approval was- being sought to create by
subdivision another 8822. Councillors on
the island who were opposed to this
indiscriminate block-selling already have
lost their seats, and the significance of
this first brought what was going on at
Phillip Island to official attention.
The Government is giving the direc-
tion for the orderly development of the
island to the Town and Country Planning
Board. It is apparently concerned about
what is happening under local direction
on the Mornington Peninsula, but not
concerned enough to withdraw control
from the locals.
Teaspoon and
Mountain
ON a recent Monday morning three
dailies —one each in W.A., N.S.W.
and Queensland—announced that police
had “swooped” on s.-p. bookmakers and
made a number of arrests. One an-
nounced: “Police begin all-out campaign
against vice.”
Every week hundreds of people are
fined for placing illegal bets on horses
or for accepting other people’s bets. In
N.S.W. for the year 1959, 2800-odd were
fined for gambling, about 90-95 per cent,
for s.-p. ; four people were imprisoned ;
and over £60,000 was received by the
State in fines.
In Melbourne recently a Stipendiary
Magistrate fined a man £250 for having
a bet. Victoria and South Australia are
following Tasmania and Western Aus-
tralia's lead, and off-course betting will
be normal there by the end of this year.
Queensland and N.S.W. are still trying
to stamp out the “vice.”
Churchmen and s.-p. bookmakers are
in a strange alliance to prevent the two
remaining Governments from legalising
“sin.” The churchmen do not want
people to be “exposed to temptation”;
the s.-p. men do not want their profits
cut down by paying taxes and licence
fees to the Government. On the other
side. Governments see legalised off-course
betting as a means of providing money
for hospitals, offsetting wage rises and
relieving other economic pressures. The
racing fraternity says it will increase race
attendances, raise prize - money and
generally stimulate interest in racing. Sir
Alan Potter, chairman of the A.J.C., said
that £5OO million was handled each year
by s.-p. bookmakers —10 times more than
on the course.
Policemen regard legalising as a way
of rationalising the present farce of
enforcing a law which about 90 per cent,
of the population see as absurd- One
detective-sergeant said: “It's like trying
to shift a mountain with a teaspoon. You
knock-off a bettor, he goes to the court
to be fined, the ink is hardly dry on his
receipt before he’s back in business him-
self or has arranged for a stand-in. The
business is there, has been since the year
dot, and will always be there. Anyone
who thinks that illegal betting can be
stamped out without the introduction of
reasonable facilities for lawful off-course
betting is only kidding himself.”
The community in general regards a
conviction for betting in much the same
way as a parking offence: a minor breach
of the law. “Bad luck that you were
caught; but what harm does it do, anv-
way?”
Not all churchmen are against betting
however: several clerics in Australia
seem to have adopted Dr Fisher's view
as announced when Britain’s new Betting
and Gaming Act came in: “Though
betting and gambling were part of a grave
social evil,” he gave general support to
the new Act.
What can be said about s.-p. betting
in Australia is that there are situations
where the law is held up as being
archaic and absurd enough for people to
be contemptuous of the enforcement of
it. N.S.W. is a good example. Legalised
vice there includes: betting in certain
geographic areas (racecourses, dog-
tracks, etc.) ; a State-owned, -operated
and -controlled lottery gamble; and
poker machines. All are blessed by the
Government. But if you have a bet in
the local pub or, if you are lazy, ring
up a friendly bookmaker or have a bet
in your club, you are a criminal and a
party to “the vice which must be stamped
out.”
Festival in a Rut
ninth Festival of Perth started
on New Year’s Eve and is still
going strong six weeks later. It will
wind up on February 18 with a final
concert by the W.A. Symphony
Orchestra featuring an orchestral suite
written for the occasion by the ever-
ready Dr Clive Douglas.
The main feature of this year’s pro-
gramme has been the inspiriting ciink
of box-office receipts. Stung by the
success of last year's Adelaide Festival,
the elder Perth Festival made a brave
effort to inject more professional
artists into its programmes. Public
reaction was good, and the festival
committee can feel justified in booking
more prominent artists next year.
The Perth Festival has advanced as
a spectacle on previous occasions, but
it has yet to emerge from a deep
artistic rut before it can seriously
claim to challenge even the first
Adelaide programme. Though its live
shows were better presented than ever
before and it diversified its activities
with a one-man drama presentation
by Brian Barnes and a jazz concert
by the Bryce Rohde Quartet, its main
events were still cut from the same old
cloth Shakespearean comedy, pro-
gramme music and a big spectacle
opera. This year it put on the stalwart
“Hansel and Gretel,” which was
officially billed as “perhaps the only
fine work in the operatic repertoire
to which one can take a child with
the definite certainty of gratitude.”
The festival committee cannot be
entirely blamed for this timid
approach to programming, since it
plainly meets with the approval of the
West Australian public. But it ought
to do something about the festival’s
biggest artistic drawback, which is its
much-publicised outdoor setting.
The University of W.A.’s Sunken
Garden makes a fine stage backdrop,
but its pleasant pools and rockeries
are a decided impediment to telling
drama. Raymond Westwell came
pretty close to overcoming these dis-
advantages in his production of
Moliere’s “The Miser,” but even his
intelligent handling could not over-
come the diffusion of dramatic impact
which is inherent in such a setting.
Nor can stark and experimental films
like Jean-Paul Sartre’s “The Crucible’
and Jean Cocteau’s “Orphee Testa-
ment” make their full impact under a
balmy night sky.
If the committee really wants to
advance the artistic stature of the
Perth Festival, its first task ought to
be to plan for an air - conditioned
theatre as a focus for its own activities
and as a permanent home for five
drama in W.A.


POLITICAL POINTS
HOLT’S MISTAKE
Federal Treasurer Holt siid at a Can-
berra Government-party meeting that the
overall effect of credit restrictions on im-
ports was running according to expecta-
tions. In the Government’s opinion
bonK-building was not being seriously
affected by the credit squeeze and the
motoring industry was not affected as
much as was claimed.
Xhe Victorian Minister for Housing,
Mr H. R- Petty, said on the same day
the Federal Government credit squeeze
appeared to have hit every section of the
building industry in Victoria. Building
permits had dropped from 1936 in
November, 1959, to 935 in November,
I 960; from 976 in December, 1959, to
792 in December, 1960; from 792 in
January, 1960, to 388 in January, 1961 ;
and from 355 in the first week of
February, 1960, to 176 in the first week
of this month.
Mr Viney, managing director of Clay-
ton Timber Trading Co. Pty Ltd in
Victoria, said that six house-building
companies in Melbourne had dismissed
2300 men in the past eight weeks, and
1000 more faced dismissal in the next
fortnight. The companies built more
than 20 per cent, of the houses put up in
Victoria during the past 12 months, and
their combined peak production of 65
houses a week had dropped to eight, and
they held a stock of 200 unsold houses.
With the dismissal of 2600 men by
General Motors-Holden’s, 500 by British
Motor Corporation, combined with the
expected dismissals in allied industries,
the motor industry does appear to be
suffering some sort of recession, Mr
Holt.
• •
RACIAL PURITY
Last week the Australian Workers’
Union executive council attacked the
recent opposition to the White Australia
Policy. An A.W.U. statement said: “In
reaffirming the policy, this council is not
unmindful of the long and bitter struggle
waged by the A.W.U. and the A.L.P. to
secure racial purity and security.”
• •
AISTRALIA-CHINA
In a TV show, in answer to “What is
Australia's future in regard to Com-
munist China?”, foreign correspondent
Denis Warner said he doubted if Aus-
tralia would survive another 25 to 30
fears free from Chinese domination, and
Predicted that China would be admitted
10 the United Nations by a simple
majority vote either this year or next
fear. Dr Burton, Australian National
University Fellow in International Rela-
l'°ns, said : “The Chinese might absorb
but this is not annihilation. There
be a joining of both Eastern and
Astern philosophies.” Answering the
Ntme question as the other two, Mr B. A.
president of the National
Civic Council, said Australia should have
a population of 30 million, treble its
migration and increase its defence to meet
all contingencies. It should give one per
cent, of its national income to Asia and
back Asian forces that wanted to give
land back to the peasants. If Australia
didn’t do these things he agreed with
Mr Warner that China would “domi-
nate” Australia in 25 years.
• •
HITLER AND HEFFRON
Whatever people’s thoughts about
the Labor party in N.S.W., it doesn't
seem very fair of the Country party to
imply a parallel between Mr Heffron’s
Government and Adolf Hitler. In a
statement by Deputy-Leader Chaffey,
M.L.A., discussing the referendum to
abolish the Upper House in N.S.W., he
says: “Adolf Hitler in his rise to power
first of all organised the destruction of
the Upper House in Germany. When he
controlled the actions of the majority of
members in the sole remaining House he
achieved absolute power over life, liberty
and property, and the result not only
affected Germany itself but the whole of
the civilised world.”
Parallels with the Nazi regime can be
overdone —as Churchill found in his
“Gestapo” speech in 1945.
• •
RARE
In these days of frequent unity-tickets
between the Communist party and A.L.P.
members it is unusual to discover that
any State A.L.P. branch recognises the
position, let alone acts on it. The South
Australian A.L.P. Council has just ex-
pelled four trade-unionists from the party
for alleged collaboration with the Com-
munist party. Two members of the Meat
Industry Employees' Union were expelled
for breaches of the A.L.P. Conference
ban on unity tickets. Two members of
the Tramways Employees’ Association
were expelled when the council accepted
its executive’s finding that they had acted
against the interests of the A.L.P. by
their association with Communists.
• 9
DEPENDENT TERRITORY
More than 100 natives have nominated
to contest six seats in the Papua-
New Guinea Legislative Council elections
on March 18. Only nine Europeans have
nominated to contest the six elected
“white” seats. Commenting on the
figures, Administrator Brigadier D. M.
Cleland said that they indicated a wide-
spread native interest in political develop-
ment. “They also show an appreciation
by the native people that they now have
the right to elect one of their own in
each of the six electorates.” Last Sep-
tember the Federal Government recon-
stituted the “old” 29-member Legislative
Council. The reforms raised the Council
membership to 37 and increased the
native representation from three nomi-
nated members to six elected and five
nominated. They also gave, for the first
time, half-a-million of the Territory’s
1,800,000 native people an “indirect”
council vote.
• •
IN A DIFFERENT WORLD?
“The Examiner,” in Launceston,
Tasmania, said in an editorial on
Wednesday, February 8: “Australia is
very happy to do business with Com-
munist China. No voice has been raised
in protest against the sale of vast quanti-
ties of wheat and flour to Peking.”
• •
CATHOLICS AND EDUCATION
Problems of finance and staffing are
forcing some Catholic children through-
out Australia into State-owned schools.
A Catholic journal published in Canberra,
“The Sanctuary,” poses the issues. It
declares that unless certain drastic
changes occur a decision will have to be
made eventually on whether the full
Catholic system will be maintained at
primary or secondary level, or whether
both of those levels will be allowed to
continue, with the overflow, selectively
or otherwise, going into public schools
“lacking adequate provision for religious
instruction.”
The journal, an influential one in the
national capital (with its high propor-
tion of Catholics), says that many ques-
tions should be examined closely “before
the situation, nationally speaking, drifts
too far.” It suggests that such questions
should include: (1) to what level should
Catholic education proceed ; (2) is the
traditional policy of isolating Catholic
youth from the community until marriage
still a valid one, or should it be given
“a controlled relaxation in fields where
association does not appear to endanger
faith and morals”? ; (3) if the present
system cannot educate all Catholics who
should be included? ; (4) does the
financial position justify mobilising the
Catholic vote to force reallocation of
education-taxes paid by Catholics? ; and
(5) to what extent should we concentrate
on quality of education at the expense
of quantity?
For politicians, Catholic and otherwise,
these developments demand attention. If
the matters concerned could be thrashed
out in an atmosphere free from bigotry,
some useful decisions might be possible
without political capital being gained or
lost.


-qW Peered the sure at A\ANt ,y
So we , THE SuR,F AT CR.ONUL.LA
others seetA to favor, 'Pa lm Beach
Bv T, F OP. SHEER, SußjFlNe PLEASURE Uj<Tht A P(FF£R.eHC£
Give Me 3<?ajc?< ANy time/


What’s Happening to Radio
By R. CLAYTON
Answering the question “What's
happening to radio?” is rather like
answering t h e philosophical
conundrum “What happens to the
(able when you turn the light out?” The
answe r is that it’s still there, but you
don’t see it. Radio, in fact, is still with
us -in some ways more than it ever
was.
]t is necessary, then, to differentiate, in
discussing the fate of radio in Australia,
between those areas, or audiences, which
have not yet been subjected to tele-
vision, and those which have. It happens,
however, that radio’s biggest audiences,
and therefore its biggest stake, lie in the
capital cities and their environs—the very
areas where television has taken hold.
The non-television areas can therefore be
quickly dealt with: for the present, radio
maintains its position in these areas as
the dominant entertainment and informa-
tive medium.
In dealing with what has happened to
radio in the closely populated areas since
the advent of television, it is necessary
to make a further distinction, between
the A.B.C. and the commercial stations.
A comparison of radio programmes in
1956, the year television came in, and
in 1960 suggests that the A.B.C. has not.
been influenced in any way by the addi-
tion of television to its function as a
medium of enlightenment and entertain-
ment. It would not be correct, however,
lo say that its radio programmes have
not been affected, because they have —-
although in a surprising way.
In 1956 the A.B.C. domestic network
consisted of six metropolitan stations
relaying the “national” programme ; six
metropolitan “light" programme stations ;
40 regional stations ; and seven internal
short-wave stations. In 1960 there were
six national, six light, 44 regional and
seven short-wave stations. Total pro-
gramme hours transmitted were almost
identical: 360,525 in 1956, 403,417 in
1960.
Now consider the content of the pro-
grammes—first in the 12 metropolitan
stations, which reach the bulk of the
population. Here is a breakdown of the
percentage of transmission time devoted
to the various topics:
1956 1960
p.c. p.c.
Classical music .. .. 22.3 24.8
Light music .. .. 15.1 11.8
Variety 38.2 19.5
Drama and features .. 3.9 3.7
Children 2.3 2.8
Youth education .. 3.7 3.9
Talks 6.8 6.8
Parliament 4.5 4.2
Religious 3.5 3.7
News 7.8 7.2
Sporting 4.8 4.7
Rural 1.7 1.7
Outside 5.4 5.2
in the cities, in fact, the only dis-
cernible effect of television upon A.B.C.
radio programmes has been a slight
change of emphasis from light music
to classical music, and a fractional
increase in the amount of variety pro-
vided. (But by thus doing precisely noth-
ing about television, the A.B.C. has in
many areas actually gained listening audi-
ences. In Sydney now, during the even-
ing. the A.B.C. light programme finds
itself in the unaccustomed position of
being the third most popular station out
of the eight operating.)
In the country, out of reach of tele-
vision, the programme changes have
been, paradoxically, more marked. There
is today less music generally (particu-
larly light music) ; slightly more variety ;
slightly more rural programmes and
general news. But on the whole, as the
figures show, the country audiences are
getting from the A.B.C. much the same
type of programmes as they always
did:
1956 1960
p.c. p.c.
Classical music .. . . 10.0 9.8
Light music .. .. 13.4 9.4
Variety 18.3 21.3
Drama and features .. 3.1 3.7
Children .. .. .. 4.5 4.8
Youth education .. 7.1 7.5
Talks 7.1 8.1
Religious .. .. . . 4.6 4.4
News 12.6 11.7
Sporting 8.2 8.1
Rural 3.4 4.4
Outside 7.7 6.8
Inside the A.8.C., the effect of tele-
vision has been marked mainly by lack
of the electrifying stimulus noted in other
countries.
This can hardly be called the fault of
the personnel of the A.8.C., but of the
A.B.C. itself, which has persisted with
the crippling policy of “integration.”
This, simply, is the idea that radio and
television programmes shall be produced
by the same people. With a few minor
and necessary exceptions, the pro-
gramme-producing staff of the A.B.C. are
expected to work equally well in radio
and television, despite the obvious and
strikingly different requirements ot the
two media.
In other countries —particularly in
Britain —separate organisations were set-
up to produce television, and, generally
speaking, there was a rush of skilled
manpower from radio to the glamorous
new medium. Within the A.B.C. this has,
generally speaking, not happened, because
in theory it is not possible to specialise
in television (although in practice some
personnel, particularly producers, have
managed to do so).
At one period the A.B.C. tried to carry
the policy of integration to its logical
conclusion, by presenting the same pro-
gramme to both radio and television
audiences, in what it called a “simulcast.”
“Any Questions?” was the prime example
of this experiment, and for a time it
seemed as if it might work. It was even-
tually discontinued, although a number
of examples come to mind —in musical
and talks programmes, particularly—
where it would seem possible to give the
radio audience the benefit of a top-line
television cast.
As far as outside employment is con-
cerned, the advent of television has
definitely affected the prospects of radio
work for musicians and artists with the
A.B.C. In 1956, for example, the A.B.C.
employed 18,381 artists, musicians, and
speakers in radio, either as individuals
or as members of musical ensembles. In
1960 this total had fallen to 14,946.
(However, in 1960 the A.B.C. employed
4676 individuals in television ; the total
employment opportunities with the
A.B.C. remained, therefore, almost un-
changed.)
So much for the A.B.C. Now consider
w'hat has happened to that sector of the
industry that has always reached the
largest group of the population: com-
mercial radio.
HPoDAY, although 60 per cent, of homes
in Sydney and Melbourne, and a
smaller but rapidly growing proportion
in the other capital cities, have television
sets, there are more radios in use than
ever before. The radio set has consoli-
dated its position as the most possessed
household appliance, to the point where
it is almost impossible in this country to
find a house without at least one. There
is almost 100 per cent, saturation, and
many houses now have two, three, four,
or even five radios.
The total number of radio licences now
issued is 2,283,185, compared with
2,091,592 in 1956. In 1959-60 the radio
industry made 405,153 radios the
greatest total in one year in its history.
Part of this boom was accounted for by
the introduction of portable transistor
radios, and the increasing popularity of
car radios. (Nearly half of all radios


made last year were portables, and one-
quarter of the total were car radios.)
Australia's 108 commercial radio
stations, then, have never had as many
targets as they have today, after four
years of television. And as far as
revenue is concerned, they have never
had it so good. In the year 1959-60,
profits from advertising and sale of pro-
grammes were £2,372,064 (on a gross of
£9,475,265), compared with profits of
£1,975,644 the previous year.
It is only necessary to switch on a radio
set, however, to realise that in its most
important aspect commercial radio is
undergoing a revolution —and that is in
its programme content. In this respect
the industry is in a turmoil, and hardly
knows which way to turn.
Before television, the financial back-
bone of commercial radio was the
quarter-hour, half-hour, or one-hour
“feature” —plays, quizzes, variety pro-
grammes. These programmes went on at
peak evening listening hours, drew huge
audiences, and consequently attracted
very large sums of money from sponsors
of products made for mass markets ; pro-
ducts such as breakfast foods, cigarettes,
and cosmetics.
Among the top weekly shows were
such programmes as the Caltex Theatre
on Sunday nights, and the General
Motors Hour on Thursday nights ; one-
hour plays with star casts, lavishly pro-
duced, and costing the sponsor anything
up to £50,000 a year.
To provide such programmes, a great
number of production companies were
operating in the main cities. Their output
was distributed to the stations in the
cities and towns by a number of net-
works, of which the biggest was (and
still is) the Macquarie Broadcasting Ser-
vice, with 22 affiliated stations.
A sponsor wanting to put on a show
nationally could reckon on paying up to
£3OO in production costs for a weekly
one-hour play, and up to £lOOO in buying
station time at peak listening periods.
The production company thus received
its money from the sponsor in fees, and
the stations which carried the programme
received their revenue from the sponsor
in payment for their air time.
Television smashed that pattern beyond
recognition. Today the mass evening
audiences in the cities —the main objec-
tive of the national sponsor —are watch-
ing television. And so the national
sponsors have simply gone after them.
Anyone now wanting to run a national
advertising campaign uses television. The
nationally sponsored radio feature has
almost disappeared. The Caltex Theatre
is now on television, not radio. The
General Motors Flour is now fortnightly
instead of weekly.
Who, then, is to pay for the shows
that the radio stations —most of which
are still outside the television area —must
have? In seeking the answer to this the
industry has split down the middle. Most
stations, particularly the smaller ones,
have simply decided to do without
“features." They have become “music
and news” stations. The result —an end-
less succession of hit records and “news
flashes”—can be heard pouring night
and day from transistors and car radios
across the nation.
These “music-and-news” stations have
abandoned the adult evening audiences,
and gone, hopefully, for the teenagers,
the travellers, the housewives at work
during the day, the audiences in the
garden, the bathroom, the bedroom —
anywhere but in the living room, where
the radio stands silent in the light re-
flected from the television screen.
In doing so, these stations have bred
a new kind of “star” to replace the per-
“First, a bit of elementary practice.”
sonalities of the radio theatre and the
variety programmes. These are, of course
the disc-jockeys, whose non-stop, y.S-
accented patter appears to infuriate ail
but the teenagers —and yet seems to be
able to sell station time. It is certainly
true that no less expensive way of fil]j ng
air time has ever been devised than to
have a man sit at a turntable with a
stack of records. Some stations have
even gone to the point (like 2KO New-
castle) of automating their disc-jockeys:
a bank of recorders carrying taped com-
mercials and announcements, and a giant
juke-box, run the station from midnight
until dawn.
The effect on the production side of
the industry has been very severe. Many
companies have gone out of business.
Actors’ Equity estimates that whereas
before television some 20,000 fifteen-
minute units were produced in Australia,
less than half this output is now being
produced.
This depression has had one extra-
ordinary and unfortunate effect on com-
mercial programmes in some country
areas: defunct producers have been
cashing in on their only assets: thousands
of episodes of old serials. They have
been selling these discs in the country
for a few shillings each, giving some
listeners the doubtful privilege of hearing
once again the radio programmes of 20
years ago. For the producer, too old
to get into television or into the executive
side of radio, the sale of 5000 episodes
at even ss. each might enable him to
finish paying off his house.
Other stations, such as 2UE in Sydney,
are buying repeat rights of well-known
shows from the 8.8. C which
have already been heard on the A.B.C.
Come of the biggest and most popular
stations, however, decided that they
must, at all costs, retain the pattern for
which they had become known over the
years, and must continue to present
features during the evenings.
But the big problem for the surviving
networks, such as Macquarie, has been
to find someone to take the place of the
national sponsor when it comes to pay-
ing the bills. Macquarie has come up
with an ingenious solution, which has
enabled it to continue producing features
almost as before.
What Macquarie said to its 22 stations
was substantially this: if you try going
over to “music-and-news,” we will have
to go out of the features business, and
so will all the other production units.
Then, in a year or two, if you find you
have lost your audiences, and decide that
perhaps it was a mistake, it will be too
late ; there will be nobody in the
features business. So it is up to you to
keep us in business.
So, in effect, the Macquarie stations
now pay, on a fixed scale according t°
their available audiences, for the features
that Macquarie produces. Each station
then obtains a number of local sponsors
for the shows, to cover its own air hrne.
Instead of a national sponsor, a Ma c
quarie feature like “Omnibus” will have
a whole host of sponsors, differing ° n
each station carrying the programme.
The stations are finding now that they


j n fact making more money by this
svsterr> than they did before. They have
niore work to do, naturally. Previously,
they simply took the programme and put
jt on. Now they have to sell the time
t 0 local businessmen. But it is becoming
clear to some station managers that there
j s a vast untapped army of sponsors
willing to pay a few pounds for a slice
of a programme (present prices for five
minutes of prime evening listening time
lange from £l6 on 2GB, Sydney's most
popular station, to £1 16s. 6d. on TNG,
Albury).
One unfortunate side effect of this, as
far as the listener is concerned, is the
growing number of commercials to be
heard during the programmes. In fact,
this very affliction is causing some resent-
ment against Macquarie's giant nightly
package of drama, music, humor, and
entertainment, “Omnibus,” which was
commercial radio's first genuine attempt
to come up with something new to hold
its audience against the competition from
television.
The stations which have most resented
the change in format of the programmes
supplied to them by the networks are
those in the country, outside the tele-
vision area. They have not lost their
big night-time audiences to television,
and they would prefer to keep the old
familiar format. But they have less of
a problem than the city stations which,
in competition for the same listeners, are
afraid of losing their identity and listener
loyalty ; the country commercial stations
are nearly all alone in their town, with-
out a commercial competitor. Hence a
drastic change in their station “image”
does not matter quite so much, as their
audience will go on listening to them
anyway—unless they switch to the A.B.C.
Which brings up one of the most
interesting and significant developments
in radio over the past five years. The
A.8.C., by doing nothing, has actually
gained listeners. This suggests that there
is, in radio, a “swinging” or “floating”
population, as there is in politics. This
was the audience that the commercial
stations thought they should aim at,
believing it to be the main, or “steady,”
audience. Now, however, this “swing-
ing" audience has gone over to television,
the solid core of listeners left behind
Imany of them may watch television
"hen they want to, but still listen to the
radio at times), dissatisfied with what
h commercial stations now have to
fe, are turning more and more to the
A.B.C.
The really big problem facing the
commercial industry, now is whgt will
"oppen to them when the country tele-
Jon stations open. In a town with
" ot h A.B.C. and commercial television,
wd one commercial radio station and
“oo A.B.C. radio station, the commercial
rad ‘° station seems almost certain to be
111 dee P trouble. If it loses its mass
' Ve ning audience to television, and its
residue” audience to the A.8.C., what
is it left? Will the Macquarie network
'Mions in the country be able to go on
nd| ng local sponsors to pay for the
jetwork shows? Will a local feed and
loc k merchant go on buying commercial
Jo time for £5 when he can get a
on television for £l2 10s.?
In the country the fringe audiences —
the transistor listeners, the teenagers, the
night workers, the traveller—are not to
be lound the way they are in the cities.
ls the country commercials can't find
audiences, and can’t, therefore, afford to
buy network programmes, the networks
will go out of business ; will this then
drive the surviving city commercial
stations into the ranks of the rock-and-
roll brigade?
.Worrying over these questions, despite
this year's fat profits, the commercial
radio business is thoroughly confused.
Anything is possible in the next two
years. There may be a trend towards
"news only” stations-nevvs from the
overseas world, news from the sports
world, news from the motor-car world,
nothing but news. There may be stations
playing nothing but music for 24 hours
a day. Both these extremes have been
reached in the United States, which has
been all through this. But the U.S. radio
industry has not given up. ("We are
approaching the day when everyone in
the United States over seven will have
his own radio set,” says Kevin B.
Sweeney, president of the American
Radio Advertising Bureau.)
In commercial radio (and in the
A.8.C.) now is the time for experimenta-
tion, new ideas. In two more years the
industry may have settled into a pattern
that will be hard to break. Now is the
time to go after those so-called minority
groups, who may turn out to be simply
people who don t necessarily want to
watch television all the time, or listen
to radio all day, but just want to have a
choice.
Now is the time for radio to be enter-
prising. Two years ago the C.B.S. net-
work in New York tentatively began, in
association with the University of New
York, an early morning programme
called “Sunrise Semester." It consisted
of extremely learned discourses on litera-
ture, equivalent to those given at the
university. The huge and varied audience
that appeared almost overnight astonished
the C.B.S. (just as the size of the house-
wifely audience for Channel 9's TV
coverage of nuclear science lectures has
startled commercial television circles in
Sydney),
e , , . . r
There are. fortunately some signs of
We on the radio front. The University
° f New South Wales is beginning to
broadcast extension lectures from its own
Ration The A B.C. is going ahead with
,ls . amb . ,Uo f , U , mverslt >' of the Air -
primarily for. audiences, but
equa y sui e o ra 10.
But why not a Third Programme for
Australia? This now famous 8.8. C.
radio programme caters only for
minorities—for those listeners who want
to hear the best of something, even
though it will certainly not appeal to
everybody. The A.B.C. does the best it
can with its two programmes, but there
is need for another kind of programme,
reflecting those rich, exotic and varied
aspects of file that are not' popular,
’°T general interest,’ not even
significant, but which form part of a
lully developed society,
Here is an opportunity for radio, with
its incomparable powers of insinuation
into the inner recesses of the receptive
mind. If it takes its opportunity, the
flickering screen may come to be reserved
for watching cricket, and people, freed
from the hypnotic stare of the square
eye, will ask wonderingly: “Whatever
happened to television?”


PERSONAL
Priest Behind
The Blake Prize
'T'o the average not-very-religious lay-
man, nothing is worse than the
hearty parson, the type who, while pre-
tending to be one of the boys, makes
all the boys acutely embarrassed. Lather
Michael Scott, S.J., Rector of Adelaide
University’s Aquinas College, is a very
different proposition ; he is one of those
very rare priests who can mix in any
company, be accepted as a human being,
yet preserve an inviolate dignity.
This is partly due to a very wide intel-
lectual and social training, which enables
him to meet any company on its own
ground ; partly to a formidable charm
which is kept under firm control by a
self-deprecatory mouth undei a sensitive
nose, deep-set eyes and bushy eyebrows ;
and to a fine sense of humor (almost
a necessity to him in Adelaide, where
large sections of the Protestant public
see a Jesuit as a cross between
Machiavelli, Titus Oates and the Grand
Inquisitor).
Born in Sydney in 1910 and educated
at Riverview School, Michael Scott joined
the Order in 1928, spent two years as a
novice in Sydney, then four years at the
National University, Dublin, where he
took his M.Sc. in mathematics and
physics.
He went to Innsbruck, just at the time
of Dolfuss’s murder, to study philosophy
at the Imperial University, a study well
laced with the realities of power, from
the antics of the handsome but dan-
gerous Prince Stahremberg to the
manoeuvres which culminated in Hitler’s
Anschluss. In 1937 he left Austria to
study theology for three years at Heath-
rop College, Chipping Norton.
In these 11 years abroad he had no
intention of becoming de-Australianised.
He returned to Sydney in 1942 as Vice-
Rector at Riverview, where he was also
Headmaster of the preparatory school
from 1946 to 1952. He went to Adelaide
in 1953.
In 1950 he was one of the founders
of the Blake Prize, and religious art and
architecture are subjects he has studied
with much enthusiasm. He is eloquent
on the horrors of Catholic art sold in
Catholic bookshops—the mar z i pan
madonnas and the chocolate-box cruci-
fixions —but he is also too sophisticated
not to be aware of the complexities
involved in the handling of religious sub-
jects by genuine artists. One outcome of
the Blake Prize about which he feels
strongly is that, contrary to some state-
ments made about its general usefulness
to artists, many competitors have been
given commissions for work in churches
and colleges—such artists as Eric Smith,
Tom Bass, James Gleeson, John Coburn,
Voitre Marek, Charles Bannon.
Tn 1957 Michael Scott was awarded a
Carnegie Travel Grant to study trends
in contemporary church architecture ; he
went to the United States, Mexico and
Europe, returning with a knowledge of
the subject that must be unrivalled in
Australia. It is a measure of his ability
to hold to his principles and yet mix
with people holding different ones that
he has now given 300 lectures on church
architecture, and among his audiences
have been parishes of every denomination
as well as groups of laymen, it is really
something, particularly in Adelaide, to
think of a Jesuit priest giving a lecture
in a Methodist church.
Michael Scott’s other great interest is
in Australiana, and he is building up a
fine collection of books, maps and paint-
ings for Aquinas College. In his study,
Lreycinefs map of South Australia stands
alongside the Gleghorn that won last
year’s Blake Prize ; and he is proud
of having bought the map very cheaply
at an auction sale a few months ago.
It is to be expected that a figure so
much in the public eye as Michael Scott
should occasionally run into trouble. Just
how much so no one could have anti-
FATHER MICHAEL SCOTT
No Marzipan Madonnas
dpated when, a year or two ago
photograph of him appeared i n ’ a !
Adelaide evening paper, with the head
line: “Father Scott looks back on
life of sin and debauchery.” te t
went on to give “Michael Scott’s Own
Story . . . Tragedy and despair followed
him.” It described his life in the Com
munist party, at geisha houses and i n
South African jails.
It referred, of course, to the R ev
Michael Scott, well known for his
championship of the South African
natives, but when Father Scott went to
dinner at Aquinas that night, students
had the article prominently displayed and
were eager to hear all about .the geishas
Many people thought the affair was a
mistake expensive enough to provide a
permanent scholarship or two to Aquinas
but it was passed over without even an
apology being demanded.
'T'oday Michael Scott is, though he
1 always manages to stop for people,
one of the busiest men in Adelaide. He
is chairman of the S.A. Chapter of
College Education and president of the
Union Council as well as managing a
fast-expanding college.
From his study window on Montefiore
Hill he looks out on a splendid view of
Colonel Light's backside, the Adelaide
hills and the gothic lump of the Anglican
cathedral. Like Colonel Light, he has
done a lot for Adelaide in a few years
without the inestimable advantage of
being born in South Australia. Lapsed
Catholics come to talk to him ; Protes-
tants ask him to talk to them. But the
state of religion in South Australia, as
anywhere else, remains a mystery.
Father Scott may sometimes recall that
line of W. H. Auden’s: “New styles of
architecture, a change of heart.” If so,
he may well wonder how closely one is
associated with the other.
« 0
Straight-talking Dean
'’TFhe Very Rev. Dr S. Barton Babbage,
45, Dean of Melbourne, lists his
recreations in “Who v s Who in Australia”
as "reading, talking and eating.” Recently
he has been treating Melbourne to one
of his favorite recreations some very
pointed talking about Australia’s political
leaders.
“Mr Cal well has long since ceased to
be guilty of having an original idea,
he told the congregation of St Pauls
Cathedral. “He echoes the stale shib-
boleths and the empty slogans of a
bygone age.” Of the Prime Minister, the
Dean said: “Unhappily Mr Menzies
lives and moves and has his being m
an atmosphere of 19th-century i m ‘
perialism.”
Tall, solidly built with a hard glint in
his eyes, Stuart Barton Babbage is Jj
distinguished scholar with a broad
academic background. Born in Auck"
land, N.Z., on January 4, 1916, he took
his master’s degree at Auckland Univer-
sity College and a doctorate of philosophy
at London. He taught school for a time
in N.Z., studied for the ministry, took
a curacy in an English village, a chap-


, ; nC v in Scotland, then went to Persia
3 the R-A.F.
j n 1946 he became Dean at St
Andrew’s, Sydney, and was acclaimed the
voimgest dean in the Church of England,
ffiere he organised a marriage-guidance
bureau which employed qualified psy-
chologists and social workers. More
significantly, it was here that he forged
a “jj n k with the trade-union movement,
jhe Church, he preached, was always in
ibe forefront of the movement for a
nlore just social order. He urged greater
harmony and understanding in industrial
affairs. Marxism he described as a
"pseudo-religion.”
In February, 1953, he moved to Mel-
bourne to become principal of Ridley
Theological College. Before he left, 35
union secretaries in Sydney presented him
with an illuminated address.
By December of that year he was Dean
of Melbourne and once more indulging
in his recreation of talking: “Modern
homes are mostly dormitories where the
family sleeps. The only club is the pub”
“The influence of some mothers-in-
law on the home is pernicious and damn-
able” . • • "Australia’s native policy is a
national scandal and a disgrace” . . . “The
Dean of Canterbury is sincere, but unfor-
tunately sincerely wrong” . . . "The more
nearly a man approaches absolute power,
the more cruel and satanic he becomes.”
Sometimes Dr Babbage was engagingly
frank, as when he revealed that he wore
his gaiters about six times a year. “One
needs to be athletic and have great ability
to get them on,’’ he confided. “I usually
call on my family to help.”
In 1959 he withdrew his support from
the Australian and New Zealand Con-
gress for International Co-operation and
Disarmament because he considered it
had a Communist taint. Lately he has
been crusading against the White Aus-
tralia policy: “It is anomalous that we
should welcome migrants from southern
Europe, many of them barely literate,
while excluding from permanent resi-
dence the highly industrious and intelli-
gent peoples of Asia.”
Dr Babbage could still leave his im-
print on politics in Victoria, especially
Labor politics. He believes that if
Christianity is to make up the ground it
has lost in modern times the Church
should come off the defensive, train the
clerics to swing an effective punch, and
encourage them to get right into the
arena of contemporary life.
• •
Furniture for Business
In Melbourne this week is a Danish-
born architect, Jens Risom, whose
Mission is to convince us of the need
for specially designed “executive” furni-
ture. Mr Risom, now an American
C| tizen with headquarters in New York,
designs furniture for public buildings and
for professional men’s suites. His theory
| s that office furniture need not be just
functional but can also be “livable.” He
"as already designed furniture for the
J ew offices of Melbourne stockbrokers
hn Potter and Co.
Mr Risom, who is accompanied by
his wife, is spending the first week of
h ,s stay in Melbourne supervising the
making of his designs at the Box Hill
factory of William Latchford and Sons.
Latchfords have been making Risom
furniture under licence for the past six
months, using mainly Queensland black-
bean wood. Mr Risom is giving talks
to architects in Melbourne and Sydney.
• •
Into the Silence: —
In Sydney, at 80, Stewart Arthur Smith,
distinguished physician and pioneer of post-
graduate medical education. His death closely
followed that of Sir Hugh Poate, with whom
he founded the Post-Graduate Medical School,
later the Post-Graduate Committee in Medicine.
The school began in 1938 with Dr Smith as
director of post-graduate medicine and Sir Hugh
as director of surgery. Before World War I
he lectured in anatomy at Sydney University,
and in 1916 did important research on the
Talgai skull, a prehistoric relic that had been
discovered at Warwick (Q.) 32 years before.
He practised in his rooms almost to the time
of his death, as well as being an honorary
consulting physician at Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital. He was a lecturer in clinical
medicine and an examiner in medicine at the
University of Sydney, was chairman of the
Australian Rheumatism Council from 1949 to
1959, and was a committee member of the
National Heart Foundation. He was also chair-
man of the Life Offices’ Scientific Advisory
Council, a former director of the A.M.P.
Society, and a former honorary medical officer
to the A.J.C.
In Sydney, at 76, Alick Dudley Kay, former
Independent member for North Shore in the
New South Wales Legislative Assembly, and a
well-known speaker in Sydney Domain. He was
the subject of bitter controversy jn 1926, when
the Lang Government appointed him to a
vacancy on the Metropolitan Meat Board,
replacing him in the Assembly with a Labor
member and increasing the Government’s
majority in the Assembly to two.
In Adelaide, at 88, Sir William Goodman,
the brilliant engineer who installed the Mt Lyetl
electrical system in 1895. He was responsible
for the introduction of electric trams to
Adelaide and Dunedin (N.Z.) and for 43 years
before his retirement in 1950 was chief engineer
and general-manager of Adelaide’s Municipal
Tramways Trust. He was Commonwealth repre-
sentative at the world power conference in
Scandinavia in 1933, and in 1948 was awarded
the Peter Nicol Memorial Award, Australia’s
highest engineering distinction.
In Sydney, at 89, Robert Mahony, last sur-
viving foundation member of the Australian
Labor party and “father” of the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council. Mahony saw the birth of the
Labor party when, as a boilermaker’s appren-
tice, he attended the first Labor League meeting
in Sydney’s Jubilee Hall in 1891. In 1900 he
established the Ship Painters and Dockers’
Federation, of which he was later Federal
secretary. He became a member of the Legis-
lative Council in 1921, and was Party Whip
from that year until his death.
The Australian Novelists
5. RUTH PARK
The Ruth Park
story is, at first
sight, straight
from the women’s
magazines: she is
handsome, hap-
pily married to a
famous writer, a
capable house-
wife, the mother
of five children
and a highly suc-
cessful writer her-
self.
The periodic
stories and pic-
tures of her and
D’Arcy Niland
tapping away at
their typewriters
at opposite ends of their Sydney
house, meeting for a companionable
lunch to compare ideas, or of the
housewife dropping her broom to jot
down a colorful line of dialogue,
inevitably suggest a kind of women’s-
magazine output on the distaff side
of the family. In fact, although Ruth
Park claims that she is “not really a
novelist,” her first novel, “The Harp
in the South” (1947), remains one of
the better contemporary pictures of
Australian low society.
She wrote it following a period
spent living in the slums of Sydney’s
Surry Hills. It was, for a girl fresh
from the green hills of New Zealand,
a protest —against, primarily, the men
of the slums, who would not or could
not do anyth'ng about improving their
lot and that of their families.
“I used to see them coming home
from work,” she says, “in their blue
shirts, with stubbled faces, black hands,
eyes bloodshot from dust . . . young
and old, but the same man at different
stages of life,
pressed into the
mould of fatigue
and despair, sup-
ported by the
leaky raft of the
basic wage, with
every new kid
forcing it deeper
into the water.”
Hughle Darcy,
the man of the
story, was in-
tended by Ruth
Park to be the vil-
lain —but it is one
of the strengths
of the novel that
the character took
charge and grew
as it went along, until the environ-
ment itself ended up as the villain.
“The Harp in the South” won prizes
and praise, although Ruth Park’s third
novel out of the nine she has written,
“The Witch’s Thorn,” made the most
money. Her latest novel, just finished,
is called “The Good Looking
Women,” and is a contemporary story
set in Sydney. Between novels she
reels olf children’s stories and plays
with unflagging enthusiasm.
Later this year Jack Clayton
(“Room at the Top”) begins filming
“The Harp in the South,” and in the
meantime the “Lola Montez” team
of Alan Burke, Peter Stannard and
Peter Benjamin are turning it into a
musical.
One prospect only remains impos-
sible for Ruth Park —collaboration on
a novel with her husband. “How
could we?” she says. “He starts logi-
cally, at the beginning. But I'm a
woman —I start with the ending and
work backwards.”


The Engineers’ Revolt
By ROSS WILLIAMS
Engineers have been seeking an in-
crease in salary, status, and
national identity as a profession
in a case which has assumed the
proportions of an Odyssey in the Arbi-
tration Commission. Now in its fourth
year before the Commission, the Asso-
ciation of Professional Engineers’ Case
has broken all records for length of pro-
ceedings in industrial arbitration. The
log of claims for the present proceedings
was served by the Association of Pro-
fessional Engineers, Australia, in 1957
but previous logs making basically the
same claims were served in 1949.
The A.P.E.A., with its membership of
6000 growing impatient at the long court
proceedings, has had almost all its energy
and resources drained by the fight for
the award which has dominated its
activities since its formation in 1946. The
case and its preparation has cost the
Association £45,000 since 1954. During
the hearing before the Full Bench of the
Commission, the Association called 46
witnesses including nine professors ;
among them the head of the School of
Physical Sciences at the Australian
National University, Sir Mark Oliphant;
and the Vice-Chancellor of the University
of New South Wales, Professor J. P.
Baxter.
The case raises industrial issues which
are completely novel in Australia and
which have taken it twice to the High
Court for decision. It is the first attempt
by any learned profession to gain a
federal award and raises the new concept
of whether employee professionals can
have the same recognition as self-
employed professional men.
Measured alongside most other pro-
fessions, engineers’ salaries start lower
and continue to lose ground over years
of service. In the Victorian State public
service, the engineering graduate after a
four-year course earns an average £1451 ;
a law graduate (four-year course) £1661 ;
a dentist (five years), £2411 and a doctor
(six years plus a year’s hospital ex-
perience) £2411. Only about 10 per cent,
of engineers can ever hope to reach a
salary of more than £3OOO.
A survey the A.P.E.A. made in 1955
showed that the engineer's standard of
living was not high by professional
standards. It showed 50 per cent, of engi-
neers either owned or were paying off
a home and the value of homes they
occupied was generally less than £5OOO.
70 per cent, owned a car but nearly half
of these cars had a value less than £5OO
and only 10 per cent, were valued at more
than £lOOO.
The engineers are united in their belief
that they are not paid enough for the
work they do and the kind of training
they have to undergo. But a minority
section of them feel that the status of
the profession is being lowered by the
use of trade union tactics in the lengthy
court wrangle and that a higher salary
will not automatically improve their
status in the community. The main body
of engineers would probably endorse the
belief of A.P.E.A. president, Mr R. R.
Newlands, who says: “Salary is not the
whole of status but it must be the basis.
In our community, whether you like it
or not, the key to status is what sort of
car you’ve got and what suburb you live
in. Until we win this case or something
like it, the question of status is an
academic one.”
A member of the minority group said :
“The profession has idealists who, de-
voted to their profession, hold that salary
is not everything, that there is a con-
fusion between salary and status, and
that status is something you achieve by
being worthy of it and doing your job
properly.”
The ranks of these idealists, prepared
to work at their projects regardless of
return, are thinning. More and more
young men who are ambitious for place
and position are going to medicine and
law not all for salary but some for
status. Parents seldom encourage their
sons to become engineers in the way they
encourage them to become doctors and
lawyers.
As a result Australia’s shortage of
engineers is becoming more apparent.
At Melbourne University, enrolments in
the Engineering School fell from eight
per cent, of the total student enrolment
in 1954 to seven per cent, in 1960. The
Vice-President of the New South Wales
branch of the Association of Pro-
fessional Engineers, Mr F. A. Edwards,
has estimated that in 1960, with 19,805
engineers required, Australia had a short-
age of six per cent, of the number of
engineers employed. He claimed that by
1964, with 26,675 engineers needed the
shortage would be between 10.8 and 13.3
per cent, and in 1968, with 35,345 engi-
neers needed, between 13.6 and 19.7
per cent.
In 1958, Australian universities pro-
duced 62 bachelor degree mechanical
engineers or six per million of population
compared with the United States figures
of 53 per million of population. The
Dean of the Faculty of Engineering at
Melbourne University, Professor P. L.
Henderson, commented: “These figures
could be called tragic. This serious short-
age of professional engineers will not be
overcome without substantial increases in
salaries because the predominant reason
for the small number of students selecting
professional engineering as a career is
that the profession of engineering does
not offer the financial rewards and status
of other professions.”
/~\ne of the reasons for the length of
the Arbitration Commission case is
the stiff opposition being put up by the
State Governments, notably New South
Wales and Victoria, who see it as a threat
to the power of their public service
empires. The A.P.E.A.’s log of claims
asks for a minimum rate of salary of
£1728 for a “qualified” engineer'and
£2278 for a “chartered” engineer.
Rather than just getting them more
money, the engineers feel the real im-
portance of the case is that it seeks to
gain them a federal award which will
free them from the State wage-fixing
tribunals to which most of them are
bound. They feel the profession is dis-
integrated and depressed because its
members are working under a variety of
awards and agreements or no award at all.
Most engineers work for State Govern-
ments or their instrumentalities and are
geared to public service salary structures.
They argue that salaries should not be
on a fixed relativity with other public
servants but based on value and merit
and that years of integration of pro-
fessional and non-professional positions
have depressed their status and lowered
the dignity of truly professional work
in Government service.
The States argue that the salary claim
is impracticable on the ground that the
whole of their wage structures would
have to be reclassified to maintain exist-
ing relativities.
An award for engineers would be the
thin edge of a wedge weakening their
own tribunals.
The former chairman of the New
South Wales Public Service Board, Mr
Wallace Wurth, in a paper to the con-
ference of the Australian regional groups
of the Royal Institute of Public Admin-
istration forecast that if the Commission
did finally make an award for the engi-
neers it could well be the end of separate
agreements under the N.S.W. Public
Service Act with engineers and probably
a number of other professional officers.
He said that in other words this would
be an end to collective bargaining and
could also put an end to the functioning of
the Crown Employees Appeal Board and
perhaps even the Public Service Board
itself in respect of these employees. Mr
Wurth said the Commission was em-
powered to set up boards of reference
and other tribunals. It could override
statutory provisions as to leave and all
other conditions even when laid down
by the State Parliament.
The High Court has decided that the
Arbitration Commission has the power to
make the award. Now the State Govern-
ments are asking the Commission to
exercise its discretion not to make an
award in the public interest. Private in-
dustry argues that if an award is made
it should be at a low figure.
The case does not seem likely to he
completed until June.


OVERSEAS
Castro or Democracy?
By ROBERT J. ALEXANDER
HE really important fact about
I Castroism is not that it has enabled
.u Cuban Communist party to seize
control of the country, but that it repre-
ss an indigenous Latin - American
I | evo lution which has turned for support
to the Soviet Union. For this raises a
crU cial question: Can the revolt against
feudalism, militarism and economic
backwardness —long overdue everywhere
j n the region—be achieved without dic-
tatorship and without Moscow’s assis-
tance?
In the last 15 months, Fidel Castro
lias rallied the support of a steadily grow-
ing group of Latin America which may
aptly be called the Jacobin Left. This
group regards the checks and balances
ami the individual freedoms of the demo-
cratic system as obstacles to agrarian
reform, mass education and “economic-
independence.” It argues that the United
States, fearful of losing a source of cheap
raw materials and foodstuffs, opposes
industrialisation in the hemisphere It
insists that the enemies of the U.S. are
the area’s natural allies, and that oniy a
dictatorial revolutionary regime can
move with the speed and decision neces-
sary to bring about an effective social
revolution in Latin America.
The mounting popularity of the Jaco-
tm Left threatens both the future of
U.S.-Latin American relations and the
very fate of democracy in the region.
Until now, all popular movements for
social change have also aspired to estab-
lish a system of political democracy.
Indeed, democracy has been a fundamen-
ts! element of Latin American belief,
regardless of how much it may have been
violated in practice. Almost every con-
stitution drawn up in the hemisphere in
the last 150 years has been basically
democratic.
Traditionally, too, Latin-American re-
form movements have drawn from the
jwritings and actions of the United States’
revolutionary founding fathers from
Abraham Lincoln and from Franklin
H Roosevelt —and they have sought allies
II the U.S.A.’s liberal and labor circles,
the Jacobins turn their backs on all this.
them, the revolution of 1776 was
My a fraud, Lincoln was the spokes-
for nascent U.S. capitalism and
[DR. was an exponent of full-blown
f imperialism.
It cannot be denied that Washington
Policies since World War II have con-
fibuted mightily to the growth of Jaco-
!lnism. Washington’s all but universal
!ll PPort of every Latin American dicta-
f r since 1945 (as well as its support of
ratico and a host of equally elegant
democrats” outside the hemisphere) has
London “Evening Standard.”
VICKY'S HOLIDAY TRAVEL
GUIDE
seemed to make a mockery of U.S. claims
to be the democratic cause throughout
the world.
Similarly, U.S. failure to fulfil World
War II promises of vast aid for economic
development, which Latin Americans felt
it was capable of giving, has tended to
substantiate the charge that we do not
want Latin America to industrialise. And
the charge was further reinforced by
the Eisenhower Administration’s long
insistence that our neighbors would have
to rely exclusively on U.S. private invest-
ments for economic help. Many Latin
Americans saw this as proof that the
United States was interested only in the
amount of profit its firms could make in
their countries.
r T''HE slowdowns of Latin America's
-*• economic development to only a little
more than 1 per cent, per capita a year
since 1955, and the apparent continued
hypocrisy in the U.S. concerning the
problem of dictatorship v democracy
in the hemisphere, has led to a wide-
spread feeling of frustration. This, in
turn, has led young people particularly,
most notably students, to adopt the views
of the Jacobin Left.
A decade ago, Juan Peron tried to
mobilise this political movement, but he
had a number of handicaps. He was an
Argentine, a general and on the scent
before Moscow was ready to become
deeply involved in New World affairs.
There always has been a certain suspicion
of Argentine territorial ambitions, par-
ticularly on the part of its closest
neighbors ; generals are not very popular
in Latin America ; and without Soviet
economic and political support Peron was
no match for the U.S.
During his first 10 months in power,
Castro appeared to be carrying out the
programme he had promised. A mam-
moth effort toward ending illiteracy was
begun ; drastic steps taken to eliminate
corruption; the tax system was com-
pletely revised and made more progres-
sive ; a large-scale economic development
plan was put forward ; an agrarian re-
form decree-law was issued which seemed
to promise to give the land to those who
cultivated it. Finally, civil liberties were
maintained and, though he became in-
creasingly vague regarding elections,
Castro continued to proclaim his inten-
tion of restoring a democratically chosen
constitutional regime.
Meanwhile, a sharp struggle for power
was going on within his regime. One
faction, favoring the revolutions original
democratic programme, was led by
Camilo Cienfuegos, Commander of the
Armed Forces, and Hubert Matos, head
of the garrison in Cienfuegos ; it also
had the support of Manual Ray, Minister
of Public Works, Felipe Pazos, head of
the National Bank, Rufo Lopez Fresquet,
Minister of Finance, Dr Hernandez,
Minister of Labor, and most of the trade
union movement with the victory of the
revolution in January, 1959.
The other faction was the Jacobin Left.
It was opposed even to discussing the
question of elections, calling for the estab-
lishment of a revolutionary dictatorship
and elimination of all open criticism of
the regime, it favored a completely
State - dominated economy. It urged
Cuba's alignment with the U.S.S.R.
internationally, and alliance with the
Communist party inside Cuba.
In November, 1959, the die was cast
in favor of the Jacobin group: Hubert
Matos was jailed for 20 years ; Cien-
fuegos disappeared ; the other supporters
of the democratic position were elimi-
nated from the Government. At the
same time, the regime purged the labor
movement —by force and the threat of
force—of all those who refused to form
an alliance with the Communists in the
unions. Freedom of press and organisa-
tion was first restricted and finally elimi-
nated altogether. Castro announced that
it was counter-revolutionary to talk of
elections and proclaimed that anyone
against the Communist party was against
Castro.
One can only speculate on what made
Castro decide to throw in his lot with
the Jacobin Left —headed by his brother
Raul, Major Ernesto “Che” Guevara
and Antonio Nunez Jiminez. head of the
National Agrarian Reform Institute. Per-
haps the unequalled adulation to which
he was subject in the first months of
the regime went to his head and pro-
vided him with visions of himself as
THE leader of social revolution in Latin
America ; perhaps he misunderstood the
attitude of the U.S. State Department,
which was one of “wait and see,” as being


hostile to his Government; perhaps it
was simply kinship and affection which
bound him closer to the Raul Castro-
Guevara group than to its opponents.
Whatever the reasons, Castro’s regime
not only adopted from November, 1959,
onward the internal policies which I have
noted, but also took an unequivocal
position on the side of the Soviet Union
in its struggle with the United States —
a development which culminated in
Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev's
famous threat to use rockets to “protect”
the Castro regime, and Fidel’s own
appearance before the United Nations.
The turn of events in Cuba has resulted
in a bitter struggle throughout Latin
America between the Democratic Left
and the Jacobin Left. Although Castro
had the support of democratic social
revolutionary elements everywhere during
his struggle to overthrow Batista and
right after he came to power, he has
cut all ties with these groups. Indeed,
he has gone much further ; whereas in
the first months of his regime Castro gave
aid to those seeking to overthrow the
remaining dictatorships in Latin America,
in recent months he has concentrated his
efforts on overturning the regimes con-
trolled by democratic social revolutionary
elements. Not only did Castro give moral
and political support last November, for
example, to the Caracas street rioters
trying to overthrow President Romulo
Betancourt’s Government of Venezuela,
but he has continued to ship arms to
the Jacobin element there.
The outcome of this struggle between
the Democratic Left and the Jacobin
Left, in Cuba as well as in the rest of
the hemisphere, will be determined to a
considerable degree by what the United
States does or does not do. President
Kennedy has a unique opportunity to
throw the full weight of U.S. influence
behind the forces of democratic social
change which are eagerly looking to him
for hemispheric leadership. Disillusion-
ment, if it comes, will be catastrophic.
Quite literally, this is the last chance
for the United States in Latin America.
To make the most of this chance, three
steps must be taken:
(1) The U.S. must make it unequi-
vocally clear that it supports political
democracy throughout the New World.
(This means taking the lead in doing
something effective about the remaining
old-fashioned tyrannies, particularly that
of Trujillo in the Dominican Republic.)
(2) The U.S. must extend the greatest
support possible to programmes of social
change in Latin America which are being
undertaken in a democratic manner.
(3) The U.S. must offer Latin American
countries a large-scale programme of co-
operation for economic development.
The Release of Djilas
By A. V. SHERMAN
“HTell me who your prisoners are and
-* I shall tell you what you are.”
Milovan Djilas’s release from a Serbian
prison coincides with the news that Olga
lvinskaya, the late Boris Pasternak's soul-
mate, has been dragged off to a Soviet
concentration camp. The coincidence
sheds characteristic light on the differing
moods and preoccupations of the “New
Class” —to use a term popularised by
Dj Has —in the two countries.
Dj ilas's release, after he had served
only four out of his ten years of sentence,
indicates several considerations on the
part of Yugoslav policy-makers. The
most immediate, perhaps, is Djilas’s sym-
bolic significance to Western socialists,
whose goodwill has again become of
increasing importance to Tito as his hopes
of acceptance by the Soviet bloc on his
own terms fade. But the underlying
cause lies in Tito’s realisation that
Djilas's attacks on the power-monopoly
and privileges of the new class have been
ineffectual inside the country. They
were, after all, directed towards the new
class itself, but, as experience was to show
convincingly, no section of the new
Communist ruling stratum exhibited any
of the guilt-complexes, self-criticism or
tender social conscience which we have
come to take for granted in Western
ruling strata.
To assess the significance of Djilas’s
release, we have to appreciate how he
came to bi k with the Party leadership
in the first place ; the metamorphosis of
that buoyant, self-confident, complete
party-man I first met in late 1950, into the
sober, reticent, self-questioning Djilas
who returned to Belgrade last week.
Titoism was a by-product, not a cause,
of the old Stalin-Tito rift. For the first
year after the Cominform excommuni-
cation of mid-1948, Tito and his aides
vehemently denied that they had any
theoretical disagreements with Stalin, or
that they were anything but the most
orthodox Stalinists. They abandoned
this position when it became increasingly
obvious that Stalinism was not the best
ideology for fighting Stalin and that they
would have to rationalise their increasing
dependence on the West: Titoism began
to evolve.
Some Yugoslav party veterans refused
to stomach the heresy and were un
moniously jailed. Djilas, who took"!?'
the main exposition of Titoism ex off) •
as No. 4 man in the Politburo arS
responsible for ideology and propaganda
was not among the most enthusiast;,’
Titoites at first. But by late 1950 he had
really warmed to the task and identified
himself with it, giving every sign of
enjoying his new iconoclasm as much as
he had done his old as a student and nartv
activist.
Of course, Titoism had its own con-
tradictions, too. Denunciation of Stalinist
misrule unavoidably called into question
similar practices in Yugoslavia. The
party leaders were hard pressed to imnose
all the externals of liberalisation (or de-
Stalinisation, as it later came to be called
elsewhere) without permitting economic
social and political spontaneity which
threatened their own monopoly of power
and privilege. This evoked considerable
discontent and opposition, particularly
among the middle- and lower-echelon
cadres who bore the main brunt of it in
their day-to-day dealings with the public,
which took talk about “socialist legality”
seriously enough to become far less cowed
and docile in face of officialdom.
But the exigencies of their life-and-
death struggle with Stalin left the Yugo-
slav leaders no choice but to be Titoites,
heretics, “Westernisers” and “totalitarian
liberals,” however much the majority of
them may have preferred the good old
days before the split, when the masses
knew their place.
Stalin’s death changed the whole pic-
ture. A few weeks after he was
embalmed, meetings took place between
Russian and Yugoslav representatives,
and the first steps were taken to call the
struggle off. In June came a joint
announcement on improvement of rela-
tions between the two States. Freed from
the need to fight Stalinism the Yugoslav
Communist leadership began systemati-
cally to dismantle the more radical anti-
Stalinism they had developed and paved
the way to their re-admission into the
“socialist camp,” which came dose to
achievement in 1955 and 1956.
But Djilas had become too deeply and
personally involved with his iconoclastic
role to turn back with the rest. In late
1953, when the early form of Titoism
was obviously ebbing, he tried to carry
its liberal premises to their logical con-
clusion, appealing to the radicalism that
Communism so readily employs when m
Cummings, in London “Doily Expre ss .
HE DAREN’T EVEN CO-EXIST WITH THE DEAD.


osition, and which he had freely used
criticism of Stalinist hierarchical
aS He denounced the privileges and
1 s °l.niindedness of the upper echelons
f Yugoslav Communist society and
1 ° ||ed for extensions of real freedom
vhich would have meant the disintegra-
J on of Communist power.
His appeals and strictures seemed to
have come more from desperation at the
' fe treat from “High Titoism” than from
an y coherent plan to re-model society.
Politically his gesture was doomed
because it appealed to no groups in the
Communist body politic. The new class,
unlike certain old ruling classes, was not
prepared to entertain any questioning of
its right to enjoy the fruits of power, for
w hich it had fought so bitterly, first
against the old regime and the Germans,
and then against Stalin. There were no
other politically significant groups he
could appeal to. In any case, the amor-
phous “non-establishment” of peasants,
urban wage- and salary-earners, and non-
Communist intellectuals, hostile or non-
sympathetic to the regime, were generally
quite apathetic to quarrels inside the
hierachy. The fall and imprisonment of
party leaders —whether for Cominformism
or excessive Titoism —gave them a certain
morbid satisfaction, and they were not
disposed to take sides with a humbled
deviationism.
Abroad, Djilas was invested with a cer-
tain tragic dignity for his courage and re-
discovery of democratic values, but in his
Balkan home he remained a prophet
without honor. Indeed, his erstwhile
comrades made political capital out of
him. His “party-trial” early in 1954, and
his subsequent trial for unseasonal anti-
Sovietism served Tito as useful gambits
in his bid for re-acceptance into the
Communist bloc, since they allowed the
prosecution to parade their Communist
orthodoxy again after a lapse of several
years,
Since the high-water mark of recon-
ciliation, however, Yugoslav-Soviet rela-
tions have ebbed again, to an uneasy
coexistence, in which Peking denounces
Tito in more or less the same terms as
Stalin used to, while the Yugoslavs
suggest that Khrushchev is merely a
Titoite-manque, to his present annoyance.
When things were going well between
Moscow and Belgrade, Tito could afford
t 0 ride roughshod over Western feelings,
particularly over those of Western
Socialists. Now that he again stands in
"ccd of Western benevolence in order to
counter the cold winds from the East,
fito must consider Western opinion, and
of Djilas is a harmless enough
gesture which carries little risk of
endangering the regime.
As in their treatment of erstwhile
comrades who took the Cominform’s
jde, the Yugoslav authorities have com-
bined ruthlessness with a relative absence
i vindictiveness. The Yugoslav “new
Cass ” has shown less barbarism
taan that displayed in the shocking
tev enge visited upon the unfortunate
? lctl ® of the Soviet new class, Pasternak’s
n e roine, Olga Ivinskaya.
Overseas Pointers
EUROPE
ITALY
The Italian Communist party found
added reason to celebrate on its 40th
anniversary as the ruling Christian Demo-
cratic party faced another of its re-
curring crises. The Liberal party’s
national council will meet on February
22 to consider whether it will continue
its essential support of the Government
following the DemoChristian-Socialist
co-operation in the Milan municipal
administration which Liberal leader
Signor Malagodi declared was a testing
ground of the Government’s intentions.
Malagodi regards the Milan D.C.-Demo-
cratic and Nenni Socialist alliance, which
is more Leftist than the four - party
national Government, as a betrayal of
the electors’ trust. However it seems un-
likely that he will carry out his threat
to upset the Government on this issue.
The threat seemed largely dictated by
the powerful Confederation of Industries
which should have a less conservative
leadership after its annual assembly be-
ginning on February 8. Italy’s industrial
boom, with the consequent strengthening
of the unions, should ensure a more
flexible Confindustria policy. Conse-
quently Signor Fanfani may be granted
time to test his long term development
plans.
FRANCE
M. Alain Robbe-Grillet, who together
with two other novelists, Nathalie Sar-
raute and Marguerite Duras, has arrived
in Britain to lecture on the “new realism”
in the novel, said that a policeman had
been sent to his house to talk with him
after he had signed a manifesto support-
ing the right to refuse military service
for Algeria. After the policeman had
cross-examined M. Robbe-Grillet for
some time he also signed the declaration.
MIDDLE EAST
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
Following the resumption of diplo-
matic relationships between Britain
and the U.A.R. the British national,
Mr James Zarb, was released on
February 6, after serving four and
a half years of his ten - year sen-
tence for espionage charges. The daily
newspaper “A1 Ahram” said that Israel
wanted to make a gesture to express its
appreciation of the defence of the Arab
Palestine case put forward by Dr Arnold
Toynbee in a Montreal debate with the
Israel Ambassador to Canada, Mr Yaa-
cov Herzog. “A1 Ahram” said, “When the
full text of Toynbee’s statement was re-
ceived the U.A.R. authorities began to
consider means whereby the U.A.R.
people may show their appreciation of a
British free-thinker. The release of Zarb
was then considered, after all British at-
tempts and efforts for his release had
failed, so that British public opinion may
know that a fair word of truth may
among nations achieve miracles and suc-
ceed where press campaigns, methods of
pressure, fleets and invading armies fall.”
ISRAEL
The bitter struggle between Mr Ben-
Gurion, the former Prime Minister, and
Mr Lavon continues and threatens to
wreck the Mapai Party and with it the
Government. There is no opposition to
the Mapai sufficiently strong to take over
from it but the party has never been so
divided as at the present. The central
committee has decided by 159 to 98
votes, with five abstentions, to remove
Mr Pinhas Lavon as secretary-general of
the Histadrut, the Israel Federation of
Labor. The margin was so small that the
vote is regarded as a Pyrrhic victory for
Mr Ben - Gurion. Mr Lavon’s post
with the Histadrut has made him
the most important figure in the
country’s economic life. It is hazardous
to guess the outcome of the feud but Mr
Ben-Gurion’s prestige has suffered con-
siderably from it and Mr Lavon seems to
have lost any chance of succeeding to
Mr Ben-Gurion because nothing and
nobody, not even the vaunted Army, has
escaped his criticism. The Mapai Party
has asked President Ben Zvi to call upon
Mr Ben-Gurion to form a new Govern-
ment.
AFRICA
NORTHERN RHODESIA
Sir Roy Welensky, the Federal Prime
Minister, seems as determined to prevent
implementation of the Monckton Re-
port’s recommendations for an African
majority in Northern Rhodesia’s Legis-
lative Council as the Colonial Secretary,
Mr Iain MacLeod, is to implement it.
Welensky realises that Northern Rho-
desia’s copper is essential to the terri-
tory’s economy but he may have over-
estimated the strength of the support
territories’ whites will give him. The Afri-
can miners claim to be able to run the
mines by themselves and not all the
whites would support the extremist and
aggressive Federal Fighting Force. The
civil service is hardly likely to support
any attack on a British decision.
ANGOLA
Two days of rioting in Luanda, the capi-
tal of this Portuguese African colony, re-


suited in at least 16 deaths. Six policemen
and one soldier were killed in the Feb-
ruary 4 riot and at their funeral on the
following day some of the Portuguese
rioters painted their faces black and
mixed in the crowd following the police-
men's funeral. They were discovered and
in the succeeding shooting-match four
people were killed and seven injured. The
Lisbon Government newspaper “Diario
da Manha” said: “It has all been plan-
ned, the seizure by force of the Santa
Maria, revolutionary activities in Luanda.
Who knows if similar activities are not
being prepared in other overseas pro-
vinces and even in the metropolis?”
THE AMERICAS
BRAZIL
President Quadros swept into power by
choosing a symbol — a broom — which
could be appreciated by the simplest
voter. Now that he is in office, however,
he may have difficulty in making them
appreciate the measures necessary to solve
the complex problems Sr Kubitschek left
him. He has to pay the bill for Brazil
jumping ahead fifty years in five. The
country owes 3800 million dollars to
foreign investors and the cost of living
has risen 170 per cent, in the last five
years. Just what Quadros will do to save
the country from bankruptcy is not clear
as his electoral campaign leant so heavily
on that eloquent broom that the Presi-
dent did not make any specific promises.
However, faced with a similar problem
when governor of Sao Paolo in 1954 he
rid the province of corruption and inef-
ficiency. He has already appointed some
of the men who set things right in Sao
Paola to key positions.
CANADA
With unemployment at a record post-
war high, the Minister for Immigration
and Citizenship, Mrs Fairclough, has
stated that health and intelligence are
no longer sufficient qualifications for
immigrants. Talking to agricultural
students at Guelgh, Ontario, she said the
“empty lands” myth should be exploded,
and added that Canada wants only techni-
cally qualified workers.
ASIA
JAPAN
On the eve of the reconvening of Diet
after the recess Mr Ikeda, the Japanese
Prime Minister, said that he proposed to
follow a “flexible” foreign policy, par-
ticularly in relation to China. He said
he was opposed to a trade pact with
China because it would be political but
he was not opposed to private trade
deals. A Chinese trade mission in Japan
has been proclaiming that China wants
nothing so much as friendly relations
with a neutralist Japan.
Russia’s “Secret” Forgeries
By VICTOR ZORZA
A secret service headquarters in
Moscow with a main branch in East
Germany and sub-branches in places as
far as Tokyo, New Delhi, Accra and
Havana, has planted in newspapers of
these and other cities over the past few
years some 50 “confidential,” “secret”
and “top secret” documents which were
presented as revealing some of the most
embarrassing and potentially explosive
Western Government secrets.
In almost all cases the first publication
of these documents outside the Soviet
bloc was followed by concerted cam-
Russia recently attempted to
confuse British-U.S. relation-
ships with a forged document
supposedly signed by Mr
Herter, former U.S. Secretary
of State, and Mr Brucßer,
former U.S. Secretary of the
Army. This article examines
this Soviet propaganda weapon.
paigns designed to secure through Mos-
cow radio and other Communist news-
distributing agencies the widest publicity
in the countries or areas for which they
were “angled.”
In February, 1958, copies of a letter
attributed to Mr David Bruce, then
United States ambassador in West Ger-
many, designed to show that American
policies were being deliberately conducted
in a way detrimental to Britain, were
mailed from France to journalists and
politicians in London. After creating
something of a diplomatic flurry the letter
was exposed as a forgery and failed to
make headlines for which it had been
intended.
In fact, however, forgeries which do
not finally appear in the press can in
a way be more dangerous potentially
than those which receive publicity- and
are exposed for what they are. Only
one prong of operation “falsies” is
designed for penetration of press. Another
prong consists of feeding of deliberate
misinformation by Soviet intelligence
service to its Western counterparts —an
operation which sometimes assumes such
vast proportions that Western services
find it more than usually difficult to
separate the grain from the chaff.
But the third and sharpest prong is
delivery to high Western Government
officials of alleged letters from secret
archives of their allied opposite numbers.
These are usually more skilfully framed
than forgeries designed for impression-
able public opinion and on several occa-
sions they have succeeded in producing
bad blood between Western Govern-
ments before they were finally nailed
down.
Notable example of the kind of docu
ment which was not intended f or th
press and never reached it was a
graphic copy of an alleged letter sent
to the State Department under the si on
ture of Mr Elim O'Shaugnnessy,
of the political division of the American
Embassy in Bonn. A copy of the letter
was mailed through the ordinary p os t
in Munich on July 5 last year to a high
French official in full knowledge that
he would not himself try to check with
the Americans whether it was genuine
but would pass it on for information
to the appropriate French Government
agency....
The service concerned in this operation
is the Foreign Intelligence Branch of the
East German Ministry of State Security,
known by the initials H.V.A., which
stand for Haupverwaltung Aufklarung
and it works with the Soviet “adviser’
who co-ordinates its activities with wider
operations directed from Moscow head-
quarters ....
By comparing typewritten forgeries
known to have originated from H.V.A.
with O’Shaughnessy’s letter, it is pos-
sible to establish that the whole series
of these “documents” was produced on
the same typewriter. Another H.V.A.
operation was designed to exploit by
means of forged letters some of the
suspicions and ill feeling that occasionally
flare up between this country and West
Germany.
This took the form of letters produced
on forged letterheads of the 8.8. C. office
in Berlin. Photo-copies of 8.8. C. “letters"
were so drawn up as to indicate to
recipients—who included West German
Foreign Secretary—that the British
Foreign Office had directed the 8.8. C.
to support “Gottingen Declaration’’ in
which eighteen leading West German
nuclear physicists stated their opposition
to the possible arming of Bundeswehr
with atomic weapons. Since it was well
enough known in West Germany that
this prospect was not viewed enthusiasti-
cally in Britain, some recipients of the
letter may have concluded that “Per-
fidious Albion” was up to its tricks again.
—from the Manchester ‘'‘Guardian.’
London “Evening Standard.”
VICKY’S HOLIDAY TRAVEL
GUIDE


Shows
Beethoven Festival
MUSIC]
An extended period of starvation might
niake even Epicurus’s stomach ready to
welcome bread - and - dripping with
yippee yum-yums for the nourishment
to be extracted therefrom
—and it is to be supposed
that some such thing ani-
mated the concert-starved
audience which acclaimed bread-and-
dripping performances at the opening of
Sydney’s Beethoven Festival.
In Beethoven's “Consecration of the
House” overture and the fifth symphony,
both of them often as muddied in texture
as they were flaccid in impulse and coarse
in dynamics, Sir Bernard Heinze and the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra demon-
strated once again, by default, that there
js nothing more demanding of great
distinction in the resources of a conductor
and an orchestra than the works of the
standard repertoire. These works are
much too familiarly known, and hallowed
in memory of mighty past performances
of them, for mere run-of-the-mill exposi-
tions to give the music lover any more
satisfaction than the dog derived from
Mother Hubbard's cupboard.
The faith to be proclaimed by the
symphony, at its best here in the warmth
and eloquence of the 'cellos at the an-
dante’s beginning and in the haunted con-
straints of the scherzo, as of a prisoner
straining out of madness into liberty,
turned out to be an exercise in soapbox
bombast, so noisily passion-tearing at
every hint of a forte in the score that
there was nowhere for any climax to
assert itself consummatively.
The Josefstadt Theatre in Vienna, a
somewhat humble and workaday building
of its kind, looms as a most august temple
of the muses and of the aspirations of
all mankind in the “Consecration" over-
ture which Beethoven wrote for its open-
ing—and the disparity between the
building itself and the visions Beethoven
had of it were a source of affectionate
amusement to some of his contempora-
ries. The disparity would have been a
good deal less noticeable if the opening
performance had been at all like Sydney’s
pa fairly good account of the summon-
ing majesty in the crisp opening chords,
a not so good account of the woodwind
section immediately after, and a merely
busy bit of fugue playing in which there
was little of that sense of many people
assembling that is of the essence of the
composer’s thought.
The main interest in this opening con-
cert—the first of a series of four —was in
the work of the two soloists, pianist
Tatyana Nikolaveva who played the
fourth concerto with formidable large-
n «s of diction which inclined more
readily to magisterial massiveness than to
tenderness (and missed something of the
Proportion that the work holds between
these opposites), and dramatic soprano
Heather McMillan who sang with as-
surance and style, but no great dramatic
heat, through the spectacular love pangs
of the Salieri-inspired concert scena,
“Ah! Perfido.”
Lindsey Browne
Tschaikowsky Festival
The first of the A.B.C.'s series of musi-
cal concerts devoted to single composers
has just finished in Melbourne ; the first
to be singled out has been Tschaikowsky,
currently being rediscovered by the
musically astute ; a grim process, particu-
larly with Tschaikowsky, who has long
had the reputation of being just plain
corny.
The “new” qualities which have
emerged and echoed through the draughty
foyer of the Melbourne Town Hall dur-
ing intervals are the usual ones of
supreme musicianship, a wonderful
melodic invention and, a more original
touch, a tortured artistry of intense
spiritual strength. Perhaps a test of the
great artist lies in the amount of the real
man which survives the storm of each
rediscovery. Tschaikowsky seems un-
perturbed.
His music certainly allows the orchestra
to display its chromatic virtues, and the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra, under the
fatherly but still flamboyant baton of Sir
Bernard Heinze, attained some moments
of greatness. In the playing of the sth
and 6th symphonies especially they
demonstrated an assurance and control
which they have so often lacked.
John Kennedy was easily the best of
the soloists. His relaxed and fluent per-
formance of the little - known Rococo
Variations for 'Cello and Orchestra was
the highlight of the three nights. He is
one of the most underrated performers
in Australia and it is to be hoped that
the A.B.C. provides him with many more
opportunities to play with an orchestra.
Loris Synan sang pleasingly a scene from
“Eugene Onegin,” but her voice lacks the
volume necessary for orchestral singing.
Tatyana Nikolayeva's rendition of the
first and second piano concertos had a
fire and aggression which is not often
found in a woman pianist. Her approach
to these works, however, seemed need-
lessly blustering, and her playing is not
without rough patches ; she is essentially
a concert pianist, revelling in allegros and
cadenzas.
A. S. Jorgensen
A.B.C. Music Competitions
In the A.B.C.'s 1961 Concerto and
Vocal Competitions three State winners
instead of one —one pianist, one other
instrumentalist and one singer—will be
chosen from the State finals. There will
be three titles of Commonwealth Winners
instead of one —one for singers, one for
pianists, and one for other instrumen-
talists. Besides performing with
orchestra, all competitors must prepare
a 20-25 minute recital programme. The
Recording Society of Australia, Ltd., has
offered to make recordings of special per-
formances by the Commonwealth winners
for issue in association with the A.8.C.,
providing the standard of performance
by the winners is sufficiently high.
Entries for the 1961 competitions must
reach the A.B.C. by Friday, March 10,
at noon. Entry forms are available from
A.B.C. offices and State conservatoriums.
ART
Smith on “Voss”
Anyone who feared that Eric Smith's
illustrations to “Voss" at David Jones's
gallery, Sydney, would add to the already
ample stock of outback mythology we
have had from Drysdale, Nolan, Boyd,
Pugh, Tucker and others will be relieved.
Only one painting, “The Hateful Earth,”
an assemblage of bones, is in the estab-
lished tradition and at that, in its semi-
abstract style, a variation.
The truth is, nevertheless, that “Voss”
really needs to be illustrated in the
modern outback style if we are to get its
true flavor. Granted, it is a surrealist
novel, but it is not abstract. There would
surely need to be a solid, sculptural
treatment of figures to correspond with
Patrick White's queer, impressive, static
tableaux. “Voss” has, in fact, virtually
been illustrated by Albert Tucker who
would only need to have called his
anonymous explorer by that name for
his series to have been accepted as a
highly satisfactory interpretation. His
oils might have been a bit crude for
Patrick White's elegant prose, but he had
the right macabre and mythological
qualities.
But Eric Smith has, all the same, come
profitably out of his adventures with the
book. If his more dramatic pieces are
rarely successful —though Voss's opal-
escent eyes staring up from the bottom
of the canvas when the black boy is
cutting his head off make quite a moment
—he has found the happier parts of the
novel a useful starting-point for some
captivating fantasies of light and color,
particularly “Flashes of Saffron” and
“Flooded With Light and Memory.”
These are all the better in that they are
almost wholly abstract, or can be
accepted as such, so that they do not
become, as the attempts at dramatic
interpretation tend to do, a kind of
puzzle-picture where you must try to
search for recognisable form and action.
Some oth r lyrical pictures in the
exhibition, “The Bird” and “Bird Fan-
tasy,” full of suggestions of flight and
music against the blue backgrounds,


might just as well have been included in
the “Voss” series and are as delightful
as the best of them.
D. S.
Posters
An extraordinarily undistinguished ex-
hibition of posters for the British Empire
and Commonwealth Games, arranged by
the Arts Council and the Bank of N.S.W.,
is on display at the Wales gallery in
Sydney. The alert efforts by some of the
children —the school prizewinning entry
by Michail Barabasz, and Margaret Saw’s
design with the grass-tree —are. fair
enough, but why the rest of it is exhibited
is a mystery.
THEATRE
“Weft Side Story”
The enthusiasm at the first night of
this delinquents’ musical at Sydney Tivoli
was justified. Here was musical comedy
shedding its gimmickry ; a blend of
ballet and opera that was not even
comedy, but tragedy, and a recondite
translation of Shakespeare's “Romeo and
Juliet" to the underprivileged sidewalks
of New York. In it was satisfied the
demand for more serious, more intelli-
gent theatre ; here even the popular
theatre served the need for art to be a
criticism of life.
But count the cost. To secure this
intensity of weave it needed excellent
dancers who were also excellent singers.
Admirably, in the tradition of pure
theatre, dispensing with microphones, it
had to be satisfied that the small voices
of the dancers were drowned by the
orchestra of finely composed music. The
tight story had to take its comedy along
with it ; there was no comic relief. There
was no musicomedy aria whose melodic
brilliance would detract from the flow
of events. Constant Lambert remarked
that serious composers trying to elevate
jazz had merely proved that Tinpan
Alley could compose better: were the
purity of music and choreography in this
musical a watering down of the warmth,
wit and spontaneous energy of rock-’n’-
roll?
What we saw was admirable. With
hardly any need for words the ballets,
mainly of men, told the “Romeo and
Juliet" story ; the choreographed gang-
fight was wonderfully designed and per-
formed ; in it the leader of the “Jets”
(Joe Bennett), like Mercutio, took the
part of his friend who would not fight
because of his love for the sister of the
leader of the “Sharks” (Ben Vargas) and
was killed ; whereupon the Romeo (Bob
Kole) knifed the killer, and so had to
settle with his girl, the killer's sister, and
with the police and the killer's gang.
Scene by scene, in streets, in back-
yards, in a social service gymnasium,
a bridal dressware shop, a drugstore,
all this was danced out. As the Romeo,
Bob Kole sang well and clearly; as
the Juliet, Wendy Waring sang well but
obscurely—and this could be said also
of her friend (Rita Tanno) and of the
concerted singing: the derisive song in
which the “Jets” poured scorn on public-
spirited attempts to understand delin-
quents was lost in the orchestra as mem-
ber by member of the chorus took the
solo.
The total effect was of a short story
by Ernest Hemingway, with even a moral
to be drawn about feuds, as Shakespeare
drew it earlier. But those who consider
that because of its purity “West Side
Story” should have the same success as
the cunningly concocted “My Fair Lady”
are forgetting that the greatest danger
for reformers is to succeed ; that a
popular entertainment can be reformed at
the expense of its popularity.
“The Double Dealer”
To the reader of Congreve, charmed
by his seemingly lazy cadences, Sydney
Ensemble theatre introduced a new play
of unimagined swiftness and energy,
where print that looks innocent on the
page was turned by emphasis and pause
into exquisite ribaldry. When Lady
Plyant, who has been opposing her step-
daughter's marriage to a young man she
wants herself, finds another lover, a Mr
Careless, and withdraws her objections,
the “Mermaid” text reads:
Sir Paul Plyant: Well, your Ladyship is of
opinion that the match may go forward?
Lady Plyant : By all means; Mr Careless has
satisfied me of the matter.
But as spoken at the Ensemble the
line reads: “By all means ; Mr Careless
has satisfied me ... of the matter.”
Another of this lady's remarks that
brought down the house one cannot find
in the “Mermaid” edition at all —but
Congreve has had many editors.
This “Workshop” production was
evidently a tryout for the theatre’s young
actors, and it was an added pleasure to
see such comparative children as Patricia
Johnson and Janet Kehoe straining their
small frames for the resonance and
majestic presence of Congreve’s bona
roba actresses. As the voluptuously
swooning Lady Plyant Miss Johnson rose
to heights which included a high squeak ;
as her sister, the terrible Lady Touch-
wood, in love with guilty intrigue. Miss
Kehoe sank her voice down to her shoes:
her raging “Faugh!” was sheer virtuosity
in that one so small could faugh so low.
Within the frame of these disadvantages,
they both acted with force and intelli-
gence ; besides, in their white satin and
brown silk Restoration gowns, they were
very easy to look at.
Without the necessity for this
vehemence, Victoria Anoux must have
found it easy to be easy as the innocent
heroine ; while Anthony Wickert, her
suitor and the desired of the two
amorous sisters, played with open-hearted
naturalness, one of Congreve’s straight
yardsticks for the aberrations of his other
characters. Jon Ewing as the scheming
villain let clarity of speech and expres §
sion do his work for him, and they served
him very well. In the caricature parts
Reginald Livermore made a shy and
affectionate portrait of the old cuckold
Sir Paul Plyant, but Patricia Jones as
a bluestocking poetess and Kevin Dalton
as her helpful coxcomb were more noisy
than convincing.
The groupings of this in-the-round
production were excellently diversified
although the sparse scenery did little to
clarify the intricacies of the closin'*
scenes, hard enough to follow in print°
There was too much noise and the loss
of speeches in excessive action, but the
delight of the young actors, especially in
Lady Touchwood’s scenes with the villain
and Lady Plyant’s with Mr Careless and
her husband, in the sheer wickedness of
Congreve’s intrigue and the subtleties by
which beautiful young ladies rebuke the
crimes they invite, made the production
well worth seeing.
“The Cave Dwellers”
If William Saroyan were to write a
play about the Sahara desert he would
put an Eskimo in it; this would make
both Eskimo and desert memorable;
thus the grouping of bizarre down-and-
outs in a deserted theatre, at Sydney
Genesian Theatre, establishes the people
in spite of Saroyan’s incredibly bad
dialogue and lack of plot.
The people are expected further to be
memorable in that they remind us of
things: the old clown (John O'Hanlon)
reminds us that those who live by making
people laugh must come to living by
making them cry ; the old actress (Kath-
leen Gaffney) and the broken-down boxer
(Barry Morrison) say the same about
beauty and power ; the girl (Penelope
Rowley), sacked from a factory for day-
dreaming, reminds us that even youth can
want what it cannot have ; and the
owner (Keith Loughland) of the dancing
bear (Roger Perry), that natural talent
must be chained and dragged around to
provide for a wife and new baby—this
leads Saroyan on to a further profundity,
that the world itself is an old theatre,
waiting to be pulled down or blown up.
Sure enough, every so often, a loud
bang of wreckers’ dynamite outside the
theatre sent the reviewer leaping towards
the ceiling. Some other effects were
quite as startling, as, when the characters
went to sleep on their makeshift beds and
sofas, the apparition of their dreams.
The boxer’s ghostly opponent (Derry
MacGillicuddy) comes to beat him again
in a nightmare of his last fight ; the old
actress has a vision of herself as a young
girl (Heather McClure) ; the young girl
sees a handsome lover in evening-dress
(Michael Pope) ; the old clown a beauti-
ful woman (Robyn Hannon) with a
poodle.
The wrecking-boss (Harry Collins)
comes in with his assistant. Surprised
to find these people in the theatre he
kindly allows them the weekend to get
out. This is a further feature of Saroyan s
plays: everyone is always kind to every-
one ; not only are they unfortunate
enough to be alive, but also to be in a
Saroyan play. The Genesian actors


tf ere kind, in turn, to Saroyan : what they
could do for him, they did.
li is rather like (Saroyan’s symbolism
is catching) a Christmas stocking of net
se wn to cardboard, full of cardboard
games, paper caps, cheap whistles, bags
jjf popcorn, finny grocers' scales and such
trash, whose pathos is in its gimcrack
insufficiency ; charming, as is all gipsy
pathos, in its insistence that the hallu-
cination of the people, by William
Aroyan, and for William Saroyan, shall
not perish from the earth.
Ronald McCuaig
Australian Passion Play
The lona Passion Play, first presented
jo the lona College grounds, Lindum,
Queensland, to 12,000 people in 1958,
and to 45.000 people in four Queensland
Centenary performances in 1959, will
tour Australia this year: Melbourne,
March 15, 16 ; Adelaide, March i 7 ;
Alice Springs. March 18 ; Perth, March
20; Sydney, March 22, 23, 24 ; Brisbane,
March 31.
Eighty principal players and their stage
properties will be flown from stand to
stand; supporting casts of 15 to 20
families have been trained in each city.
The open-air stage, 50ft by 35ft, is on
two levels, the upper used for the Temple,
Pilate's Porch and Golgotha. Twelve
suspended microphones pick up the
speeches, and leading actors trail micro-
phones on ieads. None are professionals ;
none wanted to play Christ, and the name
of the man persuaded to take the part
will not be publicised.
G.M.-H. Theatre Award
No first prize was awarded in the
General Motors-Hoiden 1960 Australian
Play competition, because the judges, the
Elizabethan Trust and the Playwrights’
Advisory Board, felt that no entry was
suitable for immediate production. But
four awards of £IOO each were made
to Alan Seymour of Rand wick, N.S.W.,
for “Donnv Johnson “; Laurence Collin-
son of Melbourne, Vic., for “The Zelda
Trio”; John Pinkney of East Bentleigh,
Vic., for "The Hateful Face in the
Mirror”; and Marien Dreyer of Kings
Cross, N.S.W., for “Wish no More.’’ The
Trust will discuss changes with the
authors of some of the entries they con-
sider might be staged if they are im-
proved.
TV
“And All That Jazz”
In this TV spectacular on Mel-
bourne’s Channel 2 Myke Dyer and Bob
Davidson chose as their inspiration the
“Robert Herridge Theatre” presentation
°f the Miles Davis Quintet. But their
s df-conscious “informality” and “we’re
being honest and letting you see the
studio walls plus cords and cameras”
approach lacked the sincerity of the
°riginal. What purported to be a history
°f jazz was, with two exceptions, a
bistory of commercial jazz, of “jazz”-
sounds which had already won wide
public enjoyment.
Dyer’s script revealed a strong in-
fluence of Leonard Bernstein’s fine dis-
course on jazz; he said: “Where does the
term ‘blues’ come from? From the blue
note," and demonstrated this by playing
an ordinary scale and then playing the
scale inserting the flatted or “blue’’
notes (a device used by Bernstein). But
Bernstein did not say that the term
“blues” came from the blue notes, he
said that the blues were recognisable
by the use of blue notes. All jazz ap-
preciators know that Negroes were sing-
ing the blues long before anyone played
a blue note on a piano; the blue note
(actually a chord) was devised to repro-
duce the nuances of the Negro voice.
The term “blues” came about to describe
the emotionally charged crooning the
Negro fell to when he was depressed,
when he “had the blues.”
The redeeming spots were the Paul
Marks Blue Four and dancer-singer Jo
Jenkins. Marks is a true blues singer;
he can sit down and improvise blues,
some as good as many prized folk blues.
His group presented a blues immorta-
lised by the great Negro vaudeville
blues singer, Gertrude “Ma” Rainey,
entitled “Easy Rider Blues.” His sing-
ing revealed original intonation and
honest feeling, with particularly fine
accompaniment from Willie Watt on
banjo, but I feel he would have done
better had he been able to improvise,
say, an “I’ve been waitin' round this
here studio too long” blues.
Jo Jenkins is a talented young Negro
dancer whose career was somewhat
curtailed by a slight knee injury, and he
is trying-out as a singer. Despite a
poor accompaniment he managed to
render “This Is The Way That T Feel”
in a poignant modern blues-ballad style
reminiscent of the better work of Joe
Williams. Jenkins’s dancing to an ap-
pallingly played version of Chico Hamil-
ton’s arrangement of “Bali Hai” was
sinuous and balletic rather than frantic-
ally uninhibited as seems the norm for
Afro-Cuban music, and was refreshing
for this reason.
Adrian Rawlins
FILMS
“The Battle of the Sexes”
The American businesswoman, Con-
stance Cummings, sets out to reorganise
the old Scottish tweed firm for Robert
Morley, but the firm's canny accountant,
Peter Sellers, corrupts the new phone
system and adding-machines, plots her
murder, and ends by arranging circum-
stances to make her look insane. It’s
“Very clever people, the Chinese.” with
a Scottish accent; but the three prin-
cipals are good, and there is a first-rate
comic murder routine in the lady’s flat,
with such things as Seilers feeling in the
kitchen drawer for the knife and his
hand coming out prepared to stab her
with the eggbeater. (At Sydney Embassy.)
“It Started in Naples”
As Clark Gable was King of Holly-
wood, so this picture has the majesty
of what Hollywood does easily with no
expense spared. The blue waters of Capri
and its grotto, one feels, have been
emptied and refilled a more exquisite
blue for this picture, in which Gable,
an American lawyer, battles with his
Italian sister-in-law, a nightclub slut who
happens to be one of the world's most
beautiful women (Sophia Loren), for
possession of his dissolute brother’s little
orphaned son. Advised by his machiavel-
lian lawyer (Vittorio de Sica), he makes
love to Sophia, but when his nephew
wonders why they don't get married he
almost runs away, and not until his train
starts moving does his good nature send
him back. One leaves thinking how
happy a good-natured American can be
with only a cute little larrikin nephew,
a simple unspoiled girl like Sophia Loren,
and a few million dollars.
(At Sydney Prince Edward.)
R.McC.
NEW RECORDS
Stereo Dialogue for Brass: The Stereo
Band Choir (Coronet KLPSBB6). This
novelty cleverly exploits the possibilities
of stereo-separation in treatment of a
dozen songs by Cole Porter, Berlin,
Rodgers and others in duets —trombones
and high trumpets taking the place of
masculine and feminine voices, with
color and tone variations of cups and
mutes.
Nutcracker Suite, Swan Lake: Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra, George Weldon
conducting (H.M.V. 0XLP20024). The
most enchanting of the melodies in
Tschaikowsky's two fairy-tale ballets
done with vigor, lilt and fine balance.
Echoes From Bavaria: German Band
of Munich (Philips BL681500). Edel-
weiss, beer, jumping dances, yodels across
mountains, beer, lakeside love-music, ski-
jumps, peasant festivities, beer —a com-
posite picture built up in this cheerful
Teutonic music of brasses and strings.
Latin a la Lee: Peggy Lee (Capitol
T 1290). A dozen songs from such musi-
cals as “My Fair Lady,'’ “Damn
Yankees” and “The Music Man,” all
in Afro-Cuban rhythm, and sung in the
sultry Lee manner.
Clair de Lune: London Proms.
Orchestra, Raymond Agoult conductor
(R.C.A. L 16266). Debussy's air. Ravel’s
“Pavane.” Elgar's “Dream Children,”
the Meditation from “Thais,” Bach's
“Sleepers A w a k e,” Tschaikowsky’s
“Andante Cantabile,” and “Dance of the
Blessed Spirits” from Gluck's “Orpheus.”


deeply into the whole mass mind of
this era.
And, in plain fact, there is no
absurdity about a possible return to
barbarism, for that thing has happened
in a revulsion which set the movement
of civilisation back for fifteen hundred
years. We are in the position today
of any cultured dweller of the Augus-
tan age. who had seen a stable civilisa-
tion established over the whole known
earth. Could any one of those brilliant
minds who gathered at a dinner party
at Horace's country villa conceive that
in a hundred years or so that civilisa-
tion would have crashed back into the
period of barbarism we have agreed to
call the dark ages?
Mankind, bemused by the spectacle
of the Gothic cathedral, has labelled
those dark ages the Age of Faith. No
caption could be more fatuously mis-
applied. It was the age of scepticism,
of the Black Mass, of witchcraft and
demonology, of astrology replacing
ratiocination over all natural pheno-
mena; of wizardry calling up devils as
its servants in the performance of black
magic and of Hercus Nocturnus, the
great he-goat. enthroned over his
saturnalia of the Walpurgis.
It was in a frenzy of terror for its
toppling structure that Holy Church
called on the torture chamber and the
faggot and the stake to try and stamp
out this universal heresy in a holocaust
of roasting human bodies and every
device that sadism could invent for
lacerating their tormented pain nerves.
And it failed to do so. It was only
when the Greek spirit returned to
function in that great era we have
called the Renaissance that sanity and
clear thinking returned to exorcise the
black age of demonology and witch-
craft by glorifying beauty in all its
forms. And the highest of those is the
nude human body, which, in the words
of Kenneth Clark, forces on the artist
the most severe discipline if it is to
survive in art. We may take that as the
motif for his admirable manual.
This is the age of the mechanised
gadget, designed to rid mankind of all
effort save that of pressing a button.
The scientist is its high priest, displac-
ing priestcraft in all its other forms,
which has already set up a panic in
the churches to regain some sort of
secular authority. Are you one who
believes that the scientist may be the
avatar of a new era in civilisation?
I’m damned if I do, for the scientist
himself is a barbarian. He does not
know that art exists.
Sicilian Novel
The Leopard. Giuseppe di Lampe-
dusa. Collins and Harvill Press;
Moore’s Bookshop. 20s.
In recent years so many eminent men
have said so many gloomy things about
the novel —that James Joyce wrote the
novel to end novels and thereby tolled
the knell of the form; that no novel is
adequate for the expression of the
dilemmas of our age; that the only
novel with a future is the “poetic”
novel, because the ordinary one is a
dead form and poetry is “out”; and so
on—that one has sometimes almost
come to believe in the dicta of those
sages.
But then out of Greece comes some-
thing like Kadzantsakis’s “Christ
Recrucified”; out. of Russia “Dr
Zhivago”; out of Australia “Voss” to
make one reflect that art has a sublime
habit of persisting despite the pundits,
and that there are centres of culture in
other places than London or New
York.
“The Leopard” is one of these
seminal books: a rich, beautiful book
like a well-stocked hive. Its author, a
Sicilian nobleman, considered the writ-
ing of it for 25 years and put his words
on paper in the space of a few months
when he knew his death was imminent.
He did not live to see it published. It
is a book to savor like honey —not the
insipid blend the grocer sells in jars,
but honey from the comb, from layers
of combs where the flavor of each is
subtly different and some of the deli-
cate wax remains afterwards in the
mouth to remind the feaster that he has
truly eaten honey.
Its central character, Fabrizio, Prince
of Salina, is a Sicilian nobleman who,
in fact, represents the author’s great-
grandfather. In 1860 his fortunes are
in decline, his family numerous and he,
a magnificent, handsome and vigorous
man, beloved by his subjects, devotes
most of his thought to astronomy, at
which he is something better than
amateur, and his energy to hunting.
Then Garibaldi lands in Sicily, the
Bourbon monarchy at Naples falls' and
Salina must decide whether to develop
his liberal ideas in active conjunction
with the forces of change or, remem-
bering his family pride, to resist them.
His solutions are complicated, aristo-
cratic and realistic. What he does pro-
foundly affects many people, not least
his immediate family. And, after all,
suggests the epilogue dated 1910, he
was correct in his view that in Sicily
nothing would alter very much, and
what change did come would be tem-
pered by Sicily into some peculiarly
island form.
Purely on the level of story-telling
it is a fine tale; as history it is vastly
more comprehensible and far more pro-
found than a shelf of documented
volumes; as sociology and psychology
it is so excellent that one begins to
wonder whether those inexact sciences
can ever be adequately presented
except in a good novel. Added to all
of this it contains Lampedusa’s
aphoristic wit of a lifetime. One feels
certain that he must often have tried
out his epigrams upon his friends and
family, borrowing from them, too, no
doubt, and distilling each into its most
concise form. Almost every para-
graph contains some astonishing and
deceptively simple example:—
....The Princess, too, had been
subject to Tancredi’s charm, and
she still loved him ; but the pleasure
of shouting “I told you so” being
the strongest any human being can
enjoy, all truths and all feelings were
swept along in its wake.
Tancredi. the Prince’s nephew,
dearer to him than his sons, is going
to marry Angelica, daughter of the
mayor, Don Calogero, whose wealth
will soon surpass the Prince’s and
whose manners will soon become
middleclass: —
Gradually Don Calogero came to
understand that a meal in common
need not necessarily be all munch-
ing and grease stains ; that a conver-
sation may well bear no resemblance
to a dog fight ; that to give pre-
cedence to a woman is a sign of
strength and not, as he had believed,
of weakness ; that sometimes more
can be obtained by saying “I haven t
explained myself well” than “I cant
understand a word”; and that the
adoption of such tactics can result
in a greatly increased yield front
meals, arguments, women and ques-
tioners.
It would be rash to affirm that
Don Calogero drew an immediate
profit from what he had learnt;
but from that moment there began,
for him and his family, that process
of continual refining which in the


course of three generations trans-
its innocent peasants into
defenceless gentry.
fhe Prince is about to turn down
|]e offer of a seat in the newly formed
Senate.
Flattery always slipped off the
prince like water off leaves in foun-
tains ; it is one of the advantages
enjoyed by men who are at once
both proud and used to being so.
“This fellow here seems to be under
the impression he’s come to do me
a great honour,” he was thinking
_“]t's true that one must value
gifts in relation to those who offer
them ; when a peasant gives me his
bit of cheese he’s making me a
bigger present than the Prince of
Lascari when he invites me to
dinner. That’s obvious. The diffi-
culty is that the cheese is nauseating.
So all that remains is the heart’s
gratitude which can’t be seen and
the nose wrinkled in disgust which
can be seen only too well.”
From a conversation between two
very old people:—
....they had had a very short
affair thirty years before, and kept
the intimacy, for which there is no
substitute, conferred by a few hours
spent between the same pair of
sheets.
“The Leopard.” one is surprised to
tind when one has finished it. is by no
means a long book. Despite its pace
one is forced to read it slowly, and it
is so packed, so interwoven, that it
seems immense. The adequate trans-
lation is by Archibald Colquhoun.
Nancy Keesing
Edith on Algernon
Swinburne. Selection edited by Dame
Edith Sitw'ell. Weidenfeld and
Nicholson. 255.
Dame Edith has been tidying Swin-
burne up. She has left out “Dolores.”
the flagellation poem, and “Faustina"
and “Felise” appear only in the intro-
duction. the awkward parts omitted.
People will wonder what all the noise
Ms about. Dame Edith could argue its
mechanical rhythms for leaving out
"Dolores.” but riot for “Felise”; and
Swinburne without “Felise” is not
Swinburne at all.
In stanza after stanza of this poem
Swinburne whips the memory of this
probably non-existent mistress: —
Eyes colored like a water-flower
And deeper than the green sea's
glass ;
Eyes that remember one sweet
hour —
In vain we swore it should not pass ;
In vain, alas! *
She loved him. she probably still
wes him; but he is not going to let
" er have him any more; the dreadful,
dreadful, dreadful little man throws it
over and over again, like a child
annoying its mother and watching her
wince, stanza on beautiful stanza; —
Live and let live as I will do,
Love and let love, and so will I,
But, sweet, for me no more with
you,
Not while I live, not though I die.
Goodnight. Goodbye.
It is posturing and vicious, and extra-
ordinarily beautiful poetry; it is the
essential Swinburne; no poems Dame
Edith puts in this book can hold a
candle to it. except the lament for
Baudelaire. “Ave Atque Vale.” and
“Atalanta in Calydon.” which is
printed complete—the book is worth
having for the fine large typography of
these two pieces.
And also for Dame Edith’s introduc-
tion, with its insight into the darker
bases of Swinburne’s poetry, its neat
differentiations between good Swin-
burne and Swinburne imitating him-
self. and for the sudden realisation this
essay gives you of the influence of
Swinburne on the early poems of Ezra
Pound: one had not realised that it was
so great.
R. McCuaig
Priests and Poets
Stories in Verse for Children. John
Sexton. C. SS. R. Drawings by Mary
Noeline Lane. Majelian Press, Mt
St Alphonsus.
He called in at “The Bulletin" office
one day late last year. About six-foot
of Irish priest. The fair Irish. Took
it for granted, rightly, that you would
remember him. from a very long time
ago.
“Well. Well. Well. Well. Cecil.
It is good to see you.”
How do you address an old
schoolmate, one you recall as sitting
next to you on a particular day
and laughing loud in class and who
now comes in like this, in the guise
and with the broad brogue of an Irish
priest? This has since been set straight
by good authorities: “Of course you
call him John”; but at the time you
had only the one precedent to go on,
only the one priest you had known at
all well.
That was Father Bradley; com-
panion in good-fellowship (and bene-
factor in seeing home) of Heaven
knows how many heathen scribes and
artists of the Sydney bohemian era of
Percy Lindsay. “T. the R.”,
Harold Mercer. John Higginson. John
Barr (Henry Lawson’s old mate, in
Henry’s “Macquarie’s Mate” sense of
the term). Hilary Lofting. Geof Cumine
(temples tattooed with bluebirds).
Parkins (who just vanished, no one
then nor since ever knew where).
Gordon Trollope, a great little Bill
Fitz Henry. and many another, most of
them old Bulletineers of the late
1920’s and thereabouts. All of them
known to. and familiars of. Father
Bradley; and he. Father Bradley to all
of them.
But Father Sexton —that is to say,
John—coming in like this, now, is in
rather a different category; while
Father Bradley was a companion in
good-fellowship with poets and the
rest. Father John Sexton is. surprise
ingly. a poet on his own account; a
poet in good-fellowship with children:
The bear liked his dinner
As most of us do,
He liked tender monkey
And lots of it too.
He set out one morning,
His nose in the air:
“I smell a young monkey
In that tree over there!
And if now, as could be likely. John
should be thinking that this piece is too
much about John, and not enough
about what John would maybe like it
to be about, his poems for children,
then John has nobody to kick but
himself. He started it:
“Yes. Ah. yes. A long time.
Kurrara School. And Mr Capp.”
“Kurrara,” we had been told, was
aboriginal for “long and wide,” refer-
ring to the river. Our Tweed. And
just there, where Mr Fred Capp's (prob-
ably very small) weatherboard public
school stood in a pocket of flat on the
north bank, the loveliest river in the
land does manage to stretch itself out
straight for a while, down past
Chinderah. before it takes to its bends
again . . .
But this remembrance of the beauti-
ful river is an aside set down in senti-
mental reflection: the actual image that
John’s “Kurrara School” conjured up
when he uttered it was of another boy's
tempting bare neck above the form
just in front: a jab with an inky pen;
a yell from the victim; that laugh from
John; and presently the delinquent
culprit fallen like Lucifer from the
great heights (of the hierarchy of 11-
year-olders) to the nethermost place,
between the two smallest little girls in
the school, and standing up in turn
with them, to chant from the black-
board: “C-a-t cat, b-a-t bat. r-a-t rat.”
The victim (there pen-stabbed in the
back of the neck) married young and
murdered his wife. The one who
laughed at the pen-prod —John Sexton
—became a priest.
That day John called at “The
Bulletin” office his flow presently got
round to his then forthcoming little
book. He would have been no poet if
he hadn’t told all about it. and how it
was beautifully illustrated, and de-
signed in hope of overseas publication
as well. With quotations. And now it
has come along, personally inscribed;
and this is written of it from old


friendship and from pleasure at thus
meeting John again, both in person
and in his laughing little book for
children.
Cecil Mann
TV P lays
Six Granada Plays. Faber and Faber.
15s.
On the evidence of imported material
appearing on our television-screens a
good case could be made for there
being greater freedom of expression in
England’s moribund Welfare State and
Eisenhower’s conformist America than
in that mythical land, the Australia of
rugged individuals and democratic self-
criticism. An Ed Murrow discussion
programme in which correspondents
blasted American foreign policy for a
solid hour is but one example. Such
political self-criticism has not been
heard on our timid A.B.C. for years.
And in the field of drama one thinks
of that English television play, recently
shown for the second time on the
A.8.C., in which a foreign visitor
harangues the respectable English with
anti-Christian, anti-Church, anti-social
and quite anarchic sentiments with
very nearly four-letter-word vigor.
One can imagine the reception an
Australian writer would get if he tried
to submit the same script. Apparently
it’s O.K. if it was done in England
first. Our native television drama looks
like being as gutless as our post-war
political comment; a pity, because the
medium is generating some excitement
overseas.
In the last decade drama created
especially for television has developed
enough unique characteristics for
writers and the public to be able to
take the new form seriously. America’s
Chayefsky appeared a few years back
to be (though often over-rated) the last
word in the intimate, naturalistic,
‘‘plain - plays - about - plain - people”
approach to television drama. But
recently some English TV plays have
unexpectedly freshened our concepts of
what can be done in the medium. This
volume (of six original plays performed
on commercial television in London)
sums up the new English trend.
Each represents some facet of the
new kind of drama. John O’Toole’s
“The Bush and the Tree,” though
slight, is an amiable example of the
simple domestic comedy with a back-
ground of local politics. It also uses
as one of the now-expected enrich-
ments a pleasant regional idiom.
“Promenade,” by Peter Nichols, is
an offbeat, deliberately episodic, almost
impressionist work of life and love, or,
to be precise, life and sex, among
English beatniks. Its jumps from
scene to scene, group to group, are a
Magdalenian
A range of hills is a giant on his back
sleeping. A puff
of white cloud touching a peak
is a tuft of down
at his nose.
A cliff face
is not called a cliff
“face” for nothing—
a cliff’s full of faces
full face and profile,
nature’s sketch-block
whereon she anticipates
in the curiously deliberate way she has
myth, monster and man.
Seeing such things,
wishing to improve upon them,
is thoroughly Magdalenian.
Even the sky itself
is a concave
cave wall,
except that the shapes move
and change, drift
one into another
and one cannot reach far enough
with wet finger,
flint or charcoal stick
to put antlers on a deer’s head
or otherwise touch up a wind-carved
cloud.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Black Collie
Between the dog and flock
Understanding grows,
They feel his subtle craft,
He is the one that knows
In marvellous degree
The measure of their sense:
Almost before they move
He turns them from the fence ;
Almost before they break
Their busy huddle, he
Will leap against the tide,
Restore the unity.
Their little master, masked
In black with silver blaze,
He cares, commands, decides
Throughout their anxious days.
And like a lover too
Will delicately change
In fluent strategy
Jo match their widest range.
Flo surly ram will bluff
This sentry off his guard;
Yet ewe with lamb will find
His guidance none so hard ;
On nights of storm and snow
The weak and those that roam
Will learn that he is there
To send them home.
Between the watchful dog
And all his plaintive sheep
A kind of union grows,
And he that has to keep
The foolish and the wild
Within invisible zone,
Tends wiser all his days
And works as well alone
As when the human stands
And whistles there behind;
In any case the sheep
Doubt not which has the mind.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH
A Sea Voyage
Across a glittering field
Of lively blue and white
Under a perfect azure hemisphere
Opaque with light
Nodding to seas that rhythmically yield
Go seven games of bridge
Four of deck tennis, three
Of quoits, a multitude of readers
And gazers at the sea
Resting blank eyes on the horizon s edge:
In the soft-footed lounge
A hundred matrons stoop
In housie-housie, while off-color stories
Convulse a corner group
And the racing set decide they must
arrange
A Caulfield sweepstake. One
Who thought this four weeks’ trip
A n eminence from which he might survey
As from the mountain s lip
The random landscape of things said and
done
—Follow the serpentine
Tracks connecting impulse and event,
Map in the woods of doubt, locate
Exactly where the happy accident
Occurred, and where the crash, define
Patches of fertile green and miles
Of rubbished sand,
A ble to grasp from such a bird’s-eye view
The lay of the land
And draw some lesson or acquire some
skill—
Sits dull and overcast
Wiped clean of all
But cocktails, meals, sleep, small-talk,
magazines,
Finding his hill
Sunk to a plain no wider than the last
Day’s run (prize to the nearest guess).
But as the seething wake
Sinks featureless into blue, so-may h?
learn
In wiser mood to take
His model from the skimming albatross
That riding above the contour of the
wave
Never exchanging looks, alone yet paired,
Now coast, a couple, mapless over oceans
Secure in company, steered
By chance occasion and the eye of I° ve '
A.C.T.
J. R. ROWLAND


BOOKHUNTER
‘l>” Box 265f|, G.IM)., Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it fur you—hetion,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only it successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
hooks. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
A BURNT-OUT CASE
Graham Greene
. .a brilliant book of the highest seriousness and distinction ... it upholds
the right of the novel to be considered as a uniquely deep and rich
imaginative medium."’ —Peter Forster (reviewing the Norwegian edition in the
“Daily Express”). 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
refreshing break from the one-interior-
set-and-that-grubby once thought obli-
gatory for domestic drama.
s Graeme Kent's “The Queen’s Cor-
poral,” though a fairly conventional
(but strong) study in an army outpost’s
internal tensions, uses to some effect
tbe “loose-end” approach liked by
many recent dramatists and ends with
on e of the most pregnant curtain lines
I’ve yet encountered: —
The Sergeant-Major (to the
play's protagonist who is about to go
in and face a company of men em-
barrassed by the catharsis he has just
put them through): “it won’t be
easy. Every man in there hates your
guts.” Fadeout.
Clive Exton’s “No Fixed Abode”
plays brilliantly with the kind of non-
sequitur dialogue previously used to
perfection by American Tad Mosel in
its bleak glimpse of a night in a doss-
house. It suggests incisively that even
at the rag-end of existence pride and
vanity can cut a derelict human being
off from desperately needed charity.
Alexander Baron’s “A Bit of Happi-
ness'’ rakes over the “Brief Encounter”
territory without the sentimental Rach-
maninovian overtones of a Coward.
In fact, most of the plays have an
astringent quality which far outstrips
in sheer insight and maturity the atti-
tude of almost all English and Ameri-
can playwrights of the past generation.
Odd how stagey and contrived most
“realistic” plays of the ’twenties and
’thirties now sound. That this new
clarity is achieved without resorting
to American-style “toughness” and
spurious violence says much for the
skill and humanity of these English
writers.
In fact, the only weak spot in the
collection is “The Myth Makers.”
by an American. William Bast, who
covers once again that familiar ground,
the outward gloss of public relations
contrasted with the tawdriness behind
the public mask of a well-loved
celebrity. It says little that has not been
said before.
A truism long since established
about television drama is that it can
dispense with much of the exposition
and other verbiage of the stage, and
benefits by economy of words and
liberal use of movement, significant
“business” and gesture. And yet these
plays are all surprisingly (in the face
d the above philosophy) satisfying to
read, which—for Australians interested
111 the medium —is good, because we
stand little chance of seeing any of
them performed in this country. Most
°f them are too sophisticated, not only
ln technique, but in their acceptance
haphazard mid-century sexual
Morality, to get past our self-appointed
Grundys, those who select the plays we
Me to see on local channels. It is
fortunate that even in print these six
television plays make no mean impact.
Alan Seymour
Lindbergh
The Hero —Charles A. Lindbergh.
Kenneth S. Davis. Longmans.
Kenneth S. Davis’s extremely
interesting life of Charles Lindbergh is
subtitled “The Man and the Legend.”
This reviewer was immediately re-
minded of a visit to the Smithsonian
Institution in Washington a few years
ago. Also looking at Lindbergh’s
plane, the Spirit of St Louis, was an
American mom with four children. In
accents loud and clear she was telling
them: “Take a good look at that air-
plane. children, that was the first air-
plane to fly the Atlantic.” So the legend
goes on. and even Mr Davis, despite
his fairness of mind, dismisses Alcock
and Brown's stupendous 1919 flight in
a few lines.
Nevertheless. Mr Davis's book is a
most thorough and fascinating explora-
tion of what it means to be a (non-
war-time) hero in the 20th century.
The tali Minnesota boy who first flew
solo across the Atlantic in 1927, win-
ning the $25,000 Orteig prize and
incalculable fame, was the archetype of
a new hero, the “helmeted airman” of
W. H. Auden’s poems in the 19305. as
lonely and free as a hawk and yet com-
mitted to and indeed sustained by the
technology of the new age.
Here was a figure far removed from
standardisation and mass-production,
but one who was lifted to pure glory
by his companion, a machine. It is
Significant that in accounts of his solo
flight Lindbergh always referred to
“we”; without the Spirit of St. Louis
he would have been no hero at all.
Mr Davis has done a remarkably
good job of capturing the sense of
identification which a pilot feels with
his plane, especially as he doesn't seem
to know much about flying. He never
even mentions the most important fact
about the construction of the Spirit of
St Louis, a fact repeatedly stressed by
Lindbergh in his autobiography, that
there was no forward vision at all.
This explains Lindbergh's fury with the
crowds that surged round his plane:
Mr Davis mentions that Lindbergh was
afraid of the propellor chopping them
to pieces, but does not indicate why.
He also has an infuriating habit of
talking about planes “slanting" down
to a landing.
The Atlantic flight made Lindbergh
a hero, but that is only the central
episode in an extraordinary life. His
father was a radical Congressman; the
son became the friend of millionaires
and married the daughter of one. The
puritan youth became a daredevil
stunt-flier; the shy recluse became the
victim of the most ferocious newspaper
publicity ever accorded any unfortunate
human being. Whatever the faults of
Lindbergh's character, one can do
nothing but admire the way he manipu-
lated his own legend and managed to
preserve his own dignity. Then the
hero was struck down by the kidnap-
ping and murder of his son: Mr Davis
(an American) does not spare his coun-
try a full revelation of the disgusting
vulgarity of the public treatment of the
whole episode which eventually drove
the Lindberghs into exile.
Then this man. who was second only
to Franklin Roosevelt in his ability to
sway American opinion, became more
and more an enemy of democracy and
a friend of dictators. Goering hung a
medal round his neck, and when he
returned to America in 1939 he was
execrated by many of his former
admirers. Until Pearl Harbor he was
an ardent isolationist. Then, by one of
the ironies of democracy, he regained
most of his lost status by outstanding
work connected with war-time aviation.
He lives now with his wife (a best-
selling author) and his family in digni-
fied retirement.
It is instructive to compare Lind-
bergh’s career with that of Antoine de
St Exupery. The poetry and imagina-
tion of the Frenchman found no
parallel in the American; but. in a
sense. Lindbergh was poetry. It is to
Mr Davis’s credit that, despite a con-
siderable overweight of detail, his hero
really does get airborne.
Geoffrey Dutton


Women
BEST DRESSED ... IDEAL DIET ... AT THE TOP
At Germaine Rocker’s
Through the doors of Germaine
Roc h e r’s dress shop in the Trust
Building pass the best-dressed and
wealthiest women in Sydney. As Madame
Rocher is the only dressmaker in Sydney
who imports a large number and variety
of original models from Paris it is pos-
sible that the percentage of Sydney's
best-dressed and wealthiest who shop
there may be as high as 95.
How does Germaine Rocher ensure
that these women, most of whom know
each other well, lunch together frequently
and serve on the same committees are
not constantly coming face to face wear-
ing identical outfits? There is no fool-
proof system, no cross-indexing. The
warning bells ring in the head of Madame
Rocher or of the directrice of the salon,
Tasmanian-born Janet McPhee.
Miss McPhee, who after 23 years in
the dress business probably knows as
much as anyone in a Paris salon about
fabrics and fashion, combines the stan-
dard salon manner with a lively and re-
freshing friendliness.
“The warning bells generally ring at
night,” she said. “I wake up and sud-
denly think, Mrs So-and-so and Mrs
Someone-else live in each other’s pockets.
1 must tell Mrs So-and-so that Mrs Some-
one-else has bought the green Cardin
suit, too.”
But, Miss McPhee claims, it’s only
women who are unused to model clothes
who worry greatly about being seen out
in the same outfits as their friends.
“Women who are new to high fashion
think a model is something there should
be only one copy of,” she said, “whereas
women who are used to expensive clothes
know that a model is merely a design
by a leading couturier. We couldn't hope
to have only one copy of anything. Often
we make up to 20 copies of a design.
“Many Sydney women couldn't care
less about appearing in something identi-
cal with their friends.
“We've sold as many as five copies of
the same suit in different fabrics, to
members of the one family^—three sisters
and the two daughters of one of them.
Whether they have some system of
phoning round and checking when the
others will be wearing it I don’t know,
but 1 doubt it.”
Russian-born Madame Rocher, whose
name is Mrs Vera Fels, and who has
lived here for 25 years, goes to Paris at
least once a year on a buying trip. She
was, in fact, away either overseas or inter-
state for eight months last year.
Copies of the models she buys in Paris
are also sold to shops, big and small,
in other State capitals. Madame Rocher
also does a good deal of designing her-
self. Her designs are competent, usually
slightly watered-down versions of Paris
lines to suit the Australian climate and
the Australian style of living.
Generally Madame Rocher goes to
Paris in July and August to bring back
clothes for our summer. However, she
has just returned from a trip. Her
autumn collection was shown last week
at the Chevron Hilton for charity.
“Paris in winter is much more elegant,”
she said. “There are no tourists, but the
dress houses are crowded with private
customers. At Maxim’s I saw Pierre
Balmain dining with his newest celebrity
customer, Queen Sirikit of Thailand.
When I called at Dior I could not see
Bohan. He was busy with Mrs Loel
Guinness, who probably bought dozens
of models. ’
Madame Rocher said that prices in
Paris now are “astronomic.” Her own
prices begin at £75, which is, by present
Paris standards, reasonable.
“1 have to buy, but with models from
some of the big designers—say, Balen-
ciaga—l could never get my money back,”
she said.
Madame Rocher does not foresee much
change in fashion this year.
She sees only three designers as having
much influence on fashion—Balenciaga,
Givenchy and Christian Dior. One of
her favorites is a new, young designer,
Michel Goma. “His fashions are pretty,
very suitable for Australia,” she ex-
plained, adding, with a laugh, “Also, he
is cheaper.”
“The general idea in Paris at present
is young,” she said. “Everything is up.
Hairstyles are up, up. Very high. Hem-
lines are up. The bosom is up —if it will
stay-up. Suits are all fitted in the front
and loose at the back. Colors are all
the fuchsia shades from pink through to
black tulip.”
Madame Rocher said that although
there 'were only three fashion houses
which led style, it was astonishing how
the same fashions appeared at all the
small houses simultaneously. Astonishing,
unless you knew about the “little friends.”
“Every small fashion house has a
’little friend’ in the big salons,” she ex-
plained. “Hardly has the last stitch been
put in a new style than all the secrets
are passed on to the smaller houses. The
big houses leave it until the last minute
to turn up the hemlines of their models.
That is the only secret they have any
hope of keeping. If hemlines at Dior
are shorter, then the small houses work
through the night to snip off the skirt
and make the hems shorter. But if Dior
springs a big surprise and makes hem-
lines longer, then it is difficult. It is
harder to lengthen than to shorten.”
Madame Rocher said she believed much
fashion writing was misleading.
“They say that Dior has an X or a
Y line, but when you are sitting looking
at the collection you can never se* Q
X or a Yshe said. “You can onlv
see elegant clothes.” y
Madame Rocher said that this season
the couturiers were striking back at con
stant piracy of their designs by turning
to styles which were almost impossible
to copy cheaply and well,
“Everything is cut on the bias,” s Jr
said, “and I can just imagine the’ mess
when the dressmakers here try to conv
that. And the Paris couturiers are using
lavish embroidery. That is something
which cannot be done properly anywhere
in the world except Paris.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Four Glasses a Day
The ideal diet for the housewife intent
on losing some weight would perhaps be
to take half a pound of mustard-seed,
carefully remove the husk from each
seed, place the seeds in a basin, add a
pint of water, drop by drop with an
eye-dropper, cook slowly and serve.
Whether this diet would be much help
in losing weight is problematic, but at
least it fulfils the first requirement of a
diet. It fills in time.
It fills in the time which the housewife
spends looking at the pan of potatoes
she is frying for her family. It fills in
the time that the dieter spends sitting at
table watching the rest of the household
eat their way happily through three
courses of fattening foods.
The most perilous thing about any diet
is that it should be easy to prepare or
time-saving. Time saved to the dieter
is just time spent looking at other people
eating, time spent thinking about food
or time spent barely resisting temptation
And this is where the latest American
diet falls down on the job completely.
This diet takes the form of a tin of
powder which provides 900 calories, or
sufficient for one day's sustenance. Two
local laboratories are marketing it.
The instructions on the tin tell you to
add the contents, which come in three
flavors, to four cups of water and mix
thoroughly. You then drink one glass
for breakfast, one for lunch and one
for dinner. As a wonderful splurge, there
is a fourth glass for supper.
Simple, isn’t it? The only problem
would be to decide each morning which
flavoring you will have for the day.
The only way you can spin out the
process of drinking one glass of a milky
liquid is to read the label on the tin and
check on how much thiamine mono-
nitrate, pyridoxine hydrochlorate or zinc
you are getting, but somehow it doesnt
make as interesting reading as a cookery
book or the labels on the bottles.
It is easy to suggest that the time saved
could be put to better use. One could
perhaps, follow the example of Cardinal
Newman, who learnt modern languages


w hile shaving, and brush up one’s Italian
or German. But in families it never
works out that way.
Xhis diet would appeal only to the
masochistic minority who like a diet to
be an active penance. Most of us like
a diet which will strike envy in the
breasts of the rest of the family. We
like to eat non-fattening chicken and
asparagus when the family is having
steak-and-kidney pie or to munch straw-
berries when they have rice pudding.
☆ ☆ a
Where is the Top?
When I spoke on the telephone to Mrs
Phyllis Burke at Sydney’s Royal Blind
Society about covering her “Women at
the Top” dinner she was charming but
evasive. “You can come beforehand,”
she offered. “I can give you a list of the
women at the top table. I’m afraid I
can’t tell you what the speakers will say.”
Suddenly she broke down. “I’ve had
such a lot of trouble with newspaper-
women ringing and asking to be invited,”
she said unhappily.
“But I’m nobody,” I told her, with a
trace of modesty.
“Oh, then,” she said, “do come along!
There’ll be a press table where you can
have a cup of coffee and sandwiches or
a glass of sherry.”
So I went and had a cup of coffee and
sandwiches and a glass of sherry while
180 of Sydney’s Women at the Top ate
oysters, grilled chicken and pineapple
glace fiambee and drank Australian
wines. It was an awe-inspiring spectacle.
Perhaps what inspired most awe was how
those women had got themselves there in
the first place.
It was a wet, humid night, but 180 of
Sydney’s Women at the Top got into
evening dress, then left their husbands
comfortably in front of the TV or in
front of a long, cold beer. Perhaps some
of them left him uncomfortably getting
his own dinner or putting the children
to bed. Then the Women at the Top
had to back the car out of the garage
or walk to the station. You can’t park
within blocks of the Australia Hotel,
so they had to walk, picking up skirts
from the wet streets.
Most of them had to walk alone, be-
cause being at the top is a lonely business!
Although when they arrived many of
them seemed to know, or at least recog-
nise, each other. You didn’t see too
m any peering at the tags with name and
Profession which each guest wore.
There were only 180 at the dinner,
although it was originally announced that
300 would be invited. Mrs Burke, who
d °es publicity for the Royal Blind
Society, and whose varying achievements
°f a degree in Economics, membership
°f the N.S.W. Housing Commission and
a family of nine, got her to the top
fable among the Women at the Top,
Sa id that 255 had been invited and there
were 75 refusals. Whether 75 refused
because they were unsure of their own
importance or not convinced of the im-
portance of the dinner is an interesting
question.
There was a guest of honor, Madame
Helene Burollaud, who is sales and
technical director in Paris of the cosmetic
firm of Harriet Hubbard Ayer. She be-
came guest of honor at the suggestion
of Lintas advertising agency, but Lintas
was modest about its part in the Women
at the Top dinner. “We heard Mrs
Burke was organising the dinner for the
blind and we thought it would be a
good way to get some publicity for
Madame Burollaud,” their representative
said.
The fee for attending the dinner was
three guineas, but, Mrs Burke said,
although it was hoped to make money
for the blind, the primary purpose of the
dinner was to focus attention on women’s
achievements.
The Women at the Top all sat down
together with only one man in the room,
Mr James Hanratty, the head waiter in
the Rainbow room. His staff are all
women, which might have proved some-
thing to the Women at the Top. Mr
Hanratty’s nice Irish face grew red and
his nice Irish brogue grew more pro-
nounced at the idea of 180 women sitting
down to have dinner together.
“Of course, I’ve, had men’s dinners,”
Mr Hanratty said, “and I’ve had things
like millinery shows here, but half of
them are men. I’ve never had all women
at dinner before.”
And that was what was mainly wrong
with the whole affair. It’s all very well
for women to adopt what men like to
think are their exclusive callings but why
do they have to emulate men’s barbarous
habit of one-sex dinners? Men have no
social gifts except those poor ones which
women after generations have beaten into
them. This is called civilisation. Men
can sit quite happily like boiled owls
at all-male dinners listening to boring
speeches, although intelligent men will
complain of how gruesome it all is, but
why on earth would women try the same
caper?
A luncheon would have been much
better. Sydney women sparkle at all-
women luncheons. They’re a strong
tradition and they can be bags of fun,
mostly much more fun than all-men
equivalents.
Mrs Burke said that the Women at
the Top dinner was based on a similar
affair held annually in London. But in
London it’s a luncheon and it’s called
the Women of the Year.
Being at the top sounds so final. What
will the selection committee do next year
if it does become an annual affair?
Go carefully through the list and see
who’s slipped a bit? Or will the same
180 women face each other across the
same tables and the same menu of
oysters, chicken and pineapple glace
fiambee for years to come?
Women of the Year sounds much
better. If you aren’t one of the women
of 1961 you might remember warmly
that you were a woman of 1951 or decide
that with a bit of luck you might be a
woman of 1971 or 1981. Women at the
Top sounds so competitive and harsh,
and few of the Women at the Top looked
competitive or harsh. Many of them were
very pretty and most of them were very
elegantly dressed.
And most of them looked intelligent
enough to question whether they were
really at the top and intelligent enough
not to worry unduly if they decided
they weren't at the top. After all, where
is the top? Mrs Charles Walton is a
pilot, but she doesn't fly a jet on a regular
route. Miss Eunice Gardiner is a pianist,
but having seven children has successfully
wiped out any claim she might ever have
made to being a top-flight one.
Some of the Women at the Top didn’t
seem to be taking it all too seriously.
But as long as any women take this sort
of thing seriously, no one will take them
seriously.
SALLY DESMOND
“I bet you're memorising all this for your next novel.”


ABORIGTNALITIES
In the Garbage Tin
T»rewarrina is a hot, shadeless, dusty
F® and typical little township of the
far-western plains of N.S.W. It lies in a
landscape drained of color, under a hot,
pale sky. In the dry, blond grass the
sparsely scattered dark and thin-limbed
trees stand in attitudes like the aboriginal
stockmen you see leaning against the
store-verandahs of the town.
As we were getting out of the car a
police-van drove slowly past. Two men
in open-necked shirts in the driver's seat
looked us over, hard and long.
During our stay of some two weeks in
Brewarrina, we discovered that the police
were particularly severe and brutal in
their treatment of the aborigines. We dis-
covered that out of 800 charges for the
year in the police charge-book, 700 were
for aborigines.
Apart from a few fringe-dwellers, most
of the aborigines lived at the Settlement,
some miles out of the town. Reports were
always coming into the Settlement of
police arrests and bashings—one man
with his head badly gashed open;
anotner with his leg broken through the
police-van door being slammed on it;
and then an old. harmless aboriginal pen-
sioner. who was not drunk, being locked
up over the weekend.
The aborigines at the Settlement said
that if you were an aboriginal you did
not have to do anything; you were
bashed and locked up just for being an
aboriginal.
Drink is, of course, the main cause of
the trouble. Living in a state of “apart-
heid” between the old tribal life, which
they have lost, and the social order of
“ Thanks, pal. Your attempt to avoid me averted what might
have been a serious accident.”
the white man, which is denied them,
the aborigines take to drink as an escape
and outlet from their frustration. This
is well expressed in many contemporary
aboriginal songs of the outback.
As almost all aborigines scorn to take
out a Certificate of Exemption—con-
temptuously called by them “a Dorg
Licence" —which exempts the holder
from the regulations governing the
aborigines, but which isolates them from
their own kind, it is illegal for the
aborigines to obtain alcohol. However,
at Brewarrina, this did not prevent the
aborigines from obtaining it. The method
of this illegal procedure, which we were
able to discover during our visit, has
apparently eluded the intelligence and
vigilance of the police.
An aboriginal who wished to obtain
liquor simply went to a certain cafe in
the town for “a drink of tea.” When he
paid his bill he also tendered the price
of a bottle of wine or a bottle of
methylated spirit. Wine was £1 a bottle,
methylated spirit 10s. He would remain
for a while in the cafe, then leave, going
round to the side of the building where
the garbage tins stood. He lifted the lid
of a certain tin, felt in the garbage, and
there was his wrapped bottle . . .
M. WELLS
Bottlers
TJottling has become popular on the
lakes and estuaries around Bermagui.
on the N.S.W. South Coast. The activity
has no connection with fruit-preserving
or home-brewing. It is an eccentric
method of angling which is raising eye-
brows in the fish-proud purlieus of Zane
Grey’s old camp.
The practitioner fixes a hook (but no
sinker) to about 20ft of line, ties the
other end to the neck of an empty,
corked beer-bottle, then winds the line
around the body of the bottle. He re-
peats the procedure with anything up
to a couple of dozen bottles and lengths
of line, puts them all in a dinghy and
rows out from the shore. He baits the
hooks, unwinds the lines and throws the
bottles, spaced well apart, across the
current. Then he returns to the shore
for a rest —and perhaps to produce a
few more empties.
From here on, field-glasses are useful
When the angler sees signs of unusual
movement among the bottles he rows out
again. “Unusual movement” might mean
a bottle pointing down-wind, or bottoms
up, or travelling briskly on the surface,
or even vanishing for long intervals. The
angler grabs the bottle and boats the fish,
rebaits the hook and throws the bottle
back, then goes in pursuit of any other
bottle that looks like getting away.
No, it is not, after all, the lazy man's
dream of angling. It becomes rather like
riding herd on a mob of cattle. The wind
and current, if nothing else, tend to
scatter the bottles, and if fish are biting
you’ll get corns on your hands rowing in
circles keeping the bottles accessible and
in reasonable formation.
The bottling vogue began on the South
Coast only last season. Many people
down there now seem to think that an
angler without his rigged beer-bottles is
incompleat. And they must be beer-
bottles ; the shoulders of most wine-
bottles produce too much drag if a big
fish is hooked, and a soft-drink bottle is
too transparent to be seen easily.
The law for N.S.W. inland waters
prohibits the use of a set line carrying
more than six hooks. The bottler may
be using 20 or more hooks simul-
taneously, but each is on a separate line:
so the method is within the law.
Some fisheries’ inspectors say they
would like to see bottling banned, but
it is not likely to be very damaging to
the fish population. As with all other
forms of amateur line fishing, the fisti
can bite only if they are there, and, as
any fool knows, they’re usually some-
where else.
P.H.
The Scrub-hen’s Way
IT' angaroos, and perhaps some other
marsupials, can delay parturition.
The female sheep-fly, when fully preg-
nant, does not have to oviposit or bust:
if a suitable place is not at hand to de-
posit her eggs they are absorbed back
into her body, to be used at some later
date. And it might be claimed that the
scrub-hen of North Queensland and the
islands can also put off laying her eggs
until conditions are suitable for hatch-
ing.
These birds, bronze-colored and about
the size of a brown leghorn, are common
in the scrubs of the north. They Ay
heavily when disturbed without time to
run, and they gather in pairs and small
mobs.
Run? These are the ladies who can


s , e p it out. They skip through the under-
,rovvth, lose themselves in shadows, and,
ivlien courting or at other social gather-
chase around in a long chain.
you don't need to go looking for
lljgm to know if they're about. Early
eve ry morning, and many times during
t j, e night, they break into shrieks of
maniacal laughter. The call commences
~jth the first hilarious notes of a kooka-
burra's giggle, then breaks into harsh
shrieks, meaningless yells, sounds of
lunatics at play and other disconcerting
sounds.
As with many other birds, and quite
a few animals, curiosity is the scrub-
ben’s main downfall. They just can’t
resist prying into sights and going close
to sounds that shouldn’t be there. They’ll
gather, stepping warily, heads out-
stretched, jumping aside in pretended
alarm, until they draw so close to the
centre of the sound that you could kill
them with a stick if you liked—though
why you should 1 don’t know. I killed
one once —only once. I was meat-
hungry ; alone on an island. The hen
was plump enough, built on the lines of
a miniature Clydesdale horse ; but it was
tough, full of muscles and sinews, with a
repulsive taste all its own . . .
J ike mallee-fowl and brush-turkeys,
V scrub-hens have the reptilian habit
“Don't kid yourself—you wont see Easter out!”
of laying eggs in a mound and leaving
them to be hatched by the heat of decom-
posing rubbish. There’s the catch: the
mounds won't decompose and heat unless
they’re damp. They need rain. The
birds might have their mounds ready ; old
mounds may be rebuilt; new nests may
be scraped of topsoil rubbish for a radius
of 20 yards or more. I've seen nests
with a stepped circumference of about
20 yards, with a cone fully 10ft. high.
New nests might be less than 2ft. high
with a circumference of less than 10ft.
But it can be taken for granted the nests
will be ready and the birds waiting to
make use of them by the Equinox (about
September 21).
That is when the birds grow really rest-
less, when they make night and early
morning hideous with their raucous
screams. But, though the nests might be
ready and the birds anxious to go, noth-
ing will be disturbed and no eggs will
be laid until after suitable rain.
Eggs will be laid, tops of nests raked
and disturbed, and the cycle of life will
commence immediately the first good
rain has fallen after October. Eve known
it to go well into November before the
eggs, which were ready in September,
were deposited in the nest to take advant-
age of the heat of the rotting debris.
But, though they may have done so, I've
never known the hens to jump the gun
and get busy before October. It would
seem there are no shotgun weddings
among the scrub-hens.
H. G. LAMOND
That Was the Country
Two shearings back an A.W.U. organ-
iser spent a gay and festive night in the
caravanserai of a man who made his start
as a procureur of “scabs” in the Big
Strike. The A.W.U. is indeed a box of
paradoxes. It makes men fine unionists —
while the shed lasts. After that the shear-
er is anything you like. T he cocky mem-
ber jumps from his shed to his harvest
field, and looks out for cheap labor on
a 12-hour day basis. The contractor shear-
er looks out for a contract—and gets it
even if it compels him to work 16 hours
a day. And the “babbler” does his cheque
in, and then takes on a “scab” job be-
cause he didn’t previously buy himself
boots.— “ Bulletin”, February 13, 1913.
They say you can’t kill a carpet snake.
But that is rot. You can—with industry
and patience. I made a chop at a pile of
snake the other day, and sorry I was next
minute, for it was a 10ft carpet, and l
had spoiled the skin. He was cut in two
about a yard from the head, which end
made strenuous endeavors to bite the
boots off me, though it took no dislike to
my mate. We left the two pieces about a
rod, pole or perch apart, and didn't call
again till dinner-time. Then, to my sur-
prise, the head part had successfully
swallowed the tail part, tail first, and was
painfully crawling away. I feel almost
sure he is dead now, for I burned him
and can see his bones in the ashes.
—“Bulletin”, April 17, 1913.
Ox Bullarora run 1 came across some
of the old trap-yards of many years’stand-
ing and in good preservation. The bleach-
ing (and bleached) bones of the wild
horses, from the gate a mile along the
wings of the yard, give some grim evi-
dence. The brumbies were yarded by
stratagem and hard riding; the gate was
then thrown open, and a half-cooked
devil, armed with a shear-blade on a
stick, stabbed them in the flank as they
galloped out, anti disembowelled them —
this to avoid having a horse's corpse on
the premises, and, incidentally, a horrid
smell around the yard.
— “Bulletin”, April 24, 1913.
I reckon our Joe has brought the busi-
ness of rabbit-catching to a fine art. We
couldn’t get ferrets, so Joe caught some
crabs, and now you couldn't sell us fer-
rets at tuppence a gallon. This is how
Joe works. Taking a fair to medium he-
crab to a burrow, he attaches to its steer-
ing wheel a lighted candle-end, and sools
it (the crab) into bunny’s tenement. The
first time we tried it there was a
wild shriek of anguish, and seven cwt. of
rabbit hurled itself simultaneously from
the front door. The rush was too copious
to deal with that time, but since we have
added a fishing net to the equipment we
have made a fortune. We’re only pursuing
the game now in order not to disappoint
the crabs. — “Bulletin”, May 29, 1913.
At a recent race meeting at Kellesberrin
(W.A.) a hurdle race attracted two run-
ners. The first round of the course- —about
half a mile —occupied nearly 10 minutes,
through the horses falling and running
off. Then one fell and landed on his
rider, and the race looked a certainty for
the other until the supporters of the
riderless horse secured another jockey,
who, after weighing out, overhauled and
beat his competitor amidst great excite-
ment. The time taken to run the mile,
according to the clerk-of-scales’ eight-day
clock, was a shade over 20 minutes.
— “Bulletin”, May 29, 1913.
PARS. STILL WANTED
a NUMBER of readers have been ask-
ing whether the A boriginalities pages
are still open to contributors of para-
graphs. The answer, of course, is yes.
In future, however, pars, should deal with
the country scene as it is. Reminiscences,
unless they have some clear topical con-
nection, are out. So are those inter-
minable arguments between correspon-
dents ; if these have any substance they
had better be conducted through the
Letters pages. Pars, (and short articles)
about life in the bush and in the towns,
and particularly pars, containing authen-
tic bush humor —as opposed to mere
Dad and Dave corn —are what we need
most.


MAN
LAND
“The Coming Drought"
"Crom the window of a Sydney
hospital 1 watched the rain
falling for the second day in
succession and tried to estimate
how many gallons of storm
water must have run to waste
on man-made desert —the im-
pervious catchment of roofs
and pavements which
stretched away as far as my
narrow outlook allowed me to
see.
Basing my calculations on
figures for the previous day's
rainfall and assuming a con-
stant rate of fall, 1 concluded
that something like one million
gallons every 24 hours had
been running off the square
mile (almost exactly, accord-
ing to my map-reading) which
came within my field of view',
and most of this, 1 knew,
would empty itself into the
Harbor.
By coincidence, a friend who
works as a civil engineer came
to see me a few days later and.
left me a copy of a technical
journalf “to improve my un-
mechanical mind,” adding:
“You'll find an interesting but
disturbing article in this issue
about our future water supply.’
Entitled “The Coming
Drought”, it was the report of
this year's presidential address,
given by H. G. Furphy, 8.A.,
8.C.E., M.l.E.Austr., and —as
my friend had promised—it
gave rise to a disturbing chain
of thought.
Mr Furphy started his ad-
dress by describing the work
done in this remarkable age by
engineers, scientists and
chemists as being no matter for
unqualified boasting. These
technicians, aided by doctors
who have achieved a high
degree of death control (and
there is no drop in the birth-
rate as counterbalance) have
produced a lack of balance in
nature.
At present the world's popu-
lation—increasing at compound
rates, and more than half of it
perpetually hungry—is spread
over the whole land area of
the globe at a density of about
50 persons to the square mile.
Of this total land area, though.
20 per cent is permanently
frozen and only 30 per cent, is
cultivable. At its present rate
of growth, the world’s popula-
tion would be 3828 million in
1975, 6267 million in 2000 and
so on. until in 1000 years' time
there would be no more than
one square yard of the world's
surface to each human.
Long before this stage is
reached some end must come io
the present rate of progress,
either by voluntary control or
through the effects of plague,
war or starvation. In the inter-
val research will continue and
will bring even more effective
means of death control, Mr
Furphy argued, and in that
interval all that engineers can
do, individually or as a profes-
sion. is to seek to avert the
ultimate calamity.
nr HE element most essential to
our civilisation and to life
itself, Mr Furphy said, is fresh
water. Lack of water could be
one of the factors which take
hold of our destiny—not be-
cause the human race is in
danger of dying from thirst, but
because the availability of water
will exercise increasing control
over industrial and agricultural
development, distribution of
population and standards of
living.
There are large areas of the
world's surface, mostly in the
tropics or the polar regions,
where supplies of fresh water
seem to be almost unlimited,
but these are not the areas at
present most suitable for devel-
opment. Other areas that have
made spectacular progress these
last few decades, are already
sensing water-supply difficulties.
Almost the whole of Austra-
lia comes into this category ;
but the U.S., much of Western
Europe and even rain-soaked
Britain are all faced with prob-
lems of water supply. There
are also arid and semi-arid
regions which at present can be
left almost unoccupied but
which will in future need to
be settled for the accommoda-
tion and sustenance of unborn
millions.
Water is needed, said Mr
Furp h y, for irrigation and
industry, and for purely
domestic use. If the popula-
tion of Australia grows at the
world-average rate, though:
the ultimate population which has
been variously estimated at from
25 to 40 millions must be exceeded
during the first half of next century.
What wilt happen then? Emigra-
tion will not be possible, because
the lest of the world will be even
more overcrowded than Australia.
There seems no alternative to dis-
carding our ideas of an upper-popu-
lation limit and so ordering our
economy and way of life as to make
the support of the increasing mil-
lions possible . . . The future centres
of population, it would seem, must
be in areas where there is a plenti-
ful water-supply or to which water
can be brought without undue
difficulty. For this reason North
Queensland appears to be an area
which must become an increasingly
important centre of population and
may ultimately be one of Australia's
main industrial regions.
Eventually, though, readjust-
ment of population density will
no longer solve the problem,
and at a very much earlier
date drastic measures will have
to be taken in the present
important centres of popula-
tion. These measures would
fall under three heads: aug-
mentation of supply, reduction
of waste, and control of use.
Augmentation of supply
should not be unduly difficult
at first, until the law of dimin-
ishing returns starts to apply.
Additional storage will be pro-
gressively more costly per acre-
foot and more wasteful as an
increasing proportion of water
is lost by evaporation. Mr
Furphy said:
It seems inevitable that in the
near future —possibly within the
lifetime of our grandchildren —most
of our rivers will have ceased to
exist except as channels in which
surplus water will flow in excep-
tionally wet years, and that we shall
have to look elsewhere for further
supplies.
"Examining all possible means
of augmenting supplies, Mr
Furphy discussed the use of
ground water fnot always avail-
able and sometimes too saline),
re-use of polluted water, use of
purified sewage, distillation of
seawater and construction of
impervious catchments. He ex-
plained the difficulties which
geographical situation impose
on the interception and return
of storm water to the water
supply, especially in the coastal
cities, where it has to be re-
turned from the wrong end oi
the line because of the lie of
the land. He also dealt with
the possibilities of further
development of rain making
and what he called “a fantastic
but not altogether impossible
expedient” of importing polar
ice.


It's NEW! It's Unique!
.... it's a T/UEY!
fitted with the speedy ‘TILLITE*
Kerosene Pre-heater!
MODEL X 359
Lights in a minute. 1 !
No torch or bottle
required !
Self-contained. The
“Tillite” uses kerosene
from the container !
The “Tillite” prevents
over-pumping —it acts
as a safety valve !
It’s simple it’s fool-
proof— and that’s
dinkum !
300 brilliant candle-
power light!
Stormproof—in fact
TILLEY!
ASK FOR IT AT YOUR STORE l
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores throughout Australia. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
Reduction of waste by leak-
soakage or evaporation
y e all examined in turn,
particular emphasis on the
Mansfield process of checking
£fa poration and preventing
uater from becoming stagnant.
Technical details of this reduc-
lion of waste, Mr Furphy
pointed out, can be put in hand
j S necessity arises.
Control of use of water is
something not yet fully recog-
nised as important:
There can be no doubt that a
very large part of the water actually
delivered to consumers, whether
domestic, industrial or agricultural,
is wasted. That is to say, it is
jonsumed without producing any
significant beneficial result. Our
tareless attitude towards the waste
if water rises, no doubt, from the
(act that water is and, in our past
experience and that of our ances-
tors, always has been a very cheap
(ommodity. The feeling is wide-
spread that any attempt by a water-
authority to restrict consumption is
an unjustified interference with
personal liberty. When therefore
k reach the point where domestic
tonsumption must be decreased, a
great deal of public resistance may
k anticipated.
TTis remedy to this state of
ft apathy is to suggest the in-
troduction of a graduated scale
of charges based, not on pro-
perty values as at present, but
on legitimate personal needs..
When everything possible has
been done to augment our
water supplies and to reduce
waste, there is still much to be
done to divert water from un-
essential to essential uses and
to prohibit the use of potable
water where a non-potable
supply would be a possible
alternative.
An example of this quoted
by Mr Furphy is in cooling
systems, where at present there
is a large and increasing use of
potable water. Use of this
water in connection with power
generation or air conditioning
is causing an unnatural drain
on our resources of fresh water,
be said, and this fact should
induce thought about the use
ff reticulated seawater or the
mvention of alternative cooling
systems.
Many industries also con-
sume fresh water in vast quan-
hies and here again there seem
,0 be only three alternatives:
*° use mineralised water, to re-
use treated waste water, or to
Move the industrial plants to
1 locality where a plentiful
su Pply of fresh water exists.
In Mr Furphy’s opinion re-
gulated seawater could be
'uude available to possible in-
dustrial consumers in coastal
Ce ntres at no greater cost than
present supply and removal
fresh water. Inland towns
however might not be able to
support industries unless the
saline ground water could be
mineralised.
The re-use of treated waste
water would depend on the
type of pollution which existed,
but normally pollution can be
removed by suitable trade-
waste treatment and water so
treated could be used over and
over again, with the addition of
small quantities of fresh water.
There must be certain indus-
tries, though, which would be
forced to move to more copi-
ously watered localities.
Mr Furphy stated his per-
sonal conviction that the settle-
ment and industrialisation of
Antarctica will eventually take
place simply because there is
enough fresh water there for
industries whose demands can-
not otherwise be met. With
the harnessing of nuclear
energy the climate of Antarc-
tica will become less frighten-
ing—and conditions there are
not so very different from those
in parts of North America and
Siberia already industrialised.
At the opposite end of the
scale, New Guinea and North
Queensland offer good water
supplies.
Mr Furphy summed-up by
saying that the onset of the
coming water shortage will
probably be localised both in
time and space and also that
probably most of the measures
needed to meet the situation
could not be put into effect
until “the shoe starts to pinch.”
Meanwhile engineers could best
help by recognising the crisis
that is approaching and by con-
vincing Governments and in-
dustrialists that the onset could
be avoided or at least deferred
by planning and research,
which should be commenced
without delay.
Meanwhile he advocated the
making of an immediate and
thorough inventory of Austra-
lia's natural water resources,
assessment of areas where water
is likely to be wanted in the
future, and an end to vested
interests or inter-State rivalry
for the establishment of new
industries which demand the
provision of copious and per-
manent supplies of fresh water.
He quoted Mr L. R. East,
chairman of the Victorian State
Rivers and Water Commission :
“Unless more of the national
effort is given to overall water
supply, the effect on the stand-
ard of living in Australia 20
years hence will be disastrous.”
R.G.
f The Journal of the Institute
of Engineers (Australia); Vol.
32 ; No. 4-5, Apr.-May, 1960.
Curbing the Fire Terror
By S. W. KEOUGH
HThe next few weeks will be
a high-danger period for
bushfires in all States. A brief
spell of cooling breezes from
the south should deceive no-
body ; that can change within
a few days to high, hot winds
roaring out of the west and
north-west —the directions most
feared by fire-prevention
authorities —to fan bushfires
into raging agents of destruc-
tion.
To prevent (as far as pos-
sible) and fight these fires, Bush-
fire Committees operate, their
members drawn from bodies
and authorities vitally inter-
ested : railways, police, shire
councils, graziers, farmers, agri-
culture and education people,
insurance companies, meteoro-
logists, rangers, etc. But the
authority with the biggest
vested interest is the Forestry
Commission.
In N.S.W., for instance, there
are 761 State forests extend-
ing over 74- million acres, and
their importance is not con-
fined to the value of the timber.
Forests play a major part in
regulating water supply and
controlling erosion, and their
destruction may exercise an
adverse effect on the economy
for generations. Some of the
major problems still facing the
Snowy Mountains Authority
flow directly from the gigantic
holocaust which consumed
millions of trees in that area
22 years ago. Naturally the
preponderance of fire-preven-
tion work in the State—outside
the urban areas —falls to the
Commission, whose Fire Pro-
tection Officer is R. H. Luke —
and in this sphere he is one of
Australia's leading authorities.
Only a small proportion—
some 80,000 acres —of the
State's forests is given over to
softwood plantations ; the rest


I'.stab'ish“ri 18"68
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
- o S ULLIVX\
fc PTV LTD t
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafer Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LIT HOGS AP HIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS .AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables *
■MACKSUL,” BRISBANE
m & o$
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O'Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
is of native hardwoods ; and
although they are highly resist-
ant to total destruction by fire,
through having been exposed to
them for millions of years,
growth and quality of the
timber of surviving trees is
heavily affected, whilst mor-
tality among saplings is ex-
tremely heavy.
Science has not yet come up
with a magical formula to
scotch a berserk bush fire in its
tracks. Fire prevention neces-
sarily leans heavily on orthodox
methods, with water still the
chief weapon. Not ordinary
water, of course, but “wet"
water that is, water with
detergent in it, which gives it
three times the penetrating
power of the stuff you splash
into scotch.
The Commission has a fleet
of 98 firetankers (their fibre-
glass tanks with translucent
ends each holding 1000 gallons),
which can be filled in four
minutes. Equipped with power-
ful pump and engine, a tanker
can get to grips with the yello w
monster in double-quick time.
Complementary service is sup-
plied by dual-purpose vehicles
with a capacity of 350 gallons.
A new weapon has been
evolved in the U.S., consisting
of a slurry made of powdered
clay and water, delivered by
low - flying aircraft. Results
have been encouraging, but its
eventual adoption in Australia
will probably depend on the
availability of suitable aircraft.
One of the peculiar facts
about bushfires is that over the
years they have more or less
dropped into a recognisable
movement pattern. In N.S.W.
they almost invariably begin
on the extreme north coast and
environs, the first ones appear-
ing in the spring, though in an
unusual season sometimes as
early as August. Mostly they
will have gone from that area
by December. On the march
southward they hit the Central
Coast and the Central West in
early summer, remaining a
menace until the end of Febru-
ary. The South Coast is always
a very bad danger spot and
has to be watched closely for
well over four months.
West of the Dividing Range
most fires are started accident-
ally. The same cannot be said
of other areas, in which the
careless or the malicious hand
is all too evident.
The Commission does not
only take on fires in its own
bailiwick. Any fire anyw’here
which could develop into a
threat to its forests is enough
to make its firefighters dive for
their trucks and tankers.
Here is an analysis of how
the 968 bushfires which the
Forestry Commission's teams
fought in the year 1957-8
started:
Abandoned camp-fires caused
93; smokers flicking matches
or butts were responsible for
45; vehicles (backfiring, etc.)
notched 16 ; railways and saw-
mills caused 15 each ; lightning
in State forests added 81 ;
escapes from legal burn-offs
another 27 ; 50 were due to
miscellaneous causes ; 81 causes
could not be traced ; 169 came
from incendiaries, the malici-
ous being mixed with the
deliberate burning .off by un-
scrupulous individuals in the
expectation of green feed
springing up in the wake of the
burnt grass ; and 376 from
escapes from other burn-offs.
It will be seen, then, that,
apart from the odd trippers
and campers guilty of gross
carelessness, the big majority
of fires stem from actions of
too many negligent men on the
land, who above all others
should exercise the most care,
for in the end they are tire
hardest hit.
Fortunately the great majority
of these fires are easily con-
trolled and do only minor
damage ; but any one of them,
given the right conditions of
heat and wind, could build up
with terrifying speed into a
cataclysmic destroyer and
killer. Swift extinction before
they reach the out-of-control
stage is due in large measure
to highly efficient teamwork by
the Commission's staff often
working in conjunction with
..volunteer bush-brigades.
Danger from fire-radiation is
an ever-present one among
those fighting big fires at close
quarters. This, it has been
found, can be minimised by
smearing the face with a cream
comprising aluminium flake-
powder and a vanishing cream.
(Some of 'em would even wear
it, too, were it not for the fear
that it might be regarded by
their cobbers as a grave reflec-
tion on their masculinity!)
Mobile radio telephones,
automatic relay stations,
weather broadcasting services
and hired aero-club planes and
aerial taxis all play their part
in tracking fires and mobilising
forces to meet the danger at
spots where the tacticians deem
the chances best for controlling
them. Towers placed at strate-
gic points which give the best
overall view of forests also
make early spotting of fires
much easier.
Incidentally, Western Aus-
tralia has the world’s highest
forest-tower. Known as the
Gloucester Tree, it is a 200 ft
karri which has the crown
broken off. A spiral spike
ladder leads to the summit
making it a climb that is no t
for the squeamish-stomach ed
Another in W.A. is the Dia
mond Tree, its 130 ft trunk
surmounted by a 20ft tower
The old bloke who goes un
that one goanna-wise i s j n .
variably followed by his cat-
but the fummy won't face the
descent. He goes down in a
bag slung over his boss's
shoulder!
Loss of Honeybees
enerally - poor foraging
conditions around Mary*
borough (Q.) these last few
months have led to the loss of
1 (:()<! hives of honeybees from
starvation. Beekeepers in the
district estimate the total cost
of lost production and expen-
sive replacement likely to be
about £lO,OOO.
Present lack of pollen and
nectar is due to dry weather
and widespread buslifires in
spring and early summer, and
this will only be put right when
pollen and nectar are available
again from native trees and
other plants in sufficient quan-
tity to feed the bee colonies.
Meanwhile beekeepers are
faced with the prospect of
storing large quantities of sur-
plus beecombs from the empty
hives. These beecombs have
to be protected from destruc-
tion by wax-moths, and Mr C.
Rofif, beekeeping adviser in the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock, says
that this can best be done by
storing them in airtight rooms
or in sealed stacks and fumi-
gating regularly with paradi-
chlorobenzene (PDB).
Such treatment will have to
be continued, though, until
weather conditions improve and
the remaining colonies are
strong enough to take the
additional beecombs, or until
new colonies are established to
use the surplus.
Crosscut
'T'hree of Australia's best
*- shearers, F. Jarvis (1960
Australian champion); D ei
Allen (1959 Australian cham-
pion) ; and Kevin Sarre (Aus-
tralian champion, 1954-57), leh
Melbourne by air on February
10 to compete in the first Aus-
tralian and New Zealand cham-
pionship, which is to be he!
at Masterton, 60 miles f ronl ,
Wellington, in some weeks
time. The Australian team vv j
spend the interval in training 0
get used to N.Z. conditions.


SPORT
Playing Fields —Centres for Assimilation
By FRANK HYDE
, sight becoming more and
A more familiar in the pic-
torial sections of the nation's
newspapers is the happy smile
of achievement on the faces of
the central figures in naturalisa-
tion ceremonies.
For many, although officially
an d legally a national, the
battle to actually feel a local
has only just begun. The old
environments, the old habits,
the traditions of hundreds of
years all tend to restrain the
complete break with the past
and the wholehearted accept-
ance of a new way of fife.
Nothing has been more
effective in the speedy and
complete assimilation of
settlers from overseas than the
many and varied sporting
interests in Australia. Although
not necessarily in itself the
complete answer to the prob-
lems of assimilation, sport has
become a great adjunct.
During the years that Aus-
tralia has been a haven for the
unsettled, the weary and those
whose minds have been seared
by imperishable memories, the
shock of the Australian’s ritual
of sport has forced a new
approach to fife on the un-
suspecting migrant. In the early
stages of mass migration he
was aghast at the Melbourne
Cup or the Cricket Tests push-
ing the horrors of the troubled
world off the front pages of
our newspapers.
But by what authority is this
not good? Time has shown
that the early migrants are now
as bad, or as good, as we are
at temporarily shutting their
®inds to unpleasant realities
and adopting the therapy of
sport.
In the early years, however,
the effect of sport on these new
members of our family was
slow. The adults found our
standards of the games they
knew, so different, and our
indulgence so lavish that there
Wa s a natural reticence to join
■n with the locals and, con-
versely, a normal conclusion
ny native Aussies that the new
were not sympathetic
!o our approach to sport.
So it evolved on the children
°fthe newcomers to bridge the
j> a P between the adults and
'n'ing about a state of har-
jj'nny. Just how successful this
as been can be instanced a
hundred times over in every
State of the Commonwealth.
As migrant children were
absorbed into the local
schools they were immediately
subject to the prevailing sport-
ing interests. The parents fol-
lowed the fortunes of their chil-
dren and social contact between
adults soon followed. An era
arrived when achievements
credited to the names of those
not born here gave the word
assimilation a meaning. Both
the hosts and the new arrivals
were in the process of being
rendered similar, of becoming
like each other.
A positive example of the
extent of assimilation is the
full-throated barracking for
Italian-born Sergio Silvagni by
both locals and his fellow
countrymen as he plays Aussie
Rules for Carlton. When play-
ing South Melbourne he is
booed just as heartily by the
supporters of Dutchman Van
Der Haage. The barracker's
loyalty is determined by the
club he follows rather than by
the land of his birth.
In Australian Rules, a game
almost completely confined to
Australia and Australian in
origin and character, the
names of many of its modern
stars bear witness to its magni-
ficent record in assimilation —
names such as German-born
Denis Zeunert, a champion
wing-half for Carlton, Colling-
wood's Italian-born Edo Ben-
netti, and Neil Roberts, Cap-
tain of St Kilda, a champion
centre half-back and a son of
British migrant parents.
All have a tremendous fol-
lowing and command respect
from both new and old fanatics
of the code.
Last season, in one of the
junior Australian Rules com-
petitions in Victoria, a team
from St Albans Public School,
with reserves, was made up
of five players whose origin
was German, four Dutch, three
Italian, three Greek, two Rus-
sian, one Dane, one French,
one Spaniard, one Czech and
three Australians. No greater
aid to assimilation could be
suggested than this, not only
assimilation between them and
us but between themselves.
Recently in Kwinana, an oil-
refinery establishment in
Western Australia, two estab-
fished soccer teams, one com-
prising Greek and the other
Italian migrant workers, under
the influence of their children
attending local schools, com-
pletely changed 'over to Aus-
tralian Rules. The wife of the
Italian president of the Soccer
club is now administering the
affairs of the Kwinana District
Australian National Football
League.
Apart from the adult desire
to fully embrace the activities
of the area, the opportunity of
actual participation in teams
games cannot help but give the
newcomer the assurance of
being accepted, and resultant
friendships are just a natural
reaction.
Tncidents in the southern and
western States of migrants
changing from Soccer to the
national code does not infer
that Soccer itself is not a
desirable code for assimila-
tion. Throughout the Com-
monwealth there are few sport-
ing activities to equal this code
in providing leisure - hour
interest for migrants. Both in
the composition of the teams
and the administration of the
game all nationalities are well
represented.
Over the last few years con-
cern has been felt over near
riots, attacks on referees and
rough play in Soccer. Some
have felt that the code was not
fulfilling its charter in the task
of assimilation. True, some of
the behavior was foreign to the
Australian approach to sport.
Many attending Soccer are not
Australians. But at least their
exuberance is motivated by
sport, and whilst it is, the pro-
cess of assimilation goes on.
There has been a tendency in
Soccer for teams to be formed
and entered into competitions
as national teams. It was only
natural that groups of Hun-
garians, Austrians, Italians and
Dutch, having so much in
common and depending so
much on each other, would
seek to play together.
HThe lack of wisdom in this
approach has already been
realised and from within their
own ranks has come the deci-
sion to disband as national
teams and welcome in Austra-
lians and other nationalities.
This sort of thinking certainly
indicates successful assimila-
tion.
Boxing has long been to the
fore as an absorbing sporting
interest for migrants, particu-
larly when importations are on
the programme. Loyalty for
representatives of the land of
their birth asserts itself. These
are laudable sentiments and in
no way impair the processes
of assimilation. Australia does
not expect her new citizens to
spurn their birthland. Old
loyalties die hard.
Nevertheless in 1954, for the
first time in the history of
Australian boxing, two boys,
neither of whom was born in
Australia, battled for an Aus-
tralian title as though their
lives depended on the result.
Pran Mikus, born in Lithuania,
and Carlo Marchini, originally
from Italy, both climbed into
the Sydney Stadium ring with
a genuine desire, motivated by
their new-found patriotism, to
annex the national title as
Australians.
Events such as these bring
home to us that we are under-
going tremendous changes as a
nation. The changes are here
to stay, and if we realise that
our new settlers have treasures
of tradition and background
which we can share only by
intermingling, we will never
regret their coming. Nor will
they regret it if they continue
to “mix it up"’ with us on our
playing fields.
“Who did he say Was in front?”


Ruffi £m ifi
m
mm
\
AiM.
- -
One of our duties to the future is to see that
the world is better informed on Australia. Faith
without good works is of little avail; so also is faith
without the will to proclaim it.
When ex-King Peter of Yugoslavia was here in
October he said that many potential migrants in
Europe thought Australia was a desert land where
living was hard. He himself had not been able to
imagine the country as he really saw it; strong,
prosperous, inviting.
This lack of knowledge about Australia is
scarcely less current in the United Kingdom, from
which most of our forebears came. An Australian
moving around the British Isles soon realises how
little is known of actual life and living in
this country.
In the United States we are somewhat better
known than before American servicemen passed
through Australia during the last war. But it cannot
be said that the masses of people in North and
South America are well acquainted with our country
or ourselves. In Asia and Africa the knowledge
would be more meagre still.
Now. this certainly cannot be laid at the door
of diplomatic staffs. Trade and Immigration
officers and informational services generally, who
are doing an excellent job within the limits that
have been set them.
But the fact survives that here is a work that
will need to be expanded very considerably if
Australia is not to go on being mistaken in millions
of minds as a poor land noted mainly for its
exceptional types of fauna.
A proper job of international public relations
under all its chief headings—trade, investment,
migration, tourism —is going to require all the
strength we can give it. financially and in able
individual talents.
And since it is the concern of us all, it is surely
not too much to hope that a central effort directed
to it will now be made—with Governments and
private enterprise pooling their utmost in available
resources to present the Australia story fully and
faithfully to.the world.
7
Football Forecast:
Poaching for Players
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
| \ listening to discussions and
views on the coming foot-
ball season 1 have gained the
impression that the time is not
far distant when the various
codes will poach players from
each other. Frank Facer, go-
getter secretary of Sydney’s
champion Rugby League club,
St George, raised listeners’ eye-
brows at one of these
discussions.
Facer, who recently visited
Victoria and Tasmania, said:
“The southern States are
crammed with gifted foot-
ballers who could be converted
quickly from Australian Rules
players to Rugby League stars.
Rugby League clubs could well
give some thought to investing
a couple of thousand pounds
in this untapped field.”
Facer's statement came on
top of reports that Sydney
Soccer club, Leichhardt-Apia,
was contemplating an offer to
the acknowledged world’s out-
standing Rugby League player,
Reg Gasnier.
It also revived memories that
when the Rugby League coun-
tries agreed to an international
poaching ban several years ago,
well - known Rugby League
identity, Ray Stehr, had visions
of Melbourne Australian Rules
players becoming a feeding
source for English clubs.
These theories are not fan-
tastic. Australian Rules players
have Turned to Rugby League.
Three of them Howard
Hallett, Jpe Pearce and Eric
Frauenfelder—went on to gain
immortality among Australian
Rugby League all-time greats.
Hallett once said: “1 owed
my success as a Rugby League
full-back to the grooming I
received in the art of catching
and kicking a ball in Austra-
lian Rules.”
In support of this theory I
recall an occasion while
reporting a New Zealand
Rugby League tour of Aus-
tralia in the early 1950’5. We
were in Brisbane at the time
Victorian Australian Rules
teams, Essendon and Geelong,
were sent there to play an
exhibition match under flood-
light. I accompanied some of
the New Zealanders to see the
match.
Several times Essendon full-
forward, Johnny Coleman, flew
into the air to collect the ball
on his fingertips. This sort of
thing was spectacular indeed to
hard-boiled Rugby League
men, although few other
aspects of the game appealed
to them.
, New Zealand half-back
Jimmy Haig, turned to me and
said: “What a sensation this
fellow would be as a R U2 hv
League full-back!”
On the other hand, R ug b v
League produces many players
who could be Australian Rules
stars.
Puig Aubert, the ' fabulous
full-back of the 1951 French
Rugby League touring team,
declared that Australian Rules
was a game “made to order
for him.”
Because of his uncanny
anticipation, freakish ball-
handling and deadly kicking—
he was equally skilled with the
punt-, drop- and place-kicks—
-1 took him along to see an
Australian Rules match in
Sydney to get his impressions.
He became absorbed with
the work of the full-forward
potting for goal. The work of
no other player gripped his
imagination. After the match
I asked Him what he had
thought of it.
Puig Aubert grinned, spread
his arms and replied: “Too
easy, too easy. For Puig
Aubert 20 goals a match.” He
meant it, too.
And if Australian Rules men
had seen this amazingly gifted
footballer in action they would
have spoken about him in the
same sensational terms as did
the Rugby League men who
saw Johnny Coleman.
A gifted footballer could
adapt himself to become a
champion in any of the codes.
It is on record that some 70
years ago J. W. Sutcliffe repre-
sented England at both Rugby
and Soccer. Ted Scorfield,
head - cartoonist for The
Bulletin, also played Rugby
Union for England and was a
credit to the Soccer code
around Tyneside. For rowing
services rendered he is also an
honorary life-member of Tyne-
mouth Rowing Club. C. B.
Fry (best known as a cricketer)
represented England at Soccer
and was also an accomplished
Rugby player.
The accent on speed in foot-
ball today would make the task
of a gifted player adapting
himself to a new code easier
than it used to be.
This and the clamor f° r
more and more enterprise m
football promotion leads me o
believe that poaching acioss
the State borders could become
itself an exciting sport this
coming season.


"A Horse by Any Other Name"
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
It is not often these days that an investigation into the
identity of a racehorse has to be undertaken by the
stipendiary stewards. The system of registration has been
so perfected and the records so efficiently grouped in the
files, that most people realise that any deception must be
found out.
There are 10,000 horses or more racing in Australia,
but give the registrar of racing, Mr G. W. Lilley, an
accurate description of the markings of any one of them
and in minutes he will identify its group. The discovery of
its name and history is then certain.
Alice Springs stewards have an inquiry on the'r hands
at the moment. They are interested in the similarity of
a horse who has won several races there and another horse
who raced for a time in Sydney.
About 15 years ago a horse was registered in Queens-
land and brought to northern N.S.W. for racing as a
maiden galloper. He was, in fact, a Sydney horse who
had won.
A pedigree was “manufactured” for him and, as he
was a bay without distinctive markings, he may have
represented some difficulty in identification.
But, unfortunately for the planners, in their selection
of a sire and dam they had named two horses who were
chestnut in color. They had overlooked the one inviolable
law of genetics in horse-breeding —a chestnut sire and a
chestnut dam cannot produce any but chestnut offspring!
In the spring in Melbourne a New Zealand horse named
Savage caused an upset when he won the Werribee
Cup, a race used by many trainers as a final try-out for
the Melbourne Cup.
Cup winning became a bit of a habit with Savage.
When the fuss of the Melbourne Carnival had died down
he was brought out again. On November 16 he won the
Bendigo Cup, on November 19 the Eclipse Stakes at Caul-
field and on November 23 the Ballarat Cup, making it four
wins in a row, all over a bit of distance.
At Flemington recently Savage was brought out
after a let-up from training and won again, this time over
seven furlongs in sprint company.
It was an amazing performance, because Chartweli,
the former Sydney horse who had won his previous three
races, was held to be as close to a certain winner as it is
possible to get. Chartweli had an apparently unassailable
lead with less than a furlong remaining, but Savage, with
a tremendous sprint, bridged the gap and went on to win
by three-quarters of a length, running away.
Tockeys have been told by the A.J.C. that they must
” not write articles or give interviews for publications oi
broadcasting which deal with future racing.
There has been no official explanation of the deci-
sion, and jockeys say they do not understand their position
so far as press interviews are concerned.
In fact the ban has been in force for many years, but
it does not add up to much. The sort of thing officialdom
frowns on is publication of tips by jockeys statements
that So-and-so thinks his best ride will be Dogsbody, and
that sort of thing, seldom found in newspapers but olten
exploited in other directions as a cheap form of publicity.
It is mostly top riders who make news, and they
become top riders because they have the brains to avoid
compromising statements for publication.
"poRMER jockey Ted McMenamin, who began his rise to
A fame over the sticks and later became one of the most
successful flat riders, has at last developed a good horse
as a trainer.
Gili, who won the Challenge Stakes at Randwick in a
style suggesting that the Oakleigh Plate or the Newmarket
Handicap might well be within his compass, was bred by
McMenamin during his short time as breeder before
coming back to racing as a trainer.
Gili, by the disappointing Markapura (imp.) from
Syncopation, is now a four-year-old. McMenamin has
raced Gili sparingly and is now reaping the reward for his
patience.
X>alloch (imp.), who has died in New Zealand at the
age of 21, was bought as a two-year-old in England
by Sir James and Mr J. C Fletcher when they established
Alton Lodge Stud in 1939, and in 15 seasons Balloch sired
440 individual winners who among them ran up a tally
of 790 wins and £468,390 in stakes. His best sons were
Tauloch and Dalray.
Although Balloch was regarded as a sire of stayers,
and was twice at the head of the winning sires’ list, he also
twice headed the list of sires of two-year-olds. He was by
Obliterate from Cinna, a mare by Polymelus from Baroness
la Fleche, daughter of the great mare La Fleche, who won
16 races. Obliterate was by Tracery. Cinna, a classic
winner in England, was the dam of nine winners. Curi-
ously, English studmasters did not greatly value her sons
as potential stallions, and it was left to Australian and
New Zealand breeders to exploit them, with great profit.
Beau Pere (imp.)—one of the best stallions in the world in
his day—Mr Standfast (imp.) and Gay Shield (imp.) were
here in addition to Balloch, and studmasters also bought
daughters and grand-daughters of the mare.
The family was used through other branches as well,
among the horses being the sires Constant Son (imp.),
Lang Bian (imp.) and Spearhead (imp.). Australian
breeding certainly has benefited greatly from this family.
r'. E. Barnes— “Ceb” for short —made a gesture a couple
of years ago that has brought joy to a Brisbane woman
owner, Miss Elizabeth Gard.
Miss Gard paid 600gns. at the 1958 yearling sales in
Brisbane for a colt by Dalray which, in the course of his
education, showed a fault that was not apparent when
he was a yearling.
Mr Barnes had bred the colt at his Canning Downs
Stud on Queensland’s Darling Downs. He immediately
offered to replace the colt from the following year’s draft.
When the time came Miss Gard was shown a yard full
of yearlings and told to take her pick, with one exception
—which, by the way, turned out to be the champion
Refulgent.
Miss Gard took a colt by Dalray from Lady Pebble,
named him Paladino, and has had the satisfaction of win-
ning with him.
“Ceb” Barnes is one of the greatest supporters of
the Australian-bred sire that breeding has known. His
father, the late J. H. S. Barnes, used imported sires from
time to time, but the son has pinned his faith to the
Australian-bred horse and has not been let down.
Katanga did great service for Canning Down, and
now Dalray has established himself as one of the most
successful locally-bred stallions of the post-war era.


S m
★
leandXs
Iv AGR6§
k«s
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGnes
pot stn BRANDY
perfection of
distinguished
world over!
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Signed
So Far So —What?
A ustralia is approaching the
critical period in its credit-
restriction and freer-importing
policy.
March 31 represents the
deadline for overdraft-reduc-
tion, while taxation assessments
fall due from April onwards.
As the next few months go
by trade figures will show
whether abandonment of
physical control of imports in
favor of control through
credit-restriction will succeed,
and whether the export position
will improve or worsen. Up
to December 31 the balance-
of-payments position looked
rather grim ; but the next
quarter’s figures should be a
truer guide.
For the moment the export
position seems better than
previously expected, with wool
up slightly at auctions and with
wheat exports, especially those
arranged with Communist
China, increasing in volume.
As to the credit position, it
is hard to say what stage of
restriction has been reached
already. It is largely a matter
of what proportion of bank-
borrowers have already man-
aged to adjust their overdrafts
and how many are still
struggling to do so.
There is no doubt that the
impact of the restricted-credit
policy has been severe already,
It has hit hard even out to the
back-o’-Bourke, where pas-
toralists on overdraft have
even been told how much, to
within a fiver or a tenner, they
can spend on a stud-ram.
T'he Prime Minister, Mr
Menzies, and the Treasurer,
Mr Holt, are reported to have
a special meeting of the
joint Government parties in
Canberra last week that they
were confident of the success
Government s recent
economic measures, and that
the Apnl-June quarter would
“prove that the economic
measures were working for the
benefit of Australia.’
It is to be doubted whether
the Prime Minister or the
Treasurer are going on any
information other than that
supplied by the Treasury as to
what the effects of the econo-
mic policy have been or are
likely to be.
There was evidence that
Cabinet had only the vaguest
idea of the implications of the
proposed restriction policy
before it was announced, and
it seems to be unaware still of
several important principles
that are at stake.
And the programme cer-
tainly will not be working for
the benefit of Australia so long
as it merely works for the
convenience of the Federal
Treasury.
Most criticism of the present
programme of restriction and
increased taxation arises from
the fact that the Treasury has
not put the Government’s own
economic house in order, and
from the belief that much of
our inflation originates in the
Commonwealth arbitration sys-
tem. M.Ps.’ own out-of-season
pay-rises are not forgotten
either.
The influence of Treasury
policy over the years has been
to make the burden of govern-
ment heavier on investors,
to reduce industrial (and export)
incentives, and to retard the
creation of capital within the
country. By increasing costs
and restricting initiative
Treasury policy has promoted
inflation, which it now sancti-
moniously aims to restrain by
taking more of the profit
element out of production. Yet
profit-margins are the basis of
capital for private enterprise
and funds available for
Government borrowing.
The Australian economy
remains subject to the violent
strains and distortions of, on
the one hand, wage awards
which prove beyond the
capacity of industry to pay
without adding to cost-
inflation, and, on the other, a
Treasury policy of attempting
to cope with the ensuing cost-
inflation by half-suffocating
the proprietary and managerial
side of industry through heavv
taxation and credit-restriction
The Treasury’s “anti-i n fl a
tion” policy nearly always adds
to the spending-power of the
Government, and its method
of coping with inflation is
generally dubious. It is a short-
cut and socialistic, with the
addition of more coercive
power to the Treasury. This
has been the result, inciden-
tally, of the abolition of
import-licensing and resort to
financial methods of attempting
to curb imports.
The Government itself is
suffering from fatty degenera-
tion of its private-enterprise
principles, so much to the fore
in 1949. The economic posi-
tion has got beyond its con-
ception or control, and it leaves
far too much discretion in the
hands of the Treasury, for
which the Prime Minister and
the Treasurer today seem
merely to be the briefed legal
representatives pleading the
Treasury case in the wake of
wage-inflation.
A part of the economy most
decidedly hit by the econo-
mic measures—through the
lifting of sales-tax from 30 p.c.
to 40 p.c.—has been the motor-
car industry.
Sales of new motor-cars
have fallen heavily, and the
market for second-hand cars
has deteriorated, especially
since finance cos. have become
reluctant to arrange terms in
respect of vehicles older than
1956 models.
There have been heavy dis-
missals of staff in sections of
the motor-trade, even by Hol-
den and B.M.C. Motor-distri-
butors handling lines not on
the waiting - list will show
poorer figures for 1960-61.
Some check to the boom in
car sales on credit was no
doubt necessary. The h.-p.
financiers themselves have
indicated as much. The prob-
lem now is to see that the set-
back doesn’t go too far.
There were reports last week
of dismissals in the building-
trade in Victoria and N.S.W.
'T'here appears to be a greater
inflow of overseas capital
for portfolio investment than
was previously thought likely
following the slump of Oct.-
Dee., 1960. There is strong U.S.
support for B.H.P. still, but
dollar and sterling money con-
tinues to be available for other
stocks as well. Hong Kong and
Singapore investors are return-
ing to the Australian share-
market.
Stocks likely to attract U.S.
investors are those which have


For Safe Investing, Long or Short Term
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,000)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest ranges up to
10 Years and over • • • 8%
4 Years to 9 Years • • 7%
3 Years ..•«••• 6|%
2 Years .••••■• 6^%
12 Months’ notice . • • . 5|%
9 Months' notice . • • • 5|%
6 Months' notie* . • • • 4f%
3 Months' notice . • . • 3|%
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years . 6% per annum
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
For Currency of 10 Years
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue of Registered
Debentures has been lodged with the Registrar of Companies,
Sydney.
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
all members of the stock exchange
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL. BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 48 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Telephone FM 5861
t" " RD31.1160


start the day right!
w
m
f<S?'
ijUD* l * 0
F&
fcHOfc"
VlM°
rem*
c
Invest in
The Longest Established National
Hire-Purchase Company
ARC
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding
DEBENTURE STOCK
(NEW ISSUE)
Short
term
12 months 5 3 /«% p.a.
9 months 5V*% p.a.
6 months 4 Va% p.a.
3 months 4Vi% p.a.
Long
Term
6fo 10 years 7% p.a.
5 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
6%% p.a.
6Vj% p.a.
6 Va% p.a.
6% p.a.
application for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
the printed form included in the prospectus
obtainable from the Bankers to the issue
Sank of New South Wales (All Branches)
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker,
PAID-UP
CAPITAL
£6,875.000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO
American affiliations, such as
Union Carbide (Aust.), or
which are in the kind of busi-
ness U.S. investors understand,
such as Repco or Common-
wealth Industrial Gases. Borg
Warner could also have specu-
lative support.
Stocks well publicised in the
past in the U.K. have been
8.H.P., A.C.1., 1.C.1.A.N.Z.,
E.Z. Industries, Kan d o s
Cement and Australian Cement,
G. J. Coles, Colonial Sugar,
Repco, Australian Guarantee
Corp., A.W.A., A.R.C. Indus-
tries, Bitumen and Oil Re-
fineries and Ampol Petroleum.
/'Aver the past week Austra-
lian Stock Exchanges have
continued to recover from the
low levels plumbed in Decem-
ber. At that point almost panic
conditions prevailed, and the
“institutions” largely retired
from the market.
Some recovery from the low
levels reached for stocks of
integrity and reasonable
present yield and future pros-
pects is certainly due. Further
recovery is likely in many
cases. But it would be quite
wrong to expect all the glamor
stocks of the earlier part of
1960 to recover their former
market glory.
Real - estate is harder to
move than it was, and tenants
are more difficult to find for
city office-suites. The froth
of the real-estate boom has
been blown-off, and it won't
come back in a hurry. Useful
land will still bring a high—
and often increasing—price,
but holiday-resort land will sell
freely only in selected patches.
Investors will be wise if they
carefully scrutinise their pro-
posed investments and look for
evidence of expansion plans
nearing completion which by
now should be paying-off in
dividends. Companies which
have been raising share- or
note-money in large lumps over
the past few years, or plough-
ing-back the major portion of
their profits, should by now be
reaching the point where past
expenditure will be paying-off
in the form of increased turn-
over and dividends. Where
ploughback has been the chief
form of capital used there
could be bonus-issues.
In such cases higher prices
for shares are justifiable on the
score of real expansion and
improvement of prospects
within the stock itself. That is
the way to invest money. To
gamble on market “tone,” as
was done so rashly during
1960, is almost invariably fatal.
As far as can be seen, Aus-
tralia is still on a wave of great
economic growth. Its main
problems stem from the
governmental level —ill-judged
wages awards that are followed
by short-cut Treasury “reme-
dies” are sapping the strength
of our productive power and
shaking stability and confi-
dence. It is to be hoped
that the present emphasis on
balance-of-payments problems
brings home to all branches of
government the fact that the
export industries are not a
foreign affair but a most vital
domestic one ; and that profits
on a liberal scale are a neces-
sity—and a virtue —in any
expanding free-enterprise
economy.
"Herald" (Melb.)
A STOCK wh ich has held its
ground even better than
B.H.P. during the heavy mar U
reverse of the past three months
has been Herald and Weekly
Times, Ltd., Melbourne. Cer-
tainly there was an unaccount-
able weakness in the shares
around the middle of last year
when the market generally was
booming. Then the dividend
went up from 20 p.c. to 27 \ p c
for the 1959-60 term following
disclosure of record earnings.
The ss. shares sold last week
at 475. 3d., which is 4s. 3d.
more than they were when
pointed out in The Bulletin
of May 18 last year.
At 475. 3d. the scrip gives
an immediate yield of 2.9 px.,
which probably isn’t bad con-
sidering that the stock fetches
one of the highest premiums—
if not the highest—on Austra-
lian 'Changes.
The co. controls two money-
spinners in Melbourne
“Herald” and the “Sun News-
Pictorial.” It also is the
dominant shareholder in one of
the two commercial TV-stations
in Victoria, and has newspaper
and radio interests in S.A. and
Queensland.
Australian Gypiusn
■poLLowiNG a comment upon
the 10 p.c. dividend paid
by the former holding-cos.,
chairman Raymont Moore, of
Australian Gypsum Products
Pty, said in the annual report
dated September 16, 1960:
“The expansion programme
being undertaken, including
particularly the erection of the
new plaster-mill at Port Mel-
bourne, calls for heavy capital
expenditure, hence your direc-
tors consider it necessary to
retain a reasonable proportion
of the year's profit to assist in
financing such expenditure.”
Expenditure on the new
plaster-mill, which is the largest
plant of its kind in Australia,
is expected to end during the
first half of 1961, and the
plant should be producing
before June 30 next.
Not only should expenditure
on this major project cease
during the current half-year,
but it should also become
income-earning.
The immediately interesting
point, from the sharemarkef
point of view, about this set
of facts is that it should soon
be unnecessary to retain so
much of each year's profit to
finance capital-outlay, and the
10 p.c. dividend which Ray
Moore had in mind w^ell


FASTER, CLOSER SHAVING
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
Yes. Wherever you may he and at anv time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard batteries give months of easy
shaving. MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Guaranteed.
Complete same day service. Adjustments only . . . free
. . . at any time.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
POST FREE
C IT T
OrTP O S T
N O W
QL’AM T Y A I’l'l. IA NCE S,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
I)e Mestre Plaee, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Chegue/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
mmm
$ i
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A Britisn Office: ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8131 (4 lines). H. G. CRAY, Manager.
king r the ..above comments
*yi Quite easily be increased.
pj<closed profits for 1959-60
r ,'equal to 19.1 p.c. on the
~ holding - cos.’ combined
ST Worked-back from
F t he ratio was more like
, ? 1 p Ci Now there is only
1 holding - co., Australian
r v p SU m Industries Ltd., listed
J ot h Sydney and Melbourne,
jith its scrip much more
marketable than hitherto, split
lS .,jt is, also, into ss. stock-
jnits. The profit-ratios apply
bo the consolidated holding-co.
A,G. Industries not only has
ll,e earning- power to pay a
higher rate of dividend ; it also
has the financial liquidity. Its
deposits and readily realisable
investments were well in excess
0 f its overdraft at last balance,
f indits stock-valuation declined
for the third successive year,
representing approximately one
I year's profit at the end of last
term, while debtors have pro-
gressively increased each year.
Whatever temporary finan-
cial difficulties there may be
in the building trade, the long-
term outlook for gypsum is
sound.
Productivity
At the opening of an Austra-
lian Productivity Council
conference in Melbourne on
February 8 Prime Minister
Menzies said increased pro-
ductivity was the greatest task
confronting Australia. It was
everybody's responsibility, and
if this were generally realised it
would “generate a community
spirit infinitely more important
than half the things we talk
about.”
"Productivity needs an entire
joint effort,” Mr Menzies said.
"We must encourage an enter-
prising spirit in people—a will-
ingness to take risks.”
Unfortunately, risk-taking is
not encouraged where the
Treasury takes Bs. in the £ of
J ny company profits but does
not share in the losses. Nor
it stimulated by the prospect
of the fruits of capital-invest-
ment being handed largely to
for expenditure
°n consumption goods instead
of being substantially ploughed-
oack into modern machinery
* or the purpose of increasing
productivity still further until
country can face overseas
oompetition on a basis of equal
efficiency and cost-of-produc-
llon - A more mature economy
c °uld do with less ploughed-
back capital than we need ; but
w, n present need is urgent.
Opposition - leader Calwell
that trade-unions con-
S| dered increased productivity
Was the responsibility of man-
a§ement.
That is indeed how it has
worked-out in recent years; but
trade-unions have demanded
more than their share of any
increase created by manage-
ment nevertheless.
Tn his Speech from the Throne
at the opening of the
fourth session of the 24th Par-
liament on November 17, 1960,
Canada’s Governor- General,
the Rt. Hen. Vincent Massey,
indicated Canadian awareness
of this matter so long neglected
in Australia —to Australia's
present economic discomfort.
“Believing,” said the Gover-
nor-General, “that the ultimale
success of efforts to improve
Canada’s trade and employ-
ment and the standard of living
of Canadian workers depends
largely upon lncr e a s i n'g
Canadian productivity, my
Ministers will ask you to
authorise the establishment of
a Productivity Council. Its
membership would include
Canadians from the fields of
industry and commerce, organ-
ised labor, agriculture and
other primary production, as
well as qualified individuals
chosen from the public at
large and from the scientific
agencies of government. The
purpose of this council wousd
be to strengthen Canada's com-
petitive position in export and
domestic markets by improving
the productivity of primary and
secondary industries.”
Productivity, which can be
roughly described as output of
goods and services in relation
to man-hours paid for in wages
and capital-assets consumed, is
the key to living-standards.
But in a progressive, well-
balanced economy any increase
in productivity should be
shared with capital as well as
with labor.
Most increased productivity
in Australia since introduction
of the 40-hour week has come
from the efforts of capital-
greater mechanisation in mines,
new and more modern plant in
factories, and dieselisation of
rail transport.
Where greater mechanical
efficiency has not been intro-
duced the industry has gener-
ally ceased to function. The
40-hour week, for example, has
killed the Australian coastal
passenger-fleet.
At the end of 1960 Canada’s
overseas trade was at a record
level, with remarkable increases
in exports to the U.K. and
British Commonwealth. More
Canadians were employed than
at any other time. The Govern-
ment, however, has been plan-
ning public works, including
housing and a five-year hos-
pital-building programme, as
“winter works,” when other in-
dustry is less active. Increasing
technological efficiency is dis-
pensing with more and more
labor, and, with greater num-
bers of young people leaving
school, the central Government
is planning a long way ahead to
meet any possible unemploy
ment.
Kennedy's View
YI/hether the national stock
taking by J. F. Kennedy,
incoming President of the
United States, was aimed at a
writing-down at the point of
takeover from the Republicans
in order to make any improve-
ment look better twelve months
hence, is anybody's political
guess.
But the fact is that he
painted a stark picture of the
U.S. economy in his first State
of the Union message to Con-
gress.
“To state the facts frankly
is not to despair the future nor
indict the past,’’ said President
Kennedy. “The prudent heir
takes careful inventory of his
legacies, and gi\es a faithful
accounting to those whom he
owes an obligation of trmt.
“The present state of the
economy is disturbing. We
take office in the wake of seven
months of recession, three-and-
a-half years of slack, seven
years of diminished economic


Iff
!
mi
<& r #
C.B.C.
SAVINGS BANK
INTEREST
INCREASED
TO
3J %
PER ANNUM
on balances up to £2,500
as from Ist January, 1961
Interest on Societies 1 and Clubs'
cheque accounts increased to
up to £2,500 and thereover I|%
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
o subsidiary of
THE
COMMERCIAL BAHKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
growth, and nine years of fall-
ing farm income.
“Business bankruptcies have
reached their highest level since
the great depression. Since
1951 farm income has been
squeezed down by 25 per cent.
Save for a brief period in 1958,
insured unemployment is at
the highest peak in history. Of
some five-and-a-half million
Americans without jobs, more
than one million have been
searching for work for more
than four months.
“Nearly one-eighth of those
who are without jobs live
almost without hope in nearly
a hundred especially depressed
and troubled areas. The rest
include new school graduates
unable to use their talents,
farmers forced to give up the
part-time jobs that had bal-
anced their budgets, skilled and
unskilled workers laid , off in
such important industries as
metals, machinery, automobiles
and apparel.
“Our recovery from the 1958
recession, moreover, was
anaemic and incomplete. Our
Gross National Product never
regained its full potential. On-
employment never returned to
normal levels. Maximum use
of our industrial capacity was
never restored.
“In short, the American
economy is in trouble. The
most resourceful industrialised
economy on earth ranks among
the last in economic growth.
Since last spring it has actually
receded. Business investment
is in a decline. Profits have
fallen below predicted levels.
Construction is off. A million
unsold automobiles are in in-
ventory. Fewer people are
wor k i n g—and the average
work-week has shrunk Wp i.
below 40 hours. ell
“Yet prices have continued
to rise—so that now too tnanv
Americans have less to spend
for items that cost them more
to buy. Economic prophecy
is at best an uncertain art a ‘ s
demonstrated by the prediction
one year ago from this podium
that 1960 would be ‘the most
prosperous year in our history’
Nevertheless, forecasts of con-
tinued slack and only slightly
reduced unemployment
throughout 1961 and 1962 have
been made with alarming un-
animity—and this Administra-
tion does not intend to stand
helplessly by.
President Kennedy added:
“We cannot afford to waste
idle hours and empty plants
while awaiting the end of a
recession. We must show the
world what a free economy can
do —to reduce unemployment
—to put unused capacity to
work to spur new productivity
—and to foster higher economic
growth within a framework of
sound fiscal policies and rela-
tive price-stability.”
Hodgson's
"VTew shares put out by Hodp
son's Holdings Ltd in the
first half of 1960 (now fully-
paid to 10s.) have been selling
in Sydney at 12s. On the basis
of the current 10 p.c. div. they
offer an attractive yield of
8.3 p.c.
Earnings represented 20.9
p.c. on capita] during the
1959-60 term, and the div. has
been well covered for several
years.
The co. runs a small but
energetically managed depart-
ment-store at Summer Hill
(Sydney). It has an outside
sales and delivery service, and
conducts its own h.-p. branch.
Its “outside” sales and deliveries
run far beyond Summer Hill,
extending to rural areas in the
County of Cumberland, and
represent about 85 p.c. of its
turnover. Credit selling by
field representatives is the back-
bone of the co.’s business,
which was established in 1882
and converted into a public co.
in 1955.
The co.’s assets, particularly
its freeholds, are in at a con-
servative valuation, and net
tangible backing was visibly
16s. lOd. per 10s.-paid share at
June 30 last. Liquidity was
easy.
Paid capital was £195,000.
It has since increased
to £230,000, and will rise to
£280,000 in December this year
when £50,000 of convertible
notes become ord. shares.
The 10s. “new” shares at E ■
seem to be worth-while buying


The Umbali Massacre
By RANDOLPH STOW
As told to him by DANIEL EVANS
[This unusual, authentic piece of aboriginal storytelling came in with
the following covering-note by Western Australian author Randolph
Stow:
The story which follows was told to me by Daniel Evans, a 40-year-
old full-blood of Forrest River Mission, and was taken down verbatim
as he spoke.
On a ridge overlooking Forrest River Mission, which lies 40 miles
up the river from Wyndham, Western Australia, stands a cross erected
as a gravestone and memorial for the natives killed in the Umbali
massacre 28 years ago.
Daniel’s account of this tragedy seems to me most valuable, not only
as a very concise and impartial statement of what his people have
suffered at our hands, but also as an example of the legend-maker in
action. At the time of the tragedy he was a boy and so could not
remember all the details that he gives here. They have either been
picked up from others or added by himself, and he has shown a good
deal of artistry in using them. He loves the irony of the “one leaf”
and the “one teeth” which “put the pot away,” the idea of supernatural
powers shaping our ends through such means as Canon Cribble’s dream.
And, as is only reasonable in a man whose father could fly disembodied
from Forrest River to Wyndham and perch in a tree like a bird, he
firmly believes in his ghost-woman at Umbali, with her curiously moving"
lullaby.
The story is a legend already, anti the chief figure, Canon Cribble,
has legendary stature. It came as a great surprise to me to learn that
Canon Cribble is still alive, for at Forrest River he has attained the
status of a cult hero. The people speak of him as having “powers,”
of being “a real holy man.” One has the impression in hearing of him,
as with Daniel’s father, that he was of superhuman proportions and
abilities, a babin, an .“all-round man.”
That he was no ordinary man is obvious from Daniel’s legend. As
the pioneer missionary of Forrest River he had enormous problems to
cope with—the ignorance of the natives, on one hand, the barbarity of
the whites on the other. And if lie had not succeeded remarkably in his
work he would not have this legendary stature in the eyes of his former
flock.
This story will never die out at Forrest River. It may be altered,
enlarged, as happens to all legends with time. But as long as there are
black men around Forrest River and Umbali “Canon Crubul,” growing
in si/.e like a shadow with the passing of time, will be remembered in
the monument Daniel has built for him.]
There were two stockmen
—in fact, three white
stockmen —at Nulla
Nulla homestead. There
was Mr Hay and two other
stockmen. Mr Hay, he was the
boundary rider, he went out
every morning to see if the
cattle was running 0.K., went
out early in the morning in-
specting the cattle.
When he done all the bound-
ary he was heading towards
home then. Then he came
upon a billabong, saw two old
native girls in the water. He
galloped up to them and said
to them: “What you doing
here?”
The two old native girls just
looked at him, they was in the
water getting gadja (lily-roots).
He asked them: “What you
doing here on the cattle
boundary?”
He asked the native girls if
they got a husband, he ask
them in pidgin, like, “Which
way your husband?”
They pointed, telling him,
like: “Under the tree, sleep-
ing" ; they couldn’t understand
the English.
He took the two old ladies
where the husband was sleep-
ing, and the white stockman
ask him: “What you doing in
the cattle run?”
The old man just look at him
and talk in language that he
come getting gadja.
Then Mr Hay, he told him
that he shouldn’t be round here,
so he got off his horse and
Hogged him with a stockwhip. I
think he gave him twenty cuts
or thirty, he beat him for a
long time. He broke his spears
up, he broke the bottle spear,
and the shovel spear, he broke
the bamboo, broke it half-way
up the stick.
And the old bloke looked at
him, he was bleeding with the
Hogging he had, across his eyes,
you know. And he turned
around and got the shovel
spear, he looked at him, and he
threw it at him, you know how
you throw a javelin, and Mr
Hay got the spear in his lung,
He galloped as far as from
here to the schoolhouse with the
spear stuck in his lung, and he
dropped dead. It cut his lung
open.
The old bloke went over,
looked in his pocket, got some
tobacco and matches, got some
bushes and covered the body.
Then he left him there and
went away with his two old
ladies.
T ater on these stockmen
' missed Mr Hay for supper
that night. They camped all
that night worrying what had
happened to him, and they got
up early in the morning, and
they found a horse with a
saddle not far from the
station. They walked over and
examined the saddle, found
blood here and there all over
the saddle, drops of blood on
the saddle. Then they mounted
on their horses and went out
searching for the body.
They went all round the
boundary searching for the
stockman. Later on they came
upon the billabong. When
they looked across some of the
distance they saw a mob of
crows around the body, picking
at the body. And they galloped
over to have a look under the
leaves.
Couldn't even believe if it
was a blackfellow’s body or a
white man’s, couldn’t tell the
difference. Only one thing that
put the pot away, one leaf.
There was a leaf sticking on the
body, with blood, you know.
All the rest of the body was
black, but when they pulled the
leaf away they could tell it was
a white man then.
Straight away that night they
went in with the motor-launch,
made a report to the police in
Wyndham. Then they got two
good policemen, troopers from
Turkey Creek. Then the
troopers got together, finding
out who done the murder.
Couldn’t get the evidence who
done it, so they made their
way towards Forrest River.
Then they brought the
troopers to where the body


was, and they buried the body
and went to the station at
Wyndham. So they couldn't
get the right culprit, the one
who done the murder.
So they started shooting
natives from Nulla Nulla all the
way up to Durack River. So
many hundred at Nulla Nulla,
women, men and children.
And all along the Gulgudmeri
River.
At Umbali there was people
camping near the river. They
shot the old people in the camp
and threw them in the water.
They got the young people on
a chain, they got the men
separate, shot the men only.
While they was on the chain
the policemen told the police
boys to make a big bonfire.
They threw the bodies in the
flame of fire so no one would
see what remained of the
bodies ; they were burned to
bits. They took the women on
a chain to a separate grave,
then the police boys made a big
bonfire before the shooting was.
When they saw the big flame
of fire getting up, then they
started shooting the women.
When they were all shot they
threw them in the flame of fire
to be burned to bits.
When they finished at Gul-
gudmeri River they went all
around Dala. They got a mob
of prisoners there, Leonard
was there, too ; he was a little
boy then. They got them and
brought them to Doraman —
you know, not far from the
aerodrome strip there, under
the bottle-tree. They camped
there, ready to send them next
morning.
r T”HEN one morning a boy went
* out from here it was
Ronald, you know, he was
horse-tailer—and he saw these
troopers’ camp. They sang out
to him. He galloped across,
and they told him: “We got
more prisoners here. Keep it
secret,” they told him, “don’t
let Canon Grubul know
troopers camping here.”
“All right,” he told them.
So he got on his horse, came
back into the Mission and then
reported to Canon Grubul.
Told Grubul there was troopers
camped down there with a mob
of prisoners, native prisoners.
He asked Ronald: “What
they going to do to them?”
and Ronald told Canon Grubul
they were going to get up and
shoot them at Gulgudmeri
River.
So Canon Grubul and James
Noble, the aboriginal deacon,
and Mrs Noble galloped down
to the troopers' camp.
Then Canon Grubul ask
them: "What you going to do
with those prisoners?” He
knew that they were going to
shoot them, he told them that
they were not going to do that.
He told the troopers to set
them free, take the right man
that murdered the stockman
(he was Lumbia, he was in with
that mob of prisoners).
So they brought the native
prisoners into the Mission com-
pound and freed them, gave
them work, and the troopers
took the right murderer into
Wyndham.
TThen a good while after
Canon Grubul dreamt a
dream. In his dream he saw
the figure of a native getting
shot. He was a real holy man,
God must have told him to go
Umbali way.
He went up there, told the
stockboys that he had a
dream that natives got shot.
“Up here, somewhere,” he told
them. “I don't know where,
but here.”
He had Mr. Mitchell, a
detective bloke, he came from
Perth, and Frank, he was
police-boy. Then they saw the
old tracks where the troopers
had their camp where they
burned the bodies at Umbali.
Then they camped at the old
camp where the troopers were
camping.
The boy, Frank Mitchell,
that was what they called him,
he said: “There’s big river
over here, somewhere on your
right,” he told them.
When they got to Gulgudmeri
River he told them: “There's
one grave over here,” he told
them.
They went over, and “There's
the spot right there,” he told
them, “in the rock, right
there. ’’
They couldn’t find any
remain of the bodies, it was
burned to bits. It was very
hard for Canon Grubul to
believe. Then he stooped down
and scratched the grave, to see
if any body bone remained.
So he couldn't find any bones,
but he found “one. teeth.”
He put it in his pocket, held
a burial service, and they left
the grave. Then they went to
Gulgudmeri River, to the main
pool, where they dived into the
pool and got some bones. Got
the bones, put them in a bag.
They asked the boy, Frank
Mitchell, if any more graved
He told them: “See that
bough over there hanging, that's
where the women's grave.”
And so Canon Grubul picked
up more teeth, had the burial
service, came back to Umbali
station, camped there, and
brought what remained of the
bones back to the Mission.
"IyEXT they held burial service
up the hill there, where the
cross is. The bones are in a
big box, like this. Then after
that they made a report to the
headquarters in Perth, and the
headquarters told them to
come down. Canon Grubul
went to Perth with a couple of
boys (Herbert, you know
Herbert, he went to Perth with
them). The troopers what were
shooting the natives, they was
there in the big court. They
paid a heavy penalty then, they
done their time or something.
And Canon Grubul came back
when the case was over, to
Forrest River again.
Nowadays, now, at Umbali,
you can hear ghosts crying in
the night, chains, babies crying,
troopers’ horse, chains jingling.
1 didn’t believe it, but I went
there, mustering cattle for
droving to the meatworks, I
heard it too. We was camping
at Umbali station couple of
weeks. We were there sleeping,
still. Tt was all silence. You
could hear woman rocking her
baby to sleep, “Wawai! Wawai,
Wawai!” like this, rocking the
baby to sleep.
“Well make a start after lunch."


Drunken Drivers and the Law
By J. V. DUHIG
competent medical obser-
-1 vers estimate that alco-
hoi is associated with
from 40 to 60 per
cen t. of accidents. But while we
should stop this horror, any
system we use must be just, and
not based on panic, emotion or
ignorance. A suspected person's
state should be determined as
accurately as possible.
There are three ways: 1
Laboratory methods, 2 Clinical,
j Police. For complete accur-
acy, or even an approximation,
2 and 3 can be discarded and
forgotten, except in the case of
exceptionally skilled doctors
who for all practical purposes
do not exist in Australia at
present in this special field.
A lot of nonsense is talked
about blood alcohol tests.
In the Queensland Supreme
Court a judge said he “had
doubts as to the value of
these tests in view of the
latest opinion.” But proper
opinion is just exactly the
reverse. A blood, urine or ex-
pired air (pneumalyser) test is
as valid as fingerprints or blood
grouping; their accuracy is of
the order of 100 per cent in
proper hands. Such tests over
a vast number of experimental
trials have proved themselves
accurate beyond any doubt
while doctors’ clinical opinions,
run in parallel series, have been
worthless in a disturbingly large
number of trials. Police evi-
dence would be worse. As an
expert I would not listen to
clinical evidence unless the
doctor could produce additional
evidence that in a long trial his
opinions tallied closely with
the laboratory results in a very
Mgh proportion of cases. The
only use, but a necessary one
the casual doctor can be, is to
exclude injury or disease ; this
Precaution should be taken
anyhow.
i am deliberately dogmatic
about this, just as much, in fact,
as a police expert on finger-
prints. My authority is the
nM.A. (London) Special Com-
mittee on Alcohol and its rela-
hon to Road Accidents of
January, 1960, whose report is
jhe most authoritative in the
English language. They leave
110 doubt that the only accurate
method of diagnosing intoxica-
tlon is by laboratory methods
a °d that clinical methods are
usually worthless, especially in
, e critical range of blood
a Eohol from 0.05 per cent at
the committee considers
driving unsafe to 0.15 per cent
at which there is absolutely no
defence to a charge of drunken
driving. Above this drunken-
ness should be obvious but
naturally not to the suspect's
doctor.
The B.M.A. 1960 Committee
says: “Experiments have been
made to find how much reli-
ance can be placed on purely
clinical examination as a means
of determining the degree of
impairment of function which
alcohol produces. When doc-
tors have examined the same
individual on the same occa-
sion in standard conditions . . .
there is considerable disagree-
ment in their findings . . . The
available tests in the physical
examination are, moreover,
relatively unreliable and the
majority are not sensitive . . .
In Norway since 1926 (judicial)
conviction has for some years
been dependent upon blood
alcohol level and not upon
clinical examination. An official
stated that “it is nearly incon-
ceivable ever to go back to the
old system of basing the diag-
nosis of sober or not sober
upon clinical examination.”
The Alcohol Committee of the
World Health Organisation
reported in 1954 that “clinical
methods cannot be relied upon
as the only method of deciding
whether a person is under the
influence of alcohol.”
The doctor, that is, is rarely,
if ever, right ; the blood test is
always right and, as to the
degree of intoxication, is
correct to three places of
decimals. Now if clinical evi-
dence is so poor, ranging from
worthless to possibly good but
rarely accurate, and fallible, the
public safety and justice cannot
be served unless prosecutions
are supported by laboratory
evidence—the alcohol content
of the blood, urine or expired
air (pneumalyser) or preferably
all three since each is a check
on the other two. But at least
in Queensland law it is impos-
sible to obtain the necessary
samples by compulsion unless
the person concerned agrees
without duress to supply one.
So that juridically there is a
complete deadlock ; the only
evidence of any value may be
unobtainable and in such a case
the trial would depend on the
prejudiced and usually highly
colored testimony of a police-
man or the worthless evidence
of a casual untrained country
doctor or that of a government
doctor of doubtful authority
scientifically. I myself would
not even listen to a doctor who
did not have a high record of
success as matched with the
laboratory findings. Without
laboratory evidence any trial
is unreal. It is mandatory on
any government authority to
use all the resources of science
in the administration of justice.
In a drunken-driving trial with-
out laboratory evidence, fre-
quently justice would not be
done and in all cases it would
not appear to have been done.
As the law is at present (at least
in Queensland) compulsion can-
not be used to obtain such
evidence without which a trial
is not much better than guess-
work.
This question of compulsion
is not nearly as simple as it
looks. I believe that in parts
of Canada and U.S.A., driving
licences are issued only if the
prospective holder agrees to
submit tp any procedure re-
quired by law in any legal
emergency. In Norway where
laboratory evidence is the sole
deciding factor, there must be
some effective system of obtain-
ing samples; we badly need
some such here.
In Australia there are obvious
difficulties around coun tr y
trials and arrests but some
effort, in the interests of strict
justice, should be made to
guarantee an infallible labora-
tory process from arrest to
trial. With aerial transport this
should not be insuperable. The
only thing I fear is the total
incompetence of country
G.M.Os. on the clinical side
which would be fatal to a fair
trial —and I mean fair both to
the accused and to the public
—if their evidence alone was
available.
Penalties are for Parliament,
but 1 believe that the only place
for an alcoholic driver is off
the road. Suspensions of
licence should run to a year or
two for a first offence and can-
cellation or indeterminate sus-
pension for a second or for
driving while under suspension.
Jail does not cure alcohol
addiction, it takes a man away
from his productive work and
his upkeep is at the expense of
the taxpayer.
In this matter Science is
plain Commonsense.


GO TO IT, MADDEN
By JACK LUSBY
u \T77’ he w! That tea's
\V / hot!” young Mad-
VV ben exclaimed. He
put the offending
beverage back on the table and
puffed his cheeks and blew like
a cherub in the corner of an
ancient map.
“Takes a long time to cool,
this weather,” said the omni-
scient Ormby.
It was morning tea time in
the general office of Amal-
gamated Imports (Aust.).
“Think of the man-hours
lost—people waiting for their
tea to cool!” said young Mad-
den.
“Man-hours gained,” said
Miss Robinson. One half of
her admirable bottom rested
on a corner of the table and
an artful leg swung gently.
“Men - hours, you mean,
dear," said Miss Cutler with a
suspicion of snap. A more
mature spinster, Miss Cutler.
Madden fancied him-
self as an idea man. He
was an incorrigible contributor
to the office suggestion-box.
Even now something was
burgeoning. Bug - eyes bog-
gling in a sponge-rubber face,
mouth a tight little V and fat
cheeks almost fluorescent with
cerebral fertility.
“This'll be worth millions to
the company!” he muttered.
“What will?” said Ormby
pouring Miss Robinson a
second cup.
“Flanged teacups!”
“Uh?”
“Flanged like motorbike
cylinders for quick cooling.
Immediately you pour tea into
them it'll be cooled to drinking
temperature. No waiting, no
delay. Drink your tea the
Madden way!”
“The maddening way,” said
Miss Robinson. “I like to play
about with my cups of tea
before downing ’em.”
“If it's cold tea you want,”
said Ormby, “Why have cups?
Let's drink it straight from the
saucers.”
“Sloppy and undignified,”
said Young Madden. “Flanged
cups will be the greatest time-
saver since the telephone.”
“I hope you serve time!”
snapped Hutton from Sales.
“You're a leisure-thief!”
“Nonsense,” replied young
Madden. “I’ll go down as a
benefactor. Waiting for tea
to cool is wasteful and exas-
perating. Think of all the people
who miss morning trains and
buses waiting for their tea or
coffee to cool! With Madden
Cups in every home they'll be
getting to work on time with-
out scalding their tonsils —"
“I just caught the end of it.
Madden,” burred a heavy
American voice outside the
tea-drinking perimeter. “C'mon
and give me the build-up.
Maybe this time you got some-
thing.”
'T'he group melted like magic.
Typewriters stuttered to
life and phone dials spun.
Young Madden trailed a
thickset paunchy figure in a
silk-smooth lightweight suit.
The low-draped coat made the
short legs even shorter. Mad-
den followed the thick man
through a glazed door marked
Joe G. Gunther. General
Manager. A m alga /;: at e d
Imports (A ust.).
Seated behind his big desk,
short legs hidden, Joe G.
looked squat and formidable.
Hair smooth silver, face well-
fleshed shrewdness, pink jowl
resting on maroon bow-tie.
Generous expanse of snow-
white shirt.
Joe G. listened to young
Madden for five minutes, then
flipped a switch.
“Get me Art Newbound,
Panplastics,” he told a box
fixture on the big desk. “Hi,
Art,*’ he said into a phone, “I
got me an efficiency idea.
What time you planning to
eat?”
Today only a sadist would
mention flanged cups in their
inventor's hearing. But when
the cups were installed from
basement to roof-garden in
Amalgamated Imports, young
Madden was puffed up to
bursting point. He was
awarded a bonus, and bore it
like a knighthood.
“Time-saving can be carried
a million miles further,” he
informed the tea group.
/"Aktviby grunted sourly.
“Carry it a million miles
further away!”
“Why not flange the build-
ing," said Hutton, “and save
cool-air costs.”
“That wouldn't save man-
hours,” said young Madden,
aglow with a new thought.
‘But by God —this would!”
“What's this ?” said Hutton.
“Ejection-seats in the ladies-
rooms ! ”
“Whatl" said Miss Robin-
son, eyes widening above her
flanged cup.
“They spend hours a day in
there,” said young Madden.
“Same in every business office.
Must cost firms thousands a
year in dead time.”
“Why, you, you puffed-up
little toad!” Miss Robinson’s
voice seemed to be coming out
of a concrete-mixer.
“The seats could be set to
eject the sitter after, say, ten
minutes gossip and scandal—”
“Go away ! ” rasped Miss
Robinson, and Miss Cutler
clicked her parroty tongue in
support.
Young Madden ambled
dreamily towards the sanctum
of Joe G. Gunther . . .
Installation of the ejection-
■*- seats brought a certain
tension to Amalgamated
Imports (Aust.). After a
couple of days the female staff
showed signs of strain.
A typist who borrowed a
wristwatch found this trifling
transaction especially embarras-
sing. The male staff worked
with ears cocked and an air
of alert expectancy.
Young Madden waited with
all the patience of a fidgety
fisherman expecting a marlm
strike.
Miss Robinson was away
from her desk when it hap-
pened. The air of quiet indus-
try in the general office was
interrupted by an audible
boonk! A calendar hanging
on a thin partition shook.
Heads jerked up, typewriters
stopped, there was a momen
of complete silence. .
Ormby leaned back in h |S
chair and stared at La Robin-
son’s ominously empty des •
Young Madden follows
Ormby’s gaze and blanched.


“Could be you’ve hooked a
lid one,” said Ormby without
displeasure.
There was a deep red flush
lin Miss Robinson's face when
she reappeared.
“Boy,” Hutton muttered to
Old Harry the messenger, “I’d
s3 y ten parts embarrassment
an d ninety parts fury!”
“Bless my soul,” said Old
Harry, “Miss Robi n s o n’s
wy'"
nur Miss Robinson merely
0 paused by young Mad-
den’s desk and said something
that left him in a state of
severe shock.
She sat in her place, two
desks behind young Madden,
cupped her chin rock-steady in
her small, firm hands and
©red fixedly at the fleshy fold
over the back of young Mad-
den’s starched collar.
Madden didn't look round,
but his nerves cracked quickly.
He felt like a man under accu-
rate fire from a bone-pointer.
He left his desk abruptly, can-
noned off Ormby’s, tried three
tats before fluking his own
pork-pie, and left the office.
Ormby turned his head from
the softly-closing outer-door
to face Miss Robinson. His
big pale eyes were brimful of
respect, strongly laced with
awe.
“That’s ejection! ” he said.
Miss Robinson seemed to
be feeling a lot better.
At morning tea the next day
she’d calmed enough to
come up with “A pity you
keels don’t have ejection seats
in pubs!”
’My dear young woman,”
said Hutton, shocked, “are you
looking at me?”
“I’m iooking at every second
Me of you—and especially
you!”
Young Madden’s bulgy
Pekinese eyes came slowly back
focus as he emerged from
Hind of creative coma. He
wandered away.
be G. Gunther listened in
iblue haze of cigar smoke.
, Madden,” he said, “this
Mie you really got something.
mis is really gonna tickle ’em
!ol| nd town. Gonna smarten
“Nur office and get us a lotta
undercover attention round
Smart attention. You
W yourself a pay raise.”
be G. pressed a button and
ls Phonal secretary entered
; toni the wings of the big plush
( oni ' She was a hundred-
'llll of streamlined arro-
jMce. Her glinty blonde hair-
w ould have cost a week of
. Un g Madden’s pay, new rate.
4i Wy he missed this point, at
Point. Her cheekbones
re high, her eyes green ice.
Her movements carefree as a
cobra’s.
“Ah . . . h’m . . . look, Miss
Farrel—get me somebody at
Westelect. Some guy in elec-
tronics, anti-germ lamps, photo-
electric gimmicks—that kinda
stuff. I’ll call you. Madden,
when we get the guy along
Keep battin’. Things can move
fast for a guy with ideas.”
Joe G. waved young Madden
out with his cigar. This Ein-
stein of efficiency entered the
general office wearing an oil-
smear of smugness that was
noted with venom.
a week each desk
Tr sported a small red light
which glowed like an airport
fog-piercer when breathed-on
with alcohol. And any chair
vacated for fifteen minutes
gave off a fierce buzzing signal.
Among junior clerks luxury
spending was cut and watches
were unhocked. Accurate
timing and split-second timing
became the order of the day
at Amalgamated Imports
(Aust.).
Only his new standing with
Joe G. saved young Madden
from assault. But there were
mutterings in the bazaars. Miss
Robinson was afire with the
unfairness of it all.
“it's getting so tough,” she
said, frustrating her flanged
cup on a gas flame, “J can't
stand it. Someone buys me a
drink out at lunch and this
beastly lamp lights on my
desk—”
“Mr Hutton deliberately
breathed on mine!” Miss Cutler
squawked. “It took such a
time to dim down!”
“That, Miss Cutler,” mur-
mured the offender, “was a
double scotch.”
“ —And furthermore,” Miss
Robinson continued, “if [ pass
the time o’ day around the
damned building, in fifteen
minutes my chair gives off air-
raid noises—”
“Jt was downright ungentle-
manly, Mr Hutton!” Miss
Cutler swooped again.
“Miss Cutler,” Hutton con-
ceded, “You may come and
breathe on my desk. There,
now! ”
Miss Cutler clicked her
tongue furiously.
“If you feel you’re no
longer a human being,” Ormby
soothed Miss Robinson,
“you've got company. If
Madden’s company!”
“Give him enough rope,”
Ormby cut in diplomatically,
“and he’ll hang himself.”
“There is an idea,” said
Hutton.
“Help!” Miss Robinson ex-
ploded. “Look at him — think-
ing!”
Everybody looked at youn
Madden. On his fat fac
was a faraway trance-like ex
pression. He looked like
rising scone.
“What an idea!” he wa
crooning. “B oy, oh boy
This’ll cap the lot ; button
everything up!”
“What will button every
thing up?” Hutton asked
grimly.
‘Philandering, necking,’
young Madden burbled on
“Looking at Miss Robinson
just now I got an idea . . .
Tn his spacious and velvety
A retreat Joe G. leaned back
and turned a fleshy ear once
more towards young Madden
Fragrant incense rose from
long cigar.
“Sure, sure,” said Joe G
after two minutes. “Once they
get to pitchin’ woo any work
on hand gets the air. Next
thing they can’t seem to
concentrate . when they are
workin’.”
“You've got it in a nutshell,
Mr Gunther!”
“So you figure to give ’em
one helluva fright the first time
they get kinda cosy—”
“That’s it exactly, Mr Gun-
ther! Like if she sits on his
knee, whoever it is, on any
office chair something happens
like an alarm goes off—”
“Sure, sure. Fine! Go
ahead and handle it, Madden.
Get any technicians you want
and have ’em in over the week-
end. Set it all up. Fix me
a specimen rig in here some-
place so 1 can study it when
I got time.”
Toothing happened till Tues-
day. Nothing out of the
ordinary everyday extraordin-
ary at Amalgamated Imports
(Aust.). Buzzers simply buzzed,
lamps glowed here and there
on occasion. Ejection seats
claimed a victim or two. Just
the dull, nerve- wracking
routine.
“How’d the de-sexing notion
go?” Hutton asked on Tuesday.
“I’ve been worried.”
“It’s in the lap of the gods,”
said young Madden. “And
incidentally, your red light’s
showing.”
“Stimulants,” said Hutton
are the sine qua non when
subversive elements are on the
snoop.”
“Quiet, Hutton,” said
Ormby, “or he'll rig a lamp
for Latin.”
“Matter of fact I’ve been
working on Bad Language,”
said young Madden. “Un-
necessary adjectives must exer-
cise a million brains unprofit-
ably.”
“Looking at you,” said Miss
Robinson. “1 can't think of
one that’s unnecessary.”
“A ton of ’em,” said Ormby.
“Charming, comradely, sapient
—even 'necessary s’ unneces-
sary.”
TCor a split second Amai-
-1 gamated Imports (Aust.)
seemed to recoil like a battle-
ship from a broadside. There
was the heavy whoosh of a
departing rocket and a galaxy
of sparks drifted dying past
the big street window.
The tea group flinched under
the banshee wail of a super-
charged siren. Acrid smoke
drifted lazily into the general
office. It carried a faint flavor
of tear-gas.
In the wake of the smoke,
and liberally lathered with fire-
extinguisher foam came Miss
Farrel. She did not pass silently
t>y-
“Gawd—did anyone else
hear it?” said Ormby.
“Yeah—but I still can’t
believe it,” said a stunned, and
shaky Hutton.
The tea group suddenly
found in its midst a streaming-
eyed, foam-flecked, thick-set
apparition making Bronx Zoo
noises. It tottering blindly
round the tea table running
thick paws over anyone it
encountered.
“Which of ya’s Madden?” it
was rasping and gasping.
“Which of ya’s Madden?”
“I’m Madden,” said young
Madden. “Here I am.”
“Madden,” said Joe G. Gun-
ther. “ You’re fired!’’


LOOK BACK AT ANGER
This comment on the Royal Family j s
the third in a series of reprints of old
BULLETIN cartoons.
From THE BULLETIN, August, 8, 189 1
L'ENFANT TERRIBLE


Australian School-days —III
In a Billiard Room
By BRIGADIER GEOFFREY DRAKE-BROCKMAN,
M.C., M.I.E. (Aust.), M.lnst.T.
--iwas back in the horse-and-
I buggy days that my school
} life began. Our horizon
was limited by our walking
opacity, except for the for-
mate few with riding-horses
or cariiages available. To be
sure, the penny-farthing bicycle
,as on the point of being re-
placed bv a really useful solid-
tyre type with two equal-sized
wheels, but even they were far
from plentiful.
My mother (Grace Bussell,
who had ridden her horse
into the south-coast surf at
sixteen to save the passengers
of the shipwrecked steamer
Georgette) and my father (a
surveyor who had ridden over
the rugged Leopold Ranges as
leader of the first expedition to
explore north-west Kimberley,
and later became Surveyor-
General), were both horse-
proud ; so horses were usually
available at week-ends and on
holidays. My elder brother
Edmund and 1 were always
ken to ride ; but first we had
lo catch the horses and bring
them up from the paddock.
Often we walked much further
to catch the cunning nags than
the actual distance we wished
to travel astride the beasts.
Occasionally even the feed-
hag failed to entice them ; we
then plodded miserably home
minus our mounts with our
journey still to be faced per
hoot. But usually we had
better luck and secured them
within an hour.
In 1892 my parents, with
their brood of seven, lived at
Guildford, still a small village
despite its having been estab-
lished in 1829, the first year of
Western Australian settlement,-
"hen my father’s grandfather
* as one of the original land-
ers to settle in the district.
Jy parents’ house stood on
Jo main road to the newly-
Jscovered goldfields of Cool-
ie. We could swing on
: " e gate and watch the almost
Jntinuous stream of men,
°rses, camels, and wagons go
t AH very exciting to a
•rowing-up family,
ft first the four eldest, my
* l[l sisters, my brother Ed-
Jund (who later became Chief
?dge of the Federal Arbitra-
Jl°n Court), and I attended a
onvent School some little
Jbtice away along the same
reet . Sister Mary Paul was
a delightful woman. She
stressed the necessity for good
manners, then so important in
convent schools, far more so
than in the majority of schools
today (although 1 have noted
that the convent-trained still
seem well-mannered). My wife
and 1 called on Sister Mary
Paul some 40 years later, after
she had retired from teaching.
She was older, of course, but
still the same charming person.
To my surprise, she knew
everything about my brothers
and sisters, even my wife and
my children ; she had carefully
followed the careers of her
pupils ever since we left her
tender care
After a few years at the
convent, when l could read and
write quite well and had learnt
a little Latin, we four were
sent to share the tutor engaged
by Mr Charles Harper to edu-
cate his large family of boys
and girls at Woodbridge. At
that time Charles Harper was
a member of the Upper House
and half-owner, with Winthrop
Hackett (later to marry my
youngest sister Deborah), of
the “West Australian” news-
paper.
At Woodbridge we sat at
long desks, one each side of the
billiard room. Soon one or two
other families of mixed sexes
shared the same privilege. A
Mr Bennett, an experienced
master from, I think, The
King’s School, Parramatta,
tutored us. He was an ex-
tremely cynical man. The
billiard-room had a num-
ber of french windows. I re-
member Mr Bennett sud-
denly saying, “Miss Harper
sees a man.” Nor shall I ever
forget the sound of his dry
voice as he held me up to
scorn: “Brockman sees a gum-
tree.” This sort of remark was
repeated until window-gazing
was successfully stopped.
Bennett had three clever
children of his own, one boy
and two girls, who studied
with us. Both the girls became
bright stars in the film world
then undreamt of. The Bennett
sisters, Constance and Enid,
were very beautiful women.
When I was in London on
leave from France during the
first World War, I saw Enid's
name placarded outside two
picture theatres in the same
week.
When we first started school
in the billiard room, the dis-
mantled-table was stacked up
at one end. Each year the
scholars increased as more and
more of Harper’s friends
asked that their children
should be allowed to attend.
Before long, Mr Bennett in-
volved his wife also, by
taking schoolboy boarders
into their own house. Very
soon the billiard room over-
flowed on to the wide veran-
dahs which stretched along
three sides. A governess was
added to the staff. But in no
time all available accommoda-
tion was hopelessly over-
crowded. Mr Bennett died.
The struggle of carrying on was
too much for him. A class-
master from Melbourne
Grammar School, Mr A. D.
Gillespie, took over. The
billiard-room school then
numbered about 50. Coming
from long established noble
buildings, Gillespie must have
been horrified when he dis-
covered what he had let him-
self in for.
Mr Gillespie was, however,
an enthusiastic master. He
liked boys and boys liked him.
He gave the senior boys a
sense of importance and res-
ponsibility. He could see the
makings of a great school, and
set to work. Before long Mr
Harper had been persuaded to
build class-rooms on the main
road some half mile from the
Woodbridge house. The number
of pupils increased immedi-
ately, although from then on
no new girls were accepted.
But up to this point the school
had unquestionably proved a
most satisfactory experiment in
co-education, in a period long
before the term was coined.
After we moved into our new
class-rooms we really became
“The Guildford Grammar
School.” Soon we had a hun-
dred boys. We were admitted
to the Public Schools’ Sports
Association with three Perth
schools: High (now Hale),
Christian Brothers (now
Aquinas) and Scotch College.
We became rather ashamed of
our few remaining girls, we
dreaded taunts from the other
boys. But 1 must say I can’t
remember that we ever had
any. Later in life when we
were middle-aged, we were all
to feel rather proud of our
unique “old girls.” About this
time, Mr Gillespie married Mrs
Bennett. This romantic out-
come probably avoided several
financial complications.
The school first founded by
Charles Harper was eventu-
ally taken over by the Church
of England. A Council was
formed to administer what is
now known as the Church of
England Grammar School, but
still familiarly called Guildford
Grammar, or just plain Guild-
ford. The original class-rooms
are now part of the main build-
ing. Guildford has developed
into a great school, with a fine
tradition.
How far progress has carried
us was marked in a novel way
at that recent Old Boys’ dinner.
Two of the toasts were pro-
posed by a pair of distinguished
Old Boys many thousands of
miles away. From England,
Air Marshal Sir Wallace Kyle,
K.C.8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., R.A.F.,
gave us “The School,” and
from New Guinea the Admini-
strator, Brigadier D. M.
Cleland, C.8.E., in an ex-
cellent speech, proposed
“Absent Friends.” A tape-
recorder sent by air brought
their voices back to the Great
Hall. The school has grown,
but the world has diminished.


CUSTOM
CREDIT
PROPERTIES
LIMITED
offers
£500,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
REHEATERE STOCK
Secured by Freehold Mortgages
And listed on the Stock Exchanges of all Australian Capital Cities.
i\ri: r e s t
is paid in equal quarterly
instalments, free of exchange
anywhere in Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED hy
Custom Credit
Corporation Limited
whose assets in Australia
exceed £80,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Regis-
tered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Sydney.
FOR lO YEARS
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed in the
Prospectus which is now available from:
ALL MEMBERS OF AUSTRALIAN STOCK EXCHANGES
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each oj the 48 Branches of:
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
and
CUSTOM CREDIT PROPERTIES LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney.
Secretary General: KEITH LOVE. Telephone: FM 5861.
CPL3.T6I


LETTERS
Challenging, Stimulating Canberra
Sir,
Your Oliphant article is so
misleading that I must protest
emphatically. Scientific pro-
gress depends on imaginative
jew ideas, some of which are
certain to be more successful
than others. Particle accelera-
tors costing a hundred-million
pounds are likely to produce
results better and faster that
those costing a million pounds.
The A.N.U. Physical Science
School is better judged by its
total contribution than by diffi-
culties encountered in one ex-
periment. As a scientific worker
in a dozen laboratories and
observatories in America and
the Commonwealth 1 can
assure you delays are plentiful
not only in Australia but in the
U.S.A. and Britain.
There i.s another side of the
story. With the exception of
Canada no observatory exists
in the Commonwealth of
quality comparable to that of
the A.N.U. Many American
astronomers are eager to work
there (as compared with only
two I know going to England).
1 turned down an invitation
from a distinguished British
University in order to come to
Australia because of its vastly
superior opportunities. Can-
berra presents a challenging,
stimulating scientific environ-
ment with eager, capable
students, any of whom 1 would
gladly pirate for my own
department if I could.
Lawrence H. Aller
(Professor of Astronomy,
University of Michigan ;
U.S.A. National Science
Foundation Postdoctoral
Fellow to Australia. 1960-
61 ; member, National Re-
search Council U.S.A.
1958-1960 [when I resigned
to come to Australia];
president, Spectroscopic
Commission of Interna-
tional Astronomical
Union ; and member,
Astron. Committee for
Space Science Board,
U.S.A.).
Mount Stromlo Observatory .
Canberra.
WHITE AUSTRALIA:
BASIS FOR CHANGF
Sir,
. The White Australia Policy,
! n 'ls totally exclusionist form.
ls "ow no more than an empty
sl °gan of the 19th century. But
the modifications and tinker-
ings which have gone on since
World War II are very far from
being the “ideal” solution that
“Observer” (B. 25/1/’6l) seems
to think.
Our immigration policy as
regards non-Europeans is, from
an international political point
of view, as bad or even worse
than it ever was. Our position
is now that the Immigration
Department generally admits
for long-term residence certain
categories of Asians. Yet very
few people, either here or over-
seas, know we are doing this.
Fewer still know how many
we are admitting, for the
figures are not released. And
our political leaders continue
to make statements which lead
everyone to believe that the
policy of complete exclusion on
the grounds of race still stands.
Public-relations-wise especi-
ally, this stinks. It does noth-
ing to allay criticism and it
does perpetuate the ill-feeling
which can be partly docu-
mented, in spite of what your
impressionistic surveys of Asian
countries say. (Where, by the
way, did the information come
from? There are no public-
opinion polls in Asia.)
Criticism of our policy does
not arise, either in Asia or
Australia, because large num-
bers of Asians want to come
here. It arises primarily be-
cause here is a situation where
people with non-white skins
are being treated as different
from, and inferior to, people
with white skins.
Here is the good reason for
the negotiation of bilateral
migration agreements which
were so faintly praised by
“Observer.”
These agreements could be
based on an announcement that
our capacity to absorb migrants
without social and economic
strain will be the sole determi-
nant of our level of intake.
This capacity should be deter-
mined by such criteria as the
need to avoid harmful econo-
mic competition, which gives
rise to social tensions ; to
prevent a concentration of any
racial group in low-status em-
ployment ; to avoid housing
congestion, and to ensure
reasonable dispersal throughout
the Australian community.
At the start, any estimation
of numbers of immigrants
based on these criteria would
be rather arbitrary, and should
therefore err on the side of
caution. But this estimation
would become increasingly less
arbitrary as the experience of
how these migrants fit into our
community becomes available.
On this basis the intake could
be varied up or down from
time to time.
This, it might be added,
would be perfectly possible.
“Observer's” suggestion that
once agreements (or quotas) are
started, there will be automatic-
ally a “heavier and wider
pressure” to increase intake is
really a small backwoods’ bogy.
The present agreements with
European countries are very
flexible —Italian migration, for
example, fell from 27,705 in
1956 to 10,953 in the first three-
quarters of 1959 —and they are
based on just this sort of
criteria.
If these criteria of selection
were not used as a cloak for
continuing racism the restricted
immigration which is still
vitally necessary would be
defensible in a way that the
present policy, even if more
liberal than it has been in the
past, is not.
It is crucial that racial dis-
crimination should not only be
removed from our present im-
migration policy, but that it
should be apparent that it has
been removed.
Neither is true at the
moment. The bones of reality
poke through too clearly.
J. PETER WHITE
Brighton Beach (Vic.).
WORK AND THE
AUSTRALIAN
FARMER
Sir,
K. E. C. Graves (B. 1/2/'6l)
wonders how many farmers, if
they could be convinced that
excessive work and no play
shortened their span of life,
would leave the land?
A farmer myself, I believe
few would leave their homes,
their way of life and employ-
ment. Life on the land is
charged with occupational
hazards, and one more or less
will not rout us to the sea-
shore.
To us the land is a challenge,
and for all the long hours of
dust, toil and sweat, in the
words of Dorothea MacKellar,
she pays us back threefold.


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated, in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
Not necessarily with money but
in a sense of communion with
the fundamentals of life. Any-
one who has shared this
breadth of living will not easily
forget the experience.
Despite all that has been
written on the hardship of
farming, we don’t die from
overwork. There are rush
periods—harvest, sowing the
crop, shearing—but all things
according to nature. Ours is a
physical day rather than a
mental one, without the stress
and strain that plagues the city
worker; we do work longer
hours but at a more dignified
pace.
It is only in recent years
that there has developed a
climate for education and
learning in the country. Boys
used to leave school early—and
it wasn’t always because they
were forced to and come
home to the farm. A fortunate
few, mainly from the grazing
areas, went to better boarding-
schools in the capital cities, but
by and large a young man’s
education consisted of the three
R’s and the elements of running
a good farm.
Today education is stamping
a new spirit on the rural com-
munity. We understand that
farming can be done scientific-
ally, and we look to our sons
to absorb the higher education
and put it to practical use.
Agricultural colleges—and even
the university degree—are no
longer a joke to farmers ; which
in itself is proof that the wheel
of progress turns, if slowly.
Progress is slow, due again
to those long hours. The
farmer’s world is not one of
mental highlights and social
smartness, but rather of physi-
cal contact with his environ-
ment. In this constant battle
with nature lies the crux of the
farmer’s problem, for it is hard
to turn from a dusty day to an
evening of creative thought.
Most farmers, especially the
old brigade, follow the sun
with little imaginative thought;
farms are worked to a rudi-
mentary pattern that has always
been fairly “safe,” and they are
not eager for experimental
change with its resulting chaos
of the known way of farming.
Nevertheless they are proud of
the younger generation, if not
admitting it, brought up with
the help of agricultural colleges
and State advisory services,
which are not afraid to give the
old farming ideas a shake-up.
This lack of mental stimula-
tion, coupled with the fact that
he lives a rather lonely and
independent existence, is one
reason why the farmer does not
organise to market his product
and secure for himself a more
equitable way of living. Physi-
cally the farmer endures much,
almost stoically ; mentally he
tires easily, especially if there is
likely to be publicity, as in
fighting for organisation and
marketing.
Few farmers turn to hobbies
and pastimes—although many
follow an active sporting life
now that bowls has become
popular because essentially
their farm is both a way of
life and a hobby. The oldest
farmer potters about with as
much interest and enthusiasm
as in his youth, following the
farm activities ; for what can
be more stimulating than
quality animal flesh, the chal-
lenge of a harvest or the simple
poetry in the line of a straight
furrow?
P. VANDERSCHAAR
Canowindra (N.S.W.).
Sir,
I disagree entirely with the
article by K. E. C. Graves.
He says he has little energy
left for sport or time for things
of the mind because he works
too hard. Practically every
place in Victoria has its own
football and cricket team.
Farmers and farmers’ sons
frequently travel over a hun-
dred miles for the Saturday
game, and at their own expense.
Mr Graves suggests the
farmer should do no work him-
self—just ride around and
watch his men work. This
although he is getting all
kinds of subsidies, free train-
ing by Government officers,
dam-siting, contouring, veterin
ary advice, improved pasture.,
research teams, low - interest
loans, uneconomic transport
and so on —all paid for by the
taxpayer.
He may know a daity-
farmer who works 16 hours
a day ; I know one who has
had three trips overseas in five
years. I know another who
puts in most of his time in the
pub while his wife and young
family do the work.
Mr Graves writes that many
farmers work 12 hours a day.
He forgets that many city
workers spend up to two hours
a day getting to work, and two
more getting home again,
which makes more than a 12-
hour day.
Then he says the butter
subsidy was granted to enable
him to pay high wages. Well,
he’s got the subsidy, hasn’t he?
It averages out at more than
the old-age pension for every
dairyfarmer in Australia.
Mr Graves says there is a
threat to remove the subsidy.
There is no threat, but there is
a very comprehensive report by
an expert unpolitical committee
which found that the subsidy
sustains and encourages in-
efficiency, and they recommend
its abolition in the national
interest.
There are millions of pounds
of assistance to other branches
of farming, too —dried fruit,
sugar, tobacco, to mention omy
three.
Anyhow, Mr Graves doesn’t
have to be a farmer. There are
plenty of jobs in the city adver-
tised every day. He says that
after work he has hours of
book work to do. My experi-
ence is that the wife does all
the day-to-day book work, and
they take what she has done
to the town accountant to
straighten out pretty often.
My job takes me to many
farms, and it astonishes me to
find how often it is the woman
who makes the place go. Dad
milks the cows for a few yea r s,
then the kids are big enough,
so it’s left to them and he takes
it easy.
Check up on the swankiest
cars at the football match or the
pictures. All belong to district
farmers, not to storekeepers or
bank managers. I know a farm
where the family is grown up
and runs five cars.
A. BLACK
Wangaratta (Vic.).
ORR
Sir,
The executive of the Univer-
sity of Tasmania Staff Associa-
tion were glad to see the Orr
case discussed in a journal of
such wide circulation as The
Bulletin. We would like to
clarify some points in Andrew-
Dorset’s article.
The censure by the Federal
Council of University Staff As-
sociations of Australia applied
not to “the University” but, in
the words of the Federal Coun-
cil’s resolution, “the Adminis-
tration of the University of
Tasmania . . . The term Ad-
ministration includes the senior
administrative officers and the
governing body of the Univer-
sity of Tasmania.”
This distinction is important-
the university is not monolithic
and one of the unhappies*
effects of the events of the past
five years, from the university
community’s viewpoint, has
been the incurring of odium
and perhaps of more concrete
ill-effects, by all sections of that
community including th e
students, of whom a whole
university generation has
passed through since the case
started.
Further, different members
and groups among that com-
munity have taken up very
diverse positions on the case,
The Staff Association by the
end of 1959 had arrived at the
view- that the University Coun-
cil had dismissed Mr Orr
through inadequate procedures
and on inadequate evidence;
and called on the University
Council to institute a full,
public and impartial inquiry
into all circumstances sur-
rounding the dismissal,
The association has not since
departed from that position;
its delegates attended the
session of the F.C.U.S.A.A. at
which the censure resolution
was passed, and supported the
resolution, receiving the asso-
ciation’s subsequent approval
of this action ; and its execu-
tive has now endorsed the appli-
cation of the censure.
Finally, it is only fair to the
late Professor F. M. Todd to
make clear that he was closely
associated with the develop-
ment of the association's think-
ing on this vexed matter, and
was its chairman during the last
six months of his life, and a
delegate to the recent Federal
Council meeting. He was in-
deed “a pro-University” man
in the widest sense.
A. PORTEOUS
Secretary,
University of Tasmania
Staff Association
Hobart.
UPPER HOUSES
DOWNED
Sir,
Anent M. H. Ellis’s article
“Ready for the Slaughter” (B.
l/2/’6l), I notice that while
he roams around most of the
Commonwealth on the subject
of Upper Houses he does not
mention what happened in
New Zealand, where the Upper
House was destroyed by the
Tories because it was domina-
ted by Labor. Tragedy has
not befallen the New Zealan-
ders since, nor has that hap-
pened in Queensland, where
Labor did away with th c
obstructionists.
Charles Stewart
East Kew (Vic.).


Missing Friend
TO ERIC MAXWELL HEALEY of parts
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife MARION HAZEL HEALEY has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion If
you wish to defend this suit you must
file an appearance in the office of the
Deputy Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria at Shepparton on or
before the twenty-fourth day of
February 1961 and an answer on or
before the tenth day of March 1961
In default of your filing an appear-
ance and an answer the suit may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.—MORRISSY &
DEANE, of Shepparton, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
A DIVORCE PETITION HAS BEEN
FILED AGAINST THE UNDER-
MENTIONED
THOMAS BARRY COLIN
late of
195 Ambleside Drive Southend-on-Sea
Essex England and Petty Officers’ Mess
H.M.A.S. Rushc-utter Edgecliffe Sydney
New South Wales Who may apply
to the Divorce Registry Somerset
House London W.C.2 for a copy of
the petition If within 80 days he has
not communicated with the Registry the
Court may hear the case in his absence.
—B. LONG, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CARL OSWALD ANDERSON
formerly of Wagga Wagga N.S.W.—
TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL MAY
ANDERSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce- No. 1003 of 1959 on the
grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 14th April 1961 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER,
DUDLEY cfe LEES, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year— 19s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Opinions of the New "Bulletin"
! Sir,
having bought, read and
written for The Bully for the
! | aS t 30 years I felt obliged to
give it away about last Octo-
ber, firmly convinced against
my will that its nemesis could
oot be far off and that very
soon it would join the “Triad,"’
“Sydney Mail,” “Town and
Country Journal,” “World's
News,” “S m i t h’s Weekly,”
“Australasian,” and all those
other weeklies which have one
by one folded. I have com-
menced taking it once more.
You have given it a shot in the
arm at least. It was getting
i pretty feeble, you know.
E. J. Pearsl
Townsville (Q.).
Sir,
One time The Bully was
notable as a man’s magazine.
ItsAboriginalities and Aboliars
columns were always worth
reading and mostly were educa-
tional as well ; and your
leaders and stories were good.
Now 1 am afraid it is rapidly
becoming a second - rate
women's magazine, and in that
field there are so many excellent
publications.
I had resolved to discontinue
The Bully after so many
years; but in a weak moment
paid for another 12 months.
If the standard slips still further
that will be the finish.
Frank A. Harris
Auckland (N.Z.).
Sir,
As a reader of The Bully
since 1898. and a contributor,
too, my dismay at the changes
turned to admiration with your
issue of January 18, when “The
J-ady is a Tramp” and “Dollars
br Australian Crayfish”
narked the new Bully as a
trump.
‘Real good stuff” was the
verdict of three other constant
readers when I discussed the
ho articles with them. “That's
"'hat we North Queenslanders
"'ante they said.
So cheer up! We’re not all
snarlers.
Bob Belbin
(Q.).
Sir,
Since it now appears that the
Abo. and Society features
*f e be retained as well as the
dassic one or two short-stories.
e only passing I feel truly
J e tful about is that of the
bnder the Whip” section of
Sporting Notions.”
didn't the gentlemen respon
sible for those pars, forecast the
results of some of the big
races with great accuracy?
C. Rylands
North Richmond (AkS.JT.).
Sir,
I, like others who have been
readers of your paper for a
good many years (35), find it
a little difficult to get used to
the new Bulletin. Still, it had
to come, and I find some of
the new innovations good.
Your biographies of promi-
nent persons are excellent. At
some future date could you
give some sketches of our main
politicians? The article by
Alan Reid on how the tax-
payers’ money is wasted in the
Senate was a classic.
I shall certainly keep the
first of your reproductions of
famous Bulletin cartoons. To
see these cartoons once again
will certainly be a joy to old-
time readers. It should also
prove to the younger genera-
tion that cartoons don’t have
to be dirty to be good.
W. H. Somerlield
Subiaco (W.A.).
Sir,
1 cannot see The Bulletin
in its present set-up making the
appeal to country readers that
it did in years gone by. 1 am
renewing my subscription for
1961, but am not happy. I
realise you are passing through
a stage of “birth throes,” as it
were, and live in hope that
some of the valued features of
the old Bulletin may be
restored. But please do not
make it a weekly edition of a
city daily.
Douglas Tilghman
Berry (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.M.: Defend:
Why this nasty prudish ban
On our beauteous brief bikinis?
Lady C. can get her man
So why not us, then, you old
meanies?
. ..W.R.: Enough to fill the pro-
verbial slim volume, but not a com-
mercial proposition... .L.N.: Yarn
about the bush lawyer as long-
winded as any city lawyer....
J J.: Have a look at the world
around you J.T.G.: How much
of this century’s poetry have you
read? 8.J.: “The Painter”
nearly made it....8.E.: Too long.
. ...A.G.8.: The weather....
E.A.K.: Two lines about the new
hats:
And forced to be an ugly thing
To illustrate the joy of spring....
.. ..J.P.H:. Your contribution to
Australian rock-and-roll received
with awe:
Very sensible of him:
But now he lagged in
This rush for the train
And his mind went
Back to his land again,
And he stood and he watched
All the frenzied rush.
And he could almost
Smell the Bottle-brush
On the back paddock ;
And made up his mind there and
then
That the city would never
See him again
MA LUBRA QUEEN
In Mulga Land there dwells a
Queen :
My loving maiden gum tree
shade,
The sweetest doll I’ve ever seen;
The purest love I’ve ever played.
And when this love draws near, my
life to cheer
Her presence dear—my pretty
little dusky shade —
’Tis then 1 sing “Do you love me
true?”
She says, “Well, I love’s you,
’deed 1 do.”
For she is my lady Lubra Queen;
She is the grandest ever seen.
She is the love I mostly prize, she
has such dreamy eyes;
And from her side I’ll never part—
she has a mortgage on my
heart.
The bush birds coo-ee “I love
you-ee,” my lady Lubra
Queen,
Lubra Queen, Lubra Queen,
repeated endlessly with
Rock-yelps.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Credits Ltd
The current credit-restrictions, and
other aspects of the Federal Govern-
ment’s anti-inflationary measures, are
making life difficult for the hire-purchase
industry in Australia. This year operating-
costs will be further whipped-up by the
newly-introduced non-deductibility, tax-
wise, of interest charges on debentures
and convertible notes.
The outlook is not grim, and the h.-p.
business is here to stay, often performing
useful lubricating functions. But
pyramiding profits of the “good old h.-p.
days” are gone, at least for the present.
Last year the Sydney - registered
Mercantile Credits had a good year.
Business improved, funds were swelled,
outstandings rose and earnings were
higher.
Incorporated in 1935 and converted to
a public co. in 1950, Mercantile Credits
Ltd is a hire - purchase financier and
specialises in financing h.-p. sales of
motor-vehicles, machinery, industrial
equipment, household furniture and
appliances, etc. The co. now operates in
the five mainland States, with head-
quarters in Sydney. About 25 p.c. of its
paid capital is held by firms in the Hardie
group. Invicta Finance Co. Ltd, of
Adelaide (S.A.), is a fully-owned sub-
sidiary.
Record turnover pushed-up aggregate
gross income for the year ended June
30, 1960, by £354,440 to £1,390,213.
After charging all expenses, providing
£14,976 for depreciation (up £9394) and
setting-aside £168,281 for taxation (up
£47,267) consolidated net profit was
£57,393 higher at £251,232:
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f- Dividends— >, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £6863 .. . 37,178
1954 .. 59,709 15 30,000 29,709 66,887
Added intangibles, £7281 .. .. 59,606
1955 . . 95.695 15 . 52,500 43,195 102,801
Reduction intangibles, £1605 .. 104,406
1956 ... 122,927 15 75,000 47,927 152,333
Reduction intangibles, £1892 . . 154,225
To provision long-service leave, £l6OO 152,625
1957 . . 152,820 15 108,278 44,542 197,167
Parent and Subsidiary.
Less goodwill on consolidation, £3389 193,778
Tax overprovided, £6498 . . . . 200,276
Added intangibles, £32,445 . . . . 167,831
1958 . . 173,194 15 108,278 64,916 232,747
Added intangibles, £57,493 .. .. 175,254
1959 . . 193,839 15 150,553 43,286 218,540
Add decrease intangibles, £27,641 . . 246,181
1980 ..251,232 15 189,912 61,320 307,501
* After deducting intangibles, £84,470 at 30/6/’6O.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 19.8 p.c. on the higher average ord.
capital, compared with 19.3 p.c. in the
previous term, 24 p.c. in 1958, 21 p.c.
in 1957, 24.6 p.c. in 1956 and 27.3 p.c.
in 1955.
The div.-rate was steady at 15 p.c.,
absorbing £189,912. Reserves benefited
by £61,320 and also by £27,641 decrease
in intangibles, and were shown at
£307,501 (after deducting £84,470 intan-
gibles).
“Continued expansion has made it
necessary to extend the co.'s borrowing
limits.” Accordingly, Mercantile Credits
announced the issue of 379,022 20s. ords.,
one-for-four at par in June, 1960. The
co. also issued 300,000 20s. 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. on May 31, 1960. No pref. divs.
were paid from last term's profits. In
addition, there are 250,000 20s. options
maturing June 30, 1961.
The share-issues lifted paid capital at
balance-date to £1,847,011 in £300,000
20s. 7 p.c. prefs. and 1,547,011 20s. ords.,
which were later subdivided into ss. units.
After balance-date, the co. issued
£lOO,OOO 20s. 7 p.c. cum. prefs., again
extending the borrowing limits.
Consolidated balance-sheet shows a
heavy rise in funds employed. Borrow-
ings on debentures, notes and registered
deposits rose by £3,099,431 to £10,271,260.
Current liabilities rose by £588,200 to
£1,077,625:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £721,850 £1,266,086 £1,847,011
Reserves . . 287,365 330,651 391,971
Share applications 64,898
Notes _ .. .. 2,137,400 7,171,829 10,271,260
Unearned income 1,130,167 1,510,175 2,425,601
Current
liabilities* .. 2,951,129 489,465 1,077,625
Final div. . . 54,139 85,481 94,956
£7,282,050 £10,853,647 £16,173,322
Fixed assets . . 154,955 322,085 316,309
H.-p. debts, etc. 7,072,477 10,419,451 . 15,772,543
Intangibles .. 54,618 112,111 84,470
£7,282,050 £10,853,647 £16,173,322
* Includes deposits, sundry creditors, tax-provision,
etc.
H.-p. outstandings (including sundry
book - debts, cash and prepayments)
jumped by £5,353,092 to £15,772,543.
Unearned income amounted to £2,425,601
(up £915,426), representing almost 15.4
p.c. of the outstandings (14.7 p.c. in the
previous term). The ratio of borrowings
to paid capital at June 30, 1960, was
5.5 to 1, and to shareholders’ funds (less
intangibles) 4.7 to 1. This excludes current
liabilities. Last October the co. an-
nounced the issue at par of £1,000,000
9 p.c. mortgage debenture stock, now
oversubscribed to £1,500,000.
Mercantile Credits has shown itself
a vigorous, expanding finance-co. ever
since it joined the public list 12 years
ago. The present business lull in the
h.-p. industry may be used with advan-
tage to digest the recent massive increases
in scrip and borrowings.
Sales of motor-vehicles dropped
substantially after the sales-tax was raised
to 40 p.c. and the credit-squeeze began
Diversification of h.-p. activities should
be of some benefit. The co. enjoys strona
connections in the retail trade, and
handles h.-p. sales for Grace Bros.,
Anthony Horderns’, Mark Foy’s, etc!
Rising costs are a problem.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
looked attractive at Bs. 9d. a unit. The
immediate return is 8.6 p.c. on the basis
of the present 15 p.c. div.-rate. The 20s.
options last changed hands at 13s. each.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 6s. for each ss. ord. unit on the basis
of consolidated figures.
Cascade Brewery Co. Ltd
Bringing an era of die-hard conserva-
" tism to an end, the Cascade Brewery
Co. Ltd, the oldest extant brewery in
Australia, has at last taken shareholders
into its confidence, latest accounts giving
not only consolidated figures—presented
for the first time in 1959 —but taxation
and depreciation provisions as well.
The shock disclosure of hidden
strengths and true earning-power—
reserves jumped almost threefold and
profits more than trebled —sent share-
prices spiralling upwards, the 21s. ords.
(then paid to 20s. and carrying a reserve-
liability of Is.; the reserve-liability was
extinguished last term), which previously
fetched around 265., jumped quickly to
touch 68s. 6d. 12 months ago. Today,
with ’Change much quieter, they still
fetch a comparatively high 445.
Former shareholders who parted with
their scrip before the day of revelation
no doubt have strong feelings on the
matter.
The move was probably made to ward-
off attentions of possible takeover mer-
chants as much as to let shareholders
know the real facts of the business which
they owned.
However, in another sphere, the
brewery’s health is still toasted with
undiminished gusto. Apparently tipplers
(and perhaps even former shareholders
who missed-out on the 1959 bonanza) find
no fault with the co.’s product. In any
case, all subsidiaries operated satisfac-
torily last term, the subsidiary complex
comprising:
Tasmanian Breweries Pty; Cascade
Cordials Pty (the bottling franchise tor
Pepsi-Cola was obtained last term); Traders
Pty; Tasmanian Bottle Co. Ltd; and
J. Boag and Son (1911) Ltd.
Net profit for the group came in.
finally, an attractive £258,922 (down
£1664), after setting aside £172,928 (up
£9113 and closely aligned to disclosed
profits) for taxation, £85,504 (up £4964)
for depreciation, sending £20,000 (nil W
the preceding term) to provision 1°!"
increased cost of plant replacement an
charging £26,074 (up £3748) interest on


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R, H. ALLEN, M. R. E. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Eloor,
The National Mutual Eife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 Pines)
P.O. Box
No. JBB7W
PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, Y. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt,
J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
20-22 O'Connell St., Sydney. 33 Bligh
St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4011, BW 5505 (0 lines)
Telegrams Address:
Bring' Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Linwar, Sydney.
rigage—taxation and depreciation
?Jfes were not available in the 1959
founts, but, for comparative purposes,
‘ e revealed (the 1959 figures) in the
:; st published statements:
Parent Only.
To Re-
Profit. r —Dividends.——serves. Reserves.*
j££ £ £
L 48,141 5 p.c. = 27,373 20,768 287,328
40 staff fund, £l5 .. .. .. 287,313
Tux written back, £7186 .. .. 294,499
Unexplained reduction, £4lB .. 294,081
, 52,511 5 p-c. = 30.000 22,511 316,592
| Tax overprovided, £792 .. .. 317,384
profit sale assets, £2e,234 . . . . 344,618
H’ritten-off freeholds, £1505' .. 343,113
Unexplained addition, £195 .. 343,308
L 00,970 6 p.c, = 36,000 30,970 374,27 S
* Tax overprovided, £2512 .. .. 376,790
Profit sale assets, £16,115 .. .. 392,905
Unexplained addition, £750 . . 393,655
, 03,239 65 p.c. = 39,000 24,239 417,894
Tax overprovided, £2439 .. .. 420,333
less adj. on formation subsid., £8448 411,885
Written-ofi plant, £5452 .. .. 406,433
69,03 7 7 p.c. = 42.000 27,037 433,470
" Tax overprovided. £3029 .. .. 436,499
Unexplained additions, net, £279 .. 436,778
Written-off plant, £2456 .. .. 434,322
(t„ 70,420 7f p.c. = 54,210 16,210 450,532
Parent and Suhsirlaries.
Tax overprovided, £4412 . . . . 454,944
f/off freeholds and plant, £14,793.. 440,151
Surplus on consolidation, £634,971.. 1,075,122
11, 260,586 84 p.c. = 61,438 199,148 1,274,270
f Tax oveTprovided, £4865 .. .. 1,279,135
ilf/off freeholds and plant, £lOO . . 1,279,035
Pre-acquisition profits, £196 .. 1,279,231
{evaluation shares in subsidiaries,
£j8,174 1,337,405
Seduction surplus on consolidation,
£60,086 1,2 7 7,3 1 9
Unexplained addition, £1660 .. 1,278,919
111,, 268,92 2 1 0 p.c. = 72,280 186,642 1,465,561
•Subject to- intangibles, £13,288 at 30/6/’6O.
its, which appear to be more or less
jdistic, work-out a solid 35.8 p.c. on
ifital, as against 36.1 p.c. in the preced-
i;term and 9.7, ILS, 10.5, 11.2 and 7.1
it (merely token-figures) in the years
Kk to 1954.
Dividends, £72,280, are amply covered
wprofits, £186,642 remaining for trans-
it reserves. Cascade upped the div.-
ptcfrom 12 p.c. to 13J p.c. in 1949, after
1 years at the lower figure, the rate
(lopping back to 8 p.c. in 1951, following
par (three-for-five) and bonus (two-for-
be) issues in May, 1950. Shareholders
Bed-out entirely in the 1952 term,
to the board, unable to gain Treasury
poval for a new share-issue, was
tod to fall back on borrowed funds
trading-profits to finance a heavy
% on plant.
tote in 1952 the co. was permitted to
*90,000 ords. at par., a modest 5 p.c.
' going out in 1953 and 1954. Since
11 div.-rates have evinced a steady
*tods trend to 10 p.c., the latest distri-
lon.
j Q 1957 Cascade acquired the paid capi-
‘°f J. Boag and Son by the issue of
"Ptoa par-value of over £122,000 and
'Payment of an undisclosed amount in
the deal raising capital to £722,804.
to have been no subsequent increases,
fade’s strengths are apparent all
% down the line. The balance-
,!t' an imposing presentation, shows
frves , massive at £1,465,561, towering
°'d over and above paid capital—
es ar e subject to intangibles, £13,288
fiance date. Fixed-asset investment,
'* lse , is considerable, the book-value
Jwholds, £1,509,873 (up £260,655),
‘ ct| ag, inter-alia, hotel holdings
B {°ut the Apple Isle—during last
the co. expended £270,000-odd in
asing hotels at Glenorchy, Laun-
T Devonport, Burnie and Smithton
to Racecourse Hotel at Glenorchy,
amongst others, was extensively re-
modelled :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £722,804 £722,804 £722,804
Reserves . . 450,532 1,274,270 1,465,561
Plant replacement 20,000
Outside interests 20,927 ie!563
Mortgage, etc.. . 137,000 407,074 485,665
Bank overdraft.. '•— 74,233 163,225
Creditors, etc. . . 30,479 280,978 195,143
Tax provision . . 23,000 163,815 184,243
Final div. . . 32,526 39,754 43,368
lnter-co. balances 33,636 60,186
£1,396,341 £3,017,491 £3,356,758
Freeholds .. 884,688 1,249,218 1,509,873
Plant, fittings . . 24,471 827,287 860,785
Shares other cos. 655 655
Shares, subsids. 428,402 -
Owing by subsids. 31,000 ■ —
Stocks .. .. 517,513 561,133
Debtors . . 14,135 314,534 296,486
Cash, bonds .. 13,645 99,062 114,538
Intangibles . . 9,222 13,288
£1,396,341 £3,017,491 £3,356,758
* Prior to 1959, parent figures available only.
The book-value of plant, fittings, etc., in
at cost, less depreciation, finished up
an aggregate £860,785 (up £33,498).
Theoretical working-capital appeared to
be adequate.
Cascade looks to a bright and rosy
future. “Sales for the first few months
of this financial year have shown
increases over those of last year.” The
great Australian thirst is growing rapidly
and population also. The co. contem-
plates a comprehensive building pro-
gramme, and plans have already been
drawn-up for the rehabilitation of old
hotels and the construction of many new
hotels within the next three years. And
finance has not been overlooked, a one-
for-one par issue of registered unsecured
convertible 20s. notes going out last
October. The notes, payable in four
equal instalments, ss. on December 1,
1960, ss. on June 1, 1961, ss. on Decem-
ber 1, 1961, and ss. on June 1, 1962, will
be converted into ord. shares, one-for-
one, on December 31, 1965, but the co.
reserves the right to convert at an earlier
date if it so desires, though not within
three years of date of issue.
Meantime, at 475., the 20s. ords. give
an immediate return of 4.2 p.c., on the
basis of the 10 p.c. div.-rate. Net tangibles
worked-out a visible 60s. 2d. at balance-
date.
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd
'T'he earnings of trustee-cos. are derived
A from two main sources: corpus and
other commissions (on collection of rents
and other estate incomes), and returns
from funds owned by the co. itself. This
makes it imperative to watch operating
costs carefully and steadily increase the
trust business and funds.
First registered in Sydney in 1885 (as
the Perpetual Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co.; the name was later changed
to the present fashion by a special Act
of Parliament), Perpetual Trustee Co.
Ltd is the largest enterprise of its kind
south of the Equator. Business has been
steadily growing.
Last term, total trust funds adminis-
tered by the co. rose by a spectacular
£18,777,901 to £116,601,296, inclusive of
investments held as custodian trustee for
unit-holders of Australian Fixed Trusts
Pty and Wales Unit Investments Pty.
In addition, the subsidiary Perpetual
Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd handles trust


and agency funds amounting to
£2,717,020 and acts as share-registrar, or
registered office, for 292 public and
proprietary cos. The large rise in funds
administered was mainly due to growth
of the unit-trust movement.
Branches, staffed by experienced senior
officers, operate at Sydney, Wollongong,
Tamworth and Orange in N.S.W., in
addition to the growing Canberra off-
shoot.
Income for the year ended June 30.
1960, rose by £46,445 to £474,805:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. perrses. Income.
£ £ £ p.c.
1952 . . 73,663,774 320,878 322,996 100.7
1953 .. 72,849,723 329,055 -Si 0,-435 96.2
1954 .. 71 597,904 347,845 328,728 94.5
1955 .. 73,925,788 357,012 337,103 94.4
1956 .. 82,024,804 383,131 362,705 94.7
1957 .. 85,905,161 401,499 379.854 94.6
1958 . . 90,545,031 408,995 382,6:89 93.3
1959 .. 97,823,395 428,360 400.783 93.6
1960 .. 116,601,296 474,805 446,438 94.0
However, expenses increased by £45,655
to £446,438 and swallowed-up 94 p.c. _
of the income (93.6 p.c. in 1959).
Net profit slipped-down by £lBO5 to
£25,685, after making an undisclosed tax-
provision and deducting £2652 decrease
in corpus-commission reserve :
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends—, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1952 .. 586 4 p.c. = 8,000 299,093
1953 . . 10,359 5} „ „ 11,000 298,422
1954 .. 19,259 8* „ ~16,000 3,259 301,681
Freeholds revalued, £195,231 .. 496,91*2
1955 .. 24,194 8 p.c. = 16,000 -8.194 505,106
1956 .. 21,776 8} „ ~17,000 4,776 509,882
1957 .. 19,012 94 „ ~19,000 12 509,891
To staff fund, £2OOO 507.894
1958 .. 24,206 10 p.c. = 20,000 4,206 512,100
To staff fund, £'2ooo .. .. .. 510,100
1959 .. 27,493 10} p.c. =21,000 .6,493 516,59.3
1960 . . 25,685 11 „ „ 22,000 3,685 520,278
This was equivalent to .an earning-rate
of 12.8 p.c. on the unchanged paid
capital, compared with 13.7 p.c. in the
previous year, 12.1 p.c. in 1958, 9.5 p.c.
in 1957, 10.9 p.c. in 1956, 12.1 p.c. in
1955 and 9.6 p.c. in 1954.
The div.-rate was raised to 11 p.c.,
absorbing £22,000. Reserves benefited by
£3685, rising to £520,278. This gave a
net tangible asset-cover of £7 4s. Id. for
each £2-paid ord. at balance-date. Shortly
afterwards, the co. made a call of ss. a
unit. This was followed by another ss.
call early this month, making the shares
paid to £2 10s.
The balance-sheet shows a substantial
increase in the book-value of fixed
assets: —-
1958. 1959. 196-0.
Paid capital .. £200,4)00 £200,000 £200,000
Reserves 512,100 516,593 520,278
Creditors, etc.* . . 64,522 82,678 96;O0O
Final div. .. 10,000 11,000 11,000
£786,622 £810,271 £827,278
Premises, etc. .. 329,781 339,693 559,636
Mortgages, shares 185,662 203,940 227,962
Sundry debtors. . 3,286 . 7,589 5;-874
Govt. securities 119,740 119,740 13,290
Cash, -etc. . . 148,153 139/809 20,516
£786,622 £810,271 £827,278
* Includes provision for income-tax, etc.
Creditors, «tc., were slightly higher.
Holdings of Government securities and
cash, etc., decreased.
Perpetual must be commended for its
clear and attractively presented accounts.
Most of the £116,601,296 trust funds
are invested in shares of public cos.
(£73,700,715, or 63.2 p.c.). Next come
Government securities with £16,817,380
(14.4 p.c.). Another 10.4 p.c. are invested
in real estate.
Buyers offer 68s. for each £2 10s.
paid ord. unit, but sellers ask £6. The
last sale was made at 70s. for each unit
then paid to 455.
Calculated on the basis of 755.,
and the present 11 p.c. div.-rate, the
immediate yield on the £2 10s. paid
units is just over 7.3 p.c. p.a.
Evans, Deakin Industries Ltd.
“A s it is apparent that the co. has again
2*- had a successful year, your directors
consider that the time has arrived for
another distribution of capital benefits
to shareholders.”
With this modest preamble the board
of Evans, Deakin, Brisbane-based engi-
neer, ship-builder and structural-steel
producer (and an industrious profit-
spinner), announced a generous bonus-
issue, disguised as the formation of a
holding-co. Despite traditional annual
references to “highly competitive trading
conditions,” the co. can well afford the
gift-issue. Disclosed earning-rates over
the last four years average 51.8 p.c. p.a.
The reserve-kitty is well-padded.
On the formation of Evans, Deakin
Industries Ltd ord. shareholders received
12 ss. ords. for each 20s. ord. and 20s.
special employee share, making a virtual
two-for-one bonus-distribution.
Pref.-shareholders were not neglected.
Quoth the directors: “Preference share-
holders are not strictly entitled to share
in capital benefits ; however, in view of
the great assistance and benefits derived
by the co. from their capital in the past
. . . they merit generous treatment.”
“Generous treatment” in this instance
meant four ss. ords. for each 20s. first
pref. or 50s. cash, and three ss. ords. for
each 20s. second pref. or 375. 6d. cash.
Paid capital after the reconstruction rose
to £910,000 in 3,640,000 ss. ords.
Last term turnover increased, as well
as income from investments. “Higher
costs over which the co. has no control”
were said to have “considerably offset”
the benefits arising from higher sales.
Substantial orders for fabricated steel-
wbrk and general engineering work were
received during the year. This included
the structural building - framework for
Bulimba “B” and Tennyson power-
stations, and a 460-ft.-long kiln-shell to
be installed for Queensland Cement and
Lime Co. Ltd at Darra (Q.). Steelworks
contracts, connected with Mount Isa
Mines’ copper-smelter expansion pro-
gramme, were “progressing satisfac-
factorily.” The co. is now producing a
large condenser, and feed-heaters, high-
pressure pipe-lines, etc., for the Tennyson
power-station.
Shipyards are building a passenger-
and-cargo vessel for the Western Austra-
lian Government State shipping-service,
and a “roll-on-roll-off” vessel for Adelaide
Steamship Co. Ltd. There has been a
number of promising inquiries for the
construction of further vessels. Sales of
agency-lines “were maintained.”
Net profit for the year ended June 30,
1960, was disclosed at £153,249 (up
£5657), after writing-off £4815-) f
depreciation (down £609) and nrovii°
£143,500 for taxation (up £12,500)• — _l
t— Dividends v „
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total? spr , e : ,
£ p.c. p.c. £ servef t*
1951 .. 69,180 10 & 5 15 34,450 mL
Unexplained additions, £24 551 ®
1952 . . 80,699 10 & 5 15 34,450 S
Unexplained additions, £36 893
1953 .. 97,254 10 & 5 15 40, 5 %
Unexplained additions, £61161 (79 o l
1954 .. 115,473 10 & 5 15 44,200 644 -?'
Unexplained additions, £85,70’ 1
1955 .. 138,374 10 & 6 174 50,940 8175,1
Unexplained additions, £70,037
1956 .. 148,171 10 & 6 17} 52,540 9ml-
(Jnexplained additions, £99,697 1
1957 .. 143,306 10 & 6 20 60,280 liceLl
Unexplained additions, £30,337 Mor’?-!
1958 .. 136,077 10 & 6 -20 60.280 ?
Unexplained additions, £23,387 lWuot
1959 .. 147,592 10 & 6 20 60,-280 9Ol
Unexplained reduction, £6165 . 1 87(S?m
1960 .. 153,249 10 & 6 20 61,730 l?^*
* Excludes depreciation reserve, now £2BB 531
Tax looks huge on profits disclosed
which is not unusual in this co.’s life
The visible earning-rate on the averag]
ord. capital (after paying pref. divs.) was
53.8 p.c., compared with 53.2 p.c. in thJ
previous term and 49.4 p.c. in 1958.
After paying the steady 20 p.c, ord]
div.-rate, £91,519 was transferred td
reserves, disclosed at £1,468,255 (aftel
a £6165 unexplained reduction). Thil
excludes £288,531 depreciation reserve:
There are no intangibles.
The largely historical balance - shee
shows little change. Creditors, etc., am
stocks were slightly lower:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. i 960
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,Ol
Ord 259/935 263,400 211,01
-Reserves . . . . 1,272,202 1,382,901 1,468,15
Depreciation . . 245,906 267,097 288,5
Creditors, etc.* . . 626,322 899,719 815,3
Final divs. . . 33,925 33,925 35,3
£2,538,290 £2,947,042 £2,982,$
Freeholds and plant 835,183 853,136 884,9
Shares . . . . 99,794 103,519 120,1
Stocks .. .. 839,39« 1,026,566 994,5
Dk-biOflS .. .. 422,399 430,535 429,1
Cash, bonds, etc. 341,516 533,286 553,5
£ 2,538,290 £ 2,947,042£2,982,51
* Includes tax provision, etc. '
Cash and freeholds increased. Shares ini
other cos. appeared at £120,483. -EvanA
Deakin holds a 25 p.c. share-interest i|
the Queensland offshoot of Common
wealth Engineering Co. Ltd manufac
turer of railway rolling-stock, etc.
Prospects seem very promising. Share
holders can look forward to an adequate
return on their investment.
The board proposes “to pursue in thi
future, as in the past, the policy of re
taining in the business for security am
expansion, and for future benefits i
shareholders, a substantial proportion»
net profits.” If earnings after tax anfll
depreciation, but “before special pro«i
sions for contractual obligations aw
other contingencies” will exceed 25 pj 1
on the issued capital, “dividends at tt*
rate of at least 12t p.c. p.a. can be andf
cipated.” The next interim div., due T
March, will be a good indicator of |
year’s distribution.
At the last sale in Brisbane the ss. or 1
fetched 16s. a unit. The immediate
is 3.9 p.c. on the basis of the forecw
p.c. div.-rate. ■
Net tangible asset-backing
at a whopping £6 Bs. 3d. for each
ord. at balance-date, before the rec w
struction and share-split. |


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
ini® done with the assets of
, lie of Nations? When did
.C last make a payment to
■p ■
,,ii a ’s final contribution to
Sue was paid in June, 1946.
L of the League were trans-
it, the United Nations, by
ait, as from August 1, 1946,
l, credited in the books of
S(J Nations to the Member
I designated by the League
■lions in percentages deter-
ly the League. Subsequently
«ral Assembly of the United
5 decided to liquidate these
Iby appropriations from the
!a nnual budget of the organi-
1 during the years 1945 to
inclusive.
j • • *
|ii tire the rules governing a
ft aping contest ? .
| main rules, which are prac-
| uniform throughout Aus-
fcare as follows: (1) The rider
| r ide with both feet in the
ft. and with only one hand
bridle reins or “bucking”
I (2) His other hand must be
gin the air throughout the ride
■should he touch any part of
li the horse, or the equipment
ite free hand he is immediately
plied. (3) The rider should
[loosely” and display his
Into ride with ease, at the same
['“spurring” or “raking.” (4)
I duration of the ride is ten
Ids, and riders are judged on
Ii, taking into consideration the
ij ability of the horse,
r • •
tl methods are employed by
m to conserve food ?
basis of the main type of
conservation is drying and
j. In northern Queensland
fahem Land sliced cycad-
nuts are dried in the sun for
1 days and wrapped in paper-
for a grass-lined trench is filled
k kernels of the nut, which
are covered with earth and dug up
as required during the several
months they last; they are then
pulverised into dampers. Turtles'
and birds’ eggs are pulped into a
bark container and cooked into a
hardened mass. The Djingih tribe
of the central region shred kangaroo
meat intq fine strips, which tney
press into bark dishes and dry on
hot stones for future use. Wild
peaches (quandongs) were conserved
in the region of the Great Victorian
Desert, and fish were dried and pre-
served along the lower fvlurray
River and in pans of the Northern
Territory. Yams and other in-
digenous crops were conserved by
leaving some to seed and not taking
ail those available.
Taboos are another form of food
conservation, i'ney have a ritual or
social basis and apply to individuals
at all stages of life. Thus in some
areas a boy cannot eat any game
which he catches himself, though
his parents may, and a pregnant
woman is not allowed to eat
burrowing animals because of the
possible effect on her child.
When was the Royal Australian
Academy of Science established ?
What are its functions ?
The academy was established in
1952 by 11 Fellows of the Royal
Society of London, all resident in
Australia, to stimulate and co-
ordinate scientific research. With
the support of the Commonwealth
Government and Australian scien-
tists behind them the 11 members
invited 12 other scientists to join
with them in petitioning the Queen
for a Royal Charter. Her Majesty
in person presented the charter to
the provisional council of the
academy at Government House,
Canberra, on February 16, 1954.
The chief purpose of the academy
is to exert an influence on national
progress by the raising and recog-
nition of standards of achievement
in research, experience having
shown that this can best be done
by an independent body of opinion
at the highest level of scientific
attainment. One of the first acts
of the academy was to create a
research committee on the upper
atmosphere, to co-ordinate Austra-
lian research with developments at
Woomera.
* * * *
When was Australian National
Airways Ply., Ltd., formed ?
There have been two companies
of) this name formed in Australia.
The first was formed in 1929 by
Charles Kingstord Smith and
C. T. P. Ulm, and was the first '
company to fly regular services with
multi - engined aircraft between
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and
Tasmania. The company's fleet
included the Eokker FVII Southern
Cross and the Avro Xs Southern
Sun, Southern Star, Southern Cloud
and Southern Moon. Their pilots
included the two founders, P. G.
Tayior, J. Mollison, G. U. Allen
and P. Lynch Bosse. The company
ceased operations in 1931 because of
financial difficulties.
The second company of this name
was formed in 1936. It was the
successor to Holyman’s Airways
Pty., Ltd., formed in 1934 by Ivan
and Victor Holyman, who began
earlier by opening an air service
between Launceston and Flinders
Island, Huddart Parker, Ltd., and
the Union Steamship Co. of New
Zealand, Ltd.
* * •
For how long have the Cocos
Islands been under Australian con-
trol ? How were they administered
before Australian control ?
The islands, discovered in 1609
by Captain Keeling, of the East
India Company, were not settled
until 1826, when a small settlement
was established by an Englishman,
Alexander Hare. Hare left the
islands in 1831, but in the meantime
another settlement had been made
by John Clunies Ross. In 1857 the
islands were annexed to the Crown,
and by indenture in 1886 Queen
Victoria granted the land comprised
in the islands to Clunies Ross in
perpetuity.
In 1873 responsibility for their
supervision was transferred from
the Colonial Office to the Govern-
ment of Ceylon, and in 1882 to the
Government of the Straits Settle-
ment, In 1903 the islands were
incorporated in the Settlement of
Singapore and in 1942-46 tempo-
rarily placed under the Governor of
Ceylon. In 1946 a Resident
Administrator, lesponsible to the
Governor of Singapore, was
appointed.
The Cocos Islands were placed
under the authority of the Common-
wealth of Australia, under the Cocos
Islands Act, on November 23, 1955.
The Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act,
1955, of the Commonwealth of
Australia, declared the islands to be
accepted as a Territory under the
authority of the Commonwealth, to
be known as the Territory of Cocos
(Keeling) Islands
• • ; •
Where was Australia's first
observatory erected ?
In 1788, shortly after the First
Fleet arrived in Port Jackson, a
small observatory was erected on
Dawes Point under the direction of
Lieutenant Dawes, of the Marines,
who had been sent by the British
Board of Longitude to make astro-
nomical observations. The first
building was a wooden one, but this
was soon replaced by a stone build-
ing. T his was the first observatory
in Australia to be erected solely for
the purposes of astronomy. In 1822
Sir Thomas Brisbane erected and
equipped an observatory at Parra-
matta at his own cost. Some of
the instruments he provided are still
kept at Sydney observatory.
Wants
Copies of “The Gift of Nessus”
and “Blessed are the Meek,” by
Zofia Kossak, and “The Little
Ghosts.” by Ethel Anderson. —49.
“Answers to Correspondents”
appears on Page 55.
The Bulletin” Crossword No. 630
l Across
■Suitable place for taking off U.K. and U.S. sailors. (6)
Jf.the hair may be for the “rabbits” after £25. (4-4)
®tto of the determined order to avoid capital punish-
W. (5, 3,3)
taken the cloth turn of the motor. (3)
12 — Crook you dug up is lit. (9)
15 — Pytheas’s pat who wanders
back? (5)
16— Relent when no longer bound to
stay in bed. (3, 2)
17— Hurrying along in sunlight. (8)
20 — Who makes music firm with 1000
and a knotty problem? (8)
21 — Girl artist holding bricklayers’
equipment. (5)
23 —Sedate first-aid deprived of
wood. (5)
25 — Lessens scattered seed races. (9)
26 — Moslem in Australia. (3)
27 — Something like Old TYaff'ord,
Manchester —a help when camp-
ing. (11)
28 — Educated though short of a
penny, (8)
29 — History students learn about him
in Arts. (4)
Down
1 — Can be touched by such dread-
ful bleating. (8)
2 Spin the heavenly sheep they
want to overthrow. (15)
3 Dry tune. (3)
5 Not even unusual. (3)
6 Harvest from the Dohnanyi
Eldorado. (5)
7 So no Russian mice display a
cranky attitude. (15)
8 — With great affection extended
about six. (6)
9 -Meals served around a craft. (8)
13 — Not a son of Roy Rene to finish
up a military campaign. (3, 2)
14 —Depriving Rainier of his
wife? (10)
.18—S as distinct from s? (8)
19—Who had a reef girl and a
chopped tree? (8)
22—Pitch into a donkey and go
crook. (6)
24 How one may lie for a barker on
leave. (5)
25 — One with a medical degree is a
loafer. (5)
Solution to Crossword No, 629


S»n
r>
m
JOB
T*sBu
A 1
*x*M\
l&i
>
r
THE MAN ON THE
LAND KNOWS
FROM EXPERIENCE
There is NO satisfactory
substitute for
STEEL PIPE
Steel Pipe is simply a way to carry
things almost without exception
the best way.
Steel Pipe carries gas, chemicals, oil, wires,
cables, voices and WATER.
From almost every point of view: strength, long
life, versatility, ability to withstand pressures,
exposure and economy there is not, and
never has been, any satisfactory substitute for
steel pipe.
So, for agricultural needs, in particular, specify
STEEL PIPE wherever water has to be conveyed.
STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . ECONOMY . . .
EXPOSURE PROOF , . . GREATER PRESSURES
. . . VERSATILITY
STRENGTH
LONGER LIFE
EXPOSURE PROOF
GREATER PRESSURES
VERSATILITY
09‘IVSS
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
I
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle,
Wollongong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs
AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie
