

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a neivspaper.
Noveirme? 25, I BSi
\<
Inside
Alice
Springs


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; | year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.


TEARING OFF A STRIP
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4267
Hoping for the Best
THE London visit of Tungku Abdul Rahman brings his attempts to
create a greater Malaysia to a critical stage that is of great importance
to all Australians.
The Tungku s Government conceives Greater Malaysia as playing
three inter-related roles, each with its own separate problems. Overall,
the notion of Greater Malaysia is to create an anti-Communist bloc within
the widely disparate elements of Malaya, the “festering” island city of
Singapore and the largely backward Borneo Territories. The secondary
notion is to prevent Singapore from slipping into Communist hands.
The third and least publicised role of Greater Malaysia is to act as some
counter-balance to the anarchy of the Indonesian Archipelago.
As a concept, let alone an achievement, Greater Malaysia is by any
standards an exacting test of statesmanship and it is doubtful whether
anybody other than the Tungku with his practicality, good humor and
tolerance could bring it off. Malayans are anti-Chinese even in the
Federation where Malayans predominate. So the Tungku’s terms of admis-
sion for Singapore must ensure that Federation government can control
the movement and political activities of the Singapore Chinese in the
Federation itself. Therefore Singapore will be admitted as the twelfth
State of the Federation but with limited powers. Even these terms fail to
satisfy many Malays who bitterly remember the costly war they fought
against a handful of Chinese Communists. For this reason the Tungku
has sought to balance Singapore’s Chinese by the inclusion of the Malayan
native peoples of the Borneo Territories.
So far he has been rather out of luck with the British who must,
because of their colonial policy, stick to promises of self-determination for
the Territories. On the whole there is considerable suspicion of Malaysia
in the Territories. Of the Territories’ 1,000,000 population, about 25 per
cent, are Chinese.
THE Government in Kuala Lumpur is very much aware of the problems
with minorities in the Territories but it takes the simple line—if the
British know what’s good for them they will kick North Borneo and Sara-
wak (Brunei is a dependency and cannot be assigned to any agreement)
into Federation without a referendum and without waiting for indepen-
dence. It believes that a boldly created anti-Communist bloc running from
the Thai border to the Indonesian Archipelago is the only chance for South-
East Asia, especially now that the British are moving out.
All of this is true but it is extremely difficult to see how the British
can move on the issue without endangering their stand on self-determin-
ation in Africa and elsewhere in the world. There is some ironic humor
in the situation. The British who regard West New Guinea as a joke as
well as a serious impediment in their relations with Indonesia, reluctantly
support the Dutch over self-determination in West New Guinea. Malaya,
on the other hand, which has a practical interest in seeing that Indonesia
does not extend eastward into a susceptible island has made an agreeable
swap. In return for a reluctant Indonesian acquiescence in Greater Malay-
sia, Malaya has given Indonesia support on West New Guinea.
Where do Australia and New Zealand come in ? By strategic standards
we should support Malaya’s request that we prod the British over the
Borneo Territories. But in view of our stand on West New Guinea and
self-determination it is probably wiser to say nothing and hope for the best.


Tills Australia
COLOR BAR?
Winifred's Witch-hunt
FROM GRACE BARTRAM IN BOWEN
WINIFRED ATWELL
Lock out?
A/Tiss Winifred Atwell trundled into
-*-*-*- Bowen* 700 miles north of Brisbane,
late one afternoon at the end of August,
this year, with her entourage, and headed
further north again next morning. Never
a rich town, and certainly a much poorer
one since the credit squeeze, the people
of Bowen turned on a near-packed house
for Miss Atwell's concert, timed to start
at 8 p.m. By 20 minutes to eight, some
500 people were filling the foyer and
overflowing out on to the road, asking
Mr Bert Smallman, the theatre manager,
why he would not let them in.
Mr Smallman was embarrassed. A
kindly, courteous man, he was not used
to treating his patrons to a lock-out, so
he explained to Miss Atwell that he
would have to let the people in, even if
she was not ready to begin. Things
were hastily pushed up on to the stage
and the curtains drawn and the crowd
of white and colored people admitted
to their seats.
There they sat, with the patient polite-
ness of the typical Northerner, not a boo
or a catcall out of them, until almost
nine o’clock, when Miss Atwell was at
last ready to begin her show. It lasted
two and a quarter hours and even though
the tickets had cost 255. each, everyone
agreed that they got their money’s worth.
Not everyone paid to hear Miss
Atwell. As always when a celebrity visits
Bowen, there were a number of people,
mostly young, standing around the back
door, and looking through the side
windows. Mr Smallman glanced outside
to be sure they were being quiet and
unobtrusive, then let them be.
After the show started, Mr Smallman
noticed a group of colored men standing
in the foyer: “Aren’t you going in to
hear the show?” he asked. “No bloody
fear,” they replied. “She’s too expensive
lor us.” But in the audience were all
but a handful of Bowen’s large colored
population, most of whom are the
descendants of Islanders. This mingling
of colored and white is nothing new in
Bowen. It goes on all the time ; in the
schools, swimming-pool, at the pictures,
concerts, in the shops, pubs, and at any-
thing that goes on in Bowen.
(In fact, in writing this article, I find
it most embarrassing to be using the
words “colored” and “white.” In Bowen,
you think of yourself as a Bowenite. not
as a “white” or a “colored.” If there
is a feeling in Bowen about colored
people, it is entirely one of respect and
pride for and in a good-living and hard-
working section of the community.)
The audience hated to let Miss Atwell
go at the end of her concert. She
received such warm and prolonged
applause that she was emotionally
affected. Mrs Clarey, who acted as
dresser to Miss Atwell, saw that she had
tears in her eyes.
Then, two-and-a-half months later,
in the second week of November, Wini-
fred Atwell suddenly spoke loud and
clear from Canberra. “Bowen,” the
newspaper; reported her as saying, “was
the worst scene of aboriginal segregation
in my current tour. Aborigines were
refused admission to a theatre to see me
perform.”
Bowen was astounded, to put it mildly.
Then outraged, to put it mildly again.
Many people wrote to the newspapers
and to the Immigration Department, pro-
testing and demanding a retraction or an
apology. The colored people were just
as angry, because not only did she fail to
notice all but an estimated 20 of Bowen’s
colored people in her audience, she did
not even see those who were sitting right
in the front row, nor recognise as colored
many of the audience for whom she
signed autograph books at the end of
the show.
“Miss Atwell,” said the newspaper
report, “said that the management at
her request had left the doors open so
that aborigines could watch from outside.
She said there must have been 100
colored people sitting on the floor of
the stage and down the steps at the back
of the stage.” However, Mr Smallman
and Mrs Clarey claim that there were no
colored people sitting at the back of the
stage or on the steps and that Miss Atwell
did not ask for the doors to be left open.
As it happens, the doors are never shut,
unless there is a strong wind blowing.
But still no retraction from Miss
Atwell. Let Mrs Clarey have the last
word: “I thought she was such a nice
person. I enjoyed being her dresser for
the evening. When I read what she’d said
about Bowen, 1 felt really hurt.”
LAW
The Crimes Act and Homosexuals
FROM PAT LAWLOR IN NEW ZEALAND
npHE latest development in the dis-
cussion of homosexuality in New
Zealand is the decision of the Methodist
Conference at Auckland to submit to the
Government a report it has prepared
which favors legal toleration of homo-
sexual acts between consenting adults.
The report emphasises that its proposals
do not condone or encourage private
immorality, but it claims there are
anomalies in the law as it now stands.
The law, for example, takes very little
account of female homosexuality, and
there is no reason why a man should
be punished for what a woman may do
with impunity. The report also states
that it is inequitable and contrary to the
common good that homosexual acts
should be severely punished while the
adulterer and the adultress and those
responsible for bringing unwanted child-
ren into the world stand outside the
sanctions of the law. It also argues that
to deal with the problem of homo-
sexuality by legal suppression and jail
sentences is to deal with symptoms while
neglecting the disease which produce'
them, and that the Government should
assist scientific investigations into the
causes of homosexuality using the
resources of Government Departments
to this end.
It looks however as if it will
be some time before the public or a
Government adopts the position of the
Methodist Conference. When the former
Labor Government of New Zealand
was preparing its new Crimes Bill in
1959, it was widely believed it would
adopt the ideas of the British Huntingdon
Report and remove from the list of
criminal offences homosexual acts be-
tween consenting adult males. But after
a wide public outcry the reported pro-
posal was not proceeded with.
The Crimes Act recently passed by the
new National Government goes no
further than to reduce penalties on
certain homosexual acts. It is best to
quote the Attorney-General, Mr J. A.
Hanan, when moving the second reading
in October:
“I must mention briefly the unpleasant
subject of homosexual offences. When
the Crimes Bill was introduced in 1959


there was a belief by many people that
it proposed to make homosexual acts
between consenting adults no longer
punishable offences. I am quite satisfied
that that was not the intention of the
Labor Administration or the then Minis-
ter of Justice (Mr Mason). The present
Bill makes i-t clear beyond any possibility
of misunderstanding that the criminal
law will continue to reflect the attitude
of the community towards unnatural
practices, What the Bill does do, and
tnis is the unanimous opinion of the
Statutes Revision Committee, is to mark
a distinction in penalty between homo-
sexual acts involving consenting adults
and similar offences against boys and
adolescents. Sodomy between consenting
males will carry the lesser but still
severe penalty of seven years’ imprison-
ment, whereas the same conduct in other
circumstances will carry 14 years’ im-
prisonment.”
This Act, which the former editor of
“The Law Journal” describes as “the
most up-to-date comprehensive code of
criminal law, practice and administration
of any country,” becomes law in
January.
BREATHALYZER TRIUMPHANT
A Sheer for Civil Liberties
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT.
Commissioner Porter
Behind Cabinet
\X/ithin a fortnight the Victorian Bill to
’ * make official the breathalyzer, the
machine which is claimed to be able to
tell how many beers, or the equivalent,
car-drivers have had, will be passed by
the Legislative Council because the
Country party, which holds the balance
of power there, is committed to it.
There is still a hard core of Liberal
resistance to the Bill, which provides a
maximum penalty of £2O for a driver who
refuses to breathe into the machine and
which has been described by the Victorian
Bar Council as the first piece of legisla-
tion to make it compulsory for a person
to incriminate himself.
At least six Liberal Assemblymen
deliberately abstained from the second
reading debate, and Mr Moss, the deputy
C.P. leader, was also an unexplained
absentee. The Labor party has fought
the Bill fervently, and the major section
of the Melbourne Press, which openly
admires the State Government for its
other achievements, is very uneasy about
the breathalyzer.
The Liberals have been too long in
powder in Victoria. The Cabinet no longer
speaks for the people. Its voice is the
voice of the bureaucrats, especially
Arthur Rylah, whose voice is the voice
of Police Commissioner Porter or the
Under-Secretary, and Henry Bolte, whose
tone is We, The Government. The
Liberals are chiefly politically inexperi-
enced suburban businessmen. Not one of
them referred to civil liberties, except with
a sneer, during the Assembly debate.
In other Parliaments, the attack by
the Bar Council would have been instantly
fatal for the Bill. In this one, with its
entrenched party, it was regarded as an
affront, the Premier inviting the Bar
Council to face up to 1961, as if civil
liberty was of much less consequence
than in earlier years.
The chief reason the Government has
been ab;e to push the Bill so far is the
confusion and slight hysteria about it.
Some M.P.'s speeches showed they sin-
cerely felt that the breathalyzer would
reduce the toll of the road, and that any
opposition to that reform was wicked.
They seemed quite unaware that almost
all drivers charged with driving under
the influence are convicted on genuine
evidence now, that these persons have
not been deterred from drunken driving
by the likelihood of heavy fines or gaol
and, most effective of all, the cancellation
of their licences.
The prospect of being obliged to
breathe into a machine is hardly a terri-
fying cumulative penalty, especially as
the machine itself, and its operator, will
be so vulnerable in the courts.
Some cough-drops are claimed to give
a positive alcohol reading on the breath-
alyzer and some others are reputed to
reduce the alcoholic reading; but the
machine’s chief weakness is in its opera-
tion. If any minute part of its prepara-
tion has not been personally adjusted by
the operator, who must also be the
witness, he cannot swear in court to its
perfect accuracy.
Learned counsel, no matter what pre-
cautions the Crown Law department may
take, will probably have a high old time
at the expense of the police “breathalyzer
section” and it is possible that the machine
will ungracefully fade away.
TRADE
Warnings
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
Australian manufacturers are
showing their resentment of Japanese
competition by the time-honored method
of warning the public that their rivals’
products endanger life and limb, in pre-
war days this form of defence against
cheaper or better quality imports was
fairly common —and sometimes it was
justified. But in post-war years it has
become quite rare —mainly due to the
generally high quality of Japanese pro-
ducts and Japan’s abstention from the
old-style dumping.
This makes the latest "Warning to
Boating Enthusiasts,” circulated by the
Australian Plywood Board Ltd almost a
“classic” harking back to the rough old
days. Obviously hard-pressed by com-
petition from imported Japanese ply-
wood, Australian Plywood Board Ltd
bluntly warns that Japanese plywood
boat kits, “which had been imported
and selling in the eastern States of Aus-
tralia over the past 18 months” are often
made of “substandard” materials. The
Board's secretary, Mr D. W. Linklater.
added that “at the request of the Aus-
tralian plywood manufacturers tests were
carried out on this boat plywood by the
Government laboratories and it failed to
meet the requirements for marine ply-
wood laid down by the Australian
Standard Specification 0.59.”
Mr Linklater then warned that “the
risk to human lives was obvious from
the use in boats of plywood which is
likely to fail after a period of use. He
said “that Australian manufacturers
of plywood produced Marine plywood
under a strict code requiring the glue to
stand 72 hours boiling and using only
approved timbers of high mechanical
strength and durability. A second set of
specimens of plywood from imported
plywood boats brought along indepen-
dently to a Government laboratory in
another State also failed to meet the
adhesion test applied to Australian ply-
wood. Boat buyers are warned to closely
examine any craft they are about to
purchase and demand a guarantee that
Australian plywood branded ‘Marine’
has been used in its manufacture.”
According to Mr Linklater’s calcula-
tions some 3000 “substandard boats
from Japan have been imported and
sold in Australia.” Then came the classic
commercial: “Not only was there inade-
quate tariff protection against plywood
imported from low labor cost countries
but now a partially fabricated article of
poor quality was being allowed to enter
the country and endanger the lives of
good Australian citizens.”
One can only hope our competitors
for export markets do not adopt the
same techniques. Someone might, for
instance, claim that Australian wool
produces a skin rash (which, say. South
African does not). Such things have been
known to happen before.


THE ARMY
Death in the Rip
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT.
JOHN CRAMER
Dissatisfied critics
"Carly in the night of February 17, 1960,
an eight-knot ebb tide in The Rip,
the notoriously rough and treacherous
strip of water between Bass Strait and
Port Phillip, swept out to sea 74 Army
commandos in two ducks, kayaks and
rubber dinghies, and three were drowned
and one injured.
Now, nearly two years later, because of
the Army's and learned counsels’ usual
dazzling speed, some compensation has
been paid. Edward Brown, a motor mech-
anic and C.M.F. sergeant, who spent two
hours in a disabled motor-boat with a
broken leg, was awarded £5500 by a
Victorian Supreme Court jury; and the
widow and two children of George
Drakopoulos, a gas-service layer, who was
drowned, were awarded £B5OO under a
court-approved settlement.
Fishermen said The Rip had never
been rougher in recent memory when
the commandos set out from Queenscliff
on a mock raid of the officers’ training
sciiool at Portsea, across The Rip. The
senior lighthousekeeper at Point Lons-
dale, on the outskirts of Queenscliff, said
the Army had been warned in good time
about the strong ebb tide and, when noti-
fied the commandos were in trouble, they
replied that the ducks on the exercise
could cone with the trouble.
This showed the Army’s great courage
and unvarying confidence considering
that a similar tragedy occurred in the
Stockton Bight, near Newcastle, on
March 9, 1954, when three soldiers were
drowned after mountainous seas swamped
and sank eight amphibious Army vehicles.
Unrepentantly the Army announced
later that it did not usually consult the
Navy or navigation authorities when
framing small shore to-shore operations.
At the Geelong inquest, the Coroner
returned a finding of death by misadven-
ture. He found chiefly that one officer
did not pay sufficient regard to the flow
of the tide in plotting the course; that a
warrant-officer misunderstood weather
information from the lighthouse and did
not accurately relay the message to the
officer, which could have affected his
judgment; and that the commandos had
acquitted themselves bravely.
Tire Minister for the Army, John
Cramer, who had refused to release the
Army's interim report then said there
wouid be no justification for military
charges over the tragedy but in future
such exercises would be held only on
the personal authority of the Area G.O.C.
This did not satisfy some critics who
wanted military charges launched to
ensure that there would be a new vigilance
at all levels against such a combination
of weaknesses.
Mr Cramer has been subject to some
attacks by the Federal Opposition who
claimed that the ducks were obsolete,
(there is no donbt the loss of life would
have been far greater if the saviours,
chiefly fishermen, had not been so brave)
and there has been no satisfactory reply
from either the Army or its Minister on
why one of the victims was choked by
his lifebelt.
The lifebelts tightened around the
throats of a number of commandos. Mr
Cramer said there were no better lifebelts
in the world and perhaps they were mis-
handled by the soldiers in the water. As
the soldiers were being tossed about by
20i:t waves, some slight mishandling
might, perhaps, be excused; but this does
not explain why they contracted.
The Rip tragedy stirred the Queen, and
in the New Year Honors she awarded
the George Medal to Captain John
Fletcher, ol the A.S.C., for his example
of selfless courage when in command
of the amphibious craft which sank; the
B.E.M. to Pasquale Ascione, of Italy, a
member of the crew of the liner Toscana,
who, without regard for his own life,
attempted to save a soldier, and the
M.B.E. to Captain George Simpson, of
Williamstown, master of the Akuna, for a
display, with his crew, of outstanding
seamanship and steadfastness in taking
aboard 21 survivors.
It should be unnecessary to record, con-
sidering the circumstances, that in the
two actions in the Supreme Court now
concluded the Commonwealth admitted
liability—but it is not unnecessary.
SLOT MACHINES
The Passing of Pinball
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A. HAWKE
A swipe
A two-year struggle by Police Com-
missioner O’Brien ended in the
Western Australian Legislative Assembly
last week when the State Government
brought down a Bill to outlaw pinball
machines. The State already has a total
ban on one-armed bandits which have
done so much for the finances of clubs
in N.S.W. and the new legislation will
leave many cafe proprietors in Perth’s
Italian quarter lamenting their lost
fortune.
Two years ago there were hardly any
pinball machines in Perth. Now, the
police estimate they comprise a
£ 1,000,000-a-year business, most of which
goes to a company registered outside the
State. The Bill will plug up this legal
hole, but is necessarily selective in its
definition of slot machines as they are
officially called. Attorney-General Watts
delicately pointed out in his explanation
of the Bill that it would not apply to
parking meters, lawful vending machines,
juke boxes or what he called “machines
which gave access to any place or con-
venience.”
The legislation followed a mixed
reception to police attempts to clamp
down on the machines through the
courts. In several cases, magistrates
ordered machines destroyed but baulked
at the charge that their lessees were
operating a common gaming house by
having them on the premises.
Opposition Leader Hawke took the
opportunity in debate to take a side
swipe at all forms of gambling. He said
he was not sure whether the Bill was
trying to set out to prevent the fool and
his money from being parted or to pre-
vent gambling. If the first objective was
the aim it could not be achieved by
legislation because the person who lost
money on a gambling machine would
find another way to lose more than he
could afford. If the Government’s inten-
tion was to reduce gambling it would do
nothing at all. For every penny lost on
this type of machine at least £lOOO would
be lost on racing.
However, Mr Hawke swallowed his
objections and his party supported the


For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Donald Horne, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
“ Friends! Election after election, I voted Labor until, one day, a Liberal how-to-vote card Was placed in my hand !"
measure. It only remains for the Police
Commissioner to recommend which
machines shall be prohibited and the
W.A. pinball industry will be wiped out
at a stroke of the Governor's pen.
The only people who are likely to
mourn its passing are the migrants
and footloose youths who while away
their time doing their wages in the
North Perth cafes, and that minority
which has already lost one form of
entertainment in the demise of the Roe
Street brothels. The big question is what
it will turn to next.
7½d. A YEAR
Who Cares About Caries ?
FROM GOODWIN EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
Tn 1959, Launceston was involved in
furious debate over the proposal to
fluoridate its water supply, which like
most Tasmanian water is so singularly
pure that it is deficient in natural
fluorides. The opposition was mainly
based on the right of the individual to
please himself, but strong scientific
evidence was adduced, notably by Dr
J. B. Polya, Associate Professor of
Chemistry at the University of Tasmania,
and a redoubtable opponent of anything
threatening the liberty of the individual.
Dr Polya’s statements were in turn
assailed by dentists who claimed that he
spoke as an authority on chemistry but
not as a biologist. Before it was all over
emotions had become tangled with
science, and it is doubtful whether any-
one changed his views.
Perhaps tired of the storm blowing
around their heads, Launceston’s aider-
men hurriedly accepted the principle,
and a period of quiet followed.
Now controversy has been stirred up
again by the announcement that the
City Council will definitely instal plant
and has called tenders for the fluoridating
equipment.
Almost at the same time, the Govern-
ment’s consultant on fluoridation, Dr
P. C. Brothers, reported that there were
more children at Beaconsfield Area
School in Northern Tasmania with
decay-free teeth than at other schools
with ten times as many pupils—because
Beaconsfield's water supply has been
fluoridated. “Today the children of
Beaconsfield have better dental health
than children anywhere else in the
State,” Dr Brothers said. Referring to
the failure of other districts to follow
Beaconsfield’s example, he said: “It is
evident that a vocal and ill-informed
minority has more influence than con-
siderations of community health.”
Beaconsfield Municipality, encouraged
by the Health Department, has in fact
provided guineapigs for scientists from
all parts of Australia. Many of the
children attending the school drank tank-
water, and their rate of dental decay pro-
vides a valuable contrast with that of
children drinking the treated water.
Three years ago, Beaconsfield Council
Clerk J. D. Manzoney was able to report
that after five years of fluoridation there
had been a 46.1 per cent, increase in the
number of children with caries-free teeth
Dr Brothers at that time reported an
“amazing difference” in the dental health
of eight-nine-year-old children who had
been drinking the treated water com-
pared with children of the same age-
group who had had only tank - water.
He said results would have been even
more striking had they had fluoridated
water from birth. Mr Manzoney added
that the sodium silicifluoride used to give
the necessary trace of the element in
water cost only about l\d. a year for
each person in the water - supply area,
and there had been no troublesome side-
effects.
Others however quote Aid. K. Darcey
of Launceston: “This is the beginning
of the Police State.”
DR BIALOGUSKI
A letter has been received from
Dr Bialoguski’s Solicitors claiming that
an article published in The Bulletin
in its issue of October 28 bears the
inferences that Dr Bialoguski “is asso-
ciated with and condones communist
activities and is a person of ill repute.”
We do not agree that the article is
capable of bearing any such inferences
and we assure Dr Bialoguski that no
such inferences were intended.
It is The Bulletin’s belief that if
such inferences are drawn by anyone,
they are not in accordance with fact.




PLAIN ENGLISH
AS E X[?]CTED
WHAT does one talk about
when reviewing election
policy speeches?
We thought we should
attempt some analysis of the policy
speeches of Mr Menzies, Mr Calwell
and Senator Cole and it seemed to
us that we might best run through
them under these headings;
1. What relation does this speech
have to what we consider the main
problems of the day and how effect-
ively might it achieve its aims?
2. Is there a possibility that the
policy outlined really represents the
kind of thing that the party putting
it forward would actually do?
3. What new ways of looking at
things does it raise that might, some
other time, prove significant?
4. Will it have any (if so, what?)
effect on the campaign?
Before beginning on Mr Calw'ell’s
speech (as challenger he seems to
merit first attention) we have to our-
selves define what we consider the
main problems of the day. This has to
be done arbitrarily, but it can be done
in five words —-the ultimate survival
of Australia.
Or, in a few more words: what
diplomatic, defence, trade and devel-
opment policies are likely to give an
under-populated, under-developed and
under-defended Australia a chance of
surviving in an uncertain part of the
world in which only a paper screen
of weak States separates us from an
aggressive power and in which our
oldest ally (Britain) has virtually
deserted us?
LABOR POLICY
'T'O Mr Calwell. this is not really the
problem. The central issue he
presents is unemployment to a back-
ground of social-service promises.
These are real issues, but they are not
the most fundamental. The tradition-
alism of Mr Calwell’s thinking
comes out alarmingly when he assures
the free world that “if Communism
should plunge the world into war in
1962 or any later year, it will be neces-
sary to have an Australian Labor
Government in office to again save
this country from invasion and defeat.
An anti-Labor Government would
fall to pieces in a future war.” (It
would not be the only thing that
would fall to pieces.)
Short of the bombast about Aus-
tralia’s support in a world war (do we
change Governments at Strike Two or
Strike Three?) Mr Calwell supports
the Commonwealth of Nations, the
United Nations (“all nations should
be members of the United Nations ’),
neutralist protests against Soviet
nuclear testing, summit meetings and
universal disarmament. He does not
admit that his party has committed
him to withdraw from SEATO, but
camouflages this commitment by
speaking of “replanning SEATO on
a cultural, educational, medical and
technical assistance basis.” And that
is all he has to say on foreign policy.
Apart from the bravado about an
Australian Labor Government saving
Australia from invasion and defeat,
and remembering that his party has
committed him to recognising Com-
munist China and that he says nothing
about China or even Asia, it would
not be unfair to say that this is in
effect a neutralist foreign policy, which
so far as we are concerned is enough
reason in itself for voting against Mr
Calwell.
On defence he asserts, without argu-
ment. that by spending the same
money as Mr Menzies he would
strengthen defence. He is against “con-
scription of Australian youth to
serve under Asian commanders” and
would like to see our defence forces
used as “a peace unit of the United
Nations” (with the assumption that
the United Nations forces would be
controlled by non-Asian comman-
ders?). On trade, although slam-
whanging the present Government, he
offers no solutions the Government is
not already attempting or has not itself
promised, apart from vague offers of
new credit facilities and a large trade-
promotion section in the Department
of Trade. Of the diversion of resources
that may be necessary to encourage
exports, he has nothing to say. On
development he wants to appoint a
Minister for Northern Australia, set
up a North Australia conservation
authority and ease taxation to
encourage development in the North,
all good ideas in themselves.
It is the existing economy that
interests Mr Calwell and for that he
has a policy of inflation: a
£100.000.000 budget deficit, reimposi-
tion of selective import controls, equal
pay for women, quarterly basic-wage
adjustments. £123.000.000 a year extra
to be spent on social welfare plus a
further welfare programme not yet
priced. Without an accompanying
increase in productivity, this pro-
gramme would simply lead to a return
of the inflationary boom and another
balance-of-payments crisis. which
would in turn lead to another
Government-induced recession, or
devaluation, or both. It is hard to
believe Mr Calwell when he says the
Labor party has spent 18 months pre-
paring this “programme.”
In increased productivity he says,
in general terms, that he would help
manufacturers “to re-equip their
plants with the latest machinery to
bring Australian production times up-
to-date with overseas development”
but later in his speech he seems to be
promising higher company taxation.
He does not explain how firms can
re-equip if their money is taken from
them. In a general flourish he does
promise a possible rise of productivity
of five per cent per annum, perhaps
the most nonsensical statement that
will be made in the election.
GOVERNMENT POLICY
V/fR MENZItS'S policy speech, of
course, turned out not to be so
much a policy speech as a description
of what he has done in the past and
how he feels about things now; this
made it a peculiarly honest speech
(whether one liked it or not) that left
the future realistically open.
In foreign policy he substitutes
commitment in a violent world for Mr
CalwelFs neutralism. He repeats
support for SEATO and the ANZUS
pact and still seems to put faith in
our association with Great Britain.
Unlike Mr Calwell, he sees the safe-
guards for our future in power politics
and alliances, damns the United
Nations with faint praise, acknow-
ledges the realities of the Cold War,
points to the grave threats to Austra-
lia involved in a South-East Asian
collapse and reminds the reader that
without commitment we could become
isolated. This is the voice of realistic
patriotism, although there are two
dangers: Great Britain is not vitally
interested in South-East Asia, and
seems always to prefer, in a South-
East Asian crisis, a concessionary
policy; and SEATO, partly for this
reason, is no longer good enough. We
need new and firmer alliances in the
Pacific.
On defence, trade and development
he does not offer new policies. What
he does have is a more realistic
appraisal than Mr Calwell of the uses
of defence and the problems of trade
and development. Even the Govern-
ment’s critics privately confess that
out of the earlier chaos the Govern-
ment now has a good defence policy;
the main trouble is that there isn’t
enough of it. On trade Mr Menzies is
cautious. He urges diversification of
exports, particularly manufactured
goods and points to what the Govern-
ment has already done. But the dis-
crepancy between the volume of manu-
factured goods now exported and the
volume of raw materials now exported
is so huge, and the inefficiencies and
costs of parts of Australian manufac-
turing are so great that one would like
to hear more details. On develop-
ment, unlike Mr Calwell, he has a
philosophy. It is that of encouraging
private enterprise to do a lot of the
developing for us, with Government
development providing the auxiliary
backing. Here again one would like
more detail. The use of taxation policy
to encourage development is the kind
of thing one would expect from a
Government holding this philosophy.
It is scandalous that no one in this
election is offering tax inducements
towards capital reinvestment.
In balance, Mr Menzies’s com-
ments on trade and development were
disappointing. Not because he did
not make promises. But because the
essential pace seemed to be missing.
These are not questions on which we
can proceed too slowly; an energetic
use of budgetary and fiscal methods to
ensure a bigger flow of resources into
the development and export industries
would seem to be Australia’s major
strategic economic need.
On the internal economy, as “The
Bulletin” has maintained throughout
the year, Mr Menzies has no apologies
to make for checking a dangerous
boom and a balance-of-payments
crisis. Whatever criticisms might be
made in detail, the measures taken
were roughly the kind of measures
that had to be taken, although perhaps
they should have been taken sooner.
Where the policy speech is disappoint-
ing is that there is no indication the
economy is to be so changed that
another dangerous boom may not fol-
low the present damping down.
Although this kind of thing might be
too strong meat in an election, some
indication of a positive, comprehen-
sive and long-term plan for per-
manently strengthening the economy by
fiscal and budgetary means would be
great news for Australia when the
election is over.
THE D.L.P.
eENATOR COLE, as might be
expected, displayed the most com-
prehensive concern for Australian sur-
vival, although how some of his plans
were to be implemented was not clear.
On the threats to our safety, he was
both emotional and accurate. Unlike
Mr Calwell. he was prepared for strong
military alliances. Unlike Mr Menzies,
he put no faith in Britain, little faith
in SEATO and not even all that much
faith in America.
He did put up a combined diplo-
matic-defence-trade-development plan
that is the kind of thing we should be
looking for (whether or not this par-
ticular plan would work). Its basis
is that our future prosperity lies in
the closest possible association with
the nations of the Pacific whose
interests are similar to our own. He
picks out Japan, Taiwan, Malaya, the
Philippines, Thailand, South Vietnam
and New Zealand, and suggests that
these countries enter into common de-
fence and trade agreements. On
development he wants to integrate an
expanded migration programme with
development and to plan development
both directly, through a Northern
Australia Development Commission,
and through taxation and financial
policies. On defence he wants to
double our armed forces and reintro-
duce National Service Training. On
general economic policy he wants to
plan a diversion of the economy by
budgetary and financial policies to
strengthen the primary, basic and
export industries, categorising indus-
tries and discriminating amongst them.
Unfortunately this coherent and per-
haps practicable plan was marred by
a number of specific promises that
seemed strangely out of character in
a D.L.P. policy speech and couldn’t be
fitted in with the plan. (How can you
double the defence vote and at the
same time reduce taxation?)
PARTIES AND POLICIES
VA7HAT relation did these speeches
” have to the parties that put them
forward?
Mr Menzies must score full marks
here. Since his speech was concerned
with the kind of thing that he has
already done, there was no suggestion
of false promises. Here was reality.
Senator Cole, on the other hand, who
is not going to be the next Prime
Minister —although voting for the
D.L.P. will determine who is—should
not have been so specific, especially in
his promises. The D.L.P.’s task, as a
party that gets a lot of votes but hardly
any seats, is to put forward its
philosophy of action in an attempt to
mould opinion and influence voting in
the present election and its own future
prospects.
Mr Calwell’s policy speech bore no


necessary connection with the party he
would like to lead into power. Rule
1 of the A.L.P.’s Federal Conference
says; “The Federal Conference of the
party shall be the supreme governing
authority and policy-making body, and
its decisions shall be binding upon
all State branches and affiliates
thereto, and upon the Federal and
State Parliamentary Labor parties and
upon the Federal Executive.” Strong
Parliamentary leaders can see to it
that the A.L.P.’s Federal Conference
more or less rubber-stamps their
policies. But Mr Calwell is Parlia-
mentary leader of the Labor party
because he is weak, because he has
accommodated himself to the men who
run it.
For this reason he was less than
honest when he made his policy speech
because he did not clearly outline some
of the policy the Federal Conference
has already committed him to. This
policy includes recognition of Com-
munist China and support for its
admission to the United Nations, hos-
tility to SEATO and withdrawal of
Australian troops from Malaya, and
hostility to Japan, our great Pacific
trading partner, and America, our
great Pacific military ally. In internal
policy, the policy includes repeal of
the 1951 Clean Ballot legislation
which gives a guarantee against Com-
munist ballot-rigging in the unions.
Mr Calwell did not reveal that this
was part of the fixed policy of his
party, although in general terms he
admitted that he was committed to
repeal those sections of the Crimes
Act and the Arbitration Act that effec-
tively minimise Communist activities
in the unions.
There are other ways in which Mr
Calwell’s speech might be taken
simply as a facade to cover the realL
ties. His faction-ridden party, divided
between an aggressive and confident
Left wing and demoralised and uncer-
tain Right wing might simply fall to
bits under the strains of office—or
succumb to the Left. And in the Left
there are unashamed neutralists and
determined socialists who openly
preach Australian disengagement from
resistance to Communist aggression
abroad and active socialisation of the
economy at home. Mr Calwell’s
guarantee not to nationalise anything
if he achieved office was no real
guarantee; under the Constitution he
cannot pursue a policy of nationalisa-
tion. But what he can do, as Dr J. F.
Cairns has argued, is use the con-
stitutional power of taxation to intimi-
date private enterprise, and he can set
up Government enterprises to which
he grants special concessions.
Whatever one may think of Mr Cal-
well’s own desires, only those who
have not studied the present nature of
the A.L.P. would take his statements
as the determined policy of his party.
Mr Calwell showed his inability to
control his party especially when he
refused this year to discipline the
scandalous Victorian A.L.P. Execu-
tive. In itself that might lose him
the election.
DIFFERENT IMAGES
Y\/HAT ways of looking at things
emerge in the policy speeches
that might, some time, prove signifi-
cant?
Mr Menzies was the voice of prag-
matic conservatism, concerned with the
realities of good government, power
politics abroad and a mixed economy
at home. Mr Calwell, papering over
the cracks between his own beliefs and
those of his party, did not seem to
express any consistent philosophy at
all. What came through most strongly
were the Labor traditions of isolation-
ism in foreign affairs and a concern
for welfare, but the image was diffuse
and certainly offered no new solutions.
As might be expected. Senator Cole
was the ideas man. One might com-
plain that there were too many ideas.
Decentralisation, education. profit-
sharing. anti - monopolism, small -
manism. contributory national insur-
ance and other ideas seemed to pro-
vide too heavy a meal for election
discussion. What appealed to “The
Bulletin” in his speech, and what may
prove to be one of the effective ideas
of the future, was the realisation that
the days of our closest ties with Great
Britain are over and that new partners,
particularly Japan, may be vital to our
future. He was also the only policy
speaker who put forward an economic
policy that could be described as a
policy of effective planned capitalism,
with an emphasis on strategic needs.
One hopes that this also will be an
idea of the future.
There was one new idea on which
all parties put forward policies. That
is the development of the North. Mr
Calwell would have a special depart-
ment, Senator Cole would have a
special commission, Mr Menzies
already has a Department of National
Development and will now add to it
a Water Resources Council. Each of
the leaders spoke at length on develop-
ment, and there is more than an off-
chance that over the next ten years we
may see genuine development of the
North conducted on an at least partly
bi-partisan basis.
EFFECT ON CAMPAIGN
A S to the effect of the policy speeches
on the campaign, one can cer-
tainly hazard a guess that none of
them will have any dramatic turn-
about effects (as Dr Evatt’s interven-
tion in the Communist Party Dissolu-
tion Referendum did. for instance).
This is partly because they were so
much what had already been expected.
Mr Calwell was expected to come out
strongly on full employment with a
background of promises. Mr Menzies
was expected to stand firm on his
record. Senator Cole was expected
to reveal the scandals of the A.L.P.,
put up a policy of “national survival”
and point to the need for a new party.
Mr Menzies will exploit Labor’s
disunity and Left-wing domination, its
ineffective inflationary policy and the
subsequent unreality of its promises.
Mr Calwell will attack “Government
complacency” and exploit the desire
for change and the discontents of this
year’s recession. Senator Cole will
concentrate more and more on the real
nature of the A.L.P.; Mr Calwell will
dismiss this as “McCarthyist smear-
ing.”
However, it might also be argued
that, especially in politically naive
N.S.W.. the very fact that the policy
speeches were so predictable may have
an effect on the campaign. If Mr
Menzies had put up some new policy,
even if it were simply a co-ordinated
statement of his ideas on national de-
velopment (ideas he would put into
effect if he is re-elected), this might
have had an effect on the campaign;
Liberal voters who think he is “com-
placent” might have changed their
minds; they might have found an
“excuse” for again voting Liberal. The
attack on the A.L.P. so far has been
muted, perhaps excessively muted.
This may change during the campaign,
but the suspicion began to be aroused
in this early period that perhaps Mr
Calwell was being allowed to get away
with too much.
To us the issue is that, however
much it may be deplored by those who
“want a change,” Labor, disunited,
Left-wing dominated and neutralist, is
not fit to govern.


"IT'S A SORT OF THREE-YEAR SERIAL FOR ADULTS."


INSIDE ALICE SPRINGS
Alice has turned respectable though the skeletons still rattle
in the closet
By KEITH WILLEY
Whose “Inside Darwin” in The Bulletin, ]une 17, won the Walkeley Award for
the best magazine article of 1961
ALICE SPRINGS is the respectable end of the
Northern Territory. She has always been more closely
linked to Adelaide than to unruly Darwin. You see
this in her lovely houses and gardens, and also in the
fact that this is the only town in the Territory where you
find the apologetic bar-sipper so common in Adelaide;
where men rush in for “a couple of quickies,” often paying
for their own to avoid “the shout.” Darwin politicians rant
and roar, but Alice, sober, prosperous, house-proud, goes
about her business.
And business in this best of all Australian inland
towns is booming —a bright oasis in a largely mendicant
Territory. Her cattle industry, hit by what Federal member
Jock Nelson has called “the worst drought in the time of
the white man,” still supplies the best part of the Terri-
tory’s £5.1 million a year pastoral turnoff. Transport is
worth possibly a million, and tourism —fastest-growing
money-maker of all —rakes in an estimated £300,000 a year
now. To back up all this, Alice has a goodly share of
the Territory’s basic “industry”—the Public Service. The
proportion of Government employees in the work force is
much lower than Darwin’s, but would still approach 50
per cent. Hundreds of clerks and other officers occupy
comfortable hostels within the town area.
Today Alice’s 4600 people live in this beautiful town of
wide streets, leafy trees, colorful shrubs and gardens—
refreshing contrast to the stark wastes which are its setting.
The three hotels —Riverside, Stuart Arms (now being rebuilt)
and Hotel Alice Springs —do well. Traeger Park —named
after the inventor of the pedal radio —is by far the best
sporting arena in the Northern Territory. The John Flynn
Memorial Church must be one of the most photographed in
the Commonwealth. Though it is not a large town, it has
the “feel” of a city. It is the centre of an 80,000 square-
mile pastoral district, the hub of Flynn of the Inland’s
“mantle of safety.” It is the centre for the unique radio
School of the Air. which helps bring education to children
in remote areas. It is a “capital” in its own right, regard-
ing Canberra and Darwin with equal distaste. You feel you
are in the middle of things.
Alice is also a town of togetherness, and nowhere is this
more apparent than in that unique institution, the Memorial
Club. Alf Smith, who has managed it for eight years, can
point to wide bars, a three-table billiards room, seven-rink
bowling green, facilities for indoor bowls, darts. Plans for
the future include tennis and squash courts, a swimming
pool. “The Club” dominates night life so completely that
for many years the only social news the local paper carried
was a weekly account of the club’s Friday “late licence”
(liquor until midnight) dance.
Not far from the club and an almost equally important
community centre is “Phil Muldoon’s Boarding House”—
otherwise known as Her Majesty’s Alice Springs Labor
Prison. Muldoon, a former policeman, runs Australia’s
most comfortable jail. He takes a deep personal interest
both in his gardens and his “guests.” So much so that a
couple of years ago when a local woman, noted for her
sharp tongue, announced she would go to jail rather than
pay a fine. Muldoon put up the money himself. He was not
going to have HER in his jail, he said. Many a deadbeat
has pleaded in court to be remanded “in care of His Grace,
Mr Muldoon” for a few weeks. There have been escapers,
but few stray far. One man used to get out every week-
end, visit his girlfriend, drink a few rums and be back
inside by roll-call Monday morning. Another managed to
break into the women’s section, grab the girl of his choice
and decamp with her. Later, as he sat in a bush hiding-
place watching the searchers, he saw Muldoon out with
them. “I felt sorry for him and decided to give myself up,”
the jailbreaker confided later. By any standards. Muldoon
is a good man. And he runs a good prison.
Yet. respectable as she seems today, Alice's petticoats
are none too clean, and the skeletons in her closet still
rattle. The men who first opened up the Centre were tough.
They had to be. Right up to the war the area was rocked
by controversies such as the Coniston Massacre when 31
aborigines, including two lubras, were shot (“in self-
defence,” an official inquiry ruled later) by police expedi-
tions which went out after a white man was killed and
another clubbed to death. There was Harold Bell (Lost
Reef) Lasseter, who died in the Petermann Ranges. C. H.
Chapman, who made a fortune from The Granites gold
mine, built a big house outside Alice Springs which he
called “Pearly Gates” and amused himself when people
phoned by answering: “Pearly Gates here. Peter speaking.”
The hangover from those days still lingered six years
ago when I worked there for a while. The Stuart Arms
Hotel was a long, rambling building. Outside was the Seat
of Wisdom, where that grand old bushman Bob Buck and
his mates would yarn by the hour. When Bob died a year
or so back, something in the Alice died with him.
One of Central Australia’s great bushmen and story-
tellers, Bob Buck was 80 when I knew him. Old-timers say
he was either born in the Terrtory or chiselled straight
from the Mac Donnell Ranges. A large man with a round,
rubicund, walrus-like face and massive moustache, Bob
spent most of his time in the bush. He could read tracks
like a native. When Lasseter failed to return from the Peter-
manns in 1931 after seeking his elusive “mountain of gold,”
it was Bob Buck who went looking for him. He found
Lasseter’s body and buried it deep in the ranges. For years
Bob won rounds of drinks by producing a set of teeth
which he claimed were Lasseter’s and tossing them onto
the bar counter at the Stuart Arms.
When out on his station, Doctor’s Stones, south of
Alice, he lived like a native in his mud house, with fowls
and goats wandering in and out. But his hospitality was
enormous. Visitors were regaled with stories and mugs of


rum. A few months before he died the old bushman said
he “hoped none of the Territory liars would stay away
from his funeral.” None did.
There was the Northern Territory Talking Champion-
ship when Tall Tale Tex Tyrrell defeated the Tennant
Creek magsman Walkie Talkie Nelson in a long-drawn-out
windbagging test—again at the Stuart Arms. I’ll never
forget Tex’s story of how to cook a galah: “First you put
the galah in a pot of water and boil for two hours. Then
take it out, give it a bit of a shove with a crowbar and see
if it’s soft enough. If not, put it back and add a big lump
of ironstone. When the ironstone is soft the galah is cooked.
And if you take my advice you’ll eat the ironstone.”
Though so few years ago, those days are nearly gone,
swamped by the annual flood of tourists who have forced
Alice, like Centralia’s Mountain Devil lizard, to take on
the protective coloring of a new environment. Author and
bushman Bill Harney, who left the Top End for Alice
several years ago because “Darwin was too civilised,”
recently returned to his old camp at Two-Feller Creek, a
few miles around the coast from Darwin Harbor. It is the
Centre now which is too civilised for him.
A LICE SPRINGS is no longer a stockman’s town. Yet
cattle are still the basis of her wealth, bringing in more
than £2 million a year. In normal times life on the stations
out from Alice Springs is pretty good. Gone are the days
of privations and bag-and-iron humpies—though they still
tell of the old-time pastoralist who returned after dark,
hungry, felt his way (there were no lights) to the meat-safe.
As he gnawed away at a lump of kangaroo he remarked to
the lubra how tough it was. “More better you bin cookim,
boss,” she replied. Times are better now. Some pastoralists,
like Ted Hayes of Undoolya, who lives mostly in Alice
these days, made a million. Others, like old “King of the
Drovers” Matt Savage, live on a pension. Fate and luck
have winnowed them out.
As of now, Central Australia is going through the
worst drought in its recorded history. A pall of dust hangs
over the country, stretching from Finke in the south, over
to Tobermorey near the Queensland border, Mount Doreen
fringing the Bindaboo country in the north-west and
Willowra and Ilbumric to the north. Alice Springs herself
has had no rain for six months. Some cattle have not seen
green grass for four years, others not in their lifetime. Losses,
though heavy, would have been far worse but for the giant
road-trains which have put the overlander and his horses
out of business and can rush thousands of cattle away
quickly to markets and agistment areas in South Australia.
Ten years ago the drought would have meant a business
depression in Alice Springs. Today, though the main topic
of conversation, it has caused scarcely a ripple financially.
One reason is the road-transport industry, which non-
completion of the north-south railway to Darwin has turned
into big business. More important still is the tourist trade.
This year 20,000 visitors swarmed into the Alice with
money to spend. They came from all over the world. Bert
Palmer, young (age 30) manager of the Central Australian
Tourist Bureau, says: “We get people out here from Eng-
land who know only two Australian place-names: Alice
Springs and Sydney.”
For this magnificent public relations the Centre can
(though it seldom does) thank such men as Nevil (“A Town
Like Alice”) Shute, Alan (“Straight From the Heart”)
Wauchope, Bill Harney, Albert Namatjira, sculptor Jimmy
Ricketts, who used to carve huge aboriginal figures in the
cliffs outside Alice and whose work has been assessed as
everything from “rubbish” to “genius.”
Once in the Alice, tourists find plenty to do. They can
buy stark aboriginal landscape paintings, or watch the
natives, gay in red cowboy hats, riding-boots and spurs,
jangle by. On sight-seeing trips in the back country they
gaze in awe at Ayers Rock, the world’s biggest gibber, an
llOOft-high, 400 ft-long monolith. Tiny, inch-long fish,
which the natives call kundje-kundje live in little pools
which, even in this worst of droughts, collect on its summit.
How the fish got there remains a mystery like the Rock
itself. The trees at Palm Valley are among the most primi-
tive types of vegetation on earth. Tall palms like these
waved by the shores of an inland sea long, long ago.
For armchair cowboys there’s a dude ranch at Ross
River. The thoughtful can ponder over Mt Olga or King’s
Canyon, an 800 ft-high wall of rock/which glows red in the
sun. Vandals this year raised a cairn of beer cans on the
summit and tour officials had to climb laboriously up and
remove them. With rising tourist revenue of £300,000 to
£500,000 pouring in annually, Alice Springs accommodation
has had a facelift. Ly Underdown is turning the Hotel Alice
Springs into a showplace. Mona Minahan has finally
completed the Riverside. Mount Gillen private hotel has
such amenities as air-conditioned rooms and a swimming
pool.
The tourist trade has the ball at its feet. Bert Palmer
reckons “the sky’s the limit,” and that one day it may
surpass the cattle industry. Cattle, tourism, transport: these
are the basis of Alice’s current prosperity.
There are fringe industries with profit for the future.
Vic and Sue de Fontenay run Australia’s only successful
date plantation. Veteran Territorian Jack Swanson mines
the purest salt in the country (97.9 p.c.) from the bed of
Lake Amadeus, 80 miles long dry lake in sandhill country
north of Ayers Rock. Market gardeners in Alice itself grow
fruit and vegetables second to none, and export some of
them to Darwin. Mining is in eclipse. Arltunga goldfield
is a ghost town. Harts Range mica is not worth working
in face of cheap imports from India. The stage is set for
steady, if unspectacular, growth. But Alice may have an
ace up her sleeve. Out in the Simpson Desert (which isn’t
all desert, but has big green oases where a Queensland
pastoralist once mustered 900 head of strays) several Aus-
tralian and U.S. companies are prospecting for oil. If they
hit it, Alice Springs would be a boom town overnight.
TN the yard of the Alice Springs railway station is a big
stone, chained off, on which is a plaque inscribed: “This
stone is mentioned in the legends of the Arunta tribe associ-
ated with the country around Alice Springs. It is Gnoilya
(Wild Dog) Tmerga. This stone is associated with a great
white dog man who came from Latrika away to the "west
and wanted to kill the dog men at Choritja (Stuart, or Alice
Springs). When they saw him the local Gnoilya (wild dog)
men sang out: ‘Wunna meainda brinna numma’—see,
this is your camp. Sit down. So he sat down quietly and
remained there, the stone arising to mark the spot. If the
stone is rubbed by the old men all the camp dogs begin
to growl and grow fierce. The last man to rub it was one
of the old Inkatas (headmen), who did so soon after the
white men had come in order to try and make the dogs
bite them . . .”
All the country around Alice Springs once belonged
to the Arunta. Greatest of all Australian tribes, they were
said to muster 1000 warriors for some ceremonial corro-
borees. The Arunta still live around Alice and over at
Hermannsburg Mission. But their proud days are gone.
Dressed in pathetic cowboy clothes, they are the ghosts at
the feast, haunting the street corners or huddled by their
fires, among their dogs and women, on the dry bed of the
Todd River.
The great painter Albert Namatjira casts a long
shadow. He made this country his, through his work, and
though he could not read or write, probably no single man
did more than he to publicise Alice as a tourist centre.


Yet he could cry brokenly when they led him off to jail a
few months before his death: “Put an end to all this. Let
Lhem shoot us like dogs if they won’t let us live like men.”
Albert’s tragedy was the tragedy of all the Territory’s
aborigines. As a citizen he was allowed to drink liquor. But
if he shared it with a friend or relative he risked a minimum
penalty of six months’ jail for supplying. For years he and
the other Arunta painters, with money in their pockets,
were blamed for the flood of liquor that got into Hermanns-
burg Mission. Finally a girl was killed not far from Albert’s
camp at Morris Soak, a notorious aboriginal drinking
haunt several miles outside Alice. Authority moved in,
evacuated and cleaned up the Soak area. Albert was
charged with supplying, convicted and sentenced. He
actually served only a couple of months —and that in the
open at Areyonga reserve. But this final humiliation broke
the old man’s heart. His wisdom and his art set him apart
from his own people. The white man, while admiring his
work, rejected him as a person; even refusing him permis-
sion to build a house in Alice Springs. The big money he
earned over the years was given away or spent supporting
his swarming tribe of relatives. At the end he had nothing.
Six years ago, Alice Springs was a color-bar town. On
my first day there I saw a well-known businessman deliber-
ately move across the footpath to edge a native into the
gutter. Today old prejudices are fading. Half-castes and
whites swim side by side in the town pool. They have
always played Australian Rules football together, though
most of the part-colored boys (“yeller fellers” is the Alice
Springs name for them) band together in their own team
which, with fine irony, they have named “Pioneers.” Full-
bloods are still segregated in the picture theatre and else-
where. But this is more for reasons of hygiene than any-
thing else.
The Memorial Club—great 1000-member centre of
almost all Alice social life—was founded 10 years ago. It
has close links with the R.S.L., and many half-caste
ex-servicemen claimed they were excluded on grounds of
color. Certainly very few of them became members. But,
then, not many applied. Held back by their innate mental
withdrawal and fear of rebuff, they preferred to nurse their
grievance for years rather than bring it out in the open.
The club does have a few colored members, and those it
has are accepted as equals.
The old half-caste slum at the Gap, where you could
buy a woman or a fight any night of the week, has been
largely cleaned up. The Government plan to settle half-
caste families in homes scattered through “white” areas was
resisted by the town for a long time, but is slowly being
pushed through. The half-caste is further along the road to
full acceptance than would have seemed possible five years
ago.
Not so the fullbloods. Useful as camera subjects for
tourists and to run the sanitary carts, they are, otherwise, a
race of mendicants, existing on Government handouts, list-
less, uncaring. Every weekend hundreds come in from
their new settlement of Amoonguna to sit on the bed of the
Todd yarning, eating cracker biscuits, swilling lolly water —
or “plonk” if any is available. The Legislative Council
member for Alice Springs, Neal Hargrave, and other resi-
dents resent their presence in the town, claiming that their
total lack of hygiene is a health menace.
Mr Hargrave also warns of the diminishing respect
among aborigines for the police uniform—a common prob-
lem throughout the Territory. He says: “A number of
them are getting, for want of a better word, cheekier week
by week. Not long ago we had the first case in many years
of a native assaulting a white woman. I think before very
long there could be real trouble.”
As far as the police are concerned, that trouble has
already arrived. Policemen have been attacked and
threatened in riots at Papunya and Hermannsburg. One
was battered by a huge tribesman in the streets of Alice
Springs. Several times revolvers have had to be drawn
for self-protection.
An inevitable by-product of the assimilation policy is
the awakening of minds, a desire for equality, the stirrings
of resentment. The aboriginal of today is given a smatter-
ing of education then turned loose in a world which, by
and large, has neither work nor time for him. He has lost
faith in his old way of life and, so far as the adult is con-
cerned anyway, he has nothing to put in its place. This
is a lost generation, and its rising bitterness and frustration
are a problem which police action alone will not solve.
TJOLITICS in Alice Springs are pretty tame. They lack
A the robustness, the rabble-rousing zest you find in
Darwin. The main political effort is negative —a grim
determination to resist introduction of Local Government
and municipal rates. Administration, keen to pressure
centres like Alice into forming Town Councils, introduced
a Bill in the Legislative Council about two years ago to
rate areas which are not municipalities. Alice Springs led
such a Terirtory-wide storm of protest that the measure was
adjourned again and again, then quietly shelved. Mr Har-
grave said: “We have the horrible example before us of the
Darwin City Council. Until it straightens its affairs out the
issue is not likely to be popular here. In any case, Alice
Springs people are not prepared to pay rates while they
also have to meet rent to the Crown for leasehold land. Give
us freehold and our attitude might be different.” He con-
ceded that resistance to Local Government showed an
immaturity which in itself was a barrier to the constitutional
reforms he and other Territory political leaders are seeking.
“Part of the trouble,” he points out, “is that Alice
Springs has no class of semi-retired businessmen; the type
of people on whom Local Government relies, with the
experience and time to put into council affairs. Here the
people who could run the show are flat out running their
own businesses.” Alice has a newly formed Town Manage-
ment Advisory Board which as yet has done nothing much.
It also has a Progress Association which every few years
rises like a Phoenix from the ashes, survives a meeting or
two, then fades away. Currently, even this feeble body is
in eclipse.
The economic future of Alice Springs would seem
assured. With new schools going up. well-filled churches
and a thriving Youth Centre, community life is healthy and
on an even keel. Nowhere is the new Alice more apparent
than in The Ghan —the train from Port Augusta. Named
after the old Afghan camel drivers who preceded it, The
Ghan is one of the few trains I remember with affection.
It used to chug ponderously north. Every stop saw the
“sitting-up” carriage empty in a mad dash to the nearest
hotel, followed by hurried buying of bottles and the race
back. Invariably The Ghan would start moving just before
the last man arrived. Passengers would cheer him on as
he clambered aboard with his clanking cargo.
Today The Ghan runs twice a week, is modern, com-
fortable, efficient. Together with regular air services, it
disgorges an increasing flow of tourists into Alice.
The cattle industry is rich, mechanised, up to date. And
sooner or later the drought must break. Transport is a
wealthy field and growing wealthier. The Todd River, a
sandbed studded with white ghost-gums, snaking through
the centre of town, flows two or three times a year. There
are plans to dam it and use the water to launch farms.
Finally there is the heady gamble of oil in the Simpson
Desert and south towards the salt-lake country of South
Australia.
Where Darwin talks, Alice acts. She is young, cocky,
and on the move.


Tanner's Seven
Deadly Australians


HOW "FITZY" WON
Jim Healy laid to rest
By MUGGA
ONE of Sydney’s wharfies recently took a frozen chook
home to his wife. Indirectly, it was a present from
the new general secretary of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, 39-year-old, blue-eyed Charles Henry
Fitzgibbon. The wharfie didn’t buy the chook, but won
it in a raffle run on the Sydney waterfront by some of Mr
Fitzgibbon’s supporters, who used the raffle technique in
raising money for him to wage his successful election cam-
paign. Perhaps only £2 was raised by that raffle, but it
was added to by similar raffles, tarpaulin musters, a “quick
on-the-job whip-round with the hat,” which went on all
round Australia by wharfies who were backing “Fitzy.”
Mr Fitzgibbon’s election as the new secretary of the
Federation ended a reign of 24 years in trade unions, for
it was really only last week that Jim Healy was actually
laid to rest. As one Sydney wharfie said last Wednesday:
“1 voted for Jim for the last 12 years because he was a
good bloke, but I’m if I’m going to vote for Nelson.”
■pROM the moment that Fitzgibbon nominated, the Com-
A munist party was in danger of losing the all-important
position of general secretary. Fitzgibbon was a “clean-
skin” —he was and is a member of the New South Wales
State Executive of the A.L.P., is a well-known attacker of
“Groupers,” Santamariaites, is an anti-Communist and a
militant —all the necessary qualifications to be elected as
a union secretary, especially in the Waterside Workers’
Federation. He received pontifical Labor-party endorse-
ment from Mr Calwell and Mr Colbourne, although the
myth of Labor-party non-participation in union elections
still had to be maintained.
The first thing Mr Fitzgibbon needed, to have a chance
of winning, was money. This was found for him somehow.
A prominent member of the N.S.W. A.L.P. executive
is said to have unofficially given Mr Fitzgibbon £7OO.
Where this money came from I am not sure —it certainly
could not have come from A.L.P. funds. Probably several
unions gave some, and some of it came from Labor
Parliamentarians who were asked to “kick-in” for Fitz-
gibbon. At any rate, the myth had been successfully
maintained —none of it officially came from the A.L.P., and
the pathological legalists in the party were happy.
npHE money provided Mr Fitzgibbon with means of living
A and paid for his travelling expenses while he visited
all States soliciting votes. In all ports, “Charlie Fitz-
gibbon Campaign Committees,” mainly composed of A.L.P.
members and supporters, were set up. Getting them started
was the main difficulty. Once the nucleus of a committee
was formed, organisation was comparatively easy.
Mr Fitzgibbon ran a very shrewd campaign, and there
was no doubt that he was running it. His propaganda
rightly claimed that he was an experienced wharfie. had a
close knowledge of the workings of the Federation, was
opposed to the “Groupers” and D.L.P. interference in
unions as well as Communist-party interference, a mili-
tant, and was not standing as a political candidate but
as an industrial one. He refused to be interviewed by
newspapers. (He did not want to be labelled “the press
candidate.”)
This took most of any bite out of the Communist
party’s campaign for Nelson. Organisation did not worry
them, as they had a cell in every port (except some of the
outports), money came from the usual sources, and the
party press in all States backed him. Jim Healy’s name
was freely bandied about in the hope that some of the
magic of his name would brush off in votes for Mr Nelson.
TT was evident in the last week of the campaign that the
A election was swinging Fitzgibbon’s way when Mr N.
Docker, the industrial officer of the Federation, was addres-
sing a job-meeting at 9 p.m. on No. 1 Glebe Island, where
the “Betwa” was docked. When Mr Docker alleged that
Fitzgibbon was “the newspaper candidate,” the 30-odd
wharfies present seemed unimpressed, and some of them
even walked away. At interstate meetings Nelson had to
bring supporters over from Sydney to keep up a good front.
Alford, too, was campaigning—but his was a more
difficult campaign. He had to persuade his 3000-odd voters
to support Fitzgibbon —despite the fact that Fitzgibbon
was attacking Alford, the “Groupers” and the D.L.P. He
also had to do this by not supporting Fitzgibbon. Had he
openly supported Fitzgibbon it would have been the kiss
of death for “Fitzy,” as well as a return to Communist con-
trol of the Federation. More importantly, for the first time
in seven years, the A.L.P. was in the position of almost
officially supporting a candidate in a union election. There
is no doubt that Fitzgibbon had a start on Nelson, for he
already had Alford’s 3000 votes up his sleeve.
/'NNE remarkable thing about the election was that the
last-minute nomination of another Labor-party member
virtually had no effect on the voting. It was thought that
this would split any A.L.P. anti-Communist vote —but it
did not. It appears that the wharfies are a little more
sophisticated than most people (especially A.L.P. officials)
think they are. They knew (and said) that it was a straight-
out fight between the Communist party and the Labor
party.
But despite all claims to the contrary it was not only
or even mainly an A.L.P. victory. Although Mr Santa-
maria’s National Civic Council men kept in the back-
ground, they effectively worked for Fitzgibbon. Fitz-
gibbon’s election was the result of an alliance all too rare in
Australian trade union politics. It was an alliance of men
of all shades of political and religious opinion who. for
whatever mixed reasons, were determined that this chance
of breaking a stranglehold should not be lost.
But the real test for the A.L.P. and Mr Fitzgibbon
will come when there are more elections in the Federation.
Will the common front against the still-strong Communist
control in the union be maintained?


“Nice Doggie!"
"IVell , we've heard the campaign promises and had our
little laugh—now down to serious business."
"You can have them — l'm a staunch Labor
man, myself


SLUMP ON THE GOLD COAST?
The Golden Years are over, but ...
By JOHN HIGGINS
ET’S face it —the Gold Coast has been kicked in
the guts, but it is coming back bigger and better
JL-i than ever before.” Thus the gospel of sand and surf
according to its chief apostle in Queensland, stocky
56-year-old Country party member for Southport, Mr Eric
Gaven.
He was not referring to the recent convention of the
Australian Association of Advertising Agencies (the “Four
A’s”) in Surfers’ Paradise when an American ad-man ran
an acidulous eye over the Gold Coast and informed
Queenslanders that Americans had plenty of honky-tonks
at home without coming over here to see them. (Gold
Coast opinion of them was summarised by the character
who referred to the ad-men as the “Four B’s” instead of
the “Four A’s”.)
Nor was he referring to the English novelist J. B.
Priestley, who in his latest book “Saturn over the Water”
described the Coast as “a big gaudy tasteless mess, a mass
of razzle-dazzle, with pink and emerald awnings and neon
lights, impatient for the sun to go down.”
Ask Mr Gaven just exactly who did kick the Gold
Coast in the guts, and he names two villains responsible
for this dastardly outrage —his own State Government’s
Valuer-General’s Department, and that better known mis-
creant, the credit squeeze.
Of the two, Mr Gaven regards the Valuer-General
as the arch villian, and he can produce figures to back up
his charges —charges that he has been making in the State
House with vehement regularity for the last couple of years.
Almost the sole industry (apart from tourism itself) in
the Gold Coast proper has been building. Private enter-
prise is estimated to have spent £2B million in this connec-
tion in the last decade. But it rebounded disastrously for
the Gold Coast when a series of three valuations of the
area by the Valuer-General’s Department lifted the unim-
proved valuation from million to £3O million.
Under prompting by Mr Gaven, the State Government
last year introduced an amendment to the Land Act, which
fixed a land-tax formula based on the old valuations plus
half the increase in the new valuations. It still left some
extraordinary increases. The Chevron Hotel group, for
instance, controlling the Chevron Hotel, Surfers’ Paradise
Hotel and Chevron Island, found themselves with a Local
Authority rating of £900,000 —and an original annual pay-
out in land tax and rates of £39,000. The amendment
reduced this substantially—but the payout is still fantastic.
A man with a wife and one son owning a 32-perch allot-
ment found its value increased from £l7OO to £15,690 —
leaving him footing a bill of more than £lO a week in land
tax, rates, etc
The valuations appeared to be based on boom sub-
divisional land sales during the “gold” years of the Gold
Coast, when terrific speculation saw some blocks changing
hands three or four times in as many months. Southport
proper escaped much of this land boom, which has resulted
in landholders on one side of the bridge in some instances
paying £9 a year in water rates, for instance, and similar
landholders across the bridge having to find up to £BO a
year.
Some idea of the way in which the Gold Coast was
“massacred” by the Valuer-General can be obtained from
the following current unimproved valuations for Queens-
land's main cities compared with the 49-square-mile Gold
Coast valuation of £3O million.
Townsville (pop. 51,224) .. .. £7,512,842
Toowoomba (pop. 50,107) .. .. £8,488,000
Rockhampton (pop. 44,102) .. .. £6,641,055
Ipswich (pop. 48,668) .. .. £6,459,529
Maryborough (pop. 19,136) .. .. £2,041,673.
Brisbane’s present unimproved valuation, with a popu-
lation of 621,000, is only £6B million!
TLfORE than 3500 appeals have been lodged by the Gold
Coast’s 20,000 landholders, who claim that the high
valuations are forcing them out of their homes and stifling
development on the Coast. Mr Gaven has fought a lone-
handed fight —although in recent months the prospect of
similar valuation levels being applied to Brisbane has seen
a solid body of Liberal backbenchers coming in behind
him. It is on the cards now that the Government, as a
result of these pressures, will hand the job of valuing back
to Local Authorities.
The credit squeeze only added to an unhappy picture.
The building industry has been cut in half, although it is
claimed that it has cleared out a whole nest of shoddy
builders. There has been increased activity in recent weeks,
however, and Gold Coast experts say the crisis has passed.
(Oddly enough the credit squeeze did not greatly affect this
year’s winter tourist trade —its main effect was on Brisbane
and western holiday makers, who provide the Gold Coast
with its solid year-round bread-and-butter revenue.)
Recent amendments to the Liquor Act which will allow two
two-hour drinking sessions at hotels in the area on Sunday
(effective from December), and the decision to license
certain cafes (effective probably from March next year) are
expected to give the Gold Coast a major push forward.
Despite its reputation for “clipping” visitors, the Gold
Coast still remains a little man’s playground, where
accommodation standards and food prices compare more
than favorably with any other holiday resort in Australia.
Its southern end particularly remains the haunt of the
capital’s teenage population. At almost any hour of the
day, attractive youngsters can be seen strolling through the
main shopping areas in bikinis which would convulse some
of Sydney’s beach inspectors, and not far behind them,
in terms of exposure at any rate, are the southern “sugar
daddies,” paunches protruding happily over a weather-
beaten pair of shorts which seems to be standard uniform
for the area.
Despite its garishness the Coast’s future seems secure.


HERESY HUNT
IN PRETORIA
Afrikaans minister has had the courage
to maintain apartheid is unjustified
By KIERNAN GREGORY
HERESY hunts these days are
usually conducted against those
who depart from the truth as
revealed by Marx, Lenin or
Khrushchev, but South Africa has just
staged a heresy trial of a theological
deviationist. The accused was Profes-
sor Albert Geyser, professor of New
Testament Theology at the University
of Pretoria. He was accused of heresy,
insubordination, and transgression and
criticism of Church laws, and was tried
in a court comprising 15 of his fellow-
churchmen. But although the charges
were all laid in the name of the Church
of which he is a minister, the Neder-
duitsch Herformde Kerk. the secret
trial surely enough had a political
reference.
The close relationship between the
Dutch Reformed Church, of which Pro-
fessor Geyser’s Church is one branch,
and the Government made the trial a
challenge to the Nationalist party’s
racial policy. The Dutch Reformed
Church is the soul of the Afrikaner
people; it was the main link between
the scattered pioneer communities, the
bond that gave them their hope of a
future nation. This is true of each of
the three branches of the Church, for
although they have differing historical
origins, they are united in their severely
Calvinistic doctrines and by their literal
interpretation of the Bible.
Professor Geyser’s Church, the
second largest, with 150,000 adherents,
was founded by the Voortrekkers, who
believed that they had been protected
in their flight from the British by the
intervention of God, who guarded them
as he had the chosen people of the
Bible. It was no distance from this to
an Afrikaner nationalism with a
religious justification, and when this
nationalism issued in an Afrikaans
Nationalist Government the Calvinistic
doctrine of Government was auto-
matically applied: both Government
and Church taught that God handed
over his sovereignty to the legal rulers
of the land. It was not hard to guess
what would happen after the National-
ists came to power in 1948: the Dutch
Reformed Churches had to find Bibli-
cal support for the apartheid policy.
In 1954 Professor Geyser and the dean
of the Pretoria University Theological
Faculty were set to work to prove from
the New Testament that barring non-
whites from the worship of the Neder-
duitsch Herformde Kerk was scrip-
turally correct. Professor Geyser’s study
convinced him that such a bar was
scripturally incorrect. The report he
wrote on the subject was pigeonholed.
In 1955 he was one of 13 professors
who wrote an open letter to the Prime
Minister. Mr Strydom, protesting
against legislation which placed the
colored people of the Cape on a
separate voter’s roll. Because of this
he was brought before his Synod for
acting against his Church’s Article 3
which states: “The Church, aware of
the dangers that exist for both groups
in the mixing of white and non-white,
does not want any equality in its rank,
but envisages the creation of separate
Churches for the different population
groups. Thus only whites can belong
to the Nederduitsch Herformde Kerk
of South Africa.”
pROFESSOR GEYSER also opposed
A the Government’s Article 3 of the
Native and Urban Areas Act which
forbad Europeans and Africans to
worship together in church. In 1957,
together with other churchmen, he
made public his opposition to this
clause which was inserted at Dr Ver-
woerd’s instigation. One again he was
summoned before Synod.
In 1960, following the Sharpeville
tragedy, Professor Geyser and 11 other
Afrikaans clergymen published a book,
“Delayed Action,” which denied the
scriptural justification of apartheid,
attacked the Dutch Reformed Churches
for supporting oppressive nationalism
and virtually accused them of heresy.
The upshot of this was that earlier
this year he was warned that if he pub-
licly questioned his Church’s color
policy again he would be defrocked.
Together with another dissenter, Pro-
fessor Van Seims, he was in danger of
losing his university post.
Nothing further was heard of Pro-
fessor Geyser until he was charged with
heresy last month. The secret Afri-
kaans society, the Broederbond. had
convinced three of Professor Geyser’s
students that they should make notes
of his statements during lectures. Nine
typed foolscap pages of these notes,
together with another three pages of
quotations from “Delayed Action,”
were evidence against the professor.
Professor Geyser asked that the hear-
ing be public, but a Church spokesman
said that the wishes of his accusers had
to be consulted. Although he asked
to be informed of the charges against
him, he heard them only when the
secret trial started. Then he was for-
gidden to disclose any part of the
proceedings and his request for his
own stenographer was refused. The
Faculty of Theology of Rijks Uni-
versity of Utrecht, Holland, asked the
Theology Faculty of Pretoria Uni-
versity to do their utmost to halt the
proceedings and to guarantee academic
freedom.
The charges and complaints against
Professor Geyser included the Arian
heresy of denying the Godhead of
Christ; he was alleged to have said,
during his lectures on the New Testa-
ment. that “we should see every fellow
being as our neighbor and show him
our unbounded respect.” He was
further accused of stating that the
Eucharist is the visible expression of
the unity of the Church and should be
enjoyed by all together; he allegedly
criticised students who did not want to
meet Catholics and also those who
claimed that the World Council of
Churches was a wing of the United
Nations.
The danger to both State and Church
in Geyser’s doctrines is clear: they
imply the division of Caesar’s realm
from God’s, the heresy that one could
be a good member of the Dutch Re-
formed Church yet not necessarily
support the Nationalist party’s apart-
heid. Even if Professor Geyser’s heresy
were recognised as truth, however, it
is doubtful whether many Afrikaner
Nationalists would prefer that truth to
the power and prestige procured by
the party.


FORUM
A NEW CASE
FOR STATE AID
How to get a greater variety of schools
By ROSS PARISH
M OST people seem so fascinated by the political implications of State aid
to Catholic schools that this is usually as far as discussion about State
aid gets. At least two other questions deserve more attention', one
is fust what is the State’s role in the provision of education, the other is
what would be the effects of the extension of State aid to all private
schools on the cost, types and quality of education provided.
Opponents of aid to private schools
commonly liken the State’s role in
education to its role in providing de-
fence, or roads, or —as was rather
quaintly suggested by the ’‘Sydney Morn-
ing Herald’’ —lighthouses. Why should
education be treated differently from
these activities? it is asked. Complaints
by Catholics that they receive no benefit
from the State schools, yet contribute to
their support, are no more deserving of
sympathy, it is held, than would be
similar complaints by pacifists or non-
mariners regarding Government expendi-
ture on defence or lighthouses.
These analogies are misleading in that
they suggest, first, that the State is in the
education business for the same reasons
that it is in the defence, or road-building
field, and, second, that questions of
equity in the apportionment of the costs
and benefits of public expenditure are of
little consequence. State intervention in
education requires justification on quite
different grounds from those justifying
intervention in the other areas men-
tioned. Unlike defence, education is not
a service which can only be rendered to
society as a whole, and, uniike roads, it
does not possess technical characteristics
which make it impracticable to charge
its recipients for the benefits they re-
ceive. Education is a transaction be-
tween individuals, quite capable of being
organised privately, like most such activi-
ties, through the market. Why, then, does
the State intervene in education? The
answer, I think, is threefold:
First, some of the benefits of educa-
tion are collective in nature: we all
benefit from living in a literate and edu-
cated society. This benefit may be par-
ticularly important in a political
democracy.
Second, free and compulsory educa-
tion promotes economic and social
mobility. As a device for offering “equal
opportunity for all” it probably com-
mands more universal assent than any
other egalitarian measure.
Third, education is a form of produc-
tive investment in human beings. Unlike
investments in physical capital, such as
housing, investment in education is not
embodied in a saleable asset which may
be offered as security for a loan, and
hence it cannot compete for loans in the
capital market on equal terms with other
forms of investment. As a result, less
investment in education is likely to take
place than would be justified on purely
economic grounds. (The system whereby
State Government departments—particu-
larly the education department—educate
students who undertake to remain em-
ployees of the department concerned for
a stipulated period provides an exception
to this generalisation.)
These reasons constitute, to my mind,
a quite compelling argument for State
intervention aimed at promoting better
and more education, and at ensuring each
child equal access (so far as possible) to
some minimal standard of educational
instruction. They do not, however, serve
to justify the existing types and the
existing scale of State intervention, which
include:
# Regulatory activities, including the
inspection of school facilities and
teachers’ work and the granting or with-
holding of licences to conduct schools.
@ The establishment of academic
standards, mainly through the devising
of curricula and the provision of external
examination facilities.
H Research and extension activities
: n the field of education.
© The training of teachers.
# The operation of the public school
system —which, apart from anything else,
is a gigantic business enterprise, involv-
ing the employment, in New South
Wales alone, of about 20,000 teachers
and an annual expenditure in the vicinity
of £5O million.
Of these activities, only regulation and
perhaps some research and extension are
of their nature Government activities.
To a greater or lesser degree universities
participate in the establishment of educa-
tional standards, the training of teachers
and in research and extension work,
and it would probably be desirable if
their role in these matters were extended
—though, in the interest of a diversity of
approach, it may be undesirable to hand
over these activities in their entirety to
the universities. Finally, the provision
of free education does not require the
existence of free public schools: it merely
requires that the cost of educating child-
ren in the appropriate age groups be
borne by the Government, not by the
parents. This could be done in the
absence of free public schools by either
reimbursing parents for tuition fees paid,
or by appointing schooLs as agents for
the Government and subsidising them on
a per pupil basis.
Tt would, of course, be possible —and, I
-*■ believe, desirable —to introduce such a
scheme and at the same t : me retain the
public school system. Of the two variants
of the scheme, I would favor the direct
reimbursement of parents —in the form
of vouchers, if need be, redeemable in
money by the school's receiving them —
since I believe it preferable that parents
rather than the State should choose which
schools should be subsidised. Reimburse-
ment would have to be in accord with
some fixed scale of charges, of course.
The scale would need to be sufficient to
cover the costs of educating a child at
an efficiently conducted school providing
facilities equal to those available in
State schools: fees charged for day pupils
by a relatively unfashionable private
school of reasonable standard might pro-
vide an appropriate bench-mark. 11
parents want more than this, either by
way of academic excellence or non-
academic services, let them pay for it
additionally.
The introduction of such a icheme
would, of course, be more equitable than
the present system, in that the users of
private schools would receive parity of
treatment with others in respect of taxes
paid and benefits received. But the main
virtue of the proposal is that it would
provide us with a better educational
system.
Perhaps the most general defect of


BUY NOW f
while stocks last •
We are down to our last 300 rifles, and this is your last chance to buy this
popular firearm at a give-away price.
GENUINE
LEE ENFIELD 303
10 SHOT REPEATING RIFLES
BRAND NEW
In original polythene wrapper, direct
from factory to you AT ONLY
£ 8-10-0 each
AMMUNITION : £ 3-0-0 per 100
£29-0-0 per 1000
FOR SALE TO GRAZIERS, PROFESSIONAL FISHERMEN
IN NEW SOUTH WALES ONLY
No Restrictions for Interstate Clients
ORDER NOW AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT
H. & R. SPORTS CENTRE
758 George St. SYDNEY
Australian education is that it is too
stodgy and too rigidly standardised. Lack
of diversity means that parents have little
real choice in the sort of education they
give their children ; more importantly,
perhaps, it discourages experimentation
and innovation and hence fails to foster
educational progress. Parental passivity
is encouraged and the tremendous reser-
voir of goodwill towards and voluntary
service in educational causes is not nearly
fully drawn upon.
'T'hese failings stem largely from our
restriction of public educational ex-
penditures to the provision of State-wide
public school systems. It is not merely
the inevitable unwieldy bureaucratic
organisation of the State education
departments—with their consequent pur-
suit of standardisation and resistance to
change—that is at fault. Bureaucratic
timidity in important matters and
arrogance in routine matters is rein-
forced by the fact the departments are
ultimately not responsible to the parents
of pupils (that is, their customers) but
to Parliament. Educational questions
thus become political questions, and the
decisions that are made are political deci-
sions. For example, the effective decision
to implement the Wyndham Report in
N.S.W. was taken at the annual State
conference of the Labor party. As politi-
cal decisions go, this one may not have
been badly taken: the issue had received
wide public discussion and may not have
been too closely involved in Labor
mythology to permit rational argument.
But the point is that there need be no
necessity for a political decision in
respect of many of the matters covered
by the Wyndham Report. In a private,
or indeed in a decentralised public edu-
cation system, there would be room for
Wyndham schools, non - Wyndham
schools, conservative schools, Liberty
Halls, experimental schools —in short,
room for a diversity of educational
approaches, for choice on the part of
parents of the type of education they wish
for their children and for the satisfaction
of minority as well as majority demands.
Under these conditions educational
change and progress would tend to be
continuous and multi-directional: less
spectacular, but more real than that
achieved through periodical convulsions
of the public system.
Deficiencies in the present educational
situation are not confined to the public
schools. In competition with free public
schools private schools have managed to
survive and expand, both absolutely and
relatively, only by exploiting the labor of
the religious orders, by the charity of
well-wishers and by offering parents a
tie-in sale: education plus religious
instruction, or education plus snob
appeal, or education plus Christian
gentility. Very few appear to have carved
out niches for themselves in terms of
academic excellence, or educational merit
or novelty, alone. The situation might be
different if private schools could hope
to attract pupils from a wider clientele
than Catholics, old-boys and the rela-
tively well-to-do.
The implementation of the scheme out-
lined above would have far-reaching
effects, at least in the long run. There
would be a greatly increased demand for
places in the private schools, followed by
an expansion of their facilities. Expan-
sion in the private sector could be fairly
easily accomplished, since it would be
accompanied by a corresponding relative
decline in the demand for the services of
the public schools. Teachers could be
recruited from the education depart-
ments and redundant public school build-
ings sold or rented to private schools.
Such a reorganisation would almost cer-
tainly give us a more efficient educational
system: the present public systems are
far too large for most economical opera-
tion. (An example of the inefficiency of
the public system is provided by the
N.S.W. Education Department’s policy
regarding teacher placement and geo-
graphical salary differentials. The latter
exist in only rudimentary form, with the
result that teachers have to be drafted to
unpopular localities. Knowledge that
they may have to serve in areas where
they would not voluntarily choose to
reside must be a substantial deterrent to
many who 'would otherwise enter the
teaching service. Another objection to
the State-wide public school system is that
its existence provides the challenge to
which the various teachers’ trade unions
are the response.)
More important than the mere expan-
sion of the private sector relative to the
public would be the founding of new
schools and new types of schools. The
private equivalent of the old selective
State high schools might emerge along
with other types of specialised schools ;
more non-denominational schools might
appear, since, with a demand for services
virtually guaranteed, schools would no
longer need to lean so heavily on religious
institutions. It is the prospect of such an
extension of the variety of education
available, together with the heightening
of competition among the private
schools, and between the private and
public sectors, that I conceive to be the
principal virtue of the scheme proposed.
Existing educational demands would be
better catered for and future progress
nurtured.


LETTERS
A NEW CULTURAL DEAL?
Sir,
Max Harris, in his television review
in your issue of October 28, treated us
to an interesting analysis of the present
trends of A.B.C. programming, setting
forth in some detail the problems con-
fronting the Commission’s Assistant
General Manager (Programmes).
In the course of his review, Mr Harris
pays the 8.8. C. tribute for its “An Age
of Kings,” acquired by the A.B.C. At
least he allows that we approached this
“monumental 8.8. C. project” with “bold
honesty,” and “the whole double tet-
ralogy was recorded live, no outside film
material was used, and the focus of
concentration was frankly directed to
intimacy of action, rapid clear diction,
and psychological detail.” From this one
must conclude that the 8.8. C in
particular the producer Peter Dews —
have not perhaps done too badly in
attempting to compress 86 years of
turbulent British history, as recorded by
Shakespeare in the five chronical plays,
into 15 parts. This is something which,
as Mr Harris acknowledges, no theatre
can perform.
However, in his next paragraph, your
eviewer tells your readers, apropos the
-lassie serials to which the 8.8. C. is
admittedly addicted, that they are “slow,
ponderous, poorly acted and crudely
mounted.” He even goes so far as to
compare fare of this genre with adult
westerns and gangster epics, describing
the efforts of both as repetitive and
vacuous. The actual comparison is, in
some ways, fair enough. It is, after all,
perhaps about time we had some alter-
native to the parade of gunslingers, both
mounted and on foot, on which to slake
our thirst for television entertainment in
Australia. But I cannot accept for one
moment that these classic serials deserve
the opprobrium heaped upon them by
Mr Harris. The proof of the pudding
is in the eating. These serials get, as I
think they justly deserve* high ratings,
almost without fail, in the United King-
dom. Although comparative figures in
Australia are hard to come by, the
volume of approval which reaches us,
together with the A.B.C.’s decision to
persist in showing these serials, suggests
that Mr Harris is a little wide of the
mark. Perhaps there are more people
in Australia who actually enjoy seeing
Dickens, Trollope, lane Austen, Scott,
and the like serialised than Mr Harris
imagines ; indeed it might be thought
that Mr Harris, of all people, would
approve of serialisations of classic
literature. One is, in fact, left wondering
precisely what are the standards against
which these judgments are made, and
even with the conclusion that Mr Harris
doesn’t really know very much about
television production, or know good
from bad when he sees it, at least in this
field. I would be delighted if Mr Harris
could refer me to classic serials done
better by any other television organisa-
tion.
Mr Harris continues his review with
a general comment, the burden of which
is that the 8.8. C. is not very good at
drama and documentaries in television,
and compares poorly with the Americans
in these fields. Taking the latter first,
it strikes me that award-winning docu-
mentaries of the calibre of Denis
Mitchell’s “Night in the City” and
“Winds of Change,” and Richard
Cawston’s “The Lawyers,” hardly show
insufficiency or incompetence in this type
of production. As for drama, is it not
a trifle inconsistent to tell your readers
that “An Age of Kings” is as he describes
it, and then in almost the next breath,
to give it as his opinion that the 8.8. C.
is a poor source of drama? If Shakespeare
is not drama, one would like to know
what is.
DOUGLAS FLEMING
(Australian Representative
for the 8.8. C.)
Sydney.
TRUCKLING TO A CULT
Sir,
Your reviewer of the “Faber Book of
Australian Short Stories” (Bulletin,
November 4) drags Patrick White in by
the heels, to comment on his “inflated”
reputation. I am mildly astonished.
What I would have expected from a dis-
cerning Australian critic would have been
a proposal to form a “Patrick-White-for-
the-Nobel-Prize-in-Literature Nomination
Committee”; or is there already such a
body?
And why bother to explain in terms of
a current English vogue for “Austra-
liana,” when no living English novelist
writes half so well?
ANTON VOGT
Neutral Bay ( N.S.W. ).
MR MONK’S DOOMED
CIRCULAR
Sir,
Following J. M. Riordan’s enlighten-
ing letter of November 4, on Mr Monk’s
Doomed Circular and my own not too
kind thoughts on the timing of Peter
Kelly’s article, 1 want to say Peter Kelly
is at least accurate.
The Hobart “Mercury” has again
missed the bus —not now for running late,
but for catching the wrong bus. In a
front page article on the resignation of
Tasmania's stormy petrel, Dr Turnbull,
from State politics to contest the Senate
election, the “Mercury” wrote that one
of the previously defeated A.L.P. candid-
ates who now could be elected on a
recount (Haire-Clark style) is R. Taylor:
“Mr Taylor is State secretary of the Aus-
tralian Railways Union and recently was
the centre of a stir in Labor circles when
he was selected as one of the Australian
observers to the World Federation of
Trade Unions at Moscow. However, the
A.R.U. cancelled the trip because of
A.C.T.U. objections” (“Mercury,”
November 1).
This is a classic case of the right story
but the wrong Taylor. It was F. “Smokey”
Taylor who was the particular candidate
in 1959 and not R. Taylor.
Controversial political stuff has been
Taylor - made for news reporters, but
some must draw from the wrong end.
STAN S. TREAKE
Cygnet (Tasmania).
“A VICIOUS REVIEW”
Sir,
A copy of the lengthy review, under
the heading of “A Weird Caper”
(Bulletin, August 12), of the book
“Greek Tragedy 1941,” written jointly by
A. Heckstall-Smith and myself about the
naval aspect of the evacuation of Austra-
lian, British and New Zealand troops
from Greece in 1941, has only just
reached me. I trust you will allow me
the courtesy of your columns to reply
to the criticism, observing that your
reviewer, Major A. L. Sheppard, cast
serious doubts on our veracity and
especially on mine.
Major (now Colonel?) A. L. Sheppard
did excellent work in the organisation of
troops for the three evacuations that took
place at Port Raphtis and in hiding their
presence for several days during the criti-
cal daylight hours behind the beaches
from enemy aircraft observation, so much
so that he was one of the six Army
officers whose names I had the pleasure
of forwarding to the Commander-in-
Chief as deserving of some special recog-
nition on this account.
In a foreword to the book signed by
myself, I stated very definitely that Heck-
stall-Smith and I did not have to rely
only on our memories for what occurred
on the beaches and at sea 20 years ago,
as 1 still had in my possession a very
complete series of original reports from
Naval, Military and R.A.F. officers deal-
ing in some cases in great detail with
every aspect of this operation, and also
reports from survivors of ships sunk, and
the book was based almost entirely on
these supplemented by contact with
several officers still available here in Eng-
land, as well as from others who answered
our request in Australian and New Zea-
land papers for accounts of their
experiences. There are, of course, also
the official dispatches.
For instance, in the case of Port
Raphtis, I have reports, some in great
detail extending over ten typewritten
pages from the following officers: Lieut.-
Com. Willmott, R.N., Principal Beach
Master, Mr Aveling, Naval Warrant
Officer and a Beach Master at Port
Raphtis, Lieut.-Com. Garrard in com-
mand of the various landing craft at


Port Raphtis, the Captain of the large
landing craft A. 6, Captain Petrie, R.N.,
Captain of H.M.S. Glengyle, whose work
was so invaluable, also the Captain of
the transport Salwein. I have also in my
possession correspondence which took
place immediately after the evacuation
with some Army officers, which throws
further light on the operation at Port
Raphtis.
Naturally these reports had to be con-
densed for the purposes of the book ; but
Heckstall-Smith and I contend emphati-
cally that our account is in the main an
accurate one, and contains much that the
official reports, on which your reviewer
is so keen, have omitted, especially from
the human angle, an aspect seldom dealt
with in official reports. Indeed, many
of the detailed reports did not reach the
Commander-in-Chief at the time, far less
the later official historian. Now why
should your reviewer cast unpleasant
doubts on the authors’ veracity and sin-
cerity by stating as he did “specifically
that the description of the evacuation at
Port Raphtis is inaccurate in general and
in detail, and one can only wonder there-
fore if any of the book is accurate other
than when quoting official reports?” I
would add here, incidentally, that Mr
Aveling, the Beach Master, in his report
states that during the evacuation Major
A. L. Sheppard was “in charge of the
assembly points for the troops about one
mile back from the beach,” where no
doubt he was mainly employed during
the actual evacuations and from which
position could have seen nothing of
the work on the beaches and by the ships
unless, on an occasional visit, and the
nights at that time were very dark! This
makes your reviewer's claims all the more
unintelligible.
Lieut.-Com. Nigel Willmott wrote, soon
after the book was published last May,
“I found no significant inaccuracies in the
part of which I had personal knowledge,”
which part included the whole evacua-
tion period on the beaches and in the
landing craft at Port Raphtis.
Finally, 1 would say that Major Shep-
pard’s review of this book, for all of
which I am as fully responsible as
Heckstall-Smith, is so vicious and in some
respects so petty that he appears to be
deliberately endeavoring to encourage
Australians not to read it. Of nearly
40 reviews in this country and many
private letters the authors have received
all speak well of the book and a large
number exceedingly well. There have
been no complaints of any inaccuracies.
The records on which Heckstall-Smith
and I based this book will shortly be in
the British Museum, where they will be
available to any research worker.
VICE-ADMIRAL H. T. BAILLIE-GROHMAN,
C.B. D.S.O., O.B.E.
Sussex (United Kingdom).
THREE CONSERVATIVES
Sir,
I see nothing in what I said (Bulletin,
October 21), to support the interpretation
placed upon it by A. W. Hartwig. When I
say “The weakness of this is the simple
assumption that evidence of Communist
conspiracy is evidence of a real threat,”
this refers of course to Mr Normington-
Rawling's article: it is absurd to write as
if I meant that taking all Communist
conspiracy seriously shows weakness.
What matters is not that Com-
munists conspire (their attempt, as
described to me, to. infiltrate sporting
organisations before the Melbourne
Olympic Games was not serious because
it bore no significant fruit), but the
success they achieve through conspiracy.
And the answer to Communist conspiracy
is not to try to prevent secret manoeuvres
but to meet them: no Communist peace
movement can flourish at present, because
the U.S.S.R. cannot be made to look like
the Dove of Peace —though it so happens
that this is at the moment rather their
own fault than the result of democratic
public education.
I agree that Communist conspiracy in
Australian trade unions is serious, though
whether, in the light of the present situ-
ation, it can be considered an actual
threat to democracy in Australia seems
to me highly dubious. But my criticism
was of Mr Normington-Rawling’s article,
and it was this: he wrote at length of
manoeuvres twenty-five years or so ago
without considering their significant
effect on events. What was it? What sur-
vived the Hitler-Stalin pact? Aren’t these
more important questions than: how
was X led to lend his name to a petition?
—especially when the answer to this last
question is stereotyped.
EVAN JONES
Australian National University,
Canberra (A.C.T.).
TANNER BLASPHEMES?
Sir,
Flippancy and lack of judgment about
religion reach a deplorably low level
in your Tanner cartoon on the Mosaic
Laws (Bulletin, November 11). If one
wishes to savor the full implications of
its “humor,” one might picture a latter-
day Jew, delivered from his Nazi con-
centration camp, hesitating to accept the
order and morality of the free society
into which he has been led. The ethics
of the Israelites were, as they believed,
a corollary of the saving love of God ;
they still merit more than sniggers today.
Caricature and criticise religion if you
please. There is much there that
deserves it. But please hesitate before
you publish such an untruthful and, to
some, blasphemous cartoon again. Like
many other readers, no doubt, I laughed
when I first saw the cartoon —but I
wonder how many others felt a pang of
shame, as its superficiality struck them?
LAN D. BLACK
Parkin College,
Kent Town (S.A.).
WHAT IS TO BE DONE?
Sir,
1 have now read the series of articles
finishing with one titled “What is to be
Done?” (Bulletin, November 11) on
the national economy which have
appeared in your publication over recent
weeks. I have noticed that the one major
characteristic of the articles is that they
are out of touch with reality. It is a
simple thing to list a series of national
objectives which will be generally accept-
able. It is also easy to suggest a method
of achieving them.
However, in this hard, cold world they
may not be so easy to put into practice,
an unpalatable fact that has impressed
itself equally on the advisers to countries
with such diverse economic persuasions
as Communist China and the United
States of America. I can assure you that
any plan which would provide mutually
supporting methods of achieving the twin
objectives of long-term balance-of-pay-
ments equilibrium and full employment
for the existing and growing work force
would be eagerly supported by Australian
industry.
However, as businessmen, manufac-
turers recognise that a situation of full
employment and balance-of-payments
equilibrium does not occur automatically,


AN IDEAL XMAS GIFI
Keep Your Personal Papers SAFE
m
THE
HOME
UNITIZER
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- Interstate. 55/- W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in book binders’ cloth, this
handy portable Home Unitizer will keep all
your personal and important documents neatly
and safely'—ready for quick reference. It has
twelve compartments and comes complete with
printed tags for 72 various titles, such as
Medical, Dental, Rates, Car Expenses, Insurance,
Taxation, Banking, Receipts, etc. Strongly
made for long wear. The Home Unitizer makes
an ideal gift with real utility value. Size
1 x 11” x 3. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
even assuming there were no problems
such as fluctuating world demand for
the products of our great primary in-
dustries or wage increases that apparently
ignore Australia’s participation in inter-
national trade. That such features appear
to escape the attention of armchair
economists is exemplified by “Observer”
who can talk about full employment with
a high rate of migration at one point
and a few paragraphs later petulantly
demand that Australia should aim to
balance her trade.
J can assure “Observer” that no prob-
lem exists in the achievement of full
employment or balance of payments
equilibrium. The real problem, of course,
lies in achieving both simultaneously If
he doubts this, I suggest he has a quick
look at recent movements in these fields
and keeps a close eye on the future,
something which is no doubt being done
by those who apparently 18 months ago
had the same view's and as well the
opportunity to put them into practice.
Referring to specific portions of his
summary 1 must rebuke him for the
“snide sideswipe” implicit in his reference
to the “Buy Australian” programme
initiated by Australian manufacturers.
Industry is not naive enough to think
this will offset the substantial price dif-
ference that exists between many im-
ported and locally produced articles.
However, there is no doubt many
imported products enjoy an advantage
merely because they are imported. The
programme is designed to give the Aus-
tralian purchaser a greater awareness of
the variety and quality of Australian-
made goods; surely this is compatible
with the national interest. It is interest-
ing to note that “Observer” proceeds
to tie this to the question of protection
and once again we have the piea to
protect “efficient and economic” indus-
tries without explaining what this means.
It should be interecting if “Observer"
would nominate such industries as would
fall within his definition of “tinpot.”
His sweeping generalisation is typical of
some of the confused thinking which
exists in economic circles and 1 suggest
that the next time he contemplates
writing such an article he examines the
facts of the situation first rather than
trying to fit the facts to a preconceived
and superficial concept of our economic
problems.
Whilst I do not dispute the need for
an appropriate framework of economic
development in Australia (a~i in fact
Australian manufacturing industry has
used all its power to promote acceptance
of just such a plan) 1 can assure
“Observer” or anybody else who harbors
the same idea that the increasingly im-
portant contribution of manufacturing
industry to Australia's place economic-
ally, politically and socially in the work
today- was not achieved through wide-
scale inefficiency. Finally, I support the
need for closer attention to Australia's
future development, but I suggest that
it is only after such a policy is adopted
that any useful attempt can be made to
pin-point particular areas of trouble in
the economy.
R. W. C. ANDERSON
(Director, The Associated
Chamber of Manufactures
of Australia).
Canberra (A.C.T.).
SEGOVIA’S GUITAR
Sir,
In his article “Segovia’s Guitar”
(Bulletin, October 28), Kenneth Hince
displays an ignorance in the status and
history of the guitar which is charac-
teristic of countries (Australia in par-
ticular) where, till now, the instrument
in the hands of a virtuoso has never
been heard.
It’s true that music originally com-
posed for the guitar has not made an
impact outside its own perimeter. The
same may be said of the harp and the
harpsichord, with the one exception
quoted in relation to the latter.
Mr Hince apparently assumes that the
guitar will not survive its greatest ex-
ponent, Segovia. Segovia has done, and
continues to do, his best to ensure that
he will have worthy successors. Young
Englishman Julian Bream, whom
Segovia encouraged early in the boy’s
career, has success in his U.S.A. tours,
second only to that of Segovia himself.
At 20, Melbourne-born John Williams, a
protege of Segovia, is already accepted
in the guitar world as the heir to
Segovia’s throne.
From now on, since the Australian ice
is broken, we are virtually certain to
see these two guitarists here in the near
future, and others are likely to follow.
To the public at large, it is instruments
such as the harpsichord and harp that
will continue to be known in solo only
by recordings. The harp’s role seems to
be that of an orchestral instrument—
and how many people have seen a harp-
sichord, and seen and heard it played?
The guitar will be seen and heard as
elsewhere, in recitals and as solo instru-
ment with our orchestras, from now on.
R. S. ADAMS
Roseville (N.S.W.).
Sir,
1 am grateful to Mr Doumany
(Bulletin, November 11) for putting
so clearly a distinction to which 1 re-
ferred rather hesitantly and obscurely.
As I have tried to explain elsewhere
in The Bulletin, he is within his rights
to use the word “art" of Segovia and
the guitar. In my offending article, 1
used, however, the words "great art.’’
1 still feel that the adjective makes some
difference.
Mr Doumany's mention of “human
culture’’ leaves me relatively unmoved.
Within the context, 1 acknowledge no
other. But the long association of the
guitar with “human” culture is not what
1 was writing about. Instead, 1 was
writing of the part played by the guitar
in art, which is another matter altogether.
Mr Doumany's loaded reference to
my familiarity with the art of music
will not distract the reasonable reader
from my sensible distinction between
guitar playing (amusement, v. Aristotle)
and art (idem). In fact, if Mr Doumany’s
contempt of “abstract criteria” is read
accurately, it will be seen to be one more
symptom of the anti-intellectual bias
which has more than once been identified
in the Australian scene. At the moment,
1 am not prepared to apologise for being
percipient enough, and honest enough,
to identify myself with the minority fac-
tion, and to advertise the fact that 1 am
not ashamed of my ability to distinguish
the art of music from the craft of per-
formance.
For Segovia’s craft 1 have the highest
admiration —and an admiration which,
unlike Mr Doumany’s, does not need
to make a confusion of values before it
can offer honest praise. But for his
bon mot (as quoted in The Bulletin,
November 11) about Landowska’s harp-
sichord, I can muster only the admira-
tion which is due to a maker of mots
—now apparently the prerogative of all
writers from Thurber to Peter de Vries.
The harpsichord is simply not the
“guitar grown cold,” because creative
artists have scored for the harpsichord
and not the guitar.
This may be a historical accident, but
it remains a fact ; and I am the last
person in Melbourne to discount a fact
just because it happens to inconvenience
his own trade, or to embarrass his own
emotional prejudice.
KENNETH HINCE
Hawthorn (Victoria).


OUT and ABOUT
A Little Bit of Action
A Melbourne man, who got close
enough to the Liberal and A.L.P.
policy speech meetings last week to be
able to give a blow-by-blow description
of the proceedings, estimates that 300
members of Student Action —students
from Melbourne and Monash Univer-
sities and Melbourne and Swinburne
technical colleges—were at Kew City
Hall for Menzies’s speech. “The bulk of
students gathered on the lawn immedi-
ately in front of the hall bearing placards
and singing specially written anti-White
Australia songs,” he reports. “When the
Victorian Premier, Bolte, arrived beaming,
he was offered a leaflet, which he accepted
still beaming. When he saw the nature
of it, he shook his head and threw the
paper away.
“The students continued singing after
Mr Menzies arrived. They were led by
Allen Barker, an aboriginal folk singer,
who, as well as singing the White Aus-
tralia songs, brilliantly improvised
innumerable blues stanzas dealing with
themes of racialism.”
One of the special songs begins
Mr Menzies he ought to know.
White Australia!
That the divers don’t want to go.
No more White Australia!
After Mr Menzies’s speech the Mel-
bourne man reports three students walked
down the main aisle, and waved banners
reading “Bar Color Bar,” which is the
official slogan of the student campaign,
and “W.A.P. is a Blot.”
Mr Calwell's meeting did not evoke
such strong feelings though an equally
large number of students turned up, to
sing and brandish newly painted placards
like “Socialism and White Australia can-
not Mix” and “Wake Up, Labor, End
Racist Blot.” Calwell eluded the students
by going in the back door.
The Melbourne man says that Student
Action organisers feel satisfied that their
initial demonstration has been success-
ful and are swinging the second phase
of their campaign into operation: the
attendance by members of regional com-
mittees of every major meeting in each
electorate to ask set questions and distri-
bute leaflets.
Is the Day of the Big
Orchestra Done?
Tgor Stravinsky said during his present
brief visit to Australia that he has been
rescoring some of his most popular music
for small orchestras because he believes
that the big orchestra is ceasing to be
a practicable instrument. He has rescored
“Petrouchka,” the ballet which some 50
years ago burst like a bombshell upon
a startled world, and also “The Firebird,”
part of which he will conduct in Sydney.
If the large orchestra is on its way out,
as Stravinsky forecasts —and he remar-
ked that he has always been sensitive to
trends —does this mean that the day of
the virtuoso conductor is doomed?
Stravinsky doesn’t appear to hold con-
ductors in very high regard—the octogen-
arian Pierre Monteux is an exception;
is dissatisfied with all the recorded inter-
pretations of his music, says that “com-
posers suffer from performers.” Kousse-
vitsky’s interpretation of “The Rite of
Spring” he characterised as “a scandal”;
Markevitch's was uncomprehending.
When he got on to Toscanini he was
very amusing. He and Toscanini had had
a passage of arms over the premiere of
Stravinsky’s opera “Le Rossignol” in
Milan. This caused a breach which was
never healed.
“I was conducting in Budapest,”
Stravinsky said, “or was it Bucharest?
Never mind. Well, I was in Budapest
when I received a telegram inviting me
to Milan to attend the rehearsals.”
The unexpected invitation touched
Stravinsky and off he went to Milan,
where the rehearsals went swimmingly.
“And at the end Toscanini and I em-
braced, and I promised to return to
Milan for the opening night.”
Next thing was a telegram from
Milan asking Stravinsky to conduct the
opening performance of “Le Rossignol,”
which he did.
Sometime later he happened to meet
Toscanini who was furious about the
whole episode, said he had wanted to
conduct the opera.
It seemed that Toscanini had quarrelled
with the management, but had expected
to be invited back to resume his work on
the opera. He refused to forgive Strav-
insky for having usurped what he con-
sidered his right.
“And he never did,” Stravinsky said,
“I am sorry to say; but I'm afraid he
had a bad character.”
Stravinsky, after being first a Russian
and then a Frenchman, is now an Ameri-
can. He resides in Hollywood. His home
was not touched in the recent fire;, he
finds it a nice quiet place for a man not
interested in films but only in music.
At present he is engaged on a com-
mission for the NBC, a work entitled
“The Flood,” a combination of song, the
spoken word and serial music scored for
a small orchestra. Recently he finished
another work with a religious theme, a
cantata commissioned by Paul Sacher, to


be performed in Zurich next February,
part of Stravinsky's 80th birthday cele-
brations.
Stravinsky has a big year ahead, with
the festivals arranged for his birthday.
"At 80, I am still busy,” he satd, pleased.
Near-beer for New Guinea
“'T'he Pub With Near-Beer” may be
at the top of the Papua-New Guinea
hit parade before Christmas. The answer
to the problem of drink for Territory
natives is in a Canberra pigeonhole and
has been there since January this year.
But the word in the Territory is that
Paul Hasluck’s Canberra staff has at last
decided to release its decision on the
drink issue.
These were the problems: To offer
“open slather” drinking for all was im-
possible—some natives are still eating
each other and beer would increase their
appetites ; “zonal drinking” would bring
more bush natives flocking to the wet
towns —and the Administration already
has a problem with detribalised natives; a
permit system for advanced natives
would build an elite class in the native
community with the right to drink the
badge of achievment.
No one outside the Department of
Territories —even the Administrator, Sir
Donald Cleland, hasn't been told —knows
what the drink decision is. Favorite
theory is that a near-beer —one with low
alcoholic content —will be introduced for
native consumption in strictly-policed
taverns throughout the Territory. This
move will not be greeted by the post-
prohibition joy Mr Hasluck’s staff anti-
cipates. Most natives who now drink
illegally go for rum —the drink that is
also the most popular tipple with
Europeans in the Territory. Near-beer
(“even weaker than the New Zealand
stuff” one drinker tipped) is not going
to tickle the rum palates of urbanised
Hanuabada natives.
While the Administration was sifting
through the suggestions, old Territorians
were asking why anything had to be
done about the drink situation. They
say the old system works quite well.
Under this set-up, mixed bloods are
given permits to drink. Some of these
mixed bloods and some Europeans sell
sly grog to natives at a tidy profit. This
way, only the more advanced natives
know how to get grog and can afford
the sly-grogger’s price.
That Was Australia
“Flabby Paul” writes from a town
where they have just hospital-Satur-
dayed:—
Hospital Saturday. I sit down in my
office and meditate on my past sins.
A step, and a vision floats in at the
door. “Will you give me something
for the hospital?” I reach for my trousers
pocket and there is a dull, metallic click
as the coin drops in the box. Have just
succeeded in banishing the vision from
my mind when there transpires a “she”
who ought to have been beautiful 40
years ago. “Will you take a ticket in
a shower bath?” I decline, saying it's
against my principles to -have a bath.
She persists. “Will you take a ticket in
a bicycle pump?” I don’t ride a bike
—but eventually hand over 6d. to the
dragon She departs. Am just wonder-
ing whether I’ll walk to the nearest pub,
when a voice says: “Look at our lovely
button-holes; oniy thrippence!” I sigh
wearily, and buy a dead chrysanthemum.
Five minutes —then another vision. I
pinch myself to see if I’m awake or
dead and in heaven. She reduces the
treasury to nil. I do a mental calcu-
lation to know whether the smile she
gave me was worth half-a-crown. Then
a gorgon happens at the door. I grasp
my ruler and get behind the table.
“Madam,” I say, ‘‘are you the latest
living wonder? If so, this is not the
office for lost animals!” “Will you take
a ticket in a perambulator- —for the
hospital?” “Let me inform you, madam,
I never ride in a perambulator, and I
take the meat home by hand.” She
calls me a beast. Two more visions
come, but I pretend to be mad and leap
in the air, saying, “Whir-r-r-r-r-,” and
they flee for their lives. I hear more
visions on the stair, so I stand on the
landing and gibber and call out,
“Bjxkklwgnlwsshlz,” and they also flee.
A man comes and wants to borrow haff-
a-crown to give to a vision. I tell him
that I will rend him limb from limb,
and he gets tired and leaves. I lock the
office and reconnoitre. The way to
the only pub, where they will give me
tick is blocked by two visions, and the
perambulator gorgon, and the harridon
with the bath-gamble. Ha! The back
yard. I take the back yard. I throw
myself over the fence. I fall on a
vision. She shrieks for the police, and
I flee for my life, and meet a lady who
wants to sell for 4d. a sunflower that
has been run over by a dray.
—“The Bulletin December 1, 1904.
Feiffer
1 AtWAM* uteo MOVteb
dtmß. thaw theatre -
9ut even snoce [
<?TA R.Tec> Gcnttb
WTH S RUIf AOP
HB (M SHOW
Busiu&s we)ie
6££W 60(06 To
all thß£ opeum
NISH T 5
A W I APMIT ITS l /6M
Becf\u86
you 866 how 6\j6R.yaow
DRteSBS AUP STAm
APOUUV IU THf LOWn
AW 7ALK6 ABOUT Hoio
MUCH IT6 6E6UCH AN6SO
6ltfCg THCLf CAUGHT"
If W N6U) HAU6M'
AW (7 mi o m ojez °!OU
GO OUT A/OC7 HEAR OUE
HALE OF M AUVIEMCe
"l PUUtiO- WHAT
(PIP HOU
AftJP 7H6
HALF (9 £W(M6,
"r ootitto i
CAiOT SIHTF
DP MIND.
m> I'O RtAV THE
Reviews the uexr
mprmimg amp Th 6
PL APS IV HATZ
UJOUU7 SET SUPSRB'
AMP THE FLAPS IP
IQVt LOOULO
66T ’Stuceßß
ATTEMPT '
66 I 066 AM TO 666 THAT
soviet A(?6MT REAi-Py
tham rama. it
6>M6M that a;am
oftAO66 fP /r$ A
RtALW 6000 RAM
ircw>£6S w T^o
“ C7AMS
IF TH6H 0 oum MAK'f
TH6 6000 Pi AW9 A
uttu 0-it
far rne cmcs we
Him ha ue tone
ROAt- terßs /a)
TH/6 COVttTZk


FOR THE OBSERVER
An Invitation to
the Irresponsible
T AST Sunday afternoon, I saw a child
with a cut foot. The cut was two
inches long and went deep. It was not a
nice sight. It is almost unnecessary to
add that it was made by a broken beer
bottle.
Not long afterwards, had I not been
walking with particular care, because of
what I had just seen, I would have stepped
on the jagged remains of yet another
bottle. Placed strategically in the sand at
the base of the concrete steps leading to
the beach, it was a trap that might have
maimed a child, or a mother, or even
a breadwinner.
I collected up the pieces and took
them to the litter bin a few yards away,
and as I did so —pretty angry at first—l
began to think that something should be
done about it, that it was time that people
stopped accepting the menace of broken
beer bottles as a necessary evil. Is there
a penalty, 1 wondered, for this sort of
thing? Or is it not considered as repre-
hensible as leaving a car parked over the
time permitted, or an elector not putting
his mark on a polling card? „
If there is a penalty, it does not appear
to be enforced. Although basically
opposed to the principle of “on the
spot’’ fining, I feel it has its merits in the
case of people dumping bottles that they
had room to bring with them, but have
not space in the car to take away. There
were plenty left on the beaeh last Sunday,
an open invitation to the irresponsible
to use as target practice.
Apart from the rather drastic and per-
haps impractical suggestion 1 have made
of “on the spot” fining, which I still think
would be most effective and unnecessary
after the first few cases, there are other
ways that would help to arouse the public
conscience.
A press campaign for instance. In the
United Kingdom during the war—when
the spreading of colds was considered
to be detrimental to the war effort —
there was a campaign fought on the
slogan of “Coughs and sneezes spread
diseases” and cinemas throughout the
country showed flashes of the thoughtless
villains who sneezed into the atmos-
phere instead of their handkerchiefs. The
effect on the public was remarkable and
I know that in my office, at least, very
few people offended twice.
One final point in this war against
broken beer bottles. Seldom have I seen
a broken milk or soft drink bottle in a
public place. Put one down on the beach
and look away, and it has disappeared.
You can always get threepence for a milk
or a soft drink bottle, you know! In
countries where this applies to beer
bottles, they are no longer used for
target practice. In the United Kingdom
the position is the reverse of here. Beer
bottles are good for threepence, milk
bottles come free, so its the milk bottles
that the louts play with. Dairymen over
there say it would not be practicable to
charge on their bottles. Apparently the
beer trade thinks it would not be practic-
able to take back empties here. It is a
pity that our milkmen can’t have a word
with their United Kingdom opposite
numbers, and their brewers do likewise
with ours. That way many a nasty acci-
dent would be avoided.
If the beer trade still feels that it
could not cope with returned empties, it
could show willingness to co-operate by
putting stickers on the bottles. I am sure
a professional poet could do better but
“Put me in a litter bin —broken bottles
are a sin” jumps to my mind.
This seems to cover all my ideas on
how to stop the broken glass pest, but
I hope it has set greater minds than mine
thinking. Australians can build dams,
bridges, produce sugar without coolie
labor, eradicate prickly pear, get rid of
the sugar cane bug. surely, oh surely,
“She loves me, she loves me not.
something can be done about the beer-
. bottle breaker!
DOROTHY BOTTING
FOR THE CONSUMER
What is a Television
Set Worth ?
/"\ne of the most naive assumptions
which shoppers make is that some-
thing is worth what they paid for it. It
might be worth that to them, otherwise
they wouldn’t have bought it. A car or a
washing-machine might be worth every
penny of its price to the buyer, because
of time and energy saved, but the question
really is: What is it worth out of the
garage or the laundry?
This question of worth may have come
home forcibly to some Australians in
the past 12 months. If a householder were
forced to dispose of goods because of
the credit squeeze, or if goods were
repossessed, he may have been surprised
to learn that a TV set for which, if he
had been able to continue his hire pur-
chase payments for the full term of four
or five years, he would have paid nearly
£4OO, is for sale in a repossessed-good?
shop for about £4O or £5O, and this shop-
keeper has allowed his own profit-margin
on that price.
Of course, the householder had at!
those hours of viewing, all that relatively
cheap entertainment for the whole family
But, nonetheless, most of us tend to think
that when we buy a television set, wt.
are not buying entertainment but a square
wooden box. It is something of a shock to
people who make use of hire-purchase
to know that after their commitments
are fulfilled the box is worth only enough
to pay a deposit on a new set to begin
the cycle all over again.
Television is probably the extreme
example of this loss of value in appliances
An electric cleaner or a sewing-machine
will last almost indefinitely and can abn


N
%
13
CB
3
o
o
3
O
O«S|S
i
CD
I)
o*o
O/
/ /
o
KHIIS/0
CA Si
WD>
FiVE - IN - ONE
FILTROMAT
SAND TYPE FILTER
EASIER TO OPERATE
ASSURES CLEANER WATER.
Here's the most modern swimming pool filter
ever built! 1.8. C. Jacuzzi Filtromat combines
into one handsome compact package all five neces-
sary features for a really outstanding pool filter.
• Sand type filter unit
• Integral Jacuzzi filter pump
• Integral hair and lint strainer
• Integral piping
• Integral single 5-way selector valve
I\B\C
f
IBC JACUZZI SPIN TYPE
GYRO FLOW
PRESSURE DIATOMACEOUS POOL FILTER
The Gyro-Flow is a spin-type filter. There are no bags
to take out and rinse. Compact, attractive design makes
inexpensive pool-side installation possible.
GYRO FLOW
(bare) £129
(Exempt Sales
Tax)
Pipe
fitting
kit
to connect puini
niter
£3O
Filter complete with
Seif Priming Pump &
£217/10/-
e
%
SELF PRIMING POOL
FILTER PUMP
Mechanical Shaft Seal • Hair
and Lint Strainer • Electric
Motor
All the quality for which 1.8. C. Jacuzzi is famous is
built into this Self-Priming U filter pump for swim-
ming pools. The pump ease is east of the finest hronze
and the shaft is stainless steel to ensure completely
rust-free water.
Mime
INTERCOLONIAL BORING GO. LTD.
BRISBANE 450-466 Ann St., Brisbane
SYDNEY 23-25 Doody St., Alexandria.
TOWNSVILLE ROCKHAMPTON CAIRNS
£BB/10/-
(Exempt Sales Tax)
FREE BOOKLET
Write to I.R.C. for Australia’s
most comprehensive swimming
pool catalogue. It's FREE and
ROST FREE.
fetch some sort of second-hand price.
Typewriters will last (even in the hands
of journalists) almost indefinitely.
A refrigerator is perhaps a borderline
case. Many of the unsealed-unit type refri-
gerators, which were bought in the early
postwar years, now are a rather doubtful
item of decoration in suburban backyards.
They were worth so little that after they
were accepted as a trade-in on the pur-
chase (probably on hire-purchase) of a
new, more modern type of refrigerator,
the shop didn’t even bother to come and
take them away.
A car, generally, is a particular case.
Nearly every driver has his own notion
of when a car should be traded in to get
the highest price and before one becomes
liable for the major repairs or replace-
ments which might come up, perhaps,
after 20,000 miles or so. If the car is
being bought on hire-purchase, trading-
in regularly also involves a sort of pay-
ment in perpetuity.
However, the main goods which lose
value after a relatively short time, and
for which replacement of parts is even-
tually uneconomic, are television sets and
radios.
Is there any way to avoid this per-
petual-instalments deal on these com-
modities? Paying cash in the first place,
although it may be more high-minded, is
not really the solution. An appliance
bought for cash is worth no more at the
end of five years than one bought on hire-
purchase. And, as many businessmen
stress, paying cash merely deprives you
of the use of your money, which might
be earning more elsewhere.
With electronic equipment which has
a limited life and almost inevitably high
maintenance there is the idea of rental,
either by weekly payments or by a coin-
in-a-slot device attached to the appliance.
The rental of television sets has been
popular in the United Kingdom for some
years, and the figure for rented sets there
may now be as high as 50 per cent, of
those in use. Renting refrigerators is also
being tried in the United Kingdom.
The Japanese transistor has killed most
of the business anywhere in rented radios.
As we all know, to the cost of our ear-
drums, these days people carry their
radios with them everywhere and use
them anywhere.
In Australia there are two types of
TV rental. Shopkeepers, particularly in
the Gold Coast area, keep a certain
number of sets which they hire out to
holidaymakers.
Then there are the firms which
specialise in renting, and which expect
most of their business to be on a long-
term basis.
Usually, the renting company provides
new sets (except, of course, for short-
term rental), looks after insurance, install-
ation, service, and, since a P.M.G. regu-
lation was amended six months ago,
licensing.
Renting companies revise their hiring
costs when the market price of a TV set
changes, although it is doubtful whether
they have been able to keep up with the
tumbling market in the past year.
The longer you rent a set the cheaper
the weekly charge becomes. This is in
contrast to the service contract, which
becomes more expensive as the set grows
older. Cost of hiring per month may, after
five years, be only about half of what it
was in the first six months.
Coin-in-a-slot is often chosen by people
who change their address frequently, are
perhaps, only in this country for a short
period, or who resolutely watch only a
small, set number of programmes each
week. Some firms which provide coin-
in-a-slot give hirers the option of buying
after a set period, say three months.
In this case, the money already paid
may be refunded so the coin-in-a-slot
operation is an extended free trial with
no chance of the shop really losing on
the deal.


One of the oldest-established rental
firms, Radio Rentals, says that its busi-
ness in TV hire has more than doubled
in the past year. It says that its cus-
tomers comprise a complete cross-section
of the community, alt types of people,
from all income groups and all types of
suburbs.
Radio Rentals claims that in the long
run rental is the cheapest way to get
television. By the long run it means
around five years.
Television in Australia is just five yeais
old and five years is sometimes suggested
as the normal lifetime of a set. It will
be only within the next five years when,
perhaps, more and more householders
are advised that their sets are not worth
repairing, that it may begin to become
clear just what the long run in television
is. This may lead to a closer investiga-
tion of the figures related to different
ways of getting television.
PATRICIA ROLFE
ABORIGINALITIES
Old Gordon Blue,
the Shearers' Cook
Shearers' cooks, like all cooks, are
temperamental. Even chefs in
restaurants which have the food
resources of the world available to them
are sometimes deeply depressed by the
dreary monotony of caviar, lobster,
oysters, hams, poultry, game, flesh, fowl
and good red herring. If, with a thousand
recipes at their fingertips, they have
moods when it is all just food, think
how much worse it is for a shearers'
cook. In his case it is all just mutton,
unless he gets things out of cans or can
work out some way of making wool
palatable.
Old Gordon Blue stood it for years,
but the end came after he had ridden
relays of horses 200 miles to provide
Tommy the Rager’s team, then barber-
ing the baa-lambs on Ratbag Downs,
with a little weekend luxury and variety
in their diet. He used crocodiles for
stepping-stones to cross various rivers,
and finished up looking like a human
pincushion because of the number of
Myall spears in his back. But when he
got back, dizzy with fatigue and loss
of blood, he was clutching proudly
various packages of frogs’ legs, table-
snails and the like, all snap-frozen and
flown to the port to provide a delightful
surprise for the shearers at Ratbag
Downs.
“What's this muck?” asked the gun
of Ratbag, when served with the care-
fully prepared delicacies. “Chuck it out.
an’ get me some proper mutton chops
and eggs.”
Old Gordon Blue could take it no
longer. With a cry of rage and anguish
he hit the gun with a pan of batter
from which he had proposed to create
crepes suzettes with which to conclude
the meal. The gun then hit him with
enough snails to stock a half-acre of
cabbages, the table, his fists, and the
heavy, hobnailed boots he wore to ease
his feet when he was not working on the
board It was the end of old Gordon
Blue’s many years as a shearers’ cook.
The end of a long and honorable
career, brought about by some small
error such as anybody might make, is
always sad. But old Gordon, a resource-
ful man as well as a superb cook, was
not defeated. He sent a telegram to his
old friend and professional rival, Skilly
O’Pumpkin, who was then cooking for
a team on Gruesome Plains. Skilly
snatched his time, and the pair went to
the city and opened a fancy eating-house.
Nor was this any common place where
those who hungered and thirsted had to
manage along on un-original dishes like
pate de foie gras and champagne. It
was the truly national restaurant, where
only typical Australian dishes were
served, and its name was “The Tender
Bustard.”
Unfortunately, the two great shearers'
cooks fell out early in the piece. They
could not agree on how to prepare sweet
and sour goanna. Skilly, his native skill
undermined by foreign influences,
wanted to use almonds. When old
Gordon insisted wrathfully that the
really local recipe called for quandong
nuts instead, there was a nasty seen®,
A well-meaning friend who intervened
with the suggestion that they should
compromise on chopped blackboy wands
was turned upon savagely by both,
Skilly doing his turning with a butcher’s
cleaver in hand. The man who had
poked his nose in where it wasn't wanted
was featured on the menu next day,
wearing his old Light Horse hat- and
plume, as Emu Chow Mein.
Dealing justly with this interfering
type drew the two great cooks together
for a day or two, but it could not last.
When old Gordon found his entire stock
of quandong nuts soaking in a 40-gallon
drum of diesel fuel, he accused Skilly
of sabotage, and an ancient friendship
was dissolved, like the nuts, with great
bitterness. Old Gordon carried on “The
Tender Bustard” alone, despite malicious
rumors spread far and wide by Skilly
that his famous saltbush'salad, allegedly
made with the finest snake-oil, was in
reality only an imported concoction of
geranium leaves ar/d kerosene.
To say that the restaurant flourished
would be to exaggerate. But it managed
along on a basis which was the reverse
of the usual one of recommendation by
friend to friend. The recommendations
were from enemy to enemy. The man
who had been cleverly done in by some
business rival in a big deal delightedly
sent his commercial foe along to eat at
“The Tender Bustard.” Then, while the
victim groaned under the stomach-pumps
in some hospital, he stole as much of
his business as he could. On the principle
that all is fair in love and war, rejected
suitors cleverly tricked the more favored
fellows into taking the poor girls there
for supper.
Business was good enough to stimu-
late old Gordon’s always considerable
originality and inventive powers. He
scornfully rejected the time-honored
recipe for cooking emu, which consists
of boiling the bird along with a stone,
and when a fork will easily pierce the
stone throwing the flesh away. Never a
wasteful man, his method was to serve


Smooth, seamless walls that won t
crack, buckle or warp
Here the smooth, seamless effect of Gyprock walls can be seen to advan-
tage in this attractive living area of a modern "Sun-Line" home.
Gyprock is a core of plaster
encased in stout chipboard
and cut to economical sheet
lengths.
Two sheets in the 4/6" width,
placed horizontally, cover a
standard 9' wall completely.
No gaps... no old-fashioned
picture rails to break that
smooth, seamless surface.
The return maintenance
visit a builder must make to
repair possible cracks in wall
and ceiling surfaces is now no
more than a routine call.
Gyprock stays crack-free,
never buckles or warps.
Gyprock is a wail lining of
exceptional strength. A Gyp-
rock wall is particularly re-
sistant to cracks caused by
frame movement, vibration
and settlement. Can be
decorated with paint or paper.
Gyprock is fireproof. Home
fire insurance premiums are
reduced when Gyprock is used
for interior walls and ceilings.
White ants and borers won't
eat Gyprock. For more infor-
mation about Gyprock write
or ’phone your nearest C.S.R.
Building Materials Showroom
or contact our distributors.
GYPROCK PLASTER BOARD
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.,
Building Materials Division
Showrooms ot: Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. CSRB9BA
©4s
mm
$ brandy
'•
<4
-
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian •
pot-still.
stagings
BRANDY
the stone as an entree, chopping the
emu up with the aid of explosives and
circular saws, and naming it wild donkey
hash, the main course.
Distinction and originality were
features of the service as well as the
food. Bardee bouillabaisse came to the
table in the horns of Northern Territory
buffaloes, and the crocodile consomme
was tastefully presented in alligator-skin
shoes which had once adorned the dainty
feet of fashion models and the editors
of women’s magazines. The rock-python
paste used to uncoil, hissing maliciously,
out of snake-skin wallets as soon as they
were opened. The waiters were dressed
as squatters, in wide, flat hats and empty
O.P. rum bottles, but this was a touch
of inverted snobbery which Gordon
would, perhaps, have done better to
avoid.
All in all, “The Tender Bustard” was
soon on the verge of real success. All
it needed was about 1000 more cus-
tomers a day to start showing a profit.
Even as things were, it was a force not
only in the life of the city, but in keeping
the death-rate up. As a result of its
activities the university Medical .School
had to be expanded, and the usual
shortage of hospital beds became really
acute.
“The Tender Bustard” may have
achieved equal fame with Simpson’s of
the Strand or Toots Shore’s in New
York, and have become the mecca of
tourists anxious to enjoy Australian
culinary skills. But it was, as it turned
out, an effort to achieve such an inter-
national reputation which finally broke
the sensitive heart of poor old Gordon
Blue. When a famous foreign gourmet
visited the city he exerted every ounce
of his political and social influence to
make sure that this gastronomic
authority dined at “The Tender Bustard.”
It was a great occasion when he came
bustling in, followed by a belching,
green-faced retinue of locals who had
been trying to keep up with him at table.
“The true Australian dishes!” the
guest enthused. “The food of the great
Digger-soldiers, of the mighty surf-
savers, of the champion jockeys and the
undefeatable whackers of the tennis! 1
must partake immediately. Bring me the
steak and eggs.”
Poor old Gordon Blue was never the
same man again. The discovery that this
world-renowned gastronome was, at
heart, just a culinary clot like the Ratbag
Downs shearers, destroyed him.
“The Tender Bustard” did not open
next day, and by the evening of it
Gordon had left town. He could not,
and would not, go back to the soulless
shearers. For a long while his where-
abouts was a mystery.
But he has been located, in Queensland,
and it is good to be able to report that
he is both busy and happy. He is now
a canecutters’ cook and, as a keen sup-
porter of local industry and all the by-
products of the sugar-mills, is gaining
a new fame as the greatest authority
anywhere on recipes which contain rum.
GAVIN CASEY


REVIEWS
Ham Funeral in Adelaide
THEATRE
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
The Ham Funeral. Patrick White.
Adelaide University Theatre Guild,
Union Hall, Adelaide.
A delaide, that home of second chances
for plays of the first importance, has
added another brilliant work to the
limited repertoire of important Austra-
lian plays. The first night of “The Ham
Funeral” moved an excited audience
(composed of everything from breath-
suckers to cheerers) through the whole
range of pity and laughter. And it
brought to the role of Mrs Lusty a
Western Australian actress, Joan Bruce,
who would make a triumph of the part
anywhere in the world.
The success of the performance came
as a profound relief not perhaps so much
to the already famous author as to the
many people in Adelaide who had staked
their judgment, money and hard work
on the quality of the play. Following
in the distinguished footsteps of “The
One Day of the Year,” the play was
first of all turned down in its home
preserves of Sydney by a pusillanimous
Elizabethan Theatre Trust and thrown
out on its neck by the Executive Com-
mittee, then the Governors of the
Adelaide Festival of Arts. (“It would
give offence” was the sonorously
ambiguous official phrase that wished it
to its death.) However, the enthusiasm
of veteran Adelaide producer Colin
Ballantyne, and then the whole-hearted
support of Dr Harry Medlin and the
enterprising Adelaide University Theatre
Guild persuaded the injured author to let
Adelaide give the play a chance after all,
a chance that has now developed into a
certainty.
What a relief to have an Aus-
tralian play that is not only tough
but also poetic, not only profoundly
human but also free of the technical and
linguistic weights of naturalism. The
play is actually set in Pimlico, London,
but as the Young Man says in his intro-
duction, it could be anywhere, “It could
be that I was born in Birmingham . . .
or Brooklyn .. or Murwillumbah. What
is important is that, thanks to a succes-
sion of meat pies (the gristle-and-gravy,
cardboard kind) and many cups of pink
tea, I am alive!” Good though it is to
have had in recent years plays of un-
mistakeably Australian background, we
also need plays whose characters and
themes are of universal application. And
the cast without exception gave resonance
to the universal quality of the play’s
language.
White got the idea for the play 14
years ago from one of William Dobell’s
most superbly sardonic paintings, “71,e
Dead Landlord,” which shows' a pot-
bellied corpse, grotesquely proud in the
splendor of long underpants, dead on
the bed while the landlady sensually
combs her hair, regarding herself in the
mirror. The landlady, Dobell told White,
had sent him out to summon the rela-
tives for a funeral feast of ham. From
this image of life departed and life going
on White progressed from the basement
of coarse reality to the upper floor of
dreams, presenting the lot to the audience
as the shabby but sometimes shining
house of life.
In an imaginative production, with an
extremely fine set by the artist S.
Ostoja - Kotkowski, the stage becomes
this house. In the basement are Will
and Alma Lusty, upstairs are the Young
Man and, through the always separating
wall, the actual girl Phyllis Pither who
is also his dream projection of his hopes
and desires. The Landlord dies, the
Landlady lives again through her
adultery and the memory of her dead
child, the relatives come to torment her
as comic furies, the Young Man grows
up, and the lodging-house contains it all.
TPhe Landlady dominates the play, but
* the Young Man holds it together.
Fortunately this production found actors
capable of sustaining both parts. Joan
Bruce, as the Landlady, was truly of the
basement, closest to the earth. When she
recalls how she threw her wrestler
husband on the grass, she is all body, the
earth mother. When she and her dead
Will reduce the Young Man to hiccups
and the audience to tears of laughter
she is all spirit, wounded but surviving,
with apathetic indignation: “But with-
out even a word! I didn’t say goodbye
to ’im! ” When she falls, tragically
unraped by the Young Man, from the
table to the floor, she is a body finding
its level but also the enduring need of
all who live for the love that will satisfy
but not devour. Though a classically
rewarding part, it also calls for a rare
mixture of the flesh and the spirit, and
it would be hard to imagine any actress
filling the part better than Joan Bruce.
The very demands of the play seemed
to lift her by their intensity.
The Young Man has the difficult job
of being both silly and moving, as well
as being both player and chorus. John
Adams is a most remarkable young
actor (he is only 17) who will certainly
make a name for himself if (the great
Australian caveat) he is given a chance.
In the basement the Young Man is the
fluttery young poet terrified of being
devoured by Mrs Lusty ; upstairs he
yearns for the vigor which will unite
his divided self. Both situations call for
an ironic awareness of his limitations,
which John Adams, very much to his
credit, manages to convey.
The four relatives, frock-coated knock-
abouts, were both funny and sinister
enough, and their perfect timing reflected
the general discipline of John Tasker’s
production. In the play they are the
outside world, confident in its vulgarity,
never doubting its right to hack off a
slice of ham or a pound of Mesh. The
First Relative is smugly virtuous: ‘'We
certainly never done a murder, Alma.’’
To which Mrs Lusty answers: “Nor
never loved. Exceptin’ yerselves . . . yer
hollow faces in the glass . . . an’ the
black cockroach, squintin’ down at yez
off the shelf.” Also butting into tragedy,
this time in pure music hall, are the
two Professional Ladies, otd rootlers in
rubbish tins who find more than they
bargained for.
White has in this play, as in his
novels, dared the whole grmut of
language and emotion, from the brutal
to the tender, but his shocks are not
shockers and his delicacies not senti-
mental. The balance comes from taut
dialogue and stagecraft, so that the true
face of things appears, sometimes to the
startled eyes of those who had not known
it. As in any worthwhile play, the
audience moves with the characters to
a deeper self-realisation.
This play makes one wonder despair-
ingly how many more good plays are
being stifled by those who control theatre
in Australia. Written in its original form
14 years ago, it shares many of the pre-
occupations and techniques of some
plays of writers like Pinter or lonescu,
though needless to say it is influenced
by neither of them, being written earlier.
This mutual concern of lively minds
reflects the needs and pressures of the
times, and “The Ham Funeral” is a play
that means something now, anywhere. It
should appear in other Australian States,
and then follow other Australian plays
overseas to prove that naturalism is not
all we are capable of offering.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Comimercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jackson &
-O'SUbLIVAV
PTYLTD c
w Was? C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pt y. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Papet Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, .New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS " PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Ham Drama in Sydney
East Lynne, (after) Mrs Henry Wood.
Music Hall Restaurant, Sydney.
Ballet Australia. Elizabethan Theatrq,
Sydney.
C'ydnly’s newest theatre enterprise, the
Music Hall Restaurant at Neutral
Bay, sets out to provide a gay night for
the playful and uninhibited. Main course
for the gaiety is a rich and rare burlesque
of the well-known Victorian melodrama
East Lynne, and the success of the even-
ing is due to some pretty brilliant playing
and production.
As yet, the other components of the
night’s entertainment —food, service,
what should be the genuine coarse bustle
and rugged friendliness of the legendary
music hall—are not up to standard. Once
the entrepreneur, Mr George Miller,
welds his enterprise together so that all
elements have the same warmth, finish and
smooth enterprise as his acting company,
then nothing should hold the venture back
from long life and great prosperity.
As it is, those seeking relaxation with
an accent on honest laughter larded with
ham and a just-right touch of tears, will
find East Lynne the perfect answer.
Production by Miss Bette Bailey-
Stainton is brisk, loud, hilarious and
imaginative. Playing by the company is
generally first-rate, with Mr Barry Crey-
ton as the villain, Miss Fernande Glyn,
as the misled Lady Isabelle, and Mr
Ernie Bourne, as a richly comic rich
uncle, standing out and shining forth.
one looks at the quality and
integrity of the work of Ballet Aus-
tralia, the short (two-night) season which
is all the company can afford to mount
appears a monstrous waste.
Surely the Elizabethan Theatre Trust,
which gaily guarantees all manner of
inferior Australian play productions and
backs people who have little right to
be in theatre at all, can have enough
imagination and taste to guarantee this
remarkable company a sensible season?
Ballet Australia, made up of many of
our leading professional dancers and
choreographers, aims to present new
ballets. With a full company made up
from talented amateurs as well as pro-
fessionals, a level of achievement and
art is reached way beyond any other
native Australian ballet of recent times.
“Bartok Sonata,” an abstract ballet by
Judith Burgess, is a triumph—a work
that would not be shamed in any
company.
I take abstract ballet to be the exten-
sion into space and movement of those
rudimentary tensions and impulses to
movement brought about in the human
organism as it listens to music. Miss
Burgess’s work convinced me completely
that these movements and adventures in
space were the right extensions of Bartok’s
music and thought; “Bartok Sonata”
leads the audience irresistibly into a new
and interesting world.
“Eloges,” by Coralie Hinkley, was the
other major ballet presented. The dancers
carried on a strange and intense lyric
drama amongst themselves, with their
audience held taut, tensed to learn what
the dancers were about. Pure dance told
us finally, without need for programme
or words. The dancing had all the fas-
cination of people dedicated to ritual, the
charm of people doing something grave
and familiar, yet creating it new each
time. Though the other three ballets on
the programme fell below the level of the
two principal works, yet all this new
choreography had life and interest.
KEVEN KEMP
Back Lane Idyll
The Sentimental Bloke. Book by
Lloyd Thomson and Nancy Brown.
Music by Albert Arlen. Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne.
Two separate questions pose themselves
about this musical version of “The
Sentimental Bloke.” First, is it a good
musical? And, secondly, what relation
does it bear to C. J. Dennis’s poems?
Dennis’s back-lane idyll set in Mel-
bourne in 191.3, has plenty of local and
period color, which makes it an excell-
ent source for a musical. The settings
by Cedric Flower are cleverly designed
to represent real back lanes which yet
have an idyllic atmosphere. The period
costumes are gay and imaginative. The
impression is of old photographs, brightly
tinted, gaily a/iimated, accompanied by
pleasant, old-f? shioned lyrics. The effect
is both quaint and charming.
A great deal depends, of course, on
the Bloke. Edwin Ride has made the
part his own. His Bloke is very like the
tough cherub of Hal Gye’s drawings.
The hign point of the evening, and of
Mr Ride’s performance, is his spirited
rendering of Bill’s description of “The
Play,” which is taken straight from
Dennis. Frank Ward is an Englishman
and he plays Ginger Mick as a cockney
barrow boy. It is a delightful performance
and, since life in Little Lon and Collins
Streets was so very different in 1913 from
what it is now, a cockney Ginger Mick
does not seem particularly out of place.
However, he is certainly not Dennis’s
character. Gloria Dawn plays the forth-
right Rose of Spadger’s lane with great
verve.
John Young's production has only one
serious fault: It is too long and too
loose. But that can be remedied very
easily by some simple tailoring: A bit
of cutting down and tightening up.
“The Sentimental Bloke" is the story
of the transformation of Bill by his girl,
Doreen, from a larrikin hero of a back-
lane gang to a hard-working, sober
citizen, husband, father. Cynics might
regard it as the decline and fall of Billy
the Kid. The charm of Bill is that he
takes his defeat manfully and admits it
was inevitable.
The humor of “The Sentimental
Bloke’’ lies partly in the taming of Bill,
and partly in the translation of the
language of the poets into the vernacular
of Little Lon. The translation gives us
a double vision: We see the ordinary
bloke as a hero of romance, and the
hero of romance as an ordinary bloke.
It brings out the Romeo and Juliet aspect
of Billo and Doreen, and the Billo and
Doreen aspect of Romeo and Juliet.
But the musical does not bring out
the full flavor of “The Sentimental
Bloke.” The plot has had to be
elaborated, some of the characters
developed and new characters intro-
duced. In the process, the tone of the
original has been changed. The most
important change is in the character of
Doreen. For some reason, Doreen’s


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office: 171—279 Collin* Street, Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1961
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers
Money at Short Call—Overseas
Australian Public Securities—
(a) Commonwealth and States
(i) Treasury Bills anc Season-
al Securities (at face valve)
(ii) Other Securities (at or
under market value)
(b) Local and Serr.i-Govern-
rnental Authorities (at or
under market value)
Other Public Securities (at or
under market value)
Other Securities (at or under mar-
ket value)
Loans to Authorised Dealers in
the Short Term Money Market
Statutory Reserve Deposit Ac-
count with Reserve Bank
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
and Balances with and due from
Other Banks
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted ( after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or
doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Sites (at cost /ess amounts written
off) ... ...
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit...
Shares in wholly owned Sub-
sidiary Company (at cost). (The
Company has made neither profit
nor loss)
All Other Assets
£
11,323,050
125,000
8,500,000
61,248,489
357,649
1,453,400
3,229,308
2,620,000
34,052,000
11,445,678
164,347,375
9,766,939
28,925,207
2,000
3,552,852
340,953,947
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc. —as per contra ... ... 27,504,538
£368,458,485
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1961
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian currency.)
We have examined the accounts in the books at the Head Office ancT the certified returns
from the branches and are of the opinion that such accounts and the foregoing balance Sheet
and Profit and Loss Account are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1958 so as to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company s affairs.
Melbourne’, 2nd November, 1961.
/. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. \
SBERRARD WARNOCK, F.C.A. J
Auditors
social status and aspirations have been
raised. She has been promoted to a
forewoman in the pickle factory,
whereas, in the original, she is just one
of the girls, who pastes the labels on the
bottles. Certainly her Ma, who yearns
for gentility, bemoans that Doreen has
been “Rejuiced to workin' in? a factory.”
But Doreen's own desire to reform Bill
and make him forsake “the pubs an’
schools an’ aIJ that leery game,” is not
so much in the interests of gentility as
to make him into a reliable husband.
]n this production Doreen becomes a
“lady.” She reminded me of those young
lady schoolmarms who are always re-
forming tough cowboys in Westerns.
But that was not what Dennis meant at
all. Just because Bill describes Doreen
as “A decent tart” and not “jist a com-
min bit er fluff," that does not mean
that she belongs to the middle class,
nor that she is a stock heroine.
But throughout the musical there is
a tendency to substitute stock figures
for the C. J. Dennis originals. The
Stror ’at Coot, for instance, becomes
a conventional comic lady killer, in-
stead of a superior young man who
works in a “hoflfis.” The result is that
much of the strength of the original
work is sacrificed for the sake of smooth-
ness and conventional appeal.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Poetry in Pity
The Long and the Short and the Tall.
• Willis Mall. Canberra.
\VfiLLis Hall’s play, “The Long and
the Short and the Tall,” achieved the
rare feat of being extremely funny in
parts and deeply moving, even tragic,
in its total impression. It is limited in
scene to the interior of a primitive hut
in the Malayan jungle, and, in time, to
one late afternoon in 1942. So atten-
tion is entirely concentrated on the
characters, a group of British soldiers,
on patrol in Japanese-held territory.
At first, the scene is static,, effectively
conveying the boredom with routine, the
personal irritations, the private anxieties
and general lack of enthusiasm for
war among the seven representative
“ordinary” men who have been turned
into soldiers. But there is no monotony ;
the contrast of character,, home-back-
ground and accent prevents that,, and so
do the humor of the dialogue and the
clash of the varied personalities witlin
the small hut. Then, in Act 2. war which
had been distant and boring becomes
close and deadly, and the play gives a
terrifying dramatic version of war’s
universal dilemma these ordinary,
friendly, bewildered young men do not
want to kill ; some of them refuse to
kill, and then, too late, in a moment of
panic, one of them does kill, and so
makes inevitable his own death and that
of his comrades. On reflection, the situa-
tion may appear contrived, but at th■
time it was too swift and too disturb.^
to seem so The play’s bitter conclusion,
that man s humanity to man has no place
in war showed itself in the restrained
but prolonged applause with which the
audience paid tribute to this production.
Outstanding among a generally high
level of performances were John Wells's
realistic Sergeant Mite hem and Warwick
Ongley’s smart Alec, Private Bam forth.
The producers, John Wells and Ralph
Wilson, skilfully brought out the two
levels of the play’s significance They
might have heightened the sense of fne-
tion within the hut and of danger outstde
it by suggesting the heat and by modify-
tfle vo ‘ ces of men only 50 yards from
Japanese track. But perhaps it is
carping to suggest alterations in an
already fine production.
HOPE HEWITH


ART
Disdain for Dogma
James Gleeson. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
Tames Gleeson exploits here a vast
** array of technical effects in some
80 or more small-scale paintings ; larger
abstract expressionist paintings differ in
style from these small surrealist works,
without any noticeable change in content.
Jackson Pollock regarded surrealism
as a fruitful precursor of abstract
expressionism. Like him, Gleeson
plunges gaily from image to non-image
with absolute disdain for the dogmas of
both schools. The theme of the nude
figure in violent action or repose intro-
duces a sense of rich association into the
“Labours of Hercules” series of 12 each,
dealing with the myths of Orion, Bellere-
phon or Orpheus. These paintings,
through the unpremeditated manner of
their working, have become images of
which the figure provides the focal point.
Some spring to life with suggestions of
cosmic landscapes where heroes battle
with the elemental powers of nature.
Baroque whirls and flourishes, glints of
jewel-like color annihilate the feeling of
reduced scale in “The Capture of
Cerebus,” “Flight of Perseus,” “Bellere-
phon Fallen” and many others. This is
superb illustration because the brilliant
handling of color and paint is in itself
fascinating, it provides a real support
for the literature. The cold steely
quality of “Circe’s Island” or “The
Punishment of Prometheus” reveals
James Gleeson at his best with intricate
crepuscular forms. This treatment of
myth suggests some contemporary hap-
penings. If the past intrudes, it is the
drama of Pergamon rather than the
grand severities of Attica.
One tends to seek out images in the
large abstracts because in some, like
“Germination,” the same or similar
forms are carried from the surrealist's
works. Considerable experiment has
opened new fields for the artist but the
control of texture and the manipulation
of subtle lights are in no way more
authoritative.
A sense of urgency on the other hand
invests “Inauspicious Augury” and
“Vernal Image” with smouldering,
explosive tensions. Above all, these paint-
ings are very personal statements; all
the influences from outside have, through
genuine fantasy, been turned to good
account.
J. HENSHAW
Eye of a Child
Malcolm Carbins, Alex Leckie. Went-
worth Gallery. Margarita Stipnieks
and Adam Kriegel. Peel Street.
Cornell Prize Exhibition. Con-
temporary Art Society, Adelaide.
A/Tr Carbins has that admirable artistic
attribute, the eye of a child. His
paintings shine with a pure innocence
which makes the Wentworth look like the
well-lit nursery of a discriminating and
affluent household, and by contrast
Adelaide’s Rundle Street outside,
decorated for Christmas, is sordid and
wicked, which is saying something. His
colors and shapes denote the attractive
dreamy land where rocks merge into
living forms, an old boiler is a monster,
stars fall into the sea, a bird flies with
a horse's reins in its beak (or is Nimboya
Abstract a railway engine?), and men are
like trees walking. This Disney touch,
though, is unobtrusive, being held back
by either a tentative personality or a self-
taught restraint ; in fact, unlike a child,
Mr Carbins either stops or knows when
to stop.
This is his first one-man exhibition.
He lives in Adelaide and, according to
the catalogue, is now 40 years old. Late
development (if being 40 years old is
late and, for all I know, he may give only
part of his time to painting) is quite a
constant feature in our contemporary
welfare society. I would say, then, that
here is a very promising young painter.
“Young” because the paintings are
youthful and this is his first full show.
“Promising” because some of them have
that added quality of unexpectedness
which gives the viewer an extra dig.
His “Advancing City” is a good
example. Some dry wood and stones in
the foreground are in a yellow field.
Towards them comes the red threatening
blob of a building. But that is not all,
for in the disposition and attitude of the
sticks and stones there is, variously,
joyful welcome, indifference, despair, a
set of human comments on the amoeboid
spread of a city. Mr Carbins is an
animist, and therefore both his biology
and his religion will be unrefined, but
animism is part of the development of
most of us and, with its possibilities for
imaginary, a thoroughly worthwhile ingre-
dient in a picture.
Alex Leckie’s heavy stone pottery is
becoming well known in Adelaide.
Sombre colors, dull finishes and strong
uncompromising looks suggest that his
wares could hold your ashes (funerary,
not tobacco) or personal Dead Sea scrolls
for a thousand years.
Margarita Stipnieks and Adam Kriegel,
at Peel Street, show 20 paintings apiece:
dark smudgy oils, conventional subjects,
sunflowers, boy and guitar, mother and
child, still lifes, and so on. Universal
themes all right ; but there is little evi-
dence of technical mastery, and the effects
are elderly and unoriginal yet not entirely
lacking as means of communication
as one feels that both artists get a morose
satisfaction from what they do.
The 1961 Cornell Prize has been won
by Miss Barbara Hanrahan with a simple
blue and black female study which is
the most striking picture in the exhibi-
tion. A prize show is perhaps necessarily
Babel-like with all the participants
invited to say their personal pieces in a
way which will catch the judge’s atten-
tion. Above the hubbub Mr J. S. Ostoja-
Kotowski’s “Armored Sentry,” with its
glints of steel and knife edges and his
usual competent finish, would have my
vote for second prize.
EARLE HACKETT
FILMS
Suspenseful
Leda. Chabrol. Sydney Lido.
“T eda” is a trick film, juggling love
and murder, wit and pathos. It is
technically exciting: cleverly directed,
brilliantly photographed, and imagina-
tively recorded. Moreover, it is splen-
didly acted by an outstanding cast,
including Jean-Paul Belmondo. Madeleine
Robinson and Antonella Lualdi.
If it fails to move one emotionally, it
is because it moves too fast. The funny
bits are funny, and the tragic bits are
tragic ; but everything is bitsily sub-
ordinated to the main aim, which is to
produce a sophisticated “thriller.” In
short, “Leda” is not drama but melo-
drama. One would have no objections
were it not for the fact that in this case
the parts are superior to the whole.
Claude Chabrol has made a first-rate,
second-rate film with material that is
nearly all first class. But he still won the
1960 Festival of Venice Award, on tech-
nicalities.
It is seldom that one has to chide a
director for following a script too closely.
The second-rate, supense element comes
from the story ; the excellences come
from the elaboration of character in the
film itself, by the actors and by the
director. In both, murder comes first,
but the finest things in the film are well
beyond the level of a “who-dunnit.” The
familiar triangle, wife-husband-mistress,
is presented with rare power. Indeed. 1
have seen nothing harsher than the hus-
band-wife episodes or anything more
lyrical than the passages between lover
and mistress; and both relationships are
wholly credible. But they are crowded
out by a too-cleverly-built-up plot.
One of the problems of the director of
a “thriller” is to conceal his murderer
as long as possible. It is perhaps to
Chabrol’s credit that I knew who his
murderer was long before I was sup-
posed to. After all, this marks one of
the differences between the melodrama
he set out to make and the genuine drama
he almost succeeded in making.
ANTON VOGT


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671 G.l’ 0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history etc. -Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney
The Red Page
Crucifixion at Sarsaparilla
By CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
IF one cares at all for the future (and for
the present) of Australian literature,
the appearance of a new Patrick White
novel should be an exciting event. White’s
last three novels, “The Aunt's Story,”
“The Tree of Man” and “Voss,” have
plainly established him as the most im-
pressive novelist we have with us. If these
three books have their faults, their limita-
tions, even their lapses into grotesquerie,
they nevertheless open up an imaginative
world of remarkable intensity and range.
No other novelist in the country makes
the kind of demands on our imagination
that great novelists make; only White
demands to be judged—even if it is to be
judged harshly—against the highest
standards. The interpenetration of method
and meaning in these novels occurs at a
level of significance reached by few
people now writing in English.
At the same time, critics have been
quick to note White’s limitations. They
have pointed to unbalance, verbal strain,
even to a lack of human centrality. R. F.
Brissenden, for instance, writes, “The
image of man presented in White’s novels
is delineated with a brilliant, an almost
neurotic, clarity- But surely, one asks,
is it not a little lopsided?”
It’s not hard to agree with this, in part
at least. Each of White’s three best-known
novels has seemed a bit lopsided. What I
would claim, however, is that this lop-
sidedness has taken a significantly new
form each time. That is to say, the strain
in each novel results, above all, from
White’s need to experiment. In each book
he has made a new start, seeking a new
and perhaps slightly opaque window in
the house of fiction : seeking a narrative
structure more capable of embodying his
vision of man’s condition. The element of
distortion seems proportionate to the
author’s need to go it alone, to create his
own conventions. The most favoured
comparison is with Faulkner; and it’s in
Faulkner that we find just such strain
and irritation, in the home-made con-
structions of “The Sound and the Fury,”
“Sanctuary,” “A Fable.” In Faulkner, too,
the crudities are justified by the achieve-
ment.
What has happened in White’s experi-
ments? In “The Aunt’s Story” he achieved
a dazzling play of imagery but the human
narrative was too frail to locate this
poetry in the world of events; “The
Tree of Man”, a much finer book, is too
often marred by stylistic checks and halts
as it moves from brilliant social comedy
to passages of metaphysical exploration;
“Voss”,, though its prose develops more
coherently, creating an organic relation-
ship between Mr Bonner’s Sydney and
Voss’s landscape of pain, sags at the end
when a series of explicitly Christian
parallels is dragged in and given too
much to do. Yet each book has marked
a new development, a memorable solution
of further problems.
“T> ide rs in the Chariot”* is a powerful
impressive book. It seems more
fully accomplished than any of its prede-
cessors. White’s earlier grasp has been
sustained, enhanced, and further pro-
blems have found imaginative solution.
The narrative, for instance, is extremely
gripping at any level. The four lives which
move towards a violent Good Friday at
Sarsaparilla are sufficiently closely plotted
in detail and event to satisfy a diehard
Naturalist; Himmelfarb’s life in Germany
makes deeply satisfying reading, merely
as an account of anti-Semitism and the
growth of Nazi terrorism. And the life
of Alf Dubbo, the visionary half-caste
painter, is a dramatic achievement with-
out precedent in Australian fiction: the
finest account we have of the artistic
daemon. It is these two, together with
the doughty English washerwoman., Mrs
Godbold, and withered, dotty Miss Hare,
owner of the crumbling Victorian folly
of Xanadu, who have been permitted the
vision of the Chariot, a fleeting symbol
which gives meaning to the tribulations
of all four. And it is these four who must
suffer the four-fifths submerged cruelty
and violence that White, like Lawrence
before him, perceives in the genial Aus-
tralian character. Himmelfarb escapes the
gas-chambers only to be strung up on a
tree by drunken youths in the outer sub-
urbs of Sydney; and evil flowers as blackly
in the brick-veneers of Sarsaparilla and
Barranugli as in Hitler’s Germany.
Again, White’s prose has become here
a more flexible medium than even in
“Voss”. It is more firmly his own voice,
more relaxed as a staple, yet capable of
rising to the intensities demanded of it.
It can encompass the shrilling accents of
suburbia,
“It was a letter from Mrs Apps,”
Mrs Jolley pursued. “That is Merle,
the eldest. Merle has a particular
weakness for her mum, perhaps
because she was delicate as a kiddy.
But struck lucky later on. With -a
hubby who denies her nothing
within reason, of course, and the
demands of his career. Mr Apps—
his long service will soon be due —
is an executive official at the Customs.
I will not say well-thought-of.
Indispensable is nearer the mark.
So it is not uncommon for Merle to
hobnob with the high-ups of the
Service, and entertain them to a
buffy at her home. Croaky de poison.
Chipperlarters. All that . . .”
the brush-strokes of a meaningful impres-
sionism,
...it was winter she remembered
best, of many, many greys: boots
clattering through grey streets; the
mirror-grey of winter fens; naked
elms tossing rooks into a mackerel
sky; the cathedral —the greyest, the
most permanent of all greys, rising
into cloud, that sometimes would
disperse, sometimes would unite with
stone.
and a symbolism which seeks to gi\
outline to inchoate religious aspiration
But the purest leaf touched the Jew’s
eyelids; his lids were shaped in gold.
His veins were lapis lazuli in a sea
of gold, the thongs of the phylac-
teries were turned to onyx, but the
words that fell from his mouth were
leaping crystals, each reflecting to
infinity the words contained within
the words.
This last extract obviously represen'
White’s most dangerous mode, but noti
how much less strained the rhythm an
syntax are than in such ‘metaphysica
passages in the earlier novels. And th
sense of actual situation (here a mar
praying at sunrise) is much more surely
sustained under the play of metaphoi
and symbol. There are faults, of course,
in the prose of “Riders in the Chariot’
but generally it shows a new degree of
authority without relinquishing anything
in ambitiousness.
Another advance in “Riders in the
Chariot” is that of making formal
iconography convincing. The Chariot, for
instance, is far less insistently underlined
than the lilies of Johann Ulrich Voss.
And though White again parallels the
* Riders in the Chariot. Patrick White
Eyre and Spottiswoode. 265.


i. m
§, M
BELLERIVE,
Poet Laureate of
the “Answers to
Correspondence"
column of the
old BULLETIN
in the twenties
and thirties has
been rescued
from oblivion
“as the years
doth rolleth onward,” for the benefit of
his old friends (and the new generation)
by Douglas Stewart, former Red Page
editor.
In his introduction Douglas Stewart
says, “I know no poet, in the whole
history of literature, so supremely funny
in his naivety as BELLERIVE.”
Here we have all the best of the old
BELLERIVE—his quaint mis-spellings,
his weird use of words like “viper,” but
most of all a picture, in his melodramatic
fashion, of the life of the period from
the “Boar War” to the “daring astro-
nauts” who soared in their balloons.
Give he’s book for Christmas
from all booksellers
12/6
Published by the Jacaranda Press
THE BOOK OF BELLERIVE
events of Christ’s Passion, the mythology
arises far more naturally from the narra-
tive than it could in “Voss”. There is
nothing here as clumsily contrived as
the Three Maries scene in the earlier
novel. Events come to a head on Good
Friday because that is the day when
dormant anti-Semitism might be expected
to bubble over. And many of the biblical
links are forged in the imagination of
the tormented, parsonage-educated artist
who re-interprets his experience on
canvas. There is little sense here of signi-
ficances being tacked upon the plot from
outside; instead they genuinely contri-
bute to it, enriching further the dense
fabric of the novel. The notable exception
to this is the unsatisfying role of the
Pilate-Judas figure, Mr Rosetree.
While recording the impression that
“Riders in the Chariot” is White’s finest
novel, a novel of great power and range,
I would like to point to the residual
weakness that White does not seem to
have solved here. He has not made the
book's over-all structure sufficiently
meaningful. The device of using four
flashback lives creaks a little too obviously
and throws raw material around too
prodigally. An excess of creative energy
seems to have been spent with slightly too
diffuse a result. What we miss is the
Jamesian ideal of maximum intensity
with minimum strain.
If this seems a carping note to end
on, it Is surely a necesary one. We must
never forget that White is a novelist with
magnificent gifts. If these gifts are ever
fully harnessed, he will be far more
than Australia’s finest novelist; he will
be one of the world’s very great writers.
With this possibility in mind, we should
keep on gently carping. And reading his
books.
Lend Them Your Ears
Dead Fellah. Madelyn Palmer. Chatto
and Windus. 15s. 6d.
Stampede. Reginald L. Ottley. Werner
Laurie. 19s. 6d.
With Hooves of Brass, Robert Close.
Rigby. 18s. 6d.
Low Company. Flugh Atkinson.
Cheshire. 19s. 6d.
TYo Australian authors really listen to
how people speak? Do roughly-
spoken Aussies say “ya” instead of “you,”
or something closer to “yer”? Do the
feminine counterparts of sweating, swear-
ing types flute phrases of sweet gentility,
making comparatively little use of slang?
Don’t men who swear heartily among
themselves temper their language (with-
out either hypocrisy or strain) in women's
company and, indeed, in the company of
some other men? Have not women their
own brand of slang and “hair down”
talk when they are together? Each of
the authors reviewed here has tried to
listen, none with complete success.
Madelyn Palmer wisely (1 think) makes
little attempt to convey phonetic oddities
by the aid of eccentric spelling. The
dialogue in the early part of her detection-
thriller is unobtrusively good. Later in
the book, when characters force them-
selves to match words to an increasingly
improbable plot, their dialogue deterior-
ates. One wishes Miss Palmer might
turn her hand (and ear) to a straight
novel set in Australia, for despite much
hackneyed silliness “Dead Fellah” is often
surprisingly enjoyable.
The hot, western cattle towns of
“Stampede” and “Dead Fellah” could be
interchangeable. Ottley has the advan-
tage of a tale that grows inevitably from
the dust of its background: a simple plot
to carry accounts of hard riding, deter-
mined drinking, crime and violence and,
of course, a cattle stampede. He intro-
duces a large number of characters and
handles them well—one does not need
the brief book-cover biography to guess
that Ottley knows cattle country, its work,
climate and people, intimately. He is,
however, far more successful in depicting
the three drovers who form a more-or-
less composite central character, the two
evil brothers, a fat stock-and-station
agent, and two girl humpy-dwellers down
by the river, than he is with his station
folk, or with Joan, the Sydney girl who,
for a reason unexplained, chose to open
a tearoom in this tiny town. Joan is
determined to muster sufficient guts to
keep going, too, in spite of murders,
shootings, stampedes and unsuitable
romantic attachments. For she has guts,
being “pretty as they come an' a ton of
guts." The villains are pretty gutless,
and don't care for the guts of others.
“Goddam ya stinkin’ guts,” snarls one
and, “Ya ain't got the guts t' stick t’ a
man when he's in strife," he unjustly
reproaches the sterling Molly. Then
there’s the chap who has “too much gut”
to be upended by any grog ever brewed,
and the one whose “guts are spiffin' tea.”
But strip Ottley's dialogue of excessive
phonetic spellings, too-often reiterated
phrases (notably guts, snakes, hairs on
chests), and up from almost every page
leaps the pithy, laconic speech of Aus-
tralia. Ottley also needs to explain
characters a little further. Why did Joan
come to town? Or Lil? Had we these
answers the book would gain the extra
depth it needs to be as memorable as its
fine, suspense-full opening scene promises.
Robert Close’s Gippsland timber
workers are less given to assessing each
other's gut potential than with raping
women with their eyes. Close writes
more fully about his people than does
Ottley. but the main interest here remains
the timber mill, its organisation and
management and descriptions of its
working method. The plot contains few
surprises, a fault indeed. Early we meet:
a pretty (extremely-favored word), “sexy”
delinquent teenager lying low by work-
ing in the mill dining-room until police
trouble blows over; a young, earnest,
obviously unstable evangelist preaching
the tenets of a small, unclassified sect;
a forest where weather conditions make
fire outbreaks a virtual certainty ; a group
of respectable married women variously
dissatisfied with aspects of secluded
forest life, and a hard-drinking, poker-
playing, mostly youthful collection of
bachelor timber workers. Everything
happens as it has to —a ThaTs-like situa-
tion between preacher and flirt ; little
piquant alterations to the established
equilibrium which add up to tragedy
when fire burns through the settlement.
The accounts of the forest and the fire
are fair enough, but Judge Stretton’s
report on the Royal Commission into
Gippsland's disastrous fires in 1938
remains unchallenged as one of the best
pieces of descriptive prose ever written
in Australia. From material of this order


THE DAUGHTER OF SILENCE
MORRIS WEST
A brilliant successor to THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE,
this is a vivid novel of contemporary Italy.
WILLIAM KEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
20/-
only a very subtle author could make a
thoroughly satisfactory book.
An author who owns some subtlety is
Hugh Atkinson, in a book dealing humor-
ously (in the main) with Sydney and its
nearby countryside. The characters are
mostly arty, crafty or both. Readers
who know their Sydney will relish most
words of “Low Company” from its dedi-
cation onward, and may add to their
amusement the ironic reflection that it is
published in, of all places, Melbourne.
The locale where Atkinson is happiest
and funniest is a certain pub in north
George Street where art shows are held
and women have long been allowed in
the bar. Of course,, you know. You’ll
recognise the beach resort, too, or ones
very like it,. and the mountain “farm”
retreat; and if not the boatshed then
a loft or attic or converted stables where
some chap very like Pal gives parties.
Probably not since Kylie Tennant's “Ride
On Stranger” will the harmless pastime
of picking the prototype characters have
been pursued with so much avidity,
although f suspect with little real success
for, 1 repeat, Atkinson is subtle.
“Low Company” concerns a young
Victorian artist called Byron, scion of
one of those families abounding near
Melbourne in whose bosoms everyone
dedicated ly pursues creative beauty.
Byron’s father is an unworldly potter.
The lad journeys to Sydney to perform
his National Service stint and, arrived
there, becomes immediately sidetracked,
being swept into a group of artists,
writers and hangers-on met in the afore-
mentioned pub. Thereafter the novel
mainly consists of clever, picaresque
farce, but not entirely so. For some half
its length the episodes are purely slap-
stick, reminding one strongly of Lennie
Lower and “Here’s Luck.” But abruptly
the mood alters. A girl visits a painter
in his studio and, conditioned by what
led up to this episode, the reader expects
more farce. Instead comes a scene of
actual insanity and rape which is far from
comic. Although the author subsequently
tries to lead events arising from this scene
back into slapstick, he never properly
succeeds, so that the second half of the
book, in which other material, too, is of
a more soberly reflective sort, seems
entirely different from the first section.
True, the later chapters are funny enough
—an account of the foundation and pub-
lication of the magazine “Trash” is
superb —but now the humor is more often
fairly sophisticated satire as against the
early belly-laughter of true farce. So,
while I feel that Atkinson handles both
these varieties of humor very well, I
cannot conclude that a book is altogether
successful when it is thus dicnotomous.
NANCY KEESING
The Sorcerer's Apprentice
The Challenge to Australian Educa-
tion. A symposium. F. W. Cheshire.
215..
The civilised world, with regard to edu-
cation, finds itself today in the situa-
tion of the sorcerer's apprentice who
called to his aid forces beyond his wisdom
to control. From a tool, education has
changed into an agent imposing its own
terms and compelling nations to muster
their full resources of knowledge and
power to meet the challenge.
The prospective reader of this attrac-
tively produced volume of addresses,
delivered at the Second Annual Meeting
of the Australian College of Education,
will naturally expect R. G. Menzies to be
the best qualified of a distinguished panel
to diagnose the challenge and propose
the means and ways to meet it.
Mr Menzies begins by calling up the
grim picture of an over-crowded Earth
at the end of this century,, when 6000
million human beings may have to be
fed, housed, clad and —educated! The
magic formula to stem the flood of
education’s gifts is, paradoxically, more
education, and this, can only mean more
science in the curriculum; not even
hardened protagonists of “parity of
esteem” dare deny the hegemony of the
sciences any longer. However, Mr
Menzies believes, and his conviction is
obviously shared by the panel, that a
liberal or humane education nevertheless
can and must remain the aim of our
society.
So far so good. But how are we going
to accomplish this “great and costly task”,
in the course of which youth is to absorb
an ever-growing body of knowledge,
learn to use freedom, that is “have a
choice and have the courage to make it”;
to strive for intellectual excellence, in a
community which has little respect for it?
Mr Menzies seems to put his trust in
the area school and an encyclopaedic
curriculum up to school leaving age, per-
mitting some specialisation “in the later
stages before matriculation,” for, after
a loving look, he throws the foundling
back into- the States’ lap, expressing his
supreme confidence in their nursing, and
in their financial solvency:“.... State
Governments have, I believe, done
remarkably well, assisted by the Com-
monwealth.”
In times when material needs obscure
the issue, education is often seen as the
product solely of organisation and con-
tent. But fundamentals have not changed.
What it needs most, still, is a central
theme, a common goal firmly defined and
pursued with zest.
There is an urgent need for co-ordina-
ting efforts in the whole educational field.
A co-ordinating Commonwealth body,
able to make recommendations on proper
and conforming practices would yield
uncounted blessings. There are precedents
to show that, far from effecting undesir-
able uniformity, a Commonwealth
advisory body would maintain diversity
consistent with unity of purpose, whilst
under the present set-up, diversity is often
the result of confusion and over-lapping
efforts.
Such a body would certainly have dis-
couraged the New South Wales Govern-
ment from sanctioning at a late stage
radical reform which harkens back in
spirit and in practice to the ’thirties and
’forties and which, however well-intended,
threatens to strengthen tendencies
deplored by the authors of this book who
speak their mind with scholarly honesty:
utilitarianism and uniformity, con-
formism and parochialism, administra-
tive tyranny and fear of the intellect.
.Such a body, in fostering organic
development, might have prevented the
abandonment of healthy features of
existing State systems, features which,
ironically, are being adopted by Euro-
pean countries as we are casting them
out. Anyhow, why should the national
approach be beneficial only at the tertiary
level; why should it exclude the majority
of our youth who do not reach it?
A. Barcan, whose historical survey of
Australian education discerningly con-
nects facts and meaning, refers to this
crucial problem, though with excessive
timidity; .. perhaps, the time is ripe for
a re-examination of the role of the Fed-
eral Government in relationship to the
States on matters of educational pro-
grammes. Perhaps a Federal Council for
national planning in education should
now be created to give leadership and
stimulus on a national basis.”
The present tendency for countries to
form mutual-benefit blocks on a geo-
graphical basis demands that we urgently
assess our national position and take a
standpoint with boldness and imagina-
tion. This is, surely, the most immediate
challenge facing education in Australia.
MARGARET DIESENDORF.


KEEPING
THE
PEACE
This zvas the first zvife-deserter to
beg Sergeant Wigmore to execute the
zvarrant for arrest . The Sergeant
hoped he zvould also be the last one.
THE Sergeant of Police slipped out of the back bar of
the Central, out of the hotel by the back way. Not
that he did so guiltily. He was smirking broadly as
he wiped his greying, gingerish moustache, as if still
savoring the jokes he had been swapping with the publican,
along with the lingering taste of the beer.
He was a big man, ruddy, inclined to the puffy fleshi-
ness of the drinker of much beer. He wore the Queensland
country policeman’s uniform, blue shirt with silver buttons
and badges, khaki slacks, the slouch hat. His pockets
bulged with the mail he had collected since its sorting a
couple of hours ago. It was his habit to meet the mail-
train every morning and then to enjoy the hospitality of
one or other of his friends, the hotel-keeper, for an hour or
so before lunch. He was not above enjoying himself like-
wise also at other times of the day, being a man who liked
his beer and company. As everybody knew, he didn’t have
much of a life at home.
The reason for his seemingly shamefaced mode of
leaving the hotel was simply that he was not going straight
home today. From the laneway at the back of the Central
he turned into the short street leading down to the Show-
ground.
The Showground, which functioned as a place of enter-
tainment rarely, was otherwise used as a refuge for what,
in Queensland, are called “Travellers.” These are itinerants
who are either too poor, too mean or otherwise unable or
unwilling to avail themselves of more usual forms of
lodging. It is customary in the free-and-easy rural com-
munities to allow them the use of such public places as
showgrounds.
That there were travellers in residence now was evident.
A couple of battered motor vehicles and a splay-wheeled
buggy stood at the back of the pavilion, and smoke was
issuing from the flue in the shed used as a refreshment
room in show-time. A couple of dogs came lolloping out
to challenge the sergeant, only to be called immediately to
heel by the gruff voice of invisible masters.
The residents were at lunch, ranged along a bench on
one side of a table that faced the door. There were half
a dozen or so, all men. Most of them were the usual seedy
grubby types. One was an ancient hook-nosed black man.
One was distinguished by being shaved and comparatively
decently clad, a squat squarish fellow of middle age, with
a high bald brow and intense blue eyes in meaty sockets
and jowls.
The seedy fellows concentrated on their plates as the
sergeant presented himself in the doorway, attacking their
food like dogs fearful of having it snatched away. The
swarthy ancient defied the intruder with a raptorial glance.
The meaty blue eyes of the square man grew round and his
jowls quivered.
The sergeant halted in the doorway, greeting the
gathering amiably and wheezingly: “Day all . . . how’s
things?”
Only the square man answered, mumbling.
The sergeant leant with a hand on the doorframe, cast-
ing a policeman’s glance about the room, then saying:
“That’s how I like to see the place . . . nice and tidy.”
Those that eyed him did so warily.
He chuckled: “Easy see you’re bachelors. It's the
married blokes make the mess. That’s because a married
man reckons he might’s well do something to be picked on
by his old woman for, seein’ she’ll pick on him whatever he
does, eh? . . . Ha, ha, ha.”
A couple of the men grinned feebly. The old darky
leered.
The sergeant asked: “You all just passing through, I
suppose?”
A rumble of assent.
He stood for a moment surveying them, then with a
wheezy sigh said: “Well, seeing you’re all bachelors, you’re
no concern of mine. I’m looking for a wife-deserter.”
They might all have been wife-deserters by the guilty
look of them.
T>UT he put them at their ease immediately, chuckling
chestily: “If any bloke turns up here with that wild look
in his eye of the run-away husband who still hears his old
woman’s voice in his ears give him my congratulations and
tell him I’ll be back this way in the course of my investiga-
tions tomorrow morning if he’s got the time to spare . . .
ha, ha, ha.”
Most of the audience tittered. The old darky cackled.
The square man’s sagging features jerked.
The sergeant turned: “Well, better be getting along
to lunch or I’ll have it chucked at me . . . ha, ha, ha! . . .
so long.”
He went his way.
The Police Station was the usual yellow-painted villa
on high stilts, with the underneath section latticed in and
used as garage and laundry. Part of the house was
residence.
Behind the villa were the quarters of the assistant
constable, a small bungalow. Across the way from the
bungalow was the lock-up, a small skillion-built structure
comprising a couple of cells fronted with a veranda
screened with steel mesh. Beside the jail was the wood-
heap, means of employment for the rare prisoners it held.
The jail was now empty, its doors wide.


A Short Story by
XAVIER
HERBERT
Her voice rose as she went on: “Giving a madman an axe
to run about with!”
Most of what was behind was only to be glimpsed
just then, because the yard was crowded with washing
billowing in the noonday breeze. A womaTi was at work
in the laundry.
The sergeant climbed the steep stairs to the official
part. Inside he took off his hat and tossed it on to a peg
on the wall. There was a line of such pegs, hung with
police gear, handcuffs and pistols in holsters, and beneath
was a rack containing rifles. Casement windows looked
out on three sides, including the rear.
He had time only to take out the mail, when the angry-
sounding tintinnabulation of a dinner gong rang through
the house. He flung the letters down and went to a door
through which he went into the residence. By way of a
shiny passage he went through to the combined dining
room and kitchen at the rear.
A woman was at the stove, turned at his entrance, with
an expression that, if it did not betray actual intention to
throw the dinner she was dishing in his face, plainly showed
the wish to do so. She did not speak.
She was a striking woman, not for beauty, but for
strength expressed in feature and form. Her face might
have been classical in its lineaments but for a button-
tipped nose. It might have been that very fault, cancelling
out beauty, which made her the scold she was so obviously
betrayed as with that expression.
His acknowledgement of her presence was an inarticu-
late grumbling as he seated himself. She resumed her
dishing.
Just then a figure appeared in the doorway leading
to the back stairs. It was a slatternly halfcaste woman.
The sergeant looked at the woman in evident surprise,
grunting: “You Jilgie, eh?”
The woman answered only with a glance under
beetling brows as she went barefoot towards the stove.
The sergeant’s wife dished food on to a tin plate for
Jilgie. Neither woman spoke, not even when the plate was
handed over and Jilgie turned to go.
The sergeant’s wife came to the table, carrying a dish
topped with a golden crust. He dropped his eyes before
the glare she gave him. As she set down the dish she spoke
in a grating voice: “No thanks to you that gin’s here!”
He merely fiddled with his fork.
She went on: “The sergeant of police can’t even get a
black gin to help with his wife’s washing!”
He growled: “What are you moaning for . . . she’s
here, isn’t she?”
Her voice came harsher: “I said no thanks to you.
Peter had to get her for me.”
He looked at her: “Eh?”
Her voice rose: “The blacks have no more respect
for you than anyone else in the place has. That gin
wouldn’t come for you. So I asked Peter to get her. She
came all right for him —because he’s a real policeman!”
His ruddy face darkened and he snorted: “Peter had
no right to do anything without my authority.”
“Tchah! Your authority!”
He rumbled: “That’ll do!”
“With your authority he’d only be going round apolo-
gising for being a policeman . . . he’d only be going round
boozing, pandering to every crook in the town, making
himself cheap even with tramps . . .”
He dropped the fork and slapped the table with his
big, red hand, bellowing: “I said that will do!”
She opened her mouth to go on, but closed it as steps


sounded on the back stairs. She swung away, back to the
stove.
In a moment a tall, young policeman entered, dark-
eyed, curly-haired. He stopped, to sniff loudly, then cried:
“Steak pie . . . you beaut!”
The woman looked at him with face transformed. The
harsh lines were softened to the mere harrassment of the
years. She came smiling with the vegetables, while the
constable seated himself.
nrHE constable addressed himself to both of them to begin
-*■ with, while the sergeant’s wife, at the head of the table,
dished: but soon he was talking only to her and she to him.
He had met someone he knew passing through on the mail-
train who knew someone she knew in the police. It was
evident from her talk that her all-abiding interest was in
this sphere in which she lived.
She served her husband first, without looking at him, a
small portion for so big a man. But the helping she gave
the young man was such as to cause him to voice a laugh-
ing protest: “Hey . . . you’ll have me looking like Tubby
Tanner!”
She said primly: “I think Inspector Tanner’s condition
is a credit to Mrs Tanner’s cooking. 1 do like a man with a
big appetite!”
For a while they ate in silence. Then the constable
spoke to the sergeant: “I suspect that halfcaste Bray mob
of ratting parts for that old bomb of theirs.”
The sergeant grunted: “Huh?”
“Yup. They must be pinchin’ ’em off those wrecks in
the yard back of Price’s service station.”
The sergeant concentrated on his eating.
The young man continued: “When I was out there
after Jilgie this morning I found ’em working on then-
truck. I asked ’em where they got the parts. They reckoned
from some mate of theirs. But you can always tell when
boongs are lying. Their faces quiver. I’m going to check
up with Price and see if he’s losing any of his junk.”
The sergeant said with his mouth full: “Wha’ for?”
“Eh?”
The sergeant growled: “You just said yourself it’s
junk.”
The constable replied stiffly: “It’s still Price’s property
. . . and it’s still an offence for anyone to help ’emselves to
other people’s property.”
“If Price is losing anything of value he’ll lay a com-
plaint himself.”
Reddening, the young man expostulated: “But when
it is suspected that an offence has been committed ...”
The sergeant wheezed: “Offence, offence, offence! You
can find an offence in pretty well anything anybody does
if you’ve a mind to it!”
For a moment the constable stared into the blue eyes
before him, then gave attention to his plate.
But then the wife, who had been watching both men,
spoke, her voice again rasping and her face seamed with
that ill-humor: “If a police officer’s duty isn’t to look for
offences and put a stop to them, then I don’t know what is!”
The sergeant looked as if he would have ignored her,
only for seeing the quick raising of the constable’s eyes:
whereupon he said, addressing no one in particular: “A
police officer’s first duty is to keep the peace. You can’t
do that by prying into everything everybody does. You
only antagonise people like that.”
Her voice sudenly became shrill: “Antagonising! That’s
all you think of . . . what to do not to antagonise crooks
and loafers and good-for-nothing blacks . . .”
With darkening face he turned on her, and his voice
rumbled deeper: “That’ll do, Hilda!”
Her whole frame quivered as she leaned forward to
deliver herself: “Will it do! It’s your namby pamby
cowardly dodging doing your duty what you call keeping
the peace that keeps you only a second-class sergeant in
third-class towns, when you could have been an insepctor
with your own district years ago . . . and all I can say
is that if Peter does his duty like you do he’ll get just
nowhere like you, too . .
His great hand struck the table. He roared: “I said
that will do!”
For a moment she stood there, glaring, panting, seem-
ing to mouth words beyond expression. Then suddenly she
left the table, rushed from the dining-room inside.
The sergeant sighed heavily, wheezily: “Women!”
The constable applied himself vigorously to his eating.
The sergeant ate without interest, pushed his plate away
uncleaned, quaffed his cup of tea, then belching, rose.
The constable looked up at him and said hurriedly, like
a small boy seeking to win favor: “If you like, sarge. I’ll
get the electoral roll business started this arvo . . . eh?”
The sergeant stood for a moment, running a hand over
his bristly grey head: “Okay, Peter . . . anything you like.”
He left the room and returned through the house to
his office. He sank into his swivel chair, took up pipe
and tobacco. Smoking, he swung himself to face the rear
windows, to sit with feet outstretched, half reclining, staring
out upon the waving banners of wash-day, from time to
time belching.
He was still sitting, but now with pipe lying on the
desk and his red chins sunk on his blue tie, dozing, when
steps sounded on the outside stairs. He started awake,
swung round to face the outer door.
'THERE appeared in the doorway a man of stocky,
A squarish build. He carried a haversack and a thin-
rolled swag. The sergeant greeted him with the amiable
wheeze. “Ah, saw you down the showground, didn’t I?”
The blue eyes blinked owlishly in their meaty sockets:
“That’s right, sergeant.”
The man slipped his burden, entered the office, doffing
his hat. His voice was quiet and cultivated: “I’m the
man you want for wife-desertion, sergeant.”
The sergeant looked surprised: “Eh . . . what, man?
1 didn’t name any names.”
The jowls quivered, like an old dog’s: “The name is
Arthur Ernest Wigmore.”
Lolling back in his chair, pressing red hands to his
protuberant middle, the sergeant grunted: “It could’ve been
any man there I wanted. Most probably they were all wife
deserters.”
“I know there’s a warrant out for me, sergeant.”
“There’s warrants out for hundreds of wife deserters,
man.”
Wigmore blinked, and broke the silence that followed:
“Er . . . don’t you apprehend them?”
“What’s the good? If a couple can’t get on together
they’re better parted, and if a man hates his old woman
that much he’d rather live outside the law than support
her, nothing’ll make him do it for longer than it takes him
to go on the lam again.”
Wigmore nodded: “Yes . . . and all for the want of a
little give and take.”
The sergeant chuckled deeply: “Most probably it’s give
and take’s the trouble . . . give the old woman an inch and
she’ll take a mile!”
Far from responding to the jest, Wigmore looked even
more the sad old dog. Sententiously he responded:
“Actually, a man who can’t make a success of his marriage
makes a complete failure of his life.”
The sergeant gaped: “Eh?”
“To be truly successful you have to win the admiration
and respect of your fellows. If you can’t win the admiration
and respect of your wife . . .**


“Number 32 ... ‘Paint Roller'! ”
The sergeant exploded: “Get out with you, man . . .
there are some women the Angel Gabriel couldn’t win
with!”
“I beg to differ, sergeant. 1 think that things go wrong
in marriage when the wife sees that the husband doesn’t
measure up to being the man he pretends to be beforehand.”
“What about the wife not measuring up. too?”
“It’s disappointment in the man that changes the wife.
I know my married life would have been very different if
only I’d done the things my wife wanted me to instead of
just resenting the fact that she wasn’t content to accept me
the way I was contented to be.”
Eyeing the other quizzically, the sergeant asked: “How
long you been married?”
“Fifteen years.”
“Thought you’s going to say fifteen months! How long
since you bolted?”
“It’s just seven weeks since I left home.”
“Starting to miss the home comforts, eh?”
“I’ve missed my home life all the time, sergeaiit. I’m
going back because I’ve realised my mistake.”
“You reckon things’ll be different in future?”
The jowls quivered with the earnestness of the reply:
“They’ve just got to be, sergeant!”
“It was that bad, was it?”
“Yes. sergeant, it was bad . . . but the fault was mine
entirely.”
The sergeant sighed: “I think you’re dreaming, man.
But it’s your business, not mine.”
The jowls lifted in a faint smile: “It’s your business to
execute the warrant.”
The sergeant looked surprised: “Eh . . . that would
mean you’d be sent back in custody!”
“Exactly.”
“But, man ... if you’re going home of your own free
will . . .”
“I don’t want it to look like that, sergeant.”
The sergeant stared.
Wigmore went on: “My wife shows she wants me back
by swearing out a warrant to have me arrested and made to
return . . .”
“Get out! She probably only wants you back so’s to
take a court action against you for maintenance. That’s
mostly only what deserted wives want when they swear a
warrant.”
“My wife isn’t in want. We have a bit of property. It’s
in her name.”
The sergeant grinned: “Maybe she’s lost without some-
one to nag at.”
The dog’s face blinked sad reproach.
The sergeant said: “Do you realise that if you’re taken
into custody it'll be in court that you’ll first see your wife?”
“That’s how I want it, sergeant.”
The sergeant showed his bewilderment by rubbing a
red hand over his bristly grey head.
Wigmore went on in his earnest voice: “Things were
pretty strained at home for a good while before I left. I’m
a sensitive fool. I get hurt very deeply and . . . and some-
times deeply roused. As a matter of fact I left because I
was afraid of doing violence. Oh ... I know now that the
things that hurt me were said only to rouse me to do some-
thing to make her proud of me for. Going back’s going to
be a bit awkward for both of us, the way things were. Like
this it will be easier. I can say something in court about
the way 1 feel now. I saw that after you came there this
morning. I saw then that your coming was a godsend.”
'THERE was a little silence, while the sergeant lolled back
staring, and Wigmore looked past him into that back-
yard scene where domesticity was mixed up with the harsh
institutions of the law, where women of the household
changed sheets about against the background of the jail-
house.
Then the sergeant leaned forward, speaking in a confi-
dential rumble: “Listen, mate ... I reckon you ought to
think things over a bit more before you commit yourself
to going back. If things don’t turn out the way you hope
you’re going to get a bit of a shock: and, if you don't mind
me saying so, you're asking a lot expecting a big change
in your lives now. You’re not morally bound to go back
seeing you’re providing for her. You’ve made the break
which is the hardest part. Stick it out for just a couple oi
weeks more . . .”
Wigmore broke in: “No, sergeant ... no! All 1 wan'
to do is go home. Take me into custody, please!”
The sergeant sat staring for a moment longer, the:
wheezed his resignation: “Okay . . . but I won’t charge yo
yet. I’ll take you in as a vagrant. A couple of good fee*,
and a comfortable night’s sleep might make you feel diffe
ent. We'll have another talk tomorrow. Meantime, yo
can concentrate on the wood-heap. Firewood supply
getting a bit low.”
Wigmore also sighed: “Thank you, sergeant, I’m muc
obliged.”
After having taken Wigmore down to the lock-up t!
sergeant returned to his office to find Peter, the you
constable, there. Peter said: “We got a prisoner, eh?”
The sergeant grunted: “Just a vag.”
Glancing significantly at the charge book, Peter san
“You haven’t charged him yet.”
The sergeant said distantly: “He’s only some poo
feller wants a feed and a bed.”
Peter hung there for a moment, evidently at a loss
Then sighing, as one who has to accept anomalies, he
turned away, saying: “Oh well, I’ll be getting up town to
see about the electoral business. Be back for smoke-o.”
The sergeant settled down at his desk to his paper
work. Soon the sounds of his prisoner at his allotted labor
came floating up to him, rasp of cross-cut saw and ring of
axe and to demonstrate the prisoner’s mood, his voice, a
warbling tenor, occasionally raised in song . . . “I’se gwin
back to Dixie, I can’t stay here no longer . . .”
The sergeant was jerked out of preoccupation with his
papers by a new sound, another voice, female, shrill, rising
to mingle with the tenor: “Shut up . . . shut up that singing,
will you!”
The singing stopped.
For a while the sergeant sat with head cocked to the
rear windows, not looking so much as listening, because
nothing of what was going on down there in the backyard


was visible from the desk. Now there was silence, save for
the flapping of the washing. Then the axe rang out again.
The sergeant returned to his work.
Down at the wood-heap by the lock-up Wigmore was
splitting the blocks he had sawn and loading the billets into
a barrow, smirking broadly, despite the rude interruption to
his chosen mode of expressing his happiness, his flabby face
running sweat and smudged from his handling the charred
wood.
At length, with the barrow filled, Wigmore set out
with it, heading for the laundry beneath the house, dodging
through the washing on the way. He presented himself at
the doorway. Inside were the mistress of the house and
her laundress, Jilgie, busy with damping-down and ironing.
Smirking, he cried: “Good afternoon, ladies . . . good
afternoon! Herewith my contribution to the domestic
economy. Where’ll I put it?”
Eyeing him stonily, the mistress flung a finger towards
the woodbox, then to all appearances repudiated his exist-
ence utterly. But suddenly she was screeching at him as
he unloaded the wood: “That wood’s no good . . . take it
away!”
He turned to her, gaping: “Eh . . . what’s the matter
with it?”
“Do you expect me to handle wood like that? Take it
away and cut the black off it.”
He blinked at her in his owlish way.
She demanded: “What are you staring at?”
His jowls quivered into a sickly grin. He muttered:
“Just like her!”
Her eyes blazed: “What’d you say?”
The smile vanished: “I said you reminded me of
someone.”
“Don’t be impertinent!”
His face reddened and his voice came thick: “Impertin-
ence wasn’t intended.”
“It’d better not be!”
Wigmore’s jowls jerked and his eyes rolled in their
meaty sockets. In a strangled voice he said: “Madam, what
I said . . .”
She screeched: “I don’t care what you said. I don’t
hold conversations with the likes of you. Get back to the
work you were ordered to do or I’ll call the police officer!”
TTP in his office the sergeant, hearing the sounds of conten-
tion below, rose and went to a rear window. He saw
Wigmore come out of the laundry with the barrow. He
could not see the man’s face: but his mood was obvious
enough in the way he rushed across the yard, through the
washing and dumped his load back on the wood-heap.
Smudges on a pair of sheets marked the passage of his
angry going. Eyeing the smudges, the sergeant grimaced.
Then, shrugging, he returned to his typewriter. Soon the
axe was heard again.
Perhaps five minutes passed, while the sergeant trans-
ferred his official thinking to paper through the medium
of two sausage-like red index fingers. Then suddenly there
was contention again below, that same grating female voice,
the rumbling masculine answering back. The sergeant
groaned and hammered harder.
But there was no drowning the row, which was centred
now out in the middle of the yard by the sound of it. It
rose to screeching and bellowing. Snorting, the sergeant
rose again.
The disputants were out by the wood-heap. Wigmore
was leaning on his axe vociferating, the sergeant’s wife
waving the soiled washing in his face. Her shrilling came
up to the sergeant: “You useless good-for-nothing tramp
. , . you did it on purpose!”
At that Wigmore’s bellow broke into a hoarse scream
and he raised the axe.
The woman shrieked, flung the clothes in the man’s
face, leapt back, fetched up against the wire mesh of the
lock-up veranda. The man leapt after her, flinging away the
clothes, tripped over a log and fell. She tore her way along
the wire to the open doorway, made it as the man rose.
She scrambled through the doorway, snatched at the wooden
door, flung it shut in his face. His axe smashed into the
door—CRASH!
Her voice rose up above the madman’s screaming:
“Help, help!”
The sergeant leaned back from the window and grabbed
a rifle from the rack, glanced again at the scene across the
yard as he jerked the lever of the rifle and shot a cartridge
into the breach.
Wigmore was battering the door down, raging.
“Help, help, help!”
The sergeant dropped to his knee. Wigmore’s squarish
grey-clad back came into the sights. The sergeant’s fat, red
finger tightened on the trigger.
In that instant the grey became blue. A flash of silver
buttons. A blue arm shot out. Wigmore went down in a
heap at the feet of the young constable.
The sergeant sank back on his heels. Sweat oozed
from his redness. He got up stiffly, turned back to the rack,
replaced the rifle with shaking hands.
He went out through the house and down by the back
stairs, past the blubbering halfcastle woman at the laundry
door and out across the yard. He found his wife clinging
to Peter, the constable, weeping wildly. Wigmore was sitting
on the ground, looking stupified, his wrists in handcuffs.
Peter said: “Everything under control, sarge.”
The sergeant wheezed at his wife: “You all right,
Hilda?”
She let go Peter and turned on her husband, and her
voice came grating through her tears: “No thanks to you
I’m all right!”
He grunted: “Urgh!” And he proceeded to fish in his
pocket and produced a key.
Her voice rose as she went on: “Giving a madman an
axe to run about with!”
The sergeant grunted: “That’ll do, Hilda.” And he
bent over Wigmore and unlocked the handcuffs.
She screeched: “That’ll do, will it! If it hadn’t been for
Peter I’d ’a been murdered. Why are you unhandcufflng
that madman?”
He looked at her with darkening face, and rumbled:
“I said that’ll do!” He looked down at Wigmore, who was
blinking up at him in his owlish way and said: “Get up
and get your swag and get going!”
His wife cried: “Don’t tell me you’re going to let that
murderer go free?”
“He’s not a murderer.”
“He tried to murder me!”
“He tried to attack you after you’d strongly provoked
him. I heard everything, saw everything . . .”
“You mean to say you watched your wife being chased
by a madman with an axe?”
“Yes ... I watched through the sights of a rifle, and
could have dropped him the moment you were in real
danger. If I charge him with anything I’ll have to state that
you provoked the attack. You don’t want that, do you?”
She stood rigid, with eyes blazing, breast heaving, lips
writhing on words beyond articulation. Then suddenly she
rushed away.
The sergeant said to Wigmore as he came out carrying
his swag: “Now, on your way, and take my advice and make
your way anywhere but back to that old woman of yours,
because if you do you’ll be in trouble for sure. Like I told
you, there’s some women you couldn’t win with if you were
the Angel Gabriel.”


I
!| 5i t joi |ci
I '
COMPLETE
PROTECTION
PROTECT YOUR FAMlLY-
enquire about the
FAMILY
INCOME
BENEFIT
provided by the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE MINERAL INDUSTRY
Exports Rise Steadily
HTwo comprehensive official surveys* issued last week by
A the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Bureau of
Census and Statistics show a steady rise in the output and
overseas sales of Australian minerals.
This is particularly encouraging after Senator Spooner’s
recent statement on the newly discovered Western Australian
iron-ore deposits. Expansion of Australia’s basic secondary
industry—which is essential for diversification of our export
trade —largely depends on the availability of adequate supplies
of iron, lead, zinc and copper ores, coal and other minerals.
Some minerals are also extensively used in the production of
industrial chemicals and agricultural fertilisers. And despite
the perennial difficulties of selling on the highly competitive,
frequently fluctuating and unprotected world market, minerals
account for a substantial part of Australia’s export earnings.
The value of output (mining and treatment) of the Aus-
tralian mineral industry in the full year 1960 was £235,867,000.
This compares with £214,045,000 in 1959, £200,475,000 in
1958 and £207,681,000 in 1957. The total value of mineral
exports (excluding gold) was £62.6 million, compared with
£53.9 million in 1959 and £49.8 million in 1958. This was
largely the result of increased exports of coal, copper, opal,
rutile and zinc.
Lead and zinc still form almost half the total export
sales of minerals —the two together brought in £28.9 million,
or 46 p.c. of total overseas sales, compared with £29 million
(53 p.c.) in 1959. If by-products of lead and zinc are included
the figure rises to 49 p.c. Both lead and zinc have to be sold
on highly competitive markets, often in the face of severe
protectionist tariffs and quotas, as in the case of zinc exports
to the United States.
The overall mineral trade balance continues to be adverse
—mainly due to the inclusion of huge annual imports of crude
oil into the minerals import bill. Last year’s unfavorable
£19.3 million balance was almost entirely the result of oil
imports.
In recent years the value of Australian mineral exports
was equal to between 8 p.c. and 10 p.c. of all Australian
exports. But to get the full picture for 1960, to the £62.6
million reported by the Bureau of Mineral Resources must
be added the value of exports of uranium oxide, for which
no official data is available, but which are estimated at about
£ll million, and the value of newly won gold of Australian
origin—about £16.3 million in 1960. Domestic newly won gold
is an important contribution to balance-of-payments settlements.
However, although Australia exports a wide range of
mineral products, the number of those earning more than
£1 million a year in export sales is relatively small. In 1960
the range was limited to lead (£20.3 million), copper (£13.5
million), zinc (£8.4 million), coal (£6.5 million), rutile (£4.1
million), pig-iron and ingot-steel (£2.6 million), silver
(£l.l million) and opal (£1 million). There are hopes that
exports of asbestos and tungsten may soon reach the £1 million
a year level.
The destinations of the bulk of our mineral exports are
also fairly limited. Japan continues to import large quantities
of coal, particularly from N.S.W. In addition, it has become
an important market for Australian copper concentrates. In
1960 Japan absorbed 36.4 p.c. of Australian mineral exports
(compared with 8.9 p.c. in 1957), followed by the United
Kingdom (27.9 p.c.), the United States (13.7 p.c.) and countries
of the European Economic Community (10.7 p.c.).
Exports to the United States—mainly lead and some zinc
—have declined since 1958 due to stringent American quota
restrictions. Lead, copper and zinc import quotas are a sore
political point in the United States, and it is unlikely that the
Kennedy administration will make any radical moves to change
the present protectionist policy—unless large-scale stockpiling
of strategic minerals will be undertaken in connection with
the Berlin and South Vietnam political crises.
Increasing copper smelting and refining capacity in Aus-
tralia may cause a decline in exports of copper concentrates
to Japan. This poses the question of whether Japan will be
able to obtain copper concentrates from other sources or will
have to buy refined metal from Australia to satisfy its steadily
growing copper requirements. A similar position is develop-
ing with zinc and lead. Australian lead smelting capacity
is rising, and at the same time there are restrictions on lead
production to help maintain domestic and international prices.
One thing is obvious—Japan is becoming Australia’s major
trading partner, not only in wool but also in minerals. Japan's
continued economic prosperity is now a matter of vital
importance to us all.,
* “The Australian Mineral Industry,” quarterly review, and “The
Australian Mineral Industry,” 1960 review.
PRIMARY PRODUCTION
New Rural Research Grants
'T'he Reserve Bank of Australia last week announced new
research grants totalling £207,568 from its Rural Credits
Development Fund The grants will be made to 28 organisa-
tions in Australia which are engaged in research and extension
work for the promotion of primary: production. Mr J. G.
Phillips, the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank, said that
almost £1,700,000 has been spent on research and extension
grants from the Fund since it was established in 1925.


The 1961-62 Fund allocations include £28,550 granted to
the University of Sydney towards a continuation of cereal
rust and pasture investigations, research on agricultural micro-
biology, soil fertility, fruit-fly, cattle genetics and mammalian
reproduction and fertility. Another £19,718 will be given to
the University of New England for research on biochemical
and physiological individuality of domestic ruminants and the
maintenance of vegetation in low-rainfall areas.
The Howard Florey Laboratory for Experimental Physio-
logy at the University of Melbourne will receive £20,000. The
Fund has also granted £17,270 to the Australian National
University to help finance studies of indigenous cash cropping
and land settlement in Papua and New Guinea, and £9OO0 —-
to be spread over two years—towards the establishment of
an Irrigation Engineering Research Fellowship at the University
of Adelaide.
THE SHAREMARKET
Company Takeovers
TTistorically, the movement towards greater integration
and monopolistic or oligopolistic control of private enter-
prise has largely been a reaction against losses incurred through
large-scale excess capacities developed in earlier competitive
thrusts. Basically modern monopolies come into being
fairly gradually as one of the forms of the unrelenting struggle
for economic efficiency—political influences only followed the
acquisition of economic power.
Merger tendencies are inherent in the very nature of
development of some basic sectors of advanced capitalist
economies. Large-scale, rapid capital accumulation —essential
for survival, because stagnation is normally followed by extinc-
tion - can often be ensured only by large-scale, low-cost
production, and efficient distribution on well-developed, wide
markets. Smaller firms must lag behind, unable to afford
the best managerial and technical brains, expensive long-term
research projects, handicapped by higher production and
distribution unit costs. Often the only way out is takeover
by a larger competitor or merger with one or more smaller
rivals. This is particularly true of industries threatened by
competition from substitutes. Thus, in its essence, the tendency
towards company mergers—that is, towards monopolistic
control —has nothing sinister behind it. However, monopoly
may become wide open to abuses, shielding of high-cost
inefficiency after the competitors have been disposed of, and
may cause undesirable political and social effects.
Unfortunately, the discussion of causes and consequences
of monopolistic tendencies has often been befogged by ideolo-
gical and political bias, which has obscured the real issues.
This makes Mr A. H. Ufquhart’s objective and penetrating
paper on the nature and significance of company takeovers,
delivered at the Royal Institute of Public Administration’s
Australian Regional Groups Conference in Canberra last week,
particularly welcome.
Mr Urquhart is the Chairman of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, and his views are those of an experienced and
enlightened sharebroker. He began by tracing the history of
company merger movement in the United Kingdom, the United
States and Australia, pointing out that the history of company
takeovers in Britain “has been characterised by two periods
of marked concentration —in the 1890’s to the early years of
this century and the years following World War II —linked by
a period of steady, almost organic concentration in the inter-
World War years.”
“Rapid industrialisation in the years to the 1890’s had
largely been spurred by the expansion of markets both at
home and overseas. Attracted by the profits to be gained by
exploitation of these markets, many firms entered the industry
with high expectations.” This led to considerable excess
capacity, aggravated by international competition—“as an act
of self-preservation, firms commonly turned to amalgamation.
In this way, excess capacity was eliminated to a large degree
and cut-throat competition circumvented.”
Spectacular mergers took place in the salt, match, tobacco,
cotton-thread and cement industries. Britain’s mature capital
“Here it is at last—does the Work of a complete office
staff. Goodbye and good luck to you all.”
market aided the mergers. After the first World War techno-
logical advances and contracting markets in some industries
led to further “rationalisation” mergers—often undertaken
under the threat of economic extinction.
The Bank of England formed the Bankers’ Industrial
Development Company to “examine, assist and finance amal-
gamation, reconstrutcion and reorganisation on an economic
and nationalised basis of British companies engaged in
important industries.” With the help of this body mergers
were effected in the armaments, iron and steel, cotton and ship-
building industries.
During the great depression “the principle of rationalisa-
tion” continued to prevail and was encouraged by the Govern-
ment, which hoped that reduction of production costs and
more efficient use of resources by bigger industrial units would
help mitigate the effects of the depression.
During the second World War industrial concentration
was, in fact, somewhat accelerated by the U.K. Government’s
policy. When wartime controls were lifted the trend to
integration continued and mergers were effected —under the
stimulus of inflated share values—in the motor-vehicle,
engineering, food-processing, textile, chemical, plastics and
paper industries.
The trend has continued to this day but the political climate
has changed. The social attitude is now more suspicious of
takeovers, and this is exemplified by the U.K. Restrictive
Practices Act of 1948, amended in 1953 and supplemented in
1956 and primarily directed against associations of producers
who join forces to fix prices and production policies.
In the United States, despite the anti-trust provisions of
the Sherman Act, a little over 100 companies are estimated
to own nearly 50 p.c. of the total net capital assets used in
manufacturing. But it seems that, despite a lot of feeling
against trust-building in the United States, many American
companies favor mergers simply because of the unite-or-sink
alternative.
Turning to Australia, Mr Urquhart said that a marked
degree of merger activity occurred in our industry by the
1930’s —particularly in metal extraction and processing, iron
and steel production, coalmining, brewing, glassmaking, bank-
ing, textiles and sugar. “Because of the sporadic nature of
mergers in this country it is not a simple matter to ascribe
reasons for their happening. Generally, however, it can be
said that mergers had as their motivation a realisation of the
risks of cut-throat competition in a limited market and ....
the advantages to be gained from large-scale operations, paricu-
larly in the fields of marketing and research. The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. Ltd can perhaps be regarded as a classic of


J ■ '
Wt>.
whatever you choose
to drink...
*WOOL CHEQUE
To 2 ozs.
Gilbey’s Gin
add 1 oz.
Dry Vermouth
in a long glass.
Then add 2
ice cubes and
slice of lemon.
Fill with cold
Tonic Water.
Add to 2 ozs.
Gilbey’s Gin
a i oz. Sweet
Vermouth and
a i oz. fresh
orange juice.
Shake with ice
and pour.
Add cherry.
V *
l \
GS-xJST
* »
:JT
don’t say gin ... say
GILBEY’S
* drinks from the lemons Gilhey Recipe Book. 9322 G
the way in which Australia’s large companies have attained
their stature.”
Much of. concentration of ownership by leading Austra-
lian firms was accomplished before the second World War.
The movement has spread to a far greater number of firms
and industries since 1950, particularly in the hire-purchase and
finance companies, food processers, the timber industry,
automotive-component manufacturers, capital-equipment pro-
ducers and food chains and retailers.
Summarising, Mr Urquhart pointed to six basic reasons
behind company takeovers. These are: reduction or elimina-
tion of competition ; retaining a competitive position by merg-
ing of two companies to forestall a takeover by a third
company ; empire building, mainly through acquisition of con-
cerns in other phases of their industry class ; ensuring the
advantages of economies of scale, particularly through lower-
ing unit costs in large-scale production ; diversification and
acquisition of high-calibre management.
Takeovers are effected by merging of interests through the
formation of a holding company, straightout acquisition of one
firm by another on a share-exchange basis—or partly by
exchanging scrip and partly paying cash or by paying cash
only —acquisition of a controlling interest, and purchase of
a 50 p.c. share interest.
Mr Urquhart pointed to the close relationship of the
movements in the ordinary share price index and the number
of takeovers, but warned against drawing hasty conclusions
from this correlation.
He added that takeovers in 1961 will probably number
about the same as in 1960, but the share price index is now
approximately 12 p.c. below the peak monthly average reached
in September last year. In 1958, 1959 and 1960 the terms of
successful offers appear to have been determined to some
extent by the availability of cash. Of the 24 takeovers in 1958,
15 involved cash. In 1959 the proportion dwindled to 13 out
of 35. In 1960 it was 18 out of 43. “It is rather significant
that the number of alternative bids, ‘cash or shares,’ totalled
ten in 1960, only one in 1959 and three in 1958. The large
number last year could be attributed to a more liberal approach
by offerer companies under conditions which provided ready
cash for almost any purpose. Successful takeover offers in
1961 reflect the changed economic conditions. In particular
the shortage of cash, caused by stringent credit restrictions, is
obvious. Oniy five ‘cash or shares’ and one ‘cash only’ bids
have been completed. Even more interesting is the'fact that
not one alternative ‘cash or shares' offer has been finalised,
although there were ten such cases in 1960.”
Mr Urquhart concluded by saying that this year the
emphasis has been on straightout share exchanges —23 out of
29 to date.
“The conditions existing in the market in 1961 have placed
leading stocks at an advantage with regard to takeovers. The
overall levels of share prices have fallen well below the 1960
figures, but many leading stocks have eased only slightly while
quite a number are now higher than ever before.”
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
National Council Advocated
T'he executive committee of the N.S.W. Employers’ Federa-
tion last week advocated the formation of a National
Economic Development Council on which the Government,
industry and trade unions would be represented. The
proposal will be submitted to employer organisations in other
States.
Mr Max Dillon, until recently president of the Federation,
said that there is a need for more consultation between the Gov-
ernment and representatives of industry—“the various factors
involved in economic planning have tended to be dealt with
in isolation in the past, at least at the consultative level. The
idea of an economic development council on a national scale,
as suggested by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, would
mean closer consultation between Government, industry and
trade unions.”
Mr Dillon added that he did not suggest that the new
council should cut across the work of the Export Development
Council and other bodies, but felt that much would be gained
il the Ministries responsible for fiscal policy, exports, imports
and wage-fixing machinery would jointly consult employers
and unions while Government economic policies were stilt at
the formative stage.”
Recently, the U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed
the lormation ol such a body in Britain, adding that Ministers
representing the Treasury, the Board of Trade and the Ministry
of Labor should become members.
The French have achieved good results with their Social


Now Open!
THE
GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
51%
LOAN
For 7, 10 or 20 years.
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED. The New South
Wales Government unconditionally guarantees interest
payments every 6 months and full repayment of
principal at maturity.
TRUSTEE SECURITY. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
CASH investments may be made for either 7, 10 or
20 years.
CONVERSION OPPORTUNITIES. Holders of
securities in Loans No. 164 (£5/5/- per cent., maturing
Ist December, 1961) and No. 44 (£3/7/6 per cent.,
maturing Ist January, 1962) are invited to convert to
the new Loan and gain higher interest without
interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of
New South Wales; or through a Stockbroker; or at
the Sydney Water Board offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
and Economic Council of the French Republic, comprising
representatives of the Government, industry and commerce,
trade unions and academic economists. A high-level and
influential advisory body, the French Social and Economic
Council operates under the authority of Parliament and has
done a lot to explain Government economic policy to private
enterprise and labor, and to secure their co-operation and
advice in formulating and fulfilling the national economic plan.
Something similar would be very useful in Australia, where
there is far too much misunderstanding—and mutual distrust—
between the Government, the employers and the powerful
unions.
GOLD
Output Slightly Lower
'T'he mine production of gold in Australia in the five months
to the end of May, 1961, was slightly lower but overseas
sales of refined gold increased.
Official statistics show that output of gold from Australian
mines in January-May, 1961, was 427,856 fine oz., compared
with 428,928 fine oz. in the same period of 1960. Production
of refined gold in the five months was 527,138 fine oz. —of this
453,408 fine oz. was newly-won gold of domestic origin, while
64,944 fine oz. came from imported bullion and 8786 fine oz.
from scrap.
Overseas sales of gold by Gold Producers Association Ltd
amounted to 505,439 fine oz., valued at £17,910,384. The
average selling profit for the period was 34.03 pence.
Total sales of refined gold in the first five months of 1961
were 617,866 fine oz., compared with 603,805 fine oz. in the
same period of 1960. However, the rate to the end of May,
1961, was much lower than for the whole of 1960 which was
marked by a steep price increase towards the end of the year.
The Commonwealth Government paid out £257,052 in net
subsidies to gold producers in the five months. Total 1960 net
gold subsidy payments amounted to £814,598.
SHIPPING
"Roll-on" Service Starts
A delaide Steamship Company’s new “roll-on-roll-off”
-6*- trailership, M.V. Troubridge, arrived at Port Adelaide on
her delivery run from Brisbane, and began the “Seaway” ferry
service to Kingscote, on Kangaroo Island, and Port Lincoln,
on the lower Eyre Peninsula. The ship is scheduled to make
two trips a week from Port Adelaide to each outport.
Additional week-end trips to Kingscote will be made in summer
months. The trailership replaces conventional cargo ships
previously used on these runs.
All cargo is loaded on wheels —trailers, cars, caravans,
petrol-tankers and trucks can be driven or towed on board
through a special large opening in the stern. Twin seven-ton
sliding doors, locking in a precise joint down the middle of
the stern, seal the entry after the vessel is loaded. Special
loading ramps have been built at Port Adelaide, Port Lincoln
and Kingscote, and prime-movers will be maintained in each
port to handle trailers. Although designed primarily as a cargo
trailership, M.V. Troubridge has accommodation for 36 pas-
sengers. However, due to the relatively short runs —the trips
to Kingscote take six hours and to Port Lincoln 12 hours —
there is no sleeping accommodation. Instead, the passenger
quarters are provided with reclining seats in the lounge. There
is a snack-bar for refreshments.
M.V. Troubridge, built by Evans Deakin and Co. Ltd in
Brisbane, is about 1900 gross tons, 290 feet long and has a
moulded breadth of 50 feet. The cruising speed is 14} knots.
Power is provided from two British Polar diesel engines driving
twin screws. The vessel has twin rudders, a bow lateral-thrust
propeller and stabilisers, and is equipped with radar, wireless
and an echo-sounder.


John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEW, A. P. REYNOLDS, R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Pelfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (30 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosd-ale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongortg.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Slock Exchanged
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER'S
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEIITTCO”
Phone: 312701 P.O. BOX
(1 lines) No. 1887YV
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
S.A . Rubber Holdings Ltd
Oales were buoyant for the six months
but then turnover slipped because
of credit restrictions. The S.A. Rubber
group supplies a large variety of rubber
and plastic-foam lines for the motor-
vehicle and domestic-appliance indus-
tries, which were particularly heavily hit
by the credit squeeze. The chain reaction
spread to S.A. Rubber, and adversely
affected trading in the second half of
the year.
First set up in South Australia in 1939,
and converted to public status in 1948,
the S.A. Rubber group was reorganised
in May, 1960, when the present S.A.
Rubber Holdings Ltd was established as
a holding company in the operating S.A.
Rubber Mills Ltd and subsidiary com-
panies. The group operates plants at
Edwardstow.i in South Australia, Silver-
water in N.S.W. and Dandenong in
Victoria. The subsidiary Rubber Plastics
Pty Ltd, of Silverwater, N.S.W., was
acquired in 1960 but liquidated during
last term.
S.A Rubber produces industrial rubb.r
products, foam rubber, rubber mats for
motor vehicles, plastic-foam lines and
other plastics products, etc. The motor-
vehicle industry, particularly General
Motors-Holden, provides a substantial
part of the market.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, edged up by £7611
—or 2 p.c.—to £328,567, after providing
£199,026 for depreciation (up £4111) and
setting aside £265,500 for taxation (up
£7650).
The earning rate on the higher average
one-class capital was 24.9 p.c., compared
with 26.6 p.c. in the previous term, 45.4
p.c. on lower capital in 1959 and 42.5
p.c. in 1958 (36.2 p.c. on paid capital at
balance date). Tax provision seems a
shade large on earnings disclosed.
The dividend rate was steady at llf-
p.c., absorbing £148,600. Reserves bene-
fited by £179,967:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. r~ —Dividend serves, serves.*
30 £ £ £ £
1952.. 50,58 S 12' p.c. = 18,750 32,138 10*2,940
1953.. 62,897 124 „ ~ 18,750 44,147 147,093
19 54.. 96,9,33 1 5 „ „ 28,125 68,828 215,921
1955. .113,967 15 „ ~36,2.30 77,717 293,638
1956.. 127.923 15 „ „ 51,250 76,673 370,311
1957. 15 „ ~ 60,000 112,01.3 482,326
Revaluation freeholds, £99,214 .. 581,540
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO . . 481,540
1958. .217,314 15 p.c. = 77,500 139,814 621,3-34
1959. .272,370 20 „ ~120,000 152.370 773,724
S.A. Rubber Holdings Ltd, and Sub idiakies.
Share premiums, £43,586 .. .. 817,310
Less goodwill on consolidation,
£602,768 214,542
Less transfer res. subsidiary, £150,000 64,542
Pre-acquisition reserves subsidiaries,
£95,890 160,432
Less minority, interest, £34,974 .. 125,458
Net surplus consolidation, £55,804 .. 181,262
1960. .320,956 11 \ p.c. =135,623 185,333 366,595
Surplus liquidation subsidiary, £94,497 401,092
Less increased intangibles, £57,676 403,416
Less added depreciation provision,
£159,209 244,207
Less net decrease reserves, £2,453.. 241,754
Add acquisition minority interest,
£34,974 . . . . ' .. . . 276,723
1961. .328,567 11 \ p.c. =148,600 179,907 456,695
* Subject to intangibles, £2,359 at 30/6/61.
There were some major movements in
reserves. The liquidation of Rubber
Plastics Pty Ltd and its N.S.W. sub-
sidiaries resulted in a surplus of £94,497,
which was added to the reserves. Acqui-
sition of minority interests brought in
another £34,974, but reserves were
decreased by £57,676 increase in intan-
gibles, and an added depreciation write-
off of £159,209. There was also an
unexplained net decrease of £2453. Total
consolidated reserves and undistributed
profits (after deducting £660,444 goodwill
on consolidation) were disclosed at
£456,695 —subject to £2559 intangibles
(preliminary expenses).
After the sale of Rubber Plastics and
its N.S.W. subsidiaries, the group's
activities in that State were integrated
with the main operating company and
now operate as an N.S.W. branch of S.A.
Rubber Mills Ltd. The factory floor
space was increased and plant efficiency
improved.
The company is “vigorously pursuing
a policy of diversification” but intends
“to maintain its strong position ... in
the manufacture and supply of plastic
and rubber components to the automo-
tive and appliance industries.” Funds are
being ploughed back into income-earning
assets. Despite heavy depreciation pro-
visions the book value of plant (includ-
ing furniture, fittings and vehicles) rose
from £456,882 to £480,755 and of free-
holds, etc., from £698,824 to £745,490:
19.39. 1960.* 1961.*
Paid capital .. £609,000 £1,205,538 £1,32#,890
Reserves . . .. 7-73,724 366,595 456,895
Minority interest.. 163,406
Creditors .. £56,213 577,369 335,700
Tax -provision .. 231,770 284,489 297,882
Dividends .. 120,000 135,623 148,800
£1,981,707 £2,733,020 £2,559,767
Freehold land,
buildings .. 499,086 698.824 745,490
Plant, vehicles,-etc. 349,<82 456,882 480,755
Investments other
cos. . . .. • 5,62.3 5,62.5 5,625
Stock . . . . 603,999 950,356 777,614
Debtors . . . . 462,097 579,259 445,187
Cash, prepayments,
etc. ..' . . 61,127 39,525 102,537
Intangibles . . 2,559 2,559
£1,981,707 £2,733,020 £2,559,767
* Consolidated figures.
Creditors, stocks and book debts were
lower. Liquidity was satisfactory. Paid
capital was increased by the balance of
the effective one-for-one bonus on forma-
tion of the holding company in 1960.
‘‘Since the closing of accounts business
has continued on a reduced basis and
although profitable, we must expect,
because of lower production, less profit
for the year.” This statement by the
company’s chairman, Mr M, R. Lodge,
sums up the outlook for the immediate
future. In the long run, S.A. Rubber
should continue to do well.
At the last sale in Adelaide the ss.
ords. changed hands at 19s. 4d. a unit.
The immediate return is 2.9 p.c. on the
basis of the steady 11£ p.c. dividend
distribution.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 6s. 9d. for each ss. ord. on the basis
of consolidated accounts.
Fairy mead Sugar Co. Ltd
The continuing political crisis between
the United States and Cuba has
brought about a restriction of exports of
Cuban cane sugar to the American mar-
ket, and improved the sales outlook for
other producers. However, competition
remains extremely keen, and the struggle
for additional quota and non-quota sales
on the U.S. market is bitter. The world's
sugar producers are faced with an old
problem —although the overall consump-
tion of sugar rises steadily the output
increases at an even faster pace, depress-
ing international prices. Strict domestic,
inter-Commonwealth and international


production and marketing quotas have .to
be enforced.
There are some signs that Cuba intends
to abolish the mono-culture of sugarcane
and diversify its agriculture. Recently
airangements were made to dismantle and
ship about 50 of the smaller sugar mills
to mainland China under a trade agree-
ment with the Peking government. If this
policy is continued, in the long run Cuban
sugarcane output may be expected to
remain fairly steady or at least grow at
a slower pace.
Registered in Queensland, Fairymead
Sugar Co. Ltd is an old-established and
efficient sugar grower and miller. The
company operates under the familiar
restrictions of the “mill-peaks” system,
under which the return from output under
local quotas assigned to individual mills
determines the “No. I pool” price. Sugar
produced in excess of the quota alloca-
tion has to be sold at considerably lower
rates intended to discourage surplus out-
put.
Last term there was “more than suffi-
cient” cane available to fill the mill peak
of 37,500 tons of 94 N.T. sugar and the
8y p.c. increase on this quota secured
by the Sugar Board.
Total sugar output for the year was
40.741 tons N.T. —the second highest on
record. This required 284,107 tons of
cane. The rate of crushing was reported
to be most satisfactory. The improve-
ment in Fairymead’s irrigation system
was another notable feature of last term’s
activities.
The 1961 crop was satisfactory and the
company expects no difficulty in filling
the current year’s quota.
Net profit for the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1960, was £29,926 (or 16.6 p.c.)
higher at £210,005, after providing
£78,042 for depreciation (up £975) and
paying undisclosed tax:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
3956. . 201,31 S 12 p.c. = 90,000 111.318 1,438,885
Added replacement reserve, £10,830.. 1,449,715
Profit sale assets, £53.095 .. .. 1,502,810
1957.. 9,394 12 p.c. - 90,000 1,422.204
Profit sale assets, £24,806 .. .. 1,447,010
Added replacement reserve, £61,095.. 1.508,105
1958.. 167,846 12 p.c. = 90,000 77,846 1,585,951
Profit sale assets, £67 .. .. 1,586,018
Added replacement reserve, £68.418. . 1,654,436
1959.. 180,079 12 p.c. = 90,000 90,079 1,744,515
Profit sale assets, £l3O .. ..1,744,645
Added replacement reserve, £71,174 1,815,819
Revaluation assets, £750,000 . . 2,565,819
Reserves capitalised, £750,000 ..1,815,819
1960.. 210,005 8 p.c. 120,000 90,005 1.905,824
* Includes replacement reserve £834,576, and vessel-
l insurance reserve £16,846, at 31/12/60.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 14 p.c. on paid capital, which was
doubled by the one-for-one bonus issue
from an assets revaluation reserve early
last term. The earning rates in the pre-
ceding years were 24 p.c. in 1959, 22.3 p.c.
in 1958, 1.2 p.c. in the drought-stricken
1957 and 26.8 p.c. in 1956.
Shareholders did well for themselves.
The dividend was declared at the rate of
8 p.c. on the doubled paid capital—com-
pared with 12 p.c. on toe smaller capital
in 1959. The cheque absorbed £30,000
more at £120,000.
Profit on sale of assets yielded another
£l3O. Added replacement reserve
appeared at £71,174. Reserves benefited
by £90,005 from the year’s profits and
were shown at £1,905,824.
The company has invested heavily
in improvements to its irrigation
system, the Fairymead plantation
near Bundaberg (Queensland), better
transport facilities and cane-cutting
machinery. This gives Fairymead addit-
ional protection against possible droughts.
The assets appear to be conservatively
valued. Even so, the book value of
factories rose by £955,921 to £3,113,442.
Livestock was higher but stocks and
book debts decreased :
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £ 1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 1,585,951 1.744,515 1,905,824
Creditors, etc.* . . 1,399,977 1,258,148 1,253,372
Final div 4.5,000 45,000 63,750
£3,780,928 £3,797,663 £4,722,940
Estates .. .. 473,843 452,756 462.437
Factories, etc. .. 2,046,038. 2,157,521 3,113,442
Shares in subsid.. . 7,800 7,800 7,800
Livestock.. .. 40,292 41,674 57.131
Stocks, etc. . . 278,700 223,494 169,606
Book debts .. 920,624 909,323 905,043
Cash, etc. . . 4,631 5,095 7,457
£3.780,928 £3,797,663 £4,722,946
* Includes provision for taxation, overdraft, etc.
CTediiors were slightly higher. The
latest balance sheet indicates that the
company is in good shape. Paid capital
is now £1,500,000.
Reports from Queensland indicate
satisfactory progress in the current
crushing season, although the tonnages
seem a bit lower. By October 14, 1961,
6,173,696 tons of sugarcane was crushed,
compared with 6,686,369 tons in the
1960 season. Fairymead started its crush-
ing season on July 19 last and had
crushed 203,288 tons by October i 4. 1961
—compared with 284,107 tons in the 1960
season.
At the last sale in Brisbane the 20s.
ords. fetched 335. a unit. This makes the
immediate return 4.8 p.c. p.a. on the basis
of the 8 p.c. dividend rate on the bonus-
doubled paid capital—covered 1.7 times
by net earnings.
Net tangible asset backing at Decem-
ber 31 last was 455. 3d. a unit.
COMPANY NOTES
Pacific Acceptance Corp.
TVfficult trading conditions due to the
November, 1960, credit squeeze and
adjustments necessary to straighten out
the takeover of a real-estate organisation
in Melbourne seem to be mainly respon-
sible for the heavy group loss incurred
by Pacific Acceptance Corporation Ltd,
hire-purchase financier, in the year to
June 30, 1961. The ord. dividend will
be passed, but preference shareholders
will receive their 6 p.c. entitlements.
Pacific Acceptance lost £165,873 in
1960-61, after providing slightly more for
depreciation at £7264. This compares
with a £131,041 net group profit earned
in 1959-60. after paying £87,000 tax and
providing £5475 for depreciation. The
company had paid a 12| p.c. dividend
for seven years to June 30. 1960.
Directors say in a preliminary report
that financing of retail business ceased
during last term. Amounts written eg
and provisions—mainly in the business
finance department—amounted to a
charge of about £230,000 against last
year’s revenues. Moreover, about
£550,000 was repaid to depositors in the
nine months to September 30 last, fur-
ther reducing finance available for general
operations and development of real-
estate projects.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands well below par at 2s. 9d.
a unit. This compares with the 1960
"‘high” of 9s. 3d., and this year’s “high”
of 6s. a unit.
Directors say they expect a substantial
improvement in the current term.
E. A. Greenwood
/consolidated net profit of E. A. Green-
wood Ltd for the year ended 30th
June, 1961, was £1974 higher at £32.098
after providing £20,352 for taxation
(£19,996 in the previous year). This
represents an earning rate of 35J p.c. on
the average capital employed during the
year. Paid capital was increased from
£BO.OOO to £IOO,OOO in January, 1961.
The dividend rate is steady at 12y p.c.
“Directors are confident that earnings of
the company during the current financial
year will allow this rate to be main-
tained.”
Stocks at £106,806 are about £26.000
above last year’s figure. “This increase
is due mainly to the greater volume of
business being handled by the group."
Recently a branch office was established
in Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Temperance and General
T'Virectors of the Temperance and
General Mutual Life Society report
that the new business completed during
the financial year ended 30th September,
1961, “was a record in the history of the
Society.”
In the Ordinary Department 52,636
policies were issued with premiums
amounting to £2,413,470 per annum,
assuring £69,517,231 (excluding sums
assured under contracts for temporary
assurance) and £156,346 per annum of
annuities. In the Industrial Department,
36,433 policies with premiums amount-
ing to £277,479 per annum were issued,
assuring £5,449,691. In the Accident
Department, 8341 Personal Accident and
Sickness policies were issued with pre-
miums of £75.186 per annum. “A sub-
stantial proportion of the New Business
secured in the Ordinary Department was
again obtained from staff superannuation
and group provident schemes.”
The whole of the new business was
written in Australia and New Zealand.
The Society does not transact business
elsewhere.
The comparable figures for the previous
year were:
Ordinary Department—s4,6B9 policies
with premiums of £2,320,757 per annum,
assuring £63,171,600 and £130,562 per
annum of annuities. Industrial Depart-
ment—36,B29 policies with premiums of


X
rfhe v?is e
H
1»
%?• 35
in
07
k\
i/O
m
■ .-X-
-nd 10 y ears
4P P.A. for 8
S«*> -
\ 5 .'•: ! -*■
I
m/
:
i'o
2^21
'y&g
mf jx w i
/ # pi
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment
in one of Australia’s best-backed
Companies. All told, the Reid
Murray group includes: 197 Retail
Stores, 7 Wholesale Warehouses,
Real Estate Companies in 5 States,
and the Finance Company for the
group—Reid Murray Acceptance Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
71% i p - A
... 2 YEARS
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
5%
P.A. —on 3 months' notice
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.22V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
£268,112 per annum assuring £5,330,277.
Accident Department—B2l3 policies with
premiums of £63,172.
Stocks and Holdings
Directors of Stocks and Holdings
Ltd report that the company’s
Piccadilly Shopping Centre project in
Wollongong (N.S.W.) has been com-
pleted at an estimated cost of over
£500,000. This is the company’s second
venture outside the Sydney metropolitan
area. Earlier, Stocks and Holdings built
a large motel in Tamworth (N.S.W.).
The Wollongong project includes a
two-floor department store, a supermar-
ket, 37 stores, the city’s main post office,
a 37-unit motel, a car park with a daily
capacity for 2000 vehicles and a
restaurant with a convention hall. All
the designs were prepared by the com-
pany’s own architects and the construc-
tion was handled by its building section,
in conjunction with Finance Facilities
Pty Ltd. The shopping centre develop-
ment projects at the outer Sydney
suburbs of Merry lands and Parramatta
are said to be nearing completion.
Recently, Stocks and Holdings made
an offer for the paid capital of Develop-
ment Underwriting Ltd, a financier, on
the basis of three ss. Stocks and Holdings
ords. for ten ss. ords. paid to 4s. 3d.
The Stocks and Holdings scrip has
been picking up steadily on the share-
market. At the last sale in Sydney the
ss. ords. fetched 16s. 6d. a unit, making
the immediate return 6.1 p.c. on the basis
of the 20 p.c. annual dividend rate. The
ss. def. ords. were last traded for 12s. 6d.
a unit.
OIL AND MINING
Wapet
West Australian Petroleum Pty
™ Ltd reports that the Eneabba No.
1 well has reached a depth of 13,240
feet. Since 12,795 feet, the gas instru-
ments at the well head have recorded
shows of gas. Exhaust gas from these
instruments still gives a positive flame
test. The formations are non-porous and
the well is drilling ahead for further
information.
The seismic crew has completed its
current assignment in the Jarlemai area
and has moved south to commence a
reconnaissance survey in the Wandagee
section of the Carnarvon Basin.
Timor Oil* Ltd
'Timor Oil Ltd reports that prepara-
-1 tions are under way to resume field
operations at Matai in Portuguese Timor.
The Canadian crew which will under-
take drilling under direct Australian
management is standing by, ready to
proceed to Timor. The company has
chartered a freighter which will transport
the necessary supplies to Timor. Drilling
is expected to commence soon after the
Applies are landed and taken to the
w cll site.


D
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
H D82.1l
B. 25/11
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)
ST KUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
It ranches in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To: ALAN BARRIE WOTHERSPOON
late of Svdney—TAKE NOTICE that
PAMELA NOELEEN WOTHERSPOON
lias filed a Petition for Divorce No.
502 of 1901 in the Supreme Court of
New South Wales on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If y ou
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divprce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney by the 22nd
December, 1901, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
Messrs S. T. HODGE & CO., Solicitors
of 4 Castlcreagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, November 20
Invents have been moving
swiftly. The drama began
with Shipping Newspapers. On
the strength of being “dis-
covered"’ by one of those new
investment advisory services,
Shipping News’ shares set out
in search of the stars —
765., 80s., 845., 865., 905.!
Needless to say, my avarice
overcame me along the way
and I sold 50 at 88s. for an
agreeable profit of £47. The
other 50 shares should be
worth holding, at least until
they are split into ss. units
next month.
My bold move into Fen-
wick tugs at 295. cum bonus
has also paid off handsomely
in less than a month. At 245.
or so ex-bonus, the shares are
beginning to look decidedly
overpriced, but I suppose Fen-
wicks are the sort of shares
that are always likely to be
overpriced in this age of take-
overs. Nevertheless, I couldn't
resist the temptation to take
a profit on at least some of my
500 shares, so I parted with
200 at 245. 6d. Profit on these
was £35.
Western Mining has not
proved such a happy venture.
Having bought 200 shares cum
rights at 21s. 74d., I was feel-
ing very pleased with myself
when they shot up to 225. 6d.
ex-rights. At that point I
sold the shares and also 20
of the rights which Fd auto-
matically inherited, leaving me
with a £7 profit and a further
100 rights which I was hold-
ing for nothing. So far so
good. Then 1 did what now
seems to have been a very
stupid thing. I barged ahead
and bought 400 more rights
at 7s. 2d., thinking a holding
of 500 rights would give me
a reasonable interest in the
company for a fairly reason-
able outlay. Since then, how-
ever, the glamor seems to have
more or less fallen out of
Western Mining.
On the hotel front my Hotel
Sydney shares have now been
split into ss. units and renamed
Southgate Investments. Since
then another interesting de-
velopment has occurred: the
Myer-Farmer group’s decision
to build a Chadstone-type
shopping centre at Bass Hill.
My interest in Southgate’s
hotels led me to United
Motels. This little company
was one of the real victims
of the credit squeeze. Now
United Motels is in a position
to complete its motels. Jt has
three motels (all licensed) i n
the Snowy Mountains area,
one at Moruya and another at
Kempsey. The Snowy motels’
rooms seem well placed for
skiers and tourists, while the
bars should do well out of
the Snowy workmen’s pay
packets. For these reasons 1
thought the shares a bit of a
bargain at 3s. 6d., particularly
from a takeover point of view.
Both Lend Lease and Pub-
lishers have interests in the
area, and their hefty share
premiums would make United
a cheap takeover proposition.
The fortnight's profit was
£B9 and left me with £283 in
cash.
SOLD
200 Western Mining
shares at 22/6 .. £221
20 Western Mining
rights at 7/3 .. £7
50 Shipping News at
88/- .. £222
200 Fenwick at 24/6 £241
BOUGHT
400 Western Mining
rights at 7/2 .. £2lO
1000 United Motels at
3/6 .. .. £lB4
The shares I now hold
are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
300 Hornibrook 334 23/- 25/-
200 Mar rick ville 21T 21/3 24/6
300 McDonald 207 13/6 13/3
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 25/-
400 Rio Tinto 307 15/- 16/-
300 l*vro\ new 87 5/0 6 6
200 Dodse 136 13/4 14/1
75 A.C.I. 273 71/- 76/-
400 Derrin 206 10/- 11/3
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 239 11/8 13/-
200 F. G. O'Brien 100 9/9 10/3
300 Bitumen & 0i1263 22/6 22/-
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 84/-
50 Shipping
News 175 69/- 86/-
400 Olympic
Bowling 50 2 6
1.000 W. 11. Hole 197 3/9 5/9
300 Fenwick 310 20/6 24/9
1,000 Chevron
Sydney 117 2/3 2,3
500 Western
Mining rights— 6/9
800 Southgate 34 0 8/6 9/-
1.000 United Motels 184 3/6 3/6


Positions Vacant
LABORATORY ASSISTANT
ALL SAINTS’ COLLEGE,
BATHURST, N.S.W.
(To Commence Feb., 1962)
DUTIES: To prepare, manufacture and repair
scientific apparatus; to assist in demonstra-
tions ; to maintain laboratories and
equipment.
QUALIFICATIONS: A knowledge of wood-
work, metalwork, glass blowing, and of
science is desirable.
Residence will be available to a young man
prepared to assist in sport and resident duties.
Apply in writing, or inquire for further
details to: The Headmaster.
ALL SOULS’ SCHOOL,
CHARTERS TOWERS N.Q.
Master required to teach Book-keeping, Typing
and general middle-school subjects, resident or
non-resident. Housemastership with free flat
available for suitable man. Duties commence
first term 1962. Apply Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
To: TERENCE PHILIP GALLAGHER late ot
284 Bridge Road, Glebe. BETTY JOAN
GALLAGHER has Med Petition No. 1953 of 1901
against you in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction for Dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of 2 years’ Desertion.
If you wish to defend you should file an Answer
at the office of this court on or before 22nd December,
1981. A copy of the petition may be had from the
undersigned free of charge.—K. RITDLOW, Solicitor,
77 King Street, Sydney.—C'. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. M.C. 98 of 1981.
Between: EDWARD GII.MOUR McLOUGH LIN,
Petitioner and KATHLEEN THERESA McLOUGH-
LIN Respondent.—To: Kathleen Theresa McLoughlin
formerly ot Hobart in Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD GILMOUR McLOUGHI.IN has filed
a divorce petition against you on the ground of
desertion.—AND TAKE NOTICE that if you
intend to defend the petition you must file an
Answer within twenty-eight days of the publication
of this notice at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart from which
address further information can be obtained otherwise
the Court may hear and determine the proceedings
in your absence. —DATED the 30th dav of October,
1961.—(5gd.) T. BRETTINGHAM MOORE Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES. —-In Divorce.
l '° : HAROLD HOLMES.—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS
JOAN HOLMES has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2-080 of I9(i(> on the grounds of desertion and
separation. If you wish to defend the suit you may
enter an Answer on or before the 22nd day of
December, 1961 at the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney. A copy of
the Petition may be had without charge from
E. R. ABIGAIL & CO., Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
Io: GOTTFRIED KERYES late of Sydney, New
South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that VERA ANNE
LILA KERYES has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3451 of 1961 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend the suit you may enter an Answer
on or before the 22nd day of December, 1961 at
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney. A copy of the Petition may be
had without charge from E. R. ABIGAIL & CO.,
Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street, Svdnev.—O. A. H
HARMS, Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdictioj.
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
No. 2235 of 1961
To: ALBERT GORDON MOORE late of Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that ETHEL MAY MOORE has filed a petition for
divorce No. 2235 of 1961 and a notice of petition
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for two years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Divorce Office, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by 22nd December, 1961 and obtain
a copy of the petition and notice of petition without
charge from R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor, 27 Watt
Street, Newcastle.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
To: MALCOLM VICKERY late of Royal Austra-
lian Air Force Base, Richmond, New South Wales. —•
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN JAMES TERRISS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2475 of 1961 against
his wife SADIE TERRISS on the ground of her
desertion and adultery with you. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Alint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 22nd day of December, 1961
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs ROY F. TURNER, JONES and CO.
Solicitors of 350 George Street, Svdnev. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matri ho mil Causes Jurisdiction
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
To; THOMAS JAMES WATT —late of Shepparton,
Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that WILMA IRENE
WATT has filed a Petition for divorce No. 3428
of 1901 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney
by the 2nd day of January 1962 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street.
Sydney, New South Wales. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act. 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOI TH WALES. —In Divorce.
To: EVELYN BONNIE JEAN NUNN. —TAKE
NOTICE that VICTOR THOMAS NUNN has filed his
Petition for Divorce No. 3261 of 1961 on the grounds
of desertion, separation and presumption of death.
If you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
at the Divorce Office, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney within 28 days from the publication
of this notice and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JONES, JONES A JONES of
76 Clarence Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
A Divorce Petition has been filed against NOLA
DOROTHY PARKIN late of 21 Jersey Street,
Marrickville, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia,
who may apply to the District Registrar, District
Registry of the High Court, County Court Hall,
Bank Street, Sheffield England for a copy of the
petition. if within three months she has not
communicated with the Registry, the Court may
hear the case in her absence. —EDWARD R. MEEKE
District Registrar.
IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 386 of 1961.
To: JOHN ANTHONY FARRELL—TAKE NOTICE
that THERESA MARGARET FARRELL has filed
a petition for divorce No. 386 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on the 29th day of December 1961 and
obtain a free copy of the petition from JOSEPH
H. McDOUGALL W CO., Solicitors of 29 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 668
Across
I—Animal1 —Animal takes a sharpener before he is in great
trouble. (11)
6—Baby banter. (3)
B—A container like this feature of the Corinthian capital. (8)
10—I’m going back to Missouri “oomph'’ in a tree. (6)
12— Newt left without fifty. (3)
13— Movement and a metal ring. (9)
14— Swell sealer. (3)
15— Alderman to relieve the tension
mark resulting from a fold. (6)
16 — South Carolina containing a
pouch. (3)
19 — You’re looking at this octopus
secretion. (3)
20 — Lucian employed in this form
of ancient writing. (6)
21— Tree bark. (3)
24 A red quill, (anagram) (9)
25 — Who spoilt a greeting to an
Injun? (3)
26 — Extremes observed with beer and
a flowering shrub. (6)
27 — Bounty man with Edward is pest-
afflicted. (8)
28 — Little Rock to be found in this
vessel. (3)
29 — Idriess is after a shortened dance
number. (11)
Down
1— —lrritated when nourished on
tea. (6)
2 Tableware to the possessive form
of a trail tram of the old
style. (9)
3 Influential Persian had a sit-down
strike. (6)
4 —Nothing with an afterthought in
corresponding works. (3)
5 Who edits Kipling’s work and
freezes notable structures. (8)
6 This part of Japan is in Tokyo—
but isn't. (5)
7 Ward has this disadvantage. (8)
9 —Emphasise less than 20. (10)
11 —Laurel plan, (anagram) (10)
16 —It’s the gap filled with food. (9)
17— Form of American entertain-
ment. (8)
18— Australian river in which you
might find M squared. (8)
22 — A Scottish mountain girl far from
bonny Scotland. (6)
23 Ends we arranged in the
country. (6)
24 — Drake's comment is enough for
this impostor. (5)
27 —German’s bath is no good. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 667


r
X
m
: >
/
■
warn
Hi
■H
\
-
•V J-.;.v... :
,w
■■
1
&+
Si
■
|Hh|
s
1
1
m
«e • ■
V";
l
*i-d
:c
amii
m
Smm
■
•S
a
Vv :
'
; , ■
? Tf< j
IS
iti■
Hi
■V:-:
-V
■ifel
''
—
li
HHi
?■«
■ . ■■■
W
You caiTtffly
peace of mind.
Let City Mutual show you how
The greatest luxury a man can have is peace of
mind ... the knowledge that he will have more than
just the bare minimum to live upon in retirement
and that whatever the future may hold, his wife and
family wiil be free from financial fears. Yet this
greatest of luxuries is also one of the cheapest
to own.
Besides the peace of mind it gives you, a policy
with City Mutual carries with it many other benefits.
For one thing, it partly pays for itself because you
can deduct the premiums from your income tax.
Moreover, City Mutual is an all-Australian Society
with no shareholders all its distributable surplus
goes directly to you in the form of regular bonuses.
Your life assurance programme, like any other
financial plan, must be properly designed to meet
your family’s changing needs and your own personal
ambitions.
Let the City Mutual help you keep it up-to-date.
Your passport to peace of mind — a policy with
THE
CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in N. S. IV. in 1878)
Head Offices 60-66 Hunter Sydney Telephone 8W2021
