

The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
July 1, 1961
and The Observer
Price 1/*
THE RISE OF
SIR GARFIELD
BARWICK
In Australia for transmission by post a* • newspaper.
What Eichmann
Did Not Say
Wool —Without
A Plan
Is Americanism
A Threat?


INVEST IN
ELECTRICITY!
PROFIT FROM
QUEENSLAND’S POWER
EXPANSION PROGRAMME!
THE STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
£5.15.0% LOAN
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
Apply now through: Commonwealth Trading
Bank A.N.Z. Bank Commercial Banking
Company Commercial Bank of Australia
E.S. & A. Bank Bank of N.S.W. National
Bank of A’asia; any Stockbroker; any Regional
Electricity Board Office; or direct to the State
Electricity Commission of Q'ld., 447 Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane. Phone 5 2701,
£5.15.0 PER CENT IS AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST GOVERN-
MENT GUARANTEED INTEREST RATE.
SHORT, MEDIUM, OR LONG TERM —6, 10 OR 20 YEARS.
INTEREST IS PAID HALF-YEARLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE.
YOU MAY DEPOSIT 10 PER CENT NOW AND PAY THE
BALANCE BY 31 ST OCTOBER NEXT.
SECURITIES WILL BE LISTED ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE
AND ARE NEGOTIABLE.
THE LOAN IS AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
CONVERT TO THE NEW, HIGHER INTEREST RATE!
If you hold S.E.C. securities which mature on Ist August or
Ist November 1961, here is your opportunity to convert to £5.15.0
per cent. The following are the securities:
LOAN NO. 12 ISSUED AUGUST 1956 FOR 5 YEARS AT £5.7.6 PER CENT.
LOAN NO. 7 ISSUED NOVEMBER 1953 FOR 8 YEARS AT £4.15.0 PER CENT.
LOAN NO. 13 ISSUED NOVEMBER 1956 FOR 5 YEARS AT £5.5.0 PER CENT.
Underwritten by
Charles A. Ord & Minnett
SEC26/9


The
Bulletin
JULY 1, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4246
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
G.F.D.: No dear old men’s
last days on earth. .. .L.L.: Oh, the
irony of it! Ugh!.... M.H.L.:
“His English was still far from per-
fect”- —but then, so is your Italian.
. ...J.C.H.: Nearly; but are your
readers really going to enjoy your
more dismal thoughts? ... .J.D.:
You’ll have to work harder than
that. .. . V.C.: There’s an idea in
the poem from Heaven. It needs
tightening and clarifying. ... 8.5.:
We’ll have the pith of your “frothy
little ballad”:
. ...G.A.W.: Short stories that
keep a decayed business alive just
because the author likes the charac-
ters don’t belong to our times. . . .
J.M.: It’s a good satirical idea, but
you don't know enough about such
people to mince them up properly.
....J.T.: Nearly, but too far
away. . . . M.W.: Ditto M.J.:
You set the scene, but no one did
anything 1.L.8.: When he
looked up and saw the bus driver
“smiling apologetically down at
him” we ielt you weren't being
quite true to life. .. . D.D.: Too
clever by half, or not clever enough
by half. .. . G.R.: It’s all in the
encyclopaedias M.T.: “Hamlet's
Last Hoax” didn’t take us in....
E.P.W.: Terrible. .. .J.H.: If it
hadn’t been done a hundred times
better a hundred times it still
wouldn't be what we wanted.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 SV?I
“I was but thinking, David, we've
seen
So many years;
Soon one of us must die, love—
The thought brings me to tears.”
He kissed her forehead tenderly,
Patted her head of snow,
“Don't worry now, dear wife,” he
said,
“We’ve many years to go!”
“Well, when it happens, dear,” she
said
In meditative tone,
“I may go through, to Woolloomoo-
100,
And stay with your sister Joan.”
WHY!
What Eichmann Does Not Know
JpOR background reading on the Eichmann trial we are publishing in
this issue an article by Ludwik Kruszelnicki about his experiences in
a Nazi concentration camp. He raises a question that has not been directly
raised in the Eichmann trial: how many of the survivors of these camps
are now in mental asylums throughout Europe? His article is also a re-
minder of the triviality of many of the arguments raised in some quarters
about the “legality” of the Eichmann trial. Certainly Eichmann was kid-
napped and certainly there were no legal precedents for this sort of trial.
But when on the one hand we have the agent of a State that slaughtered
millions of people under its control and on the other hand a set of laws
that allows for no way of dealing with him, do we do nothing or do we
change the laws? Obviously we change the laws. Totalitarianism is a
new thing in the world and to try to deal with people like Eichmann
within the ordinary categories of the criminal law is like trying to deal
with Hitler and Stalin as if they were just ordinary heads of imperialist
States. In this age, the Eichmann trial is far more than a matter of punish-
ing old “crimes” and will be of lasting importance. The Communist
totalitarians have no doubt slaughtered more millions of human beings
than the Nazis; they have had more time to do it in. And if the Eichmann
trial does what the Nuremburg trials (with Soviet “judges” sharing the
bench with Western judges) failed to do and establishes some precedent
for dealing with the new type of totalitarian murderers, the world will be
permanently in Israel’s debt.
The Thousandth Black Mark
think that this week’s short story, “The Black List”, is the most un-
usual story M. G. Vincent has yet written. It is about a dwarf in a
country town who is the butt of a storekeeper’s practical jokes. On the
advice given him by his mother before she died, the dwarf, now an orphan,
keeps a note of every hoax played on him, working up to a thousand.
What will happen when the dwarf reaches the thousandth “black mark”?
In it M. G. Vincent overcomes what some critics think is her main defect:
a tendency towards looseness and formlessness. The plot is complex and
the observation of character is shrewd but the whole is well controlled and
the denouement is excellent.
Miss Vincent, whose real name is Mrs S. Thomas, was born at Dor-
rigo, N.S.W., in 1912. Her father owned the local paper, the “Gazette”,
and for seven years she worked for her father as a reporter. Then she
worked for four years in a Sydney advertising agency. She is now mar-
ried, with two sons, and lives at Menangle Park, N.S.W.
Many of her stories most of which have been published in The
Bulletin feature a woman reporter on a country newspaper, but per-
haps her best story is “The Bell Place”, a brilliant picture of a malignant
and talkative woman which unexpectedly turns into the discovery of a crime.
One of Miss Vincent’s stories has been published in an Italian anth-
ology and she has recently had another accepted for a further Italian
anthology of Australian short stories.


This Australia
UNEMPLOYMENT
The Resigned
and the Furious
W. McMAHON
“Only a passing phase”
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
A panel-van braked softly in a New-
town side street one chilly Sydney
day last week. The driver and his mate
were uncomfortable and apologetic as
they carried out a TV set and a radio-
gram. The middle-aged woman looked
glumly at the stack of pop records in
gay covers, left behind in a corner of
the small living room. Hoping that better
times were just round the corner, the
van’s crew left the rectangular TV aerial
behind.
This scene is being repeated many
times a day all over Australia as
repossessions mount weekly. Hire-pur-
chase sales continued to plunge as the
credit squeeze enters its ninth month.
Shops desperately advertise repossessed
TV sets, radios, washing machines,
vacuum cleaners —“reconditioned and as
good as new.” Deposits are low and
terms easy, but still there are few buyers.
Salesmen offer used cars at prices
which would have seemed suspiciously
cheap a year ago. A big American car
of 1952-55 vintage can be had for £250-
£6OO. Terms are also easy, but again
there are few takers. Stocks of new cars
carried by distributors are still rising and
more workers get their dismissal notices
each week or so in the factories.
Economists and Mr McMahon, the
Minister for Labor, are saying that it
is only a passing phase, and that, any-
way, only 2.4 per cent, of the total work
force is jobless. But to a country used
to full employment, job - hopping, fat
overtime cheques and bonuses, such talk
offers little solace.
Hire - purchase companies, insurance
salesmen, retailers, consumer - goods
manufacturers all complain bitterly
about deflation. Papers are filled with
angry protests, tongue-in-cheek forecasts
of economic doom and cure-all solutions
from cranks, housewives and financial
experts. But the 102,559 men and women
out of a job, and thousands more on
short time, feel the “squeeze” personally.
Who are the unemployed—estimated
to add up to 2.5 per cent, of the work
force in New South Wales, 3.5 per cent,
in Queensland, 2.3 per cent, in Tas-
mania, 2.2 per cent, in South Australia
and 2.1 per cent, in Victoria and Western
Australia? Most of them are unskilled
and semi-skilled men in the metalworking,
electrical engineering, clothing, textiles,
footwear and building industries, and
married women working on the process
line to save up for a car or a TV set.
Some are migrants with language
difficulties, quite a number fresh from
overseas. They are usually resigned
but not bitter. A pretty young
blonde draughtswoman, living in the
back streets in Croydon, arrived
from Warsaw recently. A year ago she
would have walked into a Government
job or found work with a private archi-
tect or builder, at least as a tracerwoman.
Everybody is polite and apologetic ; she
is pleasantly surprised with her 655.
weekly relief cheque and slightly
hesitant about accepting it; but she
can’t hold out much longer.
The Australian tends to be angrier—
one qualified TV mechanic, for example,
is furious ; he had lived it up for four
years, but has just lost his third job in
six months. The dole is peanuts to him,
and he does not bother to register.
Others, particularly those with families
to keep, do. At June 3, there were
45,110 persons receiving unemployment
benefits. This is less than half the official
unemployment figure, and much less than
the real number of unemployed. Many
dislike the idea of registering, and have
some savings, some odd work once a
week, or part-time jobs which they don’t
care to mention on the taxation returns.
The country areas have been hit hard,
and people are drifting to the capital
cities. Tamworth, Lismore, Cooma, Port
Kembla, Newcastle in N.S.W., Fisher-
man’s Bend in Victoria are unhappy
places.
Unemployment is not widespread or
disastrous. It is not causing starvation
or extreme hardship, but it is very hard
to get along on 655. a week (plus a maxi-
mum additional payment of 575. 6d. a
week for a family man) after having
been used to taking home some £2O
every week.
EDUCATION
New Status for Teachers
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
nPHE Victorian Teachers’ Tribunal is
probably unique in the world. The
envy of teachers in other States, it is a
three-man body with complete responsi-
bility for controlling the salaries and
discipline of the 21,687 teachers employed
by the Victorian Education Department.
Its establishment in 1946 is regarded by
the Victorian Teachers' Union as its
greatest single achievement.
It was originally the Government’s idea
that the tribunal should merely be an
advisory body on salaries and conditions.
But in those days, Victorian Governments
lived from hand to mouth for their
majorities in Parliament, and the V.T.U.
was quick to follow the lead of other
pressure groups in exploiting this politi-
cal instability. After some intensive
lobbying (one V.T.U. official is supposed
to have stayed in Parliament House night
and day for a week) the tribunal was set
up in its present form. In the Upper
House the bill passed by only one vote.
The tribunal consists of one representa-
tive of teachers (elected by a secret ballot
conducted by the Education Department),
one of the department itself, and an
independent chairman. The present
teachers’ representative is Mr D. R.
Brown, a former V.T.U. president, while
the department’s man is Brigadier W. E.
Cremor, also a former V.T.U. president.
The independent chairman is Mr L. F. C.
Garlick, one time Labor M.P. for Mil-
dura, and also a former teacher,
Despite this idyllic situation, however,
the tribunal, on the eve of hearing a
V.T.U. case for 20 per cent, basic salary
rises, has become the focus of huge dis-
sension. The reason is the Rise of the
Secondary Teacher, a phenomenon which
seems universal in the Western world and
which has recently produced strikes of
high-school teachers in regions as far
apart as New York, Glasgow and
Israel. Everywhere, the secondary teacher
is becoming conscious of his strength and
position in communities where secondary
no less than university education is under-
going expansion. The secondary teacher
wants to carve his own hierarchical
niche, intermediate between the primary
teacher and the university lecturer. Above
all, he wants to escape from the amor-
phous mass of teachers into a separate
status of his own, with salaries to match
course.
The V.T.U. (subscription £4 11s. p.a.)
claims to represent all State - employed
teachers, primary and secondary, and to
have on its books the majority of high-
school teachers. A rival union, the Vic-
torian Secondary Teachers’ Association


(255. p.a.), probably has just as many of
the State’s high-school teachers enrolled.
Actually, despite the bitter rivalry between
the two unions, many hig"h - school
teachers belong to both. Others belong
to neither.
Most members of the V.T.U. are
primary teachers and the union is strongly
opposed to the claims of secondary
teachers for higher pay based on the
nature of their work. It even carries its
opposition to the point of seeking aboli-
tion of the small loading of £3O p.a. at
present given for secondary teachers.
Instead, the V.T.U. wants lodgings for
extra academic qualifications, but not
for secondary teaching per se.
But it is a V.T.U.-backed D. R. Brown
who holds the teacher’s seat on the
tribunal, and like the other two members
he is a former primary teacher. More-
over, only the V.T.U. has the right to
appear before the tribunal to state a
salaries case. From 1948 to 1954 the
V.S.T.A. had the right to present a
separate case, but, at its last appearance
in 1960 it was only permitted to add
riders to the case put by the V.T.U.
In March this year, the tribunal an-
nounced that any future salary hearings
would be held in public, a decision which
the V.T.U. praised. But in the V.S.T.A.
ranks the reaction was swift and bitter.
Some 4500 high-school teachers met at
lunch time in their schools to protest
against the secrecy and to demand the
right for their union to present its own
case. This was followed by a meeting
this month in which 700 high - school
teachers, in a mood of high militancy,
packed Melbourne’s Assembly Hall, again
carrying resolutions for public hearings
and for the V.S.T.A. to appear before
the tribunal.
Latest indications are that the V.T.U.
may have an internal revolt on its hands.
Its high-schools section, while generally
supporting the V.T.U. policy of homo-
geneity of salary scales, is reported to be
becoming infected by the strong reaction
again secret hearings. In its abject accept-
ance of the secrecy move, the V.T.U. may
possibly have damaged its standing among
both bands of teachers.
SPORT
The Sabbatarians
v. Football
ARTHUR RYLAH
On the eve
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
There is no big money in Sunday sport
in Melbourne. However, on the eve,
by a peculiar coincidence, of the State
election, Mr Arthur Rylah, the Chief
Secretary, has sent letters to some sport-
ing bodies, warning them that if they
continued to publicise and charge admis-
sion to Sunday sporting fixtures, legal
action would be taken against them. The
pubiicity to which Mr Rylah says he
objects is on television.
His well-publicised letters seem
designed to please the wowsers and
balance the Government’s liberalising of
laws and regulations affecting racing,
especially the introduction of the off-
course tote and the publication of betting
odds immediately after races.
There has in fact been no great up-
surge in attendances at Victorian Foot-
ball Association and the Soccer Associa-
tion Sunday games (although they have
increased slightly each year). Last year
the V.F.A. ran 19 Sunday games, about
130,000 attended and paid £7OO0 —a poor
result, though more than if they had been
played on Saturday in opposition to the
League.
The reason why Association football
draws poor crowds Saturday or Sunday
is no secret: the football is often too
dreary. There are too many has-beens
slowing down the game.
The 10,000 or 15,000 that a more
sparkling match draws on a Sunday is
highly gratifying to Association teams,
but on Saturdays they would play to far
fewer. Soccer is different. Attendances
grow with the increase of migrants who
can find little else to do in Melbourne
on Sundays.
The law prohibits charges for admis-
sion though the clubs get around it by
announcing at the turnstiles, “Adults
45., Children 15.,” in large type preceded
by, in small type, “we suggest.” A
citizen who attempts to get in without
paying is told he is holding up the
queue and asked to stand aside.
The pattern of Church comment on
Mr Rylah’s nicely timed letters was
familiar, with the usual Methodist and
Presbyterian delight in the hint at cur-
tailment of Sunday sport and the
Catholic defence of the right to Sunday
relaxation; but the approval of the
letter by the Dean of Melbourne, the
Very Rev. Dr S. Barton Babbage, was
surprising.
He, however, has recently opened his
own Sunday espresso in the crypt of
St Paul’s Cathedral. Perhaps he feels
that watching football or soccer on Sun-
day afternoons followed by coffee in the
crypt is going a little too far.
HEALTH
When Lepers
Get Out
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
'T'rouble broke out again recently at
East Arm Leprosarium, just outside
the Darwin city limits. Security Officer
Fred Harrobin, who tried to take a flagon
of wine away from native patients, was
stoned, hit on the left side of the face,
and later admitted to hospital, injured
and badly shaken.
The authorities faced an old problem:
What can you do to a leper who breaks
the law? He cannot be jailed because
of difficulties of treatment and risk of
infection to others. He cannot be fined
as he earns no money.
In the Harrobin case the offender was
placed in an “isolation area,” in the words
of the Director of Health (Dr I. D.
Byrne), who said this was the only way
of punishing refractory patients. The
offender is confined in the isolation area
until he “settles down.”
The leprosarium used to be on Channel
Island in Darwin Harbor, and since it
was moved to East Arm there have been
recurring surges of public disquiet about
its proximity to Darwin. The official
attitude is that the old horror of leprosy
should be broken down and people
educated to regard it as just a disease
like any other.
East Arm is staffed by devoted Roman
Catholic nuns, and the Department of
Health maintains first - class facilities
there. But it is ridiculously easy for
lepers to get out. At low tide they can
walk across the sands to the nearby
beaches. Even at high tide the wire fence
is quite simple to get through.
Two years ago a Director of Health
admitted that native lepers had been
escaping and attending the picture show
in Darwin. A halfcaste leper once was
found drinking in a hotel. Residents of
the shanty-town suburb of Winnellie say
East Arm patients attend aboriginal
drinking parties there and that some of
the women have engaged in prostitution.
The several hundred patients at East
Arm include a few whites, a few half-
castes and a few civilised natives. But
most are tribal aborigines. Despite all
that is done for them they remain
bewildered, homesick and unhappy. If
some seek consolation in liquor, who
could blame them?
Leprosy came to the Territory 80 years
ago, about the time Chinese laborers
were brought in by the thousand to work
on the Pine Creek railway. It spread
rapidly among “top end” aborigines, with
their low standards of hygiene and in-
difference to infection. Today it is still
a big problem, with an incidence of one
in ten among aborigines in a few areas.
At least three white people one a
schoolgirl—have gone to East Arm in the
past two years.


ART
Uproar in
South Australia
KYM BONYTHON
The finest collection
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
'T'he more staid elements of Adelaide
society had two shocks on successive
days last week. First, visiting English
art critic John Steegman attacked what
he termed the ultra-conservative policy of
S.A.’s National Gallery. Then several
hundred boys at Unley High School put
on a playground demonstration against
their headmaster’s alleged attempt to keep
the sexes apart.
Though the two events were un-
connected, the Unley boys might well
have heeded this middle-aged British
visitor’s homily that “an art gallery fails
in its primary duty to the public, and
especially to the young, if it denies them
the opportunity of increasing their ex-
perience of what is being done through-
out the world today.” The schoolboys,
of course, were concerned only at the
new lunch-hour edict forbidding them to
play with girls who share the same school.
All the same, this was heresy for youths
at Unley (Adelaide’s Vaucluse or South
Yarra) to shout for all to hear: “Two.
four, six, eight—we don’t want to
segregate.” At the other end of the city
their distinguished elders on the National
Gallery Board were being chastised for
trying to segregate the safe, dead and
mostly European painters from Australian
moderns who. said the Contemporary
Art Society's president, N. Platten, were
allowed no more than half a bay in the
large building. Mr Steegman s criticism
called forth much support from artists
and public who thought the creative arts
to be a live issue dealing with —to use
the critic’s words —the 1960 s and no
longer the 19205.
“In Adelaide I have seen a great deal
to charm and interest me,” Mr Steegman
said. “But lam astonished at the paucity
of advanced contemporary painting in
the National Gallery. In common with
the rest of Australia, this State has pro-
duced an encouraging number of modern
painters. But I looked in vain for any
official evidence of their existence. This
dearth of anything even faintly contro-
versial does seem to suggest that those
responsible for purchases are probably
frightened by the bare idea of arousing
controversy and continue to buy for the
past.”
This was only partially true. The
Gallery, which is poorly endowed, has
continually bought Australian work
within its means, including contemporary-
work, and even has a collection of action
paintings which have never aroused
much local enthusiasm. In common with
other Australian galleries (except possibly
Melbourne), it has suffered because the
director has to seek the board’s approval
before making purchases.
Most S.A. artists consider that Gallery
Director Robert Campbell, a very
knowledgeable man, has done a good
job; taking into consideration the fact
that he has only two artists, both con-
ventional in outlook, to back him up ; Sir
Hans Heysen and Ivor Hele. The other
board members are Lady Hayward, a
private collector of moderns (notably
Dobell), Immigration Minister A. R.
Downer and two businessmen, Sir Edward
Morgan and Sir Lloyd Dumas (chair-
man). These are all busy people, often
out of town, which means the best paint-
ings at new exhibitions are frequently
sold before approval can be obtained.
All the same, Adelaide people are not
noted for buying modern works, despite
their enthusiasm for a score of large
exhibitions during the 1960 Festival of
Arts. Only this year has the public been
given the chance to see the work of new
painters, at the gallery opened by Kym
Bonython, whose tastes have a remark-
able range—from progressive jazz and
speedway racing to the finest private
collection of contemporary Australian
work in the country. Mr Steegman made
no reference to this, nor to the fact that
the Bonython Gallery has put on shows
by such moderns as Lawrence Daws,
Albert Tucker, Dickerson and plans
others every month.
Mr Steegman's visit was not altogether
happy from the start. Billed to lecture
under University auspices, he arrived to
find the hall crowded with ladies arranging
flower displays and had to march at the
head of his potential audience to anothe'
distant arena. One trembles to think of
how he may blast other State galleries
for their notorious collections of Vic-
toriana.
UNIONS
Going: Troppo
in the Wet
LOU DE COURCY
“Relax at Rapid Creek”
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
C'enior Commissioner E. A. Chambers
has just completed the Darwin section
of what must be one of Australia’s
strangest industrial hearings. Clerks em-
ployed by private enterprise in the
Northern Territory are trying for an
award setting a £3O minimum weekly
wage for adult male clerks after one
year's service ; a 35-hour week ; five
weeks’ annual leave ; and paid holiday
fares every two years.
Much of the discussion centred round
the meaning of the word “troppo.” The
president of the N.T, section of the
Federated Clerks’ Union, Mr R. Millbank,
claimed that conditions in the Territory
caused efficiency to drop “immensely”
and warned that unless workers had
regular holidays away they were in
danger of going “troppo. ’
Under pressure from a perplexed
Bench, the union called expert evidence.
Into the box went Mr Richard Smith,
secretary of the F.C.U.s Territory sec-
tion, to define the meaning of the word.
“It describes,” he said, “a person who
has been in the tropics too long and whose
mental condition borders on insanity.”
Commissioner Chambers: “Halfway
round the bend?”
Mr Smith: “Yes"
Due to climate and war disabilities,
Mr Smith said, he himself had several
times verged on going going “troppo.”
Other union witnesses produced tales of
hardship. One clerk, Mrs Winifred
Ramage, described how a workmate had
fled “screaming” from her firm’s rest
room when frightened by a large goanna
which had been “chasing a frog.”
Opposing the Clerks’ claims, em-
ployers, too, gave unusual evidence.
The Northern Territory Employers’
Federation president, Mr Lou De Courcy,
w ho has spent seven and a half years
j n the Territory, said the Katherine Gorge
W as equal to the Blue Mountains as a
holiday centre and that Sydney’s beach
resort of Manly was “just like any strip
of land with some water, w'ith perhaps,
the hotels making the difference.”
Workers, he thought, should be quite
happy with an annual holiday by Rapid
Creek (a noisome, mangrove - fringed
stream seven miles from Darwin),
Doctors were emphatically on the


clerks’ side regarding holidays. There
was no repetition of the glorious day,
several years ago, when a doctor advo-
cated, to an official body, the inclusion
of the price of four bottles of beer daily
in the Territory basic wage because it
was “necessary for health in this climate.”
But Mr Desmond Cooper, surgeon, did
tell Mr Chambers that leave from Darwin
to the south was necessary every two
years because “some respite is required
for reasons of health and mental
efficiency.” Dr L. Mocatta, recommend-
ing four weeks’ leave away from Darwin
every year, said there was a “definite
tendency for neuroses to increase” during
the wet season.
The hearing has been adjourned to
Adelaide to a date to be fixed.
CLUBS
Up from Apex
From M. Moonie in Wangaratta
'T'he Association of Apex Clubs is Aus-
tralian in origin and proud of it. It
began 30 years ago in Geelong, but
within 20 years had grown into a national
organisation. Its members, men aged
between 18 and 40, raise money for
charity, paint kindergartens, run child-
ren’s holiday camps, cut wood for old
people. They have hearty, occasionally
riotous fun, but they also talk with great
seriousness about their duties and ideals.
Then they went international and
trouble is starting. The association's
330 chartered clubs now include clubs in
half a dozen Asian countries, and there
are more to come. It has also been try-
ing to inject some life and purpose into
the World Council of Young Men’s
Service Clubs, which provides a loose
link between Apex and similar move-
ments overseas.
But now a faction of Apex leaders
has come up with the idea that the world
council should become a world organisa-
tion. The council would be known as
“Active International,” and each affili-
ated body would place the word “Active”
before its name. Thus, Apex would
emerge as “Active Apex.” Then if the
merger were going smoothly after five
years the original names would be dis-
carded and each member organisation
would become a segment of Active
International. The name “Apex” would
be no more, and Australia would have
“Active” clubs instead. Proponents of
the scheme point to financial savings for
Apex if the costs of taking the young
men’s service club idea into Asia is more
widely shared among the present world
council organisations.
But the “Active” idea has raised the
hackles of many of the older Apex mem-
bers who have sentimental feelings for
the old name. They are afraid that if
Apex becomes part of a world organisa-
tion, the Australian association might
cease to be its own boss and find itself
a small tail being wagged by a large dog.
THE LADY AND THE KNIGHT
SIR ALLEN LANE: “I will not take court action over ‘Lady Chatterley's
Lover’ because I am a peaceful man.” —Melbourne, Sunday.


TEMPERANCE
“Hob-Nailed
Livers”
WILLIAM J. COURT, J.P.
All for the cause
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDEY
The drink war broke out again on two
fronts last w'eek. The Temperance
Alliance of South Australia, having con-
ducted a door-knocking campaign lor
three months in an effort to get voters
to vote “No” in local option polls for
extra drinking facilities in Adelaide, used
1000 cars to take voters to and from the
polls on Saturday. The “liquor interests,”
however, with their taxi fleet won the day.
But in New South Wales the Tem-
perance Alliance appears to be more
successful. A parent, in a letter to the
press last week, said she was amazed to
find that her child was using a textbook,
approved by the N.S.W. Education
Department and supplied by the Youth
Temperance Council and Band of Hope
Union, which taught her child such
“fascinating facts” as that “hob-nailed
liver” is a common complaint among
heavy drinkers; that w'heat would not ger-
minate in alcohol (would it, she asked,
germinate in tomato juice?) and that
“poverty, gluttony, riotous behavior and
crime” follow excessive drinking. If the
Education Department allows tem-
perance to be taught in school hours,
the letter went on, why not Rosicrucian-
ism, Rationalism, and anti-vivisec-
tionism? Why is not the time spent on
teaching true syllabus subjects?
Explanations from either the Educa-
tion Department or the Temperance
Alliance have not so far been published,
but it is an old affair in N.S.W. State
schools. “Health and Temperance” was
first introduced as a subject in the syllabus
in N.S.W. in 1924 and the textbook
has been in use since 1935 with a revised
edition appearing in 1957. The “Fore-
words,” by Professor Harvey Sutton,
ex-Principal Medical Officer of the
N.S.W. Department of Education, tells
the pupils that “The credit in the past
for the introduction of health teaching
into the schools must be given to the
Health and Temperance Movement. Its
pioneers appreciated to the full the mag-
nitude of the drink evil and the biind
social customs and prejudices that form
its main support.”
The “Health and Temperance Manual,”
in simple form, explains the workings
of the human body, gives useful hints
on first-aid and discusses hygiene, and
tells children that “a cigar may contain
enough (nicotine) to kill two men!” But
most of the book is devoted to discussing
alcohol —“from a scientific viewpoint” as
Mr William Jas Court, J.P., the honor-
ary director of the Youth Temperance
Educational Council and Band of Hope
Union, told The Bulletin. The basic
theme is Professor Sutton’s: Alcohol is
“a third-rate food, a second-rate drug,
a first-rate poison.”
The manual tells pupils, with the
aid of a diagram, “that members of
abstainers' lodges like the Rechabites and
Sons of Temperance, recover from illness
nearly twice as quickly as those belong-
ing to the many non-abstainers’ lodges.
Average weeks of sickness: Abstainers’
Societies average 6.45 weeks ; non-
abstainers’ Societies average—lo.9l
weeks.” This information comes from
a “Mr H. Dillon Gouge, F.S.S., the
public actuary of South Australia.”
Last year roughly 6000 pupils sat for
voluntary tests in “Health and Tem-
perance,” drawn up in draft form by
"teachers and Temperance Society
people” and approved by the Education
Department. Only a “small percentage”
failed last year and the Temperance
societies annually provide 100 book
prizes for the highest passes in each of
fourth, fifth and sixth grades. Many
other prizes are given for the successful
candidates in post-primary and post-
intermediate classes. There are five ques-
tions on each paper and while there are
always a couple on, say, road safety,
swimming, or first-aid, alcohol receives
the greatest attention.
Sample questions for fourth grade
are: Write what you understand by the
word Temperance; Write below the
difference between “strong” drink and
“soft” drink ; Write two ways in which
strong drink may harm a person. The
very last question on the paper says
“We would be wise to touch
strong drink.” Wise children insert the
word “never.”
The main Temperance body in N.S.W.
is the N.S.W. Temperance Alliance. On
this organisation are representatives from
all the Protestant churches, the Indepen-
dent Order of Rechabites, the Inter-
national Order of Good Templars, the
Women’s Christian Temperance Union,
and the two previously mentioned bodies,
the Youth Temperance Council and
Band of Hope Union. Its general sec-
retary, Mr Court, is a full-time officer
and devotes much time lecturing around
the State.
Coming back from Newcastle on one
of his many and tiring trips in the cause
of Temperance, Mr Court told The
Bulletin how disturbed he was at the
breaking of the bona fide drink pro-
vision in two of Newcastle’s suburbs.
“Many of those drinking at these hotels
are locals. When I made representations
to the Minister for Justice he assured
me that the matter would be looked into.
The police are said to have ‘kept the
hotels under observation’ but nothing has
been done about it.” And Mr Court
should know because he recently sat out-
side one of these hotels late at night,
watched many people go in, and “some
come out full.” He has had his greatest
success in preventing the raffling of
alcoholic drinks W'hen he hears of such
a raffle, he promptly reports it and the
police take action.
LAND
The Battle of
the Abattoir
E. REECE
“No sidestepping”
FROM F. G. N. EWENCE IN TASMANIA
“W E ’ LL t> e broke if we don’t get an
’ * abattoir soon,” said Mr F. Hill,
secretary of a local sub-branch of the
R.5.5.A.1.L.A., one of the most active of
Flinders Island's political pressure
groups. Tempers on the island are short,
and local ratepayers, after getting up a
petition, have forced the council to
arrange for a special meeting to protest
against “what many feel to be a com-
pletely undemocratic act against the
island’s landholders” delaying building
this abattoir.
The prosperity of 50 soldier settlers on
Flinders Island and the prospects of 80
more who will settle on farms still under
development now depend on a quick
solution to the island’s marketing prob-
lems. This is the year in which livestock
production will outstrip transport facili-
ties.
Flinders Island's fat lambs are earliest
on the Launceston market and command
premium prices, but the output will soon
glut the market. Last year about 29.000
sheep and lambs were exported. This


year the total will rise to about 37,000;
next year to 51,000, and possibly to
90,000 in four years. The island is
served by ships of the “Mosquito Fleet,”
carrying 180-500 sheep and lambs a trip
to Launceston. A vealer costs about
£4 15s. more to sell in Melbourne than
Launceston, but Melbourne prices are
compensatingly higher. However, the
Melbourne market can effectively be
reached only by slaughtering on the
island and air-freighting boned meat.
In August the Government set up an
abattoir board, which selected a site be-
side Whitemark aerodrome and called
for plans In March R. G. Mainwarring,
chairman of the local branch of the Tas-
manian Farmers’ Federation, shattered
the pleasant calm with his announcement
that the Government had shelved the
abattoir. The Commonwealth, he said,
was putting up £4m. or £sm., but the
State was jibbing at meeting its small
contribution. “Soon we won’t be able
to dispose of our produce,” he said.
Premier Reece denied Government
sidestepping. He said the Flinders Coun-
cil (which is not Flinders Island Council)
had asked for further investigations. The
advent of a bigger ship and the possi-
bility of using a roll-on, roll-off ferry
had introduced new considerations.
The Warden of Flinders (Cr. B. J.
Eastoe) confirmed this. “But we have
never opposed the abattoir,” he said.
But such a denial does not convince Mr
Hill and his fellow soldier settlers. At
the special meeting to be held later this
month he has promised that he will
“possibly make things more than a little
awkward for the recently-elected council.
It costs 255. a head to fly live lambs to
Melbourne and ships are irregular and
expensive. If we send the animals to
Launceston prices will fall and farmers
all over Tasmania will go broke.”
“Nationality?”
The Next A.C.T.U.
Congress
ALBERT MONK
A compromise?
By MUGGA
One unpublicised decision this week
should worry the president of the
A.C.T.U., Mr Albert Monk, when he
hears about it. The National Council of
the 60,000-strong Federated Ironworkers’
Association has reaffirmed its decision
not to pay a levy of 2d. per adult male
and I+d. per female or junior imposed
on all unions by the A.C.T.U. executive
to finance Australian visits from represen-
tatives of Russian and Chinese “trade
unionists.” A long and bitter battle has
been going on between unions which
refuse to pay the levy and the interstate
A.C.T.U. executive. Unless Mr Monk
comes forward with a characteristic com-
promise, the existence of the A.C.T.U.
as the loudest voice on trade-union
matters is seriously threatened.
The biggest of the dozen or so
who will not pay are the Federated
Clerks’ Union, the F.I.A. and the Aus-
tralian Society of Engineers. These three
unions have a total affiliated membership
of 115,600 and their annual payment to
the A.C.T.U. runs into thousands of
pounds. Besides not paying, none of
the three unions has sent in any agenda
items for the A.C.T.U. Congress to be
held in Sydney in September—an indica-
tion of the seriousness of their stance.
The situation has been aggravated
because of the rule of the A.C.T.U.’s
constitution which makes levies a first-
charge on affiliation fees. This has
stopped the unions who regard the visits
as anathema from paying their affiliation
fees minus the levy. Ideologically, they
say that because Communist countries
have State-controlled “unions,” which
are only mouthpieces of government
policy they are not free trade unions and
bear no relation to Australian trade
unions. The International Federation of
Free Trade Unions, to which the
A.C.T.U. is affiliated, has forbidden its
affiliated members to engage in reciprocal
visits. Constitutionally, the unions
maintain that though the 1959 Congress
passed a motion agreeing to “the prin-
ciple of reciprocal visits of representative
trade-union movements in all other coun-
tires,” “the executive did not have the
power to proceed with it [the levy] and
fix accounts applicable to each union
without the approval of the State
branches.” A legal opinion on this matter
has reinforced their stand.
Some unionists say that if Mr Monk
does not make some conciliatory gesture
and enable the unions concerned to pay
their affiliation fees this will mean
handing the A.C.T.U. over to the Com-
munists. On the other hand, the unions
concerned say that the A.C.T.U. is
already so heavily influenced by them
that this will only intensify the existing
situation. They point to open violation
by non-Communist interstate executive
members of I.C.F.T.U. policy: Messrs
Kenny, Thom, Winter, Evans, Monk, as
well as the three Communist members,
who have all had free trips to Communist
countries.
At the back of everyone’s mind looms
the monolithic A.W.U. For years the
A.W.U. has been complaining of “Com-
munist influence” on the A.C.T.U., and
has often threatened to form a rival
federation. While it may have called
“wolf” in the past, time has brought a
ring of truth to its statements. Most
unions are unhappy about the A.W.U.,
and fear that if a rival body were set up
the A.W.U. would dominate it. But some
now regard this possibility as the lesser
of the two evils. With the A.W.U., the
Clerks, the F.1.A., the A.S.E., plus the
smaller unions, as well as those who
would be reluctant to remain affiliated to
the A.C.T.U. if it were completely Com-
munist dominated, sufficient funds would
be available for the formation of a rival
body.


DEVELOPMENT
No Hope
in Esperance?
G. P. WILD
No money
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
■pvowN on the south coast of Western
Australia around the isolated country
town of Esperance a group of pioneer
farmers are running a do-it-yourself export
drive without Government assistance.
Although the potential of Esperance has
been a favorite theme of State politicians
3or 10 years, the Governments have done
very little to help, and four and a half
years after the Chase agreement heralded
a new era for the town its public works
and resources are still basically the same
as when it was a summer holiday resort
for the goldfields —though the conversion
of the sandy grey soil of the Esperance
Plains into farmlands is a £50,000,000
development deal with an earning
capacity of at least £20,000,000 a year
when completed.
In 1956 there were about 100 farms in
various stages of development on the
sand plain. Today there are almost 500
and the area under pasture has increased
proportionately from 40,000 to 200,000
acres. Development has accelerated so
rapidly in the past two years that State
Government officials are now considering
the possibility that the district could out-
grow its resources in the very near
future.
There are indications that this is
already happening. A reduction in the
acreage sown to grain is almost certain
this year because of a sudden increase
in freight rates which could have been
avoided if the State Government had
completed its plans for a land-backed
port at Esperance.
At present, all goods going into and
out of Esperance have to be hauled over
a single railway line from Coolgardie
which is already groaning under the
strain of its increased load. This year
it will have to carry more than 15,000
tons of superphosphate into the district
and take out about half a million bushels
of grain and about 10,000 bales of wool.
By 1966, all these loadings will be at
least quadrupled if development con-
tinues at the present rate.
The pivot of all the planning needs
at Esperance is a deep-water port. Until
a site for this major work is chosen,
authorities responsible for planning the
projected bulk-handling facilities, super-
phosphate-works and meat-works cannot
choose their sites. Works Minister G. P.
Wild has said that surveys and sound-
ings had been made but it would be three
months before a decision could be made.
The Government had no idea at this stage
where the finance to build the port would
come from.
So far, there has been little political
pressure on the State Government to
speed up the public works programme in
the district. When Labor was in office
it was wholly occupied trying to justify
its abortive agreement with the Chase
syndicate. The Liberal Government has
got the sand plain moving again by
negotiating a transfer of the Chase syndi-
cate’s interest in the 1,500,000-acre
development agreement to two American
companies who are proceeding along
more orthodox lines, and by throwing
open land to settlers at an increased rate.
It is now faced with the consequence
“Hear that, dear? He's just got his century !”
of its energetic courtship of private
capital. Since Works Minister Wild has
indicated that the State Government
would have difficulty financing the port
project, an approach to the Common-
wealth seems inevitable. The State could
put up an excellent case for Esperance
in the current export drive. It can pro-
duce wool, meat and grain on a better
per acre carrying capacity than any other
area in the State and there is probably
no other area in Australia which could
increase production at a comparable rate.
The danger is that this rate might be
slowed down if political decisions about
major capital works for the district are
not made soon.
LITERATURE
100 Acts
FROM A CPRRESPONDENT
T>ack in 1936 a volume of plays by
Sydney Tomholt was greeted with
comments such as “the beginning of a
new era in Australian drama,” “our
finest dramatist,” “a contribution to Aus-
tralian literature, as well as drama.”
Since then Sydney Tomholt his disap-
peared into history books (although his
plays are sometimes still presented!. As
he began writing plays before Louis
Esson and was in touch with George
Bernard Shaw in 1919, it was a fair
presumption that Sydney Tomholt was
dead. But the door of the apartment in
a Bond Street building above Sydney's
Tank Stream still says “Sydney Tom-
holt," and the occupant of the comfort-
able, book-lined study is very much
alive. He does not want anyone to know
it though—after all, he says, who the
heli am I?
Briefly, he is a Melburnian born over
70 years ago who wrote and lost a suit-
caseful of plays before leaving for the
1914 war. After the war he had a one-
act piece performed in London and came
under Shaw's notice. But, restless, he left
for the East. He worked in Shanghai,
Kanglan (on the border of Outer Mon-
golia) and Manila. He returned to Aus-
tralia during the depression and for seven
years, until 1944, was drama critic for
the “Sydney Morning Herald.” He is
now a literary agent.
But for the last 20 years a play has
absorbed most of his energies. A trilogy
on Governor Macquarie in about 100
acts, it should be a work of some literary
stature and also of some historical im-
portance : he has absorbed the period
intimately and is convinced the text-
books are “balderised.” His ambition is
to complete this work, but he has two
handicaps: although he hates publicity,
he is most hospitable and has a steady
stream of visitors, and, more importantly,
his eyesight is not good. He hopes to
finish the play by the end of this year—
if he can find someone who will volun-
teer to type it out for him.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fatal Miscalculation
HTHERE was never a time when in the
interests of peace it was more neces-
sary for the West to show its teeth. For
the moment there is a lot of big talk
that we should do so ; it is to be hoped
that the talk will continue. Mr Khrush-
chev does not really understand that
public divisions of opinion in the West
do not necessarily mean that Western
countries cannot unite in a crisis. Hitler
made the same mistake —with unbear-
ably tragic results. The results of any
miscalculation of Mr Khrushchev’s will
be even more tragic, and could be final.
The “New York Times” performed a
great service to Western opinion this week
when it warned that Mr Khrushchev
might be about to make this kind of fatal
miscalculation. It said: “Neither Presi-
dent Kennedy’s words nor equally firm
statements by Prime Minister Macmillan
and Foreign Secretary Lord Home, by
President de Gaulle and Chancellor
Adenauer, have thus far had the neces-
sary impact, either here or in Europe....
Strong words but weak actions in Cuba
and Laos and the long history of defeat
and retreat for the West in Asia may
deceive Mr Khrushchev into accepting
the Chinese Communist canard that the
United States is a ‘paper tiger.’ ” The
“New York Times” called for the
mobilisation of civilian opinion, an
increase in service strength and new
weapons, and an armed forces alert. If
President Kennedy does less than this
he is endangering all our lives and our
whole civilisation.
The Russians understand only strength.
But if for once we display it to them,
instead of the tricky little bits of diplo-
macy with which we usually hold their
attention, we must nevertheless be ready
for a long, nerve-wracking spell of ten-
sion. The Russians will not simply
crumble ; they will become more belliger-
ent, perhaps put up their claims. It is
only if we really convince them quickly
that we are not going to give in to their
threats that they will understand that
there are threats they cannot make. If
they do not understand this they may
make the threats—and miscalculate.
We must all pray that it does not come
to this. But if they do realise that we
mean business, they will still not crumble.
They will simply desert one set of
demands and make another, perhaps
make ten different demands one after
another, searching all the time for the
open door they can kick in (as they did
in Laos). And if they find one it will
strengthen their belief that the West is
fundamentally “weak, complacent, deca-
dent and divided and that it will crumble
if directly threatened.” Then Berlin will
start all over again, with Mr Khrushchev
again likely to make the final, fatal mis-
calculation.
Improvised
Universities
T>Y appointing “a special and powerful
committee” to look into the terrify-
ing future of Australian university educa-
tion Mr Menzies may yet prove to have
done the universities a greater service
than he has done by pushing so much
money their way since the Murray report.
If universities are to proliferate for ever
and any young Australian is considered
to have a divine right to acquire a
degree, our universities are going to
become quite worthless. Institutions
that are not universities but provide a
different kind of tertiary education should
be created to deal with the overflow and
the entrance standards of the universities
themselves should be raised.
Even if this is done —and it all takes
time and an overcoming of powerful pre-
judices—there will still be an alarming
acceleration in the number of university
undergraduates in the next ten years. It
was against this background of hastily
staffing new universities and strengthen-
ing the staffs of the existing ones that
The Bulletin began its discussion of
academic appointments. A lot of appoint-
ments are coming up, some of them to
new institutions in which an academic
way of life has not been established,
others to institutions in which academic
standards are being watered down. There
has probably been a general decrease in
academic values. It is becoming almost
impossible to attract the best overseas
academics to Australia, given the world-
wide staff shortage and still unsatisfac-
tory salaries and working conditions.
In the middle of all this improvising
of university staffs it is necessary
that appointment committees should
thoroughly consider the likely conduct of
Communists as academics. Not only
are there the traditional objections to the
appointment of totalitarians. There is
also the special danger that second-rate
staff might prove non-resistant to totali-
tarian anti-academic techniques.
An over-riding devotion to inquiry and
scholarship are human activities that can
be killed—or still-born —like any other.
There seems no point in starting uni-
versities if one does not take care that
only people who accept academic stan-
dards staff them. There is no good
reason, for instance, why taxpayers’
money should be wasted on fostering the
kind of thing that has been going on in
the Social Studies Department at Mel-
bourne University. The Bulletin has
made no comment recently on the activi-
ties of a Communist-led faction in that
department. A University committee is
now inquiring into the department and
no doubt its findings will soon be
announced. It is to be hoped that they
are the kind of findings that will restore
belief in the universities’ ability to run
themselves like universities.
Color of
Their Skins
It was not only generous for the Aus-
tralian Government to offer to house
the people of Nauru in Australia when
the phosphate deposits fail. Even if they
reject our offer it is also a sensible con-
tribution to the illumination of our
restrictive immigration policies.
This is the kind of simple measure
that, along with our treatment of Asian
students and our selective (if arbitrary)
relaxation of immigration restrictions in
special cases, shows the world that we
are not like the South Africans or the
Ceylonese. Within this country we do
not practise any kind of racial discrimina-
tion ; we are merely anxious to avoid the
causes of race disturbances; we want
such races as do live here to do so with-
out any concern for the color of their
skins or the shape of their noses. Off-
hand one cannot think of any other
similar gestures that might at present be
made, but if the opportunity arises we
should certainly make them.
The biggest single area about which
we might soon do something is New
Guinea. A bold declaration of future
intentions about the movement of people
between New Guinea and Australia could
kill a great deal of the misunderstand-
ings still held by many of our friends
in South-east Asia who, unlike the
Malayan Premier, do not accept our
immigration policies for what they are.
It might also help us to ensure eventually
that we continue to have some special
relation with New Guinea.
By OBSERVER


The Rise of
Sir Garfield Barwick
"There is always an answer "
SIR GARFIELD BARWICK.
Likes to upset experts
By PETER HASTINGS
IN 1958 when Sir Garfield Barwick was campaigning for
election in Parramatta one of his future constituents
asked him what foreign policy Australia should pursue.
Sir Garfield replied: “In foreign policy Australia should
do that which it ought to do.” It was not an inspiring
question —it may well have been an awkward one —and it
was a rather less than inspiring answer coming from an
eminent and respected man of affairs about to enter Federal
politics on a promise of Cabinet rank. The joyful predators
of Phillip Street—where Barwick lacks neither friends nor
enemies—made the most of it. Obviously “Gar the Star ’
didn’t have much of a future as a politician. If this was to
be the level of his contribution to great affairs of state,
then he would do better to continue making pots of money
at the Bar. But the criticism missed an essential point about
Barwick. In all probability he hadn’t given much thought
to Australia’s foreign policy, and until he had done so he
wasn’t going to say anything. Others might rush in because
they had made a private study of Australia’s foreign policy
or because they had passionate convictions about it or both.
Not Barwick. Asked the same question today he might
well—within the constraints of political life —have a very
great deal to say. By now he has mastered his brief.
If any one characteristic has contributed more than
another to Barwick’s outstanding success it has been his
capacity to master a brief a little more thoroughly, a little
more imaginatively and often a great deal more intuitively
than any of the best of his contemporaries. He has most of
the attributes you expect to find in a very successful man.
He is a tremendous worker. He is determined to succeed.
He is imperviously egotistical. In a diffused way—goals
and opportunities change in life —he is extremely ambitious.
To these qualities are linked a high intelligence and an
orderly mind. But he has another characteristic which is
very highly developed. He has an unremitting, determined,
intellectual curiosity about the problem in hand. He can
think hard about it, turn it upside down, ponder it and
find new angles. He likes to upset experts who frequently
miss a vital point or a new way of looking at a problem
because they are so familiar with it. Like every other profes-
sion the law is plagued with experts who know their
speciality backwards, what you can do with it and what you
cannot; men who know all the short cuts and old familiar
tracks through their own forest. Sometimes they cannot see
the wood for the trees. Some of Barwick’s most spectacular
coups have been achieved simply because he treated each
specific problem as something new and exciting to which, if
he thought long enough and hard enough about it, there
must be answers. There were.
Getting them and delivering them in unexpectedly
courteous accents —for one so innately tough and unyielding
—has made Barwick at 58 one of the top lawyers in the
British world. They also brought him as a practising
barrister something near £40.000 a year. In the United King-
dom discerning judges and barristers know and regard
highly two contemporary Australian lawyers. One is Sir
Owen Dixon and the other is Barwick. In fact, it is the
reflected image of Barwick as the great advocate of consti-
tutional issues before the Privy Council that obtains here
more than any other. (He has in appearances before the
Privy Council in 27 appeals over the last 11 years won 16
of them and lost nine.) In Australian eyes he is the great
constitutional lawyer. But he is more than that. Since he
took silk —“My robes are real silk,” he said with disarming
shamelessness to a colleague on one occasion. “1 think
yours are artificial'’ —20 years ago he has devoted only a
very small part of his time to constitutional issues. He
has appeared in many jurisdictions, in many causes. The
variety and extent of those appearances are surprising. He
has appeared for a man accused of abducting his own
granddaughter; for shipping companies involved in colli-
sions at sea ; for a company accused of stealing butter fat ;
for people accused before the Liquor Commission; for an
airline accusing the Civil Aviation Department of laying a
faulty flare path at Brisbane's Eagle Farm aerodrome and
for a trade union which refused to supply information for
a court-controlled ballot. During the war the canard was
spread that he appeared for blackmarketeers. and it is
quite true that the Labor Government hated him because
he sometimes drove a four-in-hand right through the loop-
holes in the National Security Regulations. This does not
dismay Barwick. The brief is the thing. Briefs involve
problems and problems afford sheer intellectual stimulation
Finding the right answers can be exciting.
“pHYSICALLY Barwick is a small man. He is probably
A not all that small, but the impression is there. He is com-
pactly built, and observing him in the street there is nothing
particularly distinguishing about him. In manner he is
reserved but confident. He talks freely and quite often very
frankly. He is not a good listener unless he happens to be
interested in what a person is saying—which he will not be
unless it is pertinent or it contains facts which suddenly
seem important to him. It he has not mastered his brief—-
and there are now many briefs —he is apt to follow some
dogmatic line of his own. But he can change his mind. He
is very flexible. But he will change it only after he has
studied the subject.
And when he has done that he comes swiftly and
inexorably to logical, commonsense conclusions. He
reaches many of these conclusions at his desk —in the
Attorney General’s office in Sydney —where he sits in the
half-gloom. Or so it seems. He must have very good


eyesight. The far end of his room is lit. At the other end
is his desk, whose only light comes from a distant window.
He likes it that way, and explains this to his visitors as he
sits side on to them looking out the window and expound-
ing or reminiscing. Now and then he will turn and face
them or perhaps sign a leter which he has neglected. After
his comprehending eyes his most noticeable characteristic
is his smile, of which a journalist wrote “the upper lip . . .
rises in sceptical, trenchant fashion a little left of centre.”
It does exactly this to make him appear a little scornful
and disparaging, which he frequently is about people. The
worst thing that he can say about somebody is that he “is
not worth a crumpet.” He says it quite often.
But on the other hand he can be generous and discern-
ing about those whom he respects, lawyers, for example,
as different from one another as Dixon, Maughan and
Spender. And one can never quite guess who he is going
to be discerning and generous about just as one is never
prepared for the moment when the trenchant, sceptical curl
of the lip becomes a smile of singular charm. He is then
quite transformed and bent, like a good advocate, on win-
ning his audience. He can stand, glass in hand, at a Bar
Council function, or at a meeting of shareholders of Went-
worth Chambers or with a small group suddenly and unpre-
dictably thrown together, and charm it and dominate it.
In these moods he will bring issues and people alive
and contribute something that is fresh and arresting, for
although he is not a cultivated man he has a wide and
extremely factual general knowledge which he has built up
over the years. Cff he will give little sidelights on the great,
for he is an uninhibited name dropper. But it is always
interesting to learn about the legal mannerisms of Cyril
(Lord Radcliffe) or the wicked sense of humor displayed
at the last General Assembly by Harold (Macmillan).
One is allowed to know also that the people whose
names are dropped have had the discernment and judg-
ment to recognise Barwick’s talents. Barwick takes great
pride in having his talents recognised, and is offended when
they are not. He has been inordinately pleased in Privy
Council hearings when one or more of their Lordships
have noted the subtlety or cogency of a particular argu-
ment which he has produced. It is all harmless enough and
indicates the driving desire in Barwick to be on top. A
drive and energy which derives from his early condition-
ing and from the nature of the Sydney Bar. The Sydney
Bar is quite unlike that of Melbourne or any other in Aus-
tralia. The image of the law in Melbourne is. perhaps,
Lathom, Dixon and R. G. Menzies. In Sydney it is Shand,
Spender and Barwick. The one is urbane, conservative and
restrained. The other is tough, aggressive and adventurous.
New South Wales is a litigiously far more adventurous
State. Barwick could never, for all his talents, have
triumphed in Victoria—although he has practised there —•
in quite the way in which he has in New South Wales. This
has nothing to do with success. He would certainly have
arrived, but at a greater price to his cocky, uncompromising,
independent character. In Melbourne it is harder to get
away with Barwick’s form of toughness. But getting away
with it and remaining independent while climbing to the top
has been the essence of Barwick’s career.
Garfield Edward John Barwick was born 58 years
ago to poor parents. His father was a printer and,
it seems, a dispirited man somewhat disabled by the weight
and ferocity of life. Barwick's mother was very different.
She was an intelligent and energetic woman of considerable
moral strength. Gar Barwick was educated at St John’s
Parochial School. Darlinghurst. Cleveland St and Fort St
High Schools. He won scholarships to Cleveland St and
in 1916 to Fort St.
Fort Si was in some v/ays an educational assembly line
run by a very remarkable headmaster —Kilgour. Among
many others the driving spirit of Kilgour produced
Spender and Evatt, who were both to dominate the
legal world in the future. Coming to his school each year
were boys from all over the State on scholarships. Many
were of straitened circumstances. Most were capable
and many were very talented. In effect Kilgour told them
that they had a chance of making the big time, of getting
into the machine and the establishment, of establishing
their names in the fields of law, politics and administration
which were not necessarily the preserve of silvertails. It
was a tough environment and intensely competitive. Bar-
wick. for example, found himself some 16 months younger
than the average in his class. This in part accounts for his
loneliness then and later. Between boys of 16 and those
of 14 \ there is a world of difference and lack of communi-
cation. Barwick was not an easy personality. He was too
thrusting, too determined to succeed, too determined to let
everybody know that he would succeed.
TTE went to the University on a bursary and did an arts
A course in which he read economics and philosophy.
It did not channel his sharp perceptions into interest in
literature, or music, or art. It was something that he did as
a prelude to law for which he had a true, natural, instinctive
genius. He must have been an uncomfortable companion
in those days. According to those who knew him he was
always coming top without apparent effort. He instinctively
scorned—it was not a pose —the path to distinction through
massive, documented reading. The law to him was a natural
exercise, an active profession. Where others studied he
might go down to the courts. Perhaps he was interested in
the law of contract. He would follow a case in court, per-
haps over some time, and suddenly announce to an unwil-
ling companion: “I’m going. I’ve leant what I came to
learn. I think one of the judges has made a bit of a mis-
take. too.” It is a romantic, oversimplified legend, but the
truth is there. He was not very convivial. He was thought
rather priggish and sententious. Men did not like him very
much, although they admired him and girl undergraduates
found him a bit frightening. He was a fairly fervent
Methodist and secretary of the Student Christian Move-
ment. For a while he became a lay preacher. One friend
recalls him driving out into the country on Sundays in a
sulky in order to preach sermons at small churches. They
were not in every respect pleasant Sunday afternoons, but
a bit lonely and sometimes depressing.
Meanwhile Barwick forged ahead in the law. As a third-
year undergraduate he was office manager of the legal firm
of Harold Wentworth Waddell and increasingly sought after
by other legal offices whose articled clerks knew a good
brain when they came across it. He graduated with first-
class honors in 1927, winning the University Medal and
Dailey Prize. He shared honors with Judge George Amsberg
and the proficiency prize with Harold Snelling. Q.C. He
did not start off in any blaze of glory. No barrister ever
does. He fought and he worked and he saved like everyone
else. The depression was on and work was not all that
plentiful. Like his contemporaries, Barwick made Police
Court apearances and gave opinions for two guineas each
and examined judgment debtors for a pound. But bit by
bit the work began to come in. He was making a name and
a reputation. More importantly he was showing that he
had not only an intuitive sense about the law but about
judges and juries as well. He never underestimated the
personal idiosyncrasies of a judge.
Those were also the days when the legal country
circuits were ruled by uncrowned kings. Barristers would
carve out the southern, western and northern practices and


there was intense competition for briefs. Barwick neverthe-
less made his mark in circuit practice and began to estab-
lish a reputation as a hard-working, mixed-practice
barrister. He was getting more and more calls as the really
learned junior and w'as briefed with Dr Evatt on one, and
only one. occasion. He mastered his brief as usual —so the
story goes —and drew to the attention of his eminent senior
a certain case which he felt sure was pertinent, especially
as the judge before whom they were to appear had sat on
one just like it. Evatt dismissed the notion as being unlikely.
Towards the end of the case the judge asked Evatt why he
had not mentioned the very case which Barwick had pressed
on him. Understandably put out Evatt referred ungener-
ously to his junior’s omission to call his attention to it.
Barwick rose, a diminutive David vengeful before his
Goliath, and said, “Go to hell!” and stroc from the court
room. Evatt, says legend, made several attempts to mollify
Barwick, but to no avail. Barwick never forgave him.
The point of the story —now old history —is Barwick’s
toughness, his courage, the sense of his own integrity. He
is his own man and nobody's creature. It was in this period
that his brother had the bad luck to go bankrupt. It was
Gar who came to his rescue, undertook the debts, honored
them and went bankrupt himself. It certainly shook him.
He was married and had other responsibilities, but he never
shirked this one. However, he never forgot the callous
behavior of some of his creditors, and in later life refused
briefs from them, or. the story says, named such unlikely
fees that they thought twice about briefing him. But once
again the story illustrates his integrity and his courage. But
briefs and money were coming faster and he was on the
road to recovery. In fact, he still recalls his first really big
fee came at this time —£300. He spent part of it on buying
law books.
JDARWICK took silk in 1941 when he was 38. He had
made a name for himself and he was comfortably
settled. From now on he was to achieve legal fame very
quickly. Although Mason. K.C., and Maughan. K.C..
were still the eminent silks. Barwiek was rapidly making his
way. He had not as yet been near the High Court, except
on a few non-constitutional issues which he had lost, but
the time was coming. He appeared in some cases in 1943
and 1944 and one of them involving a challenge to the
National Security Regulations had an important constitu-
tional element. His first great performance as a consti-
tutional lawyer came with the Airway’s Case in 1945.
There were two issues. One was whether the Common-
wealth could conduct an interstate and overseas airway—
namely TAA and Qantas. He lost that part of the case.
The other issue was whether the Commonwealth could
conduct an interstate monopoly (TAA). thus driving out a
private airline (ANA). He won on the second issue. He
was deeply immersed in the arguments of the case, and it
was from this and a previous case that Barwick's exhaust-
ive, fruitful comprehension of the legal and other possi-
bilities of Section 92 —“Trade. Commerce and Intercourse
among the States shall be absolutely free”—dated.
His second great performance and the one which was
to establish him forever as a great lawyer in the public
mind was his appearance in the Banking Case in 1947. He
appeared first for Melbourne City Council before the High
Court to test the validity of the Commonwealth Banking
Act. In a five-to-one judgment the High Court held that
Section 48 of the Act forbidding State Governments and
semi-governmental bodies to conduct business with the
private banks was beyond Commonwealth pow-ers. The
Chifley Government introduced a bill in October nationalis-
ing the banks. Barwick appeared successfully for the
trading banks before the High Court and later addressed the
Privy Council for nine days and again won the case. Dr
With Mr FRANK DWYER
“My silk is real silk”
Evatt appeared for the Government and harangued their
Lordships for a marathon 22 days and lost it. He was to
get even, though. In 1950 Barwick appeared for the Gov-
ernment on the Communist Party (Dissolution) Act. Evatt
appeared for certain trade unions. Evatt won and the results
seemed to indicate that Barwick was at his best appearing
for individuals or institutions against the Government.
He lost again in 1951 when he appeared for private
wheat interests demanding extra compensation for wheat
compulsorily acquired by the Commonwealth in 1945-46.
The Privy Council rejected his arguments. But in 1954 —-
a year after he was knighted —he won an important victory
in the Hughes and Vale Case. The Privy Council reversed
a decision against this company and declared invalid the
N.S.W. State Transport (Co-ordination) Act under which
interstate transport was licensed and taxed. It was a prob-
lem concerning Section 92 again, the sort of problem
which Barwick made peculiarly his own and which exercised
his talents and his ingenuity in a remarkable fashion.
One tends to forget the tremendous legal activity of
those immediate post-war years. During the war and just
after a tremendous mass of legislation was passed bristling
with restrictions of business activity and simply begging to
be attacked in the courts. There had been historic cases in
the past involving Section 92 and a number of notable
dissents by Sir Owen Dixon maintaining that interstate
trade must be open to private economic enterprise subject
to the least possible central Government interference. When
private business interests looked around for the ablest legal
brain to attack the welter of restrictive. Socialist legislation
they found Barwick. precisely the man for the times.
There were plenty of other able lawyers arguing constitu-
tional issues in the courts in those days, but none who
could quite match Barwick in enterprise, thoroughness
and ingenuity.
These very gifts brought him before the Privy Council
as an honored, respected advocate and eventually to poli-
tics. The two are linked. He liked his judicial hearings in
London. He liked London. He loved the image and the
feeling of the law in England. He picked up British legal
mannerisms. He knew what to say before their Lordships
and how to say it. He never declaimed and appeared logical,
compelling and modest. He knew something about British
legal humor and even what he could get away with as a
wild colonial boy. “You must forgive my rough manners.”
he is reported as having said ironically to Walter Monck-
ton. “We like it, Barwick. we like it,” was the alleged
reply. He was the wild colonial boy who applied to the
College of Heralds for a coat of arms. He could have settled
in London, and was apparently asked to. Had he done so


With MRS J.S. COCKLE, LADY BARWICK, MRS CARMICHAEL
and MISS BARBARA HEAD
Celebrating the by-election victory
he would have doubled his sizeable yearly Australian
income.
He was very tempted. It was the apparent ease and
distinction of English legal life which so attracted him.
Ancient institutions, good table talk, the cultivated tastes
of judges and barristers, their acquaintance with art. music
and literature fascinated him. Lord Radcliffe could go on
a holiday to Italy and write Barwick a letter about renewing
his acquaintance with Renaissance art. But could Barwick
write the same letter? Could he suddenly assume all that
institutional life in England means? It wasn’t just a matter
of schools, universities and background. It was the culmina-
tion of a lifelong exposure to a rich and varied environ-
ment. Professionally he had no doubts. The junior Bar in
England did not match that of Sydney, its members were
not in the same class as all-rounders.
But the rewards that legal intuition and a prodigious
capacity for going without sleep might bring him in London
were ones which he regretfully declined. There remained
the difficult problems of fitting in. And. besides, he might
well ask. what lay at the end of that road? He chose Aus-
tralian politics.
WARWICK the politician is a subject for mildly-heated
U debate. There are those who say that he has been a
failure. That he has never emerged as a politician or
appeared to the people of the country as a possible leader.
They say that he has failed to manage the House and
addresses it as he would a reluctant jury. They assert that
he lacks convictions (palpably untrue) and that a good poli-
tician would never have allowed himself to be stung into
incidents such as the savage exchange that took place
between him and Gough Whitlam (all too true). But for all
of that, he has been the best Attorney-General in two
decades, coming to the job with a quiet, commonsense
determination to reform and repair. There has been the
Divorce Act. the Marriage Act, reform of some of the more
distasteful phone-tapping provisions and the controversial
Crimes Act amendments. And now he is engaged on the
formidable task of drafting legislation against monopolies
and restrictive trade practices. He has undertaken each of
these tasks because in a commonsense, rational way he has
felt that they needed doing. In the Marriage and
Divorce Acts he had to contend with the Churches and
allied groups. He listened to them but was not put upon.
He is not fazed either by press power or criticism, regarding
the press in Australia as frequently too frivolous. He is
distinctly unawed by the power of big business and
monopolies, and regards businessmen as rather too greedily
obsessed with short-term profits.
If he is sensitive to criticism at all it is that coming
from Ms own profession, where he holds his reputation
in jealous regard He seemed genuinely stung, for example,
both by the quantity as well as the quality of criticism by
the legal profession of the Crimes Act amendments. Eventu-
ally he shifted ground, retreated and accepted suggested
amendments coming from the profession, although remain-
ing quite obdurate on the most controversial of the pro-
visions—that of “known character.” It was one of the few
cases where he has been openly ungenerous to those who
sought not to defeat him but to help him in a difficult task.
The very people whose amendments he eventually accepted
were the ones whom he had earlier castigated as “those
who have no books or who have them and will not read
them.”
Establishing Barwick as an Attorney-General of great
legal capacity is a relatively simple task. To state what he
is like in the wider sense of being an Attorney-General who
is a political strategist is a great deal more difficult. He
is as yet an unknown quantity. He runs his department
well. He gets through his work. He has the confidence of
his officers. He does not any longer, through a heated
combination of talent and energy, encroach on the preserve
of established procedure. But his capacities as a politician
still remain undefined. It is said that when he first took his
seat in Cabinet he was inclined to be talkative and dis-
cursive. even to take dogmatic risks. Now he talks less and
listens more. Cabinet is composed of tough-minded experts,
seasoned politicians who deal with daily, endlessly intract-
able problems, and these can only be seen—let alone
solved —against a wider backdrop than hitherto Gar
Barwick has experienced, or been interested in.
It is Barwick’s apparent lack of interests in the past
which may be the clue to what he may or may not do in
the future. He has never been a public-minded man in
the conventional sense. During the war he did not seek
Government service. Except for his work with the Kosciusko
Park Trust (which was frequently rigorous, involving trips
by pack-horse, but which was also fun) and his membership
of the Board of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, most of
Barwick's other activities have been professional, such as
his distinguished service as president of the N.S.W. Bar
Association, of the Law Association and of the Law
Council of Australia. He has never contributed to the
learned journals on law nor to anything else much. This
he does not feel to be a loss. He is a little contemptuous
of those who spend their time in contributing when they
might be doing. He questions the usefulness of academic
speculation.
Ever since Barwick went into politics it has been said
that his ultimate ambition is to be Prime Minister, and a
great deal of speculation about him has been whether he
would make a good one or not. It was somehow thought
that as a second choice he might take External Affairs.
Although he has naturally enough been thought of as a
future Chief Justice, it has somehow been assumed that he
would not think of that high office compared with the excite-
ments and power of national leadership. Only Barwick
himself knows what he really wants, and he naturally
enough is not likely to say what it is. But on balance it is
hard to imagine that he would not be attracted to the High
Court. Prime Ministers lead a hazardous life, and their
term of office can be relatively short. The conditions which
have given Mr Menzies an unparalleled 12 years can not
obtain for ever. Even the question of power is relative.
Chief justices serve a very long time on the bench, and in
the long, slow haul, given the times and the opportunities,
can influence the course of a nation’s history. Gar Barwick
is very conscious of the history of this country and the role
that he may yet play in it.


What Eichmann
Did Not Say
How many survivors are in mental homes throughout Europe?
RUDOLF HOESS
“You are all beasts!”
By LUDWIK KRUSZELNICKI
There are comparatively few survivors of the Nazi
camps. I happened to survive, but it was not through the
generosity of our hangmen. When the allied troops invaded
Germanv, young SS-men were withdrawn from many camps
and shifted to the battle line. Their positions at the concentra-
tion camps were manned by elderly, newly conscripted
Germans who found mass killing repugnant and if they
overcame this repugnancy, they were not as efficient as their
young predecessors. Then many camps which operated gas
chambers ran out of the gas and the new supplies could not
be delivered because of the bombed railways or the shortage
of trucks and fuel —not to mention the general chaos which
started to spread throughout the Reich.
At the Nuremburg trial —as well as at Eichmann's—atten-
tion is paid only to the number of deaths. This has formed
a general impression that all those lucky to survive, returned
to their families, homes, jobs, and their normal ways of life.
Doctors and nurses of hospitals, sanatoriums and mental
asylums throughout Europe, however, could tell us how many
of their patients are former inmates of Nazi camps.
There is one problem more which so far has not yet
been discussed publicly. Rudolf Hoess, the commander of
the extermination camp at Auschwitz, told us prisoners in one
of his “speeches”:
“The Nazi concentration camps have been so
arranged that an honest man cannot survive there
more than three months. The fact that you have
survived more is the best proof that you are scoun-
drels . . . .all of you. . . .just beasts !....”
We were already immune to that sort of thing.
But his words remained in my mind. 1 would
venture to suggest that if Hoess had said: “You have become
beasts,” he would have been very close to the truth.
Once a week at the concentration camp Sachsenhausen-
Oranienburg, to which I was transferred in 1942, they used
to carry out executions of prisoners whose death sentences
were submitted from Gestapo H.Q. in Berlin. A special trained
team consisting of German professional criminals was in
charge of those executions. The necessary equipment, dis-
mountable gallows and a big coffin for two corpses used to
be brought on a big, dark green truck.
The team, thanks to frequent practice, was perfectly skilled.
To set the gallows together and to hang a man was a matter
of only a few minutes for them. The only thing that could
not be changed or improved was the time of at least 20 minutes
which, according to the regulations, the hangmen had to wait
until the camp doctor was satisfied the man was dead.
The executions were always carried out on the parade
ground and always in the compulsory presence of all prisoners
of the camp. One October evening in 1944, when 50,000 men
were returning to the camp after their daily jobs, the guards
stopped the crowd and ordered all of us to watch the execu-
tion. The delinquent that day was a Russian boy of 16 years
of age. His name “Peter Ivanov.”
It was the custom of the camp command to announce
the name, nationality, date of birth of the sentenced fellow
as well as the “crime” for which he was to be executed. His
crime was sabotage in a German factory. As the interpreter
translated the sentence into Russian the accused started pro-
testing. His Christian name and the surname were right but
the date of birth and the crime he allegedly had committed
were not his. The boy had never worked at any German
factory and could not have committed sabotage in one. He
had been deported by the Nazis to Germany and employed in
the country as a farm hand. There he stole a couple of eggs,
was caught redhanded, and sent to the concentration camp.
The essential fact in his favor was that he had become an
inmate of Sachsenhausen-Oranienburg four months before the
date of the sabotage mentioned in the sentence.
The Nazi officials who were present at the execution were
perplexed. One of them ran upstairs to the camp office to
check up the personnel card of the accused. Then he phoned
Berlin. Meanwhile on the parade ground, with the noose on
his neck, the innocent victim was standing facing a sea of
human heads. Fifty-thousand prisoners, representing 14 Euro-
pean nations, were waiting there, talking indifferently of their
daily affairs and paying not the slightest attention to the youth
who obviously was going to die for the crime he never com-
mitted.
The crowd grew impatient. Fifty-thousand human beings
who had been starving for months or years were only interested
in returning to their barracks for their evening meals and
daily rations of bread. They started grumbling. “Why don't
they get on with it?”
It took one hour to get the decision from Berlin. The
message read: “The accused is telling lies to dela\ the punish-
ment he deserves. The execution is to be carried out.” All
that followed afterwards was watched indifferently by the
hungry mob. With only one exception. A young Dutch
prisoner shouted with all his might: “SHAME ON YOU
NAZIS!” They seized him instantly and he was never 3 een
again. The prisoners marching quickly to their barracks to
get their food rations did not care.
At the same camp of Sachsenhausen-Oranienburg we were
one day witnesses to a reunion of two friends, Poles.
One of them, Janek, had been at the camp from early spring,
1940. Another one, Staszek, had just arrived from Auschwitz.
They both came from the same Polish town, where they
attended the same primary school and high-school, and they
graduated together from the Warsaw University.
After a few days Janek got his friend a comparatively light
job at the factory making military equipment where he himself
was employed. The friends spent day after day working
together, talking of their families, their town and their child-
hood. One morning they were ordered to operate a machine
which sandblasted soldiers' helmets to clean them before the
final coat of paint was applied. “Watch out. Janek,” said
Staszek to his friend, “I am afraid we are holding these
helmets too long under the blast.” “So what?” “They get
thinner and less resistant to bullets.” “It won't break my
heart.”
Somebody overheard them and sent a report to the camp.
Both were accused of sabotage. The Berlin Gestapo acted
quickly. Janek was sentenced to death and Staszek, as he
was found less guilty than his friend, was given a choice:
to act as a hangman at the execution of Janek or to be hanged
with him. As usual we had to watch the execution and until the
last moment nobody knew which of the two alternatives
Staszek would choose. He eventually chose —Life.
There were only a few comments after that show. “The
same can happen to any of us.” “After all, somebody had to
do the job.” That was all. I never heard the story discussed
again at our camp.
In April, 1945, the allied troops removed the barbed wire
and Staszek returned to Poland. A lady, who recently arrived
in Australia and happened to know him, told me he never
recovered from his severe break-down and committed suicide
in 1954. The survivors are still victims.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
No Need to Fear
Neutrality
SOUVANNAPHOUMA SOUPHANOUVONG
Princes, half-brothers, half allies
independence and neutrality are closely linked concepts
By MICHAEL FIELD
The capture of Padong was the decisive blow which brought
the halting unreal deliberations of 14 nations at Geneva
to a complete standstill. The U.N., Britain and Prance made
i,t clear to the Communist powers that there could be no
further work around the table until military operations in
Laos had definitely stopped. Haggling between Britain and
the Soviet Union, as co-chairmen of the Conference, on the
nature of instructions to be sent to the International Control
Commission in Laos, took on a new urgency.
To an observer like myself, fresh from Laos, dismayed
at the unreality of the discussions at the Palace of the Nations,
the news from Padong seemed likely to provide the injection
the flagging Conference required. It would either kill it.
outright or bring a new reality into the Conference hall.
In the Maison de la Presse at Geneva, an efficient, com-
fortable establishment where the world press, excluded from
the Conference room, gleans what it can at second-hand from
official hand-outs and press conferences, 1 felt again closer
to Laos. 1 could see the tough, uncomplaining Meos of
Padong retreating across the rain-drenched valley towards
the next ridge ; the men with a medley of modern rifles
and ancient flintlocks —the women, huge silver necklaces
dangling round their necks, carrying whole households of
chattels upon their backs. Again it seemed to me that a Con-
ference to settle the fate of a tropical Asian nation should
not have been held far away in the cool hygienic atmosphere
of a European city.
The question of the unity of the country is perhaps that
which offers the least difficulty. No one at the conference
table, from either East or West, least of all the Laotians
themselves, has yet breathed the word “partition.” The
unhappy situation of neighboring Viet Nam, a country
crippled in its natural political and economic evolution by
its division into Communist and non-Communist halves, is
painfully present in everyone's mind. The presence at the
table, too, of representatives of the two bitterly opposed
parts of Viet Nam is a constant reminder of the undesirability
of imposing a similar division on Laos.
Independence and neutrality are closely linked concepts
in the thinking of most Asian neutrals. There seems no doubt
that both East and West are generally agreed that Laos should
emerge from the Conference as a non-aligned sovereign State,
with unlimited freedom of decision in all matters of govern-
ment save one: it must not enter into alliance with either of
the opposing blocs.
"pVEN under its most strongly pro-Western governments,
Laos has never been developed as an aggressive base
against China or North Viet Nam. At no time did Laos show
any indication of wishing to joint the South-East Asia Treaty
Organisation (Seato). The Communists will fight to eliminate
the theoretical protection extended to Laos by Seato under
the Manila Treaty (Communist China and North Viet Nam,
in significant distinction from the Soviet Union, are clamoring
for the disbandment of Seato altogether.)
The West has now no fear of neutrality itself as a
reasonable position for small nations caught in the world
struggle. The ingredients for a Cambodian type of
neutrality are hardly present in Laos. Prince Souvannaphouma,
who has advocated some sort of neutrality since Bandung,
in 1955, claims, without statistical evidence, to be supported
by 90 per cent, of the population.
In Laos, a strong, pro-Communist political organisation,
the Neo Lao Hak Xat (Lao Patriotic Front), has emerged.
Its leader, Prince Souphanouvong, can claim to be at least as
popular as his half-brother, Prince Souvannaphouma. While
the Neo Lao Hak Xat, political successor to the Pathet Lao
insurgents, claims to be a purely patriotic, nationalist move-
ment, no amount of argument can conceal its historical origins
alongside the Viet Minh nor its essentially “fellow-travelling"’
programme. Prince Souvannaphouma is intensely annoyed
when the Western press refers to his half-brother as a
Communist. But there seems to be no reason to imagine that
the North Vietnamese Communists, who have nurtured and
supported Prince Souphanouvong’s movement, have any inten-
tion of losing control of it. Behind the sketchy political
framework of the Neo Lao Hak Xat is the firm and efficient
Dang Lao Dong, the Communist party of Hanoi. Any
neutrality to which Prince Souphanouvong subscribes is bound
to be a neutrality leaning heavily towards the Communist
camp.
' pwo elements in the problem will decide to what extent
and how quickly Laos could come under Communist
influence. First, no real progress is possible at Geneva until
the Laotian factions have themselves evolved a coalition. The
princely leaders of the factions, pro-Western Boun Oum,
neutralist Souvannaphouma and pro-Communist Souphanou-
vong have made the first step towards the formation of a
compromise government of national unity. It is, at the
moment of writing, impossible to foretell exactly how strong
the pro-Communist element will be in the new government.
But it may be expected that after their highly successful
military campaign, the Neo Lao Hak Xat will demand powerful
cabinet posts and attempt to relegate the Right-wing group
to impotence. Even if Souvannaphouma is able in typically
Laotian style, to corner the premiership and the key ministries
of the interior and defence for himself, it is unlikely that such
a situation would last beyond general elections.
The only hope lies in the establishment of effective control
machinery which would really put a stop to military interven-
tion and prevent political subversion by intimidation. The
Communists are pressing for a reduction of its powers
which would enable them, through the Communist member
of the three-nation team, Poland, to veto any operational or
procedural decisions by the Commission which are to their
disadvantage. Only by standing pat on the question of
reasonable control —perhaps a control such as that envisaged
originally in 1954, but never properly implemented—can one
hope to retard a process recently described by Prince Sihanouk
as “the slow abandonment of Laos.” It is the least that should
be done for the long-suffering people of Laos, whose emergence
from colonial rule has so far brought little more than blood-
shed and confusion.


The Man on the Land
WOOL:
Without a Plan
JAPANESE WOOLBUYERS
Accumulating a surplus?
Wool, like dairy products and wheat, could become
an unpayable industry to be kept alive by subsidies
and price-fixing .
This year, for the first time, the wool industry and the
Governments of Australia have completely surrendered
their illusions about wool. They have now accepted
the fact that the day of wool as absolute monarch of
the markets is over, that it has ceased to be the one commodity
of steady value with which no other country and no other
material has a hope of competing either in price or in
characteristics —beliefs they maintained for nearly 130 years.
Wool is now merely the most important of Australian
exports, with metals and other pastoral and agricultural pro-
ducts encroaching on its monopoly. Its advantages of cheap
land and cheap labor are gone. Improving and rapidly
cheapening synthetics are invading its markets, which have
moved out of the dominance zone of the United Kingdom
into foreign fields in which it can bargain seriously for
preference only at the expense of secondary fields of Australian
production, achieved with dangerous political complications
There is no doubting that the point has been reached at
which, as Prime Minister Menzies says, “unless we can develop
our exports further beyond wool we will have economic crises
—not necessarily major ones, but ones calling for adjustment
—every few years." Though wool is no longer the monarch
absolute of export, it still represents a growing product.
Output has multiplied over two and a quarter times in 50
years, and value ten times. It is still multiplying. A fall in
wool prices still means a fall in the buoyancy of the economy
and trade balances sufficient to be felt throughout the whole
community, as it is being felt now.
The 1960-61 wool season ended with better results than
had been expected, but not in an atmosphere of optimism.
The average price for greasy during the 11 months to the
end of May was 52.15 d. against 58.5 d. last season. The return
was £2B7m. —£44m. less than for the same period last year,
and the quantity sold was down against the previous year
by 38 million lb. Wool, in fact, represented during the period
only 37 per cent, of exports against 42 per cent, last year.
The figures for the final month will make little difference.
On the whole the position might be worse. But the world
economy is subject to shivers and shocks. Discussion of the
Common Market is producing an uneasy atmosphere in
Europe. World prices of all commodities show a tendency to
sag. The increasing grip of the Japanese on wool buying in
Australia causes some misgiving as to what might happen if
they are accumulating a surplus that would enable them to sit
out of the market for the whole or part of a season and try to
dictate their own terms.
Of the problems which beset the industry the first lives
well at home in the form of cost of production and availability
of labor. Labor now eschews the life of the country for a safe
factory job with nightly television and weekend surfing. This
certainly has had a good deal to do with the rapid cutting-up
of sheep areas. There are no more imperial stations, and lew
of 50,000 acres in the more settled areas of Queensland and
N.S.W. The woolgrower has become, relative to the old days,
a small farmer.
Moreover, the boom of a decade ago has made the
industry a patchwork continued on land acquired at various
ranges of price but at a uniformly high level of operating costs.
The prices achieved in the Great Boom Year induced a lot of
men already on the land to overimprove and overstock, and
many others to rush into the sheep business at any cost of
land and equipment. And on this land, sometimes bought at
fabulous prices, a good many speculators imposed a double
burden by putting sharefarmers on it.
TPhe cost of developing land to carry sheep safely has naturally
gone up with the coming of artificial pastures, fertilisers
and minerals, subdivision, work and wage regulation
and the storage of fodder and water against periods of
shortage, which has become imperative to meet high capitalisa-
tion; high running costs and the need to make one acre do
the work of four or five. The passion for closer settlement,
the eagerness with which the holdings of Queensland and
N.S.W. have been subdivided to share the land among the
deserving, the mania for joining personal occupation by
lessees of Crown land as a condition of settlement are ail
reacting against wool economy today. Areas in Queensland
which produced a high profit when they carried one home-
stead and a few outstations, one water system, one set of
improvements and transport facilities in an era of low costs
are now loaded down with perhaps a dozen or 20 homesteads,
a dozen principal families to be kept, miles of fencing which
is merely for the purpose of separating properties, dozens
of water supplies instead of one centrally organised, and
all the other costs that go with subdivision. Costs have
mounted until nobody can tackle an economic area, improved
or unimproved, without a capital that lifts him well above the
class of the small settler
It was estimated in Queensland in 1959 that the cost of
clearing, improvement and equipment of the valuable brigaiow
country lying idle, and of the pastoral lands being opened for
closer settlement along the Queensland-N.S.W. border in the
vicinity of Hebei, would be round £lO an acre; and, of


XL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —-
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
course, if it were improved and carrying stock it would be
more costly still to buy. An economic size for a brigalow
lease was reckoned at 10,000 acres, and blocks were designed
on that basis for new selection. But if the Queensland Govern-
ment has found any applicants prepared to find, even over a
period of years, £lOO,OOO to cover the capital costs of improve-
ment and development in a rising market for labor and a world
of fluctuating and uncertain markets, it has kept the fact a
dark secret.
But the wool industry may presently need corporation
development and finance to save it. As population
develops it may be necessary to move the fine-wool industry
off many of its holdings on all-too-expensive land to make
way for industries producing foodstuffs —fat lambs, baby beef,
grain for added population.
Not all wool properties, of course, are unprofitable,
whether small or large. Much depends on location, weather,
land, the farmer, his equipment and his sheep. Nevertheless
the trends of the time are against the woolgrower. He is
fighting for security in a world in which market competition,
freights and all operating costs tend to rise steadily, while
prices for his product tend to fall and a market as certain
as the sunrise for generations has become fickle.
The time has arrived w'hen woolgrowers, not only in
Australia but in the whole world, have found themselves
forced to band together to ward off recession and the com-
petition of synthetics (which even four or five years ago many
in the wool industry still refused to see as the serious menace
it is). In some circles hope of the industry surviving on its
present basis, except as a community-subsidised industry like
butter, is being abandoned. But the examples of regulated
marketing of other primary products such as butter and
wheat do not make a very hopeful spectacle. However the
money is raised, whether by direct or indirect taxation, the
handout, which is naturally accompanied by Government
controls, is the last resort. The various expedients for
artificial control of prices at the sellers’ end involve the kind
of complication and reserves of wool which keep them in
the realms of theory —this apart from the fact that two can
always play the game of artificial regulation, and the world
market has the thick end of the stick. In fact, nobody has
yet thought of a plan that would not imply the risk that
the wool men would cease to be part of free enterprise. And
there is always the certainty that control devices can be
applied to the world market in which Australian wool is the
largest factor only w'hen markets are not depressed.
The Wool Committee of Inquiry, at present overseas,
may devise some plan ; but it will be surprising if, short of
control and subsidy, it can come up with anything better chan
the shifting of the industry off land too expensive for its
profitable conduct ; the amalgamation of holdings and capital
investment in larger blocks by companies formed expressly
for woolgrowing or for woolgrowing plus investment ; addi-
tion to the wool cut per sheep and reduction of labor costs,
plus the improvement of wool and the addition to its specific
qualities of the attributes wffiich are giving synthetics an
advantage over it.
The C.5.1.R.0. has done considerable work on the
production of creaseless wools, and the industrv in general
on developing more attractive, lighter and beautiful types of
woollen materials.
The greatest step that has been taken of late years has
been the formation of the International Wool Secretariat,
the chairman of which is Sir William Gunn, chairman of
the Australian Wool Bureau, and the appointment of a
managing director in Mr W. J. Vines, one of the most brilliant
of the younger Australian businessmen, to organise the
promotion of wool usage throughout the world as a
co-operative enterprise.
This is a gigantic task. World production of wool is
increasing. Great advances of synthetics are being encouraged
by the state of the world economy. And the claims of wool,
provided present production costs are maintained, must remain
primarily based on wool’s quality rather than on its price,
in which the advantage is likely to trend to synthetics.
At present it seems likely that although wool production
and usage may increase, and it may be used more and more
for blending with synthetics, price levels will be progressively
adjusted to its disadvantage unless it can be stabilised as a
luxury in sufficient quantities to assure it a market at prices
that will pay the grower.
However successful promotion can be, the home trends
are such that wool is sliding down the hill to join dairy
products and wheat in the Government corral where normally
unpayable industries are given sustenance rations while costs
go ever upward and prices in time become artificial and
fixed on such a basis that the taxpayer is bound to meet the
deficit
It is in home organisation and costs—in the very founda-
tions of the industry, in fact —that a start should be made to
build a solid and enduring basis for the wool industry.


FORUM
Is Americanism
A Threat?
Resistance is not a crank's crusade
By MAX HARRIS
THE movement towards American
“admass” culture is becoming suffici-
ently pronounced in Australia for people
who take the phenomenon seriously to
begin formulating policies against the
possible day when Australia’s cultural
life will have to battle for survival.
Just how much admass Americanism
exists here at the moment? Certainly
the existence of a “genuinely Australian
periodicals press” is not threatened. A
tour of city newsagencies in Adelaide,
including the huge Myer Emporium
range, showed some unusual features.
“Time” and “Life” are universally avail-
able. But on the other hand not a single
newsagency in Adelaide of those visited
had the “Sunday Times,” English
“Observer,” “Manchester Guardian
Weekly,” “Times Weekly Review” or
“New Statesman” for sale. A few of
them had stray copies of “John
O’Londons” and “The Listener,” but
neither of these is a bona fide news
magazine.
But this is no indication of buying
trends. The English weeklies have not
set out to carve a slice from the Aus-
tralian newsagency trade. (The only
English weekly to have engaged in any
sales promotion in Australia in the post-
war period has been the most conserva-
tive and erudite of them all —“The Times
Literary Supplement,” and this was prob-
ably due to the energies of “The Times’s”
Australian representative, Bernard Robin-
son, of Newcastle.) Apart from the
Time-Life organisation the same lack
of interest applies to the American
weeklies. Out of ten Adelaide news-
agencies none of them had even heard of
“Reporter” or the U.S.A. “Nation,” let
alone had copies for sale. In the field
of hobbies and specialised interest
periodicals, Adelaide newsagencies re-
flected a remarkable balance between
American, British and Australian publi-
cations.
The impression one gets from news-
stalls (at least in provincial Australian
cities) is that Australia’s geographical
isolation protects us from both the worst
and the best in overseas periodicals.
Transport costs are so high, Gordon and
Gotch handling charges so substantial,
the Australian readership so small, that
it is impossible for high-level British or
American periodicals to pursue non-
subscription sales in this country. Aus-
tralian enterprise would, in consequence,
appear to be restricted in only a few very
specialised fields of periodical publica-
tions . . . high fashion magazines like
“Vogue” and “Harper’s” or international
glossies like “Life” or “Realities.”
It is also quite clear that America has
failed to penetrate the Australian market
in the field of mass circulation paper-
backs. “Lolly-shop literature” is still
firmly the exclusive territory of British
paperback publishers . . . Pan, Ace,
Corgi, Four Square and Fontana. The
American equivalents, like Dell and
Bantam, are skinnier, skimpier, shoddier
and more expensive (the average Dell or
35 cent U.S.A. paperback is 4s. 9d.; the
average Pan title 3s. 9d.).
In fact, the only literary empire con-
trolled by American ideas and ideals is
that devoted to “the seduction of the
innocent.” It would be interesting to
know what effect the advent of TV has
had upon the output of American comics
in the form of Australian reprints. Even
if it has been reduced per child capita
the market must remain gigantic. The
ham-and-beef shop retailers are highly
sensitive to declining turnover, but comics
remain a staple suburban literary pro-
duct, even if the stock seems more
ancient and shop-soiled than it was a
few years back. In the larger Adelaide
newsagencies only two could supply the
prestige English comics “Eagle,” “Girl”
and “Swift” from stock. The others
would only supply them on firm weekly
order.
But there are a few consolations to
consider. For one thing, determined
promotion of American goods has failed
in one or two consumer fields, fields con-
nected with prestige and status spending.
American fashion has lost out against
the superior sophistication of British,
French and Italian styles. American
clothing, domestic utensils, gourmet
foods, furnitures, have failed to “take.”
Monumental efforts by the David Jones
This section of 'The Bulletin" is a
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
chain of stores, for instance, have failed
to endow imported American goods with
the necessary “chic.”
The other failure is linguistic. The
advertising boys seemed, for a while,
quite determined to believe that Ameri-
can jargon phraseology and the spoken
American word would stimulate a naive
Australian buying impulse. It has taken
a long time for them to realise that the
infliction of American accents or phrases
is more prone to un-sell a product. But
the decline of Americanised selling is now
clearly apparent. Combining a veiled
eroticism with the American dream, the
New York marketers of Maidenlorm
Bra thought up the mighty selling line
“I dreamed I walked down Fifth Avenue
(or somewhere else) in my Maidenlorm
Bra.” This fantasy didn’t stand a chance
in Australia. “I dreamed I walked
through Innamincka in my Maidenform
Bra” rapidly became a saloon-bar jest.
Husbands roared with satirical mirth
when their wives acknowledged wearing
a Maidenform bra. The sales slogan
unsold the product, for erotic fantasy is
not mysteriously embedded in Australian
buying psychology as it is in America.
Nor is cosmeticology surrounded with
anything like the same religious awe.
The famous deodorant sales line “Make
Your Armpits Charm Pits” scarcely saw
the light of day in Australian promotion.
In responding to advertising motivation
Australians remain surprisingly conserva-
tive, and this is particularly evident in
public attitudes to language usage. In
launching their filter - tip cigarettes
“Craven A” lighted on the sales
line “It’s a right clean cigarette.”
The Australian agencies failed com-
pletely to assess the amount of
irritation and buyer resistance the word
“right” could create. The Australian is
vaguely aware of the word used this way
in odd TV westerns, but he is largely
unaware of it as a corruption of “rightly,”
and a New England archaicism at that.
The result is that his ear is disturbed and
the buying impulse negatived. It is
another heartening sign that Black and
Decker power tools, Vulcan-Conway
Cookers and Burnie-Board, all of which
exploited the full American accent for
their sales campaigns on television, have
now reverted to normal speaking voices.
It is in turning from the written word
to admass entertainments that the prob-
lem is clearly bigger. The effects of
entertainment media on a given culture
cannot be overestimated. Films, radio,
television, popular music, spectaculars,
together form and define the everyday
qualities of a national culture more
powerfully than the written word, politi-
cal alliance or economic penetration.
This may seem like an exaggeration, for,
after all, many national cultures managed


to survive the domination of American
films and popular music in the pre-
television era.
This is historically true. The ack-
nowledged danger of films is that certain
kinds can trigger off anti-social behavior
patterns and reinforce non-social values
in a maladjusted minority. Even so, it is
still not perfectly clear how damaging
Hollywood values actually are in the
delicately-balanced adolescent years.
Film violence and film sexuality mattered
very little in the pre-TV era because you
entered an exotic and non-real world
when you entered the cinema. Films
represented a fantasy world, remote from
everyday realities, and provided libidinal
release no more or less effectively than
“Poppy's Paper,” “The Magnet." “The
Gem” or Sexton Blake did for another
period of history. In the television era,
as far as cultural grass-roots are con-
cerned, our indigenous cultural values
are not likely to be severely poisoned by
“The Untouchables,” “Naked City.”
“Tightrope" or the endless flood of adult
westerns. The natural culture of a coun-
try is changed when an existing norm
Is supplanted by another norm. Little
domestic sagas like “Leave it to Beaver,”
or “The People’s Choice” are more effec-
tive than Mickey Spillane could ever
be! Television not only presents the
exotic and the libidinal fantasy, but a
standard image of everyday life. This
image of the ordinary habits of the
ordinary person does impinge as some-
thing to be imitated.
Thus Australians, both adults and
youngsters, are being educated to follow
exactly the American pattern of ord.nary
social mores. Our own vulgarity, our
Australian “character,” our Culotta-
ism. is being completely ousted in favor
of another national pattern. Amencan-
ism dominates television entertainment
... so completely that there is nothing
set against it to indicate that other values
are even possible!
Consider these s!?.t : stics: There are
two commercial TV stations in South
Australia. The even ng drama entertain-
ment on these stations over a single
week in South Australia proved to be
100 per cent, of U.S.A. origin, except for
one solitary hour t“Consider Your
Verdict”). There averages 12 drama
shows every evening, all of them sub-
suming the normalcy of American social
values. Out of 84 dramatic “entertain-
ments” per week, some tw'o-thirds are
devoted to violence or adventure and are
harmless enough. One-third are devoted
to domestic comedy or domestic senti-
ment. This is the destructive core of
television: at this point counter-attack
seems to be called for from the literate
section of the Australian community.
In terms of national viewer rating the
hour-long “spectaculars” (innocuous and
repetitive vaudeville shows) command
the greatest audience. This kind of
entertainment is of enormous cultural
importance. It is tempting to dismiss
it all as harmless rubbish, of no more
significance than vaudeville or music
hall. But there is a qualitative change
between an occasional “night out” at a
vaudeville show and 10 hours weekly of
the same thing integrated into the routine
pattern of living. What people see on
television is coming to represent com-
pletely and totally what is theatre, what
is ballet, what is art, what is humor. At
a rate of 10 hours per week for a vast
mass of the population the dancing seen
on television comes to represent the norm
of what dancing is. Everything else
appears as aberration of the normal. The
desire for cultural experience is. for a vast
mass of people, quite satisfied by the
arts of the spectacular: their ideas of
the beautiful, the musical or the comic
are readily contained within these tired
and elderly entertainment routines. The
idiot box can create two distinct cultures
within a country: the culture of the aver-
age people set against the quite distinct
minority culture of a separate intelli-
gentsia. This is far from attributing an
exaggerated influence to “Revue 61,”
“Top of the Town,” “The BP Show” and
all the rest of them. These jolly events
mould individual values and judgments
more effectively per viewing hour than
a year's mayhem on “The Untouch-
ables.”
tTS7ITHIN this particular idiom of public,
■ nightclub and TV entertainment,
American cultural colonialism is at its
most extreme. Australia is a last resting
place for the leg-sore jaded hacks of U.S.
entertainment. They come and go in
steady processional . . . the Bob Crosby’s,
the Vaughan Munros, the played-out
funny-men, the unemployed pops bari-
tones. Were it not for the totally Ameri-
can “tone" of television entertainments, it
is almost certain that by now Australia
would have evolved something of an
indigenous kind in popular music, comic
idiom, dance and personality projection.
It may have been a puny thing, crude,
immature, something scarcely to be
spoken of with pride as part cf a
“national"’ culture . . . but it would have
been our own, and it could scarcely be
more debilitated than the brylcreamed
but balding American gloss of the
moment.
Apart from the encouraging of public
revulsion (an attempt to create a vacuum
for indigenous material to occupy) there
is only one positive influence that can be
exerted: the programming of the A.B.C.
television channels. The failure of the
A.B.C. to fulfil its cultural obligations in
television (as against radio where it has
done an historic job) is quite incredible.
The statistical picture is easily extra-
polated, and there is a strong case to
assert that the A.B.C. has progressively
changed position from conceding some
Third Programme type of obligations to
a quite considered policy of competing
with the lowest level of the commercial
channels. There is an A.B.C. monopoly
of the few high-level shows . . . Robert
Herridge Theatre, Lifeline, Hancock's
Half Hour, Sergeant Bilko. But none-
theless, over the maturing years the
A.B.C. has steadily reduced the volume
of indigenous material of intellectual or
aesthetic quality. (Further consideration
of this important national matter, how-
ever, requires a further and quite de-
tailed study.)
As against the prevailing situation, with
Australian writing, publishing, painting
all going though some kind of small
Golden Age ; with the first lively signs
of activity in the humanities and academic
life, it would seem faintly foolish to
cry “Armageddon” over the inevitable
cultural alienation of the admass media.
It might even appear misplaced effort to
attempt to pinpoint pinpricks.
Not to do so would be even more
foolish. Resistance to a pervasive admass
culture in the near future is not a crank’s
crusade. If it is, Riesman, Packard,
William H. Whyte, Erich Fromm and all
the rest of them have been writing in
vain.


TETTERS
"Labor Cuts Its Throat"
Sir,
The A.L.P. has at least two excellent
reasons for not accepting “Observer’s”
contention that the ability to win Par-
liamentary elections entitles it to assume
that it can also win union ones.
First, no unionist is compelled to vote
in his union election. Generally speak-
ing, those with an ideological approach
do, those without one don’t. A.L.P.
supporters fall mostly in the latter
category.
Second, those exceptional union mem-
bers who vote without ideological convic-
tion employ criteria quite other than
those which they would regard as appro-
priate for a Parliamentary election, and
perversely go on supporting the man who
seems to them to do the best job in in-
dustrial terms (pace Mr Hyde). This
approach would not necessarily penalise
an A.L.P. candidate. Neither would it
offer him any guarantees.
The A.L.P. can survive without the
support of The Bulletin ; the union
movement is less expendable. While
present tactics ensure Labor majorities
on union executives, a war on two fronts
would be tantamount to handing them
over either to the Industrial Groups or
to the Communist party. Quite apart
from its industrial consequences, su:h an
irresponsible abdication would entail
abandonment of the concept of the
unions and the party as forces comple-
mentary to one another in the struggle
for social justice. More, by depriving
the Labor party of its principal sources
of income, it would bring about within
a few months what the D.L.P. and the
Liberals between have been unable to
achieve in years —the elimination of
Labor as a significant political force.
Although the fact may have escaped
“Observer’s” notice, few Labor supporters
are wealthy men ; quadrupling the party’s
membership would not replace the income
forfeit if the unions were lost—and
modern electioneering is a very expensive
business indeed.
The suggestion that Victorian branches
are not open to anti-Communists is merely
silly. All that is required of members is
that they support the party platform.
Race Mathews
Croydon (Vic.).
Sir,
Over the past five years numerous
political pundits have exhibited their in-
ability to appreciate the political resiliency
of the N.S.W. branch of the A.L.P., and
“Observer” (Bulletin, June 17) appears
to be no exception.
Most of the present party officers have
experienced at some time or other fac-
tional oppression, and accordingly are
determined to ensure that executives
whom they have played a major role in
selecting should comprise people with
administrative ability irrespective of fac-
tional outlook.
Any student of machine politics would
know that the foundation of successful
party conferences in the 1957-61 period
has been due to adept utilisation of
executive members’ ability on the various
committees which set conference tempo.
We are custodians of a party whose
prime purpose is the utilisation of Par-
liamentary processes for the legislative
enactment of industrial and social legisla-
tion for the betterment of average Mr
and Mrs N.S.W.
Continued success depends on an effec-
tive integration of the various elements
which make up the Labor party with
realism, not Rightism or Leftism, the
governing factor.
It is equally true that after full dis-
cussion, all members are expected to
loyally support policy decisions. The
strength of N.S.W. Labor is that devia-
tions from such policy principles, be they
Left or Right, have been dealt with in
terms of equal justice which has tended
to consolidate the party structure.
I do not necessarily subscribe to the
dictum that the Welfare State must be
run and not won, but I do feel that
political pyrotechnics on purges might sell
newspapers, but it does not make con-
verts to the cause of the A.L.P.
One might make comparison between
the level-headedness that is personified in
Scandinavian Labor Party congresses and
evaluate it against the anarchistic ten-
dencies of some South American Socialist
parties. The electoral success of the
former against the low batting average
of the latter are self-evident.
N.S.W. Labor seeks to emulate the
former, and current performances cer-
tainly justify our adherence to this concept
of political strategy.
J. Mulvihill
Trades Hall Sydney. ,
Sir,
It’s you that’s cutting its throat!
There were not 19 identical names on
both the Right-wing and Left-wing
tickets at the N.S.W. Labor Conference.
D. M. Cotter
Red Cliffs (Vic.).
The 19 “identical” names on the Right-wing
and Left-wing tickets were: E. Ryan, T. E.
Gordon, J. G. Stephens (Mrs) E. Barron, C. H.
Fitzgibbon, C. Healey, G. T. Ford. (Mrs) E.
Anderson, J. D. Garland, G. Ball, F. T. Hall,
C. C. Wallace, J E. Anderson, L. D. Serisier,
G. F. Godfrey. W. Mahon, W. C. Egan, E. C.
Bennett, D. McClelland.—-“Observer.”
SERFDOM IN W.A.
Sir,
In your issue of May 30 your Perth
correspondent, in an article entitled
“Serfdom in W.A.,” committed an un-
pardonable and grossly offensive insult
to Mr Gordon Freeth.
Far from making a sudden discovery
of the mess in which the War Service
Land Settlement has become bogged
down, Mr Freeth as far back as 1951
criticised the methods of the administra-
tion and was soundly rebuked by the
then State Minister and the R.S.L. for his
trouble.
Since then Mr Freeth has constantly
supported the settlers in their struggle
for a better deal, and had other W.A.
politicians, both State and Federal, shown
the same interest and sympathy the
present difficulties of the settlers may
not have arisen.
H. M. SIM
Kojunup (IV.A).
REFRESHING THE SHORT
STORY
Sir.
In my opinion writing is just another
form of work, and is to be judged on
its use and quality only. Scribbling for
vanity or publicity or any such urge is
no use and less ornament, and to pay
indiscriminately for offerings of inferior
merit is at best stupid and at worst
demoralising.
Certainly it is necessary for a nation
to be articulate, and it is good that there
are channels, or at least one channel,
which will assist and has assisted expres-
sion, particularly among starters; but
this must not be an enforced handout.
Your mention of a higher scale of pay-
ment for quality may assist. Certainly
a Gavin Casey should receive more than
the aroob who scrawled “A Kind of
Marriage.”
F. A. CORY
Drummoyne (N.S.W.).
Sir,
Australia is a raw, rough country
historically and geographically. It has
produced a unique way of living. It has
produced a breed of people tough yet
gentle, crude yet plastic, lusty yet re-
strained. All these attributes must be
encompassed in Australian literature.
May I inquire of R. A. McCarthy,
re his letter (B. 17/6/61), from what
viewpoint he presumes to judge Austra-
lian literature? Does he compare it with
European literature? Each country has
contributed to universal literature which
is a reflection of man in all environments.
Space precludes me from listing the
Australians whose appeal is a universal
one, but Patrick White, whose novels
are certainly a reflection of a crude
country, must rank as one of the world's
greatest living novelists.
Mr McCarthy’s sweeping condemna-
tion of Australian literature makes me


curious about the scope of his reading
of Australian fiction.
M. J. KRAMER
Fmnkston (Vic.).
A GREAT CARTOONIST
Sir,
I was very sorry to read of the retire-
ment of Ted Scorfield. I have never met
him, but have always admired his work.
Two cartoons, in particular, will always
be remembered. One, many years ago,
a picture of a dead lion with a Scorfield
dog thereon, its master with camera and
the caption : “Hold it!” The second, and
this I consider one of the cleverest l
have seen, was at the birth of the Royal
baby —a flagstaff with the Royal Stan-
dard at full height and beneath a baby’s
napkin. Words were quite unnecessary.
May I wish Mr Scorfield many happy
years of drawing and hope The Bulletin
will still be able to include a few more
“dogs.”
R, W. FINCH
Empire Bay (N.S. W.).
We shall still be publishing some of Mr
Scortield's work, despite his retirement. —
Editor, The Bulletin.
THEY CAME TO AUSTRALIA
Sir,
Douglas Stewart's review of “They
Came to Australia” (Bulletin, June 10,
1961) contains a fallacy which should
not be allowed to pass unchallenged.
The Australian people should not be
written off as Anglo-Saxon. What of
the very considerable admixture of
Celtic blood and the relatively small but
very definite percentage of other racial
strains?
The term Anglo-Saxon can hardly be
truthfully applied even to the people of
England. It is, in fact, an ethnological
invention, part of the crass and pompous
legend of racial superiority so assidu-
ously cultivated in Victorian and
Edwardian times.
This misleading and untruthful term,
Anglo-Saxon, should no longer be used
or even tolerated in modern English-
speaking nations.
E. D. KINVARRA
Fremantle ( W.A.).
INERTIA ON THE FARM
Sir,
In your June 17 issue there appeared
an article entitled “Inertia on the Farm,”
said to be from “A N.S.W. Corres-
pondent,” in which it was alleged that
Professor Keith O. Campbell “startled
Casino farmers” by telling them certain
things that your correspondent accepts
as the truth.
In the “Macleay Argus” (Kempsey)
issue of June 10, Professor Campbell’s
talk was published under a front-page
heading: “Professor's Poppycock Makes
Dairymen Dismal.”
Now, sir. Professor Campbell said:
“The principal hope for adjustment lay
ia the migration of young people from
the farms. For mature farmers leaving
the land for other jobs was virtually
impossible.” The fact of the matter is
that Professor Campbell and your N.S.W.
correspondent are among the compara-
tively few people who are not fully aware
that the problem is not how to get the
young people off the farms, but how to
get them to stay on! You can search
through the whole of the N.S.W. North
Coast dairying area and you will be lucky
to find any male person over 14 years of
age and under 40 working on a dairy-
farm. They have all gone to be truck-
drivers, schoolteachers, policemen, clerks,
accountants, carpenters, shophands,
steelworkers and what-not ; anything but
a dairyfarmer!
HARRY NOONAN
Kempsey (N.S.W.).
RACIAL PREJUDICE IN
NEW ZEALAND
Sir,
I have every respect for Louis Johnson
as a poet and a writer and also for his
general knowledge on most subjects. I
feel that in writing on so-called racial
prejudice (Bulletin, May 24) he has
given this a superficial investigation and
is reflecting the superiority complex,
which shows up so much in the writings
of the intellectual types, “The Angry-
Young Men,” in New Zealand.
Prejudice does exist but mainly among
the snobs, or would-be snobs, who are
fortunately a small minority. The work-
ing man and in general the middle-class
males have little or no prejudice. The
pakeha works on equal terms with the
Maori, plays games with him, drinks with
him in the bars and lounges of the pubs
and belongs to the same lodges and clubs.
It is with the womenfolk that we find
the real prejudice ; they don't mind their
husbands being friendly with the Maori,
but most would object to them bringing
even the best-behaved Maori home to
dinner. This will take a long time to die
out, but is not in any way as bad as the
Dr Ausubels, Geiringas and the Louis
Johnsons make out.
The crackpots and the reformers talk
of preserving the Maori in his own
customs. If they will leave him alone he
will adopt the customs and beliefs and,
we hope, the best of the morals of the
pakeha. This is evidenced by his progress
so far.
Take 1920 as a starting date. In that
year I could count on one hand the
Maoris I knew in professional life ; by
1940 the Maori was in every walk of life.
I knew doctors, lawyers, mechanical
engineers and prominent civil servants by
the dozen. By 1960, Maoris could be
found in every profession and industry,
conducting their own contracting and
other complex industries, in 1920 the
majority of the Maori lived in what could
only be called hovels ; by 1960 this had
changed, although much remains to be
done. Houses in which the Maori lives
are as good and as well kept as any
pakeha home ; it is rare to hear com-
plaints about Maoris as neighbors ia the
streets of our towns.
Mixed marriage is no problem
certainly as to full-bloods the marriage
of a Maori man to a white woman is still
rare, but marriages of white men with
Maori women are happening every day.
There is no prejudice where there is part
Maori blood ; such people are accepted
by society without question and a dash
of color is no bar to marriage.
If the same rate of progress continues
I venture to say that in another 40 years
the Maori will have been fully integrated
and any question of prejudice will be
laughed at.
F. D. YOUNG
Hastings (N.Z.).
THE BALANCE OF OPPOSITES
Sir,
Russell. Braddon (B. 17/6/61) tells us
that in London he is constantly asked
“Why don’t you go home?” and he has
not seen the point yet not having
grasped the English mode of understate-
ment.
To one of his confessed mentality
“racially arrogant,” “forthright to the
point of rudeness,” they would need to
say “Get to hell out of here if you can’t
be civil.” But, as he allows, the English
are “polite to the point of evasiveness,”
and they would need to be with such a
brash young man.
Let him wallow in his brashness, if
he must, but 1 do wish he would not
count himself as typical, with his “we
Australians.” Racial arrogance of his
sort shows an inferiority complex in its
most aggressive form.
WALTER H. BAGOT
North Adelaide.
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
In your journal of June 17 Emeritus
Professor A. B. Taylor alleges that “Orr
in no way instigated” the Royal Com-
mission of 1955 into the University of
Tasmania, and that his open letter was
published in defiance of Taylor acting
as chairman of the Staff Association, and
written after Taylor had “recommended
“We can't go on meeting like this.”


the demand for a commission to the
executive of the Staff Association and
it accepted this and recommended it to
the association.” He also states that Orr
was not used as a witness at the Royal
Commission.
On page 55 of the report of the Royal
Commission “Sydney Sparkes Orr, M.A.
(Belfast), Professor of Philosophy,” is
listed as a witness who gave evidence
before the commission.
Naturally I have extracts of the
minutes of the publicity committee and
have had other matters checked. Orr
submitted his letter to the publicity com-
mittee of the Staff Association on
21/10/54. It was adopted on 25/10/54
by eight votes for, two against. There
was then a joint meeting with the execu-
tive of the Staff Association and Taylor
requested a delay of a day in publication.
During this and the next day a majority
of the staff (35) signed the letter ; and
obviously this was a majority of the
Staff Association.
The publication of Orr’s letter was
arranged on 28/10/54 —one copy to the
Premier and one to the press. This
coincided with a letter from Professor
Taylor to the Premier making, as chair-
man of the Staff Association, a formal
request —in line with Orr’s public letter,
which the majority had signed— for an
inquiry into the state of the University.
Taylor’s letter is not noted in the Royal
Commission’s report only Professor
Orr’s letter is mentioned.
Professor Taylor further states that a
“meeting of the Staff Association not
only expressed disapproval of the letter
. . (i.e., Orr’s letter). There was no
meeting of the Staff Association until
later in the year, after the abortive meet-
ing with the Cabinet Sub-Committee on
November 17.
On this same day the publicity com-
mittee approved a letter to be sent to
the Deputy Chancellor, the Hon. H. S.
Baker, requesting an apology for, and
withdrawal of, his statement to an Upper
House deputation to the University “that
the discontent in the University was due
to the activities of one agitator . . .
Professor Orr.”
Professor Taylor’s suggestion that
people on the mainland have acted with-
out reference to the appropriate docu-
ments is therefore untrue, and his sugges-
tion that Professor Orr was not an im-
portant instigator of the commission is
contrary to the records.
While 1 have every sympathy with
Professor Taylor in his retirement, his
allegation of unacademic conduct against
those who make accusations “without
consulting those records” makes it
necessary for me to quote from Mr
E. H. E. Barber, counsel assisting the
Royal Commission, in his closing
address: “Many witnesses, and these
included the Vice-Chancellor, Mr R. C.
Sharp, Professor Taylor, and Professor
Elliott in regard to Mr Solomon’s re-
marks, were shown to be quite unreliable
when faced with the contemporary
written record of what had happened”
(“Mercury,” March 31, 1955); and also
from the report of the Royal Commis-
sion : “While it seems perfectly clear that
many of the criticisms levelled against
the council were in fact without founda-
tion (e.g., on the appointments of Miss
Eyre and Mr Stokes to the Department
of English . . These criticisms, with-
out foundation, were levelled by Pro-
fessor Taylor, and the commissioners'
comment revives the warning to dwellers
in glass houses. I w'ould comment that
it is one thing to consult records, it is
another to deal accurately with their
contents.
R. DOUGLAS WRIGHT
University of Melbourne.
IT’S HARD TO GO RIGHT
IN MELBOURNE
Sir,
Jean Griffiths points us (Bulletin, May
31) to the way in which the letter of
the late Vance Palmer, C. B. Christesen
and co., published in the “Age” in July,
1958, should have been read. One with
any knowledge of the background of the
writers of the letter, or of some of them,
or any appreciation of the dangers in-
herent in the attitude behind the cry, “A
plague on both your houses,” or who
cannot contain his impatience with those
“liberals” who, to find the truth, add up
both sides, ours and the other, and divide
by two, thereby objectively aiding the
other, read it as Desmond O’Grady read
it. I still read it as he reads it and as
I originally read it.
References to the Rosenbergs and
Little Rock and other places, with the
parallelism we were invited to accept,
were irrelevant. Their inclusion plainly
indicated that the primary purpose of the
letter was not to protest against the
murder of Imre Nagy, but to lessen or
counteract the weight of the all-pervading
condemnation of it. The writers could
not remain silent. They had to say
something—to save something from the
wreck. “Yes, a grave mistake —but look
over here at Little Rock! The U.S.S.R.
has taken ‘valuable initiatives towards
peace and co-existence’ —it is a pity they
made this blunder that will encourage
those who don’t want peace and co-
existence.”
J. NORMINGTON-RAWLING
Gladesville (N.S.W.).
CATHOLICS AND THE
FREE SOCIETY
Sir,
Your correspondent J. R. Maze
(Bulletin, 10/6/61) says that he does not
believe theological assertions are true in
any sense and that holding religious
beliefs is a “(more or less harmless) bit
of psychopathology.” In so saying is he
not “doing a variety of authoritarian
things (submitting, moralising, etc.)”? Is
he not appealing to an authority whose
basis is certain scientific theories?
Scientific theories are conceived not
only by objective methods but also by
subjective methods. Introspection and
observation go hand in hand, and the
man who can only observe, point to, and
touch phenomena may be a good tech-
nician, but he will never be a creative
scientist. The latter must have intuitive
insight. Further scientific theories are
just that. It is unfortunately true that if
a scientific theory leads to practical results
a great many people immediately assume
that the theory is a fact. Both science and
religion give practical results and both
are but imperfect insights to different
aspects of the universe.
I suggest to Mr Maze that his reasons
for thinking that people who are religious
are illiberal and mad are highly emotional
and highly subjective and that the
authority from which he derives his
assumptions is no more probable than the
authority that activates the religious
person’s assumptions.
The wish to believe that one’s own
creed, whatever it is, is the only true one
makes it difficult for any man to be
liberal-minded at all times. All creeds
go through authoritarian stages not be-
cause it is the nature of creeds but
because it is the nature of man.
Witch-hunting Roman Catholics is of
course a favorite and, for some reason,
respectable pastime of non-Catholics in
Australia. As Communists in the world
today are very much larger in numbers,
wealth and power than the Roman
Catholics, one can only wonder at how
there are so many people who persist
in the belief that Communists are the
underdogs and Roman Catholics the
upper-dogs.
(Mrs.) P. BOYD
Oakleigh (Vic.).
PROTESTANT AUSTRALIA
TODAY
Sir,
There are two notions that 1 would take
issue with. The first is that Australian
congregations have a suspicion of the
“academic.” My own experience has
been quite the contrary. Provided a
preacher is prepared to start from the
postion of probable “theological
illiteracy,” then there is virtually no limit
to patient exhortation and instruction. A
preacher can encourage a congregation to
share in the understanding of vital know-
ledge or he can display his learning. The
latter is anathema to Australian congre-
gations.
The second is the reference to “the
paperback revolution,” which is seen as
encouraging the revival of theological
learning. That there is an element of
truth in this I do not doubt. But per-
haps the real story is to be seen in the
vast reprinting programme undertaken
by American and English publishers in
recent years, in which the names are not
those of Barth, Brunner, Niebuhr and
Tillich, but those of Luther, Delitzsch,
Trench and Ryle. That is to say, men
who represent not a 20th-century resolu-
tion of Protestant theological uncer-
tainty but a vigorous, pre-liberal presen-
tation of Reformed Theology.
C. J. WINTER
Leigh Creek (S./L).


OUT and ABOUT
SOCIETY
which he pleaded guilty, Przibilla asked
to be sent to Pentridge where he, at
present on long leave from his teaching
job with the South Australian Education
Department, hopes to continue his
studies.
Words, Words, Words
'The resemblance to the Manet girl at
the bar of the Folies-Bergeres is so
strong, with round face, deep fringe and
eyes quietly sizing up the lurking world,
that you would know at once that
Elizabeth Frank was of the theatre, for
the theatre, and always preferably in the
theatre.
Here as advance manager for the Old
Vic Company, which will pass through
Sydney on their way to Melbourne next
Saturday, Mrs Frank was last in Sydney
as a character dancer in the first of the
Colonel de Basil ballet companies—and
though she sees sensational changes in
Sydney, as between then and now she
finds the changes in Melbourne between
1937 and 1961 even more spectacular.
When she was dancing in Australia
a generation ago, Mrs Frank's real name
was Scorer. But, in accordance with the
practice then, she borrowed the name of
Souvorova from a Russian general, and
Two-way Stretch
Our modern jails offer study facilities
which are obviously appreciated by 28-
year-old Edmund Keith Przibilla, an
Adelaide University lecturer in eco-
nomics. Przibilla first took advantage
of these facilities to pass, when serving
a sentence in South Australia, in three
university subjects. Last month,
when tried at Horsham (Vic.) on two
charges of shopbreaking and theft of
goods totalling £678 in value, charges to
“I have an inferiority complex ...
ABSTRACTION ARTIST’S
CENTENARY
“The N.S.W. branch of the Australian Dental
Association will commemorate this month the
centenary of the death of Pierre Fouchard, the
‘father of dentistry.’ ”
The Spanish Inquisition
Tortured certain minions
For lacking recognition
Of recognised opinions,
But dentists neither love nor hate;
They know it isn’t done
For them to differentiate —
They torture everyone.
The Inquisition s pincers,
Its boots, its racks, its burnings,
Were given free to wincers,
Not charged against their earnings.
But dentists always count the cost
And charge their victims fees —
So let us charge a glass to toast
Pierre Fouchard’s demise.
One hardly needs to mention
Fouchard’s most noted venture,
The fiendish invention
Of the modern denture :
So let no loyalist condemn
False teeth, whose duties are
To bite the hand that fed us them —■
Down with Pierre Fouchard !
SWILLIAM
Authors and Markets
A fter his first look at his firm’s biggest
A - *• export market, Ken Wilder, who is
sales manager for the English publishers,
Hamish Hamilton, returns to London this
week. Apparently not afraid of being
swamped. Wilder said he was here look-
ing for new authors as well as new out-
lets for his firm’s books.
Hamish Hamilton already has Aus-
tralians Alan Moorehead, James Aldridge
and A. D. Hope on its lists. “I had
dinner with Hope in Canberra,” Wilder
said. “1 was able to tell him that his
‘Poems,’ published this year, had made
a very real impact in England. It has
also made some sales in Holland and
Scandinavia.”
Wilder said that Aldridge had recently
come to them from the Bodley Head.
His first novel for Hamilton’s, “The
Last Exile” will be on the bookstands
here mid-September.
“It is a novel based on the Suez crisis,”
Wilder explained, “both Nasser and your
Mr Menzies are characters in the book.”
Wilder said that Alan Moorehead was
doing another book on Africa, to follow
his “The White Nile.” “1 feel he has
given up the idea of being a novelist,”
Wilder said, “and is content, as well he
might be, to be the reporter par
excellence.”
Wilder said that in the complex world
of London publishing Hamish Hamilton
remained an independent firm, and Mr
Hamilton, who founded the firm in 1931,
was still very much its head.


“I don't think much of the floor-show .“
danced —usually as something malevolent,
like a witch —under that name.
Finding one Russian name beginning
with “S” would have been no trouble
to her. She could promptly have found
a thousand, since, like most of the Old
Vic company from Vivien Leigh down,
she is a scrabble and crossword-puzzle
fiend. She said there were more back-
stage arguments about scrabble, indeed,
than about any problems of interpreting
Shakespeare—and one of her tasks, as
advance manager, will be to ensure a
good and prompt supply of airmail copies
of the London “Times” so that the cross-
word addicts may have their usual daily
dose of “words, words, words.”
The Voice
Come Sydney doctors are beginning to
use their recorded voices to answer
their telephones for them, like those
phantom voices at the G.P.O. that tell
you the time and when you have dialled
a number not in the book. So far they
only say harmlessly “Dr Bolster is not
in his surgery. Dr Bolster will be back
at 4 p.m.” but obviously it won’t be
long before they start saying “Take
two aspirin and go to bed. That will be
three guineas, please. Take two aspirin
and . .
"People Like Ourselves"
A new Australian play had its first
reading at Sydney’s Independent
Theatre recently. The story line was
strong. There was something about an
elderly woman who murders her
husband, a young girl who refuses to
marry the father of her child, a young
man who deserts wife and child for a
mistress, and a woman who persuaded
her husband that she is to bear his child,
when both in fact know he cannot be-
come a father. All this is the sort of
thing we’ve had in certain Australian
plays in late years, but this time the
setting was a large country property and
the atmosphere was of harris tweed and
cashmere twin-sets worn with real pearis.
At the end of the reading the director
of the theatre, Doris Fitton, thanked the
cast and audience. She went on to say
what a wonderful relief it was to get
away from the sordid plays which had
been written by Australians in recent
years, and to watch a play about “people
like ourselves.”
That was
A much bigger job than expected will
be the removal of the remains from the
old Devonshire-street cemetery, Sydney.
In order to avoid the possible overlook-
ing of any remnants of mortality, every
foot of the ground is to be turned over;
and it is expected that, in addition to
the 6000 bodies already removed, at
least 50,000 will yet have to be shitted
to the new cemetery at La Perouse.
— “Bulletin,” July 27, 1901.
Time was when we could place the
S.M. HERALD on the front-room table,
alongside the SUNDAY AT HOME and
woolwork text samplers. Now it publishes
Kim —the current Kipling story—and
HERALD readers find the pages defiled
by such remarks as; “Thou art of a nose-
less generation for a thousand years”;
“thy mother was wedded under a basket”;
also, “get thee to thy reputationless aunt.”
O fie, Mister James!
— “Bulletin,” July 20, 1901.
“C.H.R.” discourses on an essential
part of the Royal Show: —-
Have studied industriously all the lead-
ing illustrateds re the coming of the
Duke, and conclude that the angelic
beings in the twin pot-hats who sit in
the outrigger behind the sacred car are
the only objects who have hitherto im-
plicitly obeyed the camera fiend. No
matter what the scene, there sit those
cherubims, undismayed. The Dook in
one page looks like an old broom handle
surmounted by a cochin-china rooster,
and the Duchess, something between a
bookcase and an old-fashioned hour-glass,
while the princes and lords and things
are mere splashes in the dead of the sui-
face. Yet there they smile out of the
waste, that lovely pair with the white
pants and the tall hats. They change
not. They have been to Brisbane —this
scribe saw them; they will soon be in
Hobart. I wouldn’t give a straw to see
the show if York sacked those two angels
in the hats. They must be twins, or
shave with the same razor.
— “Bulletin,” July 6, 1901.
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
D RISB ANE businessman S. Walter
■*-' Lucas, who said he was selling out
an engineering firm worth £2 million to
Australia a year and moving his interests
overseas, gave as one reason that Aus-
tralians’ idea of work was his idea of a
holiday. J. P. Devereux, secretary of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union, didn’t
think Mr Lucas’s decision too alarming.
“If his little tin shed,” he commented,
“which might normally be used as a fowl
house, can produce £2 million in export
trade a year, what would be the value
of trade produced by organised engineer-
ing shops?”
Ewart Chappie, who retired on Satur-
day as Victorian manager of the A.8.C.,
said at a farewell party that television
was not “killing,” but was stimulating
radio,
A scarf of the Hannay tartan, “lost”
for 200 years, turned up last week in the
Perth mail box of lan Hanna, and not
before time. Without the distinguishing


tartan members of the Hannay clan have
found it hard to sort out all the Hannas,
Hanaghs, A’Hannays and MacHannas.
Detective Sergeant John Bateman, who
contributed valuable work in Maitland’s
“headless bodies case” and the Graeme
Thorne kidnapping, won the Peter Mit-
chell Trophy for the outstanding N.S.W.
policeman of 1960; the Sir Thomas
Blarney Award for C.M.F. officers went
to Major G. J. Cummins.
Professor David Caro, best known for
his work in setting up the cyclotron at
Melbourne University, has been ap-
pointed to that university’s new chair of
experimental physics; TV interviewer
Rohan Rivett, former editor-in-chief of
the Adelaide “News,” has won the job
of director of the International Press
Institute, headquarters of which are in
Zurich.
Sir Allen Lane, managing director of
Penguin Books, had a thorough check
from Customs men when he arrived in
Sydney, and was asked to turn out his
overcoat pockets while the search, pre-
sumably for “Lady Chatterley,” went on.
Customs Minister Henty later expressed
a desire to meet Sir Allen personally.
Appointed as managing director of the
International Wool Secretariat was Mel-
bourne-born William Joshua Vines, at
present head of the Berger paints group
in London. At his first press conference
Vines revealed that he had not applied
for the job, but had been offered it
“apparently because of my business back-
ground.”
Brian Barnes, Sydney actor-producer
who recently returned after a three-year
tour of Europe and India, is now touring
Australia for the Arts Council as a one-
man show. Barnes says he is mainly
interested in producing, but as a solo
performer he is quite able to cope with
the 30 voice parts of Dylan Thomas’s
“Under Milk Wood.”
Into the Silence:—
In Sydney, at 30, David Lloyd Jones, chair-
man of directors of David Jones Ltd, and a
former alderman of Sydney City Council.
In Sydney, at 73, Nicolai Malko, resident
conductor of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
since 1956. Russian-born Malko, who studied
under Rimsky-Korsakov and Glazounov, had
also been conductor of the Maryinsky Theatre,
the Leningrad Philharmonic and Chicago’s
Grant Park Symphony.
In Brisbane, at 90. the Rev. Bertie Peregrine
Walker, the last of the original Bush Brothers.
In Adelaide, at 68, William E. Goward,
winner of a Military Medal and two bars during
World War I. Goward joined the Royal Irish
Fusiliers in 1906, went to India next year
with the Seaforth Highlanders, and also served
with the Black Watch Regiment, the United
States Army, the Tank Corps and the R.A.F.
In Melbourne, at 94, the Rev. Professor
Arthur E. Albiston, a former president-general
of the Methodist Church of Australasia, who
had been a Methodist minister for 72 years.
In Sydney, at 59, John Glass, company
director, who was on the board of manage-
ment of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust and the
committee of the Sydney Opera House.
FOR THE CONSUMER
Rustle of
Spring
/“\ne of the minor perplexities of life
in Australia is that, while the seasons
seem to be getting later —it’s quite cool
almost to Christmas and the warm weathei
is with us until May—the new season’s
fashions get into the shops earlier and
earlier.
When the heatwaves and humidity of
February were with us the first mohair
topcoats and tweed suits were in the
shop windows.
Now, hardly have we felt the first
real signs of winter —the blotched skin
from crouching too close to a radiator,
or the spreading waistline from heavy
cold-weather food—-when the winter
clearances are on. Next month, the shop
windows will be full of swimsuits, lumps
of coral and decorative bits of fishnet
to taunt us as we stagger past in topcoats
or slop around in raincoats.
One Sydney shop this year began its
spring parades on June 5, five days after
the official start of winter. Most of the
others are now showing summer dress
materials so that home dressmakers can
make an early beginning.
To the average woman this early
rustle of spring is baffling and vaguely
irritating. It’s even somewhat inexplic-
able to the shops. It adds to their mer-
chandising and storage problems con-
siderably.
Why, then, do they do it? The shops
call it “unintended competition." Each
one wants to be a jump ahead of the
others. Eventually, you would think,
they will lap each other, and find them-
selves launching their spring fashions on
the very day that the policemen are
putting on their summer helmets, and
the railways are putting out their fires,
and showing their autumn fashions just
when the summer helmets are discarded
and the waiting-room fires are lit.
This would happen, only the autumn
fashions if they were moved back much
further would bump up against the
summer clearances and finally concertina
into Christmas And the spring show-
ings can’t take place until after wool-
promotion fortnight in June. So there
are limits, mercifully.
In general, the higher the fashion the
earlier it’s in the shops. The Paris imports
and expensive local clothes come three
to four weeks ahead of the local ready-to-
wear.
This gives the woman who spends a
lot of money on her clothes an oppor-
tunity to do her buying early. It also
gives a wonderful opportunity to another
type of woman (and every shop knows
to its cost that she exists). This is the
one who takes home an expensive dress
“on approval,” runs round the corner and
shows it to her dressmaker so that it can
be copied and returns it to the shop next
day as “unsuitable.”
There is one solid, practical reason
why the shops get their new season’s goods
on sale early. This is because so many
budget their clothes very carefully, and
rely on lay-bys to cover purchases.
A local swimsuit manufacturer said
that if she didn’t have her stock into the
shops by August 1, it was useless to them.
The beach girls do their shopping then,
putting their swimsuits and beach acces-
sories on lay-by.
Similarly, the business girl who wears
cashmere twinsets doesn’t just go into
a shop and buy them, like that. She
plans ahead carefully, and puts her knit-
wear on lay-by while she’s still wearing
cotton dresses.
The Early Boyd
A/TELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS, in its
paperback series, has just reissued
Robin Boyd’s “Australia’s Home,” first
printed in 1952. Mr Boyd's later book,
“The Australian Ugliness” gave us a
couple of new cocktail-party words—
featurism and Austerica —and renewed
feelings of inferiority.
Mr Boyd in a new introduction to
“Australia’s Home” passes on the word
to the elite that in the 10 years since he
wrote his first book there has been no
improvement in Australian domestic
architecture at all. The market for books
decrying Australian taste is as good as
ever.
“In the 10 years since this book was
written,” Mr Boyd writes, “the style of
the house has undergone another of its
inevitable decadal changes. The last of
the architects’ styles referred to here has
now been popularly adapted, with the
usual mutilating lack of understanding,
to become the ‘contemporary’ of today ;
a riot of color, sunlight, plastics and
black rods. And the architects, counter-
revolting as usual, have now resorted to
reserved monochromes, and more than a
hint of Japanese character in details —
—all of which the ordinary homebuilder
will find repulsive until 1971.
“The boom conditions of the last few
years have hastened bigger changes on
the technical side.
“Prosperity and hire-purchase systems


LET
CARRY TH
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S. II 7 . Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligli - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
> ... * - A
4
»>
eMJE
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
have also encouraged more self-indulg-
ence, so that the house is now infinitely
better equipped. Television and air-con-
ditioning have arrived. Swimming pools
in turquoise fibreglass or sprayed con-
crete represent the next goal for two-car
families.
“Stoves, refrigerators and the other old
staple household machines are made
white instead of cream at last. But
although the equipment is so much
better, a degree of Diggerism and male
superiority still clings to it. For instance,
the power lawnmower is now practically
universal while its feminine equivalent,
the dishwasher, is still a sluggish seller —
somehow un-Australian (‘We’ve already
got a dishwasher—the wife.')
“Thus in little ways the details keep
changing. But the pattern seems to con-
tinue as ever.”
The “featurist” type of word-coining is
a feature (if Mr Boyd will allow the word)
of his writing. His “Australia's Home”
is full of words such as “stylism” “con-
ventionalised,” “horizontality” and “func-
tionalism,” which affect the eye of the
reader much as the features which Mr
Boyd sees spoiling the Australian home
offend his architect’s eye.
FOR THE OBSERVER
The Dancing
Years
, _ | . , . , ... . .
M Y nephew John is 14 and still insists
that he hates girls. This, on
today s standards when the big question
around the suburbs seems to be Should
They Go Steady at 14? seemed to show
he was more than somewhat retarded.
Hence, I was a bit surprised when I
heard he had decided to take dancing
lessons. However, he explained that he
was only going because his best friend
insisted. Its all right, he said, but
there are too many girls. Halfway
through the lesson the teacher claps his
hands. The boys put the used guls in
a coiner and take fresh ones. _
r decided this would be worth seeing.
The small hall, a miniatuie ballroom,
was already filling when I ailived at
4.20 p.m. on Friday afternoon.
Ihe boys w'ere in school uniforms.
The girls, most of them, had slipped
home to change into pretty skirts and
pastel blouses. Nearly every girl they
were from 12 to 14 at the most, wore
soiled, white flattie shoes.
One girl in a slinky skirt and with a
bright red gash of a mouth wore high-
heeled shoes, but she didn’t get partners
faster than the rest. The majority of
girls were without make-up. Young eyes
were innocent and shy, and hair, dark
and fair, was shining and short.
Three or four girls (there were 70 of
them by 4.30 p.m.) w'ho were in school
uniform said they had been kept in and
didn't have time to go home and change.
“The boys don't like dancing with girls
in uniform,” one of the girls said sadly.
The boys, a mere handful of 30,
chattered in a corner, their backs to the
milling, crowding girls. The girls laughed
and whirled about with each other. “We
like dancing together,” one said. “The
boys are so slow to learn the step.”
clumsy to °” added ano,her>
‘"Look, there's Peter. You know him,
he was at kindergarten with us,” said
a blonde girl pointing out a pimply
grammar-school lad, hair slicked down
and a determined grin on his face,
Several of the senior boys took ss.
from each student and the instructor, a
handsome, genial Dutchman started the
music. “Now all the lads with me—
one, two, three and over and whirl,” he
said, and they were all off to a fancy
rock-’n'-roll step
After t he boys and girls had had their
instruction separately the teacher called
“Jake your partners
The gjds pressed back against the
stiffly starched curtains covering the
closed windows of the stuffy, little hall.
Most of them talked wildly about home-
work and what Miss So-and-so said
today in French. They pretended in-
difference, and would rather die than
appear concerned about getting a
partner.
Out of the corner of their eyes they
kept watch on the embarrassed boys on
the other side of the room. Some boys
grabbed the girl nearest them, others
threaded their way bravely through
giggling girls to choose their best friend’s
sister.
Those girls lucky enough to win
partners giggled and thrust* themselves
about, while the “fresh” girls waited until
those dancing became “used,” and it was
their turn,
Back they’ll come next Friday for
another lesson in dancing, or perhaps, in
reality, a chance to take their first plunge
into the complicated world of men and
women.
I noticed that my nephew John, for
all his alleged hatred of girls, wasn't slow
in picking a nice-looking dancing partner,
although he doesn’t seem to be the only
14-year-old who isn’t going steady yet.
SHEILA PATRICK.


SPORT
Tennis’s Dull
Boom-Boom
Crowds are getting smaller and smaller
at big tennis, both amateur and pro-
fessional. This year 12,000 seats only
will be on sale for the Davis Cup Cha 1 -
lenge Round at Kooyong (25,000 watched
the Challenge Round at Sydney in 1954)
and Wimbledon debentures, entitling you
to seats, have sagged badly in price.
Crowds are shrinking also at New York’s
Forest Hills.
Some of the decline is, of course, part
of a world pattern: in affluent societies
people watch games less and participate
more in sport or other outdoor activities.
Moreover, the amateur standard has
slumped badly, due chiefly to lack
Kramer’s raids. But even the profes-
sionals can't pull the crowds in, as they
once could.
The main reason why the crowds are
leaving tennis is because it is dull. It's
dull because there is rarely any drama
in a rally, rarely any suspense, rarely any
doubt who will win a particular point.
In fact there aren’t any rallies to speak
of. In a match between Neale Fraser
and Alex Oimedo at Forest Hills in 1959,
when Australia won back the Davis Cup,
an American sporting editor could detect
only three sustained rallies in the 52
games!
The big service dominates tennis. Most
points today are a foregone conclusion:
the big service, the rush to the net
behind it, and the volley or smash to put
it away for a winner. Three strokes and
no suspense. Only monotony.
There's also little tennis! Fred Perry
put a stop watch on a recent Wimbledon
singles final and totted up his clockings
afterwards. In three sets the ball was in
play for only 1R minutes! The time of
the average “rally,” Perry found, w 7 as
three seconds.
Contrast that with the times when
rallies were rallies and tennis was tennis.
Then an average rally lasted 10 or 11
seconds and the crowds loved it, gasped
and roared, as the advantage swung one
way and then the other, as players made
spectacular drives and recoveries, and at
times rallies went longer and the ball
crossed the net 20-30 times.
There is little grace or beauty in the
modern boom-boom game. There are
no great stroke-makers. The exponents
of serve-and-volley do not capture our
imagination as Vines did with his raking
forehands, Budge or Crawford with their
classic backhands, or Perry with his
sweeping forehand. The strokes of
modern players may be efficient but they
are not remarkably memorable.
What is to be done to restore tennis?
Three main suggestions have been made
by leading players and officials.
The first, advocated by Kramer, is
the introduction of a one-bounce rule.
The ball would have to bounce at least
once on each side of the net before it
could be hit on the full. This would hold
back the net-rushing server.
The second major suggestion is aimed
at taking some of the sting out of the
server, by shortening the service court,
by making him serve from a line behind
the existing baseline, or by allowing him
only one ball instead of two. In the first
case the server would not be able to serve
quite so fast and the receiver would be
closer to the net. In the second variation,
the server would have further to cover in
a rush to the net. In the third case, all
the service eggs would be in the one
basket.
Fred Perry has urged that the com-
pression of the ball be lowered which
would have the effect of slowing the
service and resulting shots.
Kramer’s suggestion would appear to
be the best. It does not tamper too
drastically with the giame as it stands.
Kramer’s troupe has tried out the one-
bounce rule and found the crowds like
it. It restrains the server and gives the
receiver the first chance at volleying. An-
interesting speculation is whether two
bounces on each side before volleying
might not be even better in restoring
rallies.
A fourth approach is possible but
probably not practicable. That is to slow
up the surfaces of courts. The power
game functions best on fast courts such
as grass or concrete. It is not quite so
deadly on slower surfaces such as en-tout-
cas, favored on the Continent. There the
big serve is not so deadly, the rallies are
longer and more exciting.
An interesting speculation is that, with-
out making any changes in the rules, the
power-game may become less important.
If the Davis Cup is taken by Italy. Spain
or Russia, the Challenge Round will be
played on slow courts. And the Cup may
stay there for years.
JOHN SIDNEY
LOOK BACK AT ANGER:
"Hop" on "The Bulletin" in Melbourne.
IN THE “AGE” OFFICE
DAVID SYME (to his minion ): "Ah, Mr Dryvler! Be kind enough to let me have
another leading article on THE BULLETIN, ridiculing the idea that anybody reads such
a paper. Make it 'ot - ’ot, do you hear, sir!”


ABORIGINAIITIES
What happened
to Edmonds?
WHERE is Alan Edmonds? Are his
w bones whitening under an acacia
, , . • a * ~ Ai.Vrx
bush in the semi-desert south of Alice
c • o u u fr,r
Sprmgs? Or has he gone into h.dtng for
reasons of his own?
Edmonds, a skinny, bearded, little (a
few inches over sft), wandering English
journalist turned up in Darwin about the
middle of last year. He was travelling
around the world ; planned to go to
Sydney, then on to Canada.
'A retiring type, he usually shunned
company. Yet. on occasions, he could be
convivial over a glass of beer, and he
was well thought of at Larrakeyah Army
Barracks, where he took a temporary job
as a steward in the officers’ mess. He
made a few Darwin friends, then left
suddenly about August without telling
any of them.
How he travelled down the track is
not known. He probably hitchhiked. He
turned up in Alice Springs, where the
last time he was seen, according to police
investigations, was September 7. Back
in England his father received a post-
card from him, dated September 11,
which read: “Catching the 11.45 a.m.
camel for Adelaide.” After this cryptic
message nothing more has been heard of
him.
Up to this date his father had been
receiving letters regularly, and worried
by the silence he contacted the Australian
police, who began a search of all States.
They have found no clue at all. There
seems no reasonable explanation why,
if he is alive, he has not contacted his
parents. He is known to be an omnivor-
ous reader of newspapers, so there is no
chance that he would not know of their
anxiety.
One police theory is that he may have
set out to hitchhike from Alice Springs
to Adelaide. This road is well used
during the winter tourist season, but
during the hot summer months —when
Edmonds would have set out —it is
almost deserted. Temperatures rise as
high as 120 degrees, and a full day in
the sun without water would kill most
men.
Edmonds told no one where he was
going or when he was leaving, thus break-
ing a time-honored precaution among
Territorians. He may have been over-
come by the sun, wandered off the road
and died in the acacia desert. On the
other hand, he may have decided to dis-
appear, for his own reasons, and be now
watching the search from afar.
The latest development in this strange
story is the recent arrival in Australia of
a Mrs D. Maugher, who says that
Edmonds's father has asked her to
resume the search. She said she would
make inquiries in Adelaide and Alice
Sorings, but the trail is cold, and
Northern Territory police believe she has
little chance of turning up anything new
where their trained investigators have
failed.
K. G. WILLEY
Sugar Town Story
'T'ully, North Queensland, is just
another sugar town now ; about 50
miles south of Innisfail, nestling at the
foot of Mount Tyson. But, unlike other
sugar towns, when it started it shot up
out of the jungle like a mushroom.
It was wild and woolly—and wet. I
mean, with weather and grog.
In 1924 the district was primeval
jungle. Then it was chopped up into
50-acre blocks, balloted for by returned
soldiers. All sorts and conditions of
men flocked there. A calico town sprang
up ; then, as the jungle gave way to
the onslaught, a sketchy collection of
humpies, huts and wooden houses. As
in a gold rush, everyone went there to
make a pile and then get the hell out
of it ; so anything in the way of a roof
over your head was good enough for
the time being.
Moonshiners made grog in the hills
and sold it to the navvies for a pound
a bottle. Methylated spirit. Worcester
sauce, black tobacco and iodine was the
recipe for Tully rum, and quite a few
cases of D.T.s were carted away to
Goodna Asylum.
A temporary bar was opened, and it
was on for young and old. The publican
carted silver away to the bank in kero-
sene tins. Old navvies wouid stand out
in the rain, knee-deep in mud, stripped
to the waist, howling out challenges to
the world.
It never stopped raining. All you could
hear in the silent scrub besides the
ch’k of the axe was the call of the whip-
bird and the drip of the rain. The sun
seldom came through.
In 1925 the mill was completed, and
canecutters stormed in to harvest the
cane. They were wild and militant and
of all nationalities. They struck at the
drop of a hat for anything they wanted
—and got it, for their lot was harder
than in any other district. The cane was
planted between logs and stumps and
was full of stinging-tree and snakes.
There was no chance of burning the
cane because of the rain. And climbing
into wet clothes before daylight and
slithering out to the paddock knee deep
in mud wasn't even funny.
The town grew. Concrete buildings
rose. The main street was concreted so
that you could walk across without
bogging to the knees. Motor cars
appeared, although they were a dead loss
most of the time off the main street,
even with chains. The roads were just
tracks half under water. The best means
of transport was a push-and-pull on the
narrow-gauge tramline or a bogey with a
motorbike engine.
With the canecutters came the parasites
and profiteers. Gambling dives were
opened and kept going day and night.
Feuds started between rival game-


keepers. There were shootings and some
dynamiting. A woman shot her lover
dead with a shotgun and got away with
it. A farmer was garrotted in broad
daylight and robbed of the gang’s pay
—£4oo. Shopkeepers sent their prices
sky-high six bob a dozen for eggs,
three bob for a cabbage. A hospital was
opened and immediately filled with cases
of sprue, dengue fever, tetanus and
broken limbs. The only doctor’s surgery
was like a butcher’s shop with victims
of the cane knife, the axe and the short-
fused fish-bomb.
On a Saturday night during the crush-
ing, Tully was a wild-west town. The
two pubs had counters sft wide —barri-
cades to protect the barmaids from the
sex-starved canecutters. To get a drink
you had to fight your way through the
doors and bellow at the top of your
voice. At 8 o’clock the town band would
strike up, and the drinkers would surge
out to dance or fight in the street while
a posse of police cleared the bars. Then
the weekend bars would open at the back
of each pub, and the stables were full of
drunks lying in dirty wet straw. A man
was employed on Sunday mornings to
clean up the broken glass in the street,
and whatever he got for it he earned.
About a mile from town on the fringe
of the scrub was the red-light district—
a row of dwellings ranging from sapling-
and-bag humpies to fibro and weather-
board cottages.
With each season as the jungle receded
the weather improved. Gradually the
logs were burned off and the stumps
grubbed so that the land could be culti-
vated. Good houses were built; families
grew ; industry apart from cane-growing
“Do you think I'm MADE of honey?"
was commenced. On a recent visit I
met a former acquaintance who’d made
good with timber mills. He was hauling
cane with three horses when I knew him.
Now he’s worth £lOO,OOO. I also knew
two Russians who started making furni-
ture from the valuable timber up there.
Now they’re in a big way in Sydney.
Today Tully is quiet and civilised with
good roads leading to all parts of the
district and a normal climate. And the
Tully canecutter is a respectable married
man instead of a vagabond adventurer.
LES SUCH
That Was the Country
Was this a judgment? Wayside pub;
three bullockies drink N.Q. “Called Back”
rum, but No. 4 has lemonade. Girl,
fumbling with wire, lets cork bang into
his eye. Immediate effect relieved with
curse-cure, but at camp the man becomes
insensible and never comes-to. Post-
mortem. A small artery on the brain
ruptured by the sudden blow.
— “Bulletin," October 5, 1901.
Segenhoe, near Scone (N.S.W.) , a
station, in its way one of the historic
spots of Australia, and probably the first
settlement of the Hunter River, was
recently cut up and sold by auction. It
was abandoned in the old convict days;
and when, later, a party of pioneers came
across it, the only living thing on it
besides cattle, was an old convict ser-
vant, who was a jabbering imbecile and
could give no coherent story. Many
queer yarns are told of Segenhoe. It
has a fortress-like homestead, guarded by
cannon of ancient type. The old triangle,
where the convicts were flogged, is still
standing. Another relic is a marble
bath, which, the legend says, was filled
with milk every morning by convict ser-
vants, and in this the squatter’s wife
took her morning dip, the milk being
afterwards served out to the convicts. Her
ladyship is said to have been particularly
beautiful, though not as particularly
chaste, and later became a reigning beauty
in London. A little Segenhoe history
was once published, but was sup-
pressed; a N. S. Wales solicitor has many
interesting documents of Segenhoe of
100 years ago, which may one day see
the light. — “Bulletin," September 28, 1901.
At Wood's Point (Victoria) there used
to be no barber, and Cockney Joe would
give anyone a shave gratis on Sunday
morning. It was a dry summer, and as
Joe’s hut was on a spur, there was no
water. Steve Wilkins drops in for the
usual, but starts when he sees Joe spit
on the soap. But Joe, a real, refined
gentleman at heart, explains it away.
“I never like” (this with some dignity)
“to spit on a man’s face.”
— “Bulletin," October 12, 1901.
A Plague of Dogs
K.G.W.
“T'VOGS. Dogs. Dogs. That’s all I hear
wherever I go,” complained Harold
(“Tiger”) Brennan in the Northern
Territory Legislative Council. “We all
know the natives love dogs. Everybody
does. I love dogs myself. But there's a
limit.”
Mr Brennan was letting off some steam
about the plague of dogs which haunt
native camps all over the Territory.
He told the council that everywhere he
went cattlemen complained about the
number of dogs on their properties. In
his own electorate of Elsey, Elsey station
had about 300, but other places had
even more. Elsey was preparing to build
stockmen’s quarters, he pointed out. And
what was the point of that if wandering
dogs were going to discolor the verandah
posts?
When he claimed that the law created
by the Welfare Branch, limiting unregis-
tered dogs to one per native, was net
being policed the Director of Welfare,
Mr Giese, replied: “Mr Brennan knows
what happens if anybody goes within 50
yards of a native camp with a rifle.” Mr
Brennan did know. He said : “Yes. They
go bush with their dogs.” Mr Giese
agreed, adding that destroying dogs was
a matter for the police, though Welfare
helped where possible.
Despite the debate, and the law which
required natives to register dogs, the
odds are on the natives maintaining the
status quo for a long time to come. In
Central Australia particularly they use
dogs to keep them warm on cold nights.
Dogs are their companions and hunting
assistants.
But they are a problem. Experienced
doggers have warned repeatedly that the
huge native dog population aggravates
the dingo menace. They breed with
dingoes and produce packs of savage
cross-breeds which roam the Territory.


m
H :
\
Failure
Arrival of the magnificent new P. and O. liner
“Canberra” in Sydney Harbour marks a milestone
in shipping between Britain and Australia.
There is always something inspiring about a
good ship taking the sea on her maiden voyage.
But this 45,000-ton masterpiece of modern marine
engineering will have a special appeal to
Australians —and not only for the elegant sweep
of her lines.
Her construction, in the high tradition of
shipbuilding for which Britain is famous,
represents a £l5-million investment in the
future of our country as a central link in the
Britain-Australia-Pacific run to North America.
For myself personally the appearance of the
new “Canberra” has a particularly warm interest,
for she was built in the Belfast yards of Messrs.
Harland and Wolff, whom I have had the honour
to represent in Australia for over twenty-five years.
In 1958 I visited “Canberra” in the making
at Belfast, and even then she was a most imposing
spectacle. Through my friendship with Sir
Frederick Rebbeck, chairman and managing
director of Harland and Wolff, and his son Dr.
Denis Rebbeck, deputy managing director, I was
able to see the marvellous detail of this largest and
fastest British ship to have been built since the
“Queen Mary” and “Queen Elizabeth.”
“Canberra’s” coming will add, too, to the
already rich history of shipping between Britain
and these shores —a history that covers passenger
liners, merchantmen and ships of war. One of the
vessels built in the Harland and Wolff yards was
the original H.M.A.S. “Sydney,” which sank the
German raider “Emden” off Cocos Island in
World War I.
Another touch of history is in the fact that
this great new liner bears the name of the gallant
Australian cruiser lost in the Battle of Savo Island,
in the Solomons, in August, 1942.
Official permission was sought and granted to
enable her to carry the name of our national
capital, in compliment to the country she is set now
to serve so handsomely and well.
//
v).
y
Feiffer
i mr A
6\U AMI I
l 01W
net? TH 11066
AMP sue
RSticte
HP AMP
WHAT PA
i m ?
I SM-
• im
k AW tiW'
I
1 MiAWti
| 4HIP W
| i m
I izmw
ffoM IT."
OO I MF6T
ANOTHER
v 6|Rl AMP
SHft
I (?lfF£(?£MT
I AMP 1 0M
/§ HFP THIM66
I amp sne
r i?6T6TTe> Mt
amp mr
po 1 m? ,
x m-
AW htfW
mwmp
dor it m
m tur^o
TH6IJ l A Muo
6i(?i moh m
vetf M6X
i m m
ANI>
m Mew
H 6 AWP
U)HAT oh
mr w /
r m ? &
i m~
* THIA IMA6
AM pNHFAPtHM
f^LATiOM^HIp
6UT IT HAM
6IV6M MT
!MAl6HTggsi/]|)S
TIMe AFT6f? TIM 6 fOUomb EACH
mecrn i Ml meif t'M
U)l%£ lk) KM666
I'M IK) em f? : ;
ieMce im
Ik)-DEPTH
t'\ie comt re look
(5(0 hh M
mam
of rue -


The Red Page
Shifting Hearts
By LINDSEY BROWNE
The Shifting Heart, Richard Beynon.
Angus and Robertson. 15s.
The Piccadilly Bushman. Ray Lawler.
Angus and Robertson. 15s.
There are a good many more differ-
ences between these two Australian
plays than the patent one showing out
from the authors’ basic att tudes, Beynon
with his passionate denunciation of his
homeland’s cruel and irrafional contempt
for people of the Old World, and Lawler
with his glib, splenetic denunciation of
the Old World’s contempt for Australia
and Australians.
Probably the greatest difference is that
where Beynon argues his case with deep
pain and compassion through characters
who are all of them to some degree lov-
able, even in their faults, Lawler's case
is a somewhat personally vengeful thing
of nettled irritability projected through
characters who are mostly not at all
lovable, even in their virtues. The one
play is quite expertly written out of love ;
the other is quite expertly written out of
malice.
And there is, of course, that other big
difference —the difference that where
Beynon’s play is in the recent slum back-
yard tradition of Australian playwriting,
much to the discomfiture of Australians
who think urban Australianism expresses
itself just as much at Toorak or Pymble,
Lawler rebels against the tradition (partly
of his own making) by setting his story
in the gilded sun-catching Vaucluse
palace of a boardroom bigwig.
More subtly, there is another differ-
ence between the plays. Where Beynon’s
backyard-full of Collingwood Italians
have the appearance of generating the
tragic story that envelops them, so that
the author’s protests emerge out of action
itself without his stepping in editorially,
Lawler’s people often have the appear-
ance of being forced to fit the argument
that the author wants to make.
This last distinction between the two
men’s procedures becomes much more
evident from a reading of the plays in
these attractive new volumes than ever
it was from the stage productions of the
two works in Australia over the last few
years. Too many moments of shrillness
in the dozen quarrelsome moments of
“The Shifting Heart,” as presented on the
stage here, gave the impression that
Beynon was forcing his points too hard,
whereas, in the reading, his action
develops cumulatively and logically in a
way which does not suggest a playwright
getting in the way of what the action has
to say. Against that, the purring smooth-
ness of stage presentation of “The Picca-
dilly Bushman” helped to gloss over
many of the rather flimsy Lawler artifices
which emerge from the reading.
The one great resemblance between the
plays —and it’s a device which has been
used dozens of times by playwrights
elsewhere when they have had some for-
midable social argument to discuss —is
their way of placing opposite sides of
the argument with the partners in a mar-
riage and so tying the contention in with
the emotional traffic of husbands and
wives. Beynon’s use of the device rings
a good deal truer than Lawler’s.
It is never very difficult to accept as
truth the situation in which Beynon’s
Italian girl, married to a dinkum Aussie
who is embarrassed by his “dago” con-
nections, feels a humiliation so deep and
protesting that she will argue the mar-
riage itself to the brink of ruin. It is
often quite difficult to accept as truth the
situation in which Lawler’s Australian
girl, married to a would-be-Pommy-
Australian who loathes his native land,
would feel his attitude to be a marriage-
wrecking contempt for her homeland-
loving self. But Lawler works, often
ingeniously, to make the idea acceptable
—and it is this ingenuity of his in manipu-
lating Aussie resentment of Pommy
patronage into dramatic collision which
is the play’s greatest call for admiration.
Lawler’s central character is an Aus-
tralian actor who has succeeded in Eng-
land, largely by concealing everything
that he can of his Australian origins, and
the man has prospered as he wished to
prosper in his determination to be
accepted as an “Englishman.” That was
his objective. He achieved it. He even
appears highly pleased with himself for
having done so, and with having
“betrayed” his homeland. Because of
that nobody can readily believe the
climactic outpourings he delivers in the
third act —about the anguish of being
an expatriate who hates his own country
and cannot win acceptance in the country
whose admiration he does hanker after.
This scene is an uneasy Lawler trick to
create circumstances in which the wife
will want to stay with her husband
because, after all, his predicament is
more pitiable than her own.
But no one will doubt the anxieties of
the expatriate Italians who set out to
celebrate Christmas in their slum back-
yard, and have blood and death and an
agonising birth presented to them for the
occasion. The young Italian wife, whose
genial Italian brother has been getting
into scuffles of the kind that finally kill
him, puts the torments of this kind of
expatriate quite simply and movingly:
“Do you know why he fights? He fights
because he is alone ; he's alone because
he’s different. Do you understand what
that means? To be alone....and all
around you [Australians among dago-
resenting Australians] you’ve got minds
that think like yours.”
Beynon’s play could have been a
greater achievement. His beginning, with
his old Italian poppa and momma being
cosily lovable, suffers from the fact that
his two characters are stereotypes.
Americans like Billy Gilbert and Elsa
Minciotti have projected just these very
dear old characters dozens of times in
various films and plays. Moreover, for
all the emotional stress and protest that
come to Poppa with his son’s death, it
is not readily believable that he would
suddenly turn on his Australian son-in-
law as the representative of all the anti-
Italian Australian feeling that has killed
his son.
There is much justice, as comment on
Australian conditions, in what Poppa has
to say in this last act. As he says to his
son-in-law: “I want you to have pain
inside you so big that the shame [of being
able to weep] don’t matter. ’Cos then,
only then, maybe, you’ll understand.”
But, for all its justice, there is a spirit
of meanness and vengefulness in Poppa’s
attitude which seems to fit falsely on the
generous Poppa of the earlier scenes.
Lawler, who has much to say about
Australians’ disbelief in any art until
England has approved it, may find sar-
donic amusement in the fact that the
paper flap of his book quotes press
opinions on “The Summer of the Seven-
teenth Doll.” All the quotes are from
the English press!
Sydney and the Bush
The Interloper. Noni Braham. Heine-
mann. 20s.
in' very so often one is forcibly reminded
of the truth of that hoary platitude
about the deceptiveness of book covers.
I confess that, confronted with this one,
a not particularly artistic effort depicting
a girl looking through the stockyard
fence at stock and a stockman, I quailed.
The girl wears a shady hat! and gloves!
She simply has to be unhappy in what-
ever part of the outback is depicted here.
To some extent the book is what one
guessed. Margaret Kennedy, a particu-
larly fastidious and delicate blonde girl
from Sydney, marries (on the rebound
from an unfortunate affair, and at rather
short acquaintance) Colin, a cattleman
from the Territory, who has a new job
managing a Gulf-country cattle station
owned by a large, impersonal English
company.
Some of her early problems are
common to people who live in “company”
houses anywhere—town or country. The
dreariness of standardised furniture and
house-planning which infuriate Margaret
can be heard echoing any day from the
mouths of countless bank-managers
wives, army wives, sugar, steel and oil


company wives. No city office ever
painted the buildings to suit anyone ; no
outgoing wife ever left the house other
than “in a state.” For Margaret Ken-
nedy this sort of frustration is intensi-
fied by her loneliness, and it begins to
become more than simple frustration
some six months after her marriage, when
Colin is away from the station for some
weeks, and her only “friend” is an
elderly, competent woman cook; her
chief interest a very appealing black baby.
The events that occur —the accidents,
deaths, the incidences of drunkenness and
insolence and so forth have been written
of in many books. Yet something makes
“The Interloper” genuinely interesting
and moving and what this something is is
not easy to assess.
It is not the prose—Noni Braham writes
well, but not memorably. Is it the
characters? Partly, for they are often
interesting in themselves and are shown
rounded and with considerable insight,
but for all that one has met them before
too —as recently as in “Steak for Break-
fast,” as long ago as in “We of the Never
Never.” Is it the interest, then, in the
conflict between the station managers
and the impersonal head office men? Is
it the enthusiast, Miller, who is trying to
implement the company’s plan and fail-
ing badly—is it Miller who is the real
central figure of the book and does he
lend it its one unexpected touch? This
is indeed a part explanation and at least
a good clue. For what Norn Braham
has done, and what most writers fail to
do, is to realise, or to make us realise,
that places like these cattle stations, for
all their remoteness, their self-sufficiency,
are nevertheless part of our complicated
society. The author discloses the almost
irreconcilable points of view that exist
between her company and its managers—
whether her picture of this company, or
rather of its inhuman managing director
is a fair picture I do not know, and I do
not know how typical the picture is, but
in this country the conflict between Syd-
ney and the Bush is very actual and ex-
tremely ramified; too complicated for
one novel; too complicated for Colin
Kennedy who resigns from the company
to return to his father’s even lonelier,
but at least independent, state in the
Territory.
I do not think “The Interloper” is a
great book in any sense of the word, but
I do suggest that it indicates a fresh,
contemporary approach to writing of
Australia. Our writers are constantly
being chided for living in the city and
writing of the bush, as if, with our
economy, the two ways of life are really
divisible. Here is an attempt, and an
entertaining and readable attempt, to
weld those opposing viewpoints into
genuine social analysis. It will be un-
fortunate if that horrible dustjacket dis-
suades readers from exploring Noni
Braham’s achievement.
NANCY KEEING
Sputniks and Press Releases
Recent Advances in Soviet Science.
Harrap. 41s. 6d.
“ M AY I nominate a r Man of the Year
Commander Alan Shepard, the
first man in space. As an anti-Communist
Maltese I do not believe that the Com-
munists have yet sent a man into space.”
This is a letter appearing in a recent
issue of “Time.” It is an unusually frank
expression of an attitude which is very
widespread and which caused such an
emotional upheaval in America when the
first sputnik appeared in the skies.
That such an attitude is ridiculous,
even dangerous, in these times, should be
evident to the most bigoted cold warrior.
Anything which will break down such
extreme prejudice will not only help to
lessen tensions by increasing understand-
ing between the U.S.S R. and the West
but it will enable us to profit from the
results of Soviet science. It v/ill also
enable us to adopt a realistic attitude in
thinking about international politics.
The itle of this book immediately
attracted my attention ; there is a very
real need for a book covering this field
on a broad front so that one can get an.
accurate, bird’s-eye view of what is hap-
pening in the field of Soviet science.
Such a book should appear annually
as do such works as “Recent Advances
in Physiology,” etc. However, the book
under review is most unsatisfactory from
this point of view. It is a curious collec-
tion of press releases issued by the Soviet
Embassy in London. There is no real
order about the publication, there is a
certain amount of repetition and the
presentation of the subject is extremely
unbalanced.
I do not believe that one can separate
pure from applied science in any satis-
factory way, but I find it hard to believe
that one can justifiably include a chapter
on the Yakut Diamond Industry or on
Soviet Architectural Style in a book deal-
ing with recent advances in science.
Quite apart from irrelevant material the
book suffers from the serious dis-
advantage that the aspects of science
covered are those which happened to
justify a press release at one particular
time. Naturally there were many press
statements when the sputniks took to the
skies. This was a series of remarkable
triumphs over nature and a tremendous
amount of valuable as well as exciting
material was sent back from space by
these almost incredibly complex space-
ships. However, many important
advances in science took place over the
same period of time in other departments
of Soviet science.
This book devotes 30 per cent, of its
space to sputniks and, for example, 1 per
cent, to automation, a field in which the
Soviet Union has made quite remarkable
advances in recent years. Some notable
work has been done in astronomy by
Russian workers and some fine new-
optical and radio telescopes have been
constructed. Only \ per cent, of the book
deals with astronomy.
The information on the satellites is
not only interesting but clearly presented.
There is some duplication because the
various press releases overlap somewhat,
but I find myself overlooking this defect
because of the excellent story which is
told. However, when I turn hopefully
to Molecular Generators in Astronomy
THE DRIVEN
by
DONALD STUART
18/-
THE DRIVEN is the story of the droving of a mob of cattle from an Australian
station to the railhead. It is a story of power and sensitivity; the human characters
are two white men and three aborigines; the animal characters their horses and
the cattle.
Old John Napier, the boss drover, is a veteran of the first world war, a tough,
taciturn man, who commands complete loyalty from the three aborigines he employs.
He takes on a young man of twenty-six called Tom, and the five of them set
off to deliver beef on the hoof in the best possible condition and with the
minimum losses.
THE DRIVEN brings sharply to life the harshness of the Australian landscape,
the unspoken struggle between personalities, and, against the lowing and shuffling
of the mob, the companionship which comes to men through their dependence
on one another, brought about by the difficult job in hand and the loneliness of a
bitter countryside.
This deeply felt story will add to the author’s reputation, securely based on his
previous book, YANDY, the story of an aboriginal co-operative in north-western
West Australia, and the struggles of a group of aborigines to achieve independence
from the squatters.
Obtainable from all booksellers
Published by
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD., 296 Beaconsfield Parade, MIDDLE PARK, 5.C.6.
Victoria.


I find a brief account of a most important
development which to a non-physicist
would be unintelligible and to a physicist
would not be worth reading.
There is a very interesting chapter on
Soviet education which helps to explain
how science can develop quickly in that
country and a valuable discussion on the
organisation of the Academy of Sciences.
However, generally the book bears the
imprint of the dull press officer Science
is exciting , but there is little impression
of excitement in this book ; there is no
sense of the imagination of the men
behind the satellites or the radio tele-
scopes or the new developments in semi-
conductors.
W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Milton and the Modern World
A Critique of Paradise Lost. John
Peter. Longmans. 31s.
In a letter to his son written in 1752
Lord Chesterfield confessed that he
could not possibly “read our countryman
Milton through.” At the same time he
begged his son to keep his failing a
secret, “for if it should be known, 1
should be abused by every tasteless
Pedant, and every solid Divine in
England.”
It is well to be reminded, before con-
sidering Professor Peter's book, that 20th-
century critics have not been the first
to find fault with “Paradise Lost. ’ I
mention this because in his prologue
Peter has a good deal to say about “the
literary conservatism which mistrusts or
derides adverse criticism of an established
reputation,” and which "has been much
in evidence in discussions of ‘Paradise
Lost’.” It is true of course that in par-
ticular Leavis and Waldock (to whom
Peter is greatly indebted) met with
opposition for their examination of the
epic ; and that Eliot’s early views, sub-
sequently modified, seemed extreme to
some critics. But these facts should not
lead us to ignore others equally impor-
tant —that Dryden, Addison and Johnson
for example voiced objections to the
poem which have been echoed and ex-
panded by modern critics (including
Professor Peter), and that few critics
have expressed such unmodified rapture
as did De Quincey and Arnold.
Professor Peter would not go so far
as to say, with Blake, that “the reason
Milton wrote in fetters when he wrote
of Angels and God, and at liberty when
of Devils and Hell, is because he was
a true Poet and of the Devil’s party
without knowing it.” In fact he rejects
the Satanist view of "Paradise Lost,” and
further declines to attempt an explana-
tion of the poem in terms of Milton’s
beliefs and psychology. But his criticism
does centre upon Milton’s treatment of
God and the angels. It is to God’s
explanations of his purposes, and to his
behavior towards the fallen angels,
especially during the War in Heaven,
that Peter raises serious objections—
objections which form the core of his
criticism.
Briefly, Professor Peter’s argument is
directed both at Milton’s anthropomor-
phic representation of God, and at the
immediate result of this —the fact that
God is required to speak at some length
in defence of his actions. In choosing
to present God in this way, Peter argues,
Milton has “conveyed a most unfortu-
nate impression of uneasiness.” He has
invited, if not forced his readers, to
argue with the views expressed by God,
and even to find God himself an
unpleasant character. Most of the book
consists of very detailed analysis of the
way in which the principal figures in the
epic, God, the Son, Satan. Adam and
Eve, are presented ; and of the effect
which their speeches and relationships
have upon our acceptance of Milton’s
attempt to “justifie the wayes of God
to men.”
Professor Peter’s presentation of his
analysis is both precise and forceful.
There are few things more difficult than
to sustain closely reasoned argument
about specific points in a text without
becoming tedious. Professor Peter has
succeeded in this task admirably. His
illustrations and quotations are excellent,
and he has judged precisely when to
quote and when simply to refer his
readers to the text of the poem. In sur-
mounting the formidable difficulties of
presenting his material he is greatly
assisted by his lucid style, and particu-
larly by his ability to summarise pun-
gently (and often amusingly) passages
in the poem. This, for example, is an
extract from his analysis of the attributes
of God’s angels.—
On at least three occasions (vi, 19-20,
vi, 547, x, 227-8) angels are made to
announce what is already known to their
hearers, which makes them seem futile.
They are said to walk the earth in their
unseen millions (iv, 677-8), a statement
which everything else in the poem leads
us to disbelieve. And their conduct at
the time of the building of the Tower of
Babel, whatever Milton's Homeric and
biblical precedents, seems infantile and
undignified, like peasants giggling and
elbowing at a peepshow.
The mass of angels are seldom engaged
in anything more impressive than a song
and dance—Milton’s earnest assurance that
their harps are never out of tune (iii, 366),
for all these instruments’ acknowledged
instability, tends to make them not more,
but less impressive—and when Satan dubs
them “the Ministrelsie of Heaven” and
decries their servility (vi, 168-9) his words
seem all too apt.
Objections similar to these have of
course been raised before. And though
they may seem trivial out of context,
it is the accumulation of such details,
as Peter rightly claims, which in the encf
propels our sympathy in particular direc-
tions over the span of the whole epic.
He has certainly demonstrated the im-
portance of such particularities; and
the cogency of his arguments constantly
drives one back to the text to confirm
or deny his interpretations. And this,
From Verlaine’s
"Songs for Her”
Horrible night of insomnia!
Without the panacea
Of your sweet body beside me,
Without your mouth to kiss,
Even though so wily
And no doubt also faithless.
Without your mouth, that snare,
But so open when I dream there,
And which knows how to comfort me
With the same look and special tasting
Of a strawberry—and, sweet thing!
The gift of speaking plausibly.
And above all without the pentacle
Of your senses and the miracle,
Many and one, fruit and flowers,
Of your hard eyes, casting their spell
Hard and soft as you know well.
Good God! Terrible dark hours!
GEOFFREY DUTTON
At Sea
Place and object are unknown here—
where?
When I was a sailor, I was told at ->ea,
“See the golden sunset, in the sea and
air! ”
And I looked, and all was gold to me.
Then there came a blue day, and a
grey ;
And, “All the world is color,” I would
say.
“But place or object, there is nothing
there ,
Air is air. and water, just like air.”
When I was at sea. I knew so little
care ,
For I met nobody, and was not any-
where.
But the sea was blue, and the sea was
gold,
And sometimes red and silver. Old
And young alike all knew; "Out
there”
Was no place or object, but color,
water, air.
JOHN BLIGHT
The Prophet
All places are the same to him —-
The grey ibis and the wandering fluke,
The elegant egret in his white peruke
Who rule in swampland by the gully-
fall?
No. Hatter Blair who, blind and deaf,
Camps by his rusted poppet-head,
But speaks for all
Until the rains come down, un-
covering
The sluggard gold that’s lodged in
gravel bed,
The yellow leaf-gold and the dancing
grains
That weight the miner’s dish for pay-
dirt.
“It will be rain tonight,”
Says Hatter Blair
(Quoting his unread Shakespeare);
ibis and fluke make answer, anxious,
“Here?”
MARY FINNIN


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “I>” Box 2671, Sydney.
A service for readers. Tliat difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. .Moderate
fee only it successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print'
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Bos 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
Lord Chesterfield would have felt, is no
mean achievement.
Why then should one shut “A Critique
of Paradise Lost” with something of the
uneasiness about Professor Peter’s
analysis that he has about Milton’s God?
One trouble is that in spite of his intel-
ligent praise of some of the finest
passages in the epic, we are not really
shown the magnitude of Milton's con-
cept. Professor Peter might well retort
that anyone who reads his commentary
should be aware of this without being
told. But I think it important that a
critic of a work such as this should
show us his objections as it were in scale.
(Johnson, who found himself “harassed
and overburdened” by “Paradise Lost”
still managed to do this.)
Certainly Peter has described weak-
nesses and uncertainties which will dis-
turb any intelligent reader of the poem,
and these need to be revealed. But surely
in order to set its faults in perspective,
one also needs to assert its triumphs.
Significantly, Peter sees these as essen-
tially spasmodic—“ Satan’s early appear-
ances, the Garden, the Fall, the sudden
soarings in the verse, and the moving
celebration of Man's Spirit.” But is
there not more than this what one
might call the architecture of the poem?
And by this I do not mean its size, which
Peter regards as “itself an aesthetic
quality,” an odd view for a critic of his
intelligence to hold.
Peter’s failure to recognise a quality
in the epic as a whole comes 1 think
from his fundamental lack of sympathy
with Milton’s subject. It has often been
difficult for critics in the past to detach
themselves from the religious implica-
tions of the poem, and Professor Peter's
book shows that it still is. In fact, when
he objects to the arguments Milton gives
to God, to God’s statements about tree
will and predestination, to his treatment
of Satan and Adam and Eve, to his atti-
tude to the Fall, I have the suspicion that
Peter is not so much objecting to Milton’s
God, as to the God of the Old Testa-
ment, and to the arguments of Chris-
tianity. This belief is strengthened by
his remark in the epilogue that many
of the flaws in the poem have passed
unnoticed thanks to “an irreproachable
but misplaced [italics mine] respect for
the religion he [Milton] championed”;
and that “For an age like the present,
an age of anxiety, the epic’s value may
stem more from its flaws than its merits.”
But is this all that “Paradise Lost” has
to offer to modern readers? Can only a
believer see something more substantial
in it than occasional excellences? Or is
it possible that even a sceptic might be
moved by the total grandeur of Milton’s
conception, which sets out Heaven, Hell
and Paradise before us? Finally, has not
Professor Peter overlooked the signifi-
cance of Michael’s words of advice and
comfort to Adam on his dismissal from
the Garden of Eden? :
onely add
Deeds to thy knowledge answerable, add
Faith,
Add Vertne, Patience, Temperance, add
Love,
By name to come call'd Charilie, the soul
Of all the rest: then wilt thou not be loath
To leave this Paradise, but shalt possess
A Paradise within thee, happier fair.
This is Milton’s final justification of
God’s ways to men. In earned, rather
than given harmony is to be found real
happiness—a sentiment wholly appro-
priate to the poet who could not praise
“a fugitive and cloistered virtue.” It is
a positive message which one would
hope might stiff speak even to an age
of anxiety and scepticism. Professor
Peter sees "Paradise Lost” as a negative
stimulant, but we must be grateful to
him for confronting us yet again with
the stiff pertinent questions raised by
Milton's exploration of the grounds of
Christian belief.
LEONIE KRAMER
The Deep Dark South
All Fall Down. James Leo Herlihy.
Faber. 16s.
A ccording to the cover blurb Tennessee
Williams has predicted that
Herlihy will become “the most important
new writer since McCullers.” Indeed the
opening paragraph of this novel leaves
no doubt as to Mr Herlihy’s ability.
Here it is:
It is known that in every neighborhood
in the United States there is at least one
house that is special. Special because it
is haunted, or because of an act of
violence that took place there. Or there
are thought to be crazy persons living in
it. Or Communists. Or someone in it is
known to have served a jail term. All
children, good and bad, know these
stories and help to circulate them. Go
to any small child on the block and ask
him where such a house is located: he
will know. And if you question him on
Seminary Street, in Cleveland, Ohio,
chances are he will lead you to the house
the Williamses live in.
“All Fall Down” tells of these
Williamses: the father Ralph, an elderly
ex-Socialist agitator, real estate agent,
jigsaw addict, fairly heavy drinker ; his
much younger wife, Annabel, superb
housewife somewhat manque , Clinton,
who is fourteen when the book opens and
his elder brother, Berry-berry, who is
absent, address unknown, when the book
opens.
This Berry-berry! No one knows
where he is, everyone Suspects the Worst,
but they all want him back. The wicked,
even evil, the beautiful, cruel, clever,
fascinating and so-on-and-on Berry-
berry. Clinton has abandoned school
and mooches about the neighborhood
compulsively entering, in voluminous
notebooks, the conversation of his family
and acquaintances ; and the full text of
letters received by his mother, especially
those from her old and crippled friend,
Bernice O’Brien, mother of a beautiful
unmarried daughter in her thirties called
Echo O'Brien who tends her vintage
Dodge touring car most lovingly and is
a superb motor mechanic.
let us pause for breath. These people,
together with a Florida prostitute called
Shiriey who is more than kind to Clinton,
are- the chief characters in “All Fall
Down." Mr Herlihy writes about them
very beautifully. Every so often one
feeL he is actually saying something of
tremendous importance—but truly, he
never is. From whatever standpoint one
looks at it nothing in these pages ever
hangs together.
I do not think that Mr Herlihy is
postulating what old-fashioned psycholo-
gists termed a “moral imbecile” in Berry
berry, or. if he is postulating that, he does
not make it clear as does, for instance,
Steinbeck in describing the odious
Cathy in “East of Eden.” Berry-berry
hates and fears his mother (and well
he might, for saddling him with
his ridiculous name), but when one
strips off the beautiful writing and gds
down to taws Berry-berry is nothing more
or less than a nasty, vicious hoodlum.
Of course there is no objection to
making an absent hero out of a type like
this —at the end Clinton appears likely to
become a balanced person as a result
of realising fully what his brother is.
It is unfortunate that Echo O'Brien has
to die (by her own desire?) to further
this desirable end. Her fault was to
become pregnant to Berry-berry, and
Berry-berry just cannot face either
marriage or the idea of parenthood.
Plenty of books have similar un-
edifying and/or tragic themes and one
reads them and feels that the reading is
worthwhile —one immediately thinks of
“The Catcher in the Rye.” But so many
novels, especially those dealing with life
in the southern States of the union,
resemble this one in that the real theme
is decay—decay, whether moral, physical
or actual, and with depravity in its most
subtle forms, but without showing plainly
at all the reason for the decay, the degra-
dation. the psychic inertia. One cannot
relate anything in all of this to one’s
own experience.
But again this would not matter: one
reads novels sometimes for other reasons
than instruction or edification and accepts
them for what they are. It is the pretenti-
ousness of this particular school of
American fiction that invites examination.
“The most important new writer since
McCullers” —honestly now, how much
of Carson McCullers’s writing can any-
one in the class remember from the not
so long ago time when her books caused
such a furore?
N. KING


Shows
Prelude to Stravinsky
T fow will Australia’s two leading sym-
phony orchestras perform for genius
composer Igor Stravinsky when, next
November, he brings to Australia a mind
so demanding of precision in
music-making that he has
often professed a preference
for mechanical performers in-
stead of human ones?
If the question were only to be answered
from the evidence afforded by last week's
Sydney concerts under resident conductor
Tibor Paul, it would have to be a pessi-
mistic one —that this orchestra, most
extensively tested in Richard Strauss’s
virtuosic “Heldenleben,” is much too
imprecise and deficient in virtuoso flair
to prevent the long, ascetic countenance
of Stravinsky from becoming even longer
when he gets here.
This “Heldenleben,” a work which
must only be played for the fun of its
orchestral tricks, since its story line reeks
with ludicrous bourgeois smugness at
Strauss’s lowest level, did show an import-
ant advance in Mr Paul’s ability to grasp
and control a score of great complexity
and to keep it in shape—and the playing,
with every section of the orchestra ready
to be diligent and attentive, was far
superior to anything that might have been
expected from the coarseness of the
“Freischutz” overture and the “Emperor”
concerto accompaniment before it. But,
all told, the “Heldenleben” was not alive ;
this playing merely gave a careful in-
ventory of the inflammable Straussian
fuels and forgot to put a match to them.
MUSIC
But, luckily, there has been other recent
evidence out of which to determine that
this orchestra can go very close to meet-
ing many of Stravinsky’s probable re-
quirements of it . . . especially if, fol-
lowing the death last week of its director,
Nicolai Malko, the orchestra can resist
any tendency to the sort of disorder and
demoralisation which afflicted its work
after the departure of Goossens.
Goossens's orchestra could have given
certain pleasure to Stravinsky ; indeed,
Goossens has probably told him so,
since their professional relationship has
always been a close one. And the ability
of Malko’s orchestra to give great pleasure
will no doubt have been reported to
Stravinsky by Igor Markevitch, who con-
ducted it here last year in a spectacularly
exciting and authoritative performance of
Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring.”
And there have been several occasions
in recent seasons when Malko himself,
though usually an excessively sedate
maestro, argued the ability of this Sydney
orchestra to play Stravinsky - pleasing
Stravinsky, a notable Malko perform-
ance of the great composer’s “Oedipus
Rex” being especially memorable. If
Malko’s muse and allegiances seemed too
often to be trapped in the cobwebs of
turn-of-the-century romanticism and his
repertoire to take too many slices from
Miss Havisham's wedding cake, such
things as his “Oedipus” performance (like
his brilliant Shostakovich “first”) indicated
how convincingly modern he could be
when he felt like it.
Indeed, pianist Mindru Katz could
have profited considerably from some-
thing of the Malko touch (Beethoven was
one of his strong points) in the accom-
paniment to the “Emperor” last week.
So many orchestral passages were too
loud or too soft that Katz had to be
something of a miracle-man to make
even so big an impact on his audience
as he did make. Although he had his
piano so lightly tuned for top-treble
brilliance that it verged on tinniness
there could be no mistaking the largeness
of his rhetoric, his forceful sense of
drama, or his clear respect for propor-
tioned design. At that, though, there
was something quite rigid and unexpan-
sive in his temper. His adagio was much
too slow.
Decisions as to what is a correct tempo
can vary widely, and it is not uncommon
for different performers to sound
thoroughly convincing at the different
speeds they choose. Katz's adagio tempo
was not wholly convincing. And it is
just this sort of human failing, the falli-
bility of all of us in guessing at a com-
poser’s intentions, that perplexes Stravin-
sky. The intrusion of fallible human
beings between his music and its audience
is one of the reasons why he took up a
secondary career as conductor of his own
works. It is also the reason why he once
composed a piece for pianola, himself
cutting the holes in the roll so that there
could not be the slightest difference
between what he composed and what was
presented for an audience’s hearing.
He once told a London friend when the
bells of St Paul's Cathedral began to
ring: “That is really the ideal way to
make music. A man pulls a rope ; but
what happens at the other end is of no
importance to him. He cannot make the
bells ring more softly or more loudly ;
he cannot alter their rhythm, nor increase
nor diminish their tone. He has nothing
to do, except pull the rope—the bells do
“Please — it's no use, Edward !"


the rest. The music is not in him ; it
lives in the bells. The man at the rope
is the prototype of the ideal conductor.”
Stravinsky’s obsession with machine
precision (Cocteau said his “Les Noces”
ballet w/as like a racing car) is evident in
his own manner of working in his own
studio. His writing desk resembles a
surgeon's instrument case. Bottles of
different colored inks are at hand as he
writes his scores, themselves calligraphic-
ally unmatched in music, unless excep-
tion is made of the work of some medieval
monks. He has india-rubbers of various
kinds and shapes and all sorts of glitter-
ing steel implements: rulers, erasers, pen-
knives and a roulette instrument for
drawing five-line musical staves, his own
invention.
A page of Stravinsky manuscript score
displays writing in the different inks—
blue, green, red, two kinds of black
(ordinary and Chinese), each having
special purpose and meaning: one for the
notes, another for the text, a third for
the translation ; one for titles, another
for musical directions . . . The Stravin-
sky studio reminded one visitor of St
Thomas's definition: beauty is the
splendor of order. And the splendor of
order is precisely what Stravinsky, now
79, will hope to find in the work of our
Australian orchestras,
LINDSEY BROWNE
Old O’Casey
The Drums of Father Ned. Sydney
Waterside Workers’ Theatre.
In this farce of his old age Sean O'Casey
attacks not so much the Roman
Catholic Church as its usage in Ireland,
and pillories established interests as they
work against the work-
ing class and the Irish
youth.
The Mayor, a solicitor
and storekeeper, and the Deputy Mayor,
a builder, of a small town in Eire, good
Catholics but bad friends, are in cahoots
with a Belfast Protestant businessman
to import cheap Soviet wood for work-
ingmen's cottages and to rebuild the
church. The Parish Priest (Dennis
Doonan), at war with his organist
(Frank Curtain) over the introduction of
such advanced music as Mozart’s into the
church services, is also against importa-
tion of sacrilegious Red timber.
In the background the youth and
workingmen of the town are organising
the Tostal Play and pageant; in this
O'Casey invokes the ancient traditions of
Ireland as the basis of a rebellion towards
modem institutions inspired by a non-
THEATRE
existent “Father Ned.’’ Finally the Tostal
Players state their case against their
elders and employers, part of which is
that (sensation!) Mayor's son and Deputy
Mayor’s daughter have been sleeping
together. But maybe the reason the play
was banned in Ireland was the produc-
tion of a sculpture of the Crucifixion
to introduce the employers’ complaint
that workers were demanding to make
required religious observances in their
employers’ time.
The acting had enough ebullience to
please friends, but not enough style and
finesse to placate enemies. Arthur Rudkin
and John Armstrong as Mayor and
Deputy and Edmund Allison as the
Belfast businessman had a good scene in
which business gave w'ay to a fiery
religious controversy ; Nan Gow and
Patsy Roberton as the aldermanic wives
made amusingly clumsy efforts to cope
with curtsies ; and Goida Meehan as the
maidservant so persuaded the Belfast
businessman that he had compromised
and upset her that he gave her a number
of stage banknotes.
RONALD McCUAIG
Whoopee with Fry
/Christopher Fry is a poet of sounds,
not sense. Tt follows then that these
sounds may be pleasurable to an audience
only if we are given a fair opportunity
of hearing them, of distinguishing one
from another.
Now Barry Pree, recently responsible
for the Union Theatre Repertory Com-
pany’s most successful production in
years (from the box-office’s point of view
at any rate), has revealed himself to be
a playwright of action. (As for sense,
we may reasonably expect that to come
later when Pree’s unquestionable talent
can no longer be satisfied by the re-
hashing of second-rate Victorian melo-
drama.)
Unhappily, the union of Pree and Fry
at Melbourne’s Russell Street Theatre
has meant the usual compromise. At the
risk of being corny, one might say that
Free has caused Fry's inflammable lady
to jump out of the pan into the fire. And
the result is a spectacularly meaningless
theatrical experience, all whooping,
jumping and emoting just when
Fry’s marvellous word-weaving seems
to be getting somewhere. Aren’t
theatricals aware yet that Fry, along with
Eliot, has the reputation of hoisting
poetry? But the producer shows little
respect with as much distracting stage
movement as he can manage.
Contributing to the delusion that Fry’s
importance lies in what he does rather
than what he says, F. G. Parslow
(Thomas Mendip), Elaine Cusick (Alison
Elliott) and Eve Hardwick (as the lady)
all succeeded in investing their parts with
tremendous vitality, even if it was of the
wrong sort.
A. S. JORGENSEN
India Again
Tl/ell, it seems that the Indians have
* * scooped the pool at this year's Sydney
and Melbourne festivals, even if the fact
has not been officially recognised by the
handing out of laurels in the
manner so popular overseas.
Lindsey Browne (Bulletin,
June 14) cites “Two Eyes—
Twelve Hands” as a memorable contribu-
tion to the Sydney festival.
1 have no hesitation in according the
same position to Satyajit Ray’s "Jal-
saghar” (“The Music Room”). How
tenuous is the attempt to grasp another
civilisation! A taste of India is offered
us here by the man who is best known
to Western cineastes for his superb “Apu”
trilogy and it was, perhaps, predictably
rejected by many at the Melbourne
screenings in European impatience for
action and argument.
The contemplative, in this film, and
the unaggressive statement press upon
the habits of thought by which we func-
tion. Is “Jalsaghar" the tragedy of an
aristocrat deprived by nature of wealth,
wife and son? Does it set out to con-
demn an economic system or a philo-
sophic attitude? As you will. Ray's
achievement is great in presenting an art
unique to cinema—he directs the mind's
attention almost entirely through the eye
by a series of moving images and, through
them, reveals a story, a country, and his
characters, as explicitly as 100 minutes
of polemic. The film's beauty refreshes
the visual sense, its leisurely pace absorbs
one into the rooms of the decaying
mansion, to hear music, to watch a dance,
to feel the shadow of superstitions and
a fatalism which are foreign but all too
comprehensible.
The exotic reality is marred by an
awkwardly contrived death ride by the
rajah. Bshamber, but by this time the
great neglected house, the lives of its
declining aesthete master and his naively
loyal servants, the wide eroded plain of
the estate with its huge river which has
dealt death but no life, are impressed
indelibly on the mind.
FILMS/
A. S. J.
Meldrumism
Alan Martin, Arch Gnthbertson. Vic-
lorian Artists’ Society.
David and Hermia Boyd. South Yarra
Gallery.
Meldrumism at its triumphant best and
damn awful worst may be seen in
the work of Alan Martin. Nowhere is
this difference more marked than in his
portraits. That of Ida Mel-
drum, daughter of the Master
himself, is outstanding, a paint-
ing concerned with nothing but
tonal relationships, stated with clarity and
simplicity. The fact that the artist has
S art]


>stab'ist>»d 186, J
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jACKSON &
ptyltd
" V /'f RS
JacksonS O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1.1 YEARS OE SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN RVHLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
tried to say nothing about his sitter in
the manner so popular with this country’s
so-called “representationalists” —that is
in the conceptual sense, “sweet,” “digni-
fied,” “noble,” or what have you, has not
prevented him from creating, or rather
re-creating, a convincing illusion of per-
sonality.
This applies also to the portrait of
Pauline Ford, though here, with the bold,
broad exploitation of color and tonal
contrasts, we get more strongly the feel
of drama in a face —the heavy-lidded
eyes, the strong lips and grave expression,
a monumental image of passive passion.
Now turn to the portraits of Alan
Marshall, Frank Downes, and Dr
Frederick Jacka. Is “more ambitious”
the word? Here are people of recognised
public achievement, and something about
them has thrown the painter helplessly
out of gear. He paints not what he sees,
but what he knows (and there could be
no greater sin in a painter, according to
Meldrum). Detail (though not in the
Jacka portrait) is there, but the solidity
is not ; color, but not its life-endowing
relevance.
The paint strokes are more those of
the caption writer than the observer. We
are being told something about the
sitter, not shown. Alan Martin, just
once, has taken us back to the dismal
chambers of the old Royal Academy.
Meldrum turns in his grave.
Arch Cuthbertson eschews just about
everything that Martin stands for. He
is interested in color and form for their
own sakes. He refuses to be subservient
to his subject in the Meldrum manner.
Look first at his silk screens 26 and
27 to get the hang of his language, then
ask of him nothing more than an unself-
conscious affirmation of color, leaping
incandescently from a maze of glowing
backgrounds, lying back, limpid and
serene in an abstract pattern. Nothing
profound here, but an experience of pure
paint that will be remembered.
What David and Hermia Boyd have
done for their combined exhibition of
pottery they have done before, with
perhaps the difference that here and there
we come across evidence of a surer grasp
of technique which allows the materials
they are working in to play a more vital
role in the life and design of the final
product. When this happens their work
stands comparison with the best that is
being turned out of Australia's ever-
increasing number of art kilns.
A. S. J.
Rubinstein Prize
Helena Rubinstein Portrait Prize.
Hotchin Gallery. Perth.
Robert Campbell. Skinner Galleries.
Thirty-nine portraits were hung for the
1961 Rubinstein Prize. The general
standard was both higher and less un-
even than last year’s ; on the other hand,
once the winners were excluded, it was
a less exciting collection, with little
variety in concept or style.
First prize went to William Boissevain
for his portrait of Robert Juniper. An
excellent likeness, this is a large, free,
three-quarter painting of the artist
lounging at ease, executed in bold, well-
disciplined strokes that create a feeling
of happy insouciance, pale-red gaily pre-
dominating over greys and off-whites.
Robert Junipei himself won second
place with a small, almost pictorial full-
length of Rose Skinner, seated on the
floor, foreshortened, looking upwards.
Juniper has not shown figure work for
some time. The exquisite, almost fairy-
tale atmosphere of his recent abstracts
remains, but the remembered strength
and elegance of his drawing is a pleasure
renewed.
The judges made one commendation:
a powerful pastel head by Margaret
Bailey. Guy Grey-Smith showed an
interesting but controversial study of his
wife, a seated figure painted in hot
yellows and reds with a cubist tendency
that led one to think of stained glass
windows.
Robert Campbell, director of the
Adelaide Art Gallery, came over to act
as one of the judges for the Rubinstein,
and at the same time mounted a show of
his own Campbell is one of the few
artists not yet driven by inner or outer
tensions to seek beauty in abstraction or
release in myth-making. He remains
able to enjoy an earthly beauty. With
swift unfaltering brush and luminous
washes he captures the fleeting moment
of cloud shape and shadow, the instant
of sparkling dissolution in crashing waves,
the pleasure and relaxation of body and
mind when the wind is in the hair and
not even man is vile.
This was very evident in the 30 water-
colors exhibited. Remarkably even in
quality, painted with an almost singing
ease that becomes the prerogative of
constant endeavor and discriminating
skill, these ranged from Bondi Beach
and Sydney Harbor to Victor Harbor and
the Murray River. According to per-
sonal taste one chose cloudy country
afternoons in melting greens and greys,
or softly sunny days in city streets or
on the beach.
H.D.-B.


THE BLACK LIST
By
M. G. VINCENT
A dwarf is the butt of a country town joke that ends in the morgue
Tom Dalton was a dwarf with a big, bald head. He was
brought to the small canefield town by his Austrian
mother when he was five, and there he lived for 16
years. It is likely he would be there still, living in the
small white house, growing fruit and vegetables and delivering
them in his high spring-cart, had it not been for his Black List,
which he started to work out the day his mother was buried.
The first person to see the List was his neighbor, the
acidulous Marlene Roxby. After the return from the funeral
she sat by the side-verandah louvres, peering down at his
small white house among its bush-houses and trellises. Very
diminutive and strange it looked in that street of high stilted
houses.
With a sadistic delight she noticed that although the sun
had set, the cover was still off the big birdcage, and in it she
could see the blinded sunbird, its golden breast flashing in
the afterglow. She licked her lips, savoring a triumph. “A
fat chance that pet of hers has now she’s gone. Good riddance
to her and it, too.” She sat gazing with bitter satisfaction at
the bird which her husband had captured and then given away.
Just after dusk she took over to Tom a covered plate
of hot stew. This was no act of kindness ; simply a thin
cloak for her curiosity. “Tom! Tom!” she called shrilly at
the back door. When there was no answer she walked softly
to the small window and looked into the room.
On the scrubbed white table, immaculate as a peeled
almond, rested a small brown hand ; but more of Tom she
could not see because he was sitting on one of the high-backed
chairs. Level with the chair-top floated the soldier’s hat which
he wore from dressing to undressing.
She walked to the door and opened it. “Tom! ” she
commanded sharply, her twisted mouth gaping only at the
corners, so that the lips looked like a pair of split-pins outlined
with cyclamen.
Around the side of the chair appeared the huge head with
its pixie ears, the long dark eyes, curiously tilted, the Jewish
nose, and full red lips pursed as usual in their soundless
whistle.
Mrs Roxby marched into the room. She set the plate on
the table. “Here’s some tea. Eat it up while it’s hot.”
Tt was then that her flickering eyes noticed the black note-
book on the table.
She pounced on the book. He tried to grasp it, but she
jerked it up to her straining eyes. She saw, printed in large
but irregular capitals on the front page, two words: Rusty
Evans.
Under the name were three lines of slanting strokes.
“What’s this?” she demanded.
“They are black marks,” said Tom, with obvious satis-
faction. “There are forty-four marks there, and I’ve just
started. I’ve got a good memory. I’ll remember the lot. A
thousand I have to get. One for each trick he plays on me.
A thousand.”
“And then what happens?” She felt jubilant. Tom Dalton
had gone stark staring mad, and fulfilled her predictions. Her
only regret was that his mother was not there to see it. “What
are you going to do?” she persisted.
“Then —well, I suppose I’m to pay him back a thousand,”
said Tom doubtfully. “I suppose. Mum just told me to keep
the Black List. A thousand, I have to get!”
He jumped onto the seat of the chair and grabbed the
book before she was aware he was moving. She watched
him settle down once more, her gaze fascinated by the pencil
he held poised over the page.
“One for the time he cut me braces,” he shrieked joyously,
and pressing heavily down on the pencil scored another stroke.
TNuring the next few days Mrs Roxby was kept very busy.
She found so many eager listeners. Some dismally
envisaged tragedy for Rusty Evans. “It’s all very well the
men making a joke of it. They’re like a lot of kids when all’s
said and done. They can’t see any further than the end of
their noses most of the time.”
But Rusty Evans was having the time of his life. “God
Almighty,” he belched every time he told the tale, “when he
showed me that List I laughed till I bust a button clean off
me strides. Honest to God! Look, here it is!” The button
displayed, he would then lean confidingly over the counter,
one fleshy hand fondling his thick, glossy moustache. “Just
wait a few days. I’ve got a little bea-yuty coming up. A real
spanking bea-yuty!”
The “bea-yuty” was an advertisement in a paper printed
in the provincial City of Cullin, some 30 miles away:
“Housekeeper Wanted. Small comfortable home. Amiable
gentleman. Very good wages. All evenings free. Apply:
Thomas Dalton, Goodooleriiig.”
The postman delivered eight replies, according to his wife.
Strangely enough, they all came in the Wednesday’s mail and
were delivered that afternoon. What Tom thought about them
no one ever knew, but they doubtless cushioned the shock
of his receiving a visit from two flamboyant females at eight
o’clock that same night.
JVText day when Tom called in to gloat about the new black
mark, Rusty, who was walking from the milk-bar to the
paper counter, greeted him with a staggering wallop across
his shoulder-blades.
“You sly dog,” he bellowed. “Had two good sorts up
there last night, I believe!”
There were a couple of people in the shop: a young boy
sucking noisily at a milk-shake and the Presbyterian m nister’s
timid wife waiting to pay the paper account.
“Look at him,” invited Rusty. “A regular Don Wan. He
had two of ’em. And what a luscious pair!” He rolled his
eyes. “Heigh-ho. No bed till 4 a.m.”
Tom cried triumphantly, “That's another black mark.
Putting that ad. in.”
Rusty clutched at his hair with both hands and pretended
to moan. “No! No!” he cried.
He bent down to rummage under the counter. In a
moment he thumped a small chocolate box onto the pile
of papers. He took off the lid and displayed some liqueur
chocolates. “Ha!” he cried. “That makes you dribble, doesn't
it, Baldy? But I’m sure you’ll allow me to give this dear lady
one, won’t you? Allow me to choose it. Now which is it to be?
Ah, look! This one to match her pretty pink cheeks.”
Reluctantly Mrs Thompson accepted it, and in confusion
ate it. Baldy, his head on one side, riveted his eyes on her
trembling lips.
“There now! Delicious isn't it?” demanded Evans. He
shoved the box at Tom. “There, my boy They’re all yours.
All I ask is for you to sit at one of the tables so that I can
have the pleasure of watching your pleasure.”
Tom, with another glance at Mrs Thompson, sat down.
He selected a chocolate, tore off the wrapping and ate it.
Then selected another.


‘Take two at once, dear boy,” urged Rusty. “Don’t be
so dainty. Look, this is North Queensland, not a la-di-da
Canberra party.”
Mrs Thompson, on her way to the door, heard a strangled
cry and turned to find Tom on his feet, bubbles and chocolate
bursting from his spluttering mouth. “Oh, what is wrong?
What’s happened?” she cried, running to Tom’s side.
“Another mark!” screeched Tom, chocolate and foam
spraying over the distraught Mrs Thompson.
Evans, in a paroxysm of silent laughter, tears streaming
from his closed eyes, bent backwards and forwards, hitting
with a powerful fist at the pile of newspapers.
Mrs Thompson, in spite of her husband's advice, called
that night on Kenneth Roxby. As usual, at the first
sight of the incongruous pair, the involuntary thought came
unwanted, “How could he have got mixed up with her ?”
The thought of that initial compromise made her blush, and
she appeared gauche and near to tears, so that, in greeting her,
Roxby was unusually gentle.
He smiled pleasantly. “So you want me to do something
for you. Out with it. What is it?”
She said breathlessly, “Mr Roxby, I was wondering . . .
well. I’ve always felt that Tom and his mother had such
confidence in you ... I was wondering if you could persuade
him to keep away from Mr Evans. Or perhaps do you think
it would be best if he went away altogether, although 1
suppose someone else would tease him . . ? But there’s this
thousand; really, every day there’s one more, and they're
mounting up so quickly ”
The eyes she looked into with such beseeching trust
lightened with the amusement of an adult at a child, but the
gentle expression remained on the lips. After a moment
Roxby said, “He doesn’t want someone else, Mrs Thompson.
He wants Mr Evans. And 1 could no more keep him away
from Mr Evans than I could keep a bee away from a flower.”
“You're laughing at me,” she began. She blushed vividly.
“No, no, indeed I’m not,” was the earnest reply. “I
appreciate your interest in Tom, so I’m quite serious when
I assure you he is almost perfectly happy. The only thing
1 regret is that his mother fixed the deadline a bit low. Of
course, I’m sure she did not intend the marks to be retro-
spective. But if she’d fixed the figure at ten thousand, say!
Now that would be almost a life insurance for happiness!
For both Evans and Baldy.”
Mrs Thompson was obviously bewildered. Her anxious
eyes sought Mrs Roxby’s timorously, as though she expected
to find derision in them ; but instead she saw only anger.
Mrs Roxby said loudly, her eyes partly obscured by
twitching lids, “You won’t get any sense out of him, Mrs
Thompson, I’m telling you. He just won’t talk sanely about
Baldy to anyone now his mother's gone. It looks as though
Baldy is his sacred trust!”
This malignant attack completely unnerved Mrs Thomp-
son, who persisted in taking her leave, miserably incoherent.
As she went through the gate she distinctly heard Mrs
Roxby's shrill comment: “Even the parson’s wife knows you
hankered after her, that's easily seen. The mother of a freak
and you—the almighty university graduate!”
T>y midsummer, the Black List was absorbed into the town’s
vernacular. Newcomers were told, “Wait till you’ve seen
Baldy Daiton’s Black List.” The school children knocked off
Baldy's hat with fishing lines or balls, and cried out, “Put me
on your Black List, Baldy!”; and a commonplace threat used
by exasperated mothers was, “If you don't do as you're told,
I'll tell Baldy Dalton to put you on his Black List.”
By the end of December the Black List tally was 900.
Everyone took it for granted that Rusty was just as delighted
with this total as Tom was, and it was not till the early part
of January that the first sign was given of Rusty’s disquiet.
It was late one Saturday afternoon, and the cafe part
of the shop was crowded. Everyone was complaining about
the weather. The plaints could all be summed up in the one
anxious question. “When’s the rain coming?”
Rusty looked the most bedraggled of all: his joviality
vanquished by a morose scowl. He leant heavily on the bar
counter, staring into the street, one hand pressed against his
shirt, which was so transparent with sweat that every hair
on his chest seemed printed on the material.
Roxby, who had just bought some peanuts, looked into
the street to seek the cause of Rusty’s concentration. There
on the pavement stood Tom, the only immaculate figure in
sight. He had on a freshly laundered white linen shirt and
shorts, which made his limbs look almost black. The smooth
skin shone like a bush nut.
“Look at him!” yelled Rusty at last. “Look at that adver-
tisement for the Chinese laundry! Easily seen his mother
went to bed with a Chink now, isn't it? Stuck her nose in
the air at the good old Aussies! Too good for an Aussie!”
This was not the first time he had made this reference, but
never had he made it with spleen.
Tom, of course, hopped into the shop, waving his black
book. “Nine hundred and twenty-four!” he cried, like a
linesman announcing the score. “Nine hundred and twenty-
four ! ”
There were shrieks of mock fear, and laughter from the
patrons, none of whom realised that Rusty’s passion was
genuine. Only Roxby, leaning on the counter, heard him
mutter, “Let him make a bunny of someone else. Why should
1 provide entertainment day after day? Let someone else
try to brighten up this hole for a change. Why should 1 have
to put up with that blithering idiot on my bloody doorstep
every bloody day?”
A s Roxby strolled home he thought about Rusty’s outburst.
“This could have a very unexpected denouement,” he
thought pessimistically. “Funny I didn’t think . . . but he is,
of course —plain scared. There’s something behind all this.”
He stopped on the bridge, staring up the wide shaliovv
river to the bend where the wild guavas spread their fruit-laden
branches above the pebbly shores.
“Nine-hundred and twenty-five. Only seventy-five to go,”
intoned Tom’s voice, right at Roxby's elbow.
Roxby jumped. “Why in the hell must you always creep
upon people?” he demanded querulously.
“Nine twenty-five,” repeated Tom with satisfaction, quite
unperturbed by Roxby’s irritation.
Roxby asked slowly, his eyes suddenly keen, “What is the
first joke you're going to play on Rusty?”
For a moment Tom looked bewildered ; then, almost
resentfully, as though he had been rudely disturbed before his
normal waking hour, he said, “He’s not a thousand yet.
Seventy-five to go.”
During that night the rain came.
TAuring that first week of torrential rain, the Black List kept
pace with the rain gauge. Whether it was the coming of
the wet season or the unannounced arrival of an assistant
whom Rusty referred to as “me right-hand man” and “me pal
Angus,” no one knew ; but Rusty was all of a sudden filled
with an exuberant benevolence, and once more took up his task
of “keeping the town alive.”
The “bea-yuty” which earned him his 999th mark pro-
vided a lot of gossip. A note was delivered to Tom requesting
him to take his huge cat to the austere Miss Hawkins, who
(so said the note) was anxious to mate her ancient Tabby.
The actual conversation between Miss Hawkins and Tom was
painful, to say the least ; but, unfortunately, it was never
disclosed, as the eavesdropping Rusty was balked of his reward
by the roar of the rain. When he heard that the doctor had
been called to Miss Hawkins, and had prescribed a supply of
sedatives, he gave the paper pile such a walloping several
people complained of damage to their copy.
“God!” he kept bellowing. “What a bobby-dazzler it
must have been. That bloody rain!"
After the 999th mark the score remained unaltered for a
week. Tom began to fidget. He started going down an hour
earlier each afternoon to the shop. Instead of being annoyed
about this, Rusty was delighted. “Here’s me faithful shadder,”
he’d yell, banging his fist on the counter and savoring the
torture. “Nine-hundred and ninety-nine, isn’t it, Baldy? Don’t
say it’s still nine-hundred and ninety-nine? Look, where s that
toy tortoise I bought you? The one that squirts. Squirts


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine. Eire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATf&ON, Manager.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAUIIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
cabbage juice. Right in your face, doesn’t it, eh? Cabbage
juice, I said, didn't 1?” Every now and again he would
wheeze, “Cabbage juice,” and then thump the counter with
delight.
In the cinema interval on Friday night Rusty made the
important announcement which, by this time, the whole town
and district was awaiting with suspense. “The great day
tomorrow. Who wants to see Baldy get his thousand
tomorrow? Be at the station at two. Don’t be late. Baldy’s
great day tomorow.”
By a quarter-to-two the next day a crowd of people was
crushed under the small station awning, tossing the water from
their heads and faces like spaniels emerging from a stream.
Leaning against one of the hitching-posts was Roxby. He
held a huge umbrella from which the rain sprayed, curtaining
him as though he were a central statue, immobile, languid.
Only his eyes, dark and speculative, moved so that his face
was given a peculiar feline watchfulness. Every now and again
he turned to watch the gravelled ramp at the foot of which
paraded Tom, his anxious eyes scanning the winding road
from the town. Clad in his big Army cape and hat, he took
no more notice of the rain than the toad which squatted on
the station railing.
At five-to-two the town taxi stopped at the ramp. Out
wrestled Rusty, roaring lustily: “And here’s me faithful shadder
—and his shadder, too!” He leered at Roxby.
“What is it?” piped Tom, quivering. “Where’re you
goin'? Why’re you all dressed up?”
“To celebrate the thousand! Come onter the station.
You don’t wanta miss seeing the train! I wonder what’s on the
train! ”
He winked at the wondering porter and nodded at the
hovering stationmaster. Catching sight of Mrs Roxby on the
outskirts of the mob, he cried, “Make way for the lady !”
There was a peculiar intonation in his voice: the whip
of vindictive dislike that is disclosed only at the termination
of an unsought conspiracy. “Mrs Roxby must see everything.”
She faltered a little, her eyes suddenly wary.
Right behind her, Roxby hissed, “What have you had to
do with this?”
She did not have to answer the challenge of either of
the men, because just then the train whistle sounded shrill, and
the porter, throwing open a door, cried, “Come hon. Git
haboard all of yez that’s goin’.”
Rusty sprang into the carriage and slammed the door ;
then leant through the window wheezing with laughter and
swaying backwards and forwards as he slapped the stained
outside panelling. He gasped in great gulps, “There's your . . .
thousand . . . Baldy. Ain’t it a bea-yuty!”
The train began to move. He yelled out, “Be good to me
pal, Angus. Don’t drive him outa town, too.”
With an agonised shriek Tom jumped up at the door and
grasped the handle. There he dangled like a tumbler clinging
to a swing-bar. His hat fell off and his bald dome, pallid and
spongy from constant covering, gleamed like fungus in the
rain.
“I’m coming!” he yelled in a frenzy. “Let me in!”
As Roxby darted forwards, the door with Tom attached
swung outwards. Roxby’s out-thrust arms and head were
struck swiftly. Staggering, he fell into the wide space between
the high carriage and platform. In an instant he had
disappeared.
\lE7hen the train pulled up, Tom clambered into Rusty’s
** carriage without a backward glance or a thought for
Roxbv, and found Rusty with his head between his knees.
“Take me with you,” besought Tom. “I’ll do anything
you say. You can have a million! Just”
Rusty jumped to his feet, all his faintness forgotten. “Keep
away from me!” he yelled, obviously apprehensive. “Don’t
try any funny business or it’ll be the worse for you.”
As he spoke he raised his arms, and held them against
his eyes, so that he did not see the look of astonishment on
Tom’s face ; but he heard in Tom’s voice a pathetic bewilder-
ment.
“What funny business? I don’t know what you mean.
I don’t want to do anything except come with you. You can
have a million. Two million. I don’t care how many. Please
let me come!”
Rusty ventured a peep between his fingers. He looked so
wretched, so incapable of anything except a childish blubber-
ing, that Rusty began to feel a complete fool. He took away
his arms just as Mrs Roxby, dishevelled, drenched and
distraught, hoisted herself into the compartment.
“Murderers!” she screeched, demented. “You’ve killed
him. It’s all your fault he’s dead ”
Rusty blustered. “That’s enough of that. If anyone’s
responsible, you are. Running to me with a lot of tales that
looked like trumped-up lies! If I hadn’t been so fed-up I
wouldn’t have listened to you.”
“Lies, lies, all lies!” she shrilled. “Don’t listen to him,
Tom.”
“Like hell they are. Who heard Tom telling that bird of
his what he was going to do once the thousand was up. Burn
my eyes out, wasn't he? Like he did the bird’s. And what
about . . . ?”
She turned her back on him, and addressed Tom. “Don’t
believe him. He’s making it all up. You know as well as
I do a butcher-bird pecked out its eyes.”
Tom did not display any emotion at all. It was obvious
that the death of Roxby, the plight of Mrs Roxby, the blind-
ness of the sunbird were of no interest to him. He said in a
bored voice, like a child wearied by the senseless bickering
of adults, “That’s what you said. Must’ve thought we were
dumb.”
“Your mother believed me,” she screamed.
“Ho!” said Tom.
For an instant she stared at him, and then fell on him,
screaming and clawing. Rusty pulled her away and bundled
her out of the carriage as though she were a scarecrow. He
slammed the door, and held the handle. Through the window
he and Tom looked at her without expression or comment.
Even when the constable and the stationmaster led her, with
difficulty, into the office, the incongruous pair surveyed the
bedlam with a calm that was almost complacent.
Although the coroner’s finding was accidental death, and
both Rusty and Tom were exonerated from all blame,
there are still a surprising number of people in the town who
are convinced that Tom and Rusty were hand-in-glove right
from the beginning.
“It was all a put-up job between the two of them,” it is
declared. “And then when poor old Ken got killed they
hatched up that tripe about Mrs Roxby. Doesn’t seem fair
when you come to think of it. There they are down in
Brisbane making money hand-over-fist —and just look at Mrs
Roxby! Poor, defenceless, unfortunate woman. It’s quite
turned her mind. And what about Ken? If it hadn’t been
for those two idiots he’d be still here today, enjoying life.”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
UNEMPLOYMENT
Unskilled Labor Hit Most
Unemployment figures are
still gathering momentum.
Official statistics show that
102,559 persons were out of
work at the end of May, com-
pared with 14,500 unfilled
vacancies. This leaves the so-
called “net unemployment” at
88,059. Persons actually re-
ceiving relief cheques were
last said to number 45,110 —
an increase of 10,085 during
May.
Some 43,300 persons were
registered as unemployed at the
end of last November. It may,
therefore, be argued that the
impact of the Federal Govern-
ment’s credit restrictions has
more than doubled the unem-
ployment figures in the space
of six months. Of course
official statist cs do not tell
the whole story, as they exclude
some categories of retrench-
ments, such as certain classes of
married women, “temporary
workers,” etc. Moreover, some
unemployed workers are not
registered with the Common-
wealth Employment Service for
a variety of reasons. Official
statistics likewise do not reflect
the proportion of employees
on “short t me” or decreases
in overtime worked.
The actual situation is some-
what more serious than the
official figures indicate. In
absolute terms, the fall in the
employment level following
the credit restrictions is
already greater than unem-
ployment caused by the 1952-
53 recession. However, the
total labor force has increased
substantially during the last
eight or nine years, and direct
comparisons are difficult.
T> isi n g unemployment is
unpleasant, bringing
about not only the chain effects
of falls in the aggregate pur-
chasing power but also severe
social and political stresses. No
doubt rising unemployment
figures are disquieting. On
present indications it is un-
likely that there will be any
radical improvement in the
true employment position this
month or next.
One of the principal long
term aims of the Govern-
ment's economic policy is to
reduce excessive investment of
capital and labor in the non-
essential industries particu-
larly in the durable consumer
goods sector, including motor
vehicles, TV-receivers, radio
receivers, domestic appliances,
etc. —and transfer the produc-
tive resources released thereby
to the basic sector. It is eco-
nomically unsound, therefore,
to protest against some reduc-
tion in employment in the non-
essential sector. The trouble
is that, on the whole, the direc-
tion of the recession is becom-
ing general and has affected
some of the basic industries as
well.
npms raises the problem of
the basic sector's inability
to absorb labor released by the
consumer goods producers.
And this is a dangerous symp-
tom, which may indicate a
tendency to general decline in
the level of economic activity —
something the Government has
been anxious to avoid. Mr
Menzies's statement made to
the Liberal party members in
Brisbane iast week has again
stressed that the Government's
policy is “one of economic
stability—not boom or bust.”
An analysis of the official
figures shows that unemploy-
ment increased fairly rapidly
from November, 1960, to
January, 1961. The usual sea-
sonal factors had undoubtedly
aggravated the trend. The
number of unemployed rose
from 43,300 in November to
53,600 in December and
71,200 in January. The figures
for November and December,
1959, and Januarv, 1960. were
50,700, 58,2 30 and 69,000
respectively. It was only in
January, 1961, that current
unemployment figures were
higher than in the previous
term.
Last February the rise in
unemployment—from 71,200
to 73,100 was relatively
small. But this was the time
when in 1960 the seasonal ele-
ment began to fade out and
employment rose by 8000. By
contrast, this year the down-
ward trend in employment per-
sisted, accelerating to 8700 in
March, 1961, when 81,800 were
officially stated to be out of
work. The pace was much the
same in April, when the num-
ber of jobless rose by 7600 to
89,400.
The additional fall in em-
ployment last month was a
hefty 13,200 to 102,559, and
that at a time when unem-
ployment figures normally
should be at a low level. Some
54,000 more people were out
of work at the end of last
May than at the same time a
year ago. The total number of
jobless now represents 2.4 p.c.
of the estimated Australian
work force of about 4.2 million.
Queensland, with 3.5 p.c. of its
work force out of work, has
been the worst hit. N,S.W.
comes next with 2.5 p.c.
Textiles and knitted wear,
basic metalworking, clothing
and footwear, building, elec-
trical machinery, etc. (includ-
ing TV sets, radios, washing
machines, domestic appliances,
etc.) and motor vehicles were
the industries most severely hit
in March-May, 1961.
An official survey of 211 tex-
tile and knitted wear manufac-
turers shows that 2141 workers
were put off last March, 1687
in April and a further 2273
in May. Clothing and foot-
wear manufacturers laid off
1333 employees from 302 fac-
tories in April and 849 in May.
Reductions in the electrical
machinery, etc., sector num-
bered 1916 (in 107 factories) in
March and the motor vehicles
industry put off another 2245,
also in March.
'Textiles, knitted wear, cloth-
ing and footwear manufac-
turers were hit by the lifting
of import restrictions and were
particularly vulnerable, while
a fall in employment in the
inflation - prone electrical
machinery and motor vehicles
industries was a pretty natural
corollary of the Government’s
policy. But reductions in the
basic metalworking industry—
-1639 from 213 productive units
in May —and in the building
sector (down 715 in 391 pro-
ductive units surveyed in April
and down 854 in May) give
cause for uneasiness, indicat-
ing that a section of the basic
industrial sector is slowing
down and is unable to absorb
labor resources released from
the non-essential sector under
the impact of the credit
squeeze. The vital question
now is whether this slackening
down in the producer goods
sector is largely due to time
lags in readjusting to the
altered direction of demand,
or whether it is being swept
along by the general defla-
tionary movement.
There is some evidence that
the Government and the Re-
serve Bank are introducing
substantial modifications in
their anti-inflationary policy in
order to ease the overall credit
situation. At this stage there
is a lot of talk in official
quarters about selective credit
easing. It is most important
that measures to stimulate the
economy do remain selective.
Indiscriminate relaxation may
cause a general rise in the level
of economic activity, but
consumer goods may benefit at
the expense of the producer
goods.
In that case the non-
essential sector, which always
picks up and slumps down
faster than the capital goods,
could again get an edge
over the basic industries
and lead us back to severe
inflationary strains always in-
herent in a growing economy
committed to full employ-
ment. The whole idea of a
basic reallocation of produc-
tive resources, essential for the
nation’s ability to support the
primary producers and indus-
trial exports, could be frus-
trated.
The Government must dis-
cern the needs of particular
industries and weigh them
carefully, with a view to en-
suring a balanced economic
growth. Every effort mu ', be
made to increase the employ-
ment capacity of the capital
goods sector as a whole. Steel
is needed not only for the
manufacture of washing
machines, cars and TV-
receivers—and no one suggests
that these should not be pro-
duced in reasonable quantities
—but also to build bridges,
tractors, factories and housing
projects.
TV/Tost of the jobless are un-
skilled and semi-skilled and
could be transferred to the
basic sector without much
difficulty if its labor intake can


YOUR SAFETY BELT
Providing sure protection at all
times, in all financial
weathers—your
policy with the
V
$
s
m
PJ-
<tV
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
DIRECTORS
E. W. Robinson (Chairman);
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.;
P. H. Phillips; T. Keith Smith;
W. J. Cooksey.
GENERAL MANAGER
W. i. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
GENERAL SECRETARY
George Leslie, F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
NEW BUSINESS MANAGER
John L. Richter
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
•Incorporated by Royal Charter A D. 172 U)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O'Connell Streets, SYDNEY*
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
be increased through expansion
of output, and this should be
the general aim of Canberra’s
measures aimed at beating the
slump.
This is the time, if there ever
was one, for a positive and
dynamic economic policy.
E. B.
PETROLEUM CONSUMPTION
May Double by 1970
T>y 1970 Australia’s total con-
sumption of petroleum pro-
ducts could rise to about 20
million tons a year, says the
Petroleum Information Bureau
(Australia). Last year overall
consumption of petroleum pro-
ducts in Australia was 10.7
million tons.
The 1950 s saw a spectacular
rise in sales of petroleum pro-
ducts with an increase of 138
per cent, in the decade to 1960.
The same high rate of increase
may not be maintained in this
decade but, as the Australian
economy expands, it is certain
that consumption of almost
every individual petroleum
product will increase.
Where demand for a particu-
lar oil product is declining
there is, in most instances, a
balancing increase in consump-
tion of an alternative product.
For example, fewer kerosine-
fuelled tractors are used in
primary industry, and as
modern diesel-powered units
replace the older kerosine trac-
tors more automotive diesel oil
is being consumed and lesser
quantities of power kerosine.
Similarly, in aviation, the
emphasis is changing from con-
sumption of aviation gasoline
to aviation turbine fuel as Aus-
tralia’s airlines change from
piston-engined to jet and turbo-
prop aircraft. In 1950 Aus-
tralian consumption of avia-
tion gasoline was 34.6 million
gallons compared with less than
one quarter of a million gallons
of aviation turbine fuel.
Last year the consumption of
74.4 million gallons of turbine
fuel was nearly three times that
of aviation gasoline (25.6 mil-
lion gallons). By 1970 it is
expected that consumption of
aviation gasoline will have
dropped to nine million gallons
while that of turbine fuel will
be almost 140 million gallons.
Australia’s biggest selling petro-
leum product, motor spirit,
accounts for 43 per cent, of the
total consumption of petroleum
in Australia. From just over
540 million gallons in 1950
sales of motor spirit rose to
more than 1200 million gallons
in 1960.
By 1970, given continued
prosperity and population
growth in Australia, consump-
tion of motor spirit is likely to
exceed 2000 million gallons,
and more than double the sales
of the next best seller —furnace
oil.
The expansion of Australian
markets for petroleum pro-
ducts must at the same time in-
crease this country's demands
for crude oil from overseas.
This makes it imperative that
exploration for oil in Australia
receives the utmost encourage-
ment as already petroleum im-
ports represent about one-tenth
of the total imports bill.
IMPORT REPLACEMENT
National Bank’s Views
“ r T~'HREE ways of easing the
strain on our overseas
balance of payments are to
increase our exports, to produce
in Australia more of the goods
at present supplied from over-
seas, and to seek and attract a
greater capital inflow,” states
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia Limited in its authori-
tative “Monthly Summary of
Australian Conditions.”
Much attention is rightly
, - . , . . & . 3
being d,reeled to increasing
our exports and we must mam-
tain a business climate favor-
~ . .. , . a
able to cap, al inflow and take
every step to see that It wil,
increase. But, continues the
t, , *. , , • ~ ,
Bank, it also seems obvious that
’, i ,
we need to grapple with the
problem of import replacement
if we possibly can, when such
uncomfortable measures as
.
credit squeezes are the direct
result of overseas balance of
payments difficulties.
“It may cost the nation some-
thing to explore fully the pos-
sibilities of greater import re-
placement,” says the Bank,
Since World War II there has
been much import replacement
of finished products but with-
out anywhere near a corres-
ponding easing of the strain on
our balance of payments, and
the result seems a penalty to
be paid for rapid national
growth and industrial expan-
sion. Import requirements
overall tend to increase and the
gains achieved from import re-
placement are obscured,
In the sphere of secondary
industry, the Bank feels that,
broadly, future prospects are
for a continuation of the post-
war process of producing here
a growing range of products
previously imported. This pro-
bability of failure to ease,
directly, strain on the balance
of payments is no reflection
upon the industries concerned.
f . ...
Many factors contribute to this
outco y me in the case o( second .
industry . More and more
~, • .
highly specialised and intricate
ca ‘ it », £• tis uired
efficient manufacture and
... • . • . ,
this equipment is in constant
, A. T , . ,
need of replacement under to-
d - s c „ / d ;, ; c n s 0 f rapid
advances in scientific and in-
dustria, knowled But ~
„ _ , ~e , ~ ...
seems doubtful whether this
wj „ actuaU contract imports
j the aggre g ate although, pre-
gressively individual items may
be much reduced or disappear
from the import schedule. In
particular, it is too much to
expect that Australia could
produce economically much of
the highly specialised and in-
tricate capital equipment or the
particular productive corn-
ponents required,
The Bank also states that
“there should be possibilities of
growing more tropical and sub-
tropical agricultural products,
imports of which cost more
than £7O million last financial


You’ll have an interest in
210
REID MURRAY
enterprises
Wm
**«
?
W.A John Allans, "Cham
of W A Made
1C Hicks Atkinson Ltd., Melbou/n
If » i
l * 5 * „
BSS
J J'l i
ill
ftSSt
■ n if t v ? -r
N.Si.W.. Cowell's White House Pty. Ltd , Sydney
Housinq Development in 5 States
i.
;S " * ■***
OLD Torbreck;home unit
W».l
Brisbane
0S A Churchill Buil di n ■&<<:
Home of the Saverys group of companies;
i
m
"dm ,
W
12MS
Sydney Office
Reg. First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. FOR
8 AND 10
YEARS
St-own above ate just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
All told these include: 197 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia’s best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
FIXED tOHG TERM STOCK
8%
r m
P.A 8-10 YEARS
P.A 5 YEARS
P.A 3 YEARS
P.A 2 YEARS
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7V2%
P.A. on 12 mths. notice
P.A on 6 mths. notice
P.A on 3 mths. notice
RMA.t 3 V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD,
year. An excellent example of
past achievement is the sugar
industry. The problems sur-
rounding import- replacing
tropical and sub-tropical crops
are both scientific and econo-
mic and to achieve success, or
even to ascertain whether suc-
cess might be possible, requires
much research and practical
experiment. It is true that, in
recent years, greater interest
has been shown in the agri-
cultural possibilities of the
northern areas of Australia and
more attention is being given
to water conservation, which
seems imperative in regions of
rather unpredictable weather
heavily dependent on mon-
soonal influences. But do not
the possible long run gains to
the nation warrant a far more
intensive national effort in all
these directions? Overseas
prices of many tropical pro-
ducts have risen very sharply
over the last two decades and,
looking ahead, the cost dis-
advantages of producing tropi-
cal products in Australia may
not be nearly so severe as they
were once. 1 '
The Bank also urges that the
search for minerals should be
encouraged, “both as a safe-
guard against the possibility of
having to resort to imports at
some future period and for
export potentialities.”
COMPANIES
Proposing
YX/Jnning the devotion and
" support of fellow share-
holders at a company’s general
meetings or of fellow directors
in the boardroom is often quite
as difficult as trying to win the
hand of the bloodthirsty Prin-
cess Turandot, but the job
would be much less difficult if
shareholders and directors
knew, like Turandot's one suc-
cessful suitor, how to say the
elusive words that are exactly
right for the wooing occasion.
So many shareholders and
directors are unsure of the best
form in which to propose a
company resolution that,
merely because of their un-
skilled fumbling with language,
they often fail in a resolution
to cover some contingency,
some escape, some deviation
from a central aim which it was
their wish to provide for. The
proverbial horse and cart can
be driven through the holes in
their phrasing.
That is why directors (and
that rare tribe of shareholders
who are prepared to speak up


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRiDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents jor
Knpid Magnettimg Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et„ Makers of Classiflers,
Mater Filters, Steam Valves,
etc,
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
big and bold like the board-
wrecking girl in “The Solid
Gold Cadillac”) are likely to
set a very high value on S. R.
Brown’s “Company Resolu-
tions,” an 130-page volume just
published by the Law Book
Co. of Australasia (price 455.).
The purpose of the volume,
which is commended as a refer-
ence book for everybody en-
gaged in the administration of
companies, is to provide a
collection of precedents which
will facilitate the drafting of
resolutions for meetings.
The book is in two parts.
The first part is a treatise on
kinds of resolutions, conditions
of validity, voting, minutes,
legal and general effects of
resolutions, and resolution
drafting. The second part
offers some 250 specimen reso-
lutions set out in easily iden-
tifiable numbered paragraphs.
These specimens cover a wide
variety of subjects - capital,
injunction, arbitration, take-
overs, reconstructions and
winding-up, to mention a few.
L.B.
THE BUDGET
A Deficit?
A deflationary boomerang
is worrying Treasury
officials in Canberra. The
Federal Cabinet is reported to
be concerned by the sharp
decline in the Federal Govern-
ment’s revenues from customs
and excise duties, sales tax and
income tax due to the lower
volume of economic activity.
It was expected that Govern-
ment revenues would slacken
down following the sweeping
deflationary moves last Novem-
ber, but the extent of the
decline was underestimated.
On present indications, it
seems that the Federal
Treasurer will be very lucky to
achieve the planned £l5 million
1960-61 budget surplus. If the
current downward trend in
Commonwealth revenues
accelerates, Canberra may be
faced with producing a deficit
budget, which may have dan-
gerous inflationary implica-
tions.
Speculator' s Diary
Monday, June 26
Tt’s been a muddling week for
-*-us amateur economists. From
the one loudspeaker Mr Calweil
predicted “recurring crises un-
less ...” and unemployment
reached its century of
thousands. From the other,
building approvals were well up
in May and Mr Menzies told
me “don’t be afraid.” So,
mumbling “Bully for Bob” and
hoping there would be good
picking between the crises, I
had a look at another set of
Government figures—new tele-
vision licences.
Though the figures may not
fill the 20-odd set manufacturers
with joy, they show an ever-
widening market for the tele-
casters. The distribution of
the market also shows up a
curious—and I hope profitable
—anomaly. The South Aus-
tralian market at 121,000 sets
is 10,000 bigger than the
Queensland one, yet the share
prices of the Adelaide tele-
casters are much lower than the
Brisbane companies.
Capitalising the four stations
on their share prices I got
valuations of: Queensland TV,
£2.4 million ; Brisbane TV.
£2.3 million ; TV Broadcasters,
Adelaide, £2.1 million ; and
Southern TV, Adelaide, only
£1 million. These seem strange
variations for four companies
sharing, more or less equally,
similar sized markets, and at a
similar stage of development.
And, I reasoned, Southern TV's
capital at only one-third the
others should allow correspond-
ingly bigger benefits.
Finding a broker who doesn't
charge extra brokerage on in-
terstate transactions, I bought
200 at 20s. —pretty high for a
company that hasn’t paid a
dividend, but then, based on the
other companies the ss. shares
should be more than 405.!
This cost me £205 and left
me £243 in debt, but as I hinted
last week, Ready Mixed Con-
crete paid the penalty for rising
in price and was banished from
my portfolio. I got 16s. 9d on
the downswing and made a
profit of £52 for my pains in
three weeks.
My experience with Ready
Mixed led me to look for an-
other big, bouncy, popular
stock depressed by a share
issue. I didn’t have to look far
to find Ampol and rushed in to
buy 400 rights at 2s. I have
no intention of paying the total
application money of 9s. 3d. on
each of these rights, because —
as I see it —they will go quite
a bit higher as more brokers
weigh in with their circulars on
the popular “buy rights” theme
before trading closes on Sep-
tember 15.
One case where this theory of
improving rights prices hasn't
paid off for me is N. B. Love,
the Sydney bakers, which I
bought in April. The |d. in-
crease in the price of bread
earlier this year should help
the company, but these things
seem to take a long time to
filter back to shareholders. 1
put my 400 contributing shares
up for sale during the week,
but so far no buyer has seen
things my way.
I thought also of doing a
little stagging in Newcastle
Ten Pin when it came on the
market at 6s. during the week.
But my broker pointed out that
the shares were widely spread
and seemed to be firmly held
and would respond quickiy to
any buying pressure. This
technical jargon seemed reason-
able enough as the company’s
capital is a microscopic
£104,000 and besides, when I
made another, unsolicited, trip
to Bowling Centres’ Enfield
Bowl the other night I had to
wait 90 minutes for a game!
If Newcastle Ten Pin goes into
action with that sort of patron-
age in September, you won't
be able to hold those city-proud
Newcastle investors back.
The week’s transactions, re-
sulting in the £52 profit on
Ready Mixed, were:
BOUGHT
200 Southern TV at
20/- £205
400 Ampol rights at 2/- £42
SOLD
400 Ready Mixed at
16/9 £328
I have turned last week’s £3B
debt into £43 in the bank, and
I now hold :
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 Antill R. £251 12/3 13/--
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/(3 £5/3/-
500 Merica 105 0/4 TA-
BOO Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 9/-
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 20/0
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 23/-
200 Parbury
Ilenty 174 17/- 10/0
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/0
132 Mar ley Tile 158 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10/6
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. 90 9/5 11/4
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/4
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/ 5/9
300 Moran &
Cato 299 19/6 19/6
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
100 James Hardie 391 77/- 80/-
300 McDonald 207 13/6 14/3
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 20/9
400 Ampol rights 42 2/- 2/6


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia) Ltd
Tn 1853, at the height of the Victorian
gold rush, John Steeply Gotch made
his way to the diggings at Fryer’s Creek,
near Castlemaine, but found little of the
precious metal. He retreated to Mel-
bourne, and there, with a cold night
(weather hasn't changed) approaching,
and no place to stay —with only a pro-
verbial shilling in his pocket—he made
the acquaintance of a Scotsman, Alex-
ander Gordon, who owned a newspaper
stall somewhere near the present-day
intersection of Market Street and Collins
Street.
Gordon gave him a bed and a job
selling newspapers—-the bed was under
the stall counter —and a few weeks later
offered him a partnership in the business.
It is inconceivable that the two part-
ners could have remotely envisaged how,
and to what extent, arising from that
chance meeting, in little more than the
space of a hundred years, their tiny enter-
prise would grow.
Today a direct descendant of the old
newspaper stall of those colorful days,
Gordon and Gotch has become by far
the largest wholesale newsagent, book-
seller and stationer in Australia. Branches
have been established in all State capitals
and in Townsville (Q.) and Launceston
(Tas.). A subsidiary co. operates in New
Zealand, with houses in Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin and Christchurch.
G. and G. distribute a host of local and
imported publications (magazines, news-
papers, books, etc.) throughout Australia
and N.Z. as well as supplying export
markets in South-east Asia. In addi-
tion, the co. acts as an advertising
agent, conducts a number of railway
bookstalls in Sydney and Brisbane, and
holds valuable distributing rights for
paper, printing machinery and printers’
requisites.
Accord'ng to chairman G. Sutherland
Smith, Esq., and looking to the year
ended March 31 last, latest results have
been affected by “some happenings be-
yond our control”: The London dock
strike held up shipments of English maga-
zines which not only involved additional
costs but interfered, as well, with the
continuity of release and consequently
the sale of the various issues in Aus-
tralia. The cessation of import restric-
tions in Australia in February, 1960,
made imported papers available at lower
prices than similar grades manufactured
locally, and local mills instituted a new
method of trading with wholesale rner-
chants which resulted, in turn, in lower
profit margins. The financial restrictions
introduced by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment in November, 1960, had an
immediate effect on book subscription
sales in Australia on extended terms of
payment and furthermore slowed down
collection of debts in this department
(the book subscription department) and
other sections.
These various “happenings” were
especially pertinent as regards Australian
trading, and performance of the parent
co. may be assumed to have fallen well
short of G. and G. expectations. New
Zealand trading, on the other hand,
proved “quite satisfactory,” so that
overall turnover (Australia and N.Z.),
despite setbacks in Australia, was up on
that written in the previous year —the
N.Z. subsidiary remitted divs. of £93,000
to the parent co. out of a net profit of
£A 149,066.
In the final analysis, which is rendered
difficult from a comparative point of view
because of changed accounting proce-
dures, group trading profit finished up
£92,449 higher at £744,481 ; group net
profit moved ahead £13,524 to £325,851
—comparison is difficult because the
N.Z. subsidiary has been brought to
account on the basis of £NZIOO equals
£AI24 10s . In 1960 N.Z. figures were
assimilated at the value attaching to them
as measured in N.Z. currency. That is,
no account was taken of the variance be-
tween N.Z. and Australian currencies
for the purpose of consolidation
Parent Only.
Year , ——Dividends ,
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re
Meh., Profit. 8 p.e. Ordinary. serves; serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1953 ..182,579 8000 227 146,250 28,329 721,519
From slock reserve, £275,000 .. 996,519
From bad debts reserve, £43,000 ... 1,939,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 .. .. 1,095,782
Revaluation reserve, £325,000 . . 1,420,782
1954 ..299,245 8000 25 162,500 128,745 1,549,527
From provisions, £10,883 .. .... 1, ,560,410
Reserves capitalised, £325,000 . . 1,235,4.10
1955 ..3.10,601 8000 18* 238,244 64,417 1,299,827
1950 ..339,972 8000 18.' 238,250 93,721 1,393,548
Tax overpiovide.d, £5206 .. .. 1,398,754
1957 ..331,029 8000 18* 238,250 84,179 1,483,5-33
Parent and Subsidiaries. #
Profit sale plant, £7448 .. .. 1,490,981
Add: d on consolidation, £535,812 .. 2,026.793
1958 . . 389,584 8000 19.16 2.49,080 132,804 2,159,597
Profit sale plant, £11,396 .. .. 2,1 <0,993
Unexplained addition, £14,844 .. 2,185,537
1959 ..347,251 8000 20 259.910 79,341 2,265,178
Profit sale of plant, £10,6:06 .. .. 2,275,784.
To internal insurance reserve, £6024 2,281,808
From prov. rehabilitation, £19,098... 2,262,710
Unexplained ad lit ion, £44,023 . . 2,306.733
1960 . .312,327 8000 20 259,910 44,417 2,351,150
Profit sale oF plant, £5699 .. . . 2,35’6,849
To internal insurance reserve, £7728 2,364,577
Share premiums, £331,447 . . . . 2,696,024
Revaluation land and buildings,
£170,515 2,866,5.39
From prov. rehabilitation, £17,951 .. 2,848,583
Added on consolidation, £111,925 . . 2,960,513
Unexplained addition, £92,504 .. 3,053.017
1961 ..325,851 8000 20 237,838 80,013 3,133,030
* The figures of the New Zealand Co. have been
included, in New Zealand currency up until and
including 1960. The N.Z. subsidiary has been
brought to account in 1961 on the basis of
£NZIOO = £AI24. 10s.
The net showing, including investment
income £3062 (down £216), is reckoned
after tax £346.315 (up £83,434) and de-
preciation £75,377 (down £4725). Mort-
gage interest took another £13.634.
G. and G. is notoriously conservative,
and although profit increased, and prob-
ably to a much greater extent than re-
vealed —the tax provision implying a net
profit in excess of £500,000 —the div. rate
was reduced ; from 20 to 16f p.c., reflect-
ing lowered liquidity (the credit squeeze)
and need to conserve funds.
Divs. were reduced from 25 to 181
p.c. in 1955 following on par and bonus
issues in the previous term. They were
lifted to 19 1/6 p.c. in 1958 ; to 20 p.c.
in 1959. Shareholders can reasonably
expect recovery of the div. rate, or, at
least, a slow trend towards recovery, with
easing of the credit squeeze, and if sound
finances, substantial reserves and robust
earning rates are a guide, they can expect
not only this but perhaps other gains.
The board’s policy is, however, some-
what different to that displayed by the
generous Alexander Gordon to down and
out Gotch, and present-day shareholders
may have to bide the long term before
their proprietorship is increased. Ad-
mittedly ord. capital was lifted £127,479
to £1,427,028 during last term, a one-for-
ten premium issue going out in February,
1960, but it is doubtful if even this, a
slender token in any case, can be con-
strued a philanthropic gesture by the
board. On the contrary, it seems, in
retrospect, a desperate measure intro-
duced to ease liquidity and then only as
a last resort—evidence the premium load-
ing, a savage 13s. per ss. unit. G. and
G. later raised a further £270,000 with
mortgage on freeholds.
The earning rate on ord. capital (after
allowing the £BOOO due pref. shareholders)
settled slightly to 22.3 p.c. on the higher
equity and compares with 23.4 p.c., 26
p.c., 29.4 p.c., 24.8 p.c. and 26.1 p.c.
back to 1956.
The already substantial reserves
finished up £781,880 at £3,133,030, the
increase including share premiums,
£331.447, revaluation land and buildings,
£170,515 (mostly in N.Z.), unexplained
additions, £92,504 and increases, presum-
ably attaching to the conversion of £NZ
to £A, £111,925.
Movements in working capital are
fairly extensive, the overall balance-sheet
picture stressing strained liquidity—
stocks and book debts jumped £598,277
and £307,288 respectively ; cash slipped
a solid £277,892 to £49,390:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*'
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £100,060 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. .. 1,-299,549 1,299,549 1,427,028
Reserves . ... 2,205,178 2.351,150 3,133,030
Share applications 446,674
Minority interest 26,362 26,728 26,223
Mortgage .. 241.200 211,200 481,200
Creditors .. 1,135,799 1,379,983 1,403,188
Overdraft .. 55,297
Tax provision .. 627,331 512,229 651,462
Final divs. .. 133.955 133,955 122,919
£5,829,374 £6,460,568 £7,400,347
Freeholds .. .. 1,844,724 1,880,577 2,175,150
Plant, etc. .. 288,645 286,957 304,540
Investments i .. 250 250 200
Stock .. .. 1,747,766 1,930,254 2,528,531
Book debts ... 1,633,459 2,035,248 2,342,530
Cash, etc. .. 314.530 327,282 49,390
£5,829,374 £6,460,568 £7,400,347
* The figures of the New Zealand Co. have been
included in New Zealand currency up until and
including 1960. The N.Z. subsidiary has-been
brought to account in 1961 on the basis of
£ NZIOO = £ A 124 10s.
The book value of freeholds advanced
£294,573 to £2,175,150.
The prefs. and ords., both of ss.
denomination, rank equally for return
of capital and at balance date had a net
tangible asset backing ex 15s. 3d. The


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. K. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-69X1 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARK BROKER.
Temple Court.
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DKAI'EU,
N. VV. C. UKAI’ER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAKEBKOKEKS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 2761
(4 Lines)
P.O. Bo*
No. 1887 VV
THE
AKMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
ords. recently sold on the sharemarket
at 13s. lOd. (from a peak of 265. in
1960) to yield 6 p.c. from a 16f p.c. div.
G. and G. consider “the opportunities
in acquiring other businesses may be lost
if the share capital is not advanced,” and
nominal capital has been increased by
£2,000,000 (another 8,000,000 ss. ords.):
“There is, however, no immediate inten-
tion of issuing bonus shares.” G. and
G. revalued (in the parent accounts) its
N.Z. co. shareholdings last term, result-
ing in creation of a “profit on revaluation
of investments not acquired for resale
reserve,” £717,523.
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd
“’lX7hi l e I Live I’ll Grow” —universal
provider Anthony Hordern’s oak
insignia can claim a currency spreading
out way and beyond central headquarters
on Sydney’s Brickfield Hill.
And the business is certainly “living”
it up now. Yet, and despite the rapid
expansion of recent years, spread of in-
terest from an equity point of view is
lamentably absent. Indeed, as far as ord.
shareholders are concerned “growth”
weighs up a non-existent factor. Ord.
capital, apart from shares issued in sup-
port of takeover activity (shares issued
exclusively during the past 20 months or
so), remains as it was in 1926 when the
historical old emporium, even then a
centenarian, decided to put the public on
its share register. Today the register lists,
in all, an aggregate £2,207,587 in ss. ords. ;
£970,000 in 20s. p.c. cum. prefs.
Average dividend payout in the 35
years since the public was allowed in has
been at the rate of 5.6 p.c. p.a., with the
current rate a steady 8 p.c. since 1958.
A quarter-century of relative quiet
stemmed in large part from the decline
of the Liverpool-Goulburn-Oxford Street
sector as Sydney’s shopping fulcrum ;
however, in latter years the big retailer
has been making vigorous efforts to over-
come its environmental handicaps with an
aggressive and not altogether unrewarding
drive for customer support —hence recent
expansion.
The grand strategy embarked upon by
Anthony Hordern and unleashed full
force during late 1959, envisages intro-
duction of new stores and substantial
reconstruction of existing stores and
fittings, modernisation of trading policies
and methods and reorganisation of
financial structure. In the meantime,
while the programme works itself out,
“It must be appreciated that many plans
will not come to fruition in terms of
profit until 1961 onwards.” According
to chairman Mr R. A. Irish, at the annual
meeting of shareholders June 14 last,
“1962 should be Anthony Hordern’s
year.”
Anthony Hordern has essayed an
imperialistic extension of its retail net-
work, seeking the fruits of decentralisa-
tion, etc., per medium of the takeover,
bid. Subsidiaries include:
Hordern Bros. Pty, 203-207 Pitt Street and
420 George Street, Sydney.
McCathies Pty, 197 Pitt Street, Sydney.
General Buyers Ltd, Sydney.
Jack Craig and Sons Pty, furniture retailers,
Goulburn, N.S.W.
Jack Craig Investments Ltd, Canberra.
Branches have been set up in Canberra
(in 1956), in West Ryde, a near suburb
of Sydney (1959) and in Wollongong,
N.S.W. (1960).
Anthony Hordern acquired the whole
of the ord. capital of Hodern Bros Ltd
(now Hordern Bros Pty) in October,
1959, consideration involving issue of
358,820 20s. ords. at a premium of 10s.,
plus 1,076,550 10s. 74 p.c. registered un-
secured convertible notes, the notes con-
vertible into ord. shares, one-for-two,
September 30, 1965. Two months later,
in December, 1959, Anthony Hordern
took over McCathies Pty, adjoining the
Hordern Bros’ premises in Pitt Street, this
time issuing 394,625 20s. ords at a
premium of 235., plus cash, to clinch the
deal.
In July, 1960, during last term,
Anthony Hordern acquired the whole of
the issued capital of Jack Craig and Sons
Pty and, at the same time, a small
minority holding in Jack Craig Invest-
ment Ltd (owner of the retail premises
in Canberra on lease to Anthony
Hordern), consideration involving issue
of 189,112 20s. ords, plus cash —eight
20s. ords plus 255. cash for each share in
Jack Craig and Sons Pty and £5O in cash
for each of the 14 minority holding shares
in Jack Craig Investments Ltd. Finally
in September, 1960, again during last
term and to round things off, Anthony
Hordern took over the pref. capital of
Hordern Bros, (the ord. capital, as men-
tioned earlier, was taken over in October,
1959) issuing, in all, a further 15,000 20s.
ords, plus, as well, 220,000 20s. prefs —
one 20s. ord., plus 24 20s. prefs for every
20 20s. 9 p.c. first prefs of Hordern Bros,
and one 20s ord., plus 10 20s. prefs for
every 10 20s. 8 p.c. second prefs.
Directors “appreciate the patience of
shareholders during the lengthy process
of re-erecting the company’s strength.”
And, it has to be admitted, the share-
holders have been patient. However,
much of the work has now been done,
and “the signs are there that the general
concept is sound and that confidence in
the future is well placed.”
Although sales were buoyant in most
sections during last term (during the 12
months to February 22, 1961), following
on the Government measures introduced
in November, sales of consumer durables
dropped considerably and extreme com-
petition affected profit margins—“while
customers had the money to spend, the
fear of further recession, possible unem-
ployment, or reduction in earnings,
caused a ‘buttoning up,’ and there seems
little prospect of improvement until the
Commonwealth Government creates
more public confidence in the future.”


Invest with confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset backing
. . . ideal for either
long or short term investment.
FIRST MORTGAGE DERENTURE STOCK
... in multiples oj £lOO, payable injull
upon application . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed £3,400,000
. . . registers Sydney and Brisbane
per-annum
6-10 years
9 %
per annum
4-5 years
per annum
2-3 years
8X
per annum
12 mths. fixed
per annum
9 mths. notice
7%
per annum
6 mths. notice
6%
. per annum
3 mths. notice
interest payable
quarterly
jree oj exchange
RETAILERS
ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.)
LTD.
280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE MA2373
509 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. PHONE 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL ... 20 O'Connell St., Sydney, &
340 Queen St., Brisbane.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO. . . 20 O'Connell St., Sydney, 8c
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
LANCE JONES & CO. 108 Creek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria Street, Mackay.
Banker for the issue: BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
A copy of the Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Brisbane. Applications accepted only on the application
form attached to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from
• any member of a recognised Stock Exchange • Retailers
Acceptance (Qld.) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane • all branches
Bank of New South Wales in N.S.W., Q'ld., and New Guinea
• the offices of the underwriting brokers.
326
The impact of increased costs
was doubly severe because of
the effect on sales of alterations
taking place in the two main
stores —the incorporation of a
large parking area in the
Brickfield Hill premises and
extensive remodelling, etc., of
the Hordern Bros, McCathies
store.
Intense competition prevail-
ing in the retail trade makes it
increasingly difficult to pass on
rising expenses to consumers.
Successful absorption of higher
costs in future will largely de-
pend on higher sales. The
board's ambitious expansion-
ary moves to extend and
diversify the co’s retail outlets
are far-sighted and should pay
off in the coming years,
although the immediate return
from the fresh capital invest-
ments may be relatively small.
Consolidated accounts, pre-
sented for the first time last
term, show group net profit, as
against that written by the
parent co. in the previous term,
down £27,917 at £168,577. Net
profit of the parent co. fell
£11,079 to £185,415 after tax
£111,500 (down £4500) and de-
preciation £68,000 (up £10,000).
Consolidated earnings were
reckoned after tax £119,653
(up £3653) and depreciation
£78,538 (up £20,538). Turn-
over, unfortunately, is not dis-
closed :
r Dividends
Pref. Re-
Profit. 74p.c. Old. s serves.
Feb., £ £ p.c. £ £
To alterations reserve,
£50,000 .. .. 301,434
Asset-revaluation reserve,
£2,675,519 .. ..2,976,953
From depreciation
( £500,000) and altera-
tion (£100,000) re-
serves, and sundry pro-
- visions (£375,000) .. 3,951,953
’55..300,570 56,250 10=125,000 4,071,273
’56..233,680 56,250 10=125,000 4,123,703
’57..102,086 56,250 10=125,000 4,045,141
Provn. long-service leave,
£131,000 .. ..3,914,141
Provn, retirement benefits,
£73,000 .. ..3,841,141
Provn. stock fluctuation,
£50,000 .. ..3,791,141
Provn, unearned interest
under h.-p. agreements,
£46,000 .. ..3,745,141
Less dspree, on w/up value
ot plant trans. from
reval. res., £282,447.. 3,462,694
’58..185,532 56,250 8 =lOO,OOO 3,491,976
Profit sale assets,
£19,824 .. ..3,511,800
’59..194,053 56,250 8 =lOO,OOO 3,549,603
Decrease assets-revaluation
reserve, £17,975 .. 3,531,628
Capital profit, £ 15,864.. 3,547,492
Tax overprovision,
£70,000 .. ..3,6-17,4192
’60..196,494 56,250 8 =122,246 3,635,490
Parent- and Subsidiaries.
Profit sale freeholds,
£30,841 .. ..3,666,331
Profit sale freeholds
£6057 .. ..3,672,388
Added on consolidation,
£501,695 .. ..4,174,083
’61..168,577 72.750 S =176,607 4,093,303
Allowing for the prefs, the re-
turn works out a mere 4.3 p.c.
on higher ord. capital, com-
pared with 9.2 p.c. in the previ-
ous term, 11 p.c. in 1959 and
10.3 p.c., 3.7 p.c. and 14.2 p.c.
back to 1956.
The net profit failed to cover
div. requirements, the ord.
div. absorbing an increased
£176,607 (up £54,361). Re-
serves, footing the bill, but
benefiting surpluses on con-
solidation, £501,695, climbed
£457,813 to £4,093,303.
Anthony Hordern’s balance
sheet illustrates hefty fixed
asset investment attendant
takeover activity. The book
value of freeholds, lease-
holds, plant, etc., in at cost or
valuation less provisions for
amortisation and depreciation,
weighed up a massive
£2,469,857 at £7,679,485.
Loans, deposits, etc., declined
£145,814 to £1,758,962 ;
liability on mortgage £181,921
to £1,755,144.
Theoretical working capital
eased slightly with stocks up
£818,620 at £2,909,230; book
debts up £591,086 at £4,057,217.
Bank overdraft and creditors
jumped £945,119 (£1,139,277)
and £1,070,915 (£1,988,904)
respectively. The ratio of
current assets to current liabili-
ties slipped from 2.1 to 1, to
1.8 to 1. Strict control of
stocks “has continued through-
out the year and they have
been maintained at a satisfac-
tory level commensurate with
turnover.”
As to future prospects:
“Already there are signs which


a
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3.184.264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON**** o*' 0 *'
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
i/ 1 'a
HD82.8
justify strong confidence in our
future. In those parts of our
two Sydney stores where altera-
tions are substantially com-
pleted, there is evidence of
patronage by many new cus-
tomers, of improved turnover
and higher returns.” The car
park at Brickfield Hill is going
ahead according to schedule.
It is expected to be in opera-
tion by next December. Ex-
tensions are planned for the
Canberra store, and manage-
ment is actively considering
establishment of a further new
store in a good district. The
co. is in process of forming a
new subsidiary, a finance off-
shoot, to handle trade on
extended terms.
Now it seems probable that
the co. will need further
finance to complete its pro-
gramme of allocations ; also
to handle the expected expan-
sion of trade subsequent their
completion. The board is
making “a careful study of the
best manner in which our re-
quirements can be met,” and,
further, “it will take strongly
into account the interests of
shareholders as a whole.”
At the last sale in Sydney
the 20s. ords. fetched 345. each.
The immediate return is 4.7
p.c. on the basis of the steady
8 p.c. div. rate. The 20s. prefs.
fetched 20s. 6d. to yield 7.3
p.c.; the 10s. convertible notes
19s. 6d. to yield 3.8 p.c. Net
tangible assets backing works
out a solid £2 17s. Id. the
ords. ; £7 10s. the prefs.
Parent Parent and
only. Subsids.
Paid capital—• 1960. 1961.
Pref. . . £750,000 £970,000
Ord. . . 2,000,445 2,207,587
Reserves ..3,635,490 4,093,303
Loans, deposits 1,904,776 1,758,962
Mortgages .. 1,937,065 1,755,144
Overdraft . . 194.158 1,139,277
Conv. notes . . 538,230 538,275
Creditors . . 917,989 1,988,904
Tax provision.. 176,014 208,652
Final divs. . . 100,372 124,678
£12,157,539 £14,784,782
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant. . 5,209,628 7,679,485
Stocks . . 2,090,610 2.909,230
Debtors . . 3,466,131 4,057,217
Shares in sub-
sidiaries . . 1,313,025
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. .. 78,145 138,850
£12,157,539 £14,784,782
Anthony Hordern has de-
cided, in the interests of
economy—in order to obtain
substantial savings in account-
ing expenditure—to rule off
accounts in future as at the
last Wednesday in August of
each year. This means that the
next annual general meeting
will be held in mid-November,
1962.
COMPANY NOTES
Finance Corporation
TpiNANCE Corporation of
Australia has announced
an issue of short and medium
term registered first mortgage
debenture stock at par. Interest
rates offered to subscribers vary
from 51 p.c. p.a. for three
months to 6} p.c. p.a. for 12
months for short term stock,
and from 7 p.c. p.a. for two
years to 8 p.c. p.a. for seven
years for medium term stock.
Brokers to the issue are Cutten
and Harvey (Adelaide), Wm.
Noall and Son (Melbourne and
Sydney), Charles A. Ord and
Minnett (Sydney), R. M. Black
and Co. (Perth), P. S. Shad-
forth and Son (Hobart) and
Charles Elliot and Son (Bris-
bane).
Debentures are payable in
full on application. Medium
term stock is not redeemable
before June 30, 1963. “The
net proceeds to be received
from the issue will be used for
the general purposes” of the
company.
Finance Corporation of Aus-
tralia, a hire purchase financier,
was formed in Adelaide in
December, 1954. The Bank of
Adelaide holds 40 p.c. of the
paid up capital. The Bank’s
offices throughout the Com-
monwealth act as agents for
the company. F.C.A.’s head
office is in Adelaide, with
branches operating in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.
The prospectus says that the
rate of profit achieved for the
year ended June 30, 1960, “has
been fully maintained” during
the half year ended December
31, 1960. “Consolidated net
profit for the half year
amounted to £152,021, after
providing £121,320 for taxa-
tion.”
Consolidated net profit after
tax and depreciation for the
full year ended June 30, 1960,
was £226,805, representing an
earning rate of 21.9 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital.
Issued capital is now
£2,011,375.
OIL AND MINING
Associated Minerals Con-
solidated Ltd
A ustralia possesses large
areas of mineralised beach-
sands, rutile, zircon, ilmemte,
etc. Richest deposits barring
i 1 m e n i t e, occur along the
eastern coast of the continent.
The boom in demand for these
metals has disappeared and,
generally speaking, the industry
is operating at a much reduced
level.
However, Associated
Minerals Consolidated Ltd, ex-
tracting rutile and zircon from
beach-sands at Cudgen (north-
ern N.S.W.) and Southport
(Queensland) though feeling the
pinch, is running contrarywise
to the industry as a whole,
sales last term (the twelve
months to June 30, 1960)
coming in a satisfactory
£799,412 c.f. the record
£940,340 written in 1959. Sales
included 15,822 tons of rutile
(up 827 tons) and 18,321 tons
of zircon (down 454 tons), in
aggregate, approximating 20
p.c. of total sales for Australia.
Zircon again contributed
handsomely to the earnings of
the co., and the continued
demand for this mineral ‘'seems
assured.” The welding industry
continued the largest consumer
of rutile and demand has been


Missing Friend
FOAT —William born at Yarram about
the year 1885, son of Kic-hard Foat, late
of Oakleigh who died on the 31st
October 1917. Would William Foat
or his children please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and AGENCY CO. of Australasia Ltd.,
95 Queen Street, Melbourne, as soon as
possible.
Position Vacant
ALL SAINTS’ COLLEGE
BATHURST, N.S.W.
A Headmasters’ Conference School con-
ducted by the Church of England
requires for
THIRD TERM 1961. Master to teach
EITHER General Science (including
specifically Agriculture and/or Bio-
logy) to 2nd Year or Intermediate
Standard OR Agriculture and/or Bio-
logy to Leaving Honours Standard.
FIRST TERM 1962. Master to teach
English, Modern History and/or Modern
Languages (French or German) to
Leaving Honours standards.
For details please apply at once to
the Headmaster.
INSURANCE
FOR YOUR
PROTECTION
Union Insurance
Society of Canton
Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British
Colony of Hong Kong).
Established 1935.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8
O’Connell Street Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131
(4 lines)
maintained, but at low prices.
According to chairman Mr W.
E Hopkins in November, 1960
—“The titanium metal industry
in showing definite signs of
recovery, but the major portion
of the rutile being used for the
production of this metal has
been provided from consumers’
stock-piles.” Further, “. . .
titanium pigment manufac-
turers have been experimenting
for some years with methods
of producing the pigment from
rutile.” and “it is now reported
that a process has been per-
fected for the production of
pigment by chlorination of any
titanium ore. and this could
well lead to a substantial in-
crease in the consumption of
rutile.”
Highly mechanised equip-
ment, plus improvements and
modifications thereto, during
last term, failed to block but
did soften, the full impact of
rising costs. Profits from sale
of minerals, after charging pro-
duction, management and ad-
ministration expenses, feli
£83,738 to £276,198. Net profit
after taxation £80,004 (down
£6001) and depreciation
£101,770 (down £4376), and in-
cluding investment income
£6221, finished £67,140 dowm at
£100,645. Dividends were re-
duced, an aggregate Is. 6d.
handout, absorbing £48,150,
replacing the previous 2s. 6d.
distribution —ss. in 1958. Capi-
tal is held in 642,000 fully paid
ss. ords. Reserves rose, in all,
£50,097 to £332,837.
Assets include mine develop-
ment, machinery, freeholds,
leaseholds, etc., £290,645 (down
£49,294), investments, £165,770
in short - term deposits and
Commonwealth Treasury bonds
and shares in listed cos (up
£15,770), cash, deposits, etc ,
£46,516 (up £18,929), stocks,
stores, etc., £118,683 (up
£43,884), and sundry debtors
£36,691 (down £10,175). Bank
overdraft, creditors, etc., fell
£22,031 to £88,026.
All things considered, it is
extremely improbable that
p r e se n t performances will
parallel last term’s effort.
Proven ore reserves are exten-
sive but overseas demand con-
tinues to wane.
Directors of Associated
Minerals, fully cognisant of
the susceptibility of rutile and
zircon prices to variations in
world supply and demand, have
embarked upon a programme
designed ultimately, it is hoped,
to iron out the otherwise in-
evitable fluctuations in earn-
ing power of the co. A new
grinding mill has been installed
at Southport and “the ability
of the co. to supply minerals
in both ground and granular
form will assist in the market-
ing of our products.” No men-
tion is made (in the annual
report) of the licence arrange-
ment entered into with a French
firm in 1959 ; the object, as
then expressed, to market and
manufacture a zirconium based
tanning compound.
Interim divs. declared in
November, 1960 and in March
and May of this year, indicate
a 30 p.c. handout (Is. 6d. again)
during the current term. Asso-
ciated Mineral's scrip fetched
10s. 9d. in Melbourne last week.
Clarence River Oil
TNirectors of Clarence River
Basin Oil Exploration
Company, N.L., report that all
forfeited shares have now been
disposed of, being taken up by
existing shareholders under
option.
The company’s Clifden No.
2 hole is reported to be dril-
ling ahead at 1080 ft in sand-
stone and shale.
Wapet
\\7est Australian Petro-
leum Pty Ltd reports
that the Eneabba No. 1 well,
which was spudded by the
W.A. Minister for Mines, Mr
A. F. Griffith, on June 15, has
reached a depth of 2194 ft. The
formations being penetrated
were mainly sandstone and
siltstone. Explosives are being
stockpiled at Learmonth for
the Exmouth Gulf marine seis-
mic survey.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 649
Across
I—Convulsions1 —Convulsions by some metal member of the bridal party
where one might be suited. (7, 4)
6—Spotted old saying was reversed. (3)
8— Came out with them and secret greed. (7)
9 Injured lioness—these being the injuries. (7)
11—Carrying too much love, a part
of speech and ancient capital hide
out the editor. (12)
13— Requirements, (5)
14— Not being old enough, due
danger cannot be ignored in
it. (9)
17 —Wickedness employs such
canals. (7)
19— Grand composition of Elgar. (5)
20— Place for skittling a basin in the
kitchen. (7, 5)
24 — Not the head of a shilling
rabbit. (7)
25 — Win a car, smash it up—Pizarro
had no trouble in winning
it. (4, 3)
26 — A baby glass. (3)
27 — Sling obeys such unpredictable
children. (11)
Down
1 and 2 —Blanketed author of “Tom
Jones” behaving like Norman
O’Neill. (8, 2,3, 6)
3 Way to enter the singer’s
arrangement. (7)
4 A funny fellow is upset before
boxing wayward drifters. (9)
5 One who improves the movement
in a role 1 adapted. (5)
6 French river containing an inter-
state figure with a nose dis-
order. (5)
7 Rue de Nous direction. (4)
19 —How nylons may be precipit-
ous. (5)
12 —Exploits enterprises with pub-
licity. (10)
15— Record a chant when unpack-
ing. (9)
16 — A wry negro mentioned by a
Melbourne historian. (9)
18 and 22 —Invalidated a doubled
club. (5-5)
19 —1 call in a flowering bush. (5)
21 —The whole of a heavenly path—
or only part. (5)
21 —See 18-down. (5)
23 —Help a punt. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 648


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
..... - - ‘ : r •*• r-v >
CONVENIENCE
- i
(Right to your mail-box)
;■ ■/ . \ ...
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
’toj&uUetfa
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ,
ADDRESS: . ........................,..................
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-6o pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself —or herself
—in The Bulletin.
