

The Bulletin
and The Observer
It’s hard to go right
in Melbourne
wed ; n Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Hal Porter
Short Story
Still Living
With Asia
New Chairman
For the A.8.C.?


HOW MUCH FUEL TO TRAVEL
37 MILLION TRAIN MILES?
To operate nearly 30,000 units of rolling stock,
ranging from 7% to 260 tons? Last year the
New South Wales Government Railways paid
nearly £8 million in fuel costs to keep its
services operating.
Coal, wood and kindlers for its steam
locomotives? It purchased £3% million
worth.
Electricity for its suburban services and electric
locomotives? It spent nearly £ 3 million in the
purchase of bulk electricity—at the rate of
just under £lO,OOO per day.
i
i W Wm
o
tern
•*#»&>«
#r'< •■
\ •>
\
•••:•>:•
' ••:.>.
m
Fuel oil for its diesels? It purchased in the vicinity of
£1 Yi million of heavy and light fuel oils and distillates.
Last year these tremendous fuel purchases enabled trains to
move 254 million passengers in comfort and safety ... to
haul 22 million tons of freight ... to earn a record
£B3 million turnover for the State.
Throughout every day and night of the year,
the trains of the New South Wales Government
Railways are at work in all corners of the State,
providing those essential services that have
made it the State’s premier transportation
system.
bp
%
s<*
o:
Uj
Q
CO
°3
<0
<V
H
««
N 74323
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


The
Bulletin
MAY 17, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4240
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A.C.: This is all very baffling:
I enclose something which could be
of value or interest to you. I have had
no success in gleaning any meaning from
it myself, but 1 was tremendously
impressed by the excellent rhythm it
maintains. 1 found this piece of archaic
literature in an equally archaic edition
of “Treasure Island.” It bore no date,
title or signature:
Foul plot and wicked resignation of
the curse
What is it must or ere would come
To doom the designation of the holy
purse
And reincarnate Satin, ere increase his
sum
Of melancholy fears and dank doubts
of days
vVhich pursue each other through life-
less haze.
—Or was it King of Carta who sat upon
the gilded throne
And took in each foreseeing hand a
Dove and spray of sage?
—So that he might, as none can tell,
look on the secret bone
Which builds the long-lost citadel and
stalwart stage
That binds the love of Power and Good
Which climbs the highest tower and
scans the lowest wood.
Anon.
. ...“Eron”: Lack of a title not
aard to understand. “Mysterious” or
“deep” verse not for u5....J.A.:
Yes, it’s set in the city—like a Show
visitor. ... 8.T.: The girl would
never have killed him, only you
told her you wanted a tragedy.
... .F.N.C.: “Miracles sometimes
happen”—but then it would be
under-playing them to send them
tn as short stories. ... D.D.: If
you’re going to write strip-tease
stories you ought to know some-
thing of the end-product. . . .F.R.:
That wearisome fencing has caused
more yawns in more stories than
we’d care to mention.... N.D.S.:
Was it so long because you couldn’t
think up an ending? ... .H.S.: The
young man acted like 84....5.8.:
The rape and murder were enough
without all that windy philosophis-
ing.... U.H.: Her father dying in
a bushfire makes an obituary, but
he’s got to work harder than that
to get into a short story.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
WHY?
Too Much 76 Read?
A s a background murmur to the tightrope act in which we have been
putting The Bulletin back where it belongs in Australian life there
have been complaints that “there is too much to read in The Bulletin.”
There is something in this—but it does not mean that we should cut down
the number of pages. It has something to do with the fact that readers are
not used to the new arrangements yet; they do not instinctively know what
to read and what to skip. It has more to do with the fact that in attempting
compromises between new and old we produced a transitional paper that
necessarily jumped too swiftly from contrast to contrast. Over the next
few weeks we intend to smooth this out so that the final product is
coherent and assimilable.
We hope to provide in the first 20 pages or so a section of the paper
in which all readers will find what they want; after that they can pick and
choose. For those who want to read the whole 60 pages these changes will
provide a less choppy passage; for those more busy readers who want to
read the first 20 pages and then just follow up their special interests in the
remaining 40 there will be a coherent, predictable pattern. Some of this
re-grouping has begun already. “Business, Robbery, etc.” and “The Wild
Cat Column” are married into one section, and so are the short story, The
Red Page and Shows. The overseas comment and Man on the Land
sections have been brought forward where they belong. Some changes
have been made in appearance. More changes next week.
A Long Campaign?
W E had not finished putting our house in order when we found that we
had what may prove to be a long campaign on our hands when
we raised the question of Communist activities in Australian universities.
The Bulletin inherited this particular controversy from The Observer,
which had been providing a forum for an academic discussion of it
for several months. What turned the whole thing into a more factual
affair was that demands for “facts” forced us to publish some information
which, at that stage, we had not intended to publish. The result has pro-
voked the start of what may eventually become the biggest scandal an
Australian university has known.
This type of campaign places a strain on some readers. Some are not
interested in universities; others find articles on Communism boring or
far-fetched. We must ask for their patience. The issues discussed are ulti-
mately important to everyone. The campaign also imposes other strains.
Alliances are formed in which some of the innocent adhere to the less inno-
cent. What does one then do? The issue must not be construed as an
attack on the universities as a whole. It is because one believes in academic
freedom and academic integrity that the issue gets raised in the first place.
And it is only the stubbornness of some and the cupidity of a few that is
likely to associate the universities with the wrong side in the eyes of
spectators. What a university has to avoid is that it should be accused of
attempting to cover up facts to avoid scandal. If it appears to be doing that
it associates itself in the public mind with those it is protecting; and it
makes it inevitable that the issue will be forced more and more strongly—
and widely. What was a reconnaissance patrol becomes a battle.


Society
The Sophisticated Vote
Liberals, it seems, tend to be formal,
but unsophisticated. After the
Paddington - Waverley (N.S.W.) by-elec-
tion, with a choice of only Labor or
Communist candidates, only four
Liberals of 38 who answered an
organiser's questions claimed to have
voted informal ; but 27 voted Labor
and seven did not vote at all. Some of
the 38 confessed they didn’t know how
to vote informally—which no doubt
justifies the Australian Political Studies
Association's bulletin in referring to in-
formal voting as “the more sophisticated
.... approach.”
Ver y Clevah Peepul .. .
No one blames poor police mathematics
for the story of 30 Chinese gamblers
counted in a Dixon Street, Sydney, house
who became 24 by the time they reached
the police bus outside —it is just that the
police don’t understand Chinese. No
doubt this is the reason, also, why fantan
games are freely advertised in Chinese
on the windows of Sydney Chinese
establishments.
Who to Wear the Wattle ?
VI7HO has made the most outstanding
contribution to the arts in Australia
since June, 1960? The Grenfell (N.S.W.)
Henry Lawson Festival committee is
undergoing great anguish over this ques-
tion because it proposes to award an
oscar, cast in metal by Alan Ingham, to
the lucky man, but doesn’t know who
to choose. In a roneoed letter they ask
The Bulletin, among others, to nomin-
ate a candidate ; but since nobody ever
answers roneoed letters, they might do
better to appoint a panel of advisers.
The question has to be decided by
June 10.
High Cost of Fishing
jpiSHiNG in Sydney is an expensive
hobby. A company director who has
really mastered the art of using a spinner
from the rocks —he catches 30 or 40
tailor, salmon, kingfish and even tuna
every weekend—has had to buy a deep-
freeze unit to put them in.
One Way of Putting it
Tf you send your poor old tomcat to
-*■ one Sydney vet. to be bumped off, you
get a bill for 30s. itemised as “Final
Treatment.”
Kindly Thought
Vl7'hen the double-decker bus bumped
into the back of another halfway
up Pitt Street in the going-home peak
“Imagine being Worried by a sensation of WEIGHTLESSNESS!”
hour the fares looked wearily at each
other: “We’ll be here half an hour while
they take notes.” “Yes, there’s a cop
coming to take notes.” A few minutes
later there was an indistinct sound from
below, upon which the more interpretative
passengers rose disgustedly and began
an exodus: “Ordered out!” The con-
ductor appeared from up front, and as
the bus began moving off empty he used
its back platform for a farewell address
to the offloaded passengers: “Remember,
youse who paid your fare, don’t you go
paying it twice, now!”
Mystery Man
'T'he latest issue of the literary quarterly
“Southerly” has a mystery photo-
graph for its frontispiece: no caption,
nothing anywhere to tell you who it is,
the face not known much even in the
literary world. It is John Blight, the
prosperous Queensland poet who owns
four sawmills.
Delay and Defamation
T awyers are beginning to feel there
ought to be a law about the tender-
ness of Australian courts for the Crown’s
wishes. When a Melbourne magistrate
adjourned the fraud case against the
North American Vending Machine Co.
and Vend Rite Pty, initiated three months
ago, from May 8 to June 5, Jack
Lazarus pointed out that there had been
no adjournment of what have been
defamatory reports circulated under
privilege about his client, John Howard
Kennear, who is in the case only as a
solicitor. It’s getting bad when solicitors
can suffer from the law’s delays.
What’s the Difference ?
Sydney seems to become a sort of Paris
to visitors from New Zealand
secondary towns. A Sydney girl who
has been living in Napier for several years
HANGING OFF
“Britain's assistant hangman is resigning
because he has qualified as a State-registered
mental nurse.”
The assistant British hangman
Observed that those he tended
Disliked the strain on body and brain
Of being so suspended ;
It seemed the noose and fetter
Only made them worse:
Whereas they might get better
In the hands of a mental nurse.
And a man of sporting feelings
Is offered far more scope
When a life can be said to hang by a
thread
Instead of a length of rope ;
And a life less often closes
And a heart more seldom stops
From a nurse’s measured doses
Than a hangman s measured drops-
Some mental nurses have pleasures
That hangmen never know ;
There’s kicking the hell out of men in
a cell,
There's trading them blow for blow;
There’s tossing them up in a blanket
Because they rave and curse —
Ah, life can be quite a banquet
When one is a mental nurse.
SWILLIAM


a s a matronly pillar of society dropped
into Sydney for a brief holiday. Eyes
shining, voice tumbling over itself with
excitement, she praised wonderful cosmo-
politan Sydney where “everybody looks
as if they’re on an assignation, and the
whole air is full of ‘vive la difference’.”
Maybe we all ought to go and live in
Napier for a while.
The Forgotten Hydrangeas
This is about a bunch of hydrangeas
which was left on the luggage-rack
of one of the eary morning North Shore -
Sydnev trains on Tuesday, May 9. It
might interest the executive who was
taking it into the city, presumably to give
to his favorite typist, that another execu-
tive, when the train ran again to town,
cunningly sat under the bunch, intending
to do the same thing with it: but he
also forgot it. Moral: Be a man and
carry your floweis on your lap.
Don’t Know Their Unions
nuGBY Unionists are about the only
unionists who never, never go on
strike, but they could easily be meditat-
ing some form of lockout of the A.B.C.
after the big City versus Country game
in N.S.W., when ABN flashed an
announcement, “You have been watching
ABN’s Rugby Union Match of the
Day”—with an accompanying picture of
a footballer in All-American gridiron
get-up.
Journalists Want
Another Play
Oydney Journalists’ Club, which gave
Richard Beynon’s “The Shifting
Heart” first prize in its first play com-
petition in 1956, is looking, with £5OO,
for another full-length play this year.
Entries close on December 31 ; the judges
will be the Playwright's Advisory Board,
which also gave a joint first prize to “The
Doll,” and in the 1956 competition gave
a second prize to Barbara Vernon’s “The
Multi-Colored Umbrella,” while Alan
Seymour’s “Swamp Creatures” was
runner-up.
The Gold Coats
Melbourne window - shoppers have
been sneering at a vicuna coat for
men in Ottrey’s of Collins Street, and
very truly they can say that they wouldn’t
be seen dead in it, because it comes at
275 guineas. The cost is because of the
dearness of the dear little goatlike vicuna
and the number of skins to a coat. It
has the advantage of never wearing out,
and the disadvantage that only three men
will be able to try, since Ottrey’s have
just the three, London-made, coats. They
expect to sell them within a week or so
all risks insured for one year —and will
even allow you to buy one by post.
That was Sciety
The abolition of Adelaide barmaids
has begun. Those in the business are
now registered. There are to be no re-
cruits, and the W.C.T.U. expects that the
last barmaid will disappear in 10 years’
time. Probably this estimate does not
make allowance for the barmaid’s ten-
acity. The exclusion of apprentice bar-
maids will give the survivors a valuable
monopoly, and the holders of these privi-
leges will hang on, with steadily rising
salaries, to the bitter end. The Bulletin
is prepared to wager that there will be
a registered barmaid in Adelaide 30
years hence, and her age, will be 25.
Also, the chances are that she won’t look
more than 27.
— “Bulletin”, March 18, 1909.
Motor-buses are starting in Melbourne,
and the horse may as well recognise that
in the end he is a lost animal. Besides
casual machines running to cricket
matches and the beach, regular trips are
now made out to Newmarket at 3d. a
head. All along the wide, empty sweep
of Flemington Road they do a 12-mile
gait. Private motors become increasingly
frequent, and even the trams and the
railways may find the new arrival a thing
to be reckoned with very seriously.
— “Bulletin” , December 17, 1903.
An inquest on a patient who died, at
Sunbury (Vic.) Lunatic Asylum, of ery-
sipelas the third within a month
elicited the pleasing information that
the solitary night nurse had charge ot
six dormitories containing no less than
247 patients. What a hideous farce!
• — “Bulletin”, September 10, 1903.
Justice Denniston, of Maoriland, re-
cently defined the three stages of love as,
“Walking out, keeping company, and en
gaged.” Whereupon a scoffer wrote to a
Christchurch paper to say that his Honor
didn’t know what he was talking about,
and defined the three as “Walking out,
lying-in, and the Destitute Persons Act.'
And in a good many cases the scoffer is
right. — “Bulletin”, September 10, 1903.
Infant mortality in Westralia is still
appallingly great. In 1901 the record was
down to 128.89 per thousand, reckoning
children under five years, which was
about 30 per thousand above the Com-
monwealth average; but last year there
was a deadly spring to 147.9 per thou-
sand. These are almost the highest fig-
ures in the world—higher even than the
average of those English cities which
have such an unholy reputation. Perth
ought to be one of the healthiest cities in
the Commonwealth, but, having no pro-
per sewerage system and the surface be-
ing extremely porous, the sub-soil has
become an abomination.
— “Bulletin”, October 22, 1903.
A Modern Child's Alphabet
By DAVID SWAIN
Y u for Yawns at those witty and bright
broadcasts of Parliament night after night
7 is for Zeal that the Vice Squad_ display:
some get arrested and some get amg.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Taking the Offensive
in South-east Asia
Tf only the Americans can even yet
summon the courage of their con-
victions they could learn something
from Laos, apart from the present
attempt to snatch part-defeat (a
“neutral” Laos) out of total defeat
(a Communist Laos). The first thing
they must learn is to ignore the coun-
sels of the British who, though stiff
at times on their toes in other parts
of the world, now tend to be defeatist
whenever territory is threatened in
South-east Asia. The second thing
they must learn is that it is never too
late to take the offensive.
Suggesting that the Americans
should take the offensive in South-east
Asia will cause mocking laughter
among those who think that it is
natural law that whatever we do in
Asia is bound to lose. Certainly the
Americans would have to take a better
kind of offensive than the one they
have so far taken in Laos. But it
should be an expansive offensive, an
offensive based on gaining some terri-
tory ; not propping up regimes that
are associated with the woes of the
people, but attacking opposition re-
gimes that are associated with even
greater woes. And it should be done
after intensive study of the military
writings of Mao Tse-tung.
There has been a self-defeating note
in all American policy in Asia ; it is
a defensive policy that can attack
opposition up to a border, but not
beyond it; and that defends borders
against an enemy that does not recog-
nise them. Instead there should be
encouragement of the infiltration of
borders by volunteer forces; en-
couragement of revolt against Com-
munist regimes.
We should not merely be defending
South Vietnam ; we should be en-
couraging revolt in North Vietnam.
We should be operating an under-
ground there, supplying arms, radios,
printing presses and all the rest of
it. If we lose Laos, we should try
to take it back. If it is partitioned,
we should try to undo the partition.
If it is made neutral we should try to
de-neutralise it. All of these objec-
tives would demand different
methods; they would also demand
considerable courage, patience, pru-
dence and skiff. But the kind of skiffs
needed are no mystery ; they are
expressed in simple soldier’s language
in the drill books of the Chinese.
This may seem a cynical, even
brutal, approach in a world where
so much emphasis is placed on “re-
lieving tension.” But “relieving ten-
sion,” when faced with an implacable
opponent, simply means giving in.
If the alternative is the present policy
we shall go on losing territory until
the belief of the South east Asians
that defence is possible may collapse.
Ultimately these policies will lead to
the subjugation of millions of inno-
cent people all of whom will be
oppressed and some of whom will be
murdered ; eventually they may pro-
duce catastrophe for us. “Self-interest”
here means not defending some re-
mote trade interest, but the right of
the Australian people to live a decent,
humane life of their own devising.
Ultimately it may mean our right to
go on living.
For years the Americans have been
haunted by “Asian opinion” and by
the desire not to be provocative.
Although not prepared to give a real
lead, they have gathered several mili-
tary allies. It might be that by dis-
playing that they can win they could
gather some more ; if they don’t dis-
play that they can win they might end
up with no allies at all. Then what
happens?
Selling Wheat to China
XT'ery few people would question the
™ sale of Australian wheat to Com-
munist China on a cash basis as a
measure to clear a surplus. When the
Wheat Board announced earlier this
year that it had done just that (for
£27m.) most Australians either
applauded the sale, or at least said
that no danger is involved. A few,
aware that trade, like everything else,
is a political weapon to the Chinese,
were more cautious. And the cautious
few may have been right.
The second stage of Sir John Teas-
dale’s deal with the Chinese is a much
more shady affair. For a price he will
not divulge he has sold them another
750,000 tons of our wheat, but this
time it is on tick—lo per cent, down,
40 per cent, in six months, the rest in a
year. Even that could be swallowed
if it was only going to happen once.
But, to anyone who has ever spent a
spare afternoon wondering why the
Chinese Communists put it over the
West every time we let them take us
on, the big question is: what happens
next?
What we must avoid is that with the
better part of 2,000,000 tons of Aus-
tralian wheat going to the Chinese
this year, there may be some en-
couragement for an expansion of
production that can only be absorbed
by China. In other words, we would
produce a China lobby among the
wheatgrowers and, given the kind of
idiocy we would probably display in
negotiation, we would get into deeper
and deeper water with a fiendishly
cunning enemy. None of this need
happen. We just have to watch where
we are going.
There is no question of humanity
in this. The Chinese Government is
diverting some of this wheat to the
Russians, and even the Albanians, for
purely political ends. And it is so
indifferent to the distress of its own
people that it charges huge tariffs on
food parcels sent to China. If we want
to be humane we should think of our
friends in South-east Asia who are
also hungry.
Land
Speculation
way in which the Federal
Government’s economic policy has
so far failed is that land prices are still
holding firm. Yet one of the worst
social evils of the recent boom was tha*
land was being used purely specula-
tively. For the moment the best that
has happened has been that the price
of land, though still going up in ex-
clusive or popular residential areas, is
not now going up so quickly and that
in some suburban areas prices have
actually stopped rising Speculators
stiff remain prosperous enough to hold
their land until “better times”—and
when “better times” come they may
start forcing prices up again.
By OBSERVER


It’s Hard to go Right
in Melbourne
BOLTE
...on the move
KENNEDY
... but not Jack
By DESMOND O'GRADY
You are a Melburnian if you think the world is at peace
when you stand between Scots and Independent
Churches in Collins Street and look right towards tree-
sheltered Government House ; if you can face your
paper with equanimity on the morning of the football quarter-
final when it features on its front page a full-page picture of a
dog in Collingwood colors clearing a hurdle ; if you feel
you are up with the latest when chatting at the interval of a
Union Theatre play ; if you take the “Age Literary Supplement”
as your reading guide ; if you’re proud that Flinders Street
station is the busiest in the world (and do not recognise it as
the ugliest) ; if you imagine any discussion about Kennedy
refers not to John but to Graham . . .
This Melbourne is a boom city, “big, rich and beautiful.”
But even Mr Menzies, who calls himself a “completely bigoted
Melbourne man,” would not pretend it is gay. In the last few
years, however, Melburnians have set about livening up the
old town with as much seriousness as they invest in making
it big and rich. Yet somehow something always goes wrong:
it's hard to go right if you want to go gay in Melbourne.
Christmas, for example, is now celebrated for months
ahead with the big stores turning it into a carnival and even
Lent is enlivened by the Moornba festival. But the children
scream at the sight of the monster Father Christmas towering
at the entrance of a big store and, by the end of December,
the people themselves, exhausted by the commercial jollity
and the heat, merely feel exploited.
Moornba was a good idea —for a village or small town.
But Melbourne’s “Let’s Get Together and Have FUN” festival
has required such determination and organisation that they
kill the anticipated spontaneity. Never has a city worked so
hard for its fun as Melbourne at Moornba.
A third attempt, to brighten Melbourne was based on
the Anglo-Saxon axiom that everything Continental is exciting
—sidewalk cafes appeared at the eastern or “Paris” end of
Collins Street. Here at last was proof that Melburnians could
relax and enjoy life. But the cafes had to be cleared off the
streets during peak hours when life is serious. Or migrants,
it was thought, would relieve the monotony of the worthy town
by adding a Continental touch. But something went wrong
again: Some of the migrants found the spice of life in vice,
which Melburnians protested (perhaps giving a clue to their
trouble) was foreign to the city.
ATelbourne’s real flair lies not in having fun but in making
A money. Stable, hard-working, thrifty, it is one of the
few boom cities which retains its decorum: this Houston on
the Yarra still keeps the atmosphere of an English provincial
town. But its flair for development in the last few years makes
this her second gold-rush period.
Look at it: centre for seven of Australia’s ten richest
firms ; home of the first Australian company to be listed on
the New York Stock Exchange ; greatest magnet for migrants ;
first choice for direct United States investment; a population
jump of half a million in the last seven years ; the value of
new buildings rising by 50 per cent, in the last five years . . ,
The outer suburb of Dandenong is clearest evidence of the
Melbourne boom ; the 1950 population of 14,000 had risen
ny 1957 to 30,000 and by 1970 it is expected to be over 80,000.
fn that period, 1950 to 1957, the number of new factories in
victoria was almost double that of New South Wales and
many of them were set up in Dandenong, including Genera!
Motors-Holden’s £3,000,000 works, H. J. Heinz (£4.000,000),
International Harvester (£500,000), S.A. Rubber (£350,000).
New buildings crop up everywhere. In the three years
1957-1959 18 major buildings (worth over £500,000 each) were
completed. Civil and Civic Contractors alone undertook a
£2,000,000 building programme in Melbourne last year. Half
of the St Kilda Road mansions have been rebuilt, Collins
Street has been reshaped, the £4 million King Street Bridge
is open, the Master Plan for the city’s development, which
took seven years to prepare, was out of date in less than a
year because it was based on 1949-54 growth figures but now
the city has to plan for 2,250,000 by 1970. The city is bursting
its planning seams: the dogman’s whistle is the city’s new
symbol, the staccato hammer of the pneumatic drill drowns
even the clatter of the trams.
The second gold rush got under way about 100 years after
the first. By 1953, the City Development Association, which
embraces 400 leading firms, was signing its letters “Mel-
bourne’s on the move’’ and it has been gathering momentum
ever since. The C.D.A. organised Moornba, which draws
600,000 to the city at a time, the Christmas street decoration
scheme, floral week. The City’s Lord Mayors and its Premier,
Mr Bolte, have sold the place overseas with real canniness,
employing, for instance, an American public relations firm in
the U.S.A., and enlisting the aid of important figures on trips
to professional conferences in Europe as promoters. Having
Melbourne selected as the 1956 Games site was the most
spectacular success of the promotion campaign, but it was
followed up with the energy which has been making Melbourne
move these last years: in 1957, 1958 and 1959 “Sell Victoria’’
missions went overseas.
TUlelbourne is On The Move because of the brains at the
T’- 1 top and the workers in the factories. The Chamber of
Manufactures has silver match books embossed “The Largest
Employer Organisation in the Southern Hemisphere” and it
got that way largely because of the number of workers recruited
in the northern hemisphere. More than 40 per cent, of migrants
choose to go to Victoria and a large proportion of them
stay in Melbourne. The reasons are probably that Melbourne
is the first major port for the migrant ships and even those
who do not stay in Melbourne return there from Bonegilla
holding camp. As migration is largely a chain process, par-
ticularly with Southern Europeans, the numbers snowball.
Migration in Melbourne is a chain and a prosperous circle —
the more migrants there are the bigger the work force and
also the bigger the market.
But these migrants who, in the majority of cases, found
the work here that they could not get at home, are conscious
of Melbourne's defects. Melbourne may be big, rich and
beautiful, but many of them have to put up with what the
Rev. N. Hill recently called “the rotting garbage menacing
the health of the people of Fitzroy,” most of them have to
exist in “wretched, sordid, verminous conditions in 1000 acres
of slums” —which is the Housing Minister, Mr Petty’s, descrip-
tion of the inner suburbs North Melbourne, Carlton, Colling-
wood, Prahran, South Melbourne, Richmond and Port Mel-
bourne. Still these migrants manage to recreate something of
community life in such quarters and remain insulated from
the full force of the Melbourne ethos.
Foreign visitors have more complex reactions. Melbourne’s
port provides as depressing an introduction to the city as


Djakarta’s, though it is consoling to some, when arriving at
what seems the end of the world, to find an English provincial
city. For Anglo-Saxons this English quality is a charm: there
are 1700 acres of parks and gardens and 67,000 trees though
the city itself is a grid of streets which gives few opportunities
for strolling, repose, reflection: the city is a machine for
commercial transactions, and even its gardens merely flank it.
The life suffers from the same blight as Boston’s: profes-
sional prigs. Only in Brisbane are book censors as active, and
only in Adelaide are the hotel hours as wowserish —although
they don’t eliminate reeling drunks which shock overseas
visitors. That funereal Melbourne Sunday followed by the
flood of workers into the city on Monday would have delighted
Calvin. Ava Gardner, when in Melbourne for “On the Beach,”
remarked that it was the perfect place to make a film about
the end of the world, but Billy Graham found it a city after
his own heart: “one of the most moral cities I have seen.”
Of course those are things that visitors notice and Mel-
burnians can shrug them off. Critics can go right back where
they came from, to the decadent Continent or brash America:
they don't really know Melbourne life.
But who does? Melbourne is a left hand of five spread
fingers with Port Phillip Bay between the thumb and the
forefinger which finish at Sunshine and Frankston. The other
three fingers are Heidelberg, Ringwood and Dandenong. The
city’s post-war development has resulted in a thickening of
the palm and a widening of the fingers, especially the three
which hold the vertical undulations between the city and the
Dandenongs. The city has flooded out in the attempt to escape
the city. It is so extensive that old residents are constantly
hearing of new suburbs which could be on the other side of
the moon: ask a Melburnian to mark on the map—Jordanville,
Syndal, Oak Park, Merlynston, Glenbervie . . . Will something
new come out of this new suburbia, out of the hundreds of
thousands of small homes, each standing free and independent
on its own cabbage patch, with the motor mower and Holden?
TTespite its somewhat grey surface Melbourne is a city of
passion. This is not a reference to espresso-bar vice nor
the city’s well-organised underworld, but to League football.
This is Melbourne’s authentic passion, something altogether
different from the spring racing carnival which, although it
brings over 20,000 to the city and a Flemington betting turn-
over of £6,000,000 in four days, is a momentary affair.
Australian Rules draws over 100,000 weekly and sets 2,000,000
talking each day of the week. Like the Athenians at a Greek
tragedy, the community gathers to celebrate a rite in which
they feel themselves deeply involved.
Something went wrong
The teams, with the exception of Geelong, Hawthorn,
St Kilda and Melbourne, represent the poorer inner
Toorak does not field a side. But the supporters come to the
grounds from the newest suburbs, up to 20 miles away. It is
an indication of Melbourne’s growth to see people from East
Malvern, Ringwood and Sandringham following South Mel-
bourne around to the various League grounds: it means, in
most cases, that their parents or grandparents lived in South
Melbourne and they retain the same loyalty. It is a pointer
to something else, too, to the clannishness, the tribalism of
Melbourne life.
Groups hold together and fight other groups with a par-
ticular intensity in Melbourne. In Sydney groups intermingle;
a person can be a member of a number of groups in a sort
of bump-and-go arrangement ; but in Melbourne a group
becomes not a party but a Party. The Catholics are more
Catholic, the Presbyterians more Presbyterian, the Jews more
Jewish, and so on. The Catholics are a good example. The
fight for their school-system, among other things, has long
been a unifying influence on them, but they are divided by
real and deeply-felt differences about the role of the Church
in society. The disagreement over the Movement’s activities
has gone deep in the Melbourne Catholic community, in some
cases setting sons against fathers.
Talking of Fathers, Sydney priests have commented “Give
a Melbourne priest a typewriter and in 30 minutes he will
organise a nation-wide movement.” The point is not merely
Melbourne organisational ability, it is also the Melbourne
seriousness about ideas. This is obvious in the specifically
Catholic sphere: even those most critical of Archbishop Mannix
respect his intelligence and his influence is clear in the Mel-
bourne Catholic press, the Catholic library and the level of
Catholic discussion generally. But it is also true of Melbourne
intellectuals at their best At their worst they are merely
solemn.
It is not the least of the paradoxes of this boom town
which retains its decorum, this most English of our cities which
can be fiercely Australianist, that while proud to be conserva-
tive it also has a great tradition of Leftism. It is hard to be
Right in Melbourne: the executive of the Victorian A.L.P. is
the most Leftist body this side of Communism, and Melbourne
University, though sturdily bourgeois, has been the centre
of Australian intellectual Leftism for many years. Almost every
prominent Leftist intellectual in Australia is a product of, or
has been deeply influenced by, Melbourne University. Just
after the war Sydney undergraduates used to jibe that there
seemed to be more Communists in Melbourne University than
in the whole of the United States. That was in the heyday
of the Labor Club, and although part of the Leftist idealism
later went into the university’s religious societies, teachers such
as Macmahon Ball and the quarterlies “Meanjin” and “Over-
land” (which could only have taken root in Melbourne) ensure
that Leftism is the intellectual orthodoxy.
Surely only in Melbourne of all Australian cities would
five leading literary figures (C. B. Christesen, Vance Palmer,
A. A. Phillips, Laurence Collinson, Jean Campbell) have written
that fantastic and frightening letter to “The Age” in July, 1958,
at the time of the Russian execution of the Hungarian ex-
Premier, Imre Nagy, saying that the people who protested at
this execution would use any excuse to discredit Russia but
remain silent about Little Rock and the Rosenbergs!
Melbourne, however, is sure of its cultural pre-eminence.
Its art galleries are the best in Australia ; its painters, Boyd,
Nolan and Tucker, have had resounding success overseas;
in Chris Wallace-Crabbe, Evan Jones and R. A. Simpson it
has what could be called a school of civilised if not yet
exciting poets. (Melbourne does not encourage novelists.)
It is part of the Melbourne myth that Sydney is vulgar while
Melbourne is cultured: Mr Mitchell, Country-party member
for Benambra, put it in words when he said that Melbourne
was the leader of Australia’s culture while Sydney’s taste in
art “can’t rise higher than Namatjira and Tooth’s KB Lager.”
He himself supported the proposed national gallery and
cultural centre because “if you have splashed about in a
milking-yard with only a cow’s cold teat for comfort, it i s
refreshing to sit down and look at a Gainsborough landscape
of an English countryside.”
It is a country squire speaking, but it captures the feel
of an important element in Melbourne also. Melburnians really
admire balance! That makes it hard to be gay.


Australia’s number one
Life Office
B&jb,
m
At the A.M.P. Society’s H2th Annual Meeting, Mr. C. G. Crane, Chair-
man of the Principal Board, emphasised the following figures which
indicate the scope of A.M.P. Policy ownership.
In 1960 A.M.P. members bought new policies total-
ling more than £306,000,000.
A.M.P. members owned total cover amount-
ing to £2,083,000,000.
A.M.P. members’ policies were increased by
additional free assurances (bonuses) total-
ling more than £34,000,000.
A.M.P. members and their dependants re-
ceived in cash more than £27,000,000.
EXISTS
TO
PROTECT
YOU
Translated in terms of the individual, what does
A.M.P. Policy ownership mean?
HERE IS AN ACTUAL EXAMPLE
First family protection policy taken out
for £2,000.
1 Poiic Y increased to £5,000 at special low-
premium family protection rates.
1961 Extra “R” Unit protection added, making
amount payable on death £15,000.
In this actual example the amount now being set aside
weekly to protect the member's family with £15,000 of
A.M.P. cover is £2.
K
AMP
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s Largest and Oldest Life Assurance Organisation
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand, and in the United Kingdom.
A.M.P. MEMBERS ENJOY THE UNQUESTIONED SECURITY AFFORDED BY FUNDS OF £500,000,000
WHICH THE SOCIETY SEEKS TO INVEST TO THE GREATEST BENEFIT TO MEMBERS.
R2O3G


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: New Guinea
—From THE BULLETIN, January 10, 1885.
THE GERMANS AND BRITISH IN NEW GUINEA
NEW GUINEA: “How happy I could be neither.”


A New Chairman
for the A.B.C.?
By FRANK DIXON
SIR RICHARD BOYER
“Let them talk their heads off”
Who will succeed Sir Richard Boyer as chairman of the
A.B.C. when he retires at the end of June? It could
be Sir William Dunk, who retired recently from the
chairmanship of the Commonwealth Public Service
Board. Another possible choice is the vice-chairman of the
Commission, Mr Edgar Dawes, C.M.G. Still another is Mr
A. G. Lowndes, M.Sc., of Sydney, who is now in his second
term on the Commission.
If the Government is looking for a younger and more
vigorous man to run the national broadcasting and television
service it will probably by-pass Sir William Dunk, who, despite
his vast administrative experience, could hardly be regarded as
a suitable successor to Sir Richard Boyer who has been asso-
ciated with national broadcasting since 1940. Mr Dawes's
chances can be ruled out for the same reason, in addition to
which he lives in Adelaide. The Government will almost cer-
tainly insist on the new chairman living in Sydney.
There is a strong feeling among A.B.C. staff members that
the Government will bring in a man from outside who has had
no previous association with national broadcasting and is there-
fore unlikely to be obsessed with the fear of television which
seems to infect all members of the Commission from the chair-
man down. The Government, aware of this timidity, and
concerned at the worsening relations between the Commission
and both its senior and general staff, will probably welcome
the opportunity of replacing Sir Richard when his present three-
year term expires. By then he will have served 21 years in
national broadcasting, 16 of them as chairman.
The only man in a position to speak authoritatively on
the future control of the A.B.C. is the Postmaster-General,
Mr C. W. Davidson, and he declines to say anything at this
stage. Mr Davidson replied to a recent list of questions I
submitted on the subject in one sentence: “I regret lam not
in a position to comment.”
Sir Richard Boyer told a member of his senior staff
recently that at the age of 71 his health is not as good as he
could wish and he did not intend to accept appointment for
a further term if it were offered to him. Cynics suggest that
Sir Richard had pre-knowledge of the Government’s plans and
was merely getting in early to avoid personal embarrassment
from the criticism, friendly or otherwise, that will inevitably
follow the announcement that another man had succeeded him
in control of national broadcasting. At first it was hinted
that he would retire in mid-April, the 16th anniversary of his
appointment as chairman, but it seems inevitable now that
he will carry on at least till the end of June.
Boyer, who was awarded a K.B.E. five years ago, for his
services to broadcasting, is the son of an English clergyman ;
he was born at Taree and educated at Newington College and
Sydney University. His first inclination was towards the
Methodist ministry and he undertook some preliminary train-
ing, but on his return from World War I he took up a station
property in Queensland.
It was when he was on his way back to Australia from a
lecture tour overseas in 1945 that the Curtin Government
offered Boyer the chairmanship of the Commission following
the unexpected resignation of Mr W. J. Cleary. A few
hours after his appointment had been announced Boyer
held his own press conference and told journalists how
delighted he was at the Prime Minister's assurances of
the Commission's independence. “In future,” he said, “we
intend to keep our policy and operations very much in the
public eye—in fact we shall live like goldfish in a bowl, so to
speak.”
One of the earliest disputes in which Boyer became
involved followed the broadcasting of a talk by Ernest
Thornton, then general secretary of the Ironworkers’ Federa-
tion and a well-known Communist, soon after his return from
Russia. Boyer countered press and public criticism of the
talk by saying it was the Commission’s duty to allow freedom
of expression to all parties. Critics with long memories later
wondered how he reconciled this principle with his refusal in
July, 1949, to allow the then Premier of Queensland (Ned
Hanlon) to broadcast a talk on the coal strike which was
disrupting industry in Queensland at the time. Hanlon claimed
that the strike had been engineered by Communists ; and when
the A.B.C. refused him time on its Queensland stations to
expose their tactics he arranged to speak over all commercial
stations in that State. Hanlon said the Commission's attitude,
according to its chairman, was dictated by a policy of strict
neutrality “but,” he commented, “anyone who is neutral in a
position such as this is not of much value as a citizen.” Boyer
replied that if Hanlon had been allowed to state his point of
view on the strike the Commission would also have had to
make time available to the “dissident minority.”
r T''HE Commission was in hot water again two nights before
J- polling day in the 1949 Federal elections when it allowed
the leader of the Lang Labor party (Mr J. T. Lang) to make a
national broadcast from Sydney in which he charged the Prime
Minister (Ben Chifley) with having lent sums of money
totalling £15,000 to various people in the Bathurst district
between 1930 and 1942 at interest rates up to 9 per cent. The
attack created a sensation in political circles ; and the papers
next day carried Boyers’ explanation that the A.B.C. did not
make any check of political scripts and therefore did not know
what Lang intended to say. “We are not concerned with
the accuracy of any statements a speaker might make on the
air,” he said. “Accuracy is his own business.” He then flew to
his Queensland property and did not return for some weeks,
by which time the controversy had died down.
A much more recent dispute involving the censoring of a
talk prepared by journalist Rohan Rivett, of Adelaide, on the
Suez crisis, shook Boyer rather badly. At first he denied that
the talk had been censored at all; and was painfully surprised
when the then Federal Labor leader, Dr Evatt, refused to accept
his assurance and demanded the production of the documents.
Boyer said Rivett had not been prepared to revise his script
on the spur of the moment, but “gave it with great freedom and
emphasis three days later.” LJnfortunately for him the docu-


FINE
LIQUEUR WHISKY
A fine example of early Colonial
architecture is this Bond house in
Happy Valley, South Australia.
Here the mellow blends that make
Bond 7 Fine Liqueur Whisky
quietly mature in cask in the age-old
way that makes great Whisky.
FINE LIQUEUR WHISKY
AMSIHm
L aKOtt
One of the Jive great whiskies of the world . . .
92348
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. 0. MAITLAND 0. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
ments showed that Rivett had persisted in his refusal to change
his script and that the talk he gave later was a different one!
TIOYER has always been a good mixer and a popular after-
dinner speaker and on the whole has shown marked
ability to adapt himself to changing circumstances, particu-
larly on the political level. He opposed the introduction of
an independent news service through the A.8.C., but after it
had been running a few months he described it as “one of
the most significant things the Commission had done.” Simi-
larly some years earlier he had been strongly resentful at the
creation of a Broadcasting Control Board, fearing that it would
hamstring the Commission, but after entertaining the board
on its first official visit to Sydney he told other members of
the Commission that he felt confident of being able to work
amicably with it.
The appointment of two Government nominees—Messrs
Nette and Vantoff —to the Commission also worried him
greatly at the outset “I’m afraid the Commission is all washed-
up," he confided to fellow-Commissioner Jack Hanlon, but
after allowing the newcomers to “have their heads” (as he put
it) at the first couple of meetings, his fears vanished. I am
sure, however, he heaved a sigh of relief a few years ago when
the Menzies Government replaced Nette and Vantoff with two
outside appointees.
Boyer’s ability to handle problems at the political level has
always stood him in good stead; and for the last ten or 11
years he has had to contend only with attacks from the
Opposition side of Parliament which the Government in the
main refused to treat seriously. He has taken the precaution
of surrounding the Commission with a network of advisory
committees embracing university men and members of all
Federal political parties and has allowed them to “talk their
heads off” at periodical conferences, shrewdly realising that
any critcism made in such circumstances was unlikely to be
repeated outside.
A s could be expected of a man who received his early
industrial experience in the conservative atmosphere of
the Graziers’ Association in Queensland, Boyer has shown
little sympathy with the efforts of the two A.B.C. staff
organisations to improve the salaries and conditions of their
members by appeals to the Public Service Arbitrator He has
always contended they would do better by “leaving it to the
Commission.” I recall his telling the Senior Officers’ Associa-
tion some years ago, after several abortive conferences, that
the Commission would never again meet it in conference if
it adhered to its intention of approaching the Public Service
Arbitrator for an award Boyer had not learned at that time
that conciliation is an integral part of the Australian arbitration
system and that a conference must always precede a hearing
by the Arbitrator.
It was the comment of the Public Service Arbitrator (Mr
Birketl) a couple of years back that “unless the Commission
altered its policy of rigid and uncompromising hostility to
arbitration it was headed for disaster” that really got under
Boyer’s skin. Last year the Commission persuaded the Minister
to amend the staff regulations. These amendments, as well as
depriving senior officers of vital statutory protection they had
enjoyed for some years, facilitated future staff reorganisation
by the Commission, freed it from censure by the Arbitrator,
irrespective of the state of industrial proceedings or the effect
upon staff appearing before the Arbitrator. The Staff Associa-
tion’s opposition to these amendments was supported by the
Labor party in Parliament, but the Government accepted them
on the ground that the Commission considered them “essential.”
Some months later the Government accepted a further
submission by the Commission that the staff regulations be
abolished, including the amendments regarded as “essential” a
sh~ t time previously, on the ground that the substitution of
staff rules would ensure Commonwealth Public Service condi-
tions for the A.B.C. staff.
When Sir Richard Boyer steps down from his high post
a few weeks hence he will, I am sure, be prepared to concede
that despite all the social and cultural distinctions which attach
to it, chairmanship of the A.B.C. is not exactly a sinecure. It
would be wrong, of course, to blame him for all the financial
and industrial problems in which the Commission has become
involved in recent years ; but his successor will have a full-
time job in trying, among other things, to restore the
harmonious relations with its staff on which the success of the
national broadcasting instrumentality depends.


OUR PARTY
IN A DEMOCRATIC PARTY IT IS
OUR RIGHT-INDEED OUR DUTY
TO CRITICISE THE LEADERSHIP
■ • • AND WE ASK NO
PRIVILEGES BECAUSE OF
OUR SEX
HOW COULD YOU UNDERSTAND THEIR
PROBLEMS you, who've never
EXPERIENCED STRUGGLE
1 SAID WHAT DO YOU THINK OF
THE WORKERS COMPULSORY
Retirement bill, senator?
PEP
v IT'S JUST A MATTER
OF CONVINCING THE
WORKERS THEY CAN
TRUST US


Hunter: No Man
Less Suitable
By M. H. ELLIS
JOHN HUNTER R.N.
Haunted the vestibules
Continuing a series on the early Governors of N.S.VI/.
No man in the history of the early autocracies of New
South Wales was less suited to govern the Colony than
Captain John Hunter, R.N. It must be held against
Lord Howe that he was responsible for having him
appointed after the resignation of Governor Phillip.
Phillip nominated as his successor Commander Philip
Gidley King who had done a very good and methodical job
on Norfolk Island.
But, at the end of 1793, Captain Roger Curtis, captain
in Lord Howe’s flagship, Queen Charlotte, took the liberty
of suggesting the appointment to the vacancy caused by
Phillip’s retirement of “my friend Captain Hunter, who is
now a sort of volunteer on board this ship. ' Lord Howe,
commanding the Channel Fleet, and Vice-Admiral of England,
seconded the suggestion.
Hunter’s career had been marked always by uncertainty
of mind on everything except technical matters. He was one
of the finest seamen of his time, but he had shown little or no
capacity for command except on a ship-repair or surveying
job or pilotage. Nor had he shown much ambition.
Born on August 29, 1737, son of a Scottish shipmaster and
of a niece of a Provost of Edinburgh, he had been taken to
sea by his father as a small boy and wrecked on the coast
of Norway where, according to legend, his inert little body
had been revived by placing it to warm in bed between two
buxom froken
He had been sent to King’s Lynn, town of the Greenland
Fisheries and Eugene Aram (whom he may have seen), to live
with his uncle who was a merchant there. He had been sent
to school and, coming under the influence of Dr Burney, the
father of Fanny and friend of Cook (who was organist at St
Margaret’s), he aspired to a musical career. His family com-
promised by sending him to Aberdeen to study for the kirk,
an enterprise which was short-lived, since at 16 he was taken
into H.M.S. Grampus, a 14-gun guard sloop, as a captain’s
servant. He was soon on his way with the convoying squadron
which carried George II on his iast voyage from England to
Hanover.
He was studious. At 19 he was called down from the
mainmast tops by his captain and made a midshipman on
th : spot when it was found that he owned the clothes to
support his warrant rank. It is characteristic that he accepted
with diffidence, doubting his ability to exercise command over
former associates of the lower deck.
From then onward no naval warrant holder could have
had greater opportunities for rapid promotion. His studious-
ness and inventiveness were acknowledged by all. His experi-
ence of battle, shipwreck and pilotage and the oceans at large
became second to none. Throughout 40 years “in constant and
active employment in all quarters of the globe, engaged in
a life truly and sincerely devoted to the service of my
sovereign,” he was in famous flagships, almost always under
the eye of powerful admirals and historic captains. But
nobody ever thought of him as the food of command.
It took him 20 years, after he passed his examination, and
a desperate fight in the end, at 43, to get his commission. And
Howe, his patron, was astonished that he wanted one. He
believed that his ambition was to become master attendant
at a dockyard.
Now he was commissioned, Howe took him with him
as third and then first lieutenant of the Victory, in which they
sailed to the relief of Gibraltar ; but he was obviously not
much of a success as a first lieutenant since, instead of getting
promotion to a ship of the line as might have been expected
after fighting in an historic engagement, he was relegated to
be master and commander of a fireship, and then of a battered
sloop, a piece of French spoil, which could scarcely get across
the Channel.
Then, having him well on his hands, Howe placed him
as second captain of the Sirius under Phillip, the first time in
naval history that such an appointment had been made. He
was at last, at 50, a post captain, having been rapidly pushed up
from temporary sixth lieutenant in the space of four years.
IVTo appointment could have better suited him. His services
in Australian waters were historic. He made the original
soundings of Port Jackson and adjacent waters in an incredibly
short space of time. He made, reputedly, the first sketch of
Sydney on record —August, 1788. He settled, with Dawes, the
latitude and longitude of Sydney.
His voyage round the world between October, 1788, and
1789, to secure succor for the settlement, due to Phillip’s
uncanny prescience that the first storeship to leave England to
renew the Colony’s provisions might be lost, was one of the
greatest of antipodean voyages.
It was the first voyage in history to be made round the
globe in Antarctic latitudes. It was made through uncharted
seas with a weed-hung and leaking ship and with a crew on
short rations which had not tasted fresh meat since Angust,
1787.
He reached Sydney on May 9, 1789, with the now creaking
and dangerously leaking Sirius due for overhaul. He over-
hauled her, then set out on March 6, 1790, for Norfolk Island
carrying Major Ross, the Lieutenant-Governor. It is curious
that holding a dormant commission as Governor to be opened
if Phillip died, he himself was not Lieutenant-Governor. They
had in the ship a company of Marines and 186 convicts. The
Supply, tender, was in company and under his command.
Seven days later he ran under the lee of Norfolk Island
and was able to land the whole of his passengers and their
luggage, but not even one cask of food to sustain them, before
the wind shifted in a way to lure them into Sydney Bay, where
the Supply lay and where the signals ashore told him it was
safe for boats to come in.
Before the second store boat reached land, he found him-
self in the grasp of baffling gusts and the wrong tide and piled
up on a reef in a bay that had looked safe, was scarcely
charted and proved to be full of rocks.
Before long the old Sirius was a sinking wreck and it was
a feat to get her crew off safe to the last man, hauled through
heavy surf over the coral reefs with some nearly cut to pieces
when they landed.
Hunter was court-martialled in England in 1792 and he
and his officers were honorably acquitted.
His retirement again to the Queen Charlotte, 55 years


old, to become a “sort of volunteer” under Howe and Curtis
seemed the logical conclusion to his career. But now here he
was pushed into the office of Governor of New South Wales,
another 15,000-mile voyage ahead of him in the small but
gallant storeship Reliance.
TTe had just passed his 58th birthday when he landed in
AA Sydney after a long battering by the oceans, and it was
a very different Sydney to that which he had left. The year
that Phillip had sailed all was socialism. The farming was
done under the Governor’s personal supervision. There were
no private farmers other than released convicts, no free settlers.
And during the year 482 persons had died against a total
population at the end of the year of 4203.
In the interval of two years and eight months before the
new Governor’s arrival a few free settlers had come in. Officers,
civil and military, had been granted lands, had built homes
over the countryside. Cattle had been brought in, servants
allotted to the farmers. Most important of all, the superin-
tendence of the convicts and agriculture had been placed in
the hands of the young and energetic John Macarthur. The
rich lands of the Hawkesbury had been opened up. Want
had disappeared. The trouble was not lack of foodstuffs but
how to deal with surplusage. Only 26 persons died in 1795 out
of a population of 3200, against the 482 persons in 1792.
JJunter himself was amazed and delighted with what he
saw, approving the policy pursued by Grose and Paterson,
satisfied with the work of Macarthur. But this did not last
very long. A “very plain man, pleasant and sensible,” Captain
Hunter might be, skilled with cordage and buoys and survey-
ing instruments, but he was horribly deficient when it came
to human beings. The whole future seemed bright.
Only at first. Soon there was interference with
Macarthur’s management of the convicts. He complained that
men were being taken away by the medical department and
others without reference to him. But Macarthur's headquarters
were at Parramatta, and Balmain, the surgeon, and Richard
Johnson and Marsden, the two on-the-make clergy with a dozen
officials eager for their own enrichment and advancement, had
moved in on Government House. Macarthur resigned his
office. Hunter misstated the reasons he gave to the Colonial
Office.
Hunter appointed Richard Atkins —his real name was
Bowyer, but he had taken the name of Atkins on receiving a
legacy— to fill Macarthur’s shoes. And Atkins was a prime
villain, incapable of managing even his own morals ; a man of
aristocratic family, powerful at court, with an admiral and a
general as brothers, but himself a drunkard and thief. He had
been exported to the colony following a mean peculation of
the funds of a regiment of yeomanry of which he had been
adjutant to save him from the consequences of his crime and
debauchery.
Governor after governor dwelt on his addictions and his
unreliability. But to Hunter what could be wrong with the
brother of his comrade Admiral George Bowyer whom he had
known nearly all his life and who had lost an arm off Ushant
in a gallant action the very year he himself had left England?
He would hear no criticism of Atkins. When Macarthur
railed in virtuous indignation against Atkins’s vices and Atkins
wrote him, in his cups, an outrageous letter Hunter was on
Atkins’s side. If Atkins gave fraudulent notes against funds
that were not there to meet them, Hunter smothered the affair.
He appointed him Acting Judge Advocate in accordance with
a curious instruction from England when David Collins, the
incumbent, sailed for England in September 26, 1796 —a
judicial outrage which meant nothing to a British Ministry
with the Court of St James to please.
After September, 1796, all became chaos. The colony was
divided into two camps. Everybody abused everybody
else. Macarthur wrote to the Colonial Secretary criticising the
administration and suggesting a constructive plan for it.
Hunter, when he heard of the criticism, responded in violent
terms of abuse. His letters, from their diction evidently
written by Atkins, accused Macarthur of everything from
promoting rebellion among the Irish to promoting debauchery.
He deprecated with scorn his claims to farming knowledge.
He assailed his character. He accused him of illegalities. He
embraced the whole military caste outside those nearest to
him in his condemnation.
From the time Macarthur criticised him no despatch went
forward without some personal abuse of him by Hunter.
There were also continual admissions of the latter’s failures of
judgment, regular bulletins about the decrepit state of his
health.
And by June, 1797, the disastrous results of confiding
Macarthur’s task of administration to the drunken Atkins
seem to have become apparent to him, since he is pleading
for some very ‘respectable persons to be appointed to manage
the Government’s farming concerns.”
He dwelt continually on his anxiety of mind, and his
excuse for his failures and for the general ruin and indisci-
pline now centred round his statement that the colony—which
he had pictured ecstatically in his despatches written on
arrival as flourishing and making great progress—had fallen
“under my direction at a most unfortunate period and in a
very unpleasant state.”
According to Hunter, indeed, almost everything current
which was ruining the country in spite of his orders was due
to oppressive monopoly trading by civil and military officers
and particularly to Macarthur....“this man” —who had been
his own accuser —“engaged in a low mean manner of carrying
on a disgraceful trade in this colony.” He enclosed papers
which he said would “serve to place in a conspicuous point
of view the horrid depravity and wickedness of this man’s
heart.”
The Colonial Secretary must have been considerably
bewildered when he read the papers, for save that they
exhibited Macarthur as having a bad temper, almost every-
thing else in them was to his credit and certainly provided no
evidence that he was a source of depravity. In fact, the
contrary.
'T'he bewilderment of the home authorities apparently grew
to anger and amazement when the Duke of Portland’s
eye lighted on an order of Hunter’s proving beyond doubt
that he had actually himself created the monopoly which he
condemned.
The inhabitants were “apprised” (by the Governor) “by
public notice that a cargo had been bought, the officers having
undertaken the trouble of officiating as agents for the benefit
of the whole colony,” and all were adjured to fall in with the
plan and buy only from them.
This was too much for the Colonial Office. The Minister
expressed his disapprobation of “the manner in which the
government of the colony has been administered by you in so
many respects,” commented strongly on the neglect which
was alleged to have brought Norfolk Island almost at the point
of disaster from starvation, censured Atkins. for some of his
shortcomings and signified the King's pleasure that Hunter
return home by the first safe conveyance after the arrival of
his successor, Captain King, who was being sent out with a
dormant commission.
Receiving this letter early in 1800, Hunter delayed in the
colony until September 28, 1801, when he sailed, followed by
King’s sighs of relief, in H.M.S. Buffalo. He reached England
to find his patron Howe dead, the ears of the Colonial Office
deaf to his protests and his pathetic pleas for investigation.
Hobart, who had succeeded the Duke of Portland at the
Colonial Office, placed it on record that it would not be for
the good of the public service that he should ever be employed
in a civil office again.
His influence was gone. For months he haunted the
vestibules of government offices pleading for investigation,
justifying his actions, attacking his enemies. He importuned
Sir Joseph Banks. He bombarded old friends with requests
for justice. He published a long pamphlet in which he sought
to justify his administration. But to no avail. The final touch
to confirm the Colonial Office in its low opinion of him must
have come when he appeared before the Privy Council
Committee inquiring into the prospects of the wool industry
and praised Macarthur’s work as an improver of sheep and
cattle, telling the committee on oath “I have no doubt any
offer he may make will be worth attending to.” Only a few
years ago there was “no person in this colony whose opinions
I hold in greater contempt than this busybody.”
At last in 1804 the Navy gave him command of the
Venerable, 74. Before the year was out she piled up on
Paignton Edge in Cawsand Bay, a total wreck, and he himself
escaped with his life only by going ashore precariously along
a hawser. Again he was exonerated by a court. But his sea
career was over. He died a vice-admiral, promoted by
seniority, in March, 1821, in his 84th year.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WOULD
Still Living
With Asia
It is time to stop talking of Asians as if they
were children—or gods
On the road from Seoul
By DONALD HORNE
It is hard to know what is the most alarming thing about
the attitude of many Australians to Asia. But there is a
malaise in this country which makes even the
best-intentioned persons talk about Asians as if they
were not human beings. 1 do not mean the excesses of the
traditionalists, which are now stupidly irrelevant, but the normal
conversation of people who attempt to be enlightened and pro-
gressive. They worship Asians (and fear them) as if Asians
were charming children with hidden terrible powers. They
credit Asians with moral qualities that do not exist ; they abase
themselves before Asians as repentant sinners: they want to
pamper them with friendship and gifts ; behind it all lies a
terror that if we don’t look out we might get a nasty bite.
And if we do, it will be our fault because we have failed to
be sufficiently propitiatory of these child-gods.
Yet there is a sense in which “Asia” does not exist. It is
only a geographical term. It has no religious sense, no cultural
sense, no racial sense (it you go for that kind of thing) and
certainly no political sense. To our North there are many
nations whose way of life is alien to ours. But among those
nations the most tragic disturbances show that they are also
alien to each other. “Asia” has no unity. In itself it does not
exist.
There are two things, however, that provide a common
link between many of these countries that seem to make them
similar to each other, and different from us. One is that they
are “weak,” the other is that they are recently “liberated” and
“anti-colonial,” if not anti-European.
Apart from military matters (in which some of them are
much stronger than us, which isn’t hard) there are senses in
which they are weak: their governments are often unstable ;
racial or religious differences increase disunity ; administration
is unskilled ; illiteracy is high ; economies are under-developed.
These are all practical problems that have nothing specifically
to do with being “Asian.” Plenty of European governments
are at times unstable ; we should give political instabilities
away as an “Asian” characteristic, and a quick survey of recent
European civilisation makes it ludicrous to find anything
distinctively Asian in racial or religious conflict.
We are left with some characteristics of “weakness”—
illiteracy, under-development and under-administration —that
are not, for the moment, typical of European or North Ameri-
can countries, or Australia. But these were until recently
characteristics of almost everybody. This does not mean that
they should be ignored, but if we are going to worry
about them (and the political and social instabilities as well)
we can most realistically do it in these terms: we have to our
North a whole lot of countries that until recently were under
the control of foreign Powers ; since the foreign Powers left,
these countries have been politically and socially unstable;
furthermore, they are “have-not” Powers in which there is a
shortage of skills, education, capital accumulation and even
food. These are all terrible problems ; but we should think
of them as problems in these terms. And the way they affect
us most is: if some of these countries, through the above-
mentioned regrettable facts, collapse—who will take them over?
To have a lot of weak States to our North is very worrying: it
would also be worrying if we had a lot of strong States to our
North Even more worrying if we had one strong State to
our North. This kind of problem is not “Asian” at all. We
only think it is because until recently the colonial empires
insulated us from the world.
The link between countries in Asia that does make them
appear peculiar is the ideology of “anti-colonialism.” There
isn’t very much colonial sm left for anyone to oppose, but it is
a feature of anti-ism movements that they can outlast the
“isms,” and by an extraordinary fluke Australia is billed to
be one of the last colonial Powers. This —combined with the
fact that we are related to the former major colonial Powers
in a number of intricate ways—certa'nly affects our relation-
ship with the anti-colonialists What do we do about it?
Apart from the question of our responsibilities in New Guinea
we should realise that anti-colonialism is an ideology. It can
make things harder for us. But not impossible. History is
filled with examples of States which, although sharing an
ideology, nevertheless fell into profound disagreement between
themselves, but got on well with other States whom they
considered to be ideological enemies. Things do not always
turn out as cheerfully as this, of course, but we can at least
affirm that we are not colonialist in any bad sense, that we
were once a colony, too, that we intend to do a good job
with New Guinea, and so on. Above all we should not be
dazed and demoralised by the fact that the countries to our
North can beat an “anti-colonialist” drum and we can’t;
ideologies eventually fade and although this one unites, others
divide.
VV7E should also remember that we have ideological
affinities with some countries to our North. One way
and the other we are all non-Communist (although some of
us are more non-Communist than others). We are Seato
partners with some of them, we share an ideological belief in
democracy with some of them, we share the European cultural
heritage with some of them. But finally it is Communism
that is the question. What looms over Australia (if at present
distantly) is not “Asia,” but China. The real reason why the
weakness of States to our North matters to us is that one by


one they may fall to the Communists. The real reason why
“anti-colonialism” matters is that it gets in the way of anti-
communism ; it enervates political life and hums away at dead
issues to the detriment of issues that now matter. Before the
second war it was far-sighted to warn that “Asia” was a threat.
Then we did not know exactly how the threat would come.
Mow it is confusing (and dangerous) not to speak specifically
of China.
Given the approach outlined, the attitudes of many
Australians to “Asia” seem irrelevant. Purely generous
motives (“we must do something for these poor people”) are
admirable in themselves, but often diffused or misplaced. Which
poor people? What can we do? We can’t do all that much,
but what we can do may as well be done with our own
interests in mind. If we are trying to help stick unstable States
together or overcome the obsessions of “anti-colonialism” and
there is not much we can do, we should choose the places
where we will get the best results. We shall still be helping
people, but we shall be helping ourselves, too. We should
make sure that the blind generosity that makes us spill a few
droplets of largesse here and there is not so blind that we don't
spill the droplets right down the drain, to the detriment of
both ourselves and the poor people.
Calculated aid can be a sensible and humane policy and
we should have more of it. But what of other demands: That
we should “come to terms with Asian nationalism”? That we
must always have “friendly relations”? That we should “solve
problems”? That we should make “realistic concessions”?
If these mean nothing they merely confuse issues. But some-
times they conceal policies that could be disastrous.
“Coming to terms with Asian nationalism” can mean
simply that if an Asian country wants something it should be
allowed to have it. This is quite idiotic. In the general sense,
Asian nationalism has been come to terms with ; the demand
of people in Asia that they should take over the control of
the former colonies has been met. What then? We can't keep
on coming to terms with them about everything forever. Just
because they were once colonies does not mean that they are
now children who must be spoilt, to whom the ordinary
standards of foreign policy do not apply. We may still have
to “come to terms” with some Asian nations sometimes
because we are not strong enough to meet their demands or
because we want to secure their co-operation. But we can’t
do it every time. There is no moral duty imposed on us to
do so, although this is what is sometimes suggested, and it is
not necessarily realistic to meet every demand that is made.
In fact Asian countries do not regularly make demands on
Australia , the come-to-terms school here has not got all that
many terms to come to ; instead it jumps at shadows ; it wants
to offer what has not even been seriously expected.
This attitude is related to “realistic concessions.” Appease-
ment, out of fashion during the war, later became the new
realism. In this field it is believed that a few smart concessions
(100,000 Asian migrants a year, New Guinea, recognition of
China) are all that is needed to buy the goodwill of Asian
countries. All that one can say is that there is no evidence
that concessionary policies necessarily work. Normally you
don't go out of your way looking for people you can concede
things to. And if you are faced with an expanding, hungry
INDIA’S NEHRU
No successor in sight
MALAYA’S RAHMAN
Keep Australia white
Power concessions may merely lead to further demands for
concessions. Connected with the belief in concessions is the
new realist belief that territory is no longer of any strategic
importance. Give them Laos ; it is strategically unimportant.
Give them South Vietnam ; it is strategically unimportant.
And all of this in a part of the world where other nations are
standing by half-fearing that it is impossible to withstand
Communism. It is hard for us to keep up the morale of the
as yet uninvaded if we surrender, territory by territory, those
who have been invaded.
Even having “friendly relations” is misunderstood. This
means little more than carrying on affairs with a nation in a
normal kind of way. It does not mean wanting to slobber over
every Asian we meet (no more than our friendly relations with,
say, France or Brazil, mean this kind of emotional excess).
Friends can have considerable differences of opinion. The
type of “friendly relations” some Australians demand that we
should enjoy with Asian countries would simply produce
suspicion ; they would wonder what we wanted to get out of
it. A simple, straightforward honesty—and we are supposed
to be good at this —is perhaps the most successful way in
which we can be friendly. It may give us a reputation for
naivete (but we are, by many standards, naive); and we may
be taken down now and again (but that is one basis for
friendship). We should at least always remember that no
nation ever enjoys good relations with everybody. We live in
a hard world. We are often going to be unloved and mis-
understood and there is often nothing we can do about it except
to stop worrying.
'T'he demand that because Asia is full of “problems” we
should worry about them all and help “solve” them
puts the relations between nations on an impractical
basis. Most of the problems of Asian countries have absolutely
nothing to do with us, and there is absolutely nothing we can
do about them. And many will remain “unsolved” by everyone.
Those that may threaten our own interests —or those in which
we may actually be of some use—are enough for us to worry
about. Some of us are still concerned with the “civilising
mission” that the colonial Powers abandoned. The desire to
help our friends is an admirable sentiment, but it often becomes
confused with the desire to impose our standards on them.
Our principal concern with our ways of life is that we should
preserve them, not impose them, on others.
To be fair I think that even over the last couple of years
the “friends of Asia” have settled down a bit. Despite their
many exaggerations they have probably played a useful
ideological role at least in eroding the primitivism of the
traditionally minded. Or have they? Eroding beliefs can
sometimes merely produce despair, and there is a fair bit of
that still going around. Many Australians feel “outnumbered,”
lonely in a hostile world, hopeless. For all we know things
may end as badly as some prophets suggest. But for the
moment what we can see most clearly is that the active (if
still remote) threat to Australia spells “China,” not “Asia.” In
this sense alone we are all Asian. We are all facing the prob-
lem together that when the European colonial Powers walked
out, or were pushed out, they left a vacuum in which the only
active aggressor likely for the moment to turn this weakness
into her own strength is Communist China.
CEYLON’S BANDARANAIKE
Are Tamils people?
CHINA’S MAO
People are dispensable


The Man on the Land
She’s a Great
Little Township...
Dusty, bare, windswept—but with their own attrac-
tion—the townships of outback Queensland have the
third generation of locally-born children.
In “The Bulletin’s” new layout
“The Man On the Land” pages
have been moved forward. Here
we shall discuss matters which
concern Australia’s primary pro-
duction and those who make their
living from it.
By HENRY G. LAMOND
/~\ne western township is the same as every other township
in outback Queensland. And “outback” is a loose term
which covers anything a couple of hundred miles or so from
the nearest railhead. Take them as they appear on the map,
and not as they’re listed in my memory: Camooweal,
Urandangie, Boulia, Stonehenge, Jundah, Windorah, Adavale
—and a few more settlements which shall be nameless. They’re
all alike, and one description covers the lot: a collection of
anything up to 20 houses with roofs of galvanised iron from
which the sun strikes shimmering rays ; a dusty road, which
is a stock-route and serves as main street; a horse or two
tethered at the hitching-rail outside the pub ; a mob of goats
grazing on the common. Unseen there may be a population
of about 40 or 50, perhaps less. Heat waves lie as weak
mirages in low spots of the treeless plain which serves as
common ; a grey-green ribbon denotes the eoolibahs which
line the course of the river ; whirlwinds play, picking up dust,
stray leaves, scraps of paper and other oddments and scattering
them to rest in sheltered corners and on house verandas.
That is the approximate, general description of a western
township. They are all the same ; but, among the assets which
can be listed as “unseen” is the loyalty of the populace. In
different words and at various stages of insobriety they all
state emphatically: “She’s a great little township, she is! If
on’y we had th’ railway here she'd be th’ queen city of th’
west! ”
Let’s try, then, to trace the growth of this township from
the time the seed was sown until the roots grew and spread.
As the place must have a name—and as I know of none with
a title even remotely resembling it —we’ll dub this township
by the coined name of Yalbungra. It may be an aborig nal
name it might have sprung from my own imagination ; so
far as I know it means nothing ; so it seems quite safe to use it.
We must have a founder. He must have a name, too. Let’s
call him Bill Smith. I know very many men with that name ;
I don’t know of one who founded a township. Bill Smith, of
Yalbungra—that is the name of our founder and of the town
which he founded.
About the time pastoral settlement was spreading over
western Queensland in the late 1860 s a lot of new country was
being opened and new stations formed. Nearly all those old
stations and townships date from that time. To state a case we’ll
say a few thousand square miles of country has been taken up to
form a station which we can refer to here as Amblyn Downs.
The stage is now set, so there’s no need to say how many
hundreds of miles Amblyn Downs is from port or railhead.
The latter is easy, because there were no rail termini—or,
for that matter, roads, either.
Amblyn Downs required rations and other loading—one
thing and another, running into (say) 20 tons. That was
easy: provided the remuneration is right some one will always
take the dare. In this case Bill Smith was the carrier who
loaded his teams at the port and drew station supplies to
Amblyn. But Bill was no ordinary carrier: he had an eye to
business. A saying of the Empire used to be “Trade follows
the flag.” Substitute “pastoral settlement” for “flag” and we
have an adage suitable to Queensland in the 1860’s.
We can assume Bill Smith took a look around him. The
first essential of a settlement was good water. There was a
permanent hole in the river nearby. Good grazing land was
needed, so that horses could spell on the common —and it was
all horse traffic in those days. The Mitchell grass grew in
profusion round what Bill had already called Yalbungra.
There had to be a stock route along the river—and it would
assuredly come. It was better if another stock route joined
the river road at right-angles. Bill knew others would follow
the tracks his waggons had left.
The omens were good. Bill went to the coast, loaded his
waggons with stores, supplies, building material and perhaps a
bit of sly grog in secret places.
When he returned Bill brought with him a woman who
was known as Mrs Smith. It is immaterial to us what right
she had to that title ; parsons were rare creatures, hundreds
of miles apart, in those days, and there were only five Justices
of the Peace in the whole colony licensed to commit matri-
mony. None of them may have been handy. All we know
is that she was loyal to Bill, played her part in opening up the
country and developing Yalbungra, and could meet a bishop
or knock a drunkard kicking with equal facility. In short, she
was a woman of the West.
And Bill had not unharnessed his horses, rigged a tent,
formed a camp that was ten minutes old when the kite-hawks
began to gather. They and the crows never left. Over the
weeks they increased in numbers; over the years they became
permanent; when Yalbungra was a fully-grown township it
had its cloud of hawks, circling continuously, forever in the
air above it. On rails of yards and other convenient places
the crows called endlessly. They were the scavengers, on the
job from dawn to dusk , they helped to keep the place clean
and dispose of rubbish.
Mrs Smith had the trademark of her caste: she brought
with her a mob of about 50 goats. No carrier’s wife would
travel without her goats. They provided her with milk and
butter, and an occasional wether was sweeter mutton than
any sheep. Goats, in Mrs Smith’s opinion, and in the reckon-
ing of her many sisters of the West, were a necessity. Over
the years —it might have been natural increase or newcomers
might have brought flocks —the goats on Yalbungra common
numbered 3000 or more.
Bill and Mrs Smith had no more than settled, built a
galvanised-iron shack and a couple of bough sheds, when an
aboriginal tribe reckoned that what was good enough for a
white man was surely good enough for them. They shifted
and made a permanent camp on Yalbungra Waterhole. That
was handy: the boys were useful for odd jobs ; Amblyn
Downs drew on them as a labor force ; the gins did many jobs
and added to the attractions of the young township.
Though Bill was nominally a storekeeper, in reality his
main profits were from sly grog. He had no possible chance
of obtaining a licence, so he sold without one. And all the
time the place was growing: stockmen with big cheques did
not bother about going to the coast for their holidays: they
could laze round Yalbungra, get drunk, meet others, flirt
with the dark ladies and have all the conveniences of city life
without the need to go hundreds of miles to get it. Yalbungra
became popular. Others seemed to wake to the possibilities


of that remote settlement in the outback: drovers found the
country good and would leave their horses to spell there
before lifting annual drafts of cattle ; men in search of work
knew it as a good pick-up centre ; others items favored it.
More permanent residents came and more houses were built.
What really gave Yalbungra is permanent foundation as
a town was the sly grog. The owners of Amblyn Downs,
together with other employers in the district, realised the
depredations liquor—and sly grog at that—made among the
labor force in their employ. They blustered and stormed.
Bill remained calm. They offered to buy him out and burn
his place down ; but Bill knew when he was on a good thing.
Negotiations had just about reached a stalemate when the
modern equivalent of what could be called a progress associa-
tion got together. They put up a good case and applied for a
police-station at Yalbungra. Bill responded in quite good
style: he made application for a licence. Further, and before
a policeman was stationed at Yalbungra, Bill has his right to
sell spiritous liquor.
As he could not hold a licence and run a store at the
same time, and under one name, he transferred one to Mrs
Smith and kept the other for himself. Mr Smith was now the
uncrowned king of Yalbungra and in a position to issue his
own shin-plasters. A man of standing, he was the financial,
as well as the social, head of the district.
Shin-plasters, as they were known over all the West, were
little more than notes of 1.0. U. They were put out in sundry
sizes and shapes: some were in the form of bank notes, others
looked like cheques, many were just scraps of paper with a
large 1.0. U. and the issuer's name on them. In a land where
silver was a rarity and station-cheques the recognised currency,
those shin-plasters served a useful purpose. No one ever
doubted their legality. It would have been a break of local
etiquette to question their standing, so they were accepted and
became currency by custom. Perhaps, in truth, their only
backing was confidence. The average bushman. given his
choice between silver coins and shin-plasters, would without
any hesitation at all elect to take the plaster.
By that time, with the dignity of a police-station giving
it social prestige, Yalbungra felt the need of recognition as a
post-office. They agitated for it and got it. Mrs Smith became
the local postmistress with an official stamp to deface letters.
Some enthusiasts, with an eye to the future, considered the
time was ripe to stir towards a telegraph-office and a railway.
In due course, telegraphic communication was established.
Mrs Smith had to resign in favor of a real official. Yalbungra
was on the map.
When first Bill Smith settled on the spot and elected to
make it a business centre, Yalbungra was lightly timbered:
small clumps of gidyea scrub and other trees —coolibahs on
the river. As the years went by the township, instead of being
shaded by trees, was in the centre of a bleak plain.
The true cause of that timberless piain was man’s
disinclination to do unnecessary work. All cooking was done
on wood fires—camp-ovens, colonial-ovens and, later, grates
and stoves—were all wood-burners. No man in his right senses
was going half a mile to chop a tree when the needed fuel
stood almost at his front- or back-door: he chopped what was
handiest. When a boy—and all aboriginal males of any age
are “boys”—was given the job of replenishing the wood-pile
he had just as much sense as the white man and chopped the
nearest tree without regard to its scenic beauty. In course of
time, and not many years at that, the radius of burning wood
became longer and longer, so the plain which surrounded the
township extended.
Yalbungra was growing all the time. Another pub may
have opened: an opposition store might have come in to
trade ; a butcher's shop could have been established. Needs
of town and district would have demanded medical attention,
because they had reached the stage when they considered lives
should be saved instead of trusting to luck and home-made
remedies. Babies, born by aid of some stout woman with a
bustling manner, and addiction to the bottle when there was
no work on hand, had reached the stage when they recognised
that medical attention and modern methods were needed to
bring their children into the world. The district was stirred ;
a hospital was built. Yalbungra was truly on the map!
To finance that hospital and its expenses, an annual sub-
scription was expected from town-people and all station
employees within a radius of a hundred miles or so. It can be
said with some degree of pride that they all responded nobly.
But, because that did not bring in enough money, other
means had to be found. An odd raffle or two brought in stray
pounds ; but the real money-spinner was the Benefit Meeting.
And there, with a successful Benefit Meeting behind it
and the place fully established as a western township, we can
leave Yalbungra. Its growth is limited. It can never attain
the status of a real town. It may even fade and reduce in
size, as so many western townships have done. Modern means
of fast transport, and a dozen other things, will have their
influence on it. The aborigines have all gone ; what was once
a good camp for a drover to spell his horses, and indulge in
a little pleasant recreation, has lost its old-world charm in
this modern and bustling age.
A typical Western township — Windorah —seen from the air, showing the pub (lower left ) with common
lying behind it, and the store across the street. Post-office, police-station and school are out of the picture.


This Australia
ABORIGINES
“We Will
Kill You All!”
ROGER B. NOTT
“Always problems”
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN DARWIN
A t the height of the two-day riots at
Papunya 300 natives milled around
settlement officials shouting “Kill 1 Kill! ”
Before the police arrived the situation
went within an ace of massacre. Papunya
superintendent Donald Lindsay Bus-
bridge, who has since resigned to join the
South Australian Native Affairs Branch,
said: “I think the only reason there was
no real violence done was that none of the
white staff lost their heads and precipitated
a situation which might have given the
natives cause to want to do violence.”
Papunya, 170 miles north-west of Alice
Springs, is a new settlement, established
only two years ago. Its several hundred
“wards” are related to the so-called “lost
tribe” of Pintubis —who still wander
around Lake McKay and the Kintore
Ranges —and are among the most primi-
tive of the western desert tribal group.
Before Papunya was built they were all
nomads, roaming the Haasts Bluff and
South-West reserves and probably into
Western and South Australia.
Papunya has always been a trouble
spot, with recurring tribal battles, murders
and brawls. Ritualism still rules the
people’s lives to a very great extent.
Welfare Officers have to exert some
discipline at their settlements, but with-
out using the standover methods of the
past. Their position has always been a
little precarious.
At Papunya on March 20, following a
complaint that a native, Johnny Wheeler,
19, had been “cheeky” to a white woman
schoolteacher, Busbridge, Patrol Officer
John Hunter and schoolteacher Sid Luck
went looking for him. When they ordered
him to get in a jeep and come back to
the office with them he resisted and, in
the struggle, he broke one of Busbridge’s
ribs with a kick.
When they got back to the settlement
hundreds of natives rushed them, re-
leased Wheeler, and manhandled the
whites. One tribesman, Johnny Oldfield,
ripped oil’ Busbridge’s shirt and yelled :
“We as good as you white men. We will
kill you all.” Hunter had to grapple with
Wheeler, who rushed up behind Busbridge
with a rock, and eventually the whites
had to retreat inside the office building,
where they radioed an S.O.S. to the Alice
Springs police. That night they tried to
stop a native camp brawl and again were
forced to flee to the office block. Next
morning Constables lan Robb and Claude
Eagleton arrived. Wheeler, ordered to
surrender, battered Robb semi-conscious
with a seven-foot mulga waddy, and he
was about to attack Eagleton when Robb,
still dazed, drew his pistol and ordered
him to drop the club.
After subduing Wheeler the white party
went looking for Oldfield among the
native shacks and wurlies. Suddenly
Sambo, a tribesman, burst from cover
and went for Busbridge, clutching a
heavy “killing” boomerang. He feinted.
Busbridge ducked Then Sambo drew
back for his real throw. (“I quite frankly
regarded myself in a hopeless position,”
Busbridge said later.) Eagleton drew his
pistol, threatened to shoot, and Sambo
ran off to a bush camp. Oldfield, Sambo
and the other troublemakers were rounded
up later.
The reason for the troubles is not
clear. Patrol Officer George Holden told
the court inquiry he believed the natives
felt they had a grievance over the shoot-
ing of surplus dogs and donkeys, but that
there had to be rules and he did not think
the aborigines were justified in object-
ing. (At one stage Oldfield told the whites:
“You no more shoot dogs and donkeys
or we kill you. They belong to God.”)
The Alice Springs magistrate, Mr
Lemaire, dealt with them in the usual
Territory way—with extreme leniency.
Wheeler drew six months gaol, Sambo
six weeks and Oldfield —most vocal mal-
content of them all—was sentenced to
the rising of the court, w'hich meant he
went free almost immediately. Assault
charges against several other aborigines
were dropped on the grounds that “the
ringleaders’ had been dealt with.
The Administrator, Mr Nott, explained:
“Problems of control and discipline arise
at all settlements at this stage of contact
with natives in the Territory.” Before
long Wheeler, Sambo and Oldfield will all
be back at Papunya, heroes to the other
young men.
PI LP
Playford’s Magic
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN ADELAIDE
Tt may have been a slip of the tongue
when a Japanese trade delegate
expressed admiration for the “Emperor
of South Australia,” Sir Thomas Play-
ford. But the purple robes fit Playford
well, and it is common knowledge that
emperors can do no wrong. So Adelaide
audiences sat up when the Premier, in his
weekly “fireside chat” over television and
radio last Thursday admitted that he had
failed to win a new industry for the lead-
smelting town of Port Pirie. They knew
there must be more to come. There was.
r , .. e r r., ,
It came ■" the form of a confident
pred.ct.on tha he States rap.dly
increasing industrialisation would soon
take a new leap forward. Playford, who
has often been criticised for making
policy announcements over “The Adver-
tiser” network instead of in Parliament,
said that negotiations were well advanced
for a £13.6m. paper-pulp industry in the
State’s south-east. This, he added, could
also give indirect employment to some
35,000 people—even if the mills them-
selves would employ comparatively small
numbers.
Behind closed doors discussions had
apparently been proceeding for the past
two weeks with the directors of an
unnamed company and certain technical
officers from Canada. Reporting this
next morning, “The Advertiser” under-
cut Sir Thomas’s cautious statement with
an even more cautiously buried cable item
from Vancouver. This said that a large
Canadian lumber company, MacMillan,
Bloedel and Powel River Ltd, was
exploring the possibility of establishing
a pulp and paperboard plant in some
unspecified region of Australia,
, ~ , , , , .
Readers might have wondered why so
much m y st fy was bein 8 attached to the
Prospects of a promising new industry-
antM notbin § to w h' c h the factory-
minded Premier takes greater delight in
givi wjde publicitv . xh s e answer a J pears
t 0 , ie in his |ater utterances befo £ lhe
yy cameras
'
Two matters of very great difficulty
were still outstanding,” he said. One
hinged on the problem of providing
enough electricity for so large a plant;
the other on whether sufficient timber
existed even in the Government's exten-
sive radiata-pine plantations around the
south-east. At present the Mount
Gambier power station consumes large
quantities of waste timber that the mills
would need. The problem, in fact, is the
old one of eating cake. How to use
timber for power and still have it to
make paper-pulp with the aid of that same
power?
The clothing of vast areas of hitherto


unproductive land with pine forests has
been one of South Australia’s great
achievements in postwar years. The
venture has been so successful com-
mercially that 4000 acres of new plant-
ings are now made each year. The
Premier proposes to step this up to 6000
acres. If his conjuror’s wand cannot
only make two pine-trees grow where one
stood before, and also add another 35,000
at present non-existent people to payrolls
around Mount Gambier, electors who
will be called to vote for Playford again
early next year can expect one more
touch of the magic that has already kept
him in office for 22 uninterrupted years.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Victorian
A.L.P. Ticket
PAT KENNELLY
Full circle
By MUGGA
Two recent events have strengthened
Mr Menzies’s hand in the coming
Federal elections. First, the Right wing
of the Labor party at last month’s
Federal conference declined to “grasp the
unity ticket nettle” and deal with unity
ticket offenders. They had the numbers,
but rather than risk the possibility of a
minor “split” in this election year the
Right wing did nothing to pull the Vic-
torian Executive and Mr Chamberlain
into line.
The second event happened last week
in Melbourne’s Trades Hall Council
Building. Every year, in order to pick a
ticket for election to the Victorian State
Executive, a semi-secret meeting of union
officials is held in the Trades Hall. This
ticket, backed by the unions, is always
victorious since the unions control more
than three-quarters of the A.L.P. State
Conference delegates. This year the meet-
ing was advertised by circular: “Every
affiliated union is entitled to send two
delegates (who have to be A.L.P. mem-
bers) at 2 p.m., 10th May, 1961, in Room
58. D. Allan, Convenor.”
At the appointed hour delegates met,
and it was decided to drop all Central
Executive members who are suspected of
thought-crime over unity tickets (that i:,
who do not deny their existence). The
chief doubter this year is Senator Pat
Kennelly, whose return to the executive
had been a major feature of the 1955
reshuffle after the “split.” For him the
wheel has now turned full circle —he was
last dumped by the Groupers in 1952.
Officially the Senator will retire because
of bad health, and it is certainly true
that he has had bad bouts of illness.
However, the health of party strong-
man and peace-medal winner President
Albert McNolty is worse (he is still
recovering from a heart attack), and he
is 20 years older than Kennelly. But
this will not prevent him from being
elected as Treasurer of the 1962 execu-
tive.
Others destined for the axe this year
a re Pat Kelly, public servant, Dr H. A.
Jenkins and J. J. Ginifer —all moderates
a nd A.W.U. men. The future of Doug
Burgess, a research officer at the Trades
Hall, is also in grave doubt, because on
a few minor issues he has shown some
signs of independence.
In the best traditions of democratic
centralism the meeting chose an “execu-
tive selection committee” of 12. Burgess,
ironically enough, was elected to the
committee, and this may save him from
being dropped. The dominant faction,
however, consists of Wally Butler (Cen-
tral Executive member, A.E.U. organiser
and Secretary of Communist “Cup”
Southwell’s campaign for Federal Coun-
cillor of the A.E.U.); Bert Nolan (Secre-
tary of the Seamen’s Union—totally
controlled by Communists); Bill O’Brien
(J. J. Brown’s assistant in the A.R.U., a
central executive member) ; George
Grace (industrial officer of the Tram-
way’s Union and a staunch supporter
of its Communist Secretary Clarrie
O’Shea); George Crawford (Assistant
Secretary of the Plumbers’ Union —its
Secretary, Armstrong, is a Communist);
and Ted McCormack (vice-president of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, who
was elected on a unity ticket).
Clive Stoneham, titular head of the
A.L.P. in the Legislative Assembly, will
be the sole surviving Parliamentarian on
the new executive. Attempts are being
made to induce Dr Jim Cahrns, M.P., to
join the happy gathering, as he has proved
himself a trusted and loyal agent of the
Victorian Executive in Canberra.
A certainty for election will be Mr
Sam Cohen. Mr Cohen is in second
position for the Victorian Labor Senate
team and is hotly tipped as a future
winner of a Lenin Peace Prize. He is
also a leading light in the Communist-
front organisation—the Jewish Council
to Combat Fascism and Anti-semitism.
I still feel a little annoyed with the
Victorian Executive over their behavior
last year. In the May 14 issue of the
Observer I published the names of those
who were to be dropped from the execu-
tive. Out of spite the executive changed
the ticket at the last minute to prove I
was wrong. This year I appeal to their
spirit of fair play and ask them not to
repeat their unsportsmanlike perform-
ance.
EDUCATION
A Burial
T ast week and after two-and-a-half
years of deliberation, the sub-com-
mittee set up by the New South Wales
Parliament to examine the Wyndham
Report on education was reported to be
“hopelessly deadlocked” over the report’s
recommendation that the five-year high
school course be extended to six years.
In fact, as one M.L.A. told The Bulletin
this week, the committee was not dead-
locked at all ; it unanimously agreed with
those educationists who claimed the extra
year would, in effect, be added on to
the primary school instead of raising
secondary school standards. But dead-
locked or unanimous the committee
seems to have killed the Wyndham
Report.
The Wyndham committee first met
nearly seven years ago on June 28, 1954,
to examine secondary schools in N.S.W.
Three-and-a-half years later the Minister
for Education, Mr Heffron, tabled the
committee’s report in the Legislative
Assembly saying: “The report will not
be pigeon-holed.” Briefly, the major
recommendations were: (1) A six-year
course to a higher examination for Uni-
versity Matriculation ; (2) a four-year
course to a school certificate examina-
tion, and abolition of internal Inter-
mediate examinations ; and (3) abolition
of selective high schools in favor of
comprehensive schools and the ending
of specialisation in particular subjects in
first year.
Tabled in October, 1958, hardly a
week went by without some criticism
by educationists who saw the report as
an attempt to undermine standards and
wanted to preserve selective high schools.
But the most telling blow came when
Labor Caucus rebelled against Cabinet.
Mr R. J. Kelly, speaking against the
proposal that Cabinet should deal with
the report first, said some Ministers
should realise that “they were not
repositories of all the brains in the
Parliamentary Party.” Consequently, a
sub-committee from the Labor M.L.A.s
was set up consisting of seven members.
One of the leftist M.L.A.s on the sub-
committee told why he opposed the re-
port : “Kids are too pampered these days.
What they need is more work. We are
more interested now in the effect of the
referendum, redistribution, a 35-hour
week, and the economic recession than
in educational gimmicks. I have never
been less interested in the fate of the
Wyndham report.”
So the report has now been
buried by an unexpected alliance of
leftist M.L.A.s and educational tradi-
tionalists. Professor John M. Blatt of
the University of N.S.W., who was one
of the educationists who said, “The re-
port needs to be soundly and firmly
rejected,” summed up: “It is a confirma-
tion of the wisdom of democratic govern-
ment to see that a group of freely elected
politicians shows a truer understanding
of educational matters than an “expert”
committee of educationists with very
sharp axes to grind.”


ART
Flare-up in
the Art War
ROBERT HUGHES
Committed
FROM A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
Hal Missingham stepped from his
plane at Mascot last week after a
world trip of 100 art galleries which has
convinced him that he was the director
of one of the worst of them. He reported
that even the galleries in the smaller
towns in the United States are ahead of
Sydney’s National Art Gallery. Every-
body has covetous eyes on the Sydney
Hospital site these days and Mr Missing-
ham is no exception: he suggested it
would be the ideal spot for a new gallery.
Getting back to the realm of the probable
he said that “if the present gallery is to
remain it needs extensive remodelling,
refitting and parking facilities.” Few
were prepared to dispute that or his
proposal that there should be a second
art gallery devoted to the display of
modern Australian paintings: Such a
gallery, centrally situated, might also
take the travelling exhibitions, the
aboriginal bark paintings and enormous
mural-like abstracts which at present
occupy so much of the gallery’s wall-
space that many paintings deteriorate in
storage because of the humidity.
Part of the trouble, Mr Missingham
claimed, was the meagre support his
gallery gets. He compared its resources
unfavorably with those of overseas
galleries where there is less dependence
on Government grants and more
assistance from private endowments.
Melbourne, of course, with its huge
Felton bequest, leads other Australian
galleries in this respect. What money
is available in Sydney is spent badly.
As well as starting off another con-
troversy about his gallery, Mr Missing-
ham also returned to a new outburst
of gang warfare in the Sydney art world.
The younger generation is not only look-
ing back in anger but it is acting in anger.
The autumn drawing and print exhibition
of the Society of Artists was a case in
point: a factional take-over lead to the
rejection of all but one of the drawings
of such a brilliant black-and-white artist
as Lloyd Rees, who then withdrew his
remaining work.
The abstract painters are in full sway:
it is more difficult for a young representa-
tional painter to make his way these days
than it is for an abstract artist, and most
critics are reluctant to be thought old-
fashioned by praising traditional work.
But the abstracts—or a group of them —
are dissatisfied with Sydney’s art world.
Variously called the “Victoria Street” or
“Prestige” group, and counting John
Olsen, William Rose, Clem Meadmore,
Eric Smith, Stan Rapotec, Leonard
Hessing and Robert Hughes among its
members, it demands better marketing
of paintings, higher standards of
criticism, and . . . higher prices. It will
attack the problem as a concerted group.
One of Sydney's “bright young men,”
Robert Hughes, who began a one-man
show at the Terry Clune galleries iast
week, is the sort of “committed" critic
the group admires. It also may have
found an English advocate in Bryan
Robertson who will open a show of 40
Australian paintings, many of them
Sydney abstracts, at the Whitechapel
Gallery, London, on June 2 and will
back it with an article on Australian
painting in the June “London Magazine.”
DIET
The Damnable
Booklet
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN MELBOURNE
'T'he “Eat Better for Less” booklet
which the Canberra Institute of
Anatomy prepared for the Federal
Health Department got off to a bad start
in Melbourne when the city’s main news-
paper, “The Sun,” reported it under a
front-page heading, “ ‘Eat Less Butter’
says Government body.” In fact, as “The
Sun” pointed out next day in a correc-
tion, the booklet said no such thing.
The booklet did say that “butter and
table margarine are equally good sources
of fat and Vitamin A,” and this was
quite enough to arouse the ire of dairy-
ing interests. In Colac the president of
the shire council, Cr L. G. Parker,
denounced the booklet as “the most
damnable thing ever issued,” and the
Colac Dairying Company sent a strong
protest to the Federal Government.
Quick off the mark was the State
Country party leader, Sir Herbert
Hyland, who represents a dairying con-
stituency in Gippsland. Sir Herbert sent
an urgent telegram to the Federal
Country party leader and Deputy Prime
Minister, Mr McEwen, asking that the
book be withdrawn. He not only
objected to butter being equated with
margarine but also to some of the com-
ments on milk and cream. The booklet
had suggested powdered milk as “the
cheapest source of protein and calcium,”
while cream was described as “an expen-
sive food” which was not a substitute
for milk. All in all, the publication was
“the worst broadside that had ever been
fired at the dairying industry by a Gov-
ernment department,” Sir Herbert said.
Three days later “The Sun” surveyed
the controversy in an editorial and sug-
gested that it might be a good idea to
give tax relief to primary producers to
enable them to reduce costs of produc-
tion.
The booklet proved to be a concise
compilation of facts about nutrition with
a few tips about how to save money
when doing the family shopping.
Five days after the first news of the
booklet, the Victorian Premier, Mr Bolte
said he took strong exception to “back-
room boys at Canberra taking it upon
themselves to try and tell the people
what was good for them,” adding as an
afterthought that he had not seen the
booklet. However, anything that would
tend to injure the dairying industry would
be a severe blow to Victoria, which was
the main dairying State.
While this dispute was raging, Mr
Justice Foster was busy investigating the
diet of the seamen on the motor vessel
Culcairn, where the crew spokesman. Mr
Bill Bird, had demanded that scallops,
prawns, crayfish, soya-bean sauce, chili
sauce, fresh cream, asparagus and par-
mesan cheese be added to the ship’s
menu. Rejecting the request, the judge
found that the menu already included
such items as fish, poultry, mutton, beef,
veal, pork, bacon, ham, steak and chops,
“prepared in many varieties by a highly
qualified chief cook.”
There may not be much call for “Eat
Better for Less” on board the Culcairn,
but the Family Services Committee of
the Victorian Council of Social Services
could put some to good use. The com-
mittee recently published a pamphlet,
“How 56 Low Income Families Live.”
The survey showed that all such families
needed to know how to “eat better for
less” and that few could afford to spend
adequate amounts on protective foods,
DEVELOPMENT
Humpty
Doodling
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
IN the boom-and-bust Northern Terri-
tory, which has seen so many dreams
shattered, the history of Territory Rice
Ltd —once billed as “the greatest single
agricultural development project in the
world” —has about it a familiar ring of
financial tragedy.
When fast-talking American J. Allen
Chase, associated with Mainguard,
launched the project seven years ago,
it read like a sure winner. Cheap,
mechanically harvested rice was to be
produced and marketed to Asia’s “hungry
millions.” Territory Rice Ltd was floated
on one of the most successful public
relations campaigns in Australian com-
mercial history.
Impressed the Federal Government
granted the new firm a lease of over


500,000 acres of the blacksoil Adelaide
River plains at Humpty Doo, about 40
miles from Darwin. The lease was sub-
ject to strict conditions, the main one
being that the company had to subdivide
part of the area within five years, more
in ten years, and so on, on a share-
farming basis.
Territory Rice went to work and
appointed its first Darwin manager. A
big office was established in town. The
company bought a £14,000 house at
Fannie Bay for its manager. One of the
staff was living in an air-conditioned hut
at the pricey Seabreeze Hotel. A base
camp was built on the site at Humpty
Doo, but at one stage more people were
working in the Darwin office than on the
ricefields
Earnestly pressing on with its scheme,
Territory Rice met unexpected diffi-
culties. First 2000 acres was sown from
the air. Wild geese, which swarm in the
area, ate the lot. The company tried
again from the air, which was obviously
the cheapest method —if it worked. This
time they had an Army unit at Humpty
Doo, firing Bren guns at regular intervals
to scare off the birds. Specially made
“bomb guns” also exploded every 20
minutes. The geese still gobbled up all
the seed.
After the scheme had been about three
years in existence, Darwin businessman
Sam Calvi threw another kind of bomb.
He issued a writ against Territory Rice
for £BOO, as payment for vegetables and
fruit he said they had bought from him
on credit. Writs for thousands followed
from other sources. Mr Chase came over
from America, with U.S. television com-
mentator Art Linkletter and actor
Robert Cummings, both of whom in-
vested in the “giant project.”
More money was raised, and disaster
was staved off. Hopes were still high.
The Government, backing the scheme to
the hilt as the best attempt yet to settle
a farming population in the Territory,
spent tens of thousands pushing a good
road through the bush from the Stuart
Highway to Humpty Doo.
The original manager resigned to go
to a better job, and was replaced by
rice-farming expert John Beams. Main-
guard sold a lot of its interests. American
multi-millionaire Robert McCulloch
bought in. A respected leader of primary
industry, Sir William Gunn, took over
as managing director.
The C.5.1.R.0. and other scientists got
to work on the geese problem. It was
solved by drilling the rice seed under
the ground. A system of dams, levee
banks and canals was put in. This
covered the rice with water at the vital
period. It also flooded the traditional
breeding grounds of the geese, forcing
them to move elsewhere.
But the firm staggered from one crisis
to another. Writs were always just around
the corner —with over £60,000 still owing
to creditors in Darwin alone. In the
peak year 5000 acres of rice was sown,
producing only about 3000 tons for
export. Selling it was a long, hard job.
It soon proved that, mechanisation or no,
our rice was too dear for the “hungry
millions” of Asia to afford. Finally it
Was sold elsewhere.
In its attempts to put itself on a sound
"I've changed my mind—I'm not going!"


basis, Territory Rice has suffered a con-
tinual barrage of criticism. Legislative
Councillors and the Territory’s Federal
Member, Jock Nelson, have criticised
Government aid to the company—
though Government aid is the very thing
they have urged in so many other cases.
When manager John Beams wanted to
set up a mill in Hong Kong to reduce the
very high cost of milling the rice in the
Territory the unions joined in the chorus
of opposition. The scheme was shelved.
This year only 2000 acres —four share-
farms of 500 acres each —are under rice
at Humpty Doo.
Millionaire McCulloch, having re-
peatedly saved the company with new
infusions of money, “wrote off” £750.000
and pulled out on what must be the most
generous terms ever given an ailing firm
in this country. Mr McCulloch, accord-
ing to Sir William Gunn, has promised
to try to influence other American share-
holders to do the same as himself. (Other
Americans, including Linkletter and
Cummings, hold 173,087 shares.)
Sir William Gunn has stressed that
the company’s most substantial asset is
its right to freedom from tax on future
profits. It is proposed to form another
company and transfer Territory Rice’s
assets to it. Sir William said there was
good reason to believe that the “taxless”
shares could be sold for £120,000 ; that
creditors should receive about 9s. in the
£ on their claims after this sale, and with
the new company operating could be in
a position “eventually to recover all
losses.”
The Government has shown firm con-
fidence in the future of Territory Rice.
It has done everything possible to make
it succeed. Its confidence in the future
of rice-growing in the north is shown
by the intensive research projects it has
going on rice at Beatrice Hill and else-
where on the blacksoil plains country.
This year’s crop of about 2000 tons —
now being harvested—will be sold in
New Guinea. But the former Territory
Rice manager, John Beams, says the ulti-
mate markets must still be in Asia. The
Territory can produce the Asian type of
rice, he says, but it must be at the right
price. He believes that, with mechanisa-
tion and other improvements, this can
be done, and that the four share farms
at Humpty Doo—pitiful result though
they may be of such a massive effort —
will be the nucleus of a big new industry
in the Territory. For years he has called
for construction of facilities so that rice
could be loaded and shipped down the
Adelaide River, cutting transportation
costs. The Adelaide River is now being
surveyed, on Government money, to
bring this about.
The handful of farmers on the share
properties have tough years ahead of
them. But they are producing high-
quality rice, and if they can hang on
long enough they should get their
reward.
Territory Rice, whatever its ultimate
fate, has pointed the way. The new
administrator, Mr Roger Nott, who took
over this year, is a former N.S.W. Minis-
ter of Agriculture and a practical farmer,
His confidence in the future of N.T.
agriculture is shown by the fact he has
his son Ashley working at the Katherine
experimental farm. Mr. Nott is im-
pressed by the possibilities for rice and
fodder crops. He has said he wants to
settle men on the land here quickly,
once the necessary research has been
done, and that he will demand Govern-
ment financial aid to do it.
Development by direct Government
action of other areas in the huge basin
of potential rice-growing country could
be only a few years away—though this
may be cold comfort to some of Terri-
tory Rice’s battered shareholders.
TOURISM
Scenery is
not Enough
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN LAUNCESTON
A leading Launceston businessman and
public figure, R. A. Ferrall, last week
revived a proposal that Dr R. J. D.
Turnbull had made when State Treasurer
—that Tasmania should have a casino
for visitors. Scenery is not enough,
said Mr Ferrall. Give the tourist some-
thing to talk about when he returns from
his Tasmanian holiday.
The proposal was unpopular when Dr
Turnbull made it. Tasmanians accept as
articles of faith that (a) their Hydro-
Electric Commission produces Australia’s
cheapest electricity, and ( b ) the island’s
scenery is incomparable.
True enough, there isn't a spot in Tas-
mania out of sight of mountains, and
few from which you can’t see water;
and the H.-E. C. offers industrialists very
tempting contracts. But the tenets are
incompatible economically, and both
have had recent jolts calculated to shake
the faith of all but the most devoted
believers. Electricity charges have been
raised 10 per cent., and tourist promotion
plans are floundering.
The trouble is that tourist attractions
haven’t much value if they don’t attract
tourists. Good promotion, notably by
airlines and “packaged tour” organisa-
tions, has built the tourist industry until
it is worth as much annually as the
State’s sheep, but no one can produce
a concrete proposal to turn Tasmania
into a Gold Coast.
The Liberal party, now nearly 27 years
in the wilderness, has earnestly studied
the tourist industry. Conducted under
the gloomy shadow of Government
opposition, its inquiries have received
little assistance from officialdom.
The Government, alleged by the
Liberals to be hostile to the tourist idea,
is in fact merely indifferent. The Cos-
grove Administration put all its eggs in
the hydro-electric basket, not altogether
unaware that industrialisation would
make Tasmanian democracy even safer
for Labor. Mr Reece, though a Premier
of broader vision, has given no indica-
tion of a crusading zeal for tourism.
So the H.-E.C. continues to monopolise
loan allocations, to the exclusion of
tourist development projects.
The Government has nevertheless
made £500,000 available for hotel im-
provement, though not to any co-
ordinated plan. No one has been stirred
to ask whether the aim should be a few
super-luxury hotels for American mil-
lionaires or a lot of cheap motels and
hotels for the mass of Australians.
At half-cock, and with Government
safety-catch applied, a nebulous scheme
was launched to seek £25,000 annually
from private interests for tourist promo-
tion, the amount to be matched by the
Government. The sponsors missed the
target by more than £20,000. Then they
discovered that the Government offer
had a string to it: the £-for-£ contribu-
tion would be made only if they raised
the full £25,000.
EXPORTS
Selling to Indonesia?
Tndonesia is hungry for paper and
newsprint. Last year it imported
almost 20,000 metric tons of newsprint,
but this was not enough to satisfy the
growing demand of about 90 million
people, 75 per cent, of whom are
literate. When compulsory education
is introduced much larger quantities
of paper will be needed for school
work and textbooks. Australia, in its
search for ways to boost exports,
could well satisfy some of these
demands.
Already Indonesia has about 60
daily newspapers (usually of about
four pages), but if enough newsprint
could be imported the size of these
papers would probably increase and
new publications would doubtless
appear.
Indonesia does not yet produce any
newsprint itself. Its total imports rose
from 11,867 metric tons in 1957 to
16,056 metric tons in 1959. Finland
and Norway hold about 80 per cent.
of the Indonesian newsprint market,
followed by the United States, West
Germany, Sweden, Communist China,
the Netherlands and the Soviet Union.
Canada is keen to gain a foothold.
Writing, printing, bond, bank,
envelope, ledger, postcard, cigarette
and wrapping papers, surplus news-
papers (for wrapping) and wood pulp
are other important import items.
Because it is short of native soft-
woods, Australia still imports two-
thirds of its own newsprint require-
ments, but our exports of pulp and
paper in 1959-60 amounted to £804,655
and of books and stationery to
£2,174,224.
Australian manufacturers now pro-
duce satisfactory newsprint on a
limited scale from the native eucalypt.
Expansion of output here, particularly
if combined with larger-scale plant-
ings of softwoods, could well open a
new source of export earnings in the
long run.


LETTERS
Melbourne University Communists
Sir,
Your articles about Communist machi-
nations in Melbourne University reveal
a very disturbing state of affairs.
They show that the most extraordinary
procedures arc being adopted in appoint-
ing University staff —a point which was
raised in your columns by W. S. Nowak
(26/4/61). Unless the University admin-
istration issues a categorical statement on
this subject, it will be necessary to assume
that rumors about politically corrupt
selection procedures which have been
rife at Melbourne for some time are in
fact true.
Mr Nowak's point about the need to
examine the academic background of
Mr B and his associates before they came
into the two departments mentioned also
merits the closest attention if the Univer-
sity administration is really willing to get
to the bottom of the whole affair.
My other point concerns the relation
between university and Government
departments. It would be quite un-
realistic to assume that Government and
university departments, particularly those
dealing with practical, technical subjects,
can lead completely separate lives. How
could, say, a criminology department
function at all without close co-operation
with penal authorities? Universities are
quite right in guarding jealously their
freedom from Government intervention,
but it is only fair to point out that in
many cases it is the university depart-
ment itself which approaches Govern-
ment departments and other public
authorities for help and co-operation.
Conversely, Government departments
rely on university recommendations in
recruiting their staff. Without some
amount of mutual trust this co-operation
is impossible.
If the scandalous goings-on revealed
in your articles are not remedied, it is
doubtful if Government departments,
both on the State and Federal levels, and
other public authorities will be justified
in trusting the University in staff and
research matters in future without the
most searching independent inquiries in
each particular case.
M. Wilson
Canberra.
Sir,
The articles on “Melbourne University
Communists at Work” are among the
best pieces of reporting 1 have seen in
The Bulletin.
If these articles convey the plain, un-
varnished truth, four facts of major im-
portance emerge:
First, public money is being used to
further the interests of certain individuals
whose academic worth is negligible.
Second, those whose responsibility it
is to see that the limited funds available
to universities should be used purpose-
fully and to the best advantage have
proved themselves incapable of handling
their charge.
Third, those responsible by means of
trickery, attempted intimidation and dis-
honest use of time and money for pur-
poses alien to academic inquiry should
be removed from their positions on the
grounds of their general immorality and
incompetence.
Fourth, those who follow the Com-
munist faith are incapable of that un-
biased, detached, liberal outlook so
necessary for academics in any society
but especially in ours. It is obvious that
they should be prevented from poisoning
our academic institutions, and in this
regard it is high time the University of
Melbourne purged itself of these noxious
inhabitants.
If the facts as stated in The Bulletin
are false, where is the credible refutation
which one would expect? Where, in fact,
are the brave defenders of Criminology
and Social Studies, as proclaimed in Mel-
bourne? Their silence is eloquent.
H. K. Parkster
Valley Heights ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
If a very ordinary Australian can
intrude into the battle of the academics
to seek clarity on the simple question of
national security in a world of insecurity,
may I ask what the Chancellor of the
Melbourne University (he's boss, isn’t
he?) is doing or going to do about the
revelations in “Melbourne University
Communists at Work.”
Surely the air down there needs clear-
ing and the so-called “facts” should be
debunked once and for all—with appro-
priate treatment for the rumor-mongers
■—or, should they be substantiated, firm
remedial action must be taken.
Let's have an end of this squeamish-
ness that produces a smokescreen
(variously called witch-hunting, Mc-
Carthyism, red-baiting, academic free-
dom, etc.) behind which Communist
assassins of freedom work and hide.
H. M. Baynton
Parramatta ( N.S.W. ).
OFF-BEAT DOCTORS
Sir,
The distortion of facts contained in
your article “Off-beat Doctors” is little
credit to your paper. The subterfuge
stooped to in order to get an interview
by your writer was completely “off-beat.”
Mr Kelly was given the information he
had requested about French Medicine,
but made it obvious that he was too
timid to come out and directly ask for


lB6B
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Austialia
Jackson &
-osui.uvav
PTYLTD 0
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants ,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS UE SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN RUIiLIC
RUPTURE PAIN BANISH EK
New scientific principle MYO-
PLASTEX is result of years of in-
tensive research. Holds severest
rupture in complete safety Acts
softly as with fingertips. Why
suffer discomfort a day longer when
MYO-PLASTEX can give you per-
manent relief immediately. Send
for free booklet.
MYO-PLASTEX CO..
T. E. Turner, proprietor,
152 Hereford St., P.O. Box 1517.
Christchurch. N.Z.
what he was really trying to find out.
Our members are open and honest in
their calling, and are always ready to
assist any person. I object to being falsely
reported. Mr Kelly’s heart problem was
fairly obvious to me, and I was glad
to be of any assistance, seeking no
obligation in what I did. He may live
to value what a naturopa'h might do
for him in years to come.
Mr Kelly is unobservant as a journalist
in some respects. Reference to expen-
sive-looking equipment was incomplete.
These machines may be found in other
clinics of our Naturopathic Organisation.
Mine does yeoman service in three States
regularly.
In quoting Dr Pierre V. Marchesseau,
you omitted the first paragraph of “What
is Naturopathy,” which stated among
other pertinent facts that “All other
methods, such as osteopathy, chiropraxis,
naprapathy, physiotherapy, herbalism,
dietetics, etc., are part of Naturopathy.”
Your quote of this gentleman with the
distorted context may well result in your
paper being held to ridicule. I might
remind you that it has a very large circu-
lation in all eastern States where your
paper is read. A large number of the
public are well informed on facts, and
these people may be expected to view
your attempt on this subject as pro forma
to any article on health of the public that
is published under medical domination
elsewhere.
H. S. Grimes
The Australian National
Naturopathic Association.
Sydney.
Peter Kelly comments: I am completely at
a loss to understand what Mr Grimes means
by “distortion of facts,” and “subterfuge.” I
did not go to Mr Grimes to find out about
“French” Medicine. I asked him what naturo-
pathy is and who are the naturopaths in Aus-
tralia, and he told me. If Mr Grimes feels
I have maligned him and the science of naturo-
pathy, I am sorry. But as I said in the
introduction to the article, “This article has
not been designed to evaluate the claims made
by ‘oft-beats,’ but simply to describe wiiat
these people say about themselves, what they
do, what they are like, and how many of them
on evidence have claims which must be
investigated.”
Sir,
May 1 thank you for the accuracy
of the historical details of the discovery
of Christian Science by Mary Baker
Eddy and the founding of the Christian
Science Church —but to link it with “off-
beat doctoring” is not so happy.
Christian Science, as its name implies,
is a Christian religion designed to com-
memorate the words and works of our
Master, as your article states, and it is
not a medical system formulated to re-
place materia medica.
Its prime purpose is the regeneration
of the individual. Its physical healing is
secondary and is the attestation of the
operation of divine Principle in human
affairs.
Christian Scientists have not only the
documentary proof of the healings pub-
lished in their periodicals but have
irrefutable proof in their own personal
experience.
Practitioners’ fees are not allowable
deductions on income-tax returns.
C. Eric Littler
Christian Science Committee on
Publication for New South Wales,
Sydney.
Sir,
Knowing the facts, I am amazed at
the way your writer distorted the truth
in his article “Off-beat Doctors.” 1
happen to know that he was given the
rules and constitution of the Australian
National Naturopathic Association to
assist him in writing.
Clause 33 states: “Registered members
are required to display the Registration
Certificate of the Association in a
prominent position.” This states that the
person is not a medical practitioner.
Clause 34 states: “Any diplomas dis-
played are required to bear the words


‘Not Medical Practitioner’ attached in
letters of not less than 24pt. printing.”
1 would remind you that Canada, in
five provinces, has given equival status
to naturopaths in separate legislation that
has been in force for many years,
whereby all naturopaths are examined
and registered before they practise. The
B.M.A. has no place on these naturo-
pathic boards, for the governments truth-
fully recognise naturopathy as a distinct
method of healing.
G. Howard
Manly Vale (N.5.4P.).
“THE CONSTANT WIFE”
Sir,
Whilst I am in general agreement with
Max Harris’s criticism of “The Con-
stant Wife,” (B. 19/4/61) I feel there is
something to be said for an occasional
play to offset the surface drabness of
much modern theatre, however more
“moral” the seamier play may prove
to be.
To compare the play with Wilde is
unfair to both authors. Maugham is much
more of a sentimentalist than the
humorist Wilde, and in “The Constant
Wife” has portrayed a more convincingly
feminine woman than the Gwendolens,
Cecilys and Salomes, for all their literary
stature. (It was not surprising to learn
from Miss Withers that the great French
actress Edwige Feuillere, has revived this
role in Paris recently because of the
scope it offers its actress.) Goo g i e
Withers made even more of it than it
offered. Beautifully dressed, poised, she
used her voice to give a subtlety to lines
Maugham seems merely to have sketched
in—in all ways a model for aspiring
actresses. Moira Carleton, too, showed
how to sustain those dreadful opening
minutes when the action has to be set
like a trap, waiting for the grand lady
to appear.
The men were disappointing. With the
play carefully set back to Edwardian
times, Clement McCallin struck Restora-
tion attitudes in doorways, and Brian
James's Australian hair-crop and un-
imaginative attire ruined his chances both
as actor and lover.
Why was the play moved back in
time? Was it to dress Miss Withers
more gorgeously, or do we cease to care
about the occasional social lapse into
adultery these days?
VAL VALLIS
Brisbane.
BRISBANE’S GARDENS
Sir,
In The Bulletin of April 26 there
is reference to the “Mess in Brisbane”
and, inter alia, a statement that “park-
lands are neglected or non-existent.”
In terms of Australian conditions
your reporter’s statement is incorrect.
Brisbane has some 320 parks and
approximately 700 street plots. At least
200 of these parks are given maintenance,
and the inner city and suburban parks
are maintained at quite a high standard.
The city has an excellent rose park at
New Farm, recognised as the best in
Australia ; a scenic lookout at Mount
Coot-tha ; ornamental floral parks at
Newstead, South Brisbane, opposite the
General Hospital (Bowen Park), Albert
(inner city), all of which are kept in
excellent condition and provide floral
displays twice a year that compare very
favorably with those of other Australian
capital cities. In recent years the Botanic
Gardens have been remodelled and, to
quote A. B. Graf, the much-travelled
author of “Exotica,” “the waterfall is
the most impressive feature I have seen
in any Botanic Garden in the world.”
Unfortunately there are plenty of
horticultural features lacking in Brisbane.
We haven’t a City Square or a central
park ; there is a lack of statuary, foun-
tains, and conservatories, and our sports-
fields are not up to the standard of those
in other States. The fact is that your
reporter could have been just as incisive
without resorting to inaccuracy.
1 have been a regular subscriber to
The Bulletin for the past 20 years. I
am pleased at its recent new lease of life
and would like to feel that its articles are
authentic, hence the above.
H. OAKMAN
Manager, Department of Parks,
Brisbane City Council,
Brisbane.
“BANJO’S” ASHES
Sir,
Many thanks for your launching of a
campaign for a memorial to “Banjo”
Paterson. I still think the most appro-
priate place for his remains would be
up beside the Snowy River, with one of
the later verses of “The Man from Snowy
River” on the memorial.
There is a quasi-memorial to Paterson
in Ken Murray’s “Man from Snowy
River Hotel” on the Perisher. about eight
miles from the summit of Kosciusko.
T. W. Mitchell
Melbourne.
Sir
Are you aware that the town of
Winton in central Queensland is dedi-
cated to “Waltzing Matilda”?
The Hotel North Gregory was built——
1 believe, by day labor—by the inhabi-
tants and surrounding farmers and
graziers. It is a true oasis in the desert.
Upon its plate-glass doors and windows
are beautifully etched scenes relating to
the poem. One is summoned to meals
by chimes playing a stanza or two. The
rooms are well equipped, the service
admirable, lighting and plumbing superb
for its isolation.
There is a full-sized swimming pool,
with a coolibah tree beside it, and be-
neath the tree a well-executed swagman
and his pack, in granite, which is dedi-
cated to the unknown graves on the
western plains.
As you enter the town a plaque in-
forms you: “This is the town in which
‘Waltzing Matilda' was written.” The
main street is wide, tidy, and clean, with
a broad piece of well-kept turf in the
centre.
I think this is another small tribute
to add to the others.
Joyce Exley
Bard on ( Q .).
BETTER THAN EVER?
Sir,
The Bulletin has been in our home
continuously for longer than 1 can re-
member fand I am 80 years old).
Throughout the years I have usually been
too busy to study it carefully, but it
seems to me now to be better than ever.
For over 20 years our copies have been
passed on to exiled Australians in San
Francisco.
May your readers grow in numbers!
FRANK RAVEMSCROFT
Northbridge (N.S.W.).
“On my right the Federal Parliament."


PERSONAL
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
Former Taxation Commissioner Sir
Patrick McGovern was announced
as chief executive officer of the National
Heart Foundation, and the nation-wide
campaign for funds received its largest
individual donation £25,000 from
Sydney philanthropist Adolph Basser.
Charged at Redfern Court (Sydney)
with stealing 251 transistor radios,
Ronald Keith McHale complained that
he had “set the whole job up and got
nothing out of it at all.”
Three French visitors on the inaugural
TAI flight from Paris were actress
Martine Carol, who said she was hap-
pier fishing than stripping, Charles
Trenet, singer of “La Mer” fame, who
was disappointed because no one knew
him, and M. Chevalier, who disap-
pointed everyone because he turned out
to be a project engineer.
Maori bass-baritone Inia Waita
arrived in Melbourne to play the lead in
the musical “The Most Happy Fella.”
Waita, whose nickname has always been
“Happy,” played the lead in the London
production.
Rear-Admiral W. H. Harrington,
Flag Officer Commanding the Australian
Fleet, was appointed Chief of the Naval
Staff, and Lieut.-General Sir Henry
Wells honorary colonel of the Royal
Victoria Regiment.
Borovansky Ballet star Paul Grinwis
was booed off the stage at Orange
(N.S.W.) by children attending a matinee
performance of “L’Apres-midi d’un
Faune.”
Back after a world tour during which
he saw nearly 100 art galleries, director
Hal Missingham said conditions at
Sydney's National Art Gallery were
among the world's worst. He said the
deficiency was one of presentation and
facilities rather than of quality, and
pointed out that almost all overseas gal-
leries were privately endowed. “Both
public and institutional support for our
gallery,” he said, “are non-existent.”
Physicist Professor S. T Butler
received a doctorate of science from the
Australian National University ; Post-
master-General Davidson announced the
coming retirement of Sir Richard Boyer
as chairman of the A.L.C., and Charles
Moses, present general-manager, and
N.S.W. commission member A. G.
Lowndes were tipped as possible
successors.
It was “University Week” for Prime
Minister Menzies, who opened the new
Menzies wing at St John's College
Sydney University. He also laid the
foundation-stone of the University's new
Fisher Library building ; pressed a button
in Canberra to begin the operation of the
National University’s £500,000 tandem
accelerator ; and laid the foundation-
stone of the same institution's R. G.
Menzies Building, which is to be a new
library.
Seeking leave to appeal in a custody
case, J. D. Holmes, Q.C., claimed in the
High Court that N.S.W. Chief Justice,
Dr H. V. Evatt, was guilty of mis-
conduct in a Supreme Court hearing.
Said Holmes: “It is clear from the
Supreme Court judgment that the Chief
Justice acted on something which never
took place in court.”
Succeeding F. N Ratcliffe as officer-
in-charge of the C.5.1.R.0.’s wildlife
survey section is J. H. Frith, agricultural-
science graduate, who joined the
C.5.1.R.0. after the war as a research
officer, and has been in the wildlife sec-
tion since 1951.
Evangelist William Brian Greenwood
settled an action which arose from a car
accident. He had claimed damages for
a knee injury which made it painful for
him to kneel in church.
Opening additions to the Moree
(N.S.W) District Hospital, N.S.W.
Health Minister W. F. Sheahan said of
aboriginal patients now located in a
separate ward, “After all, they are God’s
children and there is no reason in our
thinking for this type of segregation.
That is the Government’s policy ” W. J.
McKechnie, chairman of the hospital
board, said later, “The idea is all right
in theory, but it won’t work in practice
in Moree ... I think things in the wards
are best off for everyone the way they
are.”
Sydney factory - worker Jacqueline
Flett cried more when the hat went
round to give her £l5O than when her
workmates’ lottery syndicate, which she
hadn’t joined, won £lOO,OOO.
“Oliver Odds,” the robot bookmaker
which R. E. Wells took 26 years to
make, passed his tests in Sydney. Oliver,
said Wells, was not geared to show a
profit and would give punters a better
deal than most bookmakers because he
would not shorten a price unless money
was invested. Leading Sydney bagman
Jack Large said Oliver would be taking
tremendous risks, and instanced the case
of Saydor, who was backed on May 6
from 7-1 to 7-2 (and finished fifth).
Expelled from the Labor party on
Friday night were Mr V. Higgins, Miss
B. Spears and Mr C. Davies. Officials
of the Federated Clerks' Union, they had
allowed their names to appear on a unity
ticket with D.L.P. members in a union
ballot. Two nights later Federal Opposi-
tion Leader Cal well reiterated his stand
on unity tickets in a television interview.
“Unity tickets will be an issue in the next
elections,” he said. “But it is a D.L.P.
and Liberal matter. I think these tickets
are over-exploited for political reasons.”
He added, “I belong to the Clerks’ Union,
and we run a full slate of Labor men
against D.L.P. and Communist can-
didates.”
In a reply to the Rev. Alan Walker’s
comment that “Housie” was an insidious
form of gambling, secretary of the N.S.W.
Housewives’ Association, Mrs K. Adami,
denied that there was anything sinful
about the game. She said she was sur-
prised that “in this day and age anyone
could make such a remark.”
Melbourne schoolboy Paul Giardina
learnt that the Victorian Government had
awarded him a special scholarship for his
help in bringing four jewel thieves to
justice. Already the winner of a junior
scholarship at his school, Paul will get
£5O a year to help him realise his ambi-
tion to become a doctor.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Melbourne, at 87, Parker John Moloney,
former Fedeial Minister for Markets and
Transport
In Adelaide, at 74, Frederick Julius Gale,
for 30 years senior classics and history master
at Scotch College, Adelaide. Before going
to Scotch, Gale had taught at St Peter’s,
Adelaide, the Armidale School and Cranbrook
School, Sydney.
In Adelaide, at 67, L. R. T. Smith, president
of the Amalgamated Engineering Union in
South Australia since 1954.
In Adelaide, at 64. Eric Leslie Brown,
assistant general-manager and secretary of the
S.A. Gas Co., and a former president of the
Australian Gas Institute
In Adelaide, at 57, Bernard Gordon Grill,
Adelaide lawyer who was last year appointed
a stipendiary magistrate. He served in War 11
with the 2/3rd Machine Gun Btn, and was a
p.-0.-w. for three years in Siam. In 1954,
after retiring from private practice, he became
president of the Legacy Club' of South Australia.
In Perth, at 63, A. P. Ffarrington, principal
of Perth Technical College. He had entered
the education service as a cadet in 1914. He
became deputy principal of the college in 1945,
and took over as principal in 1956.
In Newcastle at 69, John Kerr Williams,
a veteran of the Great War, who was a
partner in the legal firm of Flams, Wheeler
and Williams, one of the biggest in New South
Wales.
In Launceston, at 77, Leslie Dadson, an
original Anzac who won the M.C. and two
Bars in War I.


So many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S 8c L steel pipes
<1
imaliii ■ ■
„„**
m
■
. . •:.>.•>•
H
■-■■•
’ r XSS--'-'R^*-'
»*
W«,
THROUGH steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
19’ l OSS


FOR THE CONSUMER
Where You Can't See
the Wood for the Plastic
Every now and then, it is said, strong,
broad-shouldered furniture-makers
rest their heads on their arms and burst
into tears. Why? Simply because they
have tried to do something just a little
bit better and nobody will buy it. They
have had an idea —something revolution-
ary like leaving off those ghastly tin
knobs on the dressing-table drawers, or
getting rid of the quilted plastic bed-
heads —and the store-buyers won’t look
at it. So after a while the furniture-
maker goes back to making the same old
stuff and eating three meals a day.
Well, that is what the makers say, and
it may be true. As a speaker at the open-
ing of the N.S.W. Furniture Manufac-
turers’ Guild show said, “the consumer
is the dictator of furniture fashion.” The
customer undoubtedly gets what she
wants.
The guild does its best to see that she
gets well-made furniture. The standards
imposed on furniture - makers by their
own associations or by Government regu-
lations are fairly high. If you buy a
mattress you can be sure that the con-
tents are new, clean material. Furniture
must be correctly advertised. If maple
gets in instead of maple-color, a correc-
tion has to be published. The Standards
Association of Australia has prepared
certain standards for the furniture trade.
Most furniture made by reputable
makers and sold by reputable firms will
these days do the job expected of it.
The Australian furniture industry is
based on mass production (something
which is generally forgotten when people
compare it unfavorably with the craft-
based Scandinavian industry) and has
the advantages and disadvantages of
mass production.
With emphasis on machinery, not men,
the Australian furniture trade has gone
very far from the individual craftsman
making, with pride, a single piece. This
leads to the question of what Australian-
made furniture looks like. Each year
the cry goes up that most locally made
stuff is in “bad taste.”
When you see one manufacturer
proudly blazoning the slogan “Cultured
Furniture with a Modern Tradition,”
you feel you rather see the point. Look-
ing at a bedroom-suite of highly polished
burr poplar, spotted and pitted with
brown, the dressing-table crowned with
an immense heart-shaped mirror, the
bedhead covered with gold - spotted
quilted plastic, the wardrobe with its
ripple front decorated with tinny knobs
and handles, it is impossible to see why
anyone would buy it and how anyone
could live with it. But buy it they do
and live with it they must.
An interesting view of the furniture
exhibition was given by one of the men
on the stand of a firm which supplies
polishes and finishes to the trade. His
firm is trying to establish a greater mar-
ket for satin-finished woods. This is
both because a dull-finish is more prac-
tical —it shows fewer marks and can be
more easily maintained than a high-gloss
-—and because overseas furniture is
mostly satin-finish. However, he admits
they are battling.
“I don't know what it is," he said,
“but you don't seem to be able to get
Australians away from the high shine.
Perhaps,” he added desperately, “it’s the
sunshine. It’s very interesting to listen
to the comments of people passing the
stand. All the women look at the satin-
finish and say nothing. Then they look
at the high gloss and say, ‘lsn’t that
lovely?’
“And, honestly, if I were buying a
piece of furniture I don’t think I would
take the satin-finish. I have a sister-in-
law who might go for it. But, somehow,
I’d buy the high-shine furniture. I don't
know why, but I just would.”
“Years ago, old Beale, the piano man,
came back from a trip overseas during
which he had hardly seen one piano with
a high-gloss finish. His firm made 50
satin-finish pianos, just as a beginning.
It took them three years to sell them,
and they didn’t make any more. Our
managing director has just come back
from overseas. Most of the furniture
he’s seen is satin-finish, but nobody in
the trade would seriously hope it would
catch on here.”
The man on the stand said that the
trade pretty well accepted that about
20 per cent, of the population at the most
were in the market for quality furniture.
Or, more importantly, it may be that not
more than 20 per cent, of the population
can afford the furniture which their taste
dictates. If, as is hoped, there is an in-
creased demand for satin-finish teak or
teak-colored furniture in Scandinavian
style, the customers will come out of
this 20 per cent. They will mostly be
converts from expensive period repro-
duction. Apparently, you never get con-
verted from high-gloss, plastic-trimmed.
The man on the stand held the gloomy
view that Australians have become so
wedded to plastics that natural wood
holds little appeal. Of course, these days
laminated plastics are made in a variety
of wood patterns. At the same time, it
is now possible to make natural wood
as impervious to heat and almost as
indestructible as laminates. But, given
the choice between wood looking like
plastic and plastic looking like wood,
Australians will most surely go for the
plastic looking like wood.
FOR THE OBSERVER
How Will the De L’lsle Girls
Fare in Australia?
T>hotographs of our new Governor-
-*■ General, Viscount de L’lsle, and his
family show them as an exceptionally
charming and graceful group. Against
the background of the family home,
Penshurst Place, or in its giounds, with
a change of costume-take away the
hacking jackets and well-cut tweeds-
they might have been done by Constable.
They create as the English can so
frequently and so confidently do, even
in these changing times—the impression
of an established order. Not. of course,
that Lord de L’lsle can be said to be
one of England’s peers who haven't
moved with the times. He’s opened
Penshurst Place as a stately home at
2s. 6d. a time, and he took a job with
Schweppes.
But those pretty de L’lsle girls—how
will they fare in Australia? The girls,
from all reports, are already something
of a curiosity among their class. This
is an age when every little debutante
who gets her name and face into “The
Tatler” is studying to be something, or
planning to do something. Even the
Queen is determined that her children
won ’t have the “Crawfie”-style upbring-
jn g s h e anc j her sister had, and has sent
the Prince of Wales ofl to school B ut
d L lsle gir | s wer e not sent to school,
They were ta B yght at home by a gover .
ness And Ladv de L'lsle has said several
, h that they are not .. career gir i s ” and
~, f .
do " ot P la " t 0 work for a llvln 8-
The motives of the de L’lsles in seek-
ing what used to be called a “sheltered”
life for their daughters will, of course,
not be fully known. The drawing-room
of Yarralumla is not the place where
matters such as this are likely to be dis-
cussed. Press conferences with the G.-G.
are pretty well token affairs only. The
de L’lsles will stress how pleased they
are to be here, and how much they are
missing all the pets they had to leave


■
...
i
What has this to do
with the C.B.C. ?
Well, we too, were young once: we started business
in one room in Sydney in 1834.
There have been many changes since those days—
but the bank’s idea of personal, friendly service
remains the same. It is a tradition with the C.B.C.
The manager, or senior staff of
the branch in your district will gladly
tell you how you can benefit by the
bank’s wide range of services and
facilities including those of the
C.B.C. Savings Bank.
&
m
Ml#*
*A»U\
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
behind in England. That will be about it.
It is easy to see why the de L’lsles
wished in the beginning to save their
daughters from the rigors of the hockey
field and the tedium of shorthand and
typing. It is kindness, too, to preserve
them from the popular choices of careers
for upper-class girls in London—messing
around as models, picking up pins in a
dress salon, or dabbling at a design
school. They are certainly far better off
as Lady Bountifuls in the village, or
collecting the half-crowns at the main
gates of Penshurst Place.
However, the de L’lsles must feel that
their decision with their daughters was,
for the 20th century, something of an
experiment, and it is, perhaps, slightly
alarming for them to realise that the
experiment has to be transferred to a
country such as Australia. The eldest
daughter to come here is 18, the next 14,
and the baby eight. If the de L’lsles
stay for two terms (as he is a youngish
man, who has given up his job in England
to come here, they may) the eldest girl
will be 28, the next 24 and the baby, 18,
when they leave.
What will the girls do in Australia?
Yarralumla and Admiralty House are not
open to the public, so there will be no
standing at the gate taking the . half-
crowns. Although Canberra is often dis-
paragingly referred to as a “village,”
most of the activities of the lady of the
manor in England are, in our capital,
looked after by the Department of the
Interior,
The girls may marry, of course. In the
old days any eligible.' pretty daughters
of the Governor-General were generally
snapped up by the aides before anyone
else much got a look at them. In those
days aides were mostly sprigs of the
English aristocracy. These days they are
more likely to be permanent members
of the Australian services, and to have
come from a suburban as a statelv home,
One of the governess-educated de L’lsle
girls may finish up coping with com-
mittee work on the Parents’ and Citizens’
Association, or, instead of collecting the
half-crowns at the door, she may be
collecting the milk-cans around the farm.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Last Victory
npowARDS the end of a cane season,
getting on to Christmas, it was so hot
that you used to wish you could work
at night instead of in the day, out in the
tun —especially with a good moon. And
in North Queensland thee are some
good moons--you can read a paper by
them.
It's bad enough at that time of the
year just to stand out ;n <Te sun, let
alone slog at cutting and loading cane.
Horses used to drop dead in the-paddock;
the birds hid themselves. You didn't
wonder there were so many nocturnal
animals in the tropics. But you weren t
allowed to work at night, the Union
wouldn’t let you.
This season was the longest we’d ever
put in, from August until February —
seven months. We’d been through all
the weather phases since August: the
freezing mornings, then the wet weeks
with bogged-down tramline and capsized
trucks, until at last Christmas came with
still two months’ slaving ahead of us.
And after Christmas it was really hot.
The water was hot in the waterbags,
the earth burned through your sandshoes
and the rails took the skin off you if you
didn’t grab handfuls of trash when shift-
ing the line. The bundles oozed hot
molasses that skinned your shoulder as
you loaded in the sun.
We used to hit the paddock at the
first streaks of dawn after a drink
of tea and a slice of toast and put in
about three hours loading and cutting
before breakfast. Then we’d lay off until
three in the afternoon and work until
sundown. And all the way back to camp
at night I'd think: This is the time we
should be going to work, not coming
home
We had a cook we called Kaiser Bill.
H is name was Wilhelm and he was a
German. He was a good cook because
What idiot said, ‘ Women and children first! '"
he~d been a canecutter himself and knew
what it was like. He fed us on soups
and fish and fruit salads and dainty cakes
and sandwiches, pandering to our waning
appetites. And he made certain we were
up plenty early enough to get stuck into
the cane before it got too hot to handle.
His method of waking us in the morn-
ing was to run a big iron spoon along
the corrugated iron wall of the barracks.
And if you've ever heard that noise you
know that it would wake the dead. We
died every night and he brought us back
to life every morning.
The last paddock of the season hap-
pened to be right alongside the barracks
and the last tramline of the paddock
finished right at the kitchen door. A rake
of 40-odd trucks was delivered the last
night to pick up the last of the cane. And
there was a full moon. We sat around
on the verandah that night before turn-
ing in and “bitterly thought of the
morrow."
Y\7 e seemed to have just hit the sack
when Kaiser ran the spoon along
the wall and we all groaned ourselves
to life, banging the dirt out of our boots
on the wooden floor and pulling on our
sweat-sodden rags for the final assault
of the season.
The moon was well up and the
paddock was bright as day as we pushed
the trucks into position, choked them
and began to load.
We each topped off our first truck and
went after another and were so busy
getting as much as possible done before
the hated sun came up that nobody
noticed there was no sign of daylight.
The second truck finished, each man
went on to the third, and someone sang
out to the ganger, asking the time and
remarking that that bloody moon was
a long time going down. The ganger had
left the watch in his room because
Kaiser was going to give us a hoy at
breakfast time.
We went on loading, not saying a word,
until the last of that mighty rake of
trucks was loaded right outside the
galley door. The moon was still up and
there was still no sign of daybreak.
And in the barracks there was no sign
of breakfast or the cook. The fire was
out and Kaiser was snoring in his cot
with the alarm - clock beside him—
stopped at the hour of twelve! We woke
him with the spoon treatment and had
another hour’s snooze while he made
breakfast, and daylight finally appeared.
We'd got our last victory by sneaking
up on the cane in the moonlight.
We never did find out whether Kaiser
had stopped the clock intentionally or
not.
Les Such
THE BLUE FALCON
1 feed the fowls in the morning
the incubated chickens and a flock
of twelve-apostles (most astonishingly
12) make up the front rank. The chickens
can t be hunted away. They come
into the feed-shed and peck about my
feet. The raucous twelve-apostles hop
about the bags, even onto the just-opened
bag of grain.
The fowls—the laying hens and older
chickens —make up the second rank;
there is a third rank of turkeys, a fourth
of galahs—sometimes as many as 50 —
and beyond these a mixed rank of hens
with very young chickens, fussing about
out of harm's way, top-knot pigeons
(always shy), a peewit or two and, rarely,
a white cockatoo, too old or sick to feed
with his flock.
One early morning as 1 stood scatter-
ing the grain there was a whirring from
above and a streak of blue falcon dropped
onto a half-grown chicken, killed it with
one blow of a claw while the other claw
seized it by the back, and, without
touching the ground, spread his wings
(which had been folded for the dive) and
turned then to take him in a fast glide
above the ground for a take-off. But
the chicken was too heavy. The falcon
had dropped so fast that he could not let
go as he changed direction and he fell
beside his victim.
He fluttered like a bird in a trap. He
stood on the chicken with his claws
buried in flesh and beat his wings with
all his strength. The fowls and birds
scattered and the turkeys began to
gobble their dismay. Unable to take off,
the magnificent falcon collapsed —he
crouched beside the chicken and cackled
in fear ; his cruel beak hung open help-
lessly and his feathers ruffled.
The turkey gobblers ringed about him.
They stretched out their necks and
bubbled, and their wattles ran through
all the colors of their astonishment. The
absurd pandemonium allowed the falcon


to recover his courage. He tore his claws
loose, he leaped in the air and set out
a t wonderful speed for the hills.
Eric C. Rolls
PLEA FOR THE BLUE-TONGUE
Next time you see a blue-tongue lizard
in your yard, don’t run for the spade
to chop it in half. For one thing, it
feeds on snails, slugs and other garden-
pests. For another, it tames very quickly
and makes a good pet.
Some poultry farmers claim that the
blue-tongue steals eggs. There has never
been any authentic evidence to support
this, and if there is a goanna around it
is more likely to be the real culprit.
There are several varieties of blue-
tongues known in Australia ; the most
familiar around N.S.W., Sydney and
suburbs is the Common Blue-tongue
( Tiliqua scincoides), often referred to as
the sleepy lizard. It is a fairly bulky,
long-bodied lizard, with relatively short
legs and a thickish tail tapering to a
point. It averages a little over 12in in
length ; but fully-grown specimens have
been recorded at up to 2ft.
Owing to its wedge-shaped head and
stout body it bears a superficial resem-
blance to the Death Adder and is often
killed in mistake for it. It varies con-
siderably in color, but is generally pale
yellow, or cream, with dark brown or
black transverse bands on the body and
tail.
It is surprising how many suburban
backyards harbor a blue-tongue, usually
without the owners knowing. It fre-
quents dry areas and may be found under
large slabs of stone and sheet-iron, or
in rock-crevices, drainpipes, rubbish-tips,
humus-heaps and the like. A great lover
of sunshine, it is diurnal in habit, although
it is occasionally encountered on road-
sides at night, usually enjoying the
warmth retained in the macadam surface.
When molested, the lizard does present
a fearsome appearance, opening its mouth
widely as it snaps its head from side to
side, simultaneously hissing and puffing
out its body, and thrusting out its broad,
blue tongue ; but the whole exhibition
is pure bluff. The lizard rarely tries to
bite, even when handled. It cannot harm
you, though a nip from its strong jaws
will bruise your fingers. Its bite, by the
way, does not give rise to an annually
recurring running sore.
David R. McPhee
A “DUCK-DIVING” LARK
VJU'andering beside a lake west of
Sydney we were told by a local
resident that a day or two earlier he had
seen a lark descend to the water and rest
there briefly. “It’s a fact,” he added,
obviously anticipating our doubts. For,
aside from swimmers and waders, the
only birds that customarily frequent lakes
and lagoons (other than at the edges)
are swallows and swifts, and they do it
to snap up low-flying insects, though
maybe some of them occasionally take
in a drop of water. But within a couple
of minutes a lark was obliging enough
to confirm the man's story
It flew out fairly high above the lake,
battled for a while with a moderate
breeze then descended gently to the
surface. There it rested buoyantly for
perhaps eight or ten seconds, then it
stretched its wings vertically and on the
down beat left the water cleanly, fluttered
upward and flew off back to the shore.
What prompted this? The breeze
was scarcely strong enough to trouble
such a competent flyer, and if it wanted
a bath it could easily have taken one
at the lake s margin.
Wulworra
That Was the Country.
Found on a gum-tree in the Arltunga
district:—
NOTICE
June 7th, ’o3
Wanted for the districts of Arltunga,
White Range and Clariville, a school-
master to teach the rising generation of
half-caste children; school to be erected
at either of the above-mentioned places.
Salary £l2 a year and Lubra given in.
-—‘Bulletin”, July 30, 1903.
Our Homes! In one played-out N.SAV.
mining-town is a two-roomed humpy in
which 13 souls are herded. The parents
—“old man” a drunkard —sleep in one
room, where also cooking and eating are
done; and the boys and girls, ranging in
age from four to 24, doss in the other.
Why don't the parsons make a fuss about
th is sort of heathenism?
—“ Bulletin ”, March 16, 1901.
Jimmy was cogitating how to ringbark
timber on his selection at Charleville
(Q.) . The bank said the place was the
hunting-ground of too many dingoes and
other vermin to be good for any more
advances. Jimmy got an idea. He killed a
few of the cattle culls, caught their blood
carefully, and painted a ring round the
trees a couple of feet from the ground.
At night the dingoes set to work and ate
the bloodstained bark more neatly than
an axeman could have chopped it. But
before he could get large ringbarking
contracts with his neighbors the dingoes
formed a union, and there is no Arbitra-
tion Court in Brisbane to settle the diffi-
culty. Jimmy is now ringbarking person
ally in the old, laborious way.
— "Bulletin”, May 24, 1906.
A remarkable thing about Australian
wild birds is that every year they lay
exactly the same number of eggs. With
a few exceptions —notably the emu and
turkey —there appear to be fixed rules
governing the statistics of our indigenous
fowl. For instance, a fully-equipped sol-
dier-bird’s nest will contain three eggs; a
curlew two; a rosella lays four; mag-
pie, three; crow, four: diamond sparrow,
four I have searched hundreds of nests
and have never yet found a variation
from th. prescribed number.
--- Bi. lie tiny March 11. 1909.


Name
your Scotch ...
m
S3S
£ BY APPOINTMENT
&TQ HER MAJESTY :
> QUEEN ■
ELIZABETH H <n n
~ V
' ■> ,:
■■
5 f
N * °LD scotch wHI sK
rf
*
1
’*‘CT***'"
So N u DistilleR s ’
f^^C ONreNTs(pT 6f t ,<j; RVl S.o"
I: ... . R COMMONWEAITH 5 U
%•
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
THERE'S NONE FINER!
NZL9I2
Feiffer
1 i\tt ifeu V6Rf MI U A$ A
mm, mmr v mt ir
miwii 66 (sOC D If ta)£
weur roamt.
W A VERY *TRON6 P(RW
I Ht£Q A VEM wou6 PtKou
to 6o ojith i tNfiOK pwwrm
MW APW'T tHAf wote
m ?kwjpp. /
imt iMRWiBue kmadcv
tfou HAVt UO /PfA ;p 61
TfcVTINS Att THE we'
CHAU6U6IN6.
AMD I KNOW W WOO PM T
HAVE THE ETfLMOTH TO E/OHT
BACK HOW CAW J COMPETE
WITH MOD IF MOOPE AO
WELIM6 TO ACCEPT DtfEAV
I tiUO A MAO (WHO CAW m%t
Hi cmiuux fix cm-
ilH&t! I MQ A MAW m
CAW TKf Mf mt I'M TEST-
HO6 HIM I WHO CAW BE W CO-
- lulPfelOCtiflO/
OVT you I COOOPWT TEAT gERWAPP
10 HAVE To HIPE MW HOOTILITW,
MW EECQDI
VOC\U AMO
500 M wee HAVE WOTHIM6 TO
6AM TO EACH OMR *OUV
gecoMe Tmm mto.
titv HAVe MO CHAiLim •
MO T£6TiW6' MO WIWMIM&'
MO EO6IU6'
COILPMt WE {DORK
OUT zone other
luresem?


Only Indians like Soccer in Fiji
By FRANK COLLET
There is a much more funda-
mental difference between
the two Fijian football teams
now in Australia than just the
shape of the ball they play
with. While the Rugby team
is all Polynesian, the soccer
team is entirely Indian.
“Don't quote me on poli-
tics,” says Mr Deoki, the
manager of the soccer team.
“We’ve come here to play
football.”
This curious situation does,
however, reflect the political
cleavage in the Fijian group of
islands.
“We’re all Fijians,” explains
Mr Deoki, himself a heavy-set
Indian, “although we do tend
at present to go to different
schools and to play different
games.
“It seems that the original
Fijian people were playing
soccer among themselves be-
fore the growing Indian popu-
lation began to take it up. Then
the native people changed to
rugby. That's just the way it
happens to be.”
Mr Deoki is a barrister and
solicitor in Suva and a former
footballer himself (“I played
rugby while at university in
New Zealand, but changed
back to soccer when I returned
to Fiji”). He can just recall
the beginnings of the Indian
interest in soccer.
“It was in the early ’twenties.
I was very young, but I can
remember my brother coming
back from Melbourne, where
he had been at school at
Wesley College, and starting
the first soccer club for Indians
in Suva. Soon other Indian
clubs were formed, and now
we have 15 federations
scattered through the islands.
Soccer is even more popular
with our people than hockey ”
This tour is an important one
for Fiji, the first overseas
visit to be made by an repre-
sentative soccer team. (Indi-
vidual players, like Perumal
Naidu, have played in inter-
national matches in New
Caledonia, New Zealand and
Fiji. Naidu, at 31, who plays
at inside forward or wing, has
represented New Zealand
against Austria and China).
The current visit has been
Paid for mainly by Ampol
(with Colonial Sugar also
taking a paternal interest, in
view of its Fijian connections),
a nd has been arranged to help
stimulate interest in soccer in
country districts.
The first two matches in
N.S.W., in Wagga and
Griffith, showed the team at
its best, despite the cold, and
drew bigger crowds than the
Fijians had expected.
On firm grounds the team
plays fast, short-passing foot-
ball which is highly attractive
to watch.
“We play the modern Euro-
pean soccer, which the U.K.
adopted about 1955,” explains
the team coach, Sashi Singh.
“We used to use the classic
English W-formation, with the
five forwards up and the centre-
half playing up and down the
centre between his half-backs.
Now we use two centre-halves,
both roving freely, and three
backs.
“This gives us, when attack-
ing, the equivalent of seven
forwards. Of course unless
the two roving centre-halves
can get back very quickly in
defence it makes us vulnerable
to sudden raids.”
TN Wagga against the
-*• Riverina XI (all Italian) Fiji
slashed their way through the
defence and scored 14 goals
without conceding one. At
Griffith, against a Murrum-
bidgee XI, they again won 9-2
against eight Italians, two
Scots and a Swiss.
The prospect of rough play
does not worry the Fijians.
“We have schooled our own
players to the point where
rough play has been elimi-
nated,” says coach Singh. “At
Wagga and Griffith we made
sure there would be no inci-
dents—our players never let
the others touch their bodies
at all, so there could be no
question of dangerous tackles
or charges.”
The Fijians could, if the
need arose, probably look after
themselves very well. They are
lithe, very tough and superbly
fit and prepared for whatever
kind of soccer they meet.
They were, however, un-
ashamedly anxious about their
big match of the tour against
Sydney last week.
“Two factors really have us
worried,” said coach Singh be-
fore the game. “The cold is
causing us serious muscle
troubles, and we have never
played under floodlights.”
The team could do nothing
about the cold (in Wagga
and Griffith several members
were carried off with pulled
muscles), but they practised
hard under floodlights.
“It is no use, the boys are
only a shadow of themselves
under lights,” said coach Singh
afterwards.
“We just can’t pick up the
ball,” explained the star centre-
forward Satish Dutta, who at
20 is the youngest member of
the team. “The glare of the
lights and the cold wind make
our eyes water and we can’t
find each other. As we play
the short, quick-passing game,
this wrecks us as a team.”
TN the event, on a cold, damp
night, the Sydney team of
European stars made the
Fijians look far worse than
they are, winning 9-2 after
easing up in the second half,
It will probably take Fiji a
long time to forget the experi-
ence, but when they go home
this team of clerks, customs
officers, copra planters and
students will have done a lot
for the booming game of
soccer in Australia, particularly
in the country areas,
“When the Australian team
comes, as we hope, to Fiji for
our Pan-Pacific Games in
1963,” said young Satish Dutta
last week with a grin, “we hope
we may be able to give you
something to remember, too.”
With the Indians in Fiji now
making up 52 per cent, of the
population, and still increas-
ing, Australia might have to
field its best team of expatriate
Europeans to be sure of
winning!


ist I/ie
'7
■
\
Around us the whole Australian picture is
changing rapidly. From now on the changes will
be coming even more quickly, and we should be
moulding the minds of our young people to be
ready to meet them.
In its development, Australia is only at the
edge of a beginning. Many of the children of today
will live to see great centres of population in parts
of this continent that are now in wilderness.
Roads will be built, in the future, to a scale
that will show our present system to have been as
inadequate as rutted dirt tracks seem in our t e.
As with roads, so with power, the provision of
water, and all the other elements in expansion.
With the application of scientific knowledge,
yields of the land will be raised to levels now
unheard of; and amazingly higher efficiency will
come into the factories.
And with it all. a larger population will be
more widely dispersed.
These are certainties; some to be the product
of normal progress, others to be induced by the
pressures of these rising times.
Now where, if not from its young minds and
hands, is Australia to get the technical skills to
apply the knowledge to which science and research
are constantly adding? Who, except them, will be
carrying through the building and linking of this
country in its larger life?
Book education alone will not attend to it.
Our youth need also to be trained right through
their formative years, to the truth that Australia
is not merely the country they know in their infancy,
but the nation for which they in the prime of their
years are going to be responsible.
But the moulding of young minds implies even
more than a trained vision allied to scholarship
and the acquiring of skills.
It means the instilling of a spiritual belief
that will give a living purpose to their effort and
inspire them to make Australia a great human force
in the world’s tremendous drive towards the
twenty-first century.
7
History to Repeat
Itself at Q.T.C.?
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
D eady-made favorites have been found for the Stradbroke
Handicap and the Brisbane Cup, the feature races on the
winter programme of the Queensland Turf Club. Fine and
Dandy is at the top of the Stradbroke entrants, and Tulloch
and Sharply are equal favorites for the Brisbane Cup.
It is just a little too much to expect that the successful
double of the autumn fixtures at Randwick would again wan in
Brisbane, but a majority of people are thinking on these lines.
Fine and Dandy won the Doncaster Handicap (lm.) at
Randwick and Sharply the Sydney Cup (2m.), and until
Saturday neither had started in another race.
Fine and Dandy made light work of winning the Flying
Handicap (6f.) at Tattersali's meeting at Randwick, and Sharply
amazed people in Brisbane by winning a similar race there by
four lengths.
Just how good is Sharply is open to conjecture. He was
unknown a month or so before the Sydney Cup. His sire,
Edwardsii (imp.), although bred as attractively as any stallion
to come to Australia, proved one of the greatest of disappoint-
ments as a sire of winners.
Sharply's dam, Sprite, was a mare whose breeding record
did not warrant much attention being paid her. But, for-
tunately for the good of racing and breeding, that is the way it
sometimes goes. Some of the best of the world's horses have
come either through casual mating programmes or from parents
least expected to produce a champion. Any other way would
channel all the good horses into the one paddock!
IDK7HEN Q.T.C. handicapper George Caines headed the Brisbane
** Cup weights with Tulloch at 9.12 he ran into a lot of
criticism, not public, but in the clubs and on the training tracks,
the cry being that he had framed the handicaps to suit the
champion and so entice him into the field.
It would be a poor handicapper indeed who tried to frighten
all the good horses out of a field by loading them with weight.
Rather is his job to make the handicapping the opposite way,
for, although theoretically all horses are to be given an equal
chance, any handicapper who tried to bring the best down to
the worst would finish with a field composed only of the worst.
The fact is that Mr Caines came into handicapping without
any reputation at all, simply because he had very limited
experience at the art.
But in the post-war racing he set a new fashion —one very
different from that which ruled under the “prince of handi-
cappers,” the late G. F. Wilson, who was with the A.J.C., and
with other handicappers of that era.
Mr Caines adopted a venturesome approach, and a glance
through the records of his regime shows just how successful he
has been in achieving top-class fields, close finishes and, unfor-
tunately for punters, results which showed him a more subtle
judge than rank-and-file punters gave him credit.
T'he point of alt this is that it is a month yet before the Strad-
broke Handicap and the short prices bookmakers are offer-
ing the combination of Fine and Dandy with either Sharply or
Tulloch does not represent value to the backer at all.
Form in the next few week: may show others in an attrac-
tive light judged on handicaps, although at present Fine and
Dandy, who was second las* year and is r much better horse
now, is definitely entitled to be the favorite —and the measuring
stick.
T ong-term mating plans may bring the filly Winnipeg and
the champion Tulloch together in the paddock. Each was
bred by Mr Dave Blackie of New Zealand, and Winnipeg)
second to Wenona Girl in the Adrian Knox Stakes and a classy
winner at Randwick on Saturday is developing into one of the
best fillies in Australia Winnipeg is by Pride of Kildare (imp)>
sire of the last Melbourne Cup winner, Hi Jinx.


VULGAR’S THE WORD
By HAL PORTER
A i that time of the year, late autumn, the seaside town,
empty of tents, caravans, merry-go-rounds and indis-
creetly unclothed working-class tourists, seemed larger
as though to balance the unpeopled and wasteful plain
°f waves that rustled like tissue-paper on the pockless sands.
Nature! How ultimately vulgar, boring, old-fashioned
a nd non-air-conditioned! Autumnally demode tides of salt
w ater waxed saltier, medium only for fishes and kelp. Houses
and creepers, both 50 years old, in summer unobservable and
ni any more than one would think,- were conspicuous among
closed shops in the windows of which desiccated blowflies
sprinkled the crepe-papered display-stairs. No poetry in
teaches, or anything, for middle-aged, lower middle-class
women: they are paper-backs to each other, as gaudy and as
untrue and titillating and time-filling.
Thus the widow and the deserted wife, the two women
and the bottle of gin and 11 o’clock that Sunday morning.
TThey were certainly women who prodded holes in the foil
A tops of milk bottles. Jugs were for ice cubes. They had
not seen each other for . . .
“Actually, how long’s it been since, Rube?” said Mrs
Fender hostessishly peahenning about in sleeveless black with
white lapels wider and pointier than a television ephemerid’s,
but at rest within, harmless. Women are most harmful when
their bodies think they are at rest and they think they are
thinking. She was the widow, the Hair Styliste and Beautician,


with hair dyed the color of, and a voice like, apricot jam. She
was sloshing over-frank gins into tumblers that had once held
gherkins or cocktail onions.
“Squash, Rube, or bitter lemon?”
“Matter’f embuggurance, Vi,” forcefully said Rube,
deserted wife, muscular false missus of a creature, and
zealously conscious of it for years. She had yanked her
girdle straight and slapped the Volkswagen driving-seat out
of the sat-in seat of her sale-price skirt of a fake tweed
nubblier than tweed. Any minute she'd try to get her spike-
heel shoes off.
“No, squash, Vi, love. Something long and wet. Now,
lemme see when since. Gert’s op. . . . yes, just before Gert’s
op. Just after poor old ma passed on.”
Her hair looked as though a sheep-dog had lent it.
Desertion was a mere segment of her life. Had she been weak
enough, or a man, she'd have long ago forgotten the deserter
she’d already forgotten. The rest of her life was colorful
with anger, envy, jealousy, laddered new nylons, stout spilled
on dry-cleaned laps, ox-blood fingernails breaking on the very
night of the Fire Brigade Ball.
She was a Corset Adviser in a country town emporium.
Since women are the only ones who understand the coarseness
and savagery of women she called herself a meat-packer.
“1 remember now,” said Mrs Fender handing a streaming
glass. “Jew say squash or lemon, love? Reelly, the mind is
going what with this and that and the other, and getting
Gran off the premises for a day.”
“Embuggurance,” said Rube domestically wiping the
tumbler-bottom with a pink handkerchief before putting the
tumbler on the arm of the Genoa velvet settee and lighting
a king-size filter-tip.
“Yes, I remember lividly. I haven’t laid eyes on you since
the night I and Bubba and you and Maurie Gold went to that
Publican's Ball where you lost your diamenty clip. You had
on your royal blue with sequins. Bubba had on his new
dinner suit. Very chick Bubba thought your blue,” she said,
apparently somehow convincing herself, yet faintly cross-eyed
and far-off staring across the top of her drink.
“Oh, Vi!” said Rube, politely interrupting slaking for,
in time, she had caught the look in profile. “Oh, Vi, I’m sorry,
love. 1 mean to say to bring up Bubba. However in innocence.
Especially in connection with that Jewboy Maurie. Him and
his hands. I’m not a one for that type of caper. Not with a
casual acquaintance. As I very quick-smart said so.”
A/fRS Fender lowered her sheeny green satin eyelids very
slowly bravely: the foam-rubber floralities in the white
china trough on the wireless became funeral-parlorish. Next,
less slowly but more bravely, the eyelids ascended and Mrs
Fender —how many times bereaved? —drank daintily and deep.
“Now, don't you go getting put out over it, Rube,” she
said, pasteurized cream on her voice. She attempted a world-
weary gesture. “I've got over it. My cross. It took time.
It was a blow. The old heart’s broken, that 1 know. But
‘laugh and the world laughs with you,’ I say. Actually, death
comes to us all. Though I frankly never thought I never ever
would actually get over it. But reelly and truly I have, Rube.
Oh, I’m hard now.” Her face got as bland as it could. “Cynical,
that's Vi'let!” And she sophisticatedly tapped ash north,
nor’-nor’-east and north-east.
“Never you, Vi,” said Rube, sonorous and unnecessarily
salutary. She had forced her knobbed heels out of her
champagne-colored shoes. “Never you. A warm heart.”
“But hard now. You have to be,” said Mrs Fender to
some distant appreciative ear. She lingered to listen to it
listening. She brightened at a clever thought. “Life,” she said,
she revealed to Rube at her tumbler, “life goes on. And”—
recalling further proof she further brightened—“it’s not as
if it was my first experience of sorrow. I’m a reel Jonah.
You see, Rube, the hubby passed away. Before I met juU.
Not in the same way as poor Bubba, of course. He was a
different class of a chap, the hubby. Quite la-di-dah in his
way. Had four hats. Very fussy. A sales-manager. In
typewriters. Cancer of the throat, his was,” she. said with a
pinch of pride. “Poor bloody old Bubba was only a rep.”
She rallied against herself and her treachery, and, assuming
the manner of one forced to no longer believe that her husband
had had the convincing and passionate core of a man, said
authoritatively, “But confectionery. There’s no nicer or
cleaner line. Bubba had his reputation in the confectionery.”
T\id the dead man —men —relax? Both women watched, as
*** women watch men, even dead ones, for plans they've
never intended to have. Then: “You’re a brave woman, for
sure, Vi,” said Rube, her shoes completely shed and lying
like weapons on the wall-to-wall while she ground her heels
together.
Mrs Fender knew and was used to that one. “A woman’s
lot,” she said, an absolute nun. And, “Hand’s your glass,
love,” and, “One lives and learns,” she said. As she poured'
“It's a man’s world,” she said—would it be mockingly from
a cellar of pretended resignation? Otherwise, what could she
mean?
“That’s for bloody sure. You can say that again. A man’s
bloody world,” said Rube almost spruiking. What did she
mean? Witches’ irony? Or did they both mean that men will
respond to certain expressions in the eyes of animals but
not in the eyes of women?
“Hard you may say, but you’re the tender-hearted one,
Vi’let Fender,” said Rube, arranging herself convalescently,
tumbler on the floor beside, with her lathe-turned legs dead-
straight along the settee-cushions, back upright against one
arm-rest, as propped up as one props up a failing but yet
stalwart doll. “And always were,” she continued, clawing down
for the tumbler. “Always will be, no matter what! It's your
naycher.” And her miniature port-wine-colored eyes glim-
mered wetly and defensively between countable lashes. “Too
soft, if you ask me.”
“Oh, but I loved Bubba,” said Mrs Fender mincing care-
fully about on her green spikes though with a waggle. She
and her brimming tumbler were on some sort of display.
“As you know. None better. I’m too open, frankly. Even
with her ladyship.”
She said ladyship utterly without inverted commas. Her
eyes suddenly spiced her face, and she had to sit down and
genteelly gulp.
“As I know for sure,” said Rube. And drank. “ludas,
you’ve got a heavy hand, Vi,” she cried raucously but not
rebukingly. “This is a bobby-dazzler! Strong!”
“Strong,” said Vi, very female and secret. “Talk of strong
to me! A man, Bubba was. In every sense of the word. And
a perfect gentleman. A man. Every sense, Rube. You know.
1 remember everything lividly.”
“I'm sure you do, dear. You were a damn’ lucky woman,
Vi. Some.” she said darkly, “have all the luck. Some,” she
became as full of anger as a farm-cat of rabbit, “don't have
hardly none at all.” With a hot gusty sigh she relieved
herself, to be subtler in her anger with her own betrayals,
stumbles and failures: “Anyway, you're still a young woman.”
of them questioned this although Rube averted
' her eyes, as it were to watch closely only herself drinking,
and Mrs Fender half-inadvertently released a faintly peppery
skidding glance at her friend.
Although 48, make-up and hair-do made her look no older
than 50, acrobatic little body notwithstanding. She could
still insist on doing the Black Bottom at foretellable stages,
even in unappreciative company, even before midnight, and
invariably four gins before being sick and causing trouble,
as she always did, by ejecting her gold-speckled false teeth
among roadside bracken or in private mint-beds.
“Young or not, whatever, dear,” she said, stroking her
back hair as though it were a darling marmalade kitten and
she a prissy sickly girl, “—and I must frankly say actually
that I don’t feel no more than a day over twenty-three—it
was all a wonderful dream. I could write a book. A love
yarn. Oh. I see it all lividly. There'll never be no one to
come up to Bubba Always on the go. He had what it takes.
Personality plus. Life and soul of the party.”
Rube wis disturbed by what could have been a chuckle.
“ ’Member how he used to say he was the life and death
of the party? Little did the poor b. know how soon . .
She stopped. She had astonished herself with horror. Placidly.
And, placidly, they let the mules of disaster gallop over
their hearts. They heard the disgusting sea unwrapping cold
parcels far enough off but too near. Then Mrs Fender felt
obliged to re-arrange her countenance and deliberately per-
ceptibly glitter like cut tin.
“Now, now, now, Rube, come off it. Don’t you go going
morbid on me. Bubba would want us to be happy. Every cloud
has a silver lining and cetera and cetera. Service with a smile,
he’d say. Hand’s your glass.”


Rube swiftly relinquished her tumbler with ill-acted
indifference. Abstraction of that sort did not make her lose
sight of her guestly responsibilties. She had her manners
“I can hear him now, Vi, clear as day, saying, ‘Pawdon
me, is your name Marilyn Monroe? Do take a pew, you lush
drop. Park it there, the lovely thing it is! ’ ”
They both smiled at nowhere. Mrs Fender’s backside
moved elegantly of its own volition, and tingled in a hand-
shaped area.
“Actually,” she said, “he was a very special person, Rube.
And witty—my God! Quick as a flash.”
She poured illustratively, with sluttish speed.
Their tumblers again clasped, their cigarettes fuming as
before idols, they unlocked all over. Their toes were
at peace for there was not a book in the flat, not a man or a
poem or any work of art, nothing except their own peaceful
unravelling. They were so at peace that the house smelt
like that of another and friendly woman.
Heads tilted back like caterpillars they not-saw the cob-
webs on the mock-marble electric light bowl, and perhaps
saw the late Bubba and his too pressed revolver-colored suit,
his what-the-hell pot-belly, his slimy rosy fingers, his shirt
striped like an exercise-book, his brocade bow-tie. Where,
after all, was Today?
“And such a delicate skin, Rube, you can’t imagine.”
From a dream Mrs Fender achieved a wistful misshapen
smoke-ring. “Like a baby’s bee-tee-em. All over. Rube.
I’m open, Rube. Frankly. We know each other well enough
to face the truth. All over. Angel’s skin satin.”
“The truth,” murmured Rube faithfully into her tumbler.
“I'll let you in on something, Rube. One night we had
a flea. Poor Bubba was bit all over. Bites the size of two-bobs.
Reel welts. ‘Don’t scratch, Bubba,’ I said. ‘I bet that’s a
girl flea,’ he said. Witty, you see. Finish that off. love, you’re
dragging the chain. A skin like a babe’s, and yet she . . .”
Mrs Fender perceivably turned the color of ageratum ;
her eyes stung the soiled air like wicked bees. She almost
sratched Rube’s tumbler from the centre of a final gulp.
As she tottered crossly to the stained oak Jacobean-style side-
board, for the room was certainly bigger than it need have
been for Sunday morning, her guest squintingly watched the
miracle of brisknesses and hospitality, and Mrs Fender’s
vaccination marks which a ray of light escaped from outside
made seem as deep as beer-bottle tops.
“Oh. a skin like an innocent babe’s. And yet she couldn’t
bear him. I never saw the like. Reel hate.”
“Who could’n’ bear him, Vi? Gran?” Her tone suggested
a buffeting for Gran if.
■ ‘ Don’t be sill., Rube. Her ladyship. Miss High-an’-
Mighty couldn’t. Who else? Gran idalised him. Damn!”
she said as she bottle-openered a fractious bitter lemon that
swamped the stains and cigarette-burns on the sideboard top.
“Pardon my French! Gran! You getting shicker, Rube?
No, Gran idalised Bubba. She was a bit cagey at first. But
he never said a word out of place in front of the old lady.
Well, he brought me some black nylon scanties. Seconds they
were. But the thought’s the thing. Like cobweb they were.
Gossamer. Little inset hearts. And only Easter last year. Little
did we dream.”
She sighed. She licked spillings from her fingers. She
licked at the lips that were under lipsticked other lips. “Well,
joking-like, Bubba pretended he’d bought them for Gran.
I was in fits. You know what a broad beam Gran’s got!
Here, grab your snort, Rube!"’
They occupied themselves with their tumblers, one refresh-
ing her sense of hearing, the other the machinery of anecdote.
“Gran takes an O.S. in fleecy-lined bloomers. You could
camp in them, Rube, honest to God. Well, Bubba held up
the scanties in front of her. I was in stitches. ‘Now modom,
says Bubba, ‘let me fit you for size. No extra charge. Money
back if not satisfied.’ You know yourself actually how touchy
Gran is about anything sexual. Flares up. Gets reel niggly
and hostile. I think she must have had an inferior complex
when she was a teenager. After all, frankly, Gran’s nearly
eighty. She’s not contemporary and broadminded like we
girls. But she laughed and giggled and carried on. Couldn’t
stop! I thought she’d wet herself. Oh, he was a one out
of the box. Get away with murder. His manner, see?
Personality.
“No, Gran idalised Bubba. It’s her ladyship couldn’t
stummick him. My own dar-ling daugh-ter. My own flesh and
blood however as she is, and I’m telling you straight, Rube,
but frankly she’s actually a bitch. That might seem a hard
thing for a mother to say, Rube, and I certainly wouldn’t say
it outside these four walls to every Tom, Dick and Harry, or
even to Gran. But I say it. And mean it. After all I’ve done
for her. All I been through. Sorrow and grief. Work and
slave. Every-damn-thing. Day in and day out . . .”
“Work and slave. You don’t have to tell me,” intoned
Rube, bubbling towards the boil. “Work and slave. Morning,
noon and night.” Her Adam’s apple made enchanting but
ominous subsidences and reappearances. Her dim moustache
grew less dim.
“Over those so-and-so hair-driers,” said Mrs Fender with
an eye to the concrete horrid.
A Roused, Rube suddenly, and surely accidentally not spilling
a drop, swung her chunky nylon feet decisively to the
floor. Straining, leash-tight and brand-new, her suspenders
showed. Her legs opened like cupboard doors. She drank
abruptly, underlining force. A severe tilde on her bull brow,
she directed a look at Mrs Fender. Portentously. “Vi,” she
said slowly and deeply as a Presbyterian clergyman, “what I'm
going to say to you, you mustn't take offence at.”
Once again, oh dear, they could hear the sea furtively
rustling litter at the edge of the beach. Ugh! They looked
at each other as seriously as tigresses. Rube drank again for
Dutch courage or . . . drank again. She pronounced, with
defiance, and an air of being as practical as Robinson Crusoe,
“Too bloody much education!”
Mrs Fender was relieved to elation. She wasn’t going to
be walled in alive after all. She expended the lightest of
light laughs. Her vaccination marks somehow shone.
“lew know you had me worried for the minute, Rube.
Though funny you should say just that. You’re psycho, Rube.
Like Nostradamus. Frankly, that's exactly what her ladyship
actually said to me Blamed me, mind you. ‘You shouldn't
of had me educated in that sort of school,’ she said. And me
scrimp and save for the four years she was in that posh school.
‘lt wasn’t fair to me,’ she said. ‘And, pray, why not?’ I said.
‘lt lets me see what you really are,’ she said.
“ ‘What exactly do you mean by that, miss?’ I said. “To
see that you’re a commercial traveller's sweetheart,” she said. I
slapped her face good and hard. Such a pretty little thing
as she was as a tottie. Four years. It cost the earth, Rube,
for Cash’s name-tapes alone. Frankly, not that I minded, mind
you, actually. The reps from the various places got things
wholesale for little Vi. But, a mother's duty . . .”
Rube made a brutal denigratory noise which surprised both
but which both, with tact inconspicuously lowering their shot-
up eyebrows, refinedly disregarded. Both were, after all, not
only mothers but women also.
“And then the hospital training,” Mrs Fender continued
with vainglory and an air of assimilated martyrdom. “Now,
that touched the pocket, too. Jew know she’s now Sister-in-
charge at the districk hospital? Young with it. Everyone
speaks very highly. ‘Your daughter’s so-o-o charming, Mrs
Fender,’ they say.
“ ‘Says you,’ say I to myself, ‘but not to her own flesh and
blood she isn’t.’ But—softie me all over —I don’t say anything.
No dirty linen in public. Fed up to the back teeth I might be
and have been, but I'd never crack a boo. Pride I’.ve got.
‘Oh, yes,’ I say to her with her nose always stuck in some great
damn’ book, ‘oh, yes, a street angel. But, miss, what
about . . .’ ”
T* übe burst. She interrupted like a hand-grenade. She
shouted like a convict whose stew was tepid: “Ungrateful,
that’s what! That’s the truth of it! Wants her backside
tanning! A razor-strop!” she shouted, forgetting that it was
1961 and Sunday.
Mrs Fender surprisingly set up a merely mean little
tolerant special face with a more than retrousse nose in the
centre of her meaner stonier daily face. “Oh, girl-like!” she
maternally tossed off as if it had been a question of chastity,
and sprinkled ash kindly enough on what appeared to be
her cone-shaped breasts. “Girl-like, I suppose.”
She pecked with efficient vagueness to the sideboard and
the gin bottle. “Forgive and forget. But, actually, she’ll never
know how much she’s wrung the heart of her own mother that
bore her and washed her dirty nappies.”


“The day will come,” foretold Rube, glaring up from
glaring with surprise in her mysteriously emptied tumbler.
“The day will come, that’s for sure,” said Mrs Fender,
delightedly inspired to more: “Yes, the day when I’m lying
there in my coffin . . . Hand’s your glass, Rube.”
Rube was in trouble with matches. Heads flew off. “Judas!”
she howled, pounding her feet like fists on the floor, and
flushing dark as rhubarb.
The hostess persisted sweetly and sloppily busy, scrawny
and inconsequential as a bantam of fifty. Not for her the
terrors of the subjective world that haunt intelligent neurotics.
Indeed, she had things to reveal. Why hide humanity? Why
foster the affectation of civilisation? Hand out the drinks, and
tell a truth.
“Actually, looking back, I know damn’ well she frankly
actually didn’t cotton on to Bubba right from the go-off. He
knew, too, she didn’t take a shine to him. ‘Florence McNight-
ingale can't stummick yours truly,’ he said to me. In private.
That’s what he called her. Florence McNightingale. Because
of the nursing, you see. She looked at him like dirt. ‘Excuse
me, countess,’ he said, ‘do excuse me if my slip is showing.’
After he'd bought her a nice bottle of sweet sherry!
“And poor old Bubba set himself out to make her laugh.
But no go. She wouldn’t even laugh at that trick with the
cigarette-tin. You know the scream of a one where you poke
your finger through a hole in the bottom of the tin, and
there’s cotton-wool with red ink on like blood, and you lift
the lid and there’s the finger laying like a cut-off one. And
her highness didn’t even smile. Just walked off to her bed-
room. Vulgar! So Bubba and I went out. I knew he was
heart-broken.
“So, when I came home, I tackled her. Switched on the
light in her room. ‘See here, you,’ I said, ‘Lady Muck of Turd
Island you might be, but I won’t have you humilating my
gentleman callers.’ ‘Hum-il -ee-ating, mother,’ she said. ‘Will
you please put out my light and go to bed. It’s two o’clock in
the morning. And you’re drunk.’ I nearly done the block.
‘Educated you may be, miss,’ I said. ‘But when a gentleman
friend’ ‘Gentleman !’ she said. Just like that. She hated
poor harmless Bubba.”
The room had long ago acquired the air of a glove-box in
a family car despite the never-used coffee service in the china-
cabinet, the plaster-of-Paris cocker spaniel and Gran’s upright
piano. Cigarette smoke became it; fluff and dust and stains
were at home
“Her ladyship was always yipping about him in a sarcky
way. About him being witty. Pick, pick, pick she used to
about him saying ‘Se you Samoa,’ and ‘See you later, alligator,’
and ‘Who’s robbing this coach?’ ‘l’ll scream,’ she said, ‘if he
says, “Excuse my wet glove,” again.’ Poor Bubba used to
perspire something chronic in the hands. Sensitive, you see.
But not his fault. And witty about it. But not her. No sense
of humor. None at all.”
“Stuck-up, that’s what. If my Essie was to”
T)ut Mrs Fender quickly clapped her hand over that musket.
“O-o-oh, mothah,” she trilled in mimicry, “hah-oo ken ye-ew
be so-o-o coarse! If she actually knew some of the places
she went to after I’d started her . . . woops! Oh, blood’s
thicker than water, Rube, and I wouldn't see her in want, the
bitch, whatever, actually. But, let’s face it, love, she’s got a
nasty vulgar streak, milady has.”
Rube stirred from some neolithic brown-study. “They’ve
all got a nasty streak,” she shouted. “My bloody Essie
now”
“Rube!” cried Mrs Fender as though at a nice cow. “Did
I actually tell you what she did about Bubba when he was
smashed up and in the districk hospital? Road tragedy, the
papers said, and were they right! Frankly, I happen to actually
know poor Bubba had had a few. But he could take it. It
wasn't him to blame: grog never ever made no difference to
his driving. I blame the one in the other car. Young
Howard that got himself killed outright. A wishy-washy type.
Never over thirty. As Bubba used to say, ‘Those careful boys
are the dangerous ones on the road.’ A sawn-off little wowser.
No confidence.
“He was lucky enough to be killed instantly, while poor
Bubba lingered on in agony for three days. I can hardly speak
to Mrs Howard when she comes in for a rinse. Murderer’s
mother, is what I feel like saying But I’m too much of a lady,
Rube. She has the cheek to say to me, ‘A pleasant day for
the time of the year, Mrs Fender.’ ‘Oh,’ I say, cold as charity,
‘oh, is it in-deed !’
“Anyway, Bubba’s wife came rushing up to the hospital so,
of course, I couldn’t see him. I tell you straight, Rube, frankly
I nearly went out of the mind. And when milady had the
hide to say what a nice little thing his wife was I sort of had
hysterics. I begged her to take Bubba a message. She refused.
Refused her own mum! And what do you think the vulgar
little bitch -said when I asked how he looked? What do you
think?”
Rube did not attempt not to give up. Her face twitched
slowly and heavily with a passion of expectation.
“Her ladyship says, ‘He looks even more ree-volting than
usual.’ 1 raised my voice at her, I can tell you. ‘ls that a
way for a Sister-in-charge to talk about a patient? I ought
to report you to the authorities,’ I said. ‘Common,’ I said.
‘Cold-hearted,’ I said, ‘cold-hearted and unhuman.’ ‘You asked
for the real truth,’ she said. ‘You're unhuman,’ I said, ‘and no
daughter of mine. You're not human.’ She laughed. ‘Human
enough,’ she said. ‘Daughter enough and human enough.’
“Then I started to screech and carry-on I was that upset.
‘I want to see my Bubba,’ I kept on moaning. It must have
been pitiful. You see, actually, my heart was broken. So
she came over very ladylike and quiet, and said. ‘Mother, I'm
terribly sorry about all this. Terribly. I’ll do what I can:
don’t you worry, I’ll do what I can.’ So, the next day, the
day he died with that woman his wife snivelling over him and
me home here seeing everything lividly, her ladyship turned up.
“1 hadn’t been able to go to the salon, but Amy carried
on. And jew know what? You can’t trust any of them the
moment the back is turned. Well, she gave shampoo appoint-
ments to two —not one, mind you, but two —of the abo.
women. Dirty gins. 1 took some strips off that Amy, 1 can
tell you. Told her off good and proper. ‘Who jew think you
are?’ I said.
“Where was I? Gh, yes, her lady ship! In she comes
looking like the cat that ate the canary. ‘Are you sober,
mother?’ she said. ‘How dare you speak to your mother like
that!’ 1 said. ‘Sorry,’ she said, ‘but the whole place looks like
and smells like a bar.’
“Naturally, Rube, I’d had a few in a medical way to drown
the sorrows. I said, ‘1 may have had a couple of small brandies
for my nerves,’ I said. That put her in her place the way I
said it. But she's a nasty bit of work. ‘Nerves calmed?’ she
said. ‘Frankly, madam,’ I said, ‘they are.’ ‘Good show, mother,’
she said. ‘Well,’ she said, ‘he’s dead. But I told you I’d do
what I can for you. I’ve brought you something of his that
his wife won’t want. I’m reelly very kind to you,’ she said.
And she put this little cardboard box on the table, and away
she went. There’s no doubt her dad would have turned in
his grave. Unhuman. Vulgar. In the box was one of Bubba’s
fingers.”
HThe two women, with simplicity, and decorously, gave each
other a noiseless, barred look. It could have indicated that,
truth aside, they purposed staying out with men, that night, as
late as snails, and that past shock, past animal fear, was used
up. There were quicksands all around to soak up blood, tears,
dropped flames, quicksands deeper than theatre-lounge carpets.
Happenings, however terrible, led nowhere. Climax and crisis
were illusions. Howsoever large and blazing are the cinders
exploding from the spirit with volcanic reality, they fall, they
sputter, they die, they die. Forotten is pasted like the label
of the terminal and inevitable railway station on every mind.
“Common and vulgar,” said Rube with gracious weighti-
ness, tugging down her skirt suitably over her cubic knees.
“I mean, as you youself formerly told me.”
“Vulgar, spoiled little bitch,” said Mrs Fender. “Though
girl-like,” said the mother. “Could you do another snort,
Rube, before Max and Tex get here?” said the hostess.
“Just one more, love, and then I’ll have to go and spend
a penny and get back into these bloody shoes,” said Rube
forcing a plastic comb which still had two-thirds of its dirty
teeth through her hair. It crackled.
“Vulgar’s the word,” said the hostess agitating the squash
bottle with elaborate confidence and as a special gesture of
gratitude. “I don’t know, frankly, where she actually gets it
from. Where she gets it from I reelly and truly actually can t
imagine.”


Businessmen want facts and
want them fast. An accurate
report of things that matter
financially is essential to every
executive. But the facts must be
brief! Read all the essential financial and
business news in THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES —clear, concise infor-
mation —fast! Out every Monday.
BratfJ
THE AUSTRALIAN
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
AUSTRALIA: £4/5/- per year.
Mail coupon to “Circulation Manager,”
Australian Financial Times,
Box 185 C, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: Air Mail Subscription
Rate £7/-/- for year.
Mail coupon to: Box 965, G.P.0.,
Wellington, New Zealand.


The Red Page
The Prose of
W. B . Yeats
Essays and Introductions. W. B. Years.
Macmillan. 565. 6d.
IT is a curious fact that, though Eliot
is the big name of the age, the
poet who has most influenced con-
temporary Australian poetry is W. B.
Yeats. We seem largely to have
escaped the Dylan Thomas word-
bouncing which started a school in Eng-
land and leapt the world to New Zealand.
Auden, who -is himself influenced by
Yeats, is a useful stimulus to some of
the newer Australian writers and must
have helped anybody who wanted to
write about the modern world. But it is
predominantly Yeats whom you can
discern, sometimes distantly, sometimes
closely, in Judith Wright, A. D. Hope,
David Campbell, Vincent Buckley, Evan
Jones and quite a few others (not exclud-
ing myself).
I expect you could find traces of him
in James McAulev, too, and .even in
Robert D. Fitz Gerald who, though he
always seems to me to have invented his
own style (despite his acknowledgements
to Brennan) probably was led by Yeats
to write about his ancestors. Only Slessor,
who took off from the Elizabethans and
then the Sitwells, seems to have walked
an entirely separate path.
There would be several reasons for
this. One is that like any other poet
whom you read with respect Yeats has
some catchy mannerisms. Another is
that his aristocratic outlook is extra-
ordinarily appealing, in a rather snobbish
sort of way: you feel that you move m
high company when you read him and it
is.nice to go on being a great Irish gentle-
man in your own writing. But these are
the kind of influences that can lead to
harmful imitation ; and I am sure that
Yeats's influence on the whole has been
beneficial.
The basic reason for its widespread
acceptance is that, disregarding his
mannerisms, he contributes a pure style,
as pure as a style can well be. If you
follow writers like Hopkins, Thomas,
Eliot, Pound —poets strongly imbued
with mannerism and personal idiosyn-
cracy—you cannot become anything more
than an imitator ; but if you follow a
pure style, based on clarity, order and
melody, you are merely doing what any
poet (barring the exceptional individual-
ists) ought to do ; and you are following,
in fact, the best tradition of poetry any-
where. I have always thought that Yeats’s
one simple rule for poetic style—to use
“the natural words in their natural order”
—was the best for contemporary poetry,
and it is also precisely what Chaucer,
Shakespeare, Wordsworth, Browning
(nearly all the great names) practised at
their best and clearest.
But at that one great contribution of
purity of poetic style, Yeats's influence
virtually stops.
Except for the first few moments when
you cannot help falling under his spell,
nobody is going to be much influenced
by his prose style in the present volume.
It is a beautiful style at its best, capable
of marvellous dramatic passages when he
lets his hair down, capable of wit and
epigram, capable of a surprisingly human
venom when he loses his temper for a
moment with his own or (particularly)
J. M. Synge’s enemies, capable of the
clear directness of his poetry ; but there
is too much pose in it, too much man-
nerism, and far too much Walter Pater.
It would have been much better for Yeats
not only if he had refrained from putting
Pater’s bit of purple nonsense about the
Mona Lisa into his Oxford anthology
(it is not poetry ; it is not good prose ;
it is just a kind of swoon) but if he had
refrained from reading Pater at all.
Few people are likely, I would think,
to be influenced by the general drift of his
thought in this present volume of mixed
literary and philosophical essays: towards
Indian mysticism. It is not that there
is no profit to be found in that direction
but that Yeats never seemed quite trust-
worthy when he was writing about
visionary experiences, whether Irish or
Indian. He seemed to be deceiving, not
the reader, but himself. When he was
truly in a visionary state he saw the wild
swans at Coole ; when he walked with
saints and goddesses he was only hanker-
ing .after vision. And because he is
poskig, hankering, trying to pretend, he
is much too vague and elusive about it
all. His essay on Shelley in the present
volume, instead of talking about the
precise excellences of his poetry in its
natural and supernatural imagery, as
Edmund Blunden did in his magnificent
biography, sets out to explore Shelley's
cloudy ideas and makes them cloudier
than ever. It is like bathing in cotton-
wool.
And, finally, nobody is going to find
himself in general agreement with Yeats's
critical ideas in this book or even in im-
pressed disagreement: as, one way or
another, you find yourself receiving any
genuinely significant criticism. Once
again, he is too often vague or evasive ;
he is too much concerned naturally
enough—with his own groups of the
Rhymers’ Club and the Irish renaissance;
and he is too often wrong. What on
earth can one make, for instance, of his
attack on Burns, repeated more than
once in these essays—trying to put him
in company with Longfellow!— except
that it was simple jealousy? Burns did
what Yeats could never quite achieve
(and did not need to): wrote songs which,
as Yeats says in one of his less success-
ful phrases, “could be sung by horsemen
and engine-drivers.”
What, again, are we to make of Yeats
saying that poets should write only on
“public themes” when the rule excludes
Burns and, presumably, Yeats’s own
beautiful love-lyrics? How can he say
that poets and painters should describe
“only desirable people”? Was Macbeth
desirable? Was the Ugly Pope of Velas-
quez? If he says that Renoir’s later nudes
were “like pork” (which they were), how
can he pretend that he approves of
them? How, without a very careful
exploration to see how much of modern
writing and modern art does not in fact
come out of tradition (there is nothing
new in stylised, abstract and primitive
art) can he “condemn all that is not tradi-
tion”?; and how, having done that, can
he then reasonably “admit other themes,
even those that have no tradition”?
One could go on questioning. But
Yeats himself says in his introduction
(originally intended for a complete
American edition of his works, which was
never produced) “Now that I have all
my critical prose before me, much seems
an evasion, a deliberate turning away.”
That is disarming enough. And Yeats
was Yeats: always the great poet ; always,
in the midst of so much that is madden-
ing, the penetrating and profound thinker.
Take one simple epigram, for instance, on
censorship: “that defence of virtue by
those who have but little.” Or take that
most human and appealing confession:
“1 was silent because I am a timid man
except before a piece of paper.” Or,
despite one’s reservations about “public
themes” —the idea needs much more
careful definition than Yeats gives it —
consider how much wisdom there is. in
opposition to the whole trend of the age,
in his rejection of his own youtnful
beliefs:
1 thought when I was young —Watt
Whitman had something to do with it —
that the poet, painter and musician should
do nothing but express themselves.... A
poet is justified not by the expression ot
himself, but by the public he finds or
creates; a public made by others -ready to
his hand if he is a mere popular poet, hut
a new public, a new form of life, if he is
a man of genius.
But here comes the point where you
start questioning again. Does or does not
the man of genius create his new public
by expressing himself? You <-<>u!d find
the answer —that self-expression is in-
evitable ; but the creative artist’s primary
concern should be with the clear com-
munication of what he has observed out-
side himself: a man really needs to be
extraordinarily interesting to be his own
chief subject matter —but Yeats makes no
attempt at such an elucidation. He stops
and “turns away.” 1 found the book
fascinating and exasperating, readable
and unreadable, all the way through, but
best in the direct reminiscences of Synge
and Lionel Johnson.
DOUGLAS STEWART


READ
THE NEW ECONOMICS
for a scientific analysis of economic
problems with constructive proposals tor
their resolution.
Published monthly—annual subscription
£2/2/-.
Initial copy free without obligation.
Apply Hon. Secretary, New Economics
Association, 160 Whitehorse Road,
Blackburn, Victoria.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Box 2671, <>.P.O., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. .Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Duke at the Desk
Wellington at War 1794-1815. Letters
selected by Anthony Brett-James.
Macmillan. 625.
The anthologists have left the Duke
of Wellington alone for so long that
most of their efforts are out of print,
though the whole bookshelves of his
Despatches (12 vols.), Supplementary
Despatches (15 vols.) and Mysore Letters
sometimes turn up for a song in second-
hand bookshops, apparently unopened.
They are worth opening for although
the Duke was a prolific letter writer who
carried on the bulk of his official and
other correspondence with his own hand,
he was also a lively penman whose
missives have clarity and directness and
a vividness derived from the fact that
they deal with his daily round.
He was a man who prided himself on
clearing the day’s work within the day
to which it belonged ; also, on calling
a spade a spade ; also, again, on pro-
ceeding on his regular military business
according to fixed principles especially
when the fate or careers of officers or
men were concerned. His letters give
a better picture of him than any bio-
graphy could hope to do, for they show
him in the raw with his feelings exposed
at the moment of their activity. Having
read them, you know what enraged him
and what he was consistently likely to
do when enraged, and what he normally
did as a matter of policy in cold or cool
blood.
For instance, it is clear that, no matter
what the stage of his career, he loved
a good fight as an exercise in a specific
art in which he was an adept. It is also
clear that he had fixed rules of discipline
which he applied relentlessly, but an
utterly flexible mind in contriving tactics
(“I make my campaigns of ropes ; and
when they break I tie them together
again.”)
While soldiery who looted or com-
mitted atrocities could fairly expect to
find themselves hanging on trees to
encourage others marching by, an enemy
could not be certain that he had him
merely by defeating him. He was an
endlessly patient exponent of the tactics
of strategic retreat and wait-and-see. He
was a master at reading signs from
terrain, as when he deduced against all
local advice to the contrary that there
must be a ford at Assaye because other-
wise two villages would not face each
other across the stream. That bit of
observation won him an historic victory.
Reading everything that came his way,
writing everything himself, for the most
part calm in judgment because of his
power of rest and recuperation which
enabled him to lie down anywhere— in
the rain or in the broiling sun, after
battle, or before as at Orthez —he did
everything of importance himself (“I am
obliged to be everywhere, and if absent
from any operation, something goes
Wrong”). He was the planning heart and
the direct source of energy in every force
he commanded.
His main characteristics were his eom-
ttionsense and practicality. His main
hatreds were knavery, weakness of
c haracter and bad faith and when he was
giving vent to his opinions on these he
had a nice turn for descriptive phrases
which make almost all his more im-
portant discursive correspondence worth
reading. This applied whether he was in-
dulging in praise or blame. Thus he out-
lined the policy of his Mahratta allies in
India: “Never to give assistance to your
friend when he stands in most need of it,
and always break your treaty with him
. . . when it is most convenient to him
that you should fulfil its stipulations.”
Of the Spanish, he wrote that they “are,
in general, the most incapable of useful
exertion of all the nations that I have
known ; the most vain, and at the same
time the most ignorant, particularly of
military affairs, and above all of the
military affairs of their own country.”
He described a Spanish Minister of
War as “the greatest of all blackguards”;
a Spanish civilian attached to his staff
as “not only the most useless and
inefficient of God’s creatures, but an
impediment to all business, and he can-
not speak one word of truth.” Of two
of his officers he wrote, “I pray God
and the Horseguards to deliver me from
General Lightburne and Colonel San-
ders.” But of officers who did their best
he was always considerate and if, through
incapacity, one of those under him had
to be removed, he took great care that
his feelings were not hurt and that he
was moved to work he could do.
He had a profound contempt for
“amateurs of the military art”: “If 1
had been at any time capable of doing
what these gentlemen expected, I should
now, I believe, have been in the moon.”
And war profiteers were in his list of
hates: “sharks at Lisbon calling them-
selves British merchants . . . the worst
subjects His Majesty has.” This, how-
ever, was probably not more devastating
to the objects of his wrath that his state-
ment that “nobody in the British Army
ever reads a regulation or an order as if
it were a guide for his conduct,.or in any
other manner than as an amusing novel.”
However, he could show the greatest
kindness and insight in case of failures,
as in the badly managed pursuit of the
French by the 16th Light Dragoons out-
side Ciudad Rodriguez: “I can only say
I have never seen an attack by our
troops in which similar, if not greater,
accidents and mistakes have not occurred.
This is to be attributed to the inex-
perience of our officers, and I must add,
to some good qualities in them, as well
as in the troops.”
Above all, he could be succinct in
description, as in his account of
Talavera:
The battle was a most desperate one.
Our loss has been very great, that of the
enemy larger. The attack was made prin-
cipally upon the British, who were on the
left; and we had about two to one against
us; fearful odds! But we maintained our
positions, and gave the enemy a terrible
beating. The ffew] Spanish troops that
were engaged behaved well.
What more was there to say about so
historic and “close run” a thing as the
battle of Talavera, in which the British
losses were more than 6200, nearly all
on one day, the Spanish 1200 and the
French 7400?
A stern, unbending, sedulous marl,
humor sometimes had its way with him
as when he asked the looting Connaught
Ranger where he got the beehive and
Paddy replied: “Over the bloody hill,
be Jasus, and if ye don’t hurry ye won’t
get one.”
Mr Brett-James' selection of 180 letters
and orders is probably as representative
as can be made among the existing
multitude, nearly all of which make
revealing reading It is supported by an
introduction, explanations and notes,
bibliography and a map which are excel-
lent in that they sufficiently elucidate
without subordinating the text or blind-
ing the reader with pseudo-scholarship.
The illustrations, however, though this
perhaps a matter of individual require-
ment, might have been better chosen.
It is an entertaining volume, full of
wise saws for aspiring officers and very
salutary for timid politicians.
EK DUM
Hong Kong
The Fall of Hong Kong. Tim Carew.
Anthony Blond. 345. 9d.
HPhis is a book about everyday men and
•*- women caught up in the toils of a
cruel war which could not be won in
their particular area, no matter what they
did. It should be set against another
book describing another disaster of
Allied arms—Colonel Tsuji’s recent “Fall
of Singapore.” The Tsuji book dealt with
the grand strategy of Japan as told by
a senior officer in the High Command
and many see it as an attempt to revive
militarism amongst the youth of Japan.
Carew’s book, on the other hand, must
breed a dislike of the futility of war but
a greatly heightened regard for human
beings in adversity Both books show how
the Imperial Defence Committee in pre-
war years ignored the basic needs of these
areas remote from London and drive
home the lesson that we in Australia
must never again depend upon such an
antiquated body.
In both Malaya and Hong Kong certain


WRITE
CERT AiN-TO-SELL
STORIES
There is a big demand for acceptable
work from freelance writers.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
countries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS to the best advantage. If
YOU have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St.. Perth.
■ CUJ AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS .
AGE (SR 1001)
changes in governorship and command
were made a few months before the
Japanese struck. But this was just an-
other case of “too little, too late.” The
changes seemed to be a little more effec-
tive in Hong Kong than in Malaya and
the former is more deserving of the phrase
“glorious defeat.”
“The Fall of Hong Kong” is a fairly
intimate and personal story of how little
more than 8000 British, Indian and
Canadian troops, with five museum-piece
planes and a small 1916 destroyer, held
off 60,000 Japanese for 17 days. The
author does not gloss over the weakness
of some of our troops, especially the
failure of the Canadians, who had been
chosen as suitable for garrison duties
only, to defend their positions. But they
were unfortunate in that their first taste
of war was against troops who had been
victorious in China for a number of years
and therefore had high morale, a dis-
regard of casualties and adequate supplies.
While the Canadians as a unit were
remarkably unsuccessful in Hong Kong,
individual members such as their com-
mander, Brigadier John Lawson, who
died with a smoking pistol in each hand,
provided examples of which the nation
could be proud.
No less unsuccessful as a unit was 2nd
Royal Scots (historically entitled to be
known as “First of Foot” but w.ho were
in this campaign dubbed “first to foot it’).
But individual members of this unit wiped
out the stain of initial chaos by deeds
equal to those of any units fighting any-
where. The small naval unit, the Ist Bn
Middlesex and the Hong Kong volunteer
forces, composed of a mixture of British.
Chinese, Indian and even Portuguese
businessmen proved what individual effort
can achieve given leadership, and this
book is a fine tribute to them.
Memorable pictures of individuals in
action, men and women from all walks
of fife, make this a book that will stand
with the best of the enormous crop of
war books still flooding the market. The
picture of the Gunner Major, Robert
Templer, rolling hand-grenades down the
corridors of the Repulse Bay Hotel at
the advancing Japanese is, apart from the
tortures and executions that followed the
Japanese success in the area, the most
memorable.
The author has been successful in weld-
ing together out of the personal stories
taken from all ranks (from the G.O.C.
to a signalman who was released from
detention only to join in the last few days
of the grim fighting) a coherent, brave
and disturbingly intact picture. It gives
a far truer picture of the Japanese at war
than does the Tsuji book which almost
treats of the Japanese soldiers as knights
in shining armor. Carew shows why
many of the attackers of Hong Kong
were tried as war criminals and why more
should have been had they been captured.
One weak reed held out to the troops
at Kong Kong was that the Chinese were
going to attack General Sakai in the
rear before Hong Kong fell. In fact, no
such attack took place at all and there
is no record of the Chinese doing any-
thing at all to relieve the pressure on
Hong Kong. Information on what was
available for such an attack is meagre;
but there is evidence to support the hypo-
thesis that, like the Russians standing off
at Warsaw while the Poles they despised
were destroyed by the common enemy,
the Chinese did not attack as they should
have done, either because they were taking
a breather (not entirely undeserved, if
badly-timed) or were not unwilling to see
their white and Indian allies humiliated
by the Japanese.
Some people, reading Tsuji on Singa-
pore, might be pardoned for thinking
that the Japanese were always superior
to the Allies in strategy, tactics and
behavior. This book shows that such was
not the case in Hong Kong where the
defenders certainly deserved the crown
of victory.
A. W. SHEPPANRD
Black Manic
Black Maria. Charles Addams. Hamish
Hamilton. 26s.
Horrible. Tomi Ungerer. Hamish Hamil-
ton. 51s. 6d.
TTere are two cartoonists, one estab-
lished, one up-and-coming, both try-
ing to solve the same insoluble pioblem
of the horror joke.
Addicts of horror and black magic in
cartoon form do not really crave for a
shock. They dislike novelty, whether it
be in the subject or in the strength of
the horror-pellets. Predictability is of
the essence of the attraction of black
magic.
In the real world, it is sharp distinc-
tions and differences which overwhelm
and frighten, it is the mixture of good
and evil which demands doubt, dis-
crimination and flexibility. The symbols
and the spirit of pure evil which inhabit
the world of the Addams fans are stable.
And it is precisely their stability and their
basic sameness which offer re-assurance.
Yet, once a world totally different from
the workaday one has been erected, it
becomes necessary to somehow re-connect
it with the everyday world. The response
to horror cartoons is thus founded on two
flatly contradictory demands: the world
of black magic must be sharply separated
from our world —otherwise the cartoons
become no longer “humorous” but up-
setting ; yet the non-human must be some-
how re-connected with the human, other-
wise there is no response.
Addams strives for two things: his
trade symbol, the family of evil, at first
glance seems quite unreal. But the
second look, which the skill of the draw-
ing demands, makes you doubt, and the
faint outlines of the man on the 8.20,
of the old woman round the corner,
begin to appear. Or else there is the
Chinese box trick: the frig, is opened and
the igloo with live Eskimos found on the
top shelf.
Ungerer, a Frenchman living in New
York, relies almost entirely on the
Chinese box angle, but his line is too
frozen to carry this technique very far.
The influences of Steinberg and Thurber
are paramount. Ungerer attempts the
interaction of cut-outs from advertise-
ments with spidery figures: the baby fed
by a cut-out oil can ; the set of whiter-
than-white teeth as the grille of the car;
the toupee looking like hay on top of
the wagon. He gets very close to simply
combining two inanimate objects, but is
then forced to draw in some human figure
or feature.
One cannot respond much to Ungerer’s
work, except in purely technical terms:
his two worlds are in fact too sharply
separated. The cartoons thus leave no
lasting impression and soon lead to a
yawn.
Addams’ work, on the other hand, gets
very close to conveying the notion of a
world of all-pervasive evil and horror
which lurks just around the corner of
the street yet would, reassuringly, recede
if you were to go out and look for it.
HENRY MAYER
The Use of Words
Borrow The Spring. Amy Cumpston.
Edwards and Shaw. 15s.
'll7'hat is the nature of poetic talent?
There is no clear answer to this
conundrum, but perhaps the most helpful
guide towards a definition would be
found in Leavis’s pronouncement, “He
is a poet because his interest in his
experience is not separable from his
interest in words.” The amateur and the
primitive are both interested in their
experience, but what they fail to achieve
is a real involvement in the craft of
words: they could not be described as
talented because they have never become
makers. To possess seriousness but lack
talent is to write verses which claim
things and say things and shout things,
but never imaginatively grasp anything:
the verses lie flat on the page and can
never get up.
“Borrow the Spring” is Miss Cump-
ston’s second collection of poems, and,


though the first book was better, is clearly
the work of a writer with earnestness
but with little real talent. Language is
used with a kind of directionless en-
thusiasm, the rhythms are lumbering
approximations and the verse is speckled
w ith exclamation marks which do
nothing to help it. Though Miss Cump-
ston is responsive and thoughtful about
some aspects of modern life, her re-
sponses have not undergone the painful
transmutation into poetry. Instead we
get:
Monkeys of the steel jungle!
Prowling along the girders,
leaping from beam to beam,
with a catch of the hand here
and a clinging of toes there.
From above does the fall look sheer?
(“The Riggers of Oceania.”)
Yet the first half of this collection has
a certain charm. It is the charm of a
primitive artist, blessedly free from the
echoes of earlier poets, with flashes of
immediate freshness. She responds to the
pressures of suburbia, to a ringbarked
forest, to old cannon at Botany Bay or
to yachts on Sydney Harbor:
The yachts multiply on the water,
moths in the enormous flame of the sun;
halfway between the surf and the still
backreaches
on the sweet water in a dance of fun.
How harmless the water! Lightly it jigs!
The yatchts sway and loop in a skaters’
dance,
turning and ghding be.ore the wind,
chasing each other in a game of chance.
For the silver cup, the applause of the
club;
and home by dark with folded sail.
Outside the fanged sea lying in wail
claws at the cliffs to no avail.
The second section of tne uook, called
“The Shapes of Love,” comprises an
embarrassing sonnet sequence together
with eight personal lyrics reminiscent of
the little verses one finds in “The Satur-
day Evening Post.” The delicate linea-
ments of love must be defined with a
sharper pencil than this.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
Koestler’s East
The Lotus and the Robot. Arthur Koest-
ler. Hutchinson. 31s.
A rthur Koestler is the European in-
tellectual par excellence , he has been
through the full cycle from Communism
to recantation ; his knows his Freud, Jung
and Adler ; his scientific mind was grap-
pling with the atom long before Hiro-
shima. This book is about a spiritual
and physical pilgrimage to India and
lapan, to find whether “the East had any
answer to offer to our perplexities and
dead-locked problems.” Such a pilgrim-
age was bound to be a failure ; the only
surprise is that Koestler seems surprised
that it was.
The logical, scientific “Why?” cannot
he put to the exponent of Yoga or Zen,
a s Koestler found to his annoyance.
Nevertheless, he struggled manfully with
Hindu saints and Zen abbots, and read
many more books than do most of their
Western devotees. The latter should
mterrupt their breathing exercises to read
Koestler’s serious but (to the unbeliever)
hilarious chapter on “Yoga Unexpur-
Sated.” As it is, the practices enumerated
are more ludicrous but no less obscene
man those carried out by some of the
Bread
I make man’s ancient food
That at blood’s temperature
Gathered its own life,
Began to seethe and stir.
I plunge my fists within
Resilient dough for bread ;
The living, leavened stuff
Fragrant and moist to knead
Takes shape now from my hand,
Its warmth of growing yeast
Springs from the palm pressed in
And curls back to resist.
My atavistic hands
Find an old skill to throw
And press and curve and turn
And shape the living dough.
I set the bread to rise
And hear the smallest sound
Beneath the muslin cloth
That covers it around.
It is the sound of life
From dough that warmed the hand
And took blood’s heat to grow.
I shape the loaves, they stand
Again to rise before
Their baking into food—
Bread that is symbol of
Plain goodness, life and God.
All generations of women
Who ground the flour for bread
And set it by their ovens
And curved strong hands to knead—
How intimately they knew
Whence man’s true symbols come:
The seed, the yeast, the bread.
The chiid swelling the womb.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING
Curramulka
Epitaphs
For Anyone
I was someone just like you, and said:
“I rilly cawn't imagine myself dead.”
For an Insomniac
Of sleeplessness I break the fast —
Have mercy, Lord, and let it last.
For a Lazy Boy
Careless planning—when slothful bliss
Receives a punishment like this.
For a Beautiful Murderess Hanged
The jewel-case of Death will hold
through time
This lovely ear-ring from the lobe of
crime.
For an Actress
I play my part to the very letter;
No one living could play it better.
The stage —too twee; but flowers and
plaque
Announce me here then why no
claque ?
For a Virgin
Flat on my back, I have no breath
Or will to deny that lecher Death.
For a Dog
When you come, Man, to the Golden
Stair,
Watch His golden jealous glare.
I’ll be waiting. He'll be routed —
He knows that you were never
doubted.
For a Cat
Contemptuous, subtle and untrue,
I blandly took the homage due,
Gave love to none my whole lives
through.
Disdainful still, I’ll take my price—
Celestial milk and steak and mice
In fools' suburban Paradise.
For a Coffin-maker
Have, good people, no dismay—-
The perfect busman’s holiday!
For a Nymphomaniac
Pity me not as one bereft:
There are men to the right, men to
the left.
For an Escapist
Disgusted and hurt
With fact, dark and dirt,
Decay and defeat,
This my retreat.
For an Unpunctual Woman
For the last time let me state :
“Sorrai, dulling, that Ai’m late!”
VICTORIA.
HAL PORTER.
Waratah
Spring, that fills the wind with cries
of honeyeaters and the scents
of all the scrub in flower, has called
this blood-deep, burning flower to rise
before the orchid-dark-blue sea.
The wind flows over all the scrub,
and bears away my verse, my breath
as transient as those wind - borne
strains,
O proud, immortal flower that burns
before this sea, each spring, from
death.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON
From the Inland
Since these months. 1 have not seen
the ocean, its clear
Thought of flowing, the clean flash
of sea,
Keen, steel glint of saltwater, dear
Is the memory. I cannot be
Fond of this landscape of hard shapes.
The never-changing end of matter.
Give
Me a paddock of surf, where daisies
drape
Wave-crest and trough, though such
blossoms live
In impressions only of white foam and
gold suns,
The countless golden suns, the white
daisy-foam,
Where the greensward of ocean runs
Up to a beach shanty some sailor calls
home.
Here, in this continent’s inland, this
shed is a shed.
Where there is no dream, all fondness
is dead.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT


STARTING TODAY !
AMAZING BOOK
BARGAINS
Thousands of books offered
at bargain prices from 1/-
upwards.
General Literature, Medical, Tech-
nical and Foreign Language Books,
as well as more Fiction and Attrac-
tive Children s Books than ever
before, and Art Prints, too.
A wonderful opportunity for libraries to
stock up their shelves from our fiction
counters at a fraction of the normal cost.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd.
89 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
early saints and fathers of the Christian
church, for example the sucking of pus
from the sores of a contemporary Indian
saint by her disciples. But Koestler him-
self is so obviously not a candidate for
spiritual conversion that the book reads
as a series of analytical exposures rather
than a search for faith.
As an analytical critic Koestler is
brilliantly entertaining and instructive.
He is particularly good as laying bare the
contradictions in the Indian attitude to
sex. “On the one hand, the rigid separa-
tion of the sexes, prudishness, praise of
the spiritual and physical value of con-
tinence, fussiness about ‘cool’ foods,
thrifty hoarding of the precious fluid.
On the other hand, the cult of the lingam,
a sex-charged mythology, erotic sculp-
tures in the temples displaying the most
astonishing features of copulative acro-
bacy, the ars amandi of the Kama sutras,
the hottest curries, shops with the allur-
ing sign “Sex Pharmacy,” an unrivalled
trade in aphrodisiac preparations and
spices. In fact Koestler finds this “in-
difference to contradiction” to be the
essence of the Indian character. Most
people who have travelled in India will
agree with him, and find it infuriating or
endearing according to taste.
In Japan Koestler found equally pro-
found contradictions, but in this case
happily and consciously embraced in the
shape of the Western culture (or facade
of it) which is bolted, welded and glued
to the traditional Japanese way of life.
The background to this, which Koestler
makes clear, is Japan’s unique history,
with its leap into modernity and its un-
paralleled disasters. Koestler can’t take
India ; he likes Japan, but only on his
own sceptical terms. The indifference of
Zen to morality revolts him, the haiku
leaves him cold, the art of flower arrange-
ment does not seem to him to be all that
important; once again, he just does not
want to hand over his intellect. This may
have its drawbacks, but it clears the air
for a lovely clean-sighted shot at the
Western disciples of Zen: “They tried
hard to obey its command : ‘let your mind
go and become like a ball in a mountain
stream*; the result was a punctured
tennis-ball surrounded by garbage, bounc-
ing down the current from a burst water
main.”
This highly readable book will have
done a good job if it taints the bait for
a few suckers.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
A Novel from Spain
Man of Blood. Jose-Luis de Vilallonga.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 13s. 6d.
Con of a nobody whom people nick-
named Clodhopper, he became a
general overnight during the Civil War in
Spain. Escaping Franco’s troops he fled
to Russia where he was feted as a hero
and appointed to the Staff College in
Moscow. Fresh from burning churches
and killing priests the tough, handsome
Spaniard soon found the prescribed texts
difficult to follow. He clashed with the
authorities and was demoted to the rank
of night cleaner in the metro. Twenty
years later, still tough and scarred and
obsessed with his image of Spain, he turns
up in Paris looking for his family and
his old wartime comrades. What he finds
there is the substance of “Man of Blood,'’
a stark little novel etched in as sharply
as any bullring at five in the afternoon.
Picking up the old threads for such a
man is no easy task. What happened to
his father? His father was caught and
died in prison. As he deserved, com-
ments the General dryly. The man never
revolted against anything or anyone. His
left cheek was always stretched taut.
He respected order. No place quite so
orderly as a prison. And his mother?
She died of hunger on the road. She
had been born starved. She was so
small, so slight her hunger could never
have been great, thinks the General. She
believed in God. She used to carry Him
about in the hollow of her stomach.
Along with her hunger. And Ramon,
his friend, Ramon, who took women
without removing his shoes? He was
shot at Granada. His sister recited the
whole dreary litany.
And the others? All quiet mouse-like
men typified by the one who settled down
and became “a grocer, yes, monsieur, a
purveyor of Spanish specialities, as was
proper . . . His sardines are outstand-
ing, his oranges delicious . . . He even
created a vogue in the neighborhood for
bulls’ balls cooked with onions.” There
is no hope for people like this. They
have lost their manhood. Even his wife,
he learns, has forgotten him and married
a Parisian. The General decides to go
home alone, to carry on the war where
he left off. An underground network
smuggles him back over the border, but
the smiling, genial guards have already
been tipped off and he is shot down.
The author jabs out the narrative with
banderillas. He plants his darts with skill
and grace, filling out the simple action
with a set of vivid flashbacks to show
for example, the General, an illiterate
peasant, killing his patron s son, the priest
under sentence of death marrying him
to the same patron’s daughter, the girl
who was later to betray him. We have
met someone like this man before in
“Listen Comrades” by El Camposino,
that savage autobiography of one who
endured enormous hardship before escap-
ing from Russia. Yet something is wrong
here. For all his capework, his brave
technique, De Vilallonga is foxing. He
is in no danger at all. The balance
between form and feeling has been lost,
for he is really following a film scenario,
a plan of action gutted of emotion.
DOUGLAS TERRY
Reviewed Briefly
The Devil’s Own. Peter Curtis. Mac-
donald. 15s. An ancient and blasphemous
cult still flourishes beneath the idyllic
surface life of the small English village
where Miss Mayfield takes up an
appointment as headmistress of the
village school. She has the courage to
join battle with the practitioners of the
cult and there is considerable suspense
as the battle is played out. This book
has been compared with Sylvia Town-
send Warner’s ‘"Lolly Willowes,” but it
lacks the quality of that small master-
piece.
❖ ❖ ❖
Violent Anchorage. Jamieson Brown.
Jarrolds. 16s. Violent is certainly the
word for some of the more lurid events
in this novel by an Australian writer.
The vivid, documentary presentation of
cray-fishing on the West Australian coast
which the author experienced at first
hand holds the interest, but the plot is
clumsy and unconvincing.
❖ ❖ ❖
Death by Misadventure. Michael
Underwood. Hammond. 12s. 6d. A
thriller that opens with the death of a
solicitor in a car smash and a robbery
on a large scale and gathers impetus
as the police try to track dow'n the master
mind behind the robbery. Competent but
not exceptional.
❖ * ❖
The Seventh Square. Brigid Knight.
Hutchinson. 16s. Historical facts con-
scientiously introduced into the narrative
weaken the reader's interest in this story
of Maurice of Nassau, second son of
William the Silent. It is a quiet, evenly
written book, and none of the characters
ever really spark to life —not even the
two central ones, Maurice and Mar-
garetha of Mechelen.
.A. A A
V V V
Trask. Don Berry. Hutchinson. 16s.
An interesting, sometimes puzzling book
which gathers power as it progresses
towards its remarkable concluding chap-
ters. The story of Elbridge Trask and
the journey he undertook in the 1840 s
along the Oregon coastline to Murderers
Harbor has been freely adapted by the
author, who sees in Trask’s journey a
quest for self-discovery.


Shows
Artists at the
Crossroads
Thomas Gleghorn. Adelaide. Bony-
thon Gallery.
By a fluke that released some amusing
symbolic meanings, the Sydney
painter Thomas Gleghorn arrived at
Adelaide airport just as Albert Tucker
touched down on his way back from
Perth. Caught by a questioning reporter,
ART
Tucker, in from the west,
declared that Australian painters
must go overseas in order to
get a new perspective on their
work; Gleghorn, out from the East,
replied that he is seeing plenty of per-
spectives where he is. The result was a
draw, but it left one ihinking that even
if later on it would do Gleghorn good to
go overseas, in the meantime he is not
likely to start painting Ned Kelly.
Gleghorn is having his first one-man
show in Adelaide. It is an important
exhibition, and a profoundly interesting
one, for Gleghorn, who in Sydney is
firmly locked in the gallery labelled
“Abstract Painters,” has knocked down
the door and come to Adelaide with
abstract and realistic paintings of equally
high quality. Gleghorn sees his grass and
birds his Hill End diggings and rocks,
with a sympathv and emotion that call
for paint-strokes as swayingly supple as
the grass, as lumpy or dug-into as the
rocks or the ground. Then, in the
abstracts, the same ingredients belt it out
in purer form or fuse together in the blast
of summer.
Earlier examples of Gleghorn’s work
seen in Adelaide indicated a painter with
a splendid love and knowledge of color
together with a large fund of explosive
energy; the restraints of delicacy, the
orde of intelligence, were not in demand.
These latest paintings have the lot ; the
diggings Gleghorn is painting may be
deserted, but he is striking gold.
In the realistic series he calls “Grass
Landscapes” Gleghorn is carrying on
111 his own way the great Australian
tradition in which Roberts, Drysdale and
jugh have worked, that which brings
together the strength of the country’s
&round-frame and the delicacy and
attling fragility of the living things that
§ r °w on it. Gleghorn, however, avoids
an Y direct expression of the human form.
The range of the abstracts is most im-
pressing, from the oriental delicacy of
“Landscape and Coast” or ‘ Death of a
Warrior” to the full pressure of the in-
dustrial machine in “John Darling
Colliery.” Altogether this show is a
chance to see Gleghorn as an artist not
only of isolated brilliance but coherent
and steady development.
Wentworth Restaurant Show. Adelaide.
R.S.A. Exhibition.
A good cross-section of South Aus-
tralian art, from the best amateur to
the professional, is on view at these
exhibitions, one of them lurking in a
room and on the walls of the Wentworth
restaurant, where Walter Wotzke, who
runs the Hahndorf Gallery, has got
together a good representative collection.
James Cant, who has been working for
a long time on nature viewed from the
position of the ant, is exhibiting a couple
of pictures that justify all his efforts.
The density of detail is not overwhelm-
ing, but now as subtle and airy as it must
seem to the bird or the bee that flies
through it. Dora Chapman has a verti-
ginous painting of two figures embarking
into space on a thin suspension bridge,
with long streaky paint blowing the wind
and space around them.
There is a more gothic terror in two
gaunt figure studies by Margarita Stip-
nieks, the bones wearing rich robes of
paint. John Bayly has attempted the
sinister quality in the Australian land-
scape, but his shot has brought down a
couple of crows that belong to Clifton
Pugh. Among the abstracts, never very
plentiful in Adelaide, there are two by
Malcolm Carbins which with their bril-
liant yellows, oranges and blues seem to
distil a long summer.
At the R.S.A. there is an exhibition
by associates and lay members which, if
less dull than the recent autumn exhibi-
tion by their alleged superiors, is never-
theless lacking in much spirit. Those
who have been more enterprising, like
Rhonda Thiele with her “Death of
Coonardoo,” can be readily forgiven her
lack of technique ; this was a large and
boldly conceived painting, with its rocks,
corpse and hovering cockatoos. Once
again, this is unmistakable Clifton Pugh
territory, and makes one realise how
deeply he has felt his way into our
environment.
There are some other paintings with
good ideas that have not quite emerged,
such as Margaret Sutherland’s “Boats on
the Murray” and Alma Gross’s “Starving
Children.” C. R. Groves has kept within
the limits of straight watercolor and
produced something direct and pleasing
?n ‘'Street Steps.” The sculpture is com-
petent, the materials have made their
sleek demands, and that is all.
Geoffrey Dutton
Lloyd Rees, Sydney. Macquarie
Galleries.
Robert Hughes. Clune Galleries.
Simply because their one-man shows
are concurrent, without other new exhibi-
tions to confuse the Sydney scene, Lloyd
Rees and Robert Hughes have inevitably
been reviewed together: which may not
be altogether consistent with the dignity
of either painter.
Lloyd Rees is the acknowledged master
of pencil-drawing who afterwards turned
to massive, sombre landscapes of rock
and Harbor headlands, the veteran left
stranded in our shallow age like some
prehistoric monster. Robert Hughes is
the talented young man in a hurry.
Yet the two painters really have some
points in common. For one thing, though
you would hardly guess it from this show,
Robert Hughes can do the most captivat-
ing work in black and white. For another
thing, which certainly the show makes
manifest, he too is obsessed with massive-
ness. That, along with his alert sense
for mood and movement and gesture, is
the attraction of his two big paintings
of bulls, one with its head up, challeng-
ing, the other poised with lowered head
to charge.
But Robert Hughes is only playing
with paint here for the most part:
groping for a style, groping for an out-
look. He has flair without solidity. It
is reassuring to find that he can paint
a watermelon with genuine feeling for
its crispness and its pinkness; and
whether he is painting from recollections
of travel or merely from a reaction to
Spanish art, one wishes he would go out
and look at an Australian bull, just as
he has looked at his watermelon, and
see what he could make of that.
There is no feeling that Lloyd Rees
is playing with paint in his exhibition,
though there is, not surprisingly, some
uncertainty in his approach to the
European landscapes with which he is
here concerned.
Sometimes, as in “Calabria III,” one
of his old massive Harbor headlands
seems to have walked across the world
to stand oddly at the foot of high snowy
mountains. Sometimes, as in “Mycenae”
and “Crete,” the clear classical light has
darkened in his mind to a curiously
surreal element. Sometimes, as in
“Calabria II,” he drifts perilously close
to fairyland.
He is nearly at his best, certainly at
his most impressive, when he states a
large fact bluntly (not losing his feeling
for the masses and rhythms of the earth)
in “Sicily”; and right at his best when,
as in “Provence,” the little white houses
dotted among the tall, pale-blue moun-
tains, strike him simply as charming.
D.S.
Johnsonian Club Prize. Brisbane.
The members of this club, inhabited
by professional men under the patron-
age of the late Samuel Johnson, the
irascible doctor from Lichfield, put up
100 guineas for a painting in any form


C:
•V
IM«S
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
■
i
»?
l *«»«*?
ft O'”
c
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
of pictorial art. Of the many thousands
given in prizes in Australia yearly less
than £lOOO comes from Queensland for
art ; this is a good start to catch up.
Eighty artists sent in 150 works. Un-
happily no recognised senior practitioner
outside Queensland competed. The
prize was won by Betty Quelhurst of
Brisbane. She had a very bright idea
for a picture of figures in a landscape,
people resting in and going through a
very small city park. But the very scale
of the figures got her into trouble with
the drawing and spatial relations of the
figures. And, as for a fading ageing
beauty, a few dabs of good rich color
would have done quite a lot; the general
effect was too drab.
A more attractive work and superior
technically was “Pickers” by M. G.
Fogarty, a Gauguinesque pattern in noble
color dominated by strong primaries—
warm orange-red and blue—showing two
mighty muscular farmers very well drawn
The feeling of recession to the far blue
hills was nicely managed by subtle tonal
gradations.
Another work worthy of notice was
Miss Nancy Isabel Carroll's version of a
narrow lane in a Melbourne slum, high in
color (dominantly Prussian blue), imagin-
ative, but free of either cynicism or sen-
timent. The light problem in the grading
to gloom at the end of the passage was
quietly solved. An unpretentious thing
of low-toned intersecting planes by Miss
Irene Amos was most effective, and a
Siamese artist Tamnait Chuaiwat, shows
a striking cemi-abstract of bamboo jungle.
A few others were better than average,
one or two old professionals showing
young artists how to put paint on
properly, but the bulk was rather poor,
some falling to the level of the art
section of a country agricultural show.
J. V. Duhig
A Monster for the Holidays
“Corgo.” Sydney Liberty.
’T'his tender tribute to mother love had
the May holiday kids lined up waiting
to get in. The continuous rustle of paper
bags inside the theatre was drowned by
FILMS
the great shout of joy that
went up when “Gorgo”
began. Thereafter they
seemed to have forgotten
to eat. A film that can do this to child-
ren must have something. They are the
coldest and most callous of critics, and
perhaps they share with older critics of
this kind, who are too clever to be taken
in, the fascination of the incredible.
There is this monster Tyrannosaurus
rising from the sea to terrify divers and
sailors on a deep-sea salvage vessel.
Trapped in nets, he is packed on deck and
taken to England to be exhibited in a
circus. By this time his mother has
missed him. Carelessly swimming
through depth charges and ignoring the
torpedoes, broadsides and, in fact, the
full force of the British Navy, she walks
up the Thames, cracks London Bridge in
two, pushes Big Ben over with one paw
and, while the populace screams and runs
in a way that confers great credit on
their director, walks through London
gently collapsing seven-storey buildings
until she comes to the circus. There the
bull-calf screams of her child and her
own volcanic mooing subside. She Has
Found Her Boy At Last.
Their strangeness apart, no intelligent
child could view these happenings with
anything less than distaste. Their very
violence was an affront to gentle breed-
ing. They inculcated a feeling that the
British Navy, Army and Air Force would
be better employed picking violets, a
distrust of the armed services that could
only be dismaying to a generation facing
a third world war. And the early treat-
ment of the baby Tyrannosaurus must
have determined most of them to report
the matter to the R.S.P.C.A.
In what, then, lay the real fascination
of the film? It was in the pleasure of
recognition. As the second monster rose
out of the sea, red-eyed, pushing aside
everything in her path, roaring at the
top of her voice for her young, they
could not fail to recognise dear old Mum
—as the reviewer, in the petulant behavior
of the baby monster knocking a man dead
with a sideways paw while it roared un-
controllably at the top of its voice, was
reminded of the behavior of other little
monsters towards the end of school holi-
days.
And indeed, when the little orphan boy
in the film itself, who has been through
it all, sympathising with the baby Tyran-
nosaurus in its trouble, watches mother
and child wading away into the Thames,
you can see that he is wishing he had a
mother like that himself. So many
children should.
Ronald McCuaig
Actors and M ake-up
“Lock Up Your Daughters.” Mel-
bourne. Princess Theatre.
A ctors can be transformed by make-
up. Plays can be transformed by
actors. These two theatrical truisms are
sharply brought to our notice in this
“Musical Play,” adapted by Bernard
THEATRE
Miles, with music by
Laurie Johnson, and lyrics
by Lionel Bart, from
Henry Fielding's comedy
“Rape Upon Rape,” known also as “The
Justice Caught in His Own Trap.”
For without the lavish and meticulous
application of make-up the show’s two
stars, Hy Hazell and Richard Words-
worth, would of course (after all, the
play is set in 18th-century London) seem
absurdly out of place. And without these
two imports from the original London
Mermaid Theatre production the play
could in many ways seem a limp and
baggy monster.
It was particularly noticeable that when
Miss Hazell and Mr Wordsworth
absented themselves from the proceed-
ings, the swift changes in scene an
prevalence of actors who couldn’t quit
hit it off as singers, and vice versa, an


i, 0 ye all the audible whirrings of intri-
! a te stage machinery, especially the two-
storied revolve, were decidedly distract-
jng; and one experienced great difficulty
in keeping track of the main threads of
the story —and in theatre there is not
niuch difference between confusion and
boredom.
However, with the return to stage of
yiiss H. and Mr W. one’s attention
became immedately riveted to them, and
the unease felt about a lot of other things
seemed irrelevant and unreal and we were
able to get on with the story.
And what a story it is! Fantastically
cynical about mas-woman relations and
licentious to the extreme, “Lock Up Your
Daughters” etches in a highly colored
caricature of London society in Fielding's
day with Rabelaisian gusto and great
good-humor
Fielding was a magistrate famed for
the conscientiousness of his war against
the very vices he urges us to laugh at
here: Justice Squaezum, his main
character, administers the long arm of
his law to procure for himself any pretty
little thing who might happen to find her-
self, usually on a trumped-up charge, in
trouble with his court, while upstairs his
wife carries on a love affair with the
dashing, ear-ringed Sotmore, played by
Bob Burns, one of those who coped more
successfully with the problems of singing
than acting.
It would be pointless to let out further
the secrets of what ultimately came of
these, and the host of other characters
who populate this tale. Suffice to say
that the Princess is well worth a visit
these days.
A. S. Jorgensen
“Detective Story.” Brisbane Arts
Theatre.
“Scoop 4.” Brisbane University Break-
away Revue.
Sidney Kingsley’s play appeared rather
threadbare in this production by Brisbane
Arts Theatre. Type characters, mechani-
cal emotional conflicts, sentimentality,
wisecracks and violence were all there as
well as a death scene that was both
factitious and operatic. An illusion of
maturity and ultra-seriousness was given
by much talk about criminal abortion
and by the inclusion of a wife with a
steamier past than usual. And the whole
thing is dedicated, with heavy-handed
insistence, to the Great Commonplace of
the Broadway theatre: Love, Tolerance
and Understanding.
In the first act the sense of confused
activity was well maintained with the
j apparent chaos on the stage never becom-
lng a real one. The over-acting gave
v 'tality to the cliches, and only in the
case of Lydia Roberts’s Shoplifter did it
, become a distracting excess.
If Acts Two and Three were less suc-
cessful it was because here the actors
had to face up to the emotional scenes.
E v en Richard Spring, whose McLeod had
aggressive power elsewhere, here wailed
his vowels a little. The women made
Particularly heavy weather of this turgid
jnaterial. It was perhaps to the good that
h e structure of the set forced many of
these scenes into the obscurity of the
upper left corner of the stage.
Robert Jordan
“Come on, Agnes, dites fromage!”
For four years a breakaway group of
University students, objecting to the
orthodox and often pointless University
Revue, have staged “Scoop,” on intimate
theatre lines, with the humor arising from
satire on the contemporary sacred
institutions of politics, the press and the
pomposity of the Ivory Tower itself.
John Helman and Oscar Skoien have
risen to prominence as writers and pre-
senters of the best material. Perhaps
television-type humor has undermined
standards of comedy in Queensland, but
it seemed to the vast crowds that packed
the now-inadequate University Theatre
(hundreds more were turned away) that
these scripts and their staging towered
above the shallowness of professional
TV. Perhaps the best single item in the
1961 show was Skoien’s troubadour, in
“Ye Olde Reuters,” with Helman’s very
superior Tertullian Cruickshank and his
“Intelligent Man’s Guide to Politics” a
close second.
The difficult art of the chansonnier
now comes easily to these two young
men, while the more traditional numbers
involving the full company were less
successful. Little use was made of the
women in the cast. However, as these
all affected a ghoulish make-up, perhaps
it was just as well!
VAL V ALLIS
New Zealand Ballet and Opera
Spurred on by State aid, the theatre
in N.Z. should shortly be almost self-
supporting. For its first national
tour the N.Z. Ballet Company is to
be headed by two internationally
famous dancers, Nora Kovach and
Istvan Rabovsky. The pair have had
top-line publicity because of their
“escape’' through the Iron Curtain,
where they had been associated with
the Bolshoi and Leningrad ballets, also
because of the film, “Dance to Free-
dom ’ and the book, “Leap Through
the Curtain ” The Ballet Company's
tour begins with “Scheherazade” in
Wellington this month, and then on to
other centres and towns.
A coming event is the appearance
of the N.Z. bass, Noel Mangin, who
has sung himself to prominence over-
seas and will be flying from Paris to
take the leading role in “Don Pasquale
at the Auckland Festival. Mary
O’Brien and Beryl Dailey will alter-
nate in the soprano role and Cyril
Kellaway and Donald Munro will be
in the cast. The performances will be
conducted by Georg Tintner.
The music of this Festival will
include Beethoven’s Missa Solemnis,
with the National Orchestra under
John Flopkins, and the return visit of
Tessa Birnie, the brilliant young N.Z.
pianist, from overseas, while the N.Z.
Opera Company will produce “Tosca’’
with Marcello Cortis in the leading
role.
PAT LAWLOR


Business, Robbery, Etc.
"Boom-breaking" Ends
AlosT economists agree that,
when significant unemploy-
ment appears in the heavy or
capital goods industries, trouble
may be lurking round the
corner. Reduction of output
in the capital goods sector is
often followed by curtailment
of effective demand in the con-
sumer and service industries,
paving the way for a serious
recession.
The proposed dismissals of
850 men at Port Kembla and
Newcastle in N.S.W. by John
Lysaght (Australia) Ltd, a lead-
ing manufacturer of galvanised
iron and sheet steel, are dis-
quieting danger signs. Austra-
lian economy seems to have
reached a stage at which the
Government’s anti-inflationary
policy requires some sober and
imaginative rethinking.
Deflationary and inflationary
tendencies both have an im-
portant snowballing psycho-
logical content. After the
initial impetus is given, the de-
flationary process becomes self-
perpetuating and fans out in
ever wider circles.
The present economic posi-
tion may not be pleasant, but
it is by no means tragic. Panic-
inongers among the affected
manufacturers are unjustified
in their vociferous and un-
bridled criticism. There can
be little dispute with the basic
aims of the Government’s fiscal
policy, which has tried to bring
inflationary consumer indus-
tries into line with the general
pattern of economic develop-
ment. The rural sector and the
basic industries have been
losing far too much labor and
capital to the manufacturers of
TV receivers, electrical house-
hold goods, motor vehicles, etc.
Tn the boom days sales were
A pushed up by extensive use
of hire purchase, which was
artificially expanding demand.
In the resulting unhealthy infla-
tionary climate, economic
growth was becoming lopsided,
and this had to be stopped.
There is considerable merit in
the argument that the credit
squeeze was inevitable due to
the inherent balance of pay-
ments problems, and that the
Government's action had only
accelerated the day of reckon-
ing.
The really serious and fair
criticism, levelled against the
Federal Treasurer, is that his
policies are essentially short
run. More fundamental adjust-
ments are necessary. Agricul-
tural producers must be bol-
stered up and capital industries
expanded, if necessary at the
cost of consumer goods.
No doubt, Mr Holt made
several tactical blunders. His
handling of the additional sales
tax on motor vehicles is an
example. Had several succes-
sive smaller increases been im-
posed, instead of one 33£ p.c.
slug, the motor industry might
have absorbed them without
acute discomfort. Attempts to
limit imports by the classical
expedient of depressing domes-
tic effective demand have
largely failed, giving rise to
charges that the Government is
“Oh, darling! Endorsements, special interviews, radio,
TV, a newspaper column and—who knows
perhaps Hollywood !”
“deliberately fostering infla-
tion.”
Impending dismissals in the
steel industry, as yet minor in
scope, show that the Govern-
ment has approached the
economic Rubicon.
Relaxation of the statutory
reserve deposit ratio for the
major trading banks by 1 p.c
to 15.5 p.c. will release about
£l7l million. This will not be
enough, because of the seasonal
pressure on banks. Even
tighter credit conditions may
develop in the next few weeks.
Last week Mr Holt stated
that the Government was plan-
ning “positive steps in the field
of major public works, par-
ticularly those which would
enable private enterprise to add
significantly to export produc-
tion.” This signals the end of
the “boom-breaking” phase.
How-eve r, public works
spending and better wool prices
take time to produce a recovery.
Business confidence should also
be strengthened by a more
selective credit policy and some
degree of import control. The
decision to allow deduction of
interest payable on debentures
and deposits taxwise is an en-
couraging move.
E.B.
Mortgage Exchange
HThe newly created Sydney
A Mortgage Exchange, which
will provide “extensive facili-
ties for trading in real property
mortgages,” may be instru-
mental in forcing down interest
rates on short term real estate
mortgage market.
The basic function of Mort-
gage Exchange, established on
the lines of similar institutions
in the United States, is to
establish a central market for
loans, secured by mortgage of
real estate property. The Ex-
change lists requirements for
finance, and loan funds avail-
able, and classifies them accord-
ing to type, interest yield, dura-
tion, location and other details.
Mortgage investments avail-
able are displayed on a board
for public examination. When
a suitable offer is found, the
transaction is completed by the
clients’ solicitors, who are ex-
pected to conduct the necessary
inquiries and complete the
usual procedure.
"VTo direct financing or invest-
ing is done by the Ex-
change, which limits itself to
listing available opportunities
for public and private investors.
The scheme caters mainly for
the more complex financial
problems, such as obtaining
loans for commercial and in-
dustrial properties, shopping
centres, subdivisions, home
units projects, etc. Private
homes will be considered
“where the size and purpose
of the advance sought are out-
side the limits of the usual
home-finance lending bodies.' 1
At this stage, inquiries for
long term first mortgage home
finance usually provided by
savings banks and building
societies will be redirected to
these institutions, with which
the Mortgage Exchange will
not compete.
The Mortgage Exchange's
profits are to be derived from
the excess of listing charges
and commissions charged over
operating costs. At present,
the basic listing charge is three
guineas and the commission
rate is 2 p.c.
At the moment, the Mortgage
Exchange is owned by the
founder, Mr B. Ganke, manag-
ing-director of B. White Pty m
Yagoona (N.S.W.). It is in-
tended to form a private com-
pany at a later stage, converting
from the present sole ownership
basis.
Mr Ganke told The Bulletin
that the Mortgage Exchange
“emphatically does not promise,
guarantee or underwrite any-
thing.’’ Jt is intended “to pro-
vide a service to investors and
borrowers by listing opportuni-
ties available for a moderate
fee.” It is hoped that the
creation of a central market for
real estate mortgages will
eventually force down interest
rates on private short term
loans.
Export Insurance
'"Phe Commissioner of the
Export Payments Insur-
ance Corporation. Mr G. A.
Hawley, recently announced
a further widening of the cor-
poration’s facilities, as part of
the nation’s drive for exports.
Indonesia is now included
amongst the countries for
which the corporation's facili-
ties are available.
Following the Federal Gov-
ernment’s announcement of
measures to stimulate exports,
including the likely provision
of warehouse facilities overseas,
the corporation has reviewed its
premium rates for insurance on
such stocks.
These now range from as low
as 3d. per month per £lOO value
of stock. Premium charges
vary according to the risks
associated with the particular
country involved.
Since June 30, 1960, the cor-
poration has paid a number ot
claims amounting to approxi-
mately £lO,OOO to exporters in
several States. Commodities in-
clude wool, fruit and livestock


'4sl\
5
4 \
You’re so right..
insist on
LAC
st
SLACK a WHITE
WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
BUCHANANS’
By Appointment
to Her Majesty The Queen
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD. Glasgow • Scotland • London
3456
YOUR SAFETY BELT
Providing sure protection at all
times, in all financial
weathers—your
policy with the
II
m
//
s
eft/
' ' ■
fa.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
DIRECTORS
E. W. Robinson (Chairman);
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.;
P. H. Phillips; T. Keith Smith;
W. J. Cooksey.
GENERAL MANAGER
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
GENERAL SECRETARY
George Leslie, F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
NEW BUSINESS MANAGER
John L. Richter
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
Speculator's Diary
Monday, May 15
I must give it to Mr Holt: he
has certainly succeeded in
influencing my state of mind
in the last week or two. One
jay he has me in a mood of
rank depression. Then he turns
round and makes it sound as if
everything is really quite rosy.
After reading the Govern-
ment’s reasons for asking the
International Monetary Fund
for a loan, 1 felt like selling all
my shares and going bush for
a year. 1 was still in the depth
of this post-I.M.F. despair
when 1 read that Mr Holt
thought that some of the inter-
pretations placed on his I.M.F.
statement were a bit “flam-
boyant.” That seemed to strike
a note of white hope in the
gloom. Then, next day, he
blithely dropped his scheme to
tax companies on their interest
payments. My interpretation
was that at last the Govern-
ment was realising that its
economic restrictions were
being more than mildly effec-
tive. So my career as a market
speculator does not seem to be
at an abrupt end after all.
Nevertheless Mr Holt
worried me enough to make me
go thoroughly over my port-
folio looking for the weak
spots. 1 have no interests in
appliance, automotive and tex-
tile stocks so I am safe on those
fronts. But I seem to be rather
overloaded with building
stocks. With seven of the 18
stocks in my portfolio involved
in some way in the building
industry, 1 decided some action
was necessary. I gave Stocks
and Holdings a reprieve (prob-
ably because I’d lose if I sold! *
and both Hornibrook and Con
crete Industries seemed safe
enough, being mainly involved
in industrial and government
work. 1 couldn’t sell my 132
Marley shares (a'rising from my
200 Marley Reliance) because
they have still to be listed here,
although they are selling at the
equivalent of 275. 6d. in Lon-
don. John Lysaght are also
still to be listed and, regrettably,
they are now not as likely to
get such an enthusiastic market
reception as they would have a
few weeks ago.
That left Pioneer Concrete
and F. W. Williams (which is
involved in building through
the Bates company’s cement
nags and Sisalkraft insulation
ntaterials). As I had paid only
Ts. two months ago for my
-00 Williams, I decided to sell
them last Friday when they
Wer e 335. 6d. They gave me a
very satisfactory profit of £6O,
including a dividend.
I have not been as successful
with my Pioneer Concrete
which J bought mainly in the
hope of a takeover from Rio
Tinto or Blue Metal Industries.
This has not eventuated yet and
doesn’t seem likely to, judging
by all the reports of an impend-
ing new issue. These days even
a par issue isn’t likely to help
the price any, so 1 sold my 400
at 18s. for a profit of £26 (which
also includes a dividend). This
made my week’s profit £B6, the
best result for six months or
more.
From the building industry,
1 fled further into the arms of
the food processors. 1 bought
another 175 Marrickville rights
to bring my holding up to 400.
They cost me £2OB, including
the application money on my
entitlement of 25. Food stocks
are usually described as defen-
sive investments, which are
supposed to be good holding in
times like the present. 1 now
have five food stocks —Marrick-
ville, P.M.U., Tom Piper, Life-
savers and N B. Love. Ad-
mittedly, two of them aren’t
concerned with much more
than peanuts and sweets but,
still, they're food stocks. Tom
Piper is causing me some
concern. It has slipped back
to 21s 6d, despite an interim
report which spoke of a
“marked" increase in sales and
“very satisfactory” profits.
The week’s moves were:
SOLD
209 F. W. Williams at
33/6 £335
400 Pioneer Concrete
at 18/- £360
BOUGHT
175 Marrickville rights
at 12/- (plus 10/-
application money) £2OB
These transactions left me in
the unusually healthy position
of having £571 on hand for
future purchases. My port-
folio now comprises:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
200 Atitill If. £12:; 12/- 12/0
100 Pick-Me-Up 411 81/0 90/-
■3OO Mei’ica 105 6/4 7/~
:iOO Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 8/3 7/0
200 Tom Piper 285 28/- 21/0
200 Hornibrook 284 23/- 20/0
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16/3
400 Marrickville 438 21/3 23/-
132 Marley
Reliance 158 24/- 27/0
200 David Jones
notes 101 9/10 11/-
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. 96 9/5 10/-
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/6
200 A. G. Sims 55 5/3 0/2
100 John L.vsaght 100 20/- 20/-
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/-
200 Lifesavers 259 25/6 28/-


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
‘lncorporated by Royal Chattel Al) 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS* FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FGRDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUFOI^
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
Wfwi
CLEAR WATER
—
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
insured Mortgages
CJhould housing finance be
lifted above whatever
economic climate is blowing?
State Housing Ministers,
whatever their party, will un-
animously agree that it should,
and the most vehement of them
is the one in Victoria, Mr
Horace Petty, with the most
migrants to house.
Opening the third autumn
forum of the Economic Society
of Australia and New Zealand,
he said he visualised a national
authority whose function would
be to organise what would
virtually be an open market for
mortgages, perhaps with in-
sured mortgages. He has
since amplified this interesting
•suggestion for The Bulletin.
Mr Petty's picture of the
economic bottleneck on hous-
ing throughout Australia is that
there are thousands of people
with £lOOO deposit to put on a
£4OOO house, and thousands ot
builders with just the house
they want at the price they are
prepared to pay ; but the
builders cannot arrange tne
end-finance of £3OOO for them.
The builders' lack of liquidity
is due to the rise in interest
rates so that finance houses
are reluctant to lend on six or
seven per cent, mortgages,
when business people will pay
as much as 10 per cent.; but a
Federal authority, financed by
the Treasury and the Central
Bank, could operate beneficially
in the housing finance market
buying, and selling when they
are in demand, insured mort-
gages.
Insured mortgages are those
which insure the breadwinner
for the life of the mortgage for
the amount still owing on it at
his death. A woman widowed
a few months after a £3OOO
mortgage had been taken out
on a house would receive the
benefit of almost that amount
but in the last few years the
benefit might be as little as the
amount still owing, £lOO or
less.
The function of the Federal
authority would be to organise
the open market for the mort-
gages, and to buy (say) £7 mil-
lion worth from the National
Mutual, to sell £5 million worth
from a savings bank or to pro-
vide needy co-operative housing
societies with additional funds.
A somewhat similar govern-
ment housing agency was estab-
lished in the U.S. in 1949.
Lamb Chops for Tokyo
'T'he thought of mutton, par-
-*■ ticularly its smell, is
abhorrent to the Japanese.
But Mr S. M. Gilmour—
secretary of the Victorian Em-
ployers’ Federation, back from
a four weeks’ business jaunt to
South-east Asia—feels “there is
a potential market in Japan
for Australian lamb . . par-
ticularly if the Japanese could
be convinced that it can be
cooked without the odor and
strong taste of mutton.”
Basically the idea is fine.
Japan is the most prosperous
country in Asia, and can afford
to buy a lot more of Australian
lamb. One of the difficulties is
that all meat is regarded by
the Japanese mass consumer as
a bit of a luxury. Moreover,
their cooking habits are differ-
ent. Meat is always cut off
the bone and sliced into small
bits. Grills, chops and roasts
are unknown. If lamb sales to
Japan can be increased, ex-
porters must have a clear idea
of the customers’ tastes and
prepare their meat in accord-
ance with specific market re-
quirements


INVEST
with confidence
in a company with a sound growth record and
secure asset backing . . . ideal for either
short or long term investment.
p.a. 6-SO years
9% p.a. 4-5 years
B±% p.a. 2-3 years
8% p.a. 12 mos. (fixed)
7-j°/o p.a. 9 mos. notice
7% p.a. 6 mos. notice
6% p.a. 3 mos. notice
payable
cfuarterly
FREE OF
EXCHANGE
Registers: Sydney & Brisbane
New Issue at par . , .
£250,000
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
in multiples of £lOO payable in full
upon application
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
by RETAILERS ACCEPTANCE LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £3,400,000
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL 20 O’Connell St., Sydney and 340
Queen St., Brisbane
LIONEL A. McFAYDEN & CO. 20 O’Connell St., Sydney
Burns Philp House, Musgrave St., Port Moresby
Members: Sydney Stock Exchange
LANCE JONES & CO. 108 Creek St., Brisbane and 108 Victoria
St., Mackay
Members: Brisbane Stock Exchange
Banker for the issue:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTO,
Prospectus and Application
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to Prospectus, which may be obtained from
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
• Retailers Acceptance Ltd., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney,
509 Queen Street, Brisbane
• All branches Bank of New South Wales in Qld., N.S.W.,
Papua and New Guinea
• The offices of the Underwriting Brokers
RETAILERS ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.) 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. 509 Queen Street, Brisbane.
LTD. Phone MA 2373 Phone 3i 5951
Productivity Factor in N.Z. Wage Orders
New Zealand’s Economic
Stabilisation Regulations,
1953, are being amended to
provide that the Court of Arbi-
tration shall take productivity
into account when making a
general wage order.
Changes in the value and
volume of primary and second-
ary production are already
referred to in the stabilisation
regulations but there is no
direct reference to productivity.
Prime Minister Holyoake, in
his state of the nation message
on February 20 said that an in-
crease of about two and a half
per cent, in production would
restore balance in the economy.
“If each of us was producing
one-fortieth more just an
average of one-fortieth more in
a 40-hour week —that would be
enough,” he said.
Announcing the proposed
change, the Minister of Labor,
Mr Shand, said:
“Productivity is very largely
within our own control.” It
was the absolute increase in it
that counted ; the amount of
productive work done by the
whole labor force. In this every
man gainfully employed played
his part.
On the other hand, export
prices were, at least in the short
run, “largely outside our con-
trol.”
Tn a welcome move to relieve
A the shortage of motor cars
in N.Z., the Government has
extended the no-remittance im-
port licensing scheme which
has been in operation since
1950.
In future, privately-owned
overseas shares held by New
Zealand residents on or before
December 31, 1958, will qualify
for use in the scheme. The
previous qualifying date was
prior to November 18, 1953
Most imports under the no-
remittance scheme are motor
cars.
Overseas funds such as
legacies and salaries derived
outside New Zealand will con-
tinue to be available for no-
remittance licences without
restriction as to the date they
Were acquired.
A monetary and Economic
Council has been set up oy
the Government to advise it on
economic matters.
The members are: Professor
F. W. Holmes, Macarthy pro-
fessor of economics, Victoria
University of Wellington, chair-
man ; Dr G. B. Battersby, dean
°f the faculty of commerce,
University of Canterbury ; Mr
E. D. Wilkinson, public
accountant, Auckland.
Sir Douglas Copland, N.Z.
born economist, said the ex-
periment would be watched
with keen interest by all who
wished to see the western
economy sustain its supremacy
and leadership.
The Council, he said, had two
novel features. The first was
that it was independent and
free from political control. The
other was that it had the right
to publish its reports. He did
not think there was any similar
organisation elsewhere in the
world, certainly not in the
Commonwealth.
A ustralian lotteries will meet
with more competition in
New Zealand from August
next.
A £30,000 lottery with tickets
ss. each and a first prize of
£12,000, will replace the present
half-crown a ticket art unions.
It’s a vicaory for common-
sense over wowserism.
At first the number of tickets
in each lottery will be un-
limited, but the Government
has promised that, after two or
three lotteries have been run, it
will see whether a limit can be
said. Till that is done, the
Australian lotteries are still
likely to attract most investors.
'T'he New Zealand Govern-
ment has rejected Ansett’s
offer to buy Tasman Empire
Airways Ltd. It may later con-
sider offering New Zealanders
an opportunity to invest in the
company, but is determined to
retain majority control.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Myer Emporium Ltd
Speculation is ended. Myer Emporium
Ltd has moved at last, striking deep
into N.S.W. territory.
Myer made its now famous bid for
Farmers (Holdings) Ltd in November of
last year; one ss. ord., or alternatively
325. cash, for every ss. ord. of Farmers,
plus one 20s. 7 p.c. note, redeemable
December 31, 1967, for every ten ss. ords.
of Farmers. Timing was perfect. Farmers
had just effected takeover of the powerful
Western Stores group, a retail complex
controlling stores in eleven large N.S.W.
country centres. The Myer bid, the
biggest ever seen in Australia, embraced
Farmers’ shares issued to former share-
holders in Western Stores Ltd and
Western Stores’ shares not then acquired
by Farmers.
Final implementation of the merger
proposal is estimated at raising aggregate
ord. equity to somewhere in the vicinity
of £l3 million —Myer had previously
issued 1,000,000 ss. ords. at par to the
trustees of the Myer Emporium pension
fund. Myer books were closed, March
30 last, for determination of rights to a
one-for-two bonus issue (celebration of
the Myer 50th anniversary) in which
assenting shareholders (Farmers and
Western Stores shareholders) participated.
The takeover itself, discounting cash
acceptances, is expected to involve an
issue of 11,228,000 ss. ord. stock units
plus 1,123,000 7 p.c. notes; estimated
market value £2l million. The bonus
issue derived from a revaluation of certain
subsidiary co. shares (in Brisbane and
Hobart) “to a more realistic but still con-
servative level.” It is the first bonus issue
in ten years, a one-for-one bonus issue
going out in 1951.
The Farmers deal further strengthens
the already powerful Myer group giving
it representation in all States except
Western Australia; tentative moves
suggest an early action in W.A. with
Boans Ltd, the big Perth shop, a likely
target.
For sheer volume of business the Myer
organisation (even before the Farmers
deal) is the largest of its kind in the
country, total income last term (Myer
balances July 31) rolling in at an average
rate of close on £1,350,000 a week.
Principal members of the group are the
parent, in Melbourne’s Bourke Street,
Myer (S.A.) Ltd, Adelaide, McWhirters
Ltd, Brisbane (acquired in 1955 at a cost
of £937,500 in ss. ords. and £562,500
cash), Brownells Ltd, Hobart, plus its
subsidiary Johnstone and Miller Pty
(acquired in 1959 at a cost of £234,000
in ss. ords.), Allan and Stark Ltd, Bris-
bane (acquired early last term at a cost
involving £791,000 in ss. ords. plus cash ;
24 ss. ords. in Myer Emporium Ltd, or
alternatively 625. 6d. cash, for each 20s.
ord. of Allan and Stark and 14 ss. ords.,
or 375. 6d. cash, for each 20s. pref.) and
now Farmers (Holdings) Ltd, and Western
Stores Ltd.
The Allan and Stark venture gave Myer
control of Brisbane retail trade from
both ends of the city McWhirters
dominate the Valley —and as well granted
sovereignty over a successful drive-in
shopping centre at Chermside (a Brisbane
suburb). Another drive-in centre has
since been set up at Cooparoo (also a
Brisbane suburb) and performance to
date is more than satisfactory. Cooparoo
opened December, 1960.
Other subsidiaries trade in Victoria’s
second and third largest cities, Geelong
and Ballarat. A manufacturing offshoot,
Wendourie Woollen Mills Pty (Ballarat),
produces blankets, tweeds, dress materials,
underwear and outwear, the parent itself
operating a number of production units
of which a furniture and bedding factory
near Melbourne is the largest.
The group as a whole, established new
records for both turnover and earnings
during the year to July 31 last, net sales
rising by £12,500,094 (21.7 p.c.) to
£70,072,660. All subsidiaries contributed
to the general success including Wen-
dourie Woollen Mills. Mark ups re-
mained more or less steady, but expenses
moved ahead. Net profit advanced by
£223,270 (12.6 p.c.) to £1,996,540:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r —Dividends- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, f serves.*
£ £ £
’55..1,013,100 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 596,835 6,595,064
Tax overprovided, £17,769 . . 6,612,833
Profit on sale and revaluation assets
( £1,822,793), less unexplained
adjustments to inter-co. holdings,
minority interest, etc., £1,133,561 7,302,065
Less increase in intangibles,
£618,224 6,683,841
’56..1,117,949 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 742,412 7,059,378
Profit sale assets, £19,763 . . . . 7,079,141
Tax overprovided, £18,921.. .. 7,098,062
Reduction intangibles, £27,943 . . 7,126,005
Unexplained addition, £15,354 . . 7,141,359
’57..1,236,963 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 742,462 7,635,860
Profit sale assets, £171,989 .. 7,807,849
Tax overprovided, £22,371 . . 7,830,220
Reduction intangibles, £48,126 . . 7,878,346
Unexplained reduction, £13,452 .. 7,864,894
’58..1,444,153 9 p.c. 16J p.c. 817,739 8,491,308
Profit sale assets, £2387 . . . . 8,493,695
Tax underprovided, £154,898 . . 8,338,797
Reduction intangibles, £458,262 . . 8,797,059
Adjustment outside interest,
£117,148 8,914,207
Unexplained reduction, £20,972 .. 8,893,235
’59-1,773,270 9 p.c. 16f p.c. 841,139 9,825,366
Loss sale assets, £405 . . . . 9,824,961
Tax overpvovided, £17,687 .. 9,842,648
Less increase in intangibles,
£105,149 .. 9,737,499
Adjustment outside interest,
£160,882 9,898,381
Provisions written-back, £347,087. 10,245,468
Added on consolidation, £1,943,158 12,188,626
’60..1,996,540 9 p.c. 18-J p.c. 1,080,933 13,104,233
* After deducting intangibles, £250,000 at 31/7/60.
f Including staff partner and employee shares.
Calculated after providing £2,569,147 for
taxation (up £787,304 ; the tax provision
indicating a net profit, after tax, of
£3,850,000) and £597,457 for depreciation
(up £92 : 908), the profit covered divs. on
pref. and employee scrip and 34.9 p.c.
on average ord. capital, compared with
36.7, 30.5, 25.9 and 23.3 p.c. back to
1956. After the 184 p.c. div., over 45 p.c.
of earnings was available for reinvestment
in the business.
Chairman A. H. Tolley, referring to the
unusually large tax provision, said “the
full amount of our deferment of unearned
income on h.-p, transactions has never
been allowed as a deduction by the Com-
missioner of Taxation,” Be that as it
may, profits are dearly understated.
Ploughback is certain to be greater than
that shown. And earning rate, on a tax
basis, is 68 p.c.
The Myer div. rate was cut from 11}
p.c. to 74- p.c. in 1951 —subsequent to the
bonus issue. It was increased to 10 p.c.
in 1953, 124 p.c. in 1954, 15 p.c. in 1955
and 16f p.c. in 1958. Last term the rate
was lifted to 184 p.c., the latest handout.
Directors anticipate div. payments of not
less than 16f p.c. when present effort is
finally assessed ; that is “in the absence
of unforeseen setbacks to current retail
trends” —this takes into account the recent
bonus issue and equals 25 p.c. on pre-
bonus capital. Already the interim div.
has gone out an increased 74 p.c. as
against last term's 6f p.c. interim.
At close of the accounts, reserves, in-
cluding £1,000.000 set aside for building
replacement, exceeded paid capital by
£7,057,614. Paid capital at balance date
totalled £6,296,619 ; £655,450 in 9 p.c.
20s. cum. pref. stock units, £99,500 in
staff-partnership shares and £5,541,669 in
22,166,675 ss. stock units.
The balance sheet discloses a sound
financial structure and a particularly high
degree of liquidity. With theoretical
working capital on the £lO million mark
the group had approximately £2 in
current assets for every £1 of current
liabilities:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1058 1959 1960
Pref. . . £655,450 £655,450 £655,450
Ord. . . 4,616,169 4,850,169 5,641,169
Reserves .. 9,094.421 9,970,217 13,354,233
Minority
interest .. 2.298,546 2,482,704 2,668,070
Mortgages .. 2,152,950 2,445,188 2,942,100
Notes . . 1,093,331 1,243,331 1,243,331
Overdraft .. 891,310 775,221 1,283,485
Deposits .. 1,636,180 1,612,060 1,589,701
Creditors . . 3,527,124 4,248,126 4,914,834
Unearned
Income . . 1,298,401 1,668,162 2,343,275
Tax provision 1,39 2,90 2 1,7 2 5,9 7 6 2,629,023
Final div. . . 451,667 475,067 646,528
£29,108,451 £32,151,671 £39,911,199
ASSETS
Freeholds, etc. 7,108,508 8,333,323 11,418,832
Plant, fittings 2,404,499 2,736,697 3,604,801
Investments . . 334,107 202,161 281,721
Stock . . 7,644,837 7,948,290 8,705,198
Debtors . . 7,532,878 9,054,523 12,561,360
Suspense . . 292,144 147,578 414,965
Cash, deposits 3,188,365 3,584,248 2,674,322
Intangibles . . 603.113 144,851 250,000
£29,108,451 £32,151,671 £39,911,199
Stocks are conservatively valued (up
£756,908 at £8,705,198), the small varia-
tion reflecting rapid stockturn. Myer,
on the figures available, turned its stock
over every six weeks during last term ;
eight times during the year. The growth
of credit sales took debtors (mostly
h.-p. debtors) up another £3,506,83/
(£12,561,360). There was a sharp rise in
provision for unearned income (up
£675,113 at £2,343,275). Cash, deposits,
etc. (down £909.926 at £2,674,322) indi-
cate an ample liquid core in the high
current ratio. Creditors were up ; bank
overdraft also.
Hefty fixed asset investment attended
takeover of Allan and Stark, the con-
tinued development of regional shopping
centres and the further modernisation of
and improvements at Bourke Street and
Lonsdale Street (Melbourne). Chad-
stone, Myer’s £6 million Melbourne-
based bid to emulate similar-type regional
shopping centres overseas, opened up for
business last October. The venture is
proving an outstanding success. The book
value, after depreciation, of freeholds,


Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Ralph W. King & Yuill
33 Bligh St., 20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
2-0137.
84 William St., Melbourne. 67-5089.
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191.
Cables: “RALPHKING,” Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane.
Branches at Grafton and Armidale.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court.
422 Collins Street, .Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. \V. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHA It Eli RO KE US
Ground I‘loor,
The National Mutual Life Building
£97 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 313701 P.O. Bo*
(4 Lines) No. 1337 VV
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLINfi
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St..
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
READ
The Australian
Womans Mirror
N 253
etc., rose £3,085,509 (£11,418,312); of
plant, fittings, etc., £868,104 (£3,604,801).
But what of the future? How does
Myer weigh up from an immediate and
short term viewpoint? How will the in-
vestor fare? What are the long - term
prospects?
One thing is certain. Income for
the first six months of the current term,
to lanuary 31 last, is well ahead of that
written in the corresponding period of
1959-60. And takeovers need cause little
concern. They have been digested rapidly
in the past regardless of their cost. Last
term’s true profit, judged by tax pro-
visions, would appear to be the highest,
in relation to capital employed, ever
earned by the group—a tribute to Myer
management.
Moreover Myer, conforming to latest
trends in the retail trade and modifying
U.S. practice to fit Australian conditions,
displays an ingenuity and, despite its
size and widespread ramifications, an
agility and flexibility which give it a
continued supremacy in its chosen field
The Australian retail industry is the
scene of rapid reorganisation governed
primarily by American precedent. It
involves heightened appreciation of cus-
tomer requirements, refinement and mul-
tiplication of selling techniques, provision
of more varied and liberalised credit
facilities, the supermarket, and the
development of suburban regional shop-
ping centres.
Myer, to wit. is embarked on a vast
imperialistic extension of its already
copious powers. The group has an-
nounced a £lO million expenditure on
capital works in Victoria and Tasmania.
Shareholders are bound to participate as
fund raising becomes necessary ; as the
multi-million pound projects get under
way.
The Chadstone shopping centre, having
done so much better than expected,
another, costing £7 million (a million
more) is to be built, probably near
Preston, the one time northern outer
Melbourne suburb ; and two new build-
ings will go up on Myer land near the
city shop (estimated cost £1,750,000).
Myer’s intentions in Hobart are to
modernise and rebuild the two old shops
of Brownells, in Liverpool Street, and
Johnstone and Miller, in Murray Street.
New buildings and extensions are to be
erected in Ballarat and Geelong
(£500,000).
The Myer interests are also looking for
further effective locations for regional
shopping centres in N.S.W. They have
bought 60 acres of land in Sydney’s
green-belt at Bass Hill ; giving rise to
much conjecture. The road to the future
will be marked with new “Chadstones”
and, there is little doubt, a host of bene-
fits to shareholders.
The sharemarket puts a value of many
millions of pounds on aggregate ord.
equity (a value at close on £69 million
*f equity is reckoned at £l3 million),
the ss. ords. ex bonus, fetching
265. 6d. when last traded. Immediate
yield is a slender 3.1 p.c. from a 16f p.c.
hiv., 3.5 p.c. from an 18| p.c. div. The
P r efs„ at 265., yield 6.9 p.c. At balance
hate the consolidated accounts showed a
visible net tangible backing of 16s. lOd
f°r each ss. ord.
Moulded Products (A/asia) Ltd
TTnrestricted entry of imports, and
the credit squeeze in the closing
weeks of the year, were serious problems
encountered by the plastics giant last
term.
However, profits rose and paid capital
increased. The steady 14 p.c. ordinary
dividend was amply covered.
Incorporated in Victoria in December,
1931, and re-registered as a public com-
pany in April, 1939, Moulded Products
(Australasia) Ltd is the largest manufac-
turer of plastic articles in Australia and
the Southern Hemisphere. Some 18 sub-
sidiaries in Victoria, N.S.W., Queensland,
South Australia and Western Aus-
tralia turn out a large variety of
plastic and plastic-coated goods, includ-
ing agricultural and industrial piping,
insulated wires and cables, vinyl-coated
fabrics, laminated sheet and tubing, poly-
thene film, rainwear, toys, floor tiles,
domestic utensils, plastic - laminated
decorative hardboard, polythene-coated
papers and styrene foam. One of the
most important items is P.V.C. moulding
powder, produced for use by other
plastics manufacturers.
In the face of intense competition
from imports and domestic rivals,
Moulded Products last term pushed up
its turnover. Trading profit for the year
ended December 31, 1960, rose from
£990,613 to £1,047,496.
Consolidated net profit rose by £18,124
to £406,821, after providing £382,554 for
depreciation (up £34,282) and setting aside
£261,250 for taxation (up £7,367):
Parknt and Subsidiaries.*
i —Dividends-^,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. o| p.c. 14 p.c. serves. serves,
if £ £ £ £
1956. . 268,910 26,528 130,517 111,865 1,012.987
Profit side assets, £1337 .. .. 1,014,324
Share premiums, £70,084 .. .. 1,084,408
Added to surplus, par over cost,
shares in subsids., £765 . . . . 1,085,173
1957. .316,641 26,528 135,825 154,288 1,239,461
Note-issue expenses, £10,352 1,229,109
Profit sale assets, £11,675 .. .. 1,240,784
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsids., £6759 . . 1,234,025
Share-premiums, £125,844 . . .. 1,359,869
1958. .327,878 26,528 156,299 145,051 1,504,926
Profit sale assets, £13,900 .. .. 1,518,820
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsids., £105,229 1,413,591
Share-premiums, £176,362 .. ... 1,589,953
Unexplained addition, £1561 .. 1,591,514
1959. .388,697 26,528 184,488 177,681 1,769,195
Profit sale assets, £1847 .. .. 1,771,042
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsids., £12,471 1,758,571
Share-premiums, £510,575 . . . . 2,269,146
Tax overprovided, £28,982 .. .. 2,298,128
Share and note issue expenses w/off,
£24,160 2,273,968
Intangibles w/off, £2261 . . . . 2,271,707
1960. .406,821 26,528 202,858 177,435 2,449,142
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
After paying the unchanged preference
dividend this was equivalent to an earn-
ing rate of 26.2 p.c. on the higher average
ordinary capital, compared with 27.5 p.c.
in 1959, 27 p.c. in 1958, 29.9 p.c. in 1957
and 26 p.c. in 1956.
The well-covered, steady 14 p.c.
ordinary dividend on the higher capital
absorbed £202,858. Reserves benefited by
£177,435 and also by £1847 profit on
sale of assets, £510,575 share premiums
and £28,982 tax overprovision in the
previous term written back Reserves were
reduced by £12,471 decrease in surplus
of par over net cost of shares in sub-
sidiaries, £24,160 share- and note-issue
expenses written off and £2261 intangibles


Be part of
Australia’s
Expansion
with
Rexd
A
1
UEx
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
Mtc £
i 1
C
e
i
Top to bottom:
QLD : Torbreck
home units, Bris.
VIC.: Hicks
Atkinson Ltd., Melb.
W.A.: John Allans,
“Champions of
W.A. Made".
N.S.W.: Cowell's
White House Pty.
Ltd., Sydney.
S.A.: David Murray
Stores Ltd.
Shown here are just a few of the opera
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
Alt told these include: 202 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia’s best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
10/
2 /O
7
o,
o
s°/
o
10/
4 /O
4°,
0
P.A.—5 YEARS
i
: P.A.—2 YEARS
l P.A.—l YEAR
P.A.—6 MONTHS
P.A.—3 MONTHS
P.A.—AT CALL
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
written off. Total reserves and
undistributed profits were dis-
closed at £2,449,142, free of
intangibles. This gave a net
tangible asset backing of
£lO 17s. lOd. for each 20s. prefs.
and 12s. Bd. for every ss. ord.,
on the basis of consolidated
accounts at balance date.
The rise in earnings was
aided by rationalisation of out-
put in the group’s interstate
plants. Productive capacity
was “well utilised” in all sec-
tions, and some important
improvements in techniques
and product range were
reported.
Expansion required fresh
capital. During the year
Moulded Products issued
1,478,444 7 p.c. 10s. convertible
notes, payable ss. on applica-
tion and the balance next
June. These notes will con-
vert into ords., one-for-one, in
1966. The co. also issued
1,848,056 ss. ords. at 9s. pre-
mium a unit, payable 7s. on
application and 7s. each next
June.
Another 100,000 ss. ords.
were issued (at a premium
“yielding approximately the
market price at that time”) in
acquisition of minority-held
prefs. in the subsidiary Gay
Plastics Limited (formerly
Pterwood Plastics Ltd).
At balance date paid capital
amounted to £1,995,718 in
408,125 20s. prefs., 5,426,344
fully-paid ss. ords. and
1,848,056 ss. ords. paid to
2s. 6d. Uncalled capital added
up to £231,007.
Book value of fixed assets
rose by £789,016, including
£256,382 new freeholds. A 13-
acre property was purchased
near Frankston (Victoria) to
provide for expansion of manu-
facturing activities in that
State. Another 5-acre area was
acquired in Perth.
Liquidity was satisfactory,
“though much attention must
now be given to book debts,”
which were £333,964 higher at
£2,059,986:
CONSOLIDA T El) BALAN<JE - S H E K T.
Paid capital - 1959. 1960.
Pref £408,125 £408,125
Old 1,317,774 1,587,593
Reserves . . 1,709,195 2,449,113
Outside interests 101,250
Mortgage . . 281,5 S 8 2 7 0,538
Debentures . . 250,000 250,0 W
Unsecured notes 745,358 1,114,951
Overdraft .. 5 4 8,08 5 802,771
Deposits . . 179,535 180,14
Creditors . . 1,086,0 9 0 9 89,434
Tax provision . . 451,2 7 4 4 3 9,59;
Final divs. . . 118,686 134,72.
£7,257,560 £8,627,0#
Freeholds, etc... 1,239,865 1.496,247
Plant,.etc. .. 1,942,625 2,475,20
Shares subsid. .. 45,131 45,131
Stocks . . . . 2,278,282 2,522,
Debtors . . . . 1,726,022 2,059,93
Loan, etc. . . 25,635 27,81
£7,257,560 £8,627,0#
Current stocks rose by
£244,327, reflecting high el


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F THOU PE. Manager.
Inches off your waist instantly !
FLATTENS front
SUPPORTS back
IMPROVES postur*
SMARTENS looks
and SLIMS !
ONLY the “ Manly ” will
INSTANTLY pu.. ,n your
waist 3-D-n. INSTANTLY
relieves fatigue oaokache,
.umbago. sciatica. Ii\STANTL¥
feel fitter, look smarter. Finest
2-way Stretch Washabie Elas
tic Fabric (Pre-ShrunU) ALL
OAY comfort sitt.ng, stand-
■ ng, playing. Extra detachable
uipporter FREE. Hundreds of
Send 70/“. State waist size (next to
Aust. Notes or M.O. skin), to
General Medical Supplies. 152 Hereford
Street, Box 1547, Christchurch. N.Z.
r t
r^K
7
'
INEXPERIENCE
can be expensive
... and an error on the part of your
Executor, however slight it might appear,
could involve your Estate in financial
loss and distress for your beneficiaries.
If you are about to make or amend
your will you should carefully consider
the advantages of appointing Perpetual
Trustee as your executor and trustee,
either alone or jointly with a relative or
friend.
With its staff of experts in taxation,
finance, real estate, etc., and backed by
75 years of friendly, efficient service, the
Company is well qualified to handle
your affairs.
A new, fact-filled booklet is yours for
the asking . . . write, phone or call to-day
for your copy!
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICE* ALSO AT WOLLONGONG, ORANGE AND
TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY 'CANBERRA) LTB.
M.I.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
turnover. Bank accommoda-
tion increased by £254,689 to
£802,774, but short - term
deposit borrowings and credi-
tors were lower. Theoretical
working capital improved by
£474,906 to £2,216,355.
Current term started under
money-tight conditions. Com-
petition remains severe. The
group puts great emphasis on
its marketing and distribution
system to help increase sales.
New products are being intro-
duced. The Nylex cables plant
at Lilydale (W.A.) is being
expanded. New equipment will
make possible the production
of heavier cables. The factory
will also be able to manufac-
ture Nylex foam styrene for
use in the insulation and
building industries.
Moulded Products’ ability to
maintain a steady 14 p.c. divi-
dend rate (including a 2 p.c.
“bonus”) indicates that so far
the group has succeeded in
digesting economically and
effectively its steadily rising
capital and loan funds. Pros-
pects seem encouraging.
At the last sale in Sydney
the ss. ords. changed hands at
16s. 6d. a unit, for an imme-
diate yield of 4.2 p.c. p.a. on
the basis of the present 14 p.c.
dividend distribution. The 2s.
6d. paid contributing ords.
fetched 10s. 3d., and 6 p.c. 20s.
prefs. 19s. a unit (to yield
6.8 p.c.).
The 7 p.c. 7s. 6d. conv.
notes maturing in 1964 were
last traded for 14s, 6d. a unit,
for an immediate return of 3.6
p.c. p.a. The 7 p.c. 10s. conv.
notes (paid to 55.) maturing in
1966 last changed hands at 11s.
a unit.
Permewan Wright Ltd
Incorporated in 1884, Perme-
wan Wright Ltd, serving the
rural areas of Victoria and
N.S.W., at first as a carrying
and forwarding agent and then
as a produce and general mer-
chant, has now grown to an
organisation comprising 40
branch stores —25 in Vic-
toria, 16 in N.S.W. and one in
South Australia.
The co. has pursued a policy
of diversification in recent
years—a policy of expansion
and modernisation, gearing its
activities more and more to
the insistent and ever increasing
speed of the giant and rapidly-
growing industrial flywheel.
The co. entered the metropoli-
tan trade in 1958, acquiring the
businesses of Davis Bros,
Furniture Warehouse Pty and
its associate, Davis Acceptance
Pty, both of Melbourne. In
1959 the co. bought T. Lambert
Pty, of Armidale, N.S.W., and
a retail store in South Mel-
bourne.
Consolidated profit from
trading for the year ended
January 31, 1961, was £41,747
higher at £192,521. After pro-
viding £47,585 for depreciation
(up £3237), paying all expenses,
including interest on registered
notes and deposits £80,490 (up
£15,420), and setting aside
£81,516 for taxation (up
£31,078), consolidated net
profit was £10,413 higher (up
10.3 p.c.) at £ 111,041. Previous
year’s profit rose by £23,095,
following a decline of £42,935
in 1958-59.
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
Jan.,Profit. , ——Dividends- s serves.
£ £- . - £
’55..130,437 12 p.c. = 64,000 691,607
UnexpPd addition, £1722 093,419
’56..103,927 12 p.c. = 84,000 713.346
Revaluation freeholds,
£379.153 .. .. 1,092,499
To contingency reserve,
£10,900 ' .. .. 1,103,399
To insurance res., £2840 1,106,239
Profit sale assets, etc.,
£2972 .. .. .. 1,109.211
'57.. 82,129 11 p.c. = 77,000 1,114,340
Reduction revaluation re-
serve, £4406 .. .. 1.109,934
To insurance reserve, £4970 1,114,904
Profit sale assets, £ 4390 .. 1,119,291
’58..120,468 124 p.c. = 87,500 1,152,202 \
Profit sale assets, £8964 . . 1,161,2.20
Reduction property re-
serve, £3910 '. . . . 1,157,316-
To insurance res., £lOl5. . 1,158,331
’59.. 77,533 124 p.c.= 87,500 1,148,864
From doubtful debts pro-
vision, £BO,OOO .. 1,223,364
Profit sale assets, £1758.. 1,230,122
’6O-100,628 124 p.c. = 87,500 1,243,250
Profit sale assets, £2519.. 1,245,769
Property revaluation re-
serve,' £3ll .. .. 1,246,'080
’61..111,041 124 p.c, = 87,500 1,269,021
Turnover increased sub-
stantially, group sales finish-
ing up a shade under the
£73- million mark (£7 million
in the year ended January 31,
1960). Produce trade, which
had been declining, met an
increased demand, and sales of
produce were higher. Mer-
chandise trade continued to
expand. In all probability the
h.-p. function performed satis-
factorily. The improved show-
ing is tribute to managerial
foresight and spread of activity.
Spending power of the man-
on-the-land is progressively
declining.
The latest showing is equival-
ent to an earning rate of 15.9
p.c. on unchanged ord. capital,
compared with 14.4 p.c. in the
preceding term and 11.1, 17.2,
11.7, 14.8 and 24.4 p.c. back
to 1955.
The steady \2\ p.c. div.
absorbed £87,500. Reserves


CLOSING NEXT MONTH
REGISTERED
fIVIwKI vAv t
rinc-r
im
PER ANNUM FOR
£$L
YEARS
6 OR 10 YEARS
RETAILERS
DISCOUNT
LIMITID
6 MONTHS
%
PER
ANNUM
12 MONTHS
? %
PER
ANNUM
24 MONTHS
]LXTf per
2/o ANNUM
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to the Prospectus which may be obtained from: —
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
® Retailers Discount Limited, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Bank of New South Wales, ell branches i-i N.S.W.,
Queensland or A.C.T.
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL,
20 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO.,
20 O'Connell Street Sydney.
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
RETAILERS DISCOUNT LTD., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. 8M6206.
Please forward me a Prospectus and Application form.
NAME .
ADDRESS -
benefited by £23,541, p i Us
£2519 profit on sale of assets
Reserves are shown a j
£1,269,621 in consolidated
accounts, supporting a paid
capital of £700,000 in 20s. f.-p.
ords. This gives a net tangible
assets backing, at balance date,
of 565. 3d. for each 20s. unit'
Stock on hand increased
slightly to £1,329,660 (up
£61,025) ; book debts jumped
by £86,953 to £1,410,973. The
bank overdraft declined to
£353,694 (down £23,307), and
deposits went to £1,068,230 (up
£123,474) ; deposits comprise
£437,878 in short-term scrip,
£630,352 in long-term scrip.
Liquidity was satisfactory with
theoretical working capital a
substantial £1,227,993. The
current ratio worked out a
healthy 2.2 to 1:
Parknt and Subsidiary.
1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £700,000 £700,000
Reserves .. 1,243.2.30 1,269,621
Notes . . . . 269,700 269,700
Deposits . . 944,756 1,068,230
Overdraft . . 377,001 353,694
Creditors, etc. . . 509,416 538,314
Tax provision . . 89,971 134,910
Final div. . . 52,500 52,309
£4,186,594 £4,386,969
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,265,580 1,295,303
Plant . . . . 323,129 345,787
Investments . . 590 590
Stock . . . . 1,208,635 1,329,660
Debtors .. 1,324,020 1,410,973
Cash, etc. . . 4,640 4,656
£4,186,594 £4,386,969
During the year Permewan
Wright enlarged and further
modernised its premises at
Coonamble, N.S.W. The book
value of freeholds, leaseholds
and buildings finished up
£29,723 at £1,295,303; of
plant, rolling stock, etc.,
£22,658 at £345,787.
Note finance is held in
£69,700 of l-\ p.c. registered
unsecured paper redeemable
1965 and £200,000 of 8 p.c.
registered unsecured paper, re-
deemable 1961-63.
In January last, before ruling
off accounts, books closed for
determination of an issue, 15
for 100, of 20s. ords at a
premium of ss. a share. The
issue raised £131,250 (£105,000
in capital and £26,250 in
premiums), adding monies to
working capital ; providing
further funds for expansion.
Directors are hopeful of main-
taining the \2\ p.c. div. on
increased equity.
Still vulnerable to variations
in rural income, Permewan
Wright may strengthen its com-
petitive position by further ex-
pansion, plus careful diversifi-
cation. The co. could look
sweet from a takeover point
of view.
The 20s. ords. last fetched
325. in Sydney. The immediate
yield is 7.8 p.c. on the basis
of the steady \2\ p.c. div.


Legal Notice
TO JOHN RADONICH late of 5, Gallop
drove Seven Hills New South Wales
believed also late of 226 Bay Street
Port Melbourne Victoria of Brunkers
Road Greenacre New South Wales and
of 228 Belmont Street Alexandria New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that you
the said John Radonich are the defend-
ant in a writ No. 25 of 1960 issued out
of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Wangkratta in which Antonio Bracaecini
is the plaintiff claiming damages of
£3OOO from you in respect of personal
injuries suffered by the plaintiff when
a motor vehicle driven by you collided
with a motor cycle driven by the plain-
tiff on the Murray Valley Highway
near Koetong in tire State of Victoria
on or about the 7tli day of November
1958. By Order of His Honour Mr.
•Justice Pape made in the Supreme
Court of Victoria on the 27th day of
April 1961 in lieu of personal service
on you of the said writ it was ordered
that there be -substituted service. of a
copy of the writ and of the said Order
on the Government Insurance Office of
New South Wales at 60-70 Elizabeth
Street Sydney on or before the 20th
day of May 1061 and by the publication
of this advertisement on or before the
20th day of May 1961 AND TAKE
NOTICE that you have until the 12th
day of June 1961 in which to enter an
appearance to the said writ at the
Deputy Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
Wanguratta failing which Judgment in
default of appearance may be entered
against you.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—-lx UivoRCK.
TO ALLAN JOHN BROWN late of 319
Young Street Annandale. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARCIA DAPHNE
BROWN lias filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 242 of 19(51 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish
to defend you max enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney within six
weeks from the date of publication of
this notice and obtain a.copy of the Peti-
tion without charge ’ from -MESSRS.
PETER S. UTZ & COMPANY, Soli-
citors, 324 Pitt Street, Svdnev. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—'Ix Dixoruc.
TO PERCIVAL BAKER late of Princes.
Street Boroniai—TAKE NOTICE that
MURIEL JOYCE BAKER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3307 of i 960
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is.asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of tins Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1960 If you wish to defend you
may enter -an appearance in the Divorce
Registry in the Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
18th July, 1901, and 'obtain a c-opy of
the Petition without charge from Mc-
RONEI.I. & MOFFITT. Solicitors, of
0 Wvnvard Street. Svdnev.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES’—IN Divorck.
TO JAMES DOUGLAS' BURNETT.—
TAKE NOTICE that AON 10S PRYDE
FLEMING BURNETT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 11l of 1901 on
the ground of' desertion without just
cause or excuse for three. years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you max-
enter an appearance .in the Divorce
Registry in the Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney bx
18th July 19.61 and*obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Me
DON ELL & MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney.— C. A. 11.
HARMS. Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO KENNETH LOCKWOOD CAMP-
BELL.—TAKE NOTICE that BERYL
ESTELLE CAMPBELL has tiled a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 398 of 1961 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 31st July, 1961
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MeDONALD & MC-
DONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle, Or JOHN CORCORAN 3i
,CO., Solicitors, of 2 York Street, Svdnev.
—C A H HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CF.ORCe HENRY WATSON.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOAN ELAINE
WATSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3263 of 1960 On the grounds
of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
It you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 24th of July
1961 and obtain , a copy of the Petition
without charge from, L. B. FEENEY ft
CO., Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street. Syd-
ney, New . South Wales. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
UNIVERSITY OF
MELBOURNE
Stanford Writing Scholarship
The Stanford Writing Scholarship,
offered for the fourth time through
the University of Melbourne, pro-
vides for a young Australian with
writing talent to attend the
Stanford Writing Center, Stanford
University, Palo Alto, California,
for one year or two, beginning in
September, 1962.
Applications close on 15th Sep-
tember, 1961. For further details,
address “Stanford Writing Scholar-
ship," C/o The Registrar-Univer-
sity of Melbourne, Parkville. N. 2,
Victoria.
COMPANY NOTES
jVlotels of Australia Ltd
High interest rates and severe
credit restrictions are forc-
ing some Australian firms to go
overseas for loan funds.
The preliminary agreement
between Motels of Australia
Ltd and TraveLodge Corpora-
tion (of U.S.A.) is a good ex-
ample of this trend. Subject to
ratification by the two boards,
and to exchange control clear-
ance in both countries, the Aus-
tralian motel operator will be
able to borrow in U.S. up to a
million dollars on first mort-
gage. The loan will be guaran-
teed by TraveLodge.
If such cases multiply, we
might be faced with another
paradox —a heavy foreign ex-
change drain caused by a high
level of imports, and a back-
flow of foreign capital in the
form of company borrowings.
Foreign loans will probably in-
volve options to take up Aus-
tralian companies' scrip, as in
the Motels of Australia-
TraveLodge case.
OH AND MINING
Oil Development N.L.
CViL Development N.L. re-
ports that drilling at Penola
No. 1 well in South Australia
was terminated at 4985 feet,
after “testing certain zones.”
Gas was present in the lower
part of the well section, but
proved insufficient for commer-
cial production. Directors say
the hole “h a s successfully
demonstrated the presence of
cretaceous sediments at depth
in the Penola area, equivalent
to the formations which re-
cently produced substantia!
flows of petroliferous gas in the
adjoining Otway basin.”
A seismic survey will begin
later in May in the Alpha dis-
trict of Queensland. The area
to be surveyed is about 30 miles
north of Barcaldine and about
400 miles north-west of Caba-
win (both in Queensland).
The.co. has acquired a 20 p.c.
interest in South East Oil Syn-
dicate Ltd, which has entered
into a “farm out" arrangement
with General Exploration Co.
of Australia Ltd over a 20
square mile area near Beach
port. South Australia, “A 4000
feet well, to commence shortly,
has been sited about 2i miles
east of Beachport."
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 643
Across
I—Punctuation with less hair piffle. (10)
s—lmpetuous reason for scratching. (4)
9—lt’s right on the stumps, but not from the keeper's
viewpoint. (3, 4)
11—Scolding which might disguise the eggshell blonde
condition of 1-across? (7)
12—Chopin says Aly’s all mixed up
•—this might help the mixed-up
fellow. (14)
14— Pronoun. (3)
15— It's back —turned up behind
schedule, though, to make a
rule. (9)
17—Engaged in clocking a couple
like the untrustworthy. (3-6)
19— An Indian might be misled into
trying to swallow mine here in
N.S.W. (5)
20 — Caper in holding some court-
yard tip of a turf writer. (12)
23 — A musical instrument taking 100
to a Hitchcock film in which
nobody played the title role. (7)
24 Hamlet? (7)
25 Stop in a mast. (4)
26 — Lex, I’d eggs scrambled like
insects. (3-6)
Down
1 — They're of some help in writing
dance features. (4-6)
2 —Scores for which the French
and Great Britain get together
and no contradiction! (3-4)
3 A Melbourne Cup winner is led
up with gratification. (5)
4 A manufacturing craft observed
mother with majesty. (3-6)
6 You’d suppose me to be a
Menzies man from this proof of
my innocence. (5)
7 Wolf to embrace with love. (4)
8— It will look much better later
on. (4, 8)
10—Desire their result porch, as 1
said differently. (12)
13—Fairy scolded in a peruke. (10)
15 — Weapons what can make the
crashed car miss it. (9)
16 — Setting into a special order. (9)
18 —Transport Tom lacks a letter;
what could be a help in writing
to us. (7)
21 — Australian National Philatelic
Exhibition. (5)
22 Medico goes to work in the
fall. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 642


CITY MUTUAL
Another Record Year
In presenting the 82nd Annual Report together with the Revenue Account
for the year ended 31st December, 1960, and Balance Sheet as at that date,
the Chairman of Directors of The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd., Mr. M. John O’Neill, made particular reference, during his address
to members at the Annual General Meeting held in Sydney on Wednesday,
10th May, 1961, to the following highlights of the results for 1960.
NEW BUSINESS
9,869 Policies were issued with
Sums A ssured of £31,051,892, with
annual premiums of £796,358
a record for the Society.
ASSETS
have now increased to £53,815,268.
SURPLUS
reached the record figure of
£2,614,435.
POLICIES m FORCE
now total 152,981 , with Sums
Assured of £186,734.387 , to which
are attached Reversionary
Bonuses of £23.835.364
INTEREST RATE ■
earned was £5.10.8 per centum
after taxes.
BONUSES
SUBSTANTIALLY
INCREASED
again for the 9th time in 10 years.
SUBSIDIARIES and ASSOCIATE COMPANY
Very satisfactory progress was made during 1960 by the Society's wholly
owned subsidiaries, Perpetual General Insurance & Guarantee Company
Limited, which transacts all forms of Fire and General Insurance, and The
City Mutual Life Nominees Pty. Limited, which acts as Trustee for Debenture
holders, etc. City Discounts Pty. Limited, which was approved by the Reserve
Bank of Australia to operate in the Short Term Money Market and in
which this Society is a major shareholder, also registered excellent results.
THE
CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
60-66 Hunter Street,
i . ' ' SYDNEY.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
M. John O’Neill, Chairman,
Henry Morrissey,
Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. T. G. Murray,
Norman B. Rydge, C.8.E.,
C. A. Ralph.
ITHE ONLY WHOLLY MUTUAL ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN LIFE OFFICE
