

Teh Bulletin
Land
The Australian farmer’s
backroom boys
Sport
6 As boxing a sin?"
asks Frank Hyde.
Overseas
in South-East Asia .
Communist Trade Drive
Reviews
Judith Wright on
A. D. Hope


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT S CAN TRAIN YOU
Many Stott Students pay for their eourse
before completing it.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various coun-
tries who may be trusted to handle
Students' MSS to the t>est advantage: If
VOL have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stolls Correspondence College
15b Flinders Lane. Melbourne; 14b Castle-
reagli St.. Sydney: 2b<» Adelaide St.. Bris-
bane: 21 Grenfell St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
- CUT AXD HAIL THIS COUPON —— —-
To STOTT'S: I'lease send me. without any
obligation. our Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars ol your Literary Courses.
MY NAMK
ADDKEKS
(5.8.561)
The Red page
POETRY AND POSSESSION
By JUDITH WRIGHT
Poems. A. D. Hope. Hamish Hamilton.
225. 6d.
There has grown up lately among
certain of our younger poets a habit of
addressing, invoking or piously refer-
ring to the Muse. This kind of familia-
rity is generally unconvincing. It is
probably given to very few in a genera-
tion to have any real conversation with
that august and terrifying being; the
rest of us have to be content with a
mere intuition that she exists. But
when Hope writes of her. the case is
different. In this book, perhaps alone
in our country at present, we can
hear an authentic exchange going on.
If poetry —real poetry, that is—is the
result of possession, as used to be be-
lieved. then there are times, more fre-
quently in this volume than in Hope’s
previous “The Wandering Islands,”
when we can observe the results of that
possession.
To review the work of a writer who
has gone as close to the source of
poetry as Hope, at his best, has done,
is a gingerly task for any critic. There
are certain images, passages, whole
poems here (“Chorale,” “The Lamp
and the Jar,” “Circe”) around which
one can only draw a triple circle and
close one’s eyes, hoping that even then
one is not an intruder from Porlock.
But there are, of course, many others
where criticism is a useful ordering of
one's faculties; and even now. though
many of the weaker or more cynical
of the poems in the first volume have
been excised from this one. there are
a few one can wish were not there.
It is useful to compare this with the
earlier book. The first was arranged
in three sections: first. “The Wander-
ing Islands,” which deals mainly with
particular instances of human relation-
ship or human weakness or human
isolation; the second and more impres-
sive “The House of Ascent.” in which
Hope’s own world-view and its con-
sequences are more generally set out;
the third. “Heldensagen." where the
Hope of our popular image deploys
his wit -Hope horrid. Hope despair-
ing. and the least attractive of all.
Smart Alec. In this new collecdon the
first two sections, significantly, are
transposed; the leading section is com-
posed of some of the poems from the
original “The House of Ascent.” with
others, new in their section, among
which are certainly some of the most
impressive and remarkable poems ever
written in this country. The third
section, again significantly, is much
depleted.
Of the new poems in the first section,
perhaps the most important are the
first, “Soledades of the Sun and Moon,”
and the last. “An Epistle from Holo-
fernes." Perhaps it is because in these
two Hope goc furthest towards ex-
plaining and fulfilling his own view
of the function of poetry—“to re-create
the fables and revive/in men the
energies by which they live”—that they
glitter brightest in the memory.
Of all our poets. Hope most fully
accepts and acts out his destiny of
doubleness—of flesh and spirit, good
and evil, all the opposing forces that
must be reconciled to make a poet and
his poetry. In “An Epistle from Holo-
fernes,” he states it clearly:—-
“It is not that I mock at love, or you,
But living two lives, know both of
them are true.
There's a hard thing, and yet it must
be done,
Which is: to see and live them both
as one . .
In Hope's cosmogony, the “two lives”
are, first the poet’s world of “fables,”
symbolised by the stars, “the signs of
heaven”—
. . . that shining, hollow
Galactic hemisphere,
Which spins the changeless images
before us.
Sign after sign, the constellations
follow,
Mirrored across the year
Where Scorpio views her house of
death in Taurus—
and second, the world of the “greedy
flesh.” “this great Sodom of a worM
which turns/The Treasure of the Intel-
lect to dust”—the world which gives
rise to Hope’s more savage and horrid
poems, to his Swiftian nausea.
Both worlds, for Hope, are linked
in various ways: importantly by sex
which can manifest itself in either
world —in one, as love.
... a form miraculously pure,
A standing wave through which the
waters race
Yet keeps its crystal shape and
place . . .
and in the other, as the lust and cruelty
than ruin their practitioners (as in
“The Damnation of Byron”). But
their most important link is poetry,
which can transform the temporal,
with all its misery and betrayal, into
“the changeless images” of eternal
fable.
Hope is. in fact, a poet with a world-
view; he has not only a capacity for
vision, but for holding his vision
steadily and using it to interpret and
relate the events of the world in a pat-
tern of meaning. Such poets, if their
vision is comprehensive enough to pos-
sess them thoroughly, usually increase
in stature as time goes on; and indeed,
as we look back on his earlier won,, it
is clear that this is what is happening
to Hope. He began as a poet of wit,
a bourgeois-shocker, a sharp but rather
shallow observer of a nasty world; he
is now a poet of depth and uncom-
promising passion. His Muse, in fact,
has taken him over; and in the process
he is outgrowing Smart Alec and learn-
ing to “see and live” his two worlds
as one—even though at times (as in
the recent “A Comminution”) rage still
overcomes understanding.
Even when it does, it is wiser for us
to “spare the poet pious groans! Give
the poet no advice!” since in poems
like “Lambkin” Hope shows himself
quite aware of the effect of commina-
tory virtue on the virtuous, and since
in “A Bidding Grace” he writes, in
almost Wesleyan terms, a prayer for all
men—poets included:—
For what we are about to learn too
late, too late
To save, though we repent with tears
of blood:
The innocent ruined, the gentle
taught to hate,
The love we made a means to its
despair—
For all we have done or did not
when we could,
Redouble on us the evil these must
bear.
It seems to me, then, that in this book
we see something as unusual as it
exciting —a poet increasing his stature,
a poet of wit and intellect becoming
o Continued on page 26)


imi
Mm I
i W i
I I 1 . I.
*>■
a
-s
■m-
.?::>•
■s':\ .
I
Y
1111
m
I
If
!Wj
mam?::
iiSx-jwjg
*■,*
fl »
***£
w
hh
■
v;
1H
»C
••■'■•:• v'
mm
t~m<
•>Sc>: :$:■:■&&
HOW
saAom
FULL 6 YARD PAYLOAD MEANS MORE PROFIT • • • POWER TO SPARE
FOR FASTER HAULING . . . EASIER DUMPING . . . FASTER TURN-AROUND.
Economical, high-profit yielding operation depends on bigger pay-
locds, faster turn-around, every haul. The AA-160 series was
specially designed to achieve this, incorporating advanced front-
mounted telescopic hoist and specially built light-weight bodies, a
combination which makes possible the legally-prescribed weight
distribution of a full 6 yards of screenings. With power to spare,
the AA-162 and AA-164 models’ rugged 4-speed transmission and
electric shift two-speed rear axles enable them to haul a full
load of 6 yards at speeds to maintain a tight schedule, while the
modern cabs are designed to give maximum driver comfort and
efficiency. There's an International AA-160 series model exactly
suited to your load or location requirements see the range now !
0
UCKS
the INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. District Sales Offices in Capita! Cities. Works : Dandenong, Geelong and Port Melbourne.
FMT3BB/ FP


The Bulletin
MARCH 1, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4229
INDEX
COVER STORY
Norman Lindsay —As He is 13
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Lessons Behind A Panic ;
Bought Evidence ; Britain
Turns East 8
Political Points H
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 32
Personal H
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
Waiting for the Main Event 18
Look Back at Anger 50
Getting a Tiger 51
Australian School-days. No. 5:
Ronald McCuaig 52
FICTION
Femme Fatale, by Xavier
Herbert 47
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Second Thoughts at Canberra 40
Wild Cat Pages 56
LETTERS 53
MAN ON THE LAND
The Farmer’s Backroom Boys 34
Standards for Machinery 35
OVERSEAS
S.E. Asia: The Economic
Offensive 19
Kennedy Fights Recession 20
Overseas Pointers 21
Fear in the Congo 22
REVIEWS
The Red Page
Judith Wright on A. D. Hope 2
Verse 28
Shows 23
SPORT
Is Boxing a Sin? 37
Sports Gear Profits 38
John Schofield 39
WOMEN
Awful Houses; “Schmalz”
Greetings ; Fifty Pounds
a Foot 30
NEXT WEEK
“The Short War” and Us
By Ek Dura
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Mr Menzies’s
Stops and Starts
gOME of Mr Menzies’s critics have been so concerned to find any stick to
beat him with that they have reduced the level of economic discussion to
senselessness. By all means one might criticise particular stops and starts:
the sales-tax on motor vehicles should have gone up less, or more, or not at
all, and should or should not have been lifted; bank credit should or should
not have been restricted; interest rates should go up or down, and so on.
But the Prime Minister has been criticised for more than that: he has
been criticised on the general lines that he should not engage in a stops-and-
starts policy at all. If he should not do that, what the devil should he do?
Let the country wallow into inflation or recession at its own sweet will?
Stops and starts are the way one runs an economy in 1961. The whole
apparatus of Government control of the economy depends on jerking things
along on a fairly even course by swinging first one way and then the other.
In doing this there are bound to be mistakes. A cautious hand on the
tiller may keep the same course a little too long; a nervous hand may swing
it too widely. But —given continued freedom of discussion —we are not likely
to land ourselves into a catastrophe. We may —but it is not likely. One
trouble with having so many people telling everybody what to do is that
some of them get so jumpy when they see clouds on the horizon. The harsh
fact of human existence is that there are always clouds on the horizon.
Nevertheless, the cloud-spotters have their role; by keeping up a running
commentary on cloud formations they supply necessary information —as long
as the man at the tiller knows how neither to ignore it altogether nor to take
it all too seriously.
In a stops-and-starts policy there is a legitimate political division of
opinion on what types of stops and starts should be applied. Moderate Right-
wing opinion prefers mild fiscal controls; moderate Left-wing opinion prefers
mild physical controls. Here The Bulletin stands on the Right-wing: the
economy should be manipulated, but by varying interest rates, taxation and
credit policies and so on, not by setting up bureaucracies to tell people what
to do in detail.
fROM such a point of view one can attempt this appraisal of the Govern-
ment’s policies over the last 12 months: It was right to relax import
controls (the speed of relaxation is another matter). It was right to restrict
credit (the degree of restriction is a subject for discussion). It was right to
increase the sales-tax on motor cars (and it remains to be seen whether it waS
right to remove it). It was right to increase interest rates (although it took
too long about it). It was wrong for the Government to announce that it
would direct a certain proportion of staff superannuation and insurance-
company funds into its own pockets, and it was wrong to announce that it
intended to penalise by taxation business firms’ money-raising activities. But
it will probably drop those two policies anyway.


"IN MY MERRY TOWMOBILE!"


Society
Lady Alone
The Penguin people in Australia have
just released three D. H. Lawrence
items —“Love Among the Haystacks,”
“Mornings in Mexico” and a biography
by Harry T. Moore. Obviously they were
held back to chaperon Lady Chatterley
into print; and now if we ever do see
the lady she will have to arrive in all
her awful nudity.
Numbers in Custody
Victoria’s Pentridge Jail has ended its
queerest custody case and embarked
on a numbers game.
When Mrs Monica Yvonne Cust
agreed that ex-Detective lan George
Cust’s mother should have custody of
their baby boy, ex-Detective Cust (seven
years with the Victorian Police Force,
four commendations, Police Valor Badge,
1956, former professional boxer, enlisted
in R.A.A.F. in World War II at 15) was
released from custody at Pentridge, where
he had been serving 12 months for re-
fusing to divulge in whose custody he had
secreted baby lan Cust.
In the middle of this excitement the
Assistant Chief Secretary, Mr Murray
Thompson, announced that those remain-
ing in Pentridge's custody would in future
manufacture Victoria’s motor-registration
plates. Some thought numberplates
should not be made by prison Numbers
who might profit from disguising car
numbers, and the Federal Secretary of
the Sheet Metal Workers’ Union, Mr A.
McNolty, said his union objected to the
Government turning numbers into £ s. d.
—£30,000, last year, paid by Victorian
motorists for 120,000 plates.
But Mr Thompson says only six short-
term prisoners will be trained among the
jigs, dies and presses in the new plate-
making shop ; they will make the plates
for only £lB,OOO instead of £30,000 ; and
they will not displace Victorian labor,
since the plates previously came from a
N.S.W. manufacturer . . . just a wretched
old N.S.W. manufacturer, see?
The Big Smokes
Buried under the annual report of
shrewd old British Tobacco, now
running the race of its life with Roth-
mans and some up - and - coming young-
sters, and the announcement of an annual
profit of £2.4 million, is the disclosure
that the company has put out “Craven
A” filters in Victoria and N.S.W. and
“Capstan” filters in W.A., S.A. and Tas-
mania. What provision has been made
for filtering in the impoverished State
surrounding Surfers’ Paradise is not dis-
closed, but on the face of it, since
“Craven As” cost more than “Capstans,”
British Tobacco seems to have conferred
a State of affluence on Victoria and New
South Wales.
The Last Amateur
Something left Australian literature
with the passing of the old-time land-
agent’s advertisements. A rare combina-
tion of cunning and innocence colored
his lyrical passages—“ One is transported
by zephyr breezes to a halcyon kingdom
where nature reigns in glory”—shaming
the mundane, restrained modern property
ad.: “Spacious 10-sq. executive’s semi-
contemp.”
The gap has been almost filled by the
used-car man. He is a non-conformist
in this era when advertising agencies
create our culture ; he is the last amateur
advertiser, the only one who can afford
to take a full-page ad. and to write it
himself.
To turn from the Property section in
Friday’s Melbourne “Herald” to the
Used Car pages is like switching to
Kodachrome. “Seldom would such a unit
be offered. A welcome addition to any
family and truly magnificent in every
respect would be its very appealing triple
tone combination of Sunset Maroon over
Somerset White with a side flashing of
Florida Yellow.”
But the really attractive bits are the
gratuitous asides, not directly pressing
the sale, as in a full page in the “Herald”:
“It Takes All Sorts ! . . . Maybe there
are people in Australia who would rather
buy an unfashionable car of lesser value
—and we don’t blame them. ‘lt’s sympa-
thetic or tragic!’ as the French would
say.”
The Regulars Return
/'Nty beaches are reverting from the
holiday-makers to the regulars: the
leathery-skinned retired men who hobble 1
down to the water for the temporary
feeling of strength its buoyancy gives
their arthritic legs, the workless wives,
accompanied by their pre-kindergarten
children, the gamblers and lurk men,
rather too hail-fellow-well-met in their
athletic competition with over-indulgence,
their waistlines being the prize.
An old-time theatrical made his en-
trance dressed in a towelling dressing-
gown and a sailcloth hat turned up at
one side, while a well-preserved grand-
mother wearing a very old swimming
costume which is once again in fashion
swam gracefully, and very slowly, the
length of the rock pool. The beach-
inspector, in white shorts, panama hat
and zinc-cream, strutted down to the
water’s edge and blew an officious whistle
at the strays outside the flagged area.
In a shallow pool where months-o
babies, barely able to sit up, were splas -
ing about, one of the young mothers
broke off her conversation with a ne
acquaintance to look up at an airline
flying overhead. “That’ll be my hu
band,” she said. “I left a note on
kitchen table telling him to come an
pick us up.”
WRECKED ANGLE
Angles, angles everywhere,
As anyone can see, , J
And yet some square once christene ,
Circular Quay.
IAN HEALY.


drctinger’s Elasticity
hercy Grainger, who died last week,
I was one of the most original and
Inventive pianists of his time, and he had
i distinctly novel approach to technical
jroblems.
He used to hate glissando passages—
lose bits where the pianist merely slides
| e back of his hand or thumb up and
j oW n the keyboard—because they hurt
Us hand. He liked to be able to smuggle
ihandkerchief under his hand for these
occasions, to cushion it against bruise
jnd scrape —but a passage in the Delius
piano concerto gave him special trouble
fecause, as soon as the glissando bit
inished at the top end of the keyboard,
§e right hand immediately had to plunge
down to the bass end for thumping. The
problem was how to get rid of the hand-
Icrchief when the music itself allowed
not even a split second for it.
Grainger knew how. He took the
double to attach the handkerchief to his
trouser waistband with a length of elastic.
It stretched forth as he tugged on it
during the glissando ; and it snapped right
lack like a scared fish when the glissando
Inished. A very serious performance of
a very serious work —and yet, everybody
laughed!
No Eat W ith Poker
Melbourne’s police gaming branch has
been raiding the little unregistered
tlubs some New Australians run for
(heir compatriots behind their cafes
where they play manilla, stud poker, red
aces and various forms of draw poker.
It is all right to gamble heavily at a
registered club around Collins Street or
Brighton, but illegal for the migrants
because their cafes are not registered
clubs—and cannot be while they have
to rely on the public and not the few
regular compatriots to pay the rent.
Victorian law prohibits playing cards
for money in premises where refresh-
ments are served. The law has been
getting some hostile publicity since the
gaming branch was brash enough to
launch prosecutions in Melbourne city,
but the harassing of New Australians
playing threepenny and sixpenny poker
behind the shops in Fitzroy has been
going on for years.
Sharp Practices
TThe odds are that one out of eight
A respectable people will pinch a hotel
knife ; that’s how things seem at counter-
lunch time in a Sydney pub which draws
its beer for the city’s best-behaved area
of grey-flannel suiters. Every customer
looks as if he has plenty of community
plate at home, if not sterling silver cut-
lery, but on Mine Host’s reckoning every
one of them is one-eighth a thief and
only seven-eighths to be trusted.
Order ham salad at counter-lunch time,
and you get it with an inadequate fork.
Ask for a knife, and you’re told you
can have a knife (worth 45.) for 6d. extra.
There is a plot among clients to degrade
the pub by eating everything with the
fingers. Because of this one-eighth of
anti-social meanness every customer has
his knife in for Mine Host.
That was
“Chloe”, that sweet study of woman in
the nude which shocked the Melbourne
Grundies when it was loaned to the local
National Gallery by Surgeon Fitzgerald a
quarter of a century ago, was sold last
week to Young (of Young and Jackson’s
pub) for £BOOO. Young has some good
pictures hanging in the bar-room of the
pub; but Chloe, presumably, is destined
for his private house, and will not be
expended on the firm’s drinkery.
— “Bulletin”, September 30, 1909.
Around Melbourne, the hog in the car
is getting hogger than ever. In fact he
seems to have got hoggest. On the Point
Nepean Road alone, for the last few
weeks, the police record of casualties
funs; a lady’s nose and wrist broken, a
horse killed, two men injured, a buggy
wrecked and another damaged. And the
hogs have not been identified or caught
w even shot at. — “Bulletin”, May 14,1908.
The Sydney City Improvement Com-
mission has issued its scheme for the
patching of the haphazard old metropo-
hs. The scheme includes:—
(1) An underground city electric rail-
' va Y system as a partial repairing of the
blunder of the White Elephant at Red-
ern -
(2) A new and greatly improved Pyr-
®ont Bridge to be constructed.
(3) A great widening and regrading
of George Street, Cathedral Street, Oxford
(beet, William Street, College Street, etc.
M°«re Street is to be extended to Mac-
quarie Street and King Street to the
Domain.
(4) About a dozen new streets to be
opened. Darlinghurst Gaol, the Law
Courts and the Land Titles Office to be
shifted. George Street to be extended in
a straight line to Dawes Point.
— “Bulletin”, July 1, 1909.
New South Wales’ mouldy old Parlia-
ment House is to be renovated some
more, and a new Legislative Council hall
is to be built. And by the time this latter
job is completed, N.S.W will have just
about decided to do without a Legislative
Council, and will be starting afresh on
sensible principles.
—“Bulletin”, April 23, 1908.
There was some plain speaking in the
Anglican Synod at Adelaide on a motion
for closing bars at six instead of eleven, as
now. Two laymen said they abominated
“soft tack” and the change would mean
sly or home consumption. Quite a lot of
vicars opposed the motion, saying, for
example: “A man goes to the bar not
merely to drink but for social inter-
course. That is my experience.” (Loud
laughter.) Another said that “local option
has been the cause of more sly grog sell-
ing at Port Adelaide than ever existed
before. Six o’clock closing would lead to
a great deal more.” Then a bishop and
a canon agreed that six was too early,
and the motion was finally carried as
“earlier than nine.”
— “Bulletin”, September 24, 1914.
THIRST CURSED
“We must crack down on drunkards imme-
diately. They must be conditioned so as to rid
themselves of this evil.” —Mr Khrushchev.
Said K: “Crack down on drunks. I’m sure
They’re ruining the nation.
Id like to try the water cure,
A form of liquidation,
“But Russian drunks’ capacity
So much exhausts their means
That they would drink the oceans dry
And beach our submarines.
“I’d like to send them up in a
Satellitic quad-car,
Condemned to drink the Milky Way
And stay away from vodka,
“But though we’ve sent a chimp and pup
This plan would lack endorsers:
Too many drunks to lap milk up
And too few Flying Saucers.
“So send them to Siberia,
Of Sighs and Biers eponymous :
And if they’re Alcoholics there
At least they’ll be Anonymous.”
SWILLIAM


PLAIN ENGLISH
Lessons Behind a Panic
What happened at Carnarvon between
midnight and dawn on Tuesday,
February 14, will be a matter of con-
troversy in Western Australia for years
to come. On Monday night the citizens
went to bed expecting a flood from the
Gascoyne River with the laconic accep-
tance of people used to regular floods
and cyclones. By dawn, they were
streaming south along the north-west
highway in one of the most extra-
ordinary evacuations in Australian
history.
On the orders of police commissioner
O’Brien the townsfolk were awakened
by mass phone-calls in the early hours
of the morning and told that they must
get out as soon as possible. They were
ordered not to stop to secure their
possessions or to pack more than the
basic necessities. Some recall being told
that the township of Gascoyne Junction
had been wiped out and that a “wall of
water” would descend on Carnarvon by
6 a.m. Of the population of 1850, 50
refused to go.
By mid-morning the evacuees were
halted 40 miles from Carnarvon and
told to set up camp in a desolate stretch
of bush surrounding a roadside water-
tank. By late afternoon the flood had
still not hit the town, and some of the
citizens began to have doubts about the
wisdom of the evacuation decision. A
few went back to the town, and by
Tuesday night there were approximately
150 people waiting for the “wall of
water.”
Those who stayed began a practised
flood drill to protect the town, but found
many of their traditional tools were
locked up or taken away. Only one tip
truck was left in the town to transport
materials for sandbagging. The bags were
locked up in the Government store and
the lock had to be filed through with a
hacksaw blade.
By midnight on Tuesday the water
was lapping the top of the fascine pro-
tecting the foreshore, and on Wednesday
night it would have broken through but
for continuous sandbagging by those
who stayed.
Next day the water began to recede
slowly and continued to do so, despite
an official warning by Geraldton police
inspector A. K. Sunter, who was said to
be co-ordinating all flood information,
that further flooding was expected in
four or five days’ time.
On Thursday the pipeline to the
176,000-gallon reservoir was broken by
floodwaters. In the evacuation panic the
pumps had not been turned off and
water continued to flow from the broken
pipe at both ends, scouring a deep hole
where the break occurred and pouring
precious water out of the reservoir. The
engineer and all technicians had left the
town, so the residents tinkered experi-
mentally until they succeeded in shutting
off the water —but not before half the
storage capacity was lost.
As the floodwaters went down, the
facts began to emerge. The Gascoyne
had flooded to a record level after
unusually heavy rainfall over a short
period in the watershed. All roads out
of the town were cut, but the peak flood
level was only five inches above the
previous record. It might have been
considerably higher if the river had not
broken its banks nine miles east of the
town and flowed along an old river-
course, but old residents who know the
river well say this is a traditional safety
valve which makes it almost impossible
to flood the township itself. Only about
five per cent, of the banana plantations
were destroyed, but general damage on
plantations was heavy.
There is every evidence that those who
recommended an immediate evacuation
panicked because the flood information
they received from upriver was false or
because it was incorrectly interpreted.
Whether the evacuation itself was neces-
sary is a question that will probably
never be resolved satisfactorily.
The lessons behind this costly panic
are: that an efficient flood-warning
system should have been set up long ago,
so that the volume and rate of travel of
the water could be properly assessed;
that if evacuation had ever been con-
sidered necessary when the Gascoyne
flooded, a concerted plan should have
been drawn up which left key technicians
to protect public installations ; that the
Gascoyne floods are getting a little faster
with each passing silt deposit, a situation
which suggests that the catchment area
is becoming seriously eroded.
As usual in flood problems, the basic
question resolves itself into soil conserva-
tion. Whether the Gascoyne pastoralists
on the catchment area can be persuaded
to adopt proved conservation methods to
protect themselves and the more valuable
river plantations is a matter of some con-
cern for all Western Australia.
Bought
Evidence?
T'vid the Victorian police buy evidence
from “a criminal of the lowest
class” to support their case in the Longley
inquest? Did they also try to impede
the defence of the accused by impound-
ing his bank book and only returning
it after he took action in the civil
courts? Counsel for the accused, Mr
R. A. Smithers Q.C., continued to make
bitter accusations of police malpractices
right to the end of the 16-day inquest
in the Coroner’s Court.
Mr Smithers appeared for William
Longley, 35, waterside-worker, of
Coventry Street, South Melbourne,
charged with murdering his wife, Patricia
Longley, 32, who was found shot in
their home on January 6.
During the first week of the inquest
three doctors gave evidence concern-
ing bruises and other injuries on Long-
ley’s body after he had been in police
custody for questioning. Longley alleged
that the police had bashed him into
making a statement about his wife’s
death. Then Maxwell Carl Skinner,
salesman, took the stand and claimed
that Longley had told him, while both
were in the City Watch-house, that he
had received his injuries from another
prisoner.
At this stage Mr Smithers accused the
police of supporting their case with
perjury. He referred to Skinner’s long
criminal record and charged that the
police had made a deal with him to
get evidence against Longley. It was
significant, Mr Smithers said, that
Skinner had obtained bail a day or so
after giving the evidence, although police
had “fiercely opposed” another bail
application by Skinner five days earlier.
“The people who a week ago would
not have considered Skinner’s evidence
sufficient to hang a cat are now using
his evidence to attempt to secure the
conviction of Longley,” Mr Smithers
said. He described Skinner as “a brag-
gart, a publicity merchant and a man who
is aware that bargains can be made with
the police, a man who is absconding from
bail in South Australia.”
“He is a man in as awkward a spot
as a man could be, wanted in two States
and perhaps three, facing a certain three-
year jail sentence for a past offence and
a possible total of seven or eight years
if he is convicted on other charges.”
Mr Smithers also attacked a state-
ment by Inspector John Matthews, who
had said it had never occurred to him
that impounding a bank book contain-
ing over £2500 would hamper Longley’s
defence. Mr Smithers said this was “the
plainest lie ever told by a policeman.
From Matthews’s point of view, Mr
Smithers said, “nothing could be better
than if Longley had run out of the
material of war, and had to be aban-
doned and had no one left to defend
him. That is why he fought to retain
possession of the book in the civil courts,
unsuccessfully, thank goodness.” , j
The Coroner, Mr Pascoe S.M., in § IV "
ing his finding, ruled out police evidence
of alleged admissions made by Longley-
“l find that the police have not proved
affirmatively that the admissions were
voluntary,” he said.
Mr Pascoe went on to say that i
Longley had charged the detectives wit
assault and the charges had come before,
say, the Court of Petty Sessions, ttt,
onus then would have been on L°n§
ley to prove his case ; in such a situa
tion he would have dismissed the charge
for lack of positive evidence. y .’
in the present jurisdiction, the ° nuS ,
on the police to satisfy me that sU
admissions were voluntary acts of L° n ®;


by virtue of the fact that an assault
;j er occurred in which the police
uticipated.”
ylrPascoe then found that Mrs Long-
ihad died from a wound feloniously,
liciously and unlawfully inflicted by
!■ husband. Longley was committed
trial on a murder charge. “If no
Wattation was forthcoming from Long-
,L_he gave no explanation to me —a
( f would be justified in finding him
ally-”
throughout the long inquest, Long-
i’s counsel rarely relaxed their scath-
;!attacks on the conduct of the police,
ley did not relent either, when ihe
iidual matter of bail for Longley
me up. Mr John Galbally pointed
I that his client would probably go
«[ trial at the April sittings of the
ipreme Court. It was inadvisable, he
itl, for Longley to be kept in custody,
lere he was exposed to the risk of
aving evidence brought against him
("liars, pimps and informers,” possibly
siting police patronage. In refusing
ail, Mr Pascoe said it was a matter
i a judge and lay outside his juris-
iction.
Britain Turns
East
Two events preceded the Washington
talk between President Kennedy and
lr Menzies which produced a joint
atement averring, inter alia, their agree-
ifflt about Red China. One was the
sue in a White Paper of the details of
it United Kingdom plans for the Royal
livy; these show a record proposed
upenditure, immediate and future, and
(change of policy which is very welcome
the light of the seething situation in
ist Asia.
til has become a certainty that so long
the British-speaking nations work to-
ther in defence and general overall
licy in Nato, Seato and Anzus the
for a powerful capital Royal Navy
1 the North Sea is relatively small,
•th attacker and attacked are within
11 range of land and air war, whether
inducted on the basis of ballistic deter-
J tweapons, limited fission weapons or
•tventional ground fighting.
ftie United Kingdom Government,
before, has sensibly decided to con-
nate for home defence on the R.A.F.
<to use the Navy as a means of tak-
l air and missile defence by Naval
®ns to regions which the R.A.F. can-
-1 reach conveniently in a hurry be-
lse of distance. Thus the main British
fital naval effort will be in the Far
st > or sufficiently adjacent to it, and
! new Navy has been designed for the
: °fairpower and missiles, and strikes
Vulnerable coast.
jhis is good news for Australia. It
iails , in effect, a vast addition to
lstr alian Naval strength and to the
Commonwealth Strategic Reserve
jhe regions masking the approaches to
; r °m the north. It will also give fresh
dances of protection to Malaya and
small countries which have been inclined
to waver under Communist pressure.
Moreover, the announcement of the
new plans in the British White Paper
on Defence marks a welcome departure
in American policy. Although the
United States has hitherto accepted
British co-operation in the Pacific and
the Far East, it has always done so with
an air of reluctance suggesting that,
after all, these regions were American
zones of influence by right of conquest.
This attitude has gradually evaporated
and now appears to have been entirely
dissipated. There is even talk of the
possibility of an American base on Aus-
tralian soil, which would be welcome,
provided it were established in a way
that did not infringe Australian
sovereignty. From our own point of
view, it would be a move of enormous
importance in the overall strategic design,
and a concrete intimation to Russia and
China of the global unity of the English-
speaking Powers.
The visit of Earl Mountbatten, Chief
of the British Defence Staff, to Canberra
and New Zealand, was undoubtedly con-
nected with the arrangements for plac-
ing the new co-ordinations in defence on
this side of the world on a matured
working basis, and for integrating Aus-
tralia into them. Perfected, they will
cure the imbalance in world defence
which separated the vital Far East and
India from the Nato area. And they
should, too, have a salutary effect on
troublemakers.
In Queensland’s Cupboard
/Currently visiting Queensland, Federal
Treasurer Harold Holt is being
blamed for the running sore of unem-
ployment in the State, main emphasis
being placed on the November credit
squeeze and the car-industry taxation
affair. True, Queensland has been hit
by both, like every other State, but there
is more to it than that.
For four years now the State’s unem-
ployment pool has been the largest since
the war. The January unemployment
figure, verging on 20,000, was only
slightly higher than that of last year,
and lower than in the two preceding
years—a fact that Mr Holt has been
quick to push home to Queenslanders.
In State Parliament last week, Opposi-
tion-leader Jack Duggan tabled other
figures which must make Queenslanders
scratch their collective head. Average
monthly unemployment for the calendar
years 1955 and 1956 were 4343 and 6395
respectively, he said. Since then average
monthly unemployed figures were 10,442
in 1957, 13,150 in 1958, 12,690 in 1959
and 10,814 in 1960.
What is interesting about these figures
is that for the last four years the State
has had a Country party-Liberal Govern-
ment, the first for a quarter of a century.
Do the unemployment figures represent
the dead hand of an inexperienced
Administration in troubled times as
distinct from the direct repercussions of
Canberra policy?
There can be little argument that in
four years the new Administration has
yet to come up with anything remarkable
in the way of new permanent develop-
mental projects, although there has been
heavy emphasis on the frivolities of
tourist trade, and development of the
north and south (Gold) coast holiday
areas.
Another setback has undoubtedly been
the Government’s disastrous handling of
its transport affairs. Restrictive State
transport laws in this period have seen a
tremendous upsurge in legitimate inter-
state road transport and its illicit com-
panion, “border hopping.” The way has
been opened for southern manufacturers
and distributors to penetrate north of
the border. Statistics tell the story. In
1956-57 southern imports were valued
at £180,352,035. For 1959-60 the figures
were £230,777,418. Interstate exports for
the same periods rose from £103,161,561
to £115,760,397. With both raw exports
and manufactured imports on the in-
crease, a cycle unfavorable to the
development of the State is obviously
well under way. New transport regula-
tions operating from this week in Queens-
land will undoubtedly aggravate the
trend. Penal intrastate taxation of up
to 3d. a ton-mile on vehicle capacity,
plus the total restriction of the carriage
of many goods by road, must swell the
“Section 92 run” in favor of southern
manufacturers, processors and distribu-
tors. Prominent Queensland businessman
and transport operator Bill Bolton, head
of Cobb and Co., forecasts an eventual
increase of 30,000 in the State’s unem-
ployment as a direct result of this policy.
Apart from these self-inflicted wounds,
Queensland beyond doubt has received
unsympathetic treatment from Canberra
for its major developmental needs. It
has even had to go it alone on the Mount
Isa railway project, a major export-
earner for Australia. There have not
only been no Snowy River projects in
Queensland, but such a dearth of them
that last year Country-party Cabinet
Minister Ernie Evans (Development)
actually advocated secession from the
Commonwealth.
Add droughts and seasonal unemploy-
ment, and the Queensland scene is far
from happy. Worst hit are the provincial
areas. January figures show 2000 unem-
ployed for Brisbane with half the State’s
population in its boundaries, the balance
of 17,000-odd being in country areas.
More than anything else this points to
an unbalanced economy loaded in favor
of the metropolis—the last state of affairs
Queensland should expect from a
Country-party dominated Government.
New Australians look askance at


Queensland to such an extent that
1957-58 showed a net migrant-intake loss
of 255, compared with gains of 64,016
in N.S.W., 10,725 in Victoria, 3296 in
S.A. and 4938 in W.A. Factory produc-
tion was up £7 million last year, but
employment down 92.
Queensland has a bone to pick with
Mr Holt, all light—but it also has a lot
of other bones in its own cupboard.
Problems
Round the Gulf
Last week’s sharp exchange between
the Church of England’s Bishop of
Carpentaria and the Queensland Depart-
ment of Native Affairs over some £4OOO
which the department had promised to
improve living-conditions at Mitchell
River, Edward River and Lockhart River,
has now been smoothed out. It appears
that the money was available, but not
exactly in the way the Bishop had ex-
pected it to be. Church and State, how-
ever, are once more on amicable terms.
The Bishop’s eagerness to see quick
improvements is understandable. “The
Peninsula,” which is Cape York, has one
word for everything: “Bime-by.” To
keep staff on isolated mission stations,
conditions must be made bearable ; and
nothing sooner takes the heart out of a
missionary than straining his eyes sea-
wards for the lugger, loaded with
promised building materials and irriga-
tion equipment, that never arrives. At
Mitchell River, for instance, the staff
housing had been improved somewhat,
but the plan was to rehouse the
aborigines. Last, year those aborigines
formed themselves into a Cattle Co-
operative on the lines of Lockhart River,
where there is an Aboriginal Christians’
Co-operative running the luggers and the
store.
The Australian Board of Missions had
declared its policy to train all the
aborigines under its charge to run their
own affairs through co-operatives.
Mitchell River had a small income
through its cattle, but its two sources of
finance are the Australian Board of
Missions, which collects contributions
from the richer, better-populated States,
and the Queensland Government, which
subsidises the missions. For extras such
as irrigation plant, housing and water-
supply the Government is asked to put
its hand in its pocket.
The Native Affairs Department has
four Government settlements in Queens-
land and 12 missionary settlements of
different denominations. These care for
5000 full-blood aborigines and some 4000
mixed-bloods, quite apart from all the
other aborigines not “on the settlement* 9
who drop into the department to see if
the Great White Father, Con O’Leary,
can’t do something to help them out;
which he usually does.
The Bishop of Carpentaria is a new'
man and keen. He lives mostly on bully
beef and damper aboard a lugger going
to some inaccessible place where he will
be asked to settle unsolvable problems.
There is nothing a Bishop is not expected
to do.
The first Bishop of Carpentaria set the
style for his successors of blunt speech
and exhausting hard work. Gilbert White
rode through wild country to track down
the men responsible for an aboriginal
massacre and scraped the skuils and bones
out of the ashes of the fire that had burnt
their bodies. He returned to front the
Government with his evidence. He rode
straight across the Peninsula —a matter of
a few hundred miles —to set up his
mission at Mitchell River, having pre-
viously sailed down the Gulf of Car-
pentaria looking for the best possible
harbor on that low, flat shore. The
Presbyterians were there long before him
with missions at Weipa and Mapoon.
“In 1905,” he wrote, “The Queensland
Government had, at my request, set aside
a reserve of some 600 square miles for
the purpose of a mission reserve for
aborigines. Cases of cruelty and murder
have become much fewer of late years
partly because of the increase of
missions.”
There are 500 tribesmen at Mitchell
River, mostly full-bloods. Of these, 120
are school-children with two white
teachers and five native helpers. Ten
white people altogether make up the staff.
Edward River, which is even more primi-
tive than Mitchell, is a day’s sail to Ihe
north. There the natives are very little
removed from early tribal conditions.
There is friendly co-operation between
the Presbyterian missions and the Church
of England on “the Gulfside.” For in-
stance, when the Church of England boat
is on the slips the Presbyterians lend their
lugger. All food comes by sea except for
what grows on the spot or walks on a
hoof.
One can only sympathise with an em-
battled Bishop thirsting for improvements
and a harassed department keeping an
eye on the tax money.
Have We a Soul?
CJuzanne Evered started a lively
exchange in the letters columns of
the Melbourne “Age” recently when
she wrote that Australians, like
chameleons, have taken the color of
their surroundings and consequently
do not possess souls, whereas in
Europe every village has its own
character which it is easy to become
part of.
K. W. Bailey agreed: “Australia
has no depth in any regard —just
shallows of compulsive, brittle
warmth” —and remembered a man
lying prostrate from heat exhaustion
in a city doorway and passed by
scores of Australians before some
Italians had enough compassion to
drive him to hospital.
Ruth Heffernan led the counter-
attack with a mystical declaration of
love for Australia, although not for
Australians: “I love this country with
a beauty which would probably shock
Susan (sic) Evered . . . though we
chop down her eucalypts and acacias
and erect hideous buildings upon her
face, and erode her plains through our
greed, her beauty will remain.” Ruth
Heffernan “did not care where such
spiritual giants such as Jesus, Soc-
rates, Shakespeare, Buddha or Einstein
lived ; I am only interested in what
they said, and it is my belief that I
can read this as well in Australia as
elsewhere.”
An Englishman found these senti-
ments refreshing. He expressed his
disappointment at our “sense of
national inferiority” and advised that
self-criticism should be done in private.
Betty Ellis suggested there are good,
bad and indifferent in every country
and the truism was applauded by N. H.
Christian, who took a painstakingly
mathematical approach to national
characteristics by suggesting that
marks be allotted to each soul and
then the total be divided by the num-
ber of inhabitants.
The debate was so lively that in
one issue there were three contribu-
tions. “5.W.,” of Bairnsdale, declared
his love of the real Australia of the
outback and of the real Australian,
the aboriginal. Robert Francis rallied
to Suzanne Evered's defence, direct-
ing the argument back from Ruth
Heffernan’s geographical detour to the
human content of life here as compared
to Europe. He cited Ruth Heffernan’s
remark that she was “not interested
in old churches, new engineering feats
and the Swiss Alps, etc.” as an example
of the Australian’s insular, self-satis-
fied, couldn’t-care-less attitude to life
and commented on her “1 do not think
it is important if I eat my meals on
the sidewalk under a gumtree or off
a dining room table —although I have
a preference for the gum tree,’’ con-
trasting this attitude with that of the
Parisians, who enjoy eating on the
sidewalk because they are vitally inter-
ested in the life around them. “More-
over,’’ he added, “these same people
are just as eager to share this lust for
life with the stranger who may occupy
their sidewalk table and to learn what
that stranger from abroad can contri-
bute to their knowledge and interest
in the world around them.”
Another correspondent said Aus-
tralia’s soul had been tested on the
Kokoda Trail, and two others asserted
that we have a soul, but that it is
an extremely young one.


POLITICAL POINTS
kpiTALIST PRESS
| hE Communist “Tribune” welcomed
fee recent election of 75-year-old Mr
| Stout as Federal President of the
L ,p. and Mr “Joe” Chamberlain as
[ideral Secretary. On page three its
ading reads, “New A.L.P. Executive
setback to disruptors,” and it goes on
)state: “Some sections of the capitalist
less are suggesting as part of this plan
j disruption, that last week’s victory
i Messrs Stout and Chamberlain will
increase Communist influence in the
IL.P; This is ridiculous. Both men
|te A.L.P. leaders of the traditional type,
ho have shown no leanings towards the
[ommunist party , . .” After discussing
|epoints in common between the A.L.P.
U the Communist party and the need
iranited action “Tribune” says: “The
Irking class will expect the A.L.P.,
Her its new leadership, to play its part.”
• •
tt) STRIKE?
1 midday meeting of 600 State elec-
ricity workers at Victoria's Newport
forkshops on Friday decided to hold a
'l-hour stoppage last Monday. The sec-
tary of the Trades Hall Council, Mr
lie Stout, called a meeting of the T.H.C.
disputes committee and subsequently 22
elegrams were sent out to the would-be
inkers’ shop-stewards ordering them not
»“go-out.” “If we have any say,” said
lr Stcmi, “there will be no stoppage.”
fere was.
« •
OT cricket
In a circular written by Mr W. A.
■haftey, M.L.A., Deputy Leader of the
AW. Country Party, arguing against
Is abolition of the Upper House, he
*|s: “The West Indies (which produce
■sh fine cricketers) have recently
derated and in doing so retained the
Kameral system.”
0 •
IUOTA
INE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-SEVEN Students
! 'e been precluded from continuing
fe studies at the Adelaide University
IK year. The Registrar (Mr V. A.
feloe) said that following the annual
filiation last year the progress of
•Students had been reviewed. Forty-
students had been permitted to con-
,lle their studies and 42 were still under
The council’s decision was
possible under a university statute
isse d in 1959 empowering boards and
cities to review a student’s progress.
• •
OQD TIPPING
he forecast an economic slide
last year Staniforth Ricketson,
of the Melbourne brokers,
fi. Were and Son, had to turn the
" er cheek to take some of the back-
ers that laced him when the crisis
llVe d more slowly than he had expected.
He is still tipping well. On February
20, as chairman of Haliburton Invest-
ments (Aust.) Ltd, one of Were's eight
investment trusts, he mentioned certain
new factors and impressions which had
encouraged tempered optimism in invest-
ment circles.
That w ; as business days before the
Government announced the easing of the
credit squeeze.
• •
PUBLIC RELATIONS
The February issue of the Ford Motor
Company of Australia Limited’s “Austra-
Ford” does not mention the unemploy-
ment throughout the industry and makes
no comment on the crisis facing car-
manufacturing, firms in Australia.
• •
A DIRTY BUSINESS
It is sound to begin a new business
in a small w'ay. Mistakes are then made
in a small way. Procter and Gamble,
who are in the U.S. soap trade in a very
big way, have been quietly testing the
Australian market for one of their best
sellers, Camay soap, in Tasmania with
supplies brought from England. Now
they have begun manufacture (through
Preservene) in Victoria, but distribution
will be confined to the State of origin
temporarily.
• •
UNEXPECTED HELP
If Mr Menzies is short of propaganda
to convince us that there is no recession,
he can always turn to Mr Joe Baites,
Communist Party Central Committee
member, who says in a recent article:
“In this way (more trade with China)
Australia’s trading position could im-
prove and the new market that the
wheat sales has opened up with our
powerful neighbor, China, would develop,
helping to satisfy the export needs of our
expanding industries and agriculture.”
• •
SELFPRAISE?
Friends of Mr Leslie Haylen were not
surprised to come across the following
in a “Century” review of "The Voice,”
the official organ of the Council for
Membership control of the A.W.U.:
“Under the heading—The Good Society
- Socialism Brilliant Explanation of
Labor’s aim by Leslie Haylen, M.H.R. —-
the paper publishes nearly a two-page
spread, complete with photograph of a
speech delivered to the Parkes A.L.P.
Federal Council by Les Haylen, describ-
ing him as leading member of the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party’s Shadow
Cabinet; one of the best debaters in the
Commonwealth Parliament and author
of several books, including ‘China
Journey’ . .
• •
BEER AND OIL
Queensland is suffering from an em-
barrassment of riches. Apart from the
competition between companies trying to
take over a Queensland brewery, two oil
companies are planning to establish re-
fineries. Amoco, an American firm,
announced last month that it intends to
buiid a £7m. refinery in Brisbane. Ampol
Petroleum Limited announced on
February 24 that it proposes to exercise
its option to build an £lBm. refinery at
Port Alma, near Rockhampton. The
Queensland Government has already
agreed to build 250 houses at Bajool,
between Rockhampton and Port Alma,
at a cost of £750,000, to house Ampol’s
refinery employees.
• •
MAKING HISTORY
The Australian Council of Trade
Unions representing 1,000,000 workers,
and the Australian Council of Salaried
and Professional Associations, 200,000,
are joining together in a drive for higher
wages for manual workers and white-
collar workers. This is the first time that
salaried employees have joined with
wage-earnei a in demands for pay in-
creases. At a combined meeting on
March 16 they will organise their cam-
paign to press for increases in the Federal
basic wage and the restoration of
quarterly cost-of-living increases.
• •
FRICTION
Friction between the Chamber of Manu-
factures and the Chamber of Commerce
has flared into open war in Melbourne.
Mr H. W. Walsh (Commerce importers’
president) said that import licensing was
no alternative to the credit squeeze.
Manufactures’ president (Mr G. More)
described this statement as “damaging”
and put in his piece of propaganda which
was directed specifically at Commerce
members: “For the lasting good of Aus-
tralia the main effective measure to halt
the economic drift is a carefully devised
plan of selective and quantitative import
licensing.”
• •
SLIGHTLY BETTER
The new merged means-test for age,
invalid and widow pensioners will operate
from March 1. More than 100,000 will
receive higher pensions under the new
provision. Under the old means - test
people who owned property valued at
more than £2250 were ineligible for pen-
sions. Under the new merged means-test
age and invalid pensioners, depending
on income, may own up to £4620-worth
of property, widow pensioners with
children £5550 worth, and widow pen-
sioners with no children up to £5300-
wmrth and still qualify for a part-pension.


({jwPStffOc.
ONE
/N S^ S
A<-L. KiNPS
~ yoOTHEUO HA%pt HOac> - :
~~ avs*.r.
-I^?N6STI.y ; P£*«- y <’M AfßAlp /
77-lfc LAWN'S R£rtU_y TOO
MUCH FO«- M£. TH<NK t'u. HAVE To *-
6£T A MAN IN EACH We£K TO t>o |T"
SuT ON


NORMAN LINDSAY
A Personal Appraisal
by DOUGLAS STEWART
One of the most remarkable things
I ever saw Norman Lindsay do
happened in his old studio at
12 Bridge Street, Sydney—that
luge, high-ceilinged, dark-panelled room,
iip the steep stairs to which sooner or
later climbed everybody who w'as any-
body in art, letters or connoisseurship in
Sydney. Norman himself used to get up
the stairs with a peculiar swing of the
lips which seemed to throw his feet
ahead of him: he had no time to waste
on meaningless mountaineering.
This was the time some dark, greasy-
iooking fellow came to see him, full of
smiles, compliments and a business
proposition about selling Norman’s nudes
in America. There was something a little
sinister, a little pornographic, in the way
le talked about them. Norman listened
with his usual courtesy, which this time
concealed an immense impatience, and
then used on him one ot : his customary
techniques for politely speeding the un-
wanted. “Oh, yes, yes, old man, jolly good
idea, I’ll let you know about it, I'll get
in touch with you”—rattling off the
appreciation, patting the stranger on the
shoulder and all the time steadily edging
him to the door. When he had got rid
of him, Norman darted over to the sink
ffld washed his hands.
It was the complete unconsciousness of
the gesture that 1 found so amusing ;
though I must admit that when I asked
Norman if he realised he was washing
his hands of the fellow he just laughed
I off and then said, seriously: “Oh well,
lm always very .careful of my hands.
They're my tools of trade, you know.”
He was, in fact, not only careful of those
long, firm, slender, bony fingers, but
father proud of them. One of his mystical
theories—which might be right enough
■ or all I know: who knows what strains
have blended in anyone's ancestry? —was
•hat they had come down to him from
Htirer, the great master of drawing with
•he pen ; and a piaster cast someone had
•ace made of Norman’s right hand is
’apposed to have shown a great resem-
blance to Diirer’s.
Not all the unwanted visitors to the
Wio were dismissed from it with the
’•We distaste. There was one woman
•hom 1 myself would gladly have
feted off the premises if 1 had known
° w to do it, for 1 had brought her up
j ere myself because she wanted to meet
' or man Lindsay and she seized the
'PPortunity to make a direct frontal
fick on him for painting naked women,
'nude was on the canvas in front of
,tr as she raged and Norman made his
ISu al reply of “Well, you may be right,
•adarn, but you can see that the picture
'"1 taking any notice of you”; but it
i as an uncomfortable situation and about
: e only time I ever really saw Norman
Concerted. Artists and writers aren’t
“A fantastic array of great art”
as fond as people seem to think they
are of having their life’s work and their
most cherished beliefs blasted in trorst
of their eyes. I managed to get this
woman out before Norman hit her on
the head with his nude, hut it seemed
to be touch and go.
But most of those who were not
wanted, or not wanted for long,
were merely harmless bores who
were interrupting Norman's painting
time ; and his technique with these
was to walk them down the stairs, chat-
ting rapidly and amiably all the time,
and out into Bridge Street and along
to the corner of Pitt Street. There
Norman w'ould say, “Well, by jove old
man. I’ve got to do some shopping down
at the Quay. Oh, you go the other way,
do you?”—and so, with great goodwill,
away.
But then there were those who were
wanted. The~e were, for instance, the
models. Norman had a generous belief
that poets should be allowed to share
some of the privileges of the artist, and
if you happened to drop in while a model
was posing, and she didn't object, well,
you stayed. Actually even a waiter soon
gets to share the professional, undisturbed
outlook of the painter, and 1 don’t
remember much more than the slightest
sense of the unusual in sitting by the
coal fire eating sandwiches for lunch with
a naked and (sometimes) beautiful girl.
The one who does linger in my memory
with something of wistfulness, something
of regret, was an extremely strict and
shy young lady who dived behind a screen
when 1 came in and left floating on the
air the impression of an exquisite white
bottom, like a swan . . .
■JV’orman was at that time painting in
oils and dividing his time between
Springwood in the Blue Mountains,
where he now lives, and the studio in
town. When he wanted to paint from
the model he came to town, and when
he came to town the whole place seemed
to catch fire. The word that he was
back in the studio seemed to fly around
by magic or telepathy and up the stairs
they all came: the welcome visitors, the
artists, the poets, the connoisseurs, every-
body who was engaged in what Norman
used to call “the action of work.”
There was his friend Dr Francis
Crossie, who sometimes punctured him
for lumbago, a tail, slow-speaking Irish-
man who had known Yeats and Gogartv
in Dublin and had looked after Gruner
in Sydney. There was Howard Hinton
who gave the great bequest of Australian
paintings to the Teachers' College at
Armidale, a pink, rotund, infinitely
kindly and courteous shipping man with
a passion for art whom I chiefly remem-
ber peering short-sightedly at the paint-
ings at the Watercoior institute and
touching the ones he liked with a shaking
knuckle. Sometimes that fine landscape
painter Percy Lindsay, or Norman's son
Ray—another painter —would come up,
and the studio would echo with the
characteristic loud barking Lindsay
laughter ; a noise that always used to
make Norman slightly embarrassing com-
pany at a theatre.
Norman and Percy, for some reason
originating far in the past in their native
town of C res wick, always called
each other “Joe"; 1 think that Ruff
Tremearne, once drama critic for the
Melbourne “Herald” and one of the
small-boy heroes of “Saturdee." was
another of the “Joe" brigade. Maybe the
term dated right back to the goldfields
days, when the diggers of Creswick and
Ballarat used to call the troopers “Joe.”
Once —but not, l think, more often
in those years—Hugh McCrae was up
in the studio, shouting with laughter even
louder than a Lindsay and whirling his
arms around like a helicopter: Hugh
always seemed just about to take-off.
Some well - wisher, probably Guy
Howarth, was trying to effect the great
reconciliation between Hugh and
Norman- who hadn’t seen each other for
years. But no reconciliation was either
needed or possible. There had been the
usual pinpricks that irritate any friend-
ship, but essentially they had drifted
apart simply because Hugh had stopped
writing poetry and Norman had kept on
painting, it was awkward for them to
talk, because the thing Norman chiefly
liked to talk about —if it wasn't Dickens,
Conrad or Plato; or Byron or Burns
or Delacroix ;or Beethoven or Gruner
or Petronius —was what you were writing


[lllustrations on these pages are full-size
reproductions of details from the Norman
Lindsay pen-drawing “In Vain the Christian,”
28in. x 21in.]
now and what he was painting . . . much
more what you were doing than what
he was.
Once—but he was there more often
than that—l saw R. G. Menzies in the
studio, giving some of his startling im-
personations of members of Parliament.
Kenneth Slessor, Kenneth Mackenzie,
Robert D. Fitz Gerald, Rosemary Dob-
son, the watercolorist J. W. Maund,
Brian Penton, Godfrey Blunden, Margaret
Trist, Brian James, David Campbell,
Lawson Glassop, Francis Webb, Beatrice
Davis, Leslie Rees, Dolia Ribush (the
Melbourne producer), Borovansky (“Ah,
maestro!”), Charlie Shepherd the printer
(there was a wonderful day when
Charlie asked Norman to illustrate
the Bible and Norman said: “Oh,
no, no, no, couldn’t think of it,
Charlie. It’s a very dangerous book,
had a very bad influence . . .”) —I don’t
know who didn’t come to the studio at
one time or another, friends or acquain-
tances, wanting to meet Norman or
wanting to talk about their work. They
came one or two at a time, of course—
Norman never could stand a crowd —
but I see him now as if in the centre of
a galaxy: slight, spare, with an eagle’s
beak of a nose and a fringe of silver hair,
radiating energy and exploding in rapid
talk.
His personality has, I must say, its
comic side ; chiefly because, though
he knows he is here to work, and though
lately, living much alone at Springwood,
he has turned into a remarkably good
cook, otherwise he really doesn’t live on
this earth at all.
Once his bank-manager in Sydney told
him that he had a thousand pounds in
his current account and asked him
wouldn’t he like to invest it. It was the
first time Norman ever realised he owned
more than twenty pounds or so and he
had no idea what to do with it. He
handed it over to his wife, Rose, who
understood such matters.
Anything mechanical is even more out-
rageously incomprehensible to him than
finance. I should love to have been at
Springwood the day when for the first
and only time he attempted to drive a
car. As a horseman who had ridden with
“Banjo” Paterson he was willing enough
to have a go at any wild steed, and he
got into the car and set off rapidly back-
wards down the drive. But from then
on he found it completely uncontrollable.
He couldn’t get it out of reverse gear, and
kept on plunging backwards across the
road and into the bush until he crashed
into a tree. He left it there and never
tried to drive it again.
But if I missed that episode at least I
was present at Springwood one morning
when he tried to boil himself an egg.
Among the mechanical contrivances in
that vast kitchen with its Roman tesse-
lated floor was one of those peculiar
spoons with holes or slits in them, used
for lifting eggs out of a saucepan so that
you don’t also bring out a flood of water.
There was a pot of boiling water on the
stove, ready for coffee, and another
empty saucepan in which Norman pro-
posed to boil his egg ; and, to save time,
he was ladling the boiling water from one
pot into the other —but trying to ladle it
with the spoon that had the holes in
it . .
nPHERE should be a thousand things
worth recalling about Springwood,
where the old stone house with its
Grecian pillars supporting the pergola
covered with wistaria and yellow roses
stands on its high plateau in the midst
of Norman’s 60 acres of bush and sand-
stone gorges ; that fabulous place where
his own cement nymphs and fauns (and
very fine sculptures they are) chase each
other round the lawns or stand in repose
too warm to call “classic” under the
shady coral-trees ; and where, in the great
days of Springwood entertaining which
Rose Lindsay has described so vividly in
her memoirs, every Australian or visiting
celebrity from J. F. Archibald, Hugh D.
Macintosh and Melba to Laurence
Olivier and a King and Queen of Siam
has at one time or another dropped in.
Well, there was the evening we put a
dish of meat and bones in the bottom
oven to warm up for the 27 cats who
swarmed about the place at that time and,
talking, forgot about it; and the horror
expressed in every line of those cats’
bodies and faces as, gingerly, step by
cautious step, they approached and then
fled from the stench of that burnt mess.
And the cat named Uss who learnt to
climb the wire-doors and, like a mad bat
in the night, used to peer into the kitchen
from mid-air. And Norman’s favorite
cat of that period, Fuzz Buzz, a little
grey soft creature that used to sleep in
the wastepaper-basket and liked to have
its face tickled with a paint-brush. And
the gardener who was a good deal
madder than Uss, a tall, stark, powerful
man who used to stalk about in a sinister
way with hoes and axes over his shoulder
and slept in a cave down the gully sur-
rounded by possums, old magazines,
devils and a surprising quantity of pickle-
bottles. Norman, who never had the
slightest fear of odd characters, got on
quite well with him, but the rest of us
who stayed there for weekends kept our
doors locked, and one man kept a loaded
rifle beside his bed. The gardener was
much troubled by electricity that came up
from the earth through the soles of his
feet.
There were the days when Norman,
who prefers to live in a room full of
tobacco smoke and entirely without ven-
tilation —and has always done very well
on it—could be induced to stroll in the
sunlight, learning to his astonishment
when the heath, the sun-orchids and the
wild irises were in bloom that there
were wildflowers growing on his
property ; days when we sat in the shade
by the fishpond while Norman, in fits
of laughter at his own jokes, would read
aloud from whatever new novel he was
writing while the sea-horse, the mermaids
and the cement fish in his fountain-piece
spouted water and the honeyeaters flut-
tered and chirped in the coral-trees; and
winter nights when we sat by the log-
fire in the studio —even when he was at
home Norman never lived in his own
house —while my wife (Margaret Coen)
read aloud from Conrad or Dickens, and
mopokes hooted in the bush outside, and
Norman’s pet marsupial mice, like minia-
ture kangaroos, came down out of their
hiding-place behind the mantelpiece and
ate crumbs of cake and biscuit. They
took a lot of taming, those mice, and at
first had to be tempted by delicacies
speared on the end of a twig or match-
stick which, staying invisible themselves,
they would pull up into a crevice between
the mantelpiece and the bricks.
Out of all that, two glimpses of
Norman stand out with particular
emphasis. One, like that of the mar-
supial mice, is an invisible glimpse: it
is the sound of his typewriter when he
was writing a novel, tap-tap-tapping away
like marching footsteps even before
breakfast. That incessant, that appalling,
that driven and magnificent industry!
The other image is visible. It is the
astonishing spectacle of him squatting
on the grass outside the studio one morn-
ing, his face covered with soapsuds, his
blue eyes blazing in the sunlight, shaving
himself without a mirror and talking
about Atlantis. It was an image of
supreme happiness. Atlantis represents
some kind of earthly Paradise to
Norman, and he had the theory, whch
seemed impossible till they invented the
atom-bomb, that man could cause the
cataclysm which destroyed it.
Tt is always theoretically possible, I
suppose, that contact with so radiant
a personality is liable to mislead one in
evaluating his work ; but personally I
had the highest admiration for both his
writing and his art long before I met
Norman Lindsay. Years ago in New
Zealand he was the one great Australian
name we knew and, in our university
days, we puzzled over “Creative Effort,
immensely excited and stimulated by it*
even if we were never quite sure what
it was all about ; we read “Redheap
and found it delightfully rude and a
harrowingly exact description of our own
life in small country towns; and we
rejoiced in the “Art in Australia” i ssue
of his pen-drawings.
Never for one moment, then or since,
doubting the supreme quality of his bes
work I certainly have no desire to j°'
the long, ignoble procession of thos
who have attacked him: whether it is *
Customs Department, which banned h
books, only to release them 20 y
later ; or the leader-writer who accuse
him of “matricide” —murdering
tralia! —for writing “Redheap”; or


pundits in Adelaide years ago who turned
[is pictures out of a Society of Artists’
exhibition sent from Sydney, whereupon
Sir Tom Bridges, then Governor of South
Australia, having opened the official
exhibition, gallantly led the entire com-
pany round to the private gallery where
Lindsay’s rejected pictures were on dis-
play; or Sir William Orpen, who, when
Lindsay’s pictures were shown with the
Australian exhibition sent to London in
1523, begged the British public “not to
look at this man’s work,” whereupon the
public did look and bought every picture
lie had sent; or the police in N.S.W. who
threatened him with prosecution over the
‘Art in Australia” pen-drawings ; or the
forgotten and anonymous wowsers who
lave always kept up a running fire on
lira because his favorite theme is sex ;
or that most curious tribe of all, the
critics of both art and literature who
ought to know better, and do know
letter, but never can resist, whether out
of envy or an unconfessed puritanism,
laving a crack at him whenever they
mention his name . . . “Good Lord,”
said Norman to me once when he heard
of yet another bright young man having
ago at him, “I’ve had generations of
them, trying to brain me with their
feeding-bottles.”
So far as the minor faults in his work
p, I have always thought it best, when
anybody brings them up in argument, to
grant them all. Say anything you like,
and that will be right enough: but he
exists beyond it. No man could turn out
such a mass of prose and painting—or
poetry either: look at Wordsworth ; look
it Browning—and not have plenty of
Itpses. But if they are the lapses of
pins there is really not much point in
'Ming them into account.
Jf Norman Lindsay has one flaw worth
mentionng it is that he is an evangelist
I don’t think there was much of the
evangelist about his father, Dr Robert
Lindsay, that cheery, rubicund Irishman,
i®d of his cigar and his whisky, who
fcve out in his buggy by day and night
1(1 the calls of the miners and their wives
“round the decaying goldfields of Cres-
llck. But his mother was a Williams,
“daughter of the Rev. Thomas Williams
"ho was a Wesleyan Methodist mission-
lrHn Fiji in the days when missionaries
'ere very likely to be eaten by the Fijians
'tie wrote a good book about it—and it
ttm s very likely that it was from that
lily that Norman got his evangelistic
tain.
His religion—very different from that
•the Williamses—is, of course, sex. It
| a sensible religion and, what’s more,
ier ybody practises it. Norman exists
la state of perpetual amazement at the
iradox of our censorship, which will
Jtays approve the act which destroys
‘Hulling— but leaps to suppress any
[“est account of the act which creates
e ' Don’t we want to continue popu-
ln§ the earth? And if we do, surely
• healthy affirmation of sex, from the
Ilca l to the bawdy, should be
Hraged.
once you believe in any religion
Christianity, Communism or sex —as
ei % as Norman believes in his,
‘‘“rally you tend to propagand for it;
and most of the faults in Norman Lind-
say’s work, whether in paint or prose,
can be traced back to this source. He
is an evangelist for sex ; sometimes the
evangelism gets into his art, and then he
preaches a sermon. So, when among
hundreds of works full of grace or wit
occasionally one of his nudes comes out
overemphasised, I do not find myself
shocked at it as so many people do ; I
simply note that he is painting religious
propaganda.
Norman Lindsay has not, of course,
confined himself to the one theme of sex.
There is little enough sex in his Bulletin
cartoons —which alone, like so many
other aspects of his work, would have
made a sufficient reputation for most
artists —because we did not feed him
many ideas on that subject but with poli-
tical comments for which he has received
a great deal of undeserved credit and
discredit. There is no sex in “The Magic
Pudding,” that delightful comedy of the
Australian earth —again a work that
would have been enough in itself to make
him an enduring reputation—which has
lately been pleasing children all over
Australia in Peter Scriven’s puppet show ;
and which, incidentally, must have been
making a fortune for its author. There
is very little sex in “Saturdee,” those
diverting reminiscences of his boyhood,
disguised as a novel, which Ure Smith
will shortly be reprint ng after its
incredible 30 years of neglect. There is
no sex in his score or so of ship models,
those fantastic works of craftsmanship,
faithfully modelled on great sailing-ships
of the past, in which every intricate
detail of rigging and construction is not
only accurate but workable. There is no
sex —I might add, since Norman Lindsay
is always accused of influencing the poets,
whereas the reverse is just as often true
- —in the drawings of birds and wild-
flowers with which he illustrated my “Sun
Orchids.” Norman Lindsay’s influence is,
really, chiefly as a stimulus: where he
walks, the sparks fly.
"Out by and large, with the exceptions
** noted, sex has been the mainspring
of his art. And the ardor with which he
affirms it, the source of his only failing
worth mentioning, is also one of the prin-
cipal sources of his strength: an impas-
sioned, unfaltering belief in the mysterious
necessity, the drama and the delight of
sex which leads naturally to an interest in
the whoie spectacle of human existence
and which all his life long has given him
something worth writing about and wort!
painting. He is still populating Spring
wood with watercolors full of women anc
full of life.
It is sex, a thousand variations upon
the one theme, that has given his worl
much of its distinctive force. It strike
with a single impact. Yet that impac
is of style—his highly personal style—a
much as it is of subject-matter; and so
in the last analysis it is purely as an artis
that he must be appreciated. His ultimate
preoccupation is simply with the prob
lems of line and form: mostly in living
or mythological creatures—the siren, the
harpy, the mermaid, the leopard, the
black panther, the bull, everything from
the mouse to the elephant (once he tok
me he had a dream about little elephants
the size of guinea-pigs, running arounc
his studio floor) —chiefly in what he con
siders the most beautiful object on earth
the naked feminine body. And it just
doesn’t seem to me reasonably possible
to dispute that, in a variety of mediums
much wider and more difficult than mos
other artists have attempted, Norman
Lindsay at his best paints and draws his
women supremely well.
For many years Rose Lindsay has been
making a selection of the best of his work
in all fields; partly, 1 suspect, because
the paintings were simply too beautifu’
to part with, partly with an intention both
she and Norman had in mind, of making
a bequest of them to the nation. Some-
times, when they have been out for an
airing from the various strange places
where Rose secretes them, I have had
chance to see these amazing works:
complete set of the etchings, blazing with
mysterious light-effects such as you will
not find in any other etchings in the
history of art; big pen-drawings teeming
with figures, displaying a craftsmanship
which even Norman Lindsay’s detractors
usually acknowledge to rank with the
world’s finest ; suave and gigantic oils,
“gallery pieces,” such as the sumptuous
“Don Juan” and the nude “Imperia";
immense watercolors, the full “double
elephant” size, of mermaids and sunken
galleons, of a scale and a magnificence
whLh I doubt if you could find in any
other watercolorist except Turner ... an
absolutely fantastic array of great art.
HPen years or so ago the trustees of the
New South Wales National Gallery
were invited to take their pick of this
treasure-house ; and —scandalously—they
declined. I think that Norman, reason-
ably enough, made the one condition that
whatever pictures they chose should be
hung in the gallery, not left in the cellars
to rot. The trustees' excuse for depriving
the nation of these masterpieces —I never
thought very much of it —was that they
couldn’t bind future trustees ; and they
made a counter offer to hang some of the
pictures all the time and all of them once
a year. It wasn’t good enough ; and the
Lindsays’ offer was withdrawn.
Heaven knows what will happen to
those pictures now ; but much the best
thing to do would be to preserve them
for the nation at Springwood, in the
setting Norman Lindsay himself has
created for them, as Rodin’s sculptures
are preserved in the house and gardens
where he lived, ffie Musee Rodin in Paris.


PERSONAL
Percy Grainger: An
Incandescent Atom
“TTr was the most vital person I’ve
ever known” . . . “He occupies a
unique position among contemporary
composers” . . . “Everything he says,
writes, or does, is different from what
anyone has said, written or done before.”
Percy Grainger's path through music
was that of an incandescent atom, and
these quotations from Mime Hill, Oscar
Thompson and Percy Schoies, are only
part of the incredible battery of tributes,
despairing cries and enthusiasms that botn
he and his music aroused.
Married before a crowd of 20,000
people in the Hollywood Bowl ; conduct-
ing his own “Bridal Song” before and
after the event ; climbing the rigging of
a sailing ship on a voyage to Australia ;
lying flat on his back in the studios of
the New Zealand Broadcasting Service,
recovering energy to direct his vast
assemblage of amateur musicians with
their weird assortment of instruments ;
padding around his Grainger Museum in
Melbourne where even the most personal
remnants of his life have been preserved ;
or giving a brilliant performance of a
piano concerto, probably the Grieg or
Tschaikowsky could all these be one-
and-the-same Percy Grainger?
He thrived on contradictions. A
reputable encyclopaedia described him as
having long held place among the best
living masters of the keyboard, and the
manner in which the elderly Grieg en-
couraged him is now well known. Yet,
in a letter to Alfred Hill (with whom
Grainger was extremely friendly) written
during his Australian tour in 1934, he
said:
“My relation to piano music has
become very difficult. I have never been
really fond of the piano or of piano
literature. In particular, 1 feel that all
expressive music (such as your lovely
setting of the “Highland Air”) is utterly
lost on the piano—at least, it is for my
ears. And, as I am just on the verge of
giving up -my pianistic career, 1 try to
avoid learning any new piano music, as
the working-up of new pieces takes time
away from the musical tasks I feel I
ought to concentrate upon. Of course,
if 1 liked the piano, and the music written
for the piano, all would be different, I
suppose. But the whole matter is the out-
come of 40 years of agony at an instru-
ment one has always hated! ”
He had been asked if he would like to
include a piece of Alfred Hill’s in his
repertoire. Perhaps this was his way of
refusal, but, on the other hand, it is
certainly in line with the rapid changes
of front that he was always likely to
make. A pupil of James Kwast in Frank-
furt, and, for a time, of Busoni in Berlin,
and one of the most successful inter-
preters of the Grieg piano concerto the
world has ever seen, always hating the
piano? It is difficult to believe.
Asa composer he threw overboard the
German tradition. In his museum
a bust of Beethoven stood behind a door
among the mops and buckets, with a
notice hanging around its neck: “This
way to the Conservatorium.” He was
mainly self-taught and instead of going
to the old masters went to the folk music
of countries he had visited, collecting a
vast number of recordings. In 1908 he
published in the Journal of British Folk-
song a collection of 27 British folk tunes,
which became the basis of many of his
pieces, flowering into such works as
“Country Gardens,” “Molly on the
Shore” and “Mock Morris.”
Nothing like the collection of instru-
ments with which he overloaded both
himself and his wife had ever been seen
in this part ot the w'orld before.
To illustrate his theories on “free
music” music without scales using
sliding intervals, without co-ordinated
rhythmic pulse, each voice following its
own rhythmic beat, unco-ordinated with
the other voices—he battled with huge
metal marimbas, giant chimes, ukeleles,
guitars and a vast array of percussion.
His directions to the players were equally
unconventional, and in a fierce reaction
against German and Italian terms would
write “Louden” for crescendo and
“Louden lots,” referring also to a middle
PERCY GRAINGER
Thrived on Contradictions
fiddle rather than a viola and a bass-
fiddle for the ’cello.
Yet even here there are contradictions.
When he was setting up his museum in
Melbourne he wrote enthusiastically to
Alfred Hill about his plans, saying, m
response to an objection of Alfred Hill’s
to the word “museum”:
“I appreciate your objection to the
word ‘museum,’ tho’ I (personally) have
had my happiest hours in museums (so
much happier than in concert halls!) and
see no reason why a word connected
with the ‘muses’ should not be a good
name for a house-of-art. Yet in a sense
1 have chosen the word ‘museum’ because
it denotes (for me, too) a house of dead
things and because l (unlike you) feel
that all serious music (at least in our
races) is dead in our era.”
This letter, written in October, 1938.
continues: “Two years ago l wrote
round to all the orchestras with which 1
was to play in the coming season and
proposed to play Gershwin's splendid
piano concerto in F. Not one orchestra
accepted it! Is it otherwise with Aus-
tralians? You and 1 are (1 suppose) the
two most ‘successful’ or ‘famous’ Austra-
lian composers Yet if we announced to
the Australian (or other) musical world
that we have 400 new works which we
offer for performance would they not
be horrified and embarrassed? The last
thing ‘our world’ wants to do is to do
many of our works. They do not want
to do our difficult works at all.
“And it is no otherwise (as far as 1
can see) with earnest hardworking com
posers anywhere in the Nordic world.
Sibelius is better off, because Finland is,
after all, not a really Nordic world. Yet
1 cannot quite despair. Surely this yearn-
ing to compose (that w'e Nordic com-
posers feel), and especially to write more
complicated, longer or more problematic
works than other composers, is not given
to us for nothing. So 1 say: is it not
worth while preserving our Mss. against
a better day (if it dawns)? Oi preserving
them as documentary evidence of our
lack of talent —if that is what it is! i
do not fear the truth.
“But 1 wall not succumb without a
fight! 1 wish to marshal the whole
Nordic music (and especially Australian)
before the eyes of music-loving Austra-
lians in my museum and say to them (in
effect): “Sc embarrassed ! Look at this
body of work you have spurned or
ignored. Look at Grieg, disappointed
and ignored. Look at my mother, driven
to kill herself out of some despair (which
she would not have felt in a normal
music world). Look at these shabbily-
treated British, Australian, American and
Scandinavian geniuses. Do you intend to
go on wasting talent in this way?”
And in a following letter, after Alfred
Hill had offered to give him various
manuscripts and details of his life for
inclusion in the museum, he wrote:
“I am particularly anxious to have the
lives of great creative souls, told by them-
selves and revealing the shocks, sorrows,
frustrations artists suffer in our present
civilisation. I am very anxious to build
up an indictment of our civilisation;
not a noisy “bellyaching” (as they say
U.S.A.) but the gentle, true account ot


art-life gently, truthfully and scientific-
jlly told . . . But I wish to spare Aus-
tralia the sorrow of blankness ; to wake
up, 50 years hence, and find its great
stories untold, its great lives unrecorded.”
tnj the archives of the New Zealand
I Broadcasting Service there is a record-
ing Grainger made during his 1935 visit.
His high-pitched, nervous voice is difficult
to hear, but there is no doubt of its
intensity and curious conviction. He
reflects on the effect landscape has on
music and the kind of music likely to
arise in New Zealand. He makes gracious,
enthusiastic references to the musicians
who played with him. His wife joins in
to make several inaudible comments and
with a crackle their presence has gone,
restless, provocative, stimulating.
What if that most original mind never
found its place of repose? What if
admonitions to settle down were res-
ponded to with yet another fantastic
plan. “Why don’t you settle down, Percy,
and write music?” Alfred Hill once said
to him. “That’s exactly what I’m going
to do” was the reply. “I’m off to Iceland
to study their sagas.”
As a composer, Percy Grainger was
this country’s most-effective and most-
gifted musical rebel. It was probably too
early for him to alight safely on what is
Inown as dry land.
J. M. THOMSON
For Mr Cohn„
Exceptional Treatment
A retired W.A. surveyor, Mr Walter
Julius Cohn, 91, was lately given
leave to intervene in the 1961 basic-wage
case before the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Commission in Melbourne. Mr
Cohn, who strongly resembles Rudyard
Kipling, represents the Fixed Income
Association of W.A. and has become a
familiar figure at basic-wage cases during
the last 15 years. His association con-
sists mainly of retired public servants,
bank officials and people with small
private incomes. So far it has not
succeeded in forming branches in other
States.
Last year Mr Cohn suggested that he
would probably not attend any more
basic-wage cases because he did not think
his submissions had any great effect on
the commission’s findings. He quoted
from “Hansard” and other documents
to support his view that increased wages
would bring hardship to his members
through the mechanism of higher prices.
He also urged the commission to include
the national-debt figures among its
economic “indicators.”
Last year the employers’ counsel, Mr
A. P. Aird, volunteered to interrupt his
case so that Mr Cohn could make his
submission. This year the leading
A.C.T.U. advocate, Mr R. J. Hawke,
offered the same courtesy. Mr Cohn,
however, declined and said he would
prefer to appear later. Said the com-
mission’s president, Sir Richard Kirby:
“We’ll always give you exceptional treat-
ment, Mr Cohn. We hope you will be
able to put your case for many years to
come.”
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Adelaide, at 67, C. J. R. Jackett, a flour-
miller who developed the family business into
one of South Australia’s largest flour-exporting
organisations.
In Sydney, at 58, Geoffrey Holt Grimwade,
financier and company director. A member of
the Commonwealth Bank Board since 1951,
he was also president of the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute.
In Brisbane, at 43, Harry Ross Anderson,
former Rhodes Scholar and since the inception
or the Chair in 1959, Professor of Public Law
at Queensland University.
In Melbourne, Dr Thomas Shuttleworth,
Collins Street dentist for over 50 years. He
played a leading part in the training of Mel-
bourne dental students and was a member and
former chairman of the College of Dentistry
Council.
Publisher with Directions
Tan Collins, managing director of the
British publishing firm of William
Collins, and brother of its chairman,
Billy” Collins, holds the engaging view
that there is no such thing as a born
writer any more than a musician or an
actor is “born.”
An Oxford Blue and a very fit-looking
58, Mr Collins is in Australia for the first
time since 1927. His firm's editors, he
says, like to do their bit towards
“making” writers by giving direction
during the actual writing of a book.
“Most authors don’t submit a book until
it is finished,” he says. “Then it is too
late to do much with it.”
One Australian author to whom the
Collins editors gave “direction” was
Catherine Gaskin, now near the top of
[heir best-selling authors. Her last novel,
Corporation Wife,” which had an
American setting, didn’t do so well, but
Collins expect better things from her
te xt one, set in Ballarat. A new Aus-
halian author who apparently needed no
direction is James Doughty, who wrote
his first book, “The Green Stick,” in
[de Kimberleys (W.A.), where he still
lives.
“But,” says Mr Collins, “I think that
° nc e an Australian has had a book pub-
"shed he would do well to go to London
jj r America, or wherever he expects to
,°d his world market, to meet the re-
fers, editors and other people in the
”°ok trade. Then he can come back to
Australia and get on with his writing.
" e are interested in authors, not in
S| ugle-shot books.”
The Australian Novelists
6. KYLIE TENNANT
Kylie Tennant is
one of those
writers (almost an
Australian speci-
ality) who seem to
be able to do every-
thing perhaps
their versatility is
forced upon them
by the relatively
low rewards for
writing in this
country.
She has written
eight novels, some
of which have won
prizes; a number
of plays, especially
for school-children
(these have proved
the most lucrative
of all her works); two textbooks on
social studies for the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Education ; and innumerable
book-reviews and newspaper articles.
In addition to this Mrs Rodd (she
is married to a schoolmaster) is the
Australian reader for Macmillans, the
London publishers, and has spent the
last six months editing for them a
novel on life in western Queensland
sent in by a woman of 67 who has
never written anything before.
This is, of course, in addition to
bringing up two children and looking
after the house in Hunters Hill,
Sydney.
Kylie Tennant was born in Manly,
and was only 24 when her first novel,
“Tiburon,” brought her immediate
recognition as a writer. She is pri-
marily interested in the picaresque
side of existence,
as might be ex-
pected of a pas-
sionate reader of
Dostoevsky, Bal-
zac, Stendhal and
Dickens.
On one occasion,
to get material, she
dyed her hair and
put on a suffi-
ciently convincing
drunk act to get
herself arrested and
remanded to Long
Bay jail for medi-
cal observation.
But her approach
to writing is con-
stantly changing.
“I’m always tearing
up my label,” she says. This dissatis-
faction with her success or failure
in getting down what she really wants
to say is reflected in her technique
in which she has been known to
rewrite one chapter 17 times.
At present she is engaged on a
“psychological” novel that may well
win her the label of “the Grace
Metalious of Australia.” Kylie Ten-
nant’s “Peyton Place” is to be based
on the submerged life of the Sydney
suburbanites, which she considers
“startling.”
“I’ve often discussed this with Pat-
rick White,” she says, “He’s writing
a novel about the suburbs, too, but
I understand that it may describe the
life there in what you might call
religious terms. Mine will be com-
pletely different . . .”


Nuclear Rehearsal
Waiting For The Main Event
By DENIS JOHNS
Who, in Australia, takes hydrogen-
bombs seriously? The Navy,
of course, which is constantly
practising hosing down its ships
to cleanse them of radioactive contami-
nation. The Federal Government? It
is reluctant to become involved in civil
defence, but leaves such depressing
matters to the States.
New South Wales is the only State
with any established civil-defence organi-
sation—the outcome of a personal cam-
paign by the late Premier Cahill; for
which he might, some day, be more fer-
vently thanked than for his Expressway
across Circular Quay.
And the first large-scale nuclear-
attack exercise held in Sydney suggests
that by some obscure working of the
instinct of survival the people most wil-
ling to spend their own time and money
on civil defence are those with possibly
the least knowledge of nuclear weapons,
but who dimly perceive that they are
likely to suffer most from them—the
ordinary working man and his family.
These are not Aldermaston marchers
or “Ban the H-bomb” philosophers, and
this is the more surprising when it is
considered that, unlike the populations
of such places as Hamburg and London,
the people of Sydney have rarely experi-
enced anything heavier than an inch of
rain in an hour.
“Operation Picnic” (a name whose
bizarre inappropriateness defies explana-
tion) was designed to test the possibili-
ties of evacuating survivors of a hydro-
gen-bomb attack to the Blue Mountains
area. It was to be assumed that the
now “standard” 10-megaton bomb (500
times more powerful than the Hiroshima
bomb and equivalent to 10,000,000 tons
of T.N.T.) had fallen on the city the
previous day. In the ring of suburbs
dazed and homeless people, possibly con-
taminated by radioactive fall-out, were
wandering. The first thing to be done
for such people would be to get them
out of the city and away to safer areas,
where they could be given medical
treatment, food, shelter, and clothing.
In the five years of his command
General Dougherty has made surprising
progress towards blanketing N.S.W. with
a civil-defence organisation. He has
persuaded 218 out of 225 local authorities
to appoint a Local Controller for civil
defence, and to set up bodies of volun-
teer wardens, rescuers, engineers, radia-
tion monitors, doctors and nurses, sig-
nallers, and drivers.
All such para-military organisations
and exercises depend, however, not upon
the command structure, but upon the men
and women who may or may not turn up
on the night, depending upon what’s on
television, and similar considerations.
This dependence upon the man or woman
at the street level is particularly crucial in
defence against bombing, a catastrophe
whose outstanding characteristic is the
breakdown of the normal social fabric
of communication and supply.
“Operation picnic” had certainly been
properly planned, and innumerable
orders, amendments, maps and instruc-
tions issued. There had been briefings
galore, and the timetable was known
down to the minute. On paper, it was
all over.
But when the morning of Saturday,
February 18, dawned, agonising doubts
must have gnawed at General Dougherty,
his headquarters staff and local con-
trollers and the equivalent organisation
in the Blue Mountains, which was to
receive and care for the survivors.
Would the people of Lane Cove and
Hurstville, Kogarah and Bankstown, be
in it?
Tn the early hours the people began
to move. From hundreds of houses
round the suburbs the cars and families
began to converge on the assembly points.
The cars had their windscreen stickers,
the people their individual labels, and
their plate, knife, fork and spoon. The
drivers had their tanks full (at their
own expense) and their seats cleared for
passengers.
And exactly on time, despite Saturday-
morning traffic and similar diversions,
the convoys assembled and moved off
in strict order. Composed of individual
groups of cars, the four main convoys,
totalling 600 people, made their way
out of the western exits of the city to
Glenbrook.
As each one passed into the Blue
Mountains Civil Defence area, its pro-
gress was radioed ahead by volunteer
“hams,” manning their cars at the road-
side.
At Glenbrook the schedule called for
the complete processing of a convoy
of perhaps 150 men, women, and children
in 30 minutes. In this time they were
checked with radiation counters for con-
tamination (and volunteers hosed down
to remove contaminated dust), sorted
into unwounded and wounded (slight
wounds only were allowed for; these
were supposed to be homeless but rela-
tively sound survivors), and given a
hot drink.
Meanwhile cars found to be contami-
nated were washed down, and a con-
stant check kept in the area on the
possible approach of the fall-out cloud
from the distant city.
Within the scheduled 30 minutes, as
the next approaching convoy was sig-
nalled, each group was sent on again
to Katoomba. Here, at the showground,
the survivors were finally registered,
treated for more serious wounds, given
clothing if required, and properly fed,
before being found billets.
A mid the confused but basically pur-
poseful activity of the 850 people
involved the bustling middle-aged women
with their tea-urns, the retired, leathery
men back in their tin hats with their
jokes and their rough help for tired and
weary people, the wails of children and
the distant, unintelligible voices over
loudspeakers, there was, for one who
had seen it all before in London during
the blitz, a hallucinatory sense of fami-
liarity, a mixture of horror and reas-
surance.
Here was the human ant-heap prodded
into action in its own defence. Here
were the people whose life had seemed
to them, perhaps, to have had little pur-
pose, at last feeling that they had some-
thing to do. Their faces were familiar;
you’ve seen them pulling other people
out of ruined buildings in Warsaw,
Peking, Milan and Madrid.
It was, at first, startling to realise that
the same people lived in Ashfield, Lane'
Cove, Glenbrook and Springwood. But
they are here, after all, waiting to play
their part in the main event.


OVERSEAS
Communist Trade in S.E. Asia
The Economic Offensive
By ALEX JOSEY
Millions of pounds, and thousands
of technicians are being directed
into South East Asian nations by the
Soviet-China bloc. Between January.
1953, and June, 1960, the Soviet Union’s
financial aid to under-developed Asian
countries, excluding China, amounted to
£548 million. In addition, during this
period, Asian countries received about
£47 million from Communist China.
From other Communist countries, another
£B6 million.
Now the Soviet-China bloc has decided
to step-up the tempo. Friendly Asian
leaders say that unless the West can
match this, South East Asian nations
are bound to be drawn more and more
within the Communist orbit.
Communist financial aid to Asia began
in a big way in 1957 when the Soviet
Union gave India a long-term low-interest
loan of £lOO million. This was to cover
the cost of a heavy engineering works, a
power plant, and an optical lens factory,
all supplied by the Soviet Union. Interest
was set at 2\ per cent., half that normally
charged by the International Bank, and
much more favorable than money lent
by British banks. Later, the Soviet bloc
pledged another £l5O million for India’s
third Five-year Plan. Interest again was
fixed at 2\ per cent.
Round about the same time, Indonesia
obtained a Soviet loan of £32 million re-
payable in 12 years on the same terms.
From this credit, Indonesia planned to
build, with Russian technical help, hydro-
electric power plants, and factories, in-
cluding a plant to assemble Russian
lorries. Indonesia was given the option of
repaying the loan in kind instead of
currency. As Indonesia has a very limited
range of goods for sale, kind would
necessarily mean raw material (rubber,
tin, oil), and foodstuffs. Last year, Russia
advanced Indonesia another loan of £BO
million to help the development plan.
More millions were also made available
to India.
Tn 1956, the Soviet Union agreed to
A buy all Burma’s surplus rice for the
next 20 years, providing Burma spent
the money on buying capital goods,
equipment and technical services from the
Soviet Union. In January, this year,
daring Premier Chou En Lai’s visit to
Rangoon, China gave Burma an interest-
free loan of £3O million to enable Burma
to buy Chinese consumer goods, equip-
ment and technical services. The Bur-
mese were given ten years to repay the
loan in goods or foreign currency.
This was followed by another spectacu-
lar Russian loan of £135 million to
Indonesia to cover the cost of Soviet-
supplied war material, including fighter
Mauldin in “The St. Louis Dispatch.”
“ LET’S PLAY TABLE STAKES .”
aircraft. This loan is reported to be more
generous than the previous large loan,
which called for repayment over ten
years at two per cent, interest. Behind
this serious economic penetration of un-
developed uncommitted Asian countries
are two objectives:
First, to help the Soviet’s own 15-year
economic plan of development, which
depends to a large extent upon increased
foreign trade, and which is the basis of
the whole Communist bloc’s economic
expansion.
Second, to sell the Soviet-China bloc
line that Communism and capitalism can
co-exist peacefully, thus opening the way
for the acceptance of Communist
ideology as a reasonable and respectable
political and economic doctrine.
Since the beginning of 1961 this
economic drive, which follows a careful
pattern, has been stepped up. Result has
been a marked increase in Russian and
Chinese foreign trade.
In five years, from 1953 to 1957, the
Soviet Union alone increased its trade
with Asian under-developed countries by
500 per cent. Since then, the figures have
spiralled upwards. In Asian markets,
Communist China has consistently been
under-selling Japan. China’s figures have
also improved considerably.
What has to be remembered about
all Communist financial aid is that out-
right grants are very seldom given. In
effect, every loan takes the form of credit
against goods purchased from Communist
countries. These credits therefore, form
an important part of bilateral trade be-
tween the Soviet Union, or other Com-
munist countries, and the receiving under-
developed nations. By this means Soviet
trade during the three-year period
1955-58, with undeveloped Asian coun-
tries, went up to £213 million.
The Soviet-China bloc has not been
slow in realising that not only is South
East Asia one of the world’s chief sup-
pliers of food and raw materials. This
region is also one of the biggest markets
for capital goods and consumer goods.
South East Asia does, in fact, provide
the third largest volume of foreign trade
turnover after North America and
Western Europe.
It is, therefore, very much to the
advantage of the Soviet-China bloc, when
offering large loans as part of the bilateral
trade with receiving countries, to insist
that trade must be strictly balanced, each
party’s purchases from the other equalling
the level of its sales.
Russia’s arguments to the uncommitted
countries is that to develop their national
economies they must mobilise tremendous
financial means, get large quantities of
capital equipment, and train skilled tech-
nicians. They have difficulty in doing this
because of the absence of heavy industry,
a low national income, a slow rate of
accumulation, and insufficient technical
knowledge.
Tn these conditions, the Russians argue,
foreign trade as a channel for obtain-
ing the necessary means of production
acquire a most important aspect. Realis-
ing this, the Soviet-China bloc has moved
in smartly with offers of long-term low-
interest credits.
At the same time, Russian propaganda
circulated in the East holds up this
economic co-operation as an example of
how mutually beneficial economic rela-
tions can be established between countries
with different social and political systems.
The Soviet Union never loses an
opportunity. Neither does Communist
China. In the tiny kingdom of Cam-
bodia, China has given Prince Sihanouk
what is probably the most powerful
radio-station in Indo-China, and has pro-
mised to help build a railway from the
capital to the country’s ocean outlet.
Russia was quick to match this with a
university and two hydroelectric plants.
In Indonesia, Russia has agreed to
foot the bill for the Fourth Asian Games
to be held in 1962, even although the
entire Communist bloc in Asia (China,
North Korea, North Vietnam) will be
banned from taking part. Russian tech-
nicians are working day and night on a
stadium which will seat 100,000 people.
A 14-story hotel now being constructed
will probably cost £6 million.
The effect all this is having upon the
Asian mind might be judged from the
reaction of Marshal Sarit, Thailand’s
fiercely anti - Communist Premier. He
recently invited the Russian Ambassador
in Bangkok to discuss the possibility
of financial aid for Thailand.
At present, Thailand, a close friend
of the United States, sells the Soviet
Union about £1 million worth of rubber
a year, buys about £200,000 worth of
goods from the Soviet Union. Any


financial aid extended to Thailand by the
Russians would certainly be based upon
the credit system, and this would mean
equalling up exports and imports.
Not all the Russian-Chinese financial
aid is actually taken up. Some of the
figures, therefore, can be deceptive and
could exaggerate the true extent of Com-
munist aid. Even so, the overall effect
of the persistent Communist economic
drive is still powerful. More and more,
Asian development is being linked closer
to Russian and Chinese trade, Russian
and Chinese technology.
What is the West doing to counter
this?
A great deal of Western aid has been
forthcoming, and is still being given,
mostly by the United States. Western
trade with Asian uncommitted countries
has improved. But clearly, the present
rate of financial aid from the West is
insufficient.
India, for example, needs about
£2400 million in foreign exchange if her
Third Five-year Plan is to succeed Most
of this must come from abroad. Experts
say that if this Plan fails, then Demo-
cracy in India will also fail. Mr Nehru
has said plainly that in Asia, as else-
where, the social system will survive
.which can produce the goods. If Demo-
cracy collapses in India, where live four-
fifths of the total population in the non-
Communist undeveloped countries, reper-
cussions would quickly be felt in every
other part of Asia. Even President
Soekarno’s guided democracy in Indo-
nesia could hardly withstand the massive
pressure which would be built up if India
became Communist.
Non - Communist economists have
—Cat in Tarantel Press, West Berlin.
“THE LATEST STYLE.”
worked out that if all the wealthier
Western nations agreed to give just one
per cent, of their national incomes each
year, this would produce annually about
£2140 million. This would be sufficient
to give the uncommitted undeveloped
countries more than a sporting chanco
of developing through the democratic
framework. Non - Communist Asian
leaders have complained to me that there
are still no signs that the West is willing
to pay this price.
Kennedy Fights Recession
By CYRIL DUNN
The new President has invited the
Americans to have done with
comfortable equivocation, and to
acknowledge the reality of their economic
backsliding, by endorsing urgent and
sizeable steps to end it. American society
is, of course, so vast in all its aspects
that its areas of economic misfortune
may be no more than a shabby fringe
on the general affluence. Even so, there
are now 5.5 million unemployed in the
nation and this is the highest total since
1940. And January’s increase over the
preceding total was three times greater
than is normal. When the last national
assessment was made last November it
appeared that 24.5 per cent, of those
without work had been in this condition
for more than 15 weeks and 12 per cent,
for 27 weeks.
Although America still gives a general
impression of unusual well-being, even
those who have not yet felt the pinch are
evidently curbing that lavish consump-
tion upon which the United States
economy so much depends. The factory
workers who still have jobs are still earn-
ing an average of more than £35 a week.
But fewer new homes are being built. The
sale of new cars is lower now than it
has been for three years. And sales at
department stores show a fall of five per
cent, compared with a year ago.
Not all the unemployment can be put
down to a recession. About 500,000 of
those without work are to be found in
depressed areas and are the victims of
the industrial system’s pursuit of efficiency
and low costs. Parts of Pennsylvania,
West Virginia and Kentucky have
slumped because of automation in the
coalmines and because the producers of
oil and natural gas have triumphed in
the competition for consumer-preference.
Much of the textile industry of New
England has moved to the Southern States
to find a labor force which is docile, cheap
and mostly black.
Elsewhere, however, the automobile
plants are laying off workers for want
of orders. The steel industry is operating
roughly half its capacity, leading Mr
Reuther to observe bitterly that America
has almost as much steel plant lying idle
as the Soviet Union has in its whole
economy. But the real unemployment
burden seems to be falling on the manu-
facturing industries.
President Kennedy has chosen to treat
this fringe of misfortune primarily as a
human problem and the current arrange-
ment seems to offer him considerable
scope. It is difficult to generalise about
the help given to an unemployed man
in America, because the system varies
from State to State. Professor Richard
Lester of Princeton has found in recent
years that unemployment compensation
(as they call it) has been about 20 per cent,
of the wages lost. But what this means
in terms of deprivation can be measured
only when one takes into account the
standard of life to which the average
American worker is accustomed and the
extent to which this standard depends
upon his credit. For instance, one of th e
first things to go is the family car, because
the monthly payments cannot be kept up.
The period for which an unem-
ployed person gets compensation varies,
but the average seems to be 26
weeks. When this ends the difficulties
really begin. People without means
get public assistance from their States,
which in their turn depend largely
upon grants from the Federal Treasury-
But no Federal aid has been given fo f
able-bodied employable persons and State
aid for people in this category, almost
universally inadequate, is necessarily at
its lowest ebb in States where the need


Is greatest. There are certainly a great
unemployed who have to rely
primarily on charity of one sort or
another or who turn in desperation to
the loan companies.
Their plight will be better understood
nhen it is known that 3.2 million of them
draw monthly parcels of Government
surplus food and that this bounty has
j retail value of roughly £3 for a family
of four. One of Mr Kennedy’s task
forces has described this supply, and the
lunches supplied to children at school,
as “the last line of resistance against
malnutrition.”
The greatest hardship tends to fall on
the American negro community. During
the last recession, in 1957, the rate of
unemployment among white workers was
U per cent. ; among black workers it
was 12.6 per cent. Indeed, at the last
convention of the Democratic party in
Los Angeles, a spokesman for the
negroes was moved to say, sombrely:
“It is always a recession for the negro.”
the “Washington Post,” has lately sent
1 reporters out into neighboring areas
where things are at their worst. What
they have written has led the paper to
say editorially: “The condition of the
unemployed is a silent, drab and dismal
reproach to American society.”
Of course, it has to be conceded that
Government aid for a particular class
is not a part of the American tradition.
Certainly in the past American workers
have not shown that general desire for
special protection which in other coun-
tries has expressed itself through a
political Labor movement. It is still true
that the opportunities for an American
working man and his family are the best
in the world, and it may be that most of
them accept it as complementary that
they themselves should carry the risks of
failure or of temporary setback.
President Kennedy probably agrees
with Mr Reuther that the real problem
facing Americans is how to manage an
economy of abundance. The President
has already ordered the enlargement of
that pitiful supply of free food to the
needy. Now he proposes bigger unem-
ployment pay for a longer period and a
higher minimum wage for the majority
who are still at work.
Plainly, Mr Kennedy does not suppose
that “the reproach” will be wiped out
If he simply mops up areas of evident
Injustice and underprivilege. It may be
•hat he agrees with Mr Charles Schultze,
J n economist from Indiana University,
who believes that America’s trouble is
high-level creeping stagnation.” Mr
Schultze asserts that when the last
Session ended in 1958 unemployment in
America was never thereafter brought
helow five per cent, nor did the use of
Plant capacity ever get above 80 per cent.
The new President has been warned
that the recession may run deep. He has
lo ld us that he means promptly to take
“P arms against it. We cannot reason-
% assess his methods yet, but econo-
mists overseas will be glad to note that
® means to restore the economy without
Ration and has pledged himself and
tt's Administration not to distort the value
# fthe dollar.
—Observer Foreign News Service
Overseas Pointers
U.N.
The Russians’ withdrawal of recognition
for U.N. Secretary-General Hammar-
skjold results from both immediate and
long-term policies. The Soviet has
always considered that his office was not,
and should never be, influential. They
regard him as the senior executive officer
of an organisation which should never
take any action which the great Powers
might disapprove. This obviously con-
flicts with Mr Hammarskjold’s concept
of his role which he defined after his
re-election in 1957 as “to help fill any
vacuum that may appear in the systems
which the Charter and traditional diplo-
macy provide for the safeguarding of
peace and security.” The Russians
objected to his independent action on
world affairs when he decided to enlarge
the U.N. observer corps in Lebanon in
July, 1958, after Russia vetoed an Ameri-
can proposal to do just that and also
when, despite Russian warnings that he
should not visit Laos, he went there and
then installed a personal representative.
Mr Hammarskjold’s job is safe until his
term expires in April, 1963, but Russia’s
plan to address all business to the Rus-
sian Deputy-Secretary Arkadev may
make the Secretary-General as powerless
as the three-man executive which the
Russians want to introduce as a replace-
ment.
THE AMERICA8
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mr Bill Hendrix, a long-time leader of
the Ku Klux Klan in Florida, recently
quit, with these farewell remarks: “I
see no way to stop racial integration and
it looks to me like the best thing to do
is to accept it. Those in the clan can
only block it by illegal means. I’m not
going to agree to such things as bombings
and burning schools. But that’s what the
Klan is going to have to turn to unless
it agrees to go along with the laws.”
VENEZUELA
Major Conterras and six armed men
seized Radio Rumpos for an hour on
February 20 and declared that a coup
against President Betancourt’s Govern-
ment had been successful. At the same
time an attempt was made to take over
the headquarters of the staff training
centre in Caracas. The military security
force soon had the situation in hand and
demonstrated that the army supports the
President The two attempts had little
chance of success but they may achieve
the left-wing’s objective of frightening
away the foreign investment which would
help restore the country’s economy.
CANADA
With unemployment in January
(693,000) the highest for 15 years the
Government, at the end of February,
introduced a “disclosure of information”
bill designed to find the facts about U.S,
and local business concerns and labor
unions. Corporations must, in future,
give details of balance-sheets, directors’
fees, nationality of executives and the
proportion of shares held by Canadians
and foreigners. Unions must submit, in
addition, copies of the constitution, details
of dues and benefits paid. The bill is
less fearsome than that expected after
Prime Minister Diefenbaker’s threat of
controlling non-Canadian business: the
majority of these firms have no objection
to publishing the required reports as long
as the local firms they compete with have
to do the same.
ASIA
CHINA
Students returning to Hong Kong after
working in mainland communes over the
holidays say that managerial inexperience
among party secretaries and commune
managers were the human factors in
China’s famine. They reported many
deaths from starvation and said that beri-
beri and other diseases were rife. Several
party workers charged with brutality to
farmers and mismanagement of Kwang-
tung communes have been executed after
public trials ; when these party officials
ordered the seizure of privately owned
livestock the peasants slaughtered their
animals rather than hand them over.
Now the Communist party’s central com-
mittee is expected to order a purge of
commune secretaries. Some Army
officers have already replaced them at a
time when the Ministry for Agriculture
has called for new efforts in preservation
of water to ward-off the drought in north
China. The “People’s Daily” said:
“Large areas [of Honan, Shantung and
Hopei] had even less snow and rain from
last November to the end of January
than in the corresponding period last
winter. Officials have said the 1960
drought and other natural calamities were
the worst for a century.”
PAKISTAN
The Karachi paper “Dawn,” whose
policy would not conflict with the
Government’s, has been campaigning for
months for closer relations with the
Communist countries. It claims Ameri-
can policy has changed greatly since
Dulles’s day, that Pakistan should
exchange ideological and moral motives
for expediency in its foreign relations, as
all other countries have, and that
America has glorified neutralism by
handsome aid for India. It is thought
that “Dawn” is flying a kite, on the
Government’s behalf, to scare the Ameri-
cans. Mr Shoaib, the Minister of
Finance, has gone to Washington to seek
more economic aid, and Pakistan’s
reliance on America is not likely to
change. But the recent oil pact with
Russia may be the first of many trade


treaties with Communist countries,
including even China, and the Americans
would like to know whose money will
repay the £90-million Russian oil loan.
MIDDLE EAST
CYPRUS
Six months after the formal declaration
of a republic, the Cyprus House of
Representatives has voted to join the
Commonwealth. The Communist party
and the ruling Patriotic Front party voted
to join the Commonwealth for a trial
period of five years, while the Turkish
Group was against any time limit. The
only dissidents were nine former Eoaka
men who recently broke away from the
Patriotic Front party. Voting: in favor,
21 Patriotic Front, 15 Turkish and five
Akel (Communist); against, the nine ex-
Eoaka men.
EUROPE
E.F.T.A.
The Summit meeting of the six Common
Market countries in Paris in the middle
of February resulted in the establishment
of a “study commission,” which is really
a secretariat, and arrangements for a
further meeting in another three months.
Because of Dutch resistance General de
Gaulle’s plans for the political associa-
tion of the Common Market Powers
were not all approved and this gives
Britain an opportunity to participate in
them. Meanwhile the seven members of
the European Free Trade Association
have become eight—or seven and a half.
They have offered Finland an associa-
tion which is an attempt to subtract the
country from Russia’s economic influence
without giving Russia the opportunity to
influence the relations between the Six
and the Seven. In addition a tariff cut
of 10 per cent, between the member
countries of E.F.T.A., which was
scheduled for January 1, 1962, has been
advanced to July 1 this year. On July 1,
1960, these tariffs were cut by 20 per
cent.
ALBANIA
General Enver Hoxha’s story of
a conspiracy against his country by
Yugoslavia, Greece, the American Sixth
Fleet and unnamed Western Powers was
received with incredulity in the West,
and the Communist press largely ignored
it. Although he did not arouse outside
sympathy by charging Yugoslavia and
Greece with 1090 “provocative and
aggressive acts” it may give him an excuse
for a further internal Stalinist purge when
he seeks scapegoats for an economic
situation that has gone from bad to worse.
The Congo
Frontier of Fear
By ANDREW WILSON
“TT can’t go on like this much longer,”
said the United Nations officer. And
here, in the very backwoods of Congo
chaos, it is easy to see what he means.
Bukavu stands at the southern end of
Lake Kivu. Across the water is the Bel-
gian trusteeship territory of Ruanda
Urundi, reached by a bridge which
nobody may cross without a permit. Few
are given, and even these are frequently
torn up by the Lumumbist frontier
guards.
The town is empty of all but 200 of
its former 5000 Europeans. Business is
at a standstill, and the villas stand empty
in their gardens of shrubs and yellow
acacias, now dripping in the rain.
Several hundred soldiers roam through
the streets with cocked rifles and sub-
machine-guns, drinking on the strength
of their pay and liable, whenever it fails,
to run amok.
Against 6000 of them, here and
throughout Kivu province, the United
Nations has a single battalion of
Nigerians and one company of Indo-
nesian troops. Their task in keeping
order with a minimum of force is
dangerous and difficult, in a fickle situa-
tion which may be gauged from the battle
which flared up recently.
A Congolese lieutenant arrived, appar-
ently drunk, at the headquarters of a
detached company, 300 miles away at
Kindu. He had an altercation with two
Nigerian officers and almost simul-
taneously a hidden body of Congolese
opened fire. Firing continued for an
hour and a half.
■VText morning a platoon was sent to
secure the local airfield so that the
Nigerian commanding officer could fly
in from Bukavu and investigate. The
platoon was ambushed and the platoon
commander killed by machine-gun fire.
The current tension has many causes
—Congolese indiscipline, a sense of
inferiority, and resentment at United
Nations action in protecting Europeans.
But the greatest is simply fear of a
Belgian invasion from Ruanda-Urundi.
This fear may be groundless, but the
record of the past two months makes it
difficult to persuade the Congolese other-
wise. Kivu was the Congo’s quietest pro-
vince until the provincial President, Mr
Miruho, and the local army commander
entered into relations with the Belgians
and Colonel Mobutu, and were then
kidnapped to Stanleyville. A week later,
on New Year’s Day, Colonel Mobutu
launched his attempted invasion across
the Kivu-Ruanda border bridge.
His troops were transported from
Usumbura airfield in Belgian lorries and
I have talked with a Belgian who took
them on a reconnaissance of Lumumbist
defence posts. Since then there appears
to have been at least one request by the
local Belgian paratroop commander in
Ruanda, to take his men into Kivu on a
refugee-rescue mission, turned down by
Brussels.
These dark suspicions, not entirely
incomprehensible, provide as yet a better
guide to Kivu troubles than a supposed
Communist “master plan,” or reports of
arms and money pouring in from
Moscow, Prague and Cairo.
There is no more evidence of foreign
assistance in Kivu than I found when I
was in Stanleyville. The only disciplined
body—a hundred or so troops with red-
painted webbing equipment—prove to be
a hand-picked group from the former
Force Publique. The rest are a rabble,
who at any moment are liable to break
loose.
Of the two Kivu politicial leaders, Mr
Kashamura, the leader of the Cerea
(African regroupment) party delivers
speeches with impressive references to
“bourgeois” and “fascists,” but his
anxious efforts to keep Belgian tech-
nicians in Kivu —coupled with his com-
plete inability to protect them —are
hardly in accord with a scheme to turn
Kivu over to the Communist bloc.
His colleague, the Provincial Commis-
sioner, Mr Diaka, is at the moment fren-
ziedly trying to establish trade relations
with British merchants in Uganda and
Tanganyika.
The result is a muddled leadership with
partly nationalist, partly socialist, aims,
frustrated at every turn by its own fears
and the xenophobic sentiments which it
earlier let loose and now possibly regrets.
In an effort to reduce tension the chief
United Nations representative in Kivu, a
calm and sensitive New Zealander, Mr
Robin Miller, is trying to establish a
neutral zone on both sides of the Kivu-
Ruanda frontier. The project has been
baulked by the Congolese, who insisted
on putting their troops in the power-
station on the Ruzizi River, which forms
the southern part of the border. , The
Congolese say they fear “sabotage.” As
a result the remaining Belgian technicians
left, and both Bukavu and Usum-
bura spent two nights in darkness.
—Observer Foreign News Service
Werner in “The Indianapolis Star.”
“ DON’T MESS AROUND WITH
US CUBANS.”


Shows
The 9th Symphony
iusic
The Sydney Town Hall performance
j the stupendous brotherhood hymn
lat is Beethoven’s choral symphony
E veral times brought to mind the
exhortation of a noted
Frenchman who cried:
“Let us be brothers —or I’ll
knock you on the head!”
Lifelong, there was something of this
prit in quarrelsome Beethoven (though
otin the obsessed idealism of this work),
i certainly there seemed to be a little
tit underlying the manner in which Sir
lernard Heinze, the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra and the Hurlstone Choral
Society went about it.
All collective music-making asks for
Internal feeling among those who make
land there are few other works which
* insistently demand it as Beethoven’s
Ninth,” not only in what the music
says” at the surface but also in what
sfelt collectively by the performers as
ley are impelled to make the music
say” it. This implies deep respect of
iiaftsman for craftsman, tremendous yet
wiling responsibility of one to another
-or the thing will merely be contradicted
by the manner of saying it.
With this contradiction, and it was
:vident from time to time in this Sydney
pformance, how can an audience be
wholly won and recruited into the tumul-
tous Beethoven march to Philadelphian
{lory, receive the message, move outside
bursting with purifications for a quarrel-
ling world? And with purifications in
itself?
Can't be done! Every good perform-
ance of a symphonic work can create the
illusion, by the devotion which every
flayer gives his part and his awareness of
•Is meaning and proportion in the total,
Hat every one of them could conduct it.
Illusion, of course —but the things that
Ire ate that illusion are brotherhood in
tosic-making. There were times in this
Sydney “Ninth” where one could sense
His knowing of the whole from the part-
ners in the violin section, from most
“I the individual woodwind players, too
"but no one with half an ear could
Possibly have presented any member of
J e brass and tympani sections with the
J ton. As on many another occasion,
" £ se sections, asked by Beethoven to
Waim themselves with power,
lowered him with violence in which
todity was a strong element. The
tighter of Elysium, and the millions
F°ught to join her by Beethoven’s
Nkest bit of Salvationism, were so
{“averse to football in this musical con-
pi that one sensed certain hazards in
tln § umpire.
| the Hurlstone singers stretched them-
-5s to their limits in the finale, often
quite noteworthy effect, and the solo
“artet (Heather McMillan, Florence
Raymond McDonald and Noel
"‘dvin) sang so securely and well in its
first ensemble verse that one was suffi-
ciently on its side not to be unduly
impatient of the laboriousness soon to
oppress its expression.
The first three movements were, over
all, disappointing. The opening bars
themselves were much too firm and
direct for them to have that deep sense
of mystery which gives them something
of the character of a mind portal into
momentous exploration and event. This
fault might easily have been passed over
if the exploration to come had been con-
vincingly made. It was not. In this first
movement, as indeed in the third, one
missed the characteristic cumulativeneSs
and driving progression of Beethoven’s
thought after 10 minutes or so. In this
performance, thought levelled off and
stayed at halfway house instead of climb-
ing still to the peak. The music took a
seat and waited, so to speak ; so did the
audience.
All in all, though, it was an occasion
to contemplate once again one of the
greatest of music’s paradoxes: how its
great men express themselves in visions
of living which are diametrically opposed
to their own way of living. Out of
Mozart’s life of much deprivation and
squalor came music for patrician palaces,
if not for heaven itself ; out of Rossini’s
shredded nerves came music’s most
merrily relaxed laughter ; out of hag-
heckling of the most oppressive mean-
ness came the urbanities of the music of
Haydn—and, here, out of a life of
tortuous and irrational quarrelling came
this great Beethoven document in which
all mankind’s quarrels are dissolved.
Lindsey Browne
THEATRE
“A Taste of Honey”
“Irma la Douce”
Antiquity and amateurs are making
prostitutes into collectors’ pieces; the
profession is moving from the streets to
the stage, to the extent that a first-class
play and a first-class musical comedy
about it opened on Friday and Saturday
night in Sydney: in “A Taste of Honey”
Brigid Lenihan as a “semi-prostitute”
restored the Palace Theatre from films
to the legitimate stage for the Elizabethan
Trust by turning it into a disorderly
house.
There was nothing semi, nothing half-
hearted, about Miss Lenihan’s acting;
georgeously built and velvet voiced she
filled the theatre with the throb of her
lust for realism. Judy Bruce, on the
other hand, who began on the “Irma la
Douce” beat at the Royal on the follow-
ing night, was a full-time but fairytale
operative, slim, delicate, naive and
piquant; in the purest sense a Daughter
of Joy.
Not that the Palace lacked its fairy-
tale, since all young love is a fairytale,
and “A Taste of Honey” is the story of
a high-school daughter who brought a
negro (William Cole) to a slum flat while
her mother (Brigid Lenihan) was out,
became pregnant and, deserted by the
negro and by her mother, who ran off
to marry one of her fancy-men (Walter
Sullivan), was cared for by an art student
with pansy ways (Lewis Fiander).
Here, as though the desperate humor
of the girl’s exchanges with her mother
and the coarse violence of the mother’s
affair with the fancy man had shot them
to a great height, begins the fairytale
love affair between the pregnant girl and
the art student, between the undesirable
and the undesiring, both destitute, she
working out her angers on him, he
accepting even her jibe that he is a real
“sister to her” while he devotedly makes
plans for her accouchement. Lost in
18-year-old Robyn Nevin’s naturalistic
acting, so beautifully illuminated by
Fiander's fine sense of style, one accepts
the incongruous world they construct,
protected from the world, until the
mother bursts in to do the right thing
by her daughter, expels the art student,
and then, told that the coming baby
will probably be black, bursts out brutally
about what the neighors will think. The
pregnant girl comes to the middle of the
stage and screams for her lost art student,
and the curtain falls like real life on her
chance of salvation.
In “A Taste of Honey” they avoided
false notes ; in “Irma la Douce,” false
steps: they walked on eggshells all even-
ing with immense delicacy. Whereas in
“A Taste of Honey” Walter Sullivan
could act the fancy-man with the cold
savagery of a Ben Jonson “humor,” Ivor
Bromley, as Irma’s proprietor, had to
be a ruffian of genial charm, as were
his gang of fellow mecs, Robert Healey,
Guy le Claire, Chris Christensen and
Alton Harvey. In the same way Shelagh
Delaney’s imaginative Manchester treat-
ment of light love at the Palace was re-
placed by Andre Breffort's witty Parisian
ingenuity at the Royal.
When Irma the streetwalker transfers
her affections and earnings from her
ruffian pimp to a young law student
(Robin Palmer), the student, unwilling to
share her with the chorus, gratifies her
childhood dream of having a rich pro-
tector and a young lover by playing the
elderly protector himself. Every night,
in the bowler hat, beard and frock coat
of a Toulouse Lautrec, he gives her
10,000 francs; every day she returns it
to him as her lover. He still must pretend
to give her back some of this money, so
he takes to cleaning floors ; this and his
daily and nightly labors to please Irma


exhaust him. So he announces that he
has murdered his bearded rival.
Irma is unexpectedly shocked; she
has grown fond of her old protector. She
gives evidence against her lover at his
trial. He is sentenced, with the gang of
mecs as accomplices, to Devil’s Island.
They escape, paddle back on a raft to
the Seine, and buy a pardon in time to
visit Irma and find that she has born her
law student twins.
This logical hilarity, so unusual in
musical comedy, is set to mordant music
by Marguerite Monnot, with knowing
comments on sex and its sale and the
amount of money needed to secure par-
dons, besides more conventional songs
in which Mr Palmer and Miss Bruce
convey clearly and well the purity of
their affection for each other. The dances
are cleverly arranged to star the one
girl (in the one blue frock and black
tights all the evening) against stagefuls
of men ; a dance in a cafe, a fight in
a cafe, and best of all the delirious night-
mare (“Arctic Ballet”) in which Irma
appears to her lover on his raft dancing
with a group of Toulouse Lautrecs. Robin
Palmer had some excellent business in
transforming himself from young law-
student to old Toulouse Lautrec between
flat and hotel, and capped this by alter-
nating the parts on either side of a 3ft
partition at almost unbelievable speed.
As to Judy Bruce’s “Irma,” rapt in the
innocence of selling herself to provide
for her man, it was not long before the
women in the audience were murmuring
“Isn’t she lovely!” and that, in musical
comedy, is the accolade.
The movable scenes, changing while
you watched, of William Rees’ produc-
tion of “Irma,” with their sets shoved
on from the wings, were not more moving
than Robin Lovejoy’s one scene for “A
Taste of Honey,” with the plaster fallen
from the slats of the wretched Manchester
tenement. And if “Irma” had a masterly
compere in Noel Ferrier as the ruse
Paris barman, walking through the play
and occasionally taking a part, as of the
judge in the comic trial, “A Taste of
Honey” also had a compere in guitarist
Stuart Finch, at the side of the stage,
running through some eight songs of his
own composition to words by John
Croyston.
Sisters under the skin, the play and
the musical comedy were. Brigid Lenihan
is blonde and tragic; Judy Bruce is
brunette and gay: you pay your money
and you take your choice.
Ronald McCuaig
“The Lysistrata”
Despite the prevalence of churches, if
Adelaide decides to have a spasm of
murders then those murders are real
humdingers. And just to show the State
Secretary that there’s no ill-feeling after
the cornbelt ban on Tom Lehrer’s
innocuous little songs the University
Theatre Guild, in its new-found vigor
under the leadership of Dr Harry Medlin,
has put on a full-blooded, no-holds-
barred version of “The Lysistrata.”
In Dr Medlin’s introduction we are
informed that Aristophanes was inspired
by “burning pity” and hatred of war-
fare, and that the jokes are “indecorous
rather than indecent.” Be the original
as it may, the Dudley Fitts translation
displays no burning pity nor deep-seated
hatred for war ; indeed, the dominant
sociological motive is manifest in the
incredible number of puns and innuendos
deployed to describe men’s willingness
to serve.
The producer, Philip Fargher, had it
played as lustily as physical decency
would allow ; he devised elaborate mime,
complex patterns of stage movement, and
visually exciting groupings, in a style that
owed not a litle to Jean-Louis Barrault.
It was a most impressive opening to
Fargher’s producing career.
Anne Dibdin’s Lysistrata was.
statuesque, controlled in movement, but
she lacked the presence and range of
voice to convey the female strength of
the role. Margaret Ward, Max Height,
Meryl McDonald, Bill James and Tom
Gawne were excellent; the huge sur-
rounding cast displayed unaccustomed
stage discipline. John Heuzenroeder
composed and led the droll musical
accompaniment, achieving the improb-
able conjunction of harp, flute and
drums ; and Margaret Abbie’s choreo-
graphy weakened the perfoimance with
a sort of footballer’s ballet. Sets, light-
ing and costuming were of the near-
professional standard one now expects
from the Union Theatre.
Max Harris
The Raw and the Round
Before Karel and Josef Capek’s
fabulous insects (created 1923) invaded
the Sunken Garden for the Festival of
Perth, they had been rejuvenated by
poet Max Harris and producer Colin
Ballantyne of Adelaide. “Insect Play ’6l”
sparkles with contemporary witticisms
and retrospective irony, and the totali-
tarian Ants are enabled to carry the
Capeks’ bitter satire, inspired by the
futility and cruelty of all life on earth, to
the logical conclusion offered by an
atomic explosion. The European
Vagrant has become an Australian
Tramp.
Presented by the University and Gradu-
ate Dramatic Societies, the play was well
suited to the garden scene, and to the
producer, who used music, movement
and lighting to create a whole that was
not dependent on individual talent. Pro-
perties included several insect houses like
elegant Victorian bathing tents ; a ros-
trum-cum-fort from which the Ant lead-
ers expounded, produced a pair of peace-
doves that obligingly fluttered skywards
and touched off an effective star-rocket
as well as the final mushroom explosion
Mood music (an insect sonata) intro-
duced the Butterflies, translated from the
Bright Young Things of the ’twenties to
jive-dancers in jeans and toreador pants
who couldn’t care less and recited poems
by Max Harris. In the second act
Dorothy Lyall was first-rate as money-
grubbing Mrs Beetle ; the predatory
Ichneumon Fly (Peter Cuffley) and
empty-headed Mrs Cricket (Juliet Adder-
ley) also claimed attention. Basil Balme
mooched round throughout as the Tramp,
using sufficient Dinkum Aussie accent to
amuse but not aggravate and Joan Pope,
stationary as the Chrysalis, struggled to
be born. Make-up and dressing were
simple, subtle, and effective. This new
version of a famous play deserves to go
abroad from Perth.
At the Skinner Galleries the newly
formed Theatre ’6l, in association with
the Studio Drama Committee, presented
Jean Paul Sartre’s “No Exit! ” (Huis Clos)
and “The Respectable Prostitute,” in the
round.
Sartre takes the audience to Hell in
“No Exit,” to demonstrate that real
existence can only be lived and never
become the object of thought. Thus in
an apartment in Hell one meets two
women and one man learning that per-
sonal and social pretence are no longer
possible between them ; that reality is
what they did, not thoughi; and that
throughout eternity they must dwell
together without comfort since Hell is a
torment of the mind achieved by con-
templation of the true self, finally
revealed.
As Estelle, the voluptuous mondaine,
Leone Martin-Smith passed from suave
and sophisticated grace through a shatter-
ing variety of moods, to despair. Colin
Mackenzie’s dry, witty, calculating,
lesbian Inez was either coldly self-
regarding or insanely jealous: a clever
woman, cleverly handled. John Lenton
as a man who embraced pacifism to
mask personal fear, was bandied between
the two women, his face an ever-changing
register of fear.
“The Respectable Prostitute,” was a
mordant commentary on American racial
conflicts. Against her avowed intention
of telling the truth to defend him, a
young prostitute is framed into signing
a declaration of rape against a negro.
Too much emphasis on the Great Ameri-
can Myth (or the Perfect Family) under-
scores the tragic situation. John Lenton,
even at three feet a convincing dttfK ie >
gave a study of physical terror; Tony
Dodd created atmosphere as the cold y
lustful Fred, a youthful hypocrite; an
Eileen Colocott, baited and disillusion®’;
kept her young prostitute a credi
human being.
Producer Frank Baden-Powell has eer
tainly shown Perth that, given the rigm
plays, production in the round can
satisfying even in a small gallery. j
H.D' B


m
■lake Prize
Stanislaus Rapotec’s “Meditating on
jood Friday” is the largest picture in
|5 Blake Prize ; and therefore —auto-
jatically —won it. There is some force
fits black spikes and swirling yellow
meditations” and it is even possible,
iough only if you take the title into
to imagine that Mr Rapo-
k may have been thinking of agony
ixl drama ; but had it been smaller in
a le it is not likely that it would
piously have competed with many of
le other entries.
Its total effect is rather like that of a
aling fence, or an extremely ugly hoard-
U, and there is much more certainty
[ form, meaning and religious feeling
Leonard French's clean-cut “Death
[ a Martyr,” Robert Hughes’ “The
ioment Christ Died” (which has a not
appropriate look of trench-warfare),
Serard Havekes’ intricate mosaic,
'Cherub,” and even Thomas Gleghorn's
liechanical “Resurrection.”
j The sponsors of the prize will surely
live to meditate long and hard as
Weed they have done in the past —on
Ihy this exhibition should be such a
Ihamber of horrors ; on how much
iligious feeling you can really get out
[ an abstract ; and on whether mere
size is really a proper criterion of artistic
pine.
In the sculpture section there is, for-
pately, some finesse of technique and,
aurally accompanying it, a finer
Imotional quality. On the whole G. F.
lewers’ “Ascent of the Cross,” with its
Baring crosses and the upflung arms of
lie figure conveying a feeling of triumph
(as well as tragedy, would have been the
just appropriate choice for the prize ;
iit Margel Hinder’s winning “Christ on
e Cross” is at least worth second
oughts. It does indeed look as tinselly
a Christmas-tree as it is hung, large
I ad bare and shiny on the wall ; but if
w look at her preliminary model hung
• the black box beside it, in the purplish
•Siting she wants, it is a most haunting
title thing. It might be hard to get the
•me effect with the larger “construc-
iw”; but you would need to see it
! ®g in the same mysterious space and
|ht to have any firm opinion,
fhe Darcy Morris prize went to
lenneth Jack’s “Last Supper,” a work
•Ihout the suavity of his watercolors and
•ihout any special interest except that
•fist and the Apostles are shown up-
ilrk as in a stage set.
Douglas Stewart
•"fence Daws
jjhe exhibition of paintings by Law-
Daws, which runs from February
to March 18 at the new Bonython
rt Gallery in North Adelaide, confirms
as one of Australia’s major
Jfffers. This splendid and exciting show
,IVe s the human element of Daws’s
‘flier work without sacrificing the sense
swooping space that characterised his
ftore abstract, exhibitions.
'tase pictures are doubly exciting, first
[their vitality of color and the breadth
Pagination, and secondly because
they show the dynamic development of
Daws’s talent. His earlier paintings,
working in colors contained by strict
geometry, seemed primarily scientific in
inspiration (Daws is a trained geologist).
There was plenty of imagination in them,
certainly, as there is in the work of a
good scientist, but they tended to measure
and explain, as a surveyor or an astrono-
mer does.
These latest paintings are predomin-
antly humanist; they attempt the poetic
task of the reconciliation of opposites ;
their color swells and surges with an
emotion no surveyor could peg. The men
and lovers in them exist just as an image
of being, with no details or complica-
tions, and all before them is the image
of becoming, expressed through vast
prospects of space, or snow, or sun, or
sky.
It is pretty tough work, setting out to
reconcile such opposites as finite man
and his expanding universe. But Daws
has given his paintings something of
man’s great compensations, his infinite
capacity for emotion and imagination.
His figures are sometimes reminiscent of
those of Dubuffet, but Daws does not
shove ugliness under your nose as the
French painter does. This means that he
runs the risk of sentimentality and
occasionally fails, as in a pretty-pretty
pair of green lovers that are about as
substantial as a woman’s scarf. But
mostly he succeeds.
He is working here mainly with
reds and blues and their related danger-
ous splendors. There are two fine paint-
ings in brown tones, “Song of. Love and
Dying” and “Burnt-out Share Farmer,”
but they are the odd ones out, here,
representing a stage (however good) that
Daws has left behind. The two sun-
gazer paintings and “Man in the Snow”
give the fullest impact, an impact of a
whole painting and yet one whose
individual passages of paint are ex-
quisitely built-up. What a pleasure it is
to look at pictures that do not contain
two or three square-feet of flat black or
grey, or long slippery sections of house-
painting! Without any loss of mass,
Daws's paint rewards minute scrutiny.
Together with the big oils there are
some smaller gouaches and oils, some of
which, particularly “Lovers in the Snow,”
produce m highly concentrated form the
drama of the larger pictures. Sometimes,
as with “Edge of October,” there is both
a sketch and a finished version of the
same subject, throwing light on the
strength of Daws’s craftsmanship.
Lawrence Daws left Australia at the
end of 1960 to work in London and
Paris. One hopes he does not stay
away too long. His energy and integrity,
judging by his present exhibition, will
give new vitality to humanist art in
Australia.
Geoffrey Dutton
Clifton Pugh
Pugh’s biggest one-man show to date
at the Johnstone Gallery, Brisbane,
marks something near the high tide of
his achievement. What Pugh presents is
entirely his own ; he is not a junior
Streeton from Melbourne and though his
vision of the Australian scene is narrow
it is nonetheless authentic. To him the
native landscape is brooding, menacing,
hostile and often cruel, and, as in “The
Old Slipway,” eventually a conquering
force. In this work Pugh is fully explicit,
whereas his artistic forebears left the
vision implicit in the presentation.
“Presence of Strathbogie Ranges” is a
cruel landscape of massive rocks in con-
flicting angular forms rendered in strident
ochre which leaves man without hope of
survival. To emphasise this chant of
doom in a major key Pugh uses as
symbols of the brutality of the genius
loci a range of faunal forms, jet black
sinister crows, often in masses of
rhythmic black, ghostly white water-
birds, rancorous bulls, owls with timeless
devastating immobility (I feel I’m being
stared at), wild dogs, a wild cat (“Memory
of a Feral Cat”) beautifully painted with
all 20 claws faithfully rendered project-
ing from the toes. This faunal symbolism
heightens the dramatic effect of the
generally arid, forbidding landscape.
All this can be overdone: in “Dailan
and the Owls” the wonder and terror
in the child’s eyes under the menace of
the greyest of grey owls are far too
explicit. But the sincerity of the reaction
to a certain set of physical conditions is,
within the narrow range of the vision,
convincing. The artist mellows, and a
voice in a minor key is heard in “A
Piece of my World.” Around the bleach-
ing bones of a dead animal nature is
weaving a grave sheet of pale blossom
and a tender foliage of pity.
In much of the work there is an
after-thought of gentleness. In the fore-
ground of “Receding Tide” the delicacy
of the foliage blunts the timeless stare
of the tireless sea-birds, while the
exquisite pattern of “To Judith Wrights
‘Egrets’ ” surpasses, if that is possible,
the poem. Apparently Pugh himself
seeks relief from the menace of his
primary vision in a landscape of semi-
abstract impressionism, “Red Robin. ’
This is good painting, modest, but nicely
felt and a solace in the midst of horror.
And this sense of a quieter, less appre-
hensive feeling is found in “Black
Bullocks” who fill the whole of the
central foreground with their Cimmerian
blackness with in the background a
kinder land sloping away up to the
horizon under a smooth pasture of
bleaching yellowing grass dotted with
quietly browsing black bullocks appa-
rently quite unrelated to the foreground
specimens. This might have been painted
by Withers or McCubbin.
There are also six exquisite miniature
landscapes about Bin. by 4in., a set,
“Swamp Birds” delicate and flawless in
glossy enamel finish in grey, transparent
azure and tender green.
J.V.D.


also a poet of profundity and intelli-
gence. In the process, even the intona-
tion of the verse changes. The early
dexterity which sometimes soured into
acidulous cleverness:—
Walking in a tight herd the odd safari
comes
wearing incongruous elegance of
spring fashions,
“Is my face on right, dear?” Silk
stockings harnessed to their
bums
buck on high heels. And squeezing
under rubber foundations
giggles the uneasy blood .. .
takes on (in “Soledades of the Sun
and Moon”) a noble breadth and varia-
tion of pace:—
Cradles of earth receive the sala-
mander
But once at most in any generation ;
Once in an age a desert tribe sur-
prises
The solitary bird, the burning tree ;
Innocent of their state, the poets
wander,
Seeking the kindred of their incarna-
tion,
Waste land and homeless sea.
Phosphor declining as Orion rises
May for a brief hour break his iso-
lation,
The dying Phoenix see
New Phoenix blazing in her nest of
spices.
It is dangerous for any poet to
achieve a scandalous success when he
begins to write; all the more to Hope’s
credit that he now transcends that
success.
Who is Sylvia ?
One of the most discussed of recent
women novelists, particularly in the
land of her birth (New Zealand), is
Sylvia Ashton-Warner. Her first two
novels. “Spinster” and “Incense to
Idols,” have, through the sale of film
rights and royalties, drafted so many
dollars to New Zealand as to cause (so
one enthusiast declares) flutterings in
Wall Street. Anyhow, who is Sylvia
and how is it that the literary swains
of U.S.A. commend her and those of
her own land condemn her?
Even the gossip-hunters can hardly
enlighten us. The nearest one would-
be interviewer could get to her was by
phone at Tauranga when a “light, sweet
voice” stated that it was her policy
not to give interviews. She did admit
over the wires that she considered her
second book better than “Spinster.”
but that she “still might get a slather-
ing from the critics.”
In this she was both right and wrong.
The book lifted “lime” to ecstasy
(rated among the ten best books of the
year). “Newsweek” to a lesser degree
(no slathering); even the conservative
“Saturday Review,” though critical,
commented on the “compelling under-
currents” of this most extraordinary
novel. In New Zealand the two most
important sources of critical reviewing,
“The Listener” and the Auckland
“Star.” were not encouraging, the
former tepid and the latter angry (after
the first book “a cruel disappoint-
ment”).
“Incense to Idols” is bizarre;
nothing more extraordinary has been
written in New Zealand. Even “Robin
Hyde” or Eve Langley in their most
acute stage of other-worldness would
not have approximated it. Imagine,
say. a writer lifting, say. the Rue de
l’Amiral Mouchez from Paris to
Waipukurau and with it two crazy
musicians, one a drink-hungry volup-
tuary, a modern version of the whore of
Babylon, and mix them up (inside and
outside of blankets) with a doctor, a
businessman, a drunk and a clergyman
and you have some idea of the explo-
sive properties invoked by Sylvia
Ashton-Warner. Most remarkable,
however, is that the book is liberally
sprinkled with biblical allusions and
quotations. So. with Bible in one hand
and a pernod in the other, the author
sets her stage for the story that has
now been seized by Hollywood for
exploitation on the screen.
I doubt if 20th-Century Fox will
care much for the Biblical significance
that the author has conveyed in a very
dim way to a discerning reader. I can
visualise an off-beat Debussy at Holly-
wood orchestrating the Lamentations of
Job against the shrill arpeggios of the
sex-obsessed alcoholic who is the lead-
ing figure of the story. I can see her
sitting drunken and bemused in church,
drinking in the nasal intonations of
some reincarnated Clark Gable.
The story is told in the form of an
interior monologue, at times annoy,
ingly repetitive. Even so it is a novel
of uncommon penetration, and, in spite
of many faults, including one unfor-
tunate lapse into the horrible, has
touches of genius. It is in no way com-
parable to the charm, the humanity and
readableness of “Spinster.” It is more
for the psychologist or for the literary
dilettante who delights in the arcane
explorations of a Joyce, a Bernanos or
a Huysmans.
All this leaves us with the conviction
that Sylvia Ashton-Warner is a most
interesting personality. Working with
a fine comb. I find that in private life
she is Mrs Keith Henderson, wife of
the headmaster of a Maori School near
Tauranga; has two sons and a daughter,
all married and making her a grand-
mother thrice over. She loves music,
French poetry and the Bible. In case
my reference to pernod conveys a
wrong impression, it should be empha-
sised that Mrs Henderson is fond of
scones (she bakes her own. and I hear
they are grand) and tea.
Pat Lawlor
Atom Age Novel
The Blinding Light. Heinrich Schirm-
beck. Collins. 265.
In their advertisements the pub-
lishers rightly compare this novel with
“Dr Zhivago” and “The Leopard.”
and acclaim it as “the finest novel from
Germany since Thomas Mann.” It is
an extraordinary book, full of intricate
and various symbolism, yet compelling
as a story and clearly and beautifully '
written in the English translation by
Norman Denny.
While writers the world over have,
wondered how they should portray the
dilemmas of the nuclear age, Schirm-.
beck, a man quite obviously learned.,
in many disciplines, a truly European ■
man whose reading has embraced most j
of the great literatures, a scientific
historian of distinction, has gone ahead f
and written a novel that seems to enj [(
compass every contingency anyone has (
thought of. Its nearest parallels
thought and approach seem to me tcb
be the English Metaphysical poets oL
the 16th and 17th centuries. L
Its protagonist is Thomas Grey. who 5
rebels against the family business ot f
the silk trade on the river “Charonne,
and, following the “Armagnac mva-j
sion of his country and a
personal upheaval, goes to “Sybans j
[Paris] and becomes the favorite P U P ! I
of the famous physicist, the “Prince [
Bary.” De Bary's genius has made P os
sible the elaborate calculations require I
for nuclear fission. 1
At one level the plot concerns t |
efforts made by ruthless politicians a ' t
scientists to wrest from De
institute information which they des >
to use purely for political and nun


Loses. But the resistance Grey, De
L and others make to these
'ichinations is most subtly shown to
compatible with their belief that the
Mings of science should not be kept
[ret—this is a world, an enormously
jphisticated world, in which the atom
lies, the “Rosenbleuths,” a married
Lie executed by the “Anglo-
Jxons,” are by no means straight
lains; a world in which Grey, at his
ost unshakeable, can flirt with the
isiness propositions of “Pablo,”
lose advertising agency is almost
rfainly a spy headquarters.
Mingled with this drama is the story
the women in Grey's life: first,
Iberta, his girl from the slums who
id to him: “I hate you, you silly,
itty boy, you millionaire’s child with
conscience!”
This unconsummated affair is dis-
ivered by his aunt, who sends him
“Morly” to study. Only later he
iscovers that Alberta is his half-sister,
id although to some extent she has her
tequent importance in the book,
ien as a dream figure, he does not see
:ragain. Alberta provides yet another
I the book's side-tracks—what is the
won for the present-day obsession
ith incest of so many European
liters? One cannot lightly accuse
lusil, Durrell or Schirmbeck of mere
shionableness, and once the question
asked one immediately thinks of at
ast four fascinating and plausible
iswers.
Then there is Moira Graham, Grey's
iet-dancer mistress who keeps him
iriiig his years of poverty and whom
f virtually destroys. Her ballets
we through the book, the symbols
(tortuous symbols. Her friends the
Hstentialists exist along with her
ifflds the “Absurdists,” and each
pP seems alike, but Schirmbeck has
® reasons, surely, for the distinction.
are many other women of great
•portance to the book but not neces-
% of sexual importance to Thomas
,e y> but the most central of them all
Giselle, the blind girl, daughter of
j ll . Beck, the founder of a new
"tion. At her most obvious and cer-
% most important level of symbol-
-1 Giselle, whose total blindness is
sterical and capable of brief remis-
stands for the limitations of what
111 is capable of seeing, understand-
'and profiting by.
invents names for some
°Pie and places and not for others.
Ie device enables him to relate
'jntial facts about recent history
tout binding him summarily to
tol dates and events, and by its use,
ta can present a marvellous
«stry of cultural patterns and of
°ncal resemblances without being
to ,e d to history. But I suspect there
tore to it than this.
Nancy Keesing
Sharpeville
Shooting at Sharpeville. Ambrose
Reeves. Gollancz. 18s.
Watching a group of N.B.C. corres-
pondents discussing what they regarded
as the most significant events of 1960,1
was at first surprised that none of them
mentioned “The Agony of South
Africa,” as Bishop Reeves so aptly sub-
titles his book. Then I remembered the
hypnotic cold-war game all the nations
play and the comfortable obsession we
have with power politics. Just for a
moment last year the world’s attention
was focused on the March 21 events at
Sharpeville; then, after a respectable
interval, it was forgotten. But it was
—and will be—too important to forget.
Bishop Reeves has divided his book
into three sections: the background to
Sharpeville; the shooting; and extracts
from the abortive and face-saving
Commission of Enquiry. There are 30
well-chosen photographs taken on the
day of the shooting which, if nothing
had been written, would show clearly
that the South African police had no
reason for firing on the peaceful crowd
of natives surrounding the police
station. They murdered 67 and
wounded 186 who had gathered in what
has been described as a “picnic”
atmosphere.
More than half of the victims were
shot in the back—some as far away
from the police as 150 yards. How did
it happen? Colonel Pienaar gave an
order for the police to load, while the
natives watched with excited interest,
and someone (the Commission never
established who) said “Fire,” and the
natives ran: —-
The firing seems to have gone on
for some 40 seconds or more.
During that time 705 rounds were
fired, seven men firing ten rounds
each with their rifles, and one man
firing twelve rounds. At least four
men fired twelve rounds each from
their revolvers, and one man fired
nine. In each case the man con-
cerned must have fired all six rounds
from his magazine, broken open his
revolver, taken the cartridges from
his pocket or pouch and reloaded.
Several of the Sten-gunners appeared,
according to the returns, to have
fired two complete magazines, one
having reloaded and fired seven
rounds from a third magazine. Two
policemen, not satisfied with firing
two complete magazines from their
Sten-guns, then changed from Sten-
guns to their revolvers and fired six
rounds from them.
Why did it happen? Sharpeville was
only one, the most tragic and ruthless,
of a series of incidents brought about
through Dr Verwoerd’s desire to hold
the nine million native peoples in
economic, geographic, religious and
social subjugation. The “reference
books” are the bureaucratic means by
which Dr Verwoerd’s police state en-
forces obedience. In a native’s refer-
cnee book is his name, tax-receipt, per-
mit to be in an urban area and seek
work there, Labor Bureau permits, the
monthly signature of his employer and
other just as harassing particulars.
Each native must show his reference
book on demand to any policeman—
failure to produce it normally results
in a jail detention of 30 days. In
1957, for example, roughly 366,000
Africans were convicted for infringe-
ments against the “pass-law.”
For those who are interested. Bishop
Reeves’s book is the quickest way to
understanding the plight of the native
peoples of South Africa and is a docu-
mentary of the democratic manner in
which Dr Verwoerd’s Saracen tank
Government rules.
Peter Kelly
A Light of Lebanon
Kahlil Gibran: A Self-Portrait. Heine-
man. 12s.
Kahlil Gibran (1883-1931) is a con-
siderable figure. Poet, critic, painter,
philosopher, he is in the front rank of
the Arab world of letters and Lebanon’s
most distinguished literary figure. Yet
in the West he is relatively unknown,
even though he lived for twenty years
in the United States and some fifteen
works of his were published there.
Part of the reason is that the quality
of his mind is alien to the West. Un-
like thought in Europe, with the use
it makes of reason to analyse the
external world, Gibran’s, like that of
most orientals, is more concerned with
intuitive explorations of the inner self.
A further reason is that his language is
Arabic, the classical medium of the
Koran, and it is not readily shaped to
contemporary idioms. In translation it
often appears stilted and obscure,
vaguely reminiscent of Fitzgerald’s
rendering of Omar Khayyam.
His “Self-Portrait” is a collection of
letters written in the period 1904 to
1930 to his family, to his editor and to
a Lebanese woman author with whom
he formed an extraordinary friendship.
The letters, translated by Anthony R.
Ferris, are each accompanied by help-
ful notes explaining details of his life,
his expulsion from Lebanon for
heresy, for example, and his excom-
munication from the Maronite Church.
It is doubtful if the letters add much
to his stature, but they do provide an
intimate picture of a strangely gifted
man, lonely, ill at ease in the modern
world, longing to end his exile and
return home.
Of New York he wrote in 1925:
“Many a time I have fled from this
awful city to a remote place to be away
from the people and from the shadow
of myself. The Americans are a mighty
people who never give up or get tired
or sleep or dream. If these people hate
someone they will kill him by negli-
gence, and if they like or love a person


they will shower him with affection. He
who wishes to live in New York must
be a sharp sword in a sheath of honey.
The sword is to repel those who are
desirous of killing time and the honey
is to satisfy their hunger.”
Douglas Terry
Unorthodox Soldier
Hired to Kill, John Morris. Hart-
Davis and Cresset. 31s.
In the days of the old Indian Army
each of the ten regiments of Gurkha
Rifles was nicknamed after its outstand-
ing characteristic. Thus the Ist G.R.
were called earnest; the 2nd idle; the
9th snobbish; the 10th alcoholic; and
so on. Surprisingly, the nicknames
seemed to fit; at any rate, they were
accepted and never argued about.
Now that two former British officers
of the Gurkhas have written their
memoirs, though, old ideas seem to
have gone with the wind. In “Bugles
and a Tiger” John Masters showed
that the 4th were not as strait-laced as
we once believed, and now John
Morris has effectively shattered the 3rd
G.R.’s reputation for illiteracy.
Now controller of the 8.8. C. Third
Programme, Morris describes the first
part of his life, when he was a regular
officer in the Indian Army. The exact
opposite of Masters (the conventionalist
—Wellington, Sandhurst, athletics and
good looks), Morris came into the
Army as a temporary officer in War I
(wrong schooling, bank-clerk, unath-
letic and—to crown all horrors—wear-
ing glasses), transferred to the Gurkhas
after the war and stayed on with them
because, as he frankly and unaffectedly
admits, he started a homosexual liaison
with his Gurkha orderly.
To anyone with limited knowledge
of Gurkhas, this personal confession
seems to be a contradiction in terms.
You could expect the hardy little rifle-
men to be liable to most forms of
human error; they may well have been
vain, arrogant, murderous or blas-
phemous at all times, and also (though
only away from battle or parade)
drunken, slothful and boastful. That
comes within the acknowledged pre-
rogative of a fighting man. which is
what all Gurkhas were. Inversion,
though, is the last thing I should have
thought them subject to —to an outside
observer it is completely out of charac-
ter. Morris says it wasn't—he should
know, if anyone does —and explains his
reactions without scruple or diffidence.
The book is partly about the 1922
Everest expedition on which Morris
served as transport-officer, and (besides
describing conditions in France and
Palestine during War I) deals with the
north-west frontier. Tibet and Chinese
Turkestan; but mainly, like Masters,
Morris writes about life in a small
(Continued on next page)
The Castaways of Port Stephens
In the month of September, 1790, ran
away five men
from the settlement at Port Jackson —-
John
Tarwood, George Lee, George Conno-
wav, Joseph Sutton
and Watson (another John); and were
not heard of again.
That they seized a boat and provisioned
her is certain ;
slipped away on a night without moon,
moving stealthily down harbor, oar-
blades bound with rags.
None of the five had any knowledge of
navigation.
Having had some recent experience as
fishermen,
had acquired a limited knowledge of tides
and the run
of currents in the harbor. And having
access to boats,
ship’s gear and such, took advantage of
the occasion.
It is now five full years later,, and
September again ;
and who should be miraculously restored
to their kind but these men,
or four of them, by a most extraordinary
act of Providence —
if you will excuse the pun —for the
Providence brought them in.
Now they are celebrities, with no lack
of louts to listen,
gape-mouthed with wonder, at all they
have seen and done.
Even the Governor, newly landed (he was
aboard the Reliance),
is lenient toward them, on account of
the useful information
they afford him, of coal to be found in
the region
about the Harbor of Port Stephens, site,
of their sojourn ;
and intelligence concerning the demeanor
of the Blacks
whose language is wholly different from
the tribes of Port Jackson ;
and who, without any hostility, took them
in
and, in fact, revealed an astonishingly
pacific disposition
towards them, even adopting them into
their tribe,
bestowing new names upon them. AH
except Sutton
who, because of the suffering and near-
starvation
endured during the voyage, died. These
unworthy men
stick to a tale one finds it very hard to
believe,
that the Blacks regarded them as some
kind of lost relation
restored from the dead. Picture it if you
can —
a wrecked boat on a sandy shore, and
five sodden,
bearded figures wallowing waterlogged
in the shallows,
one already a corpse. Clothing filthy and
torn.
Rolling there face down under a broiling
sun,
sand in their mouths. And these the
natives came upon
and immediately, incredible as it may
seem,
leapt to the most extraordinary conclu-
sion ;
that they were gods or something similar,
divine,
returned from the sea to visit them again.
What utter simplicity of mind and heart!
It baffles me !
Completely beggars any adequate descrip-
tion !
A h well, here is a paradoxical reverse in
their station
in life. From being sentenced to trans-
portation,
escape, and are succored, and come to be
regarded
as the reincarnated spirits of blackmen.
The Providence, of twenty-eight guns;
Captain Broughton,
Master ; meeting with bad weather was
driven past Port Jackson
far to the north, and making the Harbor
of Port Stephens,
found and received aboard these four
miserable men
)
and promptly returned them to civilisa-
tion.
It is astonishing how firmly they stick to
their narration
which, I am bound to say, if it moves my]
doubts but little,
at least gives cause for admiration
if only for its ingenuity. Listen — 1
One of the four, having learned the
language, put a question
to a fellow who insisted he was his father
returned
and had come back to him, while-
skinned, in person.
To the place where his father's corpse
was burned he was taken
to convince him. But, / nearly forgot —,
the question.
“There are,’’ said he, “most immense
numbers of white people beyond the
sea.
Of these what do you say then ?”
And the black-skinned, naked savage
who had never been \
beyond the north arm of the bay on foot , j
or in mind even, ... I
instantly replied: “They are the spirits
of our countrymen . „,
who have migrated to another region-
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” liox 2671, «.I\o., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
j n£ jian cantonment. This allows him
yi rein in assessment of the eccentrics
_ a ll a little larger than life—who spent
most of their service there, highly
efficient in their own sphere, but out
of touch with the main stream of life.
Most interesting to me was the
account Morris gives of the value
placed on precedence and rank by the
regimental matrons of the Gurkhas. In
King’s regiments we missed this
side of India, because we looked on
things from a different point of view.
Visiting the lovely Gurkha depot-
stations only for training (when we
camped in an orchard of blossoming
peach-trees, and the soldiers said:
“Reminds you of ’Ereford, don't it,
by damn!”), or for polo tournaments
(to which four of us subalterns would
tide two days over the hills with a string
of sixteen ponies and our appropriate
retinue kept in order by a tough, hard-
swearing transport - corporal), we
thought such places heaven on earth,
not recognising the stream of provin-
cialism which ran beneath the surface.
Pretty girls with roses in their cheeks;
regimental bands galore; shade for the
ponies between chukkers; a constant
round of hospitality; balls, parties and
good, hard play, where we just had
the edge—who could have imagined the
petty tyranny of a Mrs Fizzer behind
the scenes? Again Morris paints the
true picture in understandable colors.
The Army was a small world and,
circling the globe in the King’s service,
you were bound to come across charac-
ters of note, though possibly of no par-
ticular military importance, who were
impressive enough to be used as a
standard in assessing the accuracy of
brother officers’ powers of description.
One of these unforgettable types was
Bruce Bhalu (Bruce the Bear, as his
men of the sth Royal Gurkhas always
called him; Brigadier-General the Hon.
Charles Granville Bruce. C. 8.. M.V.0.,
OSc., LL.D., by his proper style and
htle). Here is John Morris’s account
first meeting this heroic figure:—
As he lumbered into the room,
almost breaking down the door as
he did so, I realised that no descrip-
tor could be more apt [than his
nickname]. It was typical of him
that, even before shaking hands, he
should address me in a stream of
nuent Nepali, much of it abusive
pnd obscene, after which he broke
mto roars of boyish laughter. For-
tunately I had the presence of mind
to enter into the spirit of the occa-
S'on and answered him in the same
ia oguage. . . .His somewhat juvenile
sense of humor and boisterous high
spirits were at times a source of irri-
toion, but it was impossible not to
ove him. He had the reputation of
lowing more about Gurkhas than
Anybody living, but although he
s Poke the language with the greatest
nuency it was with an almost total
msregard for the niceties of gram-
ltlar and polite speech. He knew the
narne of every man in his regiment,
together with the intimate details
of most of their private lives. He
was immensely strong, and one of his
party tricks was to tear a pack of
cards in half. His reputation was
based on ability to cover great dist-
ances without tiring, often carrying a
heavy load, and he was as much at
home in rough mountain country as
any of his Gurkhas.... His greatest
contribution to Himalayan explora-
tion, and it was considerable, was the
formation of the special corps of
Sherpa porters on whose shoulders
every subsequent expedition has
climbed.
Anyone who knew Bruce will recog-
nise at once the skill of Morris's depic-
tion. (In imagination I can see the
beloved old man again, lumbering for-
ward with a string of hearty abuse and
the same infectious laugh, whether in
the dusty austerity of camps in India,
or on the green cricket-ground at
Brecon, or in the opulence of a London
club.)
For readers who never knew the
gaiety, grandeur and servitude of those
vanished days, when you might be
called from the polo-held or dance to
sudden war against an implacable
enemy, the book is equally good read-
ing. John Morris, unorthodox as he
may seem, certainly appreciated the
basis of a soldier's trade. His unusual
approach to the subject and the con-
troversial views which he never hesi-
tates to bring forward are enough to
make his book remarkable. But it is
his power of description that makes it
so valuable, and the laughter he has
put into it that makes it a joy to read.
Rollo Gillespi:
For Gardeners
H&«tdb@©k on Trees, Shrubs and Roses.
Walter G. Hazlewood. Hazlewood
Nurseries Pty. Ltd. 18s.
The author, co-founder with his
brother, the late Harry Hazlewood, of
one of the biggest nurseries in Aus-
tralia specialising in the three subjects
under discussion, here draws upon the
experience of half a century of practi-
cal plant-raising. Preponderantly the
book deals with trees and shrubs suited
to Australian conditions. The brief
section on roses is confined to notes on
the plant’s history, and evolution, hints
on cultivation, pruning, etc.
The flowering shrub is the answer
to the problem of the gardener who
wants bright floral colors the year
round without the necessity of tedious
and time-consuming growing of
annuals. The whole range of these —
and a wide range it is, both of natives
and immigrants that flourish in their
adopted home —is dealt with most
comprehensively and clearly to provide
the home gardener, for whom it is
primarily intended, with a simple guide
as to what to put in where to get the
most pleasing results; the soil favored,
aspect, best variety, pest control and all
those things needed to get a shrub or
tree away to a good start and to keep
it healthy.
As well as instruction, the book gives
interesting jottings on name derivations.
Altogether an invaluable addition to
garden literature. It is a pity there are
no color-plates.
s. W. K.
Toowoomba Prizes
The “Toowoomba Chronicle,”
which will be 100 years old on July
16. 1961, is offering prizes in literature
and art to mark the occasion: £l5O
for a short story, £25 for a poem of
about 50 lines or less and not more
than 100 lines, with minor prizes in
both cases.
Entries must reach the “Toowoomba
Chronicle” not later than April 28,
1961. The judges will be Professor
A. K. Thomson, Dr Val Vallis and
David Rowbotham.
An art contest will carry total prize-
money of £300—£250 for the best
landscape in any medium by an Aus-
tralian artist and a special prize of
£5O for the best work by an artist
residing in the Darling Downs. Lockyer
or Granite Belt areas. The judge will
be Arthur Evan Read. Entries close
on July 1, 1961.
In addition there is a film competi-
tion carrying £lBO prize money and a
national photographic competition
which offers £B5. There will be no
entry fee in any competition. Entry-
forms and details from the editor. “The
i oowoomba Chronicle,” Margaret
Street, Toowoomba.
Mary Gilmore Award
Judges for the 1961 Mary Gilmore
novel competition, for a prize of £2OO.
are: Mr Alan Marshall, Mr J. D.
Kenny, M.L.C. (senior vice-president
of the Australian Council of Trade
Unions and secretary of the N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council), and Mr J.
Beasley (editor for the Australasian
Book Society).
The award, which has now been in
existence for five years, is sponsored
by the May Day Committees of New-
castle, Melbourne and Sydney, and
many trade-unions. Manuscripts must
reach the secretary, Mrs G. Cross,
Room 75, Trades Hall, Sydney, by
Monday, May 1, 1961.


Woman
AWFUL HOUSES ... WELL SHOD ... GREETINGS ... THROW-AWAY
The Psychopathic
Atmosphere
Mr Geoffrey Callaghan and Mr John
Harre are two bewildered men. What
baffles them is how the Australian woman
can be so well organised and discriminat-
ing in her dressing and so haphazard and
uncritical in the decoration of her house.
“Haphazard isn’t the right word,” Mr
Callaghan said reflectively. “We need
something a little stronger. Disorganised?
No, that’s much the same.” “Sloppy,”
Mr Harre said firmly. “Yes,” Mr
Callaghan agreed, “when it comes to
arranging their homes Australian women
are definitely sloppy.
“It just beats me,” he added, “that a
woman who can work like all hell to
be the most glamorous dish in her street
just can't be bothered shopping properly
for things for the house.”
And who are Mr Callaghan and Mr
Harre that they can say such perfectly
awful things about Australian women?
Mr Callaghan is the director of the
color and decoration bureau set up by
a large Australian paint manufacturer,
and Mr Harre is his assistant. They are
both trained decorators and have had
experience in advertising and the furni-
ture trade.
Since the bureau opened, thousands of
women have come there to discuss their
home-decorating problems, and Mr
Callaghan and Mr Harre in the course
of their work have visited hundreds, per-
haps thousands, of homes.
They claim now that they can judge,
after a few minutes’ conversation with
a client, what district she comes from,
the approximate family income and,
often, what the husband does for a living.
“It's not that the average woman
doesn’t know what she wants or that
what she wants isn’t right for her house,”
Mr Callaghan said. “She does know
but she lacks courage. She’s afraid of
making a fool of herself. She’s afraid
of having something different from every
other woman in the street.”
“And then there’s Myrt,” Mr Harre
said. “Myrt is Gladys's best friend, and
she comes along with her when she visits
the bureau. Myrt isn’t getting a new
house in the suburbs, and she sees every-
thing with a jealous eye. Anything Gladys
says she likes, Myrt shakes her head and
says, ‘Naow, I don’t care for that.’ She
consistently steers poor Gladys towards
everything she shouldn’t have.
“Worse even than the Myrts are the
Mums. I’ve had a mother- and-daughter
team come in together, and after half a
day of getting nowhere I’ve more or
less had to tell the daughter not to come
in with Mum. Mum doesn’t approve of
the young man Daught. is going to
marry, and she certainly isn’t going to
like anything they’ll put into their home.”
Apart from this want of courage,
women, according to Mr Callaghan and
Mr Harre, lack care.
“They do the most awful things when
it comes to selecting furniture,” Mr
Harre said. “After all, it’s a fairly simple
matter. You have to consider the size
of the room, the way you want it to
look and so on.
“But take the average woman buying
a bedroom suite. Do you know why she
buys it? Probably because she likes the
knobs on the wardrobe doors. You only
have to talk to anyone in the furniture
trade to see what care they take in
designing handles and that sort of thing.
They know that’s how you sell furniture.
Or she might like the grain of the wood.
She might even buy it because she likes
the look of the salesman. Then she takes
it home and tries to fit it into a totally
unrelated room.
“And what does she get?” Mr
Callaghan asked, and answered himself.
“Not a bedroom Merely a repository
for a bedroom suite.”
Mr Callaghan is constantly surprised
that women can be so particular about
matching their clothes and so indifferent
about things for the house.
“They’ll make four trips to town to
get a hat to match a dress, but it’s a
different matter when it comes to shop-
ping for the house,” he said. “She’ll
come home with a sample for curtains,
say to herself ‘My feet are killing me,’
and the family has to live with that
awful stuff for the next ten years at
least.”
Mr Callaghan asserts that women can
be honest and truthful in every depart-
ment of their lives, but not in choosing
the things they want to live with.
“They’ll put together things which are
completely incompatible,” he says.
“They’ll put terylene, it’s always that
shiny terylene, between filthy-looking rust
chenille curtains. One woman I know
went mad for the Swedish. She had this
blond stuff everywhere, then she plumps
fat Roman satin cushions all over the
place.
“They do so many things in the home
without even thinking, just because their
mothers did it or, more often, just be-
cause their neighbors do it. They’ll buy
expensive vinyl for the kitchen floor, the
damned stuff will last a lifetime, but
they’ll throw floral scatter-rugs over it.
“And it’s not lack of money. Don’t
let anyone try to tell you it’s because
they haven’t enough money to have a
pleasant house. Usually it's because they
have too much money.
“Then they get a reproduction Chip-
pendale suite, all nicely covered in beige
tapestry and with those hideous claw feet,
like paraplegic griffins. So they have the
tapestry suite sitting on the floral carpet
Then, because the old man’s in the chips
they get an iridescent mohair rug to put
in front of the settee and on the rug
they put a coffee table.”
Mr Callaghan and Mr Harre believe
the husband should be consulted more
about the furnishing of the house.
“He might seem an awful oaf, but if
you dig down deep enough there’s some-
thing there,” Mr Callaghan said. “He
has got some preferences, some ideas and
these should be taken into consideration.
I can’t think of anything more awful
than, say, for a truck-driver to come
home after a hard day’s work and to
have to go to sleep in a feminine, frilly
bedroom.”
Apart from telling women to take their
courage in both hands, Mr Callaghan
and Mr Harre have few recommenda-
tions. They do not suggest engaging a
professional decorator.
“That’s all very well for a large public
building or something like that, but the
average house doesn’t and shouldn’t need
a decorator,” Mr Callaghan said.
Both of them insist that everything a
woman needs to furnish a home attrac-
tively and, perhaps, inexpensively can
be bought in Australia.
“The range of fabrics and furnishings
here is certainly better than in Britain
and probably also better than in most
European countries.” Mr Callaghan said.
“The trouble is that women don’t know
what they are looking for. They look
at too many things and get confused.
If I send anyone shopping for things
for her house I make up a list with her.
She goes off and only looks at the sort
of thing we have decided on. Generally
she comes home with some wonderful
things.”
And if any woman were privileged to
visit the homes of Mr Callaghan and
Mr Harre, would they find there an
expression of the ideas of these two
articulate young men? They would find
an expression, but it might not be the
expected one. )(
“My house is completely undecorated,
Mr Callaghan said cheerfully. “Nothing
has been done to it. I wouldn’t dream
of bringing up my children in the psycho-
pathic atmosphere of the decorated
house.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Fifty Pounds a Foot
Credit - squeeze or no credit - squeeze,
there are women walking round
Australia right now in shoes for which
they have paid £lOO a pair. The shoes,
made by Merli of Bologna, are of white
kid trimmed with gold and studded wit
tiny topaz-colored stones. They at o
evening-shoes, but, to be practical, its
at night that shoes face their greates


hazards, from the clumping foot of the
unskilful male dancer or from the unseen
hazard as you step from car to front
door.
Merli of Bologna is one of the world’s
most exclusive and skilful shoemakers.
Outside of Italy, his shoes are sold only
to Saks Fifth Avenue, to Neiman
Marcus of Dallas, Texas, and to Gold-
bergs, Australia. Goldbergs distribute
the shoes to several shops in Australian
States.
Merli shoes begin at £25 and most are
priced around £4O. Many of the new
season’s range have petit point or other
fine embroidery. This work is done by
nuns at a convent near Merli’s factory.
When a nun, embroidering a piece of
fabric or fine kid, is called away to
another task, another nun picks up the
same embroidery so that none of the
shoes is absolutely identical. Neither can
Signor Merli discipline the nuns into
making a complete range of one pattern.
They might make some and then switch
to a slightly different pattern.
Some of the Merli shoes are embroid-
ered in 22-carat gold thread. Others have
an all-over pattern of roses or geometri-
cal designs in multi-color Holbein stitch.
For day wear Merli has multi-color
leather pumps which cry out for an
expensive all-white outfit, a luxurious
patio, a long, cool drink and a leisured
life.
Most of the new season’s shoes follow
what has now become the classic shape.
They have fairly, but not excessively,
pointed tees and fine high heels. The
only cut-out Merli makes is at each side
of the vamp.
Italy is still way, way ahead in making
and designing shoes, but some American
styles have had quick success here. The
Americans have some of those trans-
parent plastic shoes which when first
introduced were dubbed “feet in aspic.”
They have transparent plastic heels so
that the steel pins which support the heel
are on view.
Some of the American shoes are in
pretty ice-cream-soda colors, but the
difficulty would be to find anything to
match them.
The color for next season, according
to the Italians, is Testa di Moro. It’s a
dark brownish-black. There are lots of
little flat strip sandals, trimmed with
those ancient coins which the Italians
counterfeit so skilfully. They have a
medieval look which will ill-accord with
Australian beach fashions.
Most of the imported shoes (except,
of course, the Merlis) compare in price
with the locally-made varieties, although
local production supplies most of the
market. Local shoemaking firms are
plagued by a shortage of labor. Not
enough of the Italian migrants have
found their way into shoemaking, which
is one of the most noted crafts of their
own country, to enable Australian shoes
to approach the perfection of Italian.
☆ ft ft
Strictly "S chmalz”
Australian taste in greeting-cards is
“strictly schmalz,” according to
American Miss Dorothy Gamiere. Miss
Gamiere is in Australia to confer with
executives of John Sands with whom her
company, American Greetings, works in
association.
We’re particularly “schmalzy” in the
baby department, she says. “In Australia
the baby on a christening card has got
to look like a real baby with plenty of
pink and blue,” she said “There’s no
trade for a whimsical baby.”
Miss Gamiere said that what is known
as the “highbrow” card was catching on
slowly here and might eventually make
10 per cent, of the market. The “high-
brow” is the slim ca*\l with the “Drop
dead!” tag. She said that apart from a
few national specialities, such as kanga-
roos and koalas, the bulk of greeting-
cards were the same in most countries.
Australia differed from the United States
in that 21st birthday cards were more
popular here and Valentines less so.
“We'd only sell two twenty-first birth-
day cards to your twenty,” she said.
“Twenty-first birthdays don’t mean much
in the States. We don’t celebrate with
parties or presents. Over there, you’re
an adult at sixteen and that’s all there
is to it. It could only be a country which
gets its customs from England which
could think of people not being adult
until they are twenty-one. But, then, it
might be a good idea if we didn’t come
of age until we were twenty-one. It
might stop some of those early
marriages.”
Miss Gamiere said that to build up
sales of Valentines here it would be
necessary to educate children in sending
them.
“In America children of six or seven
send perhaps forty Valentines to their
schoolfriends and playmates,” she said.
& ft ft
For Paper Dolls ?
Would anyone in Australia buy a
paper dress to wear once and throw
away? That is the question which sports-
wear manufacturers are now pondering.
Samples of the paper dresses for tennis,
which Colonel Teddy Tinling introduced
this year in London, are now in Australia.
They prove at first glance to be indis-
tinguishable from a dress made, say, of
nylon seersucker. They are well-cut,
well-stitched and in white with pastel
piping. But here lies the difficulty. They
will be on sale for this summer in Eng-
land for 15s. sterling, but with the work-
manship in them they couldn’t be sold
here for less than £2.
The fabric is called paper-plus, but
Tinling has not disclosed what the plus
constitutes. The fabric is water-repellent
but cannot be washed. It is oil- and
flame-resistant and as resistant to acids
and alkalis as cotton. The fabric seems
to stretch rather than tear, but small slits
can be repaired with cellulose tape applied
to the inside.
Paper dresses, along with pills instead
of meals and paper plates to save wash-
ing-up, were always one of the boons
promised in the housewives’ Utopia. But
so perverse are human beings that they
will most certainly go on wearing wool
or silk and in eating three-course meals
from fine china.


ABORIGINALITIES
SURVIVING PAPAWS
AJew Guinea’s Bulolo Valley m the
1930s provided strong support for
recent statements here about the papaw’s
almost animal-like instinct to live and
grow. Extensive gardens growing varied
tropical fruits and vegetables had been
developed by the Bulolo Gold Dredging
Co. in the jungle-wrapped foothills fring-
ing the vast, flat expanse of ancient river-
bed, in the gravelly bottom of which lay
gold dust. Then huge gold-dredges had
dug hundreds of acres of this fertile land
down to a depth of 80ft. piling semi-
circular furrows hundreds of yards long
and 50ft high. Not a speck of dirt, could
be seen in all this rockpile. As the land
was ripped up by the bucket-lines of the
dredges it passed through screens, riffles
“Ask to see his invitation , Alfred.”
and jigs ; during its preliminary passage
it was sprayed with high-pressure water-
jets to separate the earth from the stones
etc. From the ensuing sludge the gold
was recovered, the stones and boulders
being piled up behind. A more unsuitable
seed-bed for even a cactus could not be
imagined ; yet in it papaw-trees grew
30ft high and were loaded with fruit of
mouth-watering flavor.
A. M. Dawson.
* * * *
A GRUMBLE OF GRAZIERS
'C'uper wool's down to b y, and I've
overpledged myself to the Church to
billy-oh—why did 1 fall so hard for that
Wells mob . . .”
“I see number-four shearer has got a
brand new station sedan —mine's nearly
a bomb, it’s so old."
"Given Scotch away now wool’s down
. . . drinking Australian . . . bulk sherry
for Mum, too . . .”
“Can't afford three new balls each
tennis afternoon now —they can play with
used ones or lump it."
“That planned trip to Europe is off.
Can only afford a week at Manly now
“See there’s plenty of bacon down in
the shearers’ mess. We've cut it out up
at the homestead.”
“The shearing-contractor's wife arrived
with the bread in a newish Jag. My
missus is driving a five-year-old Morris
Minor. Wouldn’t it?”
“No expense-accounts for us poor mugs
in the bush ...”
“My station-hand is oft' to Surfer's
Paradise for his holidays . . .”
“Wish 1 was a Martin Place bludger. ’
“Me with a mob of kids, and school-
fees up again.”
“Woolpacks up again . . .”
“On present wool prices our return is
only three per cent, on capital.”
“Wool-promotion costs up again! Why
shouldn’t those urgers who live oft us —
Time of the Ibis
After every wet season in west Queens-
land —and the further west you go
the more it is apparent —the earth is a
jerking mass of baby grasshoppers. A
clutch of them might cover half an acre
or more —tight-packed, too young to fly,
too busy with food to pay attention to
other things. They strip the grass as they
leave the track of their travels ; they
bounce forward in tiny propulsions ; they
may poison the ground over which they
move —growths are slow and feeble after
they have passed. When the sun goes
down, they pack up even tighter than
bet ore, clustering in areas that could be
measured in inches where, previously,
yards were needed.
Before these 'hoppers have reached the
flying stage the straw-necked ibises come
out of nowhere. They come in their
thousands, perhaps in their hundreds of
thousands. Squads and regiments of them
move as if on the parade-ground. Stand-
ing over a couple of feet high, dressed in
what seem to be black swallowtail coats
and white vests, they make a splendid
sight. One grab of that long bill, curved
for its purpose, one gaze upwards, a shake
of the head, a ripple of the throat, and
another hopper has had it.
They dowm the 'hoppers by the hun-
dred. J. A. Leach, an authority on ibises,
reports that two men shooting into a
flock of about 240.000 of them in the
Riverina (N.S.W.) counted an average of
2000 young 'hoppers in each bird they
shot.
A part from their usefulness, there’s a
sedate beauty about a mob of ibises
on the job. They stride along as if they
owned the station ; they strike a breed-
ing patch of hen ’hoppers and run wild
in a riot of massacre. In that common
hatchery, where thousands of hens have
deposited their eggs, each sac of potential
life is an inch or so under the surface.
No trouble to the ibis: its bill is especially
adapted for the job. It lifts out a sac
of more than 1000 young ’hoppers, tilts
back its head, and the lot is gone in one
action. Then, having ravaged the
hatchery, the birds spread out and patrol
the plains.
Their occupation here is comparatively
brief. Once the sumptuous living has
ended they seem to hear a call to easier
jobs. But during the couple of months
or so of their visit they certainly accustom
themselves to station life. A bit wary of
buildings and human beings at first, they
quickly learn to tolerate man, if not to
treat him as a friend. They permit him
to observe their activities closely ; they
find the verandah of a homestead build-
ing makes acceptable shade during mid-
day heat ; they take short cuts through
open doors and down the steps at the
back of the house. They don’t presume
and become familiar: they have a certain
dignity. They suffer man as a kind of
equal—their strongest protection being
that they are not good eating, no matter
how they are dressed.
The departure of the straw-necked bird
may be foretold. There’s a rarer bird
of the ibis family—the Glossy Ibis. It
is sombre black, smudgy and plain,
smaller and lighter than the straw-
necked. It is not a communal bird in
the west —it works solo, hunting mainly
along the edges of waterholes, and its
serrated bill is made for holding such
wrigglers as small fish and shrimps. As
soon as ever a glossy bird is seen the
exodus of the straw-necks is due. I've
noted it at least half a dozen times —it
was first pointed out to me in 1906—
and I’ve never known it fail. It might be
only coincidence ; but it’s a good enough
sign to risk a bet on.
HENRY G. LAMOND


wool-brokers and agents —why shouldn’t
they dob in too?”
“Sixth floor at David Jones’s is out for
Mum now. It's sun-frocks off the rack
at Woollys now . .- .”
“Rum’s up again . . . Starting my own
still in the hills . . .”
“Was Billy Slim right?”
A. L. West
* * * *
STRONG ON FLAVOR
Trout-fishing near Kiandra (N.S.W.),
a city man had no luck at all until
he dug up some worms under a patch
of wild-growing garlic (apparently a relic
of the days when Kiandra was a busy
mining centre) The strong garlic smell
of the worms seemed to attract the trout;
the man caught so many that he is now
trying to breed worms under a patch of
garlic in his home garden to use as bait
for flathead, jewfish and any other species
that might have Continental tastes.
W. P. Thornton
% sj. V
HEAVE A BRICK
Anew addition to the seemingly endless
list of activities for people to get
competitive about is brick-throwing. The
idea comes from the Stroud (England)
Show Society, which has written to the
Stroud (N.S.W.) Shire Council to say it
hopes to have Strouds in England, Aus-
tralia. Canada and Oklahoma (U.S.)
throwing bricks on July 22 next in an
international contest. Each town is to
“ Darling, don't you love to Walk with the wind and the rain in your hair?”
have a six-man team hurling bricks as
far as they can, and the results are to
be flashed to England by radio-telephone.
Last year Oklahoma's Stroud defeated
England’s. The organisers this year will
provide a team-trophy, with medals for
best individual tosses.
J.B.
SUPER EDUCATION
A Sydney family took their holidays
down on the Snowy. They were
determined to get full educational value
out of the trip for their children. Every-
thing possible was seen, inquired into,
understood. So when, on the return
journey, one child asked, “Why’s that
plane flying so low. Dad?” the father
stopped the car and everyone got out
to investigate. Minutes later, choking
and coughing, they were back in the
car, having acquired an extra smattering
of scientific knowledge and a good
spattering of superphosphate.
P.G.
* * * *
OUT OF THE BAG
/"\ne of Tasmania's rare spells of hot
weather sent a visiting Victorian
worker in search of a waterbag. The local
storekeeper offered him the only water-
bag he knew, a rubber hot-water bottle,
and would hardly be convinced that the
canvas article described to him actually
existed and would supply cool water on
hot days. Even in Smithton’s largest
store, the Victorian found, canvas water-
bags were not stocked. The proprietor,
the only one who had ever heard of them,
assured the inquirer that to get one from
the mainland might take weeks, by which
time the weather would make it unneces-
sary.
ML.
Readers are reminded that paragraphs
—particularly about country lift are
required for ‘A boriginalities.” and that
rates of payment for these have been
raised.
That Was the Country
On a Riverina station 1 went for a
drive with the boss. Two weary, dejected
nu kes drew us across miles of grey plain,
as bare of grass as the cranium of Charles
the Bald, to one of the tanks. Here was
camped a curious specimen of humanity
short ol legs, long of arms, fdthy
beyond description a casual dwarf,
whose duty it was to drag out sheep that
had become bogged in the tank. “How
manv today?” “Seventy-nine, Boss, so far."
The heaps of skins, the long-drawn-out
“Coor, Corn,” ol the crows as they drop-
ped or rose heavily, the sickening smell
and the barren waste, and the stumpy,
professional dragger-out were a picture.
Another small, dirty tent was half-hidden
in a bit of brush. “Is that part of the
dwarf’s camp?” I asked. “No; a rabbiter’s.
He went away to get married this week.”
“Good God! Is he coming back?” “Yes, he
brings his bride with him tomorrow or
the next day.” Then I fainted and re-
membered no more.
— “Bulletin”, April 30, 1908.
I think I can tell you what the blacks
use to stop the bleeding of a wound, and
to cause its speedy healing. When (rap-
ping some years ago with dad, I severed
the big vein in my forearm with a gut-
knife. When father had wiped the blood
out of his eye, he pulled a handful of
leaves from a eucalyptus tree, chewed
them into a pulp, clapped it on (he
wound, and bandaged it on with a piece
of his shirt. The bleeding stopped in-
stantly, and about six days later there
Was just a faint mark where the cut had
been.— “ Bulletin”, February 6, 1908,
1 si ruck the champion idiot weight-
lifter recently. Whilst in (he Gilgandra
(N.S.W.) district, 1 visited a sleeper-cut-
ters’ camp. The men were employing
their after dinner interval discussing
busted records and other feats of endur-
ance, when a huge, shaggy individual,
with the constitution of a working bul-
lock, volunteered to carry three sleepers
100 paces and return the same distance.
After lurching unsteadily up the straight,
to the open-mouthed astonishment of the
crowd, someone hazarded a sovereign that
he could not increase the load one sleeper
and still perform the feat. I'he speculator
lost his sovereign. To vary the proceed-
ings he carried buckets of water, etc., for
various distances. Just as I was leaving, I
discovered this human screw-jack hitched
onto a stout sapling- which would have
taken a traction-engine to lift. A pair of
trace chains were fastened securely around
his hairy neck, whilst a big, blue vein
stood out on his brow, the thickness of
the MiF.B/s largest hose, and he was pull-
ing like all Gehenna for ss.
—" Bulletin”, April 30, 1908,
BARRIER REEF OBSERVATION
No one could possibly be immoral
On a bed of coral.
Jan Healy.


MAN
LAND
The Former's Backroom Boys
By S. W. KEOUGH
TPo anyone who lives in the
A 20th century, when life is
touched at every point by
science, it seems odd that for
the 100 years from 1790, when
the first 300 bushels of wheat
were grown in the infant
Colony, no attempt was made
to organise agriculture.
It was not until the ravages
of rust so drastically slashed the
wheat yield towards the end of
the ’eighties that mounting
alarm led to the formation of
the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture.
Science immediately began
to dig its toes in under the
stimulating influence of Dr N.
A. Cobb, its first pathologist
and zoologist, who, until he
left in 1905 to do research into
sugar-cane disease in Hawaii,
laid the foundation for the
work on identification and con-
trol of plant diseases which has
gone on ceaselessly since then.
Scientific research gained
impetus from the work of F.
B. Guthrie, our first agricul-
tural chemist of note. Walter
Froggatt also did notable work
as the Department's chief ento-
mologist from 1896 to 1923.
When G. P. Darnell-Smith, a
dapper, bowler-hatted English-
man, arrived to become the
chief botanist, bunt in wheat
was a major menace ; seed was
at that time subjected to the
tedious method of being pickled
in bluestone, dried and then
dipped in lime. His great con-
tribution to agricultural science
was the dry-dusting of wheat-
seed with copper-carbonate—
a method which was adopted
by all the world’s major wheat-
producing countries.
William Farrer came from
his farm to plug away steadily
and with eminent success at
rust- and drought - resistant
wheat - strains. Others were
branching out towards research
into dairy bacteriology, viti-
culture, suitability of waters,
etc.
The Department’s Division
of Science Services is now
housed in a magnificent new
building at Rydalmere, on the
outskirts of Parramatta. There,
in laboratories carrying the
latest equipment, dozens of
scientists carry on the unend-
ing war against insect and virus
under the leadership of Dr C.
J. Magee, the man who,
straight from his Sydney Uni-
versity graduation at 22, solved
the problem of bunchytop in
bananas and saved growers—-
and the State —millions of
pounds.
In the field of chemistry, one
of the Department’s most im-
portant developments recently
inaugurated is on - the - spot
water-analysis. Until lately a
farmer who wanted to know
whether the water on his
property would be harmful to
either stock or crops had to
submit to delays while it was
tested by the old evaporation
method. If he took a risk and
did not await results he might
lose a valuable herd or acres of
lucerne.
The development of a special
kit by the Division of Science
Services has dramatically
altered the picture for the man
on the land. Each of the nine
Regional Officers at strategic-
ally-placed headquarters and
equipped with this “do-it-your-
self” type outfit, can within
from five to ten minutes give
the farmer either the green or
the red fight, and also let him
know whether the water is
deficient or otherwise in salt,
magnesium, calcium, etc. It is
the principle of conductivity
applied in the most modem
manner.
On the biological side, culti-
vation of bacteria for manifold
uses, and particularly for pas-
ture-improvement, plays a large
part in laboratory activities.
These bacteria are grown on
agar - jelly. Sub - clovers and
tropical legumes, treated with
bacteria which, invading the
roots, form nodules which
assist the plants to draw nitro-
gen out of the air, have greatly
enriched our naturally poor
native grasslands. These bac-
teria-fed nitrogenous pastures
are the source of the proteins
which build healthy meat on
animals and the milk proteins
in dairy-cattle.
One of the most important
aspects of biological research
with which the Division is at
present concerned is the inci-
dence of black-spot in apples.
This fungus is costing Austra-
lia about £2m. each year. Now
that protective sprays have been
developed, there are bright
prospects of a major break-
through here. There have been
most encouraging results in
attempts to break the cycle of
the fungus, and once this is
achieved the patient work of
years will be rewarded.
Blue mould on tobacco, and
yellow-top disease in tomatoes
—two of the most stubborn in-
festations in the plant world-
are being given ever-increasing
attention, but are only slowly
revealing their secrets; but
these problems cannot possibly
be solved overnight.
The answer to both could be
accidentally hit upon, but this
is not likely. By painstakingly
putting together all the clues
that have been ferreted out by
sheer persistence, biologists
will, if the usual pattern is fol-
lowed, eventually triumph in
these fields.
Serious crop-losses caused by
infestation of roots by para-
sitic eel worms (nematodes) is
another item on the plant-
biologist’s long list of tasks yet
to be accomplished. Another
is virus-disease in grapes and
citrus fruits. Others are molyb-
denum deficiency in rock-
melons and lettuce, and bean-
scald. Solutions to all these
and related problems are being
attacked methodically and by
close teamwork.
A second - grade butter
puzzlingly appears where there
should be first-grade, and im-
mediately the dairy-bacteriolo-
gist goes to work. Test-tube
and microscope track it down.
It might be anything from
faulty water-supply to a none-
too-clean churn.
Not every dairy farmer sticks
rigidly to the letter of the
regulations. One might decide
to send his whoierrailk to the
cheese factory without waiting
the necessary four days after
having given a cow penicillin ;
some people are allergic to anti-
biotics. Cheese starters form
another important section of
the biologist's work.
The Queensland fruit - fly»
which for decades has been
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Moderate to reasonably good rains are likely in
Queensland during March, with heavy falls along part of
the north coast and good rains extending into far-western
areas, though patchy on the Darling Downs and in part of
the Maranoa and Warrego. Flooding is probable in the
south-west of the State. Heavy rains should continue along
the north coast in April, with good falls along the south
coast.
N.S.W. should have general rains in March, with heavy
falls and consequent flooding along the Central Coast, on
the Central Highlands and in central-western and north-
western districts. Reasonably good general rains should
continue in April and May, although rainfall may be patchy
in the second half of the year.
Rainfall is likely to be patchy in Victoria during
March, apart from moderate falls in Gippsland, the central
division and north-eastern districts, and along the west
coast. However, general rains should follow in April and
May.
In South Australia there should be good rains in the
interior and lower north during March, although falls may
be light elsewhere. Good rains are likely in the agricultural
areas during April, although there may be only light to
moderate patchy rains in the interior.
Western Australia can expect general rains in March,
with heaviest falls about the East Gascoyne and along the
north-west coast. Heavy rains awe likely in the West Kim-
berleys during April, with good falls in the agricultural
areas. These rains will probably be heaviest between Perth
and Esperance, and falls may be patchy elsewhere in the
State.
Tasmania is likely to have only light or moderate
patchy rains, below normal, during March, although better
falls should come in April, with well distributed rainfall to
follow during the winter.
LENNOX WALKER.


f
THE
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
24th March-4th April, 1961
Don't miss the greatest spectacle
of the year. At the 1961 Royal
Easter Show you will see our
finest, stock on parade, cattle
judging, wood chopping, primary
and secondary industry
exhibits and a feature-packed
programme of special ring
events, including trotting.
Come to the 1961 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS -8 NIGHTS
SHAVE—FASTER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
Yes. Wherever you may he and at anv time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard batteries give months of easy
shaving. MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Guaranteed.
Complete same day service. Adjustments only . . . free
. at any time.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver MOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
OST FREE
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
&
one of horticulture’s headaches
along the eastern seaboard, and
completely out of hand in the
area around Sydney, is now
being attacked simultaneously
on two fronts.
Potent though the latest
sprays may be, Department of
Agriculture entomologists are
not relying exclusively on
Rogor and Lebaycid sprays to
knock the fly out before it can
develop resistance to them. A
more subtle approach is the
luring of male flies into traps
containing a mixture of pyre-
thrum and malathion.
With fewer males, the fruit-
fly population will fall rapidly
—or so it is hoped. Anyway,
the experimental lures which
the Department’s entomologists
have set up every 100yds or so
at Windsor are winners so far
—the male flies are knocking
other insects out of the way to
get to them.
That age-old and voracious
enemy of man, the grasshopper,
has not been left out of the en-
tomologist’s calculations. This
insect will survive, of course,
but his progress will be res-
tricted. If he can dodge death
from dieldrin sprayed from
low-flying planes, and benzine
hexachloride, the boffins of the
Division of .Science Services
will have something else ready
for him.
All told, these biologists,
entomologists, chemists and
botanists are making it tougher
and tougher for all the wogs
and diseases which threaten our
food supply. As their accorn-
plishments have proved, they
are as highly skilled as any
scientists anywhere. And the
laboratories and equipment in
their new home, which is to be
officially opened in a month or
two, will help them greatly in
their dedicated work.
Standards for Agricultural Machinery
IX7ith increased mechanisa-
’ * tion, farmers are becom-
ing more and more aware of
the need for a degree of
standardisation. They have
found that wearing parts of
similar-type equipment made
by different manufacturers are
not interchangeable, and that
there are different types and
sizes of other component parts,
particularly nuts and bolts.
Such things as wire-reels for
haybalers are also not of a
standard size.
A problem also exists of
assessing performance of im-
plements and components of
the same classification but of
different makes, to determine
which is best fitted for a pur-
pose. It is also difficult to
assess the quality of things like
galvanised products and milk-
ing-machine rubbers.
These problems are not new
but are growing with modern
farming methods. As far back
as 1936 the Standards Associa-
tion of Australia convened a
meeting of interested parties to
initiate a programme of stan-
dardisation of wearing parts of
agricultural machinery. Under
the chairmanship of Sir George
Julius, it was attended by
representative interests from all
States —Government authori-
ties, educational and research
bodies, primary producers’
organisations and manufac-
turers.
The conference, held in Mel-
bourne, was unanimously
in favor of a compre-
hensive standardisation pro-
gramme and recommended
appointment of a special com-
mittee for the detailed work
and referred a series of items
for the committee’s attention,
The S.A.A. (Standards Asso-
cialion of Australia) established
a representative sectional corn-
mittee under the chairmanship
of Professor S. M. Wadham to
prepare the necessary standard
specifications,
Parts considered for stan-
dardisation by this committee
included: certain patterns of
plough feet ; knife sections for
mowers and binders ; points
for rigid- and spring-tyne cul-
tivators and for scarifier
cultivators ; teeth and bolts for
diamond harrows ; threads for
grease - cups, oil - cups and


GENUINE
ws&mmw
REGD.
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
are now freely available
from all good Stores
INSIST ON GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS!
If you have any difficulty please contact:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon W 5, Victoria
PHONE: FX4747
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICK!NS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
HECTme LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
The Guide for the Investor
THE WILD CAT MONTHLY
Price 21- per single copy . . . 22/6 a year, post free
Subscription Department: Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
grease-nipples; and disks for
disk ploughs.
During the period of its acti-
vities the committee sent out a
questionnaire to primary pro-
ducers and others throughout
Australia and obtained some
useful data. A progress report
(M.P.3—1938) was issued
describing the work in hand,
but the outbreak of war limited
the S.A.A.’s activities and in
1940 the committee was sus-
pended. At the time a number
of technical standards were at
the stage of advanced prepara-
tion. But the committee has
never been reformed.
The progress report explains
some of the difficulties encoun-
tered, even for standardisation
of wearing parts. Although the
report indicates that the S.A.A.
had secured the assent of
manufacturers to fixing stan-
dards for certain spare parts,
the standards were never
adopted in practice.
Most Australian manufac-
turers are associated, one way
or another, with overseas prin-
cipals and a fair amount of
equipment is still imported,
much of it in pieces for local
assembly. The general excuse
for not being able to stan-
dardise to local specifications
is that the various Australian
firms are so tied to the manu-
facturing standards of their
principals that it is difficult, if
not impossible, to effect
changes in design for the Aus-
tralian market. Manufacturers
also explain that there is a con-
tinuing need for replacement
parts of existing machinery,
which makes it necessary to
maintain original specifications.
In recent years the S.A.A.
has received many letters from
farmers’ organisations asking
that something be done about
standardisation of nuts and
bolts, and threaded fasteners
generally. The main problem
for the farmer seems to be the
necessity for having different
sets of spanners for the differ-
ent types of nuts and bolts in
use. These include British
types (B.S.W. and 8.5. F.), the
former American types (S.A.E.
and A.N.C.), the new British-
American standard types
(U.N.C. and U.N.F.), and now
even some metric threads from
Continental makers. Several
years ago certain changes were
made in the B.S.W. and B.S.F.
series, causing some difficulties
for those using that one range.
The new “unified” thread of
the English-speaking world is
now well established and un-
doubtedly represents the single
standard which will ultimately
be adopted by industry in all
English - speaking countries.
This change may, however,
take another 10 or 20 years.
Here in Australia there is
still a predominant use of the
British Whitworth bolts and
nuts; consequently they are
cheaper and more readily
available from stock than the
U.N. series. Some of the
larger agricultural machinery
firms with American and
Canadian principals are now
on the U.N. series, but most of
the smaller firms find that for
the moment they must continue
to use B.S.W. types.
Jn considering requests from
farmers for standards to
improve performance of
materials such as milking-
machine rubbers or galvanised
products, the S.A.A. commit-
tees concerned find difficulty
in assembling enough docu-
mented data about actual per-
formances of the materials in
question to reach any conclu-
sions. This suggests the need
for some organisation such as
the C.5.1.R.0. to undertake
systematic field research.
At present the S.A.A. has
no comprehensive planned
programme for dealing
with standardisation of
agricultural machinery. Lack
of co-operation from manu-
facturers and absence of expert
spokesmen for the farmers on
technical matters have made
effective committee work
almost impossible.
However, there are a few
projects in hand at the present
time, including work on dairy-
farm equipment, sprinkler
irrigation equipment, gal-
vanised products, and concrete
fencing-posts.
Apart from the C.5.1.R.0.
and Commonwealth depart-
ments, some individuals and
organisations are showing a
keen interest in the whole sub-
ject of standardisation. G. H.
Vasey, Senior Lecturer in Agri-
cultural Engineering at Mel-
bourne University, conducts a
tractor-testing committee and
is concerned with nearly all
the work of the S.A.A. in this
field.
Another enthusiast is Profes-
sor Willis, of the Department
of Mechanical Engineering at
the University of N.S.W., who
for years has been urging the
S.A.A. to set up a committee
on agricultural machinery.
And the Dairy Husbandry
Research Foundation within
the University of Sydney is
dealing with performance of
dairyfarm equipment.
More economical farming,
resulting from reasonable stan-
dardisation, will be possible
only if this enthusiasm spreads
to all sections of the farming
community and related organ-
isations. The difficulties can
be eliminated in time by com-
bined effort.


Is Boxing a Sin?
By FRANK HYDE
Whenever there is a fatality
in the boxing ring it is in-
evitably followed by the usual
tirade against the sport.
Those who would have it
banned are horrified by the fact
that there are people who can
still defend an activity such as
can be a direct cause of a
death. At the time of such
accidents many people are
swayed by the sorrow of the
incident and fall in line with
the indictment of the boxing
game as a sin.
But is the sport a sin? It is
a strong word to use against an
activity which has come as a
heritage to this and many other
civilised countries throughout
the world. True, the boxing
game at the present time is at
a low ebb, but this fact is due
to our changing approach to
physical sports rather than a
specific rejection of boxing as
a sporting activity. Being a
minor sporting attraction at the
present time does not neces-
sarily give it a dubious charac-
ter, because, even in its darkest
hour, a colorful and clever per-
sonality can revive it to a pitch
where it stimulates a public
frenzy.
VE T fatalities are serious no
matter how few there are
over a period, and there needs
to be justification for the con-
tinuance of a sport in which
they occur. Unfortunately box-
ing is a pursuit which attracts
to it some questionable per-
sonalities who, even though in
the minority, are the yardstick
by which the sport is measured.
Even so, if its worth can be
measured by those who engage
in it, history can recount the
names of intellectuals, and
persons of high station through
the ages who have been the
greatest supporters of boxing,
down to the present time where
we learn of Prince Charles
being taught boxing at Cheam
where he attends school. And
even one of Bernard Shaw’s
most likeably brainy heroes
found his satisfactions in the
ring.
Just as in other sports, it is
not boxing but the abuse of it
which has caused the fall in
public favor in some quarters.
But care must be taken to
differentiate between boxing
and those who bring it into
disrepute. Generally the advo-
cates who clamor for its aboli-
tion can point to individuals
who, through their association
with boxing, are impaired in
some way or other either men-
tally or physically. Unfortun-
ately there are such examples
to give testimony against box-
ing, but is it boxing they are
exposing, or the ill-informed,
the ill-intentioned or the ill-
advised?
When one realises that box-
ing is an accepted sport in
G.P.S. sporting activities, em-
ploying boxing coaches for
almost every college, we must
conclude that probably there
are some moral aspects of train-
ing which can be conceded to
boxing.
such coach, Pat Gleeson,
ex - champion lightweight
of a past era, is amazed at the
interest and clean approach
from his pupils. Pat has for
many years coached the boys
from St Joseph’s College, Hun-
ter’s Hill, and the Naval
College, Jervis Bay. His is a
scientific approach with em-
phasis on the art of self-
defence, rather than developing
skill in administering punish-
ment. He is most impressed
with what he terms “the quality
of mercy” in pupils who estab-
lish superiority over others.
In discussing this aspect with
Pat, I had it pointed out to me
that, despite the great number
of boxers both professional and
amateur, who have achieved a
skill which could be used for
ulterior purposes, there is little
evidence of their using it in-
discriminately. Few are charged
with assault, but many are the
stories told of talented boxers
who, aware of their superior
skill, endure insult and provo-
cation rather than unleash their
talents on one less endowed.
This is an indication that with
boxing skill can come a toler-
ance of the kind so often
demonstrated by those who
have been in the game.
Over the last few years, with
the report of deaths and un-
savory allegations against
some who have introduced dis-
honest practices into boxing,
suggestions have been made of
religious concern on the
morality of the sport. Boxing
fans with religious allegiance
have waited anxiously for some
direction but, though there
have been rumors, there has
been no positive condemnation.
(The conclusion is therefore
that, fundamentally, boxing is
morally acceptable).
'T'he art of boxing is essenti-
A ally a man’s domain and
few will disagree that the clever
exponent is a joy to watch.
But the game has fallen into
disrepute through the attitude
of the majority of people
associated with it over the last
few decades be they promoters,
trainers or managers. The
tottering ex-boxer is an indict-
ment against those administer-
ing boxing rather than against
the sport itself. Poor match-
making, casual refereeing,
deficient idealism in trainers
and managers, all play their
part in reducing boxing to the
brutal level of a Roman holi-
day. Even when it reaches
this stage boxing is not the sin,
but the actions of those who
degrade it could be.
The personalities involved
may be different, but the sport
of boxing, even in the condi-
tions which bring disgust, is
still the sport enjoyed by the
G.P.S., the Universities, the
Army, Navy and Air Force,
and Police Boys Clubs. In these
environments it is an activity
pursued for the moral and
physical well-being of those
enjoying it.
It is strange that bloodied
noses in football, knees in the
back, tackles with intent to
maim and the occasional death
are just considered hazards of
that game. Also the exertion
of swimmers and athletes to the
point of utter collapse is never
considered justifiable reason to
condemn these sports on moral
grounds. The bike riders who
deliberately engineer a crash
for die from drugs), the jockey
who slashes at opposing riders
and rides his mount into the
ground, all degrade their chosen
sport, but seldom is there agita-
tion for the discontinuance of
the sport because of them.
So, just as the racing game
survives in spite of its appeal
to an element of undesirables,
just as football with its
attempted mayhem is never in
doubt morally, let not the
noble art of self-defence be
condemned by the actions of
those who degrade it!


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WbtTSOiV, Manager.
Sports Gear is Big Business
By S. W. KEOUGH
■p quipping people for sport
is a multi-million-pound
industry which employs,
directly and indirectly, tens of
thousands ; and it is growing
lustily. Australians spend more
per head of population on
sporting goods than any other
country, including the U.S.
For the Commonwealth
Statistician’s purposes, sports
goods and travel goods are
lumped together in arriving at
the year’s total retail sales
figures, but travel goods repre-
sent only a fraction of the
total. In 1952-53 the sum was
£11,321,000. By 1956-57 it had
jumped to £14,580,000. It may
be assumed that for the current
year the figure will be in the
vicinity of £2om.
The sale of football gear and
equipment remains much as it
has done for decades —except
in the case of Soccer. Under
the stimulus of the rivalry of
various national groups among
European migrants, this code
has made amazing strides in the
past ten years. The Soccer-
goods turnover in N.S.W. is
creeping up towards equality
with the Rugby codes.
■pVEMAND for cricket equip-
ment has suffered a slight
decline over the years, but the
trend has been arrested during
the current season —no doubt
because of the resurgence of
interest in the sport caused by
the exciting Test series with
the West Indies.
Whilst some cricket bats,
like those of Stuart Surridge,
still come from England, a big
proportion are made here from
imported willow. Pakistan has
come into the market, but its
products present no serious
challenge to the English or
Australian article at present.
The Pakistanis have even
bowled up a six-stitcher ball,
though the local product is
expected to block it for use in
adult cricket.
Factors other than the popu-
larity of a sport effect the sale
of equipment. Tennis is still
popular but fewer people are
playing it. One reason is that
tennis courts are fast dis-
appearing due to the demand
for close-to-the-city home-unit
sites.
However, this loss to the
tennis-equipment manufacturer
has been offset by Squash.
T>owls and golf run along, as
-*-* it were, in double-harness.
In both sports the capital out-
lay is the big one, the differ-
ence being that in bowls the
outfitting—and not, as with
golf, the equipment—is the
biggest expense. Both sports
are booming. In N.S.W., for
instance, there are 91,000
bowlers in registered clubs.
On a comparable population-
basis, that means around
300,000 bowlers throughout
Australia. At £5O per head for
outfit and equipment—a most
conservative figure—that in-
volves a capital expenditure of
£lsm. alone.
Ever-rising costs don’t appear
to halt the demand for sport-
ing guns. A double-barrelled
shotgun might set the buyer
back £2OO, with a bob every
time he squeezes the trigger.
Fibreglass has revolutionised
the fishing-gear industry. The
rods are expensive, but worth
it, as compared to the old split-
cane sort. Fibreglass has
grabbed well over 90 per cent,
of sales.
Snow-skis and accessories—
a pair of special Swiss boots
takes £23 are almost all
imported. Sales are governed
by the availability of accom-
modation on the snowfields,
but the sport is expanding
rapidly.
Pogo-sticks? You can still
jump around on these at around
£4 a touch, and for kids’ birth-
days and at Christmas they still
go off like hot cakes.
TAarts addicts possibly aren’t
aware of it, but there are
no fewer than 600 sorts of
barrels to heave the darts at,
though only about 30 are avail-
able at the main sports stores.
The comparatively new sport
of water-skiing caters for its
increasing army of devotees
with a surprisingly wide selec-
tion of skis. There are special
ones for slalom, trick and jump
work as well as straight skiing,
and they are in standard and
de luxe models —about a dozen
in all. The cheapest is just
over £lO, the aristocrats go at
18 guineas.
Those who have a hankering
to explore the submarine depths
clad and equipped like TV s
Mike Nelson have to be pre-
pared to prise themselves apart
from a sizeable wad. A twin-
cylinder self-contained unit
costs from £ll2 to £l3O, for
instance.
One of the cheapest sports to
follow would appear to be
archery total equipment I s
well under a fiver. Apples can
be dear, though, if you try to
bring the William Tell touch
into it!


Can Tulloch Get His £100,000?
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
T\efeat of Tulloch in the St George Stakes at Caulfield
on Saturday suggests the champion is going to find
the way hard to increase his earnings (now £87,173)
to £lOO,OOO, and so be the first Australian horse to win
that total in his own country.
Dhaulagiri showed that his good form to win the
Alister Clark Stakes at Moonee Valley the previous
week was no fluke, by beating Lord, with Tulloch a
moderate third.
Tulloch raced three wide in the field of four turn-
ing into the straight, and many believe that his rider
G. Moore was outgeneralled.
The Caulfield turn is sharp, and horses strange to
it find difficulty in handling it at full speed.
In fact it is sometimes advantageous for a visiting
horse to “drift” out on the turn, so that Tulloch could
not be altogether excused because he had to go a little
wide.
In the spring Tulloch took time before he struck
winning form ; and even when he did there was con-
siderable doubt whether he really was the Tulloch of old.
People will want to see him come back to his best;
they like the champion to keep going.
But the sound judges agree that Tulloch is going to
find it hard to achieve the ambition of his owner.
p osehill with its new look makes a strong bid for a
return to racing for entertainment. Here, at last,
is a track designed for comfort, where the public may
enjoy privileges which, in the past, were mostly reserved
for members of clubs.
Rosehill racecourse was opened in 1885, credited then
with being one of the neatest and best appointed race
tracks in the “southern hemisphere.” But it remained
much the same until 1944 when the Sydney Turf Club
took over, following its creation by the Government to
dispossess the proprietary racing clubs which controlled
all but Randwick and Warwick Farm racecourses.
The S.T.C. gradually has changed the appointments,
beginning in the St Leger reserve, then turning attention
to the public sections of the saddling paddock, and now
to the members’ reserve.
But while attending to members the public is still
very much under consideration. Admittance may be
gained to the top deck of the members’ stand which has
a capacity of 1050. The main deck for members will
hold 1600 and the ground level concourse is designed to
make the maximum and the best use of the available
space.
Escalators carry people from the ground to the first
deck. There is, by the way, an escalator servicing the
recently opened public stand in the saddling paddock.
Catering arrangements are most attractive. They fea-
ture, as does the whole of the stand, open planning with
long windows so that the betting ring, totalisator indicators
and semaphores may be seen from one side, and the
course and infield from the other.
Totalisator betting and betting with the rails book-
makers may be done in comfort. Probably no course in
Australia has better arrangements in this regard.
It is all a grand and costly experiment, but one that
was inescapable. With so many new counter attractions
racing can scarcely hope for the return of its old-time
popularity when crowds of 50,000 and 60,000 were regular
at Randwick.
The racecourses are big enough to accommodate
the people who want to go there ; the approach, surely,
is as the S.T.C. has done—comfort and amenities so
that even a losing day” for the punter at least has its
compensations.
Tt was a bad week for jockey N. Sellwood—sacked as
the rider for S.T.C. chairman Mr W. Longworth and
then fined £lOO and suspended for careless riding by the
stewards at the meeting at Rosehill on Saturday.
Sellwood was suspended until March 10, or until
he leaves for France, whichever is the earliest.
Sellwood is an accomplished speaker, and a very
clever self-advocate at stewards’ inquiries, but all his
eloquence was of no avail, not even his request to the
stewards that they take into consideration his good record
in race riding.
The suspension followed Sellwood’s win on My
Rachael in the Merrylands Stakes from Satinette and
Soft Touch, with Winnipeg fourth. The stewards held
that My Rachael had caused interference to Winnipeg
through veering in towards the rails.
Sellwood has been the regular rider of Mr Longworth’s
horses, Young Brolga and Wenona Girl, and it was a
bombshell when the owner told him he was to be replaced.
Reason for the change was given that Mr Longworth
wanted a rider who would accept the engagement for
the two horses in all their races, and, as Sellwood was
booked to go to France, he wanted the change made
immediately.
Tt was “Chairmen’s Day” at Rosehill on Saturday, when
the new members’ stand was opened.
S.T.C. Chairman Mr W. Longworth had his share
of the honor and glory through Young Brolga and Wenona
Girl, and chairman of the A.J.C., Sir Alan Potter, had
his portion when Valerius won the Parramatta Cup.
Sir Alan races Valerius in partnership with Mr Keith
Mackay, a former vice-chairman of the A.J.C.
Valerius has been a good horse for the partnership,
and this may be his best season. The stock of his sire,
Delville Wood (imp.), seldom strike their best form before
they are four-year-olds.
Valerius is now five years old. His successes include
a Brisbane Cup, Invitation Stakes and two Cup races
at Rosehill.
CJtallions represented for the first time at this year’s
yearling sales include Patton (imp.), an Italian bred
horse who stood for several seasons in England. Patton
has the unusual record of having sired winners of races
in at least seven different countries.
Patton had limited bookings when his stud career
began, but the yearlings by him became spread every-
where. He has had winners in England, Ireland, U.S.A.,
Sweden, Peru, Belgium, and India.
Patton must have been a remarkably sound horse.
He was not raced at two, but won his first six races
at three and continued racing until the close of his sixth
year.
By that time he had run in about 60 distance events,
had won 19 of them, and was placed on innumerable
occasions. Yet his legs are as clean as the proverbial
whistle.
Patton is by Vezzano from Prunella, by Cranach,
Vezzano won the Italian Derby and was a successful
stallion both in Italy and later in U.S.A. His sire
Ortello was an outstanding son of the great sire, Teddy.


Business.Rollery,Etc.
Signad.....
Second Thoughts at Canberra
After 14 weeks of increased
sales-tax on motor-vehicles,
14 weeks of public apprehen-
sion about the disallowance of
tax on interest-payments in
excess of 1959-60 amounts, and
14 weeks of dismay over the
forcing of compulsory loans on
life-offices and superannuation
funds, the Government in Can-
berra has had second thoughts
about its policy of economic
restriction aimed at cracking
the highly inflationary specula-
tion and spending which, with
its running-mate high costs, was
developing into one of the
greatest booms of all time.
The Government has been
wise in its d e c i s i o n to re-
consider the position. The
Bulletin pointed out several
weeks ago that the mere
threat of Government action,
plus actual enforcement of
credit-restriction and introduc-
tion of the higher sales tax,
had combined with ot r f
tors to cause a pricking of the
inflationary bubble long before
the Government s main plans
25 asked, in view of the devas-
tating effect of the Treasurer’s
huff on the inflationary house
of straw of the three inflation-
ary little pigs, was it really
necessary to go on with his
pu ff 7
The market price of the ss.
shares in L. J. Hooker, glamor
stock of the 1960 land boom,
have fallen from a highest
price of 275. in 1960 to around
10s. 6d. at present, though the
Hooker organisation is one of
the most keenly managed and
experienced in the business,
Shares in the Lend Lease
organisation, a major develop-
rnent concern, and one of the
glamor stocks of 1960, have
a i so f a n en heavily,
a lmost the entire share-
market, with the exception
G f a very f ew selected stocks,
has dropped steeply from its
196 q peak one stage the
mar k et wa s almost in a state of
co u apse . The activity of the
un i t _ tr usts has quietened
mar kedly
indications are that
exuberantly speculative
has suffered a
teeth-rattling jolt. And credit
restrictions * c J ombined with a
tivd free importing
°mp keeping any further
speculation well in check
This applies not only to the
sharemarket and the speculative
real-estate market, but also to
development projects, such as
home-units, hotels, motels, and
office-unit blocks.
It was necessary to call a halt
“Finish checking the Tomkins and Simway account ,
Smith, then leave by the fire-escape .”
to the speculative boom and
cost-inflation which preceded
the slump of late-1960. But it
is also necessary to consider
various factors which preceded
the final fantastic stages of the
boom —these included the rise
in M.Ps’ salaries and the
margins decisions of 1959.
Tt was because of these con-
tributing factors, and the
short-cut, socialistic and in-
equitable means taken by the
Federal Treasury to correct the
situation, that strong objections
to the Government policy were
taken here.
The Government, however,
deserves commendation for
making changes in its policy as
soon as it saw that it was harsh
or misdirected. Details of the
further changes promised,
affecting loan subscriptions by
life - offices, etc., and non-
deductibility of interest pay-
ments for tax assessment, will
be keenly awaited.
A N issue relevant to the
present situation, seeing
that it was a contributor to the
original problem, is the matter
of Federal Government repre-
sentation at all sittings of
the Commonwealth Arbitration
Commission dealing with
general applications by the
A.C.T.U. or the employers.
It seems quite clear that a
representative of the Tariff
Board and an officer of the
Department of Trade, to indi-
cate only two specific expert
witnesses, should be called by
Government counsel to give
evidence on any general appli-
cation before arbitration courts
or commissions seeking higher
wages or fewer hours..
Over and over again it has
been shown that the balance-
of-payments is the Achilles heel
of the Australian economy. And
over and over again awards
have been made by arbitra-
tion authorities which not only
effectively prevent the export at
a profit of many Australian
manufactures, but which also
make Australian products in
their home market vulnerable
to overseas competition. Yet
unless expert evidence is pro-
duced before arbitration
authorities on these matters
they can hardly be expected to
take them into account in their
findings.
All Governments, including
the Menzies Government, have
been inclined to consider arbi-
tration matters as something
outside their responsibility alto-
gether. This is quite wrong.
On major matters like hours
and wages expert departmental
evidence should be given, and it
seems to be only for reasons of
political expediency that inter-
vening Governments’ counsel
are not briefed to call them as
a regular thing.
A recent inquiry into matri-
monial legislation in the United
Kingdom called for evidence
from the Lord Chief Justice,
as well as from a host of other
authorities in the Government
service.
A Telling Analysis
Omartly off the mark this
year, the 1961 investment
review of ord. shares in 262
selected Australian companies
put out by Ralph W. King and
Yuill, the Sydney sharebroking
firm, remains a telling analysis
of the financial fortunes of a
representative section of Aus-
tralian Stock Exchange listings.
The review is of 284 pages,
with a five-page summary of
the statistical findings in the
front. This summary shows
what The Bulletin has main-
tained for several years—that
the most rewarding invest-
ments have been selected
second-line stocks, or new-
comers to the Stock Exchange
lists.
Over the 11-year period
concerns like the Bank of
N.S.W., 8.H.P., C.S.R., British
Tobacco, Australian Consoli-
dated Industries, Adelaide
Steamship, Dunlop Rubber,
Drug Houses of Australia,
Edwards Dunlop, Elder Smith,
Dalgely, Repco, Woolworths
and Yarra Falls have shown
only a modest yield on the sum
originally invested and rights to
new issues taken up since, and
the capital increment on the
market has in most cases been
equally modest.
An exception is B.H.P.
But even here the 193.3
p.c. capital - gain (calculated
on December, 1960, quota-
tions) over the eleven years
is a long way behind the
536 p.c. gain by Appleton
Industries, the 422 p.c. of Aus-
tralian Gypsum, the 317 p.c. of
Carrier Air-conditioning, the
439 p.c. of Cottee’s, the 633 p c.
of G. E. Crane, the 535 p.c. ot
James Stedman, the 462 p.c.
John Fairfax, the 903 p.c. ot
Life Savers (Aust.), the 409 P-c-
-of Marrickville Holdings, the
403 p.c. of McDonald Indus-
tries, the 686 p.c. of Minster,
the 815 p.c. of Mt Ha
Mines, the 415 p.c. of My e t
Emporium, the 338 pc. °
National Consolidated, the
434 p.c. of Publishers Hom-
ings, the 710 p.c. of R° ca


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
S
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts —
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment —can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
♦l
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT34a-82N
pipes, the 325 p.c. of Union
Carbide, or the 335 p.c. of
R. Carpenter.
What is more, the stocks
showing the greatest capital-
increment— more especially as
December, 1960, prices had
shaken-down considerably—
were those which showed a
particularly high yield on the
capital invested over 11 years.
Life Savers showed a 27.9 p.c.
yield, Minster, 26.5 p.c., Rocla
Pipes 24.7 p.c., Australian
Gypsum 20.7 p.c., and Apple-
ton Industries 25.5 p.c Com-
pared with these figures the
return from B.H.P. on the
accumulated holdings over 11
years was only 6.3 p.c., Bank
of N.S.W. 6 p.c., A.C.I. 6.7 p.c.,
Drug Houses 6.2 p.c., Edwards
Dunlop 5.6 p.c., Elder Smith
5.4 p.c., Dalgety 6.9 p.c., Yarra
Falls 3.5 p.c. and Woolworths
6.5 p.c.
The truth is that, on post-
war performance, many of our
front-line stocks have been
disappointing investments, and
it is only the hope that the
plough-back and development
of the past decade will really
pay-off in higher dividends
before long that keeps the
market bidding so high for key
stocks which, in present cir-
cumstances, have become
largely public utilities, and just
about as interesting. (These
comments, of course, are The
Bulletin’s own interpretation
of the figures supplied in the
Ralph W. King analysis, and
are in no way part of that
analysis. Nevertheless, the
Ralph King figures are so
clearly tabulated and presented
that anyone wanting a guide
on any general or particular
trend will find the information
quickly available.)
It is possible that before long
the winds of change will blow
again through the Australian
economy, and that profits will
flow more freely from the big
hoy industries. But there is
little sign of that in the imme-
diate future. So the stocks
that will appeal most to the
investor who wants to see more
than “unsecured-note interest”
coming his way in a reason-
able period, at the same time
having the interest and advan-
ces of an equity investment,
"'ill tread his way selectively
through the better - class
second - liners and up-and-
c°mings.
He will, as always, have to
pick with discernment. And
there will still be no virtue in
buying inferior stocks. The
ar t will be to pick the good
tjues from the multitude. In
wing this the analysis of
R alph W. King and Yuill will
be of great assistance. The
volume has become almost a
standard work during its four
successive years of publication.
Curing an Allergy ?
Tnflation, largely created or
perpetuated by the arbitra-
tion system (particularly the
40-hour-week award) and by
Federal Treasury taxation
policy, took the heart out
of public support for Govern-
ment loans.
Recent increases in the rate
of bond interest should do
something to restore investment
appeal. The rate of £5 9s. lid.
per cent, on short-term loans
will have special attraction, and
the long-term 5J- p.c. rate is up
10s. per cent.
The general public’s turning-
aw a y from Commonwealth
bonds as an investment in
the past is shown in this
Treasury dissection of who
held the Australian-domiciled
national debt at June 30 on
each of the last two years:
June, June,
1959. 1960.
Holder. £ mil. £ mil.
Reserve Bank .. .. 432(a) 470
Trading-banks .. ..312 275
Savings-banks .. .. 744 799
Life Offices ( b ) .. 218 226
Fire and General
Insurance Offices ( b ) 77 81
Pension and Provident
Funds 89 87
Stabilisation Funds .. 11 11
Other Government
financial institutions 15
Commonwealth and
State Governments 736 687
Local- and semi-
government bodies 61 65
Trustee offices .. ..98 96
Money-market Dealers 49 80
Companies not else-
where included .. 97 98
All other 666 633
Total holdings .. .. 3590 3623
(a) Commonwealth Bank, includ-
ing Mortgage Bank and Industrial
Finance Departments. ( b ) State
Government Insurance Offices are
included in “Fire and General.”
Personal holdings of Com-
monwealth bonds are included
among “all other,” and though
the total debt increased by £33
million during 1959-60, the “all
other” holding fell by £33
million, and represented less
than 174 p.c. of the total.
A large proportion of the
national debt is forced upon
the banking system by Gov-
ernment.
It was recently proposed to
force more of the debt upon
the life-offices and superannua-
tion funds. A compulsory loan
of up to 30 p.c. of the funds of
life-offices was to be levied by
the Treasury. Many offices
have already voluntarily lent
more than that proportion to
the Government, but have been
gradually reducing the ratio
for more remunerative invest-
ments in the interests of their
policyholders. The Government
is having second thoughts about
its life-office proposals.
The unhappy position of the
bond-market is an indication
of the present Federal Gov-
ernment’s failure to deal with
the realities of our economy.
Wage-policy has been unrealis-
tic and Treasury policy un-
imaginative, un -co - operative
and socialistic. The more Can-
berra interference there is with
the working of a free-enterprise
banking and industrial sys-
tem the less efficient it be-
comes, the more stubborn cost-
inflation grows, and the greater
is the excuse for further Trea-
sury control of the free
economy.
The public’s allergy towards
Commonwealth loans is largely
a Canberra - created disease.
Canberra, aided by its higher-
interest policy, now has the
opportunity of restoring bonds
to their former popularity by
granting greater freedom from
tax or by allowing them to be
used as payment for death-
duties.


FOR ALL TRAVEL INFORMATION,
ACCOMMODATION AND RAIL,
ROAD, SEA OR AIR BOOKINGS!
JUST
OR
CAL*-
WRITE*
VIC TOUR
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU IS AT YOUR SERVICE
272 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63 0202. Civic Centre, Deakin Ave.,
Miidura. Charing Cross, Bendigo. Bright’s Building, Moorabool St.,
Geelong. 34 Lydiard St. Nth., Ballaarat. 18 King William St.,
Adelaide. 28 Martin Place, Sydney. International Terminal,
Essendon Airport.
YOUR SAFETY BELT
Providing sure protection at all
times, in all financial
weathers—your
policy with the
8
w,
m
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
DIRECTORS
E. W. Robinson (Chairman);
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.;
P. H. Phillips; T. Keith Smith;
W. J. Cooksey.
GENERAL MANAGER
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
GENERAL SECRETARY
George Leslie, F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
NEW BUSINESS MANAGER
John L. Richter
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
For the Feminine Viewpoint
read
THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN S MIRROR
PRICE SIXPENCE
At Newsagents Everywhere
Cuming Smith
’M7Tth a final of 5 p.c., Cuming
'' Smith and Co. Ltd has
lifted its distribution for the
year to December 31 from 8 p.c.
p.a. to 9 p.c. p.a.
The £1 shares were pointed
out in B. 18/1/’6l, when at
395., as a way of entry into
1.C.1. shares “on the cheap.”
For every £1 of its own capital,
Cuming Smith owns, directly or
indirectly, about 43 p.c. of one
share in 1.C.1.A.N.Z. In addi-
tion, it has a vast fertiliser
empire spreading through all
States except South Australia
and Tasmania. Its largest in-
terests are in Commonwealth
Fertilisers (Vic.) and Cuming
Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers
Fertilisers (W.A.).
Traced through into all sub-
sidiaries and associated com-
panies, the net tangible backing
behind each share in Cuming
Smith is very high, though the
dividend has been compara-
tively low. Soon after men-
tion on these pages at 395. the
shares rose to 495., then came
back to 455. in the recent
market reverse.
Onkaparinga
Calling at around 10s. in
Adelaide after the recent
one-for-four par issue, the ss.
shares in Onkaparinga Woollen
look attractive buying.
In B. 21/9/’6O, when the
shares were of £1 denomina-
tors, it was commented that
“there is nearly 545. a share in
net tangible backing, including
asset s-replacement reserves.
Book - valuation of assets
appears most conservative,
especially as exes, charged to
p.-and-l. account include ‘re-
pairs and renewals of plant,
machinery and buildings.’ On-
kaparinga has an Australia-
wide reputation and market for
its rugs and blankets, and
makes worsteds as well as
woollens. It is one woollen-
mill that really seems to be
going places.”
Profit, as claimed, for the
year to June 30 last was equal
to 20 p.c. on ord. capital, but,
worked-back from tax, the
apparent rate became more
like 30 p.c.
Since then there has been the
one-for-four issue at par, taking
paid capital up to £517,560.
But at June 30 reserves stood
visibly at £694,241, ana seemed
to understate the position.
At last balance “shares in
subsidiary companies at cost,”
appeared at £6. But amounts
“owing by subsidiary com-
panies” figured for £69,227.
No income from subsidiaries
appears in the parent’s
accounts, and profits (if any)
of the subsidiaries are not
determinable from the accounts
but they appear to be of grow-
ing importance.
At 10s. Onkaparinga ss,
shares give an immediate yield
of 5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
and the earnings-to-market’
price ratio looks particularly
attractive.
N.K.S. at 235.
TAown to 235. again,' the £1
shares in N.K.S. Holdings
look an interesting investment.
In 1959-60 the co. showed
improved earnings of 13.6 p.c.
on its one-class capital and
paid the usual 8 p.c. The
N.K.S. group handles some
first-class merchandise, either
as manufacturer or distributor,
and a greater proportion of
this is made in Australia each
year. Prominent lines are
Broomwade air - compressors,
and pneumatic tools. Lock-
wood locks and door-closers,
Black and Decker power tools,
lawnmowers, stiletto shoe-heels,
other diecast products, and
exclusive national distribution
for Metal Manufactures’ non-
ferrous tubing. There are many
other lines. A 40 p.c. interest
is held in Broomwade dnox
Pty.
The fl shares in N.K.S.
give an immediate yield of just
under 7 p.c. at 235. and offer
protection of an equity charac-
ter against inflation, even if the
steady earnings record since the
present co. merged the interests
of Noyes Bros, and Knox
Schlapp seven years ago has not
been spectacular.
Prestige
A lthqugh the hosiery and
lingerie industry un-
doubtedly has its problems, the
ss. shares in Prestige. Ltd, at
6s. 9d. in the market, have an
interest both for immediate in-
come and long-term prospects.
The 10 p.c. interim dividend
has been maintained on the in-
creased paid capital (there was
a one-for-five bonus-issue las
July). The ord. capital now
stands at £821,200 (supported
by £478,000 of pref. money),
while reserves fi§ urec Ln
£1,223,587 on March 31. IWJ
Earnings, after making heavy
provision for depreciation an
taxation, covered the 10 P\'
dividend more than twice
1959-60. At 6s. 9d. the |
ords. give an immediate y ie
of 7.3 p.c.


Mi:
Wm
In restaurants, shops, homes .. •
<@> Vinylflex Tiles
stay “first day beautiful” for life
Look for them in beautiful, individually
designed floors ... spick and span under the
heaviest foot traffic. Vinylflex Tiles resist
grease stains, harsh alkalis and dirt—need
only a damp wipe over and occasional
waxing to maintain full beauty.
In 18 Marbleised colours for commercial
floors. For walls and for domestic use there
are 28 colours including 4 pastels and 6
Terrazzo patterns.
SAME GIRL—“DO-IT-YOURSELF.” At
home you can have a floor as smart as the
one in the restaurant above by using special
“lay-it-yourself” Vinylflex Tiles. Plan your own
design. Save pounds in every room. Ask for
“lay-it-yourself” Vinylflex Tiles with easy-to-
follow instructions at department, furnishing
and hardware stores.
<cSr> vinylflex tiles
Made by the Building Materials Division of The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
Showrooms at : Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSRS74B
A hippier choice for every occasion . * #
Meoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you'll
find no happier choice than Angove's Wine of maturt
perfection. Angove's FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove's TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’*
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS !e DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY...ST AGNES BRAIfDY
The Fabulous Hill
By “OLD OPENCUT”
Up to 1920 the line of lode,
split into the various
leases and forming an irregu-
larly defined escarpment which,
rising sharply from the eastern
plain, gave Broken Hill the
famous name, could well have
been called the Ferocious Hill.
The turn of the century saw
the Hill as a smouldering vol-
cano. Relationship between
capital and labor was on the
same basis of strain as the feel-
ing each company had toward
its immediate neighbor. This
air of mutual distrust was care-
fully fostered by the lease-
holders in their employees, and,
though each group regarded
the owners as a mob of bush-
rangers, snakes-in-the-grass and
starvers of children, there was
an intense loyalty by the miners
to their particular place of em-
ployment.
Without doubt Australia’s
first security-service came into
being at Broken Hill Each
employee deemed it his duty to
protect his mine from the pry-
ing eyes of spies employed by
the ‘'other fellow” interested in
his show’s progress
“Run out of town” was a
sentence without hope of re-
prieve. It Was the usual custom
to hasten the evening meal in
order to witness the departure
of the 7 p.m. Adelaide express.
It was an established pastime
to check and, if possible, recog-
nise the white-faced passengers
trying to look disinterested in
the earnest groups standing
guard outside the carriages.
Tn the more enlightened years
A it was possible to walk from
the North mine through the
British to the Block 14 and
then skirt the great opencut of
the Big Mine (the B.H.P. was
not generally referred to by any
other name) and see Block 10'
on your right and the Central
on the left.
A little distance beyond the
Central the “dying” South —the
mine whose demise at the end
of an eight-year life has been
forecast each year for the past
40 years. This company could
now possibly see all the others
underground. Promising leads
have been probed in an area
not previously considered as a
mineral zone—under the city.
If there are any further beer-
Price strikes at the Hill there
oould be more mineral wealth
u nder the thirty-odd pubs
located over the South’s new
thrust area than there is in
them. But that’s a subject too
d ry for further comment.
A par to the The Bulletin
in the late ’thirties recorded the
final effort of the B.H.P. to
prove its leases and test a
popular theory. The main ore-
body is shaped as a coathanger
outcropping in the centre and
descending to depth at the
extremities.
Geologists thought there
could be a similar rich forma-
tion below the known lode at
depth. The B.H.P. diamond-
drilled from the 700 ft level to
a comprehensive pattern cover-
ing the area within its lease-
boundaries, but found nothing
to encourage any further con-
tinuation of operations. This
was the end. All the B.H.P.
interests in Broken Hill ceased
to be operative, and the Big
Mine, the producer of fabulous
riches, was abandoned.
TTad it been curious as to what
lay under the city outside
its western boundary instead of
drilling to depth a drive might
have intersected the ore-body
now being tested by the South
mine.
A walk on the line of lode
ended with the old South
Blocks leases, the southern dip
of the coathanger. The original
leaseholders considered the ore-
depth to be too great for
economical working. Now the
area is a fertile oasis and a
mining kingdom developed by
the Zinc Corporation, the
original dump-sifters searching


rtulh Ist iJie
ituiu^c
\
0
Mk
Transport, always a big factor in the
Australian equation, is assuming now an even
larger importance.
Events have been justifying all the prophesies
that the maintenance of our rate of expansion
depends upon the raising of exports considerably
over the next few years.
To this end, the national export drive is aimed
at lifting export income by two hundred and fifty
million pounds by 1965.
Now, what does this mean? Certainly that
large areas will have to be converted from
non-productive to productive; that the climatically
favoured regions will have to be more
intensively worked.
But more than volume in output is called for
in this. There is the question of costs of production
in a world of increasingly competitive trade.
That is where efficient transport —which is
really a subsidy for cheaper production—comes
in; and I believe that nothing less than a revolution
in Australian thinking is required on what, exactly,
efficient transport means.
For instance, we could start by clearing our
minds of the idea that rail and road transport
services are deadly competitive. They are
complementary, and can be made an effective
support for one another in a sensibly co-ordinated
system. That is true of any country and particularly
true for Australia, with its depth and distances.
The issue is not whether a huge spending in
accelerating the building of roads is likely to result
in heavier losses in railway revenues, but whether
we are wise and far-seeing enough to devise for
ourselves a system in which both will be playing
a truly competent part. The emphasis is
on co-ordination.
The whole story of Australia’s settlement has
been one of communications; of roads, railways, and
seaports built, and latterly of airlines formed,
to provide the link bringing once vacant areas
into vitality.
That will be the pattern so long as Australia
is a nation. Movement is life. And the rate of
our living progress will be governed by the speed
with which we evolve a thoroughly efficient and
full-scaled system of co-ordinated transport.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote yon
a price for the original.
for the zinc left by the less-
efficient treatment hiethods of
the early days. The Zinc
Corp. was not afraid of depth.
It is now driving from the 24ft
level at 3620 ft. The coathanger
is broadening at the extremities.
The Corp. is following South’s
lead to the west and to make
sure of anything in that direc-
tion adjoining its present leases
it is after another 3296 acres.
That should clean the city up
as far as Railwaytown.
In the days when you
couldn’t walk through the leases
the prime-movers were steam
and horses. There was not
much to pinch except ore.
Constant vigilance by the
underground surveyors main-
tained reasonable control over
the boundaries, though there
were a few battles over bulges,
particularly where there were
some nice pickings “over the
fence.”
'T'he mines were proud of
their Australian-built wind-
ing and mill-engines. Mammoth
jobs, most of them gave 50
years of service without trouble.
The main winder on the Central
saw the journey with the bed-
plate split in halves and held
together with steel cable
tautened with turnbuckles. A
driver turned the unit into a
gigantic hydraulic-ram when he
forgot to open the cylinder
draincocks. No doubt he made
a hurried departure by the
quickest available means. The
Central people were very proud
of that Adelaide-built winding-
engine. The quick repair, how-
ever, enabled the engine to
haul through the years to the
final skip-load and the last man
up from the depths.
This mine was the first to
instal large Diesel-alternators
for power-generation, and the
successful operation of its two
units really led to the establish-
ment of the big Diesel station
now supplying all companies
on the line of lode. These two
diesels were faithful servants
as well. One is now operating
in an Indian strip-mill. The
other is the stand-by plant for
the Adelaide showgrounds.
The development from the
oil-and-candle stage to the
generation of electric power
began the era of intense and
hostile competition between
companies. Here was some-
thing that could be pinched by
surreptitious wire-tapping, it
was argued. The general out-
come was that mine “B” saw
to it that mines “A” and “C”
on each side of them were ham-
strung. Each mine in its in-
stallations varied the frequency
or the voltage to prevent piracy
on the A.C. and D.C. mains.
The City Council likewise
decided not to take any chances
of being robbed. Against the
mines 40- to 60-cycle frequency
their early power - station
generated at 100 cycles.
TDroken Hill was probably
33 the only city in the world to
make electrical manufacturers
see red and spit sparks. There
were no orthodox standards,
and “off-the-shelf” supplies
were not possible. The mines
complained bitterly at the
stupidity of the City Council,
but theirs was the example!
The power game was certainly
sewn-up, but compressed-air
and tool-steel? Well, no deep
probes, please.
With the gradual elimination
of the smaller shows, power,
public relations and geological
probity all became rationalised
with the passing years.
Until the early 1920’s Broken
Hill had been regarded as
purely a mining town. The life
of the lode was an uncertain
factor. Miners who chose to
earn their living there were
not prepared to spend money
on housing. Most of the
abodes were the typical easy-
to-remove-and-transport two-
and four-roomed wood-and-
iron cottage structures common
to most mining fields.
When in later years the bad
old days were forgotten under
the pleasurable impact of the
unexpectedly high lead-bonus
the extra money went into
furnishings and cars. It could
well be said that some lived in
£lOO houses with a £lOOO car
outside and another £lOOO or
so inside in the way of wall-
to-wall carpets, furniture, and
domestic appliances.
When ultimately the rooms
were so packed that one, of
necessity, went outside to turn
about, consideration was given
to enlarging, modernising and
even rebuilding.
The companies, with years
of productive life assured, also
developed housing - schemes.
Today Broken Hill no longer
appears as a mining town. It
has the look of a modern, solid
and permanent industrial city.
Possibly the greatest impetus to
thinking in regard to housing
derived from the first connec
tion to the general sewage
scheme. When it was found
that, in many cases, the new
little structure down the back-
yard would cost more than the
assessed value of the house,
that was enough to get for the
main structure a pretty prompt
uplift.


/•n
S'H
mz
mm
m
m
■*sJ
n
■
\
m
m
■M
When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, whales were
caught like this
7
J 1358
MODERN A.M.P. POLICIES are geared to modern
needs. Business and professional men need adequate
information on “How Taxation Savings Affect Life
Insurance as an Investment”. Ask any A.M.P. man or
A.M.P. office for a copy of the leaflet with the title quoted.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


D. H. Lawrence’s Thirroul
WYEWURK REVISITED
By ROLAND ROBINSON
It was a clear, fresh day of
summer, and we were
taking Vivian Smith, the
Tasmanian poet, and his
wife down to Thirroul to show
them D. H. Lawrence’s cottage.
Previously, when Vivian had
asked me how he would go
about finding the cottage, I had
told him it might be hard to
find by himself, that we’d
better go down in my car.
Of course, Lawrence and his
wife Frieda went down to the
cottage by train, but from the
road you can see most of the
N.S.W. South Coast country
that Lawrence sketched in for
his novel “Kangaroo.”
We dropped down onto the
coast by way of Bald Hill and
Stanwell Park. At Bald Hill
we stopped to show Vivian and
his wife the memorial to Har-
graves, the Australian pioneer
in aeronautics. As we stood
at the cliff edge in the stiff wind
with the beautiful and drama-
tic coastline at our feet I
showed Vivian where Har-
graves flew his box-kites, and
we recalled that R. D. Fitz-
gerald had written a poem
about Hargraves on that spot.
We heard the echoing hoot
of a train. Back in the
eucalyptus-blue bush of the
great gorge-bight in the coast
a toy train was drawing its line
of red carriages along.
“There’s Lawrence’s train,” I
said. It went into a tunnel
and emerged in a few minutes,
running round the face of the
cliffs towards the sea.
We swooped down after the
train, winding round on the
road cut into the cliff-face
above the white anger of the
Pacific. We ran on, beneath
Lawrence’s wall of mountain
masked in sombre trees,
through the little colliery settle-
ments which have remained as
they were when he first saw
them.
Then, from the hill beyond
Austinmer, we sighted Thir-
roul. “There’s Lawrence’s
‘Mullumbimby,’ ” I said.
“Here’s where I first saw his
Tong high jetty straddling on
great tree-trunk poles out into
the sea.’ There’s not much of
it left now.”
Thirroul had grown so
much, with modern buildings
and housing developments,
that at first I could not find the
cottage. We drove round and
round. Then I saw it. How
the road seemed to have
shrunk since I was there last!
I stopped the car. “There,” I
said to Vivian. “What’s that
name on that gate?” “Good
Lord!” said Vivian. “It's
‘Wyewurk.’ Is this really the
cottage?”
A woman was going into
the cottage as I got out of the
car. I called out to her and
went over to the gate. I started
to explain the nature of my
visit and showed her my copy
of “Kangaroo.” As soon as
she saw the book she waved
her hand at me in resignation.
I thought it better not to tell
her that it was I who had
started the stream of literary
pilgrims to the cottage from
the time I first discovered it
years ago.
So we trooped into the
garden. The house, with long
eaves coming down low over
the verandahs like eyelids half-
closed, was still the same. But
Lawrence’s bent, wind-swept
tea-tree, which grew on the
lawn at the back of the house,
was gone. From the lawn we
could see all that was left of
the jetty—three or four leaning
tree-trunk poles standing out
of the water.
At the end of the beach, the
spit of low, yellow-brown
grassy land, on which once
grew the group of “Noah's-ark
trees,” was now covered with
housing-development cottages ;
and the “Noah's-ark trees” are
grown into towering pines.
Yet the breakers racing,
curling over, thundering on the
beach —-were the same as when
Lawrence saw them ; and
there was still a feeling of the
man about the lawn, the trees,
the house.
‘Well, what do you say we
* * go and try and find the
barber’s shop where Lawrence
used to get his hair cut?” I
asked.
After some inquiries we
found the shop, near the war
memorial and the railway
bridge. Vivian and I went in
and found the barber cutting a
little boy’s hair. Two or three
other customers were sitting
waiting. We asked the barber
about Lawrence.
“No,” the barber said, “I’m
afraid you won’t be able to see
Mr O’Lachlan, who cut Law-
rence’s hair. He’s gravely ill
with a throat complaint. But
I can tell you a lot of what
you want to know.”
“Then Mr O’Lachlan was
the ‘young, intelligent gentle-
man in eye-glasses’?” I said.
“Yes,” said the barber, “that
would be Mr O’Lachlan as a
young man.
“They tell me,” he continued,
“that Lawrence had a red
beard and he used to walk
around the town with his nose
in the air.”
“Here,” he said, going over
to a shelf and bringing back
an old, long strip-photograph
of Thirroul. “This is how the
place was when Lawrence was
here. Here's the cottage where
he lived, and this long spit of
land with the little pine-trees,
that's where Lawrence used to
go and sit and write all day
long.”
“Is this bloke you’re talking
about the feller who wrote the
book there’s been a court case
about in England?” asked one
of the waiting customers.
“He is,” I said. “Sometimes
it takes publicity like that to
make a writer known.”
“And can you get his book,
‘Lady Chatterley’s Lover,’
isn’t it, in this country?” the
customer pursued.
“Well,” I said, “I don’t know
what the censorship here will
do about that book, but you
can buy this one ; it’s all about
your own township and the
country and people around
here. Here you are.” And I
showed him my copy of
“Kangaroo.”
“There was a character in
Lawrence’s book called Jack
Callcott,” I remarked to the
barber. “Does that ring any
bell with you?”
“Oh, yes,” said the barber.
“Mr Callcott was the estate-
agent here. His place was just
up the street. He’s dead now,
but it was he who let the cot-
tage to the Lawrences.”
“Well, that’s quite right
according to the book,” I said.
“But there, I didn’t know that
Jack Callcott was the estate-
agent here.”
While I was talking I became
aware of a young and beauti-
ful woman sitting waiting in
the shop. She had been listen-
ing to the conversation with
an interested and animated
face. When she smiled at me
I asked whether she was inter-
ested in Lawrence.
“Oh, yes,” she answerd. “I
come from the county in Eng-
land next to where Lawrence
was born.”
“Well!” I exclaimed. “And
I was brought up in Notting-
hamshire and lived close to
where he was born.”
I went out to the car and
brought back a volume of an
American biography of Law-
rence. Everyone crowded
round to see the photograph of
the thin, gaunt, bearded, now
world-famous novelist who
used to walk about Thirroul
with his nose in the air, but
who had immortalised Thirroul
and Australia with his novel.
By this time the barber had
finished cutting the littie boy’s
hair. “This,” said the young
woman, “is my son. His name
is Roland.”
“Oh, this is too much!” I
exclaimed. “Why, that's my
name, too.”
The young mother smiled as
she explained: “My husband
chose that name ; it's Norman,
isn’t it?”
“Yes,” I said. “French. It’s
the name of Charlemagne’s
most famous knight, and
there’s an epic poem about
him.” And before 1 knew it I
was launched into a descrip-
tion of the death of Roland
fighting with the rearguard of
Charlemagne’s army.
TTTvian wanted to go and see
* the place where Lawrence
used to sit and write. When
we tried to find it we got lost
and ended up in a kind of old
livery-stable yard. There, lean-
ing, long disused, in the sheds
were old sulkies with their
harness hanging on the walls.
This, I said, must have been
the place where Lawrence
hired the sulky and pony for
Frieda and him to go driving
up into the bush gathering
wildflowers.
But it was Saturday after-
noon and the stable was
deserted. So we set off to try
and find the bush road the
Lawrences took when they
drove up into the mountain in
the sulky. The road we took
up into the bush turned out
to be a housing-development
road that ended in a circular
drive at the foot of the moun-
tain.
In the late afternoon, bring-
ing with us some stone flakingj
and chippings we had gathered
in some nearby aboriginal caves
I knew, we drove slowly home
through the green, rain-forest
gloom of the Lady Carrington
Drive. Occasionally, a vivid
mountain-lowry rose up before
the quiet approach of the car.


FEMME
By XAVIER HERBERT
The Aerial Ambulance
dropped out of the mid-
day sky, down to the
crimson swathe in the
wide grey wilderness of
bleached grass and stunted
trees, down to the air-strip of
the cattle station. She touched-
down, to go racing ahead of
a vermilion dust-storm, up to
where the little fuel-shed
stood like a lighthouse in the
shimmering sea of mirage.
Another smaller dust-storm
was converging on the shed
from the east.
As the ambulance halted, a
utility-truck drew up beside the
shed. The aircraft’s engines
opened lusty throats in one
last roar, sending piled horse-
dung and dead grass whirling
away in a willy-willy. Then
silence . . . the silence of the
wide Gulf Country . . . silence
that comes pressing from
empty horizons . . . silence
that can beat upon the brain.
In the aircraft, besides the
pilot, were the sergeant of
police from Normanton, the
new doctor, and an ambulance-
bearer. They alighted with
that awkwardness of those just
returned to the heaviness of
earth from the lightsome free-
dom of the skiesi
There were two people in
the truck. One was a slight
man of middle age, mean-
featured, wearing a blue shirt
and wide hat pulled down so
that he must cock his head,
elevating his sharp jaw, to peer
beneath it. The other was a
young girl, drooping, snivelling
■nto a handkerchief, giving
°nly a glimpse of the broad
features and curious pasty
swarthiness of the quarter-
easte aboriginal.
The man got out of the
truck, quizzing the group of
rnen with unseen eyes, his out-
thrust jaw working nervously.
He addressed the men, his
voice thin, nasal: “Goodday
• • ’ow are ya!”
The men nodded.
TJe went on: “Sorry to drag
A yous out all this way. You
pt the strength what’s ’appen’
f s’pose? They was a lot o’
static on the radio when I was
talkin’ the Amb’lance Centre
last night. I dunno’f the
operator bloke got it right
what I was tellin’ ’im.”
The sergeant said: “It was
reported there’d been a shoot-
ing here.”
“That’s right. That yeller-
feller Bateman shot my son-in-
law.”
“Shot dead?”
“That’s right. I was ’fraid
somethin’ like this’d happen.
They’s been bad blood between
’em a long while.”
The sergeant asked:
“Where’s the half-caste now?”
“Bateman . . . he's back at
the homestead.”
“You got him under
restraint?”
“Aw no. He ain’t violent.
He never tried to get away.
Fact, he reckon’ he never done
it He reckon’ Gooch must’a
shot hisself. But Gooch didn’t.
I can tell you that. They had
a fight—over my daughter,
here. They been fightin’ a lot
lately. Gooch chucked Bate-
man out o’ his quarters when
he come there to stop him
beltin’ my girl. Bateman come
back with the rifle. That’s ’ow
it was, sergeant.”
The sergeant’s hard blue
stare never left the bit of the
small sharp face that could be
seen beneath the hat. He
asked: “You see the actual
shooting, Mr Turley?”
The out-thrust jaw worked
swiftly: “Well, not the actual
shootin’, sergeant. But I seen
Bateman at Gooch’s door just
a moment after the shot went
off.”
“What time was it?”
“Quarter-past nine last night.
1 was listenin’ the nine-o’clock
short-wave news when they
was rowin’, an’ I turned up
the volume to drown ’em out.
That’s after I ’eard my little
girl come home.”
“Where’d it happen?”
“In Gooch’s quarters. Filly,
here, always come back home
when there was a row on. I
heard her go to her room
cryin’. Then I hear a shot, and
I run out, and I see Bateman
standin’ lookin’ in the door of
Gooch's quarters. They was
alight. I run straight acrost
and ask’ Bateman what he
done. He reckon’ he never
done nothin’. But there was
Gooch on the floor all covered
in blood . . .”
“Where was the rifle?”
“That was on the floor, too.
But it weren’t close enough for
to ’ave been dropped by
Gooch. I reckon it’d’ve fallen
on top of him. ’Sides, that
mongrel Gooch wouldn’t’a
killed hisself. He was too
pleased with his rotten self.
I reckon Bateman chucked the
rifle in after firin’ it.”
For a moment the sergeant
searched for the hidden eyes.
Then he murmured: “Hmmm!
Well, let’s go and have a look
at things.”
The ambulance men loaded
a stretcher into the back of the
utility and climbed in after it.
The sergeant also got in the
back, leaving the front seat to
the doctor. The pilot stayed
behind.
They set off, along a road
cutting almost axle-deep into
the baked red earth, through
a waste of silver-leafed scrub
and crimson anthills, for about
a mile ; when out of the flow-
ing silver of mirage loomed
the roofs and the tanks and
the tops of the few shade-trees
of the homestead.
Tt was a poor place, three or
A four whitewashed iron
shacks and some sheds and
stock-yards on a grassless,
cattle-dung strewn flat, beside
a lagoon of milky water that
was all remaining hereabout of
a river that ran a mile wide for
a few days of the year. Out
of the few gnarled coolibahs
that fringed the waterhole a
flock of galahs flew up and
swept away, like a storm of
blown pink blossoms, plain-
tively protesting at the
intrusion of strangers.
Under mango-trees were
horses that stared as with hos-
tility at the utility-truck, and
on the verandah of one of the
shacks a group of native stock-
men in brilliant shirts and
sombreros who peeped from
amongst hanging saddles, and
at the door of the detached
kitchen behind the biggest of
the houses a couple of black
gins who slipped back out of
sight as the truck approached.
The truck halted under a
mango shading one of the
shacks.
The silence fell again.
As the people alighted from
the utility, one of the stockmen
detached himself from the
group and came sauntering,
walking awkwardly in riding-
boots. He wore a magenta
shirt and black sombrero and
white moleskins. He was a
half-caste, copper skinned,
broad featured, a young man,
and one who fancied himself,
by his get-up and his side-
levers and his razor-trimmed
moustache.
The sergeant said to Turley:
“This Bateman?”
“That’s the mongrel lair!”
The sergeant waited for
Bateman, who came up with
face working in the way of the
aboriginal under deep emo-
tional stress, with bright breast
heaving.
The sergeant said: “Good-
day, Bateman.”
The half-caste gasped :
“Good-day, sergeant ... I
didn’t done it, sergeant,
dinkum! ”
His thick under-lip was
broken and still oozing blood


start the day right!
r
m
e«oe«
r
vine
c
Established 1808 .in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
.Y.N.ir. Branch:
K-mdersley House.
KUkli o*€«Nnell Sts., Sydney
Chief Office for Australia:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE “WILD CAT'
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
and one of his deep-set eyes
discolored.
The sergeant said: “You
been fighting.”
“Yas.”
“Who with?”
“That dead feller . . . but I
no more been kill 'im, boss,
dinkum! ”
He blinked and quivered
under the blue policeman gaze.
The sergeant snapped, “I’ll
talk to you later. Wait here.”
He turned to Turley:
“Where’s the body?”
Turley motioned to the
shack they stood before, put
his hand in a pocket, to extract
a key, saying, “I locked it up,
so nobody could touch
nothin’.”
Turley turned to his daugh-
ter, still sitting in the truck:
“You get along into the house,
Filly.”
The sergeant said: “She
better get a few things ready.
I'll want you to come back in
the plane with me.”
■COR a moment Turley's sharp
jaw worked. Then he
murmured, “0.K.,” and led the
way into the shack across the
antbed verandah.
The door led directly into a
sitting-room, furnished in cane,
with magazine pictures stuck
to the corrugated-iron walls,
paper flowers in glass jars.
On the floor beside the cane
table, with one waxy hand
outfitting, the dead man lay
sprawled upon his back, clad
only in pyjama shorts and
singlet, a big fellow, on the
lean side, hook-nosed, blue-
eyed, with a shock of straight
fair hair now stuck in a con-
gealed pool of blood about the
head. The breast was a mass
of dried blood, and likewise
the lower part of the face.
Flies swept up with a whirr at
the party's entry.
A heavy repeating - rifle lay
crosswise close to the waxy
feet.
The sejgeant's eyes seemed
to be photographing the scene.
At length he turned to Turley,
quizzing, searching for the
still-hidden eyes: “Is that how
you left things here?”
Turley’s jaw was working
overtime. He had difficulty in
answering: “That's it . . . that’s
how 1 found him, too.”
“Did you touch the rifle after
the shooting?”
Turley answered quickly:
“No fear. f didn’t want me
fingerprints on it. when the
yeller-feller started denyin' he
shot him.”
The sergeant bent over the
corpse: “Shot above the
heart, by the look of it, eh,
doctor?”
The doctor began his
examination.
The sergeant rose, took out
his handkerchief and with it
picked up the rifle and
examined it. Then, still hold-
ing the rifle, he looked care-
fully around the room. After
a few minutes he said, “Leave
it to you, doctor.”
Then he went out. Turley
turned from the door to follow
him.
HChe ambulance man, lifting
the corpse onto the
stretcher, muttered, “This’s the
second stiff I’ve collected here
shot on account of that creamy
piece, Filly.”
“Femme fatale, eh?” mur-
mured the doctor.
“Wha's that, doc?”
“The fatal woman. What
exactly was the other affair?”
“Mick Turley done the other
bloke himself. That other
bloke was another half-caste.
The old feller's always been
dead jealous about his pretty,
creamy daughter. He went up
for manslaughter for that, but
got out of it. He pleaded he
had to take the gun to the
yeller-feller to stop him taking
his daughter away. His daugh-
ter was under age and he had
to protect her, and the yeller-
i'eller was known to be cheeky.
Turley reckoned the bloke
tried to take the rifle off of
him and that it went off in the
struggle.”
“Hmin! We'll have to tie
that hand in.”
The dead hand, with arm
now bent back, seemed to be
claiming attention. The ambu-
lance-bearer addressed the
corpse: “Come on, stiff, get
that hand in. We want to tuck
you up for your ride to town.”
To the doctor he went on:
“It’s a wonder Turley didn't
shoot this one, too. This bloke
beat him for Filly by whisking
her away on the mail-plane
one time she was in Norman-
ton with her old man. He took
her to Cairns and married her.
Old Mick hated Gooch like
poison. But he had to have
him back to live here or lose
his little girl. That yeller-feller
Bateman's done old Mick a
real good turn.”
The bearer added: “You’ll
get plenty of shootings while
you're round these parts, Doc.
They're always getting the gun
out. It's the awful quiet out
here that does it, I reckon.
Starts 'em brooding, gets ’em
down.”
/"Vut at the truck, the ser-
geant, with Turley at his
elbow, was questioning Bate-
man: “If you wasn't mixed
up with the girl, Bateman,
what'd you want to go inter-
fering in the rows she had with
her husband for?”
“Aw ... I don’ like him
knockin’ her about.”
“Her father was here to look
after her.”
“Boss, here, been ask ’em me
stop him.”
Turley cut in: “I only asked
you once . . . one time he took
to me.”
“You ask ’em me two free
time, Boss. You say: ‘ ’S’pose
you kill ’em that cow, I give
’em you Filly.’ ”
“You low-down lyin’ dog,
you ... I never said nothin’
the sort!”
“Course you did! ”
“What, me give ray little
girl to a mongrel boong like
you?”
The sergeant snapped,
“That'll do . . . both of you!”
He turned to Bateman:
“Well, go on with what hap-
pened last night.”
Blinking, quivering, gasping
his words, Bateman went on:
“Like . . . like I been tell ’em
you, sergeant . . . they’s havin’
a row again. 1 don" like it.
] , . . 1 been go acrost an’ pull
him off of her. She runned
away to her of man. Then
that bloke he gets to men . .”
“Yes?”
“Well ... he too good for
me, that bloke. He give 'em
me beltin' an’ chuck me out.
1 been go back my room.
l"m out the back verandah
washin’ face, when I hear ’em
shot. 1 come out pretty quick.
1 think maybe he gone after
Filly. They’s still a light there
in his house. But ! don't see
nobody. I runned back to
look. I see him there, lyin’ on
the floor, blood cornin' out o
his chist an’ mouth. I see the
rifle there. 1 reckon he must a
shot hiss elf. 1 . . . I'm standin
there, when Boss, here, come.
He reckon I shot him. I say
1 didrf ... 1 didn", too, ser-
geant . . . dinkum, 1 dicin'!
“Did you handle the rifle at
all?”
“No, sergeant ... 1 never
touch rifle, I never touch
nothin’.”
Turley snarled: “You w:u
handlin’ that rifle yest y
ev'nin’. You used it for the
kill.”
Bateman turned on him,
blinking.
The sergeant asked. “1 hat
right, Bateman?”
“Das right, sergeant. I been
kill ’em bullock for beef. |
been drop 'em with rifle. But
1 didn’ ...”
“What'd you do with the
rifle afterwards?”
“I been put ’em back k* l ‘
ehen. That rifle stop kitchen
always.” „
“When’d you put it oack-
“After butcherin’. Time
come for supper.”


“Anybody see you put it
back?”
“I dunno. Them lubras is
there grillin’ steak, pretty
busy.”
The sergeant asked Turley,
“Is the kitchen kept locked?”
“Not usually. It wasn’t
locked last night.”
“Anybody could take the
rifle out any time?”
“That’s right. . . an’ I reckon
you’ll find be the fingerprints
that this bloke here got it out
after Gooch belted him, an’
went an’ shot him, an’ chucked
the rifle in so’s to make it look
like Gooch shot hisself.”
Bateman, his face jerking
wildly, moaned, “I didn’, I
tell ya . . . I didn’ 1 ”
“We’ll soon find out if you
did or you didn’t,” said the
sergeant. “If the post-mortem
shows it wasn’t suicide, the
C. 1.8., Cairns, will investigate
-and nothing gets past them.
So, if you’re hiding anything,
any of you, you best speak up
and save a lot of time and
trouble.”
Turley and Bateman were
silent, looking now at the
ambulance man and doctor
bringing the dead man out on
the stretcher. That recalcitrant
hand bulged, quivering, upder
the shrouding blanket.
The sergeant grunted: “O.K.
I want to look round a bit
and question the rest of the
people here. You’ll have to
come back in the plane, Bate-
man. I’ll want a sworn state-
ment from you. Better get
anything you want to take.”
Turley said, “I’ll get ’em get
us a bit o’ dinner, sergeant.”
“O.K. We’ll go right after.”
It was an awkward meal that
was partaken of in the kitchen
an hour or so later. The whites,
including Filly, sat at table.
Bateman had his in boong
style out on the wood-box on
the verandah. Turley still wore
his hat.
Filly was the only one frank
m acknowledgment of what
intruded on the company like
a shadow, like the bulge of that
stiff hand beneath the blanket
°n the stretcher now in the
hack of the utility under the
mango-tree. She sniffled the
§ r ief of her widowhood, or of
whatever it truly was, into the
funereal corned - beef and
Pumpkin.
The men at the table talked
gravely of cattle, of the neigh-
boring stations, their precious
Water, their scanty grass. Bate-
man sat chewing absently, his
Primitive-man’s face blank, his
deep-set eyes fixed on the
buck, perhaps on the hand
beneath the blanket still seem-
ing to be trying to attract
attention.
Straight after the meal the
party set out. Now Bateman
rode in the back with the
ambulance man and the ser-
geant and the dead man who,
bumping about on the floor to
the rough going, shoved as if
angrily at the other’s feet.
So back to the air - strip
and the aircraft. There was
just enough seating for the
complement—three seats in
line on the port side, two on
the starboard.
The entrance was on the
port side: hence there was
more room on the starboard,
actually room for four seats:
but the space of two was
occupied by a frame for the
stretcher, placed between the
two seats. The sergeant sat
in the seat behind the stretcher,
the ambulance man in that
ahead. Across the aisle sat
Bateman, at the rear ; then
Turley, with Filly up in front.
The doctor shared the cockpit
with the pilot.
The aircraft’s engines came
to life, coughing, spluttering;
found voice and roared. She
swung from the shed and,
trailing the red veil, danced
her lightsome way down to the
end of the strip, there to stand
straining on brakes, raging at
full bore in preparation for
flight. Inside the insulated
cabin it was comparatively
quiet.
Then the plane leapt away
in take-off, sped roaring up the
red swathe, rose to wing the
sky, but with the going no less
rough than on the blazing
earth from which the turbu-
lence rolled up boiling. The
belted passengers lurched in
their seats, the strapped and
shrouded dead man in his
stretcher.
XT was turbulent to 6000 feet,
at which the plane levelled
out, to go boring through the
blue enamel void at its hundred
knots and more, yet seeming
to hang there, in a world time-
less and weightless, to drift on
the aeolian music of its engines.
The passengers sat as if
entranced.
Then into the song of the
engines a discord intruded,
indefinable to begin with, a
mere mumbling, but the source
of it indubitable, as, when
suddenly it rose to a rasping
moan, the turning of all
heads showed —towards the
stretcher!
The blanket above the
breast was swelling . . . swell-
ing ... the bulge of the stiff
hand quivering!
The watching eyes popped,
Turley’s to be seen for the first
time, looking like marbles shot
with red and blue.
The blanket swelled . . .
swelled . . . then collapsed to
a hoarse cry from the form
beneath.
Bateman, craning, gaping,
gasped: “He ain’t dead at
all! ”
Turley’s face had turned
greenish. His lean jaw hung
slack.
'T'earing off his seat-belt,
A Bateman rose, flung him-
self across the aisle, to snatch
at the straps of the stretcher.
The ambulance man jerked
back his head to see, flung
back a restraining arm, ex-
claiming, “Eh . . . what’re you
doing?”
Bateman yelled: “He ain’t
dead. Get him out!”
“He’s dead all right, mate.
Sit down. You’ll be upsetting
the trim of the aircraft.”
“He been sing out ... I
been hear him . . . get him
out ... he tell you I didn’
done it!”
“He wasn’t singing out.
That’s only the gas coming out
of him, account of the
altitude.”
The sergeant rose, laid large
hands on Bateman, shoved
him back to his seat, while
Bateman babbled: “I been
hear ’em. 1 been see ’em.”
“Sit down, boy . . . and keep
quiet!”
The sergeant leaned over
Mick Turley, staring into the
drawn sick face, into the horri-
fied eyes, saying sharply:
“You done it, eh, Turley?”
Turley’s tongue flickered
over his thin lips.
The sergeant seized his
shoulder, shook him: “You
shot Gooch, didn’t you?”
Turley blinked and nodded.
“Why’d you try to put the
blame on Bateman?”
Turley gasped, “Another
mongrel dog . . . hangin’ roun’
my little girl!”
“How‘d you do it?”
“Got the rifle out the kit-
chen, wrapped a hank’chief
round it, shot the dog from
just outside the door, an’
chucked the rifle in. I wanted
’o get both the mongrels. I
been waitin’ for the chanst a
long time.”
Turley sighed shudderingly,
cast a glance at his daughter
staring back at him out of
wide black eyes, then turned
again to the sergeant:
“Look after her for me when
you lock me up, will you,
sergeant . . . keep all them
dogs away?”


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: The "New Australia” Venture
EXTRACT mn NEW AUSTRALIA LfAFlET
Fwy njtnjber oj tfjf - ■ •
(t agrees to subscribe all tye iquy
WM. possess fb
foe rjot les5 1^at7
■L, «•-
From THE BULLETIN, March 11, 1893.
THE OLD MAN SPEAKS: “Sixty quid's a lump, Jo,
The swag's too big to hump, Jo,
And I don't think We'll jump, Jo,
To the land of Paraguay."


Getting a Tiger
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
Throughout my service in
India before the last
war, I found that now
and then when I was
introduced to people someone
would ask: “The man who
killed the tiger?” At first my
reply was a blunt “No” ; later
I was able to say “Not that
one.”
In the India of those days
legends lived long. The facts
of this one are these. One day
in 1806 the villagers of Arcot,
in southern India, caught a
maneating tiger in a pit they
had dug, caged it, brought it
to the maidan where the officers
of H.M. 19th Light Dragoons
and others of the garrison were
holding a race-meeting, and
spent the interval between races
hurling sticks, stones and abuse
at the beast.
Eventually the tiger,
thoroughly infuriated, burst
the bars of its cage and fought
its way through the crowd,
savaging a couple of them and
killing another before they
could take to their heels, and
then loping off back towards
the jungle to remain a danger
for the rest of its life.
My cousin and namesake,
Rollo Gillespie, commanding
the 19th Light Dragoons, was
riding onto the course for the
next race, when he heard the
hullabaloo, recognised at once
what had happened, seized a
lance from one of the Hindu
horsemen on duty guarding the
ground and set off in pursuit.
His biographer, writing in the
flowery language of those
times, describes how “Colonel
Gillespie made his horse leap
quite over the tyger —cause and
origin of so much bloodshed—
and speared the beast through
the heart.”
That sounds a little too neat
and tidy to be strictly accurate.
The 19th Light Dragoons
(heroes of the relief of Vellore)
w ere renowned as a hard-riding
r egiment, and it is unlikely that
their officers would have just
stood by while their c.o. had
all the fun to himself. Rather,
1 suggest, Gillespie (who was
°y preference a foxhunting
probably gave a view-
Holloa, and those who were
Counted seized lances, too, and
r °de to beat him, vying for first
spear.
, That is much more in keep-
lngwith the habits and customs
°f British officers, especially in
those robust days. Even war
was made a sport, and there
are hundreds of examples of
the havoc this idea caused the
more orthodox enemy, of
which I shall quote only one —
young Wykeham’s shout of
“Stole Away!” which (50 years
after Rollo’s ride) brought the
cheering, sweating redcoats
over the brow of the heights of
the Alma and put the Russians
to flight under the eyes of their
horrified lady-friends, who had
come out to watch the sport of
bold Muscovites making mince-
meat of an army led by fox-
hunters.
■piELD sports played a large
part in the training of offi-
cers for war, so long as officers
had enough private means to
afford the considerable outlay
they entailed. This sort of train-
ing was popular with everyone
—with the taxpayers, because it
cost the country nothing but
was the very best possible
school for the urgencies of
battle ; with commanding offi-
cers, because it kept their
subalterns out of mischief;
with the n.c.os., because it
allowed them a free hand at
teaching soldiers the grammar
of weapon-handling and drill,
without constant interruptions
from their seniors ; with the
participants themselves;
with all the merry crew —
farmers, villagers, foot - fol-
lowers and children of all
races, creeds and tongues —who
love to feel the ancient, in-
stinctive joy of the chase ; and
with the small army of crafts-
men (saddlers, gunsmiths,
gamekeepers, stalkers, etc.)
who had a direct, or indirect
commercial interest of some
form or another in sport.
Everyone liked it, except the
ladies —and I suspect that this
was only because female
jealousy could not understand
why men did not seem to put
true value on their charms, but
took to activities in which few
women could compete either
with dignity or on equal terms.
T use the past tense in these
remarks about field sports,
because —even though the prin-
ciple still holds true —oppor-
tunity is nowadays not so easy
for officers to find, and once
the nouveaux riches came into
the field, prices skyrocketed
beyond the limit of most offi-
cers’ purses.
All over the world, before
World War 11, wherever the
King’s service took them, offi-
cers of the Army (and, though
to a necessarily more limited
extent, of the Navy and R.A.F.)
used to take every possible
moment they could to get away
hunting or shooting.
In India men normally spent
their leave shooting. There
were various forms of this, and
Kashmir —or, better still, Bal-
tistan, which was beyond Kash-
mir—could provide almost
every form of game-shooting
anyone would want. There
were also the forests of Central
and Southern India and the
foothills of the Himalayas
which gave ample facilities for
sport.
Tiger-shooting was a par-
ticular form of shooting which
everyone who possibly could
made an ambition. It wasn’t
a man’s constant sport; it was
something he probably did only
once or twice during his whole
service, whereas he might go
to Kashmir to shoot deer,
leopards or bears every year.
There was something special
in killing a tiger, though,
which made it memorable —
possibly this very rarity of
being in tiger country —and the
cost of the licence you had to
get either from the State Gov-
ernment or from the Govern-
ment of India (depending on
whether you were shooting in
a native State or in one of the
provinces) to allow you to kill
it.
There were various types of
tiger-hunting. Some of the
cavalry still hoped to copy
Rollo Gillespie’s feat, I believe,
and ride the beast down like a
pig to kill him with a hog-
spear. I never heard of
anyone who did this in my
time, but it seems to have
been done every so often
throughout history (though not
every horse will face a tiger).
In the same way there were
Indians —and Englishmen, too
—who considered that the only
sporting way to kill a tiger was
on foot with a sword, as it
charged you. Not many men
did this or even lived to tell of
an attempt to do it. Some used
to go after tigers on foot, with
a gun and with or without
beaters, but generally they did
not have much luck.
I knew one man, though,
who came upon a tiger while
he was shooting in the forests
near Ahmednagar, fired,
wounded it and then sustained
its charge, and managed to
kill it by passing his gun round
his back before his face and
right side were mangled beyond
description. He died later of
his wounds.
So far as shooting tigers
went, you could do it in real
style—if you were a friend of
some ruler who kept up ancient
state —from a howdah on the
back of an elephant. This was
less risky than on foot, but not
as safe as it sounds ; the tiger
could spring and get you,
howdah and all, and would
unquestionably attack if
wounded or if already savage.
I must confess, though, that
generally these organised tiger-
battues laid on by the princes
were rather like hunting a bag-
fox. Never lucky enough to go
on one, I should imagine that
they were something quite out
of the world, all the same.
/generally, the ordinary man
used to sit up for the tiger
at night on a small platform
(called a machari), built in a
tree. This was a pretty flimsy
affair—boughs and branches
bound together with creepers—
and not very high. It could not
be among the foliage, or you
couldn't have taken aim. This
machan was put up either
above a waterhole or in some
part where the tiger was bound
to come. A goat was generally
tethered below the machan as
a bait to bring the tiger there.
Your object in getting above
ground-level was to avoid leav-
ing your own scent around the
place to scare the tiger away
from the bait.
When the tiger came, you
shot, either by moonlight or
with the help of a flashlight if
you had one, and prayed for
an instantaneous kill. If you
only wounded the beast, then
you had to get down from the
machan, find him and finish
him off, because most of the


tigers you would meet in these
circumstances were maneaters
anyhow —the villagers would
have told you about them, built
the machan for you and pro-
vided the local bahadur or hero
as your guide and helper in the
machan and in the subsequent
follow-up (if that was neces-
sary—and you couldn't leave
a wounded maneater prowling
in the jungle round a village.
I dropped my tiger dead, so
I cannot describe the excite-
ment and danger of following-
up a wounded and furious
beast; but I had several simi-
lar experiences after wounded
black bears on stony, scrub-
covered mountainsides, and
know that it was the very
reverse of pleasant creeping
along with a .45 revolver in my
hand (the accepted weapon in
this case) and expecting to come
face to face with a 6ft horror
of flailing claws at any moment.
I daresay a tiger would be
even worse to follow —but I
will finish this account with the
tale of a young chap I knew in
the Argylls, who had to follow
a wounded bear into its cave
where it had taken refuge. He
lay on his back in the middle
of the narrow entrance-passage,
so that the bear had to crawl
over his body to attack him
and, while it was doing so, shot
and killed the animal. This
piece of cold courage is prob-
ably still recounted in the
villages near where he was then
shooting.
The man himself was killed
in Tunisia, advancing against
the embattled Afrika Korps
somewhere round Medjes-el-
Bab, with a joke almost on his
lips as he fell. In the middle
of the frantic bombardment,
with every German and British
piece of artillery and small
arms firing full blast, the Jocks
advancing with fixed bayonets
and bristling with warlike iron-
mongery, young Tony saw a
partridge get up and whirr
away in front of him. He
turned to his batman and
said: “By God, Fergus, why
didn’t I bring my gun?” The
soldiers laughed, the tension
broke and the position was
taken—at the cost of young
Tony and some other good
men.
Those who condemn “blood-
sports,” as they call them,
might pause a moment to con-
sider that story. For if there
had been no Tonys to help in
a small but extremely necessary
way to win a pretty desperate
campaign, none of us would be
here, adequately fed and
clothed, and free to argue about
the rights and wrongs of kill-
ing animals for pleasure. And
if there hadn’t been field-
sports . . .
Australian School-days—V
LIFE CLASS
By RONALD McCUAIG
The school I went to on
Sydney’s North Shore
was on a plateau in the
bush. The plateau
dropped sharply about 30ft to a
shelf sloping gently to another
steep drop, at the bottom of
which was a creek inset with
tall, thin trees sprinkled with
ringtail possums.
Along the line of the creek
a path ran a mile or so to
Middle Harbor, past bottle-
brush, and an occasional blue
orchid, Christmas - trees, the
spidery flowers of mountain-
devils, and millions of gum-
trees ; and screened from the
Middle Harbor mud by a few
trees there was a low, level
patch about 30ft square which
was carpeted white with flannel-
flowers in the season of the
year.
For present purposes we
stay on the sloping shelf just
down from the plateau. It was
cleared of bush near to the
school. While I was there a
swimming-pool was built on it,
but before that there was only
the septic tank, while from
pipes running down the hill-
side a stream of laundry waters,
and other waters not run
through the septic tank, spread
over the sandy soil.
Observing this water and that
sandy soil. I decided to put
them together to make a
garden. I dug plots, put in
seeds of carrots, radishes and
sweet-peas, and set about the
absorbing business of irrigating
the plots.
As the flow of water was
irregular, it soon occurred to
me that what was needed was
a dam. Taking into considera-
tion the natural path of the
water and the fall of the land,
I built this shapelessly and soon
had the satisfaction of a dam
with a slight overflow, an im-
pressive sheet of water with
always an iridescence of soapy
scum on its surface, and often
a delectable tinge of "rinsing-
blue in its depths.
At first it seemed an easy
enough proposition to break
down a section of the dam
wall every time I wanted to
irrigate my garden. But interest
in gardening was giving way to
interest in engineering. Into
the wall of the dam I set a
short length of pipe. Against
this I set a plank to which I
had nailed sacking, so that the
force of the water pressed the
sacking against the inner end
of the pipe. A piece of sapling
nailed to the top of the plank
served as a handle with which
the plank could be pushed clear
of the pipe.
Push, and the water flowed.
Pull, and it stopped. Nothing
touched with the human hand ;
a scientific marvel.
My fellow-scholars observed
my grubby goings-on with con-
tempt. Those from the city
knew that people didn’t do such
things. Those from the country
recalled dams to which mine
was not even a drop in the
bucket.
'T'HEN there must have been a
lull in the cricket or the
football, or an urge to self-
expression : some six or eight
sons of businessmen and coun-
trymen formed a partnership to
build a dam and irrigate plots
in process of formation. Theirs
was no haphazard venture. I
think they had plans to sell
their produce.
Their dam did not casually
follow natural contours, like
mine. It was a utilitarian and
businesslike dam, set up square
and solid, about four times the
area of mine, and deeper. It
had an outlet-pipe. To open
it one of the partnership would
put his hand in the water up to
his elbow and withdraw a plug
made of a pointed length of
sapling. To close it he would
put his hand in the water and
insert the plug.
I thought this method of
turning a dam on and off in-
expressibly vulgar, but I have
noticed since then that while
I am considering the style and
form in which things may most
suitably be done, businessmen
are, in their phrase, “bulling it
through” and making money.
Not long after they had com-
pleted their dam 1 was sur-
prised by an offer to join their
partnership. Why not, their
representative said, make it one
big enterprise?
I replied that I was doing
quite well as I was; liked
being in business by myself;
had pioneered this type of
enterprise—in short, no.
A few days later they came
across while I was tilling my
fields and made the position
clearer. Theirs was a big dam.
There was not enough water to
fill both our dams. What was
I going to do about it?
I did nothing. That night my
gardens were trampled upon by
a loose horse. After another
night the whole flow of water
seemed to have worn a course
to their dam.
The night after that it tended
to change its mind and wander
back to mine ; but they had the
size, and I would probably have
ended paying them 3d. a week
for the supply of water from
their dam if the distracted gaze
of our headmaster had not
lighted upon the scene:
Dabbling in drainwater when
there were sixteen acres of
bushland . . . !
Our irrigation schemes
lapsed abruptly. We were all
a bit bored with them, anyway;
and even the carrots must have
been weary of being hauled out
to see how they were going and
then reinserted in the good
earth.
T>ut the whole thing returned
and returned to me as
significant trifles will. It w as
not until my middle twenties
that I heard the phrase
“ganged-up on,” and under-
what had happened, for
the first time in my life, to me.
And it was not until a few
years more that I realised to
the full the tragic majesty
implicit in the affair, corning
to the end of Hemingway s To
Have and Have Not,” where
Harry Morgan, the individual-
ist, is brought in dying on his
piratical launch after he has
shot it out with his passengers.
“No matter how,” says
Harry, summing up his lif eS
experience, “a man alone
ain't got no bloody chance.


LETTERS
Getting Australian Music Played
Sir,
Lindsey Browne’s trenchant
and constructive article, “They
Can Play It, But They Can’t
Write It” (B. 8/2/’6l) brings
forward several important
points. The A.P.R.A.-A.B.C.
competitions, however, are not
quite as haphazard as might
appear. With the exception of
1957, they have been held
regularly since 1954, and have
brought forward at least two
works which have taken their
place in the growing body of
Australian orchestral music.
In 1954, Clive Douglas’s
“Wongadilla” shared the prize
with Robert Hughe s’s
“Xanadu.” “Wongadilla” has
been performed quite widely
and “Xanadu” is probably the
most frequently performed of
Australian orchestral works.
It has been commercially
recorded and a miniature score
is now in preparation. At the
time, the competition was
important for Robert Hughes’s
future recognition and led to
the Halle commission which
produced “Sinfonietta” and,
more recently, to the commis-
sion to write a television ballet.
By 1959 it was clear that the
competitions had served their
purpose and it was realised
that they were an artificial and
temporary stimulus. Last year
A.P.R.A. and the A.B.C. began
commissioning works directly
from the composer with the
first award going to Robert
Hughes. These annual com-
missions which will eventually
cover most musical forms, are
a step in the right direction,
but they now need buttressing
in various ways.
A similar pattern has
emerged in New Zealand. A
competition arranged by Percy
Grainger in the ’thirties first
brought Douglas Lilburn to
Public notice. Several competi-
tions have been held over the
years, but only one for a full
orchestral work —an overture.
The winning entries in this
section were performed by the
National Orchestra and ex-
tensively broadcast by the
N.Z.B.S. Competitions have
now been discarded and before
long substantial direct commis-
sions can be expected.
. Much of the initiative in
tnstituting reforms now lies in
the hands of the recently-
formed Fellowship of Austra-
lian Composers which may
well find the teaching of com-
position in Australia a suitable
topic for inquiry. Even with
favorable conditions it is
doubtful whether a serious
composer will be able to live
from his music for many years
to come.
In the meantime, in the
absence of special machinery,
various solutions may be
found, such as a composers’
fund, liberal scholarships, pro-
vision for resident composers
at universities and conserva-
toriums, or a Government bur-
sary scheme similar to that
operating in New Zealand.
This allows young composers
up to three years’ study over-
seas and is indirectly respon-
sible for the existence of a
small “school” of composers in
Wellington, the first of its kind
there has ever been.
At the same time favorable
conditions for composers are
gradually establishing them-
selves: commissions from the
N.Z.B.S. and National Film
Unit; the existence of a criti-
cal audience; the National
Orchestra at hand with a
young, sympathetic conductor ;
the existence of good chamber
groups and players; a lively
University Music Department
with two composers (Farquhar
and Lilburn) on the staff. The
fruits of all this still lie ahead,
but movement in the right
direction has begun.
In Melbourne last year
Aaron Copland said that he
felt Australian creative music
was in much the same, more
or less neglected state, as that
experienced by America some
30 years ago. Group activity
by the composers themselves
eventually turned the scales.
It is to be hoped that what
L.B. describes as the “special
frustrations” of Australia, in
teaching, performance and pro-
motion, will yield to the efforts
of composers themselves. At
the same time they have to
overcome the geographical
difficulties of Australia whose
five or six musical centres are
* . , ... ,
largely out of touch with each
and f ,he . fa ' t „ ,b ? t the
whole country is still dismay-
ingly remote from the musical
activity of Europe, America
and particularly Asia.
J. M. THOMSON
Sydney.
NORMAN LINDSAY AND
HISTORY
Sir,
Whatever Norman Lindsay’s
ideas have of weight in artistic
matters, his history (Red Page,
15/2/’6l) is all awry. “Horace’s
country villa” was so far afield
from Rome that few minds
(brilliant or otherwise) ever
gathered there for a dinner
party. That was one of the
charms of the place ; there were
no notable cultural discussions
there. A century or so from
Horace (he died in 8 b.c.) takes
us to near a.d. 100, a time
where no one, save Mr Lindsay
in his Red Page comments on
Kenneth Clark’s book, “The
Nude,” depicts as civilisation
“crashed back into a period of
barbarism”—a period which
none but he calls “the Dark
Ages.”
Emperor Trajan, one of the
best, ruled from a.d. 98 to 117,
to be followed by the admirabl©
Hadrian (a.d. 117 to 138) and
later, the Antonines and Mar-
cus Aurelius in a fairly long
period that Gibbon deemed
the happiest ever for mankind
which, even then, well removed
from a century after Horace’s
death, was not “bemused by
the spectacle of the Gothic
cathedral.”
The Dark Ages, such as they
were, may be considered to
range from c. 600 to a.d. 800
and in any case preceded th©
Middle Ages. Gothic cathedrals
began to soar some 340 years
after the Dark Ages wherein
the Church was fighting for its
life and were particularly pro-
minent in the 12th and 13th
centuries.
Mr Lindsay’s references to
“Black Mass, witchcraft,
demonology, astrology . . .
black magic . . . torture cham-
ber .. . faggot. . . sadism ...”
read strangely. The medievals
laughed at the devil and weren’t
worried about witches and
wizards. The very word “sad-
ism” is rather modern. As a
matter of cold fact, one of the
factors bringing in witchcraft,
demonology, etc., in a serious
way was the Renaissance itself
with its return in part to pagan
classical sources, to literature
instead of theology. The witch-
craft trials and the ideas that
went with them are blots not
upon medieval times but upon


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal'.
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SUtLIVAN
PTYLTa «
•Jus aoi'A-
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
.Extensive Grounds and Build-
E ing'f. Junior House separate
I from the rest of the School.
| Illustrated Prospectus on
j application to
G. A. FISHER, B.Sc.,
ifeadm aster.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T- K- MAGNET,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEYj Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. {Branches in all States) 19/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
the Renaissance concerning
which Norman Lindsay’s ideas
are apparently so incurably
romantic and unhistorical.
MARTIN HALEY
Paddington ( Qld .),
TV AND THE SCRIPT-
WRITER
Sir,
In his article “What’s Hap-
pening to Radio” (B. 15/2/’6l),
R. Clayton makes no mention
of the people hit the hardest
—the writers. Before the
introduction of TV, writing
radio scripts was a bread-and-
butter activity with scores of
Australian writers. At a recent
meeting of a group of writers,
no less than 20 people said
that they had had hardly a
script accepted since TV came
on the scene.
An analysis of A.B.C. pro-
grammes over the last few
years shows that nearly all the
plays, serials, etc., which used
to be written mainly by Aus-
tralians are now 8.8. C.
transcriptions. Commercial
stations used little Australian
writing before TV. Now their
requirements have sunk to
nearly nothing.
This is part of a world-wide
trend. A survey made by the
Screen Writers’ Guild of
U.S.A. shows that in the
greater Los Angeles area alone
there are now nearly 5000 men
and women who used to be
employed as writers by Holly-
wood, who wrote for sound
radio, who have had plays
staged by commercial theatre,
or who have a number of
novels to their credit. Today
little more than 300 of them
are making a living by writing
for TV. The rest are either
working as secretaries, janitors,
caretakers, waiters, waitresses
and in similar jobs.
Nobody —repeat, nobody—
in Australia has yet managed
to break into TV as a big-time
writer. Further, Australian
playwrights with previous stage
successes to their credit have
now realised what their col-
leagues in America and Britain
discovered years ago: to have
a play used on TV means
having to accept a payment
little above the peanuts class
and most effectively kills any
“ Wonderful! They're saying grace."
chance of that play ever being
staged by the commercial
theatre or used as a film, with
the corresponding big rewards.
Had Ray Lawlor sold “The
Summer of the 17th Doll” to
TV in U.S.A., Britain and Aus-
tralia he would have made less
than £2OOO all told. He sold
the film rights alone for
£60,000.
TV hasn’t provided “great
and ever-expanding markets
for creative writing.” It has
killed many of the old ones
and has put next to nothing
in their place.
H. A. LINDSAY
Highgate (S.A .).
SANDGROPER’S PLEA
Sir,
It interested me to note that
in my article on local bushfires
(B. 8/2/’6l) your sub-editor
changed my West Australians
to Western Australians. That
may be precisely correct, and
looks well enough in print;
but when spoken it has a
clumsy sound and even halts
the tongue. In fact I cannot
recall ever consciously hearing
the term used by fellow-sand-
gropers.
When asked, we say we are
West Australians. Our daily
newspaper is “The West Aus-
tralian.” Some years ago a
group of writers discussed this
very point and I remember it
was generally agreed that the
“ern” was also commonly
omitted in adjectival use ; e.g.,
whoever talks about Western
Australian wildflowers?
Therefore, although we live
in Western Australia (we don’t
employ tjje hybrid Westr&lia
here, either), I feel that
common usage and euphony
combine to uphold me when 1
refer to us as West Australians.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
Perth ( W.A. ).
COMPLEX COMMENT
Sir,
Re the par. on page 7 of
“Society” (B. 15/2/’6l) under
the caption “Complex Com-
plex” (obviously staff-written),
which derides the general feel-
ing here that “Queensland is a
Cinderella State crucified by
southern interests and com-
mentators,” let me (a South
Australian with long periods in
Victoria and Sydney, but now
a Queenslander by adoption
and conviction) say that the in-
tolerant and illogical par exudes
the very odor of that very
antagonism.
We are happy here to give
Ken Mackay £BOO in apprecia-
tion of his memorable “intes-
tinal fortitude” in crises over
many years for Queensland and
Australian cricket. We do
admire also Lindsay Kline for
his courageous but lesser con-
tribution, but hold that Victoria
should make him a similar
“bob in” testimonial.
Furthermore, to go back no
farther than pre-Olympic June,
1960, we cannot forget the un-
fair and illegal treatment of
Queenslanders in the Madigan-
Marshall boxing “fiasco,” nor,
in the Australian Cycling
Championships in Adelaide, the
scandalous treatment of our
Tony Brennan, whose appe al
against his suspension, and ex-
clusion from the Olympic team
(and “crucifixion”) was heard
by only two of six appeal mem-


Legal Notice
IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF
BANKRUPTCY
DISTRICT OF STATE OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
AND THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY
TO ROBERT ANTHONY TULLOH of
U Francis • Street Bondi Beach in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Bankruptcy Petition
jras presented against you on the
Twenty-eighth day .of July One thous-
and nine hundred and fifty-nine The
name of the Petitioning Creditor is
Hritstand Distributors Limited The
address of the Petitioning Creditor is
tj37 Gardener’s Road Mascot in the
State of New South Wales The amount
nf the Petitioning Creditor’s debt is
T |v e hundred and one pounds three
shillings and three pence ( £OOl/3/3)
jj.V an Order dated the Second day of
February one thousand nine hundred
and sixty-one the Court ordered that
Publication of this notice should be
deemed to be good and sufficient service
nn .vou of the Petition The date fixed
™ r the hearing of the Petition is Mon-
nay the Twentieth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and sixty-one
at 10.30 a.m. If you do not appear
the Court may make a sequestration
order against you in your absence The
relevant documents may be inspected
at this Registry.
HATED this 13th day of February, 1961.
y/'U J. FLINT, Deputy Registrar.
Missing Friend
Bernard vaughan o’reilly,
■ormerly of Tallangatta Valley, in the
.ate of Victoria, farmer, last heard of
! n August, 1943. Would anyone know-
'h? of the whereabouts of the above-
named please communicate with J. S. N.
“ARRIS, Solicitor, Box 143, Wodonga.
Dtl
SECURITY!!
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Deposit & Investment Co.
Registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Financiers Established 1882
PER ANNUM 5-10-15
20 Years
6 MONTHS
!<
9 MONTHS
12 MONTHS
li
2 YEARS
£1
3 YEARS
7
2’
4 YEARS
Interest Payable Quarterly
Free of Exchange
DIRECTORS
T. H. Martin W. R. Schofield (Chairman) Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
Rafph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange) Kindersley
House, 20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
84 William Street, Melbourne, and at Armidale and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie St., Canberra { Members of Sydney Stock Exchange)
APPLICATIONS and PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:—
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory. Victoria, South Australia, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Deposit & Investment Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel. BW 4521 -2-3
AND BRANCHES:
City Road (opp. Grace Bros.) MA 4563— Hurstville 57-8026— Parramatta YL9761
—Bankstown 70-7122— Newcastle B 1040— Wollonaong B 2918— Cessnock Cess. 415
— Goulburn Goul. 2485— Canberra J 3992.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
bers. Again N.S.W. Rugby
Union without any consulta-
llon has decreed that we can
have an interstate match, but
it must be played on a Sunday.
All these offences against
fair play were in of “Big
Brother” New South Wales, the
State once convincingly por-
trayed in all spheres in your
Bulletin of earlier years as the
“great nark State.”
ALVA DURYEA
Brisbane ( Qld .).
[The “Society” paragraph in
question was not staff-written; it
came from a Brisbane corres-
pondent. —Ed.]
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
F.G.H.: Room for one mighty
stanza:
Dreaming ere Dawn had done its
crimson deed,
I heard the milkman rein his trusty
steed
And say to Mary Ann “It’s going
to be
Another corker”; Mary Ann
agreed.
....M.F.: How do you wonder a
puddle? .... W.K.H. (Scotland): We
prefer Australian themes... .D.T.:
Make a par of it 8.L.:
Keep off escalators... .J. 8.: Afraid
we’ll have to keep on frustrating
“The Frustrated Poet”. .. .J.M.8.:
Sonnet rather over-loaded....
Graeme Baker: You’re in:—
THE BOSS’S BORE
The sun had sunk below the plain
when off we jumped from the slow
moving train,
and as we made down to the billa-
bong,
we saw a sign reading ‘half a mile
to Waragong’.
We’d dumped our packs,
and had our snacks,
and were setting up the billy,
When down the bank
came six men in rank,
searching the ground as if silly.
‘Have you seen a Berckshire Bore
mate?’
A whoper of fine breeding!
We answered nay,
for what else could we say,
for we’d seen no Berckshire bore.
‘He come from Eastern States only
t’other day,
and the boss ’es frantic as to where
he may stray.’
And when he told us of his cost,
Hell, four hundred quid if hes lost.
We up with our packs to join in
the exploration,
and were given our customary free
transportation.
The truck drove through the Jarra,
flatening acres of wild flower
while in the moonlight we searched,
with our eyes peeled for the bore,
yet b'ar stumps and trunks nothing
we saw.
Then we had a talk about
the blacks we’d seen on walk-a-bout
wondering at their stiff struggle.
Straight by one of their old camps
we passed,
then the boss he belowed ‘Blast!’
and continued with his cursing,
as hes looking at the clean bones,
scattered round the still warm fire
stones.
Then the realisation came,
that, pennyless, we’d be bedding
down again,
for no reward would be coming
our way to-night,
as the boss was mighty sore
that the boongs had et his bore.
Note. Told to us by a family near
Pinjara 50 miles south of Perth the
bore was from Waroona.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Austra-
lasia) Ltd
CUles of engineering products, TV- and
radio-receivers increased substanti-
ally, but profit - margins were lower
because of intense competition, and the
co. did not reap the full benefits of a
higher turnover. Nevertheless, A.W.A.
had an excellent year. Disclosed net
earnings were the highest on record. The
increase in net profit was “largely due to
sales of television equipment, in which
field the co. maintained its position as
the leading manufacturer.” The div.-rate
was steady at 16 p.c.
Established in July, 1913, the Sydney-
based Amalgamated Wireless (Austra-
lasia) Ltd is one of the largest manufac-
turers of radio and television transmitting
and receiving equipment in Australia.
The main workshops are in Ashfield
(N.S.W.).
The co. holds or controls more than
3000 patents, covering radio, radar and
television, owns or operates eight com-
mercial broadcasting-stations, and has
substantial share-interests in several
others.
A.W.A.’s other products include various
types of communications and traffic-
control equipment (the co. is a major
supplier to Commonwealth and State
Government Departments and agencies),
electronic test - instruments, air - condi-
tioners and tape-recorders for commercial
and domestic use, radio and TV studio-
equipment, radio and TV components
and spare parts, etc. In addition, A.W.A.
is a major producer of consumer-goods,
including refrigerators, washing-machines,
electric fans, 16-mm. film-projectors, car-
radios, electric-ranges, sound-amplifiers
and records, some of which are produced
under licence.
Parent figures only are disclosed.
Earnings of subsidiaries, Amalgamated
Wireless Valve Co. Pty (which shares its
TV- and radio - valves market with
Philips), the New Zealand offshoot, con-
verted into a proprietary co. last term,
Manufacturers Special Products Pty and
Strong Products Pty, were included only
to the extent of dividends received by
the parent. All branches and subsidiaries
are said to have traded profitably during
last year.
Buoyant trading conditions prevailed,
but competition in the TV, radio and
consumer-goods sectors was intense. An
important feature of last term’s trading
was the increasing interest in portable
and car-radios, sales of which had “ex-
ceeded pre-television years.”
Sales of engineering products con-
tinued at a high level. The board says
that engineering products are “so com-
petitive and . . . diversified that it may
be in the national interest for Australian
manufacturers to consider co-operation
and rationalisation. Expansion in the
export-field will, in many cases, depend
on Australian manufacturers reaching
higher production levels to meet the cost
of overseas competitors. In a growing
industry, it is important to be free to
make any arrangements which will result
in lower costs. It is hoped that any con-
templated legislation will not prevent such
co-operation and militate against export.”
Broadcasting earnings improved.
Marine and aviation departments showed
satisfactory results. Both sections have
entered the small-craft market for elec-
tronic equipment, but no spectacular ex-
pansion may be expected in this field.
Production of valves, TV picture-tubes
and transistor-radios by the subsidiary,
Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty,
increased.
Total sales, commissions, rentals, divi-
dends received, etc., for the year ended
June 30, 1960, rose by £906,074 to
£16,622,910. After deducting £15,903,652
costs and expenses (up £885,075), includ-
ing £286,318 provision for depreciation
(up £34,046) and undisclosed tax, net
profit of the parent co. was disclosed at
£719,258 (up £17,999):
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1955.. 263,843 15 p.c. = 146,072 117,771 1,669,662
Profit sale assets, £199.653 .. .. 1,869.315
Share-premiums, £2592 . . .. 1,871,907
Revaluation freeholds, £1,003,144 .. 2,875,051
1956.. 283,976 16 p.c. = 178,070 105,906 2,980,957
Reserves capitalised (1 tor 1),
£1,112,931 1,868,026
Profit sale assets, £57,000 . . . . 1,925,026
1957.. 343,498 9 p.c. = 200',328 143,170 2,068,196
Profit sale assets, £8837 .. •• 2,077,033
1958.. 671,073 14 p.c. = 311,621 359,452 2,436.485
Profit sale assets, £46,312 .. .. 2,482,797
1959.. 701,250 16 p.c. = 356,137 345,122 2,827,919
Profit sale assets, £9154 . . . . 2,837,073
1960.. 719,258 16 p.c. = 356,138 363,120 3,200,193
* After deducting intangibles, now £85,811, and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £2,361,859).
This represented an earning-rate of 32.3
p.c. on the unchanged one-class capital,
compared with 31.5 p.c. in the previous
term, 30.1 p.c. in 1958, 15.4 p.c. in 1957
1d.7 p.c. in 1956 and 27.1 p.c. in 1955. ’
The div.-rate was steady at 16 p. c .
(including a 5 p.c. “bonus”) and took
£356,138. Reserves increased by
£363,120, and also benefited by £9154
profit on sale of assets, rising to
£3,200,193 after deducting £85,811 in-
tangibles, excluding £2,361,859 deprecia-
tion reserve.
There were no capital changes during
the year. Bank overdraft reappeared at
£211,143. Creditors, etc., were £580,370
higher at £3,031,205:
Parent Only.
1958. 1959. i 960
Paid capital .. £2,225,863 £2,225,863 £ 2,2 25,863
Reserves . . 2,522,296 2,913,730 3,286,004
Depreciation re-
serve . . 1,864,352 2,119,462 2,361,859
Provision obso-
lescence, etc.* 596,849 918,431 1,081,389
Notes .. .. 774,137 774,137 774,131
Overdraft . . 211,143
Creditors, etc. 2,443,135 2,450,835 3,031,205
Final div. . . 222,586 244,844 244,844
£10,649,218 £11,647,302 £13,216,444
Freeholds, etc.f 1,660,086 1,681,661 1,685,889
Plant, etc.f . . 2,214,153 2,486,680 2,816,552
Shares subsids. 208,286 200,786 230,780
Shares other cos. 162,312 196,209 369,993
Stocks . . 3,541,115 3,681,884 4,669,503
Book debts . . 2,721,259 2,473,609 2,898,831
Cash, etc. . . 56,196 841,262 459,085
Intangibles .. 85,811 85,811 85,811
£10,649,218 £11,647,302 £13,216,444
* Includes provision for long-service leave, develop-
ment, etc. . . t Subject to depreciation reserve,
now £2,361,859.
Stocks rose by £987,619. Book-debts
were £425,222 higher, but cash, etc., was
much lower. Liquidity remained satis-
factory.
Freeholds at £1,685,889 and plant at
£2,816,552 (up £330,472) were together
subject to £2,361,859 accumulated depre-
ciation provision. Shares in subsidiaries
were shown at a nominal value of
£230,780 (up £29,994). Shares in other
cos. at £369,993 included A.W.A.’s
103,849 20s. ords. in Amalgamated Tele-
vision Services Pty, which were sold to
John Fairfax Ltd after balance-date for
£6 a share.
Book-debts included £113,290 owed by
“Have faith in the company, Gipson, and the brushes will sell themselves.”


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Eife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. Box
(1 Eines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatinax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088.
PRING. DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, Y. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt,
J. A, Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
20-22 O'Connell St., Sydney. 33 Bligli
St., Sydney.
Telephone : BW 4011, BW 5505 (6 lines)
Telegrams Address:
Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
subsidiaries. This may be an
indication that the subsidiaries concerned
we re not called upon to pass-on much
of their profits in dividends to the parent
c 0 Other subsidiaries appeared as
creditors at £823,448 (up £235,438).
Business continues to be brisk, but the
current credit-squeeze may depress both
lornover and profit-margins. For in-
stance, the sales of car-radios in the first
place depend on demand for motor-
vehicles, which has fallen drastically.
It remains to be seen to what extent the
return to a 30 p.c. sales-tax on cars will
remedy the market situation for the
motor-vehicles industry. Diversification
should provide a comfortable cushion
against fluctuations in demand in some
sections of the market. Cash received
for the sale of A.T.S. shares (over
1620,000) is a useful addition to invest-
ment funds.
The board estimates that the establish-
ment of national and commercial TV-
stations in 13 country centres will raise
TV coverage by 14 p.c. However, it is
unlikely that these new stations will com-
mence operations in time to affect current
turnover.
A.W.A.’s scrip is an attractive invest-
ment. The co. follows sound, if con-
servative, commercial and industrial poli-
cies. The financial structure is solid.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
looked attractive at 265. a unit. The
immediate yield is 3.1 p.c. on the basis
of the present 16 p.c. div.-rate.
The popular 64 p.c. 20s. conv. notes,
maturing June 30, 1962, are offered at
955. 6d. each in the unlisted section, and
look a slightly cheaper buy than the ords.
at these comparative prices.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at 12s. for each ss. ord. unit, on the basis
of conservative parent figures.
Rosella Preserving and Manu-
facturing Co. Ltd
For many years now Australian
1 primary producers and associated
industries have encountered highly com-
petitive export - markets. The situation
has been made more difficult by the
tody adverse movement in commodity
Prices and terms of trade. At home,
prices and earnings have been dampened
by a buyers’ market.
The increasing economic integration of
Europe’s six Common Market countries,
J nd American surplus-disposal and farm-
Su Pport policies have aggravated these
difficulties. True enough, there are many
Millions of willing mouths in the “under-
developed” countries of Asia and Africa,
but low per capita income-levels frustrate
{ he generation of effective demand. In
Edition, there are the usual “occupa-
tional hazards” of primary producers,
SUc h as seasonal conditions, labor-costs
"'hipped-up by inflation-prone industrial
"'uges, transport and storage difficulties,
etc.
Taking these factors into consideration,
Victorian-registered and Melbourne-
bused Rosella Preserving and Manufac-
turing Co. Ltd has a creditable earnings-
a °d divs.-record.
Established in 1910, the co. is a major
°°d - processor, jam and condiment
manufacturer, fruit- and vegetable-canner
and producer of special foods for
diabetics. Rosella’s well-known foods are
marketed throughout the Commonwealth
and exported abroad.
Factories and warehouses are located
at Richmond (Melbourne) and Tatura
in Victoria, Rosebery (Sydney) and
Windsor in N.S.W., and in Hobart, Bris-
bane and Adelaide.
Modernisation of plant and expansion
of cold-storage and bulk-handling facili-
ties, coupled with the addition of new
lines (including several varieties of sugar-
less foods for diabetics) pushed-up con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
September 30, 1960, by £17,340 to
£203,890:
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. , Dividends— N serves. serves.*
1955.. 250,276 174 p.c. =105,000 145,276 910,657
Freeholds revalued, £420,832 .. 1,331,489
Reserves capitalised, £400,000 .. 931,489
Profit sale assets, £222 ~ .. 931,711
From inner (stock) reserve, £450,000 1,381,711
Tax overprovided, £12,206 .. .. 1,394,007
1956.. 222,147 15 p.c. =105,000 117,147 1,511,154
Profit sale assets, £14,671 .. .. 1,525,825
1957.. 222,860 124 p.c. =125,000 97,860 1,623,685
Profit sale assets, £10,729 .. .. 1,634,414
1958.. 200,479 124 p.c. =125,000 75,479 1,709,893
Profit sale assets, £lOlB .. .. 1,710,911
1959.. 186,550 124 p.c. =125,000 61,550 1,772,461
Profit sale assets, £668 . . . . 1,773,129
1960.. 203,890 12| p.c. =125,000 78,890 1,852,019
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at September
30, 1960.
This was after charging all expenses,
providing £56,650 for depreciation (up
£3253) and setting - aside £135,890 for
taxation (up £30,616). The jump in the
tax-provision looks high on the figures
disclosed.
The earning-rate on the unchanged
one-class capital improved to almost 20.4
p.c., compared with 18.7 p.c. in the pre-
vious term and 20 p.c. in 1958.
The steady 124 p.c. div. - cheque
absorbed £125,000 and left £78,890 for
reserves, which also benefited by £668
profit on sale of assets. Total consoli-
dated reserves and undistributed profits
appeared at £1,852,019, subject to £30,508
intangibles.
Bank overdraft disappeared. Cash, etc.,
rose by £194,859 to £215,423. Stocks
were £299,807 lower at £1,585,432, indi-
cating improved turnover. Theoretical
working-capital rose by £60,577 to
£1,596,840.
At the last balance-date Rosella was
in a very liquid position:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Capital .. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,709,893 1,772,461 1,852,019
Overdraft .. 571,774 168,305
Creditors . . . . 222,313 219,173 206,455
Tax provision .. 110,242 105,274 136,129
Final div. .. 125,000 125,000 125,000
£3,739,222 £3,390,213 £3,319,603
Property .. .. 942,121 943,552 951,170
Plant, etc. .. 243,568 262,138 273,501
Stocks .. .. 2,290,419 1,885,239 1,585,432
Debtors .. .. 217,696 248,212 263,569
Cash, etc... .. 14,910 20,564 215,423
Goodwill, etc. .. 30,508 30,508 30,508
£3,739,222 £3,390,213 £3,319,603
Book-values of freehold properties and
plant and equipment, etc., edged-up. Net
tangible asset-backing works out at 28s.
2d. for each f.-p. 10s. ord.
Improved liquidity will be useful on
the present credit-tight market. Prospects
look fair, but this year’s trading results


may be influenced by the generally un-
settled market conditions.
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s. ords.
changed hands at 245. 6d. a unit. The
immediate yield is 5.1 p.c. on the basis
of the steady 12f p.c. div.-rate
Appleton Industries Ltd
Improved demand resulted in higher
earnings. Capital investment was
largely channelled into buildings, piant
and machinery. Immediately after the
balance - date, the co. wrote -up by
£250,000 the book-value of shares in
subsidiaries, and declared a one-for-two
bonus-issue. This raised paid capital to
£750,000 in 10s. ords. The 10 p.c. div.-
rate has been maintained.
Established in 1948, the Queensland-
registered Appleton Industries Ltd is a
manufacturer of louvre - w indows and
shades, steel and aluminium window-
frames, steel-frame buildings, hot-water
systems, remote-control window-opening
devices, plastic sinks, etc.
The main workshops are located at
Hendra (Brksbane). Other factories of
the Appleton group operate at Newtown
and Revesby (N.S.W.) and Woodville
(S.A.). The co. is a successful exporter,
and is making good headway on over-
seas markets despite considerable com-
petition. A louvre-assembly offshoot
operates at Slough in the U.K. Two new
assembly-plants are being erected at
Kingston (Jamaica) and Port-of-Snain
(Trinidad) by the West Indies distributors,
in an attempt to beat import-restrictions.
Record sales resulted in consolidated
net profit for the year ended June 30,
1960, rising by £14,779 to £184,979, after
providing £55,154 for depreciation (up
£13,628) and setting-aside £141,880 for
taxation (up £18,616):
Appleton Industries and Si iisidiariks.
r Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. f Old. N serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 55,564 2,194 10 p.c. .-20,833 32,537 224,103
Assets revalued, £119,754 .. 344,4-7
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 94,457
1955.. 151,530 2,850 10 p.c. =37",500 111,180 205,637
Capital profit, £129 . . . . . , 205,766
1956.. 111,770 2,550 10 p.c. = 50,000 59,220 264,986
Capital profit, £1766 266,752
1957.. 167,938 2,250 10 p.c. =50,000 115,688 382,440
Capital profit, £55 382,495
1958.. 172,640 1950 10 p.c. =50,000 120,690 503,185
Capital profit, £7O .. .. .. 503,255
Loss sale assets; £8176 . . . . 495,079
1959.. 170,200 1500 10 p.c. .50,000 118,700 613,779
Net reduction reserves due transfer from
new subsidiaries, £27,026 .. .. 586,75.3
1960. . 184,979 900 10 p.c.=50,000 134,079 720,832.
After paying the pref. dividends, last
term’s net profit represented an earning-
rate of 36.8 p.c. on the unchanged average
ord. capital, compared with 33.7 p.c. in
the preceding term, and 34.1 p.c. in 1958,
33.1 p.c. in 1957 and 21.8 p.c. in 1956.
The steady 10 p.c. ord. div.-cheque
absorbed £50,000. Reserves benefited by
£134,079, but were decreased by a £27,026
net reduction following the incorporation
of subsidiaries’ reserves into consolidated
figures. Consolidated reserves and undis-
tributed profits were disclosed at
£720,832, free of intangibles.
Consolidated balance - sheet indicates
that adequate liquidity was maintained.
Theoretical working-capital amounted to
£572,414. Bank overdraft and creditors
increased. Stocks and book-debts were
higher, responding to the rise in turn-
over ;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £530,000 £520,000 * £510,000
Reserves .. 503,185 613,779 720,832
Overdraft .. 125,460 149,183 265,979
Creditors .. 193,004 218,475 332,459
Tax provision ~ 134,500 123,000 142,000
Final div. .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
£1,511,149 £1,649,437 £1,996,270
Freeholds .. 278,949 264,511 319,015
Plant, etc. . . 228,843 247,941 364,403
Shares ' other cos. 449 107,793
Stocks .. .. 738,314 759,510 960,422
Debtors .. .. 264,119 .269,194 351,802
Cash . . . . 475 488 62S
£1,511,149 £1,649,437 £1,996,270
* Includes £lO,OOO prefs. redeemed after .
balance-date.
Book-value of fixed assets moved up.
The co. reports that existing premises
at Hendra, Revesby and Woodvifle were
extended. Newtown works were im-
proved. There was considerable capital
expenditure on plant and machinery in
connection with the installation ot a
huge zinc-plating plant at Hendra, and
extensions to anodising 1 acil i ties lor
treating aluminium. Both were intended
to increase the efficiency of louvre-
production.
Assets and liabilities of the subsidiary
Cooper Lou re Gissing Pty were included
into the consolidated balance-sheet for
the first time. Investment in the sub
sidiary Cooper Louvre Gissing Pty (dis-
closed at £107,793 in 1959) disappeared
On July 1, 1960, Appleton Industries
revalued its shares in subsidiaries. The
£250,000 write-up was applied to a one-
for-two bonus-issue. Prior to that "the
directors had transferred an amount of
£250.000, as part of dividends totalling
£287.500 paid by one of the subsidiaries to
the parent co. from its unappropriated
profits and reserves Otherwise, reserves
were not drawn upon, provision has been
made for all known contingencies, and
the state of the co.'s affairs, and that ol
its subsidiaries, is satisfactory."
The remaining £lO,OOO redeemable
6 p.c. prefs. were redeemed on December
31, 1960 Paid capital is now £750,000
in 1,500,000 10s. f.-p. ords. The bonus-
shares do not participate in the final
divs. from 1959-60 profits, but thereafter
rank pari passu with the other ords
Expansion continues. The U.K. branch
is growing. Louvre assembly-units were
recently organised in the Philippines and
Nigeria. The bonus-distribution has en-
hanced the co.’s prestige on the share
market.
At the last sale in Brisbane the 10s.
ords. fetched 275. 3d. each, for an imme-
diate yield of 3.7 p.c. on the basis of
the 10 p.c. div. -rate, which remained
steady despite the bonus-handout.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at 16s. 3d. for each 10s. ord. (after the
bonus-issue), based on consolidated
accounts.
Sungei Btdor Tin Dredging Ltd
“pLOATED 24 years ago, Sungei Bidor
A Tin Dredging Ltd (registered in the
A.C.T.) is dredging for tin near Kampar
in Malaya. The co.’s original dredging-
leases were worked-out towards the end
of January, 1960. The dredge was closed-
down from the middle of February to
the middle of June last, so that the main
Bidpr-Telok Anson road could b e
deviated to allow the dredge to enter the
Banopadane area.
The Banopadane area is estimated to
contain 19,300,000 cubic yards (average
value of .461 b. tin-oxide per cubic yard).
“Should the output of tin-concentrates
be unrestricted, it is estimated that the
dredging life of the area is approximately
six to seven years.”
During the year ended June 30, 1960,
production of tin-concentrates was re-
stricted in accordance with the Inter-
national Tin Agreement. However,
recently restrictions were greatly relaxed.
Tin-ore recovered amounted to 230.77
tons (down 82.13 tons). The average
assay (metallic tin percentage) improved
from 75.75 to 75.95, but yield in tin-ore
per cubic yard w'as o.oBlb. down at 0 281 b.
Gold bullion recovered was 226.420 z.
lower at 550.720 z. Working -cost per
cubic yard rose by Il.lBd. to 22.33 d.
Ore-sales brought-in £184,150 (up
£66,742). Gold bullion realised £6909
and sundry revenue amounted to £1034.
Tin-ore stocks (valued at cost) were dis-
closed at £10,608. 1 otal costs swallowed-
up £131.478 (tip £34,781), including
£123,538 operating expenses
No transfers were made to depreciation
and depletion accounts “as the existing
provisions are considered to be adequate.”
After setting-aside £37.000 for Malayan
tax, net profit for the year edged-up by
£612 to £34.223. However, 'in addition
to the amount of £37,000 provided in the
accounts for Malayan income-tax. pay-
ment of excise-du.y, and royalty on tin-
concentrates and bullion produced,
amounted to £40,155."
During the year a portion of the
original dredging-leases was soid : for
£14,583, but £/6xB tax-under provision in
the previous term had to be made-up.
A dividend of Is. 3d. on eacn 3s fid,
f.-p. share was paid last June.
Paid capital remained uncnanged at
£252,000 in 1,440,000 3s. 6d f.-p. ords.
Current assets were £42,889 lower at
£166,935 (including £45,859 stores,
£48,447 Tin Control buTer- tock contri-
butions and £58.966 cash). Current liabili-
ties were £23,993 higner at £32,815.
In Sydney buyers last offered 10s. for
each 3s. 6d. ord. unit, but theie were no
sellers.
Santas Ltd
TAirectors report that in the south-east
of South Australia the seismic survey
of the Penola area has been completed ;
Penola No. 1 well was spudded -in
on February 7, 1961, and will be drilled
to 5000 ft or earlier basement. The second
well “is to be commenced, engineered for
7500 ft.” Drilling is being carried-out
under an arrangement with General
Exploration Co. of Australia Ltd.
In the n.-e. of South Australia and
s.-w. Queensland an extensive field
geological programme is to be carried
out. A big seismic survey will shortly be
commenced in the Innamincka, Durham
Downs and Mount Gason regions.
Santos and Delhi also intend to drill
a 6000 ft well on Mornington Island, in
the Gulf of Carpentaria, some time after
the end of the wet season.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
What is the meaning of the word
contamination as used in linguistics ?
Contamination means the
influence ot One expression on
another similar expression. There
are two types: semantic, usually
known as contagion, and syntatic.
Semantic contamination results in
the change of meaning of a word
or teim by its association with
another. Thus “restive,” by associa-
tion with "restless," has changed ih
meaning from “inert” to “fidgety.”
S>ntatic contamination produces
another way of expressing the same
meaning, thus “I am friendly with
him" becomes associated with “We
are friends” and produces “I am
triends with him.”
9 m + *
Does reinsurance mean that a
policy taken out with one company
is backed by another as a guaran-
tee of payment ?
Reinsurance becomes in etiect a
kind of guarantee of payment, but
should not strictly be termed as
such. If a company writes a policy
for an amount which would be a
severe financial drain on their
resources if it had to be paid out,
it “reinsures” by Sharing some part
of the risk with one or more other
companies. In actual practice many
risks are shared which could easily
be met by the one company. This
is very often done on a ‘treaty”
basis, by which companies agree to
take a certain proportion of every
risk in one field of insurance.
* • • »
How is the bathyscaphe Trieste
raised and lowered ? What pressures
is it subject to ?
The Trieste made a record
descent of 36,960 ft on January 23,
1960. On that occasion, to give it
buoyancy, its compartments were
loaded with 30,000 tons of high-
octane fuel. During the descent the
buoyancy was lessened gradually by
admitting sea water into two of the
compartments, which equalised the
pressure at great depths insiae ana
outside the craft, inmeen tons ot
iron pellets were carried, and some
of these were discarded on tne
descent to decrease the speed.
Coming back to the surface the
pellets were discarded at the rate
of about a ton every 3000 ft. At the
greatest depth reacned the pressure
was nine tons per square inch.
When was i\uiu formed ? How
is it organised ?
Nato was formed by the sign-
ing of the North Atlantic Treaty
on April 4, 1949. The Foreign
Ministers of 12 nations signed the
treaty, viz. Belgium, Canada, Den-
mark, France, Iceland, Italy,
Luxemburg, the Netherlands, Nor-
way, Portugal, the United Kingdom
and the United States. Greece and
Turkey acceded to the treaty in
1952 and the Federal Republic of
Germany in 1955, when the Paris
Agreements came into force.
Since April, 1952, the North
Atlantic Council, the principal body
of the organisation, has been in
continuous session. Member Gov-
ernments have permanent represen-
tatives, who head national delega-
tions ot advisers and experts.
Ministerial meetings of the Council
are held periodically, attended by
the respective Ministers for Foreign
Affairs. Each year a Foreign
Minister is President of the Council.
The Secretary-General is chair-
man, and is appointed by and
responsible to the Council. He has
direct access to all Nato
agencies and to member Govern-
ments, and is responsible for organ-
ising the work of the International
Secretariat. He is assisted by a
Deputy and three Assistants.
The senior military authority in
Nato is the -Military Committee,
composed of a C'hief-of-Staft of
each member country. Its executive
agency is the Standing Group, com-
posed of a representative from each
of France, the U.K. and the
U.S.A.. and responsible for higher
strategic direction throughout the
North Atlantic Treaty area. There
were originally five Regional Plan-
ning Groups, of which only the
Canada-U.S.A. Group remains.
Thiee of the remainder have been
merged into SHAPE (Supreme
Headquarters Allied Powers in
Europe) and the fourth into the
/vtiantic Command
How was local prohibition
brought into force in the U.S.A.,
and how was it repealed ?
Prohibition came into force by
means of the eighteenth amendment
to the Constitution, ratified on
January 16, 1919. The relevant
clauses of the amendment were:
(1) After one year from the
ratification of this article the manu-
facture, sale, or transportation of
intoxicating liquors within, the
importation thereof into, or the
exportation thereof from the United
States and all territory subject to
the jurisdiction thereof for beverage
purposes is hereby prohibited.
(2) The Congress and the several
States shall have concurrent power
to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation.
Prohibition was repealed by the
twenty-first amendment, which
repealed the eighteenth amendment.
This amendment was ratified on
December 5, 1933. The relevant
clauses are:
(1) The eighteenth article of
amendment to the Constitution of
the United States is hereby repealed.
(2) The transportation or importa-
tion into any State, Territory, or
possession of the United States for
the delivery or use therein of
intoxicating liquors, in violation of
the laws thereof, is hereby pro-
hibited.
The second section quoted leaves
the option of the prohibition of
liquor to the individual States.
• • • •
Did England nave radar before
the United States ?
Successful pulse radar systems
were developed independently at
nearly the same time in the United
States, England, France and Ger-
many during the years 1935-40. As
(:< back as 1887 ff■ h-Jir
had found that radio
reflected from solid of H.i
in 1922 Marconi said,
me that h should be
design apparatus by means o?IH'
a ship could radiate or
divergent beam of these
rays which, if coming
metallic object, such as another shipl
or steamer, would be reflected
to a receiver screened from the local
transmitter on the sending ship . . .”
From this it can be seen that, in
one sense, no one “had radar”
before the others. But the first
practical results from research were
those of the British team led by Sir
Robert Watson-Watt, which set-up
an experimental system for radio
pulse-echo detection of aircraft in
the latter half of 1935. The U.S.
Navy's first full success came in
1939, when a radar-set designed and
built at the naval research labora-
tory was tested at sea during battle
manoeuvres, mounted on the U.S.S.
New York.
* • • •
What is the origin oj tne use of
leopard-skins by bass drummers in
regimental bands ?
The use of leopard-skins dates
from the eighteenth century, when
the African slave-trade made
fashionable the practice of employ-
ing colored servants in England, as
well as elsewhere. Army officers
at that time enlisted regimental
musicians privately and paid for
them at their own expense. They
used to employ negroes as
drummers, and to play the cymbals
and the “Jingling Johnny.” These
negroes wore white uniforms,
covered by the barbaric skins. The
practice was carried on when
negroes were no longer enlisted, and
extended to the Drums, which were
always part of the regimental estab-
lishment.
“Answers to Correspondents”
appears on Page 55.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 632
Across
I—Flora, these are not big races for goats! (10)
s—Spot. (3)
9—They make peculiar coasters. (8)
11—It may be heard if hunting Henry near East Sydney. (6)
13—A way of getting up a canonised’ tune. (5)
14— Low fabric menagerie designed to
withstand flooding an area near
Sydney Cricket Ground. (5, 4)
15 — One by one, love’s relative is
pertaining to divination by
dreams. (12)
17 —Value of a share may consider
this a chant about a check to
progress. (5-7)
20— -Curiously screwed an episode in
a hospital play. (4, 5)
21 — She is 17. (5)
22 — None backed equipment for
catching a bird. (6)
23 State of being infested with
snakes as holding backbones. (8)
24 — Poisoner as a matter of
course. (3)
25 — Sun is a name for a secre-
tary. (10)
Down
1 — What’s L. L. Awehtot do?
(5, 2,3, 4)
2 Bank which develops muscle
with beer. (3, 5)
3 Who comes in? (7)
4 Downs complemented by such a
horseshoe postscript. (3)
6 A couple of buddies referring to
the sensory organs of insects. (6)
7 The identical Diana appearing
during the Sabbath eve in
France. (6)
8 — Mirrors East Sydney people of
one's blood horse girls. (7, 7)
10 —Called to mind one who has paid
his subscription in water
grass. (10)
12 —This who fraternise with the
swells make Bob rob hens. (10)
16 —Churches secretly miss rent. (8)
18 — State cast oil with ribbons. (6)
19 — Hard work not to be expected of
such a medical man with the nose
broken. (6)
21 —In interrupting the skinny East;
it's all yours! (5)
23 —Influential Moslem is again drop-
ping in. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 631


m
mm.
11
Wwty' :
808 (BP PICK-A-BOX) DYER SAYS . e •
you pick BP
you pick
the best!”
V-'
'•
• , :•.: :
TRACTOR FUELS and
ENERGOL LUBRICANTS
used and proved all over the world
• BP PETROLS containing BENZOL • BP DIESOLEUM
• BP POWER KEROSINE • BP ENERGOL TRACTOR OIL UNIVERSAL
• A full range of BP ENERGOL oils • BP ENERGREASE
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL BP AGENT
