

The Bulletin
and The Observer
WHAT DIPLOMATS
DO TO
CANBERRA
By
alan Reid
How to Run
the Territory
China Spurns
the U.N.
Profile of a
Private School


HERE is a modern new truck from
INTERNATIONAL . . . the AACO 172 ... a
design so new it's like starting over again
m
*
r.v
TO
Si]
t
IP
i v ' '' V *
SSPPiS-IJSiiiaP
AACO 172: THE CAB OVER WITH
IN DESIGN AND ADAPTABILITY
From International, the truck that was designed to your specifications,
built to move your profits into top gear fast!
See the AACO 172 at your International dealer today.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
international Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
FMT4OS/HlO9/FP


Society
Big Squeeze
Bowlers representing the Western Aus-
tralian Taxation Department, lately
in Sydney for a match with their N.S.W,
counterparts, have as their club insignia
a pair of clasped hands clenched on a
stone from which two red drops ooze.
The legend : “Let’s try.”
No Writers Not Cricket
r T"'HE third cricket match between the
magazines “Meanjin” and “Over-
land,” held lately in bucolic surroundings,
was characteristic of Melbourne literary
life in the scarcity of actual writers play-
ing , there were only three, apart from
tne two editor-captains—all poets, if
that’s at all significant. Even the old
performers from the “Age” Literary
Supplement were absent, the teams being
largely academic or miscellaneous
(wharfie, politician, et ai). Not that the
match lacked celebrities. If there were
no Patrick Whites or Alec Hopes, there
was at least one famous ex-professor
from Tasmania and one clerk from New
Guinea w.lO was recently standing trial
for sedition. The Irish Republican Army
was, for reasons unknown, not repre-
sented.
Main Street under Grass
GUnce his visit to Europe in 1957,
Adelaide’s 65-year-old Town Clerk,
Mr W. C. D. Veale, has been disrupting
and improving the city s li.e with zoning,
stieet-widenrng and parking meters to
mace it remind him of Cologne and
C openhagen. Now, after turning the four-
chiin-wide King Wi ham Street into an
open-cut mine for a month, he has
managed to let the grass grow in a
midway strip under the feet of breathless
st eet-crossers Irom North Terrace to
Queen Victoria's statue and, undismayed
"...Let him speak now or forever hold his peace!"
by the complaints of cheated motorists,
is planting trees and shrubs as well.
His council spends £90,000 a year on
city beautification. Transformation last
year of the notorious Pinky (Plonk)
Flat into an ornamental garden amused
the cynical until the Lord Mayor blessed
it during the Arts Festival with a top-
hatted garden party for the Governor-
General. Now a garden is being spread
over a refuse-dump a mile further up
the Torrens, and 12| acres of rock pools,
artificial streams, rose-gardens, shade-
tree avenues, fountains and sculptures
over the barren southern parklands.
Another of Mr Veale’s schemes, a par-
three, floodlit municipal golf-course and
club-house, has just been opened across
the river from North Terrace, with an
air-conditioned restaurant perched over
the water like a luxury houseboat, leased
to Mr Ernest Balogh, where to soft music
over against Ostoja-Kotowski’s abstract
murals you can get bouche a la reine,
lobster taj medial, tournedo St Pierre and
supreme de volaille a la kiev, whatever
they may be —and surely no one who
could dine among abstract murals would
be so vulgarly representationalist as to
inquire.
Pay Up
Tt’s time they stabilised wages. On
A March 29 a Sydney “Sun” poster
read: “£50,000 Pay Van Stolen,” while
on a nearby bookstall another of the
same paper’s posters read: “£lOO,OOO
Pay Van Stolen.”
Selling Art
TJainting is becoming commonplace;
-*■ the Lord Mayor of Melbourne, Cr
Bernard Evans, has got himself hung
in the Royal Arcade exhibition, and it
is suspected that many more Melbourne
and Sydney painters than Dobell, Drys-
dale and Nolan are now living on the
game. The Melbourne “Elerald’s” art
show in Fitzroy Gardens sold 335 out
of 1000 works of—well, paintings—
exhibited for £4400, better than a third,
since a number of the works hung were,
even to modern eyes, unworthy, and the
weather was poor ; so the exhibition was
almost as creditable as last year’s (44
per cent, sold for £5000). The show
costs about £3500 to stage —about £3 10s.
a painting. The artist can be sure of
selling one or two of the three works
he is allowed to submit, at the right price,
for a quick cash return.
A fortnight’s show at the Athenaeum,
however, costs £4O. That is one of the
reasons for the Royal Arcade show, and
exhibitions at the State school, Beau-
maris, a Wattle Park coffee shop, the
North Balwyn Garden Club, Hicks
Atkinson’s department shop, the Repat-
riation branch, East Melbourne, the
central branch of the A.N.Z. Bank, Edith
Hogg’s (Campbell Hogg) real - estate
agency in Toorak Village, and Foy’s.
Meanwhile art goes on going on at
INDEX
• What Diplomats do to
Canberra 7
@ Kow to Govern the
Territory 1 q
• Profile of a Private
School 13
Aboriginalities 28
Business, Robbery, etc. 36
Consumer-Observer 26
Letters 45
Look Back At Anger 11
Man on the Land 48
Overseas 23
Personal 35
© Professor Giblin: The
First of the Eggheads 16
• Why Mr Kerensky 18
© The Kangaroo Shooters
(Part 2) 50
Plain English 6
Political Points 22
Red Page 30
Service 59
Shows 39
Society 3
Sport 42
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 54
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty Ltd. Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney.


the V.A.S. Gallery, the Museum of
Modern Art, Josh McClelland's Gal-
leries, the Tasmanian Government
Bureau (which gives a central ground
floor Collins Street gallery for only £1
a day), Gallery A, Flinders Lane, the
new sculpture gallery at Eastside, Joh-
mont, 10 William Street, South Yarra,
and Palette Art, Block Arcade.
The £12,000 December saie of the late
W. R. Sedon’s Australian paintings and
the credit squeeze have restricted the
money available to buy paintings, but
painters can still get quick sales at lower
prices. Two young Italians who hung
their paintings on the Town Hall railings
were moved on by police, showed them
again on a backyard fence and sold a
few, and then were invited into the Van
Galleries at Hawthorn, where they pretty
well sold out.
Sawdust Restaurant
YS/Tlliam Street, which links the city
with King’s Cross, had Sydney’s
first Chinese espresso. It now has a
“chuck wagon bistro.”
Out of Your Own Mouth
TVreathalysers, which determine by a
■*-* breath analysis how much alcohol a
motorist has taken, were introduced
in Victoria during Easter. Suspected
motorists were given the test only if they
volunteered.
The police hope the machines, im-
ported from the U.S., will be an accurate
guide for the courts. They have trained
12 policemen at the police forensic science
laboratory to use them. The lab’s,
director, Dr Norman McCallum, claims
they are better than blood tests for police
work ; They are simple and foolproof
to operate, whereas blood tests require a
doctor and several hours’ analysis.
The breathalyser was displayed in the
foyer of the Institute of Applied Science,
with test tubes showing the fluids used
to test the breath, and diagrams of the
workings of the machine.
The breathalyser still has the job of
winning public acceptance in front of it.
In August Mr Justice Littie advised a
Criminal Court jury to put aside evidence
of breathalyser tests.
Last October Judge Murphy in General
Sessions ruled as inadmissible evidence
the fact that a defendant had refused a
breathalyser test.
Children in Uniformity
TTS7OEFUL profits of standardisation can
* ’ point to the “Children’s Letters”
in the Home page of the A.W.U.’s “Aus-
tralian Worker.” In the last issue ten
letters begin, “This is my first letter to
your interesting page.” and 11 conclude,
“Wishing ‘The Worker’ the best of luck.”
But they are not completely robots ; they
can still think for themselves: in the
middle of the interesting letters is an
extract from Tom Dougherty's speech in
favor of abolishing the Upper House ;
and two letters show originality in the
variation of a theme ; “This is my second
letter to your most interesting page.’’
Say it with Flowers
Purely Sydney’s getting a bit too frugal
when, as is increasingly becoming the
custom, flowers from the crematorium
are being rescued and sent to cheer up
patients in hospitals and old ladies in
rest-homes. Lots of the patients, once
they learn where the flowers come from,
don't find them at all cheering.
No Comment
“ r T''EN deaths in the past three days
marred the close of Road Safety
Week"’—Melbourne “Age.”
That was Society
Golf is exercising a potent and even
increasing influence over fashionable Mel-
bourne women. The links at Caulfield
fairly blaze with color; the costumes,
specially devised for the aristocratic past-
time, are the most startling instances of
women’s ingenuity. There languid belles
who, at other times, would shrink from
the physical exertion of pouring out tea,
cheerfully trudge the three miles which
Constitute a round.
— “Bulletin”, September 28, 1895.
Capt. Neitenstein, head of the N.S.W.
prison system, complaining of the absence
of vagrants’ and drunks’ penitentiaries
and reformatories, and the next-to-use-
lessness of the ordinary prisons for this
class of offender, mentions that on May 1
of this year there were in Biloela (Cocka-
too Island, Sydney) jail six men whose
convictions averaged 104 each, and six
women who averaged 160 each. One un-
fortunate had been sent to prison no less
than 351 times.
— “Bulletin”, August 27, 1898.
It is now possible to communicate by
telephone from one end of Europe to the
other. — “Bulletin”, September 17, 1898.
In his excellent lecture on municipal
reform, at Sydney School of Arts, J. D.
Fitzgerald referred to the alfresco lunches
in the great park of Vienna, and in-
quired why Sydneyites don't do likewise,
instead of sweltering in restaurants. But
then, the great British nation has always
had the notion that open-air eating savors
of indecency —its one-time hero, Byron,
maintained that this duty should be per-
formed in the strictest privacy. Perhaps,
if we imported a few hundred Parisians
to Sydney, we might sooner or later pro-
duce a population that could consume its
buttered scone in Hyde Park without a
blush. — “Bulletin”, November 26, 1898.
CURRIED LEFT OVERS
“Curry the chicken left-over
From your Easter banqueting:
Set in the chilli-spiced cover
Of a macaroni ring.” —Newspaper recipe.
When 1 think of a family dinner
Where a chicken does for four
Except that the kids and breadwinner
Set up a howl for more,
l wonder with what the newspaper cooks
Are willing to be content:
One week, do they have several chooks
And next week resume the rent?
Or do they put over a quick ’un
With a bird so old and tough
That the diners themselves are chicken
Before they have had enough ?
No; I think they cater for diners
Who eat in the dark and a hurry
Like the Northern Coalfields miners,
Where they only Kurri Kurri.
SWILLIAM


EATA EXTRA SHEEPA DAY


PLAIN ENGLISH
Progress-Towards What?
TiyHEN the meeting between the
* ’ Federal and State Ministers
responsible for censorship rose last
week, the Federal Minister for Cus-
toms, Senator Henty, announced that
“progress” had been made toward
uniformity in the censorship laws.
That sounded ominous enough for
everybody except booksellers, but like
all the other Ministers he maintained
a tight-lipped silence when asked what
he meant. There was plenty of talk
all round about a “worthwhile contri-
bution” and a “very cordial atmo-
sphere,” but no facts beyond the
report that everyone was shocked by
Senator Henty’s collection of illus-
trated pornography which included
“paperbacked filth of the type peddled
in the Middle East and India during
the war.”
Only the Victorian Chief Secretary,
Mr Rylah, dropped a hint of what was
to come —but his statement was mean-
ingless. “There may be no more Car-
lotta Mcßrides,” he said, without ex-
plaining what this meant.
To get the full story we shall have
to wait until the Ministers meet again
after consulting with their own officers.
But whatever they have cooked up it
seems that no good can come out of
these conferences unless all the States
are prepared to accept Customs
Department rulings in the way most
of them do already. And that seems
unlikely, given the present policies in
Victoria and Queensland.
The Victorian Vice Squad received
plenty of publicity for its actions
against “God’s Little Acre” and “Car-
lotta Mcßride” after the Customs
Department approved these books.
But Queensland's literature-banning
body, the Board of Review, has been
even more definite in its opposition
to the very moderate liberalism of
Senator Henty’s Customs Department,
in its last annual report it bluntly an-
nounced that it would no longer neces-
sarily accept Federal Government
decisions as a final authority. The
books coming in from America since
the lifting of import restrictions were
often, the Queensland Board said, un-
fit for Queenslanders to read. In any
case “unscrupulous publishers” had
thought up the trick of first getting
the Customs Department to approve a
book in a serious cover and then re-
publishing it in a sordid cover to
attract “immature readers.” “The
Board reminds publishers and distri-
butors wffio are exploiting serious and
not-so-serious literature in this fashion
that initial Customs Department ap-
proval of entry into Australia affords
no immunity under the Queensland
Law.” To show it meant business, the
Board recently banned two American
books which had been approved by
the Customs Department.
In an attempt to end these in-
consistencies it seems likely that some
kind of “administrative machinery”
will be rigged up so that State and
Federal authorities can “co-ordinate
their policies.” What good will that
do? And what, indeed, does it mean?
If the States are prepared to accept
Customs Department decisions it is
not necessary; if they are not, can they
not “consult” through Her Majesty’s
mails? According to the defence in
the Melbourne “Carlotta Mcßride”
prosecution, for example, the Perth
police managed to “discuss” the book
with Customs without the advantage of
special machinery when it unsuccess-
fully tried to get a Federal ban im-
posed on it. They simply sent a letter.
New machinery may give the Customs
Department the opportunity to restrain
some State police prosecution, but the
price of Victorian and Queensland
co-operation is almost certain to be an
express increase in book banning. As
soon as you set up “administrative
machinery” something bad is bound
to happen.
Up to
Mr Menzies
Tn his back-home statement on the
South African business Mr Menzies
rightly pointed to the dangers to the
Commonwealth in the expulsion of
South Africa because of its internal
policies. If this becomes a regular
practice there will be no Common-
wealth left. However, it is hard to
see what the Prime Minister was
getting at in other parts of his state-
ment, and exactly what kind of Com-
monwealth it is we are supposed to be
preserving.
That Mr Menzies has a romantic
view of the Commonwealth does not
in itself matter; without some kind
of romance, the Commonwealth ceases
to exist. And with heads of Common-
wealth Governments seeing the
Commonwealth in practice more as a
relation between their own separate
countries and the United Kingdom
than as a relation betweeen each other
it does not matter much that the kind*
of romance expressed conflict. It calls
for quick double-talk from Mr Mac-
millan, but he is good at that.
But what kind of Commonwealth
is envisaged when South Africa is seen
as “a foundation member,” “whose
citizens fought alongside our citizens
in two world wars”? The Boers
fought alongside us in World War I
because we had beaten them in a pre-
ceding war, and they only became our
allies in World War II by the nar-
rowest of political flukes. The Rus-
sians fought by our side in two world
wars and the Germans against us.
And so on. Our alliances —and the
Commonwealth is some kind of alliance,
although no longer a military one-
must be based on our present self-
interest, not on history, and dubious
history at that.
Mr Menzies was back on solid
ground when he warned that now that
the door had been opened to
Commonwealth criticism of South
Africa there was nothing to stop
Commonwealth criticism of Australian
policies in Papua and New Guinea or
of Australia’s migration policy which
is “designed to save Australia from
the South African problem.” Presum-
ably the reason Mr Menzies has made
this point several times is to give a
warning signal to other Common-
wealth countries to mind their own
business. It may only be modesty
that prevents him from saying that
there is one very considerable thing
that can stop Dr Nkrumah, Mr Nehru
and others from this kind of criticism,
and that is Mr Menzies himself. As
Minister for External Affairs it is
probably his prime task to see to it
that we continue to pursue our chosen
immigration policies and our New
Guinea policies without outside inter-
ference.
Moscow
Paranoia
"PEOPLE who think that the Russians
are really getting to be just like
us, and that the Khrushchev “thaw”
has meant a significant change in the
Soviet regime, must be hard put to it
to explain the suppression of news of
the Kiev earthslide. The earthslide,
killing 143 people and causing millions
of pounds of damage, occurred at 8.30
a.m. on March 13. AH mention of
this disaster was at once suppressed,
even from the people of Kiev who saw
it happen. It was not until March 31—
18 days later —that the people of Kiev,
and of Russia, and of the world were
allowed to read the news of this
unfortunate, but politically non-
significant tragedy. What kind of
regime, except one still convulsed in
the most deadly kind of social
paranoia, would be capable of such
an enormity of censorship? And
what, incidentally, does this make the
so-called news services run by Western
agencies and newspapers in Moscow
except doctored (and dangerous)
rubbish?
By OBSERVER


What Diplomats do to Canberra
By ALAN REID
Some 32 countries maintain diplomatic
missions in Australia. All but a
few are headquartered in Canberra.
When wives and children are in-
cluded the nation’s diplomatic community
numbers about 500. In one way, this
community is part of the larger Canberra
community. In another, it is as remote
from everyday Canberra as the Kremlin
must be from everyday Moscow.
The missions vary widely between
themselves. You wonder what some of
them do with their time besides playing
golf, attending formal dinners, cocktail
parties, dances, balls, all social occasions
and the celebration of National Days
(official Canberra celebrates 29 National
Days annually—3o if Australia Day is
included). Others are just straightforward
offices where men put their noses to the
grindstone of their desks at 8.30 a.m
and do not lift them until 5.30 p.m., except
for the luncheon break.
The missions and the people who staff
them make their impact upon Canberra
at three levels the official level, the
public-relations level and the social level.
The official and public-relations levels
overlap and belong to the formal side.
The social level is quite distinctive, quite
mad, and thoroughly boring, except on
the occasions when it produces a near
scandal (it never becomes an open
scandal —the offenders are whisked off
too swiftly by their respective Govern-
ments), or one of the blow-ups that are
so carefully hushed up by the Australian
authorities and the diplomatic com-
munity alike.
On the official side, to listen to the
various representatives talk, you would
think that their Governments rate Can-
berra as one of the most significant places
on the surface of the globe, ranking with
such other key points as Washington,
London, Moscow and Peking. This stems
from two things, their politeness and
their determination not to denigrate their
jobs and their own importance in the
hierarchy of their own country’s external
representatives.
But in some cases the job is an obvious
sinecure designed to give some wealthy
man with a yearning to spend his money
representing his country abroad the
opportunity to so spend in a spot where
he can do a minimum of damage and
yet enjoy some of the Ambassadorial
glamor that his colleagues have on a
larger scale in the more important posts.
For being an Ambassador, even in
Australia, gives the ego a lift. You are
virtually a law unto yourself. You drive
round in a big, Government - provided
limousine with your country’s flag flutter-
ing from the midget flagpole on the nose
of your vehicle. The police do not inter-
fere with you ; they cannot; you have
diplomatic immunity which places you
above the law of the country in which
you reside. (One Frenchman used to
scream down to Sydney from Canberra
at speeds that would whiten Jack Brab-
ham’s hair and was dreaded by the
Canberra parents of young children who
lived along his route between office and
home. The police were powerless to do
anything about him, despite numerous
complaints. Only his own Government
could act and ultimately recalled him.)
You get an automatic invitation to all
Commonwealth functions and a place
of honor at them. If you visit the States,
you call upon the Premier and he and
his Ministers look after you like a visiting
potentate. If you pass through Customs,
you get V.I.P treatment and your
baggage goes unsearched. You import
your liquor and tobacco and your cars
free of duty. You do not pay Australian
income-tax (though some have to pay
home income-tax), and your car registra-
tion and driving licences are free, as are
your radio and TV licences. Free railway
travel throughout the Commonwealth is
granted to heads of missions. You are
very much a somebody, who, if you are
the exception who exploits his privileges
to the limit, parks where he likes, pays
his debts when he likes (Australian courts
have no jurisdiction over accredited
diplomats).
A Party A Day
have an almost unending social life.
Some entertain more lavishly than
others, but they all entertain. They have
to. Their Governments provide them
with entertainment allowances and expect
them to use them. It is part of the job.
I have heard individuals complain that
they have not had a night at home, eating
at their own table for a month, and have
averaged a cocktail party a day as well.
As a body, diplomats are quite well
paid, though salaries vary widely between
Embassy and Embassy. A U.S. official
publication shows that Mr Sebald, as U.S.
Ambassador, gets a salary in the range
of 22,000 to 27,500 dollars a year. The
U.S. Counsellor (the senior administra-
tive officer at an Embassy) is in the
17,250-to-19,650-dollar-a-year bracket.
The U.K. is lower. U.K estimates show
the salary for the U.K. High Commis-
sioner in Australia of £5BOO sterling a
year. Different countries have different
systems on allowances. Sometimes it is
paid on a lump sum basis, no questions
asked. If the recipient cares to pocket
it as a supplement to his salary that is
his business. If he spends more than the
allowance that again is his business. He
has to find the extra from his own pocket.
Quite a few Ambassadors (Peaslee, the
former U.S. Ambassador, and Lovink, the
former Dutch Ambassador, are probably
two) have left Canberra poorer than they
arrived.
Other Embassies work on a voucher
system. They have to produce receipts
for their actual expenditure to the
Embassy’s financial officer before they
are reimbursed.
The Brazilians are reputedly the highest
paid. But this reputation might stem from
the fact that Brazil usually appoints
Ambassadors who are wealthy in their
own right. The present Brazilian Ambas-
sador, Senhor Alfonso Portugal, lives in
a big house that was occupied by Lady
Clive when she was in Australia as Lady-
in-waiting to the Duchess of Gloucester.
It was recently refurnished most ex-
quisitely and at considerable cost, accord-
ing to report. Senhor Portugal’s young
daughter drives a sky-blue Ford Thunder-
bird convertible, a really eye-catching
vehicle, daily to the convent she attends,
much to the goggle-eyed envy of Can-
berra’s young.
Though Miss Portugal may have a
licence, you do not have to have one
when you are driving a diplomatic car,
even if you are under age. Nor are
you under any legal compulsion to pay
compensation to anyone you run down,
even if you are completely in the wrong.
This has led to a couple of nasty inci-
dents. On one occasion a diplomat’s
under-age daughter ran down and
crippled a middle-aged woman cyclist,
who was in a hospital and unable to work
for quite a while. On another occasion,
an Embassy car ran down one of Allan
Fraser’s constituents on the Sydney road.
No compensation was forthcoming.
Fraser raised the roof.
The Dean of the Diplomatic Corps at
the time (my memory is that it was New
Zealander Lisle Alderton) summoned a
very private meeting of Heads of Mis-
sions. There was some straight talking
done. It was pointed out that there was
no suggestion that anyone should waive
diplomatic immunity ; but there was a
difference between having diplomatic


immunity and sheltering behind it when
you were in the wrong. Other Embassies,
notably the Americans, had paid com-
pensation for accidents in which their
vehicles had been involved though they
could have claimed diplomatic immunity.
Some informal agreement was apparently
reached between the diplomats on this
matter. Since then there have been no
incidents
On the whole, the diplomats are very
proper and conduct themselves with
propriety and discretion. But there have
been a few characters passed through
Canberra who have caused more than
a slight ripple. There was one good-
looking, quite junior young man who
had a weakness for the ladies. He got
so involved with one Ambassador’s wife
that it nearly caused an international
situation. His Government whisked him
off just before it came to a head.
There was another man, from a
country where apparently such things are
taken more for granted, who insisted that
a lady with whom he had no apparent
family ties should be placed upon the
official list for invitations to Government
House, official Government functions.
Embassy receptions and the like. His
request was refused, much to his obvious
puzzled displeasure.
Smart Deals
/'Occasionally there have been hints that
some diplomat has been sly-grogging
—selling the liquor and cigarettes that he
gets free of excise to the local citizens
as a supplement to his pay. But if this
has happened it has been on a small
scale. I have never seen any evidence
of it, and I have been in Canberra a
long time. There does seem to have been
a few occasional smart deals pulled over
motor cars (which diplomats get free of
sales-tax and without paying import
duties), but the authorities seem to watch
that pretty closely and anyone even
faintly suspected seems to get recalled
promptly.
But, by and large, diplomats are highly
conventional people who, because they
are representing their country abroad,
watch their every step. They have their
own rituals which they follow closely.
When they have guests, the guests are
seated at the table in strict order of
precedence. If they are not sure of the
order of precedence they consult the
protocol section of the External Affairs
Department. If you are a lowly third-
secretary and you achieve the unlikely
honor of dining with, say, six Ambas-
sadors, four counsellors, and two first-
secretaries, you cannot go home when
you feel like going home and when it
is obvious that your host would like you
to go home. The senior Ambassador
leaves first (seniority is rated on length
of service, dated from when he first pre-
sented his credentials to the Governor-
General), and he is followed by the five
remaining Ambassadors in strict order of
seniority. Then follow the four coun-
sellors, also in order of seniority. Then
the two first-secretaries. Only now are
you free to make your adieux.
Because of the attitude that they
uniformly adopt that Australia is highly
important to their Governments, an
estimate of how the various Governments
really assess Canberra must of necessity
be a guess based upon observation and
impression rather than knowledge. But
I should list it like this. First, countries
which give or have given Australia con-
siderable significance for both political
and trade reasons: the United Kingdom,
the United States, Holland, New Zealand,
Japan and, interestingly, South Africa.
Second, countries which rate Australia
quite high mainly for trade reasons, but
in two out of the three cases also because
of the participation by their nationals in
the immigration programme: France,
Germany and Italy. Third, countries
which for various reasons have a cultural
interest in Australia: Ireland, Israel, and
most of the Asian countries. Fourth,
countries which are particularly interested
in Australia at this stage because of a
special political problem: Indonesia, the
U.S.S.R. and Nationalist China.
The United Kingdom runs the biggest
staff in Canberra. Its diplomats number
22. Australian and United Kingdom
political, military and trade interests are
so inextricably interlocked that this is
probably the busiest of the Missions.
Over recent years the British attitude
to its Canberra post has changed. Previ-
ously the attitude seemed rather cursory.
Australia could be accepted as prepared
to listen to and follow the British lead.
Some functionary could look after things
in Canberra. The change was typified by
Lord Carrington, now First Lord of the
Admiralty but Britain's High Commis-
sioner in Canberra until quite recently.
Whereas several of his predecessors
belonged to the stiff-upper-lip and British-
reticence school, Carrington created
an impression of inexhaustible, restless,
optimistic energy that did the United
Kingdom no harm and probably a lot of
good in Australia. If there is now a more
tolerant public image of Britain in the
Australian mind, I think Carrington
(with the former Governor-General Sir
William Slim) contributed heavily to
shaping it.
Carrington’s successor, the present U.K.
High Commissioner, Lieutenant-General
Sir William Oliver, is a soldier turned
diplomat. But the impression that he
gives is that he is a soldier of the same
type as Sir William Slim —that as well
as a record of distinguished military
service he has a background of philo-
sophic study. More withdrawn than
Carrington, he gives you the impression
that he relies upon method and analysis,
whereas Carrington, a much more politi-
cal type, preferred to play things by
ear and had the good politician’s gift
for arriving at the correct conclusion by
intuition rather than by a reasoned pro-
cess.
r T'HE U.S. Mission is a different kettle
-*-■ of fish. There is always a faint air
of controversy about the role it should
fill in Australia. One school of thought
—mostly Labor, and Left-wing Labor at
that —holds that it should limit its activi-
ties in Australia to purely diplomatic and
trade functions and that any attempt to
project through it to the Australian public
an image of America is another form
of dollar imperialism.
I find the Americans in Canberra in-
comprehensibly timid —their attitudes the
reverse of the aggressive ones that Left-
wing and Communist propaganda depict
them as accustomed to adopt elsewhere
in the world.
Our importance to the Americans
shows up in their staffing. With an
accredited staff of 21 (this does not in-
clude the Marines, who always act as
guards at American Embassies through-
out the world, and the clerical staff of
typists, clerks and so on), the U.S. Em-
bassy ranks only second to the U.K.
Mission in size. The present Ambassa-
dor, Mr William J. Sebald, is a highly
rated career diplomat, whom the Ameri-
cans view as one of their top experts on
Far Eastern and Pacific matters.
But, publicly at least, the Americans
give the impression that they are rather
apologetic about the fact that they are
here in Australia and that they must
not make a nuisance of themselves in
any way.
You can see this attitude come through
quite often, and it contrasts interestingly
with that of other missions. When South
Africa’s apartheid policy comes under
criticism in Australia, South Africa’s
representatives in this country defend it
quite publicly. Similarly, when Indo-
nesia’s approach to the New Guinea
problem comes under criticism, Indo-
nesia’s representatives in this country
move into the public arena to defend the
Indonesian Government's attitudes. But
with the U.S. it is different.
It is apparently U.S. policy to invite
leaders in various fields of activity to
America to see the American democracy
at work close up. Rightly or wrongly,
the Americans believe that this will
remove some of the misconceptions
among non-Americans as to how the
American democracy does work. It does
not seem very sinister to me.
Brainwashing
Tout Mr Les Haylen, for example, has
** seen in it some “brain-washing” pro-
cess. He even alleged the Embassy was
improperly using funds to interfere in
Australia's internal politics, the insinua-
tion being that they were doing this by
suborning Labor figures with the bribe
of a trip to the United States.
Instead of the Embassy saying “To
hell with you, Mr Haylen. It is our
Government’s policy to invite people to
see our country for themselves. We are
not coercing anyone into going but
merely inviting them, and we intend to
keep on doing so,” the Americans curled
up like cut flowers in strong sunlight.
They just cut out the practice. A few
Right-wingers have since found their way
to the States, but this has rarely been
as a result of U.S. Government action.
The invitations have been issued almost
furtively, sometimes by U.S. Government
arrangement with some individual U.S.
unions.
The “uncommitted” element in the
Australian trade-union movement and
the Labor party has been let . go by
default. The Communist countries have
been left with the monopoly of the right
to invite these “uncommitted” elements
to their countries “to see democracy at
work.”
This is only one example of U.S.


timidity. My impression is that they lean
over so far backwards to avoid any critic-
ism of interference in local Australian
politics that they fail to perform a quite
legitimate function—to present an image
of the U.S. to the Australian public
that will counter the distorting and dis-
torted image which is projected by
actively anti-American elements not all
of which are purely native Australian
in character.
The Gluckman Case
While the British and the American
are the tw'o big missions, there are
some fascinating smaller ones in Can-
berra. The Dutch is a very livewire
show. Though its staff is small its quality
is almost uniformly high and kept that
way. Its head is usually someone very
senior. Its real trouble spot is Dutch
New Guinea. The interests of Australia
and Holland are not always identical here.
They cannot be. The Dutch have already
said that they are getting out and are
preparing the indigenous people of New
Guinea for that day. Australia cannot
get out of Dutch New Guinea in the
sense Holland can. It has to live along-
side it whatever happens. Policies have
to adjust themselves to geography.
These diverging interests sometimes
manifest themselves publicly. I think
that even those Australians who were
embarassed politically by the Gluckman
affair must in retrospect have sympathy
for the plight in which the Netherlands
Embassy found itself after the Australian
Government had refused for undisclosed
reasons to give Professor Max Gluckman,
a prominent British anthropologist, a visa
to visit the Australian-administered sec-
tion of New Guinea.
The consistent Dutch attitude has
been: “We are preparing the people of
our portion of New Guinea for self-
government Anyone who doubts that
can come and see.” Against the back-
ground of that attitude (which the Dutch
were using to justify in the eyes of the
world its refusal to hand over Dutch
New Guinea to Indonesia), Professor
Gluckman applied for a visa to visit the
Dutch area
It was between Ambassadors. Mr
Lovink had gone. His successor had not
yet arrived. The Dutch Embassy Coun-
sellor Dr J. H. O. Insinger had to recom-
mend for or against the granting of the
visa. linsinger must have gone through
a troubled period. If a visa were
refused it would raise doubts about the
genuineness of the Dutch claim that they
were preparing Dutch New Guinea for
self-government and that anyone who
could be viewed as a reasonably objective
observer was quite welcome to see this
operation for himself.
On the other hand, to grant a visa
might embarrass politically both the Aus-
tralian Prime Minister, Mr Menzies, and
the Australian Minister for Territories,
Mr Hasluck, whose Government was
under fire for refusing to grant a visa
for Gluckman to visit Australia’s New
Guinea areas.
These were the factors Insinger obvi-
ously had to consider before Gluckman
moved into the position where he was
able to announce triumphantly that
he had been approved for a visa by
“I need just one more revolution to complete the set."
the Dutch. When Insinger confirmed
that he had recommended to The Hague
that Gluckman get his visa, the Austra-
lian Government was certainly embar-
rassed. But now that the heat which
surrounded the issue at the time has
faded, it does appear that however much
Insinger embarrassed the Australian
Government, he served his own Govern-
ment well.
After Petrov
'T'he Russians have quite a large Mission
by Canberra standards. They have
ten in the diplomatic list which the
External Affairs Department issues regu-
larly and which is the bible of the Can-
berra diplomatic corps. They have a
special political problem which arises
from the fact that the Mission as a body
dramatically quit Canberra after the
defection of Vladimir Petrov in 1954 and
his assertion that the Embassy was used
as a centre for espionage activity. They
have to re-establish themselves.
This new Russian team by and large
seems a much more sophisticated, more
polished and in some ways bolder group
than the one it succeeded. They seem
to speak better English and display less
of the suspicion of their predecessors. If
they have the same inhibitions (and they
may, for they will rarely attend a func-
tion unless accompanied by a compatriot)
they conceal them better. They still live
completely to themselves, educating their
children within the Embassy, and finding
their recreation in each other's company.
They have already had one brush
with the Australian authorities. But even
in that I thought they handled it more
deftly and in a more conciliatory fashion
than their predecessors would have done.
There was a car accident near Canberra.
There was a suggestion that two Embassy
cars had staged a race on a usually fairly
deserted bush road. A woman, the wife
of one of the Embassy staff, was killed.
The Russians wanted to go ahead with
the funeral arrangements. But the local
coroner dug his toes in and refused to
budge. The law demanded that he see
the body before it could be disposed of
and he proposed to observe the law. The
Australian Government clearly did not
want to be involved in an international
incident with Russia over such a sad
happening. On the other hand, it could
not override the coroner.
The Attorney-General, Sir Garfield
Barwick, invited the Russian Ambassa-
dor, Mr Ivan F. Kurdiukov, to visit him
at Parliament House. As I hear it, Bar-
wick had a difficult time persuading the
Russian that no Australian Government
had the right to override the stand taken
by what after all probably appeared to
Russian eyes a very minor Australian
official when compared with an Attorney-
General. But whereas the pre-Petrov
Russians would probably have persisted
in their objections to the bitter end, this
group was more flexible. It was agreed
that the coroner be allowed to perform
his official duty and the incident closed.
Kurdiukov himself is a quite impres-
sive figure. He speaks excellent English,
is undoubtedly a widely informed person
and, unlike the Americans, has few
inhibitions about expressing views on
Australia’s internal political activities. I
am told there was a delightful bit of
verbal sparring (with both parties keep-
ing their tempers beautifully unruffled)
between him and Sir Wilfred Kent
Hughes, when they met in King's Hall,
Canberra while the Parliament was in the
throes of passing the new Crimes Act.
Completely imperturbable, Kurdiukov
smilingly said, “Tell me. Sir Wilfred. Do
you really think Australia has need for
a Crimes Act of this character in this
day and age?”
Kent Hughes, equally affable and
smiling, is reported to have retorted: “I
might have agreed with you once, but
now that you people are back
The Ambassador smiled and moved on
to the next round. “Why don't you come
and visit us in Russia?” he asked.
“Would you let me in?” challenged
Kent Hughes.
The Ambassador moved in promptly
to take the lead on points in that round.
“Put in your application for a visa
tomorrow and we’ll see that you get it
very promptly,” he said sweetly.
Kent Hughes fought back. “Oh, I


don’t know,” he said thoughtfully. “I
feel that I’ve already spent too much
time away from the Australian way of
life. I did 3| years in one prison camp
during the last war . . .”
A Canberra pastime is to guess at the
identity of the M.V.D. agent attached to
the Embassy. Popular choice usually
falls upon Mr Ivan Skripov, the first-
secretary, because he moves around
unaccompanied by a Russian compatriot,
much more than the others. The diplo-
mats reason that this means that he is
“trusted”. It all gives the Embassy a
faint flavor of mystery that the other,
more prosaic Missions lack.
The Asian Missions provide Canberra
with color —and the most sought-
after invitations to dinners where they
mostly serve their sumptuous national
dishes. Japan and Indonesia obviously
view Australia as important posts. By
and large, the interests of the others are
cultural, though some of them through
Seato also have military and direct poli-
tical interests. Australia now educates
a fair number of Asian students, and
the various Embassies look after the wel-
fare of their nationals.
The Japanese staff their Embassy with
topflight people who, when they move on
from Canberra, usually go to very top
jobs. They had a tough job when they
came back to Canberra after the war.
The Japanese, who followed for a long
period a policy of deliberate, quiet
unobtrusiveness, seem now an accepted
and unexceptionable part of the Canberra
diplomatic scene. As trade between
Japan and Australia has grown so that
this area of activity is of tremendous
importance to both countries, the
Japanese Embassy has increased con-
tinually in importance. Its representa-
tives now can be seen ducking con-
stantly into key Government offices,
where they are hard, shrewd negotiators.
Though the representatives of the
Commonwealth countries occupy a privi-
leged position compared with the rest of
the diplomats, New Zealand is unique.
We are important to them, as they are
to us. But because we are bigger and
more industrialised we cause them more
problems and headaches than they cause
us. So they usually make Canberra
(which is their third-ranking post, coming
after London and Washington) a politi-
cal appointment. Mr J. Barclay was a
Minister in a N.Z. Labor Government,
his successor, Mr Lisle Alderton, was a
close associate of the former N.Z. Prime
Minister, Mr Holland, and their High
Commissioner now in Canberra, Mr F.
Jones, was also a Cabinet Minister in
the former Labor Government.
Because they are so close to us they
can say things that no one else can. I
have heard a New Zealand representative
tell an Australian Minister, “I used to
wonder whether Ned Kelly had direct
descendants. It’s obvious he had.
They’re all in your Federal Cabinet.
You’re robbing us.” But between
Australia and New Zealand it is more
frank dealing than diplomacy, and, with
the privilege of friends of long standing,
they never hesitate to say precisely what
they want to say without any nice,
diplomatic shadings.
How to Run the N.T.
By M. H. ELLIS
When the Commonwealth Govern-
ment took over the Northern
Territory from a grateful South
Australia in 1911, the European
population had reached 1771 and had for
the first time outrun the Asian popula-
tion (which since the war has dwindled
away to almost nothing).
The first ten years of the Common-
wealth’s regime ended with the failure
of its agricultural and pastoral policy,
the forced exit of its administrator, Dr
Gilruth, and the Red Flag riots staged
in the presence of Mr Poynton, the Mini-
ster for Territories. (The jury system also
was abolished when a Darwin jury, in
the early 1920 s had convicted the
Administrator of assault after he had
ejected a distributor of offensive leaflets
from the Residency grounds during a
garden party, and another jury had
acquitted a comrade charged with murder
on a plea that he had not killed the man
he aimed at!) Then endued a long
series of experiments in forms of Gov-
ernment, after the Territory had been
conceded a member in the House of
Representatives with no vote, but alter
1936, privileged to vote on motions for
the disallowance of Ordinances affecting
the Territory.
The agitations of the 1920 s led first
to the division of the Territory into two
parts, at the 20th Parallel, each governed
by a Resident, plus two Advisory Coun-
cils and three Development Commis-
sioners; though in 1931 the new Northern
Territory Administration Act restored the
old system. In 1947, a Leg slative Coun-
cil was created, the power to d sallow
Ordinances transfer!ed to the Admini-
strator and Governor General. There
was more amendment in 1959 which,
inter alia varied the M.P.’s voting power,
so that he can now vote on any Bill
relating solely to the Territory. Mean-
while, progress was to be measured
by the fact that between 1921 and 1933
the increase in purely European popu-
lation was only from 2,458 to 3,306.
The Granites gold-rush gave a new
impetus to the place. The Payne-
Fletcher report on the Pastoral Indus-
try (1937) led to salutary reforms in
land tenure which offered some en-
couragement to investors and the dis-
covery of the amazing Tennant Creek
gold and copper field, athwart the main
northern road over which thousands
of prospectors had passed during going
on for two generations, put a different
complexion on mining.
But it needed the building of bitumen
highways, aerodromes and other faci-
lities during the war to really open the
Territory’s 523,000 square miles up and
show everybody, including a fast-flower-
ing civil service, that the centre and
north were lands of opportunity. The
atom bomb and the discovery of uranium,
the introduction of the oil-engine pump
in place of the windmill and the provision
of regular water along roads and stock
routes really began to give the Territory
a chance of growth.
By 1947 the population was 9800
Europeans and by 1961 it is estimated at
22,500, including about 2000 part-abo-
rigines, one of whose parents was a
European. The comforts of medical
attendance, easy communication, uni-
versal opportunities for education, kero-
sene refrigerators and a general welfare
programme resulted in transforming the
masculinity of the Territory from 3:1
forty years ago to a present 3:2. The
aborigines have ceased to be diseased
and dirty outcasts of the station wood-
heaps and become a people who are the
solicitude of everybody.
TDut, with all this, the N.T. still has
™ not got self-government, though some
of its people call loudly for it. In
Darwin or Alice Springs it is always
possible to raise an agitation. The
Territory began having Advisory Coun-
cils of sorts in the 1920'5, but like the
present L.C. the original ended up in
a strike of councillors —as usual on a
comparatively unimportant matter. The
expulsion of Dr Gilruth, 40-odd years
ago, was over a rise in the price of beer.
The attempted expulsion of Colonel
Urquhart, his successor, was over the
right to distribute insulting leaflets in
Government House drive. The present
argument is over a betting bill and the
right to supply aborigines with drink
without going to jail for it.
The 40-year old argument whether the
N.T., with about 8000 voters, should be
able to elect a full member, with equal
lights to other members, to the Federal
House, is still in progress. This would
be tantamount to allowing Darwin at
one end of the Territory, with 10,000
people, The Tennant, 600 miles further
South, and Alice Springs another 200
miles away, to elect a Federal member.
Nearly all the real development in
white population, save for the mining
centres, which are only temporary towns
that will continue to exist only so long
as the mines and the present payable
demand for key minerals—gold, copper,
uranium—persists, has been in the two
main towns. Alice Springs had only
about a dozen whites in 1924 and now
has nearly 4000. Darwin has grown
from under 1500 in the same period.
The class which has developed most
in Territory population is that which
is in, or lives by grace of, the civil
service. There are, apart from the De-
partment of Territories in Canberra, 11
Government Departments in the Terri-
tory Adiminstration to handle the affairs
of 22,000 whites and mixed bloods and
15,000 aborigines and these are in addi-
tion to Federal Departments like Cus-
toms and Exise, Defence, Civil Aviation,
Immigration and the Post Office and
Treasury which seem to be able to operate
without expensive headquarters in Dar-
win. Most of the growth of Darwin


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: The Cockie’s Development
—From The Bulletin, July 2, 1903.
WOMEN ARE SO VERY PRACTICAL
COCKIE UNGER: "Hooray, Maria, I see the Government is going to bony another three mil-
lion to 'velope the m’nificent natooral resources of the country."
MARIA (who keeps a tally of these things): “How much does that make, Bill, that
they've honied."
COCKIE U: "Well, 'bout two 'undred million, I think."
MARIA: "It don't seem to have developed us much, as yet!"


seems to be due to the expansion of
Government services and defence, to the
fact that it is an international air cross-
roads and to the demands of adjacent
mining areas and Government pater-
nalism.
This year's Federal Budget figures sug-
gest that, on the issue of prosperity,
neither the civil service nor the general
run of Territorians have much to growl
about. The proportion of taxpayers
among Europeans and half-bloods is
higher than in N.S.W. Whereas
in N.S.W. only one taxpayer in 6.5
is shown as having an income of £l4OO
and over, in the N.T. the proportion is
one in 3.5. Cost of living is at least
partly offset by welfare measures and
concessions.
It is difficult to get up-to-date figures
about Territory Government —the Annual
Report for 1957-58 was ordered to be
printed only on December 8, 1960. But
in the 1960-61 Federal Estimates it is
shown that outside the Departments run
from Canberra and the south in general,
it needs an Administrator (£4725 p.a.),
two Assistant Administrators (£3750
each), seven Directors (£3OOO each), six
Assistant Directors (average, £2700 each)
and three more officers over £2lOO to
manage Territory Affairs with the aid of
over 1000 civil servants, a Minister,
Territories Department, Administrator s
Council and Legislative Council.
The total Federal Budget for the Terri-
tory this year —excluding the southern-
managed departments, i.e., head office of
the Territories Department, G.P.0.,
Defence, Taxation, etc. —is £11,771,450,
of which £6,903,450 represents adminis-
tration costs and £4,868,000 capital works
and services outlay provided from the
Consolidated Revenue.
This works out at about £550 per
annum per non-aboriginal inhabitant or
£l6Bl p.a. per taxpayer, on the latest
figures available (1957-58) and is some-
thing like £4 millions greater than the
total actual income of Territorians earn-
ing £lO5 or more, as shown by the
Taxation Commissioner’s figure for 1958.
It would take a third of the produc-
tion revenue from the Territory beef
industry to pay the salaries of the N.T.
Administration civil service alone. And
the mining income would not bring the
total production revenue up to a figure
which would pay the whole of the
administrative expenses.
But if this is looked on as capital
investment and the Territory, financed on
this scale, is ultimately placed on an
economic and self-supporting basis, there
can be no complaint. These figures, be
it added, are by no means static. The
total cost of running the Territory
promises to have doubled by 1961-62 in
five years. In 1956-57 it was only £6.6
millions against this year’s £11.77 mil-
lions and in five years the population
(outside aborigines) has grown by 4000.
It is not the point in the argument
about Government that this huge expen-
diture far outstrips the increase in the
value of the Territory’s production at
present; or that most of the money to
keep the Territory going and provide its
inhabitants with every comfort and
facility, including intensive air, medical,
educational, bonus, subsidy and zone
concession services, comes out of the
pockets of the taxpayers of the Common-
wealth in general. It is not even the
point that there seems little chance under
present circumstances that the Territory
will ever be self-supporting. (It has, after
just on a century of real settlement, only
134,000 acres under agriculture on which
it does not grow enough fruit and vege-
tables to keep a village going.)
The crux is whether ths sixth of Aus-
tralia in which the principal iown cannot
run without a municipal subsidy of more
than £120,000 per annum from the
Commonwealth, should now have
ordinary votes, or separate self-govern-
ment in any form, and whether it is
properly governable by a Legislative
Council with wide powers, but acting
under Federal supervision.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
HThe Territory is divided naturally into
three rainfall regions—one with
heavy tropical rains, one central plateau
in the 20-inch range, and one with a
rainfall that falls as low as five inches
per annum in the south. Wth cattle as
its main land industry, it has one breed-
ing and fattening region in the north-
west, one breeding region in the east, the
Barkly Tableland, and one fattening area
in the south of which the natural outlet
is Adelaide. The bulk of its population
and stock is in the northern half ; the
bulk of its income is from the south and
centre, hundreds of miles away from its
administrative headquarters. It is diffi-
cult to think of it as one whole, or one
administration unit.
The northern section is more akin to
Western Australia, the central tableland
and 20-inch rainfall country of the
Barkly Tableland are part and parcel of
the same plateau as the north-west of
Queensland and Tennant Creek mining
field, 300 odd miles by crow-fly from Mt
Isa and connected with its railhead by
a good road, is much more part of the
Queensland mining system than of the
Territorian.
Now that the Territory is criss-crossed
with airlines and other communications
there seems to be little reason to treat
it as a foreign and inaccessible fastness.
The key-word in deciding the nature of
Territory electoral privileges in the past,
before the motor, air and radio age, was
“inaccessibility.” You could not hold
elections among people when they are
individually so inaccessible that you
could not reach them save by a six-weeks
journey, or sometimes not at all for
several months during the rainy season,
and when you could not even apprise
them of the issues of an election.
But modern transport systems have
bred a new familiarity in the outback
with what is going on in the outside
world. In days gone by what happened
elsewhere was often a closed book —save
when a dozen or more Bulletins arrived
together—to stations and drovers isolated
for long periods. Swift communication
has now conditioned Territorians to be
able to vote and campaign just as intelli-
gently, quickly and easily at an election
as peoples in other parts of the Common-
wealth.
A share in Parliamentary representa-
tion, however, is a different question from
that of local self-government.
Community of interest with adjacent
regions, in fact, might dictate the aboli-
tion of the Territory member, and giving
Territorians the full franchise, dividing
their eight- or nine-thousand voters
between adjacent Federal electorates in
Queensland, W.A. and South Australia,
and giving them votes for the Senate.
They would then have full Parliamen-
tary representation, suitable to each
region. The Administration could con-
tinue as at present, with or without a
Legislative Council with existing powers.
And, as development evolved, the whole
matter would probably settle itself.
While the Government continues to
spend more than the total production
income of an area which still has a third
of its whole completely unoccupied,
however, the cry for self-government has
no validity. This more especially so since
the aboriginal problem will become
increasingly important. For the welfare
of the aboriginals, who have advanced
staggeringly in education and civilisation
in the past decade or so, the whole of
the Commonwealth must remain respon-
sible for a long time to come.
They are increasing in numbers. In
another decade or so they will be a
powerful influence in the Territory poli-
tics if they show an aptitude for public-
affairs. It would not be outside possi-
bility that in 20 years time an aboriginal,
or part aboriginal, could be the Terri-
tory's M.P.
In the meantime, the problem of
representation appears simple. As for
the Legislative Councils, they have not
been a success and can only be centres
of dissension and trouble, and a brake
on progress (a) so long as they refuse to
accept the authority of the Common-
wealth in matters in which the Com-
monwealth has full jurisdiction ; ( b ) so
long as their members resign or strike
every time they find themselves unable
to get their own way ; (c) so long as they
represent only the main towns and
mining centres ; ( d ) or in any circum-
stances so long as the Territory is not
self-supporting.
Taxation without representation is
against all the principles of democracy ;
but self-government without the local
resources to govern is equally undemo-
cratic, especially in a fluid community
in which crises always seem to arise over
issues like the price of beer.
The Territory cannot have it both
ways. And neither can Australia to
which The Territory is vitally important
from a defence point of view. Thus the
problem of Government —though not of
parliamentary representation—seems to
be fully solvable only if and when the
present lavish expenditures of Common-
wealth public funds pay off by producing
sufficient population and sufficient pro-
duction revenue to establish responsible
government in a new Territory State.


Profile of a Private School
By ARTHUR HOYLE
Somewhere on the foothills of the
Mount of Learning, between the
lofty peaks of Geelong and Mel-
bourne Grammar and the teeming
plains of State education, cling the
nation’s smaller private schools.
Almost as expensive as the Greater
Public Schools, but without the cachet
that goes with the G.P.S. label ; inferior
in academic achievement to the top selec-
tive State schools, force-fed with ambi-
tion ; deprived by choice from public
funds, and yet obliged to compete with
State education departments in the seller’s
market for teachers ; steering an anxious
course between the Scylla of rising costs
and the Charybdis of impossible fees —
how do these schools continue to exist,
and what is their future in a country
seemingly dedicated to egalitarianism in
education?
The answer is only partly to be found
in the balance-sheets, the waiting lists,
the record of examination successes, the
famous names among the Old Boys. The
rest emerges from a close look at one
of the schools, lying quietly behind its
brick walls on the outskirts of Sydney.
This school, although it happens to
belong to the Church of England, could
just as well be associated with any of
the churches, in any city in Australia.
It was established round about 60 years
ago to provide an education for the sons
of the middle class. But the aim of this
school’s founders was (and still is) not
just to produce educated men. but
“educated men of Christian conviction.”
Their method of achieving this was to
transplant to Australia, with certain
bizarre results, the English boarding
school, with all its faults and virtues, its
emphasis on character training by dis-
comfort, its delegation of discipline and
command to the boys themselves, and,
not least, its curriculum of work and
play in quantities that would seem in-
credible to a pupil at a public school
In this tradition, the school attaches
greater importance to the boarder, as
being more amenable to its aims, than to
the day boy (although the latter has come
to take on a vital economic function in
keeping the school going).
For this reason the school need not
be, and generally is not, close to the
centres of population. This has given the
private school one of its greatest assets —
its extensive grounds, acquired half a
century ago, when it stood among green
fields and stately trees. Today the trees
still shade the school, and the green
fields have become playing fields of a
magnificence that no modern State school
could even dream of. For a school popu-
lation of 350 boys, including 150
boarders, there are three full-sized ovals,
used for cricket, football and athletics ;
two tennis courts; a gymnasium; a
swimming pool; and endless shady van-
tage points for those who would lie and
watch.
/~\n the other hand, the school buildings
do not compare too well with a
modern State school. They are severely
institutional in character, apart from
the additions made over the years. The
class-rooms, in particular, are small, dark
and dingy ; many of them are almost
at basement level. The dormitories are
over-crowded, with beds jammed together
to accommodate as many boys as
possible.
It is in the school’s principles of
organisation, however, that its derivation
from the English public school is most
evident. And the first principle for
which the school is prepared to pay
dearly—is independence: independence
of the school from the State, and of the
headmaster from outside interference.
The college council, or body of
governors, has to see that money is
found (from fees, investments, private
donations, or church funds), and that the
principles of “Christian education” are
broadly followed. The rest is up to the
headmaster.
In the range and depth of his autonomy
within the school, the headmaster is a
world apart from the harassed, depart-
ment-ridden manager of the huge State
teaching-factories, known only to the
boys through the public-address system,
and obliged to leave the shaping of his
pupils’ careers to professional “advisers.”
Within the private school, the head-
master s authority is practically unchal-
lengeable. His view of how subjects shall
be taught is reflected in his choice of
masters, and the arrangement of their
duties and responsibilities.
Today the private schools are no longer
the haven of teachers too incompetent to
nold down a job with the. Education
Department. The G.P.S. schools could
always get good teachers—but now they
are going to the lesser private schools
as well. They are as well paid as in
State schools, have smaller classes to
cope with, and within the headmaster’s
ramparts can settle down without fear
of capricious transfers, persecution by
inspectors, or witch-hunting by P. and C.
Association watch-dogs.
The headmaster’s view of what each
boy shall do with his time at school is
also much more pronounced than it
could ever be at a State school. The
parents of a boy who is weak at
mathematics, for example, are left in no
doubt, when the time comes in third year
to select a course, that they will not be
permitted to waste the boy’s crucial
school years, and the masters’ time, by
letting him “do science,” in the hope
that he will become one of Professor
Messel’s wonder-men of tomorrow.
The private school headmaster’s
autonomy will become even more
marked, by contrast, if the present trend
in State education towards the United
States’ preoccupation with “preparation
for citizenship” is continued —particularly
concerning the degree of interference to
“ You'll be sorry—that Was my old mans!”


be tolerated in matters purely academic
by outside individuals —and organisa-
tions.
There may be strong arguments against,
as well*as for, the belief that parents
should not concern themselves with such
things as the titles of the books in the
school library, or the views of mankind
and its history expressed in class by the
masters, and the heresies thereby stimu-
lated in youthful minds. But this is one
of the inheritances of the English public
school tradition —and the fact that many
private schools in Australia have English
headmasters and staff with English
degrees is a strong force for its con-
tinuance.
Not unexpectedly, the views of an
English headmaster in Australia will
sometimes bring him into conflict with
certain cherished beliefs in individual
freedom held by some of the parents.
This is particularly the case concerning
day boys, who are understandably likely
to wonder why they should have to fol-
low one set of standards at school and
another at home.
Faced with what he feels are deteriorat-
ing standards of social behavior and
economic morality, the headmaster of
many a private school has been obliged
to make it clear to parents that whatever
they permit their sons to do at home—
in such matters as drinking, smoking,
driving cars, gate-crashing, and dressing—
they must not expect such behavior to
be tolerated at school, and that expulsion
is the penalty.
This field of parental indulgence is one
in which the private school is beginning
to find itself out of step with that portion
of society that patronises it. But there
is little likelihood, for various reasons,
of that patronage falling off. Therefore
the tug-of-war will continue, with the
bewildered boys in the middle.
After the belief in independence, one
of the most crucial factors in the private
school’s approach to education is the very
early delegation of authority to the boys
themselves.
At the comparatively early age of 15,
in fourth year, the senior boys begin,
with varying degrees of success, to com-
mand. With the fifth yeai boys—the
prefects—they control the day-to-day life
of the school. They are in charge of the
other boys’ actions from the time they
wake until the time they fall asleep. They
organise and supervise the dormitories,
the dining hall, the prep, periods, the
leisure activities, the sports. They confer
favors, and administer punishments.
In a year when the seniors are
irresponsible, the atmosphere in the
school can be most unhappy. But in
most years the system bridges the
tremendous gap, unavoidable in the
general education system, between the
undisciplined desires of the boys and the
requirements of reality. This early search
for a privileged elite is, of course, one
of the key policies of the English public
school, which, believing that there are
those who lead and those who follow,
aims unashamedly at producing the
former.
The working of this theory in Australia
is less obvious at present, but becoming
clearer every year. A survey by Dr Sol
Encel in Canberra of 200 Australian
companies, ranging from those with 300
employees up to 8.H.P., with 30,000,
showed that 66 per cent, of the executives
had only had primary schooling, 23
per cent, had gone to public secondary
schools, but only ten per cent, had a
private school background.
However, this generation of execu-
tives includes a large proportion whose
secondary schooldays coincided with the
depression, when the cost of private
schooling would have been prohibitive.
The generation now at school might
find a very different proportion of its
business executives —and its other leaders
—coming from private schools ; the en-
rolment at private schools has about
doubled in the past ten years, and is
now limited only by the buildings.
What kind of a life goes on behind
those brick walls? For sheer
occupation, a boarder's years at a private
school are not likely to be equalled
throughout the rest of his life. Up at
six, hustled through showers and break-
fast, assembly and prayers, the boys
begin a day of classes that does not,
on the whole, exceed the school day
in a State school. But by third year the
boys are doing 2 to 3 hours of prep a
night, under a master’s supervision.
And fifth year they work until they
fall asleep over their books. (Although
the grind is alleviated, in many schools,
by the system of study, not much dif-
ferent from that enjoyed by Tom Brown
and his friends, in which groups of two
or three boys have a room to themselves,
where sausages and cocoa can be pre-
pared when the theorems bring the mind
to a standstill).
During the day the boys also take
turns at a variety of domestic duties, in-
cluding bed-making, waiting on table,
and washing their own shirts occasionally.
Any spare daylight hours are spent prac-
tising for Saturday’s devotion to sport.
On Sunday, between services, they are
permitted, in a limited and Christian
way, to do nothing.
The life does not, however, unduly
oppress most boarders. Individuality
flourishes, and their Australianism
asserts itself; it is not very unusual to
find a boy who owns a race-horse or
a trotter, and whole classes follow the
races with transistor radios before settl-
ing up with the dormitory bookmaker.
And what does this imported system
of education cost the parents? On an
average, in the smaller private schools,
getting on for £lBO a term, or about
£550 a year. Tuition and boarding fees
come to about £430 (Eton charges A£575,
Harrow A£s3o, Winchester A£s2o,
Rugby A£soo). This includes laundry,
mending, sports, swimming, and cadet
training and equipment. Books might
come to £l5 a year.
"pxTRAS in a typical term’s bill would
be: pocket money, £1 10s. (fixed at a
few shillings a week to avoid overt
extravagance); fares to and from sports
events, £3 10s. ; stamps and telegrams,
12s. shoe repairs, £1 ss. ; barber, 15s. ;
stationery, 18s. ; school cinema, 15s. ;
dry cleaning, 17s. 6d. ; coaching (sports
or academic), £4 4s. Add an initial out-
lay of £lOO for clothing, and at least
£3O a year thereafter. Of this total, £lOO
can be deducted for tax purposes.
Who sends their sons to a school like
this? What do they think they are
paying for? Some parents would
obviously rather have sent their sons
to a G.P.S. school, but could not get
him in. Some feel that he will get a
deeper and wider education, in the
strict sense of the word (in fact, the
brighter can hardly do better than the
brightest public school boys—but the
less gifted will certainly do better than
their equivalent in the overcrowded
classes in public schools).
Some parents prefer the lesser school
to the G.P.S., believing that there is less
snobbery, a more acceptable cameraderie
between boys of widely different back-
grounds. Many, however, will be people
who did not go to a private school
themselves. They seem determined to
associate themselves vicariously, with
what they missed. They can be seen hard
at it, the earnest attenders of every game
and carnival, every coffee party given
by the headmaster’s wife, the promptest
respondents to every appeal by the build-
ing fund committee. But all parents be-
lieve that a private school education
will give their son a better chance in
our society.
What is the future of schools like
this? They are booked out for years
to come. Many are building, and rais-
ing the money with surprising ease.
Industry is coming to their assistance with
huge grants for science training, in par-
ticular. Only one major problem, per-
haps, becomes more pressing.
The world at large is becoming in-
creasingly contemptuous of the private
school’s idea of values and standards.
The private school and the church that
supports it, fear that its ideals of Chris-
tian education are being undermined by
the increasingly materialistic outlook of
the parents of the boys it is trying to in-
fluence.
The schools are unlikely to do much
about this situation, however, because
their very existence is dependent upon
these materialistic considerations, which
are causing parents to queue up for places
for their sons, and to beggar themselves
to keep those places growing once
obtained.
This pressure on the private schools
is, in face, one of the strangest aspects
of the existence of these schools in Aus-
tralia today (at a time when their charac-
ter in England is undergoing drastic
modification).
In the image of Australian society held
by most Australians, these schools and
what they represent, should stand out
like oak trees in a gibber desert. The
fact that so many of us are privately
trying to send our children up these
trees while publicly cutting them down
provides a wry comment on the state
of our intellectual development.


For today’s ‘low look’ roofline . ..
at lower roofing cost
ORB
LYSAGHT
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
% *
i : i
m
•••• '
m
*ri % . : %
m
| "»*W
i
sss;s«s§
■ : h::V^m
sssss :>«
'
i: SiSIiSS^«SSSSSii:<;
Think of the most attractive homes you have
seen during the past year. Chances are, almost
all of them have had the modern, low-pitched
roofline.
This clean, functional “low look” gives a
dramatic sweep to any home and your archi-
tect will readily agree that Lysaght Steel Sheet
is the ideal material with which to express this
modern trend.
Quickly laid .. . easiest of all to maintain ...
Lysaght Steel Sheet is now available in styles
to suit every roofing requirement.
Just published . . . fascinating new guide to the
newest trends in the home design. Send for your
copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
s John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
£**!**« Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the
new Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
i- NAME..
ADDRESS..
..STATE..
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
CORRUGATED: Lysaghtßed
Orb Sheet, made especially
rigid for roofing purposes,
has almost endless applica-
tions in the building industry.
Available in all wanted widths
and lengths; also pre-painted
in aluminium where speedy
finishing is a factor.
FLAT: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*KLIP-LOK! New smartly
ribbed, heavily galvanized
Steel Sheet with self-locking
shoulders for fiat and near
flat roofing,and wall cladding.
In cost-saving unbroken
lengths to 59 ft.
""Patent No. 222049
§


Professor Giblin
The First of the Eggheads
By K. C. MASTERMAN
My first sight of Lyndhurst Giblin
was characteristic of the man.
It was just before the beginning
of the first world war, and I
was a very young student at the Univer-
sity of Tasmania, which had, I think,
only about 100 students at the time. One
of them had suggested to me that we
should spend a weekend bicycling to
Eaglehawk Neck and the Port Arthur
region: and the question arose where
we should sleep for the first night. “I
know,” he said, “we’ll look up Lyndhurst
Giblin at Seven Mile Beach.” So we
took the Bellerive ferry across the Der-
went —there was of course no bridge in
those days —and when we got to Cam-
bridge, where Hobart now has its air-
port, we turned aside along a sandy track,
and after a few miles reached the
southern end of the magnificent stretch
of golden sand which sweeps down in one
unbroken curve for seven miles along the
East Coast. Among the sandhills was
a fair-sized log cabin, and standing out-
side it in the sun was a large wooden
trough on legs, containing a mass of
whitish material, which proved to be
dough.
A large burly figure was standing with
his arms in the trough. He had a thick
black beard, and was wearing shorts
which seemed to have been made by tear-
ing off the lower part of an ancient pair
of trousers that had gone at the knees.
His only other clothing was an old
greyish flannel shirt, open at the neck to
reveal a very hairy expanse of chest, and
with the sleeves removed a little below
the shoulders, apparently by the same
method as had shortened the trousers.
1 took him for a farm-hand or rouse-
about, and was a little disconcerted to
find he was my host. Extracting his
hands from the dough, with the explana-
tion that he was making his week’s
supply of bread, he led us into the shack.
A long table down the centre was
covered with papers, among which
I noticed the “Round Table” and the
“New Statesman." We had a meal, con-
sisting, 1 think, of stew, and after a long
talk which I found full of interest we
were shown to a sort of penthouse roof
with some hay spread underneath it,
where we camped down for the night.
Next morning he took us down to the
beach for a swim, and after breakfast
we went on to Eaglehawk Neck.
He was a well-known figure in Hobart
at that time, easily recognised by his
wide-brimmed hat, scarlet tie, military
boots and greenish tweed jacket with-
out any lapels. He was a Labor member
of the Tasmanian Parliament, but was,
I believe, regarded with misgiving
because of a tendency to insist on voting
as he thought fit, irrespective of the
party line. I must have seen him about
the town, but was much too shy to
LYNDHURST GIBLIN
The Telling Phrase
speak: however, I remember noticing
that the big beard became smaller and
shorte--, and eventually disappeared. The
war had begun by this time, and word
went around that his object was to make
himself look younger in order to enlist
for active service ; at any rate, I soon
heard that he was abroad with the
Fortieth, the only all-Tasmanian battalion
of the A.I.F. i later joined a reinforce-
ment to the same battalion, and the next
time I saw him was in a small French
village behind the front line, where we
were waiting to be drafted into our com-
pany. He saw me in the street and said,
“Hullo, Masterman, why didn't you come
into my company?” I explained that I
had not known he was there or had a
company, but when he offered to arrange
it I accepted, and next day found I had
been transferred from C Company to D.
As he was a major and I was a lance-
corporal 1 did not see much of him, but
I was vaguely aware that a friendly eye
was being kept on me. Once out of idle
curiosity or weariness of trench warfare
I took advantage of a quiet period to
stroll into No Man's Land along a rather
attractive valley near the Somme, and
came upon him doing a little reconnais-
sance of his own. it was no place for
conversation, so he just gave me a grin
and went on his way. He always wore
a battered private's tunic, without any
badges of rank, and when he got badly
wounded and was carried back to an
underground dressing-station, an orderly
came round taking particulars of the
casualties. “Name?” he said. “Giblin.”
“Number?” “Haven’t got a number.”
“Nonsense, man ; what’s your regimental
number!” “Haven't got a number.”
“Well, what’s your rank?” “Major.”
The troops, of course, thought the world
of him, and he was always known as
“Dad Giblin” in the battalion. It was
said that he had been begged to accept
promotion and go on the Staff, but
replied that he preferred to stay with his
men.
While we were in the front line, an
inspecting officer noticed that some of
the men had not shaved recently, and a
battalion order came round that all the
troops were to shave daily. Next day
at “orderly-room” a lad of about seven-
teen was paraded before him. “What is
he charged with, sergeant-major?” asked
Giblin. “Not shaving this morning, sir.”
And in fact the boy had a few curly
hairs on his chin, of such recent growth
that he had not yet thought it worth
while to get himself a razor. Giblin
looked at him, rubbing his own chin
in a way that was characteristic of him.
He had not let the beard grow again
while he was on service, but there were
several days’ growth of black stubble.
“Do you know, sergeant-major,” he said,
“1 don't think I am really the right person
to try this case. Dismiss the prisoner.”
Later on. during the battle of Mont
St Quentin, I was cut off and captured
by the Germans while trying to drag
back one of our officers, who was lying
severely wounded in the old Hindenburg
Line. So I saw no more of Giblin till
the war was over, and I went to read
History at Oxford before coming home
to Australia. One day he turned up at
Brasenose, and said he was collecting
material for the history of the war ; he
had come to get from me some details
of the engagement in which l was taken
prisoner, and of which l was one of the
few survivors. He stayed to lunch, and
1 gave him the whole story ; at one point
it was hard to make clear the lie of the
land, and he got me to scribble a rough
sketch of the old trenches. Some weeks
later he came to Oxford again after a
visit to France. “Not at all bad, from
memory,” he said, putting on the table
my rough sketch, which 1 thought I had
thrown away, and a more accurate one
done by himself on the spot for com-
parison.
Ooon after that he returned to Tas-
mania and there became Government
Statistician. After finishing my course
at Oxford, I worked in England for two
years, and then for three in South Aus-
tralia, during which I was out of touch
with him. But I had word of him now
and then from friends in Tasmania, and
discovered that he had a genius for keep-
ing contact with anyone he met who
showed intellectual promise, following*
their careers and often putting in a word
in the right quarter to ensure that they
were given suitable opportunities. Then


in 1927 I was asked to go to Tasmania
as Acting Professor of Classics during
the absence abroad of the professor,
R. L. Dunbabin, under whom I had
worked as an undergraduate. He was
a great friend of Giblin and their col-
laboration did a great deal for the Uni-
versity ; but there were already feuds
and jealousies, and some of the staff were
eager to undermine their influence. As
Dunbabin’s “locum” I came right into the
picture, and being naive and inexperi-
enced, I must have seemed an easy
victim. But when I suddenly realised
at a meeting of the Professorial Board
that 1 was being used as the means for
an attack on Dunbabin, and that I had
no idea how to counter it, I became aware
that Giblin, who used to sit back with
eyes half-closed, looking remarkably like
a somnolent tortoise, had opened his eyes
and was taking notice. Then his slow
voice quietly penetrated into the discus-
sion with a question that completely took
the wind out of the enemy’s sails. After
that I felt secure and no further attempt
was made to browbeat me.
When I finished my year in Tasmania,
at the suggestion of Dunbabin I went
to do some post-graduate work at an
English university, and as he and 1
were both Oxford men, 1 took it for
granted he meant Oxford. But he sug-
gested Giblin's College at Cambridge
(King’s), so that I might wonc under
J. T. Sheppard, later Sir John Sheppard
and Provost of the college ; and Giblin
in a letter to me said he thought “the
peculiar aroma of King’s” might suit me
very well. His name was held in honor
there: he was in the habit of sending
at intervals as a gift to Combination
Room a case of apples from the orchard
he had planted among the sandhills of
Seven Mile Beach, near the little town-
ship of Cambridge, where I had first met
him ; and these were introduced to mem-
bers of High Table as coming “from our
branch establishment in Tasmania.” He
was still in Tasmania when I left King’s
to take up an endowed classical master-
ship at Geelong Grammar School, and
as I often went to Tasmania on holiday,
I used to see him occasionally.
One summer I was there to run a
training course for scoutmasters at a
cottage I owned in the hills 20-odd miles
from Hobart, in a secluded side valley
a few miles off the main Launceston
road. He sent word that he would look
us up there, and on arrival was roped
in to talk to the trainees on bush craft.
I knew he was expert at this, for I had
recently been one of the second party
to climb Mount Anne, one of the finest
peaks in the wild ranges of southern
Tasmania, and he had been one of the
party that made the first ascent: we had
found his name with the others in a tin
hidden under a stone on the summit. He
fascinated his audience by removing the
big military boots, which he wore even
in the city, and demonstrating how to
fold the triangle of blanket which he
used as a substitute for stockings. Then
he showed them his substitute for a
tent, which was a 12ft square of Japara
or some such light fabric, lashed to a
frame which he cut from thin tea-tree
poles. One edge of the square rested on
the ground, to windward, and the oppo-
site edge was lashed at each corner to
an upright pole driven into the ground.
The occupants slept with their heads near
where it met the ground and their feet
towards the fire, which could be built
almost under the raised end, so that
when cooking one was sheltered from
rain. It seemed rather draughty for use
in light bush, but worked admirably in
the heavy scrub of the south and west
of the island, as no doubt it had done in
the Canadian forests.
Some time later he mentioned in one
of his letters that he was trying to find
a good economist for the new Ritchie
Professorship in Melbourne. 1 knew that
he had been responsible for several of
the most interesting and successful
appointments to economic posts in Aus-
tralia, keeping in close touch with
Maynard Keynes, Sir John Claphan and
others of the famous group at King’s ;
but at the end of his letter was a post-
script, “A perfectly ridiculous thing has
just happened: they want me to take the
Ritchie Professorship. I shall sleep on
it and decide tomorrow.” On the flap of
the envelope was another postcript, “I
can see no valid objection, so 1 shall
accept.”
This brought him to Melbourne to live,
and he often visited Geelong Grammar ;
he was interested in the bold experi-
ments by which Dr Darling was trans-
forming the school, and was often asked
for advice about the latest scheme. He
would sit whittling away with a pen-
knife at the cake of tobacco he used
to carry in his pocicet. Some of the
end-product reached his pipe, but a good
many shreds found their way to the floor,
and our maid (even schoolmasters some-
times had a maid in those pre-war days)
would say to my wife, “Ah, I see you’ve
had the Professor here.” He particularly
liked to come down if I had a weekend
camp of scouts, being excellent at camp-
fire yarns and full of information on
camping. For yarns he liked to go to
the Icelandic sagas, which had long been
another of his special enthusiasms.
nPHE recent book on him (“Giblin,”
ed. Copland, Cheshire 1960) prints
among some of his collected papers a
little introduction to them, which in a
few pages gives what seems to me a
model of how to introduce such a subject
to the beg'nner. He could also draw on
a wide knowledge of children’s books,
and I owe him my first introduction to
T. H. White (“The Sword in the Stone,”
etc.), John Hargrave (“Young Winkle”),
and Forrest Reid, for whose books he
had a particular affection. He was not,
however, dependent on second-hand
material for the most fascinating of his
yarns, which came from his experiences
in Northern Canada, where he had gone
with another Cambridge man on leaving
King’s, to join the Klondike g,old rush. His
object must have been pure adventure,
for no one who knew Giblin would
imagine that he could have been in-
terested in making a fortune. The story
of their journey is told by a Canadian
who shared part of it with them, in a
chapter of the book mentioned above.
Other chapters tell of his main life’s
work as an economist and adviser to
the Government on tariff and banking
problems ; for though he was by train-
ing a mathematician and statistician, and
therefore regarded by some as in a sense
an amateur in economics, he was able
by his originality and largeness of grasp
to break fresh ground, notably with his
idea of the ‘multiplier,’ and to show
the laymen, particularly the adminis-
trator, how to apply the views of the
economists in practice. In his “Letters
to John Smith” he did valuable work
explaining to the man in the street the
real significance of Government and
Trades Union action in the economic
field, showing him what could and what
could not reasonably be expected from
such action. His image of Australia as
a little man on a giant sheep striding a
bottomless abyss was one which notably
caught the public imagination.
He had a flair for the telling phrase:
when the Commonwealth Censor (not the
present more enlightened holder of the
office) aroused public ridicule by ban-
ning Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New
World,” he write an article called “Eye-
less in Canberra,” adapting his title from
Huxley’s more recent “Eyeless in Gaza.”
I have also an earlier article of his
attacking the idea that bigger is neces-
sarily better, entitled “The Blight of
Bigness.” Intelligence, clarity of thought
and common-sense were what particu-
larly appealed to him, and he saw no
reason why these qualities should not be
detected by formal methods such as
examinations, if they were of the right
kind. 1 believe he played a big part in
planning the examination for one of the
Government departments at Canberra,
and he was particularly interested in the
introduction by Melbourne University
of the new subject English Expression,
which was made compulsory for all
candidates and tested in particular
clarity of thinking and writing.
Poetry and drama played a big part
in his multifarious interests. 1 remember
his bringing me one day a batch of
cyclostyled sheets of the “Poetry Game,”
an attempt, prompted 1 think by A. E.
Housman’s essay on the Name and
Nature of Poetry, to track down the
elusive factor which makes single lines
or short phrases memorable with that
magical quality that Kipling must have
had in mind in “Wireless,” when he
said (of Keats’s “magic casements” and
Coleridge’s “woman wailing for her
demon lover” and their context) “These
are the pure Magic. These are the Clear
Vision. The rest is only poetry.” Gib-
lin’s friends contributed lists of their
own choices, but I must have been abroad
when he made his analysis of the results,
for I cannot remember receiving it. He
had a very special interest in school
dramatic work, and seldom missed one


of the excellent Shakespeare productions
of Dr Darling and his able producer
Ken Mappin.
His portrait was painted by William
Dobell for Melbourne University and,
like Dobell’s recent one of the Prime
Minister aroused a good deal of con-
troversy. It is a fine piece of painting,
but is certainly not flattering as a por-
trait, for Giblin, though massive, was
certainly not gross, and it imports into
an otherwise excellent likeness the quality
of grossness which was so effective in
“Billy Boy” and some of his other works.
The journalists demanded Giblin’s own
opinion of it ; his reply was “Fair com-
ment,” and he confirmed this verdict
by sending me and other friends an auto-
graphed color-print. It was I think charac-
teristic of him not to take offence, but to
show a humorous tolerance of what many
sitters would have resented.
Few men can have played so big a
part in Australian affairs and been so
little known to the general public;
breadth of vision and sanity of outlook
are not the qualities that make the
darlings of the popular press, and Giblin
was blessed with a sense of humor that
prevented him from ever taking himself
as seriously as others quite rightly took
him when they got to know him. In its
fairly brief history, Australia has pro-
duced a creditable number of great
men, but anyone who sets out to make
a list of these will be badly at fault
if he omits the name of Lyndhurst Fal-
kiner Giblin.
Why Mr Kerensky
By PETER HASTINGS
T cannot now recall exactly why I went
to see Alexander Kerensky. It was
in the winter of 1950 and snow and ice
lay deep in the New York streets. He
was staying with a family which owned
a large brownstone mansion on New
York’s West Side. It was large and com-
fortable and he had a bedroom, sitting
room and a large sparsely furnished study
whose windows opened out on to the icy
street. I remember a profusion of books,
some chairs, a sofa and a large table
littered with more books and papers. A
young and pretty girl whom I took to
be the daughter of the house asked me
to sit down as Mr Kerensky would not
be long. He came in shortly after. He
was tallish —or seemed so —and quick in
movements. His iron-grey hair was closely
cropped, his face was greatly lined and
dominated, at first meeting, by a large
and bulbous nose. After a while you
forgot the nose and noted instead the
firm straight mouth and the large eyes
which Shulgin had once called “im-
possible.”
He had an abnormally deep voice and
spoke rapid, heavily accented English.
He had beautiful manners, apologising
profusely every time the telephone rang
—which was often —and answering it
with a deep throated, trailed out “Kay-
rensky.” It was oddly dramatic and as
one sat there one wondered how often
he had answered antique phones in
Petrograd or Tsarskoe or Yaroslavl in
just that way in those eight months which
shook and ended a world. Sometimes he
lapsed into French, with which he was
more at home, and it reminded me of a
picture taken of him in 1917 —shortly
after the abdication —sitting in a sump-
tuously Victorian railway carriage, hand-
some, intense, stylishly dressed and read-
ing a copy of “Humanite.”
In all of that first conversation I was
struck by the depth of his fear of and
hatred for Stalin. This was not so sur-
prising, but it was surprising to learn
that he feared him so early and among
so many. “Lenin was a misfortune,” he
said, “which can hardly be described.
Someone said that his birth was Russia’s
great misfortune and that his death was
its greatest misfortune for that was the
signal for Stalin. In those last days before
the October Revolution it was Stalin 1
feared far more than Lenin or Trotsky.
Stalin had an unmatched ruthlessness and
a tenacity and flexibility far surpassing
that of Lenin. No wonder Lenin feared
him.”
Had he ever seen Lenin or Stalin?
“Lenin once, Stalin never. It is strange
how we did not meet the leading Bol-
shevists, even in the earlier days of the
Provisional Government. Lenin I saw
addressing a mob of soldiers and that
was all. It was war to the death, you
understand, and we kept out of each
other’s way. In those early days I was
more intent on keeping the form of law
and order going and of finding a work-
able political arrangement. I was trying
so hard to suppress terrorism and
extremism. But it was all too late. The
irony of it all looking back is that if
only Nicholas had listened even a few
years before Russia might have become
a limited democracy and the world made
safe for 300 years.
“But nobody could talk to Nicholas.
I saw him often at Tsarskoe. He was
always charming. Even those who hated
him in the Provincial Government for
his blind stupidity, men like Guchkov,
came under the spell of his personal
charm. It was quite magical. That
haunted, handsome face. The precise
accents. The generous and courteous
gesture. But he did not know. He was
always talking of the people in that
mystical way of his. The people this and
the people that. Anything and everything
for the people. He didn’t know the people,
he didn’t know his governments or his
ministers. ‘Everywhere,’ he wrote after
the abdication, ‘is cowardice, betrayal,
deceit.’ He lived in another world. And
then there was the Empress.” I remember
the peculiarly impressive way in which
Kerensky drew himself up, his cheeks
puffed out, his back arching. “Like this,”
he said, “a protective mother hen, worry-
ing about her simple - minded husband
and her brood. It was pathetic. She had
no idea either, even though she had em-
braced Russia with all the fervor of the
religious mystic.”
I remember at that stage the young
girl came into the room again with a
message. Kerensky jumped to his feet
gallantly, his face alight. He kissed her
hand and then showered her forearm with
kisses. She held back in mock alarm. It
was an old man’s joke, a family joke and
it was quite charming. But he looked
youthful and alert and it recalled again
the pictures of him as a young man when
he dominated the Russian Bar and
travelled the length and breadth of
Russia exhorting and pleading Russia’s
conscience—the lawyer from Simbrisk.
The interview came to an end. He was
busy on a number of things, lecturing,
writing, keeping in touch with Russian
politics and with his strange job as leader
of the Council for Liberation of the
Russian Peoples.
I saw him again twice in the following
two years, but only briefly. He was ex-
pertly informed on internal developments
in Russia and always willing to talk or
give information. But in 1953 Stalin died
and I immediately thought of Kerensky
and rang him up and asked to see him.
He was elated and excited. This, he said,
was the end of the worst and perhaps the
beginning of something better. ‘'Nothing,”
he said, “can ever be so bad again for
there can never be a man so evil, so
relentless as Stalin.” He successfully
tipped Malenkov as Stalin’s successor
and then added something which I have
never forgotten. “They will get rid of
Beria very soon. He is a Stalin machine
man and now he is surrounded by
suspicion and hatred. He will go. I am
sure of that. I think, too, that Malenkov
will not last. Bulganin is the man. But
we shall see.” He then talked at great
length about Mao whom he regarded as
Communism’s new Stalin. “He is tough
and flexible,” he said, “and will become
the apostle of the old Stalinist line. There
may even be a Sino-Soviet split but it
is yet too early to say. For myself I
believe it. For Russia, Stalin’s death may
spell ultimate deliverance.”
I did not see Kerensky again until
March, 1954. It was by accident. I had
been to dinner with a friend who was a
member of the British U.N. delegation.
He had several guests that evening, a
Canadian and, in particular I recall, a
young Bulgarian who had been a mem-
ber of the Communist delegation and
had defected. After dinner we strolled
down Madison Avenue. The early spring
air was misty and cold and at a corner
where we stopped to take our several
ways an old grey headed man swam into
the pool of light shed by the street lamp,
accompanied by a young girl with a dog
on a lead. “Why Mr Kerensky,” I called
and advanced with outstretched hand.
He jumped convulsively and turned
around angrily. “You must never call
out like that,” he said. “Never.” Then
he relaxed, bowed courteously and
walked down the street with his com-
panion. It was only later that the young
Bulgarian pointed out gravely that
Kerensky had lived since 1917 in terror
of assassination.


This Australia
The Silence of Rupert Murdoch
Mr Rupert Murdoch’s Daily and
Sunday “Mirrors” have vociferously
championed themselves as the only news-
papers in Sydney that run “independent”
television reviews (by which they mean
presumably that the “Mirror” does not
hold aTV licence in Sydney). By con-
trast, Mr Murdoch’s “News” in Adelaide
(which does hold a TV licence) does not
distinguish itself for its reviews of tele-
vision, whether independent or not.
For some time the two “Mirrors” have
been hounding shows in Sydney, such as
“The Untouchables,” “Checkmate" and
“Whiplash,” that are also shown on the
Murdoch NWS in Adelaide, without the
same stinging rebukes about them
appearing in the “News.”
The “Mirror’s” concern for public
morality reached its highest note yet on
a recent Sunday when its main article on
page three purportedly added up all the
acts of violence that had taken place on
Sydney’s three TV channels over the
preceding seven days (“Things were
I’uirly quiet on TV this week—there were
only 105 shootings, six stabbings, 50 fist
fights, nine beatings, one whipping and
21 other assaults, plus one death by hold-
ing a pillow over a victim’s face until
she suffocated, one scene where a rattle-
snake slithered across the ground towards
two trussed-up people,”*) and concluded:
“Commercial station controllers at least
are clearly falling down on their obliga-
tions.”
All this was too much for Mr J. H.
Oswin, general-manager of Sydney's
ATN, who often joins Mr Murdoch in
buying some of the programmes attacked.
He wrote a letter to both of the
“Mirrors,” pointing out that NWS had
entered into negotiations with ATN for
the joint purchase of “The Untouch-
ables” (“. . . our most noted violent
programme”), “Checkmate” and “Whip-
lash” and that Mr Murdoch had been
most annoyed when the opposition station
in Adelaide secured “Hong Kong” (“60
m nutes of more varied violence”). In
his letter Mr Oswin then said: “To save
ourselves any further embarrassment it
seems that the programmes your paper
regards as violent should be entirely
removed from the schedule of NWS. To
th:s end I will be pleased to do what I
can to arrange for the transfer of the
programmes to the other station in
Adelaide which does not share your
views. Alternatively, if you felt that
because of their unsuitability for tele-
casting your managing-director could
not honorably agree to their transfer to
your opposition channel, I would be
happy to discuss with the sponsors their
withdrawal so that NWS could drop the
programmes completely. I feel confident
I could achieve this and, in the light of
your paper’s strong feelings, the loss you
might incur would be a small price to
pay for the protection you would have
against the charge of arrant dishonesty
and rank hypocrisy to which your
managing-director would otherwise be
open.”
Neither the “Daily Mirror” nor the
“Sunday Mirror” printed Mr Oswin's
letter. He received a letter in reply from
the editor of the “Sunday Mirror,” Mr
Cyril Pearl, which announced obscurely
that Mr Pearl was not concerned with
the management of TV stations, that he
was concerned only with editing a news-
paper. Since then a silence has descended
on Mr Murdoch when he is asked why
his two papers suppressed Mr Oswin’s
letter. To attempt to continue discus-
sion on this subject The Bulletin sent
Mr Murdoch a letter last week asking
him why he did not publish Mr Oswin’s
letter and whether he agreed with the
“Mirror’s” criticisms of his TV shows.
No reply had been received by the time
The Bulletin went to press.
* Averaged out, this makes 5 shootings,
3 stabbings, 2.4 fist fights, .4 beatups and 1.1
assorted violent sundries per station per day.
New Guinea’s
July 4
A struggle for power over the future
of New Guinea is developing be-
tween Mr Paul Hasluck, the Minister for
Territories, and Mr Harry Biand, the
Secretary of the Department for Labor.
The struggle centres on the future of
New Guinea trade-unions. Mr Hasluck
has abandoned his old policy of opposing
the fostering of trade-unions oecause
they would be too much trouble —in
fact he now is actively supporting them.
Mr Bland still follows the paternalistic
line that the natives are not yet mature
enough for them.
Mr Hasluck's new policy first became
clear when he recently approved the
new Industrial Agreement reached by
New Guinea employers and employees.
Last year the Kerema Welfare Society
complained about their low wages to
Hasluck, who urged them to present
their case to the Native Employment
Board. A Government lawyer, Mr W. A.
Lalor, helped them present their case
and also helped them form the first
New Guinea trade-union —the Papua
and New Guinea Workers’ Association.
The employers brought an industrial
lawyer, Mr J. P. Coneybeer, from Aus-
tralia to help present their case and the
historic conference began on July 4(1),
1960. They drew up New Guinea's first
industrial agreement and issued a Joint
Statement urging the Administration to
accept the Agreement. The Agreement
laid down a basic cash wage of £3 a
week for urban workers and made
allowances for overtime.
This development will now obviously
be followed by further agreements cover-
ing margins in various industries, the
shipping and stevedoring industries, and
finally rural workers. It means the rapid
expansion of trade-unionism and ulti-
mately the setting-up of some sort of
conciliation and arbitration machinery.
But no sooner were the implications
of all this accepted than Mr Bland
made his counter-move in the form of
the Report of the Tripartite Mission on
Labor Matters —popularly known as the
Bland Report since, although it is also
signed by the president and vice-president
of the A.C.T.U. and by two employers’
representatives, it adopts the Bland line
of opposition to trade-unionism. Pre-
pared late last year but issued early this
year, about the time the Industrial
Agreement was gazetted, it says: “We
are inclined to think that nothing should
be done for the present to force the
growth of trade-unionism . . . Experience
of overseas attempts to force the growth
of trade-unionism raises considerable
doubts as to whether a healthy move-
ment stems from trade-unionism imposed
from the top.” It also said trade-unions
were unnecessary since there was no
exploitation in New Guinea, and in any
case the Administration “pretty zealously
guards the interests of native workers,”
even tending perhaps “to overplay the
role of fairy godmother.” As for arbitra-
tion machinery, what suits Australia may
not suit New Guinea, and decisions on
this matter should be postponed indefi-
nitely.
So the two policies, Hasluck’s and
Bland's, could hardly be more opposed.
But if overseas experience and recent
developments in New Guinea—such as
the demonstration over wages by troops
of the Pacific Islands Regiment—are
any guide, the Hasluck line must win
in the end. The only mystery is why
the Leftist A.C.T.U. officials adopted the
Bland policy. The usual explanation is
that the New Guinea trade-union leaders
treated them with insufficient respect
because, being Christians, they were
suspicious of Australian unionists who
work with Communists. The president
and vice-president of the A.C.T.U. could
only conclude they were too “immature”
to be worthy of trade-unions.
What Monash
Faces
Melbourne’s second university, named
after Sir John Monash, the dis-
tinguished engineer and World War 1
general, is now operating with some 350
first-year students in arts, commerce,
science and engineering. On its 250-acre
site at Clayton, the new university has


an air of easy informality in sharp con-
trast to the older academy at Parkville,
where just on 10,000 students jostle each
other in packed lecture theatres.
Monash’s leisurely intimacy will not
last long. By 1970 it will have 12,000
students and even before its lectures com-
menced there was talk of a third and
even a fourth university for Victoria. In
fact, the chairman of the Universities
Commission, Sir Leslie Martin, believes
that new Australian universities will have
to be created at the rate of one every
two years for the next decade.
The “population bulge” in the 17-to-
-22-year age groups resulting from the
lift in the birthrate in the 1940 s is only
part of the story. Fifty years ago about
one per cent, of the 17-to-22 year-olds
went to a university ; today their per-
centage is 5.8 and is expected to rise
to 8.2 within the next five years. Predic-
tions of the growth in student population
made by the Murray Committee in 1957
have proved far too conservative; by
1966 Sydney will have 27,000 full-time
university students, while the figure for
Australia will be just under 100,000.
It costs between £25- and £3O-million
to build a new university, and about 50
professors and 600 sub-professorial staff
are needed. According to Sir Leslie, the
present rate of production of graduates
with higher degrees offers no prospect of
obtaining even half the number required.
The opportunities for recruiting staff
overseas are limited because the entire
English-speaking world is suffering from
the same shortage, particularly of staff
for technological faculties.
Sir Leslie has proposed a solution.
Many students who finish their courses
with results which would justify them
making their careers in university teach-
ing or research have a period of un-
certainty as they weigh the prospects of
such work against the employment oppor-
tunities in the other fields. Sir Leslie
would like the universities to pick their
future staff much earlier—at the second-
year level—and then provide the selected
students with special grants to carry
them through to higher degrees. Like
most other proposals to improve the
universities, this would call for still more
money from Canberra.
Monash itself had an early reminder
of the power of the Commonwealth
purse over universities. Originally it was
planned to start the university with
faculties of science and engineering and
so relieve the pressure on the Melbourne
University’s most overcrowded depart-
ments. The Universities Commission, late
in 1959, told the Monash council that
it would have to reverse its priorities com-
pletely and start with humanities subjects.
For good measure it slated the council
for devoting its attention to buildings
ahead of recruiting of staff.
The Commonwealth Government
accepted these views of the commission,
and there was little that Monash could
do except agree. Eventually a com-
promise was reached on the “two cul-
tures” argument, but there was no doubt
that the commission got the best of it.
It was a reminder to professors every-
where of the new bureaucracy super-
imposed on Australian universities.
A Social Straitjacket?
TTnlike the citizens of N.S.W. and
Queensland, Western Australians
are almost uniformly resistant to the
influence of American culture. It is
strange, therefore, that an American
model should have been chosen for
one of the State’s most controversial
documents, the Teenage Code.
The code arose directly out of the
Minnesota Code, which received wide
publicity in the United States several
years ago. The moral values it
emphasises seem to stem directly from
the United States.
The teenagers who drew up the
Western Australian code, after a
request by the Federation of Parents
and Citizens of W.A., did their best
to make it a document applicable to
Australian conditions, but phrases like
“petting” and “family relationships”
keep creeping in to reveal its origin.
This is not to say that it is an irrespon-
sible document. On the contrary, it is
almost frightening in its staid and
responsible dictums.
This is not surprising in view of
the place of its birth—the Easter
camp of an organisation called the
Associated Youth Committees of
Western Australia. Of the 49 teen-
agers who met at the camp to draw
up the code, 24 were members of
religious or semi-religious organisa-
tions.
The result is a conformist document
which should satisfy all but the most
Victorian-minded parents. It holds
that kissing is permissible, but
“petting” is out because “it is the pre-
liminary act to intercourse.” Smoking
should be permitted at the age of 18,
when teenagers should also be allowed
to drink “on special occasions such
as weddings and New Year parties
under the supervision of adults.” It
dispenses sensib'e advice on such
topics as community responsibility,
bedtime hours, the use of the family
car and pocket-money. At no point
does it express the iconoclasm of the
undergraduate teenager or the anger
of the juvenile delinquent.
Within its limited framework, the
code has carried out admirably the
object of the Parents and Citizens’
request for “a teenage code of
behavior which may serve as a guide
to teenagers and their parents alike.”
It was designed as a family talking
point and, as such, proved successful
beyond the hopes of its founders. The
National Fitness Council circulated
25,000 copies through schools and
church organisations, finding that
demand exceeded supply.
However, the State Government
decided to sponsor the code through
the Child Welfare and Education
Department. This immediately gave
it an air of authority contrary to its
spirit. Parents are now beginning to
object to the idea of a document which
reads like an attempt to define the
rights of their children at home.
Teachers are beginning to wonder just
what the code is likely to accomplish.
Children may regard it as just another
adult trick to put them into social
straitjackets.
The Long: Haul
T atest act in Queensland’s Great
Transport Drama was the jailing of
Mr Robert Fitzgerald for failure to pay
convictions, penalties and court costs for
breaches of the old Traffic Act, com-
mitted during the last couple of years.
A week after his arrest saw hauliers
and even his solicitor unable to ascer-
tain just how much Mr Fitzgerald owes
the Crown. Reports vary between £llOO
and £4OOO. Meanwhile his wife and six
children are making out as best they
can, while friends are running his busi-
ness.
Mr Fitzgerald was one of a large
number of operators who were refused
permits to operate under the old Act
and who “hopped the border” to claim
immunity under Section 92 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution. Many of the
“border-hopping” methods used were
found to be illegal by the Fligh Court
late in 1959.
Incensed road operators claim that
the jailing of Fitzgerald indicates the
deep-rooted hostility of the Queensland
Government (plagued by mounting rail-
way losses on its 19th-century ribbon
railway system) towards road transport.
First operator to choose jail in de-
fiance of the Government, and to focus
public attention on the bitterness of the
dispute, was former Queensland road
hauliers’ secretary, Mr Jack Overlack,
who went to Boggo Road in January
last year rather than pay fines and
court costs, totalling £69 17s. 6d. Mr
Overlack was bailed out by friends after
three days, but subsequently subjected
to a crippling series of prosecut'ons which
resulted in his closing his transport run
to the neglected Upper Dawson Valley
and skipping the country to New Zealand
late last year, leaving behind a mountain
of summonses and a formidable debt to
the Crown.
The attitude of the Queensland Gov-
ernment when it gets down to legal taws
with the big operators was disclosed in
an action brought by Cobb and Co.
against the Government for the 1958
cancellation of two of the company’s
licences to Toowoomba. Driven into a
corner, the Government, through its
Counsel, claimed that the 1949 State
Transport Act was, because of a techni-
cality, invalid ; that there were no licences
in Queensland in that period ; and that,
therefore, it was not liable for having
cancelled the Cobb and Co. licences.
Told that it would be sued for the
taxes it had, therefore, illegally collected
during that period, it replied that it
would introduce a Barring of Claims
Act. In the wind-up, Cobb and Co. got
its invalid licences back, and then all


licences were validated by a special Act
of Parliament.
Repeated demands inside and outside
Parliament for a Royal Commission into
alleged corrupt and discriminatory ad-
ministration of the Transport Department
under the old Act have been refused by
the Government. Meanwhile another
wave of protests from country areas
against the administration of the new Act
is well under way. Hauliers and primary
producers claim that they are being
forced to pay for the Government’s
attempt to balance railway accounts,
and that heavy intrastate road taxation
is loading the scales heavily in favor of
New South Wales and Victorian manu-
facturers, processors and distributors.
One major haulier summed up recently:
“The founders of the Constitution pre-
vented States from discriminating against
one another, but they never imagined that
any one State would be so stupid as
to discriminate against itself.”
Meat-Hungry State
A delaide housewives are sharply
criticising butchers since meat prices
rose yet again last week. However, the
rises were caused by factors beyond the
control of butchers —or of the Govern-
ment. Little or no beef is coming from
the Far North, where a drought area
extends from the Flinders Ranges to
Alice Springs and beyond. And the only
supply source for lamb and mutton is
the State's fertile south-east.
It is four-and-a-half years since stations
around Oodnadatta and the Alice have
had good rain. This year they sent a
few odd truckloads of cattle southward,
mostly in store condition, and they are
Cooper and Diamantina stations havt
turned off no fats for the past three
seasons, only “boners” sent to Townsville
for canning. Two scattered rainfalls since
the New Year have given some relief to
the area, but stock horses are still being
hand-fed, and the prospects of consign-
ing fats either to Queensland or S.A.
markets this winter appear dim. Unless
rain falls along the Birdsville Track with-
in the next few weeks, hard-pressed pas-
toralists will have to get their lean cattle
out somehow, though mostly these are
too weak to travel without severe losses.
The Track has been closed to drovers
for many months ; it is so bare of feed
that, as one cattleman said last week,
“you could flog a flea all over it and
never lose track of him.”
The big problem is just where to send
those cattle, and then —when relief rains
eventually come —where to find fresh
breeders to restock this huge drought-
stricken region. Mr Bird said that if rain
fell tomorrow it would still take stations
three years to recover ; meanwhile beef
would remain scarce and high-priced.
It is ironical that Premier Sir Thomas
Playford has spent £lOO,OOO in the past
few years to make the sandhills and
swamps along the Birdsville Track traffic-
able for heavy stock transports, arousing
trying desperately to hang on to their
breeders. On many runs breeding cows
and calves are already dying for lack
of feed.
“The position is as critical as it was
in the 1929 drought,” said Kidman and
Co.’s pastoral manager, Mr W. J. Bird.
The S.A. Government abattoirs have
laid off several hundred men, cut down
their fleet of delivery trucks to suburban
butchers and stopped exporting canned
beef to the U.S.
The situation is almost as bad in the
famed Channel Country of south-west
Queensland, which normally sends big
mobs annually down the Birdsville Track.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NORTH


furious protests from Brisbane meat
interests, which accuse him of trying to
“steal” Queensland cattle. Last week’s
announcement by the Minister for
National Development, Senator Spooner,
that the Commonwealth would subsidise
all-weather “developmental” roads in
north and western Queensland is the
obvious result of pressure from those
interests.
As if scenting the undeclared “war”
between the two States, Senator Spooner
has since back-pedalled cautiously, say-
ing that it had not yet been decided which
roads to build. With the memory of
Playford’s sharp-shooting writ against
the Commonwealth over rail-building
priorities a few weeks ago still fresh in
his mind, the Minister clearly did not
want to be accused of siding with Queens-
land against S.A. meat interests.
The only element missing in this under-
ground struggle is cattle. Whatever
happens, S.A. looks like being a meat-
hungry State for a long while.
Outwards and
Upwards
A ccording to one estimate, Melbourne
will have a population of three mil-
lion in 1975 and will then be bigger
than Sydney, but, if the present trend
continues, most people will live in the
outer suburbs.
Figures indicate that inner Melbourne
is losing about 6000 people a year, that
the middle suburbs are losing about
2000, and that outer and new suburbs
are gaining, perhaps, 50,000 a year.
The Melbourne City Council and the
Housing Commission last week an-
nounced a joint programme for the clear-
ing of slum areas and the erection of
multi-story flats.
The council proposes to develop four
unidentified inner areas and will spend
£lOO,OOO a year on slum reclamation
for three years. A similar project is
already operating at South Kensington,
where a swamp is being redeveloped into
a 26-acre park and a £1.5 million housing
plan.
The council’s refusal to name the four
areas to be reclaimed is no doubt due
to a reluctance to give a lead to land
speculators. Before the credit squeeze
began, there was great activity in pri-
vate flat building in inner Melbourne.
These projects continue to rise, especially
into the expensive Toorak sky, but buyers
are few.
The swing of Melbourne public opi-
nion to flats, about three decades after
Sydney accepted them, is not yet recog-
nised by some Government and municipal
officials—notably in Malvern, where
children’s swings were chained up on
Sundays until recently. Owners of ex-
pensive houses are naturally hostile about
the erection of vast blocks overlooking
their properties.
The movement in Melbourne towards
flats should accelerate, judging by over-
seas experience ; and the State Govern-
ment may soon be expected to prod the
inner suburbs into a faster rate of acqui-
sition and clearance of slums.
POLITICAL POINTS
'T'alking to A.L.P. and D.L.P. officers
this week (separately, of course),
I asked them had they considered all
the ramifications of the Victorian
Executive’s attempt to revoke the
Federal ban on unity tickets. They
hadn't. What may happen if the Vic-
torian-Chamberlain attempt is success-
ful is that the anti-Communist A.L.P.
men in unions would be able to stand
openly in union elections with Indus-
trial Groupers and D.L.P. men. In the
Waterside Workers’ Federation and
the Australian Railways Union in Vic-
toria, for instance, a “unity ticket” of
anti-Communists (non-party, A.L.P.
and Trotskyites) would unseat the
Communists. The difficulty would
come, however, when the question of
political party affiliation arose. If
there were some firm guarantee from
the D.L.P. and the National Civic
Council that they would not demand
affiliation, co-operation would not be
out of the question. For the time
being, these conjectures remain in the
hands of the A.L.P. Federal con-
ference, which meets in Canberra this
month.
• •
/"Ane of Australia’s most unsquash-
able fringe politicians, Mr Eric D.
Butler, keeps bobbing up in the most
unexpected places. Mr Butler is presi-
dent of the Australian Social Credit
Movement and director of another
weird body, the Victorian League of
Rights. I discovered that he has given
a lecture in Croatian Hall, Sydney.
One of his more startling statements
was that the United Nations is a
major instrument in the hands of the
Russian Communists against the West.
He apparently knows less about the
U.N. than he does about the Jews.
• •
Tf reported correctly, Father B.
McLaughlin, of Moorooka, Bris-
bane, is litcely to find himself the
centre of a politico-theological row.
According to the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” Father McLaughlin said,
during a TV interview, that “com-
pulsory unionism and the right to
strike were part of the Roman
Catholic Church’s social policy.”
Catholics of any political party will
have no quarrel with his “right-to-
strike statement” but his compulsory
unionism is offside. A leading
theologian in Sydney said that Father
McLaughlin was only expressing a
personal opinion and if he said what
was alleged “he is wrong and there is
nothing in the Church’s teaching to
warrant such a statement.” This com-
pulsory unionism issue was the source
of much argument in Catholic circles
some years ago when the “Movement”
had persuaded some members of the
N.S.W. Labor Cabinet to bring in a
Bill to make membership of a union
compulsory. The effect of this, so
it was said at the time, would be to
remove Communists from union posi-
tions. Although it was a behind-the-
scenes battle by clerics and laymen
it was as bitter as the Dr Rumble-
Bishop Fox-Dr Mannix brawl over
whether it was a sin to vote for the
A.L.P.
c •
HPHE just - concluded Amalgamated
Engineering Union election for a
Commonwealth Councillor for South
Australia, Victoria, Tasmania and
Broken Hill was the fiercest industrial
election for some years, but only
54 per cent, of the members voted.
However, the results reveal a swing
away from Communist-party control
of the union. Southwell, the Com-
munist-A.L.P. candidate, received oniy
44 per cent, of the primary votes cast
and 50.5 per cent, after the distribu-
tion of preferences.
During the election a protest
was lodged with the Attorney-General
that “rank and file” candidates were
not given a reasonable opportunity
to send out how-to-vote cards to
members, whereas officers of the
union had permanent access to
names and addresses of mem-
bers. The D.L.P.'s “News-Weekly”
alleges that “670 of those who
voted for Foley (an anti-Com-
munist) voted ‘straight down the
ticket’ and the result was that South-
well received these preferences instead
of Taylor.” Maybe anti-Communists
should do what the N.S.W. A.L.P.
did successfully a number of years
ago when it picked Senate candidates
whose names began with “A.” The
Communist “Tribune,” rejoicing
about their man’s win and discussing
the coming ballot for Number 2
division, said: “The anti-working
class Consolidated Press has already
boosted Shearer (an anti-Communist
candidate in Number 2 division) as
a new Laurie Short. A.E.U. members
can be sure that Consolidated Press
and other equally reactionary forces
will make frantic efforts to place this
‘new Laurie Short’ on the A.E.U.
Commonwealth Council.”
« a
VTS7ILL Mr Chamberlain act against
Mr Calwell’s unity ticket col-
lusion? On St Patrick’s night Senator
McManus and the Federal Leader
shared the same platform at Mel-
bourne’s Celtic Club.
By MUGGA


OVERSEAS
China Spurns the U.N.
By DENIS WARNER
Tt would be interesting to know how
many man-hours world leaders have
devoted to considering the question of
Communist China’s admission to the
United Nations. Once it was almost a
sin to discuss the matter publicly: but
like sin it was hard to resist the tempta-
tion. There were so many aspects to the
question and such appealing branches of
thought and discussion the price that
might be exacted for admission, for in-
stance. Now, after exploring every
avenue and leaving no stones unturned,
the Commonwealth Prime Ministers, and
what seems to be a majority of the
world’s Powers, have arrived at the com-
forting truism that since no agreement
on the control of nuclear weapons and
disarmament is possible without the par-
ticipation of Communist China, com-
monsense demands that it be given a
U.N. seat as soon as possible.
Entertaining as the prospect of com-
rades Khrushchev and Liu Shao-chi
leading the satellites on the yangko
down Broadway at the next session
of the General Assembly may be,
the fact is that New York is now
unlikely to see any Chinese Com-
munists this year, next year or for
a long time to come. On the contrary,
we shall have to start casting about for
new cliches and platitudes, since China,
having watched our agonising re-
appraisals, has behaved like the Emperor
Frederick Barbarossa. It does not give
a fig for the United Nations. And far
from paying an admission fee, it demands
a heavy dowry. It will join only if the
United States withdraws from For-
mosa and the U.S. 7th Fleet takes
permanent leave of absence from the
Formosa Strait. This is, in substance,
what the Chinese Foreign Minister,
Marshal Chen Yi, told the Budapest
Party newspaper, “Szabad Nep.” And
since party newspapers are not given
to misreporting high party officials of
other countries when they talk on matters
of high policy, we may assume that Chen
Yi means what he says.
The outlawed has suddenly outlawed
us. And until we learn to behave in a
manner that meets with its approval it
will have nothing to do with us. The
image of a forlorn China deprived of
its rights to sit in the United Nations and
forced into bad habits because it has
not been allowed to associate with the
best people is hard to recognise under
these circumstances, which is a pity since
a reformed China, anxious to be popular
among the boys, w'ould be more than
welcome.
The proposition will be advanced that
China, having been snubbed for so long,
is now merely being stubborn, or getting
its own back. Unfortunately, however, this
does not happen to be true. China is
not being pig-headed but hard-headed,
realistic and essentially practical. It never
was a wooer: but suddenly to find itself
widely wooed strengthens its international
hand in a way that it could not have
achieved by itself, least of all by a
humble and apologetic entry into the
United Nations.
The line Peking has been pushing for
months is that if only the United States
would be reasonable about Formosa all
would be well. It sold this view to that
distinguished British political expert,
Field-Marshal Montgomery, who visited
China last year for five days and has
since spread the word both in published
form and in a confidential report to the
British Government.
The wooing has not ended but only
just begun. We will press our suit even
more urgently when China’s first nuclear
bang occurs —probably this year. It will
not be merely nice to have China sitting
down at the conference but urgent.
As Peking sees the future, those who
were doubtful about China in the past
will become increasingly concerned with
removing the stumbling block in its path.
Chiang Kai-shek, who is not held in
high regard except in South Korea, South
Vietnam, the Philippines and parts of
the United States, will now become a
greater villain than ever. One can almost
see the cartoons in the British press and
hear the outrage of its commentators.
Is a world war the price we are to pay
for the protection of this worn out war
lord, who is occupying Chinese territory,
rules by terror and survives on American
handouts?
The United States will stand fast. It
has to. It is committed by treaty to
defend Formosa. Its moral obligations
are even firmer. If Chiang is overthrown
by an internal revolt, if the people of
Formosa indicate by plebiscite that they
would prefer to join Communist China
than to stay under Nationalist rule, or
even to set up their own separate State,
then the United States can legally and
morally stand aside. But unless such
developments occur and one cannot
predict them at the moment —the U.S.
7th Fleet must remain on guard.
And this, curiously enough, suits
Peking very well. Its stated policy is to
“liberate” Formosa. But it has also
declared its determination to isolate the
United States and ultimately to destroy it.
It could achieve none of these objectives
as a law-abiding member of the United
—The London “Observer.”
“BETTER RELATIONS WITH THE YANKS? ARE YOU NUTS? WHAT
WILL I USE TO CONVINCE MY PEOPLE THERE’S SOMETHING MORE
TERRIBLE THAN HUNGER?”


Nations. Not being a member, especially
not being a member when it is ardently
pursued and solicited, provides all sorts
of opportunities for mischief. As its
strength grows it can count on picking
up diplomatic recognition from more
and more countries —countries on its
periphery that cannot afford not to
recognise and countries far afield that
want to trade. The initiative has passed
to Peking: we may be sure it will make
the most of it.
Verwoerd Opts Out
By DAVID WATT
that it has happened nobody
seems quite able to believe it. Nearly
all the Commonwealth Prime Ministers
have gone home looking as if they have
dreamed strange dreams. Mr Menzies
and Mr Holyoake have had the air of
men recovering from a sudden blow on
the head. Mr Diefenbaker and Mr Nehru
have worn sombre, reflective looks and
President Nkrumah and Tunku Abdul
Rahman have had the slightly awed
glaze and heavy breathing of the fly-
weight who has just knocked out the
welter. The only man who has appeared
relatively unsurprised and unconcerned
is Dr Verwoerd himself. He had merely
attacked his opponents with his usual
beaming smile and faced the storm both
of praise and blame that awaited him in
South Africa with his usual impregnable
self-confidence.
His own reasons, given at his press
conference, after it was all over were:
(a) that the discussion of apartheid, which
he had been magnanimous to allow, was
obviously being taken as a precedent;
(b) that South Africa would be under
permanent threat of expulsion even if
she had stayed in ; (c) that the United
This is an English comment on
South Africa's withdrawal from the
Commonwealth.
Kingdom was being put in an embar-
rassing position by the possibility of
other resignations if South Africa re-
mained ; and (d) that he simply didn't
feel wanted.
All accounts of the fifteen hours of
discussion on the apartheid issue are
more or less agreed. After a long week-
end’s subjection to Mr Macmillan's claret
and other persuasive powers, none of the
Prime Ministers was prepared to take
the extreme step of demanding the expul-
sion of South Africa. Indeed it was
pretty clear from the statements of
most of the Premiers—-even Mr Nehru
and President Nkrumah —as they arrived
at London airport, that from the first
none of them was very anxious to carry
the business to the limit. Each of them
put forward his views on apartheid and
one or two even talked vaguely about
Tmantel Press, West Berlin.
“DR VERWOERD , I PRESUME?”
leaving but by the end of the third
day’s talk it was clear that South Africa
could have remained in the Common-
wealth if she had wished. In fact, at
tea-time on Wednesday all the Prime
Ministers, including Dr Verwoerd, had
agreed on a communique which merely
recorded their differing views. Some-
thing must have snapped in Dr Ver-
woerd’s mind over the tea-cups.
Two things may have brought this
about. One was the ominous tone of
speeches by Mr Nehru and Dr Nkrumah
on the last day about what might happen
in later years. The other was the in-
sistence of the colored members that
South Africa should at least demonstrate
her willingness to subscribe to the ideal
of political consultation within the Com-
monwealth by accepting ambassadors
from non-white members. Yet looking
back on it one can see how the feeling
grew steadily throughout the conference
that South Africa would have to go as
soon as it became clear that Dr Ver-
woerd refused even to pay lip-service to
the idea of racial equality. He pointed
out, of course, that nearly every other
country in the Commonwealth had its
own racial blemishes but it seems never
to have occurred to him that he is the
only one to make a principle of it.
This, essentially, is what sticks in
the gullets of his colleagues, and for this
reason it seems to me that the fear of
Mr Menzies that his “white Australia”
policy will be the next on the black-
list seems misplaced. It may, indeed,
come under pressure and will cause a
good deal of discomfort to Australians
but because it does not involve out-
right oppression exalted to the level of
dogma, it will hardly result in expulsion.
The implications of the South African
departure are, in fact, likely to be far
less clear-cut even than this. There
are, first of all, the complicated economic
links between Britain and the Union.
We may take it that both governments
are anxious to maintain their bi-lateral
connection as long as possible. Dr
Verwoerd’s announcement that he in-
tends to remain in the sterling area and
his general talk about his ‘friends the
British’ suggest that there is going to
be no great rush on the part of the South
Africans to find new markets. The pre-
cedent of Ireland is being quoted in
London and it looks as if Britain, for
her part, will not cut off her tariff pre-
ferences for South African goods. On
the other hand the outflow of private
British capital from South Africa which
has been so startling a feature of the
scene since the Sharpeville riots a year
ago, is something that the government
cannot prevent. Even the government
itself may be forced to change its tune
if, as they threaten to do, the African
states impose a strict boycott on trade
with South Africa along the highly effec-
tive lines laid down by the Arab states
vis a vis Israel.
This in turn raises unpleasant thoughts
of what may happen to those parts of the
South African population which were
opposed to Dr Verwoerd’s policy and
his latest action. Those whites who wish
to do so (and 35 per cent, of them are


of British stock) will probably be able
to take out British citizenship ; but the
blacks are unlikely to be given the choice.
Even more serious is the position of the
British-protected territories—Basutoland,
Swaziland and Bechuanaland —which
from time to time the South African
government has demanded should be
absorbed into the Union. Mr Macmillan
assured the House of Commons that their
status would remain the same, but since
they are completely dependent upon
South Africa economically it would take
very little deterioration in relations be-
tween Britain and the Union to make their
position impossible.
Again one does not know what is to
be the effect of all this on the rest of
Britain’s policy in Africa. It is generally
assumed by the political pundits that
Mr Macmillan will find the develop-
ments of the last week a distinct set-back
to his prestige. It was particularly
damaging to him that the Afro-Asian
members at one stage virtually “took
over” the conference and forced a con-
clusion known to be inimical to most
of the white members and particularly
to Britain. This may well have added
reinforcements to the ranks of those
Conservatives who are appalled at the
rate at which the government is allow-
ing things to move in Africa. The fact
that Sir Roy Welensky has been having
long and earnest conversations with the
Prime Minister and Mr Sandys as well
as with Conservative Members of Parlia-
ment has suggested to most people that
for the moment he has succeeded in get-
ting some concessions on behalf of the
Rhodesian settlers and that his case
has been vastly improved by the South
African walk-out.
And yet in spite of all these doubts one
cannot help feeling the relief in the
air, a relief that at any rate the Com-
monwealth which in the past has been
hard put to it to find a reason for exis-
tence can now at last paint a motto
on its shield. The vague sentiment re-
sulting from past links with Britain, the
half-hearted economic ties, the bogus
constitutional mumbo-jumbo, can all
take second place to a genuinely cohe-
sive moral idea that of the equality of
men. As an organisation, in all its imper-
fections, it must be stronger than it was
a month ago.
One would like to be able to say
that the declaration on disarmament
which the Prime Ministers drew up in the
cold anti-climax of the last Thursday
morning of the conference was the
first fruit of the new-found moral leader-
ship which the Commonwealth might
provide. It is perhaps being over-critical
to complain that it is the old mixture
of pious hopes. Other subjects—eco-
nomic problems in particular—likewise
suffered in the hectic crush of those three
days of debate on apartheid.
One can hope at any rate that we
shall now be able, without distraction to
get down to the main task of the Com-
monwealth which is, after all, to bring
out, in the spirit of equality, the common
potentialities, economic and political,
of a vast cross-section of the earth’s
population.
Pointers
ASIA
JAPAN
Increased trade with China seems likely
for a number of reasons, the most im-
portant being the “murderous competi-
tion” Japan is getting from Western
Europe and the levelling-off of trade with
the United States. Both Governments
are agreeable to an increase in private
trade, even though the question of
recognition of Formosa excludes any
chance of a large-scale commerce. How-
ever, China insists that trading be done
only through “friendly firms” —that is,
those recommended by the Communist
Chinese Industry and Trade Promotion
Committee as having “the right ideas in
international politics.” Few of the big
firms, especially in the iron and steel
industry, could be classified as friendly,
especially since May, 1958, when a
Japanese worker in Nagasaki having torn
down a Chinese Communist flag in a
store and trod on it, the Chinese suddenly
broke off trade. This wrecked the five-
year agreement, worth £lOO million
yearly, to exchange Japanese steel for
Chinese iron ore. The first group of
Japanese businessmen to visit China since
the break reportedly found Mr Chou
En-lai and other Chinese leaders “more
liberal than expected.” Their definition
of “friendly firms” no longer means that
Japanese firms had to be anti-American,
but merely that they must desire to im-
prove relations with Communist China.
The Japanese believe that China wants
agricultural implements, fertilisers and
possibly some of Japan’s rice surplus to
overcome her agricultural shortages. In
addition, China needs foreign exchange
in order to buy machinery from Western
countries, and increased trade would be
a means of attracting more visitors who
would serve to increase Chinese influence
among Japanese trade - unionists and
Socialists.
EUROPE
RUMANIA
A major Government reshuffle has
resulted in Mr Gheorghiu-Dej presiding
over a newly formed State Council. Mr
Gheorghiu-Dej has alternated between
Prime Minister and first-secretary of the
Communist party, but as he seems certain
to continue in the latter role he will now
be able to combine State and party
affairs. Mr Gheorghiu-Dej, who had no
direct Moscow training, managed to re-
tain his dominance of the party even
when “national Communists” in other
countries were being purged. Sufficient
proof of his political tact has been his
friendly relations with, successively, both
Stalin and Khrushchev.
MALTA
The Malta Labor Party paper “Freedom”
has attacked Archbishop Gonzi, accusing
him of preferring a (Protestant) British
colonial Government to a Maltese Labor
Government. This attack was made on
March 21, almost simultaneously with
the announcement in churches that
“everyone ought to avoid any association
with those who assist in offending the
Church in Malta and its heads.” On
March 22, Mr Tony Pellegrini, until re-
cently secretary of the Malta Labor Party,
announced that he was forming a new
party, the Christian Workers’ Party. He
said that independence and dominion
status were impossible without economic
viability and pledged the party to uncon-
ditional allegiance to the Church.
THE AMERICAS
ARGENTINA
Municipal elections in the Santa Fe
province, which were regarded as a
reliable guide to the Government’s popu-
larity, have resulted in a striking success
for the party of President Frondizi, the
Intransigent Radicals. Their total vote
increased from 122,230 to 191,015, while
the votes for the People’s Radicals
declined and, more importantly, blank
votes, regarded as mainly Peronist,
dropped from 182,000 to 69,125.
AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA
Mr Erasmus, the Minister of Justice,
forbade all meetings in memory
of those who died at Sharpeville a
year ago. Sharpeville itself is a show-
case for the South African system, which
is no longer called apartheid but separate
development. The 27,000 black people
there represent all sections of African
society, and they have good accommoda-
tion —the local authority has built 4200
four-roomed bungalows which are let
cheaply, but only to those who have had
three years’ steady employment in the
neighborhood. The Africans are well
looked after, but no one could call them
free. Mr Ferreira, the local director of
Native Affairs, says he does not think
they “will try it [a Sharpeville] again.”


FOR THE OBSERVER
Why Doesn’t Someone
Murder “Lazy Daisy”?
From several aspects, Sydney’s Royal
Easter Show might only be a backdrop
to a bright new musical comedy, set in
Oklahoma at the turn of the century.
The atmosphere of the big country fair
is carefully preserved. The fairy - floss
stands are still at the main gates, the
hoop-la stalls are set up against the walls
of the Hall of Manufactures. There is
the impression that there’s something
here for everyone, especially the free-
spender.
This is all very nice and, in general,
it’s exactly the sort of atmosphere a
Show should have. But there do seem
now to be two opposing forces at work.
There are those who are seeking to keep
the Show as it always was, and those who
regard the Show as a record of the
country’s progress, both in primary and
secondary industries.
The opposition of these forces is lead-
ing to anachronisms which now run
perilously close to comedy. It is, perhaps,
an oddity to see prize cattle parading a
couple of hundred yards from a stand
where a firm is demonstrating vending
machines, from the chromium-plated
maw of which come foil cartons of beef,
curry-and-rice at 2s. a not-very-large
portion. (These machines will shortly be
on hire to factories and offices. The
firm marketing them, it might in justice
be added, is not connected with any
other vending-machine company.) The
“Modern Times” atmosphere of the
machines, contrasted with the unchang-
ing rural air of the show-ring is possibly
the Show at its best.
It’s when the organisers keep sections
going which have no relation to modern
life that the Show appears at its
anachronistic worst. The best place to
see this is the Arts and Crafts pavilion.
For example, on the first floor of the
pavilion are set out the elaborate
examples of embroidery which have won
prizes. On the floor below, women are
demonstrating the latest sewing-machines.
These machines can sew frontwards,
backwards and do a great variety of
stitches. In fact, as far as the average
woman is concerned, these machines can
do in a couple of hours intricate work
which would represent a whole winter’s
labor to a needlewoman. The knitting-
machines being demonstrated can accom-
plish in a few hours what an expert
hand-knitter would spend a couple of
weeks doing.
Then there are the bottled preserves.
Here prizes are awarded on the appear-
ance of the fruit in the bottles, rather
than for the quality or taste of the con-
tents. Bits of carrot, swede turnips,
pineapple, any fruit or vegetable are
laboriously cut into geometric shapes and
arranged so that a uniform appearance
is presented. Bottling preserves at one
time was a commendable occupation for
the economical country housewife, but
it is doubtful if this display would sway
anyone who had been tempted by the
blandishments of the salesman selling
deep-freeze units in an adjoining pavilion.
Side by side in the Arts and Crafts
pavilion are the art exhibition and the
decorated-cake section. The art exhibi-
tion this year is, according to the critics,
of a particularly high standard. The
organisers should be pleased that they,
or the prize-money, have induced notable
artists in both modern and traditional
styles to enter the contest. However, the
vigorous, exciting paintings of prize-
winners John Olsen and William Rose
are a few feet away from the hideous
vulgarity of decorated cakes (often they
are not even cakes but lumps of wood
coated with icing) in the shape of lace
lampshades—awful enough in the
original—baskets of fruit, or beds com-
plete with colored counterpane.
It is hard to see what value the cake-
decorating and bottled-preserves sections
have. There is something really awful
about food which is distorted from its
natural appearance and purpose, and
nobody should win prizes for this sort
of mayhem.
This might all seem to be waxing very
indignant about something which is really
harmless. It might be pointed out that
most of he entrants in the Arts and Crafts
sections are older women and this is the
only part of the Show where they can
make their presence felt. The complaint
is not strictly with the competitors, but
with the organisers and judges.
In the first place, most of the prizes
are awarded for skill in stitchery and not
for any artistic merit in the work. A first
prize went to a representation of the
Sydney Opera House in felt. The Opera
House is represented as standing on an
island, surrounded by bright blue water,
with a tiny white galleon on the horizon.
It certainly shows skill with a needle, but
why would anyone want to do it?
The tapestry prizes go to horrible
“traditional” patterns of 18th-century
interiors and cottage gardens, all done
in unattractive colors.
Patchwork is judged by the expertness
in piecing together squares and not by
any possible new use to which this work
can be put. A purse on a thin gilt chain
is exhibited. It is the sort of thing which
no self-respecting modern grandmother
would have any use for. Nightgowns
which are marvels of hand-stitching are
palpably cut to a pattern of the twenties.
In the past couple of years the
Embroiderers’ Guild has been campaign-
ing against the “lazy daisy” school of
sewing, but the guild has so far made
little impression at the Show.
There is already a section for people
over the age of 60. Perhaps all that is
needed is to divide the embroidery sec-
tions, as the art exhibition has been
divided, into traditional and contem-
porary. Or, at least, give more rewards
for creative work and not for mere copy-
ing. The Clydesdale has vanished from
the show-ring. It’s about time someone
murdered ‘ lazy daisy.”
FOR THE CONSUMER
There’s Always Something New
on the Market
Here —without recommendations —are
some new products on the market, or
some new ideas in the wind.
The Spin-dry Shirt. One local manu-
facturer beat the others to the gun last
month in getting a cotton shirt, which
can be put through the automatic wash-
ing-machine process, on the market.
Most others are expected to follow suit
within weeks. The chemical process
which enables cotton to resist wrinkles
when dry as well as when wet was first
developed in England. It went from there
to the United States and now most, or all,
countries which mass-produce cotton
fabrics have it.


It is rather interesting to note that
the manufacturers decided to put spin-
dry shirts on the market first rather than
introduce the new process to women in
women’s clothes. Apparently, shirts are
regarded still as the No. 1 laundry prob-
lem for the average housewife. The
manufacturers feel that if she is “sold” on
the spin - dry shirt she will automatically
later buy spin-dry clothes for herself
and her children. Also, the spin-dry
process in the fabric tends to soften it
so that it may not have sufficient body
for some women’s dresses.
One way or another, it looks as if
the era of sodden bathrooms and of duck-
fsg one way and another to dodge the
drip-drys in the laundry is coming to
a close.
A Sliding Cupboard-door. The “Zipa-
dor,” an Australian invention, may prove
the best and final answer to the prob-
lem of easy access to kitchen and other
cupboards. At present, cupboard doors
which swing open constitute a menace
to safety and sanity. Sliding doors
generally have to be specially made,
and mean that half the cupboard’s con-
tents at least are always obscured. The
“Zipador” consists of a series of sections
which fit one into the next, rather like
a child’s set of building blocks. They
run from left to right or from right to
left along a metal track, and all except
a small section of the cupboard shelves
can be seen by the housewife at the
one time.
Samples of the “Zipador” are on dis-
play at present, but it won’t be on the
market until July 1. It will be available
in all sizes from a small kitchen cup-
board to a 6ft 6in. wardrobe. It will
also be available in a variety of colors
and in both plastic and timber.
Quick-frozen Bread. A report from the
United States says that quick-frozen
bread is gaining in popularity there.
However, there seems little likelihood that
it will be available in Australia in
quantities although experiments have
been made. For one thing, quick-frozen
bread requires enormous wagons to trans-
port it (one U.S. bakery has wagons
which can carry 6000 loaves) and enor-
mous freezing units in the shops to
store it. The Bread Research Institute
of Australia has found that local house-
wives have an invincible preference for
bread which looks, tastes and smells
fresh from the oven. They can be con-
vinced that quick-frozen bread is equally
fresh, but they won't buy it.
Also, most Australian housewives with
a deep-freeze unit or a deep-freeze com-
partment in the refrigerator store away
a few loaves over the long weekends or
when they are unable for any reason
to get regular supplies of bread. While
they can “do it yourself” in this way,
they are unlikely to buy the bread al-
ready frozen. The Bread Research In-
stitute recommends the housewife’s way
of freezing the bread herself to keep it
fresh and pleasant-tasting.
The Dry-cleaning Machine. Another
report from the United States says that
Americans can now put their dry-clean-
ing into a machine, drop one dollar 50
cents into the slot and collect the clean-
ing within an hour. The machines are
being offered to existing dry-cleaners,
hotels, motels and similar businesses.
Others are being installed in laundrettes
so that the housewife can get both her
washing and dry-cleaning done at the
same place. At the present price of about
£lOOO they are not the sort of thing
the average house would have.
However, a spokesman for the local
dry-cleaning trade who has seen the
machines in operation in the United
States does not believe they will ever re-
place the dry-cleaning firm. The machines
are excellent, lie says, for something like
ski clothes, work trousers or children’s
heavy clothes, items which are diffi-
cult to wash, but would cost an enor-
mous sum if regularly dry-cleaned. How-
ever, he said, the machines simply put
the clothes through one solvent. Any
spots which did not respond to that
solvent were still there when the clothes
emerged, and unless the clothes were
for very rough wear, they would need
ironing after they had been in the
machine.
If the Cap Fits
One of the refinements of life which
has totally disappeared is linings for
women’s hats. In mother’s day, or in our
younger days—as the case may be—all
“good” hats were lined. But now even
model hats are unlined. You are apt to
tear a strand of hair loose from its moor-
ings as you take off an expensive hat
which has only coarse canvas inside it.
Another refinement which has vanished,
except in the case of men and children,
is sizing of hats. When hats were bought
by size there must certainly have been
much less trying-on in shops.
There is now great variety in the sizes
of hats, but only trying-on and taking-
off can help you find one which fits.
However, manufacturers say there is now
such variety in styles of hats and in hair-
styles that sizing is useless. A woman
who is 21 inches with a shingle might
be 24 with some of the buoyant styles
now seen around town.
Feiffer
ON! tH£ fiRST ?AT£
WlOOev TCObTHeR.
UKb A COUFie Of
BOMBS TAIKbV ABOUT
EVERYTHING/ MOOT
EXCITING EiiEMiOG
OP MU lift l
OW THc ObCCHP PATb
iOb TAIKbP HA If M
fO(6HT MOM QlsCv&itib
OU (? FIRST QATb. SHc
tap M£ NX Of HCR
m\bm ABOUT Mb
l VlbClCfrbV All of
MIN? ABOUT HER.
0M DO R THIRD PAf£
IPS hWvMtV HOIP
IPE BOTH NOTW OS)
ODR SECOND Cm-
m m both ims
A UTTLc TtHßi '
WfW IPS BOTH mi
hCRhW Of DI&APPOfNT-
MEHT.
M OOR FOURTH mt
m 6XAMIk)ft? CMS-
'FvUM htt THAT
HAP HA ??mV PM
COR THIRp R4T£-
THS PgVIODS
coMperiM"
Wfi- Tne
SRmitiG fIO&TiuTW
CM OOR FIFTH VATS
m M
MI6HT TAKING
'APART m
FOURTH PATS.
SHP RXWIBP. OUT M<f
sarpirp aup i
ppoMfsgp ro gjikkt
IT. T POM69 OUTM
air op pOHimm.
PROMISE# TO
coma ir
Otf OUR SIXTH vm
0)6 600)560 FOR
7H6 COW& OF THS
evßoiwa an we
FIFTH RATC'tfDR
MuryAu ahwftv-
OOR OFF OF FFif
ewosoee ro Keep
(6 FROM PHHStCM
cm tact.
w D\] r seventh
PATS aTS ftfcNT fD
a m one iioveo
IT. SHE HATED IT-
r weveß Wkuzcv
mmminve
SHE m.
DIO COR EIGHTH RATE
1 W HER TD' A
PARTH- MET A MA&veu
DU 5 6ia! k)5 EXftDPED
To&EThER {,«£ faJD
oombs. mi mw
mme of mu ufsi


ABORIGINALITIES
All There Was
To It
TT seemed in the beginning a simple
transaction.
Bert said one day to the butcher:
“I’ve got a milker out there gone in
two quarters. She’s prime fat. I thought
you might be able to handle her.”
“What breed?” asked the butcher.
“A. 1.5.” said Bert. “Yeah. All right,”
said the butcher. “I’ll be out that way
tomorrow with the carrier to pick up a
few head further up the creek. Have
her in the yard and we’ll pick her up
if she’s all right.” And that should have
been all there was to it.
But Bert had no loading ramp. The
truck pulled into his yards late in the
morning of the next day and backed up
to the gate of the yard where the cow
was. “She’s good,” said the butcher.
“Forty quid.” They slid off the narrow
ramp which the truck carried slung
beneath its table-top for properties where
there was no ramp built into the yards,
and erected the ramp sides which were
carried on the cattle crate on the truck.
“It looks a bit steep,” said the butcher.
“She’s quiet,” said Bert. “We’ll have no
trouble with her.”
The three of them walked to the back
of the cow and urged her quietly towards
the ramp. She walked up to it readily—
cows are always curious—smelled first
at one side of the ramp, then at the
other, lowered her head and sniffed at
the bottom board, drooled a few blobs
of heavy saliva on it, then stepped up
the ramp, one front leg, then the other ;
then she baulked. Bert and the butcher
came up quickly, one on each side of
her, linked arms across her rump and
heaved. She propped her front hooves
against one of the cross-battens on the
ramp and resisted. The driver of the
truck caught her tail, pulled it over her
back and was about to urge her up with
it when a wild cock-horned steer already
on the truck popped his head through
the gate at the top of the ramp, bellowed
stupidly, and seemed about to charge
down. The driver let go the cow's tail
and leaped up on the side of the ramp
to turn the steer back. The cow sat
back so suddenly that she broke the hold
of Bert and the butcher ; she ran, snort-
ing, to the far corner of the yard.
They tried to move her up to the ramp
again but she would not go near it. “We’ll
have to pull her on,” said Bert. “The
ramp’s too steep,” said the butcher.
“We’d better lower it first.”
Bert searched his sheds till he found
crowbar, mattock and shovel. They
lifted the ramp off the back of the truck,
moved the truck forward and dug holes
18in. deep with a gentle slope down to
them to back the truck’s rear wheels into.
In the hour that it took them to do
this the cow grew sulkier. She stood with
her tail to a corner of the yard and
would not move. “Stubborn old bitch,”
said the butcher. “If cattle were not so
short I’d leave her here.” “We'll pull
her in,” said Bert. They fastened a rope
round her horns, took it up into the truck,
round an overhead support on the crate
and back. They pulled, and the driver
took the cow by the tail. She went
because she had to —right to the begin-
ning of the ramp. There she let out a
dismayed bellow and lay down. Nothing
they could devise would get her up again.
“She don’t like dogs, said Bert. “I’ll get
me dogs.”
No cow likes dogs, but this one made
a special point of disliking them: she
had been known to come running from
half a mile away to chase a loose dog
at the homestead. Bert came back with
three enthusiastic kelpies. They capered
all round the cow. They barked at her
tail, they barked at her belly and they
barked right under her nose. But she
did not get up. She opened her mouth,
her tongue dropped out, she bellowed
hideously without ceasing ; but she did
not get up.
The butcher led Bert away to where
he could make himself heard. “I’ve got
more to pick up next week,” he said.
“I’ll get a drover to move them —there’s
more than a truck-load anyway, and he
can pick this old bitch up, too.” And that
should have been all there was to it.
r T''HE next week the cow walked along
amiably enough with the other cattle
for the first hour. But when the drover
looked a bit drowsy she decided she had
gone far enough and turned back to
walk home again. The drover had a
cattle-pup he was training. The pup saw
the cow turn back, left his position behind
the horse without orders, ran in front
of the cow and leaped to nip at her nose.
The cow threw her head back ; the pup
missed ; the cow bellowed abruptly and
violently, and the pup crouched in terror
on the ground. The cow lunged, hooked
with her horns and, by an astonishing
chance, slipped her left horn through
the pup's collar. She lifted her head ;
the pup yelped and hung suspended by
his collar from the cow’s horn. The pup
threshed the air with his feet and began
to scream —not open-mouthed yelps but
that close-mouthed, high-pitched scream
of terror. The cow did nothing at all.
Her mouth hung open, but no sound
came from it. Then she began to tremble.
“When I finally cut the pup’s collar,”
the drover told the butcher, “she was
shaking like a jelly in an earthquake.
Then all the way to town she tried to
get away. If I took my eyes off her for
a moment she’d either clear out for home
or duck behind a tree. I’ve played ring-a-
rosy with her round half the trees on the
stock-route. I’ve never had so much
That Was the Country
In Westralia the law doesn’t actually
compel the abo. to apprentice himself for
many years at about nothing a year to the
squatter who flogs him for the good of
his soul. But it runs him in for vag-
rancy —for sleeping out in the bush, and
having no visible means of support ex-
cept kangaroo and the like, for not having
a stone house and a bell-topper and a
visiting card—and gives him six months.
And it is explained to him that he will
go on getting six months for vagrancy
unless he gets a permanent address on the
station of a white boss and visible means
of support there in the shape of rations.
But there is nothing compulsory about
the business. — “Bulletin”, April 29, 1899.
Outhack shearer (just discharged for
“roughing ’em”) to mate on board who
inquires, “What’s up?” “Nuthin. Pack-
saddle guv me the bullet; dips down,
picks up me tongs, and now I’m off to
take a coil in the turkey and push the
knot to ’Ungry.” Interpreted: “Pack-
saddle” overseer. “Bullet” sack.
“Tongs” - shears. “Take a coil in the
turkey” —roll up swag. “Push the knot to
’Ungry” —walk to Hungerford.
— “Bulletin”, June 3, 1899.
A pathetic spectacle in drought-stric-
ken N.S.W. districts is the horse that is
not reckoned worth feeding, or sending
away —the waster, or the honest old chap
who has been working hard for years and
is at last broken down and useless. The
unfortunate animal exists for a time on
dead leaves and bark, and at last becomes
so weak that it knows if it lies down at
night it won't have the strength to rise
again; so the wretched creature keeps on
its legs until sheer exhaustion drags it
down—and then the crows!
—“ Bulletin”, June 17, 1899.
In a small Tas. agricultural hamlet
t’other sabbath, a systematic and success-
ful attempt was made by some 20 of the
local youths to break the dull monotony.
They rented a paddock for the day from
an obliging farmer, and decided to have
a good rousing scrap. At daylight three
pairs started the mill “just to oblige the
company”, but by the time the church-
hell began to ring for the 11-o’clock ser-
vice there were seven fights in progress at
once. By noon everybody was fighting. By
two o’clock the battle fizzled out from
sheer exhaustion of the combatants, and
friends came and carried the gladiators
from the field. It was a day never to be
forgotten.— “ Bulletin”, September 16, 1899.


“ Tracks! We re saved!"
trouble with a beast in my life. And
the damn pup kept so close to me, the
horse stepped as though he had barbed
wire at his heels.”
“She troubled me even after death, ’
the butcher told Bert some weeks later.
“Eh?”
“I sold most of her as rump steak,”
said the butcher.
“Oh, Gawd,” said Bert.
“Well, she hung up very nicely, and
with cattle the price they are now you’ve
got to cut your way out of them some-
how. But the meat looked a bit red.”
said the butcher. “That brush with the
pup stirred her up. I ought’ve known
she'd be tough. You should hear the
complaints I’ve been getting. Some of
them old women can beller like the cow
did when you sooled your dogs on her.”
Eric C. Rolls
NEW GUINEA “DINGO”
HUhe pure Australian dingo is a beautiful
* thing to look at, whatever his crimes.
But my admiration of him was diluted
by the discovery of the New Guinea
“dingo” in the Adelaide Zoo. With its
extremely alert bearing and compact
physique it looks a bit like the cultivated
Corgi hound. A magnificent little beast,
it seems an interesting breeding project
for domestication ; but its being a “wild
dog” will almost certainly prohibit such
a distinction for Canis hallstromii.
This first description of the animal
was made very recently by Mr Ellis
Troughton, of the Australian Museum,
Sydney. 1 believe the first specimens,
captured in 1956, were presented to Sir
Edward Hallstrom (whose name they
perpetuate), and are now on show at
Sydney's Taronga Park Zoo. In the field
of systematic description they must be one
of the few new species of animals whose
type specimens are still living. Usually
the first discovered specimens are dead
and preserved in museums for the most
detailed examination before they are pre-
sented as something new.
Alex Holmes
CANIS HALLSTROMII
Alert bearing, compact physique
LESSON FOR PRIMITIVES
\T£7hen two primitive aborigines and a
’ * letinue of children left the never-
never country of W.A.’s Canning Stock
route and travelled westwards into the
empire of the Kimberley cattle kings,
they knew nothing of the white man's
ways or of his justice. Their hunting
grounds had failed and they were look-
ing for food, which they found among
the scrub cattle grazing in the pindan.
They fed so well that a police party,
complete with Land Rover and native
trackers, set out from Fitzroy Crossing
for Christmas Creek station to investigate
the illegal killing of cattle. When found
by the police the killers dropped their
spears and ran from the Land Rover in
fear. But the two men were brought back
to Fitzroy Crossing to stand trial.
Next day they appeared before the
local magistrate dressed as they were
captured—in khaki loincloths tied round
their waists, and with their knotted hair
hanging down to their shoulders. The
magistrate remanded them for eight days
to give the West Australian Native Wel-
fare Department an opportunity of repre-
senting them. When the case was again
heard they had been washed and shaved
and provided with a defence counsel in
the person of a Native Welfare officer
who could not speak their language. The
serious charge of illegal killing of cattle
was reduced to one of being in posses-
sion of beef suspected of being stolen.
The sentence —£50 fine or 50 days’ im-
prisonment.
The time —March 22, 1961.
J.G.


The Red Page
Moorehead on Africa
By EK DUM
The White Nile. Alan Moorehead.
Hodder and Stoughton. 31s.
A LAN MOOREHEAD in the past
few years has entered a field new to
writers of Australian origin; the field
of what might be called the epitome
of recollection.
As in his Gallipoli and Russian
Revolution, he has as a subject, taken
things and events that were long ago
written about contemporaneously by
participants. By industrious research
and through a diligent economy of
expression he has produced concise
summaries which recall and arrange
history in interesting perspective.
Whole libraries of yore were built up
about African exploration in its various
departments and compartments, but
most of them are now merely rows of
faded cloth bindings on the higher
shelves of cellars.
Most Australians have even forgot-
ten that one of the explorers of the
land of the Hottentots, who took the
first giraffe skin to England and whose
friendship with his co-explorer Colonel
Gordon indirectly gained us our first
merino sheep, was our own Colonel
Paterson to whom John Macarthur
expressed his gratitude by putting a bul-'
let through his shoulder. And who re-
calls that the history of Australian
settlement might have been altered if
Mungo Park’s offer to Sir Joseph Banks
to apply the resources of his “unblem-
ished moral character,” “mild tem-
per” and “inexhaustible patience” to
the exploration of interior Australia in
the year 1798 had been accepted—at
the modest remuneration, for a man
who had opened up the Niger, of
rations and 10s. a day.
Alan Moorehead does not reach back
as far as Park. Though settlement by
the Portuguese and trading by the
English and Dutch on the East Coast
of Africa has a relatively ancient his-
tory, and though Ptolemy shows in his
map of 150 A.D. the approximate
courses of the Nile’s branches and
roughly the position of the Mountains
of the Moon, these interior regions were
a blank on current maps at the time
of the Crimean war.
Moorehead’s tale thus starts at the
beginning of the modern era of the
exploration of East Africa and spans
less than 50 years in carrying the his-
tory of the examination, pacification
and civilisation of the area up to the
end of the Kitchener period.
The first part of it covers exploration
on the grand scale by men worthy of
their stage: men like Burton, that
sinister character who —supposedly—
spoke 29 languages. He had even com-
piled a monkey dictionary and already
(before the days of his translation of
“The Arabian Nights”) earned a some-
what undeserved reputation as a
naughty pornographer. Men like
Speke who convinced himself by in-
tuition that Lake Victoria Nyanza,
which he was the first known European
to see, was the source of the White
Nile. Men like the gentle self-effacing
Grant. Speke’s fidus Achates. And
more flamboyant ones like Baker and
Livingstone.
They did things in the grand manner
of Indian nabobs. They went into
coastal principalities like Zanzibar,
full of wretched slaves and cholera,
and haughtily acquired whatever they
needed at the price they felt they could
pay. They pushed out ceremoniously
into the thorn and. elephant grass, wav-
ing aside the rhinoceroses and the un-
tutored savages in their paths. And
then, 18 months or two years or more
after the jungle had closed behind them,
and the cries of their entourages had
become faint, they turned up again,
yellow skeletons in hammocks borne
high, quarrelling with spirit about who
had discovered what, and when.
Their exploring was done in a luxury
proper to the master race. They were
oblivious to the deforming effects on
African heads of dents made by cases of
brandy, portable boats, boxes of cigars,
pressed vegetables, carpenters’ and
blacksmiths’ outfits, camp beds, can-
teens of knives and forks, portable
tables and carpets for their tents. If
it would have added to their comfort
and efficiency en route they would have
faced quite calmly the problem of
balancing a Centurion tank in sections
on the devoted skulls of their followers.
Burton was accompanied by 170 hu-
man beasts of burden —who had never
heard either of overtime or the “C”
index of the cost of living—and es-
corted by a guard of sinister looking
characters “dispersed along the line,
each man carrying a muzzle-loaded
Tower musket, a German cavalry sabre,
a small leather box strapped to the
waist”—presumably to put the scalps
in—“and a huge cow horn filled with
ammunition.”
For all its imperial magnificence and
barbarism to modern eyes, it was not
mere futile adventuring, whether or
not carried out purely for adventure’s
sake. Neither was what came after it:
the quarrellings about credit and geo-
graphy, the angling for some of the
Royal Geographical Society’s annual
bucketful of medals.
The wars and the massacres, the toll
of fevers that were the consequences
of discovery were the prelude to the
building of great dams and roads, of
towns and modern farms, of the re-
serves for preserving game, the tourist
traffic and the linkages with the civi-
lised world and all its benefits which
followed. Yet Burton and Speke and
their quarrel which ended with the
tragic death of Speke in a gun accident
on the very day on which they were
about to debate their differences. Baker
with his beautiful young Austrian wife
wandering years among the astonished
hippos, Livingstone on his fantastic
five-year trek into immortality reaped
little but fame and ill-health, though
Baker had a later career.
Burton was defeated in his Theories,
Grant had but a modest C.B. in re-
ward for other and more prosaic ser-
vices than braving the Bugandans in
their primeval state. Livingstone was
found dead at prayer in utter isolation
from his own race—an isolation so
entire that it needed a year to take his
body to the coast that it might rest in
Westminster. Only the flamboyant
Stanley with his wealth of American
newspaper backing thrived on the long
and arduous journeys.
The journeys of all of them were of
staggering duration. They were in-
finitely thorough and courageous and
when they marched out from Zanzibar
or elsewhere, progress began to move
in behind them in a steeply rising
road of history, to abolish savagery
and the abominable slave trade of the
region: progress engineered by Baker
and Kitchener and Wingate, by the
civil engineers and the builders of rail-
ways and great dams, the medical mis-
sionaries and professors.
It is only necessary to survey, say,
Buganda as it was when the father.; of
many of us were alive and when Mutesa
was king in 1861. and revisit it in the
present year, to realise how much more
than exploitation the British brought
to the African protectorates that are
historical consequences of the explora-
tions of a century ago.
When Speke and Grant visited
Mutesa, the Kabaka (or King) of Bu-
ganda in 1861, the first white men
to be enlightened by looking on his
countenance, the noble youngster was
seen in all his glory, his hair built up
like a cockscomb, his gait a stiff-legged
imitation of that of a lion. A toga
flowed from his lordly shoulders. His
shield, his spear, his white dog lay on
the red-blanketed platform at his feet,
emblems of his royalty. His throne
was the back of a crouching page.
Below him stood, hushed and frightened


BOOKHUNTER
l»ept. “D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
F ree search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
as they gazed up at this “savage and
bloody monster,” the crowd of nobles
and wives.
If a word passed his lips the silence
was broken by their curious cry of
humility as they bowed to the ground,
a motion which they did well to per-
form swiftly since their monarch was
a man of uncertain temper and certain
impulse: —
Hardly a day went by without
some victim being executed at his
command and this was done wil-
fully, casually, almost as a kind of
game. A girl would commit some
breach of etiquette, by talking too
loudly, a page would neglect to close
or open a door, and at once, at a
sign from Mutesa, they would be
taken away screaming to have their
heads lopped off. A roll of drums
obliterated the cries of the death
throes . . . Torture by burning alive,
the mutilation of victims by cutting
off their hands, ears and feet, the
burial of living wives with their
deau husbands —all these things were
taken as a matter of course. This
was more than simple blood lust;
Mutesa crushed out life in tne same
v/ay a child will step on an insect,
never for an instant thinking of the
consequences .... On becoming
king, [he] had instantly put to death
sixty of his brothers by burning
them alive, and this was apparently
regarded as a perfectly normal pre-
caution against rebellion.
When, moreover. Speke, having en-
dured many hours of the King's arro-
gant attempts to humiliate him, pre-
sented him with a carbine, the impres-
sive savage at once loaded and cocked
it. handed it to a page and ordered him
to test its powers by going out into the
courtyard and shooting a man —any
man. And to Speke’s horror, the order
was instantly obeyed and the urchin
returned “with a look of glee such
as one would see on the face of a
boy who had robbed a bird's nest.”
The tyrant, sitting in the midst of his
naked harem, whose members had been
presented to him by the most part by
their fathers as “propitiation for some
offence.” asked him if he had done
the murder well, and he replied, “Oh,
yes. capitally.”
Contrast this with the Buganda of
1961, its current Kabaka crying out in
injury in Oxford accents at the repres-
sions of his freedom and that of his
people, as he gazes at the walls of the
Makarere College, the University Col-
lege of East Africa, at the Mombasa-
Kampala railway, at the BOAC
planes flying overhead, at the
factories, the phosphate, copper and
magnetite mines opened up and all the
good works of the Uganda Develop-
ment Corporation, plus the Owen Falls
Dam and its hydro electric plant.
Events in the Congo provide a re-
minder of how dose to the days of
Speke Buganda and other adjacent
countries may be and of what the
British have done for them and their
people since the Mutesa of 1861
paraded through his capital every day
waving Speke’s gun, “surrounded by
his drums, his naked wives and his
black warriors” while those he en-
countered hastened to bow their fore-
heads into the fly-blown dust and
shouted “wo, wo, wo” in submission,
all of them no doubt afflicted by a
nasty vulnerable feeling about the backs
of their necks, if not about the rest
of their uncovered anatomies.
Moorehead’s book, a “Book Society
choice,” is the combination of a well-
written, enthralling piece of reading
with a magnificent but obviously quite
involuntary essay in public relations
work in defence of British colonisation
in Africa.
An Approach to the Muse
Etfside the Whale. Evan Jones.
Cheshire. 15s.
“TNSIDE the Whale” is not a felicitous
A title for a book of poetry, especially
since it is likely to offer to the reader
suggestions which are not in the poet’s
mind. Mr Jones's whale contains no
reverent Jonah addressing God from his
temporary refuge; nor does it contain
a mariner of “infinite-resource-and-
sagacity” busily manipulating his sus-
penders as an aid to versification.
On the contrary, the title is meant
to recall to the informed reader
Hobbes’s “Leviathan.” This whale
contains Mr Jones himself, earnestly
seeking to illustrate the quotation from
Hobbes’s introduction printed on the
title page, to the effect that the reader
must consider whether he does not find
in his own heart and mind confirmation
of the doctrine here set down. He
does not. however, quote Hobbes’s
most pertinent comment, “whosoever
looketh into himself .... shall thereby
read and know, what are the thoughts,
and Passions of all other men, upon the
like occasions.”
Presumably then Evan Jones believes
that it is the business of poetry to illu-
minate the experience of mankind in
general; and he would argue, with
Johnson, that “great thoughts are al-
ways general, and consist in positions
not limited by exceptions.” and that
the best poetry will express, in John-
son’s phrase, “sentiments to which
every bosom returns an echo.” Some
such theory seems to underlie both the
imitativeness and the traditionalism
of his verse, and he has placed himself
without hesitation in the company of
the anti-modernists of Australian
poetry. His poems abound with echoes
of McAuley and Hope, and adulation
of the latter reaches its somewhat pedes-
trian height in “Lines for the Fiftieth
Birthday of A. D. Hope.”
This would perhaps be of little im-
portance if Mr Jones were not afflicted
with certain disabilities which make it
difficult, and at times impossible, for
even the most sympathetic reader to
attend to him seriously. He exhibits
a disconcerting combination of humi-
lity and pomposity, admirably summed
up in “To My Poem,” which is here
quoted in full: —
How much they will badger us for
what we owe
To others, how little understand our
sense!
But what I have taught to you, at
last i know.
Come, withered child: we face our
audience.
One of these predictions is falsified
by the poems which follow. There,
is little likelihood of Mr Jones's readers
failing to understand him, since he is a
disciple of clarity and takes consider-
able pains to make his sense clear—
more at times, than the profundity of
his thought demands. And this is an-
other of his weaknesses. Simplicity
and clarity are admirable qualities,
but Mr Jones is in constant danger of
failing to distinguish them from bana-
lity and flatness.
Both these faults stem from his
passion for explanation, which leads
him on occasions into disastrous
prosiness. His verse is plagued by such
trivialities as “when the alarm had
rung 1 left my bed,” and, “but seated
waiting for the bus to come”; or worse,
since it occurs in a song, “And she
lies warmly bundled up/Covered from
her toe to top.” Frequently this prosi-
ness takes the form of qualifications
and parentheses, inserted with the
meticulous accuracy, even fussiness, of
a thesis writer. A. D. Hope, he asserts
in his birthday poem, understands how
old men have withdrawn from the
world “to order in their art/the chaos
of the heart”; but not content with this
quite reasonable statement, he hastens
parenthetically to point out that Hope,
although fifty, is not old, because
people are younger at fifty these days
than they used to be. Time and again
this kind of literalness destroys the
imaginative fabric of his poetry. Per-
haps for this reason he seems at his
best in the narrative poem “The lnno-


ARE YOU A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER?
If YOU have the urge to write, you eau
learn to write successful Stories, Articles,
written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT'S training will provide you with
the assistance and knowledge of higlily-
♦inalitied and experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna gained £7O for Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. L. King was paid £2l for her sth story.
What these students have done. YOU can
do. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing. Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today.
159 J limlers Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reugli St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COVPOS
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par- I
tieulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
• . . .(S.B. 7611 I
AGE. .
cence of Giovanni,” which preserves
through its sustained ironic manner
and simplicity of description a con-
sistency of tone to be found in few of
his other poems.
Certainly Mr Jones’s shortcomings
can be partly attributed to his passion
for formalism, which has led him to
experiment with many complex, even
recherche, verse forms. His longest
poem “Lines at Nightfall” is written
in terza rima, as is “All Souls Night”;
his “Valedictory Ode on Leaving the
University of Melbourne” is written
in Spenserian stanzas; while “Birthday
Poem” and “Elegy” are sestinas —a
form more happily employed by Kip-
ling in his “Sestina of the Tramp
Royal.” In reading these and certain
of his other poems one gets the impres-
sion that Mr Jones is so preoccupied
with technical matters that he sac-
rifices to them both grace and sense.
In “Birthday Poem” the reader is
tripped by these flat and labored lines:
In fact, of course, you long since
became a woman,
And if in the course of this day
you were to change
It would be through the common
process of your grief
Which every day would leave you
not the same.
While there is some interest to be
derived from Mr Jones’s attempts to
express himself in forms that demand
considerable technical adroitness, it
is difficult to avoid the conclusion that
he has really very little to say. I
wonder, for example, what any reader
is likely to gain from “A Valedictory
Ode on Leaving the University of Mel-
bourne,” except a faint sense of em-
barrassment at the poet’s solemnity:—
Eight years ago I first began to
court
The patronage and wisdom of the owl
And started slowly to refine my
thought,
Quailing beneath its academic scowl
Till I had won the right to wear its
cowl.
Who, except the author himself, will
be greatly concerned with what his
teachers thought of his work? And
who could overlook the absurdity of his
farewell to his textbooks and his card-
index system?
The cause of most of Mr Jones’s
poetic disorders is an acute self-con-
sciousness. This expresses itself in
pompous solemnity, in self-depreciation
(sometimes more assumed than real),
and in a tendency to describe in tedious
detail himself writing poetry (“A heater
warms the book - encrusted den”).
Curiously enough this self-conscious-
ness does not save him from triteness
and bathos; nor does it enable him
to avoid imitation. It is little use
his complaining that his readers will
“badger us for what we owe to others,”
since he makes it impossible for them
to do otherwise; and in “The Muse,”
a reworking of the poems of the same
name by McAuley and Hope, he in-
vites a comparison which is, to say
the least, not to his advantage. This
is the more to be regretted, since he
has a certain lyrical gift which could
be developed, if he were to free him-
self from slavery to his exemplars and
heroes, and from that conscientious
literalness so destructive to poetic
conviction.
Leonie Kramer
Isotopes in our Lives
Isotopes. J. L. Putman. Pelican.
12s. 6d.
SCIENCE has two very important
effects on the man in the street; it
helps to make his life easier or more
efficient and it helps him to understand
the world he lives in. The former
effect is more important to most people
but there are a few who stop looking
at that popular product of science the
TV set and start to think about them-
selves and the world round about.
Astronomy, evolution, atomic theory
are examples of aspects of science with
philosophical significance; this book
about isotopes is a good example of
the practical aspects of science. There
is of course something of interest for
the amateur philosopher but most of
the book deals with the almost fan-
tastic variety of applications of radio-
isotopes as tools in industry, agricul-
ture, medicine and of course in the
day to day work of research workers
themselves.
This book should really have been
called “radio-isotopes.” An isotope
is a chemical element which occupies
the same place as another on the
table that chemists use for classifying
the elements which make up the uni-
verse. This table is called the periodic
table and it follows from the fact that
the chemical properties of an atom are
determined by the electrons in orbit
around its positively charged nucleus.
These electrons obey certain rules
which cause the properties of the ele-
ments to follow certain regularities
when they are set out on a table accord-
ing to their electric charges (atomic
numbers). The atomic weights gener-
ally follow the numbers but sometimes
there are several different weights of
an element which corresponds to a
particular number. These are isotopes.
Thanks to modern “alchemy” it is
possible to transmute most of the ele-
ments and make isotopes of useful ele-
merits which are radioactive. Thus
one can have. say. radio-iodine, which
is chemically and physically practi-
cally identical with ordinary iodine
but gives out radiation so that it can
be detected with suitable instruments.
This isotope of iodine can be used to
find out how efficient the thyroid gland
is by measuring the way it takes up
iodine from the blood.
Dr Putman deals mainly with this
type of isotope and he gives a most
readable and exciting account of how
they can be used in the service of man.
The following short list taken at ran-
dom from the book shows the immense
variety of applications: measuring the
mixing efficiency of a chocolate-making
machine; testing and controlling a
petroleum still; measuring the thickness
of paper coming from a paper-mak-
ing machine; checking the composition
of chemicals coming from a refinery;
measuring the wear of piston rings in
a car engine; looking for leaks in a
water main; testing the effectiveness
of fertilisers; controlling insect pests,
etc.
There is hardly an aspect of our
daily lives which is not now influenced
by the use of isotopes. To the scientist
they are now a routine tool in the
study of chemical reactions; they have
done much to unravel the secrets of
the living body; they have helped in
the dating of ancient tombs.
This account of the use of isotopes is
recommended to layman and scientist,
too. It is clearly written by a man
who is really at home in the field.
There are 24 plates showing some of
the applications and there are many
well-drawn figures which clarify and
enliven the text. The first chapter is
a concise introduction to atomic theory.
When this and the second chapter on
the production of isotopes have been
mastered the rest of the exciting story
follows easily.
W. G. Whittlestone


Theatre for Children
Come Out To Play. R. H. E. Renshaw.
Oxford University Press, Melbourne.
14s. 6d.
A CTORS and actresses practise a pro-
fession which is said to ask them
for (and even get) deep understanding
of other people, and yet they are so of-
ten running into red-hot marriage strife,
which would suggest that deep under-
standing of other people is just the
thing they haven’t got —outside work-
ing hours, anyway.
These people who know, or go close
to knowing, what keeps Lear or Hedda
Gabler or Little Lord Fauntleroy tick-
ing are only skilled offstage in ticking
off, kicking off, and hot-footing it to
Reno. Or perhaps it only seems so,
because actors and actresses are
“news” and their troubles are placarded
before us much more than are the
matrimonial messes of milkmen, car-
penters and bottle-toppers.
The point is made merely to question
(not to reject) an argument advanced
in this uncommonly cogent and attrac-
tive plea for more play-acting among
schoolchildren at secondary school
level, the argument being that partici-
pation in dramatic activity develops a
power of identification with other
people, which is “the basis of true
understanding.” The author is em-
phatic, here, that true understanding
is not a matter of analysing people and
talking about them, but “becoming”
them through the imagination, knowing
them at a deeper level than the intellect.
It is the author’s view that more
participation in play activity would
help to demolish, for instance, the
literal-mindedness of great numbers of
children, this literal-mindedness usually
proceeding from failure to get “under
the skin,” beyond the outward appear-
ance of people and events. Impossible
barriers to successful social living can
be the outcome of it, since it may
lead to a failure to understand and
appreciate fellow human beings as they
want to be and are entitled to be
understood and appreciated.
Secondary schools are the target of
this book’s persuasive arguments, be-
cause here there is usually no continua-
tion of the kind of class activity-
mime, improvisations, role-playing,
verse-speaking, movement to music—
that primary children are accustomed
• to. Indeed, the author has observed
that in the first year of secondary
school children tighten up emotionally,
tend to become insecure, develop shy-
ness, begin to worry about what other
people think of them. In short, the
children cease to be truly themselves
and “their personalities hibernate.”
It is to minimise this “hibernation”
that the author urges uninterrupted
Dinner
Oh a fine fat turkey-gobbler—•
1 stoved him with chestknots
And breasted him with truffles
And he roosted in the baking three
hours.
Then 1 did not care to speak.
With savage knife and gruesome fork
Wizard-like, mysteriously,
1 changed that turkey into me ;
But oven butter was a chicken
Cajoled in wine and onion sauce
And I a sculptor gleefully
Carved that chicken into me.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
The Thrush’s Song
The thrush’s song, like liquid light
Drew the clear sun above the height.
The dollar-bird turned cartwheels he
Sang like an ungreased axle-tree.
That cardboard cut-out in the haze,
The city, now began to blaze
With crimson of reflected sun,
Until day fairly was begun ;
But still the thrush, as though he feared
The sun’s whole movement might be
geared
To him, untiring all day long
Turned golden water-wheels of song.
S.A.
NANCY CATO
In the Espresso Bar
Hands marked with the stigmata of an
age:
Nicotine, bitten nails, arrange the
spoons.
Contemporary fabrics, pictures, tunes
Shriek against dulness. Nervous hands
engage
Salt, pepper, ashtrays. “This is the
Black Sea
And here is the Carpathian watershed.”
I stare at his companion’s charming
head
She yawns with boredom, turns, and
stares at me.
Well, one has read of this often enough.
Music affirms it plainly. Eyes can
lend
Undreamed-of textures to plain mortal
stuff
Meetings can be contrived. How will
this end,
In heartbreak? Or in boredom, the
air thick
With smoke, and fingers bitten to the
quick.
TASMANIA.
WALTER LEHMANN.
Gang'gangs
So many gang-gangs dark as banksia
cones
As red as red grevilleas I see now
In that white tree above the water and
stones
There seem to be two birds on every
bough.
And more and more come in and as
they fly
And settle on the branches clear or
hidden
In light and leaves they cry their
creaking cry
As though the tree were cracking with
the burden.
There is the sound of granite in their
voices,
Of rocks in ice, high up and harsh and
wintry,
And yet in their soft plumes summer
rejoices
In flame and charcoal, so they fit the
country.
Some sleep like flowers big and soft
and dark,
Some lift their crests up in a crimson
ruffle
And light the leaves of that old candle-
bark
Or make it dance as they bob heads
and shuffle.
Some sharpen their great beaks on
hard dead wood
And nip the twigs off in a leafy rain,
Some spread their wings and flare in
fighting mood
That’s all pretence, then fall to sleep
again.
Some preen each other, some to show
their skill
Hang upside-down like bats on the
high branches
While drowsy lovers nibble bill to
bill
With horny kisses and with sidelong
glances.
Two, four, six, eight, yes, twenty-two
I count
Keeping this happy company with
each other,
And watch one sly young oppor-
tunist mount
His startled mate and both fall off
together.
Sleeping or dancing, gossiping or
loving
In that white tree with sun and blue
sky over,
All of one mind, it’s certain they are
having
A great day to remember by the river ;
So when one soft grey feather flutters
down
I pick it up before cold time can
take it
Or lose it where the fallen leaves lie
brown,
And put it, with this poem, in my
pocket.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


continuance into secondary schools of
the various forms of classroom drama-
tic activity known at the primary level.
This is seen as the means of promot-
ing greater freedom of mind, and of
reducing the emotional fears of ado-
lescence by reflecting them in a drama-
tic pattern which contains and controls
them.
The book introduces its selection of
seven short plays for school presenta-
tion with chapters of advice as to
how to enthuse a class for the prob-
lems and fun of mime, ballad interpre-
tation, improvised drama, dance
drama, production and costuming —all
of them excellent in aim and content.
And the seven chosen plays, all of
them with the elements of fantasy and
fable developed strongly, are nearly
all hearty in humor as well.
One about an ill-treated donkey who
“turns” into a practical joking Fran-
ciscan monk, much to the consternation
of the donkey’s brutal owner, could
be sure-fire for any age level —even
the age level which likes opera, and
can see the makings of a brilliant comic
opera in this play’s Twainish farce,
mockery and moralising.
And, all other values apart, it could
certainly be a matter of some value
to know how an ass behaves. Or is
it? Perhaps that’s just the thing that
our Reno-rushing actors and actresses
think they are too well acquainted with
already.
Lindsey Browne
Why?
Farewell Victoria. T. H. White. Cape.
225. 6d.
r T' , HIS somewhat breathless novel
A which nevertheless is written with
the utmost seriousness has been pub-
lished five times and by three publishers
(including Penguin) since 1933. One
wonders why. In method it evokes
somewhat irrelevant memories of the
inimitable Caryl Brahms and S. J.
Simon. Here are the opening para-
graphs of Chapter Two: —
The Deutschland was wrecked at
night on December 7, 1875, while
Gerard Hopkins slept at St Beuno’s.
He was under a roof there, he was
at rest, and they the prey of the
gales.
That stormy day, which ended
with five Franciscan nuns drowned
on the Kentish Knock, and with a
poet dreaming who would never
know the smallest recognition till
he had long been dead, died also
with a few pale beams upon a tired
party hacking home at intervals to
Ambleden . . .
Well, on that evening. Mundy, the
central figure of the book, works long
and hard at his job of junior groom to
Sir William, the owner of Ambleden,
soothing a valuable horse which has
been ridden to exhaustion. Mundy is
pretty exhausted himself, having been
working hard at preparations for the
“cubbing” since dawn. Also his be-
loved young wife had. that day, run off
with a keeper, but he’d been too
loyally occupied to chase the guilty
pair. When he finally closed the stable
door that night he cut himself away
from his past life, and Chapter Two
concludes:—-
He shut out the night which
stretched over England, in a dapple
of lulls and storms and rain and
starlight; the gale which howled
and thundered in the Channel ; the
five nuns crying to the sailors in the
rigging ; the poet asleep in Wales.
All of old England, or the inerrie
part thereof that survived into the
middle and late nineteenth century,
revolves around stolid Mundy. its rota-
tions growing slower and slower while
he fights in the Zulu wars, works for
a grotesque Edwardian countess, re-
marries, himself declines, drives an
anachronistic hackney cab . . . It's a
teeny bit sad in a soppy, sloppy way
and it does make you “think” a little
bit about changing ways and changing
times and all that. My generation of
school-friends adored it—as middle-
aged mums many of them still may,
and no doubt their daughters will. It
now has “contemporary” engravings
from “Punch.” “The Illustrated Lon-
don News” and other sources to decor-
ate its pages. But when one thinks of
all the out-of-print books one longs
to read again . . . Why?
Nancy Keesing
Morrison
Herbert Morrison. An Autobiography.
Odhams. 495. 9d.
T HAVE spent weeks not reviewing
A Lord Morrison’s account of his life
because it is both too easy to review,
and too hard. It is easy in the sense that
it is competently machine-finished in
presentation and meaty in context.
You can just flit through it and get a
review in a few minutes: the what
Morrison says about Bevan. Macmil-
lan. Gaitskell and so on kind of review;
or the kind of review in which you pull
out your favorite interpretation of
Morrison and get a bit of quick back-
ing for it from the index. Yet. unlike
many an inferior book from the same
period, this one completely eludes an
answer to the question: what was this
man all about?
One rarely expects a politician as
successful as Morrison to give much
of himself away; the real nature of
political ambition in England is at
present something about which every-
one is cagey. But, for Heaven’s sake,
surely Morrison was impelled into poli-
tics, and twice attempted to become
leader of his Party for some reason?
One begins to understand what im-
pelled Churchill. Eden and Baldwin;
and what impels Gaitskell and Macmil-
lan. But, in this account of himself,
Morrison is just there —not impelled by
anything. This ability to produce a
good book which doesn’t mean a damn
thing may have something to do with
why Morrison became deputy leader of
his party but never led it.
D.H.


PERSONAL
Naturopathic Visitor
AT.A.A. helicopter was booked in
Melbourne for Dr Arno Koegler,
visiting German-born Canadian naturo-
path. This graduate from the Washing-
ton, D.C., National University of Thera-
peutics not only fishes for trout in his
fleet of two 20ft motor boats, a speed
boat and a rowing boat; he is also an
enthusiastic photographer of flowers and
animals. “I have come to Australia to
ascertain that Australian standards [in
naturopathy] are equal to standards re-
cognised in other countries,” he says.
Australia, he adds, harbors 2000 people
who call themselves naturopaths but in
fact are quacks. Dr Koegler himself
went to Nashville, Tennessee, in 1946
and 1947, where a five-week post-graduate
course is conducted in Spinal Adjusting,
Clinical Diagnosis and Naturopathy.
As far as the B.M.A. and bureaucratic
boards are concerned, naturopaths do
not exist. Their skills are unacknow-
ledged here: that is one reason why
Dr Koegler has come to visit us. His
particular branch of medicine, which is
often meaninglessly described as “back-
to-nature” or “nature cures”, combines
something of herbalism and osteopathy.
Students of the British College of Naturo-
pathy, founded in 1949, do a four-year
course in manipulative therapy, ana-
tomy, biology, physiology, pathology,
normal psychology, psycho-pathology,
dietetics, as well as being trained in
“differential diagnosis and the treatment
of disease, including skeletal, muscular,
alimentary, respiratory, cardiac, vascu-
lar, renal, endrocine-metabolic, dermato-
logical, neurological, gynaecological, and
paediatric conditions.”
Apart from meeting Australia’s better-
known naturopaths, and others, in a
five-day national visit, Dr Koegler was
welcomed by the Rev. W. J. Hobbin, who
recently founded the Committee for the
Freedom of Hunger Campaign.
• •
Award for a Native
The president of the Waiye Native
Local Government Council, Kondom-
Agaundo, of Sumbainggaumo, was one
of ten Papuans and New Guineans who
received Loyal Service awards last month.
The awards are made by the Common-
wealth Government to natives who have
given at least 25 years’ service to the
Administration. Kondom is the spokes-
man for the 150,000 Chimbu-speaking
people of the Eastern Highlands. He is
a member of the Eastern Highlands
District Advisory Council, has been an
observer at the Legislative Council in
Port Moresby and in 1959 was a delegate
to the South Pacific Commission con-
ference at Rabaul.
• •
Socialist with a Violin
at long last James Victor Stout,
75-year-old Federal president of the
A.L.P., has sweetened his public relations
in Victoria. A television interviewer
persuaded him to play his violin for
viewers, and he has been much photo-
graphed with it.
Mr Stout had earlier soured his fellow
Scots by declaring that nobody liked,
understood or could even play the bag-
pipes. It was known then that he was
a man of Shetland Island stock, but not
that the renegade played the violin.
Before his television appearance with
his instrument, Victorians knew Mr Stout
only as a diehard Socialist whom time
had passed by and, on Sundays on the
Labor station, a voice dreary enough to
thrill the Liberals.
Still a brisk, fairly cheerful, and dedi-
cated Labor worker, he has held most
of the party jobs, and has been secretary
of the Trades Hall Council since 1938.
He recently drew heavy sighs from Labor
men who still have political hopes for
the party when he proclaimed that he
gave his second preferences to Commu-
nists rather than to Liberals or the D.L.P.
• •
American-born Mayor
A ustralia’s only American - born
mayor, Paul Wherry, is now in his
tenth consecutive term in Charters
Towers.
Known in its heyday 80-odd years ago
as “The World,” the Towers now has
only one-sixth of its peak population of
30,000. Little gold comes out of it today,
but its half-dozen boarding schools pro-
vide first-class education for the north,
and Mayor Wherry is enthusiastic about
its industrial and crop-growing prospects.
Mayor Wherry’s mother, one of three
Irish sisters brought by their parents to
the Towers in its early days, took a
holiday trip to the U.S. in 1898, visited
the Chicago International Fair and there
met Mr Wherry snr. Australia remained
only a name to young Paul Wherry until
he came to the Towers in 1935, when
his mother’s surviving sister, Mrs Mary
McCarthy, was seriously ill. He stayed
a few months to put her affairs in order,
took over the running of the furniture
business her husband had built and
never went home again. Naturalised in
1945, he decided to stand as an indepen-
dent candidate for mayor seven years
later, beat the rival party machines and
was elected with a big majority.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Sydney, at 63, Mark Francis Foy, a
director of Mark Foy’s Ltd and a son of the
founder of the firm. An engineering graduate,
Foy supervised the building of two of the first
Sydney woollen mills, the Target and the
Jubilee Mills, as well as the building of Mark
Foy’s store.'
In Adelaide, at 47, Paxton M. Lusk, of the
“Advertiser” editorial staff. New Zealand-
born Lusk was well known for his civic work,
and his wide interests covered the amateur
theatre, the Rostrum movement and bridge, at
which he represented his State.
In Melbourne, at 61, William Lewis Lyons,
proprietor of “Mitty’s,” Bourke Street news-
agency, who had been with the firm for 41
years since he joined as a paperboy.
In London, at 79, Sir Walter Lamb, classical
scholar who was secretary of the Royal
Academy of Art from 1913 to 1951.
In London, at 76, Leonard Henry Pike, for
15 years to 1951 Agent-General for Queensland
in London.
In Adelaide, at 62, C. W. Goodwin, journa-
list, sporting man, and a veteran of World
War I.
“Do you mind if I smoke?”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Clues for Oil-seekers
[From “Old Openeut”]
HThe professor of comparative
geology at Adelaide Uni-
versity said last year at a public
lecture that the search for oil
in Australia was being ham-
pered by the attitude of com-
panies holding oil-search
permits. The big fellows in
their progress reports, he said,
played down the results of tests
and drill-probes, thus withhold-
ing valuable exploratory in-
formation. On the other hand,
the small prospector exaggera-
ted his findings to keep the
sharemarket buoyant and his
subsidy safe. The net result in
both cases was discouragement
to the investor.
The oil-search boom had
considerably quietened prior to
the occasion for the professor’s
comments and, without doubt,
The Bulletin has contributed
in no small measure to the
present saner outlook. The
companies are now cautiously
examining the general prob-
lems related to oil-search in
Australia. In some cases they
have directed specialist research
into the chemistry and possible
origin of petroleum before
selecting further drill-sites.
There is wisdom in this appli-
cation. A visiting oil-geologist
commented on his arrival that
if we had sedimentary basins
then we must have oil. A bold
statement, perhaps, for one
without an intimate knowledge
of this country’s geology.
Well, we have sedimentary
basins with recognisable sedi-
mentary rock. The age-groups
are right, and if time is an
essence of the petroleum-form-
ing processes we are older
than most continents. In our
sedimentary basins we have
rocks of marine origin and
rocks of continental origin.
We are not reasonably sure
that we have the right marine
ingredients to produce oil,
though we do know in some
areas that the right sediments
were laid down when the
depressions were covered by
the sea in Lower Cretaceous
time.
In deep-drilling probes cores
should be studied meticulously
for criteria confirming the
marine origin of the sediments
as, though not yet proven, it is
now generally accepted that oil
does originate in these basins.
It does not necessarily stay
there, and can migrate laterally
and vertically to accumulator-
pool sites or escape-points of
egress. In most overseas oil
fields the cores indicate, reason-
ably early, the potential of a
particular well.
“ That's Wilson, the Board's pessimist."
This, unfortunately, is not
the position in Australia. Our
basins do not conform to over-
seas standards of recognition
as possible oil-producers. We
have metamorphic and igneous
rocks in illogical areas. Where
these rocks could possibly act
as reservoir - rocks unusually
high permeability prevent any
functioning as trap-sealers.
The Great Australian Ar-
tesian Basin, considered the
most likely area for oil-loca-
tion, records evidence of in-
complete marine submergence.
There is, in consequence, an
absence of organic source-
material considered necessary
to produce petroleum. There is
no history of any oil-trace ever
having been located within this
basin. Thoughts, therefore, are
now being directed to the prob-
lem of identifying the organic
source-material convertible by
unknown processes into crude
petroleum in Nature's labora-
tory.
On the s.-e. coast of South
Australia there is a long narrow
stretch of water known as the
Coorong. The waterway is
some 85 miles in length and
averages H miles in width.
There is a sea connection at the
western end near the mouth of
the River Murray. The whole
Coorong area is within the
Murravian sedimentary basin.
The lower reaches of the
waterway are of lagoon struc-
ture, and the surface-water
breeds algae. The particular
marine organism forms a dirty-
grayish scum. The prevailing
south and south-westerly winds
drive the waxy mass to the
northern shore, where it forms
a thick and unpleasant-looking
gray blanket.
The fresh material appears
to have an affinity for previous
deposits, and the “mats” are at
present 3in. to 4in. in thickness
This materia 1 has a high carbon
and hydrogen content, and
samples analysed following
the recent storms gave results
very close to a medium crude
petroleum.
The shore-deposits have re
ceived scientific recognition,
and the material is called
“coorongite.” The cell-wails
of colonies of this algae hold
an oily substance which is
subject to seasonal release by
the action of, possibly,
facultative bacteria (an organ-
ism functioning with or with-
out oxygen). Oily patches float-
ing on the sea near certain
coastal are of algae
origin, though the phenomenon
is usually considered to indicate
that a commercially valuable
oilfield is nearby.
Coorongite is similar to the
deposits found on the peninsula
of Apsheron near Baku on the
Caspian Sea. Here the deposits
are of considerable thickness
and release an inflammable
vapor which centuries back
caused the “eternal fires of
Baku” to be quite an attraction
to fire-worshippers. An exten-
sive oilfield is adjacent.
In the Coorong there is no
proven depth of oil-source
organic material, and extensive
drilling has failed to reveal any
indication that this area of the
basin holds crude petroleum.
This is disappointing, as the>e
is one other strong indicator
in the unique dolomite forma-
tion and growth in the lower
reaches of the Coorong. This
is to be the subject for further
examination under an overseas
grant. The concluding thesis
should be of value to oil-
searchers.
The remains of Elceophyton,
which is the algae responsible
for coorongite and similar
deposits, is not found in any
cores from drillings in the
Great Australian Artesian
Basin but has been identified in
cores from water-boreholes in
the 18-ounces-to-the-gallon salt-
water areas of n.-w. South Aus-
tralia, and more plentifully in
probes in the arid country n.-w.
of the Rawlinson Range in the
Desert Basin of W.A.
This is something to think
over. The presence at depth of
the late Elceophyton's remains
could be the clue to the loca-
tion of our oil-reservoirs.
Works Payout
An estimate that £6OO million
will be spent on Austra-
lian public works, including
maintenance, in the current
financial year is made by the
Institute of Public Affairs,
Victoria.
Because of the shortage of
loan moneys, the expenditure
has to be financed largely from
taxes, and the latest loan, at a
higher rate, has closed slightly
undersubscribed, excluding
subscriptions to the special
bonds.
The massive projects now
building with taxes and loans
include the Snowy Moun-
tains, on which £2OO million
already has been spent since
its beginning in 1949.
Less well known outside the
State in which they are being
constructed are three great Vic-
torian works. The Goulburn,
Australia’s oldest and largest
irrigation system, is being re-
modelled at a total cost of £l6
million. Work has begun on
the Hazelwood power-station,
in south-east Victoria, designed
for an ultimate installed


Closes Saturday!
£5/15 1- %
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS!
£5/15/- per cent makes this gilt-edged investment very
attractive to everyone who wants a high return backed by
maximum security. Loan investors are assured of both.
Half-yearly interest payments and full repayment of
principal at maturity are UNCONDITIONALLY
GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Holders of Loan No. 145 (£5/5/- per cent, maturing Ist
April, 1961) are also invited to convert to the new Loan
and secure higher interest without interruption.
APPLY at any office of the —
-9 Commonwealth Trading Bank;
9 Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
Underwritten by:
Ernest L. Davis & Co. Ralph W. King & Yuill
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
capacity of 1.2 million kilo-
watts in 1971.
The Hazelwood station will
be built in stages and the cost,
including transmission facili-
ties and extensions to the Mor-
well brown coal open-cut, is
estimated at £l2O million. First
stage of the third Victorian
project (breakwaters, sheds,
handling equipment) has been
completed at Portland Harbor
for £6 million. It will be used
for shipment of wool, meat
and other produce from Vic-
toria’s famous Western Dis-
trict.
The Warragamba Dam, near
Penrith, N.S.W., which was
also begun in 1949, will cost
£3B million and eventually
store 460,000-million gallons of
water for metropolitan Sydney.
Some £3O million will be spent
relaying and constructing 603
miles of track from Towns-
ville to Mt Isa, Queensland,
and £5 million will be spent on
the co-axial cable link, Can-
berra-Sydney-Melbourne.
Speculator's Diary
HThe first job facing me in
the pre - Easter week
seemed to be to buy back the
shares 1 had shorted the
previous week.
I felt 1 had probably had a
luckier run than 1 deserved
with this hazardous business
of shorting so I bought back
the 500 L. J. Hooker shares
immediately they went ex-
rights at Bs. 6d. This also
meant buying 100 rights (at
2s. Bd.) and deducting a five
per cent, dividend, but even so
I still came out with a profit
of £3O, or about the same as
I made shorting David Jones’
a fortnight ago.
With that spiteful bit of
shorting I did with Stanhill, I
was not so fortunate and I’m
sure Mr Korman thinks it
serves me right. I bought back
at 4s. 7d., or eightpence less
than I sold at, but more than
half of that went on the fairly
steep brokerage rates ruling at
these prices. Still, I was left
with a gain of £5 so I can't
complain. That gave me a
week’s profit of £35.
What’s more it seemed to
contradict, temporarily, the old
saying that it is harder to
know when to sell than when
to buy. So I decided I should
take a look back over the
stocks I’ve sold in the last three
or four months and see how
they’ve fared since. The result
of this little survey proved to
be quite gratifying. In that
period I've sold 30 different
stocks and only six of them
have since risen in price—
8.H.P., C.S.R., Farmer’s (as
Myer’s), John Fairfax, William
Atkins and Mutual Store (as
Peter Kaye). Twelve of the
others are still more or less at
the prices at which I sold them
while the other 12 have proved
my judgment right and con-
tinued to go down in price.
The knowledge of these
various selling “successes”
filled me with sufficient daring
—or is it arrogance? —to sell
100 Union Carbide short.
This I did at £5 10s. That
price may not be too much for
the Americans to pay, but who,
in their right mind, can really
justify that price? The divi-
dend yield of only 1.8 per cent,
is bad enough, but what is even
worse is the earnings yield of
less than 3 per cent.!
Now, on this same question
of knowing when to sell, I’m
faced with ticklish decisions
on F. W. Williams and Mar-
rickville Holdings. Both of
these have had good rises—
better than I expected, I must
confess —in the short time since
I bought them. Should I sell
now or hold on? That is the
question, and I’ve decided to
hold on.
The week’s trading, by giv-
ing me a profit of £35, put my
cash back up to £196, as I did
not make one solitary purchase
this week other than covering
the stocks I was short on.
Details of the week’s transac-
tions were:
BOUGHT
500* L. J. Hooker at
8/6 £219
100* L. J. Hooker rts
at 2/8 . . .. £l4
500* Stanhill at 4/7 . . £l2l
* Bought back to cover
shares sold short.
SOLD
IOOf Union Carbide
110/- .. .. £559
t Sold short.
The shares I now hold are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total I J er rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
200 Antill It. £lss 12/- 13/0
400 Motels of A. 145 7/- 8/-
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 84/-
400 Wattyl 149 7/3 9/6
50 G. E. Crane 280 110/- 107/6
200 Merica 64 6/2 6/6
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 8/3 7/6
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 24/9
400 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 16/4}
400 Qld. Brewery 221 10/9 11/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 23/6
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 15/9
200 F. W.
Williams 275 27/- 30/3
200 Marrickville 225 22/- 25/3


YOUR SAFETY BELT
Providing sure protection at all
times, in all financial
weathers—your
policy with the
mm
bj3 t 4
r .<*
&
m
mmm
V/A
t-m
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
DIRECTORS
E. W. Robinson (Chairman);
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.;
P. H. Phillips; T. Keith Smith;
W. J. Cooksey.
GENERAL MANAGER
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
GENERAL SECRETARY
George Leslie, F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
NEW BUSINESS MANAGER
John L. Richter
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
LAND OWNERS!
PROSPECTORS!
We will provide Capital,
Plant, Equipment and Labour
to develop your Mineral
Deposit.
We will also process and
market the final product.
We are particularly inter-
ested in:
Asbestos,
Felspar,
Mica,
Barytes,
Talc ( Soapstone)
Metallic Ores,
Etc.
For further particulars, please write
“MINERAL, DEVELOPMENTS.” Box 956, G.P.0., Sydney.
Import Restrictions or Devaluation?
Tn his address to leading Syd-
ney business executives Mr
P. Shrapnel, chief economist to
W. D. Scott and Co. Pty, an
Australian firm of international
management consultants, em-
phasised the continuing plight
of Australian Primary pro-
ducers, who are subjected to the
pincer squeeze of lower world
prices and rising costs.
Wool, wheat and other prim-
ary products still constitute
about 80 p.c. of Australia’s
exports. Substantial falls in
farm incomes create a danger-
ous situation for the economy
as a whole. Mr Shrapnel esti-
mated that in 1959-60 farm in-
comes sagged by about 20 p.c.,
while the manufacturing and
service industries had a good
year. “So far nothing has
been done to stop the squeeze
on farm incomes and profits.”
Advocating the continuation
of a vigorous immigration
policy, despite its obvious
economic cost, Mr Shrapnel
stated that the inflow of
migrants will have to be ab-
sorbed into manufacturing and
service industries, not into the
rural industries, mining or, at
the moment, building.
One way to increase farmers’
incomes was to devalue the
pound. Devaluation, which
would immediately relax the
pressure on the primary sector,
has thus reappeared as a work-
able alternative.
While acknowledging this,
Mr Shrapnel went on record
as a strong opponent of devalu-
ation, which would raise the
costs of imports of raw
materials and capital goods.
For devaluation to be effective
in the long run, it would be
necessary to first abolish the
existing institutional framework
linking wages and prices. Other-
wise, the initial relief provided
to the primary producers would
soon be wiped out in real
terms. “Devaluation is feasible
only if inflation is controlled.”
The speaker stressed that
wage and salary increases pro-
vided the main impetus to the
1960 boom. “Obviously, the
nation cannot afford to have
wage rises which exceed a
steady 3 p.c. a year.”
Mr Shrapnel seemed confi-
dent when he forecast that the
Federal Government will have
to reintroduce import restric-
tions, use tariffs to limit imports
and provide export subsidies,
rather than devalue.
“Business would continue to
be slack for the rest of this
year but would begin to re-
cover early in 1962.” The
speaker felt that the worst
deflationary period has now
passed and that next August’s
budget would be an “easy”
one, in the economic sense.
The Government will not be
financially embarrassed and
will probably raise spending
on public works, capital equip-
ment for export industries (e.g.,
coal loading facilities in New-
castle), etc., rather than make
direct spending incentives
through tax cuts.
Mr Shrapnel made an inter-
esting point when he said that
the credit squeeze was pri-
marily induced by falling inter-
national reserves, and that the
Government’s and Reserve
Bank’s deflationary measures
only accelerated and
strengthened the effect.
Turning to concrete forecasts,
he said that in 1960-61 Aus-
tralia will lose about £2OO mil-
lion of international reserves.
He expected the Government
to borrow £5O million from the
IMF.
Mr Shrapnel did not expect
any substantial rise in unem-
ployment. “It is not only eco-
nomically wasteful to allow
higher unemployment, but also
politically dangerous as elec-
tions draw nearer.” He em-
phasised the need to develop
the capacity of manufacturing
and service industries, which
will have to absorb the swelling
teenage group in addition to
the inflow of migrants.
Brewing Invasion
'T'here are 1200 untied hotels
in Victoria, so there are
ample outlets for the product
of Charringto n’s, the £37
million brewing company of
London, which will establish a
brewery in Melbourne.
It will cost about £3.5 mil-
lion, with bottling stores, and
will begin with 10 million
gallons a year.
The announcement was no
surprise to those in touch with
the beer trade in Melbourne.
The hostility of a section of the
untied hoteliers to the present
monopoly, Carlton and United
Breweries Ltd, is equalled only
by the dislike of a section of
the tied licensed houses.
Like many of their colleagues
in Sydney, Melbourne hoteliers
reckon they are in a depressed
business and they blame chiefly
the profit margins they get on
draught and bottled beer.
Charrington’s will give them
more realistic profits and half
the seats on the board.
The protagonists of the rebels
against Carlton and United
quickly interested Charrington’s
in the Victorian potential, and
key men of the British com-
pany have lately been making
unpublicised surveys.
Apparently they were satis-
fied they could get the one-
tenth of the market needed to
make the turnover profitable.
About 130 independent hotel-
keepers could guarantee this
volume.
Two £1000 Prizes
A £2OOO contest for theses on
the expansion of Aus-
tralia’s export trade has been
announced by the Australian
Institute of Export.
The institute is offering
£lOOO each for winning contri-
butions of not less than 15,000
words on: “How to Increase
Australia’s Wool Exports,” and
“How to Increase Australia’s
Invisible Exports.”
Applications close on June 1
next, and the closing date for
entries is June 1, 1962. Appli-
cations and theses are to be
forwarded to the Director,
Institute of Export, 522 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne. The
Institute expects to announce
prize-winners on September 1,
1962, and all theses will
become its property.
“Invisible” exports, by the
way, include insurance of
export commodities, freights
(including wharf labor, ships’
stores and harbor dues), divi-
dends on investment capital,
dividends on export earnings,
and tourism.


Shows
"The Glass
Menagerie”
Robin Lovejoy’s production of Ten-
nessee Williams’s first big success, the
Elizabethan Trust’s second play of the
season at Sydney Palace Theatre, pre-
THEATRE
seived, without exactly
copying the prescribed
set and devices, the
“memory” atmosphere
which Lewis Fiander specified in his
introductory speech.
The back of the set was not the walls
of the room but the brick walls you
would see if you looked out of it. Trans-
parent curtain covered it li.de a haze ;
the eye moved from the iiving-room to
the raised dining-room without the divi-
sion of a wail, as in an act of memory ;
the lignt was always shaded, and varied
from soft electric.ty to candlelight.
But Williams’s memoiies were by no
means soft ; for the most part they are
the memories that people try to forget:
the rage of a son against the nagging
mother he had to keep ; his shame over
the act she put on as a lady of the Old
South, iecalling her youth besieged by
suitors, in front of a young man invited
to dinner; his abandonment of his
crippled sister because of the rows with
his mother. He is soft in a romantic
way omy in recalling the scene where
the crippled sister recognises, in the man
he biings home, the high-school boy she
had wor.hipped.
In this scene Patricia Conolly graduated
finely the sio.v thaw of toe crippled girl
before L.e young man's (Kevin Colson’s)
extrovert aner-ainner conversation ; by
degrees tne haunted sullenness taaed from
her lace, cut even tnen her unaffected
laugn as sue showed him his picture in
the Hign School annual came with an
effect of shock. This rose to bemused
ecstasy after he had casually kissed her ;
and when ne as casually mentioned that
he was engaged to be mariied, the fall-
back to world-excluding sullenness was
as admiraole ; you had no doubt that
you had seen a flower bloom and die.
And that is mainly what Williams has
to show you. Lewis Fiander raged with
verve as the mother-hating, warehouse-
hating son ; Queenie Ashton nagged
efficiently as the mother and made a
comic success of the mother’s Old
Southern Lady party-manners; Kevin
Colson was easy and natural as the young
man who came to dinner.
But although Williams must have
touched off in his portrait of the son
the anguished memories of a great many
of his audience, not much of the first
Act was necessary to the second. The
play seemed a bit light for its action ;
there was a better dramatic line, for
instance, in “A Taste of Honey,” which
led up to a similar climax; a more
fantastic situation, perhaps, but with also
more of the unseen forces of theatre in
it than are claimed for Williams’s play.
Where Williams has it over Shelagh
Delany is in the finesse and precision of
his dialogue.
Ronald McCuaig.
‘•THE PLAY’S THE THING”
Melbourne’s newest and smallest
theatre is the Muse, at the rear of a
restaurant in Commercial Road, Prahran,
in converted lofts. Alan Money, who
has been losing money presenting plays
for years, built the stage, removed floor-
ing and fitted the 45 seats almost single-
handed and has executed some effective
papier mache embellishments to the old
stone and wood.
This bohemian establishment has pro-
vided a setting for play readings and
folk-song and poetry recitals, and now
Mr Money’s first public production,
Ferenc Molnar’s comedy ‘ The Play’s the
Thing.” The play was presented at the
Union by Wal Cherry some years ago,
but the Muse production is no less
successful, though Mr Money’s approach
is less urbane. The essential quality of
the comedy is much the same, a little
more slap-stick perhaps, but not
annoyingly so.
Ted Cordell as the lesser half of “the
playw i ig’nting firm of Turai and Mansky”
is a le. el-headed counter to Mr Money’s
expansive Turai. Jeannie James is an
appealing Ilona Szarbo, the erring prima
donna ; theatrical yet human, her acting
matched the beauty of her poise and
the most magnificent negligee to grace
the Melbourne stage in years. She was
not very lucky with her lovers ; Donald
Sey as Mr Almady, her old teacher who
pi esses his attentions on her long after
she has finished with him, was rather
wooden, and his hamming of the school-
boy variety, and her young and true
love, Simon Gardiner, was a little too
nervous to be totally convincing. Peter
Homewood was hilarious as the secretary,
Mr Mell, constantly all of a twitter.
Adrian Rawlins
MUSIC
REJUVENATED WARHORSES
The hardship of listening to pro-
grammes of “concessions,” chosen be-
cause this or that audience might not
understand anything challenging, is
insupportable when the manner of per-
formance is adjusted to the same sort of
bait-laying thinking ; it can vanish
entirely when the playing, as in Romola
Costantino’s piano recital for Sydney’s
Dante Alighieri Society last week, is
governed by intense critical severity and
inflamed by ranging imaginative qualities
to reaffirm the essential reasons for a
“warhorse” work’s survival of its first
fresh youth.
Miss Costantino’s main works were
Beethoven’s “Pathetique” sonata and
Schumann’s “Carnaval” pieces, and they
were minted new. Already known
throughout Australia as a formidable
Beethoven player in sonatas much more
demanding of temperamental and techni-
cal resource than the “Pathetique,” it
came as no surprise that this popular
little essay in tragedy, anger and im-
petuosity remained safely in her grasp,
except perhaps in the “grave” sections of
the opening movement where the tension
in the playing seemed insufficient to carry
full feeling across the wide gaps made
between chord and chord by the uncom-
promisingly slow tempo chosen.
But surprise was certainly in store for
anybody who, suspecting some absence
of humor from Miss Costantino’s equip-
ment, on the evidence of her perfor-
mances of five or six years ago, felt that
Schumann’s “Carnaval” might not be
entirely free from archness here or glass-
cold gem-cutting there. There was none
of either. A dry and urbane drollery
underlay all the pretty comedy of the
work. The pieces of sentiment were
dreamily tender, and rhythm leapt up on
its gallant toy charger for the passionate
bits.
There were only a couple of things to
question. A spray of wrong notes in
the speeding "Paganini” episode was one
of those mishaps that almost increase
one’s respect for and awe of a performer,
as when a tightrope walker nearly
tumbles and saves the day with wild
waving of his umbrella. The other ques-
tion is about the passionate “Chiarina”
love-song, played here with something of
the insincere fulsomeness of Don Juan
or the comic-lover attitudes of Pierrot in
a village sideshow. It could be the right
way to do it, since the work has both
Pierrot and Harlequin setting a commedia
dell’arte pace from the start. I prefer it
in a straight-faced performance.
Lindsey Browne
NIKOLAYEVA IN BRISBANE
Rudolf Pekarek, having advertised the
best-balanced programme of the Queens-
land Orchestra’s season, the music for
Werner Egk’s “Abraxas” Suite failed to
arrive. So Strauss’s “Don Juan” was
switched into the gap, and received such
a stunning performance that the rest of
the programme was completely outshone.
This would not be worth a fuss if Mr
Egk were not one of the most important
German composers of today. Or did
someone get wind of the story that this
music comes from a ballet banned in
Bavaria because it was considered
immoral?
Publicity pointed to great things in
the playing of Russian pianist Tatyana
Nikolayeva, but there was nothing of
the class of, say, Rostropovitch. In her
hands, the Brahms Second Concerto


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J■ O- LEWIS iieneral Manager.
almost lived up to its reputation as
music not for a woman. There were
too many awkward gear-shifts of tempo
that spoiled the first movement.
Memories of Arrau’s performances flow-
ing across the footlights like molten lava
made this performance seem tame.
Yet once away from the grandeur
and into the lyrical slow movement the
music burst into life which it managed
to maintain most of the way to the
finale.
Schumann, mindful of the craggy
Third and Fifth Beethoven symphonies,
styled the Fourth “a slender Greek
maiden between two Norse Gods.”
Placed alongside the cynical Don Juan
music, it lacked some of its accustomed
buoyancy. The first movement went off
like a rocket, though the impulse began
to flag in the slow movement, stirring
again towards the end just in time to save
the day.
D.J.M.
ANNA RUSSELL IN SYDNEY
The piece de resistance of Anna
Russell’s first Sydney concert was “Ham-
letto —an Analysis,” the story of “Ham-
let” as it might have been set by Verdi,
a sprightly parody of the play, especially
where RosenkrantzandGuildenstern were
characterised as a pair of private-eyes,
although the musical parody of Verdi’s
style didn't go very deep, or, at any rate,
as deep as in “How to Write Your Own
Gilbert and Sullivan Operetta”—maybe
Miss Russell feels limited by her
audience's knowledge of originals.
In the rest of the programme she
parodied carols (“I gave my Love a
Cherry”), salon-arias (“Eternally”) Old
Italian concert-openers (“La Donna
Nanella”), and lieder; and here she
sang an invented lied, rather than “The
Erl King.” One agrees with Mr Jorgen-
sen of Melbourne that neither Miss
Russell nor anyone else should parody
“The Erl King”—it is too easy for a
clever parodist or even a bad one to
make anything from Shakespeare to
Schubert sound silly merely by misread-
ing it or giving it comic intonations. But
a separate invention is another matter.
In fact, Miss Russell seems to do
better the farther she gets away from
little stylistic pieces, as in “A Practical
Banana Promotion,” which covers one
side of a 12in, record, and is exhibit A
in the reviewer’s collection for visitors’
where the musical pieces are only acces-
sories to the brilliant comic invention of
the treatise. It is on the list of selections
for this series of concerts
R.McC.
FILMS
THREE ADDICT FILMS
In “Where the Boys Are” (Sydney
Liberty) the girls are boy-addicts; in
“Esther and the King” (Regent) Haman
is a power-addict; and in “Without You
It Is Night” (Palladium) Curt Jurgens is
a drug-addict.
Of the group of college girls seeking
boys in the spring holidays on a Florida
beach Dolores Hart fights off a young
millionaire, George Hamilton, charm-
ingly, the tall Paula Prentiss props off
the clowning Jim Hutton amusingly, and
Frank Gorshin has his hands full of bass
fiddle, only, when he accompanies Connie
Francis ; but Yvette Mimieux gives in
to her addiction for a slick young opera-
tor and, deserted, gets herself run over.
It is a gay and unusual piece, full of
Commemoration Day frolic, and if teen-
agers want morals it has one.
There is nothing really evil in the
Florida play, but in “Esther” Sergio
Fantoni makes Haman a mad-eyed,
giggling intriguer, seducing King Aha-
suerus's queen, trying to replace her with
his mistress and, when Joan Collins as
the Jewish Esther gets the job, stirring
up King Ahasuerus (Richard Egan, who
acts as dumb as an unrehearsed wrestler)
to liquidate Esther, her uncle Mordecai
(Denis O'Dea) and the Jewish popula-
tion of Persia. Overdone as a wedding
receptory, even the harem scenes lack
the natural sparkle of the college girls
heaped in their little Florida flat, and
Esther is fitted out with a lover not in
the reviewer’s Bible —still, she gets Haman
hanged and lives to comfort Ahasuerus
when he comes home from being beaten
by Alexander the Great.
Thus also Eva Bartok comforts the
lawyer Curt Jurgens when he rips her
off the rich old client she was going to
marry and then tells her he is an opium
addict because otherwise he can’t argue
cases in court. She makes him spend
their honeymoon in a sanatorium, after
which he crawls all over the house try-
ing to find where she has hidden the
hypodermic The film looks like dying
on you when Miss Bartok gives it and
Mr Jurgens a shot of dope, rather than
see him lose a court case. All syringe
once more, he resumes his argument, and
the film closes with him off again to the
sanatorium —not so much a film as a
rondo.
“THE BIG BOOMERANG”
Quantas has joined the uplift adver-
tisers with a 40-minute color-film history
of Australian aviation. A staff under
Dahl and Geoffrey Codings has combed
the film libraries for footage on early
Australian flight. There is a still or so
of Sir Hudson Fysh and partner in their
early battling in the north ; the First
World War scuttles into it with the
quaint speeded-up marches of troops not
yet accorded the luxury of aerial trans-
port. Early Flying Doctor patients had
to put up with sepia or black-and-white,
but soon the passengers on the old firm's
world-encircling airliners are getting their
lovely meals in color. The film concludes
with a brilliantly colored series of scenes
in Cairo, Rome, London, New York,
Vancouver, Honolulu, Fiji, Bangkok,
Singapore, and all over Australia and
New Zealand, to show what you would
get for your money by travelling Qantas,
and if you got as much as Qantas got
from the Collingses, it would be pretty
good value. (At Sydney Liberty.)
R.McC.
ART
SQUARES IN BRISBANE
Moreton Galleries have a mixed show
of oils and watercolors by contemporary
Australians all well-qualified technically
whether the result is a success or not. L
doubt it in the case of Lance Solomon,
whose skill in the only oil he shows is
not given a chance. Bruce Fletcher,
apparently a young man with a taste
for simple composition, handles his
material competently but is immature ;
Ray Crooke’s commonplace presentation
in oil lacks the brio of his versions of
Torres Strait life. His seaside picnic is
well done but dull.
G. K. Townshend, showing two charac-
teristic watercolors, is enormously com-
petent and nobody does smooth-pleasant
watercolor better. He is an example of
the Australians in the English tradition
who do watercolor with exceptional ease.
Sir Lionel Lindsay is one of the ex-
patriates who did his best work in color
abroad —a Spanish scene near Malaga
has his usual gusto inspired by the
Spanish air and clear sunlight. The late
Kenneth Macqueen's contributions are
paradoxical. One, a clean piece of farm-
land seen as if from a great height under
the usual nice Macqueenish clouds is a
success, but the other, specifically his
version of cloud-masses and so labelled,
fails.
In the oils section, Sam Fullbrook dis-
plays his clever tonal manipulation in
his small “Night Scene,” generally sombre
but glowing dully with color at the red of
the scale. Robert Johnson repeats his
endearing grey-blue air and hills away in
the distance ; his formulary is restricted
but not necessarily the worse for that.
James Jackson springs a surprise with a


very strong piece in heavy brushwork
of men at work building a yacht. His
general deep tone of brown-orange-red
makes a vivid show, so different from his
usual palette. William Dargie with his
steel-clad mastery of effect contributes
an authoritative version of a still-life
flower study.
Three artists stand out; the success of
one of them is warming. Those of us
who long ago barracked for Roland
Wakelin, when outcast as an honest
innovator, will be mighty pleased with
his “Summer Light from Ball’s Head,”
charged with the subtle harmonies and
beautiful composition of his great days ;
a distant mass of buildings in fading but
still bright sunlight over a wide spectrum
against a crimson evening sky—a little
masterpiece. His landscape job next door
is too loose and sagging. George
Lawrence in a street scene is his usual
able, careful self. This is a very good
picture in which Lawrence, in a very
taking composition, cleverly dissipates
strong color around so as, I assume, to
seduce the eye where he wants it to go.
Santry shows an amazing jump from
Daumier inspiration stuff to Camille
Pissarro; his pointillist “Afternoon:
Sydney” is a very good painting as
ravishing and lively in color as you could
wish.
Nobody of the advanced contemporary
schools of style, color and subject unless
he were quite fanatical could cavil at the
standard of this wholly traditional lot of
sound painting.
J. V. Duhig
SYDNEY SHOWS
The exhibition of Chinese calligraphy
and pictures at the Gallery of N.S.W.
unfortunately lacks those qualities that
stimulate and sustain interest. Here are
a number of contemporary works,
limited in subject and technique, and
accepting artistic conventions belonging
to an age which has little in common
with our own. One feels that pleasant-
ness is not enough. A reinvigoration is
needed, and a sense of striving.
The original exhibition of Antiques
and Abstracts at the Terry Clune Gal-
leries is a small show in which some
fine pieces of period furniture are used
to set off paintings by some of our lead-
ing abstract artists. The formal and
restrained elegance of the furniture
accords equally well with a strong and
satisfying arrangement of shapes and
colors such as John Coburn’s “Capri -
cornia,” or with the more emotional and
impressionistic “Flight” of Margo
Lewers.
The value of the exhibition is that it
does show how fittingly an abstract may
take its place in an intimate domestic
setting ; and living with an abstract may
well teach one more about this difficult
art-form than any number of text-book
expositions.
R.D.
Artists Speak
It is always much more interesting to
hear what artists have to say about their
own work than to listen to mere critics ;
and in the catalogue of the N.S.W. Gal-
lery’s 1960 acquisitions, now on display,
some of the artists provide the most
illuminating commentaries.
Thus, for the first time one learns what
that admirable painter Carl Plate means,
or thinks he means, by the works he so
mysteriously entitles “Destructive Para-
doxes”; presuming that his watercolor
“Yellow Crusade” is a Paradox as well
as a Crusade. “The title,” says Mr Plate,
“is an ironical comment on the paradox of
nature. Man alone of the animals is
capable of devoting himself to non-material
aims, to elevate himself from what he
knows to what he imagines to be a more
complete state of ‘being.’ Sad to relate,
this attempt at extension, particularly when
it is a collective one, so often proves to
be a juggernaut which tramples all opposi-
tion on its way to the ‘light.’ Witness the
medieval Crusades which led countless
children to their death and destroyed
Byzantium. The parallels which activate
lemmings or the mantis as it destroys its
mate are obvious.”
None of this is really very obvious from
Mr Plate’s paintings ; but anyhow they
are exceptionally pleasing abstracts.
Then there is the Melbourne painter
Edwin Tanner. Mr Tanner’s precise,
spacious, flat but curiously intriguing
paintings look to the unwary like pictures
of ships in bottles ; and in fact they are
just that. But here is Mr Tanner:
I went through a period of painting
things imprisoned. The possibility of escape
behind the frame has always tortured me:
thus “Message” has a message and boats
imprisoned in bottles and the bottles
imprisoned in a picture. I hoped that the
painting would evoke a feeling of “time’’;
not “time” 1960 for I am not a modern
painter unless modern implies the period
covered by or deduced from recorded or
remembered knowledge, but “time” as an
envelope of events —a mental thing which
varies with individuals according to their
intelligence, education, sensibility and
memory. I felt that “Message” implied
the seaman, shipwright, the model-maker,
the glass-blower, the bottle-man and the
painter. One ship is 3000 years old,
another, several hundred. One bottle is
very tired and one could be an I.X.L.
sauce bottle. Strings rot. Soon boats
and bottle will crash and the works and
words of man will perish. All this is very
didactic —this is not the message but they
are thoughts that pre-occupy me. The
message is in the sauce bottle. God, it
may be from a girl in a sauce factory
asking a pie-eater to correspond. A valid
plea, a crude method. Still, I find the
pleas of the sauce girl, the Phoenician sailor
and the early Egyptian builder’s laborer
as valid and as modern a reason for
exciting the creative spirit in a painter as
say, the critic of the Melbourne “Sun”
pleading for a new look in art.
The most disarming of all is John
Olsen. Mr Olsen’s “Spanish Encounter,**
a great scrawling piece of “calligraphy,”
is (along with some very dull representa-
tional pieces) one of the year’s most
dubious purchases. It is just too thin for
its size. But at least Mr Olsen writes
ardently about what he has attempted:
I say to myself I shall walk from Vic-
toria Street to William Street in the most
direct manner. If I were a Mondrian I
would say forget about the journey, just
draw a straight line, b'ut forgetting such
admonitions, let’s begin a simple adven-
ture, and see what might happen. I tipple
down the stairway—it’s morning in Victoria
Street and even with my good intentions
I stop when I arrive at the Street. 1 stop,
walk back two paces for the sun is making
the most gorgeous green through the plane
trees and I find myself rolling with the
sky—l am a little stunned by this and walk
a little crooked on the footpath, a mongrel
dog barks at me and my route becomes
curved and quicker. I meet a friend—
stop, pace back and forwards —and he gets
excited and moves his hands a lot —good-
bye—shaking hands, I must hurry, I want
to cross the street —taxis floating past and
one stops in front of me and conks me on
the mousetrap. Where I had in my mind
to walk a straight line I have to walk
around the cab in an angular fashion.
Memories of such journeys lead to paint-
ings like “Spanish Encounter.”
Among the paintings which one likes
to feel are rather more than a conk
on the mousetrap there are, chiefly,
Sidney Nolan's “Leda and the Swan,”
Leonard French's “The Garden” and
Walter Withers's “The Yarra Below
Eaglemont.”
Nolan’s Leda is hardly Yeats’s—“ Her
body laid in that white rush” —but it is
richly decorative, harlequin-like in color,
a vivid design for ballet. French’s curious
patterns are more like a form of archi-
tecture or ceramics than the work with
a single impact which we usually expect
in art but the painting is cool and quiet
and harmonious, a very distinctive
geometry. The Withers is a good Withers,
strong in composition, glowing in color,
full of light and depth and distance:
he does not fade with the years.
Paintings by Jean Appleton, Charles
Blackman, Judy Cassab, Dickerso*#,
Perceval, Helen Lempriere, Tucker,
Fizelle and Roy Fluke help to make a
lively and lavish display. There are also
about 80 aboriginal bark - paintings,
drone-pipes, etc., presented by Dr Stuart
Scougall—all worth looking at, but one
hopes the gallery is not going to be
permanently filled up with these charming
trifles. The proper place for them is
in a museum or in a separate aboriginal
gallery.
D.S.


ficUffli tit Mic
V
\
0
In this, the century of man’s navigation in
outer space, we can only wonder what the ultimate
in human achievement will be. The sky is, literally,
no longer the limit.
These are great years to be living, and I believe
they are certainly the prelude to a still more
remarkable future. Events which amaze us today
will become commonplace in after time. Some
of the applications of modern discovery, indeed,
are beyond our present imagining.
This is progress; change inevitable; and it is
good and acceptable, as it has been since civilisation
began. But it means that the standards of human
performance are being raised—in every-day affairs
on Earth, as well as in dramatic venturings out
into the Universe.
To the timid and faint-hearted, this succession
of breaks-through to the “impossible” could be
almost frightening. But to Australians with faith
and spiritual strength to inspire their action, the
practical approach to it is this:
Here, as fresh possessors of a continent, we are
living into an age that presents us with the most
marvellous means of ensuring our country’s rich
and rapid advancement.
Considering the factors of time and
circumstance, there would be no other people in
history who have been presented with such a
peerless opportunity.
It therefore becomes a question not of being
awed by physical discoveries in the earth below
or the sky above, but of having the wisdom to
apply them for our country’s development as
speedily and efficiently as we can.
The real danger in these years is not that
the world is moving along too fast, but that by
apathy or complacency we might fail to keep
ourselves and Australia abreast of its movement.
Above all, we must never let anything divert
us from our national purpose. Challenges and
doubts will sound around us. They have always
been an accompaniment to the song of human
progress. And in this Century of Space, the score
of our Australian achievement will have to be
written to its quickening beat.
//A
€?<2 cij
7
Punters Peeved
by Dandy Dazzle
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
TJeople who failed to pick Fine and Dandy as the winner of
the Doncaster Handicap were legion.
Fine and Dandy was one of the outsiders in the field, ran
an Australian record of lmin. 34|sec. for the mile, and relieved
bookmakers of huge liabilities in straight-out and doubles bets
on other runners.
On the face of his amazing feat of sustained sprinting,
somewhere down the line there should have been an indication
justifying his inclusion among the probables.
Yet both Jack Thompson and George Moore, recognised
as two of Australia’s greatest riders and best judges of form,
each declined the mount!
Thompson, who had ridden Fine and Dandy in most of his
races, chose, instead. Friar’s Peak, who finished second, just a
half-head in front of the hot favorite, Sky High, but four lengths
behind Fine and Dandy.
Moore chose Gay Port, a great galloper in his prime, but
now on the down-grade, and certainly never a horse to be really
respected at one mile.
And those astute fellows—the bookmakers—went to 40 to 1
in endeavors to entice from the public some backing for a horse
whom they rated as having no chance at all in such a high-class
field racing at one mile, a distance always held to be too far
for Fine and Dandy.
No one ever will know the secret of the horse's vast improve-
ment. Knowledge on a plane as high as that would, indeed,
have the Midas touch, but two factors induced the owners,
W. F. and F. H. Moses, to trust Fine and Dandy for a top-class
performance.
One was the knowledge that an obscure and previously
unnoticed foot complaint had been cured, and that Fine and
Dandy, a four-year-old handicapped at 8.10, enjoyed an advan-
tage over the favorite, Sky High (odds-on for most of the
betting), a three-year-old required to carry 8.9.
To all intents and purposes Fine and Dandy has normal
feet, and it was not until the present period of training was begun
that it was noticed that there was a tendency for him to come
down on the heels.
The fitting of shoes with a protective bar to keep the heels
from the ground soon gave a pretty clear indication that troubles
in the training of Fine and Dandy stemmed from his disinclina-
tion to exert himself under pressure because of the jarring on
his heels, accentuated in a race when, as he tired in a finish, he
probably went further down on the heels.
From then on a complete return to form was a possibility
which on Saturday became a certainty when a close-clipped
perfect running surface was all in favor of a horse likely to be
troubled by his heels.
"TYTew Zealand two-year-old Commanding, rated the best to
leave the Dominion for many years, raced for a prize of
nearly £45,000 in addition to the £7OOO stake-money when he
was beaten by Young Brolga in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
at Randwick.
Had Commanding won a tentative offer from U.S. for
100,000 dollars would have been confirmed, since the win would
have established Commanding the best of two worlds.
Commanding led for the greater part of the distance, but
Young Brolga easily ran past him to lower to lmin. 22fsec. the
record for the race held since 1957 by Ajax at lmin. 23|sec.
Two-year-old racing in the autumn has shown a picture
of great promise for the three-year-old racing next spring. It
is so evenly good that few would attempt to forecast the Derby
winner, although Young Brolga, a fast horse by Wilkes (imp.)
from Satara, has a pedigree suggesting that he will stay the
Derby course.


Overdoing the “Too Old” Cry
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
The catch-cry “He’s too old ’
has developed in Austra-
lian sport since the war. You
hear it particularly at the start
of a football season and at the
start of a cricket season.
The cry is prevalent in Mel-
bourne just now —and in
Sydney, too, as football fans
are advocating the scrapheap
for well-established Rugby
League internationals and
team-building around youth
for next year’s Test series
against England. As a result,
Australia discards too many
champions prematurely.
When the cricket selectors
recently announced the Austra-
lian team to tour England, the
advocates of this “too old’
theory pointed a pessimistic
finger at the ages of Richie
Benaud 30, Neil Harvey 32,
Colin McDonald 32, Wally
Grout 33, and Ken Mackay 35.
“This probably will be their
last trip,” they said. And all
through the West Indies tour
of Australia, whenever Worrell
was mentioned, commentators
almost invariably called him
the 35-year-old as if he, at that
age, could only be some sort
of bearded patriarch with
arthritis!
How pitiful to look in this
light in particular on Benaud,
who is acknowledged as the
world's best slow bowler, and
Grout, who is acknowledged
as the world’s best wicket-
keeper! If this strange theory
had existed years ago many
cricketers would not have had
a chance to reach the achieve-
ments which earned them
immortality.
ZTarrie Grimmett, probably
the greatest of slow
bowlers, is the outstanding
example. Grimmett did not
begin to set up his wonderful
Test-match performances until
he was 35. In Tests against
England he went on to take
106 wickets at an average of
32.44 apiece. Then there was
Sir Donald Bradman, who in
1948 at the age of 40, com-
pleted a Test series against
England with an illustrious
batting average of 72.
There are so many examples.
The great English opening
batsman Herbert Sutcliffe
made his highest score against
Australia, 194, at the age of
39. Maurice Leyland made his
highest Test score against Aus-
tralia, 187, after he had spent
18 seasons in first-class cricket.
Currently in Sydney, Rugby
League fans clamoring for
youngsters to displace in big
football fellows like Norman
Provan and Harry Wells, who
are still on the right side of
30, have forgotten that in 1921
Australia sent Sandy Pearce on
a tour of England at the age
of 41. Also, in Sydney years
ago Tedda Courtney was still
a great personality in first-
grade football while his son
was playing beside him. Ken
Gee, the great English Rugby
League Test front-row for-
ward, once said a man was not
tough enough or experienced
enough to play in the front
row of a Test scrum until he
was 30. Gee was 30 when he
first played for England. Most
other countries boast of
“veteran” champions, which
Australia soon will not be able
to do if the modern “too old”
theory continues.
I remember Englishman Jack
Holden won the 26 miles
385 yards marathon foot-race
at the 1950 Empire Games in
Auckland, New Zealand, at
the age of 43. Holden beat
a 24-year-old into second place
while covering the last seven
miles in bare feet that were
bleeding from cuts. Holden
went down in history after
that race as one of the greatest
marathon runners athletics has
known. Can you imagine
Australia depending on a
marathon runner at that age
in Empire or Olympic Games?
Australia has had colorful
marathon runners much older
than Holden. Percy Cerutty,
coach of the great miler Herb
Elliott, was still a great mara-
thon runner in his late 40s.
Stewart Vance did not give up
marathon running until he was
67. He never had a chance
of selection in an Australian
team, but at the age of 64 he
went on a private tour of
Europe where he proved a real
box-office attraction.
I do not advocate men in
their 60s for places in Austra-
lian teams ; far from it. But
the popularity of Vance in
Europe shows that he could
have been a colorful box-office
attraction in Australian
athletics if our “too old”
disciples had not ridiculed him.
One of the greatest of all
tennis players, American
Bill Tilden, in 1946 when he
was just 52, played the newly-
crowned world professional
champion, Bobby Riggs. The
match was a quarter-final of a
professional tournament in
America. Riggs, who was
never a man to take an oppo-
nent lightly, had to pull every
trick he knew to defeat Tilden.
Many of the world’s greatest
golfers are well up in years.
No one can reasonably argue
that big golf is less exhausting
than tennis or any other sort
of sport. The conditions under
which it is played, and the big
money attached to it, makes
it a killer among modern
sports.
Many boxers have become
champions at an age at which
many champions of much less
tougher sports have been
dropped by the wayside. There
is Archie Moore, current world
light-heavyweight champion,
who admits to being 44 —and
many boxing people claim he
is even older. A noted Ameri-
can boxing critic, Edgar Lee
Masters, once said: “I differ
from experts on fighting as to
this matter of age. A man at
31 or 34 is good enough for
any man of any age.”
English - born Bob Fitz-
simmons, who learned to
fight in New Zealand and Aus-
tralia, was 41 when he won
the world light-heavyweight
title. Fitzsimmons, who had
already been world middle-
weight and heavyweight cham-
pion, retained his new title for
two years. Nel Tarleton re-
mained supreme among the
British Empire featherweights
from the age of 25 to 41.
And so it goes.
It is a bad thing to see a
champion, who has stayed too
long, finish up with third-
raters beating him. However,
no hard and fast rule can be
laid down to say the age at
which a sportsman should quit.
It is a matter for the indivi-
dual. Some sportsmen become
champions quickly, others late.
But the ever-growing Austra-
lian belief that a sportsman is
too old when he reaches 30 is
absurd. It undoubtedly has
cost many an Australian sport-
ing fame.
"... Always gets nervous at the last moment."


Stone Back to Glasshouses?
IT would be easy to divert the
readers of Observer and
The Bulletin by indulg-
ing in an outburst of bad
temper to match Sidney Hook’s
in his rejoinder to my criticisms
of his book, “Heresy, Yes;
Conspiracy, Mo” i n the final
issue of The Observer.
But the diversion would be
two-edged. No doubt it is
diverting in a sense to see
learned men throwing about
such terms as “downright
false,” “false impression,”
“categorically false,” “sheer in-
vention,” “disingenuous critic-
ism,” “wild assertion,” “pas-
sionate bias,” “positive will to
misunderstand” with which Sid-
ney Hook, apart from the space
taken by carefully selected
quotations from himself, filled
his article.
This kind of thing, however,
diverts in another way. It
diverts the reader’s attention
from the real issues, and when
the real issues are as important
as those under discussion, it is
the scholar’s duty not to divert
his readers.
First, the title of Sidney
Hook’s rejoinder, “The Ethics
of Controversy.” It suggests
not only that I made a number
of criticisms which Professor
Hook thinks unwarranted and
describes in various bad-tem-
pered ways, but also that I gave
no evidence in my Observer
article to support these critic-
isms. Readers would assume
that the one-and-a-bit-page
article in The Observer con-
tained all the evidence I had
ever offered to support the
criticisms which I there sum-
marised.
But there has been published
and available to Professor
Hook, ever since 1955, a fuller
analysis of his book spread
over 21 pages (and including
49 footnotes) in the Spring,
1955, issue of the Australian
literary journal, “Meanjin,”
signed “Julius Stone.” Subject
to a mainly verbal correction
(which I shall later make) Pro-
fessor Hook and your readers
will find there all the criticisms,
along with supporting argu-
ments, of which Professor
Hook now for the first time, in
1961, bitterly complains. I
prepared The Observer article
by making the barest summary
of the criticisms contained in
my longer article.
“Meanjin” as far as I know,
was not then and is not now a
secret publication. Yet Pro-
fessor Hook complains nearly
six years later that I have
offered no evidence to support
the criticisms which I perforce
could only summarise in
the page and a bit of The
Observer. What then are we
to assume? Are we to assume
that he wrote his present angry
rejoinder in ignorance of the
fact that 1 had published a 21-
page article in which I had far
more fully argued all these
matters?
If this is so, then my cour-
teous reply to the ill-taste of
his rejoinder is that he ought
at least to study my 21-page
expose before he speaks again.
But if he has seen the
longer article, it would scarcely
conform to the approved pat-
terns of scholarship for him to
have written as if he had not
seen it, and thus led your
readers to believe that it did not
exist. However, in either case
I do not (as I have already
said) propose to join Professor
Hook in diverting thoughtful
readers from reading the rele-
vant materials by emulating his
capacity and taste for anger in
controversy.
Moreover, if Professor Hook
has all the time been familiar
with this almost six-year-old
article, how could he have con-
trolled his anger for all that
time, and why has it now
broken forth?
T come now to the one point
on which my New York
colleague’s rejoinder leads me
to conclude that I did in the
short Observer article use a
misleading phrase. This con-
cerned the question whether
mere Communist-party mem-
bership would, in Hook’s eyes,
condemn an academic, regard-
less of evidence of probity. I
agree that Professor Hook has
never said this, and that what
he has said is rather that he
would condemn such a person
unless that person sustained the
burden of proving that he had
never violated academic stan-
dards by reason of his member-
ship of the party. The error
in phrasing was, I assure him,
quite inadvertent in substance.
I stated the issue correctly in
terms of burden of proof in the
very sentence preceding the one
of which he complains, as well
as in the second paragraph of
my article, not to speak of my
fuller analysis of 1955.
I have now to add, however,
that the difference this correc-
tion makes to the realities of
academic life is not as great
as Professor Hook’s anger
would suggest. Professor Hook
as a philosopher, and myself
as a lawyer, both know how
difficult it is to have the burden
of proof of a negative—even
of a single act at a given time
and place. To sustain the
burden of proving innumerable
negatives at indeterminate
times and places, conceivably
over a period of many years,
may often be not far removed
from an impossible burden.
T et me now also mention an-
other of his grievances: that
I impute to him (wrongly, he
says) the view which in effect
allows political tests prior to
appointment. He says that I
misunderstand him. But should
not Professor Hook earnestly
address himself to the fact that
his own disciples sometimes
seem to “misunderstand” him
in precisely the same sense?
Dr Knopfelmacher, whose
article opened the present ex-
change, based himself on Pro-
fessor Hook’s book, calling it a
“classical exposition.” When a
colleague of independent mind
called Stone suggests that the
position of the philosopher,
Professor Hook, imports in
substance political tests on
appointment, that philosopher
can attribute it only to Stone’s
“passionate bias or a positive
will to misunderstand.” But
when a disciple. Dr Knopfel-
macher, in the very next sen-
tence after invoking Professor
Hook’s book as the basis of his
position, states in so many
words that Professor Hook is
not like “those liberals . . .
who defend the appointment of
Communists to university
teaching,” is he not reading
Hook exactly as Stone reads
him?
If Hook is sincere in presum-
ing to hector Stone for Stone’s
reading, should he not discip-
line his disciples for their si
And should he not, moreover,
re-read not only his own mind
but his own written words?
For if his words mislead those
who have presumably no “pas-
sionate bias” but rather a
passionate will to understand
him as the accepted master,
then the master cannot wash
his hands of the error of those
whom he assumes to teach, and
yet whom he allows his words
to mislead.
Presumably Professor Hook
had seen this Oberver article
of Dr Knopfelmacher. If he
has not, then it was hasty of
him to write his rejoinder to
me without calling for it, since
my article made it clear that
I wrote in reply to that article.
Dr Knopfelmacher opened
up a wide-ranging and hard-
hitting attack on alleged radi-
calism in Australian universities
by placing himself squarely on
what he called “Hook’s now
classical exposition” (the book
here under discussion). It was
specifically to this aspect of his
article that the editor invited
me to address myself, and to
which I felt a duty to address
myself.
Professor Hook gives as a
reason for his rejoinder to
me that the reader un-
acquainted with his book may
be misled by my criticisms.
By the same token, I had a duty
to do what the editor requested
in order to ensure that this
same reader was not misled into
believing that “Heresy, Yes;
Conspiracy, No” was a book on
whi c h university authorities
could base their action with
assurance of academic righte-
ousness.
Professor Hook’s long quota-
tions from himself were
selected understandably to illus-
trate his eloquent statements
of general (and, in any case,
generally known) principles for
the free exchange of ideas in
the pursuit of truth. If he had
read my fuller analysis of his
book of about six years ago he
would have known that I did
not there let his eloquence go
without praise. The duty I
had in The Observer article,
however, was not to review his
book once more but to indicate
briefly my dissents from those
of the more intricate, oblique,
and often casuistic and contro-
versial corollaries offered by
Professor Hook, which seem to
me to threaten the corpus
academicum with undesirable
investigations and procedures.
VX/hen we move from the
’"statement of broad
principles to ask what will
be the likely consequences
of investigation, given pro-
cedures or standards on
freedom of inquiry, and on
the dynamic movement of the
mind and spirit, we move into
an area involving judgment
and interpretation. While some
of the materials for judgment
and interpretation are factual,
the correctness of the judgment
or interpretation itself cannot
be proved as if it were itself
a fact. And though logic is
involved in them, their correct-
ness is also not to be proved
by logic, like a theorem of
geometry. These are matters
on which intelligent and con-
scientious men may differ, and
on which therefore men who
claim to be thus endowed must
learn to be patient, and not run
to anger and charges of “pas-
sionate bias.”
Professor Hook, I am sure,
believes in a principle which
he formulates of “the honest
give and take of discussion and
inquiry.” He should be con-
tent to leave his views, ex-
pressed as they are with both
eloquence and subtlety, along
with views that dissent from
his, to our fellow men to whom
they are addressed.
JULIUS STONE


LETTERS
Understanding South Africa
Sir,
Your correspondent A. F. C.
Henderson (B. 22/3/61) does
not fulfil his plea for “more
understanding of South
Africa,” despite his having lived
there for eight years. Some of
his conclusions about the events
at Sharpeville and their causes
confuse the issue and are in
opposition to the undoubtedly
reliable evidence produced by
Bishop Reeves and Rev. Charles
Hooper.
In denying Peter Kelly's
assertion that “the atmosphere
of the natives gathered at
Sharpeville is described as
‘picnic,’ ” he claims that “it is
very seldom that any large
gathering at the instigation of
agitators, is in a ‘picnic’
atmosphere.” Mr Henderson's
generalisation does not stand
up to the reality of Sharpe-
ville. For instance, on page
112 of Bishop Reeves's book
is the evidence of Robert Maja,
the local Presbyterian Minis-
ter :
“Counsel: Did you spend
some time there among the
crowd?
Maja: I did. I walked about
amongst the crowd, there, to
try and see if I could find (Mr
Voyi) . . .
Can you tell us what the
mood of the crowd was at that
time?”
They were happy.
Did the crowd seem to you
to be aggressive?
No.
Or hostile towards the
police?
There was nothing indicating
fighting.
You did not see any weapons
carried by members of the
crowd?
Not a single one.”
There is similar evidence
from other witnesses, including
the Sharpeville schoolteacher,
Lechael Musibi. who found the
mood of the crowd “very
calm.” Add to this the evi-
dence of plates 4, 5 and 6, and
the actuality is quite different
from that suggested by Mr
Henderson's generalisation.
Your correspondent then
goes on to make some extra-
ordinarily irrelevant statements
in an attempt to give some
reasons for the police firing
upon this crowd. He main-
tains that the police fired upon
the natives in order to save
them from the consequences of
‘Tribal hatreds” which smoulder
and are apt to burn fiercely “at
some real or imagined offence
from another tribe.” Because
of these outbursts “it is fre-
quently the unenviable task of
six or eight white South African
police to break up a tribal
fight involving 200 or more
natives, and this with little other
use of firearms than as a warn-
ing.'’ By no stretch of the
imagination could the incident
at Sharpeville be seen as an
outburst of tribal warfare be-
tween the natives gathered
there.
Indeed, an examination of
the Standing Orders of the
South African Police Force by
Bishop Reeves, reveals that
Regulation No. 741 provides
that “firing upon people is a
measure which should never be
resorted to until every other
means shall have failed to en-
sure the preservation of peace
and good order.” In the case
of Sharpeville, the fact that
705 rounds were fired into the
fleeing crowd during 40 seconds,
and this without one word or
gesture or warning from the
police, is a clear infringement
of these Standing Orders. The
evidence from the number
killed and wounded, as well as
that from photographs, proves
beyond doubt that the police
"tired recklessly and indiscrimi
nately into an unarmed crowd”
(p 92). For an action of such
stark brutality there can be no
extenuating reason or justifica-
tion, especially the absurd plea
that by indiscriminately firing
into a happy and calm crowd
of natives the police were pro-
tecting the natives and saving
them from the outburst of
tribal hatreds.
I shall not dispute here Mr
Henderson’s claims about the
lack of economic, geographic,
religious and social subjugation
for the native and about the
non-existence of a Police State
in South Africa. The answers
to such claims can only now
be made within the context of
the events of Sharpeville. In-
deed, if there is no subjugation
and no Police State how did
such events occur? His claims
about the benefits of Reference
Books must also face the test
of the realities of Sharpeville.
In addition to that, there is the
clear and very tragic evidence
provided by Rev. Charles
Hooper in his “Brief Author-
ity.” There he recounts the
effects of the police attempts
to impose Reference Books
upon the women of the Bafu-
rutse tribe in the Zeerust loca-
tion. These people had the
whole texture of their lives torn
by the intimidation and ter-
rorising of a special mobile
column of the police.
In conclusion, 1 would ask
Mr Henderson what is exactly
meant by the statement, “The
majority of South African
natives are happy people, and
are not interested in politics”?
What explicit evidence has he
for making this claim? No
doubt his working relations
with the natives were smooth
and happy, but what of the
explicit evidence about the con-
ditions of Reserve natives given
by Rev. Charles Hooper, and
that about the Johannesburg
natives given by Fr Huddles-
ton? The natives spoken about
by these two men, who shared
their lives and ministered to
them, were on the whole made
very unhappy by the conditions
of their lives in South Africa.
The bitter realities of political
rule pressed in upon them so
that they had to be more than
concerned about politics to sur-
vive.
These are the realities we
must be concerned with in
South Africa if we are to have
more understanding of her and
her people. They are the reali-
ties of human suffering and
oppression. I do not wish t#
see the people of South Africa
undergo any more chaos and
poverty and oppression than
they have suffered to this
moment, but 1 do not think
that my understanding is helped
by vague generalisations. Our
compassion for the people in
that land will only grow more
effective if it is based upon a
clear understanding of the
realities in the agony of South
Africa.
R. J. LACEY
Carlton {Vic.).
Sir,
May 1 congratulate A. F. C.
Henderson (B. 22/3/61) on his
fair and lucid letter on South
Africa from an Australian's
viewpoint?
As a South African of some
years' Australian residence, I
have been appalled at the
apparent conspiracy of the
press and radio to present the
South African race situation in
its worst and most lurid light.
While making all allowances
for the “man bites dog" stan-
dard of what is “news,” it has
been dismaying to see how the
news has been slanted, how the
biased selection of facts has
been used as propaganda
material. One gets to the stage
of imagining Communists (or
at least fellow-travellers) in
control of a large part of the
media of mass-communication
in Australia. This is, of course,


Eslab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSLT.UVAJY
f ' TY . LTD .*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS.
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
"HAVE YOU EVER <3 TRIED THIS ?’’
a feature of
The Australian
Womans Mirror
►...OET YOUR COPY TODAY f
not so, though these also do not
lack their influence.
Much can be attributed to
the comfortable feeling of being
on the side of the angels, which
has everything to recommend
it, so long as one is far enough
away to be immune from the
consequences of one's sermons:
much must be ascribed to the
sentimentality generated when-
ever the word “color” is used —
a sentimentality so fashionable
today and just as dangerous as
the phobia of a less friendly
kind evoked in a few South
Africans by the same word.
I cannot help feeling that a
rational assessment like A. F.
C. Henderson's could have
appeared only in the columns
of The Bulletin, which I trust
will always keep its feet on the
ground and its head well above
the hysterical atmosphere which
pervades so many views on the
South African question.
C. JACKSON
Yale-Columbia Southern
Station,
Mount Stromlo,
Canberra.
Sir,
As one who lived and worked
in South Africa for ten of my
best, younger years, and where
I still have irreplaceable friends
of both white races, may I
express gratitude for A. F. C.
Henderson’s masterly letter?
As a balanced and up-to-date
statement of fact, it should be
widely read and thoughtfully
digested by all who sincerely
wish to get South African
affairs into perspective.
Mr Henderson presents a
point of view which all too
seldom sees the light of day.
The majority of the uninformed
public are more profitably
catered for by purveyors of
emotionalism, and —in Britain
particularly the fashionable
cult of the “rightful" advance
of the black man at the expense
of the white is eagerly devel-
oped and fostered by leading
clerics, Socialists, and so-called
intellectuals. Some of these are
motivated by sincere, but quite
impracticable, idealism ; others
are scarcely disguised enemies
of the State.
Apartheid—in my day with-
out this ugly name —has always
been applied in South Africa.
“Dr” Nkrumah will doubtless
apply it in reverse as soon as
he can afford to do so.
As for Sharpeville, deplor-
able as the affair was, would
the outcry, I wonder, have
been so loud had that mindless,
inflammable mob been white
men instead of black?
A. V. CHADWICK
Cairns (£>.).
“A HERESY...BUT A
GENUINE HERESY”
Sir,
Professor Hook (Observer,
March 18) and “Observer”
(Bulletin, March 15) are both
wrong in regarding Commun-
ism as a kind of conspiracy
organised by a foreign Power.
Communism is no more the
product of Moscow’s machina-
tions than the class struggle is
the product of agitators. The
Communist parties are the only
political parties in the world
seriously striving to bring
about Socialism and Com-
munism, the higher stage of
Socialism. These 81 or so
parties are not offshoots and
instruments of the Soviet State
and Soviet foreign policy. The
international Communist
movement existed long before
the Russian revolution. The
Communist parties are the
direct successors of the
Socialist movements of pre-
Russian revolutionary days,
but certainly learning from the
experience of the era of the
world Socialist revolution
which was ushered in by the
Russian revolution. This is
just as true of Australia as
elsewhere.
Since the humble beginning
of the Communist movement
in the International Com-
munist League of the 1840 s,
Communism has in 112 years
become a colossal movement
of 36 million members with
strong foundations in every
continent and region and with
parties governing one-third of
the world.
This tremendous success
demonstrates that Communism
has an irresistible attraction for
large sections of the world
population, in the first place
the working class, which con-
stitutes the strongest support
for the Communist parties. But
while this class is more
attracted to the ideas of Com-
munism, for the very condi-
tion of capitalism has prepared
them to receive it, Communism
nevertheless acts in the interest
of the majority of the people,
in the interest of historical
progress.
Professor H o o k's and
“Observer's” equating of Com-
munism with conspiracy is only
another example of a catch-
cry of the cold war lifted
bodily out of the terminology
of Nazism and the Anti-
Comintern pact (Iron Curtain,
Defence of Western Civilisa-
tion, Russian conspiracy, etc.).
To accept this concept can
only lead to the sort of politi-
cal blindness immortalised by
the London “Times” on the
occasion of Lenin's death in
January, 1924:
“It may be said with con-
fidence that a disintegrating
process has begun which will
lead to the total collapse of
the party. The end is probably
only a matter of months.”
But worse, it leads to
irrationality and to the accept-
ance of the inevitability of
war.
If you intend to restore The
Bulletin to its former glory
you will need to urge the
proper study of Communism
even if you remain opposed to
it, and you will not hestitate
to support the appointment of
Communists to academic posts.
This might be a heresy, but it
is a genuine heresy.
JUDAH WATEN
Box Hill (Vic.).
Sir,
Dr Knopfelmacher's argu-
ment about Communists in
Australian universities
(Observer, 18/3/61) seems to
me to be at the same time
alarmist, irresponsible and in-
ternally inconsistent.
It is alarmist because, of the
3196 members of staff of the
various Australian universities,
somewhere between six and 12
(i.e., between one-fifth and
two-fifths of one per cent.) were
Communist-party members.
It is irresponsible because it
makes a series of what sound
like specific allegations of mal-
practices, which are in fact un-
supported by specific evidence.
These are:
(a) That there was a “par-
ticularly scandalous case” of
the use of “illicit methods” by
Communist academics in 1959-
60. (No details are given.)
(b) That the M.U. Staff As-
sociation was “controlled” by
the C.P. in 1956. (The evidence
for this is that the secretary in
1956 was Dr F. E. Emery, then
a member of the C.P. But this
evidence proves no more than
that members of staff at Mel-
bourne thought that Emery
would make a capable or
adequate secretary of their
“trade union.”)
(c) That several cases exist
of “party propaganda pub-
lished as ‘academic research'
. . . which include instances of
faked and distorted evidence.”
(Again, no specific evidence is
provided.)
(d) That “some people who
tried to resist [Lysenkoism]
were subjected to intimidation.”
(What people? When? How?)
(e) That there is “plenty of
evidence showing that [pressure,
chicanery, slander and nepot-
ism] must have been happening
in many instances.” (My em-
phasis. The “plenty of evi-
dence” remains undetailed, and
—assuming its existence—the
connection between the evi-


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divoroe.
TO EVELYN PATRICIA STURMAN late
of “Spring Valley” Swanvale near Invtr-
ell in the State of New South Wales. —-
Take NOTICE that THOMAS WILLIAM
STURMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2809 of 1960 on the Ground
of Desertion without just cause or excuse
lor three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 19th June 1961 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. RAND, DREW,
VILLENEUVE-SMITH & DAWES, of 2
Hunter Street, Sydney.—C. A. 11.
HARMS, Registrar.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers
GIJTHRIDGE PTY. LTD,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents jor
Kupiri Mugnetting Machines
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et~. Makers ot Classitier*.
uter 1-iHcrs, Steam
etc
dence and the pressure, etc.,
remains unexamined.)
Dr Knopfelmacher’s argu-
ment is internally inconsistent
because, if it is true that “C.P.
outfits of intellectuals anywhere
in the world are heresy-ridden
and a constant worry to the
party apparatus” (and I do not
dispute this proposition), there
seems little reason for his
worry —which, as I understand
it, is based on the proposition
that Communist academics be-
have in precisely the opposite
way.
If Dr Knopfelmac’ner can
support, with credible evidence,
his assertion that the 0.3 per
cent, of academics who are also
Communists are as a group
given to illicit methods, faking
evidence, intimidating intellec-
tual opponents and so on, then
those of us who are supporting
the traditional positions on
academic freedom have a case
to answer. Until then, we
haven't.
IAN TURNER
O'Connor (A.C.T.).
THE SCRIPTWRITER’S
CHANCES
Sir,
In reply to Messrs Paul
OToughlin and John Ford (B.
15/3/61): the following hard
facts come from my own ex-
periences or those of a number
of colleagues.
Before the coming of TV, I
had many scripts used by the
A.B.C. Some were half-hour
features and documentaries, but
there were also periods when
hardly a week would go by
without being asked to do a
three-minute commentary on a
news item, give a 15-minute
talk or something of the kind.
After TV arrived this ceased,
and all scripts submitted were
rejected, with the exception of
two half-hour plays for child-
ren, which were not paid for
until a year after acceptance,
although it is only fair to state
that when Mr Charles Moses
was informed of this, he replied
stating that he had taken steps
to see that such a delay in pay-
ment did not occur again. I
wrote no more such scripts for
children because I was paid
only £l5 apiece—half the usual
rate.
During the past year the only
thing of mine used by the
A.B.C. was a narrated serial of
my novel “The Red Bull.”
When I mentioned these facts
at meetings of writers I was
told that everyone else was also
failing to get more than an
occasional script accepted.
At one of our meetings we
were addressed by one of our
leading scriptwriters, whose
name is on Mr O’Loughlin’s
list. He stated that when TV
was introduced, “the A.B.C.
appeared to drop its bundle
completely as regards sound
radio,” and then added drily:
“They will find it a lot easier
to drop writers than to pick
them up again. - ’ If the A.B.C.
is now “running itself ragged
seeking radio scripts” it means
that this prophecy has been
fulfilled.
I must confess that being
one of the numerous writers
dropped by the A.B.C. was a
good thing for me in the long
run. It forced me to finish off
the novels to which I had
devoted the spare time of years.
Result: three published, two
more listed for publication, and
another two won the second
prizes in their respective classes
in the recent Rigby competi-
tions.
I also admit I worded one
sentence incorrectly in my
original letter. I should have
said that nobody has yet broken
into TV as a big-time writer in
Australia. The majority of the
successes quoted by O’Lough-
lin and Ford were gained over-
seas.
Mr Ford states that TV use
does not kill a play for live
theatre or films. Well, a lead-
ing member of the Commission
said to me: “In order not to
take advantage of playwrights,
we warn them to exploit all the
possibilities of the live theatre
before selling to us the TV
rights.”
When the A.B.C. no longer
wanted our radio scripts we
tried all the independent pro-
ducers, but none of them
would as much as look at our
scripts. One went so far as to
state that “it is doubtful if
even a Lindsay Hardy radio
serial could be sold now.” The
only offer from commercial
stations was a statement that
good advertising copy for
sound radio was now their sole
requirement.
If the A.B.C. again requires
radio scripts, why doesn’t it
apprise all those who used to
write for them of this fact?
And will Mr Ford be good
enough to send me the name of
that commercial network which
now requires scripts other
than advertising ballyhoo
and the categories? I'll under-
take to circulate the good news
among my friends.
H. A. LINDSAY
Highgate (S.A.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
N.T.: Stop trying to force a
shape on it; lifelikeness is more
important... .G. 8.: You dont
make poetry by simply chopping
prose into metrical lines... .J.D.:
Can’t think offhand of anyone
who’d be interested in your
“cycle of autobiographical tragedies
in verse” R.J.McM.: You’ve
worked it over too often; try lay-
ing it aside for a bit L. 0.:
Bully for you P.K.: Not ours.
M.B.: Your political theories
are fascinating... .D.W.: Reads like
a film script J.E.: Nearly
T.P.: Have you read Roger Fry s
translation of that same poem?
F.W.O.: No market here for
anecdotes of that kind....M.L.
and P.W.J.: “Envoy” and “The
Ambulance Man” both got a second
reading R.L.F.: Come in and
sing'-
ON WEARING POTATO EARS
Instead of ears he wore potatoes,
No mouth at all had he;
In place of eyes were two meat
pies,
A nose of cloves wore he.
Dressed in silken raiment fair,
He tumbled gently down the stair.
And all the crowd awaiting there
Just looked—just looked and
stared.
But he with youthful courage filled,
Dismissed their sneers with jeers
And walked up to the bar, and
downed
Two small beers through his ears.
S.W.L.: You’re afloat:
SAILING DAY
The Harbor looked a picture
Vendors shouted out their wares
Passengers boarded the liner
To torget about worldly cares
The ship dressed for the occasion
Many farewells were taking place
Some people walked around the
deck
Looking for a familiar face
Friends left on the dockside
Threw streamers with delight
The band played a lively tune
It was a joyful sight
Slowly the ship moved away
Unlocked emotions took charge
Songs and shouting filled the air
And cries of “Bon Voyage.”
I.D.: Hardly enough for a
story D.McK.: “Final ending
of a louse” is the most stirring line
we’ve read for many a day
D.J.A.: You need solider form
J.T.K..: It’s not too bad at all.
A.D.K.: “The Cowman’s
Lament” is the usual pathetic moo,
. ...8.M.: Writing a list like that
is too easy a way of making a
poem... .E.C.W.: Afraid the best
thing you can do with “The Battle
of Canungra” is lose it.... A.S.:
“Super-perm” needs shortening.
.... .J.S.: Tree poems wooden....
R.M.L.: Does it end there? It
doesn’t seem to have started....
G.McL.: “Bren Gun” shot through.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
'T'ASMANIAN visitors to this
year’s Royal Easter Show
included J. A. Johnston (presi-
dent of the R.A.S. of Tas-
mania), Garth Napier (presi-
dent of the N.A. and P.S. of
Tasmania), Claude Bennett, of
Exton House, Westbury, and
Gordon Edgell, of Dennistoun,
Bothwell. South Australians
present included Robert Gosse
(president of the R.A. and H.S.
of S.A.), Rex Warnes (vice-
chairman of the R.A. and H.S.),
and E. J. Withers, of Nalpa
Station, Strathalbyn. From
Queensland, among others,
there were R. S. Wilson, of
Calliope Station, Gladstone
(who judged the Herefords), C.
Parker, of Meandarra (who
judged the Shorthorns) and
G. W. N. Bassingthwaite, of
Woodlands, Greenmount.
Jimmy Edwards vvas there,
complete with hardhitter and
moustache, casting an approv-
ing eye over the Shorthorns.
(Someone asked if he was on
the short list for next Governor-
General). Dr. A. E. Darlow,
of Oklahoma A. and M. Col-
lege (U.S.A.), and W. W.
Brainard, jnr., of Marshall,
Virginia (U.S.A.), gave an inter-
national touch to the judging—
and Mr Brainard added his own
special panache, with beauti-
fully cut suit, pipe and casual
expertise, as he dealt authorita-
tively with the Angus. There
were also 26 members of the
Californian branch of the
American Farm Bureau Federa-
tion present at the Show. Ken
Goy, leader of the party, ex-
plained how they were on a
tour of Australia with a view
to possible settlement here in
future of younger members of
their voluntary organisation.
The Americans were delighted,
he said, by the quality of stock,
crops and produce on display—
“your District exhibits are
something of which any coun-
try could be proud.”
C'horthorns and Poll Short-
horns showed exceptional
quality. At the bull-sales W.
J. Freudenstein and Sons'
Omaru Event went for 5200
gns., second highest price ever
paid for a Shorthorn bull at the
Royal Easter. Bidding was
particularly brisk with the Poll
Shorthorns. At the combined
Shorthorn and Poll Shorthorn
Societies’ dinner at Sydney’s
Chevron Hotel, 750 cattlemen
and their guests saw the Sir
Ivan Holyman trophy for the
grand-champion Shorthorn bull
presented to Anthony Hordern,
jnr., for his success with Round
Hill Fireman, and the Ameri-
can Poll Shorthorn Society’s
trophy to J. D. Robertson, of
Turanville, Scone (N.S.W.), for
Albinia Maritana 4th. A guest
at this dinner was Peter White,
owner of the famous Havilah
stud, Mudgee (N.S.W.), and one
of Australia’s premier Devon
breeders, whose Havilah Pass-
port 19th fetched a record price
of lOOOgns. at the bull-sales,
being bought by H. R.
Trethewie, from Tasmania.
A ngus cattle were of excep-
tional standard. In fact,
as the American judge con-
fessed, the standard was so
high that he had a job to allot
placings. The Silverton stud of
E. W. and U. Hayward, Dela-
ware (S.A.) took ribbons in the
Hereford classes for both
grand-champion bull (with Sil-
verton Czar) and senior cham-
pion bull (with Silverton
Columbus, which, at 7000gns.,
reached a record Show price
for all breeds). Poll Herefords
were up to their usual high
standard, and the Springfield
stud (S. T. Hawkins and Estate
of C. H. Hawkins) was particu-
larly successful. Santa
Gertrudis, ably judged by R. B.
Hart, of Eidsvold (Q.), looked
impressive, especially the Aus-
tralian Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Co.’s King Ranch Excali-
bur, which was grand cham-
pion. Brigadier G. S. Hurst
had it all his own way in the
Red Poll classes and took away
a bagful of ribbons.
T. Wilson, of Dorset (Eng.),
** who judged the Guernseys,
said that the standard of Aus-
tralian Guernsey cattle w r as
beyond his expecations. F. M.
Snyder, of Ontario (Canada),
who judged the Friesians, said
that the cattle he had seen, par-
ticularly the bulls, would stand
up competition in any show' in
the world. Australian Illawarra
Shorthorns, Jerseys and Ayr-
shires were all up to their usual
high standard.
At the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Convention
held recently at Orange
(N.S.W.), Sir Earle Page pro-
posed that there should be a
partnership between Federal,
State and local authorities in
development and control of
Australia’s water resources. He
suggested that, in this partner-
ship the Federal Government,
as sole income-tax collector,
should provide capital for head-
works free of interest and re-
demption ; State Governments
should be responsible for con-
structing the water-channels ;
while local authorities would
operate in the river-basins, and
advise and assist water-users on
the spot.
Most speakers, including E.
M. Laurenson. of the Univer-
sity of N.S.W., and C. C.
Corbett, chairman of the Water
Conservation and Irrigation
Commission, agreed that a
Federal plan for water develop-
ment was essential. However
consulting-engineer G. I. Davey
dissented and said that he
thought that to place huge
sums of money into water
planning and decentralisation,
in the hope that population
would automatically accept the
decision by the State of what
is best for it, might be disas-
trous. Australia already had
industrial complexes round her
coastal cities, he said, but there
were other areas equally favor-
able for complexes, which were
as yet untouched although they
had huge natural reserves of
water. He quoted the Queens-
land coast north of Cairns as
an example of this —probably
better sited for a future indus-
trial complex than anything
Australia has so far seen.
'T'his extract from the current
A Quarterly Bulletin of the
Highlands Farmers and
Settlers’ Association. New
Guinea, describes another result
of the credit squeeze:
“The agricultural develop-
ment of a backward country
such as ours must clearly in-
volve the concurrent integra-
tion of a plantation-type farm-
ing process with emerging New
Guinean smallholders. New
Guineans must be given a full
opportunity to share the bene-
fits to be derived from the re-
sources of their country and
in foreign trade.
“This creation of a non-racial
agricultural community has :
been extended by the Highlands
Farmers and Settlers' Associa-
tion into a common front in
marketing the coffee crop. At,
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Apart from heavy falls along the north coast, good
rains in south coastal districts, and moderate rain on part
of the Darling Downs and about the Maranoa and Warrego,
Queensland is likely to have poor rainfall during April.
In May there should be good rains along the south coast
and in far south-western districts, as well as in the Maranoa
and Warrego, with moderate falls on the Darling Downs.
N.S.W. should have reasonably good general rains in
April, with heavy falls on part of the north coast, in
central western districts and on the South-west Slopes.
Similar rains should continue in May, with moderate falls
along the coast, on the tablelands and in south-western
districts during June. Rainfall may become patchy in the
second half of June.
Victoria should have general rains in April, with best
falls in east-central and north-eastern districts. General
rains should continue during May, with well-distributed
rainfall to follow until October.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should have
reasonably good general rains during April and May, with
light to moderate falls in the interior.
In Western Australia heavy falls are likely in the West
Kimberleys in April, with good falls in the western agricul-
tural areas, light rain about the Gascoyne, along the north-
west coast and around Eucla, and the south-east, and with
moderate rains elsewhere. Rainfall looks like being patchy
during May, though good falls are likely in the Kimberleys
and along the East Gascoyne and moderate rains in the
agricultural areas.
Moderate to good rains are likely in Tasmania during
April, and fairly good follow-on rains should continue until
August.
LENNOX WALKER.


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON. Managei.
{ he village level, a huge New
Guinean community which ex-
ceeds all other Territory popu-
lations in both intensity and
extent has learned to depend
upon Australians for the pur-
chase of their parchment coffee.
Australians encouraged them
to become producers and Aus-
tralians included them com-
pletely in marketing agree-
ments in Australia. In recent
weeks, several smallholders with
unpurchased coffee in Australia
and hundreds more unable to
sell their parchment coffee
locally have been talking grimly
of destroying their coffee trees
and going back to subsistance
Diane Mulligan and Alan Fleming, from Grafton ( N.S.W. ),
competitors at the Royal Easter Show.
agriculture. The threat is
genuine.
“The cause of this dangerous
situation rests mainly upon the
failure of Australian coffee
users to honor their obligations
to purchase the 1960 coffee crop
by a series of individual
agreements made in Canberra
in March, 1960. Not only have
there been a number of indi-
vidual failures to meet the
quotas indicated at that time,
but users as a whole, contrary
to the incorrect report circu-
lated by them, have failed to
take up the total tonnage. Even
bad the total tonnage been
taken up, we can see no ethical
excuse for those who have not
kept their promises to hide be
hind the fact that at least one
user has purchased more than
he estimated as his needs.
“Agents have reacted to the
credit squeeze in the face of
large unsold stocks by being
unable to make further ad-
vances. This, in turn, has
limited the purchasing power
°f Australians who normally
buy the native parchment crop.
And so, at the end of the line,
high in the mountains of Gena,
above Kerowagi, you have
those who have cut down coffee
trees with axes. It is as simple
as that.
“While some Australians
whittle at Australia’s political
influence in New Guinea, you
have other Australians happy
to destroy the economic ties
which may soon be the only
link between our two countries.
While metropolitan powers in
Europe and America see to it
that the dependent countries of
Africa and South America have
their traditional markets for
coffee maintained, you have a
virtual abandonment of New
Guinea coffee by Australians
eager to import overseas under-
grade junk, without regard for
Australia’s foreign exchange.
“The days of effortless ex-
ploitation of tropical crops are
gone. We are in the midst of
cut-throat international compe-
tition.
“Australian consumption of
the type and class of coffee
which we produce in New
Guinea is currently more than
twice our output. The price
we ask Australian buyers to pay
for this class of coffee is mani-
festly less than the value put
upon it by overseas buyers.
“We face a hostile situation
in Australia unrelated to world
prices. We, as well as wool-
growers, wheatgrowers and
dairyfarmers, are producing a
product important to the Aus-
tralian economy. The Govern-
ment has already stated that it
regards the primary producers
of this territory as deserving of
the same help and assistance
which primary producers on the
mainland enjoy. Government
action is now needed.”
R.G.


The Kangaroo Shooters
By JOHN LEWIS
A fortnight later a mag-
pie, high in a white-
wood by the muddy
lagoon, woke Jack
Liddy with sleepy gurglings like
a violinist tuning his instrument
before a conceit. In the pre-
dawn it was answered from
several points, some nearby,
some quite far away.
At this time of the morning
the still, cool inland air seems
honey-scented. You can see a
light mist hanging in thin layers
close above the earth with the
setting moon silver behind it,
and you can watch the pale
streak of whiteness turn yellow
on the eastern horizon.
Ghostly and silent, a party
of emus might stalk out of the
mist. You see the leader lift
his head high to regard your
camp with intense curiosity.
Then all will walk sedately for-
ward to inspect this strange
outfit on the ground, black
heads weaving from side to
side, eyes glittering ; the keenest
eyes in the bush. You see the
leader ruffle his neck-feathers,
swelling his throat to boom a
warning. One or two of the
party breaks off, splay feet
pounding the ground as they
dash awkwardly away. Then
as suddenly they stop and come
stalking back for another
beady-eyed inspection.
The east would be rosy now
and the magpies carolling full
voice, wagtails chirping as the
first of the kookaburras begins
cackling, as if at a humorous
recollection from yesterday.
Dawn is a busy time for
birds, a rowdy time in the bush,
just as it is at dusk before the
sudden hush of evening.
Over a hundred miles out
from Wanoona Jack Liddy had
got among the kangaroos, and
early-morning hunting had be-
come a regular part of the day’s
affairs.
Leaving his swag and scat-
tered gear on the ground he
stretched, observed the ritual
of all men fresh from sleep in
a camp, and climbed into the
cabin of the ute.
His vehicle was always re-
fuelled overnight after the
tedious business of pegging out
skins —tacking the limp, wet
hides square and flat on the
ground with wire nails around
the edges to cure in the sun and
air for baling. A hessian bag
had been hung over the wind-
This is Part II of a kangaroo-shooters’ tour of the out-
back, which is being published in three instalments.
shield to keep the dew off, and
rifles, ammunition, knives, food
and water had been set ready.
Early shooting was profitable,
while the big nocturnal mar-
supials were still feeding quietly
as they also did in the valuable
half-light before sundown.
Liddy pressed the starter and
the ute moved off for another
long day, a motionless streak
of blue oil-smoke trailing be-
hind through the ground-mist.
'Two weeks passed before the
•*- shooter was in a bar again.
It was another corrugated-iron
township in a highly improb-
able place, but you could con-
sign skins from there to the
buyers on the coast.
Jack Liddy had the bar in
the sole pub to himself until
a tough-skinned, work-crabbed
fist came past his elbow and
closed on his beer.
“Here’s a go,” said the
second drinker conventionally,
and threw back his head to
swallow the glassfull in one
long, ecstatic draught.
“Well me,” Liddy said,
watching. “Fve clocked jokers
for less than that.”
“Now don’t get down on a
bloke whose need is urgent and
great,” he was told. “A couple
here for two deserving cases,”
the newcomer called to the
aged barmaid.
He turned to Liddy and
leaned an elbow heavily on the
wooden counter, wiping his
mouth with the palm of a hand.
“Blokes argue about where
you can get the best beer,” he
went on. “But the best is what
you can get. I’ve tried ’em all.
This beer here is better than
you’ll get anywhere else because
it’s here and we’re here.”
“How’re you going, anyway,
you old bush rat?”
Now for the first time the
two grinned at each other.
Seven years since they had gone
their separate ways after pass-
ing their examinations together
in a part of the curriculum of
the Faculty of Bone-Dry
Gullies holding a mob of
leggy cattle together over vari-
ous indifferent stock routes for
14 months and arriving in the
Channels with a few more than
when they started.
What Pat was doing in this
town Liddy did not know.
That would come later. When
men meet again after long
periods it is often as if they
had parted only the previous
week. With their womenfolk,
meeting again is rarely like this.
Reunited women have their
threads to pick up anew, their
thin feelers of friendship to
extend and cautiously touch
and tie all over again. It is
necessary for women to re-
discover one another, to probe,
to see how the interval had
changed the other.
Jack had heard of Pat only
once in the years since, when
he was said to be cane-cutting
on the coast. But now, with-
out any show of curiosity or
surprise, delight or caution,
they took up the conversation
broken years before. Their
only concession to the occa-
sion was to drink until the
became unsteady and mildl!
hysterical at puny jokes aj
drunks do.
Pat had left Bourke three
days before: “Havin’ a bite
a break there ... Been workit
on Catandoola. Dam-sinkin
y'know? Contract cut out
Met a cocky in Bourh
reckoned he owed me fifti
quid. Heard you had the pui
up at Wambo, always meant tt
look you up. Never did. This
cocky gives me his fifty quit
so 1 stayed for another weel
. . . Shooting? I'll come wit!
you. I got a jeep, gear. Igo
a while to put in before vm
start with the plant on Sidden
ham Downs. West of Wanaat
ing, that's the corner, Jack
Nine inches of rain in foil
months. Grass like a wheal
field, I tell you. My oath! J
'roo behind every tussock.”
days’ travelling west
A with winter skins now bein;
packed onto the two vehicle
every hour, the armature of thi
ute's generator burnt out 1!
miles from a leasehold home
stead. The battered, worn-ou
little truck was coaxed on \
half-charged battery into thi
dozen or so whitewashed build
ings that made up the statioi
headquarters. Here was some
thing that could cost a fort
night’s delay while the winte
slipped away. It would be un
likely that the station peopli
would be able to help, i
spare would have to be se»
up from Sydney.
“I got a reconditioned arma
ture here in an old engine wi
use for pumping sometimes,
the busy, greasy-handed wind
mill expert told Liddy. “Givi
me an hour to clean up thi
job for Bob and I'll get onti
yours.”
Bob was the manager.
“We’re after ’roos,” Lidd;
told a hardbitten Bob in won
riding gear.
“Go and see George in thi
store,” he advised. “He’s go!
the phone over there. B
should be able to tell you some
thing.”
George was just finishing
lunch.
“I’ll phone Allan Simpson,
he said at once. “Noonamat
is good ’roo country. Eight)
thousand acres. Six thousant
’roos shot there last season ...
He was busy with the ancien
wall-set. “Hello, hello —thaj
you, Allan? Listen, couple of


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNET,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON. Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
Rhone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States ) 16/20 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
coves here from Queensland
’roo-shooting. Any good com-
ing over there?” He listened,
then asked, “How are you two
travelling? Ute and jeep. Ute
and jeep, Allan. Should get
through, you reckon? Yes,
right-oh. I’ll send them down.”
George hung up the hand-
piece. “Take the Wilcannia
road over the Paroo and turn
left —seventy miles. Can’t miss
it.”
There was no bill for the
armature.
“You might have a chance
to get me out of bother some
time,” the windmill expert ex-
plained. “I don’t mind giving
a bloke a hand. But don’t oil
them generator bearings. The
sand sticks in the oil and chops
them straight out around here.”
On the way to Noonamah
the shooters called for petrol
at another property. The lease-
holder himself measured the
fuel out carefully and charged
them twice the ruling price, so
they didn’t take much. . He
also asked them for 10s. for a
disused four - gallon kerosene
tin from a great stack of them.
“Should have known better
than to have gone into Spear-
grass Jenkins’ place,” Pat swore
later. “Meanest man alive, must
be. Clive Ogden on the other
side spent a lot of money to
find that out, couple of years
ago. Hardest man to get
money out of this side of the
black stump.”
“Clive went to a solicitor in
Bourke. ‘See here,’ he said.
‘Repairing that fence between
me and Speargrass cost four
hundred quid, and he won’t
pay his half. Do you reckon
I could sue him?’ ‘You could,’
the solicitor told Clive. ‘And
you’d get your verdict. Then
you’d wait your turn.’ ‘Are
there others ahead of me?’
Clive asks. ‘About thirty,’ the
solicitor tells him. Speargrass
is right—thin, sharp and curly.
He never pays anybody. Got
a rule against it.”
lYow the shooters lived mainly
off the land; wild goat,
emu eggs and duck and fish
when they hunted near the
Paroo river. The difficulty was
to shoot a goat not heavy with
kid in that fertile, sun-sodden
land ; you had to spot a young
one. Emu-nest hunting became
an art. The emu sites its nest
near brambles in a clearing
where the sitting bird—the
cock has an uninterrupted
view all around. When he
sights danger he lowers his
feathered body, even stretching
his snake of a neck out along
the ground, and you have to
look hard to find him.
As you approach he inches
off the nest on corny elbows,
away from those precious
green eggs. Then he rises to
his feet and streaks off, neck
extended and skinny feet
pounding like pistons. You
soon learn that an emu with
neck thrust horizontally and
agitated skirts means a nest
somewhere nearby, and then
you pinpoint the distant spot
and investigate. You learn,
too, to leave an egg or two in
the laying season. Then the
female will return and lay
more.
Liddy and Pat once collected
eggs from seven nests three
times weekly for nearly three
weeks. When they neglected to
do so the hen bird completed
her lay and the cock took over,
so that the insides of the eggs
quickly became blood-streaked
and the chick formed. With
out-of-the-way nests the two
men robbed only once and
with their regular layers they
collected hundreds of eggs,
many of which they gave to
the station cooks.
For fishing you find the best
bait is the brown tree-frog
which you catch around the
water’s edge at night by torch-
light. Yellowbelly and cod
cannot resist tree frog.
After a day’s hunting you
throw several lines into the
wide waterhole in the sandy
river bed and then move away
five or six chains to wash off
the dried kangaroo blood that
cakes you arms and legs.
Usually there would be a fish
on the hook when the shooters
returned, big enough to feed
them both.
On camps here Liddy was
often woken at night by the
strange chopping noise big cod
make while feeding, and some-
times, lying in the blankets,
pain would remind him that
during the long busy day he
had forgotten to take the heart
pills. Then he would curse and
feel for the bottle in his pocket.
Y\/hen they had shot-out the
thickest marsupial country
on Noonamah the men drove in
to the homestead for a con-
ference with Simpson.
“Try Noceleche,” he advised.
“It’s on your way. Take the
phone there. I have to get
away, got a muster on.”
He left them in the cool old,
earth-walled station office. Pat
walked outside with him, rum-
maged under the jeep seat while
Simpson strode off for the
yards, and returned with the
dog-eared district map.
“Here she is,” he stabbed a
grimy thumb at the map,
spreading it for Liddy. “ ‘Noce-
leche, J. W. Treweeke, Esquire.’
She must be over 300,000 acres.
Bit of elbow room there. Give
’em a ring, Jack.”
Liddy cranked the handle,
raised the bush exchange,
asked for the distant station,
waited. Presently a thin voice
came squeaking over the wira:
“Hello?”
“That Noceleche?”
“Yes.”
“Can I have a word or two
with Mister Treweeke, please?”
“I suppose so. But you’ll
have to speak up.”
“Is he hard of hearing?”
“No, but he’s been dead
twenty-two years.”
“I see. Can I speak to his
successor?”
“You are.”
“Good. I’m a ’roo-shooter
from Queensland. I got a
mate. We’d like to shoot on
Noceleche if that’s all right.”
Eighty miles off, Treweeke’s
successor thought about it.
Then: “I gave the shooting to
a Queenslander last month, but
he only stayed a few days. He
cleared out without telling me.
I’m a bit doubtful about
Queenslanders.”
“But if he hadn’t gone there’d
be no room for us.” Jack
Liddy had been arranging
shooting-rights with owners and
managers for many years.
“Eh?”
“If there are plenty of ’roos
we won’t go while there’s any-
thing left to shoot. See many?”
“Mobs of ’em.”


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established ISOS in Reign of
Georqe 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S. ll'. Branch:
Kindersle.v House,
Bligii - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
start Ihe (lay right?
r
WM:
msr
-
Lo»** c
F&VJ
eho eB
•SKS*
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/,-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
“Where could we start?”
So it was arranged ....
follow the Wilcannia road
twenty-eight miles past the
homestead turnoff, come to a
grid, follow that fence, come
to a dam, a mill further on.
Look around there.
“ . . . . You'll find all the
’roos you want.”
“Thanks. Can we get meat
from Noceleche?”
“Yes. Come to the shed and
I’ll give you a sheep when you
want one. All I want is the
skin back.”
If you don’t ask for meat it’s
a clear indication that you are
going to eat sheep or cattle un-
asked, and a man who would
do that would do other ques-
tionable things as well. Shooters
clear a property of animals that
are better judges of grass than
men, eating the best of it and
a lot of it. And it’s handy for
a grazier to have an experi-
enced shooter on a place, a man
who will repair a mill if he finds
it not working, help in a fire,
pull weakened sheep from bog-
holes as he comes across them.
You can make yourself very
popular indeed by stiffening a
dingo or two. You wring every
drop out of the event by tying
the scalp to the windshield
frame and leaving it there on
display until it falls into tatters.
A good scalp will last for
months.
But it cuts back the other
way, too. Some shooters open
fences with pliers where there
are no gates and omit to strain
them up again after they have
driven through, they loaf in
camp, leave heaps of carcases
around troughs. One owner
once accused Liddy of bring-
ing burrs onto the place when
he saw a spined seed clinging
to a sheepskin jacket on the
truck.
Jack hung up and turned to
Pat: “What’s the date on
that map of yours?”
Pat searched and found the
small print. “Nineteen-twelve,”
he admitted. “She’s not all that
fresh.”
Most of the road into the
new hunting ground was a
rough formation bulldozed
through reddish sand. Budthea
and hopbush grew scruffily
away on either side, with low
box on the flats and ironwood,
rosewood, whitewood and
Leopardwood standing in small
level groves like suburban
parks. Along the Paroo you
find yarran, a black coolibah,
and endless canegrass in the
hollows. Mulga covers mile
after mile of the red earth, and
wind-rippled dunes shout of
over-stocking in droughts,
rabbits and soil erosion.
Most of the men you meet
are pleased to see you and most
of them have something to say
to interest you. You can ask
nothing more of a man. You
are aware of different qualities
in a woman, but with a man
it's that he must interest you
with what he says. Just off the
track the shooters discovered a
solitary rider boiling his mid-
day billy in the mulga. They
stopped the two vehicles to
join him.
The wiry stockman had been
a jockey, they discovered with-
in a few minutes, and it seemed
he would live those days for-
ever :
“Racing's exciting but un-
certain. You got a lot of
dough today and broke to-
morrow. A trainer gets a lot
of horses too slow to raise the
dust, but mind you, if you get
a champion, you know it as
soon as you lay hands on him.
There's something different
about his personality. Now
they tell me it’s all scientific.
A horse is no good without a
good heart, and now they got
this cardiograph. So you get
this cardiograph taken before
you train him or before you
even buy him.’’
“What d'you do for money
when you get a run of outs?’’
“Different things. Sell bombs
to racehorse owners up the
country.”
“Good bombs?”
“Well, they thought they
was all right. They didn't see
us makin’ them up, though—
APC powders and bit of fat
and red paper. Pay a fiver
each.”
“Did you have a good bomb
for your own horses?”
“Cripes, yes. Blow you into
your grandchildren's laps!”
“Do they bomb a lot of
horses?”
“Bomb ’em! They're all
bombed. Even Phar Lap was
bombed. But they overdid it
and killed him. There’s some-
thing rigged about every race
except some of the really big
ones sometimes , . . ”
There’s straight talk in the
isolation of a mulga scrub.
T iddy and his mate covered
nearly a quarter of a mil.
lion acres of Noceleche, and
these camps were the most,
profitable of all.
Tallies soared. Day after day*
there was the quiet drive, eyes
searching. What might be
through that clump of timber?
Or over that gibber-strewn
jump-up? You never lose a
tingle of excitement when the
massive red bucks rear up, as,
you stalk on foot behind a'
clump of hopbush. You aim
steadily, carefully judge wind-
age, elevation. You centre on
the rump, delicately squeeze off
the shot, exult at the sound of
the bullet striking true:
W-H-A-M thump! Report and,
killer-thump come almost to-’
gether.
At night in a jeep in those
enormous paddocks you can'
drive almost where you please.
Pat's rotating spotlight threw' a
beam that made night shooting
surer than day. You can drivci
closer to the feeding marsupials
in the darkness and the hunting
becomes a monotonous, effici-
ent job of work for money.
Shooting becomes easy. Labor-
ing at skinning, and fighting to
stay awake, is the hard work.
And always there is the pegj
ging-out, the taking-up of
cured skins, preparing them
for market.
Night shooting is production-
line stuff. The day shooter
works with skill and caret
against a wild animal with!
senses of sight, scent and hear-’
ing at the highest pitch. This
is hunting as humans knew it
before our own senses weie
dulled by an unexciting en-
vironment of our own makinf
to a tune of progress that is
merely change.
Day shooting is hunting as
earlier humans would have
enjoyed it, and it satisfies the
hunter in the same way. But
night shooting is the modern,
factory-like mass-production of
skins.
Liddy and Pat grew beards,
and their stockpiles of uncon-
signed skins had mounted into
seven fat, waist - high piles
heavily weighted with logs
when Owens showed up.


IT was quite late at night.
They had finished pegging
out and were drinking rum
from tin pannikins when the
late-model car came bumping
incongruously through the iron-
woods. After its piercingly
white lights snapped off the
firelight played evenly on its
chrome, its glossy sides. Owen's
town plumpness and air of
wellbeing mated well with the
car.
“ ’Day! ” The door closed
with a tight snap and the voice
boomed richly. “Name of
Owens.” He swaggered to-
wards the tired shooters. “Pass-
ing through the station on
business. Thought I better
look you up. Heard a bit
about you.”
“Take a seat,” said Pat.
“Thanks. How’s it going?
In among ’em, by the look of
things.” A nod indicated the
hundreds of stacked skins.
Owens was quick.
“Getting a few,” said Liddy.
“Like a snort?”
“Don’t mind.”
The fat man sighed as he
seated himself on a pine box
that creaked under him. lack
Liddy passed him the bottle
and an enamel cup.
“Come a long way.” The
bottle gurgled in Owens' hand.
Liddy placed a blackened
billycan of cool water by his
polished shoe. Owens splashed
water into the cup and drank
greedily, coughed and sighed
again.
“Ah! Better. So you're in
among ’em?”
“Oh. yes.”
“Prices easing, you know.
“Yair?”
“Down already. Lots of
’roos been shot this winter.
Where you send ’em?”
Pat said quickly, “Haven't
“Well, now.” Owens looked
solemn, jowls heavy in the
flickering firelight. “Well now,
I’ll take ’em if you like. I got
a buying agency in Bourke, sort
of on the side.”
“How are your prices?”
“Based on Sydney prices.”
“Based on them?”
“Well you know, it’s hard to
compare local prices with what
you read in the papers about
Sydney prices.”
nr'HERE hadn’t been a paper in
the camp for weeks but
there was a cranky battery
wireless Liddy used infre-
quently, its sole purpose to keep
tabs on how the market was
moving.
“Yair.”
“There’s different things to
take into consideration.”
“Yair?”
“You got advantages in sell-
ing out here.”
“Sure,” Pat agreed. “We'd
like to get cash in the hand
but you can’t lose money on it.”
“ ’Course you can’t!”
“What’s your deal, anyway?”
“Well, you see how it goes.”
The voice fell now. Drowsiness
was overcoming Liddy but he
stayed awake for the rest of
it, without much hope. “It
goes like this. I give you a
cash cheque on a Bourke bank.
You cash it —you dodge in-
come tax.”
“I never thought of that,
Jack,” said Pat. “You hear
that, Jack?”
“You save all that tax,”
Owens enthused. “Not only
that; you save freight and
commission.” He gazed around
again at the mountains of skins.
“How many you got?”
“Twenty-two hundred and
thirty-six,” said Liddy sleepily.
“All well pegged and cured,”
added Pat.
“That’s fine,” said their
visitor. “So many skins I get
are badly got up.”
“We been at this game be-
fore. What are you paying a
pound?”
“Matter of fact I buy on the
skin. I don’t buy per pound.
Fairest all round.”
“Pity. Jack and I never sell
that way. Only classed skins,
graded, weighed, sold by the
pound.”
“Well, of course, if you like
it that way. How many you
say you got?”
“Over two thousands.”
“Tell you what, I got a
spring-scale in the car. I’ll
weight out a couple, tell you
what to expect.”
“We can tell you how much
this lot will weigh. Give us a
per-pound price.”
“If you send ’em to Sydney
sent any away for a good
while.”
“You want to be quick,
boys.” The newcomer reached
for the bottle again. “You
know how these prices go.”
Liddy lay back on his swag
and looked at the stars reflec-
tively. Pat sat up. From now
on Owens was his particular
concern. Liddy was too tired
to be bothered. His scholar-
ship told him what was coming,
and his chest hurt and he
needed rest.
“Matter of fact we’re just
thinking of getting ’em away,”
Pat said.
“My compliments to the chef !”
you’ll be up for a lot of rail-
way money.”
“Nineteen quid a ton.”
“What?”
“Under tuppence a pound.”
“Listen.” Owens took an-
other swallow. “There’s dust
in them skins. See it from
here. If you send ’em to —wjho
did you say?”
Pat said, “I didn't.”
“Oh, well. If you send ’em
to Sydney they’ll take off two
or three per cent, for dust.”
“Never heard of it.” Pat was
shocked. “Dust?”
“You don’t know Sydney
buyers. They take off for dust
and tare and trim and that.”
“We send ’em to Native Skin
Exports,” Pat revealed.
Owens became earnest: “I
don’t want to say anything
about Native Skin Exports;
matter of fact, I do some busi-
ness there myself. They’re a
reputable company. You do
what you like. But you deal
with me you get your money
right away. No delay. You
just walk away with the money
in your pocket. No tax.”
“Well,” Pat wanted to know
again, “what’s the price a
pound?”
“Just let me weight a couple.
I’ll give you the price per
dozen.”
“Look, Sydney’s still paying
nine-and-nine for tops. What
you pay?”
“Six-and-six,” said Owens
sullenly, and there was a deadly
silence in the camp. Liddy
opened his eyes. Without look-
ing he could see the mountains
of skins about them, the yield
from weeks of labor, from
months of thinking and plan-
ning before that, and the years
that rolled away before that
again.
Into his mind came thoughts
of the hundreds of hasty, care-
ful stalks, of the tension while
he lined up a buck on a wind-
swept mulga slope, of the jubi-
lation and disappointments.
Of the frustrations and dis-
comfort. He thought of long
night hours spotlighting while
this fat man slept warm, of
fingers numb with frost fum-
bling for heart pills to take
with water that had turned to
ice in the pannikin overnight,
of Pat and him tired and terse
with purpose as the hours of
darkness ebbed away and the
Southern Cross sank lower
down the sky. He thought of
the stockmen and young
jackeroos, blackboys and other
part-time shooters whom this
fat man had taken-in.
“You go and jump in a
lake,” Liddy said, and closed
his eyes.
[End of Part ll]


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
John Mcllwraith Industries, Ltd.
Shareholders were delighted by a one-
for-four bonus distribution of scrip,
March, 1960. Sales were a record, earnings
rose, and 15 p.c. dividend rate was main-
tained despite the bonus issue. Expansion
continues.
Originally founded more than a
century ago, the Victorian - registered
John Mcllwraith Industries Ltd is one of
the largest manufacturers of builders'
and plumbers' supplies in the Common-
wealth. Its products are distributed
throughout Australia and include sheet
lead and lead pipes for acid plants,
plumbers’ brassware, baths, sinks, basins,
hospital equipment, electric stoves,
stovettes, stainless steei sinks and washing
machines.
Last term paid capital rose by
£613,685, following the acquisition of
three additional subsidiaries: F. J.
Wadham and Sons Ltd (Adelaide manu-
facturer of plumbers' brassware), Jury
and Spiers Lid (South Australian pro-
ducer of brass rods and tubes, and copper
and lead fittings) and Hobart Plumbing
Supplies Pty (Tasmanian merchants). The
takeovers, financed by share issues at a
premium, netted £150,065 in share
premiums.
After the balance date, John Mcllwraith
took over Metal Products Holding Co.
Ltd. (Brisbane), issuing about £150,000
10s. ords. as purchase consideration. In
addition, the co. acquired Brent Indus-
tries Pty and Buchanan, Cameron and
Roberts Pty. Purchase consideration was
320,000 10s. ords. and 190,000 ss. ords.
(shares were split into ss. units in the
meantime) respectively.
A new factory was erected for the
subsidiary L. J. Morgan Pty at Coburg
(Vic.), and operations are being trans-
ferred there from Richmond. The ware-
house at Little Collins Street (Melbourne)
was sold for £250,050 and a new property
was purchased at North Richmond (Vic.).
During the year £150,000 additions to
Sydney properties were completed. This
will house the plant for the extrusion of
brass rods and tubes.
Sales were a record. The co. had a
very successful year. Consolidated trading
profit for the year ended June 30. 1960,
was £370,917 higher at £1,224,579. After
paying all expenses, providing £100,084
for depreciation (up £22,778) and setting
aside £452,800 for taxation (up £170,538)
consolidated net profit rose by a hefty
£176,393 to £661,649.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 34.5 p.c. on the bonus-swelled average
ord. capital, compared with 31.9 p.c. in
the previous term, 30.6 p.c. in 1958,
27.5 p.c. in 1957 and 27.2 p.c. in 1956
(all on lower average capital):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, r Dividends — serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1954. .304,237 124 p.c. - 168,630 135,607 470,682
Goodwill written-off, £6OOO .. .. 470,682
Unexplained addition, £l2 .. .. 470,694
1955. .390,854 124 p.c. = 168,630 222,224 692,918
1956. .366,793 124 „ ~168,630 198,163 891,081
1957. .371,346 13J ~ ~185,493 185,853 1,078,934
Share premiums, £260,623 .. .. 1,337,557
Goodwill written-off, £225,000 . . 1,112,557
1958. .455,033 15 p.c. = 223,240 231,793 1,344,350
Assets revaluation, £153,834 .. 1,498,184
1959. .485,256 15 p.c. = 227,586 257,670 1,755,854
Share premiums, £150,065 .. .. 1,905,919
Assets revaluation, £558,923 .. .. 2,464,842
Reserves capitalised, £426,185 .. 2,038,657
1960. .661,649 15 p.c. = 287,675 373,974 2,412,631
* Subject to intangibles, £995,235 at 30/6/60.
Tax provision looks a bit solid on the
consolidated net earnings, disclosed, but
the situation is complicated by acquisition
of new subsidiaries.
The dividend rate was steady at 15 p.c.
despite the bonus issue, and the cheque
absorbed £287,675. Reserves benefited
£373,974. Share premiums arising from
scrip issues to finance takeovers amounted
to £150,065. The co. revalued some of
its assets, writing them up by £558,923.
Of this £426.185 was capitalised as the
one-for-four bonus issue, leaving total
consolidated reserves and undistributed
profits at £2,412,631 (subject to £995,235
intangibles).
There was a substantial rise in funds
employed. Liquidity improved. Theoreti-
cal working capital increased by £154,941
to £1,717,420. Bonus scrip and issues of
shares to finance takeovers lifted paid
capital to £2,473,366 in ss. fully paid ords.
Current stocks were £343,872 higher
at £2,101,177. Book debts rose by
£338,210 to £1,311,903:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,517,240 £1,517,240 £2,130,925
Reserves . . . . 1,344,349 1,755,854 2,412,631
Outside interests.. 2 2 2
Overdraft . . .. 257,543 328,692 470,298
Loans. . . .. 460,881 439,690 505,890
Creditors . . . . 351,494 412,881 583,255
Tax provision .. 321,268 314,071 484,632
Final div. .. 113,793 113,793 159,819
£4,366,570 £4,882,223 £6,747,452
Land, buildings . . 808,447 1,109,959 1,560,173
Plant, etc. .. 560,899 609,372 759,058
Investments .. 17,562 17,562 17,562
Stocks .. .. 1,645,204 1,757,305 2,101,177
Debtors, etc. .. 920,354 973,693 1,311,903
Cash . . .. 690 918 2,344
Intangibles .. 413,414 413,414 995,235
£4,366,570 £4,882,223 £6,747,452
Bank accommodation, and creditors in-
creased. Net tangible asset backing works
out at Bs. 4d. for each ss. ord. unit after
the share split, on the basis of consoli-
dated accounts.
Since 1952 the earning rate on the
constantly growing average paid capital
has risen from 20.6 p.c. to 34.5 p.c., and
the dividend distribution from \2\ p.c.
to 15 p.c. This is a remarkable per-
formance. Expansion continues and John
Mcllwraith has every claim to be classed
as an excellent growth stock.
Directors report “record sales and
profit” for six months to December 31,
1960, despite the restrictions on credit
introduced by the Federal Government
in mid-November last year. The earning
rate on the average capital “was main-
tained” during the last half-year.
Since then, “Government economic
controls are creating difficulties in the
building industry. The rate of com-
mencements of new houses has fallen in
the last few months, and if that trend
persists it could affect the level of the
co.’s sales and profits.”
However, the directors feel confident
that “despite any temporary difficulties
in the next few months . . . the co. will
have another very satisfactory 12 months
to June 30, 1960.” The 71 p.c. interim
dividend paid on March 31 is an en-
couraging indication that the 15 p.c.
annual rate will be maintained.
The co. has some South African
connections. Although the position
may change in the long run, at this
stage it is unlikely that the Union's with-
drawal from the Commonwealth will
have any immediate adverse economic
effects on the co.’s activities in that
country.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
looked interesting at 20s. 6d. a unit. The
immediate return is 3.7 p.c. on the basis
of the steady 15 p.c. dividend rate.
Buckingham’s Ltd.
Otrong consumer demand during last
term improved turnover and re-
sulted in higher consolidated net earn-
ings, despite a loss incurred by a sub-
sidiary. Things looked more promising,
compared with a very lean year in 1958-
59. The dividend rate was lifted from
5 p.c. to 6 p.c.
Registered in N.S.W. in September,
1920, Buckingham’s Ltd is a major
Sydney retailer. The group operates the
“Ashleys Buckingham"’ and “Curzons”
chains of stores in the centre of Sydney,
and in the suburbs of Parramatta, Hurst-
ville, Bankstown, West Ryde, Fairfield,
Ashfield, Caringbah and Chatswood. In
addition, there are “Ashleys Buckingham”
stores in Wollongong, Newcastle,
Katoomba and Blackheath and a
“Curzons” store in Wollongong (all
N.S.W. country centres, within about a
100 miles radius from Sydney).
The drastic overhaul of stocks and
trading lines in the previous year and
good demand helped last term’s trading.
One subsidiary showed a loss, but con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
July 31, 1960 was £64,314 higher at
£79,158, after providing £3823 for depre-
ciation and setting aside £40,588 for
taxation (up £27,990):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends s To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. r~ Old. ■, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c.
1954.. 5938 10 p.c.= 70,200 39,150 532.104
Assets revalued, £200,000 .. .. 732,104
Special provision for collections,
£7539 739,643
1955.. 5938 12-lp.e.= 87,750 58,713 798,356
Pre-acquisition reserves, £10,969 . . 809,325
Net increase provision for collec-
tions, £10,707 820,032
1956.. 98,349 5938 lljp.c.= 78,975 13,436 833,468
Net increase provision for collections,
£14,170 847,638
1957.-112,002 5938 10 p.c.= 70,200 35,864 883,502
Special prov. for collections, £51,902 935,404
1958.. 119.008 5938 10 p.e.= 88,100 24,970 960,374
Net reduction reserves, £19,325 . . 941,049
1959.. 14,844 5938 5 p.c.= 46,558 903,397
Net increase provision for collections,
£19,682 923,079
1960.. 79,158 5938 6 p.c.= 55,868 17,352 940,431
* Subject to £61,547 intangibles at 31/7/60.
After paying the preference divs., this


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Deltin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: "Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
Davis, Rothweil & Co.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
193 Summer St., 48 Fitzmaurice St.,
Orange 4054. Wagga 2436.
117 Pitt St., Sydney. 11L, 1855 (3 lines)
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“RETEP,” Sydney.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(iron ml Floor,
The National .Mutual Life Building,
2!)7 <{ueen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: HI 2761 P.O. Bo*
(1 Lines) No. 1887VV
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the rest
of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
represented an earning rate of 7.9 p.c. on
the higher average ordinary capital, com-
pared with 0.95 p.c. in the previous
year, 12.7 p.c. in 1958, 15.1 p.c. in 1957,
13.1 p.c. in 1956 and 20.8 p.c. in 1955.
The higher 6 p.c. dividend rate was
adequately covered. Reserves benefited by
£17,352, and also by £19,682 net in-
crease in reserve for collections. Total
reserves and undistributed profits were
disclosed at £940,431, subject to £61,547
intangibles.
“In response to applications lodged by
option holders, the issued capital was in-
creased on July 31, 1960, by £322,088,
of which £209,200 was received in cash,
and £112,888 satisfied by the surrender
of 64- p.c. unsecured notes.” New shares
rank for dividend as from August 1, 1960.
Paid capital is now £1,372,005 in 475,000
5 p.c. ss. redeemable prefs. (to be re-
deemed by April 30, 1961) and 7,525,000
ss. ords.:
Consolidated Balance sheet.
Taid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £118(750 £118,750 £118,750
Old 931,167 931,167 1,253,255
Reserves* .. .. 960,374 903,397 940,431
Mortgages. . . . 268,800 237,067 249,800
Notes .. . . 351,000 351,000 238,112
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . . . 2,119,561 1,741,406 1,592,905
Provision unearned
income .. . . 81,163 73,391 73,081
Staff fund . . 20,433
Final divs. . . 49,527 49,527 30,903
£4,900,775 £4,405,705 £4,497,237
Land, buildings . . 1,142,512 966,630 1,002,303
Fixtures, fittings .. 544,099 603,726 597,924
Shares . . . . 27,788 38,171 44,435
Stock .. .. 1,122,768 985,826 983,811
Debtors .. .. 1,967,279 1,717,389 1,791,879
Cash .. .. 15,271 14,235 15,338
Intangibles .. 81,058 79,728 61,547
£4,900,775 £4,405,705 £4,497,237
* Includes reserve for collections, £159,431 at
July 31, 1960.
Consolidated balance sheet disclosed a
decrease in creditors, tax provision, etc.,
and a slight rise in book debts. Intan-
gibles were lower. Liquidity was satis-
factory. Net tangible asset backing
works out at Bs. 6d. for each ss. ord.
Retailers have been feeling the pinch
of the Federal Government’s deflationary
measures. Business is slacker in the
industry generally, and inventories are
building up. If some form of imports
control is reintroduced, the retailers may
stand to lose several attractive sales
leaders. Competition is becoming keener,
but demand should improve if the credit
squeeze is eased.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands below par at 4s. a unit.
At this price the scrip is interesting.
The immediate return is an attractive
7.5 p.c. on the basis of the present 6
p.c. dividend rate.
H. L. Brisbane and Wunderlich Ltd
ILfR H. L. Brisbane told shareholders
of W.A.-registered H. L. Brisbane
and Wunderlich Ltd, at the annual
general meeting in Perth last September,
that “There is once again a feeling of
optimism and confidence throughout in-
dustry in this State, and the temporary
stagnation of the past few years appears
to be overcome.”
Mr Brisbane’s views were expression
of a conservative and calculated estimate
of the future, a future which held con-
siderable promise for the co., the more
so as the co. had just run up its best
performance, profit-wise, in five years.
Sales, for the 12 months to June 30,
totalled £1,816,627 (up £346,482 and a
record), and net profit was a much im-
proved £112,039 (up £21,575). B. and
W.’s 20s. ords. rose quickly to touch
455. 7|d., Perth Change reflecting the
general tenor of enthusiasm prevailing
throughout W.A.
But the fiscal measures introduced by
the Commonwealth Government in
November, directed, inter alia, at certain
sections of the building industry, have
checked expectations of better times in
W.A., and the first, rather tentative signs
that the Western Australian economy was
recovering from a “temporary stagna-
tion” have been obliterated. B. and W.’s
20s. ords. are currently fetching 40s. 6d.
B. and W. is the largest manufacturer
of roofing-tiles and the main supplier of
stainless-steel products to the Western
Australian market, as well as a glass-
merchant and shopfitter. As such its
progress, at least to a large extent, is
necessarily tied to rates of activity in
the building industry, currently hard hit
by the credit restrictions. Other products
include stoneware, sewerage-pipes, alu-
minimum window - frames, etc., and
curtain-walling, crockery, pottery, bricks,
glazed architectural terra-cotta, facing-
tiles and refractories.
The co. was formed originally in 1929
as H. L. Brisbane and Co. Ltd. It adopted
its present title in 1938 when the big
N.S.W.-based Wunderlich Ltd acquired
a substantial shareholding in exchange
for interests held in W.A. There are seven
factories in all, one recently erected (at
Osborne Park last term to manufacture
aluminium-windows and -curtain wall-
ing), and last term B. and W. took-over
Bouchers Industries Ltd, also in Osborne
Park, for a consideration involving issue
of 70,000 20s. ords.
The scope of B. and W.’s activities,
and the range of products manufactured,
has helped the co. cope with fluctuations
in the levels of home- and commercial-
building, factors which should stand
it in good stead during the current term.
Commercial building, in particular, is
depressed in the West at the moment;
instance the contemplated but now sus-
pended Chevron Hilton and Key West
projects. Home building has slackened ;
it has not made the usual New Year
recovery. And Government works expen-
diture, particularly deep-sewerage de-
velopment (though there are at present
no formulated plans for further deep-
sewerage development), is in the balance
pending clarification of funds to be made
available to Western Australia at the next
meeting of the Loan Council. Fortu-
nately B. and W. had several large con-
tracts in hand in September plus substan-
tial orders appertaining all spheres of
proprietary activity.
Turning once again to last term’s effort,
latest results are happy proof of B. and
W.’s resilience. Gross trading profit
jumped £75,908 to £353,006 and net
profit, arrived at after writing-off £124,574
(up £27,759) to general expenses, setting
aside £48,554 (up £2958) for depreciation
and providing £67,785 (up £23,828) for
taxation, represented solid improvement
in a not undifficult year—it also reflected


(9. \ I* o **/ ***“4
12 MONTHS NOTICE
o
7
O
PER ANNUM
A?
PER ANNUM
10 YEARS
5 YEARS
1
m
/
PER ANNUM
REGISTERED FIRST DEBENTURE STOCK
• SHORT TERM
12 MONTHS NOTICE
8% P.A.
6 MONTHS NOTICE
7% p.».
3 MONTHS NOTICE
s*/i% P.A.
Investments in short term
term stock are for an in-
definite period. Repayment
is obtained by giving the
notice selected on the appli-
cation form.
Assets exceed £2O/000,009
. LONG TERM
10 TO 20 YEARS
9% P.A.
5 TO 9 YEARS
Bvk% P.A.
4 YEARS
8% P.A.
Trustees for Debenture Stock-
holders:
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES PTY.
LTD.
Applications will be accepted
only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus.
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
WHERE TO INVEST
Invest at any H. G. Palmer showroom in N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland, South Australia and A.C.T.
Underwriting Brokers:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran &
Co., 9-11 Hunter St., Sydney.
VIC.: Vinton Smith, Dougall
& Co, 401 Collins St,
Melbourne.
QLD.: Ernest H. Corser, Hen-
derson & Hale, 334 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
S.A.: Woodhead, Needham &
Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell St.,
Adelaide.
TAS.: H. W. Bayley & Co.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabetn
St., Hobart.
W.A.: Geo. H. Newton, Fuller
& Co., 105 St. Georges
Terrace, Perth.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown.
ANY BRANCH OF AUSTRALIA
& NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD.
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOG-
NISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
To: H. G. PALMER (Consolidated) LTD.,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send copy of prospectus to:—
Name
Address
in part, and for eight months
trading, the Bouchers acquisi-
tion (turnover of Bouchers In-
dustries Ltd, in the eight
months aggregated £189,402):
(— —Dividends ——, Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord.—, serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’52.. 57,749 4436 10 = 18,964 219,914
To staff fund, £5150 . . 214,764
’53.. 80,729 4437 124= 33,664 257,392
To staff fund, £5OOO . . 252,392
Tax overprovided, £16,567 268,959
’54..123,583 4436 12i= 41,282 346,824
Res. capitalised, £84,049 262,775
To staff fund, £3924 . . 258,851
’55..135,004 4436 12J= 53,827 335,592
To staff fund, £250 .. 335,342
Tax underprovided, £5OBO 330,262
’56..101,572 4436 353,734
’57..100,160 4436 73,663 375,795
Tax overprovided, £4744.. 380,539
6 p.c.
’58..105,955 5323 121= 73,663 407,508
Plant w/off, £14,765 '.. 392,743
To staff fund, £1126 . . 391,617
’59.. 90,464 5324 10 = 58,930 417,827
To staff fund, £1692 . . 416,135
To long-service leave, £3OOO 413,135
Added on consolidation,
£81,935 495,070
’60..112,039 5324 10 = 62,430 539,355
The earning-rate on average
ord. capital at 17.1 p.c. com-
pared favorably with 14.4 p.c.
in the previous term and 17
p.c., 16.2 p.c. and 16.4 p.c. back
to 1956. The relevant figure
in 1955 was 30.3 p.c. The
earning-rate on shareholders’
funds rose from 8.2 p.c. in
1959 to 8.6 p.c. in 1960.
The steady 6 p.c. pref.-div.
absorbed £5324. The ord.-div.,
at 10 p.c., took £62,430 (up
£3500) —ord. divs., held at 12|
p.c. from 1953 to 1958, were
reduced to 10 p.c. in 1959-
Reserves received £44,285, plus
surplus on consolidation,
£81,935, the difference between
par and book value of shares
in Bouchers Industries Ltd, and
after sundry deductions (see
profit table) totalled £539,355
free of intangibles.
B. and W.’s balance sheet,
taken all round, is a well in-
tegrated statement, exhibiting
marked but controlled varia-
tions (the Boucher deal) of
financial structure:
Capital— 1959. 1960.
Pref. . . £88,733 £88,733
Ord. .. 589,304 659,304
Reserves .. 417,827 539,356
Staff fund .. 24,800 32,193
Overdraft .. 103,282 213,320
Loans . . 80,000 2,500
Creditors .. 84,465 157,043
Tax provision . . 45,217 69,642
Final divs. . . 32,127 35,627
£1,465,755 £1,797,717
Freeholds . . 406,101 495,203
Plant, etc. .. 354,339 389,486
Stock* .. 473,350 609,918
Debtors .. 231,548 302,728
Cash, etc . . 417 382
£1,465,755 £1,797,717
* Includes work-in-progress, less pro-
gress-payments.
Theoretical working capital
appeared to be adequate, setting
the current ratio at 1.8 to 1.
Stocks jumped £136,568 to
£609,918, debtors £71,180 to
£302,728 and creditors £72,578
to £157,043 (reflecting increased
sales credited all sections of the
organisation). Bank overdraft
climbed steeply, finishing up
£110,038 at £213,320. Fixed
asset investment was heavier,
the book value of freeholds
advancing £89,102 to £495,203,
of plant, etc,, £35,147 to
£389,486.
But last term’s efforts aside,
what of the future? The 20s.
ords., at 40s. 6d., yield 4.9 p.c.
—net tangibles, at close of
accounts, weighed up 365. Id.
Is investment a worthwhile pro-
position at present prices? Can
the buyer expect capital gains
in the next year or so? Can he
expect div. increases?
Western Australia’s economy
has suffered (so far in 1961) its
worst setback in many years-
credit restrictions, disastrous
bushfires in the sou' - west,
waterfront stoppages at Fre-
mantle and extensive flooding
in the north —and business
activity in general, and especi-
ally building activity, has
slowed considerably. On the
brighter side, “The present
Government’s policy of attract-
ing industries to Western Aus-
tralia is meeting with success,
and the State can look forward
to a period of healthy expan-
sion.” This opinion, necessarily
a long-term opinion, was ten-
dered in September, in the
Chairman’s address, prior to
the credit squeeze.
B. and W. will be hard
pressed to repeat last year's
performance in the current
term. Thus the ords. do look
a good buy at present prices
but for long-term, certainly not
short-term holding. Spectacu-
lar gains are out and div. in-
creases unlikely.
Brisbane TV Ltd
The Queensland - registered
Brisbane TV Ltd was
formed in December, 1958, by
Queensland Newspapers Pty,
Telegraph Newspaper Co. Ltd
and other companies to operate
a commercial television station
(BTQ Channel 7) in Brisbane.
Initially, 700,000 10s. ords.
were offered to the public.
The first incomplete year of
operations (from December,
1958 to June, 1959) resulted in
a net loss of £18,919. A total
of £6250 was received as
premiums on shares.
During the earlier part of
last term, Brisbane TV was
primarily engaged on construc-
tion of premises and installa-
tion of equipment, training of
staff, negotiating contracts and
programme purchases, etc.
The station was officially
opened on November 1, 1959.
Since then, the co. has given
“the public of south-east
Queensland a continuous ser-
vice of high-standard television
programmes.” Television
licences in the viewing area
are said to exceed 90,000 and


TSTJP
LIFT Vry dJb YC
YOUR INCOME
WITH COMPLETE SECURITY
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
The Reid Murray group comprises: 202 Retail Stores, 7 Whole-
sale Warehouses, Real Estate Companies in 5 States, and the
Finance Co. for the group Reid Murray Acceptance Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924.
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TQLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL —£6,000,000
RMA.BV
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
to continue to increase in
number.
Net profit for the year ended
June 30, 1960, amounted to
£6689 after charging £lB5O
directors' fees and £50,471
depreciation and lease
amortisation:
To Re- Re
June Loss. Dividends, serves, serves.*
30, £ p.c. £ £
Premiums on shares, £6250 6,250
Dejieit.
1959 .. 18,919 12,669
Profit.
1960 . . 6,689 0,689 5,980
* Subject to £21,406 intangibles at
30/6/60.
No tax was paid due to earlier
losses. No dividend was
declared.
After receiving £349,450 calls
during the year, paid capital at
June 30, 1960, amounted to
£725,000 in 1.450,000 10s.
fully-paid ords.:
1959. 1960.
Paid capita] . . £374,812 £725,000
Reserves . . .
Current liabilities.. 22,153 161,331
£396,965 £886,331
Fixed as ets . . 07,957 528,447
Shares in listed co.. . 32,024 32,024
Programme rights . . 12,660 91,555
Stocks . . . . 412 0,708
Debtors . . . . 82 102,124
Cash . . . . 249,755 98,027
Losses h/d . . 12,669 5,980
Intangibles . . 21,406 21,406
£396,965 £886,331
Fixed assets rose from £67.957
to £528,447. Cash decreased
but book-debts mounted.
Liquidity remained satisfac-
tory.
Net tangible asset backing
works out at 9s. Bd. for each
10s. ord.
Revenues were said to be
maintained in the opening
weeks of the current term.
The credit squeeze may be
expected to cause a dampening
effect on this year’s earnings,
but long-run prospects look
more inviting.
Although early windfall
profits cannot be expected
Brisbane TV seems a reasonable
long-term investment. The co.
enjoys the powerful backing
of its sponsors.
The scrip appears to have
the sharemarket's confidence.
At the last sale in Brisbane the
10s. ords. fetched 245. a unit.
COMPANY NOTES
Latec Investments
T atec Investments Ltd, a
leading hire - purchase
financier and motel and hotel
operator, has formed a new
fully-owned finance subsidiary,
Trans - Continents Holdings
Ltd, centred in Sydney. Issued
capital is £lOO,OOO.
Trans-Continents Holdings
has issued a prospectus offer-
ing the public £1,000,000
deposit notes, “fully guaran-
teed by Latec Investments
Ltd.” The deposit notes are
for five and ten years, and


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
'lncorporated b\ Royal Chattel AI) I72U>
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O'Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
ELECTRIC
LIFTS hydraulic
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Repiesented m all Slates. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUS'I RALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England
carry an interest rate of 6 p.c.
p.a. Minimum subscription is
£lOO.
Prospectus states that the
purpose of Trans-Continents
Holdings is to provide “finan-
cial help and assistance to
Australian citizens ‘old and
new,’ migrants, settlers and
dependents” through financing
purchases of homes, expendi-
ture on marriage, education or
career ; and to underwrite the
cost of establishing community
and religious centres, churches,
church halls, mosques, syna-
gogues, etc., as well as capital
equipment for leasing pur-
poses and “other worthwhile
commercial projects.”
The co. proposes to invest
50 p.c. of subscriptions into
home finance “through
societies where Trans-Conti-
nents Holdings Ltd, or Latec
Investments Ltd have a finan-
cial interest.”
“First consideration, when
making investments, will be
given to enterprises which
could absorb a still greater
number of working forces . . .
(and) second consideration will
be given to such fields of
activities, which could produce
exportable commodities and
therefore qualify for Common-
wealth financial assistance.”
A strong interest is taken in
stimulating th e migrants’
interest in deposit notes,
and an advertising campaign in
the foreign language press in
Australia is intended.
The 6 p.c. interest rate on
deposit notes looks rather
modest. The idea, apparently,
is to tempt investors to take up
the notes by offering certain
possibilities of obtaining
finance to depositors.
If the note issue is fully
subscribed, the ratio of bor-
rowings on deposits from the
public to paid capital will be
ten to one. Full backing by
the prosperous Latec organisa-
tion seems particularly
important.
The Bulletin was told that
although no public subscrip-
tion to Trans-Continents Hold-
ings share capital is envisaged
at this stage, the possibility
could arise in the future.
On the board are: Sir John
Northcott (chairman), C. L.
Cattell (Latec's chairman and
joint managing-director), R. A.
Cattell (Latec’s joint manag-
ing director). Viscount Lyming-
ton (also a Latec director), .and
H. H. Stitt (a Sydney chartered
accountant). The general
manager is J. W. Ross, and
secretary T. W. Wright.
Bonds Hosiery Mills (N.Z.)
I>onds Hosiery Mills (N.Z.)
Ltd had an encouraging
year. Shareholders collected a
one - for - three bonus - issue
which raised paid capital by
£100,222 to £401,113 in ss.
ords. Authorised capital was
lifted from £425,000 to
£650,000.
Based on Wellington (N.Z.)
the co. is a manufacturer of
seam-free and fully-fashioned
hosiery, specialising in several
brands of ladies’ nylon stock-
ings (incidentally, enclosed with
Bond’s twenty-sixth annual
report and accounts, the share-
holders received a sample pair
of “Bonds Sy-Metra” nylon
stockings).
Trading profit for the year
ended January 19, 1961, was
£45,787 higher at £253,192.
Other income amounted to
£11.951. After charging all
costs and expenses, including
£30,224 provision for deprecia-
tion (up £340) and £59,000 set
aside for taxation (up 17,200),
net profit for the year was
£17,633 fatter at £65,505. This
represented an earning rate of
21.7 p.c. on the average paid
capital, compared with 15.9
p.c. in the previous term.
The well-covered dividend
rate was paid at the rate of
13.33 p.c pa., absorbing
£45,948. Reserves were dis-
closed at £177,977, as at
January 19, 1961. Liquidity
was satisfactory. Stocks and
book-debts were higher.
Hosiery manufacturers face
the problem of constant
modernisation of plant and
changing consumer tasfes. On
the other hand, the steady
population growth provides an
expanding, if highly competi-
tive market.
At the last sale in Welling-
ton the ss. ords. fetched 15s.
3d. each for an immediate
yield of £4 16s. 9d. p.c. p.a.
Email Ltd
Email Ltd has received an
order for £140,000 of
heavy electrical equipment
from N.S.W. Electricity Com-
mission.
The equipment, to be
installed in the new Vales Point
Power Station, will be manu-
factured in Sydney by Email’s
subsidiary, Westinghouse Rose-
bery Pty Ltd. The single
insulator design of this isolated
phase bus equipment costs less
than previous types, and is
claimed to reduce leakage of
power.
Colonial Sugtar Refining
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty, jointly
owned by C.S.R. Chemi-
cals Pty (a subs : diary of
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Ltd) and The Dow Chemical
Co. of U.S.A., has announced
“a major expansion of U.S.-
Australian chemical industry
partnership to make and sell a
wide range of plastics and
plastics raw materials.” This
is in addition to a previously
announced £6 million con-
struction programme now
under way at Altona (Vic.).
The Altona combine will
manufacture styrene monomer
and other chemicals.
Polystyrene interests of
C.S.R. and Dow will be com-
bined, and C.S.R.C.-Dow will
manufacture and sell “a wide
range of polystyrene plastics”
in Australia under Dow's
“Styron” brand name. Pro-
duction is scheduled to com-
mence in Sydney on June 1,
1961.
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty has
been manufacturing poly-
styrene plastics under licence
to Dow since 1958.
OIL AND MINING,]
Wyong Minerals Ltd
Wyong jMinerals Ltd has
granted Commonwealth
Mining Investments (Austra-
lia) Ltd an option to subscribe
to up to 600,000 ss. ords. at
par. The option may be exer-
cised at any time within a five-
year period.
Austra’ian Lubricating Oil
I>reparatory work on the
construction of Australia's
first lubricating oil refinery at
Kurnell will begin immediately,
according to a statement made
by the directors of Australian
Lubricating Oil Refinery Ltd.
The new refinery, which will
cost between £l2 and £l3
million to build, is expected to
be capable of supplying 50 per
cent, of Australia’s present
lubricating oil requirements.
The refinery will be built on
an area of approximately 160
acres adjoining installations of
Australian Oil Refining Pty
Ltd, at Kurnell and will take
about two years to construct.
About 85 per cent, of the
materials and equipment re-
quired will be manufactured in
Australia. During its construc-
tion it will give employment to
between 700 and 800 men and
on completion will employ a
staff of 350.
Australian Lubricating Oil
Refinery Ltd was registered in
Sydney last January It is
jointly owned by Caltex, Ampol
and H. C. Sleigh. (Caltex holds
50 per cent, of the shares and
the two Australian companies
25 per cent. each)..
The new refinery will be com-
plementary to Caltex’s Kurnell
refinery. After light fractions
(such as petrol and kerosine)
have been removed from the
crude oil by A.0.R., charging
stock will be pumced to the
new lubricating oil refinery
where it will be manufactured
into lubricants. Any residue
from the lubricating process
will be returned to A.O.R. for
use in furnaces.
Oil Development N.L.
Oil Development N.L.
reports that the Penola
Well No. I in South Australia
advanced 411 feet, to a depth of
3773 feet. Cores were taken
at 3363, 3514 and 3715 feet.
The section consisted mainly of
mudstone and siltstone, with
some beds of sandstone and
calcareous sandstone. Pre-
liminary palaeontological re-
ports indicate that the well
entered cretaceous sediments at
a depth of 1065 feet.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
What is the proper meaning of
the term “bullion’’?
Bullion is the name given to gold
and silver when considered solely
as, merchandise. When coin and
specie are considered as bullion it
js their weight and fineness which
are reckoned and not their face-
value. Thus bullion means mined
gold and silver brought to a stan-
dard of purity. The degree of fine-
ness is a prime element in value
and the value of bullion is judged
not only by weight but also by
assay.
* • • *
What is the meaning of “ damask ”
steel ?
As damask cloth is a figured or
ornamented fabric, so damask steel
is a figured steel. It is a steel
with a watered or streaked appear-
ance, best known by the old steels
of China and Persia. To produce
the effect of streakiness either strips
of steel and iron of different quality
are twisted together, or else the
prepared steel is etched with acid
while parts of it are protected.
* m » *
When was Australind (W.A.)
settled ?
In 1840 the Western Australian
Company was formed to buy land
from a private owner and sell it to
small faimers from a plan available
in London. The areas selected were
pans of 83,000 acres chosen by
James Stilling and of 103.000 acres
near the mouth of the Collie River
on Leschenault Estuary, granted
originally to Colonel P. A. Latour,
who had earlier thought of a
colonisation scheme himself.
When the Parkfield brought the
first settlers for the area in 1841,
a whaling-station and a depot for
breeding horses were already estab-
lished at the mouth of the Collie.
The town of Australind, planned
to cover more than 1000 acres, was
already laid out. But the 100-acre
alioiments which had to be cleared
and developed for the success of
the scheme were still bush and,
because of the lack of labor,
remained so for many years. The
scheme never got into stride, and
was virtually finished after the first
few years. Little now remains of
the township.
« * • •
When was St Andrew’s Cathe-
dral, Sydney, built ?
The cathedral was originally
planned by Governor Macquarie to
provide additional accommodation
lor the Anglican community, St
Phillip’s having become over-
crowded. In September, 1819, he
laid the foundation-stone on a site
at the corner of George and
Bathurst Streets, a site he had
selected in 1812. Commissioner
Bigge, however, insisted on aban-
doning the scheme, and provided
instead for the conversion of the
half-built court-house into St
James’s Church.
On March 16, 1837, Governor
Bourke laid a new foundation-stone
on the George Street site, and
efforts were made spasmodically to
erect a suitable building. James
Hume was appointed architect, and
a design based on St Mary’s
Church, Oxford, was adopted for
the main building, with a tower
like that of Magdalen College.
Building stopped in 1842. and a
fresh start was not made until
1846, when Edmund Thomas
Blackett was appointed architect.
Blackett adopted the Gothic style
for the building. Lack of funds and
shortage of labor caused another
stoppage. Finally Bishop Barker
managed to get the work going, and
the cathedral was completed and
opened on St Andrew's Day, 1868.
* * * »
What is the origin of the quota-
tion in Kvlie Tennant's story.
“Murder in a Taxi”?
The quotation is from Ralph
Waldo Emerson's “Brahma”:
“If the red slayer thinks he slays,
Or if the slain thinks he is slain,
They know' not well the subtle ways
1 keep, and pass, and turn again.”
What type of animal is the
American “ prairie-dog”?
The prairie-dog is a burrowing
rodent allied to the marmot. There
are several species in the western
United States, ranging as far as
Mexico. The common prairie-dog
(Cynomys ludovicianus) of the
Great Plains region is a small,
plump, short-tailed, squirrel-like
animal. It makes a raised, funnel-
shaped entrance to its burrows, and
congregates in colonies which often
stretch miles in extent. ft feeds
mainly on grass, and thus can
become a pes» in the same way,
though not to the same extent, as
the rabbit.
* • • »
How are the air-brakes on N.S.W.
trains operated ?
The braking system used on the
trains is activated by the action of
compressed air on a piston, which
in turn operates a series of levers
connected to the brake-shoes. Air
pressure is maintained at a constant
level within a reservoir and con-
necting pipes throughout the train.
Should this pressure be reduced,
either by the driver or by part of
the train being detached, the brakes
are applied. The brakes are
released when air pressure in the
system is restored by an air-
compressor mounted on the loco-
motive.
* • * *
Must an employer have any
special permission to employ an
aboriginal ? Are the wages of an
aboriginal any less than those of a
white man ? Are the wages paid
in full, or is a part withheld? Are
there any aborigines employed as
shearers ?
No special permission or contract
is. needed to employ an aboriginal.
He is entitled to the basic wage,
or more if a tradesman, in the same
way as any white man, and the
w'ages are paid to him in full.
There are many aborigines working
as shearers, and some are even
shearing contractors.
* » » •
What is “The Luck of Eden
Hall''?
The “Luck" is an old enamelled
drinking goblet preserved at Eden
Hall, Cumberland. On the top are
the letters 1.H.5., and ground it is
the verse:—-
When this cup shall break or fall,
Farewell the luck of Eden Hall
There is a legend that an ancestor
of the Musgrave family, whose seat
is Eden Hall, seized the goblet from
a fairy king, and secured good
luck for his family, but with the
condition that is stated in the verse.
• • * •
tV hen did Ans trailer’s basic-wage
system begin ?
The doctrine of the basic wage
was put forward by Sir Samuel
Griffith, Premier of Queensland, as
early as 1890, but its first applica-
tion was in the “Harvester Judg-
ment” of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court in 1907, declared
by Mr Justice Higgins.
In this case H. V. McKay asked
the court to declare that the wages
paid in his Sunshine Harvester
works were “fair and reasonable’’
so that he could gain exemption
from recently-imposed excise duties.
Higgins decided that the best inter-
pretation of "lair and reasonable”
wages was that the wages should
satisfy “the normal needs of: "the
average employee regarded as a
human being living in a civilised
community.” He adjudged that a
wage of 7s. a day would meet these
demands.
The effect of the judgment was
that unskilled workers under Com-
monwealth awards had their wages
raised by about 27 per cent., and
Higgins’s figures became the basts
for negotiation with employers and
for subsequent awards made by the
Arbitration Court.
Wants
Copy of “Christison of Lammer-
moor,” by Mrs Bennett.—sB.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 637
Down
1 — Italians fear this innings by Sobers? (5, 4)
2 One Mackay hand spoilt coffee. (5, 3,5)
3 Revolution upset the Japanese. (4)
4 Priest let go. (anagram) (11)
5 Saying Burl has reasons for acting. (7)
6 Relative. (5)
8— An age up in the playing-
field. (5)
10— Chant about deflation would
require to place this order to
start singing. (5, 4,4)
13 — The motorist will be annoyed
just because there isn't any com-
position. (3, 2. 1 4)
16— Unharmonious—and so isn’t
wrong. (9)
18 — Tree is a horse stopper. (7)
20 — -Hat we designed ; it’s corny! (5)
21— A Scot and Edward have clubbed
together. (5)
24- Melancholy coppers from inter-
state. (3)
Across
I—Oaf1 —Oaf to jostle the relatives. (7)
4 —Cinderella’s coach is to seek
information from the same. (7)
7 —Maniac craves too much capital
in Africa. (5)
9 Tasty cobber by a piece of
furniture. (9)
11 — Remark from a tennis pro-
moter. (6)
12 — Is this how poets make their
living, though contrary? (8)
14 — Tempering some girl with a
fish. (9)
15 — Interstate Edward is satisfied. (5)
17 — Barrel. (3)
19 — Big win Sis arranged fot bird
pinions. (4, 5}
21 — Ignatius connected with this chap
about South Australia. (7)
22 Sport result is lirst (like the
recent Brisbane Test), according
to this artist. (7)
23 — Vestments introducing Leslie over
tea. (9)
25 It’s a girl, though an artist. (5)
26 — Medical man should have a dry
spell. (7)
27 — 26-across with a good for nothing
drink; the work-horse will give
the doctor anything. (7)
Solution to Crossword No. 636


888
'
808 (BP PICK-A-BOX) D YER SA YS
“when 1
you pick BP
you pick
, the best!”
TRACTOR FUELS and
ENERGOL LUBRICANTS
used and proved all over the world
• BP PETROLS containing BENZOL • BP DIESOLEUM
BP POWER KEROSINE • BP ENERGOL TRACTOR OIL UNIVERSAL
• A full range of BP ENERGOL oils • BP ENERGREASE
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL BP AGENT
