

The Bulletin
uly 29, 1961
SELLING
Sa^srnen
crack up
KJ ~
! !(i ! » Auetraffa ?or"transmission by post as a newspaper.
Waterfront
n gle— Part 3
Votes for
Aborigines?
The Struggle in
South Vietnam


m&sw
tm
*
'H
/
TRAINED WOOL STAFF
IS AT YOUR SERVICE
From the sheep’s back to the Show Floor, wool-
growers can depend on Elders complete and
efficient organisation which has for over 120
years been developed to cover all phases of the
marketing of Wool.
You can be sure that your wool will be displayed
to advantage in all major selling centres of Aus-
tralia under the best conditions. With a network
of 200 Branches and nine large and well lighted
Wool Stores throughout Australia, Elders are well
equipped to handle all aspects of business for
the “Man on the Land. ’
One bag or 1,000
bales receive the
same attention
from Elders
trained wool staff.
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers Wool Broking, Livestock, Merchandise,
Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Property, Rural Linance, Skin and Hides.
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


The
Bulletin
Vol. 82
JULY 29, 1961
No. 4250
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
J. McC.: “The Colonel's Tea” is
a pretty weak brew... .P.S.F.:
Well, we admit we asked for it.
Your story, “Counsel for the
Prosecution,” may be the first of
the new wave of stories, but we're
afraid it's a dumper.... S.R.: As
you say, no more than an anecdote.
You try to sub-edit it.... A.G.: A
near miss, but can’t suggest how
to improve it.... J.G.: It’s un-
dramatic because you are writing
about yourself Give your imagina-
tion a chance to w0rk....M.8..
Too general and is satisfied with
the easy rhyme. .. .S.T.: My head
is getting hotter; I’ll leave it on
the blotter. ... R.H.: Topicality is
no recommendation for a poem.
. ...P.H.8.: Always shy of poems
whose last line reads: “And all
reality is this” ... J.H.: Very close.
Why not say who he is? . ... J.K.:
Even if we did print your verse it
wouldn’t pay for your typewriter.
. ...H.M.: Ninety per cent, of the
verse we receive is nature descrip-
tion. ... A.W.: Very nearly; the
feeling rings true but the theme is
a little humdrum. .. .L.O’K.: Well
handled, but for its length we do
not learn a great deal about
the characters... .P.A.H.: Emily
Bronte did it better... .G.G.: You
write about that bank manager as
if you were a debtor —try writing
about him as if you were his wife.
.... H.H.: Can’t make out whether
you're complaining or boasting. ...
N.C.: A good anecdote buried
there but our readers are not paid
to dig these things out: work over
it, cut out what is unnecessary and
build up what is left and you should
have a worthwhile story... .8.Y.:
Don’t keep repeating your descrip-
tions of your characters as if that
will convince somebody that they
are alive; show the characters in
action... .T.H.N.: Two tries do
not make a writer, but keep at it.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521, Phone: 27 5971
IN THIS ISSUE
Australia Back in the Picture?
T HE connection between The Bulletin and black-and-white Australian
art is as famous as the connection between The Bulletin and the
short story in Australia. And in recent years it has equally failed to live up
to its reputation. Looking over old issues of The Bulletin, one gets an
instant vision of life or of Australia from the drawings alone. In a way
they tell one more than the articles. More recently the “black-and-white
art” had often degenerated into a collection of featureless and hackneyed
“gags” that had no relation to contemporary life or indeed to anything,
except each other. They were “Australian” only in the sense that they were
drawn by Australians. Some of them still followed “On Our Selection”
themes that are now as “Australian” as the transportation system; most
of them lived in the international gag-man’s dreamworld; a few showed a
sense of observation of the kind of life we live now and the kind of things
we do and think. If you glanced over “Punch” or “The New Yorker” you
learned something from the jokes alone about British and American civilis-
ation. If you glanced over The Bulletin you learned very little about
anything.
If this is the best we can do, we might as well drop the whole thing
and simply run a few of the best overseas cartoons and jokes; there is no
point in flogging a dead tradition; it is better to have no values than false
ones. However, we hope we can do better than that. We believe that we
have already provided space for jokes that are well ahead of what had
been offered before and we are grateful to those artists who are interested
in reviving The Bulletin as a medium for original work. But we still
have a long way to go. The black-and-white does not dominate The
Bulletin as it should, and used to. And not much of a picture of Aus-
tralia comes from glancing over the drawings.
A s . with the short story, we cannot impose conditions. Ross built up “The
New Yorker” without ever being able to define what he wanted in a
joke; he simply knew when he didn’t get it. Mr Les Tanner is now Art
Editor of The Bulletin, and as well as drawing himself silly, he is at-
tempting to encourage into The Bulletin not only novices but the large
body of artists who, for the moment, are absorbed in their commercial
preoccupations. We hope that those who are now drawing to order might
like to relax by drawing their own way and submit the result to The
Bulletin. If they are not interested in keeping alive a tradition for which
Australians were once famous, there is not much more we can do about it.
We should certainly like to hear any suggestions. Questions of money
will, of course, be raised, as they were with the short story. We have put up
the rates paid so that the sum offered is not too insulting, but at a time
when all magazines are watching their expenditure, we have gone as far
as we can for the moment afford to go. But if the whole thing were to
bog down for that reason, there was probably not much future in it any-
way. Of course, if the jokes put on sales—that would be different.


This Australia
MIGRANTS
Who Started
the Riots?
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
G. BIELSKI
“It wasn’t me ”
"VTo one is yet sure exactly what
happened in the Bonegilla migrant
camp last week, or even how many were
involved. In Adelaide, “The Advertiser ’
said 600 migrants took part in the first
riot; “The Sydney Morning Herald”
said 1000; the Melbourne “Age” said
“nearly 1000” and its fellow-Victorian
paper “The Sun” agreed with it; and
“The West Australian” ran a bad last by
stating that “400 Italian, German and
Yugoslav migrants rioted at Bonegilla re-
ceiving centre near Wodonga late this
afternoon.” But a few things at least
are clear.
First, there were riots of varying in-
tensity on Monday and Tuesday and a
minor demonstration on Wednesday
During these a policeman, Constable
Alfred Besford, was attacked and taken
to the Wodonga hospital; the camp execu-
tive officer, Colonel H. Guinn, suffered
cuts and bruises ; the camp canteen was
effectively wrecked ; and police were
called in from Wangaratta, Wodonga,
Albury and Melbourne. Whatever or
whoever actually lit the spark, the
migrants were and are demanding work.
The main difficulty in placing the 4700
migrants of Bonegilla in jobs lies with
the unskilled workers—mostly Italians
and Yugoslavs. There is ill-feeling in the
camp because these two nationalities feel
that Germans are being given preferential
treatment, and this is certainly true. Most
of the Germans are skilled workers and
jobs can more easily be found for them.
“Give me 40 German migrants and I can
place them within two or three days,”
Mr G. Bielski, of the New Citizens’ Coun-
cil told The Bulletin this week. “I am
finding it extremely difficult to place un-
skilled men whatever their nationality.”
A week before the riots there was a
meeting of migrants in the Melbourne
Trades Hall. A number of Italians and
Yugoslavs from Bonegilla were driven
down especially for the meeting and on
their return unrest in the camp was more
evident. A week before that there were
two union organisers, both from Com-
munist-controlled unions, who spent some
time in Bonegilla and especially in Blocks
13 and 18—the two blocks from which
the more violent and vocal of the demon-
strators came. It is absurd to blame the
riots solely on the Communist party but
it would be equally absurd to ignore the
perfect situation the migrants’ plight at
Bonegilla presented to active Communist
party men. The placards (“We want
work,” “Your barbarian system is only
worthy for the Stone Age”) were painted
quite some time before the riots, and no
doubt photographs of them will be given
adequate publicity in Communist coun-
tries.
While some papers exaggerated the
Communist participation in the incidents
the Sydney “Sun” had a different theory.
In its issue dated July 8 it said “Prelimin-
ary reports to Canberra from Bonegilla
suggest the riots were fomented by a
migrant group known as the New
Citizens’ Council.” Mr Bielski rang “The
Sun” office at 11 a.m. that morning say-
ing that neither he nor the New Citizens’
Council were in any way involved in the
riots. Somebody on the editorial stall
undertook to have the reference deleted
from the paper. The next day Mr Bielski
wrote a letter to the Editor stating that
“not only was the reference not deleted,
but a statement by myself was so inserted
as to make it appear that while the New
Citizens’ Council deplored violence it may
well have been involved in the riots.”
His letter also pointed out that a member
of the staff of the Minister for Immigra-
tion had told him that the Minister had
no criticism of either Mr Bielski or the
New Citizens’ Council in relation to the
riots ; the Security Service was not in-
vestigating the Council or Mr Bielski over
the incidents and that the Council has no
office in Melbourne and only one repre-
sentative in Bonegilla.
Mr Bielski is inclined to think that
some of his “enemies” in the migrant
movement may have started the rumors
blaming him and his organisation for
“fomenting” the riots. But however many
theories are floating around about the
Bonegilla incident, there will be another
one if work is not found for the migrants
soon.
THE SUGGETT CASE
A Small Victory for Lovers of Liberty
FROM A MELB OURNE CORRESPONDENT
"Easily the most significant win in the
Victorian elections for lovers of
liberty was the handsome success of
Robert Harris Suggett at Moorabbin
against not one but three party machines
—L.-C.P., A.L.P. and D.L.P. Melburnians
from all parts of the city who are attached
and unattached voters for all parties
rallied to him and had a sweet revenge
against the Liberal State Executive which
had conducted a quite inexcusable
vendetta against him.
What raised the local Liberals’ ire and
the dander of other citizens was the State
Executive’s refusal to accept a Superior
Court verdict in Suggett’s favor. Early
last year Suggett was fined £7 at a police
court by a magistrate on the evidence of
a policeman for alleged indecent behavior
(what was alleged was trivial and his
barrister asked the magistrate to impose
a line higher than £5 so that he might
appeal). In March Judge Nelson quashed
the conviction and the case was dismissed.
In July he was re-selected against ten
others for Moorabbin by the local
Liberals. He had an outright majority
over them. The next month the State
Executive refused to endorse him and
asked the Moorabbin Liberals to conduct
another ballot. This was done. Suggett
was again selected and the State Execu-
tive again refused to accept the selection.
Finally, in October, the local branch
selected their vice-president, Mr Bill
Reese, but carried a resolution assert-
ing that Suggett was the right person to
hold the Moorabbin seat.
Throughout these proceedings Suggett
remained secretary of the Parliamentary
Liberal party (he still is). In March reso-
lutions condemning the State Executive
were tabled at the meeting of the Liberal
State council but by adroit manoeuvring
they were deleted from the notice paper.
After that it was believed among the
Liberals that Suggett would stand as a
Liberal, and it was agreed that he would
probably win.
This became evident during the
campaign, especially as the D.L.P. had
directed second preferences to him instead
of to the official L.-C.P. candidates as they
were giving in most other electorates ; the
Liberal machine split in two, Suggett
produced an effective, expertly done four-
page newspaper without venom ; and sub-
stantial support came, as the candidate
says calmly, out of the blue. One well-
wisher donated 12 large signs. Every
night, from January 1, Suggett had visited
householders in the electorate and talked


about anything except politics. The elec-
torate was minutely plotted and canvassed
by Suggett enthusiasts.
The last attempt of the State Executive
to discredit Suggett came a week before
the election, when they moved in the
Supreme Court and got an order to re-
strain him from distributing cards headed
“How to vote Liberal and C.P.” As the
action resulted in wonderful publicity—
his barrister declared that Suggett was
still a member of the Liberal party and
intended to support the Bolte Govern-
ment if elected —it did his cause no harm
(but he had to cut “and C.P.” from 40,000
cards).
Suggett was employed in a bank until
his election in 1954. As he wished to
devote his whole time to his Parliamentary
duties the bank agreed to give him two
terms in which to make up his mind
which career he would follow. Now he
has to do it. The Moorabbin electors
seem to have made it up for him and to
have made it very clear to the aged
Liberal Executive the Liberal they want.
TELEVISION
Actors, Chorus Girls Hold
a Stop-work Meeting
FROM BRENDAN O'HARA IN SYDNEY
HAL ALEXANDER
“More money in clubs”
At the Musicians’ Club in Pitt Street,
Sydney, on Tuesday of last week,
465 Actors’ Equity members attended a
stop-work meeting. (Melbourne members
followed suit this week.) A number of
them were recognisable to any TV fan
actors, chorus girls, ballet members,
variety performers. The grievance they
discussed is an old one, but from time
to time it threatens to disturb relations
between the Equity and the commercial
television stations in all States. Basically
the issue is a simple one: Actors Equity
claims that a “repeat” or "replay’ fee
should be paid to television performers
each time a show is played more than
once in any State. The television com-
panies refuse this and say that the
rate of £2 7s. an hour for performers
plus a minimum time-rate of two and a
half hours is adequate. Any worker, they
say, is paid only once for his labor, and
why should the television industry be
singled out to pay more than once for
the same job? Actors' Equity say they
have precedents, and point to some over-
seas arrangements and to the A. 8.C.,
which in fact pays a lower initial rate
for performances and pays re-use fees
of 50 per cent, for the first repeat per-
formance. The commercial TV stations
point to radio in Australia and say radio
has been going for 30 years without a
“re-use” fee being paid.
Actors’ Equity are also claiming that
“the minimum percentage of Australian-
made programmes telecast in Australia
should not be less than 55 per cent, of
the total time of transmission by each
TV service.” They also want the per-
centage to be applied, but not limited
to, the various categories of programmes
“such as drama, comedy, musical
comedy, musical operatic, variety, docu-
mentary, sporting, and programmes
especially devised for children.”
But since Australian television began
in 1956 the commercial stations’ attitude,
which they have never concealed, is
roughly this: “Everybody wants to see
Australian talent fostered and if the
talent is good enough it will certainly get
on to TV. But there is no sense in putting
on an Australian show of inferior quality
at a cost greater than that paid for a
well-produced import, if the public won’t
look at the local show.” Mr Hal
Alexander, the secretary of Actors’
Equity, told The Bulletin that the best
variety performers will not go on TV
because they receive more money work-
ing in clubs around the city and in
areas like Wollongong.
Three years ago the P.M.G.
asked the television companies
to telecast not less than 36 per
cent, of Australian material. According
to Mr Alexander, the stations are doing
this, but in the percentage they are in-
cluding news, sports, cooking, sewing,
instead of drama. “How much of Aus-
tralian life does TV actually reflect?”
asks Mr Alexander. The stations claim
that since TV started five years ago they
have boosted the employment oppor-
tunities of Equity members tremendously.
“Where would they be without Austra-
lian TV?” asked a spokesman for the
television companies. “It is unreal for
them to ask for such a high quota. You
might just as well say that the Australian
film industry ought to demand that 55
per cent, of the films shown in Australia
should be Australian-made.”
But even though the quota system is
an irritant it seems that Australian
viewers will have to reconcile themseives
to periodic stoppages over the issue of
“repeat” fees despite the fact that the
Australian Association of Advertising
Agencies has applied to the court for
a clause to make stoppages illegal.
BOOKS
New Habits
FROM LINDSEY BROWNE IN SYDNEY
'Television has evidently made a great
impact on the reading habits of
Australians in the last three years,
although this is not specifically given as
the reason why book borrowings from
the City of Sydney Public Library
dropped by 8 per cent, during 1960.
“Since there has been no decrease in
the quantity or quality of books made
available to the public during the year,
no decrease in the total number of library
service points and no decrease in the
number of people using the library
service,” says the City Librarian, Vlr
F. L. S. Bell, in his annual report, “it
can only be concluded that in the fierce
competition for the leisure time of the
reader, the library has had to give way
to other media of communication.”
Book borrowings in the year dropped
to 946,000 as against 1,033,000 in the
year before, but the change in Australian
reading habits is not merely a matter of
shrinking numbers of book borrowings.
Significant changes in reading patterns
are shown by a comparison which the
report makes between present book
borrowings and the book borrowings of
20 years ago. Out of every 10,009 books
issued 20 years ago 430 were biographies.
Today that figure has fallen to 273.
“This falling off in interest in other
people’s lives,” says the report, “has,
strange to say, been accompanied by an
unusual rise in the issue of historical
works. In 1940, only 372 out of every
10,000 books borrowed were history
books, whereas, in 1960, 662 such books
were issued. Books in foreign text have
trebled in circulation over the last 20
years: a fact which needs no explana-
tion.”
Mr Bell says that some idea of the
books in demand can be had from a
random study of the book reservations
made by the library’s users, At the
end of 1960, there were 40 reservations
for Behan's “Borstal Boy” and 35
reservations for Yoshida’s “Gardens of
Japan.” Other works in demand were
Adamson's "Born Free” (32 reserva-
tions), Harrison’s “The Principles of
Successful Share Buying" (30), Colin
Simpson's “Wake Up in Europe"’ (28),
Gibbons’s “Simplified Stamp Catalogue”
(28), Dolci’s "To Feed The Hungry”
(26), Groucho Marx’s “Groucho and
Me” (18), Taylor’s “Sex in History” (18)
and Leslie Rees’s “Coasts of Cape
York” (17).
Of the books that went out from as
many as ten to 20 times during the year,
such diverse works as “Varieties of
Religious Experience,” “A Doctor Looks
at Miracles,” “Origins of Wit and
Humor,” “Modern Chess Openings,”
“Why Are You Single?” and “Modern
Ballroom Dancing” were conspicuous
The library’s revenue from fiines last
year was £4,352.


MISSIONARIES
60 Years of
Perpetual Change
PAUL HASLUCK
“Missions must change”
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
years there has been friction
•*- between the Government and the
Christian missions in the Northern Terri-
tory. Both have done some good work
among the natives, but their aims have
been basically different.
The Government’s Welfare Branch
was established to bring the aboriginal,
as quickly as possible, to the stage where
he can be assimilated into the white
community. The missions, on the other
hand, have worked, generally speaking,
towards setting up separate, eventually
self-supporting, all-native communities.
They were in the field long before the
Welfare Branch. They have done fine
work. But the main object with many
of them remains, as it must, the saving of
souls.
In the most forthright statement ever
made on this subject by a Cabinet
Minister, Mr P. Hasluck called for an
entirely new approach to mission work
in the North. “We have no interest in
spending money to build missions. Our
interest is in advancing the aborigines,”
he said. “We have to help them become
self-supporting members of the com-
munity, living and working wherever they
choose . . . Christian missions must prove
their success by eventually working them-
selves out of a job.”
The Government looks to the Christian
missions, he said, for help in temporal
as well as spiritual matters. This includes
education, health, hygiene, nutrition,
training for employment, provision of
occupations and better housing. “If any
mission feels it does not wish to engage
in these activities, but to confine itself
to its religious purpose, then the Govern-
ment may ask the mission to surrender
all that is not essential for the perform-
ance of that sole duty.” (Most N.T. mis-
sions lease hundreds sometimes
thousands of square miles of land.)
Mr Hasluck said: “I don’t want it
thought that the Government wishes to
make any takeover bid, but if any mis-
sion is unwilling or unable to engage in
the work that assimilation requires, then
arrangements will have to be made to
see it is done some other way.”
The role of the Christian mission will
have to change. At one time the Gov-
ernment’s main motive was protection.
Now it was advancement. At one time
the idea was preservation of primitive
people on reserves. Now it was prepara-
tion for living in the Australian com-
munity. At one time the thought was that
they would gradually die out. Now the
thought was that they could “live more
hopefully, sharing all opportunities in
Australia to the full.”
The assimilation programme would
take at least two generations to com-
plete—-“ 60 years of perpetual change.”
He envisaged a future in which the
Bagot native compound in Darwin might
become a ommunity of white and
colored workers, living in their houses,
side by side; in which the Warrabri
native settlement, a Government show-
place out from Tennant Creek, might
cease to exist when tradesmen trained
there went elsewhere to jobs ; in which
Oenpelli mission, on the western border
of Arnhem Land, might be a farming
and tourist centre, and Melville Island
a forestry reserve.
The missions’ approach must be crea-
tive enough to strike a balance between
“salvage work” among the helpless few
and constructive work for the future.
Otherwise the missions were likely to fail
in doing the job in hand and reach “a
final position where they were nothing
but a place for leftovers.”
After Mr Hasluck left, the mission
delegates, apparently unperturbed, settled
down to their usual calm deliberations
from which the press is barred, and out
of which came official statements tradi-
tionally cloudy and imprecise. But there
was no doubt in the minds of observers.
A clear warning had been given. The
missions had been told to produce the
goods—or else!
GROWTH
The Long, the Short and the Tall
FROM A MEL BOURNE CORRESPONDENT
T>ack in 1954 Dr Alec Roche, senior
lecturer in anatomy at Melbourne
University, selected 120 two-year-old
children and asked their parents if they
would be willing to bring them into his
centre four times a year until they were
four, and then twice yearly thereafter.
He wanted to find out what is the normal
rate of growth of the Australian child.
His research team has been working on
the problem ever since and doesn’t expect
to be finished until 1970.
So far oniy ten children have dropped
out of the survey and Dr Roche and his
assistants have taken 20,000 photographs
and made over 300,000 measurements of
the children. (From an analysis of this
data, Dr Roche believes he can predict
whether a child will finish short or tall.)
Parents are supplied with diet forms and
asked to make regular surveys of what
their children are eating. After analysis
of the forms, Dr Roche’s staff makes
recommendations to parents on ways of
improving the child’s diet.
This side of the work has already led
him to one conclusion—that dietary
advice given to parents of children in the
two to six age group has no effect.
Children of this age eat pretty much what
they please and even when parental urging
is backed up by expert advice, the child
still continues to eat the wrong things.
The usual fault is insufficient calcium and
vitamin B 1 and too much sugar.
The children will be 18 when the growth
survey unit has finished its work. In the
meantime, their parents are getting gratis,
each six months, a very rigorous medical
and dental check, and written reports on
their physical progress.
Surveys of adults in U.S.A. indicate
that Americans are becoming a taller
nation and many hotels are using “king-
size” beds and baths as a result. The
Roche data may ultimately show whether
Australians are approximating to the
lanky figure of the Australian legend or
moving away from it.
ODD LOTS
“Cosy Nook”
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
T AST week an Adelaide Caledonian
found a delightful name for a
house in the writings of Bobby Burns.
Translated from the dialect of Burns,
the name which eventually adorned the
suburban castle meant nothing more
than “cosy nook.” And what indeed
could be more charming, or Adelaidian,
for a house name?
However, some Dutch migrants hap-
pened to pass by, and were intrigued by
the appellation of the house. Apparently
the words which read so engagingly in
Burns, turn out to express some kind
of unspeakable obscenity in Dutch.
Whatever this obscenity might be the
Caledonian householder was eventually
visited by a policeman who gently,
politely, and with no suggestion of
coercion, suggested that the house name
be removed or changed. Like any good
Scotsman, the householder dug in his
toes at the very idea that the language
of Bobby Burns could be obscene in
Dutch, Turk, or any other barbarous


tongue. And so commenced a corres-
pondence in the Adelaide “News” which
has highly delighted the saloon-bar wits.
To a man Adelaide responded to the
cause of those who dwell in cosy nooks,
an d the migrant Dutch will have to
endure the surburban obscenity until their
native language becomes a memory from
the past. . . .
Legally the situation is intriguing.
Even in the city of prudes it is possible
to indulge in all manner of bawdy
jollity ... in Arabic, Esperanto, or Urdu!
It looks as if Adelaide is in for a spate
of highly original house-names.
CURRENCY
The Decimalisers
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
Advocates of decimal currency are
getting more and more restless.
Every week now a great quantity of
pamphlets, bulletins and news releases
goes out to the press, parliamentarians,
ministers, influential businessmen, mem-
bers of the public—but results are meagre.
They are a dedicated group. They
have an active organisation, called the
Australian Decimal Research Organisa-
tion, with headquarters in Melbourne’s
Flinders Street and they use the services
of expert research officers. They regu-
larly publish a well-designed and interest-
ing newsletter carrying stories of support
for the decimal reform from various
quarters.
Some 107 countries are now using
decimals. South Africa was the last
country to make a successful switch.
There is no doubt that long-run savings
would be enormous, though the initial
cost and inconvenience would also be
considerable.
Canberra would like to see it intro-
duced eventually but is in no great hurry
to start spending money on the reform.
The recent delay by the Federal Govern-
ment to let things stand for the time being
means that decimal currency cannot now
be introduced in Australia in February,
1963, as the Decimal Currency Commit-
tee had recommended.
The Decimal Research Organisation’s
reaction was to circularise four political
party headquarters, asking the Liberals,
the Country party, Labor and the D.L.P.
just where they stood on the matter. With
the exception of the D.L.P. —which
frankly admitted that it had no views to
offer on the subject—the politicians gave
politely evasive replies. The Liberals fell
back on Federal Treasurer’s Harold Holt’s
earlier statement, when he quipped that
‘The Government attitude of approval
m principle has not changed, but decimal
currency had to take its place w'ith other
matters of more pressing and urgent
Priority.” And so decimalisation was
once again shoved back into a pigeon-
hole, It is not surprising that the organi-
sation is angry: the first Federal inquiry
ever held recommended decimal currency.
That was in 1901!
Tanner
w
H
A
R
I
£
S
“Support you? That'd be bringing politics into trade unionism.”


MINORITIES
The Strange Career of
Geoff McDonald
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
L. SHARKEY
Not kidnapped
When Geoff McDonald was ten he and
his brother Malcolm organised a
protest strike of newsboys. Now at the
age of 31 this early “anarchism” is being
offered by some of his Communist ex-
comrades as one reason why his expul-
sion from the Victorian branch of the
Communist party should stand.
McDonald began bucking the party
not long after he joined it. In 1950 —
after two years’ membership—he opposed
the inclusion of a clause that the Eureka
Youth League should recognise the
“hegemony of the Komsomol” in the
League’s constitution. He was expelled
from the League (despite the fact that at
the time McDonald had topped the poll
for a position on the State- Council) but
the Central Committee of the party were
not game to expel him from the party
because of his strength as an organiser in
ffie Builders’ Union.
A year later he was in trouble again
vith Frank Johnson, the Chairman of
the party’s Industrial Committee, because
he opposed Johnson's policy of one-day
stoppages in the Builders’ Union. Things
seem to have gone quietly for him until
1955 when he was accused by party
officials of Bukharinism, Trotskyism,
Anarcho-Syndicalism, Titoism and other
puzzling crimes. He rode out these
charges only to move on to opposing
the Hungarian massacre in 1956. But
he stayed in the party until he committed
the unpardonable sin.
He criticised the leadership of the
Australian party towards the end of
1960 for refusing to allow the rank-and-
file to discuss the Chinese-Soviet dif-
ferences. Frustrated by the leadership’s
refusal to allow open discussion and
scorning to use the capitalist press he
circulated leaflets among his comrades
attacking the leaders. One stated: “The
capitalist press wishfully points to these
differences (Chinese-Russian) of opinion
as ‘splits.’ They are signs of strength.
Only if we deny them, if we hide them,
if we are childishly ashamed of them,
do they become signs of weakness in the
Communist parties.”
For this action, and while Ted Hill, a
top Victorian official was in Moscow,
Frank Johnson, strongly supported by
another member of the party’s Industrial
Committee, Flo Russell, had McDonald
expelled. When Hill arrived back from
Moscow he was worried by the expulsion
because McDonald still commanded wide
espect and support inside the party and
his stand has lain bare the confusion
and intolerance of the party leadership.
Probably due to Hill he was
approached early this year and was
promised that if he shut up and ceased
to criticise the party leadership he would
be left alone and the Communist party
functionaries would stop trying to dis-
lodge him in the union. But he refused.
Since then strenuous smear campaigns
nave been carried out against him. So
far the smears have been mostly political;
he has as yet been spared the accusations
of dishonesty, homosexuality, etc., which
sooner or later are used against those
expelled from the Communist party.
The campaign to destroy his character
began in earnest in May this year at
the Communist party’s State Conference,
Frank Johnson alleged that McDonald
was a Trotskyite and that McDonald,
like all Trotskyites, was really an agent
of the Security Service. His wife, who
is believed to be still a member of the
party, was also alleged to have helped
McDonald in giving the Trotskyites
addresses of party members to whom
Trotskyite literature would be sent.
McDonald’s reply to these attacks was
to distribute a leaflet in the Victorian
Trades Hall telling unionists of what was
going on. Amongst other things he said:
"No union official can tolerate an
organised political force such as the
Communist party spreading rumors
among the workers that he is a security
policeman . . . This accusation has about
the same level of accuracy as the recent
charge that I and several other 8.W.1.U.
members were involved in a plot to
kidnap Mr L. Sharkey, general secretary
of the Australian Communist Party
(what we were supposed to do with
Sharkey when we got him they didn’t
say).”
McDonald's present position reveals
the extent of the crisis inside the Aus-
tralian Communist party and reflects
-—more than anything else the
demoralisation of an ageing, bureaucrat-
dominated party that cannot shake itself
free of Stalinism in a Khrushchev world.
LAW
A Flaw in the Contract
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Tt couldn't happen in any State but
N.S.W. (or probably in any other
country) and those irresistible encyclo-
paedia salesmen who are working the
suburbs these days are probably not yet
aware of the full implications of a recent
decision in a Sydney magistrate’s court.
But in its wisdom the N.S.W. Parliament
in 1890 passed an Act which, though
more or less forgotten, is still on the
statute books and which, as this recent
case shows, renders void and unenforce-
able nearly all those contracts house-
holders are signing for the purchase of
books and encyclopaedias.
The Act is the Book Purchasers’ Pro-
tection Act. It dates back to the days
when “book-canvasser” was almost a
dirty word. Walter Stone in a recent
“Biblio News” mentions, for example, one
case of a canvasser signing a bushman
up for the time payment purchase of a
book called “Our First Hundred Years”
and when it turned up it was an American
book. Then in the prosperous years of
the 1880 s hordes of wonderful Yankee
book canvassers arrived in Sydney to
hawk around the massive “Picturesque
Atlas of Australia.” The man who
worked the churches looked and spoke
like a clergyman, the man who worked
the bankers and merchants looked and
spoke like a banker (always travelling in
a hansom-cab) and so on. Then came
the depression of the early nineties and
people could not continue payments.
There was a lot of litigation and many
hard cases. So the N.S.W. Government
brought in this curiosity of an Act and
amended it in 1899.
The essential section is section 5.
“Every such contract” it says “shall be
absolutely void unless the purchaser has
signed an agreement on a form on which
there has been printed in red capital
letters of size not less than great primer
the words ‘the total liability of the pur-
chaser under this agreement is,' followed
by the amount of such liability printed
in red in words and figures of like size
an . d ha Y in S the !< ;, tters of such words
punted m capitals.
Unlike the Act, "great primer (the size
m which must be printed the total cost in
red capitals) is no longer used, but it is
ord y a fraction smaller than the size of
the rnain heading on this story. Since
most of the contracts are drawn up in
ignorance of this Act they simply can-
pot t> e enforced in N.S.W. courts. When
it was dug up for the defence in the
magistrate’s court recently, several firms
attempting to enforce payments were
more pr less thrown out of court in about
five minutes.
It is understood that the encyclopaedia
salesmen are considering the matter. But
it is unlikely that the State Government
will introduce a Book Salesmen’s Protec-
tion Act, 1961. Perhaps it should.


“The £2745 includes hydromatic drive, two-tone styling and the Warm feeling of declared faith in
the soundness of the economy.”
PRISONS
A Psychologist
in Prison
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SIR LYELL McEWIN
An experiment
r\ N the very day that the S.A. Chief
Secretary, Sir Lyell McEwin,
appointed a psychologist to test new
prisoners coming into prison from the
police courts, two 19-year-old youths
decided to make exits of their own
accord from the model Cadell Prison
Farm on the River Murray.
As a result the Adelaide public was
regaled all week with another cops-and-
robbers chase when the press might
otherwise have been able to concentrate
on the implications of having Mr E. T.
Price transferred from the Education
Department to prison psychology. The
developing story had added interest be-
cause it was the first time there had been
a break from Cadell where an honor
system had recently been set up in place
of prison bars. The accent in future
was to be on rehabilitation of wrong-
doers and a psychological approach in-
stead of more disciplinary restraints.
The first youth to depart from this
riverside Utopia was William Robert Lee,
then serving a sentence for shopbreaking
and larcency. Two days later, hungry
and exhausted, he gave himself up to
the police at Blanchetown. Though
described as having a skull and cross-
bones tattooed on the back of his left
hand, he was apparently less tough-
fibred than Terence Barry Goode, who
was still giving police and mounted black-
trackers a stiff cross-country chase at the
weekend. This Adelaide teenager with
a record for larceny, garage-breaking,
forging and uttering was sighted driving
a stolen car at speed through Port
Augusta in the small hours of Friday
morning, then crashed it and vanished
into the sandhills with blacktrackers hot
on the scent behind him.
The return of these two young jail-
breakers may well set psychologist Price
his first difficult problem in this new
job. The rehabilitation of lawless youth
determined to escape all restraint is not
an easy task, which is exactly why Mr
Price has been transferred from his
quieter post in the psychology section
of the Education Department. Mr Price,
who is a New Zealander and gained
his M.A. in that country, where he
studied sociology and criminology as
well as engaging in practical prison
work, believes that current S.A.
practice in handling delinquents can
be radically improved. On his appoint-
ment last week Mr Price said that the
psychological service set up on a part-
time basis at Yatala Labor Prison in
1960 would be broadened and also ex-
tended to other institutions. He intends
to make constant reviews of the way in
which adult offenders are handled, inter-
view them regularly during their prison
terms, give them advice and also begin
a lecture course for warders and other
staff. Other States will watch this
experiment with interest.


POLITICAL POINTS
The Tainted Money
of July 15?
HENRY BOLTE
2s. 6d. is the minimum
By MUGGA
"»Tl7hen sufficient votes were up on the
** board in the central counting room
to indicate that the Victorian Govern-
ment of Mr Henry Bolte was assured of
a comfortable return, Melbourne 1V
and radio listeners were introduced to a
panel representing the four main parties
—Mr Bolte himself, the Country party
leader, Sir Herbert Hyland, the State
president of the A.L.P., Mr Frank Carey,
and the D.L.P. president, Mi Jack Little.
On such occasions politicians, victor
and vanquished alike, usually assume a
veneer of dignified sportsmanship. But
not in Victoria these days. Instead, the
audience were delighted with several
rounds of acrimonious cross-fire on the
topic of party funds, rich with innuen-
does about tainted money.
Surprisingly, it was Sir Herbert
Hyland who set the ball rolling. He
charged that his opponents, Liberal and
Labor alike, have been able to spend far
more lavishly on newspaper and TV
advertising than the Country party,
adding that his party had to rely on the
subscriptions and donations of its mem-
bers to run election campaigns. It was
a shrewd ploy to use in front of a mainly
metropolitan audience, because the other
three parties had all bought TV time
and newspaper space on a fairly large
scale. What Sir Herbert did not mention,
however, was that money spent in this
way by the Country party would have
been largely wasted since it w'as only
contesting a few selected rural seats,
It will be a different matter at the next
election when country TV stations are
operating. The Country party will then
have to make a budget allocation for TV
for the first time.
The Country party is actually the most
expensive political group to join in Vic-
toria. Its annual subscription is £2 2s.
a year, compared with the A.L.P. s 10s..
the D.L.P.’s 45., and the L.C.P.’s 2s. 6d.
(although L.C.P officials always add
“ He Walks alone, but he insists on dragging me with him.”
hastily that members must regard this
as a “minimum subscription). On mem-
bership numbers, the Country party is
just as secretive as any other political
party, but the members obviously are
prepared to back their convictions with
something more than the token contri-
butions which other parties ask for.
The L.C.P. and the D.L.P. also claim
to run on members' contributions, but
in speaking for the A.L.P. Mr Carey
said its money came from the “trade
unions.” It was perhaps revealing that
Mr Carey forgot to mention the mem
bership dues of the A.L.P.'s suburban
branches and the fund-raising by rallies
and socials that they carry on. This is
in line with Victorian A.L.P. executive
thinking which regards branches with
suspicion, or even downright hostility.
The last A.L.P. balance-sheet, covering
the year to December 31 last, shows
receipts from branches at £llOB and
from unions at £13,531. The party's two
papers, “Labor” and “Tocsin,” each run
at a loss and sales of literature and
badges accounted for little. Extra dona-
tions, over and above normal dues, come
in from unions at election time. The
branches also whip up more money when
elections approach, spending it on their
local campaigns.
In the Federal election later this year,
the Victorian A.L.P. will have to rely
even more heavily on union finance.
After the debacle in the State elections
a lot of branches feel that they “Did
their dough.” Before July 15, enthusiasm
ran high in the A.L.P., but now the party
is rift with recrimination. Unless there
is a big change, the demoralised branches
will provide neither the money nor the
manpower for the Federal election on
the scale they did for the State. What
energy remains is being largely spent on
attacking the culprits responsible for the
July 15 debacle —variously seen as the
press, the Roman Catholic Church and
the A.L.P. Executive itself.
But D.L.P. morale is high following
the jump in its Victorian vote. The party
organisers can count on both energy and
funds from the membership for the
Federal elections particularly with the
virtual assurance that Senator Frank
McManus will be returned to Canberra.
Nothing stimulates political activity like
giving the members a chance to back
a winner.
The A.L.P. alleges that both the
Liberals and the D.L.P. receive most of
their money from “big business.” Both,
of course, denv it. In the case of the
D.L.P. any conclusive proof would be
highly damaging, but would it be
damaging to the L.C.P. to reveal that
companies contributed to its funds? Very
likely it would make no difference to its
vote. Why should not a party which
supports free enterprise receive financial
support from practitioners of free enter-
prise? This is not 1910 and the idea
that there is something sinister about
finance from these sources going to the
Liberals seems to be a ritual survival
from a previous age.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Education as Poise!
By OBSERVER
The adoption of the Wyndham Report
on Education by the N.S.W. Cabinet
last week will be a landmark in the
history of the decay of education in
Australia. It is bound to stimulate
similar decisions in other States.
Look first of all at what will be
destroyed. The selective high schools,
which were the best State schools (and
among the best schools of any kind) in
the country will be abolished and replaced
by area and comprehensive schools. The
decisive primary-school examinations will
be abolished, thereby removing the main
stimulus for work in primary schools.
The first-year course in high schools,
when students up till now began the
serious study of subjects, will be replaced
with a generalised gimmicky syllabus in
which nothing will be studied properly.
And the whole idea that education is
hard work and the cultivation of intelli-
gence will be replaced with the already
passe “modern” cant that education is
the cultivation of “poise,” “balance,” etc.
On the other hand, what is gained?
An extra year of high school, say the
Wyndhamites. It is true the full course
will now be six years instead of the five.
But absolutely nothing is gained by this.
No more work will be done. The same
ground will be covered. The only differ-
ence is that a year will be wasted. All
that a N.S.W. Education Department
spokesman could say last week in defence
of the extra year was that it would make
students “more mature, more poised and
more balanced.” Instead of education
we are now getting poise! This is
progress!
Naturally at any time there is room
for reform. No one would suggest
that the State education system was
satisfactory. But the Wyndham Report
represents the last flicker of the pre-war
and postwar “progressive” ideas and
bears no relation to the needs of the
country today. Ironically, it will bring
us into line with the worst American
practices just at the time when America
is itself abandoning these practices.
With important primary-school exam-
inations abolished, selective schools
abolished, and secondary-school stan-
dards lowered, it is obvious that, taken
along with the decline of the universities
referred to in a recent Bulletin article
(July 8), the whole structure of educa-
tion is collapsing. It is disastrous enough
that this should happen, but for the
whole dreary thing to be called a triumph
for progress is taxing the public’s patience
and good nature too far.
An Asian Common Market?
A ll rational calculation has it that the
T* U.K. will join forces with the
European Common Market, but on terms
of entry as laid down by the “Six.” The
long-cherished Commonwealth ideal must
inevitably suffer. Australia and New
Zealand will incur immediate and sub-
stantial loss of trade.
Can these losses be averted? One
possible solution lies in an integrated
South-east Asian Common Market, a
single economic unit with Australia and
New Zealand forming the nucleus of
a harmonious and interdependent free-
trade area. There appear to be insur-
mountable difficulties to the conclusion
of such a scheme however, not least
among them the disparity between poten-
tial and effective demand in the countries
concerned—possibly Japan, the Philip-
pines, Malaya, Indonesia, Singapore,
Hong Kong and Siam.
The European plan was nurtured in a
period of unprecedented prosperity
spurred on by a postwar economic co-
operation growing out of the O.E.E.C. —
the Organisation for European Economic
Co-operation.
Admittedly there is a measure of aid
to South-east Asia under the auspices
of the Colombo Plan, plus American
dollars committed in the main, however,
to defence. But the assistance given is
pitifully small when measured against
the immensity of the need.
First steps in formation of a South-east
Asian Common Market, on the E.E.C.
pattern, would involve elimination of
trade barriers between Australia and
New Zealand, then the removal, neces-
sarily a gradual removal, of all obstacles
to the flow of goods and services, labor
and capital (involving sacrifice of
national identity ; almost certainly a
decline in Australian and New Zealand
living standards), not only between Aus-
tralia and N.Z., but between the postu-
lated member countries of South-east
Asia.
Initially, as in Europe, this would take
the form of a functional integration of
various industries, agricultural projects,
etc., rather than an overall coalescing of
interests in one fell swoop. The ultimate
aim of economic, financial, agricultural
and social parity must of necessity be a
long-term project.
Finally, tariff barriers between the
member countries would be removed;
then as a group they would band together
to negotiate common tariffs and trade
policies towards the rest of the world.
A Chance
for Calwell
VX7HAT a wonderful thing it would be
* * if the A.L.P. put up a man of its
own in the election for the general
secretaryship of the Waterside Workers’
Federation now that Healy is dead. And
not only put a man in but sent Federal
Labor leaders stumping the country on
his behalf, urging the many A.L.P. men
in the union to vote for their own
candidate.
It is only a dream. The reality is that
in Victoria at least the A.L.P.’s only
intervention in the recent wharfies’ elec-
tion was to tolerate an A.L.P.-Commu-
nist party unity ticket. And if Mr Calwell
were ever to go down to the wharves and
speak up for decency and democracy
he might be stabbed in the back at home.
Not that that should stop him. His only
chance of avoiding going down in history
as a tragically futile figure is to make
a grand, saving gesture. He is not likely
to make one.
The Communist party itself in Aus-
tralia is starved of members, demoralised
by factionalism and rent by the problems
of ageing membership and dogmatic
Stalinist leadership. A real push in the
unions could very well reduce it to a
position of laughable insignificance.
In the Waterside Workers’ Federation
the only hope lies in the determination
and skill of one man —Mr Gus Alford.
If Mr Alford can play up sufficiently
well the technicality that at present
probably makes him general secretary of
the union he may be able to out-
manoeuvre the Communist attempt f o
hustle up another Communist-controlled
ballot to replace Healy with another
Communist.
Apart from any support he may gain
from his own followers or genuinely
anti-Communist A.L.P. union members
who wish him well he must go it alone.


SELLING
Why do so many salesmen crack up?
By LINDSEY BROWNE
SALESMEN, the people who sometimes earn up to
£15,000 a year by gambling their powers of persuasion
against the desire-suspicion of every citizen, are the
drive behind the selling of £700m.-worth of retail goods
in a year, of £250m.-worth of motor vehicles, of half a
million television receivers, of half a million radio sets, of
16m. square yards of floor coverings, of £looom.-worth of
life insurance, of quarter of a million refrigerators or wash-
ing machines or petrol mowers . . .
Being the drive behind such huge annual transactions,
aggregate commissions which they collect is correspond-
ingly immense, but while only a few men, comparatively,
have the know-how and the temperament and the enduring
strength of nerve to get a lion’s share of these commissions,
there are tens of thousands of beaten battlers, often more or
less neurotic, who find it sickeningly hard to “sell” them-
selves sufficiently to be numbered even among those adult
Australian males (one in every 15) who earn £3O a week or
more. Typical of these beaten battlers —we all know him
—is the man who sometimes comes to the kitchen door with
a suitcase fuff of cooking essences or toiletries, puts a brave
smile over his fatigue and his defeat and his certainty that
you will say no. and plods on from hard refusal to hard
refusal until some neighbor’s dog nips him, via hospital,
into some sterile, crushing basic-wage job at the muckier end
of industry.
Also typical of these beaten battlers, though not quite
so badly off money-wise, is the class of salesman who
muddles along on the theory that he has to be “well-liked,”
works to get himself “well-liked” without any real know-
ledge of what is fundamentally likeable in a man, and reaps
only a life of dragging fatigue, scrapheaped good intentions,
unfulfilment and unlikedness.
For the truth of it is that many a highly successful
salesman, here and in other parts of the world, does not at
all conform to the popular image of a successful salesman
as a glad-handing bit of jolly good company who never
forgets to inquire about the mum’s arthritis and the dad’s
golf handicap. This is the pattern on which many a would-
be salesman models himself. Some succeed with it. But
for the few who succeed with it, thousands fail disastrously.
On the other hand, many a salesman who has the appear-
ance of being pretty sedate and duff, even a bit of a muddler
and seemingly not excessively interested in you as a cus-
tomer, has been known to command the mysterious per-
sonality factors which give him a successful career in selling.
I have talked with many salesmen in recent months—
one sells encyclopaedias, a couple sell insurance, another is
busy with new and used cars, a fifth has an uncanny knack
for selling land, another is strong on washing machines, and
yet another has an effective technique for selling travel and
so fattening the business of his tourist agency. Widely
different as these men are as personalities, there were two
things which they all appeared to have in common. First
(and not because they told me so, but because it was evident
from their manner of thinking), there was absolutely sincere
belief on their part in the quality of the goods and services
they sell. Second, they were all men who could take the
rebuffs from a string of no-no-no clients without allowing
these same setbacks to eat destructively at their nerves, their
confidence or their belief in themselves. In addition, none
of them appeared to be either the incorrigible “wooer” nor
the all-hours “actor” that America’s upper-bracket salesmen
are, according to one Harvard inquiry into the mystique
of super-salesmanship.
TTAKE Ron Nettheim of the A.M.P. Society, for instance.
The society counts him among one of the stalwarts of
the business. A quiet and modest man of middle-age, a
former Mosman captain who captained not-thei.-famous
Graeme Hole, lan Craig and John O'Reilly, a churchgoer
with a devout interest in missionary work, Nettheim is the
complete contradiction of the popular image of a top sales-
man as a big. brash, bold go-getter. Originally an account-
ant. he went into life insurance as assistant to an elderly
agent despite his own doubts about himself.
“My wife was very upset,” he told me. “1 was very
shy when I was younger, and we both doubted whether I'd
ever be the slightest bit of good at selling anything. To
help out on this 1 tried a course of oral salesmanship with
the Metropolitan Business College—the instructor used to
make us affirm or deny such things as ‘Pigs are too fat.’ never
using the words T and ‘we’ and ‘and’ and ‘but.’ This really
made you think on your feet, instead of merely rattling off
ready-made thoughts. I remember one class test where, with
a bag of peanuts on the table as a prize to the winner, the
instructor asked the students to act out the job of trying to
sell him, say, a bottle of paste or a fountain pen. The
student was given five minutes, and. if in five minutes the
student could get the master to agree to anything at all he
got the peanuts. The instructor then set out to resist the
‘salesman’ at every point. I won the peanuts!.. . .That, and
six years of war service helped to knock the shyness out
of me....”
Ron Nettheim says that he is not interested in making
a lot of money, but he says quite simply that he enjoys
meeting people and being of service to them. That being
his attitude, he laughed outright when I suggested that the
insurance companies liked their most successful agents to
keep spending their incomes on cars, trips and handsome
homes so that the urge to work hard for their money would
remain with them. Against one insurance authority’s view
that most people’s money-making urge slackens once a
certain level of comfort is reached, Ron Nettheim declares
that “once people set out to make money, they never leave
off!”
To suggestions that some insurance salesmen press too
hard in trying to sign up clients for premiums above their
ability to pay, Mr Nettheim said that it was necessary to
press a client a bit because “so many of them say they can’t
afford insurance when, in fact, they can.” At that, he was
clearly a man who would not feel deeply demoralised where
No was a client’s final and irrevocable answer—which is
probably not true of the many insurance men, about half of


the total body of agents at any one time, who will last less
than three years in the insurance-selling business.
The demoralising effect of the client’s No is examined
at length in Robert McMurry’s inquiry into salesmanship
for the 1961 edition of “The Harvard Business Review.”
“A salesman of insurance is expected to make at least
36 prospect contacts by cold canvass each week.” McMurry
points out. “If he can sell four of these he is regarded as
performing very well. Thus he must steel himself to an
average of 32 rejections 50 weeks of the year. No one with-
out a well-defined capacity to take punishment (often with
a real need for constant self-punishment) can tolerate such
activity. If. as often happens, the salesman is working on
straight commission, the torture is even worse. This is one
reason why much selling is deprecated and the work attracts
so many neurotics.”
Rejection can work rewardingly, though. Take the case
of Harry Fieldhouse who opened up the now-thriving Time
Travel Service on Sydney's North Shore when his only
experience had been two years of dentistry at the university,
war service in the R.A.A.F. and a couple of years as a
pilot for A.N.A. He canvassed hundreds of firms in the
North Shore area for their travel booking business, and
recalls being so churlishly kicked out of one business house
that he. a quiet man of somewhat nervous manner and
speech, was livid with rage. In this mood of fierce aggres-
sion. quite unusual for him. he marched into another busi-
ness on the other side of the road and. powered on his own
indignation, became so eloquent about the services he offered
that he signed up that second firm’s travel business there
and then.
Aggression, even applied without subtlety, sometimes
pays off. Many a salesman knows instinctively when an
element of fear of himself—of his contempt, of his superior
knowledge, of his unwillingness to be bothered with nin-
compoops—can create the pressure in the client out of which
a sale will be completed. The self-approving arrogance of
many an Australian car salesman, especially of the popular
makes where the salesmen are virtually no more than takers
of orders from pre-sold customers, is known by many who
have sought to deal with them. This lofty and haughty con-
tempt of customers, when business is running so well that
the salesman is hardly required at all. could be part of the
salesman's instinctive revenge against a world which has
frustrated him when things have not run along so well.
These fellows who snort when things are good and
wheedle with some bungling approximation of “sincerity”
when things are bad include some spectacular income-
earners. nevertheless Top car salesmen hit the £SOQO-a-
-year mark with the accuracy of William Tell if there isn’t a
credit squeeze to knock them back to about £3500.
gALESMEN in the car business have a good deal to con-
tend with in the way of smart-alec cheekiness from
visitors who pretend to be would-be buyers. I have called
at half a dozen suburban showrooms in recent weeks for a
chat on this salesmanship mystique with the salesmen on
the floor, and the word “stuffers” cropped up early in the
conversation of all of them. “Stuffers” are the humbugs who
merely play at being car-buyers, and kid the salesmen along
if he isn’t perceptive enough—most of them are!—to spot
them straight away
Young Englishman Bill Harris, who came into car-
selling in Sydney after some years with local gramophone-
record companies, told me that every car salesman tries to
size up a client as soon as he walks into the showroom. His
method of selling is to try to identify himself so closely with
ffe client, after the first few exploratory questions and
“Could I borrow fourpence to dial a prayer?”
answers, that his “pitch” is directly associated with the
client’s own needs and wishes.
“Where some of us car salesmen fail to make a sale
when it should have been made is in our habit of showing a
client too many cars to choose from.” he said. “Many a
client is in a position to make up his mind when he has
seen two or three cars. Show him five or six and he can
become undecided and walk out without buying at all.”
But when the customer does buy, and the signatures
go down on the documents, there comes a near-intoxicating
feeling of delight and self-proof that only salesmen can
know. “It’s a wonderful feeling,” Mr Harris told me. “It's
not the money you make. It’s something more important
. . .” and. stuck for words, he flourished his hands in front
of h's chest in a gesture of self-liberation. “Sell a car in the
morning.” he went on, “and you feel so good that, more
than likely, you’ll go out" and sell two or three more that
same day It works the other way, too. Bungle a sale that
should have been made and sure enough you'll find your-
self bungling them all day.”
Mr Harris is not in line with the great majority of sales-
men who believe that the most vital part of their selling
equipment is thorough knowledge of the product to be sold.
It is his view that the most vital thing for success in selling
is for the salesman to know and to control himself. With-
out that, he says, it does not matter how good the product
is; it will not be sold. This opinion cuts right across the find-
ings of an English technical journal which recently quizzed
a large number of salesmen on what they thought to be the
single factors in successful selling. Six of
the factors, and the percentages they scored, were: —
Product knowledge .. 44% Sincerity .. .. 12%
Enthusiasm .. .. 13% Knowledge of people 7%
Personality .. .. 12% Good listener .. 2%
It is the personality factor which is emphasised in the
McMurry inquiry for “The Harvard Business Journal.” but
it is emphasised in a way that is not likely to endear the
author to the race of salesmen in general. It is McMurry’s
conviction that the possessor of an effective sales personality
is a habitual “wooer,” an individual who has a compulsive
need to win and hold the affection of others. To the degree
that a salesman possesses this trait, he is characterised—so


If you have
money..
earning less
than 41 p.a.
It’s time to
consider a
‘Short Term’
Deposit
at the ‘Rural’
Make sure that your money grows
on Interest Bearing Deposit at the
Rural Bank.
4% p.a. from 3 to 11 months,,
4|% p.a. for 12 months.
Enquire at any branch of the
RURAL BANK
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
the theory runs—by the conviction that he is really unloved
and unwanted. His reaction is to attempt to “buy” the
acceptance and affection of all of those with whom he comes
into contact, and out of the resulting empathy which he has
toward others he is sensitive to every nuance of their
reactions to everything he says and does. He has, so to
speak, a built-in radar which is invaluable in sales contacts.
“His wooing, however, is not based on a sincere desire
for love,” the McMurry theory continues, “because he is
convinced at heart that no one will ever love him. There-
fore his wooing is primarily exploitative; he seeks to win
the affection of others the better to use them for his own
selfish purposes... .The fact that his wooing is intuitive
explains why he so often has difficulty in explaining how he
accomplishes results.”
A LTOGETHER, it is a theory that has to be treated with a
good deal of reserve, even of outright scorn when you try
to think of it and of insurance men like Ron Nettheim and
Hedley Palmer in the same context. Hedley Palmer, one
of the A.M.P’s supreme examples of product-knowledge, is
so plain, direct and sincere in his methods that any attempt
to make the over-clevei American theory fit him would be
plainly absurd. His whole address to his job is that of a
solid non-nonsense citizen. He has no hesitation about try-
ing to sell insurance to his friends, and he is firmly of the
conviction that any insurance man who boasts that he is
“not gonna bludge off my friends” is likely to be a failure in
selling it, simply because the attitude proves that he does
believe in insurance.
“There can be some pretty lean spells in insurance can-
vassing,” Mr Palmer says against a background of personal
success, “and the anxiety can kill.” Or it can lead to extra-
ordinary ingenuities in uncovering potential business. A
lecturer to fellow A.M.P. salesmen on this and other details
of selling technique. Mr Palmer has found much business
by his trick of turning up the newspaper birth notices of 16
or 17 years ago and of canvassing those same “babies” at
their present school-leaving and job-starting age. As a
business-winning device it was rather more subtle than the
method of one novice salesman who used to wander around
the suburbs to study the clothes-lines on washdays and thus
determine the sizes of families and their probable ages.
Experienced insurance men can usually tell within a
month if a novice salesman is going to be a success or not
There is no way of telling at the time of engagement. The
story is still told among the Australian societies of a seem-
ingly hopeless novice who —a professor of higher mathe-
matics by profession—came to the insurance job after two
years as private tutor to the family of Haile Selassie of
Abyssinia. He thrived on insurance. And the story is told
of a highly successful and personable business executive who
gave away a safe £4OOO-a-year job in full certainty that he
was equipped to make even more out of selling insurance.
He failed dismally. To the superficial view the first man
had seemed the certain failure and the second the certain
success. Why did it work out the other way round? No-
body knows.
But perhaps one can tell why it works in the case of
one specialty salesman of silverware —a door-to-door man
who carries two tall candlesticks with his samples. After
his long chat with the housewife about his wares, he places
his gleaming silver place-setting on black velvet display pads
on the dining table, lights the candles and turns out th
lights.
“Madam.” he pronounces in this atmosphere of
romance, “there are three apocalyptic moments in every
woman’s life: when the man she loves tells her he loves her
and wants to marry her; when she holds her first-born in
her arms; and finally when she looks down on her first sterl-
ing silver table service. Sign here, madam. Please use this
pencil and press hard; there are four carbons.”


The Waterfront Jungle—3
Seamen Do
Not Speak Out
(The last of three articles )
W. F. PHILLIPS
“See you in court.”
By ALAN REID
When William Francis Phillips, 33, seaman, “calied
copper” and took the Australian Seamen's Union
to the Commonwealth Industrial Court in April this
year he did more than get back his union book,
which he claimed the union had unjustly confiscated to deprive
him of his livelihood.
Counsel for the Union (M. N. K. Wran) conceded the
claim of Phillips’s counsel that 33 sub-sections of 16 rules
and some of the rules themselves, covering conditions of
membership, management of the union and its voting pro-
cedures, were “oppressive, unreasonable and unjust or con-
trary to the provisions of the Arbitration Act. Mr Wran
told the court (Chief Justice Spicer, Mr Justice Dunp’nv and
Mr Justice Eggleston): “My instructions are not to participate
in the argument as to the invalidity (of the rules) but merely
to submit.”
Phillips’s lawyers were Mr S. Isaacs, Q.C., and Mr W. D.
Thompson, barristers, and Mr L. G. Smeatham, solicitor.
After Mr Wran had made this remark, Mr Justice Dunphy
commented: “I do not suppose Mr Isaacs has ever had an
open cheque like this in his life.' Mr Isaacs said: “No, Your
Honor. It is a most unique experience in this court at any rate.”
The court adjourned the hearing until July 31, Mr Wran
consenting on behalf of the union to the order that the rules
be declared “oppressive, unreasonable or unjust” or contrary
to the Arbitration Act being made absolute on that date.
The delay was asked for by Mr Wran so that the union
could “put its house in order” by overhauling its rules.
1 don’t think that Phillips yet appreciates the blow that
his lawyers have dealt to the present Communist controllers
of the Seamen’s Union. As the rules stand, the Communists
have a stranglehold over the union. Alteration of the rules
to make them conform with the provisions of the Arbitration
Act opens the way for future challenges to the Communists
authority over the Seamen’s Union. The threat may be long-
term but now it exists where it did not exist before.
Phillips is understandably more concerned with his personal
* position—the fact that his union book was taken from
him unjustly and that as a result his home was broken up,
his wife has left him taking their two children, and the house
they were buying will probably be lost because he cannot
keep up with his mortgage payments.
You can understand his viewpoint. There was much more
drama surrounding the taking of his book than the dry, legal
argument on rules in the Industrial Commission on April
11 this year. In his sworn affidavit to the Commonwealth
Industrial Commission which the Seamen’s Union made no
attempt to rebut in court Phillips states: “On or about Monday
September 12, 1960, while in company with Leslie Joseph
Brennan I went to the Seamen’s Union office at Sussex Street,
Sydney. While we were at the said office L. J. Brennan spoke
to an official of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd (Mr Munro)
who was accompanied by two men. Brennan said ‘You, you
r at, bringing these two scabs down. I ought to knock.
I heard no more of the conversation. Mr Munro then left
the said office. I then spoke to one of the other men and
said ‘You don't want to join the ship because everyone on
the coast will roast you and won’t want to sail with you.’
He replied ‘I don't care who sails with me.’ Barney Smith
(Mr Bernard Smith) the branch secretary who was standing
nearby then nodded to me. I then punched this other fellow
who said ‘I don’t want to sail on your stinking ships.' He
then ran out of the office. Barney Smith then said to me
‘Get going in case they bring the police. You did the right
thing. But you should have done it outside the office.’ 1 then
left accompanied by Brennan.
“On Thursday, September 16, I went to the union office
to inquire about my mail.... Barney Smith came out of the
other office and spoke to me. He said ‘You are suspended.
I said ‘Why?’ He said ‘Over that incident on Monday.’
1 said ‘ls Brennan suspended?’ He said ‘Of course not.’ I said
‘You low bastard. You told me to hit that fellow.’ Smith
just laughed. 1 abused him and then left the office.
“Within the next few days I spoke to my solicitor, Mr
Smeatham, of 148 Phillip Street, Sydney. On or about October
25, 1960, my solicitor received a letter from B. Smith....
omitting formal parts (it) is as follows ‘lf your client, Mr W.
Phillips attends the Sydney branch office....he can discuss
with the Branch Executive the lifting of his suspension.' I
attended at the said Union office. I spoke to Comrades
Webster. Smith and Fabian, who were all together.
(Mr R. “Snowy” Webster is the Seamen’s Union Sydney
Branch Vigilance Officer and Mr K. “Bluey” Fabian, a non-
Communist, was then Assistant Secretary of the Sydney Branch
but has since returned to sea.)
“I said ‘What is the decision about my suspension?’ Smith
said ‘We will lift the suspension providing you sign statements
saying you were in the wrong and providing you write a
letter to the Journal (the “Seamen’s Journal,” official organ
of the Seamen's Union) and you drop the court case.’ I said
‘l’m not going to sign anything.’ Comrade Webster said ‘We
want you to sign this statement because it will cost the union
members thousands of pounds.’ I said ‘Well, I’m going....’
I just walked out.
“On Monday, November 21, 1960. . . .1 rang up and spoke
to Barney Smith. 1 said ‘Any mail?’ Smith said ‘I want to see
you.’ I said ‘l’m not going near the union office at all.’ Smith
said ‘l’ll meet you somewhere.’
“At about 3 p.m. I met Comrade Smith as arranged
Smith said, ‘Brennan told me he never signed any statement.’
[Mr Smith could be wrong about this. I hold a statutory
declaration by Brennan which confirms Phillips’s story.]
‘You would be a fool to carry on. Why don’t you drop it?
If you go on we will bring up your criminal record
in court.’ I said, ‘The only criminal record I’ve got is
through fighting battles for you rats. If you give me my
book back and write a letter yourself to the “Journal” saying
that I had been victimised, then 1 would withdraw from the
case.’ Smith said ‘Ring me Friday.’
“On Friday, November 25, 1960, I rang. .. .Comrade
Smith. He said ‘No chance.’ I said See you in court.’ ”
Phillips duly saw the union in court. The union attempted


Fdilh Ist Mie
Fm litre
wmm
\
0
... m
Looking round the world today we see a
remarkable weave; here some turbulence;
there, some flashing achievement in the progress
of mankind.
And threading it through are the simple things
of everyday life that often escape us as pressures
rise and new wonders are presented to our gaze.
This contrast in living values was brought
vividly to me recently when my good friend Mr.
Harmon Eberhard. President of the Caterpillar
Tractor Company, sent me a delightful little book
from America.
Its title is “These Things Are Ours.” In
exquisite drawings and fine prose it draws attention
back to the simplest and most beautiful things
in Creation.
“These things”—the sunlit things of soil and
stream and creature life—are ours in abundance in
this Australian continent. Across nearly three
million square miles they are scattered generously
in variations of form and colour. And our possession
of them is a reminder that we ourselves have a high
creative mission to fulfil.
It is a duty that must over-live the excitements
of the times. That men should venture into space,
for instance, is of less immediate importance to
Australia’s future than our satisfying the big
developmental task that awaits us.
We speak of Australia as an entity, and of its
task as something whole and collective. But always
it gets back to the effort which each single life
supplies to it.
In the midst of this wealth of simple gift we
can, and must, avail of every mechanical and
technical advantage the age produces. But these
very aids at our hands make yet more rapid the pace
of performance the world expects of us.
Our task will be unfulfilled while one acre of
arable land is left untilled, one square mile of good
territory goes unwatered and unstocked, while one
mile of needed road remains unmade and any
industry—primary or secondary—lags for want
of efficiency.
y
no defence. The court ordered the union to return his book.
The union's version appeared in the “Seamen’s Journal,”
February, 1961, but did not refer to Phillips’s version of the
facts given in evidence.
TJhillips stated: “I intended to go back to sea. But the
A Communists have made it clear that if I do I’m heading
for trouble. It’s not the warnings that ‘Lafferty is looking
for you’ or the threats that I’ll be found mixed up with the
propellers that bothers me. I’m not frightened of trouble.
I can look after myself. I’m not frightened of that. I know
they’ll gee men on to fight me. They always do. What I’m
frightened of is that they'll gee the wrong man on to me
and I’ll kill him. I don’t want to kill anyone. I’ll fight if
I’ve got to fight. But I don't pick on men of poor physique.
But the Communists, particularly the fanatics, don’t care who
they use. They’ll gee on some poor character and I’ll have
to hit him and then I’ll become the bad man.
“I know something else that’ll happen. I've seen it happen
to others who wouldn't accept physical intimidation. They’ll
put stolen stuff in my locker and then pimp to someone in
authority that there’s stolen stuff in my locker. I’ll constantly
be drenched with water or find my bedding on fire and be
abused by everyone. • I’ll be spat on when somebody I can't
identify or catch up with is working above me. Heavy
blocks'll hit the deck near where I’m working. It’ll be just
an accident of course. If it hits me and cripples me, it’s
still an accident of course. Or if they catch me off guard
or at the right time I’ll be crippled in a fight. It'll be just
one of those things of course. Not really meant. A flareup
of temper. Nothing political in it at all, they’ll claim. There’s
enough violence on the coast for them to make such a claim
stick, too.
“The Communists have already set out to blackguard me
on the waterfront. To listen to what they’re saying I’m a
real crim., like some of their mates, instead of a bloke who
acquired much of his record from fighting the union’s battles,
They’re trying to make everyone forget that I went in at Hobart
because I wouldn’t shelf the Communists who painted the
slogans on Government House even though they were drinking
in the pub nearby while the coppers were questioning me and
that I got pinched in Brisbane because I belted in a wharf
gate with a hammer in an industrial dispute. The only thing
they can’t explain away is the time I got pinched in the 1959
Circular Quay riot over the Roma when the Communists
incited us to turn on a blue when the Italian seamen were
sticking up. I got my mug plastered over too many news-
paper pages for them to explain that one away.
“But to offset that they’re pitching the story that Mr Munro
(of the 8.H.P.) has been paying my wages ever since I decided
to take the union to court and to have a go at its Communist
controllers. I only wish he was paying me. I’m flatter than a
flounder. And that isn't the only one they’re putting
round. Mr Jack Cockle [a shipowners’ representative, very
well known on the waterfront, who recently won the Liberal
preselection for Warringah], is supposed to have persuaded
the shipowners to put my kids through college. Put my kids
through college! That’s rich. The boy is aged three and
the little girl is eighteen months old.
“There’s no doubt about the Communists on the water-
front. I never thought they’d get me out of the business. I
thought I was too tough for that to happen. And, as I’ve
said before, it’s not the physical threats that’s ended me on
this coast. It’s the other things that add up to make you
turn it in. I want to go back to sea. It’s the way I’ve earned
my living since I was thirteen. It is the only way that I know
how to earn a living. I’ve lost the lot. My wife’s left me.
She’s taken the children with her because she couldn’t under-
stand what’s going on. I paid a deposit on a home. That’s
going. I haven’t a job and no prospects.
“I’m no lilywhite. I don’t profess to be. And I’ve known
for years what they’ve been up to. But only now when I’ve
got absolutely nothing else to lose am I prepared to speak up.
“How do you expect men even more timid than me to
speak out?”


If your plans feature the ‘low
100k 5 roofline .. . take a look at
ORB
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
mm
sssiis||||||||
Ill'' '••• -SM
gttgx
•:**' '
mu
Uii :
■
1
f & WkMmJ
* m \ ~u -Mmd
a t
J*> /f 5
* y *<xx> x ft xsBBSc :<:3«;
Ml
*****
* ' v '~ * * "t* *'!
“f.
<**>
When you are specifying a roofing material,
cold fact is the only criterion and today,
every known fact points to Lysaght Steel Sheet
as your logical choice.
Its durability is a byword. It is quickly and
easily erected. Maintenance costs are negligible
and today you have the choice of THREE
versatile sheets which harmonise perfectly with
the modern trend to low-pitched roof design . . .
r o*P*rr.
just published . . . fascinating new guide to the
newest trends in the home design. Send for your
copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
P.O. Box 24, George Street North, N.S.W.
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the
new Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
NAME _
ADDRESS
STATE.
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
fROM
CORRUGATED: Lysaght Red
Orb Cheat, made especially
rigid lor roofing purposes,
has almost efvdless applica-
tions in .he budding industry.
Available in all wanted widths
and lengths; also pre-painted
in alu.Twnium where speedy
finishing is a factor.
FLAT: Essential -for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*KLIP-LOX! New smartly
ribbed, heavily galvanized
Steel Sheet with self-locking
shoulders for fiat and near
flat roofing, and wall cladding.
In cost-saving unbroken
lengths to SO ft.
"Patent No. 222046
Glscc


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
The Struggle in
South Vietnam
Crying Need For Rural Aid
"Economic, aid at the centre and military efficiency in
the Held are not enough to cope with a revolution
of this type ”
From DENIS WARNER in Saigon
Saigon itself and the first 20 miles or so of road leading
sorith through the ricefields of the delta reflect much
of the improving economic situation brought about
by the American aid programme. Results have not been
dramatic, but they have been quietly impressive. The shady
trees of Saigon’s rue Catinat, its pocket-handkerchief shops
filled with all manner of consumer and luxury goods, give
way to a stretch of asphalt road running like a black ribbon
through the green sea of rice. Villages hidden in bamboo
thickets appear like islands on either side, and the peasants
in colored plastic raincoats and rubber boots give the impression
that the billboards advertising Saigon's wares speak to an
audience with real money to spend.
This, one feels is no Laos. Economic aid has really meant
something here. There is food for all and plenty to spare for
export markets Economically, South Vietnam is on the up
and up.
This is all partly true, but the general air of well-being
does not last very long. For most of the ten-million Vietnamese
who live south of Saigon the economic upsurge has made an
almost imperceptible improvement in living standards. Like
a stone thrown into a pond, economic aid has caused a splash
at the centre and only the merest ripple on the peripheries.
In remote villages its principal effect has been to display goods
the peasants would like and cannot afford to buy.
Security and well-being are in direct proportion. Saigon
has its assassins, but they are few in number. Immediately
beyond the city limits military jeeps travel only with armed
escort.
That aid has so far failed to have what we might regard
as a desirable impact on many of South Vietnam's 14-million
people is not a criticism of the programme as such. But it is
fundamental to an understanding of a situation which, after
the Laos debacle, can scarcely fail to grow more critical.
Some of Vietnam’s current difficulties may certainly be
attributed to the shortcomings of the Diem administration,
if not quite in the way they are sometimes represented abroad.
Diem s refusal to delegate authority has narrowed the structure
of government beyond the point of efficient operation. Allega-
tions of corruption against the Nhu family, charges of election-
rigging and the rest also provide talking points for the
Communists and may yet prove gravely serious in maintaining
the integrity and cohesion of the State. But essentially South
Vietnam is not suffering from bad government but from a
deliberate and determined Communist effort to bring about the
collapse of the Government by internal revolt.
In a generally gloomy situation it is now a cause for some
optimism that many American M.A.A.G. officers in the field
with the Vietnamese Army have done their Mao Tse-tung home-
work and are familiar not only with the Viet Cong's tactics but
with the extra-military needs of the situation. “Most of us
are sure that this is only 15 per cent, military and 75 per cent,
social and economic,” Lt.-Colonel Arthur P. Gregory, a
M.A.A.G. officer assigned to the southern delta, told me. “It's
not just a matter of killing Viet Cong but of coupling security
with welfare.”
Vietnam has to contend with a military frontline along
the 17th parallel, a long and difficult border with Laos, which
is now dominated by the Viet Cong’s allies, and an unfriendly
Cambodia. The 17th parallel has been cared for effectively, but
Laos and Cambodia are both sanctuaries for the Viet Cong
and main supply routes which cannot easily be blocked. The
revolt is not confined to a minority. Effective controls of food
are impossible in a food-surplus area, and resettlement of all
isolated groups living in hamlets or alone, as was done in
Malaya, would be prohibitively expensive.
In many ways the efficiency of security operations has
improved recently. The Army has abandoned the task of
guarding the frontiers against improbable conventional
invasion and has turned seriously, and often effectively, to
the task of fighting the insurgents. The appointment of a senior
general, hitherto occupied with strategic planning, as field
commander, and the division of the country into three terri-
torial regions, are moves designed both to improve efficiency
and to prevent President Diem from continuing to intervene
directly in the conduct of military operations. Sixty companies
of rangers, trained by M.A.A.G. officers in guerrilla tactics, have
added flexibility to the Army. The badly-paid and wretchedly
equipped 58,000-man Civil Guard, which bore the brunt of
the fighting last year and early this, is also being expanded,
retrained and re-equipped with American assistance. Most
isolated hamlets and villages have had to rely on runners to
send word of a Viet Cong attack to the nearest Civil Guard
or Army post. Though there is no sign yet of any significant
improvement in this situation, the plan is that in future village
auto defence units will need only to radio for help and the
Civil Guard, or the Army, will be on its way.
Tn principle, therefore, the right military steps have been
1 taken. When the monsoon rains end in October and the
new campaigning season begins, the Viet Cong will find them-
selves opposed by a much more impressive-looking deterrent
force than hitherto. Yet there are many causes for disquiet.


Saigon rumbles with discontent; and while it is true that some
criticisms by intellectuals and others who are generally dis-
satisfied with the Diem administration can easily be exaggerated
in terms of the struggle against the Viet Cong, they do con-
tribute heavily to the prevailing sense of governmental
instability. The abortive paratroop coup last November
lowered the flash-point, and Diem’s own failure to respond to
advice since the coup has brought about some profound
changes in what passes in Saigon for public opinion. The
Government has not become broader based: it is not more
liberal; and it remains, in effect, in the hands of an
extremely limited group centring around Diem, his brother
and political adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu, and the Secretary of the
Presidency, Nguyen Dinh Thuan. Diem still commands per-
sonal respect, even admiration, but many Vietnamese, though
they can suggest no alternative, have lost confidence in his
leadership.
Against this background of uncertainty and doubt, and a
hope that neutrality may produce something better than
alignment, the Viet Cong, which has no doubts about where
it is going, has made rapid, but perhaps not altogetner
surprising, progress.
From a network of village and hamlet cells the Viet Cong
has created a series of political bases which extend even into
the tribal regions of the central plateau, which Saigon once
regarded as secure. Almost everywhere, in fact, the Viet Cong
has become so entwined with the local rural population that
no one can say with certainty who is innocent padi farmer
and who downs his tools at nightfall only to join the prowling
Communist bands. Despite sizeable handouts to informers,
few want to say. The Army’s writ embraces a region while it
is there in force: when it moves, the Viet Cong takes over
de facto control again.
Every village has its hard core of undercover Viet Cong
agents who act as the eyes and ears of the regular, full-time
forces and the regional part-time guerrillas. The Viet Cong
rarely attempt to “hold” a village in force for more than
a few hours, however, and then for specific purposes, such as
tax collections, summary executions and propaganda. The
propaganda cadres, who are always unarmed, are careful to
avoid suggesting that a take-over by North Vietnam is implicit
in their plans.
That the chain of the Viet Cong command begins in
Hanoi and that the Vietminh are, in fact, directing, co-
ordinating and supplying the Viet Cong’s operation is
demonstrable. As in Laos, however, during the months and
years that preceded the overt Russian and Vietminh participa-
tion late in 1960, there is no absolute proof, or insufficient
anyway, to convince Seato’s reluctant dragons that their now
bedraggled “mantle of protection” is merely serving to cover
another Communist take-over.
Hanoi makes no secret, however, that it is the instigator
of the revolt, and Peking is a firm and consistent ally.
Uanoi announced the formation of a National Liberation
Front in January. This was followed by the creation of
a Liberation Press Agency and also an association of students
for the Liberation of South Vietnam. A month or so later
the National Liberation Front and the National Liberation
Army set up headquarters in eastern Cambodia, close to the
South Vietnam border, and soon achieved effective administra-
tive and military co-ordination in the rebel areas of South
Vietnam. What these headquarters in Cambodia amount to
in terms of men and materials is anybody’s guess. The
Cambodians indignantly deny their existence: but both the
Vietnamese Army and Western military attaches in Saigon
are certain of their general whereabouts and that they main-
tain constant radio communication with Hanoi, whose orders
ap e in turn transmitted to the three regional Viet Cong
commanders inside South Vietnam.
“Runners,” who use the local bus systems, bicycles, or
heir own feet, carry the field instructions. As always in this
type of guerrilla operation, dispersal is more important than
concentration, running away a greater virtue than fighting—
e *cept on the guerrillas' own terms and at the time and place
of their own choice.
The links with Hanoi overland along Laos’s Ho Chi-minh
trail and along the coast by junk are established and identified,
but flags and written propaganda seem to have a higher priority
than northern manpower, or even guns. Plenty of southerners,
who have gone north for training or who accompanied the
Vietminh repatriation following the Geneva Agreement in
1954, have been identified among the killed and captured, but
few, if any, genuinely identifiable northerners have ever been
found.
Only about half of perhaps a force of 15,000 guerrillas
have firearms ; the rest use wooden rifles, machetes, or wait
their opportunity to seize guns dropped by their killed or
wounded companions. Some of the rifles and almost all the
mines and booby traps are home-made and, though lethal
enough, are extremely primitive. They were also extremely
primitive, it is useful to recall, during the Indo-China War.
The Viet Cong, it is clear, are being raised on the same hard
rations.
They are also being opposed by tactics which are often
tragically reminiscent of the tactics used by the French. The
Civil Guard, in their concrete blockhouses and compounds
protected by barbed wire and minefields, live in isolation
from the people they are supposed to protect, just as the French
Expeditionary Force in the identical blockhouse used to live,
and sometimes to die, in isolation years ago.
The French used to justify the use of napalm and
artillery against Vietminh-infested villages by the assertion
that it helped to drive the insurgents away from the more
innocent sections of the population. During an attack on
the Viet Cong at Tra Vinh, when I asked whether artillery
was really necessary, 1 was told people in the area under attack
had asked for it since it gave them the opportunity to run
away from the Viet Cong.
/Certainly military action is necessary against the Viet Cong.
lt is also inevitable that of the approximately 400 “Viet
Cong” killed each month many should be innocent bystanders.
So many camp-followers and women guerrillas are mixed
up with the Viet Cong that any estimate of the numbers killed
in error is at best only a fairly wild guess: but that the guess
made by some Western military attaches is 25 per cent, is
at least a clue to the impact these “errors” may have on the
peasant population.
Small wonder, then, that many prefer peace and quiet
plus the Viet Cong to military action through their fields
and villages and the loss of pigs, poultry, private property
and life that accompany many pacification drives. The
psychological warfare and political warfare teams that follow
the Army with movies and lectures in the hope of winning
converts face an uphill task. Though the problem, as
men like Colonel Gregory see it, is largely social and economic,
it is treated as if it were purely military and political. All
but two or three of the chefs de province are military men.
As many Americans now in the field understand very well,
economic aid at the centre and military efficiency in the field
are not in themselves enough to cope with a revolution of
this type. First, there is a need for a national spirit, or at
least a will to fight. “The Americans can train the Civil Guard
in three months, but they won't be able to teach them to
love their country in three years,” one Vietnamese said.
If Diem had fulfilled early hopes the inspiration might have
come from the top. But his preference for northerners in
responsible positions against the Viet Cong’s emphasis on
southerners —and his reliance on a tiny Catholic and Can Lau
elite have increasingly tended to divorce him from the people
and the realities of life in South Vietnam today.
This is not to suggest that Diem no longer has a part
to play. His downfall could well prove an unqualified disaster.
If it is too late to hope that Diem may change, it is not too
late to find the resources for rural welfare, in particular for
welfare of a type that will persuade the peasants that their
role is something more than victim in this war. In addition
to the Army and its psychological-warfare teams there is a
crying need for rural-aid teams with the means and the
resources to inspire at least the hope for a better future and
perhaps, in the process, to create some sort of national
consciousness.


FORUM
Where a Vote Could
Mean Disaster
N.T. aborigines unlit for citizenship
By K. G. WILLEY
r £HE future of the Northern Territory may hang on the decisions
of the Federal Parliamentary Select Committee on voting rights
for aborigines, after its hearing of evidence in Darwin.
For most of Australia giving the vote to all aborigines, what-
ever their state of development, would be little more than a
gesture. It would loo\ good in United Nations; it would salve the
consciences of those people—most vocal in States li\e Victoria,
where full-blood aborigines are rarest who never cease to
grieve over the “sins” of wic\ed old great-grandad who “stole”
Australia from a handful of ragged natives. But for most of Aus-
tralia a blanket vote for aborigines would mean or matter little.
In the Northern Territory the effects could be catastrophic.
■piRST, what do we mean by “abori-
■*- ginal”? In other States the word
seems to cover almost anyone with a
dash of native blood ; in the Territory,
where a spade is (sometimes) called a
spade, it means what it says —an abori-
ginal, a full-blood. Part-colored people,
with very few exceptions, already have
the vote This article refers exclusively
to the full-blood native.
It would be easy to ridicule the whole
idea of a blanket vote for aborigines by
pointing to the problem of distributing
and collecting ballot papers among the
Stone Age Bindaboos, who wander the
western desert living on mice, lizards and
yams ; or the Gubaboingus and the un-
ruly Andilyagwas of Arnhem Land,
where missionaries are battling to curb
polygamy and savage clan feuds.
But that would be an affront to the
small but growing band of Northern Ter-
ritory aborigines who have already
achieved full citizenship—carrying the
right to the limited vote which is all that
white Territorians are allowed, anyway.
But voting rights for all aborigines
would raise some unpleasant problems.
The Territory has 21,000 whites and
about 16,000 natives. Over the past two
years aboriginal population has increased
faster than the white. Of those 16,000
natives, perhaps two dozen are citizens.
Among the adults 20 might be able to
write fluently. All but a few score sign
their name with a cross. Not one sub-
scribes regularly to a southern newspaper
or magazine, or is even on the mailing
list of the Darwin newspaper, “The
Northern Territory News.”
All but the handful of aboriginal
citizens of the Territory are enrolled as
“wards” in a book known to the Wel-
fare Branch and its staff as “The Register
of Wards,” and to all other Territorians
as “The Stud Book.” Wards are “persons
deemed to need care and assistance” in
the conduct of their affairs. They cannot
drink liquor. Their women cannot asso-
ciate with a white man unless married
to him (an almost insoluble problem in
courtship). If a ward works he does not
get his full wages as “cash longa finger.”
Instead the Welfare Branch pays him an
allowance and keeps the rest “in trust”
for him.
TVTo doubt the laws covering aborigines
need to be changed. Take the plight
of a full-blood aboriginal granted citizen-
ship in the Northern Territory. In
Darwin he can vote, drink beer, handle
his own money. If he moves to some
other parts of Australia —where regula-
tions refer not to “wards” but to “abori-
gines”—he loses many of the rights that
go with his citizenship. This is real in-
justice. It must —and no doubt will —be
cleared up. To this extent, laws covering
all aborigines on a Commonwealth-wide
This section of "The Bulletin" is a
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
basis would be a good thing. They might
also stimulate the aboriginal to an aware-
ness of and interest in the institution of
Parliament and the other trappings of the
20th century that is slowly closing in on
his primitive world. But the effect might
be just the opposite.
The goal of citizenship—and the vote
—is already there for those aborigines
who show a reasonable amount of in-
dustry and intelligence and prove they
can manage their own affairs fairly well.
They don’t have to be supermen to make
the grade. They just have to achieve the
average. And, rightly, that citizenship,
once granted, can never be revoked, no
matter how much they “grog on’' or belt
their wives. For the Northern Territory
the aboriginal’s future should lie in the
cleaning-up and extension of existing
legislation. Maybe more wards should
be granted citizenship, even if it is a
little “too early.” Certainly native’s
citizenship should be as valid as the
white’s —not a sort of half-baked halo
conferred in the Northern Territory but
removed as soon as the recipient crosses
the border into another State.
But the dangers of granting votes im-
mediately to a whole, illiterate, totally-
unprepared mass of natives are obvious.
Nearly half the Northern Territory elec-
torate would be made up of people whose
background is still tribal. People who
have never heard of Canberra. Some
would be clan remnants who —apart from
a few phrases of pidgin—can communi-
cate fully only within their own tribal
and language groups ; maybe to only 30
or 40 other people in the whole world.
Intrigued by the commotion in the
south about aboriginal voting rights, “The
Northern Territory News” decided to
find out what the man most concerned
—the full-blood—thought about it all.
One, Bob Roberts, answered that he
wanted voting rights to “have a say in
what is going on in the Territory.” Fair
enough. But Bob is due to become a
citizen soon, when he will have the vote
anyway.
Bolger, a Brinken, picked at random
in a street quiz, replied: “No savvy.”
Peter Mundan, Joe, Big Foot Roy and
Roy Big Foot (no relation) didn’t “savvy”
the vote either.
Flarry Ryan, aged “about 53”: “I hear
about this feller voting over in West Aus-
tralia once. - ’ Harry said he would like
to vote, but did not know why. He
added: “Some fellers down Katherine bin
vote. Drink lot of grog.”
John Scrubby: “Ah, vote . . . You
pickum chief, like basketball, football.”
Paw Paw, a self-confessed pagan who
once wore a stick through his nose, lives
on Bathurst Island and has, in the past,


wor ked in Darwin, which he describes
as “B-e-e-g place. Plenty motee car.”
Questioned by a pressman, Paw Paw re-
vealed that he had never heard of Jock
Nelson, the N.T.’s Federal Member, Mr
Hasluck, Minister for Territories, or Can-
berra. His knowledge of interstate Aus-
tralia was confined to a sort of hazy
Atlantis called “Atlut” (Adelaide), where
a fellow Tiwi tribesman called David
Kantilla is currently starring at Australian
Rules football.
With a mass of uninformed and un-
interested voters like these to be
herded into the polling booths, the
danger of pressure groups and a block-
vote arising is obvious. Grasp of the
illiterate “aboriginal vote” would almost
automatically ensure for a candidate the
Territory’s seat in Parliament. The
dangers of Governments influencing the
vote through welfare officers —the givers
of all good things, in native eyes —are
equally obvious. It may be all very well
for people in the south to nod their heads
fondly at the idea of an aboriginal mem-
ber for the N.T. in Canberra. He would
be a wonderful exhibit to parade before
visiting Asians and Africans. But he
would hardly be representative of what,
after all, is not a living museum or gesture
of atonement, but a territory that by guts
and hard work must be built into the
seventh Australian State, if this country
is to survive as the Australia we know.
Overall is the question: Should people
classed as “wards" be granted a vote
without the other rights of citizenship?
What would happen to the Norhern Ter-
ritory aboriginal if all were made citizens
and restrictions and protective laws re-
pealed? The story would be horribly
familiar. Their women would be de-
bauched even more than at present.
Drinking, already a major problem among
natives, would increase, with the inevit-
able resulting upsurge in violence and
murder. Leprosy and other diseases
common among the natives would spill
over even further into the white com-
munity. The aboriginal would lose his
racial identity and, in a few generations,
a fullblood would be as rare in the Terri-
tory as in Victoria.
The next generation of Northern Ter-
ritory aborigines—those now in the
schoolroom—will be better educated
and better prepared than their fathers for
citizenship. Maybe a target date should
be set for granting blanket citizenship and
the vote to all aborigines. This could be
combined with a campaign of political
and practical education. But the present
generation of adult natives is not ready
for it
For those aborigines who have average
ability and drive the path to citizenship
is open already. Most Territorial hope
that, whatever decisions are made for the
rest of Australia, the Government will
[etain that path here, widen it, improve
it, and increase the flow of traffic along
it- To take it away altogether would
leave the aboriginal to sink or swim in
a morass which must ultimately suck him
down and obliterate him.
LETTERS
REFRESHING THE SHORT
STORY
Sir,
I did not, as stated by B. C. Woods
(Bulletin, July 15), “suggest that our
local journals should pay rates compar-
able to ‘The Saturday Evening Post’.”
unless the word “comparable” is taken
as recognition of the factors of difference
mentioned by Mr Woods.
Much less did I, or any other writer
whose view's you have published, “demand
‘Saturday Evening Post’ rates” or suggest
that you should “want the ‘Post’ kind of
story,” as you stated in your “Forum"
article in the same issue.
What I did in my original letter was
to say that you should pay more to get
the sort of stories you (not the “Post”)
say you want. In comparing the earning-
capacities of American and Australian
writers I naturally mentioned the “Post,”
but duly recognised the much less profit-
able American markets that still pay-
much more than The Bulletin or any
other Australian publication.
Your “Forum” article struck a note of
finality in the unrefreshing bickering
about the Australian short story which
you began, but I hope that respect for
the facts will cause you to find space for
this denial of idiotic unrealism of which
I seem to find myself accused.
GAVIN CASEY
Manning (W.A.).
Sir,
Your “Forum” comment that “we don’t
want the ‘Post’ kind of story” is one of
the flaws in a gene* ally well-pointed
article. Among the volumes of “Best
Stories” from the “Saturday Evening
Post” there are many pieces of short fic-
tion that The Bulletin or any other
magazine should be proud to publish.
Mr Casey’s remark about the “Post”
was that “whatever one may think of its
fiction [it] gets the sort it wants.” He
suggested that rates had something to
do with this. He did not suggest The
Bulletin should pay even the “Post”
minimum, about 700 dollars.
Perhaps American comparisons are
not (he best. The average English maga-
zine pays £3O-£7O for a short story.
Most of us in Australia would think it
was Christmas if we received £2O.
FRANK ROBERTS
Brisbane.
COMMUNISM IN UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
Brian Buckley’s crude and offensive
attack on Lloyd Churchward (Bulletin
July 15) should not be permitted to
pass without comment. By placing his
denigration of Mr Churchward’s lectures
on the Soviet Union immediately beneath
his reference to Communists who “were
able to intimidate fellow academies and
grossly violate the ethics of tneir pro-
fession,” he creates the invpreision that
he believes Mr Churchward shares these
hair-raising vices. The following facts
may be of interest to your readers:
I was a student in the Honors School
of Political Science from 1953 to 1956.
During the whole of that period I held
views in violent conflict with those of
Mr Churchward and frequently expressed
them in tutorials and in essays submitted
to him. On no occasion did he question
the legitimacy of the position 1 took.
On the contrary, I found him always
most objective and helpful in offering
comments. Nobody, to the best of my
knowledge, has ever been able to com-
plain of being discriminated against by
him in any fashion whatsoever. Would
your correspondent be surprised to hear
that the highest mark ever attained (to
that date) in Political Science B was
given by Mr Churchward in 1956 to a
Jesuit? If this sort of record indicates
any kind of coercion of anti-Communists,
then surely it must be of a very subtle
kind? (Perhaps this was an attempt to
intimidate the priest by awarding a badge
of shame?)
To my mind, Mr Churchward dis-
played a remarkably thorough grasp of
his subject, particularly of the institu-
tional mechanics of the Soviet system
of government and the party apparatus.
He offered his own interpretation
sparingly, and carefully distinguished it
from the factual material. What is more,
he took pains to direct our attention to
some severely critical commentators,
who were listed on the duplicated
departmental reading guides, and
described their views with precision.
Mr Stargardt, to whom Mr Buckley
refers, might have taken the trouble to
check his facts (Bulletin, May 10).
There was no change in the Political
Science B Pass course in 1953: it re-
mained a comparative study of the poli-
tical institutions of the U.S.A. U.S.S.R.,
Germany and Japan. It was the honors
course which was changed to include,
inter alia, a study of the theories of
Lenin, Trotsky and Statin on various
aspects of the Russian Revolution and
its aftermath. After having examined all
the relevant tiles of duplicated reading
guides distributed by the Political Science
Department for the last 17 years I am
able to say that in every year 1 checked,
one or other of Trotsky's major w'orks,
“The Revolution Betrayed " or the “His-
tory of the Russian Revolution." anpeared
on the guides for this subject. (The only
year I have been unable to check is 1953.
However, the list of prescribed texts in
the Arts Faculty Handbook for this year
includes his “Lessons of October ")
Mr Buckley has chosen to describe
lectures in this subject as “Soviet fabrica-
tions.” This is surely misleading, if not


libellous. If he means only that Mr
Churchward’s facts and interpretation are
given honestly and in good faith but are
mistaken, he should say so. If he denies
him, as a Communist, the right to lecture
in a university, he should not set himself
up as a defender of academic freedom.
If he is prepared to concede this right to
a Communist, then he must also allow
the possibility of the Communist some-
times delivering himself of pro-Soviet
opinions, and even referring to evidence
for them.
To term Mr Stargardt’s few scattered
thoughts on reading guides a “demon-
stration” that the Department’s teaching
in this field is only “a joke” is arresting,
to say the least. If these wild charges can
be described in that way, then anything
can be described in any way.
ALAN HUGHES
University of Melbourne.
CATHOLICS AND THE FREE
SOCIETY
Sir,
Mr R. B. Lowndes (Bulletin,
July 22) still fails to show that “Roman
Catholicism” has anywhere been a con-
tributing factor to Communism.
In a free society where free thinking
is more prized than correct thinking,
atheism becomes more widespread and
atheism is a logical prerequisite to Com-
munism. Then again, social injustice
with its unemployment, starvation,
hunger, etc., is a number-one cause of
Communism, and even a so-called free
society is not always free in this respect.
In most Catholic countries Catholic
teachings on social justice are seldom
allowed in practice ; consequently Com-
munism takes over in spite of Catholic-
ism, but in no case because of it.
Andrew TOBIN
Katoomba {N.S.W.).
Sir,
You have given us competent writings
on “Catholics and the Free Society” and
“Protestantism in Australia.” Will you
now give similar treatment to “Chris-
tianity in Australia” and so complete a
desirable trilogy?
In Australia there is a vital body of
faith which, despite the “great swelling
words” of the scoffers, accepts the Holy
Bible as the only authority for Christian
belief and practice. It would be neces-
sary to engage a competent writer of
this persuasion if The Bulletin
graciously granted this request.
Will The Bulletin really step out
into bold journalism by allowing the
Holy Bible to be quoted in its columns?
K. G. HALBERT
Greenhills (W.A.).
COLOR OF THEIR SKINS
Sir,
“Observer.” and perhaps a number of
Australians, may think that the offer to
settle the Nauruans in Australia was a
generous one ; but one has not far to
look to see why the Nauruans would
have none of it.
In the first place, they are comfortable
where they are ; and any change would
be an uproot; and one is not surprised
to hear that old folk have declared their
determination to die where they have
always lived. Nauruans, it goes without
saying, are intelligent people ; and as
long ago as 1928 Australia informed the
League of Nations in her annual report
on Nauru that they should soon be
managing their own affairs. They are
not nearly doing that in 1961 ; and the
Nauruans are not wholly responsible.
They know full well that they have not
the education and training to take their
place in a society such as ours, and
they have been clamoring for education
for years. The Nauruan representative
who was attached to the Australian
delegation at the Trusteeship Council
meeting this year was educated “at
primary school and at technical college.”
And when you consider that this gentle-
man is the most highly educated Nauruan
(after 40 years of Australian administra-
tion) one understands the Nauruans’
fears.
Put simply, it is that, lacking a level
access into our society, they fear they
may either be settled as a community
to live on their own fat (the phosphate
royalties accumulated over the years) or,
dispersing through lack of education,
become just hewers of wood and drawers
of water. The first alternative repels for
the reason that they have seen the com-
pound system in force on their own
island; and the aboriginal reserves in
the Northern Territory shocked them.
The second alternative is an affront to
their pride, as anyone who has seen
them at home will realise.
G. W. L. TOWNSEND
Palmwoods ( Q .).
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
In your issues of June 26 and July 1
you published answers to my letter of
June 17 by Dr Polya and Professor
Wright. The latter stated my “suggestion
that Professor Orr was not an important
instigator of the commission is contrary
to the records.” I said that Orr did not
instigate it, meaning that he did not pro-
pose it, and that I did ; to a meeting of
the executive after I had informed the
Attorney-General that the University
needed a board of inquiry and that I
intended to recommend that the staff
ask for one. Only today the present
secretary of the Staff Association in-
formed me that the records of the Staff
Association and its executive of 1954 are
incomplete. Therefore the matter and
other points raised by Professor Wright
cannot be satisfactorily tested.
These details have little relevance to
the issue I referred to in my letter, the
accusation that the University Council
made use of the charges against Orr to
get revenge because of his letter, etc.
I have no doubt that members of Council
strongly resented Orr’s letter, and I know
they strongly resented my actions—
making detailed accusations to a Cabinet
sub-committee, to the Royal Commis-
sion, etc. But Council’s attitude to me
following my retirement in 1955 shows
that its members no longer harbored
resentment against me. It was not obliged
to offer me reinstatement to my chair
if my health should improve, after my
successor had taken over, nor to confer
on me an Emeritus Professorship. Both
were generous gestures. For this reason
I am not prepared to believe resentment
because of Orr's letter instigated or in-
fluenced its verdict against Orr.
It is possible that anger caused by
the nature of the charge against Orr
prevented the sort of calm, impartial
inquiry which should have been made,
but I cannot believe that Orr’s letter
would influence Mr Justice Green of the
Supreme Court, or that the High Court
would have upheld his verdict if Orr’s
counsel could have brought any evidence
to show that the trial was not impartial,
I, like many others, can have no personal
opinion, innocent or guilty ; we simply
accept the verdict of the courts as the
most reliable verdict possible, and I shall
not write again on this matter.
Dr Polya’s letter, unfortunately, com-
pletely distorts the attitude of “senior
professors.” He said that they joined the
staff revolt to minimise the damage, and
called it an “ephemeral alliance with
critics of the ruling class,” and insinuated
that this would have been followed by
“much pacification, next spring.” This
is an unwarranted insult. I cannot go
back earlier than 1926, the year of my
appointment as professor. But from then
on until 1955, individual professors and
the Professorial Board were almost con-
tinually at war with Council, and on
one occasion, long before Dr Polya’s
appointment, tried to get a Royal Com-
mission. We failed because neither Gov-
ernment nor Opposition was sufficiently
interested in university administration.
Dr Polya added, “All senior professors,
including Professor Taylor, were allowed
to change sides after the Royal Commis-
sion hearing.” We did not change sides.
When Council adopted nearly all the
reforms recommended the war ended for
the time being. And acceptance of the
court’s verdict in the Orr case does not
imply taking sides.
A. B. TAYLOR
Hobart ( Tas .).
THE REVIVAL OF ISRAEL
Sir,
In his review (Bulletin, July 15) Mr
R. Brasch repeats the assertion that the
Arab refugees left Palestine in 1948 on
the express orders of radio broadcasts
from other Arab States. Recent research,
however, by Erskine Childers, published
in the London “Spectator,” suggests that
this view represents only a very small
part of a very complex truth (though it
is not necessary to accept all Mr Childers’s
claims).
These broadcasts (which are, incident-
ally, very sparsely documented) doubtless


4#
mp
yfmanlstArdi
S H KKKY"
Penfolds
Amontillado Sherry
Full-bodied, dry
SHERRY
Peitfoids Pale
Dry Fino Sherry
A classic sherry
&<P3
fir
o
00
000
0000,
00000
omm&.
SHERRY
Penfolds Special
Flor Sherry
Delicately blended
FOR
PERFECT WINES
Penfolds Club Perl
Mellow perfection
•<c^;
Penfolds Private
Bin Port
Full aged, tawny
played some part m causing the Arab
fli«ht; but, equally, massacres, or threats
of massacres, or just fears that these
might occur, by extremist Jewish terrorist
groups (acting sometimes against the
express policy of the official Zionist
authorities) were a major component of
Arab fears.
Individual Jews tried to calm the panic,
which was further fostered by the know-
ledge that the richer Arabs had already
removed their families and valuables to
safety in neighboring Arab lands.
Deserted by many if not most of their
leaders, the Arabs panicked.
Mr Brasch’s reiteration of the simple
Zionist propaganda line simply won't
wash. The sooner it is abandoned the
better, for it is typical of the intellectual
(and emotional) dishonesty of both Arab
and Jew that bedevils the whole Palestine
problem and hampers even the most
tentative efforts towards a settlement.
ROGER BROAD
London {England).
PERPLEXING PARADOX OF
THE D.L.P.
Sir,
Your correspondent's comments re-
garding the D.L.P. in last week’s “Plain
English" represent a glimmer in the
darkness. It is a pleasant surprise to
find a political commentator who has
some idea of the birth pains which the
D.L.P. has experienced in the past, and
will continue to experience.
Since he pointed out the general lack
of knowledge of the D.L.P.’s positive
policies, I thought perhaps the personal
observations of a member might, to some
extent, be useful.
The D.L.P. views askance the
gross overcrowding in the cities, which
is vastly accentuating a series of crises
in health, transport, education and de-
fence facilities, while giving rise to that
phenomenon of big cities, the unneces-
sary growth of big corporations—
growth which is quite often achieved by
the annexation of smaller business
houses. The D.L.P. believes that to
achieve the necessary decentralisation of
population to reverse these trends, we
must first of all decentralise industry,
for population follows industry. The
main method the D.L.P. advocates to
achieve this is the partial abolition of
income tax, and the replacement of it
bv a tax on the unimproved value of
industrial sites. This would make it much
more practicable to establish an industry
in a country area.
The D.L.P. considers that any function
which can be effectively handled by a
small local unit of authority should never
be usurped by a larger and more remote
one. Thus the D.L.P. advocates the re-
turn of taxing powers to the States, and
the granting of charters to new States as
soon as is possible. Any other decision
regarding the powers of government and
administration should be made in the
light of the above stated principle.
To combat the growth of monopolies
and big corporations the D.L.P. would
introduce an anti-monopolies law', which
would stop the takeovers and the price-
fixing rackets that flourish in some in-
dustries at present.
The D.L.P. believes that the above
negating laws are not enough to stop
these abuses. It would encourage the
promotion of buyer co-operatives,
whereby small businessmen by grouping
their purchasing together could buy in
huge quantities at a bulk rate. Thus, by
being able to buy at as cheap a rate
as the corporations, they will be more
than able to match their selling prices,
for they do not have such overhead costs
as large accounts departments. Their
accounts can easily be managed by
themselves. The D.L.P. would also start
a iese ’^ rc h organisation to find other
ways of helping small businesses,
In the situation where capital outlay
prohibits someone owning the business
where he works, then the D.L.P. advo-
cates the introduction of a method of


profit-sharing. The workers would also
have a say in the control of the company
in which they are employed. This would
give them a feeling that they are of
importance to the company by which
they are employed, and would help to
remove the feeling that the work they are
doing is useless.
DENIS KLEIN
Concord (N.S.W.).
IS AMERICANISM A THREAT?
Sir,
The Commissioner of the A.B.C. stated
(Bulletin, July 8) that the A.B.C. pro-
duced, “during the last 12 months....
ten (live’) plays by Australian authors.”
Considered against the amount of view-
ing time, is this not a low percentage?
Has Australia not enough authors, or
will the “cost and magnitude” always
be too great?
TV is a fascinating medium. But it is
surely not meant to be abused by using
its dramatic-entertainment time allowance
as a vehicle for the showing of films.
If Australia has no writers capable of
producing pure “TV plays,” why not
teach the writers who are eager to learn
by showing many more of the American
and English real products? (I can
remember seeing only one, by the English
TV playwright, Ted Hillis.)
By shelving “the intellectuals” as a
disparate minority, Mr Lowndes has
fallen into an abyss. If the A.B.C. is to
retain its past reputation for quality it
should keep a set standard always in
mind. The appeal of different types of
music is, perhaps, difficult to assess. But
a clever dramatic play should hold the
interest of both intellectuals and semi-
literates.
Mr Lowndes must keep in mind that
the commercial channels will always pro-
vide their own appeal to those viewers
who wish to soak in dated American
escapism. If these viewers form the
majority, it is more unfortunate for them
than for the A.B.C. And at some stage,
sponges surely must reach such satura-
tion point that they begin to search for
simplicity.
1 agree wholly with Max Harris’s state-
ment “that the A.B.C. has progressively
changed position... .to a quite con-
sidered policy of competing with the
lowest level of commercial channels.”
At its present overall standard, TV
could well be an insidious influence. I
wish my children to grow up as Austra-
lian individuals rather than slaves to a
mass addiction, stuff of which is mainly
imported.
The answer must lie with Channel 2.
Cannot it stop juggling its standards?
If Mr Lowndes kept in mind that “not
failure, but low aim is crime,” it might
help many “vidiot” viewers to raise their
expectancy-level, at the same time feed-
ing those minds which have been hungry
for some time.
(MRS) M. BEARE
North Balwyn (Vic.).
HARD TO GO RIGHT IN
MELBOURNE
Sir,
Wilton Melzer (Bulletin, July 15) is,
to his own satisfaction, perspicacious
enough to have discovered, not where I
stand, but at any rate why 1 read the
1958 letter of the late Vance Palmer et al.
as it was meant to be read. It will not
do, however, merely to paraphrase my
letter and shout a in quoque at me from
the opposite direction. Your corres-
pondent knows nothing of my attitude to
Little Rock and the Rosen bergs. These,
1 reiterate, were irrelevant to the question
under consideration.
At the risk of boring those who do
not need an interpreter of plain English,
I glance aloud at the resurrected letter.
Imre Nagy, trusting the word of the
Communists, came out of sanctuary, was
seized and murdered—not “executed”
(see 0.E.D.). The five correspondents to
the “Age” of three years ago wrote—not
primarily to protest —but (a) to complain
that some who had protested were in the
habit of seizing every opportunity to dis-
credit the U.S.S.R., but had never found
fault with perpetrators of injustices—
“comparable,” indeed! —in Algeria, Little
Rock and other places, and (b) to point
to Russia’s “valuable initiatives towards
peace and coexistence” now endangered
by its acts in Hungary. In the midst of
these extraneous matters was imbedded
a mild and academic protest.
1 see in both (a) and ( b) above the
justification of my charge that the letter
aimed to “lessen or counteract the weight
of the all-pervading condemnation” of
the murder of Nagy, and in ( b) evidence
of special pleading based on either a
prepared brief or a colossal ignorance of
the history of the last 30 years.
As for myself, I may say I have during
the past 40 years protested in every way
open to me, as much as any and more
than but a few, against atrocity and
injustice wherever they might have
occurred —including British bombing in
Iraq, Italian bombing in Abyssinia,
American bombing in Japan, Russian
bombing of Helsinki and Australian
machine-gunning of unarmed Japanese
soldiers struggling for their lives in the
Bismarck Sea. But there is one vast
difference in injustices in the free world
and the chained—apart from their over-
whelming superabundance in the latter.
That is that in the free they are a denial
of the moral basis of its civilisation
against which men are free effectively to
cry out against, while in the chained
they are a part of political policy.
J. NORMINGTON-RAWLING
Gladesville (N.S.W.).
Felder
hav& hoo eve<?
M6T SOMZOtii
WHO'S Mftß
nBV£R hap
AW o£l6lW>Al
Thought ho
Hie Life?
if HOO
A<=?K MC
IT TAKge
AU
KlklQb.
I MfAA) 50*60106 WHO
IM AU Of Hl-b HfARe Of
uviu6 has oevcp yrregep
A WO£P THAT WAe
OMHA CKUByeD OR A
S6MT6MC6 THAT iOAetf'T
A CLICHE 7
iio MM
OPIUIOH.
people
A*e pßem
MUCH TH£
SUM THC
WORLD
(MR.
HAV£ WUevCR
H£Af?D A6W
UK THAT
SW&A66P /W
A *£RiOU*
INTgUfCTUAI
OISCIKtiOU 7
606 11, i
A£,WA tf<j
6>aw i re
a fuse
COUWT/?M.
/
AfJC? TH£ 6UH
TAt<!o6 TO (<j
£XA£TtW Th£ MAH
H£ 19 ' HAV£ HOU
MZ H£Af?£>
90M£fH!W6 UKt
that ? ,
I UK6 TO
THIIOK that
MU I haw
mot A6 Hi
With WHAT A
MAM
(XfgMO HK>
?IM! TO 5Ah
IT
anP uOgOtW to REMW
ANYTHING
OL>l 6ACH THIIOK6, «£$
LUPREb^ ifJ6 D££P
PROFOUND
r HOI#HIV i
TtU lT'e>
oepße&m'
•Mlu T Hlb lb OULH
MW Ob)K) POIDTOf
l/itU). BUT WHAT ARE
RDU£>OMb TO 00 7
FI6HT CITO HALi 7
cwr people even
To MMSELVEb-
mn OOU'T people ever
oet pEßwecvve f
{ve thought
A LOT ABOVT
THAT. I 6U655
WT UV6 AMP
tfARK) U)£
UV6 AMP
' L£AfyJ.
if V) M£ OF US
OWW HAP Th£
fcwei? to see
oußseuv'es **
others see us.
-
r i hto to reti.
that wah. sot
r ouTde&jj it.


OUT and ABOUT
Sydney Sees the
Lunch-hour Strip
People in the city streets were over-
coated against the cold but in Strip
City girls were taking off their clothes as
fast as they could unzip. The opening
of Sydney’s first lunch-hour strip joint
drew over 100 men who looked like some
depressingly representative cross-section
of Sydney life: businessmen, clerks,
young and greying.
They all had an economy air about
them ; they had probably sneaked the
10s. cover charge from the housekeeping
money. They were determined not to
be extrovert about enjoying themselves,
they sat stolidly waiting for the show
to start and their applause was luke-
warm.
There was not a great deal to get
excited about. From the first girl,
“Helga the feline Fraulein,” to the
seventh the girls had little ambition other
than to undress and prance around to
the music of a four-piece jazz band. The
band favored the energetic vigorous
rhythms which suit the aggressive Ameri-
can style of stripping and the girls
apparently had never considered miming
up a scene in which they strip slowly:
no, one after another they athletically
tried to take those impassive males by
storm.
When it was all over the spectators
resumed eating their steaks. Someone
was questioning one of the management :
“That girl Julie was good.” “Yair, she’s
got a routine.” “And the last girl, she’s
got some idea of it.” “Yair, she’s got a
routine.”
It was then suggested that they import
some Parisian girls but a steak-eater,
pausing for a minute, said that Sydney
girls would be just as good as Parisian.
The Xenophobes
TTow long will it take before Australians
cease blaming every social irritant
on New Australians? Getting off the
pre-drunks ferry (the one before the pubs
shut at 6.30) at the Sydney harborside
suburb of Cremorne, two dinkum Aussie
ferry-workers were annoyed when the
bus-driver was a little slow in opening
the bus doors. Ignoring the fact that the
driver was busy altering the destination
sign one of the “dinkums,” in a crowd-
pleasing tone said: “Bet he’s a bloody
New Australian.”
“How much?” snapped a gaberdine-
coated man. “Ay?” asked the ferry-
worker. “How much vrill you bet?”
repeated the gaberdine coat. There was
an embarrassed silence. The crowd
slowly filed on to the bus paying their
fares to a rather battered, but amiable-
looking driver who was Australian, after
all.
Xavier's Last Word
Tlefore he left for Melbourne for the
launching of his “Soldiers’ Women,”
Xavier Herbert, down south from
Queensland for the first time in 20 years,
made his apologies for his neglect of
the social side of life in Sydney.
“Millionaires and people like that have
been asking me to dinner but I haven't
had time to go,” he said, “but I am
sorry 1 haven't had time to see the little
people, some of them friends 1 haven’t
seen for years.”
Straight and Narrow
Taking a commendable pride in their
work, these four men took no chances
with their freshly painted centre - line.
Despite the two large signs telling
motorists to keep to the left they had
stationed themselves at intervals of 200
or 300 yards along the road, and pro-
vided themselves with small red flags
to wave. They seemed anxious to move
on, too. They kept testing the carefully
guarded paint with their boots.
No Trespassers
Sydney motorists never know where to
go on Sundays except bumper-to-
bumper to the beaches or, when there
is snow, bumper-to-bumper to the Blue
Mountains ; but a few wise souls have
for years found themselves a quiet picnic-
ground along the banks of the Nepean
where it crosses the back road to the
mountains that turns off at Richmond.
Now the gravel company, which had
long made an eyesore of the up-stream
reaches, has put huge No Trespassing
signs on both sides of the river down-
stream ; so that all that is left to the
picnickers is the dusty roadside. And
once we thought this was a free country.
A Seaside Resort
Australian women, who have often
I** bridled under the English criticism
that they are “overdressed” may find
some consolation in what appears to be
a logical explanation of the English
attitude.
A distinguished English doctor recently
visited Sydney. He was met at the air-
port by an equally distinguished colleague.
The Englishman was wearing sports
clothes, which is fairly common for air
passengers. The Australian suggested
that she drive him to his hotel so that
“Gad, Carrulhers! You're absolutely right! It IS Lady Cynthia !”


he could change and freshen up before
going on to a reception in his honor.
The Englishman went to his room at
the hotel for ten minutes, then appeared,
still in the same sports clothes but with
his hair freshly combed and his face
shaven. The Australian doctor, as tact-
fully as she could, made it clear that the
reception was a formal one.
“Oh," said the Englishman, pulling his
rolled-up tie out of his pocket, “in that
case I’d better put on my tie.”
The Australian doctor, only being cruel
to be kind, then made it clear that the
guests at the reception would most
certainly not be in sports clothes.
“But, I say,” said the Englishman in
a pained voice, “Isn’t this a seaside
resort?”
A Corner in Culture
Czech conductor Karel Ancerl, now
giving concerts in Australia, thinks Aus-
tralia could benefit from the formation
of a Ministry of Culture which would
co-ordinate, encourage and help financi-
ally with all the arts.
The time could come, then, when we
could hear some such exchange as this
in Parliament:
QUESTION: Mr Speaker. I would
like to address a question without notice
to the Minister for Culture. Can the
minister say whether or not Mozart is
popular with Australia, and, if so, why
isn't there more of it?
ANSWER: In reply to the honorable
member, Mr Speaker, there are obvious
difficulties in arranging more perform-
ances but, pending further inquiries by
officers of my department, I think the
honorable member may be assured that
Australians have always been highly
appreciative of Mo’s art.
Slightly Squashed
A Sydney woman with the mid-winter
urge for some strenuous exercise
went with her husband to one of the
many suburban squash-courts. She took
with her her squash-racket, unused for
about eight years, and bought in the days
when she played at a city gymnasium.
In those pre - historic times this gym-
nasium was one of the few places where
you could play squash, and you crept
past boxers doing a little sparring to
get to the courts. The courts themselves
gave off a healthy, but nonetheless strong,
smell of sweat.
At the suburban courts with their TV
lounge and air-conditioning she showed
her racket to the attendant, suggesting
that it might need restringing. “This is
a very good racket,” the young man said.
“I've never seen one like it. Where did
you get it?” She explained that she had
bought it about ten years ago. “Is that
so?” he said in amazement. “Do you
know that until two years ago I'd never
even heard of squash.”
New Tricks with Old Stuff
An Australian tourist returning from
Europe reports that this trip he found
English antiques completely beyond his
pocket.
Some pieces are now making two
crossings of the Atlantic. They are bought
in London by American dealers, shipped
to New York, where, once the market
has risen sufficiently in London, they
are bought by the U.S. agents of English
dealers and shipped back to London, for
further sale at a further inflated price.
Now wily Italians are reportedly buying
English stuff, taking it to Italy and, with
only a few adjustments to it, are selling
it to the Americans as genuine Italian
antiques.
That was Society
The “Royal” College of Heralds in
London, where officials put in their
whole time at enormous salaries (and
perquisites) in describing the dragon
rampant on a field of gules, has found
the appropriate wording for Australia’s
coat-of-arms. There is oidy one interest-
ing touch in the whole rigmarole. The
dexter kangaroo and the sinister emu, in
their “compartments of grass,” are “both
proper.” So that’s all right, dash it!
— “Bulletin,” October 8, 1908.
1 here is not much about its beautiful
harbor that Sydney hasn’t held up for
the dazzlenrent of the visitor; still Frank
Reed, inspecting-engineer of Maoriland’s
Mines Department, has dug up an appa-
rently new feature. Among other mines he
has inspected in the Commonwealth is that
which stretches out its now-idle arms
under Sydney Harbor. Then, digging up
records, engineer Reed found that in all
the world there are only three coal
mines deeper than this one; wherefore,
as all those three are in Belgium, Sydney
Harbor, besides all its other attractions,
owns the deepest coal mine in any country
where English is spoken.
— “Bulletin,” November 19, 1908.
n.s.w. Railways Commissioners decided,
the other day, to light the North Shore
suburban line tunnel. Evidently, they
consulted an oculist on the subject, and
the oculist was thoughtful for the growth
of his business. A few small electric
lights have been attached to the side
of the tunnel at long intervals, and the
effect as the train runs through is a be-
wildering series of flashes. A few months
of travelling through that tunnel twice
a day will ruin a good many eyes.
— “Bulletin,” October 15, 1908.
The tale of a lawyer: —
In Queensland Quok Yen lately fell
among lawyers, and probably Ouok will
never know what happened to him. He
will never know, for instance, that he
was robbed of his individuality and
transmogrified into a Legal Precedent,
and that in future he will be referred
to darkly by men in horsehair helmets as
Rex v. Ouok Yen, Q.L.R., vol. 3001, p.
9069, or something, Quok’s misfortunes
began about 25 years ago, when he
started to smoke opium, and blossomed
forth when he bumped against the
Queensland Anti-Opium Act." First the
Act cut oil Quok's drug supply, and with-
out opium Quok fell ill. Then a doctor
prescribed opium medicinally. And
finally the law fell upon Quok for pos-
sessing opium illegally:—
“It shall not be lawful for any person,
not being medically qualified, etc. . . to
have in his possession any opium for
any purposes -whatever.”
Quok s only visible defence appeared
to be a plea that he didn’t have the opium
for any purpose whatever, and there was
a dreadful possibility of “What is a
purpose?’’ But the Court said it was
blowed if it knew what the section meant,
but it didn’t mean that anyway, and
Quok (the legal or astral Quok) was
drafted into the court library, whence
at intervals in the coming centuries he
will arise and stalk forth cheerfully, and
many Costs will dance around him.
— “Bulletin,” November 26, 1908.


FOR THE CONSUMER
Consumers
Unlimited
'T'hf.re is probably no time when you
have a stronger sense of being one
against the universe than in a dispute
with a shop assistant. When you are
explaining that the saucepan with a lip
doesn’t pour, when you are vainly trying
to buy not the giant economy size, which
isn’t economial at all, but the medium
size, which might save you a few pence,
you are apt to feel that everyone is against
you.
Even when you do have a victory and
the shop offers to exchange your pur-
chase, which is faulty, or to mend the
article which has fallen apart, you still
have a strong feeling that the shop has
no intention of changing its methods or
mending its ways.
Yet, in point of fact, the person who
spends money is potentially the most
powerful force in the community. This
is stressed by the chairman of the Aus-
tralasian Consumers’ Association. Pro-
fessor R. H. Thorp. The association and
its magazine, “Choice,” which publishes
the results of the association's inquiries
into the quality and value-for-money of
certain commodities on the local market,
have now' become widely known through-
out Australia.
The Australasian Consumers’ Associa-
tion is one of about 23 such organisations
in various countries. However, the local
association is one of five only of these
which are considered “pure” consumer
associations. This means they receive no
subsidy in any form and rely exclusively
on members’ subscriptions for funds.
These “pure” associations in Australasia,
the U.S., Britain, Belgium and Holland,
have banded together in an international
union.
Although the Australasian association
had 12,000 members at the end of April
this year, Professor Thorp regards the job
as hardly begun.
For example, members of the associa-
tion tend to regard their annual subscrip-
tion of £1 mainly as the means of
enabling them to get their copies of
“Choice” and with it expert advice on
major or minor purchases, which they
may be planning.
This attitude, Professor Thorp feels, in
some measure is defeating the strength
of the association.
“This has tended to be the experience
overseas, too,” he admitted, “but the
whole purpose of a consumers’ associa-
tion is its membership. It is only when
a significant proportion of the total
number of consumers in the community
join the association that its influence can
begin to be felt.
“’Consumers are the least organised of
any section of the community. If a
Government department or large enter-
prise wishes to buy something, this com-
modity may be exhaustively tested and
analysed beforehand. But the average
shopper buys without any indication
that the goods are what he wants or to
the standards he requires.”
Professor Thorp pointed out that Aus-
tralia, with a population of more than
10 million, would have about three
million people who could be classified
as consumers, in that they bought sub-
stantially and regularly. “The average
wage might be around £2O a week,”
Professor Thorp said, “which means that
Australians spend some £3OOO million a
year, that is providing people spend their
whole salaries, which in these times most
people apparently have to do.”
What can a consumers’ association hope
to achieve for its members?
“A strong consumers’ association can
ensure that manufacturers who make
satisfactory goods flourish and can also
lead to the establishment of new fac-
tories,” Professor Thorp said. “It can
ensure the elimination of unsatisfactory
goods from the market.
“Consumers have a great responsibility
in assessing the value of goods and ser-
vices. Wise spending will advance the
prosperity of a country.
“A consumers’ association is not con-
cerned with the origin of goods. It is
concerned only with fitness of purpose
and money value. The Australasian
association is not, at the moment, con-
cerned with the artistic standpoint,
although this has come into the question
with some overseas associations.”
Professor Thorp said there was no
reason why the local association should
not in time widen its scope. The Ameri-
can Consumers’ Union, which was formed


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
o*s ULLTVAfy
PTYITD.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, .New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
INSURANCE
FOR YOUR
PROTECTION
#
Union Insurance
Society of Canton
Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British
Colony of Hong Kong).
Established 1935.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8
O’Connell Street Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131
(4 lines)
HELP
a * ={*f±T-4 «
o!l the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney BM2OOI.
in 1930, had investigated such subjects as
air-pollution and, apparently rather to the
surprise and disapproval of some scien-
tists, the effects of radiation.
The British association, which has a
membership of 300,000 (or about one
in 170 of the population, compared with
an Australasian membership of about one
in 875 of the population) has also ranged
over a wide field. The British association
has, for example, classified all dry-cleaners
in the country into three categories, from
good to very indifferent, for the informa-
tion of its members.
Professor Thorp said that so far the
local association had had no official
recognition, such as was regularly
accorded to its American opposite
number. The American Consumers’
Union is regularly consulted by Govern-
ment agencies on matters such as the
Pure Foods Act.
“Local manufacturers tend to be
apathetic and to regard the association
as a bunch of long-hairs,” Professor
Thorp added.
In business circles, there have been
reports of murmurs in board-rooms,
following the publication of some issues
of “Choice.” And, as every shopper
knows, a murrm r in a board-room carries
a lot further than any number of com-
plaints to a salesman.
FASHION
Hoping For
A Miracle
Within the next few weeks the spring
hats will go into the shops and
women will follow them. They will buy
a new hat, and they may possibly stop
and buy a whole outfit to go with it. If
they do, that is the sort of miracle the
retail trade had been hoping would come
with the change of the season.
Although things in the retail trade have
been very, very quiet during the past few
months, there has been no falling off in
millinery sales. In fact, the only months
in the past 12 months in which sales were
lower than for the previous year were
September and October last year, the
period just before the credit squeeze
began. This setback was more likely due
to the erratic spring weather than to the
economic climate. Since October sales
figures have been steadily rising.
This month the Australian Millinery
Association had its biggest show ever.
Nearly 1000 hats from N.S.W., Victoria
and Queensland were on display in a
welter of tulle and artificial spring blos-
som in the ballroom of the Chevron
Hilton, Sydney. This is three times as
many hats as were entered for the asso-
ciation’s awards for autumn.
The association claims that in the two
and a half years of its existence there has
been a4O per cent, rise in hat sales. The
association is also very proud of the fact
that its millinery “Oscar,” awarded to
the most attractive hat seen at the A.J.C.
spring meeting, has been copied by a
Los Angeles race track.
The association is also sure that no-
where in the world would 1000 hats from
new collections be seen together. “In
Paris and in the United States manufac-
turers guard their secrets too jealously
to let their rivals see anything in advance, - ’
said an association spokesman. “How-
ever, all the hats on show are from the
milliners’ normal spring range. The
milliners here are prepared to take a
chance on pirating of designs.”
What story do the spring hats tell?
A strong effort will be made to push the
Jackie Kennedy pillbox. These are seen
in varying heights and are all designed
to be worn on the back of the head.
Mostly they are untrimmed or just
finished with a small stiff bow in front.
Otherwise there is a strong revival of
the turned-back brim, either rolled off
the face or swept to one side. Of the
two styles, this is the safer bet. To get
away with the Jackie Kennedy look with
any success you pretty well have to be
as good-looking as Mrs Kennedy.
Straw seems to be stronger than fabric
for spring. Many of the straws are
plastic, but it is impossible, even at close
quarters, to pick them.
There is a rather blessed absence of
trimming. Where are the roses, lily-of-
the-valley and daisies of previous years?
Milliners now seem to have enough con-
fidence to think about shape first and
trimming last.
Some of the nicest hats have as their
sole trimming rows of fine stitching.
However, as there has to be something
for everybody, for the spring wedding
guest or racegoer, there are hats as elabor-
ate and eye-catching as you could wish
for.
Local milliners seem to be trying harder
in the field of beach hats. There is one
shaped like a white lighthouse rising
above a sea-green brim. There is a bee-
hive-shaped one, complete with gold and
black bees. However the nice thing
about Italian beach hats was their utter
simplicity, and this simplicity leaves them
still well ahead of the local field.


THE W°
OUT
GRAFTON
An abundance of vegetables from the fertile valley of the Clarence . * ,
pineapples and bananas from the sun-kissed hills of Coff’s Harbour . . .
fruit and vegetables, in season, from all points south . . . frozen tons of
fresh fish from Wauchope and Taree . . . this is the daily freight of the
7.55 a.m. out of Grafton.
I
fist
mz
•ferSS
m
s**s
X
- x— (<*■
«*»!2S
‘feiw^rr
s '**~ ,
M ‘*'V *5
Day after day, this train —and others like it —converges on the great terminal at
Darling Harbour with the enormous quantities of foodstuffs necessary to sustain a
city and its people.
No less than 13,500 trains enter and leave Darling Harbour goods yards annually in
endless liaison with rural areas. They carry over four million tons of wheat, wool, rice,
fruit, vegetables and general merchandise that are essential to the economic welfare of
the State.
In playing such a dominant role in the collection and distribution of the wealth of
this State, the New South Wales Government Railways is serving many industries,
helping to a better way of life people living within reach of its mighty
network.
%
MJ
go
Q
Ml
<<;
<0
o
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


ABORIGINALITIES
Blind Nalul
Roland Robinson, who is at present
travelling round Australia on a Com-
monwealth Literary Fund fellowship,
sends this sketch from Mataranka in
the Northern Territory.
IT is another fresh, clear morning. The
whole sky is an opalescent blue dome
shrill and loud with scattering, wheeling
galahs and lorikeets. Out of the long,
red-brown, dry grass the slender w'hite
gums hold up their masses of pale-green
foliage.
Yesterday I called in at Bitter Springs
to find my old mate Nalul. As I drove
down through the white gums and the
pointed red termite-formations, I told
myself that I could only be upset by see-
ing Nalul. I dreaded seeing the destitu-
tion and decay of my old friend. I told
myself that I was grieving on>y for myself.
I inquired for Nalul among the abori-
gines. One tall man showed me the way
to go down through the long grass. I
had taken a branching pad when I heard
a shout behind me. The tall aboriginal
was pointing out the right direction to
me.
Soon, under paperbark trees in the
high, dry grass, I saw a group sitting on
the ground with a little fire going.
“Where Nalul?” I asked the group. The
aborigines pointed to a man lying on the
ground with a blanket over him.
Nalul was lying on his back, the blanket
under his armpits. His eyes were closed,
sunken, smeared with mucus. I crouched
down beside him and said: “Nalul, do
you remember, long time ago, longa
Mataranka, two feller bin catch crocodile,
snake, tortoise, everything ; one feller
name Eric. What name other feller?”
Nalul was silent for a while. He passed
his hand over his forehead. I took his
nearest hand in mine. Then I felt his
grip on my hand tighten. “You Robbie,
ain’t it?” he said.
One of the group said something I
could not understand to Nalul in the
language. Nalul half raised himself,
speaking back angrily. Then for me he
translated: “Him no more rubbish. Him
proper big man. Him mate longa me,
long time.”
Nalul and I talked about the times we
had spent together. Nalul remembered
the story I had written after we had been
out spearing wallabies. This story, which
was published with a big illustration of
Nalul hurling the spear to transfix the
wallaby, had been shown to Nalul. I
had forgotten the story. ] told Nalul that
his stories were all in my book, his paint-
ings too, with his name on them, and that
the book had gone all over Australia for
people to read. “Properly,” said Nalui.
“Properly.”
Nalul asked me if I remembered the
songs he had taught me —the song of
Kandagun, the dingo, the song of Janaran,
the jabiroo, and the song of Naarait, the
white cockatoo. We sang them again
together and Nalul laughed and said
“Yakai!” as we finished them.
We talked about all the old people, all
the birds and animals we had hunted to-
gether. I asked Nalul about his wife,
Lily, an attractive, precocious young girl
who had run away from him when I first
knew him.
“I bin chase ‘him’ up,” said Nalul.
“Then I bin think. Might be I bring ‘him’
back, ‘him’ bin run away again. Might
be I kill ‘him.’ I let ‘him’ go.” “More
better,” I said. “More better,” said
Nalul, then; “White woman like ee dat?”
“All a same, white woman all a same,”
I said.
There was no self-pity, no grief in
Nalul He accepted his condition natur-
ally. He talked without any grief about
his blindness and the old days we had
spent together. The grief and the desola-
tion was all in me.
It was near sundown. I told Nalul that
1 had better go and make my camp.
“You come back tomorrow?” asked
Nalul. “If I don’t come back tomorrow
I come back in two weeks’ time,” I said.
I said “Main-muck” and “80-bo” (good-
bye). Nalul reached for my hand again.
I rumpled his hair above his sightless
eyes and said; “Properly, my old mate,
I come back.”
The Gentleman Shepherd
"IV/e were driving along the Boneo Road
to show the children where Cape
wSchanck lighthouse overlooks Bass Strait.
A few miles out of Rosebud the road
undulated through patches of closely
packed ti-tree. The bends in the road
became more frequent; then the road
ahead of us was suddenly flooded with
a bobbing sea of grimy fleece carried
by several hundred sheep.
The roadsides were steep and heavily
timbered. There was nothing for it but
to stop and let the flock proceed on its
bleating way. Our road, as I said to
my wife, was baa-ed. (She winced.)
As the sound of our engine died, we
heard another purring among the trees.
Out crept an old but immaculate Rolls-
Royce. A wiry black sheepdog barked
energetically, ears pricked, paws hardly
seeming to touch the ground as he darted
back and forth behind the stragglers.
But progress was slow, and the driver of
the Rolls eased down a few' feet behind
the last of the mob and opened the
passenger door. The sheepdog jumped
in, and the car started to nose this way
and that behind the stragglers, its horn
tooting.
After a slow hundred yards or so the
leaders of the flock turned into a well-
worn driveway and the road began to
clear as the others followed. Through
the small rear window of the old car—
and the sliding glass pane! behind the
driver —we could see the sheepdog
bounding from side to side in the passen-
ger seat. As the Rolls whispered up its
track and we moved into top gear along
the road again, 1 couldn’t help wondering
which one was tooting the horn.
G.J.
That Was the Country
Until the other day, when the sandy
town o£ Nevertire was blown off the
face of the globe, there was no record of
a cyclone having struck any Australian
settlement in a serious mood. Any
number of cyclones have raged in this
country, but towns being few and small
and far between, it was like gunning at
a florin at two miles range, and the
storm always missed its mark. Apparently,
however, things are improving. Just
about ten days after the successful re-
moval of Nevertire a hurricane practically
removed Palmerston (N.T.) from the
map. That lone Chinese town has
hardly a building left standing. The
gale came on it from seaward, and swept
away its men, and a rushing cloud of
dismantled shanties, blasphemy, kitten
soup, and galvanised iron roofs has been
blowing southward ever since. No one
knows yet the exact amount of the
damage, but in a general way it seems
that the only town in the territory can
be written off as a bad debt.
— “Bulletin,” January 16, 1897.
One of The Bulletin’s oldest aborigi-
nal lies was found to be a true lie the
other day. Maryborough (O.) captured
its historic crocodile. He had been a
legend and an institution on tire Mary
River for something like 20 years and
Maryborough and The Bulletin have
long been divided into two camps —the
people who believed in the ’dile and the
people who declared there never was
any ’dile. Other things being equal,
a Parliamentary candidate who believed
in the reptile could always beat one
who didn’t. But recently a young nran
in a boat drew a bow at a venture and
shot the old institution in the eye. I ts
body was washed ashore about a week
later. The weather was hot, and noth-
ing like that odor has been smelt before
in those parts; 13| feet of crocodile
that has been dead for a week is a
terrible event.
— “Bulletin,” September 17, 1903-


tHE
The Expurgated Rats
By PETER COLEMAN
We Were the Rats. Lawson Glassop.
Horwitz. ss.
When Horwitz Publications Inc.
announced it was bringing out a
new addition of Lawson Glassop’s
banned novel “We Were the Rats,” it
seemed that this along with the new
Lansdowne edition of the banned Ern
Maiiey poems and the Customs Depart-
ment’s decision to release a new English
edition of “Love Me Sailor” —would
mark the country’s final recovery
from the postwar censorship craze. That
was the 1944-48 period when police
prosecution witnesses were able to say :
“I don't know what ‘incestuous' means but
it sounds indecent,” or “No, I never met
Chaucer in the Vice Squad,” and when
an author was sentenced to three months’
jail for writing a mild novel, handcuffed
and driven off in a Black Maria
But as it turns out, the new edition of
“We Were the Rats” (unlike the new
Ern Malley’s poems or “Love Me
Sailor”) has been expurgated. It’s a
pity but it serves this purpose : anyone
writing the history of Australian censor-
ship in a few years’ time will find the new
edition a useful symbol of just how far
we have gone since the end of the war. A
comparison of the two texts will tell the
whole story. In fact we have gone a long
way since the new version leaves only a
little to complain about. (The cuts were
made by Lawson Glassop himself.)
The biggest cut is in Book 1 (“Nerri-
dale”) where the original text contained a
number of unnecessary characters and
incidents that had no bearing on later
development of the theme. In any case,
the police had no objection to this part
of the book so the cuts were not inspired
by censorship. The next biggest cut is
in Book II (“En route to Tobruk”).
About 15 pages have gone and the amount
of “blasphemy” has been reduced. (In
one sentence, however, the new text
actually returns to the original manuscript
which Angus and Robertson had in-
explicably altered to “You’re not a cook’s
backside”). The Army poems and the
brothel scenes in Bombay, Cairo and
Alexandria are reproduced exactly from
the first edition. Book IV (“After
Tobruk”) is intact.
It is in Book 111 (“Tobruk”) that most
of the censorship occurs. Some of the
original blasphemy is removed and so
I s all of Chapter 31 about a soldier read-
ing extracts from pornographic maga-
zines to his mates which Mr Justice
Studdert described as “just plain filth
• ■ • obscene in fact and law.” Presumably
the publishers felt it would be courting
trouble to reprint this chapter, which
Was the only one the judge specifically
attacked. It is a pity since it not only
seems perfectly non-pornographic to
everybody I know, but it has some
literary value and adds significantly to
Glassop’s picture of the demoralisation
of the Rats in Tobruk. But with this
main exception Horwitz are justified in
claiming they have not compromised the
novel or submitted cravenly to earlier
censorship rulings.
lassop first brought the manuscript
—a bedraggled mess of handwritten
pages obviously written under the most
difficult conditions —into The Bulletin
office in 1944. Douglas Stewart and
Norman Lindsay helped him edit it into
publishable condition and then passed
it on to Angus and Robertson with
the appropriate recommendations. It
appeared in 1944 and 10,000 copies were
quickly sold before a Tasmanian woman
found her foster-son, an English evacuee,
reading it. She examined it, was shocked,
and decided to refer the book to the
Tasmanian Women’s Non-Party League.
The League’s secretary raised the matter
in October, 1945, at a League meeting
of a handful of members who authorised
her to take the matter up with the
“appropriate authorities.” Presumably
she should have taken it up with the
Tasmanian police or the Chief Secretary,
but in fact she wrote to the Federal
Minister for Customs, who has no
authority over Australian publications.
The Minister passed the buck back not
to the Tasmanian Government but to
the N.S.W. Government and, although
it was none of his business, he told the
League that he agreed with them that
the novel was indecent.
The N.S.W. Chief Secretary referred
it to his Crown Solicitor and he in turn
advised that it was obscene under N.S.W.
law. So the police served a summons
on Angus and Robertson and launched
the first prosecution in Australian history
against an Australian publisher of a
serious novel. Before the case began the
publishers urged the Chief Secretary to
withdraw his case, but he refused on
the false and ridiculous ground that
Government Departments never with-
draw proceedings once they have been
started.
It was, in the event, just as well that
the case went on. The N.S.W. censorship
apparatus was held up to such effective
ridicule that it ’has not since ventured
into the field of practical censorship
(though it paid lip service to the mid-
’fifties hysteria about comics by passing
new legislation to cover them, and then
doing nothing).
The Vice Squad sergeant who was the
main police witness in the magistrate’s
court said he did not know Shakespeare’s
first name and was not sure if Byron was
a war correspondent, but that he was
shocked by the word “bloody” in “We
Were the Rats.” The press had a Roman
holiday, and although it was unfair to
expose the sergeant to ridicule when the
main responsibility for the prosecution
rested with the Crown Solicitor and Chief
Secretary who hid behind the sergeant,
it was only by exposing their agent that
they could be exposed.
Everyone from the Rats of Tobruk
Association to the Newcastle Housewives*
Association protested at the £lO fine—
everyone except the Rev. Gordon Powell
and the Tasmanian Women’s Non-Party
League, the secretary of which said they
had taken their stand on behalf of the
mothers of Australia: “I know all about
sex but this is beyond belief.”
The publishers appealed to the
Supreme Court. Lawson Glassop has
since remarked that in all his experience
as a court reporter this was the only
case in which he has seen the prosecution
trying to lose a case. The Crown’s
counsel said: “I won’t press this matter
too strongly, Your Honor. In fact, I
read the book myself and enjoyed it.”
(This contrasts with the 1944 Ern Malley
case in Adelaide where according to
Max Harris in the new edition of Ern
Malley’s Poems the trial was in bitter
earnest: “The impression was of one
section of the community engaging in a
vendetta against another.”) The Sydney
judge, however, said the blasphemy and
pornography were too objectionable to
be justified by the author’s good inten-
tions and upheld the conviction.
It was one of the many strange
decisions that leave one with the feeling
that one will never understand how some
judges’ minds work. Lawson Glassop
tells the story of meeting another judge
in Canberra soon after the case. He
asked him if he would have given the
same judgment. “Now that’s a leading
question, Mr Glassop,” he said, “and you
can’t expect me to answer it.” Then
grinning, he added: “But what do you
think?”
The pity of it is that the publishers
did not push on to the High Court
The basic weakness in Australian censor-
ship laws is due to the fact that everyone
winges about the Government but refuses
to appeal to higher courts —as private
citizens or publishers have done in
U.S.A. and the U.K. with a resulting
liberalising of the laws. Horwitz is the
only Australian publisher who has gone
to the High Court —in that Magna Carta
of comic-book publishers, “The Trans-
port Case,” which finally reduced the
Queensland Literature Board of Review
to its present futility. Horwitz Inc. re-
mains the model, as far as censorship
is concerned, which no other publisher
has had the determination to emulate.
All the more pity that the firm did not
go ahead and republish Chapter 31 of
“We Were the Rats” uncut.
However, on the more important ques-
tion of the book’s literary quality the
cuts do not greatly matter. In some ways
they improve the book. It needed cutting,


and in any case after 16 years, when its
topicality has well and truly passed, it
still stands up well.
Glassop’s theme is an ambitious one.
He takes a cross-section of Australians
(a salesman, a miner, a clerk, an intel-
lectual, a taxi driver, a wool-classer, an
electrician, a jockey, a con.-man), puts
them through the hell of Tobruk, shows
their characteristic ways of reacting,
dying, surviving. One cannot pretend he
does justice to this theme which is
after all the complete appraisal and
criticism of Australian life —but he goes
far deeper than journalistic probing, and
above all, he brings Tobruk to life with
all its demoralisation and courage,
meanness and humor. If you haven't
read the unexpurgated version, this is
almost as good.
Itchy Conscience
The Long Revolution. Raymond
Williams. Chatto & Windus. 495. 9d.
Few members of the establishment in
a nominally Christian society dare
openly reject the tradition of British
Puritanism, in Richard Hoggart’s sense
of “an intense responsibility for one’s
conscience.”
Raymond Williams, both in his “Cul-
ture and Society," now in a Pelican
edition, and in his follow-up, “The Long
Revolution,” is part of that tradition, but
his responsibility unfortunately does not
stop at his own conscience. He is obsessed
with stirring up other people’s consci-
ences, and, worse, s«ems to believe that
everyone has a conscience.
This is quite an extraordinary book.
It is extraordinary in its pompousness, its
opaque and bureaucratic style, and, most,
in the ridiculous disproportion between
an analysis driven by moral indignation
and the remedies proposed. Perhaps it is
because Mr Williams’s indignation is
clearly genuine, because he is “com-
mitted” that he has taken in so many
intellectuals.
It is almost impossible to find out just
what he is committed to. Ostensibly, this
book consists of three parts: Four long
and general essays on Such topics as “The
Creative Mind” and “Images of Society”;
seven historical essays on education, the
growth of the reading public, the popu-
lar press, standard English, etc., and a
part of a programatic sort of “Britain in
the 19605.”
The basic theme is supposed to be the
cultural revolution which supplements
the treatment of the democratic and
industrial revolution in “Culture and
Society.” Williams is at times successful
in throwing new light on stock concepts
such as “producer” and “consumer” or
“work” and “leisure." He can be exceed-
ingly able in his shorter historical chap-
ters. But his fundamental ambition is, in
fact, a plea for the ideals held by the
guild-Socialists of the ’twenties.
Take, for instance, his 40-page essay
on “The Creative Mind” with which the
book opens. What this seems to be saying
is that when we perceive we “create”:
that communication is basic to culture ;
and that this communication expresses
our “social character.” And before we
know it we have one more recipe for the
good society “derived" from essential
man:
If man is essentially a learning,
creating and communicating being,
the only social organisation adequate
to his nature is a participating
democracy, in which all of us, as
unique individuals, learn, communi-
cate and control.
This sounds good, till one remembers
all the other people who have found out
what man “is essentially”—those who
assure us that he is essentially a god-
seeker and hence the only social organisa-
tion adequate to his nature i 5...., etc.;
till one looks for the second time and
notes the jump from learn-create-
communicate to learn-create-conr/o/; till
one realises that Williams has drawn his
universal man from some limited aspects
of English culture ; and till one tries to
find out what the hell he means by cul-
ture . . . which turns out to be identical
with “the structure of feeling."
This sort of dogmatism comes out most
clearly in the basic general assumption
that “we all” want a “common culture.”
Well, if a culture is “the structure of
feeling” there are an awful lot of feelings
one would hate to share, one would run a
mile from.
And one of these, for some people,
is the feeling of responsibility for others.
Williams is welcome to his itchy
conscience. He can scratch it as long as
he likes in private ; there is no reason
why he should not scratch it even in
public. But some of us will prefer to
look the other way.
HENRY HAYER
Cold-comfort Form
The Visit to Penmorten. James Cour-
age. Cape. 20s.
Last Score. Storm Jameson. Macmil-
lan. 20s.
The Cigarette. Henri Crespi. Mac-
donald. 13s. 3d.
The Long Summer Day. Patricia Led-
ward. Macmillan. 20s.
r T''H£SE books arrived upon a day when
A I hoped for some cheerful reading,
but the blurbs immediately made it plain
that no such thing could be expected from
any of them. Misery they promise and
misery they provide with unequal degrees
of skill.
James Courage sends his young hero
to Cornwall to cope with a nervous break-
down occasioned when his Australian
father blew his brains out somewhere
near Armidale (N.S.W.) while the son was
about to take his final exams at Oxford
(Eng.). In Cornwall the unhappy fellow
providentially meets a psychoanalyst who
undertakes his treatment without pay-
ment, and ably aided by a couple of
mysterious females and an assortment of
peculiar males (outside the consulting
room), the hero is completely cured. This
silly book is the “happiest" of the bunch.
Storm Jameson’s novel, subtitled “The
Private Life of Sir Richard Ormston” is
set in an imaginary British colony. “If
the reader discovers accidental similarities
with events which have taken place any-
wheie in the world, in Africa, Europe,
Asia, that will only be because all revolts
against what can be represented as an
occupying force follow the same unhappy
pattern and take the same disconcerting
shapes," states the author. This colony
simmers with revolutionary terrorism and
the terrorism and the guerrillas who per-
petrate it are highly organised. Who by?
The British Secret Police find out the
leader —the Governor (Sir Richard Orm-
ston's) erstwhile best friend and husband
of Sir R's present mistress. We-ell . . . .
enough there for a book, but not this one.
1 he real question posed is one of more
political ethics —ought cruel devices to be
employed to achieve ‘good" results?
Here the culprit is tortured by the Security
Police and as parallel Sir Richard is tor-
tured by his own conscience. The novel
is irretrievably marred by its puppet-like
characters. Grahame Greene might have
used a plot like this but he would have
known better than to match melodramatic
public events with melodramatic prota-
gonists. Anyway one cannot believe in
most of the people and least of all in Lady
Richard Oi mston. Storm Jameson’s prose
is excellent.
Beautifully translated from French by
Edward Hyams, “The Cigarette" shows us
one day in the life of Larino, a free-lance
artist in Paris. The day is his fortieth
birthday and on it, by chance, he leaves
home without a sou in his pocket or a
cigarette Like free-lance anythings any-
where Larino is accustomed to a fluctu-
ating income but he is, by and large,
successful, and the cigarette - less soul-
searchings which occupy this day result
from his pride rather than his poverty.
This is a first novel and a slight one,
but its author is extremely perceptive,
writes with great freshness and might
well become a force if he can learn that
judiciously employed humor improves
most fictional dishes.
Patricia Ledward does use a subtle dash
of humor and could well adventure a little
more. Nevertheless her book is a very
good one teeming most prodigally with
fully-realised characters and, although its
plot is simple enough, agonising in its
suspense. A truck loaded with heavy
steel bars, in avoiding two feckless little


boys on a bicycle, crashes out of control.
This tragic event links a great number of
people—the truck driver and his pathetic
and near dotty mother ; the occupants of
a small car which is on the road near
the truck; the small cyclists and their
m um ;an aunt and her nephew and many
others.
„ 7 . iU r. x • • t j ,
Wlth B T at f S , Patricla T- edward
earnes t e ay forward hour by hour and
with it her characters, meanwhile display-
ing the past and elucidating the present.
She knows how to make coincidence
appear probable and probability disclose
its invariable content of coincidence. Her
descriptive prose is very good and her
dialogue splendid and she can get under
such differing skins as cover—a snide and
selfish but nevertheless likeable dealer in
objets d’art; two fatherless “lower” class
boys and their superb, hard-working
mother; a gentlewoman of dubiously
gentle birth come crashing down in the
world because of a tragic happening of a
rare but believable type; a vulgar gold-
digging wife and her indulgent, easy-going
husband and so on. Any writer who can
attord to expend s 0 much material upon
one novel has, probably, a very great
store of material for other novels,
Patricia Ledward’s is obviously a name to
watch.
NANCY KEESING
Compassionate Dictator
Sir Robert Stout: A Biography. Waldo
Hilary Dunn and Ivor J. M. Richard-
son. A. H. and A. W. Reed. 225. 6d.
(N.Z.).
Cir Robert Stout, once Prime Minister
and Chief Justice of New Zealand,
was a cool, calculating, self-opiniated
dictator. A man of great learning, he
lacked introspection ; passionate and
cruel in debate, he was compassionate to
those in distress ; an agnostic, he had a
profound sense of moral values; re-
morselessly practical, he was full of
Utopian dreams.
He was a 20-year-old schoolteacher on
his arrival in Dunedin from the Shetland
Islands, in April, 1864; he built up
his connection with educational work,
developed his legal bent, and was soon
a university lecturer and partner in a
flourishing legal business.
He made himself known to important
men like Sir George Grey, and was
elected to Parliament. Then he married
a Scotswoman, Anna Logan, 14 years
his junior, ardent prohibitionist and of
political mind. Being such a busy man
Stout could spare only four days for the
honeymoon and even so sandwiched into
“the holiday” several political articles.
They lived in amity and hard work for
54 years and she bore him six children.
Grey made him Attorney - General,
a position he held until 1879, when the
ill-health of his partner in business in
Dunedin forced his resignation. Five
years later he was back in Parliament
to take over the leadership of the Stout-
V °gel Government. In spite of hard
times they laid many miles of railway,
Uebled land settlement, and passed the
Civil Service Reform Bill. At this time
Stout opposed federation with Australia,
though he considered “it would have to
c ome sooner or later.”
He was zealous for a Federation of
the Pacific Islands and was so concerned
° Ver the German interest in Samoa that
he wanted to send the Government
steamer Hinemoa (with a Cabinet Minis-
er > a police sergeant and four
constables) to take possession of the
island. England said no. About 30 years
tater a N.Z. Expeditionary Force (minus
the five policemen) carried out the plan
that Stout and Vogel espoused in 1885.
An advanced liberal, Stout’s acceptance
of a knighthood in 1886 was not popu-
larly received. When the elections came
round in 1887 the electors also remem-
bered his attitude to the unemployed
(“no coddling”). Stout lost his seat. Such
was the consternation among his sup-
porters that offers were made to vacate
seats in his favor and a huge petition
set in motion. But it was six years before
he returned to Parliament. In the
interim he was the power behind the
throne.
When he was re-elected Dick Seddon
was firmly entrenched and out-
manoeuvred him for the Premiership.
They became bitter enemies. The book
leaves an impression of trickery for
which Stout never forgave Seddon.
Stout moved his home to Wellington
in 1895 and three years later decided to
retire from politics so that he might look
after his family of six, from one to 16
years. Sixteen months later he was made
Chief Justice. Possibly the astute Seddon
arranged this to silence his old enemy,
great judges, yet by no means a master
At all events Stout had every qualifica-
tion for the position which he held for
28 years. He was one of New Zealand's
of intricate legal problems.
He was perpetually busy in the matter
of prison reform, also as a writer. His
warlike spirit as a speaker found its
outlet in his long Chancellorship of the
University Senate. Those who opposed
him in the Senate found themselves the
victims of his legal and political ex-
perience. He played cat-and-mouse with
his opponents, and after the final crunch
he would, as Professor Arnold Wall said,
“rise in his majesty, and a very fine
figure of a man he was, and a fine orator
too, and heap contemptuous abuse on
his victim.” And yet from the Supreme
Court bench the next day, he would
more often than not look down com-
passionately on some wretch, and over
that long white beard of his would come
such words of sympathy and advice,
tempered with a mild sentence, as would
almost move the press to tears.
He even acquitted me one day when,
under the impression that he had left the
One Thousand East
of Brisbane
In that doesn’t-matter place, a league
down,
One thousand east of Brisbane, a
fish-face
With light appendages, expresses no
more
Of love than a stone in a grassless
backyard. Town
Has visages with that same grimace
Of goitre and greed. But I am sure,
Down, one thousand east of Brisbane,
there
Must be pressures, alike: as in sea,
as in town.
I don’t think problems are much
changed for life
Wherever it appears. We, sometime,
share,
In embryo, fish-form. Later, deep
down,
Deep down in the gloom of our
moods, if
We observe, the lures are out, the
lights,
The ugliness of face. So hidden, be
such sights.
JOHN BLIGHT
Bush Dialogue
“You will not catch me, often, laced
like this
Said the black snake in an evil hiss,
His eye malevolent as a drought’s sun,
The sloughing of his skin half-done
And swamp frogs hopping by in fun.
“Could happen to anyone croaked
a bull-toad.
“My uncle was run over on the road.
Circumstances can find us in old pants,
When opportunity cries out, ‘Ad-
vance ! ’
Think you're lucky that these frogs
aren't ants.”
“Archaic, this,” hissed the black snake,
“This growth that makes my sides ache
Yet makes me slaver at the sight of
frogs.”
“You’re black right through;” the
bull-toad shrugs.
“Why don’t you snakes undress in
logs?’
“History has willed us at your heel.
Wait, here, bull-toad. I’ll teach you
how we feel.”
“Never let me wait upon hunger’s
pangs.
Surely, there is poison in such fangs;”
Puffed bull-toad. “No tanks, no
thanks!”
“Then, ’fore you go, let’s reason on
my hate . . .”
Snake hissed. “No reasoning must
wait;”
Croaked bull-toad. “For we have at
heart
Foreknowledge to be gone, to make a
start.
Your reason’s science, my hurry is an
art.”
JOHN BLIGHT


DO YOU REMEMBER?
Do you remember ‘Spinifex’ of the Bulletin ? The countless
anecdotes, the laughter and unusual tales that featured in
Aboriginalities for over fifty years? Here at last is the story of
the man behind the stories.
Here is the tale of Joseph Porter,
as richly humorous a storv as
ever he wrote. We see the adven-
turous boy who saw the camp of
i,yoo striking shearers at Bar-
caldine in 1891 become the daring
youth who rode into Coolgardie
in style in the first hansom cab to
enter that rough camp. We see
the venturesome tough young man
of the opal fields who rode 200
miles in 24 hours, become the
mature bushman who paid his
own fare to Sydney from Central
Queensland to compete success-
fully with thousands of other keen patriots for a place in the
Bush Contingent for the Boer War.
This book is more than a richly-told reminiscence of drama
and humour in the outback. It is the first really readable book
in our time to tell of earlv settlement in the Central Western
district of Queensland; and it was written by a man whose
memory went back to those days. It is a treasure house for the
historian, but above all it is the story of men and women and
the rewards and heartbreaks they found while pioneering a
wilderness. Order jour copy now\
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “I»,” Box 2071, G.P.0., S.vtlney.
A service for readers. That difficult 1,1
obtain volume, let us find it for you —fictioi 1 '
text hook, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-pr int
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney
bench at the conclusion of a case, I lit a
cigarette at the press table. Tobacco was
anathema to him. I looked up and saw
his dark eyes, cold as hailstones, regard-
ing me through the curling spirals of
smoke. And then a twinkle came into his
eye and he retired with slow majestic step.
This excellent biography is the col-
laboration of an American university
teacher (Professor Dunn) and an Inver-
cargill lawyer and writer (Dr Richard-
son). They are inclined to soft-pedal
the domestic background of their subject,
also his activities as a free thinker.
PAT LAWLOR
No Grit
Headlines All My Life. Arthur
Christiansen. William Heinemann.
31s.
npms is a most infuriating book. Here
is Mr Arthur Christiansen, after Hugh
Cudlip the most famous editorial hand
in Fleet Street, who presided over the
“Daily Express” in its big leap forward
and all that, and he writes a book about
editing that shimmers and shines with
all the gloss of a “Daily Express” feature
story —and it passes over the tongue and
dissolves as quickly as a William Hickey
paragraph.
Anecdote anecdote thought
anecdote —anecdote. The old formula.
Elusive tasty crumbs digested and for-
gotten. Not one little bit of grit to make
one pause for a moment and wonder
what it was all really like. The anecdotes
are good, but to understand what he did
not manage to say you learn more front
staring for a long time at this picture
of him at his desk when he was an
editor . .
ARTHUR CHRISTIANSEN
Competitions
TJrizes totalling £5OO are offered by
*- Parramatta (N.S.W.) City Council to
celebrate its centenary this year “A
Parramatta background mu:! be used for
a plot for all submitted work.”
The awards are: £l5O for a three-act
play; £l5O for a story, fact or liction,
not exceeding 12,000 words; £lOO for
a one-act play, suitable for TV or radio;
and £5O for a poem, not exceeding 1000
words.
Entry forms at the Parramatta Council
Chambers; closing date, October 1.
Dr Colin Roderick and Mr Norman
Kessell will head the judging panel.
The 1962 Mary Gilmore Award will
be for a short story (£5O) and a poem
(£2O). Entries close on May Ist. 1962.
Judges will be announced later.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
is holding a Muir Holburn memorial
competition for poetry: Ist prize, £2O.
No entry should exceed 100 lines. Closing
date, September 30, 1961. Details from
the F.A.W., G.P.O. Box 3448, Sydney.


Shows
The Comedy, Yes
Othello, Macbeth, Merchant of Venice.
John Alden Company. Conserva-
torium. Elizabethan, Cremorne Or-
pheum. Sydney.
Shakespearean John Alden has a much
surer hand in producing the comedies
than he has in bringing the tragedies to
the stage. This point, to be no more than
THEATRE |
suspected from his recent
Australia-wide tour on the
Williamson circuit with
“Lear,” “The Merchant,”
and “A Winter’s Tale,” is proved to the
limit during his company’s current festival
of three plays in three different Sydney
theatres.
Both <he “Macbeth” and the “Othello”
of this present season are, in different
ways, very much short-circuited as to the
power of passion which can grip an
audience into agitated, aching compassion
for great men on course to disaster.
“Macbeth,” at the opening performance,
was both noisy and empty, altogether a
venture in which the big characters, strain-
ing grindingly hard at big emotion, merely
suggested that disaster was an unpleasant
outcome of human weakness, rather than
being a corollary to great, heartening
valor and strength. “Othello,” although
a much more acceptable presentation,
was projected (even if it was not so con-
ceived) merely as an exercise in decora-
tiveness, the vital springs of poignance
and pity being left untouched in this
responsive member of the audience.
If it were not for recollections of the
remarkably gripping production of “Lear”
which Mr Alden brought before Sydney
audiences some ten years ago, one would
be tempted to say on the evidence of these
two present tragedy productions that his
imagination and technique are just not
big enough to encompass the greater
Passions of the theatre, just not big
enough to allow him not to force the
tragic passions with merely external effect.
But at the much lower emotional level of
the comedies, always more amenable to
merely decorative treatment and to a
Pretty play of merely external effect, Mr
Alden's are'often quite beautifully in tune
with his material—and his current “Mer-
chant of Venice,” which has received an
excellent press here, is charming proof
°r it. Mr Alden is, in short, much more
? m^ n of sentiment than a man of passion,
m his approach to Shakespearean staging.
And, at the level of comedy, he is un-
commonly gifted in acting the roles of
more or less malevolent characters —his
. ylock, for instance, or (on other occa-
si°ns) his Leontes, his Malvolio and his
Angelo. At the plane of tragedy, though,
. does not often enough show us what
1S Wonderfully good and grand in the
heroes engaged or embroiled in assorted
evil.
I saw “Othello” after some of the
excesses of the opening night had been
modified—modified perhaps too much in
the case of Max Osbiston’s lago, who was
so flatly matter-of-fact about his evil
machinations that there seemed to be
no tension or excitement in them either
for lago himself or for anybody else out
front. The Alden Moor broke with the
Negro tradition to present the character
as an august sheik, almost the kind of
personage one expects to see in the
“Merchant” as the Prince of Morocco
with his matchlessly persuasive and digni-
fied “mislike me not for my complexion.”
At all events, whether or not because
Arabs are less demonstrative than
Negroes, there was something rather
aloof and stiff in this Alden-drawn Moor,
and there was something ungenerous and
unlikeable about his intervention in the
brawl scene, his attitude having rather
too much bullying bad temper in it than
of a great, loved leader's disappointment.
The Desdemona of Elizabeth Waterhouse
had so many of the addresses of a minx-
flapper in the early scenes that it was not
easy to have any deep feeling about the
hurts that came later ; I prefer a Desde-
mona of gravity and melting tenderness.
In “Macbeth,” Frank Waters forced
his rather thick, heavy voice with mono-
tonous harshness, as if always straining
upward to an emotion that was beyond
him instead of giving the illusion that
emotion was erupting out of him. His
hard, angry, full-steam-ahead manner of
talk flattened out many a rich image into
negligibleness, this being part of Mr
Waters’s plan to make verse sound like
natural talk. But naturalness isn’t worth
having when such things as Mr Waters’s
“gimme me armor” are offered in its
honor.
Indeed, for assured and attractive
speaking of Shakespearean lines, as if
they were the native and natural speech
of the people uttering them, the audience
had only two players to thank in this
“Macbeth.” One was John Faassen as
the Malcolm, and the other was Alistair
Roberts as the old doctor who is a spec-
tator of Lady Macbeth's sleepwalking,
Hilda Scurr, rather too docile in temper
and much too quiet-spoken at other times,
gave a most effective expression in this
scene to the ache of a tortured heart.
LINDSEY BROWNE
Attractions of Melodrama
The Drunkard. Arts Theatre, Mel-
bourne
“t-he Drunkard” ran for over 30 years
1 in San Francisco. Presumably the
ArK is not honine to break that record •
, „.r- , P,f , . ril nnina for
but East Lynne has been running tor
- a* iu . jlrnoc-
oyer a year in Melbourne and it seems
hat melodrama has replaced revue as
he popular entertainment in intimate
eatre '
The Drunkaid has not as strong a
plot as East Lynne, which is an
archetypal tear-jerker. But has the
advantage, unlitce East Lynne, of being
played straight—apart from the rather
Brechtian narrator, ebulliently played
by Mr Thurgood. This enables the
audience to enjoy the simplicities of
character and complexities of plot that
are the attractions of good melodrama,
and simultaneously to see the absurdities
shine through in all their pristine purity.
Through the machinations of the
villain, Cribbs, the young, handsome and
upright hero, Edward Middleton, be-
comes a prey to the demon drink. He
sinks to the gutters of New York, and
his helpless wife and innocent child are
left to starve in an attic. But, thanks to
the efforts of the philanthropic Mr
Rencelaw, apparently a foundation mem-
ber of Alcoholics Anonymous, Edward
is restored to home and family, while
the villainous Cribbs is undone.
Ivon Vander’s production is very well
finished. It has the quality, rare in Aus-
tralia, of sustaining a very high standard
of acting through the whole cast. Mr
Kar ° * ive . s ° u , ts , tanding P er . formance
as Edward Middleton proceeding very
convincingly from high-minded young
gentlemen to besotted wretch and back
f , , ...
to sadder and wiser respectability. Mr
self-possessed ind busy as the
J Cribbs. Mr Lucas as the faithful
wnlianli Miss Nortan as the spitefu l
virgin Miss Spindle, with a very con-
vincing American accent, and Miss
Wright as the drunkard’s child, with her
pathetic rendering of “sell no more liquor
m y father,” also deserve particular
mention.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Bag of Tricks
T/'ernon Sylvaine’s farce, performed by
Canberra Theatre Players, was
tremendous fun for those who were
lucky enough to see it. Producer Joyce
Goodes presented it in-the-round, which
was hard on the illusion of make-up,
especially for young faces trying to look
old. But the personality of the actors
on the whole stood up to the exacting
demands of close contact v/ith the
audience, and some of the funniest
moments were heightened by the wider
vision available,
The play was slow in establishing its


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the (lay right!
mm***
vih c
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
absurd world where anything can happen ;
but once established, it rollicked through
to an hilariously insane conclusion. John
Carrol did well in the difficult part of
Henry Stirling, the little clerk who
fluctuates between domestic rabbit and
superman under the influence of hypnosis.
Joyce Glynn’s susceptible Cockney maid
was a subtly comic interpretation, con-
trasting well with the broader comedy
of Bryan Docherty as the shady brother.
In Mr Docherty’s hands, all the old tricks
—the disguise as chorus girl, the mistaken
identity, the pick pocket act, the cold tea
in the whiskey decanter —took on new
life. Sue Stratigos and Jill Sorenson were
so seductive it was easy to accept all the
trouble they caused.
As the programme pointed out, “the
farcical bag of tricks” is not easy to
assemble. This production put them to-
gether with vigor and conviction, and the
audience escaped for the evening into a
happy world of laughter without criticism.
HOPE HEWITT
Chamber of Moderns
TPhe first of a projected series of con-
certs of local music was given the
other Sunday by the New Music
Ensemble, in the rooms of Melbourne’s
MUSIC
Museum of Modern Art. A
fragment of Stravinsky (form
and content on one hearing
both quite inscrutable)
opened the programme, and was followed
by a woodwind quartet written this year
by Neal Smith. This was music of some
energy and seriousness, which did not on
first acquaintance give much of an im-
pression of well-integrated design. It
would be interesting to hear the three
movements again to check on this impres-
sion: the manner of writing was quite
hard, angular and uncompromising, and
experience suggests that the unifying form
of a work like this does not always
emerge at once.
The piano sonata of Helen Gifford was
in somewhat the same case, with perhaps
a smaller margin of doubt. The alterna-
tions of violent bravura and short-
breathed lyricism produced no develop-
ment or curve of design memorable
enough to justify the brilliant range of
the music’s beginning—much as in the
“Rhenish” symphony of Schumann,
where the ample gesture of the opening
phrase is far more impressive than any-
thing that follows.
Clearly the finest music of the after-
noon was found in the last two works.
Felix Werder's four scherzi for wood-
wind quartet were four movements of
finely shaped and beautifully scored
music. 1 doubt that there is better
music written in Australia than exists in
the chamber works of Werder. He com-
mands a range of technical accomplish-
ment which is, in my experience, singular
among local musicians, and which in fact
has little to lose in a comparison with
the international field. Added to this is
a knowledge of the nature and resources
of the instruments for which he scores,
and a consummate care that their best
and most typical qualities should be
exploited in his music. The texture of
these scherzi was a case in point: rich,
even and unforced, it served at once the
purposes of the harmony and the need
for sonorous expression of each of the
instruments. Bringing into focus both
these qualities of craft, there exists in the
best of his chamber music a feeling for
meaningful and disciplined form and a
strong and important vein of lyrical
creation.
The last work, a cycle of six poems
set for baritone and wind quintet by
George Dreyfus, made delightful and
rewarding listening. Like much of Drey-
fus’s music, this gave re : n to a sense of
humor which is often ironic but never
sardonic. Still less does he play the
buffoon at the expense of his art, for this
is not the kind of slapstick vulgarity
which invites its listeners to laugh at
music, but durable and substanfial music
which sparkles with vigorous fun.
KENNETH HINCE
Amadio Superb
too many years most of Sydney’s
concertgoers —perhaps even a num-
ber of Sydney’s musicians—have taken
for granted the skill and superb musician-
ship of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra's
principal flautist, Neville Amadio. But
recently, in a fine chamber concert at the
Sydney Art Gallery and in two Town
Hall concerts with Karel Ancerl (the
second of them last Saturday) the
apparently ageless Amadio, who was
principal flautist of the old 2FC orchestra
at the age of 14, has at last had an oppor-
tunity of proving that we have among us
an instrumentalist of rare accomplish-
ment and great stature.
The great problem for a flautist bent
on a concert career is that by the
standards which apply to other instru-
ments, the concerto repertoire is not very
great —notwithstanding the several hun-
dred that Johann Joachim Quantz wrote
for that king of flautists, Frederick the
Great. Neville Amadio, however, found
two ; one by Benda, the other by Mozart,
a lively and lovely work in G major with
an unexpectedly introspective middle
movement, written with a devotion


CUSTOM
CORPORATION
I
CREDIT
LIMITED
Offers to Long or Short Term Investors
/Veto Issue of
CUSTOM CREDIT NOTES
10 Years and over .... 8%
3 to 9 Years 7%
at 12 Months' notice • • 6%
at 6 Months' notice • . • 5%
at 4 Months' notice .• • 4%
at 2 Months' notice . • . 3%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments, free
of exchange, on the last days of June, September,
December and March.
This is not a Prospectus. Copies of the Prospectus
covering these issues have been lodged with the
Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney. Telephone: FM 5861.
exceed £BQJCO,
CCC3.S&I
which has made a number of people
wonder whether Mozart really disliked
the flute as much as he is said to have
done.
Neville Amadio played it all with great
authority, consummate musicianship and
remarkably relaxed virtuosity ; indeed,
the only sign of strain was in the acro-
batic cadenza of the first movement,
when a froth of decorated octave leaps
provoked a brief frown and a slightly
raised eyebrow. His phrasing was
immaculate, his tone sweet and tender,
and the scale passages sparkled and
glowed like pearls strung on silver
wire. The solo part could, perhaps,
have been pushed forward a little
more; but this apparent reticence may
only have been noticeable from where I
was sitting, on the extreme right-hand
edge of the hall, uncomfortably close to
the heavy breathing of the massed ’cellos
and double-basses.
From the Apollonian to the Dionysiac;
from the serene order of Mozart to the
urgent, throbbing dynamism of Beet-
hoven’s seventh symphony, which filled
the second part of the programme and
was given, in this case, a performance
which somehow failed to fulfil its
promise. Ancerl’s tempi were thrustful,
and the orchestra played willingly
enough. But the sound seemed oddly out
of balance, and the big climaxes were too
often hollow and merely percussive—due
in a number of cases to the tympanist,
who, with a tremendously important roie
to play, appeared to have loaded his
drum-sticks with detonators. There were,
also, odd lapses on points of detail and
at some of the really big moments ; in
the last movement, for instance, the inner
strings have two crucial passages where
they should supply a burst of furious
energy, and in this performance didn’t.
And the two big French-horn entries,
which should come blazing through in a
golden explosion of sound, were entirely
too tentative to have their proper breath-
catching impact.
PETER PINKERTON
Impact
A new direction is indicated in the ninth
Sydney 1961 exhibition at David
Jones’ Gallery, Sydney. Sensuousness
and impulsive inventiveness are accented
ART
to a degree which often
excludes any sense of order in
many of the paintings, and
pleasant harmonies in color or
form are largely shunned. This gives
the exhibition great strength and vitality,
hut were it not for several instances in
which more timeless values appear it
would be largely a lot of shouting
er nptiness.
This mood of the group has
undoubtedly loosed some fetters. Hector
Gilliland’s paintings are all the better
| or being less geometric in shape and
lighter in tone, and the firmness of
Rapotec's design, based on an ovoid
s hape, is enlivened by the sensuous appeal
of his juicy paint surfaces. There is little
evidence of any new departure in Wil-
liam Rose’s “projections,” which is held
together with scratchy paint and
mechanically progressing shapes ; but be-
tween Carl Plate’s “Edge” and his other
two paintings comes a point about which
this show seems to divide. Unlike those
mentioned already, Plate, Smith, Upwood
and Hessing are not concerned with
ordering their feelings into paintings
that will be separate entities. Instead
they seem to record their impulses, which
show no more relationship to one
another in the picture than they would
have at the time of their occurrence in
the artist s mind.
This rawness gives their work great
impact. I lound a sickening fascination
in Leonard Hessing’s “Festivities
A.nguished by Yellow —an endless inven-
tion of unrelated shapes and colors
screaming at one another against night-
mare textures. The duration of one’s
fascination is a matter of taste.
In keeping with this, Erik Smith, whose
previous religious paintings were more
like hymns of praise, foreshadows the
distinction of Christ on the Road to Cal-
vary with discordant color and dis-
integrating shapes. The resurrection
seems unlikely to follow.
Peter Upwood’s "‘June Celebrations”
comes as a refreshing bit of extrovert
virtuosity in this company, and the
boldly sustained gesture in black on a
grey and white ground is awe-inspiring
in its scope. Its short life of impact con-
trasts with the sensation of timelessness
in Clem Meadmore’s metal sculptures,
which, as much because of the perfection
of their spatial proportions as of the
heaviness of their materials, have a feel-
ing of this quality.
These, with John Olsen’s paintings,
provide the core of the show. Olsen
avoids readymade order as much as any-
one, and is intriguingly inventive, but
there is a natural sort of unity in the way
in which his picture grows, rather like
a scraggy plant finding its own order from
within. If his previous paintings grew
like gum-trees, these three have some-
thing of the Banksia in them. This
almost involuntary order gives these
paintings a life which is timeless, unlike
much of the work here, which seem to be
made to have instantaneous impact in a
gallery.
SALMON


King’s Decline
and Fail
Continuing our series of profiles of the early Governors of N.S.W.
King believed he could govern by rasping out
orders in a quarter-deck voice, but he left
Australia as a nervous wreck.
By M. H. ELLIS
LIEUT. KING IN 1787
The Home Government had ample justification for
appointing Commander Phillip Gidley King Acting-
Governor of New South Wales on his record and on
the recommendation of Phillip, who had wished him to
be his successor, and of Banks. But it might have been wise
had it looked at him a little more closely
He was no longer the active and lively young officer who
had gone out in the Sirius. His copious locks of yore and
silken queue had gone. He had become a large, broad-faced,
anxious-looking officer, bald save for an untidy fringe hanging
down behind his ears. He had made a parade of activity and
interest while in England, where he spent two months —one
in bed and one getting married—while on an errand for
Governor Phillip—but as soon as the transport Speedy
was four days at sea, on November 19, 1799, he became so “ill
with gout in every part” that his wife was forced to attend him
constantly.
Three weeks later the “gout was flying about him” as a
prelude to his being “dangerously ill,” but “his old warm
baths which he takes in the companionway” in a green tin
shoe —a feature of his equipment well known to those who had
travelled with him before —gave him some comfort. And in
reasonable condition, among his wandering pigs and ducks,
he made some sort of a voyage of it, though his wife, and his
maid-servant, Jane Dundas (almost as travelled between London
and the Antipodes as himself), and his largest pig vied with each
other in alarming him by falling down hatchways. And the
children followed suit in weather in which the ship “rolled and
tumbelled about” so that even the sailors could scarcely keep
their feet.
But festivities at Cape Town gave them a good start on
the last leg of their voyage, which was rougher than even the
first half with the mizzen mast split and the ship aleak and
water rushing in under the counter with a terrifying swish.
It continued rough—so rough that decks were partly stripped
and poor King’s green shoe-bath went overboard with the
rest, and the cabin and everything in it got wet through, and
the captain in the dark shouted to have so many things cut
away that it seemed by daylight there would be nothing more
of the ship left to cut.
The short story will resume next wee\
with Amy Witting s “The Yellow Dress.”
They had scarcely dried out before somebody nearly
succeeded in burning the ship through carelessness with a
candle. It was a mercy, with all these adventures, that King
arrived at all to display his gout and a new impatience and
irascibility to the colony. But after a five-months’ voyage they
were in Sydney Cove, the first Vice-regal family to share the
ramshackle Government House with the white-ants and the
mildew —that is, when Hunter deigned to vacate it.
They were not made very welcome, bearing as they did
the order for Hunter’s recall. From the beginning of April,
1800, King sat in the Lieutenant-Governor’s House on the
hill overlooking the harbor in the posture of an heir waiting
for his legatee to die and urging him on to dissolution with
an eagerness born of his own financial condition.
Ever and anon he spurred his predecessor to departure
with a few hints about secret instructions which he said he
had received orally at home and which seemed adapted most
conveniently to his own purposes at any given moment.
Hunter, however, was not in a position to leave in a hurry.
He took his time while the wallowing ship Buffalo, commanded
by his nephew, Captain Kent, was refitted to make her safe
to take to sea. For five months the Kings crowded in with
Major Paterson and his sonsy little wife, without room to
unpack a box, while King himself, red-eyed with gout and
impatience, wrote his mordant criticisms to London as he sat
impatient to “root up long-established iniquities,” and cleanse
the cellars of rum and cure the community of its “vice, dissipa-
tion and the strange relaxation that seemed to pervade every
class and order of the people.”
He made the same mistake as the other naval martinets


who ruled New South Wales in its pristine days. He believed
that he could achieve good government by rasping out orders
j n a quarter-deck voice ; by taking every plan and operation
into his own hands, by suppressing natural human initiative
a nd ambition and by crushing criticism and all tendency to
reS ist the actions of the Government. He forgot that though
New South Wales was basically a convict colony all could
not be treated like convicts, and that wealth won through enter-
prise was not necessarily synonymous with wickedness. He
failed to appreciate the difference between opposition to
measures and personal enmity. It awaited a Macquarie to
succeed, through a call to community co-operation, in getting
things done that naval tyranny failed to achieve.
Hunter, out of bitter experience, warned him that he
“had not been long enough in the colony to know what a little
more time will give you a perfect acquaintance with.” King,
outraged, only exclaimed that he had nine years’ apprentice-
ship and patronisingly lamented to the broken man he was
displacing, “the deceptions that have so often (been) practised
on you by servants and assistants” and the fact that “while you
are going home with the savings of your pay, there are those
who are possessed of thousands, gained by infamous and
oppressive traffic and practising those deceptions on you.”
This group of exploiters, he discerned not in general among
the serving officers of the New South Wales Corps, strangely
enough, but among their enemies who had clung closely to
Hunter. Captain George Johnston, Hunter’s aide-de-camp,
who had made himself “the wealthy man of this colony,” was
an exception, but he was being sent to England for trial for
illegally selling liquor to a sergeant. Williamson, Hunter’s
Scottish protege, the Acting-Commissary in the absence of
John Palmer who, by his own admission, was the biggest
dispenser of liquor in the colony, he attacked for “his peculiari-
;ies and dealings.” The Reverend Richard Johnson, whom
he numbered among “rich men and nabobs,” and all the
superintendents working under the Commissary were villains.
Strangely enough, John Macarthur was not included in
any of his categories. He attracted no specific attention until
King took over as Acting-Governor, at the beginning of a reign
of turmoil on September 28, 1800. Two days later Macarthur
announced his intention of retiring to England. He offered
to sell the Government the whole of his real property “with
my farms, for the sum of £4OOO, which is what the cattle and
sheep amount to at the very lowest prices that either species
has ever been sold at in this settlement.” The stock included
“six-hundred sheep, several of which are Spanish, the most of
the flock of that breed, at £2 10s. per head —400 of the sheep
are females.”
This offer King advised the Colonial Secretary to accept,
remarking that “the sheep would be a great acquisition for
Government, from the very great advantage that will hereafter
be derived from the Spanish wool, samples of which, from
the flock, are sent to the President of the Royal Society” (Sir
Joseph Banks).
It was these samples that aroused the astonished interest
of the wool manufacturers of England, their supplies cut off
by war, but all the offer roused in the peculiarly uninformed
mind of the Duke of Portland, who had been managing the
Colonial Office for years without knowing what had been
going on by its own permission, was astonishment that Mac-
arthur could be both an officer and a farmer on his current
scale. As much as four years earlier the Colonial Office itself
had instructed that he be given a grant of land and convicts
to work it and had actually had correspondence from him about
his proposal to take a further 100 convicts off the Govern-
ment's hands.
While he awaited the reply, seeing in the meantime
Macarthur’s well-managed flocks increased by his purchase of
2000 sheep owned by Colonel Foveaux, which had been
running with his own, King was beginning to wish that he was
in the Buffalo with Hunter, instead of showing how New South
Wales should be governed.
Everything a Governor could do wrong, vision without
accomplishment, exhortations to honesty and uprightness


conveyed against a background of bad Vice-regal example, all
marked King’s reign as Governor.
The largest and most difficult element of the population
to handle was undoubtedly the Irish, who included, apart from
actual criminals, “235 seditious people lately sent to this
country.”
Only three weeks before he took over the Government a
conspiracy was unearthed which, according to a committee of
officers set to inquire, was “fast ripening to a serious revolt,
and consequences the most dreadful” —in fact, a “horrible plan
of projected insurrection.”
Even the flogging of a young convict till he was a mass
of jelly and the bones of his shoulder-blades laid bare under
the authority of those kindly men, the Reverend Samuel
Marsden and Richard Atkins, erstwhile (and later) Judge
Advocate, failed to discover the whereabouts of the pikes that
the villains allegedly intended to use in their massacres and
piracy ; but enough was adduced to persuade the committee
that the authors of the plans “ought indiscriminately to be
extirpated or removed from this part of the country,” and
to prescribe preventive treatment of from 500 down to 100
lashes for some of their aiders and abettors.
A las. King was forced to come into control of a colony
virtually on an active-service basis with volunteers enrolled,
mobilisation procedures and assembly points to defend the
colony agreed on.
All the Irish muttered threats and kept the colony on
tenterhooks of fear, right through King’s first year of acting
office and then did everything possible to lull him into a sense
of security while they cooked up rebellion in the outlands.
Meanwhile, sitting on his precarious seat as Acting-
Governor, for 27 months during which he was addressed from
Home as Lieutenant-Governor, he did almost everything
possible to assure that his reign would end in disaster.
His intentions in administration were excellent, save when
it came to an issue between Government and private interests
or the interests of a naval officer versus those of a military
officer. He used the same method in administration, in theory,
as in Norfolk Island. He had bursts of energy which drove
him to promote exploration—even to adopting a ruse to send
a military officer exploring by appointing him as ambassador
to a non-existent King of the Mountains. The nearest approach
to a king discovered by Ensign Barallier, his diplomat, before
the Kanimbla Walls brought him up standing, was a koala.
He sent Paterson to explore the Hunter River and its
tributaries. He used the machinery sent out by the Govern-
ment to explore the coal seams and open up the trade with
Newcastle. He showed a certain energy at times in agriculture
and wrote long and valuable reports of inestimable value to
historians. He sought to develop the Government sheep and
cattle herds, but in an amateurish way, and his efforts were
marked by failure in strong and —to him —irritating contrast
with the successes and development achieved by private sheep-
owners. He was the first Governor to provide homes for the
colony’s horde of unwanted and nameless children. But for
all his efforts he incurred the censures of visiting naval officers
who found both Government and settlement shabby—in fact,
comparable to a “third-rate Portuguese settlement,” which was
about the worst that a British Royal Naval captain could say.
He involved himself on the wrong side in a quarrel over
the trial of a naval officer who had been found in possession
of the effects of a member of the New South Wales Corps
who had died en voyage. This large marine specimen resented
John Macarthur’s “moderate and forbearing” inquiry, as
official executor for the dead man, as to how he came to have
these things. He assailed Macarthur with insults, threats and
used actual violence against Captain Edward Abbott, for which
he was fined £SO and ordered to jail.
King tried to force the reconvening of the court to “defend
its own integrity,” expressing a view which even his own
friends opposed—as did the Colonial Office firmly and with
censure when it heard it. So he found himself at war with
Macarthur, with Paterson, his senior official, but not with
Atkins, who twisted and turned and finally took what he
thought would be the stronger side—the Governor’s.
Then King discovered Paterson’s disloyalty in the fact that
the latter had written a letter Home making strictures on King’s
methods and expressing his astonishment at the Governor’s
appointment of Atkins as Judge Advocate, in view of the fact
that Atkins’s “character for low debauchery and every degrad-
ing vice as well as a total want of every gentlemanly principle”
was universally known throughout the settlement.
Caught red-handed, Paterson blamed his junior officer,
Macarthur, for having somehow mesmerised him into
writing the letter, and King gratefully accepted his humble
apologies and he joined the Government House band.
Macarthur, his irritation fanned by the refusal of the
Government, the only possible purchaser, to buy his sheep—
which were increasing all the time —so that he might wipe the
dust of New South Wales off his feet —now became thoroughly
incensed. He boycotted Government House. He showed
King some of Paterson’s private letters in order to expose his
miserable perfidy, and used a letter of Mrs Paterson's publicly.
Paterson, his commanding officer, challenged him to a
duel. King expressed his astonishment when he heard this
duel had taken place after days of preparation. But it is
difficult to believe that he did not know of it. Paterson's
second, McKellar, was King's own aide-de-camp.
Macarthur could not have refused the challenge. He had
previously refused to fight duels forced on him and had been
branded as a dastard and a coward.
He had early fought with the captain of a transport in
England. Now, he had no option. It was probably expected
that he would refuse to fight his commanding officer. And
then, in accordance with the punctilio of the time, he would
certainly have been courtmartialled for conduct unbecoming
to an officer and a gentleman in failing to fight, been drummed
out of the regiment and deprived of his commission, as a
coward unfitted to grace the mess.
So he had to fight; and fighting, he committed the awful
faux pas which no other participant had ever committed in
New South Wales of believing duels were organised so that
one might murder one’s opponent. Taking good aim at his
superior, he winged him in the shoulder and then went home
to demand a court-martial on his conduct.
nPHis was awkward for King. He showed little indignation
against the real culprits, Paterson and his own aide-de-
camp, McKellar. All his wrath was reserved for the person
challenged and his second, Captain Piper. Macarthur he placed
under arrest along with Piper. Neither of the persons con-
cerned in provoking the duel felt his wrath. He tried to
shanghai Macarthur to Norfolk Island ; but that wrathful
officer demanded court-martial and refused to come out of
arrest. And, as the result of a court-martial on the spot was
a foregone conclusion, King sent him to England for trial,
accompanied by a rigmarole of abuse and charges (mostly
couched in the diction of Atkins) of which the Home authori-
ties could not make head or tail when they arrived. The only
possible matter in them which could have produced a trial
was the charge of fighting a duel, which he could not have
avoided, and in which one of the challengers was being sent
home a free man, with a strong Vice-regal recommendation,
as the only witness against the supposed culprit.
Anyway, the witness did not arrive, and nobody ever
heard of him again after he sailed from New South Wales.
Macarthur, subjected to Government reprisals only for
having insisted on trial which could not be held and for which
there, was no obvious basis, resigned his commission, captivated
the wool industry and the Privy Council with his visions and
came sailing home to New South Wales in the good ship Argo,
with a consignment of King George’s Merinos. And when
he arrived in New South Wales, King, who had been calling
him every name he could think of to the Home authorities,
fawned on him, invited him to live at Government House and
became his humble servant.
Much water had run under the Bridge Street bridge after
Macarthur, the supposed father of all the colony’s turpitude
and dissension, had sailed away. King was soon engaged in
conflict with all the rest of the officers, including Paterson,
whom he had previously held up as models of loyalty, while
tradesmen charged him that they were threatened with dire
trouble if they insisted on payment of Government House


NOW is the right time to secure
Your Government-Guaranteed
51% in
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS!
Now you have the opportunity to invest confidently at
HIGHER interest. THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEES PAYMENT OF
INTEREST EVERY 6 MONTHS AND FULL REPAY-
MENT OF PRINCIPAL AT MATURITY.
Your Loan investment will assist the Sydney Water Board
to carry out its 1961/62 programme of water and sewerage
works, at an estimated cost of £16,500,000. These include
reservoirs, pumping stations, water mains and sewers.
Your Loan investment will achieve more than assisting the
Board to increase its own work force; it will directly stimulate
the industries associated with the Board’s activities.
CASH AND CONVERSION. Investors have a choice of
three terms —7, 10 or 20 years. Holders of securities in Loan
No. 77 (£3/8/9 per cent., maturing Ist August, 1961) are
invited to convert to the new Loan and gain £5/15/- per cent,
without any interruption.
APPLY NOW at any office of the —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Australia Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker; Or at the Sydney Water
Board offices.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
CLOSES NEXT SATURDAY!
Underwritten by
Ernest L. Davis & Co. Ralph W. King & Yuill
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
bills. Pipes —rolled sheets of abusive verse —appeared in public
nlaces to be picked up which pictured him as “dejected, here
forlorn, by all despised,” and enumerated his supposed
peculations and improprieties and those of his supporters.
H.M.S. Glatton arrived and he had a violent quarrel with
the captain. He quarrelled with the leading emancipists. He
quarrelled with the one free merchant of standing, Robert
Campbell, over the rum issue. And every dispatch homeward
made a worse impression on the Home Office, the culmination
coming even before the Irish at Castle Hill blazed into open
rebellion and very nearly succeeded in burning large bits of
Parramatta, a few days after he had written to assure the
Colonial Office that all was quiet on the Hibernian front. The
savage reprisals on the rebels did not add to his popularity
or the general gaiety.
However, as long as five months before the Irish rebellion,
the Colonial Secretary had come to a decision. In May, 1803,
Ring had written a dispatch accompanied by voluminous
enclosures in which he pictured his own glowing success as an
administrator and the vile turpitude of all the people who, in
his next previous dispatch, he had earlier painted as his
admiring supporters.
He wrote of the “assassinating and dark attacks” to which
he was subject and “humbly implored” his Minister to let him
come home and justify himself. This request was made only
seven months after he had been raised to the full rank of
Governor-in-Chief and Captain-General and failure and muddle
was obvious from every line of it. So Lord Hobart gave
instructions that he return permanently, “as soon as the import-
ant trust with which you are charged can be placed in the
hands of some person, competent to exercise (your) duties . . .
free from the operation of the spirit of party which has reached
such an alarming height.”
Tt was ironic that the only person w ith whom he now appeared
-*• to be on good terms —on the surface, anyway—was John
Macarthur.
Even after the rebellion and Macarthur’s return as the
pastoral monarch of New South Wales, with King’s view of
him utterly repudiated by the Home Government, and even
before the Privy Council by the recreant Governor Hunter,
the sordid tragedy had to move through other acts before the
curtain fell.
King was faced in the last months of his rule by the
consequences of a disastrous flood in the Hawkesbury River
which left the colony nearly starving.
Ruined, reduced to a tearful wreck of a man whose wife
was carrying on his affairs, he justified all that had been said
about his illegalities by furtively granting 2300 acres of land
to his wife and children against the Home Government’s policy.
Later he entered into a dishonest bargain to allow Bligh, when
he arrived, to stay out of office for six days.
During that period King made Bligh large illegal grants
of land and further ones to Bligh's daughter, which they did
not report to the Home Government and hid as best they could
for the moment. Bligh then took office and made Mrs King
2 grant of land which was promptly named “Thanks.”
And then, when there was enough food to keep them alive
on the homeward voyage, King sailed for England on February
10, 1807, obviously so enfeebled that it was doubtful if he
would reach Europe.
Eleven months later the colony rebelled against Bligh, but
King was dead before the news reached Home.
His fears about the future of his family were ungrounded.
They and Bligh’s descendants were the only heirs who could
look back gratefully to the improprieties of a Vice-regal
ancestor in New South Wales who had made them rich land-
holders.
Bligh and King were the only incumbents of the Governor-
ship of New South Wales in history who improperly benefited
hy misuse of their official powers.
In extenuation of King his state of health and judgment
m ust be remembered. Tt is a nice problem for historians what
would have happened if the chronic disease of “gout,” achieved
° n his long voyages, had not driven him to the bottle and
despair; or again if the disease had driven John Macarthur
ln the same direction instead of into teetotalism and dyspepsia.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE BUDGET
Few Concessions Expected
Every year the last week of
July is characterised by
intense speculation on the
Federal Budget the major
indicator of Canberra’s in-
tended economic policy for
the next 12 months. Only
intended economic policy, as
the last Budget has shown.
For, although Mr Holt’s 1960
Budget speech heralded the
introduction of a number of
tightening policies, it gave little
notice of the drastic credit
squeeze which was introduced
just three months later.
The Federal Budget is at
least as much a political as
an economic blueprint and
the current political situation
is a factor of the utmost im-
portance, particularly in an
election year.
The recent decisive victory
of the Bolte Government in
the Victorian elections is an
important morale booster for
Mr Menzies and his Ministers.
Despite rising unemployment
and difficulties in a number of
industries, the Federal Gov-
ernment seems to be more
certain of winning the elec-
tions than, say, a month ago.
'"TThis means that the new
Budget may be a lot
tougher than originally ex-
pected. Apart from some
possible minor concessions,
the Government's fillip to
the economy will prob-
ably be limited to higher
expenditure on capital works,
payments to wheat growers
under the price stabilisation
arrangements and the uninten-
tional rise in Commonwealth
salaries and Wages bill caused
by the recent 12s. Federal
basic wage hike. There is a
strong possibility that the
extent of the basic wage rise
may wipe out any anticipated
increases in pensions, which
Mr Holt seemed prepared to
grant at an earlier stage.
The Treasurer's emphasis on
price stability and control of
inflation makes rebates in per-
sonal and company tax look
unlikely, but there may be
some added incentives for in-
vestors in Commonwealth
bonds.
It would be a great pity if
the opportunity for a dynamic
and imaginative Budget policy
is missed —this is a splendid
occasion to introduce some
more positive factors, such as
tax incentives for export and
basic industries. The Federal
Government would do well to
rely on the Budget as the basic
instrument of its economic
policy and to avoid excessive
regulation by direct fiscal
measures, the effect of which
it is sometimes difficult to
foresee.
There is no doubt that the
boom has subsided completely
and inflationary pressures are
at their lowest ebb for several
years. Now is the time to
stimulate the economy through
budgetary means, which are
much less inflation-prone than
direct fillips provided by wage
increases, indiscriminate pump
priming, etc.
Mr Holt has a difficult task
ahead of him his Budget
must be carefully mapped out
so as to liven up the economy
without bringing back the in-
flationary spiral.
It is therefore unlikely—and,
frankly, undesirable —that any
particular encouragement will
be offered to consumer goods
producers or hire-purchase
firms. The main source of
worry today is unemployment,
and the apparent inability of
the capital goods sector to
absorb labor resources released
by the consumer goods indus-
tries. If basic industrial output
can be stimulated sufficiently
to wipe out the pockets of
unemployment, an economist
can hold no valid objections
to things being a bit quiet for
the manufacturers of motor
vehicles, TV-receivers, electri-
cal household appliances, etc.
Two years ago these industries
enjoyed an excessive and arti-
ficially expanded demand for
their products and got away
with high prices.
Prices are just beginning to
edge down—another six defla-
tionary months would prob-
ably see them sliding down
to a realistic level. The same
applies to land values, where
excessive marginal profits are
disappearing and speculators
are at last beginning to lose
money.
To ensure that vital sectors
of the national economy are
placed in a favorable position
in competing for labor and
capital should be the principal
aim of the 1961-62 Budget.
The noticeable improvement
in Australia’s overseas funds
makes this a bit easier to
achieve.
TOBACCO
Brand War intensifies
The smoke of the fierce
tobacco war is thickening.
Australia’s two largest compet-
ing cigarette manufacturers,
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.)
Ltd and British Tobacco Co.
(Aust.) Ltd, have both released
new products on the market.
Both new items claim “an
international flavor.” Roth-
mans’s associate company,
American Cigarette Co. (Over-
seas) Ltd, is marketing a new
cigarette—the Carlyle Extras,
with “a slight Turkish flavor’
—in New South Wales. The
retail price is 3s. 4d. for a
packet of 20, compared with
3s - the standard Roth-
mans ters ‘ .
Fighting a defensive action,
British Tobacco is trying to
counter by introducing a new
Dutch-style Van Tromp pipe
tobacco throughout Australia.
More millions will go up in
smoke.
STOCK EXCHANGE
£500m.-£750m. Invested
CTeaking at the first Hoover
Award for Marketing pre-
sentation dinner in Sydney,
Mr A. H. Urquhart, Sydney
Stock Exchange’s dynamic
chairman, estimated the total
value of investments handled
by Australian Stock Exchanges
between £5OO million and £750
million a year. Some of this
turnover was accounted for by
an estimated £5O million capi-
tal inflow from overseas, he
added.
However, overseas investors
did not commit their funds
without an exacting analysis of
the securities concerned. “It
was impossible to market over-
seas successfully without know-
ing exactly the requirements of
the overseas market.”
MOTELS
Expansion Continues
/~\ver £4 million was in-
vested in the Australian
motel industry during the past
two years. Despite the effects
of the credit squeeze and
dampened profit rates of some
operators, investment continues
at an appreciable level. The
potential remains high by
American standards. In the
United States there is one
motel for approximately 3000
persons, compared with one to
about 50,000 persons in Aus-
tralia.
While there are many
smaller private motel operators
in Australia, the larger chains
—such as Carapark Holdings,
Motels of Australia and sub-
sidiaries of L. J. Hooker and
Latec —account for the greater
part of the industry.
Mrs Pauline Krosky, secre-
tary of the Motel Federation of
Australia, told The Bulletin
that the total estimated nun]'
ber of motels in Australia > s
430. Of these some 188 are
members of the Federation. 1°


Do you know how
“FAMILY
TRUST”
would benefit
your dependents?
15
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think —leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
THE * a
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O'Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton. Townsville and Charleville.
UT3Sa.&2JS
addition, there are at least
eight applications for member-
s hip and over 30 motels under
construction.
The Federation’s 188 motels
have about 4000 suites, with an
average occupancy rate of 70
p.c. The heaviest concentra-
tion of motels is in New South
Wales (106), followed by Vic-
toria (33) and Queensland (31).
The total value of existing
member motels is about £lO
million.
EXPORTS
Asian Mission Ends
Australia’s ambitious trade-
promotion effort in South-
east and South-west Asia
ended successfully. The Aus-
tralian trade mission's floating
fair aboard the “Straat Banka”
has just completed its visits to
such exotic sounding places as
Singapore, Colombo, Penang,
Bombay and Karachi. Tangible
results include £3 million
worth of export orders and a
number of Asian agencies for
Australian goods. In addition,
possibilities have emerged for
joint ventures with important
Asian firms.
The "Straat Banka” trade
mission was a joint venture of
the Department of Trade and
private enterprise, and enjoyed
energetic support by Austra-
lian diplomatic and trade rep-
resentatives in the ports it
visited.
One of the highlights of the
tour was the traditional lamp-
lighting ceremony in Colombo
at which the Prime Minister of
Ceylon, Mrs Bandaranaike.
personally welcomed the
mission.
In Singapore over 6000
businessmen visited the ship.
Buyers came from as far away
as Thailand. Borneo and Indo-
nesia.
The Department of Trade
says that despite restrictive
import licensing the “mission
members felt there were good
opportunities for Australia to
sell capital equipment, includ-
ing machinery and heavy duty
electrical switchgear, food and
architectural and engineering
services.”
Within two hours of the
floating fair’s arrival at
Colombo, three members of
the mission had arranged for
agencies for Australian pro-
ducts previously unknown on
Ceylon's market, including
anti-corrosive paints and elec-
trical switchgear. The mission’s
leader, Mr A. P. Whitington
said that the mission ’ex-
ploited every avenue of in-
creasing two-way trade be-
tween Celon and Australia."
In Bombay more than 8000
dealers crowded the “Straat
Banka” during her four-day
stay. The Indian Federal
Minister for Commerce, Mr
Kanugo, warmly welcomed
the mission and said that he
hoped that India’s trade with
Australia would “rise to great
levels” as soon as the foreign
exchange problem was over-
come.
Singapore and Malayan
businessmen wrote many
orders for rice. waxes, beer,
stock food, canned foods in-
cluding meat and vegetables,
concentrated fruit juices, com-
munication equipment, indus-
trial chemicals, packaging
machinery and pharmaceuti-
cals.
In Karachi keen interest was
shown in architectural and
engineering exhibits.
SYDNEY TRADE FAIR
Fireworks and Machines
f\NCE again workmen are
busy at the Royal Agri-
cultural Society's Sydney
Showground. Faced with con-
tinuous deficits in their trade
with Australia, Japan and
other wool-buying countries
are trying their best to even
out. A bitter enemy during the
years of the Pacific War, Japan
is now an ally and a vitally
in-w-ws *. c w j * * j
mportant trade partner. And
e cements friendship.
Today, Japan is not only
Australia's best customer for
wool and coal but also the best
overall market for our goods
outside the United Kingdom,
Our exports to Japan during
eleven months to May 31,
1961, totalled £143,166,000
compared with £122,523,000 in
the same period in 1959-60.
During the eleven months Aus-
t ralla lm P £ «W25,000 of
Japanese goods. This means
we se , |ing Japan
almost twice as much as we
are buying.
Cheaper Japanese consumer
goods are a great headache
to some Australian manufac-
turers. But the huge trade
deficit with Australia is also
a major worry for the Japanese
foreign trade authorities.
The days when Japan had
relied on dumping cheap, low'
quality consumer goods on
foreign markets are gone.
Japan is now a major exporter
of capital goods.
This is reflected in Japan’s
pavilion at the Sydney Trade
Fair—the emphasis will be on
machinery. Big capacity trans-
formers about to be landed for
the New South Wales Elec-
tricity Commission, and roll-
ing stock now running on the
Central Australian railways,
are indicators of the new trend,
Miss Helen Gurd, a spokes-
man for the Japan Trade
Council, told The Bulletin


apt
ft'!
x/
*
H
A good way to
I }&* ***
£ S D
k
yyy^y^w
INCOME
I T R
TAX
REFUND
G
B
c
SAVINGS BANK
12
<33* v
Your money will grow in the
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
wholly owned subsidiary of
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF BYDNEY LIMITED
that the Japanese pavilion will
occupy 10,000 sq. ft almost
the entire floor space of the
Agricultural Hall. The 10.000
exhibits are valued at £230,000.
The Japanese External
Trade Organisation (JETRO)
will have four special exhibits
which are aimed at extending
the motif of the hall’s archi-
tectual design the fusion of
traditional and modern forms
—by showing the easy pro-
gression from folkcrait to
modern industrial designs,
A display of Japanese silk
fibres, with a life-size model of
a bride in the traditional dress
at the left of the entrance will
be matched by ceramics and
earthenware of various his-
torical periods on the right,
Further inside will be a dis-
play of large photographs rep-
resenting the heavy and
chemical industries, including
shipbuilding and rolling stock.
Contrasting with the machine
age will be a display of ancient
and modern paper designs
with paper lanterns and a
golden folding screen designed
by the famous artist, Isamu
Noguchi.
The two other special
JETRO exhibits will be a
micro-wave electronic trans-
ceiver and a color TV set.
General exhibits will include
two passenger cars, a land
cruiser, a 36-ton bulldozer-
all forced outside the hall by
space considerations. Mikimoto
cultured pearls, smaller class
cruising boats, a prize-winning
electron microscope, telecom-
munications equipment, indus-
trial TV sets, die sinking and
jig boring machines will also
be displayed. In addition there
will be tableware, silks, house-
hold appliances, Japanese
spirits and green tea.
Saturday, August 5, will be
“Japan Day,” and this will be
marked by a display of fire-
works costing about £25 a
minute in the main ring. Mr
Rikio Ogatsu, a director of a
family concern which was in
the fireworks business for over
300 years, is specially coming
to Australia to organise the
fireworks display.
CANADA
“Concern”
After running into Can-
berra's strong stand on the
European Common Market Mr
Duncan Sandys, U.K. Secretary
of State for Commonwealth
Relations, has encountered an
even tougher attitude in
Canada.
Canada’s views are similar to
those expressed by the Aus-
tralian Government, but the
official communique's wording
is stiffen While recognising
that the question whether to
join the Common Market is for
the British Government alone
to decide, “the Canadian Minis-
ters indicated that their Gov-
ernment's assessment of the
situation was different from
that put forward by Mr Sandys.
“They expressed the grave
concern of the Canadian Gov-
ernment about the implication
of possible negotiations be-
tween Britain and the European
Economic Community, and
about the political and econo-
mic effects which British mem-
bership in the European Eco-
nomic Community would have
on Canada and on the Com-
monwealth as a whole.”
This was followed by the
usual sugar - coated formula
stating that “Mr Sandys said
that before the British Govern-
ment reached any decision, they
would carefully consider the
views of the Canadian Govern-
ment together with those of
other Commonwealth Govern-
ments.”
It was generally expected


/
Invest with confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset backing
. . . ideal for either
long or short term investment.
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
... in multiples oj £lOO, payable injull
upon application . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. ... assets exceed £3,400,000
• . . registers Sydney and Brisbane
per-annum
6-10 years
9%
per annum
4-5 years
Iff per annum
2/8 2-3 years
86/ per annum
/» 12 mths. fixed
r l(tf per annum
2/8 9 mths. notice
7%
per annum
6 mths. notice
.per annum
3 mths. notice
interest payable
quarterly
free oj exchange
RETAILERS
ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.)
LTD.
280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE MA2373
509 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. PHONE 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL . . , M O'Connell St., Sydney, A
340 Queen St., Brisbane.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO,
LANCE JONES & CO. . . . ,
20 O’Connell St., Sydney, &
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
108 Creek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria Street, Mackay,
Banker for the issue: BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY, LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
A copy of the Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Brisbane. Applications accepted only on the application
form attached to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from
e any member of a recognised Stock Exchange e Retailers
Acceptance (©ld,) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane e all branches
Bank of New South Wales In N.S.W., ©'ld., and New Guinea
e the offices of the underwriting brokers.
that Canada would follow Aus-
tralia’s tough line—the two
countries have many similar
economic problems. The
Canadian Prime Minister, Mr
Diefenbaker, did not take part
in the discussions between the
Canadian Ministers for Fin-
ance, Trade and Commerce
and'External Affairs because
of his preoccupation with the
crisis over Mr Coyne, Gover-
nor of the Bank of Canada,
who has finally resigned after
the Government’s Bill for his
dismissal from office was passed
by the House of Commons but
rejected by the Senate. How-
ever, the Prime Minister met
Mr Sandys later and fully
backed his ministers.
Thus far, the reaction by
Commonwealth countries to
Britain’s proposed link with
the European Common Market
has been largely negative, both
on economic and political
grounds. Australian and Can-
adian attitudes were the most
bluntly worded. The British
Government and press seem
concerned ; but it is too early
to say if this could alter the
U.K.’s basic attitude to the
solution of Britain’s economic
problems.
In the meantime, the Federa-
ion of British Industries has
given provisional support for
Britain joining the Common
Market in an explanatory book-
let on the subject. The F.8.1.'s
statement is vague and guarded,
and supports Britain's entry
‘on condition that Britain can
join without going back on its
obligations to the Common-
wealth and the European Free
Trade Association’s members.”
How this can be achieved is not
suggested.
The London “Times” de-
scribes the Federation’s pro-
posals as “lukewarm,” and
points out that “it does not
spell out precisely what safe-
guards and concessions the
Federation regards as the bare
minimum that must be ob-
tained.”
Meanwhile, in Sydney, Mr
T. M. Scott, President of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers’ Council, echoed Mr
Menzies’s earlier fears on the
Political future of the Common-
wealth if Britain becomes too
involved in European issues
a nd added a remedy of his own.
- 'Australia must inevitably
turn towards the poorer coun-
tnes for markets for her pro-
uuce. The problem is one of
transforming a huge potential
demand into actual trade. To-
War ds this end, a massive in-
crease in aid through the
Colombo Plan would be one of
the best investments we could
make. The United Kingdom,
by the act of entering the Euro-
pean Economic Community,
would turn Australia towards
a closer association with Asia,”
Mr Scott asserted heatedly as
he released a paper prepared
by the Council’s economist, Mr
G. Chislett. The paper, which
examines the effects on various
export commodities of Britain’s
possible participation in the
Common Market, is generally
optimistic as regards the future
of wool —apart from the danger
that artificial fibre production
may be stimulated by European
countries. Quota imports are
expected for beef, and it is
hoped that some protection for
mutton and lamb can be nego-
tiated.
However, canned meat could
lose the protection of the
present 15 p.c. preferential duty
and face a tariff of up to 20 p.c.
Leather, classed as a manufac-
tured product, would also face
a tariff. Mr Chislett expects
that the wheat trade would be
regulated by a system of import
quotas and variable levies,
which would be used to raise
the costs of free market wheat
to the European Economic
Community support price.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Southern Motors Holdings Ltd
November’s chilly winds from Can-
berra have dealt a heavy blow to
Australia’s motor vehicles distributors.
The short-lived but crippling sales tax
increase made things particularly tough
during the four months from November,
1960, to February, 1961.
The mightiest car manufacturers,
including General Motors-Holden and
Ford, put off staff. Sales dwindled and
remained at a seriously reduced level,
even after the additional sales tax was
lifted. Credit difficulties have drastically
dampened the normally high demand.
The latest car registration figures show a
new fall, after a bit of a rally in the pre-
ceding two months.
Mr Holt’s “boom-breaking” was par-
ticularly directed at the motor vehicles
manufacturers and distributors, and was
singularly effective in curbing their turn-
over. Little wonder that, in the general
chorus of moaning and disapproval
which greeted the Federal Government’s
deflationary policy, the voices of car
manufacturers and dealers and hire
purchase companies were the shrillest of
all.
At present, despite the recently
announced re-employment of 100 men at
Ford’s Homebush (N.S.W.) factory,
unemployment in the motor vehicles
industry is estimated at about one-third
of the total labor force.
There is little doubt that a certain
proportion of people formerly employed
in this industry will have to look for
jobs elsewhere, even when the level of
economic activity picks up.
Southern Motors Holdings is no
exception to the general rule. Earning
rate on the smallish average ordinary
capital employed dwindled from the
rather fantastic 59.8 p.c. to the still
eminently satisfactory 46.8 p.c.
Formed in 1955 to acquire the entire
capital of Southern Motors Pty, Southern
Motors Holdings Ltd is a Victorian
prince in the great Holden distributing
empire. The company is one of four
metropolitan Melbourne distributors and
also the sole metropolitan distributor of
Pontiac. In addition it handles the Nasco
replacement parts and accessories of
G.M.-H. Headquarters, with attractive
showrooms, are in Lonsdale Street and
Flemington Road in North Melbourne.
There are also several used cars centres
in the Victorian capital.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended April 30, 1961, was £29,758 lower
at £107,681:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Be- Re-
April, Profit. r Dividends N serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary expenses w/off, £4996.. 63,141
Goodwill written-off, £3074 .. .. 60,067
1956. . 105,444 17$ p.c. = 40,250 65,194 125,261
Tax overprovided, £ll7 .. .• 125,378
1957. .108,079 p.c. = 40,250 67,829 193,207
Assets revalued, £27,304 .. .. 220,511
Profit sale plant, £l6 .. .. .. 220,527
Tax overprovided, £4784 .. .. 225,311
1958. 17* p.c. = 40,250 78,928 304,239
Tax overprovided, £l5B .. .. 304,397
To staff fund, £5OOO 299,397
1959. 17* p.c. = 40,250 60,000 359,397
Tax underprovided, £B5 .. •• 359,312
1960. .137,439 17* p.c. = 40,250 97,189 456,501
Tax underprovided, £5617 .. •• 450,884
To staff fund, £l5OO .. .. 449,384
From prov. retiring allowances, £18,329 467,713
1961. .107,681 174 p.c. = 40,250 67,431 535,144
This was after setting aside £4234 for
depreciation (down £118) and providing
£72,078 for taxation (down £11,618), and
represented an earning rate of 46.8 p.c.
on the unchanged paid capital, com-
pared with 59.8 p.c. in the previous term,
43.6 p.c. in 1959 and 51.7 p.c. in 1958.
The unchanged handsome 17| p.c.
dividend rate absorbed £40,250. Reserves
benefited by £67,431, but were reduced by
£5617 tax under-provided in the previous
term and £l5OO transferred to staff fund.
Total consolidated reserves and undistri-
buted profits were disclosed at £535,144,
free of intangibles.
Working capital declined by £5359,
but looked adequate at £347,731. Stocks,
book debts, hire purchase contracts
(under the company’s own finance
scheme) less income yet to mature were
all higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £230,000 £ 230,000 £230,000
Reserves .. .. 359,397 456,501 535,144
Creditors .. .. 126,261 190,149 132,237
Tax provision .. 63,094 83,696 72,078
Final div. . . 23,000 23,000 23,000
£801,752 £983,346 £992,459
Freeholds .. 288,818 305,183 390,388
Leaseholds .. 667 2,715 1,832
Plant .. .. 27,733 25,513 25,193
Investments .. 25,000 175,000
H.-p. contracts .. 19,958
Stock .. .. 242,033 172,054 184,830
Debtors .. .. 125,808 205,311 244,246
Cash, etc .. 91,693 97,570 126,012
£801,752 £983,346 £992,459
However, £175,000 short-term invest-
ments on the books in 1960 disappeared.
Freeholds were much higher. Other-
wise there were few changes. Net
tangible asset backing works out at
16s. Bd. for a ss. ord. on the basis of
consolidated accounts.
Prospects depend to a great extent on
the economic climate, and it is anybody’s
guess at the moment what next week’s
Budget will bring. It would be unrealistic,
however, to expect major concessions
now that the Government looks fairly
certain to be returned to power in Decem-
ber. The firm’s structure is solid enough.
At the last sale the ss. ords. were
traded for 20s. ex div. This makes the
immediate yield 4.4 p.c. p.a. on the basis
of the present 17| p.c. dividend distribu-
tion. The stock is definitely interesting
in its class.
Edwards Dunlop and Co. Ltd
T>relude to a new era, the “papyrus”
■*- breakthrough, the Australian paper
industry, from mill end to conversion, is
bordering on a state of flux. Takeover
activity flares up, here and there, all along
the broad front of the paper, packaging
and printing horizon. Overseas giants—
potential aggressors; the Reed paper
group and Bowaters —are pitched camp
on the fringe of battle. Individual cos.,
the local boys, tool-up as best they can to
meet the threat of growing competition.
The stage is set for fundamental change.
All things point to a rapid realignment of
interests throughout the paper industry.
In these circumstances Edwards
Dunlop and Co. Ltd has at last presented
consolidated accounts, a metamorphosis
ranging the 12 months to April 30, 1961.
Merchant and importer, Edwards Dunlop
is a leading distributor of paper, printing
machines and printers’ requisites. The
co. manufactures and distributes station-
ery and as well holds sole distribution
rights for printing and binding machines
put out by Miehle-Goss-Llexter Inc.,
U.S.A. Several new products were added
to the co.’s distribution range during
1958-59, including mechanical and
pneumatic conveyors and machinery for
the manufacture of paste goods, die
castings, paint and ink as produced by
Buhler Bros, of Switzerland, and a com-
prehensive range of paper guillotines
made by Pivano of Italy.
Headquarters of the 92-year-old
organisation are in Sydney and there are
branches in the other mainland capitals
and at Newcastle (N.S.W.), the co. own-
ing freehold properties in all of these
centres. A U.K. offshoot acts as the
parent co.’s agent in that quarter of the
globe, while a second subsidiary, Galwey
and Co. Pty, is in business as a manu-
facturing stationer.
Expansion has been prolific in recent
years. In 1959-60, Edwards Dunlop
purchased a majority interest in W. H.
Wassal and Son Pty (an old-established
paper merchant operating mainly in
Sydney ; consideration involving issue of
15,777 20s. ords.), took over Parsons and
Hayes Pty (Sydney printers’ engineers;
15,000 20s. ords.) and acquired the whole
of the issued capital of Super Transport
(N.S.W.) Pty (a bulk-storage and
deliveries-transport firm; 37,000 20s.
ords).
In 1960-61, during last term, the co.
bought out the N.S.W. wrapping-paper
distributing section of P. J. Firth Ltd
(for an undisclosed cash consideration),
effected agreement to obtain a minority
holding in Paper Products (Holdings)
Pty, “subject to the present shareholders
of that co. accepting an offer now being
made to them by Reed (Australia) Pty, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Albert E-
Reed and Co. Ltd,” and finally moved
in on the W. Nevill and Co. Ltd organisa-
tion (manufacturing stationers) taking
this co. over lock, stock and barrel for
a share consideration involving issue of
403,600 20s. ords., two 20s. ords. for each


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. R. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Rite Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Rines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
20s. ord. of W. Nevill. Paid capital, all
in 20s. ords., has risen from £1,154,223,
April 30, 1959, to £1,870,000, April 30,
1961.
Albert E. Reed and Co. Ltd is one of
the largest paper and paper-packaging
products manufacturers in the U.K.
Edwards Dunlop has represented this co.
in Australia since 1949. The association
is now strengthened through the minority
interest in Reed Paper Products (Hold-
ings) Pty, the erstwhile Paper Products
(Holdings) Pty, along with major share-
holders Albert E. Reed and the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
Edwards Dunlop effected a one-for-
jive issue, at a premium of 12s. 6d.,
November 29, 1960, 244,400 20s. ords.
going out, applications due and payable
January 31, 1961, to facilitate purchase
of the minority interest in Reed Paper
Products (Holdings) Pty, and to provide
additional working capital necessary to
the co.'s expanded field of operations.
Latest accounts have something of a
new look about them for apart from
consolidated figures the tax provision
accords more or less with disclosed net
profit; but the old conservatism still per-
sists and the sharemarket is inclined to
value the Edwards Dunlop scrip rather
from the viewpoint of the co.’s solid
reserves, both visible and assumed, its
prominent position in the paper trade and
its long record as a reliable div. payer
than on the basis of revealed net profit.
On all these counts the f.-p. 20s. ords.
show up as a sound holding.
Edwards Dunlop has never missed a
div., the point being that declared earn-
ings have rarely stretched beyond div.
requirements. The co. has obviously
prospered and investors might be excused
for wondering whether the div. rate
moves in sympathy with earnings or
vice versa. Tax provision, popping up
for the first time in 1959-60, was indica-
tive of a net profit well in excess of that
shown ; £167,600 as against £135,436.
Looking now to last term’s effort.
Sales were substantially higher in all
branches and in all but one subsidiary.
The size and number of forward orders
fell noticeably in the closing months of
the trading year, in the more difficult
economic conditions then existing, but
the overall rate of sales increase was sus-
tained up to April 30 despite this, and
despite a sharp decline in these months
in sales of capital equipment, printing and
°ther machinery.
Changes in Australian manufacturers’
selling policies and price structures,
caused primarily by increasing imports,
Produced somewhat lower gross profit
Margins and these, together with
mcreased costs, prevented the full sales
mcrease being reflected in the final profit.
The major increase in costs, other than
labor costs, was the interest paid on bor-
rowed money, both in rate and amount.
Cross profit is not disclosed, but group
Ret profit, as compared with the parent
Jesuit in the previous term, was £34,968
higher at £170,404 after “all charges and
expenses,” including £56,883 provided for
depreciation (up £25,112) and £117,668
for taxation (up £17,108):
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
From inner reserves, etc, £28,977 .. 1,046,149
Share premiums, £60,115 .. .. 1,106,264
1954.. 114,173 15 p.c. = 90,174 23,999 1,130,263
1955.. 120,162 15 „ „ 108,208 11,954 1,142,217
Assets revalued, £163,200 .. .. 1,305,417
Reserves capitalised, £432,834 .. 872,583
1956.. 117,397 10 p.c. = 113,619 3,778 876,361
Assets revalued, £lOO,OOO .. .. 976,361
1957.. 117,615 10 p.c. = 115,423 2,192 978,553
Provision long-service leave, £30,000 948,553
Profit sale freeholds, etc. £12,978 . . 961,531
1958.. 119,114 10 p.c. = 115,422 3,692 965,223
1959.. 121,248 10 „ „ 115,422 5,826 971,049
1960.. 135,436 10 „ „ 117,117 18,319 989,368
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Share premiums, £152,750 . . . . 1,142,118
Added on consolidation, £120,875.. 1,262,993
1961.. 170,404 10 p.c. = 138,578 31,826 1,294,819
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 13.3 p.c. on average capital, excluding
the W. Nevill share allotment, as against
11.6 p.c., 10.5 p.c., 10.3 p.c. and 10.2 p.c.
back to 1957. The profits of W. Nevill
and Co. Ltd have not been included in
the group result but will be brought in
at next reckoning. The consolidated net
profit of W. Nevill for 1959-60 had risen
£12,545 to £57,695, representing an earn-
ing rate of 28.8 p.c. on capital.
Dividend rate was steady at 10 p.c.,
absorbing £138,578 (up £21,461) on the
higher capital. Reserves received £31,826
and together with share premiums,
£152,750 and surpluses on consolidation,
£120,875, were disclosed at £1,294,819.
Parent net profit climbed £3606 to
£139,042.
Balance-sheet analysis emphasises
further the certainty of hidden strengths.
The book-value of land and buildings,
last revalued in 1955 prior a three-for-five
bonus issue, and in at valuation or cost
less amortisation, is up £198,812 at
£819,744. The book-value of plant,
vehicles, etc., in at valuation or cost less
depreciation and less reserve, is up
£92,407 at £273,847:
Parent
and
, Parent only—,, Subsids.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital . . £1,154,223 £1,185,000 £1,870,000
Reserves .. .. 971,049 989,368 1,294,819
Minority interest. . - 10,162
Notes . . .. 305,609 —-
Debentures .. 707,146 1,092,200
Mortgage .. .. 77,886 36,750
Overdraft.. .. 155,227 126,962 461,769
Creditors, etc.* .. 779,121 984,554 1,129,853
Deposits .. .. 173,067 173,256 268,431
Due to subsids. .. 37,949 60,561
Tax provision .. 144,605 -
Final div.. . .. 28,855 30,550 46,928
£3,827,591 £4,257,397 £6,210,912
Land, buildings .. 607,504 620,932 819,744
Plant, vehicles .. 146,493 181,440 273,847
Investments .. -- -- 275,563
Stocks . . .. 979,204 1,110,952 1,667,439
Shares subsids. .. 144,571 194,874 420,710
Due by subsids... —• 42,341
Debtors .. .. 1,874,122 2,086,191 2,694,804
Cash .. .. 75,697 63,008 16,464
£3,827,591 £4,257,397 £6,210,912
* Including provisions, etc., and in 1960 provision
for taxation as well.
Edwards Dunlop is effecting an increasing
proportion of its machinery sales through
hire-purchase transactions, which are, no
doubt, making their contribution to earn-
ings—but rates charged to customers are
well below those levied by other finance
houses. Finance is provided per medium
of deposits at call (up £95,175 at £268,431)
and first-mortgage debenture stock (up
£385,054 at £1,092,200). It can be
assumed that profit from h.-p. activity is
fairly modest. The h.-p. function is
looked on in the light of a selling aid.
Book debts, including bills receivable
(up £181,675 at £895,746 ; comprising
h.-p. outstandings less unearned income,
less provisions) jumped by £608,613
during last term and at £2,694,804 figure
as the largest single item in the balance-
sheet —the increase reflecting higher turn-
over but partly a consequence of credit
restrictions. To help carry the bigger
load, and an extra £556,487 in stocks,
the co. added £145,299 to the amount
against creditors, provisions, etc., and at
the same time almost quadrupled bank
overdraft (up £334,807). With a £46,544
reduction of cash holdings, these move-
ments left the current assets - current
liabilities ratio at a solid 2.3 to 1.
Theoretical working capital advanced
£526,897 to £2,471,726. Directors com-
ment that stock on hand “does not repre-
sent excessive build-up of imports; it is


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
SHORT TERM RATES
I°7
2 /o
P.A.
12 Mths.' Notice
8%
7%
P.A.
6 Mths.’ Notice.
62%
P.A.
3 Mths.’ Notice
1%
P.A.
1 Mth.'s Notice
6%
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
BANK OF N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms Obtainable From
Any branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company’s Offices, Ground Floor, Cambridge House,
249 George Street, Sydney ’Phone: BU 5542
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne ’Phone 67-6792
Suite 110, Ist Floor, Da Costa Building,
68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide ’Phone S 7-025
Suite 53A, sth Floor, T & G Building, 137 Queen Street, Brisbane
—’Phone: 24-509 26-981
Morton House. 5 Union Street, Newcastle West ’Phone: B 4601
Berner Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
or Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co., T. & G.
Building, Cnr. Hunter & Watt Streets, Newcastle. (Members
of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co.,
25 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd)
Brokers for the Issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael
& Co., 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth. (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Perth)
Trustee for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders’ Insurance Company
Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith
Johnson & Co.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra
Registrars: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of
the forms of application attached to a printed copy of the
prospectus.
mainly a planned increase,
designed to take advantage of
the changed selling policies,
and price structures” ruling
throughout the year. Invest-
ments in other cos. and Com-
monwealth loans —at cost less
reserve are shown at
£275,563.
Fluctuations on the world
paper market, resulting in
variations in prices of pulp and
paper, remain one of Edwards
Dunlop's main headaches.
Overseas pulp and paper
markets cannot be regarded as
strong. If prices are to hold,
it will be because of manufac-
turing costs rather than
because of demand. Consider-
able importance attaches to the
applications for increased pro-
tective duties being made by
the major Australian manufac-
turers of paper and paper-
boards, about to be heard by
the Tariff Board.
Another problem is pre-
sented by cost increases, par-
ticularly by wage hikes. The
full impact of the general
downturn in business activity
has been felt in the first two
months of the current year,
and sales have fallen—“with
little prospect of increase in
gross profit margins or reduc-
tion in costs ; net profit for the
current year must be affected
unless business conditions
improve quickly.” The link
with the packaging industry
through the shareholding in
Reed Paper Products should
prove to be valuable, both
from the point of view of
diversity of activities and as a
sound investment.
The co.'s scrip is apprecia-
tively regarded on the share-
market, even if not very
emotionally. The co. has not
been lavish in its benefits to
shareholders, but many con-
sider this merely to be hope
deferred.
At the last sale in Sydney
the 20s. ords. fetched 435. 6d.
a unit, for an immediate return
of 4.6 p.c.
Visible net tangible asset-
backing ranks a hefty 335. lOd.
the 20s. units, excluding shares
issued in consideration of the
acquisition of W. Nevill and
Co. Ltd.
Bankers and Traders*
Insurance Co. Ltd
CTrip in a well-established,
sound and progressive
insurance office ranks high in
the investment category. But
it takes time to develop this
equity status, contributing
factors including a policy of
profits allocation which ensures
strong reserves and, at intervals,
lifts in the div. rate and other
benefits. The now 40-year-old
Bankers and Traders’ Insur-
ance Co. Ltd, which started
under exceptionally favorable
conditions, kept its div. steady
at 7 p.c. for the 17 years to
1942, placing substantial sums
to reserves, which (including
provision for unexpired risks)
are now heaped £1,163,247
higher than the £375,000 of
paid capital. Meanwhile, dis-
tributions advanced by halting
steps to 12| P-C., including 2|
p.c. bonus, in 1949, and have
remained steady since. Also
shareholders have put up
£254,175 of paid capital at par
since 1940, latest contributions
including a one-for-four par
issue in 1957 (raising £67,219)
and a call of 2s. 6d. a share in
1959 (£62,500). Paid capital is
presently held in 500,000 20s.
shares each paid to 15s. The
capital and reserves are in-
vested in sound securities, re-
turns from which are well in
excess of div. commitments so
that the entire underwriting
surplus is available to swell
investments and returns there-
from.
Originally launched by
Queensland Insurance and
Burns, Philp and Co., and
represented by underwriting or
settling agents in many parts
of the world, the Sydney-con-
trolled Bankers and Traders’,
dealing mainly in fire, accident
and marine insurance, has ten
branches and sub-branches in
N.S.W., ten in Victoria, five in
Queensland and two each in
Tasmania, South Australia
and Western Australia. There
are four branches, as well, in
South and East Africa—-in
Johannesburg, Durban, Nai-
robi and Mombasa —plus an
office in London.
The insurance game has be-
come increasingly difficult in
Australia in recent years with
intense competition developing
as life offices, hire-purchase
offshoots and overseas under-
writers move into the fire and
accident market. The entry of
the general insurance offices
into life business is a retaliatory
measure ; but it also represents
an attempt to acquire investible
funds which could be used to
attract general insurance busi-
ness by the provision of indus-
trial and housing finance.
Bankers and Traders’, con-
forming with general trends,
ventured into the life field m
1959. It also acquired an un-
disclosed but “substantial
share-interest in the Equitable


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Sin gleCopies 2/-
ear ly Subscription .. 2216
Th h Bulletin, July 29, 1961
wi:
A-N'Z
w
m
6
...
Hi
I
m
m
A NETWORK OF SERVICE
in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea
INVESTMENT IN AUSTRALIAN SECURITIES
A.N.Z. Nominees Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of A.N.Z. Bank, provides a
complete service for investors in Australian securities. The securities are registered in the
name of the Nominee Company, which attends to all administrative requirements, providing
continuous protection for dividends and rights to new issues. Full details of this service are
set out in the comprehensive booklet, “Investment Services by A.N.Z. Nominees Limited”
SETTING UP BUSINESS IN AUSTRALIA
A.N.Z. Bank can help you with accurate economic survey material, statistics and other
vital information. Three books provide a complete guide: “Australia’s Continuing Development”,
“Establishment of Industry in Australia” and “Investment in Australia”.
TRADE INTRODUCTIONS
A.N.Z. Bank’s International Banking and Business Development Departments are specially
equipped with knowledge and valuable connections developed from over 100 years’ association with
Australia’s import and export organisations. Let this experience help you meet the right people for'
profitable trading.
Write for booklets to:
General Manager’s Office, Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited, 394 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ANZ BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
HUGH D. T. WILLIAMSON
Generat Manager
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
R. A. ELLERY, Manager
International Banking Department
A'N*Z
ntw
ANZ.301.931f
Life and General Insurance
Co., plus a holding in the
Equitable Probate and General
Insurance Co.
Augmented by the expansion
of the co.’s activities and
spurred on by the marked infla-
tionary trend evident through-
out the Australian economy,
net premium-income has more
than doubled over the last
decade.
Last term proved exception-
ally difficult for Bankers and
Traders’, but operations were
profitable :
Re-
Meh., Profit. , —Dividends— ~ serves.*
£ £ £
>55.. 62,045 124 p.c. = 30,660 889,041
To reserve unexpired risks,
£60,500 949,541
>56.. 70,099 12J p.c. = 30,660 988,980
To reserve unexpired risks,
£51,500 . . . . . . 1,040,480
>57- 56,474 124 p.c. = 33,601 1,063,353
To reserve unexpired risks,
£17,000 1,080,353
>SB- 86,951 12| p.c. = 39,062 1,128,242
To reserve unexpired risks,
£34,000 1,162,242
>59-108,157 124 p.c. = 39,063 1,231,336
To reserve unexpired risks,
£114,000 . . . . 1,345,336
>6O-132,060 124 p.c. = 46,875 1,430,521
To reserve unexpired risks,
£34,000 1,464,521
To special staff fund,
£IO,OOO 1,454,521
>6l-130,602 124 p.c. = 46,876 1,538,247
* Includes £819,000 reserve for un-
expired risks at 31/3/61.
Competition was greatly in-
tensified with heavy and con-
tinuing losses in the motor-
vehicle department—“there has
been no abatement in the inci-
dence of claims from this class. ’
However, premium income ad-
vanced and “both in Australia
and overseas, our organisation
further developed.”
Net premiums for the year
ended March 31, 1961, were
£84,830 higher at £2,044,110.
The absolute figure for losses
increased by £267,777 to
£1,343,029 with the loss-ratio
building up from 54.4 p.c. to
65.7 p.c.:
Ex-
„ Ex- Loss pense
iremiums. Losses. penses.*Ratio.Ratio.
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
’s7
1)548,775 952,628 534,322 61.5 34.5
aB—
971,383 572,026 61.0 35.8
o 9
476,913 996,701 604,153 59.4 36.0
60—
459,280 1,075,252 716,963 54.4 36.6
61
2.044,110 1,343,029 625,300 65.7 30.6
* Excludes tax on investment income.
Expenses were reduced by
£9 1,663 to £625,300, the
expense-ratio dropping from
’6.6 p.c. to 30.6 p.c. This ex-
eludes tax on investment
income. Comparisons are
rendered unreliable in that
accounts have been produced,
and this for the first time,
wholly in Australian currency.
The subsidiary, Consolidated
Insurances Pty., “continues to
progress.” A div. was received
by the parent for the year
ended June 30, 1960.
Interest, divs. and rents
yielded a net return of £88,821
(up £9826).
Management costs (includ-
ing “provision for taxation and
contingencies”) were £92,413
lower at £612,026. The co.
transferred £13,274 (up £750)
to staff fund. The allocation
to the reserve for unexpired
risks slipped a solid £BO,OOO
to £34,000, bringing it up to
an impressive £819,000.
Net profit for the year ended
March 31, 1961, declined
£1458 to £130,602, representing
an earning rate of 34.8 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with
35.2 p.c. in 1960, 34.6 p.c. in
1959, 27.8 p.c. in 1958, 21 p.c.
in 1957 and 28.5 p.c. in 1956.
The div. rate was steady at
12} p.c. for the 13th successive
year, absorbing £46,876. Re-
serves received £83,726 and


a
Mi
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated IJ4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.8
8.29/7
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected
Consult
Queensland
'nsurance Co. Ltd
90-82 Pitt Street, Sydney
?S YEARS OF SERVICE
o THE AVSIRAU i.V El'HI
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator ha »
proved over many year* to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturer*
GUTHRIDGI PTY. ITD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
ilu|)id Magrnettingr Machine*
i.eorge Ellison Switch Gear
t-!~. Makers of Classifiers,
n ater Filters, Steam Valves.
etc
were disclosed at £1,538,247,
including £819,000 (the usual
40 p.c. of net premiums) set
aside for unexpired risks.
As a general rule, and as out-
lined above, the board looks
to income from investments to
omontc ~c : n o.
cover div. requirements, using
the surplus from underwritings
to augment accumulated re-
serves. This is intended to
cushion the effect of inevitable
fluctuations in underwriting
earnings.
Last term earnings from
interest, divs. and rents receiv-
able (£88,821, after tax) were
a i mos t double the div. cheque.
. . ( ,
Government securities (down
£21,590 at £722,413) remai
the second largest group ol
assets in the balance sheet
(22.2 p.c. of total assets, corn-
pared with 24.5 p.c. in the pre-
vious term):
1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £375,000 £375,000
Reserves .. 645,520 719,247
Unexpired risks 785,000 819,000
Owing to subsids. 26,377
Claims, etc. . . 897,702 1,052,941
Sundry creditors,
etc.* .. .. 278,275 268,674
Pinal divs. .. 23,437 23,438
£3,031,311 £3,258,300
Freeholds . . 468,487 472,538
Advances co-opt 219,281 323,942
Shares subsid. .. 69,995 69,995
Shares other cos. 842,547 920,588
Book-debts etc. 475,091 .507,158
Govt, securities. . 744,003 722,413
Cash . . . . 211,907 241,666
£3,031,311 £3,258,300
* Includes provision for tax, contingen-
cies, etc. t Advances to building co.-op.
societies, mortgages, etc.
Shares in subsidiaries were
unchanged at £69,995. Invest-
ment in other cos., shares, de-
bentures and notes, amounted
to £920,588 (up £78,041) or
28.3 p.c. of total assets (27.8
p.c. in 1960).
Scrip in a well-run and
growing insurance office such
as Bankers and Traders’ is
worth looking at. At the last
sale in Sydney the 155.-paid
ords. fetched 795. each, for an
immediate “blue-chip” yield of
2.4 p.c.
Net tangible asset-backing
worked out at 765. 6d. for each
15s. ord., including the unex-
pired risks reserve (325. 9d.
per share).
COMPANY NOTES
Packaging and Printing
Industries Ltd
"Collowing incorporation on
-*• April 22, 1959, Packaging
and Printing Industries Ltd
acquired the whole of the
issued capital of Wilmers and
Gladwin Pty, Modern Packages
Pty and Alexandria Properties
Pty. The first - mentioned co.
had been operating for 20
years, the second for 12 years
and the third, a real estate co.,
had its inception in 1949.
Packaging and Printing In-
dustries has established itself in
the forefront of the packaging
industry in N.S.W. Products
range a comprehensive list
of packaging materials and
finished containers. The co.
caters to a wide and growing
clientele.
The co. is now embarked
upon a public issue which, in-
volving, in all, 200,000 ss.
ordinary shares at a premium
of Is. 6d., is calculated to lift
paid capital by £50,000 to
£260,000, including £50,000 in
5 p.c. cumulative ss. pref.
shares. The prefs. will be con-
verted into ord. shares on Julv
1, 1964.
Of the issue 175,000 shares
have been reserved for cus-
tomers and business associates.
The shares are payable in full
on application and subscription
lists opened July 27 last. Pro-
ceeds will be used for further
expansion and wider trading
activity. The co. has additional
machinery on order whereby it
is planned to increase produc-
tive capacity plus efficiency.
Earnings in the 12 months to
June 30, 1960, and reckoned
after tax, totalled £38,535,
equivalent to 26.5 p.c. on the
then paid capital; for the nine
months to May, 1961, £31,916.
Investigating accountants re-
port a net tangible asset back-
ing of 6s. 3d. for each ss. ord..
as applicable to post - issue
capital. Turnover has ex-
panded continuously, each year
showing a considerable increase
on the previous year’s figures.
Directors of Packaging and


Positions Vacant
CANBERRA GRAMMAR
SCHOOL
Senior History Master
A vacancy exists for a Master to
teach Modern History to Matricula-
tion level in 1962. For further
details apply to the Headmaster,
Canberra Grammar School, Can-
berra, A.C.T.
Senior Geography Master
A vacancy exists for a Master to
teach Geography to Matriculation
level in 1962. For further details
apply to the Headmaster, Canberra
Grammar School. Canberra. A.C.T.
CRANBROOK SCHOOL,
BELLEVUE HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Vacancies occurring from Ist
Term, 1962.
English Master (1)
To take over English Department
or, if no suitable applicant, to teach
English, including 6th Form.
Science Masters (2)
Any combination to teach Chemis-
try, Physics and Geology—Senior
and Junior work.
Accommodation
Two Flats lor married Masters in
Eastern Suburbs and Resident Single
Accommodation available.
Write to Eleadmaster stating lull
academic and extra curricular
qualifications and experience.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENG-
LAND GRAMMAR SCHOOL
STAFF VACANCIES
There are vacancies in the Physics
and Chemistry staffs of this School
- —immediately or in January, 1962.
The School intends to build new
laboratories in the near future.
(1) Physics Master —to teach to
Leaving honours standard.
The policy is to have one
Physics Master supernumerary
to establishment, so that in
rotation, a master is engaged in
research into Physics teaching
and in preparation of teaching
aids.
(b) Laboratory Assistant —f o r
Chemistry laboratories. Depend-
ing on qualifications, the school
would be prepared to assist in
future training of the Laboratory
Assistant.
For particulars write to the Head-
master.
hark school. we.mhlkv
DOWNS. PERTH. WESTERN
AISTRALIA.
Western Australia's oldest school
now occupying new building- on a
site of 1-10 acres, requites stall' to
teach some or all of the following
subjects for 1002. Residence in
school boarding houses will be
available for one man. Salaries
are at present in line with those
paid in the Western Australian
Educat ion liepartmen't.
I. Science To teach lieneral
Science, Biology, and some middle
School Physics and Chemistry.
.Mathematics —up to Reaving
Certificate standard,
ti. Woodwork and Technical Draw-
ing.
1. Commerce and Accountancy.
5. lieneral middle school Subjects,
(i. Primary School work.
Applications in writing, stating
age, marital state, (nialilieations
experience and religious denomina-
tion. and enclosing testimonials
and the names of two referees,
should he addressed to the Head-
master. HARE schoor, Wembley
Downs. Western Australia.
QUAKER CHURCH
The Friends (Quaker) Church
is an evangelical, pacifistic sect,
congregational in organisation,
whose preachers stress the autho-
rity and Diety of Christ, salvation
through Christ’s atoning death,
holiness, nonconformity, reli-
gious freedom and simplicity in
worship.
For information on the Friends,
their overseas missions, and their
doctrinal statements, please write
Evangelical Friends Assn., 176
Argyle St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Missing Friend
The Union . Trustee Company ot Aus-
tralia Limited invites ROBERT
ANDREW EASTON, last heard of in
Cunnamulla, Queensland about 1908
or aiiy of his relatives to communicate
with them by letter to their Office
at 400. Queen Street, Brisbane, Queens-
land, relative to moneys due to him in
a. deceased’s estate.
Information is also sought as to the
place of his death if he is not now
living.
Divorce Notice
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
RONALD ULYN COUSINS late of
24fi West Wycombe Road, High
Wycombe, Bucks who may apply to
tin- Divorce Registry, Somerset House
London. W.C.2. England for a copy
of the Petition. If within 80 days
lie lias not communicated with the
Registry, the Court may hear the case
in hi' absence. - B. LONG Registrar.
Printing Industries are Messrs,
p F. Gladwin, chairman and
joint managing director, H. R
Wilmers, joint managing direc-
jor, and P. Haege. Directors
anticipate a div. of not less
than 10 p.c.
Underwriters to the issue ate
Ernest L. Davis and Co., Syd-
ney Stock Exchange. .
M.L.C.
Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance is one of the
most progressive life offices in
Australia. The 20s. shares have
quoted on the unlisted market
fo,r many years now. The scrip
recently rose as high as £lO 15s.
for a 20s. unit. The shares are
currently trading around £lO
10s.
The dividend, after having
been stepped up gradually since
1955 from ss. to ss. lOd. a
share, was raised sharply last
year to 7s. 6d., equal to 374
p.c. The yield thus becomes
3.6 p.c., not unreasonable in
view of the extremely low
yields offering from other "blue
chips.’’
In April, 1939, by special
resolution, capital was in-
creased to its present level of
£1.000,000 by the creation and
issue of 800,000 bonus shares
of 20s. each.
After 22 years the market
may feel that additional bene-
fits to shareholders could even-
tually develop. Irrespective of
whether this is a short or long
term prospect, the shares at
today’s prices seem an excellent
lock-up investment.
The M.L.C. has developed
into one of the world’s great
life assurance organisations and
total assets have more than
doubled in the past seven years.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 653
Across
I—European city child is. Pompeii’s doom. (10)
6—Pianoforte arrangement about the Spanish evidence ot
plutocracy. (4)
10 — Where to buy your woolly observer of steeple-
chasers. (6-7)
11— Musicians who would admit the common adverbial
ending is a start for Tschaikowsky. (7)
12— Nottingham is singularly in Kentucky, and is neither
straight-grained nor simple of solution. (6)
15— Boiling inspired such state
tees. (4)
16 — Actual rail carrying a group ol
tongues. (4-6)
20— What makes a monkey lie with
resemblances to a farmer. (6-4)
21— Indigo’s source gets a duck. (4)
23 — Keep failing to catch this
bowler. (6)
24 — Saying this is second on the list
of those who prove. (7)
26 —10-across transformed this shop-
assistant. (7, 6)
28 — Staff of magic pence when
pale. (4)
29 — Squared end is mutilated and
frittered away. (10)
Down
1 — LBLIL . . . he's in the cricket
news. (4, 5)
2 What makes a robin just a lot
of defections in belief? (11)
3 Opening batsmen are! (6)
4 Loses the ingredients of a famous
geological system. (5)
5 In place of bad habits. (4)
7 Left without its capital, though
it wouldn't be ill-affected by
watering. (3)
8 — Opposed to the negative incur-
sion into enemy territory. (5)
9 Mirthful enjoyment with Nelson
dropping on features unknown
in the shipping of Nelson's
day (7)
13 — Whoever can put up with the
express member of the bride’s
team. (11)
14 — Anti-aircraft lire. (4)
17— A sort of sherry upset Boldre-
wood. (4)
18 — Leap of a bovine volume may
be so. (4-5)
19— Bassoon boy is alter a smoke. (7)
22 Scoured like this and imi-
tated. (6)
23 — Bird which makes mother call
among the crows. (5)
24 Paulette is presumably smaller
than her lather, you and the
French. (5)
25 Land some artist in his intelli-
gence quotient. (4)
27 —Run recklessly into this vessel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 652


4V
m
&
♦
I. .. ■ .. ' ' :
1111!
m SSB nhwhl nm :
mmmmmmm i,
gg :r : v ;;*:.S;
i
m
■
M
L
H
ran
-
v '■ '“ * - ~'~
Wm.
'
m
Ills
m
.V
Si
v-W-ft’:.
So many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S Sc L steel pipes
Through steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
§&IL)
r
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55G.1.61
