

The Bulletin
March 15. 196!
The Two Arthur Cal wells
Seato
Will it Survive?
Sydney Royal
Northern Rivers Tour
Ciiddleseats
What Became of Them?
Macarthur
The IGO-year Smear Campaign


So many things that make life happier.
come through steel pipes
Life preserving water ... the gas and steam for
heating . . . lines of power and lighting ... oil and
the raw materials of industry all flow ceaselessly
through pipes of steel to keep factory, workshop
and laboratory supplied; to keep civilisation,
itself, alive.
Only steel pipe is so economical, so dependable.
Its superior mechanical strength and stability in
price and quality are other good reasons why
steel pipe is so widely used.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts and Lloyds, the leading
Australian producer of welded and seamless steel
pipe.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
SSG.I .60
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton , Newcastle, Wollon-
gong, Geelong , Fremantle , Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay,
Kalgoorlie


Society
Hoaxes
how the Ern Malley hoax
keeps cropping up the latest
reappearance in a re-broadcast of John
Thompson’s excellent symposium for the
A.B.C. in which the perpetrators, James
McAuley and Harold Stewart, and the
victim, Max Harris, state their cases.
A lot of illusions are still current about
the hoax Harris supporters like to say
that Ern Malley’s poems were the best
things that Harold Stewart and McAuley
have written: which is nonsense ; both
have infinitely exceeded them in their
own verses. Others like to say that the
poems, though compiled as a joke, were
nevertheless good poetry: which also is
nonsense ; they are as thin as they are
meaningless when you look into them
again.
Supporters of the perpetrators like to
argue that they struck a much-needed
blow against obscurity and pretentious-
ness: which is only partly true, for they
also, without meaning to, struck a blow
for the philistines who think all modern
verse is obscure.
The most curious thing of all is how
the wheel has turned. Max Harris is
now writing a clear, hard Australian kind
of verse and compiling an anthology of
the prose of the explorers and pioneers ;
McAuley has stuck to his principles of
coolness and clarity, but has moved into
the Voyager Poem school of Siessor and
Fitz Gerald ; and Harold Stewart's latest
Buddhist meditations are just about
baffling enough to have been written by
Ern Malley.
Canberra has lately been enjoying an
accidental hoax which local inhabitants
rate as the best thing since Ern Malley.
Professor C. P. Fitzgerald wrote a
pseudo - archaeological piece for the
A.N.U. “News,” pretending that the
various ditches and excavations around
the town were evidence of settlement by
an unknown people in the Iron Age and
suggesting, because one of the suburbs
is called “Manuka,” that these people
were invaders from New Zealand.
"... VII, VI, V, IV, III, II,..."
The A.B.C. took it seriously—and you
could hardly blame them, for Professor
Fitzgerald’s humor is extremely rarified
—and broadcast the “researches” as a
news item. The joke is not in the Ern
Malley class, but it is very dear to
Canberra ; and it seems certain that, be-
cause Professor Fitzgerald and the A.B.C.
said so, people will go on believing to
the end of time that the city was first
occupied by Maoris in the Iron Age.
Moomba v. Lent
TLTelbourne’s Moomba festival was
marred —or made —this year by a
religious controversy. A complaint
appeared in a newspaper about Moomba
overlapping with Lent. The Anglican
Dean of St Paul’s, Dr Barton Babbage,
agreed that it was “unfortunate” that
Moomba fell in Lent. “But,” he added,
“it is high time the Church fixed a date
for Easter. The complicated table for
the calculation of Easter is sufficiently
intimidating to discourage anyone except
a mathematician.”
Lord Mayor Bernard Evans turned
temporary theologian to comment:
“Moomba does not prevent the pursuit
of spiritual exercises or religious thinking
during Lent. Moomba no more affects
Lent than business, which is going on as
usual.” With shops advertising “imported
Lenten delicacies” the Lord Mayor prob-
ably spoke truer than he knew.
Then a newspaper columnist consulted
his dictionary to discover that “carnival”
derived from the late Latin came vale,
meaning “O flesh, farewell.” In southern
Europe, he explained, the carnival season
took place during the feast of the
Epiphany and Ash Wednesday, just
before Lent intervened to stop all merry-
making for six weeks. He concluded that
Moomba was out of order on two
grounds: it was not a farewell to the
flesh, and it was running during Lent.
On its Stomach
"Cull realisation of what the Australian
Army is today can come only after
watching a corporal hand-dipping laming-
tons in melted chocolate and rolling them
in coconut in front of an audience of
admiring housewives, or after contem-
plation of a whole baked snapper,
decorated with swirls of mayonnaise and
resting on a bed of neat tiles of beetroot
and carrot, the work of the Army Cater-
ing Corps.
The Army was on show at the 1961
Australian Hotel and Catering Exposition
(you can have an exhibition at the local
Town Hall, but in the ballroom of the
Chevron Hilton it's an exposition). The
Army gave a demonstration of mass-
catering. Cup cakes and lamingtons were
turned out with the precision, but not
the consistency, of bullets. It was hearten-
ing later to see the lamington cook,
doing his own washing-up, drop a cup
and smash it. It seemed to prove that
armies change, but not men.
INDEX
9 The Two Calwells 11
9 Macarthur Bites the File 31
9 How I Edited “Capricor-
nia” P. R. Stephensen 34
Aboriginalities 40
Business, Robbery, etc. 46
Consumer-Observer 38
Letters 59
Look Back At Anger 10
Man on the Land 55
Personal 17
Plain English 9
9 Murder in a Taxi 30
• Defence and Pentropic
War 35
9 Australian School-days 37
Political Points 14
Red Page 22
Service 67
Shows 27
Society 3
Sport 43
This Australia 6
Wild Cat Columns 62


Death in the Afternoon
Sydney’s cut-throat newspaper competi-
tors got off to a good start one day
last week: “Liz Taylor Critical,” said a
“Sun” poster ; “Liz Taylor —Touch and
Go,” said the “Mirror.”
The “Sun” was first past the poster
with: “Film Star Dies.”
But just as half the population was
rushing to buy, the “Mirror” entered a
protest: “George Formby Dead.”
Backward Lifesaver
Surf clubs have been getting a laugh
out of Ansett-A.N.A.'s new holiday
poster of a bronzed lifesaver carefully
paying out a rescue line —with his back
to the surf. About the only thing he
could rescue that way would be a
schooner or two from some landlocked
pub.
Candles for Kurneh
“nPHE candles flickered out in Kurneh
last night,” reported the Melbourne
“Age” over a four-column picture of
Dame Mabel Brookes’s last supper at her
old home in South Yarra —one of the last
historic houses in Melbourne. And what
is Dame Mabel’s most vivid memory of
the place? asked the “Age.” “It was a
‘balloon fall’ back in 1924,” she said.
“The balloons were up on the ceiling.
Percy, the gardener, pulled the string and
500 of them fell on the children. It was
a delightful sight.”
Never has a nice old house been
delivered to the wreckers with more
sanctimony. Even the National Trust
was drawn in. It received the most
gracious back-handed gesture of the year
when it shared in the profits from an
llth-hour inspection tour organised after
Sir Norman and Dame Mabel Brookes
sold the property to Mr Dusseldorp’s
organisation for a multi-story fiats pro-
ject.
The Brookeses were fortunate in sell-
ing just before the credit squeeze knocked
everyone’s thoughts of big fiat-blocks on
the head. Good luck to them! But with-
out the crystal goblets full of crocodile
tears.
Serve Yourself—Free
HThe newest shoplifting trick, according
to an observer at one of Sydney’s
largest supermarkets, involves a built-in
fence and instant and irrecoverable dis-
posal of the loot. Children sent on
messages after school-hours roam the
shopping aisles while they eat chocolates
and biscuits from packets they have
broached. All pilfered goods are con-
sumed on the premises and nothing short
of an X-ray machine is ever going to
provide evidence.
political questions are raised under
the sign “No. 1 Reich” in a Sydney
Arcade, but only umbrellas, a repairer
of which, Mr Reich, has shop No. 1.
That was Society
Along the South Melbourne beach now
bathers are not privileged to mix it after
10 o’clock in the morning, or before the
break of day. The local council considers
it detrimental to morality and dangerous
to good government for the sexes to get
w'et together after dark. Open sea bath-
ing is permitted, but male and female
bathers have sections of the sea allotted
to them, and they are cut off from each
other by an imaginary line.
— “Bulletin” , January 23, 1913.
Another private still discovered in
Sydney. It would seem safe to wager that
there are, at present, in the city of the
Beautiful Harbor, as many private stills
as there are baths. By the way, that big
Sydney grocer had better suspend grog-
making operations. The police are begin-
ning to sniff out his old-established and
profitable private still
T
u e m ,Ju y , 903.
„ .. , .
The time-payment wife has a precan-
ous hold on this planet. Her home is, as
H were, hitched to a financial balloon
which may be released by the simple pro-
cess of spending one instalment on beer.
If she has a row with her boss, and he
gets wild and curses the instalment col-
lector the furniture chases itself out of
he place and goes home, and the wife is
le / 1 sl “ in ?„ on a kerosene tin in the midst
of a few ill-assorted fragments.
—“Bulletin”, December 21, 1911.
Sydney policeman to reporter at sub-
urban court: “Oh, yes, the fool was
screwed right enough. But there’s no
credit in running in a common drunk. I
shook h 1 out of that man to try and
make him swear, or assault me, or tear
my uniform, but he simply started blub-
bering. I couldn’t do anything with him.”
— “Bulletin”, February 8, 1896.
Wanted: An Australian Governor w'ith-
out a Scotch estate.
— “Bulletin”, September 30, 1903.
, Ge ° r “ Lamberts 1000 guineas, col-
lected n ! m f Russian pnnce for The
Man with the Mask , suggests several
things. Larnbei t s painting was a fine
work of ait, but almost beyond doubt it
as t^ ie au dacious handling of the nudes
brought the money. In Europe, a
thing is likely to sell because it is a nude.
Apart from speculative exhibition work,
there are highly paid commissions for
illustrating (erotic) books. The pictures,
beautifully done , and by well-known men,
just as far as they can with out posi .
f ively inviti a polic ; e prosecut i o n. As a
matt 7 er o£ fa< £ su ’ h a pr J secution is nev er
heard of> though th / same pictures dr-
culated in cheap form wou i d be dropped
on at once . A German COurt; inde edf has
with cynical £rankness give n judgment
that anything costing £ f upwards 8 is a
work of ; art B and nO B to be judged by
-postcard” standards.
—" Bulletin”, January 2, 1913.
THE RELUCTANT WITNESS
“The Sydney Coroner’s Court was told that
a man refused to explain how he received a
fatal gunshot wound in his head.” — “S. M.
Herald.”
“Won’t you tell us how you got
Your fatal gunshot wound?
Don’t be afraid. No matter what
The circumstances found,
No penalty will be incurred”
The patient would not say a word.
“You fear lest reason be imperilled
Should you speak at all ?
My friend, a ‘Sydney Morning Herald
Editorial
Was never in this way deterred”
The patient would not say a word.
“The Legislative Council and
The Senate, l suggest,
Would be hard put to understand
The silence you’ve professed.
No; loud and often they are
heard”
The patient would not say a word.
“What broadcast commentators say,
What disk-jockeys have said,
Means that they talk their lives away
By talking people dead;
Yet that, to silence, is preferred”
The patient would not say a word,
SWILLIAM


THE TOO-HARD BASKET


This Australia
The Old School at Parramatta
Tn the early days of The System, Mrs
Elizabeth Fry received a report on
the overcrowding and miserable condi-
tions at the Female Factory at Sydney’s
Parramatta. The Government assured
everyone that there was really nothing
to worry about. A few ringleaders made
all the trouble, but most of the young
females lived respectable lives on their
release. The place was luckily burnt
down in the ’eighties, and a convent rose
on the site. Today the Child Welfare
Department conducts there its Training
School for Girls, and it has just assured
the public that there is really nothing
to worry about. Most of the girls lead
respectable lives on leaving. A few ring-
leaders were responsible for the recent
riots.
During the war, when overcrowding
at Parramatta became a scandal and
people were calling for investigation of
riots there, welfare workers were hopeful
that perhaps a bomb would fall on it.
Inmates manifested their discontent by
ripping out the ball-and-chain attach-
ments to the cisterns and smashing
windows with them. They danced naked
on the roof, shouting obscenities at the
police, and were beaten off the roof with
the firehose. It was the school tradition.
The ringleaders were then given three to
six months at Long Bay, where older
women petted them. At least Long Bay
gave status. They had graduated.
These ringleaders were a minority-
strong young prostitutes bulging out of
the school uniform and furious that they
had been deprived of their profession at
the height of their earning capacity. The
younger, meeker girls who were there
as a result of wretched home and living
conditions were contemptuously termed
“sawns” and the girls who set the tone
saw to it that the “sawns” knew their
place.
With the upsurge of prostitution in
the last 12 months Parramatta has again
become overcrowded. Instead of the
50-70 it can comfortably hold, 150 girls
have occupied the same space. To offer
a young woman who has been making
at least £3O a night the chance of playing
in the basketball team or the privilege
of travelling out for a match against
another school at vigoro is rubbing in
the salt. It suits the “sawns” who are
grateful for a chance to learn to use
a power machine which will give them a
job in a factory on release. It does not
suit the “ringleaders” who carry on the
grand old tradition. If the staff are
pleasant to them they are insulting ; if
the staff are severe they are vociferous
about their wrongs. At all times they
look for a chance to score.
All the staff have their own grateful
ex-pupils who send Christmas cards and
reminders of how much the sender owes
to the kindness and help of the former
teacher. They stay on and do their best,
for the Child Welfare Department has
often better employees than it deserves.
Others get browned off, resign, and go
elsewhere rather than put up with Parra-
matta. One of the problems is that the
job of superintendent is considered too
tough for a woman ; and a man has to
be very, very careful or he can break his
career.
Bill Gordon, the present superinten-
dent, has been there for about eight years.
Anyone can see him at any time with
any grievance. He was off sick when the
latest riots occurred, but he has done
much for Parramatta, offsetting the
claustrophobic atmosphere and getting
the girls out as much as possible on
sporting fixtures, swimming and excur-
sions.
The population at Parramatta has been
hastily lowered by letting out deserving
cases and sending the malcontents to
Long Bay—which will be no particular
punishment for them. The usual amounts
will be expended on repairs. There is
some talk of building on the 40 acres
at Thornleigh, where already girls not
considered suitable for Parramatta go to
a milder training school.
In another ten years a new generation
of girls at Parramatta will be telling new
arrivals: “Gee, but you ought to of seen
it when Marie was here. They had real
riots in those days.” The old school
tradition will be handed on. The rank
and grisly sexual perversions which
flourish in places where you wall-in
young women are cleaned up from time
to time until enough tough subjects crowd
in to revive them. The tradition of cut-
ting hearts and initials on yourself with
a razor-blade waxes and wanes. Tales
of what went on in the old dorm, after
lights out are handed down.
Defend our
Doctor
nPHE removal of a local doctor from
•*- the honorary medical staff at the
Healesville District Hospital has split the
3000 residents of the mountain township,
39 miles from Melbourne, into two
warring camps.
The centre of the dispute, which has
already produced two street demonstra-
tions, a petition to the Government and
meetings of the warring groups, is
Hungarian-born Dr Arthur Deery, 53,
who has practised in the district for the
past 13 years.
All the doctors in the area were
honoraries at the modern 17-bed hospital
until its board of management told Deery
early this year that he had been sacked.
As a result he is not able to treat public
patients at the hospital.
First reaction to the news was when
70 past and present patients said they
would boycott the hospital and its money-
raising functions unless Dr Deery was
reinstated. Then, in blazing January heat,
about 50 mothers and expectant mothers
marched a mile through the township to
the hospital, carrying placards: “Defend
our Doctor,” “Justice is Our Aim,” “13
Years Faithful Service,” and “1000 Babies
Can’t be Wrong.”
After the demonstration the hospital
board's president, Mr Ivor Horman,
counterattacked by issuing a statement
from 20 of the hospital’s subscribers
expressing confidence in the board.
A few days later four housewives
called at the hospital with nearly £3OO,
representing enrolment fees from 278
local residents who wanted to be sub-
scribers and so become entitled to a voice
in the hospital management. The hospi-
tal’s secretary-treasurer, Mr R. L. Hughes,
refused to accept the new members.
Next came another street demonstra-
tion, this time by 40 pensioners bearing
a petition in support of Dr Deery. Messrs
Horman and Hughes refused to see them,
so the petition was left on the hospital
doorstep.
The hospital management then said it
would call a meeting of subscribers to
vote on a motion of confidence in the
management, but before this took place
some 500 of its critics met and decided
to send a petition to the State Health
Minister, Sir Ewen Cameron. The peti-
tion, with over 1300 signatures, repre-
sented about 42 per cent, of Healesville’s
adult population. It asked for Dr Deery’s
reinstatement, dismissal of the board of
management and an impartial inquiry
into the hospital. Sir Ewen received the
petition, but after getting a report from
the Hospitals and Charities Commission
decided to take no action.
The next round came late in
February when a stormy four-hour meet-
ing of hospital subscribers took place.
Mr Horman told the meeting one reason
for Dr Deery’s dismissal was a statement
he had made that illegal operations had
been performed at the hospital. He also
claimed that Dr Deery had been “a con-
stant source of trouble and friction in
the hospital” and had shown “a lack of
co-operation.” Dr Deery, who was
present at the meeting, denied having
made allegations about illegal operations.
He did say, however, that he had criti-
cised a legal termination-of-pregnancy
operation on the grounds that such opera-
tions should not be conducted in such a
small hospital as Healesville’s.
More than 150 subscribers attended
the meeting and upheld the management
by 106 votes to 25. Outside, listening
at ventilators and windows, were another
150 Healesville residents who, being


unable to prove that they were financial,
were not allowed in.
This month the Hospitals and Charities
Commission said it would examine a
tape-recording of the proceedings. Dr
Deery said that he would await this
investigation before deciding on further
action.
Going West?
A/f R James Kirby, chairman of the
IVI. Manufacturing Industries Advisory
Council of Australia, certainly put his
diplomatic foot in it when he told the
American Management Association in
New York that the economic future of
Western Australia was “a little obscure.”
Reports of his remarks in the local
press brought immediate and angry
reaction. The Minister for Industrial
Development, the W.A. Chamber of
Manufacturers, the Farmers’ Union, the
Lord Mayor of Perth and a university
lecturer in economics attacked him
separately, but with the unanimity of
instinctive self-defence. His remarks were
labelled “ill-informed and unfortunate,”
“grossly inaccurate and unfair” and
“showing a typical eastern States’ attitude
to this State.”
Lord Mayor Howard, who is connected
with one of Perth’s largest electrical-
goods stores, suggested that Mr Kirby’s
remarks were typical of eastern manu-
facturers who wanted to keep W.A.
industrially inert so that it could remain
a good export customer for their surplus
production. He mentioned that com-
panies in which Mr Kirby is interested
already take a good share of the trade
in refrigerators and other electrical goods
in W.A.
Mr Kirby made three points about
W.A.’s economic future: (1) Though it
was the largest State in Australia, it has
only one small fertile section ; (2) W.A.’s
most promising field for development was
in minerals ; (3) the W.A. Government
was trying to attract industry to the State,
but the reduction in coastal shipping
made the possibility of supplying the Aus-
tralian market from W.A. difficult. In
20 or 30 years, when an increased Western
Australian population offered a bigger
domestic market, the situation might be
improved.
His first point is an arguable one,
depending on the definition of fertility.
Though it is true that most of the State’s
agricultural soils are inherently fertile,
the use of superphosphate and trace-
elements can make them produce as well
as those in most other States. Depen-
dence on regular topdressing raises pro-
duction costs, but land values are lower.
The cost-value differential puts W.A.
farmers on a fairly equal footing with
the eastern States. It seems that Mr
Kirby—or the man who reported him—
oversimplified this point, though it was
factually correct.
Nobody has challenged Mr Kirby’s
second point, which is a source of pride
in W.A. now that B.H.P. looks like
setting up a £4O million iron and steel
industry if the Commonwealth agrees to
put in a standardised rail gauge from
Kalgoorlie to Kwinana.
His third point got Mr Kirby into
more trouble than all the others put
together. He was accused of being out
of date in his information —an argument
that has considerable merit in view of
the £lOO million-worth of new industries
negotiated by the Minister for Industrial
Development in the last 12 months. How-
ever, at least half of this capital has
strings attached which still make it a
hope rather than a reality. Mr Kirby’s
point about shipping reductions and
freight difficulties to the eastern States
was not seriously disputed, although
somebody should have pointed out that
the building of the standardised railway
line would make all the difference to this
situation.
When the smoke of battle cleared it
became fairly obvious that Mr Kirby and
the W.A. defenders were arguing two
separate themes. Mr Kirby was talking
mainly about the difficulty of supplying
the Australian market from W.A., which
most economists agree is a risky business,
at least in popular consumer goods. Those
who came out to attack him were arguing
the merits of the State as a base for
export markets, particularly in Asia.
Economists would also agree that the
potential in this direction is considerable
on a long-term basis. So both parties
were right in their separate views.
There is a clear moral in this con-
troversy for industrially young Western
Australia. It would have been preferable
to have exercised President Kennedy’s
silent diplomacy methods to correct any
unfortunate misconceptions Mr Kirby
might have given about W.A. to his
influential audience. The State can do
itself no good by publicly abusing every-
body who points to its difficulties.
Queensland Cuts its Lines
Tn a state of near-panic over mounting
railway losses, Queensland’s Nicklin-
Morris Government last November
agreed to the closing of six branch lines
which had been operating at a loss. A
further survey of uneconomic lines was
promised. Results of that survey are now
to hand, and the accountant's finger has
been laid on another 50 lines unable to
justify their existence in balance-sheet
terms.
The report has been discussed in
Caucus by the Country and Liberal
parties and deferred for further con-
sideration, but quite a few lines seem
certain to get the axe despite strong
protests, in the main from Country party
members who resent any limitation of
service (and employment) to their elec-
torates.
What has happened to all the blithe
and confident promises made over the
years when the Government was in
Opposition? And even after its election
to office in 1957, when it promised to
treat the railways “like any other business
proposition.”
For the three years of A.L.P. adminis-
tration preceding the present Government
the railways lost £3,178,806 on their
direct working account; under Liberal
Minister Gordon Chalk they have lost
£6,083,374 for the same period —-
£17,167,451 if interest charges are added.
Mr Chalk has blamed everyone but
himself for the losses —“border hoppers,”
drought, flood, seasonal conditions, wage
increases. Early in his reign he brought
Professor Hytten up from Tasmania to
report on the railways. The report, which
cost something like £l4OO, has never been
released, despite Opposition requests. It
has not even been tabled in the library
for members’ information, as is the prac-
tice with some departmental reports.
A new Traffic Act was brought down
late last year, restricting road transport
from the carriage of certain types of
goods and imposing penal intra-State
taxation rates. Hauliers regard it as an
invitation for an increase in border-
hopping and genuine interstate runs,
causing still further losses to the railways.
At the same time Mr Chalk announced
a £lOO,OOO agreement with an American
firm of consultants (Ford Bacon and
Davis) to report on the railways, and he
has just announced that he is going over-
seas to study the railway systems in other
countries. Queenslanders are frankly
puzzled.
In essence, the Queensland railway
system is divided into three sections —
south-eastern (based on Brisbane), central
(based on Rockhampton), and northern
(based on Townsville). The central and
northern divisions make annual profits
which are swallowed up by losses from
the vital south-eastern division. Because
of its denser population and nearness to
the border the south-eastern division is
peculiarly vulnerable to road-transport
competition. Restrictive transport laws
and high State taxation laws, however,
have only helped to spread border-
hopping and genuine interstate road


haulage, where Section 92 is invoked to
free them of State laws.
Some ridiculously low prices to defeat
road operators (£4 10s. a ton from Sydney
to Brisbane by rail contract, compared
with £20-odd a ton from Brisbane to
Roma) have added to railway losses with-
out checking road transport. A long
Labor legacy of low suburban passenger
fares continued by Liberals, presumably
in the tradition of vote-catching, could
be another contributing factor.
The Government has refused to call
in practical transport men to solve the
situation. Full-scale reports and recom-
mendations designed to help both rail and
road systems have been submitted by such
top Queensland hauliers as Cyril Ander-
son (head of giant Western Transport)
and Bill Bolton (boss of Cobb and Co.),
only to be ridiculed or totally ignored.
The Government seems to think that
public servants, wandering economists
and untrained politicians are the only
people whose advice is worth having.
With transport costs estimated at
6s. 8d. in the £, Queensland is not in
a good position to cope with development
pangs. In South Australia, Premier
Playford has made transport practically
free to attract business and enable access
to markets —to such an extent that
farmers in Mount Isa are getting Queens-
land-grown sugar, groceries, etc., by road
from Adelaide through the Centre instead
of by rail or road from Brisbane.
Until Queensland learns the Playford
lesson it can expect to continue to be
hamstrung by a shortsighted, antiquated
transport policy, geared to pre-war con-
cepts. Meanwhile, the forecast is fewer
railway lines, rising transport costs —and
the same old losses.
Winter of the
17th Doll
A number of Australian firms are pool-
ing their ideas to produce an auto-
matic cane-cutting machine to harvest
the sugar crop in Queensland. How and
in what way the machines do develop
and are used by the sugarcane farmers
will emerge within the next few years.
Many people may regret the passing of
the canecutter, a possibly oversentimen-
talised image of one “typically-Australian
worker.”
Queensland has 31 mills to New South
Wales’s three, but most of the raw sugar
is eventually refined in the southern
States. Late May to December are the
canecutting months and most of the 9000
cutters go to other States seeking work
for the remaining four months of the
year or scratch out a living somehow in
Queensland.
A quick cutter, working in a gang of
from five to eight men, can earn £B-£9
a day while the harvest is on. It is hard,
hot work and most Queenslanders think
the men are not overpaid.
There are several types of machine in
existence. Although these are much
faster than a man at cutting cane, none
is yet quite as efficient at the job. A
good canecutter can cut and load eight
tons of burnt cane a day. One two-row
harvester, operated by two men, which
was tried at the end of last season, cuts
up to 200 tons a day. However, this
particular machine cannot handle
tangled or flattened cane.
This machine is mounted on a diesel
tractor and tops, cuts and drops cane
in about one-third-of-a-ton heaps for
mechanical loading. It is proposed to
work on a modification which will enable
the harvester to discharge cane directly
into bins on lorries. Lorries would drive
alongside the machine and run a shuttle
service between the machine and the field
siding.
The machine carries two men —one
driving the tractor and operating the
bottom cutters, the other operating the
top cutters and hopper release. A ground
crew is required for cutting out patches
of tangled cane and cleaning up generally
during loading.
There are two ways the machines can
come into the industry. A group of
farmers could form a co-operative and
buy one of the larger type, or farmers
could buy the smaller models and own
and work them individually.
It is clear that once a machine is per-
fected serious unemployment will face the
cutters. One company executive gave his
point of view on this. He said that
although employment will be cut by
roughly half, he expected that the
machine would help to stabilise employ-
ment in the industry.
New Zealand
“Dynamite”: Export Only
Tt would be a careless attendant who
A spilt a gallon of petrol at a ser-
vice station. But someone, as yet un-
named, managed to spill 52,000 gallons
of 83 octane fuel at the Caltex (New
Zealand) yard at Ahuriri, the old port
suburb of Napier, last Wednesday
night.
“A defective valve,” later explained
Caltex’s operations chief H. F.
Skinner on the spot, while managing
director H. A. Hansen and his public-
relations officer made reassuring
noises 200 miles away in Wellington.
By 3 a.m. Thursday, after protesting
calls from choking Ahuriri residents,
police and fire-brigade men discovered
a lake of petrol in the 4000 square-
yard sunken compounds around four
tanks which hold more than 2,000,000
gallons of petrol and diesel fuel. One
spark would have set off a blaze which
within seconds would have exploded or
split the tanks in the compound and
formed a lake of blazing fuel one
acre in area and Bft deep.
How many homes, factories and
warehouses would have burned is
anyone’s guess. Local firefighting
resources, left after the initial head
blast, would have been lucky to have
confined the total destruction to much
less than a square mile after the
8000 tons of fuel had burnt itself
out.
But New Zealanders, who have an
even larger share than Australians
of the sanguine, “she’ll be right” in-
heritance of the English, appeared little
troubled by the occurrence. Nine hours
elapsed after the discovery before
local radio stations began broadcast-
ing warnings to nearby homes not
to light their gas. If any of those
people whose tin-roofed wooden bun-
galows were as close as 100 yards
away evacuated their homes no one
noticed them go. The little convent
school of St Mary’s opposite the tanks
closed. Nearby engineering work-
shops stopped welding. But, apart
from “Road Closed” signs over a
few blocks, life went on much as usual.
Those trying to clear up the mess
had no illusions about the danger.
N.Z. Fire Chief Tom Varley, who
flew from Wellington, told telephon-
ing Australian radio stations and news-
papers that the situation was “dyna-
mite,” but preferred not to use such
terms for local consumption.
Twenty-four hours after the dis-
covery the danger was practically
past and at the weekend things were
back to normal. Napier, where 200
people died in an earthquake 30 years
ago, took the occurrence with its
usual attitude, “it can’t happen here,”
and showed less interest than last May
when, after radio warnings of
approaching Tsunami, following
Chilean earthquakes, local residents
drove in hundreds to the marine parade
to watch for the expected tidal waves.
Government appeals last year to
local bodies to form civil-emergency
organisations have so far passed
Napier City Council by, but goadings
from the angry Ratepayers’ Associa-
tion now have more point. Already
Mayor Peter Tait in a cautious state-
ment has suggested that the oil com-
panies confer with his council. Civil
Defence Minister Leon Gotz said on
Saturday the situation would have
been much worse had it not been for
New Zealand’s safety regulations con-
cerning oil installations.
Some of those who were on the
scene thought there was no cause for
congratulations about regulations
which allowed four large tanks, cap-
able of holding about 10,000 tons of
petrol, to share one compound in the
middle of a residential and industrial
area.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Commonwealth Stones
TFhis page is designed to say things
that others are not all that keen
to say, to cut through the merely
fashionable in political comment and
to put forward policies, if you like,
of humanity and liberalism, but based
on some scepticism about ideologues’
promises, a keenness to see the facts
in perspective against other facts, a
belief that merely wishing for
change does not ensure that you get
the changes you want, and the convic-
tion that nothing has killed more
people and made more lives hideous
in a century in which tens of millions
of human beings have been slaughtered
than the exaltation of sentiment and
emotion.
In trying to be cool-headed, one
could not pick a more unpopular sub-
ject than discussion in this country
about whether South Africa should
have been blackballed from the Com-
monwealth. Before buying into it, it
is necessary to say that of the tragedy
and the evils of apartheid there is no
doubt; there is tragedy because the
forces in South Africa are so balanced
that they are bound to essay each
other’s destruction ; and there is also
evil, not only because of the degrada-
tions of the oppressed, but also of
the oppressors. Having said that, one
can then make the point that oppres-
sion as such has not really been the
main thing under discussion.
No one has suggested that to belong
to the Commonwealth a nation must
have universal enfranchisement, insti-
tutional guarantees of liberty, and so
on —partly for the very good reason
that at least one other Commonwealth
country has not got them (and others
could quickly lose them) and partly
because race questions rather than
political systems are now the vogue in
progressive circles. A certain kind of
progressive thought is now almost
exclusively concerned with the oppres-
sion of people of non-European origin.
The oppression of Europeans by
Europeans, or of non-Europeans by
non-Europeans, or of Europeans by
non-Europeans, or the very act of
oppression itself does not matter. In a
world full, as ever, of evil it is for
the moment fashionable to concen-
trate all of our emotional resources on
the non-European races.
In doing this we do the cause of
freedom great harm. Indeed, we re-
place it by another cause altogether —-
the exaltation of non-Europeans, a
matter that brings political discussion
right down to the nursery floor where
it can be conducted like any other
child’s game of colors in an endless
mess. One can talk about South
Africa in terms of freedoms, of the
struggle of interests, of the problems
of enfranchisement of oppressed
classes or the continued oppression of
them, of the business of maintaining a
government and all of the rest of it —
but in these terms what rules do you
set up to govern membership of the
Commonwealth?
Practically every Commonwealth
Prime Minister —perhaps, secretly, all
of them —loathes the policies of the
South African Government. But how
can he guarantee that some day, in
another, perhaps non-racial context,
he won’t be following similar policies
himself? Would the Prime Minister
of India hesitate to become oppres-
sive if, as after India’s liberation, there
was a possibility that riots might again
kill 2,000,000 Indians? Did the Prime
Minister of Malaya hesitate to con-
nive with the British in rigging up a
“nation” that cut the Chinese out of
the governing of Malaya? Does the
Prime Minister of Pakistan want to
risk his country’s dissolution by giv-
ing it the same freedoms as Canada?
Do we want to expel ourselves from
the Commonwealth because we have
made a mess of the aborigines? Does
the Prime Minister of Ghana want to
restore his country’s liberties?
To do them justice, the Common-
wealth Prime Ministers are no doubt
concerned with more than the fine-
line-drawing of Constitutional expedi-
ency and the preservation of their own
positions. One dramatic gesture of
exclusion might get them a good press
in their own countries. But it would
not help the Africans.
Communists in Universities
HPhere has been a lot of talk lately
about how you should appoint
people to universities, and whether
you appoint Communists or not. The
Federal Council of the University
Staff Association has now decided to
set up a committee to investigate
appointment procedures in all Aus-
tralian universities. This would be
good news —if one had more confi-
dence that the committee would do a
thorough job. For example, although
this Federal Council has done its duty
in bringing into discussion the refusal
of the University of N.S.W. to appoint
Dr Russel War'd because of his past
membership of the Communist party
it has remained deathly silent on the
far greater scandal of the refusal of
more than one Australian University
to appoint Dr Colin Clark, an econo-
mist of world renown, because his
politics are conservative and his
religion Catholic.
Doubts that the Federal Council
will be thorough in its analysis of
appointments are strengthened by the
ridiculous statement in the current
issue of its journal that the attitude of
the University of N.S.W. “smells of
McCarthyism, totalitarianism, and the
bigotries of the Middle Ages.” The
University of N.S.W. is a pretty rum
place —but “the bigotries of the
Middle Ages” is going a bit too far.
Apart from all this verbiag: the crux
of the matter is: are members of the
Communist party fit to hold university
appointments? The usual cant is that
a man should no more be excluded on
the grounds of Communism than he
should on a religious test. The
assumption is that Communists are
just simple, barefooted (if heretical)
holy men. Our universities could
probably do with a few more heretics,
but Communists are not just heretics.
They are conspirators pledged to
undermine the universities, along with
the rest of “bourgeois society,” to fake
research, indoctrinate students, smear
and intimidate their enemies, use their
influence to get fellow-travellers into
university positions and even pass
secrets on to a foreign Power if they
have any. Anyone now a member of
the Communist party must be unfit for
an academic job. And so, one must
add, are fascists, gangsters and
members of the Ku Klux Klan.
Prophet
Department
CJir Douglas Copland probably has
the wrong end of the stick when
he suggests our present economic
troubles are an employment crisis.
The position is both better—and
worse —than that.
With a reasonable amount of luck,
an unemployment force of 150,000 to
200,000 is unlikely. Our economy is
not as dead as that. So far as one
can discern the dim shapes in the
crystal ball at present men are changing
jobs, not becoming unemployed ; some
of their wives are losing part-time
work ; and overtime is being cut down.
But there is not yet one ray of hope
in our balance-of-payments crisis. The
Government is doing things that may
have the right results over a period
of time. In the meantime we can
only pray that overseas capital does
not panic out of Australia. If it does,
we are in trouble. The odds are that
it won’t. If wandering capital won't
invest in- Australia where would it
invest? In the longer term there is
the dreadful —and unanswered —ques-
tion: what will we do about wool?
BY OBSERVER


The Two Calwells
By ALAN REID
There are two Arthur Calwells in
modern Australian politics the
Calwell that was and the Calwell
that is. It is as though at some
period in his career the Calwell that was
crossed a spiritual Rubicon. Thereafter
he disappears and a different Calwell
emerges. It is interesting to compare the
two.
The Calwell that was was a man of
restless, driving energy. Nothing hap-
pened in the Labor party without him
being deeply involved. He had a finger
in every pie and a fist in some. He had
self-confidence to burn. He had views
on everything and was prepared to state
them at the drop of a hat (or without
any provocation at all) and to fight for
them even if to do so meant clashing
with Prime Ministers from his own party,
party leaders, or party machine bosses,
as often it did. He was bumptiously
assertive and bold to the point of reckless-
ness. He was as ready to tell the Pope
how to run his business, as he did with
his public declaration that His Holiness
had made a mistake in conferring a
cardinal’s Red Hat on Gilroy of Sydney
instead of on his old cobber, Mannix
of Melbourne, as he was to lecture the
Labor party on what should be done
about defence, conscription, immigration,
strikes, Bretton Woods, and a host of
other things. In his own words he “loved
disputation for disputation’s sake.”
The Calwell that is is a man of quite
different mould. He is diffident, uncer-
tain, almost timid, a drifter on the tide
of Labor events rather than one who
seeks to control the direction of the tide’s
flow. Labor storms rage round him but
not over him. He is diplomatically miss-
ing when the lightning flashes and the
rain falls. When there is a temporary
lull he emerges, stepping delicately like
a cat trying to avoid getting its feet wet,
from dry spot to dry spot, colorless and
neutral. The Right wing moves to get
a change in the present Left-wing Federal
leadership of the A.L.P. machine. He
is not for it. But then he is not against
it. The Democratic Labor party makes
a conditional peace offer. It could be
the biggest thing for Labor that has hap-
pened for a long time. Calwell himself
has said constantly that if D.L.P. votes
were combined with those of the A.L.P.
Labor would govern Australia. But he
give no lead either way.
His friends claim they never get his
support while his enemies—and they
make surprisingly little attempt to dis-
guise their enmity—accept his support
contemptuously.
The two Calwells —so dissimilar that
it is difficult to realise that they were
once the same man merge into each
other so imperceptibly across the years
that it is hard to fix precisely when they
became separate identities.
ARTHUR CALWELL
A finger in every pie
Some people say that the process
of change started for Calwell on
December 10, 1949. It was on that day
that the Chifley Labor Government, in
which Calwell was Immigration Minister
and a major figure, was overthrown at
the polls by the Menzies-led Administra-
tion which has been in power con-
tinuously since It was a shattering day
for Calwell. He was shocked almost to
the point of disbelief. This could not
happen to him—a man with a secure
place in Australian history as the
acknowledged architect and successful
organiser of Australia’s post-war immi-
gration programme, one of the boldest,
most immense and best-managed volun-
tary mass movements of people in
modern times. He was bewildered and
baffled. He was too valuable to the
people of Australia. How could they
do without his services as Minister of
State and as a key part of their apparatus
of government? It took him quite a
while to bring himself to face what for
him was the bleak realisation that the
country could not only dispense with his
services in government, but had.
Crossing the Rubicon
Come people say that the Calwell change
took place later. They acknowledge
that Labor’s election defeat in 1949
shocked him badly and that his recovery
was slow. But they list March 18, 1955,
as the day Calwell crossed his personal
Rubicon. That was the day Calwell
addressed the historic A.L.P. conference
in Hobart out of which came the present
Labor troubles. It is a key date in A.L.P.
history. On the morning of March 18,
1955, neither the Right wing nor the
Left wing fanatics, who were fighting
over the charges by the then Labor
leader, Dr Evatt, that a secret organisa-
tion, largely Roman Catholic in inspira-
tion and headed by Mr B. A. Santamaria,
had infiltrated the Labor party and was
within an ace of taking it over, were
completely sure of the result. The Left
wing extremists had the edge on their
equally as extremist Right wing adver-
saries. But that was all.
Nobody knew which way Calwell was
going to jump. And at that point of
time and in the circumstances then exist-
ing, he was a very key figure. He was in
a unique position. He was Catholic, but
nobody could say that any action he
decided to take would be because of
Santamaria’s influence upon him —the
two were open enemies and had been
feuding for years. He had prestige and
standing. He had an impeccable Labor
record.
Calwell’s speech to the conference that
morning revealed to the Left wing that
its fears about him were groundless. He
deplored what was happening. He told
the conference that he did not like what
was happening. He questioned the bona
fides of his leader, Dr Evatt, in fostering
the dispute by giving details which sug-
gested a long and seemingly intimate
association between Dr Evatt and Mr
Santamaria —Mr Calwell’s enemy. He
pointed out that this association extended
back over quite a lengthy period of time.
But those were only the trimmings.
The real meat of his speech was that
he would be making no stand —that he
would accept whatever came without
seeking to shape what would come. The
Left wing extremists cheered and
applauded Calwell—a man to whose
ideological outloo'., they were implac-
ably opposed—as they had never cheered
and applauded him before and rarely
have since. His attitude has assured for
them Federal control of the party and
a base from which to conduct a purge.
Some people date the change in
Calwell even later than this. They date
it as recently as March 7 of last year
when Calwell took over the Labor leader-
ship from Dr Evatt who retired to become
Chief Justice of N.S.W. The theory of
this school of thought is that when Cal-
well moved into the leadership he found
on his plate such vast complex problems
that he had to change. Direct methods
were out. He had to be subtle and
flexible. Chamberlain, who controlled the
A.L.P. Federal Executive, had a
monopoly grip upon Labor leadership in
the Federal sphere. If there was to be
any leadership on party matters from the
Federal Parliamentary Leader, it had to
be a kind of leadership by infiltration.
Everything had to be done unobtrusively,


obliquely, and inoffensively. You can see
this type of thinking emerging when Cal-
well last year gave serious consideration
to the proposition that he—the Federal
leader —should stand for election to the
Victorian A.L.P. Executive. Victoria with
its extremist and Communist influenced
Executive was his weakest point, elec-
torally. Even Dr Evatt had described it
as a “running sore.” What should he
do about it? Carry the fight right to it,
tell its members what he wanted done,
and insist upon them doing it and then
if they defied him appeal to the Labor
movement throughout Australia to sup-
port his viewpoint and authority? The
Calwell that was would probably have
followed some such line. But the
approach of the Calwell that is was to
join their ranks so that he might in-
fluence them from within.
It was only when it was pointed out
to him that not only would he be de-
meaning his office as Federal leader but
he would also be putting himself in an
impossible position—bound, for instance,
by majority vote of the Victorian Execu-
tive to support the principle of unity
tickets between Communists and A.L.P.
members in trade-union elections while
required as Federal Parliamentary Leader
to condemn them as outlawed by official
A.L.P. decree —that he abandoned the
idea.
The Plunging Graph
Which of the three dates —December
10, 1949, March 18, 1955, or
March 7, 1960—brought about the Cal-
wellian metamorphosis is open to argu-
ment. But the metamorphosis is there.
And, unquestionably, all three dates have
played a part in shaping Calwell into the
man he is today.
The earliest date —December 10, 1949
—marks a definite turning point in the
Calwell career. If a graph were drawn
of Calwell’s political life up to then, it
would show a line moving steadily and
steeply upwards, with some slight, almost
inconsequential irregularities, until 1946.
After 1946 the irregularities grow more
frequent and more pronounced, but the
general movement is still as steeply up-
wards. Then the line plunges dramatic-
ally downwards, almost vertically, into
the depression of Labor’s 1949 defeat at
the polls.
It must have been a bitter day for
Calwell. Nothing in his earlier career
had prepared him psychologically for a
political setback of such personal mag-
nitude.
Even as a boy he had had his triumphs.
The son of a policeman and born in
West Melbourne in August, 1896, he won
scholarships which took him to matricu-
lation level at the Christian Brothers’
College, North Melbourne, by 1912. He
had had his small setbacks. Bad eyesight
from which he has suffered as a six-
year-old forced him to wear thick-lensed
glasses for the rest of his life and pos-
sibly preserved Harold Holt, the present
Treasurer, from having him—he has
always been interested in finance and
spent years in the Victorian Treasury—
instead of Sir Roland Wilson as perma-
nent head of the Treasury. He applied
for a Commonwealth Public Service job,
but was rejected because of his eyesight
and started work with the Victorian
Agriculture Department in 1913 at the
then quite princely salary of £1 ss. a
week. He stayed in this department until
he shifted to the State Treasury in 1923.
In the interval he had been caught up
in politics. He was 19 in 1916 —a year
of feverish political activity in Australia
and particularly in the Labor party.
World War I was already two years old
and conscription was in the air. Labor
was starting to split, as it was to split
twice again in Calwell’s lifetime. Cal-
well, who a generation later was to lead
the anti-conscription forces of World
War II and to defy his own Prime Minis-
ter, the late John Curtin, in doing so,
responded to the atmosphere of the
times as individuals everywhere were
responding. His response was to take
out a ticket in the Labor party.
It seems somehow typical of the lanky
bespectacled youth with the big, curved
nose that was to delight a future crop
of cartoonists should start off his political
career with an act of defiance. In taking
out his A.L.P. ticket, he defied the Vic-
torian Government. Victorian Public-
Servants had been debarred from joining
the A.L.P. since a big railway strike in
1903.
It did not take Calwell long to move
up in the party. The anti-conscriptionists
won the fight in the party and he was
an anti-conscriptionist. In 1916 and 1917
there were lots of opportunities to climb
up through the gaps in the ranks caused
by those who had defected or been ex-
pelled over the conscription issue.
BEN CHIFLEY
He wanted a spellbinder
He had none of the normal distracting
small vices of youth (John Curtin years
later was to describe him humorously
as belonging to “the Methodist wing of
the Catholic Church”). He was a non-
smoker and a teetotaller. He did not
touch hard liquor until he was 50 and
even now is sparing in its use. Even
his hobbies were useful to him. A
fanatical Australian nationalist, he
studied Australian history avidly—he is
still one of the best-read men on Aus-
tralian history and Australian literature
in the Parliament. He loved words,
learned new ones so that his vocabulary
became immense, as it still is.
When World War I ended Calwell was
well up in the party and he went higher.
He became a controversial figure. Non-
Labor politicians started to resent being
pushed round by a man who, as a
Ireasury clerk, was nominally their ser-
vant. Things got a bit sticky. One Vic-
torian Premier, Sir William McPherson,
endorsed a Public Service report on Cal-
well’s political activities: “This man is
dangerous and should be dismissed.”
He survived that, and an even more
dangerous one. During the 1934 Federal
election campaign he produced a violent,
demagogic electioneering sheet called
“The Clarion.” Premier Sir Stanley
Argyle ordered his removal from the
Treasury. But it was not Calwell who
went. A change of government was
engineered. Argyle went out. Calwell
stayed in. Thereafter he was an “Un-
touchable”—a man of power whom it
was wise to leave alone.
The period just before World War II
saw him at the zenith of his State political
power. He and Pat Kennedy (then Vic-
torian State Secretary) controlled and ran
the Victorian A.L.P. machine. Like
independent princes, they did deals in
Labor’s name with non-Labor State
governments. With Labor frequently the
balance of power between warring non-
Labor forces, Calwell, officially a nobody,
a junior Treasury official, was in a
position to make or break governments.
Sometimes he made them ; occasionally
he broke them. Pressmen claim that
during those days they often saw him
summoned (invited would probably be
a better description) from his Treasury
desk to advise Cabinet on whether or
not it could take a certain course without
risking Labor opposition or loss of Labor
support. He was really big-time.
The Red Hat
TTe w'as not only big-time in politics.
He was big-time in his Church —the
Roman Catholic and as a man who
prided himself on being a good Church-
man that pleased him immensely. He
was on friendly, intimate terms with the
senior Roman Catholic prelate in Vic-
toria—Archbishop Daniel Mannix —and
engagingly open in some ways he made
no secret about how highly he prized
the association. He never described him-
self as Archbishop Mannix's political
adviser, but he was obviously flattered
when other people so described him. He
had an almost awed regard for the
already aged Archbishop that was to
show itself years later when the Pope
created Archbishop Gilroy of Sydney
Australia’s only Cardinal. It was not
fair, Calwell complained. He had nothing
against Gilroy. But Mannix was the Aus-
tralian prelate who on every ground-
culture, wisdom, courage and perfor-
mance—should have received the coveted
Red Hat of a Cardinal.
There was no hint then of the bitter-
ness between the two that the years and
political events were to bring—a bitter-
ness now so deep on Calwell’s side that
he could acknowledge (on TV) the Angel


of Death as a political ally who might
within a given period (before the next
Federal elections) rid him of the 97-year-
old Archbishop who had once been his
friend but whom he now regarded as
a buttress for the D.L.P. and, as such,
a roadblock halting Labor’s march back
to Federal power.
This early intimate association between
Calwell and Archbishop Mannix and the
obviously high value Calwell set upon
it justifies some quite interesting specula-
tion. What is the real basis for Calwell's
later dislike of Santamaria? Did this
dislike have an ideological starting point?
Did Calwell, an old-fashioned Labor man
and intense Australian nationalist, sense
the menace that his co-religionist, Santa-
maria, with his “new” Catholic European-
type approach to politics was to become
to the future of the Labor party which
Calwell loved so genuinely and uncritic-
ally? Or did the dislike come from
personal jealousy—a passionate resent-
ment (Calwell is both an emotional and
an intense man) of the fact that Santa-
maria had supplanted him as the Arch-
bishop’s unofficial political adviser and
counsellor? But those queries belonged
to the future in those days just before the
War. Calwell was on top of the world.
There was only one fly in his otherwise
satisfactory ointment.
Setting the Molonglo Aflame
before he had decided that the
Federal Parliament was the appro-
priate showcase for his talents. He un-
doubtedly daydreamed. He would become
Labor leader. Then Prime Minister. He
would set the Molonglo aflame. Most
daydreams end there But Calwell set out
to make them come true. He shopped
round for a good Federal seat. He did
not have to rush things. If he did he
might finish up in a “swinger.” He could
afford to wait. He was young. His choice
was Melbourne, one of the safest Labor
seats in the Commonwealth, then held by
the already aged Dr William Maloney,
a picturesque bearded little old fellow
who loved children and wanted them all
to get free milk. Calwell organised him-
self into the position of heir - apparent.
The seat was his whenever Dr Maloney
elected to retire. But Dr Maloney did
not elect to retire. He went on for years,
growing older and more frail but still
indomitable and still the member tor
Melbourne.
It was not until Dr Maloney’s death
in 1940 that Calwell arrived in Canberra
expecting a big welcome from the Labor
party. Nobody cared. A far bigger per-
sonality was monopolising attention. For
it was wartime. Dr Herbert Vere Evatt
had sensationally resigned from the High
Court bench and won Barton for the
Labor party.
Calwell decided to make his presence
felt. He watched Evatt team up with
Jack Beasley and the pair proceed to
make a nuisance of themselves both to
the Menzies Government of the day and
to their own leader, Jack Curtin, whom
they viewed as a “pussyfooter” frightened
to snatch the reins of office from a Minis-
try already showing signs of internal
disintegration. He decided to get himself
both a running partner and a policy that
would keep his name in the newspapers
and before the general public.
None of the Labor “ins” of that time
was interested in teaming up with Cal-
well. They were looking for more fruitful
alliances. But Ned Ward at this stage
was one of the Labor “outs.” He was
energetic, ambitious, a troublemaker of
no mean order. For Calwell he was just
what the doctor ordered. They linked up
in an association that kept the Labor
party in turmoil for years and earned
for them the title of “The Terrible
Twins.”
Having taken steps to see that he would
not become a forgotten man in party
affairs, Calwell sought to make his name
better known to the public. He tried all
kinds of stratagems. He cultivated indi-
vidual pressmen. He tried profound
speeches, provocative speeches, humorous
speeches, even silly speeches. He did not
hit the deck. It was the newcomer Evatt,
not the newcomer Calwell, who filled the
headlines.
Up to this point, his relationships with
the press had been no worse and possibly
a little better than those of most Labor
men. He faithfully called newspapers
“capitalistic sheets” and their employees
“capitalistic hirelings” in public in con-
formity with Labor dogma. But in
private he had cultivated the goodwill
of both individual newspapers and indi-
vidual newspapermen. This had done him
no good. Okay. He would vary his
tactics. He would attack them.
EDDIE WARD
Energetic troublemaker
Out of this came his famous “Curse
the Press” campaign. It did not matter
what happened. He blamed the press.
A man was drowned at a lonely beach?
It was the fault of the press that en-
couraged bathing at lonely beaches. A
drought back of Bourke? What could
you expect with any urbanised press that
no longer had interest in the great out-
back which provided Australia’s wealth?
Joe Stalin entered into a pact with
Hitler? It was the press again.
He kept the press busy pointing out
how silly his attacks were. Calwell could
not have cared less about the charge of
silliness. His name was getting into the
newspapers. He was becoming known.
But gradually what started off as a cynical
political stratagem began to have a real
basis—Calwell developed a real phobia
where the press was concerned, com-
menced believing his own propaganda,
and really to hate the press.
He was proceeding happily along this
line when in 1941 the Fadden non-Labor
Government fell ; Labor went into office,
with John Curtin as the new Prime
Minister. Both Calwell and Ward stood
for the Ministry at the caucus meeting
which was assembled to elect Labor’s
new Cabinet. Ward beat the official ticket
(Curtin did not want him in) and became
Minister for Labor. Calwell missed out.
He retired to the obscurity of the back-
benches, but not to lick his wounds. He
had more important things to do. Other
men before him had got into Cabinets
by making such a nuisance of themselves
that their party gave them a Cabinet
appointment in self-defence and to shut
them up. Calwell knew his history—no
one better. He made a nuisance of him-
self. He was a merciless critic of every-
thing the Government did. He was a
continual embarrassment and a far worse
thorn in the Government's side than the
official Opposition. He goaded Curtin
mercilessly. If Curtin was for something,
he was against it. After japan came into
the war, Curtin wanted conscription for
service in an area which Curtin viewed
as vital to Australia. Calwell, anti-
conscriptionist in World War 1, reacted
against this with genuine passion. He
fought Curtin all the way, using his still
considerable influence within the A.L.P.
machine, humiliated him several times
and came within a hair’s breadth of beat-
ing him.
When party elections for Cabinet
came round again alter the 1943 elec-
tions, the party was glad to vote Calwell
in to get rid of him from the back-
benches. Yet feeling against him must
have been pretty strong for his perform-
ances between 1941 and 1943. He has al-
ways claimed that he got in with a three-
vote margin which is small enough.
Another version is that he got in with
only a one-vote margin.
Curtin made him Minister for Informa-
tion which brought him into daily,
close contact with the Australian press
with which he had been feuding incess-
antly ever since he conceived his “Curse
the Press” campaign. Whatever was
Curtin’s motive, the appointment did not
work out. He did not allow for Calweil’s
strongly authoritarian leanings. Wartime
Ministers wielded immense powers, as
they had to. Calwell’s authority was
wide. Other Ministers had similar powers.
But they reserved them as a last resort
and for big issues. They could not see
the sense in using a steam hammer to
crack a nut. Calwell liked using a steam
hammer. It was there. Why not use it?
This attitude of mind produced constant
frictions. It culminated in Common -
wealth officials stopping the issue of
newspapers at pistol point.
When Curtin died and was succeeded
as Prime Minister by the late Ben
Chifley, Calwell moved up further once
the war was over and emphasis shifted
back to peacetime projects. Chifley liked


Calwell. He regarded him as a man of
immense energy and high ability.
He looked round for the appropriate
job for Calwell, a gifted mischiefmaker.
There was Immigration. The Government
wanted to mount a really ambitious immi-
gration programme. But there were real
headaches. The trade - unions had an
ingrained suspicion of immigration dating
back to depression days when every
immigrant was another hungry mouth
to take food out of good Australian
mouths. It would be a full-time job to
keep them from getting snakey.
But that was not the only headache.
Australia’s ex - servicemen were still
settling into civilian life, looking for jobs
and homes in a country that had been
geared for war and had not built houses
on any scale for years.
Chifley wanted a spellbinder, a diplo-
mat, a visionary, a zealot, and a first-
class practical administrator wrapped up
in one person. As far as immigration v/as
concerned, he got him when he appointed
Calwell to the brand - new Immigration
portfolio.
Immigration brought out the best in
Calwell as well as on occasions, oddly,
the worst. A rabid Australian, he had
the vision splendid of a developing,
dynamic Australia, with its empty spaces
filled, tackling huge, imaginative projects
like the Snowy, rich and growing. He
became a missionary, and went out and
sold immigration in spots where you
would say it was unsaleable. He per-
formed the miracle of winning trade-
union support. He persuaded State
governments with housing, school and
hospital accommodation already over-
strained that they should support in their
long-term interests his efforts to increase
the strain. He ironed out differences be-
tween rival racial groups. He set up
citizens’ committees right, left and centre.
And simultaneously he administered—
with surprisingly few complaints for a
job of such magnitude—the bringing of
a huge mass of people to Australia who
had to be settled in jobs and homes,
despite language difficulties and the neces-
sity for seeing that they were not given
any priority of treatment over the Aus-
tralian-born.
While brash, indiscreet, sometimes
infantile, and occasionally quite un-
balanced when on a subject on which he
had not prepared his mind, he had earlier
shown that this might only be one
side of him. His period in Immigration
confirmed this judgment. If you want a
model handling of a bill by a Minister,
read the “Hansard” debate on the
Nationality Bill —quite a sticky subject
in its day. Calwell had prepared his mind
on the subject. He had worked out the
criticisms and how he should meet them.
He was the personification of tact,
tolerance, understanding, and good
humor.
But the general immigration pro-
gramme was only part, though un-
doubtedly the major part, of Calwell’s
duties. He also looked after restricted
immigration. On this he had blind spots.
He is a strong believer in the White
Australia policy. In the case of Sergeant
Gamboa, a Philippine national, the man
who in the days when he loved disputa-
B. A. SANTAMARIA
A new approach
tion for disputation's sake would argue
the case against divorce on the grounds
that “Those God has joined together let
no man put asunder” was quite pitiless.
It was as though Sergeant Gamboa and
the family he wanted to join in Australia
were not human beings, but names on a
sheet of paper —materials for an exercise
in an impersonal administrative problem.
Calwell did everything he could to keep
Sergeant Gamboa out of Australia.
There was the same inhuman element
about the Mrs O’Keefe case, when Calwell
sought to deport the Indonesian - born
mother of a large family who later
married an Australian. It was as though
he was dealing with pieces that must fit
neatly into place in an administrative
jigsaw.
The “Manila Girls”
TTis “Manila girls” affair has comic
elements, though it does reveal his
inclination towards authoritarianism. A
group of Australian girls then in Manila
proposed to take up employment with
the United States’ forces in America. For
some reason Calwell decided that their
morals would not be as safe in America
as they would be in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Another Minister might have
thought that. But all but the exception
would have decided (a) the girls’ morals
were no business of government unless
they contravened some law and ( b ) they
certainly were not any of their Ministerial
business. Calwell was the exception. He
was not interested in what the girls
thought was good for them. He knew
what was good for them. And that was
to come home. As Immigration Minister
he had some control over them through
their passports. He sought to exercise it
—unsuccessfully, as I remember it.
Such exercises as these won for him
the award in one Asian newspaper of
“The Man of Least Distinction for 1949.”
Shortly afterwards the Chifley Labor
Government went out of office and he
went with it. The 1949 defeat turned
him into a pessimist. He became con-
vinced that Labor was “The Party of
Crisis.” Federally it had been in power
JOHN CURTIN
What was his motive?
only three times and each time it was
during crises—World War I, the Depres-
sion and World War 11. Australia does
not want it when prosperous or safe.
He seems to still hold to this view.
After Chifley’s death in 1951 he be-
came Deputy Leader to Evatt, who suc-
ceeded Chifley in the top job. Then came
the complicated struggles within the
Labor party, touched off by the defection
of the Soviet diplomat, Vladimir Petrov,
when Evatt, who had already shocked
a large section of the Labor party by
appearing for Communist unions in a
successful court challenge to the validity
of the Menzies Government's anti-
Communist legislation, again bobbed up
in court.
At this stage Calwell, who had re-
covered his old exuberance, aggression
and self-confidence, could probably have
beaten Evatt for leadership if he had
forced a showdown in caucus. But it
looked as though Evatt was falling any-
way under his own weight and did not
need Calwell’s shove. The Victorian
Right wing A.L.P. executive was very
hostile about the fact that Evatt appeared
to be constantly bobbing up, defending
what in their eyes was the Communist
cause. N.S.W., also Right wing, was
none too pleased with the way things were
shaping. Queensland, similarly Right
wing, was growing increasingly restive.
Calwell was sitting pretty. Then Evatt
with his genius for improvisation alighted
on the Santamarian bonanza. It turned
the Labor world right over and Calwell
with it. It left Evatt sitting on top and
Calwell well down the bottom. He had
to wait until Evatt was ready to let go
of it before he could reach for the
leadership fruit. And even then he had
to fight for it, and he didn’t win it by
too wide a margin. Even now his grip
on it is quite precarious and mightn't
be maintained beyond the next elections,
and probably won’t if Labor is defeated.
And the Calwell that has it is a different
Calwell. It is not the tough aggressive
Calwell that was. It is a Calwell who
prefers to keep out of troubled waters
because people who go near them might
get wet —dangerously wet.


PERSONAL
Curious Maori
It seems inevitable that the crime which
sent 79-year-old poet Alan Mulgan
and his wife Marguerite (81) to hospital
in New Zealand recently will be remem-
bered for more than the identity of its
victims. (Mulgan is Talks Director for
the N.B.S. and a former literary editor
of the Auckland “Star.”)
The man who assaulted them is
Walter Patrick Te Hemara, 29, a
Maori with a list of 18 convictions, none
of which had previously involved
violence. His reported movements on the
night in question began at 10 o’clock with
the stealing of a car in Wellington. He
drove it eight miles to Lower Hutt, then
on to York Bay, where the engine stalled.
When he tried to push it, it ran away
from him and crashed into a wall. He
entered the nearest house through a
closed but unlocked door and went to
sleep on the lounge. The house was Alan
Mulgan's.
A few hours later Te Hemara entered
Mrs Mulgan's bedroom. When she
moved he lay on the floor ; when she
left her bed he got up and punched her
savagely. Alan Mulgan called from the
next room. Te Hemara went in and
punched him too, battering his face until
it was unrecognisable, breaking his nose
and cheekbones. He Went back and
forth between the two bedrooms, punch-
ing both victims until they were quiet.
He then went to the bathroom and
washed his hands, dampened a towel,
cleaned Mulgan's face and put both
victims back to bed. He later helped
Mrs Mulgan telephone a doctor and,
seeing that she was having difficulty,
took the phone from her and spoke,
representing himself as a neighbor
named Harris who had been brought to
the scene by the disturbance. He stressed
the need for urgency.
Disguised in a hat and overcoat of
Mulgan’s, Te Hemara then left the house
and hitched a lift back to Wellington
with a truck-driver. It took a week to
apprehend him.
Literary Ambassador
A merican ambassadors must be all
shapes and sizes, but their ambas-
sador to Australian literature, Professor
Joseph Jones of the University of Texas,
looks rather like Adlai Stevenson. A
study in brown—eyes, tie, suit and suede
shoes —the Professor has come to Aus-
tralia after lecturing for a year in Cape-
town and Johannesburg on the invitation
of former Sydney professor R. G.
Howarth, and he is deeply concerned
about South Africa's failure to give a
lead to the rest of Africa by finding “a
rational accommodation between whites
and blacks . . . Yes, Guy Howarth liked
it all right there, but no one is going
to like it any too well when things
explode under them —and they are bound
to blow up.”
Professor Jones will lose a section of
one of his courses should South Africa
leave the Commonwealth —as Professor
of English in Austin, Texas, he takes a
seminar in Commonwealth literature each
year which gives a broad survey of each
Commonwealth country up until the
19205; some students carry on their
studies at post-graduate level.
There are about half-a-dozen such
courses in North America, and Profes-
sor Jones enjoys the pioneering aspect
of his work. He regards English and
American literature as overworked fields.
He thinks it preferable for a student to
do a thesis on Lawson or Henry Handel
Richardson rather than the 101st analysis
of Faulkner or a minor 16th-century poet.
During his three months’ stopover here
on his way home from South Africa this
52-year-old, pipe-smoking Nebraskan is
studying the relationship between Walt
Whitman and Bernard O’Dowd and has
unearthed some correspondence between
them. He should have a good under-
standing of Australia —his son, doing his
Master’s in philosophy in Melbourne,
recently presented him with an Australian
grandson.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In London, at 83, James Nevin Tait, London
manager for J. C. Williamson Theatres Ltd
since 1920. He joined Williamsons after they
and his brothers’ company, J. and N. Tait
Concert Enterprises, amalgamated. He took a
special interest in opera and ballet, and handled
tours of all the famous singers who visited
Australia for the firm.
In Sydney, at 92, George Towns, world
professional sculling champion from 1901 to
1905 and in 1906-07. Having beaten the best
in Australia, Towns worked his way to Eng-
land in 1898, and the next year won the English
championship. He went on to defeat the then
world champion, Gaudaur, and to establish an
almost unbeaten record. He continued to row
in club events until he was 51, when he began
to make racing shells. At one time most shells
in use in Australia came from his Sydney
workshop.
In Brisbane, at 68, A. L. Marshall, acting
Federal president, and since 1929 Queensland
president, of the Storemen and Packers' Union.
At Caloundra (Q.), at 62, Andrew Veitch
Lauchland, World War I veteran and the first
Civil Aviation Department employee in Queens-
land. His first job was to look after the
Eagle Farm airfield, and in 1937, at Archerfield,
he became Queensland’s first tower-control
officer.
The Australian Novelists
7. OLAF RUHEN
Olaf Ruhen is
sometimes held
up as an example
of a man who
makes a business
rather than an art
out of writing.
His financial suc-
cess is somehow
held against him,
as if it were
vaguely discredit-
able to prefer to
sell stories as
Ruhen regularly
does to the
“Saturday Even-
ing Post” for
£lOOO each and
to have his books
published overseas (none has yet been
put out by an Australian publisher).
Ruhen seems to find it hard to
persuade people that he also writes
for pleasure. “I like the life,” he
says. “It enables me to travel for
six months out of the year.”
Born in Dunedin, New Zealand, of
stock from the Channel Islands, Ruhen
was the son of a timber importer, but
had no interest in business. He went
to sea in fishing boats during the de-
pression, but had set his heart on
getting to Australia. Journalism
offered him the chance to do this in
1938 —although he went back into the
R.N.Z.A.F. during the war as a pilot.
His short-story writing about Aus-
tralia attracted the attention of Lip-
pincott, the U.S. publishers, who
commissioned his first book, “Men of
Dahori.” This was followed by
“Naked Under
Capricorn,” his
biggest success—
it went into five
languages, and
the film rights
have been sold
twice.
Ruhen gave up
a staff job on
“The Sydney
Morning Herald”
some years ago,
when a news-
paper strike more
or less forced him
to go out on his
own. Since his
last book, “White
Man’s Shoes,” he
has completed the first draft of
another novel for Lippincott about
central Australia, but will probably
hold up publication of this to get out
a massive and serious work on the
seas around Australia, commissioned
by another U.S. publisher.
Ruhen is, as he says, “not starving
and not making a fortune.” But the
circumstance that annoys him most
is that, like so many other Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders in the
creative field, he has had to find his
main outlets elsewhere.
“No Australian publisher has
shown any interest in my writing,” he
says. “Publishers here treat their
authors almost unbelievably badly.
I’ve known manuscripts to be kept for
five years and then returned. Even
signed contracts have been returned
with regrets. But things are changing
now. They'll have to.”


The most advanced silo yet introduced!
The new
OR&
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in” door
at no extra cost.
04
❖
m
mm
mm
m
m
trim
Wm
wcwwwwwv
PS
«HT Si LSI
: lilil
msm
c iji.imom
H
&§&&s
£ U
»md*tjw
:>¥•:>
JSiSi
P®lB
•: :••«
m
i
fillip
| •• ’ ■:■•:•■ A..
ip
0m
il
¥. i<V
*S*
•••••: •
wwwfr
¥: ; x?3
1
EACH FEATURE CAREFULLY PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels upwards)
enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a minimum of
time, effort and discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal Ribs for
added strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging Outlet
complete with bag holder and steel cover.
• Sampling Outlet and Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind
door.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies complete
with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Root Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge
conical or flat bases.
• Steel Earth Ring.
Steel Floor ... suitable for
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97, £lO9. £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.
SSoXCC


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Imperial Preference
—Front THE BULLETIN. May 30, 1903
INTER-EMPIRE FREETRADE (i.e., PREFERENCE TO NIGGER - LABOR PRODUCTS)
THE BRITISH LION: "Here, my young friend, is a little gift I have for you. I’m
going to give preference to your goods and you to mine, and
We'll all be one —one Empire, one Throne, one Tariff."
LITTLE BOY FROM MANLY: " That's all right, John, but what about the other paw and
your friends there."


POLITICAL points
EVN top of the serious unemployment
in Queensland there is now to be
a State-wide four-hour stoppage this
week. The strike is a protest against
the Nicklin Liberal Government’s new
Industrial and Arbitration Bill. The
executive of the Trades and Labor
Council has condemned the Bill and
told the Government to withdraw it
and confer with union representatives.
According to the executive the Bill’s
provisions are the “most repressive in
Australia” and “a breach of the 1.L.0.
Convention on freedom of trade-union
organisation.” That's as may be, but
one provision in the new Bill has
already been withdrawn by the Gov-
ernment. This was a clause which
allowed legal men to represent parties
in certain industrial hearings. This
would have been a revolutionary
change. At present lawyers can only
appear before the State Industrial
Court with the consent of both parties.
The pressure for the withdrawal came
mainly from the Government’s own
backbenchers who, at a party meeting,
said that a “layman's court” held
advantages for both employers and
employees. Constitutional problems
that drew lawyers into Federal arbitra-
tion did not exist in State arbitration ;
consequently, there was no need for
lawyers to become involved. Legal
men could still be consulted before a
hearing.
The Federal secretary of one of our
largest unions tells me he is always
pleased when the employers in his
industry engage a lawyer to dispute
with him. He said: “Whilst a lawyer
might have an advantage in certain
legal matters 1 can lose him when we
are arguing about technical matters
within the industry.”
Hearings of industrial disputes are
often unnecessarily prolonged by the
briefing of lawyers representing dis-
puting parties. Many smaller unions
say that some cases have almost
broken them because of high legal
cost. Legal expenses have often been
given as the reason why trade-unions
are becoming increasingly dissatisfied
with the rather complex and un-
wieldy arbitration system. The Federal
Government should have a hard
second look at the whole question of
legal representation in industrial
matters. It might even learn a lesson
from Queensland.
• •
Mr Fred Chamberlain, the Federal
A.L.P. president, should also have
a hard second 100k —at himself. In
last week’s “Political Points” it was
mentioned that he had made a state-
ment on March 1 saying Formosa
should be handed back to the Chinese
and that six days later he had been
misreported. In a letter to the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” he wrote that
“mainland China” should be recog-
nised and it was his view that “no basic
difference existed between Chiang Kai-
shek and Syngman Rhee.” On March
10 the “Daily Telegraph” spoke to
the journalist who originally inter-
viewed Mr Chamberlain. The
journalist, Homer Bigart of the “New
York Times,” said Mr Chamberlain
in a two-hour interview had told him
that Communist China should be
allowed to have Formosa ; the United
States could “save face” by ■‘quietly
fomenting” a revolution against
Chiang Kai-shek as it had done in
South Korea “to get rid of Syngman
Rhee.” Besides being a roving corre-
spondent for the “New York Times,”
Mr Bigart has been a reporter for
32 years. He has won two Pulitzer
prizes for his skill and accuracy in
reporting. If Mr Chamberlain does
not want Formosa and the Formosans
handed back to the Chinese he should
say so unambiguously. Otherwise we
will all believe Mr Bigart.
• •
HTalking about political reporting, I
L came across a recent edition of
“The lllawarra Daily Mercury,” which
circulates in the South Coast industrial
area of N.S.W., 50 miles from Sydney.
The “Mercury” wrote up Mr E. J.
Harvey, secretary of the South Coast
Trades and Labor Council, under the
heading “Ted Harvey —South Coast
Labor Leader.” The article described
Mr Harvey as “a man who has the
admiration of a great many workers
in the area.” It referred to this “Labor
Leader's” energy and hard work, how
“it is hard to imagine anyone else
who could take the job when and if
he ever retires” and how “more than
15,000 unionists in every trade but
the ironworkers’ union generally
accept Harvey’s say as an officer of
the council on what is right for them
and the Trade Union movement. On
a few occasions, even some of the iron-
workers follow his lead.”
This “Labor Leader” has been a
member of the Communist party since
1940. Buried deep in the article is the
fact that less than half of the local
unions are affiliated with the council.
Among these is the biggest, the
Federated Ironworkers’ Association,
and another key union, the Australian
Society of Engineers. How can a
newspaper talk of an industrial leader
in such a eulogising manner, call him
“Labor Leader” and the rest of it
when he turns out not to have the
support of the majority of the workers
in his particular area? A similar posi-
tion occurred recently at Newcastle
during the last demarcation dispute.
The “Labor Leader” involved in that
dispute was Mr Alec Dowling, secre-
tary of the Newcastle Trades Hall
Council. Mr Dowling was also
described by some newspapers as a
“Labor Leader.” Like Mr Harvey, he
turned out to be a member of the
Communist party, and only half the
workers of Newcastle were (and are)
affiliated with the council.
• «
"Everybody knows —or purports to
know —how the political parties
get the money with which they fight
elections. They have “slush funds”
under the control of parliamentary
leaders, and at times they do very well
out of them indeed. What is less
known —although it is public informa-
tion —is how they get the kind of
money that pays the week-by-week
office salaries and expenses and keeps
the party going. Here the Liberal
party, with its Federal Secretariat, is
well ahead of the Labor party. And
it is the Labor party's own damn
fault.
As its balance-sheets show, Labor
draws its running expenses mainly
from union affiliation fees, with a bit
extra from party branches and income
from property. The Liberal party has
no unions to fall back on, so it takes
the trouble to go out and get the
money. The N.S.W. Liberal’s State
treasurer, Mr J. C. Maddison, recently
outlined the position in that State. He
said that the branch employed a staff
of more than 40, paid rent and
overhead for its offices, and put its
bit into kitty for “that vital research
body, the Federal Secretariat.” The
party has a finance committee which
devotes itself to going around and
raising money from Liberal sup-
porters. This means in detail that it
has the complex, dreary money-raising
activities of a charity organisation
that exists on the backs of hundreds
of unpaid sympathisers. Contrast with
this the lordly calm of the Labor
branches which hardly ever soil their
hands with money-raising. But if
Labor was to revive its branches to
raise money it might be embarrassed
by what else the new members
would do.
BY MUGGA


OVERSEAS
Seato’s Critical Test
By DENIS WARNER
The Seato Council meeting in Bang-
kok at the end of the month will be
by far the most important ever held.
In more ways than one it promises also
to be the most testing. For the Council
meets for the first time with all illusions
about the efficacy of the treaty organisa-
tion dispelled. The original premises on
which it was founded have been dis-
proved. No one has a mutually accept-
able definition of aggression. And mem-
bers are at loggerheads with each other
on the duties, responsibilities and wisdom
of Seato action to prevent it. The
militant attitude of the Thais and the
Filipinos is regarded by the Australian,
the British, the French and the New
Zealanders with dismay ; and the Thais
and the Filipinos, with the Americans
trying desperately to preserve the balance,
are bitterly conscious of the fact that
all seemingly reasonable alternatives have
been treated with contempt by the Com-
munists in the past and are likely to
be treated with similar contempt in the
future.
Laos continues to be the point of con-
flict, though now, it is clear, it is only
the peg for discussion. The British were
in favor of reconvening the Indian,
Polish and Canadian commission which
for some years after the Geneva Agree-
ment supervised Laotian affairs while
neutralist Prime Minister Souvanna
Phouma endeavored to integrate his
royal government and army with the
Herblock in New York “Post.”
“WE’RE HERE FOR THE POST-IN AUGURAL NON-GALA.”
Communist government and army of his
half-brother, Prince Souphanouvong.
But the Communists shrewdly want the
control commission only after they have
established the situation on a basis satis-
factory to themselves. For they are
conscious that when Souvanna Phouma’s
first efforts failed, the Americans backed
anti-Communist regimes, and, given the
opportunity, would probably do so
again, despite Laotian protestations of
neutrality.
The coups and counter-coups of the
past 15 years have all been related to
this central problem. They have led to
a situation in which the anti-Communists
hold Vientiane, Luang Prabang and
Savannakhet while Prince Souphanou-
vong and his Pathet Lao and Prince
Souvanna Phouma have met and inte-
grated their forces at Xieng Khouang on
the Plain of Jars and now command
most of the countryside. Laos has been
split into two camps with Communist
plus neutral forces ranged against the
anti-Communists. And the Communists
correctly believe that all the advantages
are on their side.
A substantial build -up of military
equipment has been achieved by Russian
air-shuttle service between Hanoi and the
Plain of Jars. Pathet Lao guerrillas who
have been trained in large numbers dur-
ing the past few years in North Vietnam
have returned to the country, together
with some of Ho Chi-minh’s skilled
military technicians.
HThe Americans have built up General
Phoumi Nosavan’s forces, and Ameri-
can advisers are in the field with the Royal
Lao Army, which, on paper anyway, is
bigger than the combined forces of the
Pathet Lao under Prince Souphanouvong
and the dissident paratroopers led by
Captain Kong Le. And since there are
at least two months of good campaign-
ing weather left before the monsoons
close the jungle tracks, an early show-
down is predictable—perhaps in time
even to throw the Seato Council meet-
ing into chaos.
Everything indicates that the Com-
munists think their military position is
strong enough to force a political vic-
tory, much in the way that seven years
ago they forced a political victory at
Geneva by the effective military expedi-
ent of destroying 16 French Union
battalions at Dien Bien Phu. For this
reason, they have pigeonholed the pro-
posal to reconvene the supervisory com-
mission and have thrown their full sup-
port behind a 14-Power conference
designed to put Prince Souvanna Phouma
back in office along with his Communist
Pathet Lao: after that, they indicate,
they would be delighted to see the com-
mission return.
The Americans, fully aware of what
this would mean for Laos, have coun-
tered with a proposal through King
Savang Vatthana in which, after formally
proclaiming Laos’s neutrality, he called
for a Malayan, Burmese and Cambodian


commission to see fair play. Cambodia,
more and more in the Communists’
pocket these days, turned down the pro-
posal. Burma, incensed that weapons
are still being dropped to Chinese
Nationalist insurgents, which for 12 years
have plagued and pillaged their north-
east, also declined.
As the situation stands on the eve
of the Seato meeting, therefore, the
Communists have both the military and
the political initiative. The probability is
that very soon they will present the West
with the alternative of accepting their
terms at the conference-table, or of losing
all Laos to forces and to a government
which will consist entirely of elements
unfriendly to the West.
This is the unadorned, unpalatable
dish that will be served up on Seato’s
plate when the Council meets in Bang-
kok on March 25. If we are realistic,
we will appreciate that there is no
acceptable solution. We might not lose
but we would never win a Korean-type
war in Laos. But if we accept the
inevitable, what then?
A sim lar si-uation is rapidly building
up in South Vietnam, where the Com-
munist guerrillas are making in.reasing
progress in the countryside anu D.em’s
unpopularity is mounting in the towns.
Even senior Vietnamese officials gloomily
tip that the next coup d’etat in Saigon
will put the Communists into power. Are
we to stand by while this occurs? And
what effect will it have on the Asian
members of Seato—Pakistan, Thailand
and the Philippines—if we do? Pakistan
is already disenchanted with Seato,
which it hoped would provide material
assistance in its family sub-continental
quarrel with India. It is now accepting
Russian aid, and, to India’s mortification,
has begun negotiations with Communist
China over border lands which India
claims. Thailand is also interested in
Russian aid and sorely disp.eased with
the American disposal of surplus food
products in countries which it regards as
markets for its rice. And all three Asian
members are highly dubious about the
Kennedy administration’s clear intention
to give substantial aid to neutral
countries such as India.
In short, revolt is brewing in the
Seato camp and it will be Mr Dean
Rusk’s first foreign task to try to put it
down. For little as Seato amounts to
when it comes under pressure, its collapse
now could only be regarded as a signal
Communist victory.
An African Leader
Harry Nkumbulah
By A. V. SHERMAN
The stark contrast between Sir Roy
Welensky’s threats and bluster and
Harry Nkumbulah’s confidence epito-
mises the march of events in Africa.
“Our political evolution has already
progressed too far for the clock to be
turned back by Sir Roy Weiensky’s
territorials,” Nkumbulah, President of the
Northern Rhodesian African National
Congress, told me in London, when the
news came through of Welensky’s sabre
rattling “Because the whole trend of
history is moving in our favor, we shall
do everything possible to avoid violence
in the future just as we have done in
the past. But we shall defend ourselves
if we are forced to do so.”
The Congo affair has deepened Nkum-
bulah's consciousness of the many-
sidedness of Africa’s problems. Like
most Northern Rhodesians he sympa-
thised both with Congolese nationalist
aspirations to a strong centralised State,
and with the Katangans’ right to control
their own affairs. (He hopes that one
day Northern Rhodesia and Katanga,
which have a common language and
ethnic origin, will federate with Uganda
and Nyasaland, and possibly other terri-
tories of East and Central Africa.) He
is far from happy at the results of
African interference in the Congo —
“Better to have let the Congolese find
their own feet somehow” is his verdict
—and aware that the ambitions of indi-
vidual African leaders can also become
an unsettling factor.
Northern Rhodesia has been an excel-
lent school for empiricism. It was opened
up to European penetration compara-
tively late. White settlers came in suffi-
cient numbers to give a strong fillip to
economic development and political life,
without gaining the numerical strength
necessary to make them the compact,
self-reliant national entity they constitute
in South Africa, or that many Southern
Rhodesian settlers hope they may
become.
Whereas Southern Rhodesia, with
nearly 200,000 Europeans and over
2,000,000 Africans, was granted
Dominion status after the First World
War and has managed to keep its Afri-
cans on a very tight rein—almost as
tight as South Africa until lately—
Northern Rhodesia remained a British
protectorate, in which the 80,000 Euro-
pean settlers, the British Colonial authori-
ties, tribal chiefs and urbanised Africans
—intellectuals, white - collar workers,
proletariat and self-employed—all re-
tained a certain freedom of manoeuvre.
In the last resort both settlers and Afri-
cans depended on the British authorities,
and devoted a considerable part of their
political activities to pressuring the British
in one direction or other. So politics
came to mean the art of the possible, very
much as it does in the West.
Tt was this milieu which produced
Harry Nkumbulah. He was born in
1916 into an influential and prosperous
Ila tribal family settled in Mala, in the
southern part of the territory, and was
educated into its tradition of public ser-
vice. After graduating from a Methodist
Teachers’ Training College, he taught for
six years in a primary school and was
active in the African school-teachers’
organisation.
He then left for the London School
of Economics, where he studied eco-
nomics and political science at a time
when Professor Laski was exerting a
formative influence over a generation of
students, many of whom were to play a
leading part in Afro-Asian national
movements and administrations. There,
he came into contact with every kind
of trend and viewpoint, from Methodist
to Marxist, undergraduate theorists and
fact-hungry post-graduates, ambitious
young would-be Labor M.Ps. and a re-
surgent generation of young conserva-
tives quite different from their elders.
On his return home in 1951 he joined
the African National Congress, estab-
lished three years earlier, and led the
opposition to Federation, mooted by the
British Labor Government and later to
be imposed by its successor. Northern
and Southern Rhodesia are geographic-
ally, ethnically, economically and historic-
ally distinct —they have nothing in
common except the name given to them
by the British. Whatever economic or
lllingworth in London "Daily Mail.”
“WELL, WHAT DO YOU KNOW!”


administrative advantage there might be
in Federation, there is hardly an African
throughout Northern Rhodesia and
Nyasaland who is not now convinced
that the scheme’s purpose was to shackle
the two Northern protectorates to
Southern Rhodesia in order to extend
Southern Rhodesia’s white supremacy
throughout Central Africa, and protect
the Southern Rhodesians from the possi-
bility of finding free African States on
its northern borders.
His struggle against Federation brought
Nkumbulah to the leadership of the
African National Congress, but later it
split, from an amalgam of personal and
political reasons. Some members felt that
the fight for African majority rule and
against Federation was not being carried
out fiercely enough. One of Nkumbu-
lah’s colleagues, Kenneth Kaunda,
formed the United National Indepen-
dence Party which rapidly grew in
strength, particularly in the towns.
The coexistence of two major
nationalist parties has been more gain
than loss. Their leaders have learned to
live together amicably, presenting a com-
mon front where necessary, gaining
valuable experience for the day when the
Northern Rhodesian “Gladstone and Dis-
raeli” may alternate in office.
Nkumbulah’s empiricism has stood him
in good stead in his recent tussle with
the British over the new multi - racial
constitution. On the one hand he rejects
the idea of “imposed multi-racialism”
with its paraphernalia of separate and
unequal voting, and remains convinced
that the only realistic guarantee for the
Europeans who have made Rhodesia
their home is African goodwill and co-
operation. He resents the pressure which
—he believes —made Colonial Secretary
MacLeod go back on what Africans
understand as his promise to introduce
African majority rule.
On the other hand he recognises how
delicate the situation is, and how complex
the pressures under which the British
Government and the Rhodesian Euro-
pean leaders find themselves, and is
politician enough to understand them.
He will go to any lengths to avoid pre-
cipitating violence, or giving the last-
ditchers among the settlers any excuse
for doing so. Though he disapproves of
the proposed constitution, he is likely
to make de facto use of it if it is imposed
against the wishes of settlers and Africans
alike. Experience has taught him to
cherish both eagerness and patience in
a period like this which is basically
favorable to African aspirations.
His own sense of proportion and
political intuition encourage his confi-
dence that white Northern Rhodesians
will show similar qualities in spite of
Welensky’s present bluster. They will
think twice, he hopes, before they pre-
cipitate a complete and irrevocable break-
down of constitutional life and poison
their relations with both Africans and
British authorities.
“They want to live peacefully in
Rhodesia, where they have invested their
property and effort, not to live in a
permanent state of siege, with revolvers
under their pillows fearful every time a
branch creaks at night.”
Let us hope that he proves to be right.
Pointers
EUROPE
UNITED KINGDOM
An advertisement appearing in the
English press reads: “OLD FRIENDS
ARE GOOD FRIENDS—and good cus-
tomers, too. Do you know that: (1)
South Africa, even now, is the largest
buyer of motor cars and commercial
vehicles made in England, except for
North America. (2) Nearly one out of
every five Pounds of the nett overseas
investments of the British Public is
already profitably and safely invested in
South Africa. This is already nearly
£1,000,000,000. (3) Nearly half of the
total tonnage of cargo (49.4 per cent.)
handled by the great port of Southamp-
ton is between Britain and South Africa.
Let us work to keep the Commonwealth
together. Inserted by a group of British
friends.”
HUNGARY
The regime has given further proof of
its confidence with renewed attacks on
the Catholic Church. Numerous trials
against priests on moral charges and a
press campaign warning them not to
remain alien elements within a Socialist
society are designed to break the Church’s
resistance to the Government-sponsored
peace movement. It is estimated that
1200 persons have been either arrested,
detained or interrogated. Two recent
meetings between the Deputy Prime
Minister, Mr Kallai, and Church dig-
nitaries, including Archbishop Grosz, the
acting head of the Hungarian Church,
resulted in rejection of the Government’s
demand for co-operation and curtailment
of the Church’s educational activities.
WEST GERMANY
West Germany is seeking 150,000 foreign
workers this year as it aims to achieve
a 5.5 per cent, rise in productivity. It
hopes to recruit many of them in Italy,
but as that country is having a greater
industrial boom than any other in Europe,
Germany will look for workers in Spain,
Greece and perhaps Turkey. In addition,
a further 120,000 refugees from East Ger-
many are expected to augment the work
force.
SPAIN
Struggles between the police and univer-
sity students marked the opening, in
Madrid on March 9, of the civil trial of
eight Spaniards accused of subversive
activities. The defendants could well give
an account of themselves which would
embarrass the regime, particularly in the
presence of Signor Coppa, a Roman
lawyer, who is attending the trial as an
observer of the International Commis-
sion of Jurists and Mr Ernest Davies,
Under Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs in the last British Labor Govern-
ment, who represents the Spanish Demo-
cratic Defence Fund. Among the defen-
dants are Don Enrique Tierno Galvin,
recently removed from his post as pro-
fessor of political law at Salamanca
University, Don Dionisio Ridruejo,
former director-general of Falange
propaganda who wrote a widely reprinted
article attacking the regime, Don Fran-
cisco Herrera, 72-year-old brother of the
Bishop of Malaga and Don Fernando
Baeza, son of a Spanish republican
ambassador.
ASIA
PAKISTAN
In the same week as a large number of
women, including many in veils, gathered
outside President Ayub Khan’s house to
garland him on his arrival from Rawal-
pindi as a sign of their gratitude for his
recent Family Laws Ordinance which is
designed to prevent abuse of polygamy,
the provisional 1961 census figures were
given. They showed an increase of
population from the 1951 figure of
75,866,000 to 93,812,000. The Minister
for Home Affairs, Mr Zakir Hussain,
said that if this alarming increase con-
tinued Pakistan would double its popula-
tion within 40 years.
THAILAND
The Thai Government has sent troops
north to drive out 1000 armed Chinese
Nationalist troops who recently crossed
the border from Burma.
AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA
Dr E. G. Malherbe, Vice-Chancellor
of Natal University, has complained that
it costs £1300 yearly to educate non-
whites at the Government’s African tribal
colleges. He said the Government was
calling costly buildings universities to
impress the outside world, but in fact
there was compulsion applied to make
people go to these institutions or forego
higher education altogether. An indepen-
dent inquiry made in Durban has shown
that African parents have to pay three
times as much as white parents to educate
their children up to the minimum stan-
dard recognised for employment pur-
poses. Since the inception of the Bantu
Education Act the number of students
qualifying for matriculation has declined
and last year totalled only 18 per cent,
of entrants compared with 46 per cent,
before the Act was passed. Professor Leo
Kuper, Dean of the Faculty of Social
Science at Natal University, condemned
the Government’s Bantu education
scheme for destroying a century’s work
by people dedicated to the higher educa-
tion of non-whites in South Africa.
THE AMERICAS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
The Jesuit magazine “America,” refer-
ring to President Kennedy’s statement
that the constitution prohibited federal
aid to parochial schools, accused him
of dogmatism and described his opinions


as erroneous, inopportune and unneces-
sary. This attack is part of the Catholic
press campaign against Kennedy’s stand
and is in line with the National Catholic
Welfare Conference administrative
board’s announcement that it would
oppose any school aid legislation that
did not apply to parochial schools. The
board, comprising five cardinals and ten
archbishops and bishops, claims that long-
term low interest loans to private institu-
tions are permissible under the constitu-
tion and should be part of the federal
aid programme. A group known as
Protestant and Others United for Separa-
tion of Church and State has come to
the President’s support, summoning all
Americans to help defend him against
the bishops of his church.
CANADA
The Toronto “Financial Post” recently
published a series of articles on the
present inadequate efforts to present
Canada’s image abroad, particularly in
Europe. It claimed that European
politicians, journalists, bankers, business-
men, economists and industrialists
thought of Canada in these terms: (1) A
high unemployment rate ; (2, the declin-
ing value of the Canadian dollar ; (3)
trade with Cuba; (4) discrimination
against foreign (meaning United States)
capital; (5) cutbacks in immigration. The
Europeans complain that the Canadian
embassies do not have efficient informa-
tion centres or libraries and, as only the
worst is known of the country, immigra-
tion to Canada had shown a- steep de-
cline. As Europeans are not informed
of the country’s political, economic and
industrial developments they have the
impression that Canada has nothing to
offer in many specialised fields —not even
in food and beverages. For them Canada
is a nation without a face.
CHILE
The Government Party of President
Jorge Alessandri Rodriguez has retained
control of Parliament after the elections
but they lost ten seats to the Communists
who were contesting the first election
since they were banned three years ago.
If the conservatives, liberals and depleted
radicals remain loyal to President Ales-
sandri the administration should be able
to maintain the tax increases and opposi-
tion to wage rises as measures to curb
inflation.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
When six bishops wrote to President
Trujillo in January asking for a cessation
to the attacks on the Catholic Church
which followed a pastoral letter demand-
ing “freedom of conscience, press and
assembly” the dictator suggested that they
bestow on him the title of “Benefactor of
the Church.” He backed his suggestion
with press support, donations to churches
and parades. The bishops have now
answered that such an honor could only
be bestowed by the Holy See but at least
they gave Trujillo food for thought with
their concluding sentence: “W.e are sure,
however, that God, the infallible reqopi-
pense, will not let merit go unrewarded”
The Persian Elections
By ANDRE GARMAND
T AST summer the Shah declared that
' the elections for the twentieth legis-
lature would be the freest in the history
of Iran. The result of the ballot, how-
ever, was a parliament rather more
Royalist than the King himself.
Faced with a considerable body of
protest, the Shah decided to annul the
elections, or rather, he asked the elected
members to renounce their mandates “in
the higher interests of the nation.”
The new elections for the 20th
Madjlis took place at the beginning of
this year. Voting began on January 10
in the provinces and ended in the Capital
on February 6. From the end of
January Teheran was the scene of ever
more frequent public demonstrations
mainly organised by students. Almost
daily, thousands marched in protest
against the lack of liberty and in criticism
of the electoral procedure. The mere
fact that such demonstrations were able
to take place without provoking fierce
police repression, or causing any serious
incidents, is a clear sign of change in
the Iranian political atmosphere.
There have been yet other signs of the
“liberalisation” of political life. The sup-
porters of Dr Mossadeq, for the first
time since his fall in 1953, have been able
to appear once again under the banner
of the National Front, even though the
ban on the party has not yet been
officially lifted. It is true that they were
subjected to some persecution, their head-
quarters being occupied by the police
after a meeting which caused some agita-
tion in Teheran. After this measure the
leaders of the National Front took refuge
within the Senate. Nevertheless, the
numerous supporters of this nationalist,
neutralist and socialist-inclined move-
ment have been able openly to demon-
strate their existence.
And so, at the beginning of February
this year, a wind of liberty was blowing
through Teheran, and it was not yet
possible to gauge its strength. There must
have been fears in high places that this
wind might become a gale, for on the last
day of voting things suddenly took a
turn for the worse. Faced with wide-
spread manifestations of opposition, in
which students continued to play the lead-
ing role, the Government had the Uni-
versity of Teheran closed for an unspeci-
fied period. During incidents marking
the closing of the ballot there was violent
police intervention to disperse demon-
strators, and there were other incidents
at Ispahan, Shiraz and Tabriz.
The results of the ballot gave the
Mellyun (Nation) Party (conservative
and governmental) the greatest number
of mandates, thanks above all to the
rural votes. The Mardom (People’s)
Party, representing the loyalist opposi-
tion, came next, followed by the inde-
pendents who were, however, the most
successful party in the capital. The leader
of the independents, Mr Ali Amini, is
one of the rising stars in the Iranian
political sky. A great property-owner
descended from the ancient Kadjar
dynasty, Mr Amini is nevertheless a man
of liberal views who was in his time a
member of the Mossadeq Government.
Since he was later Ambassador to the
United States, his voice probably carries
some weight in Washington.
There are strong reasons for thinking
that the National Front would have
obtained more seats had such strong pres-
sure not been exerted upon its supporters.
However that may be, the result of these
elections will probably be coalition
government in Iran for the next four
years.
There will be three main tasks facing
the next Government: to reduce these
internal political tensions which have
become acute during the electoral cam-
paign ; to stabilise the economy; and
to establish normal relations with the
U.S.S.R. On these last two points, the
new Government will continue the policy
inaugurated by its predecessor.
On coming to power, Prime Minister
Sharif-Imami found the State coffers
more or less empty, especially in the case
of foreign currency, and in spite of the
enormous income from oil estimated at
$260 million a year, the annual balance
of payments deficit was something like
$3O million. To deal with this disturbing
situation, the Prime Minister instituted a
policy of austerity of which the main
points were the restriction of credit,
limitation of non-essential imports, and
cuts in government spending, not to
mention the fight against corruption,
which needs constant vigilance. (There
are no less than three special committees
to fight corruption in the army.)
This policy of austerity has been
approved by Iran’s principal financial
backers, especially the United States, and
the International Monetary Fund has
granted Iran a stabilising loan of $35
million. It would be wrong to consider
Iran’s economic situation as dangerously
unhealthy, for statistics show that the
standard of living is rising faster than in
other insufficiently developed countries in
this area, such as India, Iraq and Egypt.
As for relations with the U.S.S.R., Mr
Khrushchev recently invited Mr Sharif-
Imami to Moscow, and the U.S.S.R. is
temptingly holding up to Iran the possi-
bility of a contribution by way of credits
to its present economic recovery. One
has the impression that for the moment
the Kremlin is unlikely to press for Iran’s
renunciation of the defence agreement
with the U.S., nor for her withdrawal
from C.E.N.T.0., but more modestly for
the conclusion of a non-aggression pact
by which Teheran would undertake never
to permit the installation of foreign mili-
tary bases within her frontiers.


The Red Page
The New Bible
The New English Bible: New Testa-
ment. Oxford University Press and
Cambridge University Press. Library
edition, 345. 9d.; popular edition,
14s. 3d.
THIS review, it should be said at once,
is backed by no claims to expert-
ness or authority. It is purely a reader’s
review, and on that count alone is
foredoomed to be inadequate. More-
over, it is written in haste: by strict
injunction of the publishers, no review
of the book could appear earlier than
now. Even so, 1 could have written it
sooner, but, having gone through the
fascinating story of the book’s making,
as told in the publishers’ letterpress,
and after that the makers’ own brief
introduction, I started on the book
itself; and have been enjoying the
charm of its present-day prose and its
other enjoyable surprises ever since.
The book is new in every sense of
the word. It is (this needs to be under-
lined) an entirely new translation. It
is not a revision. It is as new as was,
in its own day, the King James Bible
called the Authorised Version, the
350th anniversary of the publication
of which this current Bible Year cele-
brates. The present book —as also
needs to be emphasised —is not the
complete New English Bible. It is the
new translation of the New Testament:
the Old Testament and Apocrypha
are yet to come.
In some respects the book’s qualities
of newness differ importantly from
those which attached to the Autho-
rised Version. The main element of
newness then was the making available
to all who could read it (or lift it) an
authoritative complete Bible. It was
new also in that its makers largely
translated from the earliest original
sources as far as these were then known
and available to them. That Biblical
scholarship and knowledge have ad-
vanced past reckoning since then needs
no stating, nor that this is especially
true for the past 70 years or so. The
makers of this present New English
Bible —like their great forerunners,
representing the peaks of British Bibli-
cal scholarship and knowledge in their
time —have gone wholly back to the
very earliest original sources, of
course drawing to the full on all the
vast store of latterday new material.
Their translation, therefore, has the
newness implicit in the availability of
all that new treasure. It has, however,
a further, very different and highly
important quality of newness. One
of their chief guiding lights has been
the decision to get as near as possible
to interpreting and translating the
original authors as if these were here
present writing in present-day spoken
English. This is not to be taken as
implying any slipshod style. There are
some striking and no doubt debatable
effects; but in general the translators
steer confidently and safely between
the stilted academic and the common
jargonistic vernacular. Their English
belongs to the present day; it is today’s
English at its freshest, plainest and
clearest; nothing could be easier or
more agreeable to read. In an Aus-
tralian context the English of both
prose and verse keeps reminding this
reader of the clear quality of David
Campbell’s prose and R. D. Fitz-
Gerald’s poetry.
Can it be said entirely of the Author-
ised Version, even away back there
350 years ago, that its English was then
current common usage? With the very
greatest admiration for the sheer,
matchless glory of its prose and its
rolling numbers altogether, was it not,
even then, largely of a language apart?
No? Then what about that also match-
less contemporary, Shakespeare? He
wrote for the general, for the many-
headed monster, for the public at large;
and he can still be acted —and freely
read. There have not been—as with
the Bible—close on a hundred attempts
at serving his text up afresh, even
though it may be true that a fairly
extensive apparatus of explanation may
now be needed for an academically
precise understanding of all of it.
The makers of the New English
Bible specifically state that this is in-
tended and expected to supplement, not
to replace, the Authorised Version;
that it is open to the associated
Churches, if they wish, to commend it
for public worship. However that may
work out; whatever Version may be
used in any church; whatever Version
may be quoted, this New English Bible
looks certain to be the Bible that will
be read for, say, the next 50 years.
There will be fire and brimstone
of debate, of course, raging around
this and that of the fair number of
minor shocks in its text. Departures like
“. . . . a friend of mine on a journey
has turned up at my house” do seem
to nudge close to the deliberately com-
monplace; and literal accuracy cries
havoc on metaphor in such novelties as
“Why do you look at the speck of
sawdust in your brother’s eye, with
never a thought for the great plank in
your own?”
But to parade such things at all is
to give them a false emphasis. They are
motes in the reader’s eye at the most.
They can be skipped over, like the
attempts to render the ancient coinage
into an L s d which changes even
faster than the language itself. Against
such microscopic intrusions could be
set the more than 400 pages of today’s
English at its clearest and best. Very
neatly inserted cross-headings lure the
reader on, giving a touch of promised
drama or excitement to each section
of the Four Books and the rest; and
over all is the quality of simplicity at
its purest.
It had its genesis in a little corner
of Scotland. This week (March 15)
it will be specially dedicated at a great
service in Westminster Abbey. It has
well earned the honor. A most enjoy-
able and beautiful living book. To call
it the book of the year would be the
year’s understatement.
Cecil Mann
Tench and his Editors
Sydney’s First Four Years. Edited by
L. F. Fitzhardinge. Angus and
Robertson. 50s.
IyrORE than a decade ago the Royal
1 x Australian Historical Society de-
cided to issue a series of edited Austra-
lian historical classics and it has now in
this volume achieved publication of
the first of them—a reprint of “A Nar-
rative of an Expedition to Botany
Bay” and “A Complete Account of
the Settlement at Port Jackson” by
Captain Watkin Tench of the Marines.
The first thing to be expected of the
editor of a work of this sort is that
he will print it from the original in its
exact and full text and order from
cover to cover. This has not been
done in this edition. The title-pages
are out of place and the list of sub-
scribers to the second volume—as it
happens somewhat important in it —is
omitted.
The second requirement of editing
is that there shall be a short biographi-
cal and explanatory introduction of
the author and his surroundings. The
third is that there shall be brief and
apposite notes on the text, written
sparingly and only where essential and
fully relevant, together with a short —
and relevant—bibliography.
The last two requirements are ex-
travagantly fulfilled.
Before the student of this volume has
penetrated the literary oedema that
obscures his work and finally comes
upon the authentic Tench he suffers


the feeling of one coming into the
hospital room of a poor victim
retrieved from the bottom of the
Gap, whose shrouded ensemble seems
to consist more of medicaments and
splints than of patient. However, when
the reader reaches him through the
mummy-wrappings, Tench still lives
and breathes in a literary sense.
There is not one introduction to
this book. There are two. Neither of
them adds much to the existing know-
ledge of Tench or his times. The first
one, by Commander Geoffrey Ingle-
ton, consists of a generalised essay,
exactly like a dozen other such essays,
on the purpose behind the colonisation
of Australia, and on the First Fleet.
He writes that the objective of the
R.A.H.S. has been to print “the
journals in a convenient format and,
as well, to have each work annotated,
with the object of elucidating the
original text (which of course is
printed verbatim) through the results
of modern research and scholarship.”
The objective was commendable;
the result not so commendable.
The editor seems to be intrigued
that a mere Marines officer should (as
many of their age did) read the modern
English and French fashionable litera-
ture of his time, should speak French
and be familiar with “Paradise Lost”;
also that he should be able to quote
Voltaire and Rousseau and the clas-
sics, from which it is deduced that
he probably had his education at a
country grammar school under the
influence of Eton. Many officers of the
day were well-read.
Apart from the surmise that he was
not a Welshman and that his father
may have been an estate agent of the
great Welsh Wynns, that he spent
some time in France in his youth be-
cause he spoke French —which doesn’t
follow since many an officer learnt it
in the West Indies —Mr Fitzhardinge
has little to offer in the way of fact
or surmise about the origins of an
author with one of the most uncommon
names in England both then and now,
and whose genealogical roots were
formed probably round Shrewsbury.
There is only one Tench in the Lon-
don telephone book. Liverpool boasts
two in its directory.
If Mr Fitzhardinge had not neglected
the list of subscribers which he left out
of the second volume —the “Complete
Account” —he would have found in it
a lot of material for thought.
It is unlike most of the lists of the
same kind attached to other volumes of
early Australian journals. The book-
sellers had little to do with selling
the book.
About 150 of the copies out of 450
subscribed for went to people in
Chester, or adjacent historic towns and
villages or the county rich in literary
tradition from the lovely peninsula of
the Wirral to the borders of Lancashire.
Where the sales extend beyond
Cheshire they are very often to people
who have been in Cheshire or have
family links with Cheshire.
The list suggests a deep-rooted
family connection with the county
which could explain a lot.
And why should not an educated
son of the Cheshire soil, from which
Canute commanded the waves, go to
sea? Why should Mr Fitzhardinge find
it astonishing that a man whose books
were subscribed for in the area from
which Milton “in evil days of darkness”
brought his wife and to which she later
returned to end her life, should quote
“Paradise Lost” with gusto?
Why should not the name of Lycidas
be known to him, when it was in the
seas off Cheshire that he drowned?
When Tench’s book came out, every-
body of note in the Cheshire town
society seems to have ordered it.
Reginald Heber, father of the author
of Tennyson’s favorite “Holy, Holy,
Holy” and “From Greenland’s Icy
Mountains” down at Malpas. hard by
the Wynn country, bought it. “Staple-
ton Cotton, Esquire, 23rd Regiment”
identifiable as the future Lord Comber-
mere of the Pyrenees and India, and
all his relatives, bought it. The Ley-
cesters and the Egertons bought it. The
subscription list almost literally fulfilled
the old saying that Cheshire holds
As many Leighs as fleas, as many
Massies as asses,
Crewes as crows and Davenports as
dogs’ tails.
Wherever Tench was born, he seems
from his writing to have been a true
Cheshire cat. Inhabitants of Lewis
Carroll’s home vicinity ordered his book
in advance, years before puss
appeared in “Alice in Wonderland,”
and Mrs Gaskell’s Knutsford before
it became “Cranford.” Often one can
see in his writing a reminiscence of
his broad, feline Cheshire grin.
Equally disappointing with Mr Fitz-
hardinge’s failure to seriously attempt
to solve the mystery (if any) of Tench's
early origins, is his failure to fill in
the gaps in his story while on service
before he came to New South Wales.
He lists the ships his author served
in in the Atlantic from the Admiralty
records and leaves it at that. Yet the
names of those ships and dates of
his service in them form a direct lead
to study of the experience he applied
to the summation of Australian condi-
tions and probabilities.
Where he sailed in those ships is not
told in detail. Neither is there very
much about his fighting years in the
Channel after he returned to sea ser-
vice from Botany Bay: nothing about
his fight in the Polyphemus—the
ship that got to the wrong end
of the line at Copenhagen—when she
captured the French Tartu after a four-
hour running battle, as a naval pipe-
opener to the fateful year of 1797.
Of the annotation of the two books
it can only be said that it is monu-
mental. Poor Tench’s effort of 15,000
words in the first book describing the
voyage of the First Fleet to New South
Wales and the first few months of life
in Sydney Cove is overlaid by at
least 15,000 words of Mr Fitzhardinge’s
ponderous explanations.
So far from bringing the facts into
relief these tend to bury and confuse
them. So far from being the products
of the modern scholarship the publish-
ing society says they are, they are
largely the products of access to en-
cyclopaedias or the “Historical
Records of Australia,” and to
the works of Te n c h’s contem-


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-study Instruction of the
highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Write at once for your copy of STOTT’S
Literary Brochure, sent without obligation.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Minders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagrh SI., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (5.8.661)
poraries and of outmoded historical
writers whose facts have been con-
tradicted and whose theories often are
confounded by modern research, e.g.
G. A. Wood.
Indeed, if most of the notes had
been lost in the train before publica-
tion, historical scholarship would not
have suffered much, but readers would
have found it easier to get at what they
will want most to study—the writings
of Tench. Their loss would only mean
that the reader would not be continu-
ally enjoined by interpolated numbers
to turn to the back of the book to
imbibe Mr Fitzhardinge’s assurance
that “this chapter is in Tench’s most
polished style” or that “this quotation
has not been identified,” or that the
words, “Trail’st thou the puissant
pike?” come from Shakespeare’s
“Henry V.”
It appears that Mr L. S. Bethell was
employed to identify every quotation
in the book for untutored readers,
most of whom, having passed the inter-
mediate examination, or owning a
dictionary of quotations, could do the
bulk of the worthwhile identifying
themselves. The work done by Mr A. J.
Gray on the biographical details about
early settlers, a field in which he is
thoroughly knowledgeable, is a different
matter and essential to the understand-
ing of the text.
Of Tench’s own work, when we have
burrowed sufficiently deeply to reach
it, it need only be said that it is of a
quality and freshness unique in the
literature of the pioneers. Not only
is he the first of our properly-called
literary figures, but his writing was of
a standard unapproached for at least
half a century after his time, and
scarcely excelled in its genre since.
He was the one man of his age in
Botany Bay who combined the capa-
city for minute and perceptive obser-
bation with an acute curiosity and
the power to express himself clearly and
simply with good taste, while allowing
his emotions play at great and moving
moments.
His descriptions of the sufferings and
anxieties of the people of the marooned
settlement during the period before
the arrival of the Second Fleet, when
it seemed that they must all starve to
death, are natural classics. His narra-
tives of discovery, his sympathetic
sketches of the aborigines have a
lambent particularity absent from the
writings of any other man of his Aus-
tralian generation.
The Imeadth of his experience en-
abled him to compare Australian con-
ditions with those of other countries
in relatively similar latitudes and to
place his finger on the local deficien-
cies and needs.
His gift of insight led him to become
the first writer to appraise the pros-
pects of an Australia manned wholly
by white men.
FTis work is, in fact, the most appro-
priate portal through which to approach
the social history of the early pioneer-
ing <j a ys. But he is best communed
with, minus an intruding voice explain-
ing incessantly off-stage where to look
at the back of the volume to discover
that bananas grow in Sydney, but not
commercially; that when the author
mentions the grey kangaroo he means
“macropus giganteus” and that “Venus
aux belles fesses” is “Venus Callipy-
gos” and very prevalent in Naples just
then—the lady still is.
Qn the whole this prototype volume
might be more fully useful to both
scholar and general reader if the pro-
portion of the good juicy roast beef
of Tench bore a more massive relation-
ship to the suet pudding served with it
as dessert. But Tench is always read-
able and very welcome in reasonably
cheap form, since his early editions
are now expensive collectors’ pieces,
M. H. Ellis
Power Politics in Egypt
Nasser. Joachim Joesten. Odhams.
345. 9d. . .
JN July, 1952, Farouk and his family
with 200 suitcases boarded the royal
yacht at Alexandria. The shore bat-
teries fired a salute of 21 guns and the
ship sailed out of Egypt into exile.
The monarchy was dead, a political
era was over. Profiting from his own
experience, Farouk has since predicted
that there would be only five kings
left in the world, The King of England
and the four in a pack of cards. A
junta of army officers now came into
power ostensibly headed by the popu-
Jar, moderate General Neguib but with-
in two years Neguib had been forced
to retire leaving Gamal Abdel Nasser
as virtual dictator of Egypt.
Saint, prophet, mystery man, con-
spirator. ratbag—popular assessments
of Nasser vary wildly. On his poll-
tics there seems to be more general
agreement. He is an opportunist whose
aim is power and whose method is
subterfuge or as Time expressed it:
A gambler in a hurry, Nasser has
missed few tricks in conspiracy and
demagoguery. Every sleazy political
fugitive in Asia and Africa finds a
place on his bandwagon. This sort
of simple-minded comment does not
square with the facts. If anything at
all emerges from Joesten’s biography
it is that the man and his world are
too complex to be labelled like this.
Nasser’s career according to Joesten
is not unlike that of many of his genera-
tion—those who received an education.
Born in 1918 in Alexandria he was
neither a model son nor a model stu-
dent for quite early he got caught
up in the paranoiac atmosphere of
nationalist rebellion. At the age of
ten he took part in his first riot. “One
day on the way to school I ran into a
crowd that was demonstrating—what
for, or against—l hadn’t the faintest
idea. But it looked like a good fight,
so I joined in.” He became obsessed
with the aim of smashing his way
through towards something vaguely
called “Independence,” against Im-
perialism, the Palace, the Party leaders
against “them.” A couple of years
later at secondary school he chose his
first historical hero—Julius Caesar —
because he had conquered the British,
By 1942 with Rommel operating in
the Western Desert Lieutenant Nasser
and his army friends had resolved to
overthrow the monarchy. “We will
knock at the gates of heaven with
British skulls.”
Joesten traces this early period in
some detail, before bringing it up to
date wd fl chapters on the Suez Crisis,
the United Arab Republic, Nasser’s
flirtation with the Soviet Union, the
friction between Iraq and Egypt. He
has manag ed to unravel a vast
amount of material and place it in
some sort of perspective, and that is
n 0 mean achievement. The text is
filled out with some 16 pages of black
and-white illustrations and there is a
useful index,
’
Tor all its thoroughness the book
1S not entirely satisfactory. Joesten
follows events in their temporal se-
quence, an approach that is interest-
in S T you like diaries but it leads to
some repetition and tends to obscure
the major issues. Much of the book
is devoted to Egypt’s relations with the
outside world. Nowhere is there a
general discussion of Nasser’s domes-


tic reforms and the implication is that
there are none of any merit. Joesten
is a good journalist, not an historian.
He has a strong grasp of situation and
conveys atmosphere well but he has
the irritating practice of neglecting the
facts to imagine plausible scenes and
responses. This sort of thing: “At the
mere thought of these conditions every
nerve in Nasser’s body jangled like
an alarm bell.” Another is an alleged
conversation between Nasser and Mr
Menzies. Further he relies heavily on
quotations but does not always cite their
source nor does he attempt to assess
them, which means that Joesten’s own
position is sometimes a matter of im-
plication rather than express statement.
Fundamentally Joesten is out of
sympathy with Nasser as a leader and
with the Egyptians as people. He does
not repeat the propaganda that usually
emanates from Zionist quarters but in
his own way presents a picture equally
damaging. He defends the Anglo-
French invasion of Egypt and produces
some very thin arguments to justify
Israel’s aggression. Here is one parti-
san comment: —
Until 3 p.m. on 5 November, such
resistance as was encountered in Port
Said came mainly from Egyptian
regular troops. After nightfall and
throughout the following day, the
whole population —soldiers, civilians,
students and even children —suddenly
bristled with weapons and street-
fighting, costly in lives and in time,
continued. Someone must have
organised it, if only to distribute
the arms and it seems certain that
the guiding mind was that of the
Soviet Consul, M. Tchikov. He
called for “another Stalingrad” and
though few people in Port Said had
heard of the place, the broad idea
of a fight to the death caught fire.
Used with caution, however, the book
makes good reading and can be pres-
cribed for any who want to understand
that inflammable part of the world.
Douglas Terry
Sorbo of the Desert
Cossack at Large. I. S. K. Soboleff.
Peter Davies Ltd. 20s.
■pROM the unpretentious presentation,
the sober dust-jacket, and for that
matter the misleading blurb of “Cos-
sack at Large” the casual book-buyer
can hardly be expected to estimate
the wealth of its content, but it is
by no means an autobiography to be
overlooked. Captain (later Major)
Soboleff was, in the Western Desert
and the Italian campaigns, one of those
who, larger than life, stride across the
forefront of a scene involving conti-
nents and armies, and manage to claim
and keep the limelight by sheer force
of personality.
Known as “Sorbo,” he had the repu-
tation of being the greatest scrounger
Three Poems
The Angry Pigeon
By ERIC C. ROLLS
A tramp shot a pigeon and cooked it
to eat.
He carved off its left leg and one of
its feet
Which he ate as he thought and he
thought as he sat
That his hair and his thoughts were
under his hat.
A tramp shot a pigeon and cooked it
to eat.
He carved off its right leg and one
of its feet
Which he ate as he thought and he
thought as he sat
That his thoughts were as thick as his
hair in his hat.
A tramp shot a pigeon and ate its left
wing
And as he was eating he started to
sing,
And he thought as he sang and he
sang as he thought
That to sing with his mouth full was
more than he ought.
A tramp shot a pigeon and ate its
right wing
And as he was eating he started to
sing,
And he sang as he thought and he
thought as he sang
How his meal had begun with a click
and a bang.
A tramp shot a pigeon and cut off its
head
Which opened its beak and angrily
said
“Do you know what you’re doing, you
bottle-nosed bumpkin?
You’ll eat me completely. Sing
marrow. Sing pumpkin.”
[This is a free rendering of a New Guinea
myth collected by Marie Reay in the Wahgi
Valley. It may be found in Colin Simpson’s
“Adam in Plumes.”]
Missionary Bill
A missionary Ith and a good 1 2,
Though he thpoke with a bit of a lithp,
Heard 1 day a terrible 3k
From a track on the thide of a hill ;
Tho he packed thome lunch and a
thermoth of tea
4 he never did thingth by |th,
And hith toothbruthh, pyjamath, then
he the! 4th
And he found a horrible find,
4 there on the hill were cannibalth 5
Munching on 1 of their kind.
“Of that,” thaid he, “I cannot
approve;
Fellow man wath meant to love.
You mutht never indulge in odiouth
thlaughterth
Or carving of men into therving {th —
I’ve told you b 4 it ith wrong.”
But the cannibalth 5 in their cannibal
tongue
Said “Walgett, Pockataroo.
We karved him in \th, not }th u c
B kwiat oar weeleat u 2.”
Then Missionary Bill at 6eth and 7th
Berated them very theverely,
Tho they knocked him down and tied
him up
And finished their meal quite cheerly ;
But ath they were eating he loothened
an arm
And wrote with hith paper and quill:
“Dear Mum, if I’m late it’th becauthe
I’ve been 8,”
And he thigned it “Missionary Bill.”
Then he added “P.Th., have no dith-
trethth,
A missionary'th life ith fine
And a cannibal’th life ith a dithmal
methth,
Though I fear I wath athi9
2 chide thethe men again and again
Till I did it Ith 2 of 10.”
The Bones
See, here in the river-cut-and-crumbled
bank,
Bones buried: heavens, look!—bones
Not, as suggested, Kelly’s old cow,
Feeding on the water - weeds
drowned —-
Pitchforked up the bank by the last
flash flood:
Kelly and all his stock have not so
many,
Nor so big, nor such shape: ribs
Like dockyard timbers, spine like a
running keel —
But head gone, pity, guillotined by a
floating snag—
Set in clay ; bones for carbon-dating,
Bones for altercation and discussion ;
In flesh like clay, even when alive
Engulfed like hangers in the coat of
what-do-you-think-it-was?
With an amiable waddle and a
hundred-pound bite,
Bellowing? Barking? Hissing? at
ancestors ugly
And shaggy or merely somewhat
unrefined
According to views scientific or church
-—now bones,
And bones, bones, bones—heavens!
Bones!


BOOKHUNTER
liept. “I>” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let as And it for you— fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney,
in the Second World War; let a friend
express a desire for something and
Sorbo would find it. Montgomery once
sent him out for eight canaries; he
brought them, with a couple of love-
birds for good measure. On another
occasion Monty made him give up a
Mercedes-Benz he had scrounged
from a surrendering German general.
The story of “Sorbo’s Column” —in
the general withdrawal following the
strong Rommel offensive in May 1942
—is history. Sorbo not only saved his
own column of vehicles, scrounging
fuel and food on the way, but built up
its strength with lost vehicles and men
from other units. Like the rubber ball
for which he was named, he was almost
indestructible.
“He was a living legend in his own
time,” Australian War Correspondent
Ronald Monson told me when we were
discussing this book. “I could have
written a book about him myself —two
or three—and I was tempted to. He
was an amazing fellow. He didn’t
smoke. But whenever I was out of
cigarettes, while he was with me, he
would disappear for ten minutes or so
and come back and hand me a packet.”
Monson also checked for me the
veracity of several passages in the book
in which his own name is mentioned.
But perhaps the most amazing as-
pect of Sorbo’s war is that in this, his
autobiography, it occupies no more
than 30 pages; and this is an indication
of the kind of life he has led. A Cos-
sack officer in the White Russian armies
at the age of 17 he escaped his home-
land after years of fighting to serve
three years in Chinese armies, under
the impression that this service might
lead to a chance to return in a vic-
torious re-entry to his homeland.
Eventually danger threatened here
from his own Chinese troops, and
indeed from his command; and it
must never have been far from his
mind that his father, a Cossack colonel,
was killed by his own men. Without
money, for pay was refused him; clad
in women’s clothes, for his uniform
carried danger and he could get no
others; and developing that scrounging
capacity which later, combined with his
personal bravery, helped to make his
name a legend, he walked and boated
across China.
In enforced idleness in Shanghai he
decided to see the world. He did, on
bicycles and later motor-cycles supplied
to him by the makers for the sake of
advertisement. It took him two years to
the day. Among his exploits were the
crossings of dangerous deserts and the
penetration of unknown jungle, but he
came at last to Shanghai again. Later
he made his way to England, then to
Sweden, where he became, of all things
a physio-therapist. Not a paragraph
of this book but sings of adventure;
not an adventure is recorded but would
in itself make a full-length book.
Major Soboleff, a large man, red-
faced, heavy, self-confident, is as
laconic as any of the heroes. In a
paragraph or two, no more, he con-
denses the three weeks and two days
he spent in his first jungle, exposed to
wild beasts, and dependent on him-
self for food, travelling without much
hope of being allowed entry into his
next country. He had no advice or
assistance, but only self-reliance. His
story abounds with such incidents as
these:—
It is essential to have . . . protec-
tion against these huge desert scor-
pions (in Chinese Turkestan) for
their sting usually means death.
Once when a sergeant, riding beside
me, was bitten, I did not hesitate
for a moment, but whipped out my
sword and hacked off his wounded
thumb; in the midst of his pain he
thanked me for saving his life.
It is such a simple chronicle, so
directly told, that it is possible to make
an accurate analysis of the man. One
notices, for example, that for him
women, attractive, even beautiful as
they may be, are only figures in a land-
scape; he is a man’s man, and this is
his life. One notices too his sincere
respect for religion, and a rather as-
tonishing love for humanity.
Olaf Ruhen
Penguin Protest
Pat Lawlor
The Penguin Book of N.Z, Verse.
Allen Curnow. Penguin Books.
6s. 9d. (N.Z.).
HTHIS is not really a review. It is a
A protest against the fact that Allen
Curnow, poet and anthologist, who
with a few others commandeered the
writing world of New Zealand about
fifteen years ago, is still in charge. His
anthology is a Penguin minus many
feathers, but because it has the Curnow
imprimatur it is being accepted as were
his earlier one-eyed collections pub-
lished by the Caxton Press in 1945 and
1951.
Before summarising the inadequacies
of the Penguin book, a little bit of
history. The Curnow clique was born
in Christchurch, sired by the then
constituted Caxton Press and the
literary quarterly “Landfall.” They
had a godfather in Wellington, the late
Sir Joe Heenan, then Secretary for
Internal Affairs, a literary man of parts
himself and interested in fostering this
new school of writers through the
department’s publications. Joe had the
ear of Peter Fraser, then Labor Prime
Minister, who also loved mingling with
young writers. A measure of financial
help came through some obscure State
fund and later, of course, through the
State Literary Fund. Mr Curnow him-
self was given one of the largest grants
in the history of the fund —to develop
his literary bent overseas.
So was born a strongly organised
core of faintly Leftish young men who
ruled out writers who did not engage
their sympathies.
No comment is needed as to the
Curnow permeation in the Penguin
book (90 of its 340 pages are devoted
to his adumbrations or to his own
poetry), or to his unkind comments
on earlier anthologists, or of the poets
he would not sully his pages with.
All that is needed on my part to prove
the complete inadequacy of the selec-
tion is to say that he has tossed aside
Jessie Mackay and Hubert Church. In
the list of absentees are J. C. Beagle-
hole, Douglas Stewart, Alan Mulgan,
Arthur Barker, David McKee Wright,
Ruth Gilbert, Merval Connelly, Barry
Mitcalfe, Arnold Cork and Mary
Stanley. The most notable omission,
Eileen Duggan, is covered by a note
from the anthologist: he “wished to
include some of her poems, but found,
to his regret, that this could not be
arranged.” He has also failed to
include the brilliant young Maori poet
Hone Tuwhare.
Most of the reviewers in New
Zealand have greeted the anthology
with praise and only minor criticism,
proving once more that “in the coun-
try of the blind the one-eyed man is
king.”


Shows
Came the Dawn
THEATRE
Phillip Street Theatre’s first night at
150 Elizabeth Street, “Out on a Limb,”
was a triumph for the new house and
the little missus, i.e., Mrs Limb.
Almost swimming up
the thick blue carpet
of the staircase - foyer,
you get an easy run
down to your pretty blue, pretty
comfortable lift-up seat. The excellent
acoustics are helped, they say, by the
gold fibre-glass curtains covering parts
of the auditorium walls; hearing was
good halfway down the theatre for the
present reviewer, and no one seemed to
be complaining in the sharply raised
seats at the back, the “raised stalls circle.”
And it was proper that hearing should
be good when Dawn Lake as the girl
who was “No Better Than She Should
Be” sat on a park bench, eased off a shoe,
and confided the dismay of one who had
found that Going Wrong had not re-
turned the expected dividends. She sat
back into the stage, she sang quietly,
without a false intonation or an unneces-
sary movement, to a hush you could
stir with a spoon. Admittedly it was a
good song (Addinsell-Macrae) but there
was a finish, a blending of personality
with technique, that reminded you of
wfiat they used to say about the old
music hall artists. She is in danger of
becoming a Great Lady of the Theatre.
Bobby Limb's high spirits, one
imagines, are damped by the cares of
management ; with no less than Olivier,
“his only passion was one for detail,”
good as were his “Lavender Cowboy,”
Scout Cub, Englishman ordering from
a French menu and his dance routine,
with Neil Fitzpatrick and Dibbs Mather,
“English Cold.” Barbara Wendon had
an ingenious act in which “Eata Extra
Egga Day” worked out, by a kind of
compound interest, to 366 eggs a day
at the end of a year, and a new travesty,
“A Ballad of Bethnal Green,” not quite
as good as “The Lass with the Things
in her Hair.” Beatrice Welch had the
thankless job of dashing in the face of
an audience hot for gaiety the cold-water
monologue (written for her by Joyce
Grenfell) of a girl who couldn't go out
because she had to look after father.
She had a better pitch in a satire on
Theatre in the Round, with Neil Fitz-
patrick ; as compere of which young
Mr Mather showed promise for an older
Mr Mather. Helen Lorain’s beautiful
rich contralto seemed a little innocent in
its surroundings.
All in all the set-up was interesting
During seven years, they say, the theatre
has “provided professional employment
for 94 actresses and 61 actors.” In the
main, these have been straight actors;
there was the suggestion that this was
how they amused themselves behind the
scenes; an atmosphere of deliberate
amateurism and hastily written songs and
sketches, as though the whole thing had
been scared up as charades for a
Vaucluse drawing-room.
Now they open their new theatre with
two professional comics and use sketches
and songs by overseas professionals or
by their former writers who have be-
come overseas professionals. The quality
of the art improves. Its immediacy is
lost. That is more to be found among
the Dashing Delinquents at the Ballet
Theatre, reviewed last week.
So the interesting question is how
the theatre proposes to follow the highly-
polished professionalism of the Limbs.
Will they descend again to worse in
order to become better, or will they go
on to better and become worse? In the
future it is Mr Orr who will be “Out
on a Limb.”
Ronald McCuaig
“The Sentimental Bloke”
Albert Aden's new musical played to
enthusiastic audiences in Canberra.
Sketches of the winged Bloke from the
Hal Gye illustrations hovered over the
programme, and the adaptation caught
Dennis’s mixture of toughness and warm-
heartedness, wisdom and humor.
The musical is a joint affair: music
by Albert Aden, production by Nancy
Brown, script by Lloyd Thomson, Nancy
Brown (and C. J. Dennis), and songs by
these three and Albert Arlen. Compared
with Mr Aden's earlier “Girl from the
Snowy,” “The Sentimental Bloke” has
the advantage of a given story and main
characters. It is the familiar story of
most musical comedy: boy meets girl,
the course of true love does not run
smooth, wedding bells.
The script writers supplied Ginger
Mick with a girl, Rose, also from the
Pickle Factory, to balance the more
romantic affair of Bill and Doreen. They
were wise in allowing their story to pro-
gress mostly in song, dance or mime ;
this drew attention from the slight plot,
allowed for quick changes, and required
less straight dialogue, which is more diffi-
cult to write successfully than lyrics.
There was only one long scene in
dialogue, “Er Pore Dear Pa,” and it
might have been more telling in the
words of Dennis’s Mar. It would have
been a memorable experience to have
heard Edwin Ride, as the Bloke, deliver
the classic lines:
Wot if Doreen, I thinks, should grow to be
A fat ole weepin’ willow like 'er Mar.
But the script honors were mainly
C. J. Dennis’s. “Spring Time Morning”
and “Life is Wot Yer Make It,” taken
direct from the original, delighted this
audience as they delighted Bulletin
readers nearly 50 years ago. The most
amusing scene was Bill’s account of “The
Play,” also as Dennis wrote it.
The production was unified and sus-
tained ; it was hard to remember
it was an amateur affair. True, it
was strengthened at the centre by the
comic interpretations of Nancy Brown
(Rose) and Douglas Skinner (Ginger
Mick), by Edwin Ride's fine characterisa-
tion of The Bloke and Grant Mclntyre’s
laiger-than-life Uncle Percy—all these
players have had considerable profes-
sional experience ; but most of the others
were amateurs, from Constance Vayne,
whose appearance and sweet singing voice
made an “ideel bit o' skirt" of Doreen,
to the men and women of Spadger's Lane.
The sketched backdrops, based on
designs by Cedric Flower, struck the
right note and allowed for quick changes ;
the costumes were gay and used their
period (1913) to good effect; they were
pretty in the Flemington scene, comic
on the Stror ’At Coot, and hilarious in
Rose's best purple or the striped neck-to-
knee bathers of the Beach Scene. Dances
and mimes arranged by Paul Kelly and
Margaret Powell, were well integrated
and not over ambitious.
Hope Hewitt
MUSIC
Musica Viva
It’s neither likely nor permissible, but
if Australia were suddenly cut off from
regular imports of top-grade chamber
music the loss to music-lovers here would
be by no means lethal —not, at any rate,
while there are locally available such
gifted and thoughtful musicians as the
five who opened Musica Viva's year at
Sydney Town Hall.
Indeed, it is even conceivable that
music-lovers, though sometimes still
hungering for supreme star quality in
what they hear, could find rewarding
satisfactions all year long in the work
of such a group, so ripely advanced was
its temperamental resource, its enthu-
siasm and its discipline in Mozart's two-
viola String Quintet in D Major (K 593)
and in Hindemith’s String Quartet No. 3
from Op. 22.
The players in the quintet were
violinists Donald Hazelwood and Ronald
Ryder, violists Robert Pikler and Richard
Goldner and 'cellist Lois Simpson, and
the communion they had with the work
and with each other went very much
deeper than the mere perfunctory job-
doing that has been validly complained
against much other Australian-made
music. The work was quite alive, at
times incandescent.
It was perhaps only in the adagio
movement that the glow became a little
fitful, and this only briefly where the
Hazelwood violin, so convincing in the
almost Beethovenian vigor of the open-
ing movement, missed the higher refine-
ments of seraphic devoutness in the first
theme. The most passionate section of
this adagio, where the rapid pulse-beat of


the lower strings insinuates into the
thought the kind of tragic agitation
known of the G Minor Symphony, was
played with heart-seizing sensitiveness.
Hindemith's quartet —a serenely reflec-
tive fugato spun slowly out of an
entrancing duet for violin and viola, a
stamping movement of grinding rhyth-
mic energy, a bland and beatific little
song with the mutes sweetly on so as
not to wake baby—was played as if with
no other purpose than to confound all
those who find this composer “dry,” an
incurable rattler of bones.
Violist Robert Pikler was featured in
this programme, his qualities as a soloist
of deep reflection and impressive tech-
nical suavity being richly displayed in
Hindemith’s “Funeral Music,” Pikler’s
own transcription of the Mozart adagio
written originally for violin (K 261), and
an unaccompanied passacaglia from a
Hindemith viola sonata of 1923.
Nevertheless, these pieces gave a taint
of "bittiness” to the whole programme,
always a curiously unsettling thing. The
Hindemith works were both expert music
of their kind. The Mozart adagio,
expertly played, is so luminous and
shining in the violin original that it
cannot but lose by the darkening effect
that viola tone inevitably brings to it. It
was as if music for boy chorister were
usurped by baritone ; there was bristle
on the cherub cheek.
Lindsey Browne
Jazz and Poetry
Adrian Rawlins, a young man from
Melbourne, introduced Perth to poetry
read to a jazz accompaniment at the
Skinner Galleries. It was the hottest night
for years—9o degrees at midnight— most
of the population was on the beach, but
the fifty-odd who listened found jazz
excellent heat-wave music.
Everything was very informal, like a
private party ; Rawlins wore a beard,
a dark lounge suit and white socks and
slippers, the players were more conven-
tional in uncoated white shirts and dark
ties.
Similar recitals, Rawlins explained,
were first introduced in the U.S.A. in the
'twenties, and arose from a desire “to
get poetry out of the hands of the pro-
fessors and the squares—to make poetry
part of show business.” The jazz back-
ground was designed to resuscitate an
audience for serious poetry, which had
been divorced from life ; the musicians
improvise as they go along.
Rawlins has a pleasing voice ; he
selected the poems, the Riverside Jazz
Group decided on the background music,
and away they went. The Riverside
Group is six players, including a young
American cornet player, King Fisher;
nobody conducts or leads, beautiful
harmonising is the joy of the ensemble,
and its improvisation makes it a better
accompaniment to the spoken word than
classical mood music.
The opening piece, “The Congo” by
Nicholas Lindsey, ranged from jungle
to plantation with dramatic vehemence
and color. “The Long Street” by
Laurence Collinson, a poetic symbol
“where everything happens sooner or
later, if it happens at all” was also well-
suited to this treatment. Shorter poems by
Collinson, Eileen Palmer (“Song from a
Distant Hill”) and others, as well as a
composition of Fisher’s own, played with-
out poetry, concluded the first half of
the programme.
In the second, the Riversiders also
played alone, and Rawlins read a number
of Australian and other poems without
music. Blake’s “Little Black Boy,” Shaw
Neilsen’s “Orange Tree” and A. D.
Hope’s “Australia” made excellent con-
trast and were peculiarly apt for recital.
The choice of Hope’s “Imperial Adam”
and Collinson’s “Aspects in Modern
Education” is open to question. Both
taste of gall and wormwood.
H.D-B.
ART
Contemporary
Coming back in the bus from the
N.S.W. Contemporary Society exhibition
at David Jones’s the bus suddenly
squealing to a halt.
Bea Miles : Look where you’re going,
you fooL! You'll hit him.
Driver (putting head out window ) :
Watch what you’re doing, can’t you!
If Ida kept going Ida taken your door
off. Just because you’re parked outside
the Hotel Australia you think you can
do anything.
Bea Miles: You're jealous of him.
Driver : Yes. I'm jealous.
And what has all that to do with the
exhibition? Only that it enlivened a
dreary day, and provided something
faintly memorable, and provoked the
thought that here is this great city teem-
ing with life from which the miles of
tame, elementary and conventional
abstracts in the exhibition seem really
excessively remote.
True, if you disregard their pretentious
titles, Carl Plate’s two entries do make
a clear and dramatic abstract statement,
based virtually on the simple opposition
of black and white, modulated into
harmonies of quiet color. But, apart
from a few mildly pleasant things here
and there —the pieces of sculpture ; Sue
Buckley’s little “Encounter,” Sheila
McDonald’s “Old Walls,” Use Tauber’s
“Reminiscence” most of the other
painters (even those who can paint) seem
to be losing all distinction in abstraction
and would really do much better to take
a bus somewhere and look at something.
D.S.
Perth Art
In the mixed show at the Skinner Gal-
leries, Perth, John Passmore’s eight can-
vases include a lovely “Abstract in
Yellow” (and brown and grey), bought
by the W.A. University with funds from
the Tom Collins Memorial bequest. “Blue
Composition” is a multitude of attractive
blues, a cube of white: it could be sky,
it could be water —one can enjoy it with
particular pleasure in the continuing heat-
wave, as also the green trees and boat-
house of “Boys Bathing,” a token from
pre-abstract days, wherein color masses
create a direct if mysterious image.
Pink is a dangerous color, readily
cloying, frequently trite, but in his
21 pictures Perth painter John
Lunghi displays much subtlety, sweep-
ing from pearl to petunia to dusky
rose, each shade accenting and comple-
menting the wide range of his pastel
palette. Landscape, figure, flowers he
offers plenty of variety in subject, as
well as slight but interesting variations
in technique, although he predominantly
favors a rich texture built up by a mass
of short strokes and palette knife.
This is particularly noticeable in
“Roundabout”: a boy stands shoulder-
high against the soaring head of a hurdy-
gurdy horse dappled pink and grey. An
old, two-story, iron-lace building at Fre-
mantle might be a submerged palace
washed by a sunset sea. An echo of
Ariel’s song haunts other pieces; a
landscape at Mahogany Creek might be
seen through a water-glass, and “Pink
Flowers,” in life Easter lilies, have
acquired the aqueous grace of sea
anemones.
A folio of black-and-white drawings
by Robert Dickerson hang on one wail;
these drawings speak with a power and
urgency far surpassing Dickerson’s large
oil paintings. Tone gives a softness, a
heart-rending reality to these faces of
children who are afraid of life.
F.D.
Adelaide Art
An exhibition at the Hahndorf Gallery
by four young ex-students of the Adelaide
School of Arts makes a chastening con-
trast with the “Advertiser” Open Air Art
Exhibition on the banks of the Torrens.
This annual jamboree is thoroughly
enjoyed by the citizenry, and this year
the 895 pieces of painting, sculpture and
pottery as usual failed to reveal any
young or unknown talent, with the excep-
tion of a delightful strong, clear com-
position, Peter Von Czarnecki’s “Circus
Geese,” and a couple of authentic primi-
tives. Amateur poets, short story writers
and novelists have nothing to exhibit in
public except rejection slips ; no crowds
would gather to hear an orchestra grind-
ing its way through an amateur’s com-
position—only in painting can everybody
have a go and everybody roll up to have
a look at it.
The work of The Quartet, as they call
themselves, at the Hahndorf, has genuine
promise, with training and dedication
behind it. Desmond Parker floats off into
romantic landscapes and leaves human
beings behind ; he makes delicate work
of a bird or a branch. Shirley Megson
likes to build faces into a composition


as solid, and unfortunately usually as
heavy, as a brick wall. Her “Oriental
Madonna” shows that she could become
more flexible without losing dignity.
Thomas Mclntee goes in for shock treat-
ment, most effective in “Betrayal,” or
concentrates on texture, as in “Bush-
fire.” Barbara Hanrahan has a fluid and
fanciful line which is unmistakable in
its talent, but inclined to degenerate into
whimsy. Her big prints reach a further
stage of powerful design and vital color,
but the gouache heads, which should go
further still, are blocked frameworks and
not much more. She will be a painter to
watch, especially when she decides what
she wants to do with her talent.
At the Pequeno Gallery at Glenelg a
Sydney visitor, Royston Harpur, does
not make an impressive showing. Honest
work has gone into these semi-abstracts,
and the city subject matter of some is
lively enough, but despite the range of
color there is a fundamental gluey grey
that clogs the movement of many of the
pictures. Also on show are some witty
wood carvings by Doug Roberts, par-
ticularly the saint-bitch combination of
a two-faced Eve.
Geoffrey Dutton
Pottery
Of all the arts and crafts pottery is
perhaps the most functional, and the
potter must always rise to a double pur-
pose in creating to satisfy both aesthetic
and functional demands. Some of Ivan
Englund’s stoneware exhibited last week
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries might not
be wholly satisfying functionally—does
one really want to drink wine, tea, or
coffee from vessels which are thick,
heavy, even rough in texture? The wine-
jars, the tea- and coffee-pots—these are
excellent. Their shapes are pleasingly
simple, they stand firm, and presumably
keep hot, or cool, their contents.
Englund’s casseroles and bowls and
his covered jars are admirable. Here all
requirements are satisfactorily met, as
in Set 36 for example. There are some
beautiful bowls such as the large bowl
with Kiama rock glaze. It appears that
Mr Englund experiments with several
local glazes, and the Kiama rock pro-
duces a rich, deep and dark glaze.
Occasionally the decoration is meaning-
less, not related to the shape of the bowl,
but on the whole decoration is subordi-
nated to shapes and surfaces.
Today (March 15) the Macquarie
opens its mixed Easter Exhibition of
paintings.
R.D.
Charles Blackmail
Charles Blackman’s sequence of paint-
ings at the Rudy Komon gallery, Sydney,
entitled “The Artist in the Making,” are
a kind of “Songs of Innocence and
Experience 5 ’ in paint. Mr Blackman uses
the child’s direct, strictly visual, unin-
hibited approach, with apparent dis-
regard for perspective and proportion.
“The Last Child” stands alone and sad-
faced among the vivid and luminous
flowers of the garden. Another child
has been wrenched away from two
deserted white play-tents pitched in the
darkening bush behind which an orange
moon is rising. Two children, with fur-
tive, secretive, accusing eyes looking
slantways out of the canvas “Matri-
mony.” Another runs with outstretched
arms after an unattainable white bird.
It is curious and haunting work.
R.R.
Tumut Prize
Prizes in the Tumut (N.S.W.) “Festival
of the Falling Leaf” this year are: 100
guineas for “a painting by an artist
domiciled in Australia, medium
optional”; 25 guineas for “a painting of
a scene within the Tumut Shire” (the
judge for both these will be Roland
Wakelin) ; and £IOO for the Troy Roche
prize “for a portrait executed in the
traditional manner by an Australian
artist” —judge, Rex Bramleigh. Closing
date for entries is March 27.
FILMS
Three Polish Filins
Film making is a serious business in
Poland. Actors, producers, cameramen
and other film technicians have to get
through a special degree course before
gaining admission to the State-financed
industry. Output is modest quantitatively
by Western standards but some excellent
films have been produced since the war,
earning the Polish film industry a high
international reputation.
The current Polish season at the Sydney
Palladium brings three international
prize winners: Andrzej Wajda's “Ashes
and Diamonds” and “Canal,” and T.
Chmieliewski’s “Eve Wants to Sleep.”
All three are characterised by consider-
able intellectual maturity and reflect the
intensely individualistic personality of the
director.
The first to be screened is “Ashes and
Diamonds” (with Z. Cybulski, W. Zas-
trzezynski and Ewa Krzyzanowska in
the main roles). Based on J. Andrze-
jewski’s bitter and controversial novel of
fratricidal struggles in Poland imme-
diately after the war, the film is basically
a study of an individual’s struggle for
the right to love and live in peace after
six years of incessant killing. Maciek, a
young nationalist partisan, with a distin-
guished record earned during the German
occupation, finds himself fighting against
the new Communist administration. The
war ends, but Maciek finds he has to go
on fighting. His ideals and sense of values
are confused, he seeks a way out but
loses, and dies on the rubbish heap —
the symbol of a whole betrayed genera-
tion of Polish youth. The action is brisk,
the actors excellent, the story convincing.
It is a pity the film was slightly trimmed
by the censor, distorting the sense of the
story.
Wajda’s other film (to be screened
last) is very similar in style and manner
of production. In a quiet and matter-of-
fact way, it tells the grim story of courage
and weakness in the last hopeless days of
the Warsaw uprising of 1944. Again the
producer is disillusioned but not bitter.
Wajda’s stark and uncompromising
realism never gives way to sadism and
brutality. The acting is superb and the
script excellent.
The third film (to follow “Ashes and
Diamonds s ') is a hilarious comedy, lam-
pooning the “Socialist” way of life in a
great city that one can’t fail to recognise
as Warsaw. Chmieliewski skilfully
blends slapstick with biting political
satire. Police, spivs, fools, prostitutes,
a pretty young innocent woman student,
undertakers and newsboys are all mixed
and thoroughly ridiculed. The result is
a down-to-earth human comedy, well
worth seeing.
Eugene Bajkowski
“The Millionairess”
Persistent de-sexing of the battle of
the sexes is not the least of the tricks
that Bernard Shaw played on the theatre-
goers of his time, and no other play of
his carries the de-sexing process to such
extremes as “The Millionairess” where
neither heroine nor hero ever for a
moment imagines that any sense but
speech and hearing might be involved in
communication between them.
They sublimate the sex battle into a
prankish debate from opposite ideological
poles, she asserting the all-powerfulness
of great wealth and the purchasability of
all men and he behaving, rather than
arguing, in placid contempt of both of
her favorite beliefs.
Wolf Mankiewitz’s adaptation of the
play gets a long way away from the
Shavian original in its characterisations
and plot material, but the de-sexed atmo-
sphere is faithfully preserved, as she
moves into a basement washhouse to
prove her ability to run 355. up into a
quick fortune while he proves his in-
ability to do anything but lose the £5OO
starter given to him.
Even Sophia Loren, of whom the
achievement might well have been
thought impossible, conforms to the
whole spirit of sexlessness in the
“romance,” her features worn in deep-
freeze and her brilliantly extravagant
wardrobe combining to demolish all trace
of the sort of girl one might think of
sending a valentine to. Sexlessness comes
easier to Peter Sellers, who brings a nice
touch of moping Oriental melancholy to
his role as the Moslem doctor.
Director Anthony Asquith, in every
visual way, handles the traffic with
sumptuous stylishness, but many a time
he finds it hard to encompass the overall
farce-fable tone of the script with any-
thing more than a rather strained giggle-
someness. This is tedious —so tedious,
indeed, that one can sometimes find
oneself laughing not because this or that
scene or line is funny, but because the
film’s makers (and even Shaw!) could
have thought it funny. (Sydney Century.)
L.B.


Murder in a Taxi—a True Story
When a taxi driver opens the front
door of the cab, however much
one might prefer to sit in the
back, it takes a disproportionate
amount of moral courage to do so.
Settling into the front seat 1 apologised
for taking him to an out-of-the-way
place with poor prospects of a fare back.
“No trouble.” The driver spoke with
a slight accent. He was a large, energetic
man, dark-haired, wearing sunglasses.
“If you want to go to the back of Bourke
—once you’re in my cab, 1 take you.”
“Not many feel that way.”
“No. They won’t go there. But all the
time they’re going just as it’s meant for
them. 1 have a driver, see? A young
chap, Jim ; is just a fair-haired kid with
one of these English complexions. Well,
he’s going to get married on Tuesday,
and we’re kidding him about it.
“On the Saturday before his wedding
he decides he won’t go into the city
because if he goes into the city, some-
body’s going to make him drive all the
way to Warwick Farm races, and he'll
have no chance of getting back to see
his girl.
“Instead he goes down to the Manly
wharf and a young fellow gets in his
cab—in the back seat —and tells him to
drive to Church Point. When they get
there, he shoots Jim through the back
of the head and dumps his body under
a culvert.”
’yLT thought about it while we flashed
’ ’ along by the park.
“But wait a minute,” I said. “Accord-
ing to your theory, if he’d gone out to
Warwick Farm, wouldn’t he have met the
same man on the way home and his body
would still have been found under a
culvert?”
The driver nodded to show that he
had taken in that argument already.
“This young fellow had a sawn-off shot-
gun and he said he was going to shoot
rabbits. He comes all the way from Mel-
bourne, hires my cab and drives to
Church Point —to shoot rabbits? He
knew that place. He’d been there with
his foster parents because he was an
adopted child.”
“Ah,” I said, “he was adopted.”
“It never works out,” the driver said.
“I seen ’em. They don’t feel they belong
to anyone. So this boy, he knows about
the culvert and he shoots Jim through
the back of the head and takes the car.”
“Money?” I asked.
“A few shillings. No, that boy goes
back to this Church Point because it
means something to him and there he
takes this car to become a taxi driver.”
“But wait,” I said. “It could have been
anyone. We’ll suppose there were half
a dozen cabs at the wharf. It could have
been any of those. It might have been
a man with a mortgage and six kids. It
might have been you.”
“Ah!”
'""The driver was triumphant because he
A felt I had walked into a clinch.
“You’re wrong. And I can prove it.
By Kylie Tennant
Now, that afternoon when I turn into
the main road I say to myself: ‘Now
what will I do?’
“Just then a lady hails me and says
to drive to the city. We are driving along
and what do I see but my own cab in
front of me. My own cab, but not my
driver, Jim.”
“You mean the fellow that killed him
was driving?”
“I did not know that—then. I can’t
believe my eyes. He’s smashed in the
front mudguard, the front fenders are
bent. But sure 1 know my own number.
‘Lady,’ I says to the fare. ‘There’s some-
thing funny going on. I’m going to chase
that cab.’ I overtake him and I force him
in to the gutter and get out. ‘What’s the
strength of this?’ I ask him. ‘Who are
you working for?’
“He’s got it all off pat. He’s working
for a guy called Brownley. He says the
regular driver is sick and has asked this
Brownley to drive for him.
“ ‘Where did you meet him?’ I ask.
At the Post Office. ‘Let’s have a look at
your licence,’ I say. He tells me he’s
left it at home. ‘Do you own this cab?’
he asks. ‘Never you mind,’ I say. ‘I want
a look at your licence.’
“I tell him to park the car on the
opposite side of the road. He can come
back with me in the car I’m driving and
show me that licence. Well, he tries to
park that car and you never saw such
a mess. All over the road, he can’t park.
“I’ve known it happen before —a young
chap wants to learn and he persuades
some driver to let him take a shift. Maybe
Jim is sick, I think, and he knows this
Brownley can drive and then Brownley
gives the cab to this young fellow who
can’t drive. I rush over and push this
chap out of the driver's seat and get in.
“ ‘Whassamatta,’ I say. ‘You want to
kill someone?’ He doesn’t say anything.
I park the car. ‘You come with me,’
I say. I lock the cab and take the key.
“He doesn’t say anything because he
still has that gun in his pocket. He starts
to follow me across the road and we get
nearly to the cab before he sees I have
this lady passenger in the front seat.
“Then he stops. All of a sudden he
swerves away and a van comes between
us. He starts to run down a lane. It
was then he threw the gun over a fence.”
“You mean if you hadn’t had a
passenger he was going to get in and
give you the other bullet?”
TTE nodded. “Sure. That’s what he
AA thought. But when he runs away,
I am still so furious 1 drive oh'.
“When 1 get a chance I ring up home.
‘Has Jim phoned to say he was sick?’
‘No,’ the wife says.
“You were going to have it out with
him?”
“I was going to sack him. About four
every afternoon me and my drivers we
always meet up in York Street, but I am
there early and there’s three of my
drivers. I tell them about it and 'v« stand
there talking. We can’t make it out.
“ ‘lt doesn't sound like Jim, one of
the fellows says. ‘One night I was driving
home with him and I says, ‘Look, I’ll
drop you and run the cab back to the
boss’s place,’ but he wouldn’t have it.
‘No,’ Jim says. ‘I know you’re all right,
but this cab’s in my charge and 1 drive
it, all the time.’ ”
“Well, we talk a bit more and then we
all think we’ll go back and pick up the
car I’ve left parked. When we go over
it we find the bullet.
“So then we ring the police. They
know about the cab already because a
man has phoned and given the number
to say that he’s had a terrible ride and
the driver isn't fit to be on the road.
“Then the gun is found and brought
in and they publish a picture of it. Two
young chaps down in Melbourne say,
‘Why, that's the gun young Heathwood
was showing round.’
“Oh yes, they get him. Life! What
is life? By this time they have found
Jim. Now I have passed that culvert a
dozen times. I never knew that culvert
was there. But he knew. He was waiting
till they reached the culvert.”
T said, “And so you think it was in the
nature of things that you should
overtake your own car and that the lady
passenger should save your life?”
“Well, what do you think yourself?”
We were slowing down at the intersection
where I wanted to get out.
“ ‘lf the dread slayer thinks he slays,’ ”
I said, fumbling for my money. “ ‘Or
the victim thinks that he is slain. They
know not by what devious ways I track
and pass and turn again. When me they
fly, lam the wings. ...’ ”
As though she had popped up through
the pavement a woman with too much
rouge and a red hat appeared on the
opposite side of the road and waved.
“0.K.. lady!” The driver acknowledged
the signal. “I'm on the way. But it
seems strange, huh? And him to be
married on the Tuesday . . .”
He twisted the cab across the street.
The woman reached for the handle of
the rear door, but the driver was too
quick for her. He opened the front door ;
she stepped in and sat down beside him
on the front seat of the cab.


Macarthur Bites the File
By M. H. ELLIS
Napoleon once wrote that history
was a “fable agreed upon.”
Somebody else said that it was “an
account of something that didn’t
happen by a man that wasn’t there.” The
same sort of irony might be applied to
historical biography, especially in Aus-
tralia, in which the reputations of great
men have been made by their enemies
and the histories of them written by those
who have hated them.
This has been true in Australia perhaps
to a greater extent than elsewhere, because
all history up till a very late period was
written from the printed word or the
memories of men. Thus what appeared
in the printed historical records of Aus-
tralia or of New South Wales was
accepted without question, especially if
it were backed by the vituperation of
Dr Lang or some politician engaged in
slangwhanging an opponent, or some
moralist going to town about his pet vice.
Nobody has suffered more from this
kind of history than John Macarthur.
He has been an ideal target for his
traducers, because in his early days in
New South Wales he was the tallest
poppy, not only economically but morally,
a respectably married man with an
engaging and educated wife —the “first
lady to come to New South Wales” and
for long about the only one in the Colony
—while most other men at his social level
were living with convict women, whom
sometimes they married and sometimes
didn’t.
He was a farmer who made good both
for himself and the Colony when others
were saying that it could not be done.
As a result he became both privileged
and rich. He was a teetotaller in a
society that lived more than half under
the table. He was much of a recluse in
a gregarious community. And he was a
critic of inefficiency with a tongue like a
whiplash, who courted aggression.
In his later years when the Colony had
become perhaps the most newspaper-
served piece of colonial territory in exist-
ence, and with the most boisterously
abusive lot of editors on earth, his brain
was beginning to go under stress of
accumulated contention and long years
of pain and illness. And then, if ever
a man courted attack and laid himself
open to it, he did. All through his life
he had been ready to take on all comers.
All comers, also, were ready to take
him on, with no holds barred and no
umpires to say anything about blows to
the groin.
All the old libels are still being
repeated. Rarely are any of the attacks
which Macarthur made on others repeated
against his opponents. And rarely are
the libels against Macarthur himself ex-
amined for truth, while the truth of much
that he said with uninhibited fury against
his enemies is self-evident.
JOHN MACARTHUR
A peppery customer
It is an historians’ tale that all the
officers of the New South Wales Corps
were disreputable fellows who couldn’t
get into any respectable regiment.
But this was untrue. The Botany Bay
Regiment was officered mostly by men
who had all served in famous regiments,
if old enough to serve; deserving,
wounded veterans of the American wars
and those further back. Johnston was
the personal friend of the Duke of North-
umberland and had served with him in
many an American battle. Grose, the
commandant, had fought at Bunker Hill
and been wounded at Montgomery Court
House. Paterson had served in a dis-
tinguished regiment and was a noted
naturalist and explorer. Lieutenant Hill
had been in a regiment which Mac-
quarie afterwards commanded. Nepean,
the brother of the Under Secretary to the
Home Department, afterwards became
Commandant of the Forces in the Cape
Breton Colony.
Macarthur had been commissioned
at the age of 15 in one of the elite private
regiments raised in the West of England
to serve in the American War of In-
dependence, but too late to serve, in the
years of peace that followed he was
obviously part of county society along
the borders of Devon and Cornwall,
judging by the names of his friends and
acquaintances. It is a family tradition
that he was studying for the Bar when
the onset of more international disturb-
ance brought British regiments up to
strength and he abandoned his legal
ambitions to take a commission in a
famous Line Regiment, the Durhams
(68th). Yet in the Colony it became a
legend that he began life as c stay-maker
or man milliner.
TUTis reading and his knowledge of lam*
support the theory of his legal studies.
His sons recalled that he was well versed
in literature ; that in their boyhood he
had read aloud to them by the fireside
of the little house at Elizabeth Farm, the
first substantial permanent home in Aus-
tralia outside Sydney, the works of the
great authors ; that he quoted often from
Shakespeare, Spenser, Milton, Butler,
Addison ; that he was one of Walter
Scott’s great admirers, that he dwelt on
the finer passages of Byron, that Crabbe
was a favorite; that he was familiar
with the orators of his time and preferred
Pitt’s oratory to that of Fox. And James
Macarthur, his son, a man of great cul-
tivation of mind and moderation of out-
look, wrote that in his happier and more
discursive moods “the power of illustra-
tion with which his (father's) conversa-
tion abounded was most remarkable.”
His background was one of influence
in England. His cousin and friend was
John Macarthur, secretary to Hood and
Nelson, author of the standard works of
his time on the principles and practice
of naval courts-martial, joint founder of
the “Naval Chronicle” and joint bio-
grapher of Nelson. His associates in
London bespoke influence. His father
was reputed to have been a refugee from
Culloden who turned merchant in Ply-
mouth. The many children of his brother
James all married into officer families
round Plymouth except Hannibal, his
nephew, who married a daughter of his
old enemy, Governor Phillip Gidley King.
When he came to New South Wales in
1790 with an eye to the main chances of
“reaping the most material advantages”
in a land where “flowers luxuriantly
abound, in the same manner as culture
fruits will do hereafter” and where they
had learnt that “wheat . . . sown had
flourished in a manner nearly incredible,”
he was 22 years and ill but ambitious.
He was certainly a peppery customer, but
there is only one local quarrel with the
Government recorded during the period
of Governor Phillip, who apparently
was generally on friendly terms with him;
and that was only raked up near 20 years
afterwards and is not mentioned in the
records of the time. This was a trivial
matter in which Phillip reproved Mac-
arthur. Macarthur flared up and proved
his innocence and Phillip apologised
handsomely without mollifying his fiery
young officer.
Grose appointed Macarthur, after
Phillip had sailed for England, to “the
direction of the convicts employed there
(at Parramatta) and at Toongabbie in
cultivation, as well as to take charge of
the public grain,” a task which the new
Lieutenant-Governor considered to have
become “so extensive, that it was abso-
lutely necessary that the person who might


have the regulation of it should reside
upon the spot that he might personally
enforce ... his orders” and attend to
the applications of settlers.
These duties had hitherto been done in
person by the Governor. For three years
Macarthur carried out this task without
salary, rewarded by a grant of land at
Parramatta on which he built Elizabeth
Farm House and developed his own farm.
During that period the Colony for the
first time showed signs of flourishing and
of being self-supporting in grain and
foodstuffs. He superintended the open-
ing of the Hawkesbury River country.
And during his period of management
most of the Colony’s stable estates were
founded. Stock multiplied twenty-fold.
'T'here is no evidence that he was the
arch-monopolist in rum that he is
supposed to have been ; no testimony, in
fact, that the New South Wales Corps of
which he was a member held a monopoly
of the trade. All the evidence points to
the fact that the greatest rum traders were
civilians and the bitterest opponents and
the most vigorous rivals, in some cases,
of Macarthur and his faction —when one
grew up.
Under Macarthur’s control grain output
had reached the point of self-sufficiency
and more. Hunter had praised his work
and continued his employment. And then
had arisen differences when Macarthur
objected to interference with his manage-'
ment and to the taking away from his
control of convicts without his being con-
sulted. And, Hunter failing to support
his authority, he resigned his office.
Hunter then appointed Mr Richard
Atkins, who by order from the British
Government was about to become Acting
Judge Advocate during the absence on
leave of David Collins, to undertake
Macarthur’s former duties.
And this made Macarthur see red for
many reasons. It was ignominy enough
to be superseded by such a man, especially
since he held in his hand the evidence
of fraud by his successor in the form of
promissory notes for which money had
been received by the issuer but which
had proved to be worth less than the
label on a packet of tea.
Mr Atkins was a rubicund gentleman,
a collateral heir to a peerage. He was
the defaulting paymaster of a British
militia regiment. He had come to the
colony in 1791 as a remittance man in-
stead of as a convict, probably only
because his influential relatives held
offices next to the Throne at the Court of
St James —and had done for centuries—
and because one brother was an admiral
of note and another a general.
To put the seal on his security, Hunter
was a comrade-in-arms of one of his
brothers.
Quarrelling with Mr Atkins did not
seem a dangerous business ; but it was,
even for a man of Macarthur’s prowess
as a quarreller, despite the fact that
Atkins’s habits and character were notori-
ous and that Governor King's statement,
at a later stage, that “he was sometimes
addicted to the bottle” was one of the
great understatements of early colonial
history. For all his sins and failings he
maintained the commanding and courtly
air of an aristocrat.
His own journal, still extant, exhibits
him taking a sniggering delight in the
kind of verse boys scrawl on latrine walls
It is full of lepinings for the consequences
of his addiction to brandy when avail-
able and spruce beer when it was not.
Colonel Paterson bore testimony to his
“character for debauchery and every
degraded vice.” Macarthur supposedly
aided Paterson to compose this reference.
Bligh certified a decade later that
Atkins was “accustomed to inebriety” ;
that he was “the ridicule of the com-
munity” ; that he “passed sentences of
death in moments of intoxication” ; that
his “knowledge of the law was insignifi-
cant” and his administration of it “sub-
servient to his private inclination.”
He was indigent and negligent. He
lived with concubines and generally his
surroundings were in keeping with those
in which his successor, Judge-Advocate
Ellis Bent, found him dwelling in a perfect
pigsty of a house of which the walls
were decorated with low and vulgar
caricatures and the adjacent yard with
rooting pigs
Mow, here was this derelict taking over
the office to which Macarthur had
brought efficiency and letting all that had
been done to produce order and progress
go to the dogs. And, moreover, slyly
traducing Macarthur’s efficiency and
honesty at the Governor's dinner table
in loud and bibulous tones.
It is no wonder that when Macarthur,
holding Atkins’s dishonored notes of
hand, received a missive from him telling
him how he should deal with a couple
of soldiers who allegedly had been caught
stealing turnips in the Governor’s garden,
he felt his hackles rise.
He replied in a note in which he
assured his successor that he knew how
to administer regimental justice, mention-
ing pointedly that it was not his custom
to conceal fraud —a word which he
underlined.
Neither is it any wonder that in the
superscription he forgot to put an
“esquire” after Mr Atkins’s name and,
in fact, addressed him as “Mr” as if he
were the local tradesman. That Mr
Atkins announced that he would return
all correspondence addressed to him as
“Mr” caused him only glee.
When Hunter supported Atkins’s right
to be called Esquire, Macarthur pleasantly
disputed the fact that his new enemy
could be injured by “the insignificant
means” of leaving out his title of honor
or that this omission could “produce a
change in the public opinion of a man
so deeply plunged in infamy ... a public
cheater living in boundless dissipation,
without any visible means of maintaining
it than by imposture on unwary strangers
whose business leads them to this settle-
ment.”
He declared that “drunkenness and
indecency were almost inseparable” from
his rival and accused him of having
given fraudulent Bills of Exchange to
visiting ships’ captains, a matter about
which neither Hunter nor Atkins seemed
anxious to have a proper legitimate in-
quiry made.
In the subsequent proceedings, Atkins
suggested that because Macarthur had
acquired property worth £BOO0 —it was
Atkins’s bloated estimate —he was “an
oppressor, peculator or robber” —that he
had “passed the Rubicon of dishonor”
. . . was a “leper in reputation” ... a
“Iyer and scoundrel” ; and he prophesied
that he would “be dragged forward by
the strong arm of justice to public view
as a monster of society” and he assured
him: “Viper, you bite the file ; the day
of retribution will come.”
Throughout the whole of the rest of his
career Atkins nurtured the ambition to
see this come true, making every occasion
to damage his opponent; using his own
confidential relationships with Governors
to seek his destruction.
The quarrel with Hunter that arose
from the quarrel with Atkin s —the
demands for the issue of writs, for in-
quiries, and all sorts of consequences,
Hunter chose to interpret as an attempt
to deprive him of the “assistance of the
man named by His Majesty’s authority
to do duty as Judge Advocate and thus
embarrass the civil power.”
With Atkins in Macarthur’s old office
as superintendent of convicts and works
the farming concerns of the colony
naturally soon fell into ruin, giving
Macarthur a magnificent opportunity to
do what no resident of the Colony had
ever had the temerity to do: to write
to the Colonial Secretary a scorching, but
constructive, criticism of the administra-
tion of the Governor which the
Colonial Office already knew to be only
too well founded ; even no doubt the
addendum which contained the melan-
choly truth that vice of every descrip-
tion—vide, of course, the case of Mr.
Richard Atkins—was openly encouraged,
and the reflection that it could not excite
wonder that the lower order of people
continued their former practices when
those whose situations required the
utmost circumspection of conduct were
the most openly dissipated and aban-
doned.
It was only now that Governors began
to attack Macarthur to the Home Govern-
ment. Hunter admitted the depravity and
vice in the colony, with the full support
of upright clergy like the Reverend
Samuel Marsden, but they threw the
responsibility for land monopoly on
Macarthur, depreciated his knowledge of
agriculture, attacked his colleagues as the
sources of debauchery (being careful to
leave him alone on that issue), but hold-
ing him up for the first time as a “man
of restless, ambitious and litigious dis-
position” and demanding—“in the in-
terests of the public service”—his with-
drawal from the country where he was
making a nuisance of himself.
T3>ut it was Hunter who was presently
withdrawn out of the muddle which
he and his staff had created.
It was King, succeeding him, who took
over the burden of fighting it out with
a man who, having tried to sell out his
new flocks of Spanish sheep to the Gov-
ernment and leave the country, became
involved in more and more quarrels, in
all of which Atkins played his part.
The latter was at the bottom of the
quarrel that turned King from a friend
of Macarthur into an enemy. He was
involved behind the scenes in the row


between Paterson and Macarthur which
led to the famous duel and the sending
of Macarthur to England at his own
request for trial and the foundation of
the Merino industry.
In the letters of King to the Colonial
Office which have been so freely and
easily accepted by historians as painting
Macarthur’s true place and character and
perspective “Perturbators” Atkins’s
diction and violence are often evident.
Despite all his earlier shouting in the
official correspondence that Macarthur
was “the promoter of all the feuds and
animosities of the Colony” and had been
guilty of “infamous and diabolical con-
duct” and “rapacity in accumulating a
large fortune through extortion and the
distress and misery of respectable settlers”
King made him an honored guest at
Government House when he returned
from England. He testified that Macarthur
“had never offered him the least private
or personal injury.” By that time Atkins
had lost his influence until the next
Governor arrived.
Then, under Bligh, he was at it again,
always in the background, always on the
attack.
He was the moving spirit in the prose-
cution of Macarthur, in one of whose
ships, the Parramatta, an escaped con-
vict, apparently quite accidentally, hid.
And it was his displays of hatred and
contempt to Atkins that led to Mac-
arthur’s arrest.
It was his sense of outrage that he
could be tried under the presidency of
a man whom he accused of fraud and
who had sworn to make him “bite the
file ’ and drag him “by the strong arm
of justice to the public view as a monster
of society,” that was the determinant in
making him the leader of the rebellion
against Bligh; without whom there almost
certainly would have been no rebellion.
Not only Macarthur but Bligh had good
reason in the end to regret having ever
heard of Atkins.
It was characteristic of Atkins that he
deserted Bligh and went over to the
enemy. It was also characteristic of him
that in England when Bligh’s court-martial
came on in 1811 he tried to hide away
to avoid being called as a witness; and
that when he was run to earth he gave
testimony which was certainly no comfort
to Bligh, who had backed, to his own
ruin, his right to preside at Macarthur’s
trial.
By that time Macarthur was engulfed
by the misfortunes which had started to
assail him when he had begun to quarrel
with the implacable and unremovable
peculator of regimental funds whose in-
fluence was so great even in his disgrace-
ful exile that he could make Governors
quail whenever he whispered a suggestion
that he might begin reporting events to
his influential relatives at Court.
Very largely to Atkins Macarthur
owed his early troubles and his later
exile. And in the privacy of his chamber
in later days he must often have regretted
that he had not been wary enough to
leave him alone. For Macarthur’s repu-
tation as a disturber of the Colony was
built up in the years during which Atkins
sat next to the ears of the Colonial
Governors.
How I Edited
“Capricornia”
By P. R. STEPHENSEN
Xavier Herbert has a reputation
as a novelist, which means as a
professional imaginator ; other-
wise some readers of The
Bulletin (March 8) might have believed
his absurd statements that, when I met
him in 1933, the seat was out of his
pants, and that I was wearing “spats,”
and that no one except himself edited
his novel, “Capricornia.”
Since these are only three of the many
fictions in his imaginative reconstruction
of the events of a quarter of a century
ago, it may be kind to him in the long-
run if 1 put on record my recollections
of the publication of “Capricornia.”
I published “Capricornia” in 1937 —
but only after four years of intense
efforts and anxieties. I had returned
home at the end of 1932, at the suggestion
of Norman Lindsay, to establish The
Endeavour Press, in association with The
Bulletin, with a service agreement for
one year. During that year (1933), The
Endeavour Press, under my management,
published some 30 books.
Among the hundreds of manuscripts
and typescripts offered to the Endeavour
Press was “Capricornia.” It was one of
the most amateurishly presented type-
scripts that I have ever seen, and
thoroughly “dog-eared,” as the author
confessed to me, after being rejected by
11 London publishers. I read it and
saw that it had a genuine satirical, comic,
and depictive quality. I passed it on to
Norman Lindsay, who was a co-director
with me of The Endeavour Press.
Xavier got it back from Norman
Lindsay, after leaving Norman, as
Xavier now admits, “exhausted.” It is
rubbish for him to say that he retrieved
it from “a rubbish dump.”
He then took the typescript to Walter
Cousins, publishing director of Angus and
Robertson, who turned it down, as “too
lengthy.”
In the meantime, I had left the En-
deavour Press early in 1934, and started
a book-publishing company in my own
name in Bond Street. It was there that
Xavier brought me his “dog-eared”
manuscript again. All the world was
against him, he said, and the seat was
out of his pants. He did not succeed in
talking me down, as he had talked
Norman Lindsay down. I pointed out
that it needed completely rewriting, in
shorter paragraphs, with more dialogue,
and much more careful story-plotting.
As it stood, it was chaotic and useless.
Handing him my office copy of
Fowler’s “Modern English Usage,” I
advised him to study it carefully for
hints on composition. “That’s strange,”
said Xavier. “A Pommy publisher in
London gave me that same advice.”
“Necessary advice, in your case,” I told
him. A few days later, Xavier returned
and gave me a lecture for one hour on
the uses of the colon and the gerund.
According to Xavier, I addressed him
as “Maestro.” If I did, I handed him
a piece of rock-salt to take with it. The
revision of the manuscript then began.
Xavier insisted on visiting me in the
evenings and at weekends at my flat at
Balmoral Beach, so that he could read
the original work aloud to me, chapter
by chapter, making notes in pencil of my
comments and suggestions. This went on
for 20 or 30 sessions, usually until 2 a.m.
or 3 a.m., when Xavier would catch the
“owl” tram to his parents’ home in
Cremorne.
I took this as all in the day's work
for a publisher; but after a while I
began to feel exhausted, as 1 still had to
catch the 8 o’clock ferry each morning
to attend to my office work for other
authors. My dainty and always hospitable
wife, who kept us going with coffee at
midnight during these sessions, at last
pointed out to Xavier, in her usual tactful
way, that she didn’t think I’d be able to
stand the strain much longer of going
without sufficient sleep. Annoyed at this,
even though it was a statement of the
obvious, Xavier 26 years later describes
her as “a dragon.”
As the work of revision proceeded,
Xavier next appealed to me to visit him
at his Roman Villa at Narrabeen, to
hear it all read aloud again. I went there
a few times at weekends, not on horse-
back as he so absurdly states, but by
public transport, and not to play billiards,
or even to enjoy Sadie’s Jewish cooking
—though I did enjoy that: everybody
likes Sadie and admires her patience—
but to make such suggestions for revising
“Capricornia” as occurred to me from
time to time.
I was able to cut short these visits by
insisting that I should read the typescript
this time with my eyes, instead of with
my ears. At last that task was ended,
I knew “Capricornia” almost by heart.
According to Xavier, when the revised
version was completed, I offered to pay
him ‘‘£lo a week for life.” Such testi-
mony, 26 years later, can be judged only
by its intrinsic probability. He appears
to be confusing me in his reminiscences
with the Commonwealth Literary Fund.


In fact, Xavier was offered and
accepted the ordinary contract for pub-
lication on a royalty basis. Typesetting
then began, not at Chapter Sixteen, as
Xavier so dramatically and nonsensically
asserts, but at Chapter One, in the usual
way. I am a stickler for routine, and
I would certainly not have signed a con-
tract for publication of a novel of
225,000 words until I had the whole
typescript in hand ; nor would I have
begun the typesetting in the middle of
such a work, to confuse the compositors,
the proofreaders, and everyone else con-
cerned.
The publishing company (P. R.
Stephensen and Co. Ltd), incorporated in
1934, was a small one, with a nominal
capital of only £5OOO, not fully paid up.
It had a dozen shareholders and two
directors, E. C. Lemont (a city architect)
and myself. The intention was to develop
a publishing business initially with a
dozen or so books, and then to promote
a bigger company, if favorable financial
results could be shown.
The staff consisted of two “readers,”
John T. Kirtley and Arthur W. Dibley ;
one outdoor salesman ; a typist; and
myself as managing director. We had
three rooms on the first floor of 24
Bond Street, Sydney.
We had made a fairly good beginning
by publishing two really good novels,
“Prelude to Christopher” by Eleanor
Dark, and “Mezzomorto” by C. V.
Crockett; a little giftbook story, “The
Bath,” by Henry Handel Richardson;
and four light novels by new authors,
Ruby Pemberton Lemont, Ruby Wood-
ford, George Berrie, and J. J. Mulligan.
We produced also an item of belles-
lettres, “C. J. Brennan, an Essay in
Values,” by Randolph Hughes ; a book
of Aboriginal legends, “God in the Sand,”
by Theo Price ; and a book of
“Aboriginal Signs and Symbols for the
Use of Boy Scouts.”
As proofs came from the printers, they
were read, as a matter of routine, by
Kirtley, Dibley and myself, and also by
the authors. All editorial queries were
referred to the authors.
But if Xavier believes my young and
capable assistant, Arthur Dibley, just out
of the university, did not refer to me
any queries in a typescript of 900 pages,
or in 200 galley-proofs of typesetting,
let him believe it, but nobody else would.
He admits that I “made suggestions here
and there,” but adds that he could
enumerate them on his fingers. Possibly
on his toes, too ; but a Chinese abacus
would have been more helpful. What on
earth is Xavier gaining by his contention
that his novel was so word-perfect that
his publishers had no need to “edit” it?
Does he enhance himself by decrying the
work of publishers’ editors which is so
essential in publishing procedures?
It is routine for publishers’ editors
not to expect or to receive acknowledg-
ment for their work. Neither publishers
nor members of their staffs would accept
dedications of books. A staff editor
handles fifty or more books in a year,
and gives them all the same useful treat-
ment. He could not accept dedications
or acknowledgments from one author
and not from another. I have never until
now made the slightest claim to any
merit for having published “Capri-
cornia”; but am I to be silent when the
author, after so many years, denies that
my work was meticulous?
Xavier next suggested that I should
employ both him and Sadie on the pub-
lishing staff. “I want to stand on the
bridge with you,” he declared. I accepted
this offer, although I could scarcely afford
to do so. Sadie proved an efficient
invoice clerk, packer and dispatcher,
telephone minder and receptionist ; but
Xavier spent most of his time lecturing
Kirtley and Dibley on the colon, the
gerund and the fused participle, and
explaining to authors who called at the
office, such as Miles Franklin and
William Baylebridge, that “Capricornia”
was the greatest work ever written, or
likely to be written, in Australia.
What worries I had! Booksellers and
the reading public were not only indif-
ferent but actively hostile to Australian
books: of 1000 copies printed of “Pre-
lude to Christopher,” we could sell only
300 copies.
In a desperate attempt to save the
situation, I called on most of the financial
and social leaders of Sydney, trying to
raise some more share capital, but it
was useless. “Who wants to read Aus-
tralian books?” was the average reaction.
“Aren't we getting enough good books
from England?” My answer to this was
to launch the first number of a monthly
magazine, “The Australian Mercury,” in
July, 1935. It was the one and only
number.
A meeting of shareholders was called,
and the company went into voluntary
liquidation. All rights in the books pub-
lished and under contract, including
“Capricornia,” then automatically re-
vetted to the authors. I showed the
galley-proofs of “Capricornia” to Walter
Cousins of A. and R., pointed out to
him that the work had been completely
rewritten, edited, and proof-read, and
offered him the standing type at cost.
He turned this offer down, stating that
the book was “too lengthy” to be profit-
ably published. The type was then melted
down, and Xavier left Sydney, as he
said, “to walk to Darwin.” I’d be sur-
prised if he didn’t get a lift for part of
the way. Sadie followed him by ship,
and he got a good government job there.
That was at the end of 1935. Six
months later, in July, 1936, I became
associated with W. J. Miles, in forma-
tion of The Publicist Publishing Com-
pany, with a shop in the T. and G. Build-
ing, Sydney. We published a monthly
paper, “The Publicist,” which lasted for
five-and-a-half years.
Soon after it was established, I had a
letter from Xavier in Darwin: “The
white ants are eating the galley-proofs
of ‘Capricornia.’ Please publish it!” I
asked him to send me the proofs, and
persuaded W. J. Miles to finance the cost
of publishing the book. A new contract
was signed with Xavier in February, 1937,
and the immense opus was once again
sent to a printer to be set in type.
This time I had to proof-read it with-
out the advantage of Xavier’s help. Then
came the announcement of a Common-
wealth literary prize for “the best novel
published, or accepted for publication in
Australia in 1937.” The entries had to
be lodged on or before 31st December,
1937.
'T'he printing of “Capricornia” was
going on slowly. I spent days at the
printing works (in Levey Street, Chippen-
dale, Sydney) working with the stone-
hand and pressman to get the printing
done in time. It was finished on 30th
December. I folded, sewed and bound
one copy by hand, and lodged it 24 hours
before closing-time of the competition.
It was a book of 595 pages, in small
type, on cheap paper. Two thousand
copies were printed, for sale at 6s. If we
had sold them all at the trade price of
45., the costs would have been barely
covered. 1 launched a publicity campaign.
I founded the Aborigines Progressive
Association, and issued six monthly
numbers of a newspaper, “The Abo Call,”
in which lengthy extracts from “Capri-
cornia” were serialised. The book was
also publicised systematically in “The
Publicist.”
The book won the Commonwealth
prize. A friend at “The Sydney Morning
Herald” telephoned the news to me at
midnight. I got out of bed, went to the
G.P.0., and sent Xavier a telegram to
Darwin, informing him of his success.
“The Publicist” edition of “Capri-
cornia” was quickly sold out. We then
offered to transfer the contract, and the
standing type at cost price, to Angus and
Robertson. They accepted this offer, and
have since sold out 11 editions of the
book which they advertise as “The
Classic Novel of North Australia.”
Xavier came to Sydney, and made a
speech declaring, in the words of Cobbett,
that Sydney is “a great wen.” From that
day to this he has never thanked me in
any way for my help to him in publishing
“Capricornia”; nor have I ever received
one penny of profits or any other earnings
from it.
After enjoying his triumph, he retired
again to the vast open spaces. Twenty
years later he produced a second novel,
“Seven Emus,” which suffered from
blockage of the colon.
Now, we learn, his third novel,
“Soldiers’ Women,” will presently appear.
Its production has been heavily sub-
sidised by the Commonwealth Literary
Fund. I wait with interest to see if it
will be a “greater” novel than “Capri-
cornia,” which was written, edited and
published without any help whatsoever
from the Welfare State. I have not edited
“Soldiers’ Women” or “Seven Emus”;
but yes, I did have something to do with
editing “Capricornia.”


Defence and Pentropic War
By "EK DUM"
The governing factor in doing any-
thing really effective in Australian
defence is cost. Therefore the
force which we use must be
balanced sectionally with great care, each
section shaped and allotted an expense
account in proportion to its importance
in the all-service scheme.
It is not thought, for instance, needful
to have a full-scale R.A.N.; which is
fortunate, since the new cost of modern
ships puts one outside the realm of prac-
ticability.
On the score of expense, it has become
necessary to scrap the conception that
the key unit of the R.A.N. should be
a capital-ship air-arm operating from
mother aircraft-carriers. Cost prohibits
the replacing of H.M.A.S. Melbourne and
her aircraft when she reaches obso-
lescence in 1963. With her the air-arm
of the R.A.N. will disappear.
By then the largest units in the fleet
will be the powerful Daring-class ships,
larger than a destroyer, with more hitting
power than a pre-war heavy cruiser.
With them will work the coveys of small
defensive ships—Battle-class destroyers,
anti-submarine frigates, attack and land-
ing craft, survey ships, minelayers and
other small and dangerous fry ; perhaps
surface-to-air missile ships to defend
convoys.
The provision of even small aircraft-
carriers, of nuclear submarines and other
capital-class giants must be left to the
two great allied nations likely to be con-
cerned directly in a Pacific Ocean or Far
Eastern war —the United States, and the
United Kingdom which, under its 1961
plans, is rebuilding its fleet with an eye
specifically on this region and on the
aggressive potentialities of Red China
which is out of the beat of the home-
based R.A.F. in global or limited local
war. Singapore will be a main base.
At the inception of the new defence
scheme, the R.A.A.F. was based on
three Canberra bomber squadrons, built
in Australia ; three fighter squadrons
armed with the Australian Avon Sabre ;
two sea-reconnaissance squadrons, two
transport squadrons and three control and
radar units, two built and one in process
of addition.
The transport squadrons, including 12
huge Hercules 130’s, are modern. The
Sabres in process of replacement, by
French fighters, have been equipped with
air-to-air missiles and are splendid
ground-attack machines and probably
will not be much bettered in that role by
any faster and more modern available
machine.
Generally speaking, the developments
in the aircraft field have been all that
can be expected. The Neptunes which
form the basis of the recce force are
admirably suited to Australia’s long dis-
tances. The new version carries the most
modern anti-submarine equipment. The
surface-to-air guided-weapons unit is to
be conservatively developed for equip-
ment with the Bloodhound, which did
its final tests and went through its final
adjustments at Woomera. Helicopters
have come in. Parallel with the develop-
ment of new types, a substantial local
aircraft industry has been built up.
The one grouch against late changes
has been about the transfer of the
Citizens Air Force of five squadrons to
a non-combat-flying basis and to a course
of training which fits it only for wartime
emergency duties. This was unavoidable.
It was inevitable that the R.A.A.F.
should become virtually completely pro-
fessional and that the 400-strong per-
manent training and maintenance element
in the citizen squadrons could be better
used to form a fourth R.A.A.F. regular
squadron, much needed, since one
bomber and one fighter squadron are
THE SECOND
OF THREE ARTICLES
stationed in Malaya as part of the
Commonwealth Strategic Reserve.
Not much is said about details of the
Australian missile programme at
Woomera and associated towns. The
original conception of the “rocket-range”
scheme was that Australia would finance,
and provide staff and basic plant and
buildings and accessory industry; that
the United Kingdom would do the
primary research, determine broad policy
and send out for trial the various horrors
of war conceived for the discomfiture of
the British Commonwealth’s foes.
The intrinsic value of the Woomera
project has been in the creation of the
Australian Defence Scientific Service, the
introduction into the Australian indus-
trial field of about a dozen leading
British and electronic firms on the spot,
a building up of facilities connected both
with scientific warfare in general and the
R.A.A.F. in particular that otherwise we
might not have had under any conditions.
The net product is a wholly Australian
weapon of the deadliest kind: Australian
specialist experience packed into a versa-
tile and all-embracing group of skills and
minds devoted to military science.
There is temerity about criticising the
R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F. But the
Army is something that everybody knows
all about. It is an Australian family
affair.
Everybody knows how to run it.
Nearly everybody is convinced that it is
actually run by a lot of people who do
not know how to run it.
Few seem to want to serve in it as
volunteers outside a group of starry-eyed
youngsters and a dwindling body of
devoted and earnest officers.
The view of it is strongly flavored with
the comfortable “deterrent” idea. When
there is national training it is assailed by
large sections and driven off the pro-
gramme by indifference and reluctance to
serve, or encourage or facilitate, service.
When national service is, however,
abolished, the move is viewed with
“genuine alarm.” The breaking up of
historic battalions which have been
scratching for men for years—and
scratching to make them attend parades
when enlisted either compulsorily or
otherwise —is represented by many as
sheer disaster.
But not a disaster severe enough, in
view of the existence of the thermo-
nuclear shield, to call for public outcry.
The displaced citizen soldier is apt to
view the Regular forces with pessimism.
Its generals are held to be Uncle Tobys
and the sarnmajors, at best, Corporal
Trims. Ihe intermediate commissioned
ranks, with the best of their wars behind
them, appear, if one may judge by the
conversation in some C.M.F. circles, near
relations of the famous Earl of Craven
whose demonstrations of war as prac-
tised among the cocoa trees bored Miss
Harriette Wilson at most inappropriate
nocturnal moments.
Moreover, acceptance of the theory
that the weapon is superior to man in
war and that he can be more than effec-
tively replaced in the scheme of defence
by the new electronic-ramjet-thermo-
nuclear instruments of push-button
deterrent warfare is not likely to lead any
youth to believe that he is urgently
needed in the volunteer forces.
Some wag has described the new con-
ception of military progress as based on
the motto, “The pen is mightier than the
sword.” Everything connected with it, he
said, has come out of the Pentagon and
is “pentomic,” “pentropic” or “pen-
ultimate” —the ultimate being a Pentecost,
a harvest festival, of sheer calamity.
It is not as bad as that. The American
pentomic division is the new basic forma-
tion constructed on a five-battalion and
unit basis down to the roots. It is stream-
lined to use conventional and limited
atomic (“fission”) weapons, to attack in
concentrated force, or defeat attack by
breaking up into self-contained disper-
sions ; also to make two shots go off
with less effort and by less manpower
than made one shot go off before.
The pentropic division or group, of
which the new Australian defence set-up
is a specimen, is a pentomic division or
group adapted to tropical and jungle and
bush warfare. It is built to be portable
in the shortest possible time over the
longest possible distances.
It represents the application of sim-
plicity and tightness of command to a
group of elastic and versatile units most
convenient in number to assemble, or
take apart into miniatures of the whole
which can live and fight off their own
fat, at least for short periods.


The tightness of command involves the
ability by the overall commander to
handle the formation by direct contact.
This is not a principle, as some military
writers seem to imagine, invented during
World War II by the German General
Staff and perfected by Captain Liddell
Hart. It was practised with some success
by obscure people named Napoleon and
Wellington and its merits were probably
first perceived by cavemen surrounding
and chasing down (or being chased by)
pterodactyls.
r T''HE new version of the division
(14,000 men) which Australia
theoretically has adopted as its ideal is
smaller by 2000 than the old-type tropical
division. But its five battalions are super-
battalions, 1300 strong, each with 70
vehicles, jeep-size and built to do any-
thing but climb trees. All its infantry
loads, except four heavy anti-tank guns,
are capable of being manhandled forward
cross - country. Its basic individual
weapon is the 20-shot F.N. rifle.
The old tropical battalion contained
36 assault sections and had a theoretical
rapid-fire potentiality of 22,812 shots per
minute, plus 1500 rounds per minute
from medium machine-guns and 72
rounds per minute from six medium
mortars.
The pentropic battalion has 80 assault
sections, with a total rapid-fire rate of
47,360 rounds per minute, and 16 medium
mortars which give 192 rounds per
minute. It has no machine-guns
integrated.
The division as a whole has every
luxury and facility the would-be
destroyer of his fellow mortal man could
desire—mortars, medium and heavy,
heavy and medium anti-tank weapons,
versatile ack - ack defence, ancillary
machine-gun unit with 109 guns firing
._omm..ammunition, light aircraft ancil-
aiy unit with Cessnas and helicopters
foi recce and rescue of wounded.
Each of the five sections of the assault
pioneer platoon has a motor digger,
chain saw, explosive foxhole digger, but
not the old tip-truck and bulldozer. The
motor digger and craterer will drill down
to 13ft and with spade equipment will
keep five or six men with shovels busy. Yet
it weighs only 531 b. and is back-packed
by one man. The 15in. chain saw weighs
181 b. The radio includes solar cell
helmet radios and a light and rugged
radar detector that can position a man
half a mile away and a vehicle three
miles away within an accuracy of 25
yards.
The divisional formation is built for
integration of powerful artillery firing
both conventional and nuclear ammuni-
tion when available and of such
accessories as the 762 mm. Honest John
field artillery rocket, for surface-to-
surface use by combat support groups,
and the S.A.G.W. Hawk, a 12751 b.
missile (warhead 751 b.) used up to ranges
of 22 miles.
Australia, though it has adopted the
pentropic division as its ideal, has not got
a Regular one ; only a Regular brigade
group of three pentropic battalions, plus
an isolated battalion group in the strategic
Reserve in Malaya. The initial cost of
equipping even that truncated forma-
tion, which represents 5500 men —against
4000 in the old tropical group —with its
logistical support of 3000 men and its
ancillaries, was estimated in November,
1959, at £3O millions before the onset
of the new wave of margins and inflation.
It has been described by the Minister for
Defence, Mr Townley, as “while rela-
tively small ... the most effective Army
formation ever established in this country
in peacetime.” And cheap, it would
seem, at the cost of ditching the National
Service Reserve of 30,000 and future
products of the three months compulsory
national training scheme and refresher
courses, together with the old target of
a C.M.F. of 50,000.
t t was proposed to increase to 30,000
A th e volunteer part (20,000) of the
G ld C.M.F., after having either wiped out
the f am ous Old and Bold battalions of
two Australian Imperial Forces, or carved
them up (as one disgruntled commander
remarked) to make them look like “the
Saturday night remains of a family leg
of mutton.”
This “theoretically”—a word which
needs to be used often about Australian
peacetime defence planning should
“provide an order of battle of six infantry
brigade groups, with appropriate combat
and logistic support forces, replacing the
framework of three C.M.F. Divisions.”
It was surmised at the outset that
“efficiency would be increased and the
volunteer service be made more attrac-
tive, since C.M.F. training would be
integrated with Regular units and periods
of volunteer camp training carried out
as far as possible with the Regular
Brigade Group.”
On paper the whole scheme reads im-
pressively. But even if a good fairy could
conjure up all the needful weaponry and
transport and signalling and radar gear
there would be misgiving about the
crucial element.
Pentropic groups, like other military
bodies, depend for their efficiency and
working on the efficiency of those that
lead and command them in detail.
Without clearminded and enterprising
divisional command, and a thrusting
deputy command which controls the task
force of the division, plus a range of
the dashing and adventurous types of
junior officers who were so much missed
in the infantry of World War 11 because
most of them had gone to the R.A.A.F.,
the compact and deadly fighting machine
now evolved could become just another
mob of lost swaddies tangled up with a
lot of complicated equipment: sitting
birds for delighted dispersions of enemy
infiltrators.
Whether an Australian Regular Army
formation can develop the specialised
type of commanders and the specialised
and intelligent quota of men needed with-
out a clean sweep of the higher echelons
of the present command is much debated,
especially in the more irate circles of
the newly-scrambled C.M.F.
The Regular Army has certainly found
it difficult to retain even the brighter
young rising stars it has, much less attract
and train new ones. Officer after officer
with a promising career in front of him
has been sucked into civilian life.
In the face of a scale that gives a
colonel basic pay of more than £8 per
day, plus extras and considerable privi-
leges and generous superannuation, and
the subaltern the pay of a pre-World
War II brigadier, Duntroon is hard put
to it to fill its lists with effective
candidates.
Gloomy headmasters of Great Public
Schools are apt to say to sound boys
with ambitions leaning towards military
careers that they are “too good for the
Army,” and urge them to enter a civilian
profession.
Yet the one thing that is not debatable
in the light of history is that the deter-
minative weapon in war, whether used in
pentropic group, artny corps or mob of
blackfellows armed with nulla nullas, is
and always will be man.
As General George Patton once said:
“Wars are fought with weapons, but they
are won by men ... It was the spirit of
the Lord, courage, that came mightily
on Samson at Lehi which gained the
victory . . . not the jawbone of an ass.”


Australian School-days—VI
From Pillars to Posts
By HENRIETTA DRAKE-BROCKMAN
Throughout my school-days I led a
pillar-to-post existence. I passed
from a governess, through several
schools, to a tutor. I was forever
becoming that socially inept creature, a
new girl, obliged to explain myself (if
asked) or (if ignored, which was more
usual) to seek with considerable trepida-
tion for some possible friendly opening.
Twice I was not merely personally un-
known, I was an exhibit from a far-off
country or a distant State. No common
background, even. Because I like people,
1 got by fairly well, but it was never
the same as “belonging.” Some of the
self-consciousness engendered has never
been shed.
As I rolled along, a certain amount
of educational lichen adhered in patches,
but 1 never managed to acquire a cosy
coating of scholastic moss. For instance,
I learnt no history after the Restoration.
There seemed a fatality about that:
having routed the Puritans successfully
with Charles 11, I always seemed to
change schools and be returned to 1066
or even Canute. Perhaps this explains
my interest in the 17th century, although
it now centres on the early Dutch
explorers of the Western Australian
coast.
By coincidence, my governess was
called Miss Holland. That is all I can
remember, except that she taught me on
the verandah of my father’s bungalow at
Armadale, W.A. Originally built as a
weekend cottage on an orange orchard
planted in partnership with Sir Arthur
Stepney (they had a vineyard and cellar,
too, a most successful money-loser), the
house was much enlarged for us to live
there. My father, who was W.A.’s first
Public Service Commissioner, travelled
20 miles in and out to Perth every day,
by train. We kept quite an establishment,
including Miss Holland who lived-in to
supervise me.
Miss Holland apparently packed up.
I was sent for a short and agonising
period to a small private boarding-school
where all the boarders seemed grown-up
horrors to me. I was also terrified of
my new teacher: she had a variable and
disconcerting temper, not improved by
the high whale-boned collars she wore,
above which her face became a shocking-
pink long before Schiaparelli (or who-
ever it was) thought up that color. I
doubt I learnt anything. Yet on con-
sideration I suppose I did. When the
following year, aged nine, I arrived in
Scotland with my mother, I took my
place without difficulty at a preparatory
school at St Andrews, in Fifeshire. This
was St Katherine’s, the junior school
attached to St Leonard’s, one of the
most famous girls’ schools in the U.K.
St Andrews is a fascinating town and
I loved it, although I was often home-
sick for Australia. No one at school
was the least interested in my country.
They merely thought it strange that I
refused to bundle up in as many clothes,
or were faintly surprised that I could
dive and swim on a par with the eldest
girls, which in my estimation was not
saying much. I was far more interested
in local history than any of them ; per-
haps because ghosts (of which one was
reputed to every second building, more
or less), ruined castles, bottle-necked
dungeons, crumbled city walls and
elegant old homes (especially the house
where lovely Mary Stuart used fre-
quently to stay) were a novelty to a child
brought up in the unhaunted open-air of
Western Australia. I acquired a book of
St Andrews’ ghost stories, and used its
horrid information to work up a scare.
Eventually my book was confiscated, an
act of discipline that annoys me to this
day. It was an excellent book.
At least I did learn two things well
at St Katherine’s: to sew and to ride.
Our French mistress, who believed in
exquisite plain needlework, resolutely
obliged us to sew a fine seam. We went
riding with a master, equally determined.
In the U.K. no girl who could not ride
side-saddle was then considered a horse-
woman. Side first, astride later, if you
must. So out we went in sweeping skirts,
hard-hitters, stocks and crops. What
became of my accoutrement I don’t
know, I certainly never rode side in Aus-
tralia ; but only the other day I threw
out the short bone-handled crop that
seemed so smart when it took me over
my first hurdles.
When I was twelve we came back to
Australia. My father built anew, at
Cottesloe, and I returned as a day-girl to
the school I had attended before. No
prefects, no playing-fields, a staff of three
or four, Cottesloe High School seemed
inconsiderable to me after St Andrews.
But. I was .glad to be home in Australia.
Two Scots sisters, the Misses Nisbett, had
established the school early in the cen-
tury. Small boys were admitted to
kindergarten and primary classes. I don’t
think there were ever many more than
50 pupils- at one time, but throughout
the years a surprising number of Perth
people passed through “Miss Annie’s,”
as the school was universally called after
the elder Miss Nisbett departed to an
Education Department job. One of the
most, distinguished pupils was the late
Air - Marshal Sir “Peter” Drummond,
R.A.F. ; and there are numerous Perth
notables whom I can recall as small
boys at kindergarten. The educational
accent was on French. No science ;
unless one counts physiology minus labs.
Nevertheless, Miss Annie employed com-
petent staff and we had some excellent
mistresses. An ex-Army sergeant gave
us strenuous physical culture, and the
seniors played tennis ; but there was no
organised sport.
My mother, in the first year of women
to study medicine at Glasgow University
and later Perth’s first woman medico,
was a firm believer in higher education
for women, as well as possessing all a
Scot’s longing for the bonny braes. It
had been her intention to send me back
to St Leonard’s, but World War I
stopped that; for which I was thankful.
My destination was changed to the
Eastern States ; accordingly, when 1 was
fourteen, her choice fell on Frensham,
at Mittagong, N.S.W.
Frensham had then been established
no more than three years. It was opened
by Miss Winifred West, an English-
woman from Newnham, Cambridge, who
I believe came to Australia to act as
tutor to advanced pupils, but saw an
opportunity for a good school in the
country, where city girls could have the
advantage of sound secondary educa-
tion and what would now be called (in
the odious jargon of modern academic
circles) high cultural interests. There
were no day-girls.
Miss West, handsome, always well-
dressed, became a remarkable head-
mistress. Her staff and pupils admired
her; her business ability and educational
standards very soon expanded the foun-
dation number of three students to a
hundred —there were more than 50 girls
when I arrived in the third year. The
original house —a lovely old home once
belonging to a wealthy Sydney family—
soon had many additions. More land,
more buildings, and a hundred and one
innovations demonstrated Miss West’s
acumen and good taste. The very beauti-
ful surroundings leave a mark on all who
go there, no less than the accent on ser-
vice that Miss West stamped into the
school tradition from the beginning.
Numbers of Frenshamites have since
gained distinction, particularly in the
arts. Kathleen Robinson, of Minerva
Theatre fame, was my contemporary;
Rosemary Dobson is a Frensham girl;
and there are many others ; but I soon
lost touch, for my father died at the
end of the year and I had to return to
W.A. Nevertheless, the atmosphere of
Frensham left a profound impression:
there was an intellectual breadth of out-
look, a spirit of unselfish enterprise, and
at the same time an adult worldliness in
the best sense, designed to inculcate,
amongst the senior pupils, a realisation
that before long they would be women
who should be capable of some contri-
bution to the community, wherever life
might lead them.


FOR THE CONSUMER
An Unemancipated
in an Emancipated Kitchen
An English sociologist suggested recently
that women, in the Western world at
least, had not succeeded as producers
in the 20th century because they had been
too valuable and too busy in their role
of consumer. This was amplified by
saying that Russian women, freed from
the tedium of choosing between different
brands and types of commodities, had
been able to go ahead to become road-
makers, doctors, or, in fact, anything
which the feminists foretold at the be-
ginning of the century.
Most Australian women would agree
with this, allowing themselves, perhaps,
a small ironical smile as they did so.
Most of them now realise that labor-
saving devices and improved technical
methods do not necessarily free the
housewife for finer things.
In the first place, buying is more
difficult. The endless choice between
various models, the considerations of
mechanical efficiency and capacity—
these make the buying of a major appli-
ance, say a washing machine, infinitely
harder than it was for Grandmother
to get a new scrubbing board.
The maintenance of a machine can
be a complex and difficult task. In
the last century the only maintenance a
servant required was three skimped meals
a day. When one servant wore out you
got another from the agency. This was
a much simpler procedure than reading
the book of instructions which go with
the new stove, ringing the mechanic
when the whole apparatus threatens to
take off like a jet and then sitting, con-
templating the uncooked dinner, and
waiting for him to arrive.
Although housewives . might feel that
new equipment and fabrics enable them
to spend less time looking after the
rest of the house, many still feel chained
to the kitchen.
A recent survey in America showed
that women there now spend at least
10 per cent, more time in their kitchens
than they did 25 years ago. The sur-
vey, made by Denson-Frey of New
York for Kentile, showed that house-
wives spend 50 per cent, of their at-
home waking hours in the kitchen.
Some of the housewives said that the
reason they spent so much time in the
kitchen was because modern kitchens
were “a pleasure to work in.” Other
women were not so naively enthusiastic.
They claimed that new kitchen gadgets
didn’t make the homemaker's life easier,
but more exacting. They said new
washing machines put greater emphasis
on clean clothes, and that meant wash-
ing clothes more often.
A speaker at the recent women's
seminar at the Sydney Building Informa-
tion Centre, Mrs Judith Macintosh, said
it might sound far-fetched to say that the
design of a kitchen had a bearing on
the state of the nation, but she be-
lieved this was so. “Our schools are
many thousands of teachers short,” she
said. “This is only one example of how,
if women were freer, they could return to
fields where they are much-needed.”
Mrs Macintosh, an architect who
specialises in the design of the kitchen,
felt that the modern kitchen had not
set the housewife free. However, she
put the blame not so much on modern
appliances but on outmoded ideas which
housewives don’t throw away when they
get new appliances.
“Too much of the time we are trying
to prop up a way of living which is
exhausted,” she said. “We should make
a drastic overhaul of useless jobs and
procedures in the house.
“The kitchen is still too often placed
badly in the house. It has the worst
aspect while less-used rooms occupy
the situations of best sun and air. This
seems to me to be a survival from the
idea that household tasks were ‘menial.’
In the same way, the laundry is still
often put under the house.”
Mrs Macintosh said she could not see
why, if housewives could not be free
of chores, they could not at least get
a bit of fun out of them.
“I’ve seen women in Venice doing
their washing beside the canals with
wooden pail and scrubbing-board. They
seem to enjoy it far more than a woman,
silently and in isolation, piling clothes into
a washing machine,” she said. “Why
can’t several women do their ironing or
sewing together and get the same sort
of fun out of it as, say, men get scrap-
ing down a boat together.”
Mrs Macintosh said she believed too
much emphasis was placed on equipment.
“It is no use having possessions which
need too much maintenance,” she said.
“Women seem to live for their posses-
sions. They are forever pulling down
blinds so that the sun won’t fade the
carpet. At the same time, they are
shutting out the whole of life passing
by. They buy an expensive dining-room
suite and then never use it.”
Mrs Macintosh said she felt it was a
pity so many kitchens never see the hand
of an architect.
“I realise that many home-builders
cannot afford an architect,” she said.
“Perhaps the solution is to allow archi-
tects to have a greater share in design-
ing appliances so that eventually there
will not be those wasted inches caused
by equipment of differing sizes and
heights.
“Too many things are designed for
the showroom floor and not for their
permanent place in the kitchen. A
refrigerator, built into the wall, can be
most efficient and save all the fuss of
cleaning the floor underneath it or the
few inches of space between it and the
cupboards. However, the wall refrigera-
tor looks untidy on the showroom floor,
so designers are apt to put it into a case
and defeat its whole purpose.”
Even if the emancipation of the house-
wife is not at hand, the emancipation of
the kitchen is, according to the manager
of industrial design for Email, Mr Paul
Schremmer.
“To obtain a sense of spaciousness in
smaller homes we see living-room, din-
ing-room and kitchen merging,” he told
the audience at a lecture organised by
the Industrial Design Council of Aus-
tralia. “The kitchen, instead of being an
assembly of separate, white, clinical-
looking appliances and cupboards, will
take on the warmer look of furniture to
fit it to its new emancipation.
“There will be a greater market for
the built-in look and for the warmer
finishes in the form of wood tones on
refrigerators and other large appliances.
Richer finishes such as copper tonings,
stainless steel and brushed chrome should
begin to rise in popularity. The quality
feel of such finishes as natural leather
for portable products should come to
be more appreciated by wider sections
of the consuming public. Refrigerators
will probably be flattened against the
wall with vertical sliding panels for
doors and even special dispensers for
iced water, crushed ice or ice-cubes.”
☆ ☆ *
A Good M ink Coat
What is the best way to get a good
mink coat? The answer, according to
the Fur Animals Experimental Station.
Ithaca, England, is to be a meat-eating
mink. Research at the station showed
that mink thrive best on a diet containing
a very high proportion of meat. The
difference between a meaty diet and one
in which meat is eked out with a lot of
starch is soon detected in quite large
differences in pelt thickness.
Experiments at the station showed that
one group of young mink on a high-
protein diet had, after six weeks, pelts
nearly twice as thick as those of their
less-well-fed litter-mates.
In recent years people in many overseas
countries have taken seriously the old
joke that the best way to get a mink coat
is to begin with two young mink. In


Britain magazines run sections advertis-
ing the stock available for backyard
mink-breeders. However, there is no
possibility of getting a mink coat in Aus-
tralia on the do-it-yourself principle. The
Fauna Protection Board absolutely pro-
hibits the import of breeding stock.
* ☆ ☆
Non - vintage
One of the fashion industry’s perennial
endeavors is to push women into vin-
tage colors for winter. At the first fall
of a leaf the shops and the fashion maga-
zines begin their unsubtle persuasion.
The windows are swagged with purple,
mauve or wine-colored fabrics. The
magazines each year produce much the
same range of colors as they had the
previous year, but, of course, each time
it gets a different name. It might be
African violet, Imperial purple, or back-
yard burgundy ; it’s all the same thing,
really.
All this propaganda for vintage colors
usually has about as much luck as would
alcohol advertisements in a temperance
journal. The chief reason, probably, is
that as soon as the cool weather comes
women realise that vintage colors will
be a poor camouflage for the slightly
blue look which winter brings to the
cheeks and mouth—to say nothing of red
noses and streaming eyes.
They turn to something more flatter-
ing, to clear yellows or reds or, if they
want a practical color, to grey or black.
It is years since anything in the vintage
range of colors had anything like a
vogue, yet every year the shops try to
launch them anew. It’s about time they
stopped.
FOR THE OBSERVER
What Happened to the Cuddleseat ?
What was the name of those canvas
contraptions which women used to carry
their babies round in? It was only with
difficulty that the name eventually came
back, dredged out of the miscellany of
early postwar memories. A cuddleseat.
If you’ve ever laughed at cartoons of
a Red Indian with her papoose on her
back or at the picture of an English
nanny trundling a child, perhaps three
or four years old, round a London square
in a monstrously large pram, then the
cuddleseat probably seemed slightly funny
to you even then. It was as complicated
and baffling to a novice as a folding
deckchair, but in those days nearly every
mother had one.
Today’s teenagers were carried about
for the first couple of years of their
existence in a cuddleseat, and the socio-
logists can ponder on that for as long
as they care to. Now you hardly ever
see one. Sometimes, perhaps, in a park
of a suburban street a harassed mother
who must keep one arm free for clip-
ping the ear of the elder children and
paying the fares in public transport might
have the youngest of her brood confined
in a cuddleseat.
In the children's department of a large
city shop the cuddleseat meant nothing
to a junior salesgirl. She looked blankly
back, but the older woman standing
alongside her said she would “inquire.”
She “inquired” then came back and
rooted through a bottom drawer.
“There you are,” she said, bringing up
a couple of cellulose-wrapped packages.
“That’s what you want, isn’t it? You
know, it’s the first time anyone’s asked
for them since I’ve been here. You
don’t see them much these days, but I
always used one. Wouldn’t have been
without it.”
How old were her children? Thirteen
and 10. That, of course, was just the
right age group. The war years and the
post-war period.
“It left you with one arm free,”
the older salesgirl explained. “You could
do your shopping quite easily. And there
wasn’t any strain on your arms, like
there is carrying a heavy baby. There was
a bit of pull on your shoulder, but you
got used to that. After a while you
didn't notice it. And the baby could go
to sleep. That was the big advantage.”
But, in spite of its advantages, the
cuddleseat went out of fashion.
The Cuddleseat Manufacturing Co. is
still listed in the Sydney telephone book,
but it’s part of the firm of lack Crawford
and Ryder, sporting-goods wholesalers.
Jack Crawford and his fellow tennis-
player, John Bromwich, were the first to
put the cuddleseat on the market. Brom-
wich has now left the firm to Crawford
and George Ryder, and runs a news-
agency at Bacchus Marsh, Victoria. The
cuddleseat is still made at a factory at
Cessnock, but it now makes up only a
very small part of the firm’s business.
The firm also makes a cradieseat, a
development of the original idea. Unlike
the cuddleseat, it is adjustable so that
the baby can be carried in a lying-down
or sitting-up position. “Most of the big
shops, Farmers and D.J.’s here, Myers
in Melbourne, Allan and Stark, Brisbane,
still sell them,” a member of the firm
said. “They don’t place regular orders,
but they always have them in stock.”
At one time the firm had ambitions to
sell the cuddleseat overseas. It had an
agent in the United States who handled
small quantities. “It caused quite a
sensation, but didn’t sell much in the
long run,” the firm’s spokesman said.
A Sydney woman who took her baby
to England in the early ’fifties recalls
the sensation (or what passes for a
sensation in London) she caused when
she went shopping in Oxford Street with
her baby girl in a cuddleseat.
“It was the first and only time I ever
saw the English openly display curio-
sity,” she said. “I had no idea of the
real reason why everyone was looking at
my Mary Lou, but was quite prepared
to believe it was simply because she was
such a beautiful baby. Finally, one
woman’s curiosity got the better of her.
‘What is that thing you are carrying
your baby in?’ she demanded.”
The cuddleseat didn’t succeed overseas
and declined in popularity here. It may
have been due to the improvement and
lowered price of strollers. Perhaps it
was due, too, to the fact that many more
women now have cars for shopping and
transporting the family to the beach or
park.
Probably the greatest factor, however,
was the presence in large numbers of a
vastly improved means of transporting
baby. Something which was strong,
adjustable, which enabled baby to sleep
comfortably, which could even in an
emergency sing baby to sleep, change
his napkin and wipe the dribble off
his chin. This was, of course, Father,
back from the wars or the P.O.W.
camp. And if the manufacturers can
think of a more efficient, more durable
means of transporting a baby than
Father’s arms, they have a fortune
waiting for them.
w a ☆
Carnival of Animals
Sydney milliner Stella Fraenkel. just
back from a buying trip overseas, has a
short answer when her clients ask what
is being worn for winter overseas. Any-
thing and everything, she says. As it’s
been a particularly cold winter everyone
is in fur, but, she says, in New York
it’s mink, in London, beaver, in Paris,
antelope and in Vienna, leopard.
Miss Fraenkel said that amid the
snow and slush of the coldest-ever New
York winter everyone was in mink.
Often women wore mink coats with
mink hats. The hats were either a tiny
pillbox with a wool scarf attached to
enclose the neck or a snood with mink
framing the face.
Miss Fraenkel said London seemed
very grey and dignified after New York.
Characteristically, there was hardly any
fur on view. It was mostly worn as
linings. The most frequently seen fur
is beaver, which, Miss Fraenkel says,
is as expensive as mink. Some English-
women wear beaver coats lined with
mink or tweed trimmed with fur.
In Paris, Miss Fraenkel said, everybody
was in antelope. There were short,
three-quarter and full-length coats of
antelope. The fur was always a milk-
coffee color, and some of the coats were
lined with mink.
Miss Fraenkel said that everybody in
Vienna was in leopard. The smartest
women were in black Persian lamb coats
with small sable hats.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Guesser
HPhere is an attempt to denigrate the
woolclasser in the bush.
The shearing contractor says: "Must
go and pick up my guesser off the
train ...” The shearer says: “The
con man has just arrived ...” The
rousie laments: “I suppose the new
guesser is the usual fussy bastard ...”
Worst of all, the classer finds himself
using these same disparaging terms. At
a new shed the cook introduces himself:
“Em Clarrie Brown, the poisoner.” “I'm
Scandalous Smith,” says another man,
“snagger shearer.” (He's a gun ; all guns
call themselves snaggers.) After this
professional modesty you can't say: “Em
Mr Weakstaple, the woolclasser.” You
introduce yourself as “Bill Weakstaple,
the con. man.”
There are many types of guessers. The
ideal is the big-bull boy covered in com-
Defence, confidence, doctor's white coat
and cook's white trousers. Many cockics
are quite unimpressed with such sartorial
ostentation; but one woollie maintains:
“You can get more out of the rousies
if you lair up.”
There is, too, the big-bull boy plus
sartorial big-note minus competence. His
bad work “«“»y catches U P with him '
Then there is the extremely efficient,
cranky old bloke in a dirty apron. Part
of his credo is not to bull to owners ;
Tacitus was an earbasher compared to
him. It is his good work that gets him
back Y ear after not his amiability
or socia § iace -
One of this mob went too far last
year when a squatter came up to the
classer’s table and asked: “How're they
coming off? Not bad sheep, are they?”
A big-bull boy would have replied : “Very
nice sheep, Mr Broadacres, running out
a little” (they are as doggy as Harold
Park), “but beaut bale-fillers. Best wool
Eve handled in a shed this year.” (It's
bis first sh = d j> .® u ‘ ‘ h “ crank y °‘ d
jj asser snarled: Not bad sheep, eh!
Why. you ought to take em all out in
J?** and <?• ! he ": bl f? od y ,hroats -
Tney re not worth ,ceding.
You may deprecate a squatter's legiti-
macy, his golf handicap, his wife’s fidelity,
his drinking prowess—but you just don't
sling off at his sheep. A big-bull boy
was at that station next shearing.
TThe woollie has to contend with three
types of squatter.
The admirable first type says: “I'll
leave the preparation of the clip to you:
you handle wool all the year. This is
how I’m bringing the mobs in.” You
show him the lines, and except for an
occasional look in the wool-book and an
odd rum after work you scarcely see him.
The next owner —a good bloke, but
very keen —stands all day beside your
wool-table discussing each fleece He is
accompanied by three sheepdogs, same
number of kids (the missus has got 'em
out of the homestead for a few hours) and
a dachshund puppy —all under your feet
at the same time. It’s part of your job
to get on with owners, their kids and
their dogs. Even the big-bull boy’s front,
after eight hours of this proximity,
wears explosively thin. As for the cranky
old classer, he treads on a kid or two
pretty quickly, then surreptitiously kicks
the dachshund.
The third type of squatter is the bloke
who knows a good bit aboui wool. He
has his own ideas, and you agree to them
with some sycophancy: ’it’s the final
wool-cheque that matters, Mr Broadacres,
not fancy prices. My word, I'll get you
big lines.” Until one day he grabs a
fleece out of your tender bin and says:
“Why, Mr Weakstaple, that fleece is
sound. It shouldn't be in there.”
You find a “window-pane" in the fleece
for him, at the same time mentally un-
doing your apron-strings—you've found
out —throwing the apron at him and
yelling: “You know what you can do
with your clip! Take over, you
bastard! ”
But middle-aged caution prevails, and
you just carry on.
Weakstaple
NOT SO DEADLY
The “deadly funnel-web spider,” long
alleged to be found only north of
Sydney Harbor to the southern shores
of the Hawkesbury River, has had its
social prestige badly dented by being
discovered in vast numbers in the Gipps-
land forests of Victoria. You can always
pick up a few down at Otford, and the
largest specimen 1 have ever caught was
in Cooper Park in the East Sydney
suburb of Bellevue Hill!
Despite the deadliness attributed to it
by the news-hungry dailies, not more
than ten people in the past half-century
have been known to die from the venom
of Atrax robustus. As for those periodic
reports that some bloke has caught as
many as 200 funnel-webs in his rockery,
the story of how this legion gets its tucker
in so limited an area might help save
the lives of thousands in the dust-bowl
areas of the world. These magnificent
colonies notwithstanding, serum labora-
tories are always pleading for spiders;
trained observers have seldom seen mobs
of young Atrax, and even in captivity it


has seldom been encouraged to the point
of motherhood.
There are 11 known kinds of funnel-
web in eastern Australia and Tasmania.
When attacking they will rear up on the
two rear pairs of legs, throwing the two
front pairs up over the head in a very
typical attitude. This permits them to
strike downwards rapidly and drive their
fangs into the victim. The fangs are
longer than those of most snakes, and
their venom—a nerve poison—is more
potent than even that of the tiger-snake.
Nevertheless you are much safer in
At rax country than you are in Pitt,
Collins, Anne, or King William Streets.
DEATH BY TAR
T-nt sealing of the road from Alice
A Springs to Darwin was hailed as a
great national-development achievement
by tourists, reliability-trial entrants and
"bitchamen cowboys” Traffic on it has
so increased that the solid flanking of
broken beer-bottles keeps maintenance
gangs working full time. At points along
the way are big dumps of 44-gallon
drums containing tar for surfacing. Many
of these have burst, spreading patent-
leather pools in which, as in the pitch-
blende lakes of South America (though
on a far smaller scale), many forms of
animal life get trapped. Most probably
the glistening surface deceives birds and
animals into coming for a drink, and they
never get out again. At one dump just
a little north of Daly Waters we saw
dozens of little parrots, a duck, a wedge-
tailed eagle and two goannas just sticking
out of the shallow mess. It seems a
pity to lose these creatures when some
earth thrown over the surface might pre-
vent it.
Attunga
BRAND-NEW FROG
TYOWN in the swamps near Newcastle
Waters our mud-scratching discovered
a very interesting and, to us, brand-new
sort of frog. Our problem was whether
it was fully grown or a partially grown
generation from the last hatching. A local
assured us it was only a baby and that
there were plenty of big ones which the
natives used as food. But we wouldn't
find them around the swamp ; they lived
in the dry sand-ridges.
Next day, with Tablo and his gin Lucy
as field associates, we went on location,
determined to make exhaustive notes of
all that happened from the first clue
to the final ingestion by our collaborators.
The clue was just a tiny mound of red
earth like the entrance to the nest of those
small black ants ; the ingestion didn’t
happen, as Tablo and wife had eaten
fairly well of our tinned tucker and
bread. In between these extremes, having
been shown the signs of a good digging
ground, I took the temperature of the
sand on the surface. It was 121 deg. F.
And half an hour later, at the bottom
of a hole 3ft deep and about 2ft wide,
we found a frog in sand at 92 deg. F.
We went back to camp to cool off.
Tablo’s delivery of 34 frogs that after-
noon indicated a good deal more stamina
than we could have mustered, even with
our lubras along. It was called the “Milk
Frog.”
AH.
STRANGE ALLIANCE
HThe busy-ness of the bee, and other
insects, in pollinating grasses and
trees has been known almost as long as
the dependence of man, and other
animals, on vegetation for their food.
There are many strange associations in
this animal-vegetable production line
The insect-eating plants which wait for
flies and ants to dash in for a drink, then
close the trap on them and start digest-
ing ; the black lily which has a glorious
flower almost 1 Sin. long and a perfume
that would make a tannery stagger, all
designed to attract blowflies to its
genetics ; the lovely scent of the night-
shade ( Cestrum ) which is sent into orbit
after dark to attract night-flying moths
—all these have been evolved by peculiar
conditions and necessities.
But perhaps the strangest alliance is
that of the lovely Monkshood orchid,
which depends on a male of a certain
species of ichneuman wasp to go through
the whole mating behavior with its flowers
to ensure cross-pollination. In doing so
the pollenium of that particular flower
becomes attached to the tip of the wasp's
abdomen. In the honeymoon with an-
other flower the grains of fertilisation are
passed on, and next year’s orchids are
established. Not the least astonishing
part of the whole show is that the orchid
is one of the most common around Syd-
ney ; there are hundreds of flower spikes
in a metropolitan park only 15 minutes
by tram (double the time by bus) from
the G.P.O.
B.V.H.
That Was the Country
I agree that the tractor will do most
of the jobs claimed for it; but not any
two of them at the same time. A horse
team, on the other hand, can be split up,
one section ploughing while another does
harrowing. And admitting that an engine
costs only as much as a horse-team, the
owner of the team breeds it at a fraction
of its market value, gets three or four
years’ work out of the animals, and can
sell them for £4O, £5O or £6O a head.
Also, he gets his horse feed at first cost,
whereas benzine has to be purchased
after various Trusts and Combines have
had their whack out of it. We all know
the amateur farmer who crowds his place
with alleged labor-saving devices. If I
was a machinery agent I’d give three
cheers for him, but I’m not. You can
have my share of a tractor, which I have
long ago counted as a dead horse. Ihe
live horse is good enough for me.
—“Bulletin”, October 19, 1911.
In the Westralian mining towns a man’s
class is decided by the number he shouts
for. One chap had just arrived to knock
down a cheque in Perth recently, when
he dropped into a crowded billiard-room
and let go the astounding challenge:
“Play anything in the room, 50-up: drinks
for the crowd.” The outbacker explained
that it was the usual thing where he came
from, and the marker—a 100 break man
—took on the job. As soon as they started,
the consequences of a possible defeat
rushed through the marker’s brain. He
tried to estimate the size of the audience,
and the number that would “go honest”
and keep themselves down to “a tray s
worth”, till he could scarcely hit a ball.
But the bushman’s rotten play pulled the
marker through, and there was a free
house for 15 minutes, the crowd mar-
velling at the wealth of this eccentric
“millionaire”. (As a matter of fact, he
“shovelled muck” at far-out Mertondale.)
-— “Bulletin” , December 30, 1909.
Of course snakes mesmerise. Here’s
proof. One of Brown’s cows cut off its
evening milk supply, though it continued
to dispense the fluid each morning; so
Brown took a day off —the first for years
—to watch her. Late in the afternoon he
saw a black-and-tan snake, 9ft long,
crawl out of a tussock of cocksfoot and
approach the animal. The reptile emitted
a gentle, purring sound, beating time
with his spiked tail. When he had at-
tracted the cow’s attention, he gazed am-
orously at her until she consented, where-
upon the seducer wound himself around
a hind leg and sucked his fill of milk.
Then he commenced to fill a small tin
can that was hanging around his neck;
but at that moment Brown fell upon him
with the whisky bottle, and he left hur-
riedly. Everyone knows Brown and
Brown’s cows, so this can easily be verified
if necessary.—“ Bulletin”, July 27, 1911.


Holden’s 12 years
Australian experience
is worth a 10t...t0 you!
•• sKS® '■ x\ \
___
:v •... -v ,^§§
MW:%
m
: y
* ✓ mk
sn
*C2
«?
PROVED
THE FINEST VALUE BY
750,000 AUSTRALIAN OWNERS
PROVED
SIX-CYLINDER PERFORMANCE
PROVED
RELIABILITY AND LONG LIFE
PROVED
OVERALL ECONOMY
PROVED
HIGH RESALE VALUE
PROVED
ROADABILITY UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
PROVED
NATION-WIDE SERVICE
It’s worth lots to you, because Holden engineering has been proved right for
Australia by 750,000 owners. And it’s worth a lot to you in sheer motoring value,
because model by model, Holden has been made even finer value. In Holden you
get more room, more luggage space, more quality, more proved features for your
money than in any other car.
POLICY OF CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT
Every improvement on Holden during
the past 12 years has been influenced
by the reports of Australian owners.
Holden is the only car designed specific-
ally for Australia, so it has more of the
things you need for Australian motoring.
PROVED ON AUSTRALIA'S ONLY PROVING GROUND
At Lang Lang, Victoria, GMH operate
the only automotive proving ground in
Australia. Here, Holden has been proved
right for Australia by millions of miles
of testing.
EXCITING TO OWN
Holden gives you beautiful styling,
luxury appointments and sparkling
colours in Magic-Mirror Finish. And
you enjoy six passenger comfort with
more room than in any other car of
comparable price. You also get a six-
cylinder engine which gives the best
combination of power, economy and
long life.
Holden is your finest motoring invest-
ment. It’s backed by the new GMH
Protective Maintenance Plan and a
guaranteed supply of genuine low-cost
replacement parts. So call at your
Holden Dealer’s showroom. Discover
why Holden is the car for you.
Enquire about convenient GMAC Hire Purchase.
HOLDEN -AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR *c„£BBs—*
- - GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDFN’S PTY. LIMITED'
YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY


New Look for Empire Games
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
Australia is developing a
“new look” in men’s track
and field events for next year’s
Empire Games in Perth. The
turn came with a new crop of
titleholders in the recent Aus-
tralian championships in Bris-
bane, where eight athletes,
most of them youngsters, all
had better performances than
the winners in the 1958 Empire
Games recorded.
• In the 220 yards the
winner, Gary Holdsworth (Vic-
toria), and the second place-
getter, Peter Vassella (N.S.W.),
both clocked 20.95ec., which
was one-tenth of a second
better than T. Robinson
(Bahamas) clocked to win at
the Empire Games.
• Bob Vagg (N.S.W.) won
the six miles in 28min. 39.65ec.,
which was B.7sec. better than
Dave Power (Australia) clocked
to win at the Empire Games.
# The three place-getters in
the broad jump—A. Crowley
(Queensland) 24ft lliin., D.
Prince (N.S.W.) 24ft B|in., and
J. Baguley (Western Australia)
24ft Bin. —surpassed the 24ft
6jrin. of P. Foreman (Jamaica)
in his winning jump at the
Empire Games.
• The first and second place-
getters in the javelin throw —
N. Birks (South Australia)
254 ft. 10yin. and A. Mitchell
(N.S.W.) 249 ft lOin.—bettered
the 233 ft 10iin. C. Smith
(England) threw to win at the
Empire Games.
# In the pole vault J.
Pfitzner (South Australia)
cleared 13ft 10in„ which was
two inches better than G.
Elliott (England) cleared to
win at the Empire Games.
For a long time field events
—jumping and throwing—have
been a “poor relation” to run-
ning in Australian athletics,
and, in the light of this, the
success of Crowley, Prince,
Baguley, Birks, Mitchell and
Pfitzner is particularly re-
freshing.
Birks’s javelin throw of
254 ft 10yin. is the best a
British Empire athlete has ever
done. It was no fluke either
because only seven days pre-
viously Birks threw the javelin
252 ft 4in. The previous best by
a British Empire athlete was
250 ft 7in. by Nawaz Kahn
(Pakistan).
The success of young runners
Bobby Vagg, 21, and Gary
Holdsworth, 19, will bring new
life into Australian athletics
because it is runners who
attract most public interest.
Vagg flashed into prominence
two years ago when he ran six
miles in a breath-taking 29min.
3.6 sec. His time lopped lmin.
45.65ec. off the world record
for juniors. This inspired
noted British athletics authority
Norris McWhirter to comment
in the “International Athletics
Annual” (the athletes’ Bible):
“With many more months in
which to develop, this 10-stone
sft 7in. marvel could even be
the Down-Under-David to
conquer even such European
Goliaths as Kuts (Russia) and
Krzyzkowiak (Poland).”
Vagg maintained his good
form last year. But unfortu-
nately he was not chosen for
the Olympic Games despite
the fact that, a couple of
months before selectors
announced the Australian
team, he ran six miles in
28min. 15.65ec., which at that
time was the 10th fastest in the
world’s history. This was
another of those inexplicable
selection blunders for which
Australians are famous in all
sorts of sport. It was enough
to break the heart of most
athletes, but not Vagg’s.
X7agg, like all great distance-
* runners, is determined and
courageous. Today he holds
these six titles: Australian
10,000 - metres cross-country
and six miles and the N.S.W.
10,000 - metres cross - country,
10 miles and 15 miles. He has
never missed a place in 18
starts in championship dis-
tance races. That old adage,
“All good things come to those
who wait,” certainly applies to
him. Notification that he had
graduated from Sydney Uni-
versity as a Bachelor of
Economics and his six-miles
Australian championship vic-
tory came within a few weeks
of each other.
His six-miles title gave him
great satisfaction because he
outclassed one of the world’s
greatest distance-runners, Dave
Power, who was placed third in
last year’s Olympic Games
10,000 metres. Vagg and
Power are team-mates in
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs
Amateur Athletics Club. For
more than 12 months Vagg’s
steady improvement had wor-
ried Power, and in the cham-
pionship race Power, proud of
his great reputation, pulled all
of his tricks to harass and
possibly bluff Vagg. For most
of the race he ran like a
shadow at Vagg’s heels. He
tried tricks to entice Vagg to
make untimely bursts. But
Vagg was unflurried. Then
when he made his burst Power
had no answer. He drew right
away from Power and won by
about 200 yards. Moreover,
experts were convinced noth-
ing was wrong with Power’s
condition because the follow-
ing day he won the three-miles
championship handsomely.
agg’s coach, Bryce Mackay,
* the 1954 Empire Games
Marathon runner, says: “Only
an extraordinary runner like
Vagg could achieve such suc-
cess at the age of 21. Great
distance-runners do not reach
the top until they are a more
mature age. We have not
seen nearly the best of Vagg
yet. University studies have
restricted his training and race
schedules. Now that Vagg has
finished his studies and can pay
more attention to training I
think he will blossom into the
greatest distance-runner the
world has seen —greater than
Zatopek, Kuts and Bolotnikov.
He already is my tip to win
the Empire Games six miles
next year and the Olympic
Games 10,000 metres in 1964.”
The rise of sprinter Gary
Holdsworth has bridged a
vital gap that has existed in
Australian athletics since the
retirement of world 100-yards
joint record - holder Hector
Hogan early in 1959. Sprinters
are the “glamor boys” of
athletics. A nation must have
a good one to hold the sport
in public popularity. Holds-
worth was virtually unknown
before this championship meet.
Yet at 19 years of age he won
the 100 yards in 9.6 sec. and the
220 yards in 20.9 sec and on
a grass track.
Holdsworth and Vassella,
who clocked the same 220
yards time, became only the
fourth and fifth Australians to
break 21 sec. The others were
Jim Carlton 20.6 sec. in 1932,
John Treloar 20.9 sec. in 1947
and Don Bursill 20.9 sec. in
1959. Carlton's time was not
accepted because he allegedly
had wind assistance. Treloar’s
time was rejected because of a
drop in the track.
'T'he 20.9 sec. could not be ac-
cepted as a likely time to win
the Empire Games next year.
Peter Radford (England) last
year clocked 20.5 sec world
record for 220 yards around a
turn. Yet Holdsworth and
Vassella particularly Holds-
worth because he is still much
in need of experience are
going to improve a lot before
next year’s Empire Games.
Some experts believe that in
another year Holdsworth will
be capable of a 20.5 sec. for
220 yards and a 9.3 sec. equal
to the world record 100 yards.
In this light next year’s
Empire Games could reach its
highest peak in sprinting with
Holdsworth and Vassella
against England’s Peter Rad-
ford, Canada’s Henry Jerome,
who last year equalled the
world 100-metres record,
10sec., and India’s famous
Milkha Singh.


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN, SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
If you want
a really good Scotch.
v 1
.. 4
m
%
-
; -
just ask for it by name!
JW214.16
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
The Guide for the Investor
THE WILD CAT MONTHLY
Price 2/- per single copy . . . 22/6 a year, post free
Subscription Department: Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Mammoth Maulers Mix it
By S. W. KEOUGH
joints and
spaghetti foundries must
have closed early that night to
allow the Greek and Italian
communities to turn up in force
at Sydney Stadium and bellow'
partisanship to their respective
nationals in the big tag-wrest-
ling match.
The four principals— two to
each team made a hero’s
entry, each like a Solomon
arrayed. Leading this cavalcade
of colossi came Alex lakovidis,
billed as the “Greek Australian
champion.” Greek or Aus-
tralian? He looked neither.
Short pointed beard, hawk-like
look and over-all swarthiness
could have enabled him, given
a sheet to wear, to masquerade
as an Arab emir. Stripping off
his gorgeous short jacket, he
revealed an oak-hke torso, a
barrel chest and billiard-table
legs which, in total, gave no
lie to the 2341 b with which the
ringmaster credited him.
At his heels strode his run-
ning-mate—“ The Great Kar-
pozilos, Champion of Greece.”
Karpo, around sft 4in. and
middle-aged, stood a good foot
lower than his mate, but when
he shed his Joseph’s coat his
iron - hard compactness was
there for all to tremble at.
Sloping shoulders rippled with
muscles, biceps and triceps
stuck out like vines and ser-
pents around mangroves, bull
neck pedestailed a bullet head,
and expression based itself on
mastiff standards at rabies
time.
Co much for Greece! It was
ltaly’s time to make an
entrance. In came Michele
Barone, “Champion of Italy”—
a huge battleship-jawed bulk.
Behind him in multi-colored
splendor came —who? Antonio
Tesoriero? No! Giuseppe Eza-
foni? No! For the glory of
Italy, in came none other
than Kangaroo Kennedy!
A “Kangaroo” in an Italian
team! Kanga did a peacock-
strut of the ring, shed his fine
plumes and revealed a respect-
ably muscled chassis, with long
limbs sprouting from blood-
red tights. But the hair! The
tresses hung to his shoulders,
quite as long as Buffalo Bill’s.
No boa - constrictor would
have been game to intervene in
the first brawl. Michele, the
dinkum Italian, and Alex, the
half-dinkum Greek, stomped
around like a couple of tyran-
nosauruses before Alex oblig-
ingly stuck a thick neck out
and Michele, his face erupting
in pleasure at such friendly
co-operation, grabbed it. Using
his outsize hips as a fulcrum,
Michele slung Alex aloft, gave
gravity its chance to drag him
down to the mat with a sicken-
ing thud, and then dumped ali
of his own 2301 b firmly on
Alex’s recumbent form. But
Alex recovered to tie Michele
in a knot no sailor could have
undone.
wriggling escape
from a possible fall seemed
to cause grave irritation to
Alex who, at the first oppor-
tunity, grabbed a handful of
Michele’s face and pulled hard.
Michele, not taking kindly to
this, booted Alex firmly in the
stern. These recriminations
were becoming very interesting
—half a dozen rabbit-killers
fell on Michele’s neck —when
Michele, true to the ruies of
tag-wrestling, got near enough
to the ropes to touch the hand
of his “compatriot” outside
them —and, with a joyous
whoop, leapt in. Alex re-
treated at once, touched the
waiting Karpo’s hand, and in
came Karpo, too. Warily they
reconnoitred before they got to
desperate grips and then, after
five minutes, Kanga’s beautiful
mane came adrift to fall down
all over his face like seaweed.
Thereafter, all that Kanga
could do was grope his way
around the ring by dead reckon-
ing.
'Thus it went on, the changes
A being rung swiftly, show-
manship being interspersed
with skilful wrestling, as when
Alex suddenly shot out two
feet and got Kanga around the
neck and rolled him around
like a barrel before tying his
two ieet in a lovers' knot as a
prelude to bouncing him up
and down.
The match was for the best
two out of three falls. The first
went on a penalty to the Greeks
when Kanga, tossing wrestling
over the ropes, attempted may-
hem and wouldn’t stop when
cautioned. The second also
was notched by Greece when
Karpo, with clever sustained
wrestling, conceded 30-odd lb.
to his Italian opponent and
slammed him for a clean touch.
A lot of clowning, a fair
proportion of scientific wrest-
ling, a whale of a lot of
shammed breast-beating and
synthetic anger —horrifies, in
short, that wouldn’t have
bruised a fly!


in
inc
Future
mm
\
0
When Sir Ernest Fisk suggested recently that the
letting-in of a vast system of canals could provide
Australia with the water to develop its inland,
some may have thought his proposal fantastic.
But there will be others, like myself, who agree
with Victor Hugo, that few things are so powerful
in this world as an idea when its time has come.
And the time has come for us to rise above the
ordinary in making something really grand of
this country.
The largest limiting factor in what we have
done thus far with Australia has been the need for
water in the interior, from which is produced the
basic wealth that maintains our standards
of living.
What has been done, nationally speaking, to
satisfy Australia’s water needs? Local schemes
are in hand or in plan, but there has been little
concerted action.
Millions of acre feet still run out to sea in
the northern “wet” and are wasted. We have
interior streams that could be linked, and rivers that
could be desilted and deepened quickly and cheaply
by modern machinery, for the conserving of water
and mitigating of seasonal floods.
So much for what awaits the action within.
But what of the idea for introducing sea water to
the inland? There are a number of tested ways of
converting ocean water into fresh. One of them is
by solar distillation —and we have plenty of God’s
good sunshine.
We have able scientists in the C.5.1.R.0., and
men capable of engineering in magnitude —as the
Snowy scheme has so brilliantly shown.
It would profit us, then, to call in our best
brains now to work out a plan, free from any
inter-State rivalries, and undertake a series of
“pilot” operations, using each of the feasible
methods where they can be applied, and extending
them wherever they prove most economical
and productive.
The ultimate cost —whatever it may be —is a
premium we will have to pay to ensure to Australia
its rich and glorious future.
s Tulloch
a Has-been?
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
t looks as though Tulloch is on the way out, and, if he
is not going to strike real form, I hope he will be retired
nmediately.
Jockey G. Moore offered excuses for Tulloch’s defeat by
ord and Dhaulagiri in the Queen’s Plate (lOf) at Flemington
n Saturday, saying that the slow early pace did not suit Tulloch.
rainer T. J. Smith, however, was quite open in his opinion
lat Tulloch had him worried.
Lord, definitely, is waning as a champion ; Dhaulagiri
as never had a real claim to top ranking ; and if Tulloch
annot beat them in a sprint at the end of 10 furlongs, no
latter what the early pace, there is only one conclusion —
ulloch has slipped.
Victoria got away to an excellent start with its off-course
totahsator betting. Turnover exceeded official estimates by
bout one third. Only 13 of the projected 200 centres operated
ut gave the off-course investment total of £34,400, compared
ith the course total of £179,000.
Wishful thinking would conjure up the picture of an off-
ourse total of £400,000 had all the stations been operating.
Now, if £400,000 were added to the pools on the race-
burse the pattern of betting might be changed. Normally there
jsome relation to the betting with bookmakers and the betting
p the totalisator.
Either the public bets in accordance with the flow of
loney made apparent by the change in the bookmakers’
rices, or the bookmakers pattern their prices on the odds
lowing on the totalisator.
Probably it is a little of each ; certainly there is very little
ifference between starting prices with bookmakers and start-
ig prices on the totalisator. Any difference usually shows the
italisator to advantage.
Returns at Flemington on Saturday were in line with
lis trend indicating that the people off the course had bet
ti the various horses in very much the same proportions as
id the people on the course.
But with investments reaching the half-million mark it
light be different, and, perhaps, the totalisator return may
xceed that from bookmakers so much that even the people
n the course will turn to the tote as the principal avenue of
leir betting.
The whole affair could lead to the eclipse of the book-
taker, since he could not possibly offer reasonable prices
n the favorites if he is denied the backing for the outsiders to
lalance his book.
The turf has never before had such an interesting experi-
ment. If it works out that tote betting is to the advantage of
s'ictorian punters the people of N.S.W. will demand tote
fitting and not betting with bookmakers when off-course
letting comes to N.S.W., as it surely will.
Phe New Zealand colt, Commanding, has satisfied the critics
*- that he is an outstanding two-year-old likely to win the
iolden Slipper Stakes at Rosehill next Saturday.
Commanding is by Knight’s Romance (imp.) and is the
raosure of all eyes when he gallops because of the perfection
f his movement.
Like all top-class horses he looks to be loafing when in
fiality he is racing along at something like his top. He has
jo exaggeration of action —he is almost a daisy-cutter, skimming
ist above the ground.
He is a compact animal, very much like the shape of the
lorses by the N.S.W. sire, Star Kingdom (imp.), which, in a
ay, is not surprising, because Star Kingdom (imp.) is a grand-
on of Hyperion, the son of Gainsborough, and Knight’s
Romance is from a mare by Gainsborough.


Business, Rollery. Etc.
Inflow of Foreign Capital
'T'he question whether savings
are sufficiently encouraged
among Australians to enable
Australia to promote more of
its own growth, and to lean
less dependently on foreign
capital, emerged formidably
from a statement made last
week by the chairman of the
Sydney Stock Exchange, Mr
A. H. Urquhart.
He left thoughtful Austra-
lians in no doubt that, with the
restrictive effect on savings of
personal and company taxation,
heavy dependence on foreign
investment would have to con-
tinue here. He allowed it to
be inferred also that, while
nothing should be done in the
way of controls and licences to
frighten away further foreign
capital, overseas investors
needed to consider means of
arriving at practical arrange-
ments for sharing Australian-
won profits with local investors.
How that might be done to
satisfy all parties—and General
Motors-Holden, for instance
appears to set a pattern of
American unwillingness for pie-
sharing was not indicated.
Overseas capital investment
in Australia is now estimated at
considerably more than£looom.,
of which about half is from
Britain and about one-third
from the United States. But
this is an investment of an
entirely different kind from the
huge foreign investment, mainly
from Britain and Holland,
which financed the enormous
industrial growth of America
from the 1870’s onwards, so
that the ease with which
America was able to acquire
ownership of American indus-
try from foreign promoters
and backers cannot be matched
here,
TTnlike our own foreign-
aided development of re-
cent years, where investment
b as been by shareholding in
need of continuous dividend
servicing, the United States
industrial expansion in the
ear iy decades was financed by
bonds and debentures from
foreign sources, securities which
were redeemable out of earn-
jn g S and w bi cd left control and
ownership of the successful
enterprise to the citizens of
maturing America. The British
and j) u^c b investors who
assisted America’s development
preferred security-and-interest
to the risk of shareholding,
distance then being a barrier to
close control of overseas opera-
tions and communications then
being too slow to provide the
immediate supervision required
by ownership.
“The form of foreign invest-
ment in Australia today is both
understandable and reason-
able,” Mr Urquhart said.
“Equity investments require no
repayment of capital and re-
turns are dependent on profits
and the success of the project
itself. What does concern a
great many Australians is the
natural —not merely national —
desire to have the opportunity
to participate more fully in this
growth. There is clearly a need
for more overseas concerns to
recognise that they should con-
sider reaching practical arrange-
ments for sharing profits with
local investors.
“We can further explain the
present position by the
timing of our industrial devel-
opment. This has largely taken
place in a period of high com-
pany and personal taxation
when it is no longer possible
to accumulate the large private
fort u n es that financed the
British expansion of the 18th
and 19th centuries and Ameri-
can development of the 19th
and 20th centuries. We must,
therefore, lean heavily on over-
seas capital if we are to main -
tain our present rate of growth.
“There appears to be little
prospect of any marked reduc-
tion in personal and company
taxation and hence no suffici-
ently large increase in savings
to balance any reduced flow of
foreign funds. Our difficulties
have been caused largely by
heavy rates of taxation. Norm-
ally, foreign capital initiates
development and reinforces
growth. It is rarely needed to
sustain and maintain expansion
for generations. Wise tax and
fiscal policies should encourage
domestic savings and enable the
country to promote its own
growth.”
Mr Urquhart had this warn-
ing to make on that: “If Aus-
tralia should attempt to limit
or impede the further flow of
foreign capital, the results will
be disastrous for private enter-
prise. The ensuing deflation
would demand the increasing
intervention of State enterprise.
We have a problem ip the heavy
percentage of foreign control,
but it is not a problem that
can be solved by the hasty im-
position of licences and other
controls. The problem can be
solved by legislation which wili
encourage the growth of our
own capital formation. This
will be a long, slow process and
until we achieve our objective
of increasing our own savings
we should, and we must, wel-
come foreign investment.”
Tt is Mr Urquhart’s view that
Australia has been living
beyond its means —too much
spending on non-durable con-
sumer goods, which also has
prevented generating and apply,
ing savings to the formation of
more of our own capital. He
sees the tragedy of Australia’s
present economic scene as being
that political parties are con-
cerned mainly with the re-
distribution of our national
income and that there are few
measures aimed at creating an
atmosphere in which private
enterprise can flourish and be
stimulated to provide further
productivity, growth and em-
ployment.
“There may be fewer votes
in such policies,” Mr Urquhart
said, “but there are more jobs
and more output. If we accept
the need to acquire more con-
trol over our own resources, the
process will inevitably be
gradual because we have neither
the financial means to effect any
immediate change in our
share, nor can we afford to
risk the consequences of
frightening away any further
foreign capital. Investors must
have the assurance that our
laws and regulations will con-
tinue to protect them.
“Making ownership of pro-
ductive property an objective
of our economic policy means
that we intend to rehabilitate
the institution of private pro-
perty. We could, I suggest,
decide voluntarily to restrict
consumption out of income in
order to invest. Such invest-
ments normally bring a return
which is the reward for savings.
the government level, I
believe that governments
should examine very carefully
the effects of high rates of
company taxation on costs and
the question of higher deprecia-
tion allowances. On the com-
pany level, more can be done
to attract and inform share-
holders ; too many company
directors still believe that if
shareholders see nothing and
hear nothing, they will do noth-
ing.
“Our economy is powered by
capital, but our system will be
sustained only by capitalists—
and the greater the number, the
more stable the nation. On the
individual level, there is a
responsibility on each of us to
invest and thus ‘own our own
share of Australia.’ I have the
feeling that many Australians
are not shareholders simply
because no one has asked them
to be. The stock exchanges in
Australia recognise their obliga-
tion to widen the ownership
base of Australian industry and
to provide the accurate and
careful information on which
prudent investment decisions
depend.”


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows
mm
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
4f)3 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
REID
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,000,000 ISSUE AT PAR
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
P.A.
5 YRS.
Tk%*
7% P A
SJo P.A.
*l/4% P.A.
P A
..... 2 YEARS
..... 1 YEAR
6 MONTHS
3 MONTHS
.... AT CALL
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
Wool Wars
ustralian wool interests are
having two big quarrels
t now. As one faction cries
t for a much fatter expendi-
e on wool publicity in other
intries. the other faction
nts to call a halt because “the
ue of wool is already
own.” As one faction cries
t for a removal of the em-
■go on the export of Aus-
lian Merino sheep, another
jtests that Australia wouid
is only create new competi-
s against itself in world wool
rkets.
11l of these factions are adept
bringing forward arguments
show themselves “right” in
ermining how the future of
wool industry should be
irted to ensure maximum
lefit to the whole of Aus-
lia and to win the maximum
export income but the
jes are all much too com-
ic to admit of any easy
might solution, despite the
;ency with which a satisfac-
y solution is needed.
the most disquieten •
of several alarming features
Australia’s present wool
iition is the fact that wool
iduction is beginning to fail,
Mr T. M. Scott said in his
sidential address to the an-
il conference of the Graziers'
sociation of N.S.W. last
:k. And production is bo-
ning to fall in spite of the
t that the whole of Austra-
s wool clip has been sold in
vious years. As Mr Scott
! it, the position of wooi-
iwers is desperate and “to
im that this is simply the
alt of the credit restrictions
to mask the real truth, that
olgrowing in its present
te is not profitable.”
r Scott made it clear that
the profitability of wool-
wing cannot be restored
bout some considerable
lening of the gap between
present high costs of pro-
:tion and the present low
nings for the product. On
earnings side, a reflection
weakening demand for
01, he was emphatic thal
ol had been completely out-
moted by manmade fibres
the U.S. by sheer weight of
ney and efficiency of appli-
on.
dr Scott left his hearers in
doubt that more wool could
sold at better prices only if
re were some comparable
enditure and comparable
eiency in worldwide pub-
ty for wool. That is also
view of the chairman of
Australian Wool Bureau,
William Gunn, who has
phasised the need for in-


Your Ist
financial
responsibility
/
Adequate
LIFE ASSURANCE
through the
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD
The Metropolitan Bldg., Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
BW 8061.
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
★
L %RANDi
agih^
Australia's
Better Brandy
Pot-still brandy
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
BRANDY
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & D
ASK ALSO FOR
ANGOVE'S WINE
creased promotion funds to in-
crease wool prices to a payable
level and that it would be tragic
to delay in providing them.
Again, such an outstanding
Australian wool personality as
Mr G. B. S. Falkiner points
out that, where the Australian
wool industry is spending less
than half of one per cent, on
promotional activity, it is quite
common for a firm in industry
to spend up to 5 per cent, of
its revenue on promotion.
“There are many products of
international renown which
have been built to their pre-
eminent position sol e 1 y by
skilled and ingenious promo-
tion,” Mr Falkiner says. “We
have seen how comparatively
humble furs have been pro-
moted into the luxury class,
and there is no doubt that, by
skilled and adequate promotion
and publicity, a tremendous
and growing demand can be
created for the wools produced
in this country, no matter how
strong the competition from
synthetics in the utility cloth-
ing sphere. Promotion cannot
succeed, however, unless it is
on a large scale. If growers
are prepared to sanction only
a veiy limited effort, they might
as well keep their money in
their pockets.”
And the pocket is just where
some growers are disposed
to keep their money just now!
Last week the annual confer-
ence of the Australian Wool
and Meat Producers Federa-
tion decided not to support an
increase in the wool levy until
the Government - appointed
committee of inquiry into wool
marketing concluded its in-
vestigations. This conference's
feeling was that, although there
might be some need for
greater promotion, it would be
inopportune to act until the
committee’s work was con-
cluded.
Nevertheless, firm resistance
to any further increase in pro-
motional funds for wool is
conspicuous in several influen-
tial quarters whose view is that
the pre-eminence of wool as an
apparel fibre is already known
in the countries where wool
promotional activity is being
practised or projected. It is
pointed out in these quarters,
for instance, that Japan, de-
prived of wool during and after
the war, did not thereby “learn
how to do without it,” and the
fact that Japanese women near
rioted because they were given
synthetics instead of wool for
their children’s garments is
cited as proof that temporary
replacement of wool does not
inevitably, or even usually,
mean permanent rejection of it.
It is to be hoped that that is
true of the United States,, in.
particular, where the apparent
rejection of wool has been for-
midable.
As Mr Falkiner points out,
it is only by promotional!
genius that the large American!
chemical companies, starting
from zero, have been able in a
matter of 10 years to promote
their product to a point where
it seriously competes with wool,
recognised as the leading
apparel textile of the world for
the last 2000 years.
of the major reasons for
the advance of synthetics
in the United States is the fact
that high quality wool was not
readily available there, and
this was so, in part, because the
embargo on the export of’
Merino sheep from Australia
deprived foreign
of the benefits of an infusion
of Merino blood into their 1
flocks. Some considerable 1
bieadth of vision is needed to 1
reach the conclusion that Aus- 1
tralia injures itself in so far as*
denial of the use of the Merino £
to other countries restricts the'
popularity of wool universally, l
and that Australia gains if there l
is maximum wool quality in'
every woolgrowing country top
answer synthetics.
In the narrower view, too, itjj
is clear that right now
lia, by this embargo, is cutting
off a not inconsiderable source '
of export income. Indeed,
many Australian studs have.|
already had to close down
cause of the embargo, the in- ■
ternal Australian demand for,
stud stock being too slight to |
keep them in business or to j
persuade them that there are
not better avenues for their in-
vestment.
Moreover, many of the s
nation’s major Merino studs
have not increased the size off
their operation. More than a! 1
few have decreased it, and it
is significant that the average
number of sheep registered for
each Australian stud has fallen
by more than 400 head over <
the last 10 years. i
It may be that if the Merino 1
export embargo was raised, the 1
U.S.A. would possibly think it'
necessary to increase tariff'
barriers to “safeguard” the *
American growers of stud'
sheep. But the fact remains 1
that lifting of the embargo
could increase Australia’s ex-|
port income and also ward off j
the adverse effect on the whole 1
of the world’s wool trade of I
the recourse to synthetics being 1
made in countries denied I
quality - improving Merino 1
blood.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Pre-
Show
Supplement
The Northern Rivers
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
)R the last four years the
Royal Agricultural Society
N.S.W., in conjunction with
iShell Company of Australia
io, with Shell Chemical
ist.) Pty Ltd, pick up the
pk), has conducted an an-
il tour for representatives of
ss, radio and TV through
brent parts of the State,
s object of these tours has
n twofold: first, to give
rnalists, commentators and
leramen the opportunity of
,ng at first hand what goes
behind the scenes in
paration for the Show ;
rndly, to encourage good
itions between the Society
\ those whose job it is to
s on information to the
eral public. The importance
:he tours lies in the manner
ffiich they are reported, and
ir value should show itself
a general improvement in
lity of all exhibits to match
increased interest shown by
public who read or listen to
tourists’ comments.
iino
(e arrived at Casino and
r breakfast at Tattersalls
Hotel, set out for the Northern
Co-operative Meat Co.’s abat-
toir and meatworks, where we
were given an informal wel-
come by Alderman R. W.
Manyweathers, Mayor of
Casino, who was supported by
Councillor Holmes, president
of Tomki Shire, and Mr R. L.
Nicholls, chairman of the com-
pany.
The company, we were told,
was inaugurated in 1933 and
the abattoir premises were
officially opened six years
later ; a five-year plan of ex-
pansion on plant and buildings
was completed in 1956 at the
cost of £200,000; and the
administrative block was
opened by Mr J. L. Shute,
chairman of the Australian
Meat Board in December,
1959. Today the company has
1030 shareholders and last
year’s turnover totalled
£400,426. In 1960 the average
weekly number of employees
reached the all-time record of
204 and the total head of stock
slaughtered was 279,426
47,012 cattle, 89,145 calves
and vealers, and 143,269 pigs.
General-manager of the com-
: This year’s tour, which
started at Casino on Mon-
day, February 27, and
ended at Kempsey four
lays later, was led by Colin
A. M. Ross, of Balaclava,
Glen Innes, a councillor of
the R.A.S. Tour managers
were Gilbert Mant, p.-r.-o.
of the Royal Society, and
Frank Bird, of the Shell
Company. G. S. Payne, of
Shell Chemical, and Mollie
Lenthall, from the Shell
public-relations branch,
a 1 s o accompanied the
party. We travelled in a
coach supplied by the New
England Motor Co. and
ably captained by H. F.
Rose (well known for his
former prowess as a swim-
mer). The tour differed
from those of previous
years, being more con-
cerned—as befitted the dis-
trict we visited—with fac-
tories processing farm-pro-
duce and less with studs
and herds which possibly
interest the purist more
than the general reporter,
It may be for that reason
that it was voted by all
who attended the best tour
so far held in N.S.W.
Mr E. E. Cooke, with Moongi Lady Alice 14th, at Bexhill.
pany is Mr A. S. Jeffery, who
has just returned from spend-
ing six months in the U.S.A. as
representative of the Australian
Meat Board. Unfortunately Mr
Jeffery was not there when we
visited the meatworks, but
acting g.-m. A. S. Napthali
(who is deputy mayor of the
municipality) and secretary K.
F. Gooley showed us round the
boneless-meat processing de-
partment, the smallgoods sec-
tion, the killing-floor and the
edible-tallow production centre.
The boneless-meat plant is
one of the most up-to-date in
Australia and handled 2274
tons of meat in 1960. This was
impressive to watch; so was
the smallgoods section, where
they prepare prepacked com-
modities for self-service retail.
Lismore, “The Great
Garden”
TJrom Casino we went to Lis-
■*- more, queen city of the
Far North Coast, which lies
513 miles north of Sydney on
the banks of the Richmond
River. Lismore took its name
from Lismore Station, a pas-
toral holding of 36 square miles
occupied under licence from
the Crown by William Wilson
from 1844 to 1865. The station
had been named after the
island of Lismore in Loch
Linnhe, Argyllshire (Scotland),
the word being derived from the
Gaelic lios mor, which means
a great garden. The present
city (proclaimed in 1946) lives
up to its name, with its beauti-
ful flowering trees and shrubs
and its carefully planted parks
and gardens. The annual floral
carnival, held each spring, and
the North Coast Agricultural
and Industrial Society’s Show
attract exhibitors and visitors
from all over N.S.W. The link
with the Scottish origin of the
city’s name is also kept by a
grant of arms from Lyon King
of Arms, which now hangs in
the Council chamber.
Present population of the city


LYSACKTS
PROOF
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
mm-
||f| M: mM X \ I: V; || i |pglp : |pll|i|g
■'■ 'STT'.TT —— : " T . ■: .-if
-- v>v? ’ r <
Hi
Tv;
Tl
!•$> ’.'.
m
: . 'TV
:
m
m
k
u^Js,
Is*
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
r. Ltd
. Hoad,
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty
Reg’d Office and Works, Black wall Pt
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
The garland-dance by members of the Clarence River
District Pony Club.
is 18,000 and the business area,
claimed to be one of the most
up-to-date of its kind, caters
for the needs of 40,000 shoppers
from surrounding districts. The
business-centre of the town
consists of four streets which
form a complete square lined
with modern shops. The Lis-
more district is one of the most
densely populated in rural Aus-
tralia and owes its growth to
dairying, but there are more
than 1000 banana growers in
the district, and pineapples.
papaws, passion - fruit, etc.,
are grown, too. Sugar is an
important industry and the
C.S.R. mill at Broadwater, on
the Lower Richmond, is one
of the largest in N.S.W. Tim-
ber, which is exported to the
U.S.A., Canada, South Africa,
New Zealand and the Pacific
Islands, and beach-sands min-
ing are two other local indus-
tries, while there is N.S.W.’s
only whaling station at Byron
Bay on the sea-coast.
Norco Co-operative
. r
Factories
/'Aur first visit at Lismore
was to the Norco Co-
operative butter, cheese and
smallgoods factories. Norco
was established more than 50
years ago by a group of pioneer
farmers on the North Coast as
an outlet for their dairy pro-
duce. It has since grown into
one of the largest dairy-produce
companies in the world. It is
owned and controlled by the
farmers who supply the raw
materials. Milk, cream and
pigs are supplied by farmers in
the Richmond, Tweed and
Upper Clarence Rivers areas to
one of the six Norco factories,
In addition to butter, cheese,
milk-powder, casein, ice cream,
pasteurised and homogenised
bottled milk, and bacon, there
is also a comprehensive range
of smallgoods carrying the
Norco brand. The annual
turnover of the company is
now £8,000,000. Norco has
been a successful exhibitor at
the Royal Easter for many
years and won first prizes in
the butter, cheese and bacon
classes last year.
. . . . .
After looking round the fac-
} ories ’ w „ e had L™ ah at T
Lismore Rowing Club as guests
c f Norco. Afterwards we
moved five miles out of the city
to Greengate, Bexhill, the
property of Mr J. C. Mclntosh,
where we were to see the
Guernsey stud he owns and
Neil McAnelly manages. On
the way there we had another
opportunity of seeing how well
the country had responded to
rains which recently put an end
to a period of severe drought.
Guernsey Stud Cattle
'T'he Greengate Stud was
founded in 1945 on Moongi
blood from the stud of E. E.
Cooke, a neighboring owner.
One of the foundation sires was
the famous Moongi Marchon
and from time to time other
Moongi bulls have been intro-
duced. Foundation females
were of the Spurfield and Min-
namurra strains. Greengate was
the most successful Guernsey
exhibitor at the 1960 North
Coast National Exhibition,
where its team of 32 won 22
“firsts,” a number of “seconds,”
two championships and three
reserve championships. Cham-
pion cow, which has just been
awarded the All Australian
Guernsey Championship by the
Guernsey Cattle Society of
Australia was Greengate Alma
3rd.
Working in co-operation
with the Government Experi-
ment Farm at Wollongbar, the
stud is now taking advantage
of artificial insemination from
the best Guernsey blood. Mr
Mclntosh and Mr McAnelly
are very pleased with their first
crop of calves got by A.I. from
Champion of Friquet de Haut,
twice Sydney champion and
now stationed at Berry. “One
of his bull calves is as good as
anything so far bred in the
stud,” said Mr Mclntosh. It
is interesting to note, in pass-
ing, that before the stud started
to work with Wollongbar Farm
they had a 50 per cent, concep-
tion-rate by A.I. ; now they get
100 per cent, conception.
Greengate Guernseys aver-
aged 3201 b butterfat from 72
cows in 300 days’ lactation
completed under the Group
Recording Improvement
Scheme in September, 1960.
This is because in the last few
years New Zealand techniques,
brought back by Mr McAnelly
after a visit of several months
and adapted to Northern Rivers
conditions, have lifted produc-
tion at Greengate by 50 per
cent. The modern dairy is
equipped with herringbone-
type bails, the whole of its
railing and posts are made of
steel piping and the total length
of each race is 39ft. The cen-
tral pit where the operators
stand is 36ft long and 3ft wide
at the top, and its walls slope
so that its width at the bottom
is 3ft 6in, which allows the
operator to stand closer to the
cow and reduces fatigue. Milk-
ing units and the main milk-line
are attached to overhead steel
piping and run the full length
of the pit, while a pipeline
carrying warm water runs
adjacent to them, from which
The route
three rubber downlines with
spray nozzles hang down for
use in spraying teats and udders
before milking. The whole of
the milking operations and
cleaning-up afterwards takes
about two hours in the morning
or H less in the afternoon—


©/
/©
EARN THE
BEST BANK
INTEREST
We invite you to invest in National
Bank Short Term Deposits.
Jr Your money is absolutely safe;
repayment in full is guaranteed.
Jr The value of your investment is
unaffected by market fluctuations.
Jr Your interest yield is certain.
periods of investment
12 months 41%; 3 to 11 months 4%.
Jr Use of these deposits will build up
a handy financial reserve for you.
Jr A thoroughly safe investment, with
interest yield and return of capital
certain.
rrso/Wsi
YOUR MONEY IS COMPLETELY SECURE WITH
NATIONAL BANK
fyt&rebt Demina fDepctifo
9
NATIONAL BANK '
ASSETS EXCEED £364,000,000
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
The Australian
Wo
McCall’s
Exclusive to
Ins Mirror
PRINTED PATTERNS
for you and
L the children
about half as long as it used to
before the system was installed.
Yards and fences round the
dairy are of bolted pipes, a life-
time job, and these pipes are
gradually replacing timber
posts throughout the farm.
Although about 25 per cent,
more expensive to install than
timber, these pipes do not need
the constant renewal which
wooden fences do. The layout
of the farm is interesting, being
based on a narrow central lane
down which two concrete strips
have been laid. This makes
cartage easier in wet weather
and saves wear and tear on
machinery, but its main advan-
tage is that the cows use the
strips in wet weather and no
longer bring mud into the hold-
ing yard. Cows used to bog
in wet weather in the former
conventional wide lane. Use
of the narrow lane from dairy
to paddocks also quickens their
return to the pastures. It is
Mr A. H. Williams, with some of his Show team.
also estimated that the narrow
lane represents a saving of six
acres of highly productive land.
The farm has a 3y-mile creek
frontage, which allows plenty
of water for irrigation. Water is
pumped to a reservoir on high
land and reticulated to all sheds
and paddocks, while an under-
ground 4in fibro main runs the
length of the flats. A great
deal of experimental work has
been done to find the most pro-
ductive pasture. Mr McAnelly
has settled on a mixture of 81b
Wimmera ryegrass, 21b lode-
ladino clover, 21b ladino and
21b red clover, sown on a well-
prepared seedbed, with 3cwt.
molybdenised super, to the
acre. The stage has now been
reached when the herd of 80
cows can be maintained all the
year round on 30 acres of
irrigated pasture, using strip-
grazing and electric fences. The
30 acres of improved pastures
have been subdivided into six
paddocks, which are sprayed
with tallow from the boom-
spray of a tractor to prevent
bloat. A further 15 acres of
improved pastures are now
being prepared.
Also at Greengate we saw
the team of eight females and
six males which Mr E. E.
Cooke, of Moongi, Bexhill,
will exhibit at the Royal Easter
this year. The Moongi Stud—
incidentally it’s pronounced
“Moonguy”—has won more
than 6000 ribbons at country
and capital - city agricultural
shows.
One of the Sydney team from
Moongi this year will be
Moongi Janice’s Beau, supreme
champion Guernsey bull of
Australia in 1960. Another is
Moongi Royal Highness, re-
serve supreme champion of
Australia in 1958. Mr Cooke
has bred the champion of dairy
champions on three occasions
since he founded the stud in
1921, with females in calf
from the Minnamurra stud of
the late Dr R. M. Kinross. He
is the only private breeder in
N.S.W. to breed a 10001 b
Guernsey cow—Moongi Lady-
love (dam of Moongi Royal
Highness), which produced
10341 b butterfat in 365 days
He has never used an outside
sire for his stud. The Moongi
blood is so predominant that
every champion and every
reserve champion at the 1960
Lismore Show was by a
Moongi bull.
We had afternoon tea at
Greengate and then left to
return to Lismore, where the
Mayor (Alderman C. J. Camp-
bell) accorded us a civic recep-
tion before we had dinner at
the Rowing Club.
Grafton
Next morning we took the
road for Grafton as soon
as reporters from the dailies


ANNUAL EASTER SALES
of BLOODSTOCK
will be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWECK
as follows:
THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS
Monday, 27th March, at 10 a.m. Lots 1 to 168.
Tuesday, 28th March, at 10 a.m. Lots 169 to 347.
Thursday, 30th March, at 10 a.m. Lots 348 to 516.
Tuesday, 4th April, at 10.30 a.m. Lots 517 to 675.
PARADE OF YEARLINGS
will be held on
SUNDAY MORNING, 26th MARCH, 1961
Commencing at 10 a.m.
A percentage of each stud draft represented on the first
three days of the sales will be paraded.
BROOD MARES, STALLIONS, UNTRIED
STOCK and RACEHORSES-IN-TRAINING
FRIDAY, 7th APRIL, 1961
Owners who have RACEHORSES or other THOROUGH-
BRED STOCK to offer at this sale are requested to forward
particulars at their earliest convenience. Entries for the
main catalogue close on MONDAY, 20TH MARCH.
Agents for THE YORKSHIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
All lots sold can be insured IMMEDIATELY on the fall of
the hammer.
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O’Connell St., Sydney. Phones BL2411-BL2412
PORT LINE
Regular service of sneedv, Modern Cargo Vessels to United Kingdom
and Continent for carriage of livestock, wool,
General and Refrigerated Cargo
• Accommodation for a limited number of Haloon passengers.
For further particulars apply to . . .
PORT LINE LTD.,
(Inc. in England)
50 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY 27 5301
or GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle and Hobart.
A. G. WEBSTER & WOOEGROWERS LTD., Eaunceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. ETD.,
Townsville and Rockhampton.
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO., Cairns.
had telephoned their copy
through. The Pacific Highway
crosses the Harwood Island
ferry en route and Herb Rose
was anxious to avoid a long
delay there waiting for the
punt. The road took us through
fields of millet and sugarcane
and we saw some of the 99
islands of the Clarence River
estuary as we passed. We also
passed the turn-off to New
Italy, where the first Italian
settlers were allotted land
which was not the best in the
neighborhood, made it into
vineyards and prospered.
Axemen at practice, Coff’s Harbour.
Arriving in Grafton, we
crossed the only two-decked
road and rail bridge in Aus-
tralia and entered “the city of
trees.” Grafton’s wide streets
and beautiful parks are now
world-famous because of the
annual Jacaranda Festival,
started 26 years ago and since
photographed in color in many
leading overseas magazines.
Centre and capital of the
Clarence River district and one
of Australia’s leading tourist
areas, Grafton owes its pros-
perity to primary production—
dairyfarming, timber, sugar-
cane, bananas, maize, lucerne,
and a wide variety of mineral
deposits. It grew from the
settlement of cedar-cutters and
graziers about 1840 and was
named Grafton officially in
1848 by Governor Fitzroy,
grandson of the then Duke of
Grafton.
After a visit to Peters
Creameries factory, we were
accorded a civic welcome in
the council chambers by Mayor
W. E. Crisp and then enter-
tained to lunch in one of the
hotels by Peters Creameries.
We spent the first part of the
afternoon at the Grafton
Experiment Farm, Belindi-
garbar, where the manager,
Mr C. E. Collins, and his staff
showed us the herd of pure-
bred A.I.S. dairy-cattle and the
Polled Jerseys which the
Department of Agriculture | s
now developing there. The
bull at present in use for the
establishment of this Polled
Jersey herd is New England
Designer, whose parents were
both sired by Ripley Wizard
Dandy, the original bull im-
ported from New Zealand to
start the breed in Australia.
This innovation set a problem
for the Australian Jersey Herd
Society, which has now estab-
lished a special section of the
studbook for the polled
animals. We also saw over the
pasture-research observation
nursery, before having after-
noon tea with Mr and Mrs
Collins and embussing to
return to Grafton.
Pony Club Display
/"\N the Grafton Showground
we found the Clarence
River District Pony and Hack
Club —one of the most pro-
gressive in N.S.W.—drawn up
in five troops to give a display
of their activities. The first
troop, consisting of older mem-
bers (12 to 18) showed us
garland-dancing and Olympic
jumping—the jumps they were
clearing with such skill were
given to the club by the late
Sam Hordern. The second
troop, all under 12, showed us
a musical ride and formation-
riding. The third troop held a
bending race and a flag race;
the fourth were jumping in the
grid; the fifth, the babies’
troop (4 to 7), were under
elementary instruction from
Mrs Terrey, of Tyndale, near
Grafton, who was well known
as a rider at Sydney under her
maiden-name of Hilda Barnes.
The Clarence River District
Club was formed in 1957 and
now has 149 junior members
and 58 associate members.
The president is Mr D. V.
McLennan, whose wife is the
highly efficient head of the
women’s auxiliary ; the secre-
tary is Mr F. Kay Imeson, and


SEE THE WORLD’S
CHAMPIONS IN ACTION
m
9
A
SYDNEY SHOW-
s
m
■
m
m
mm
isllll
s
m
mi
"■■'■ ■:
mmmmm
ggsssws
mmmmmm
mm a
zm
wmm
' : •'
| . »
■ : : a g
m
'
••• ■,
■
in
x ,:■
. ■ • •' ■•
SSasr
mm
m
%'tM
■
■■:, S
in
GROUND, MARCH 24th TO
APRIL 4th, 1961
Don't miss seeing Australia's world
champion horsemen, recently returned from
overseas successes.
You'll thrill at the action packed programmes
arranged at this year's Royal Easter Show.


TIE WIRE-NETTIN
GERRAR
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
II/- per 1003
THIS EASY WAY-
(25 yds. per minute)
As fast as you can squeeze its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
callv fed e in C to m thp t:adhe Sta ?' eS ' nt ° StUrdy 1 in ' rinas ' which are automata
ca. y fed into the jaws. There is no wastage—the job is quick, neat and strongj
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured, by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd.. 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
one of the instructors is Mr
Percy Dwyer, also well known
at Sydney Royal. Bill Wood,
once of the old 49th Bn., is a
popular figure with the mem-
bers and provides the music
for the musical ride and
garland-dance on his “squeeze-
box.” Youngest member was
Graham Brotherton, just
turned four.
That evening we were guests
of the Grafton District Service-
men’s Club on the invitation
of president Hugh Miller.
Bullocks and Bananas
"KText morning we set off for
Coff’s Harbour, stopping
on the way at Moonee to look
at Len Skinner’s bullock-team.
Len Skinner, a real character,
is aged 67 and lives on a pro-
perty which has been in his
family since 1873. He gave us
a demonstration of the work
of his six pairs of bullocks,
which he is not bringing to the
Royal Easter Show (although
three bullock-teams from else-
where in N.S.W. will be on
display).
At Boambee, outside Coff’s
Harbour, we had our first
introduction to Bananaland—
because, contrary to general
belief, N.S.W., not Queens-
land, grows 85 per cent, of
Australia’s banana crops.
Commercial growing of
bananas in N.S.W. started
about 1912, and the Banana
Growers’ Federation Co-opera-
tive was founded in 1933 by
the late Mr H. L. Anthony,
former P.M.G. and father of
Bob Anthony who accom-
panied last year’s Queensland
preview tour. From small
beginnings, the industry has
now grown into a national
organisation, although at
present all bananas grown in
Australia are consumed locally
because the perishable nature
of the fruit denies it an export
market. Figures will give some
idea of the growth of the
industry: in 1946, production
in N.S.W. was 1,572,658 cases ;
last year it was 3,039,840 cases,
and the approximate value of
the 1960 crop was £4,500,000.
The “8.G.F.,” with head-
quarters at Murwillumbah, has
a total membership of 5000
growers located from the
Queensland border to Eungai,
south of Macksville. The
Federation, which controls
bulk stores and retail fruit-
shops in various centres,
handles most of its own trans-
portation. There were 104
banana trains from Coff’s
Harbour last year, and a
special vegetable and tomato
service is also run to Sydney
five days a week during the
season to allow delivery to be
made for market the following
morning. The “8.G.F.” always
stages a striking exhibit at the
Royal Easter Show.
Packing a bunch of bananas for the Royal Easter Show.
The plantation we visited
belongs to Mr J. Ladd, one of
1600 commercial growers in
the Coff’s Harbour district.
Gordon Jeater, Department of
Agriculture fruit-officer, who
met us there, explained to us
how on that plantation and
Trevor Hull-Moody and Sons’
neighboring property we
should see all the operations
of a banana plantation, from
tree-planting to cutting and
wrapping of bunches in
preparation for the Royal
Show. Bananas are not a
seasonal crop, he explained,
and consequently work goes on
all the year round —tree-
development, bunch - develop-
ment, disease and pest control,
suckering, de-leafing, irriga-
tion, cultivation, fertilisation,
misting to prevent red-spider
and bunchytop (which does
not at present exist at Coffs
Harbour or to the south of that
area, but still needs to be
guarded against).
We were driven round the
6| acres Mr Ladd has under
cultivation in a fleet of Land/
Rovers which made nothing of
the steep hillsides, then to the
Hull-Moodys’ land, and then
over some of the rest of Jack
Ladd’s 28 acres, where we saw
the 2y-million-gallon dam they
have put in for irrigation. In
the course of our journey we
saw each operation demon-
strated. Finally bunches were
cut—first by skilled hands, then
by Miss Coff’s Harbour
(Sandra King) and her friend
Judy Cowling—and, at the
packing-shed, we saw those


knit high, knit low, handkmt
a brand new, up-to-the-minute
look for all the family in wonder-
ful woo!..,Vests are the big
news, for Mother, Dad and all
the children. Choose a pattern
by Patons and Baldwins, Lincoln,
Peacock or Villawool, choose a
soft-key coloured wool, one of
the new quick-to-knit varieties,
and you choose a look that
says “life is wonderful in wool”.
frustrated:
Vest for dad by Pa tons <£ 8a Id wins
Vests for daughters by Villawod
iA
m.
r-
r >
n
P : %
\\
.
V W> 1
f \ V\ \
w $ £ J- :<
/-
3
H
ii
%
' $
■ V
RftiN,
«w
:
M fs d)i
l
handknit vests in
SEE THE WOOL PAVILION AT THE
SYDNEY ROYAL EASTER SHOW 24 th MARCH 4 th APRIL
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BUREAU


HITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
•*; '*s m %
' ' J^c£V v
* $, jfer
*
r
%*?
««•
r m
3£'
‘” The Old BteKd
»• ScotchWhish)
I’lfflfc
,-R
Cellar
p
Old Blerv
N» 64400 ScolcKWNisKy
r^rT^
ISTIU£*S LTD
(fLLAR
A L v~ai-.f.«
WHITE. HOm^TUiJWS^jk,
WUWtIMIMIT 951HU1 Ml MjWWHiifSS
White Horse, the perfect
complement to an even-
ing’s relaxation. White
Horse, the perfect Scotch
Whisky at any time.
Patiently matured to be
pleasantly mellow. Always
say, White Horse . . •
of course.
m
Available in three handy sizes:
26-oz. bottles, "halves" and
"quarters."
At Standard Brand Prices.
bunches wrapped in the
stripped stalks which save them
from getting discolored.
This demonstration, admir-
ably organised and conducted
by men who knew exactly
what they wanted to show us
and had worked it out to
almost split-second timing, was
most impressive. We left feel-
ing that we really had learned
something about the banana
industry.
Lunch followed at the Coff’s
Harbour Ex-Services Club,
where president Reg Durie
welcomed us and Mr Hogbin,
Deputy Shire President, told us
something about the poten-
tialities of the area.
Timber
After lunch we went to
watch axemen training on
the local showground. Kevin
Smith, present holder of the
world 14in. standing-block title
and of the world 16in. under-
hand title, Harry and Ray
McCarthy, both ex-champions,
Bert Stride and Clive Mcln-
tosh, ex-world sawing cham-
pion—all of whom will
compete in this year’s Royal—
gave us a demonstration of
their practice on the 13in.
block underhand.
Next visit was to G. D. T.
Seccombe’s timber-mill ; then
we went down to Coff's
Harbour jetty to watch timber
being loaded for New Zealand
on board S.S. Abel Tasman.
Our overnight stop was at the
Plantation Hotel, Cog’s
Harbour.
There have been more than
500 mill-hands and bush-
workers laid off in the timber
industry these last three weeks,
owing to restricted finance for
home building and unrestricted
imports of timber from over-
seas, and we heard, in the
course of our tour, how this
was causing concern along the
North Coast. At Cog's
Harbour, where 30 men have
been laid off, but which is the
centre of the N.S.W. timber
industry, a new block of shops
is being put up, almost entirely
constructed of imported Oregon
from the U.S.A., although this
wood is 20 per cent, dearer
than the local timbers.
Timber-trade spokesmen fear
that, unless some relief is given
soon, the slump—worse than
any which has hit the North
Coast for 20 years—will lead
to considerable unemployment.
The Macleay Valley
ICkom Coff's Harbour the
road took us through
Nambucca Heads and Macks-
ville to Warrell Creek, where
we visited the Large White pig
stud of Mr A. H. Williams.
This Coreen Stud was founded
in 1949 with the purchase of
an imported English boar,
Fulham Lad 12th, from Vic-
toria. Mr Williams joined this
boar with sows from Lismore
and Kempsey. His first
important Show successes were
at Lismore in 1952, when he
exhibited 10 pigs and won
eight prizes. Since then he has
had the distinction of breeding
the champion Large White
boar of the 1959 and 1960
Brisbane exhibitions and at the
1960 Sydney Royal. As a
result of these successes, the
boar (Kameo Peter May) is
now entitled to be called
Champion Kameo Peter May.
This is the only time such a
prefix has been won by a Large
White boar in Australia.
Mr Williams’s successes at
the 1960 Brisbane Exhibition
went further than this cham-
pionship. All his exhibits
gained places and his stud won
17 ribbons, including the junior
champion boar, w'hich was
later sold for 210gns., a record
price for the under- 12-months
class of the breed. He ex-
hibited at Sydney for the first
time last year, but this ye ar
has a team of 14 entries f° r
Sydney, Grafton and Brisbane.
We inspected Mr Williams s
stud and enjoyed morning tea
at Coreen before continuing
our journey southwards.
Next stop was at the Smith;
town Condensery of the Nesu e
Company (Australia)


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
warmray
* . MA i A .
TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
STANDARD
I H.D/
has over 7,000 cu. ft.
heating capacity,
equipped with a non-
jamming shaker
grate.
• BURNS ANY SOLID
FUEL AND NEED
NEVER GO OUT.
W
ic Beautifully enamelled
on solid east iron, Model
H.D. is available in CERAMIC GREY,
HAWAIIAN CREAM, and MAHOGANY to
suit the contemporary or traditional home.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS
NOTHING! Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
- •
ir-
Installs in rooms
with or without
fireplaces
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
★ Capacity
Over 10,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large
firebox for
long burning.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of W armray’s efficiency is the
patented Heating Tubes (illustrated
below) which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an
even, overall warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
rm
WARM RAY
HEATING TUBES
British Ministry of Power and Fuel gives Warmray an
efficiency rating of 83%.
★ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray”, *25-2216.
// unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call
for illustrated brochure and name of nearest
agents.
WAR/102-32
rhere we were entertained to
lunch and welcomed by the
manager, Mr A. C. Berger,
.Councillor Jack Saul (president
|»f Macleay Shire), Alderman
L G. Melville (mayor of
(kempsey), and Councillor D.
J. O Dell (chairman of the
Macleay River County
Council).
l In his address Mr Berger
ijave us a short account of the
(history of the Nestle Company
I in Australia and of their
'relationship with the man on
the land. The extension ser-
rices made available by the
company they include
animal-health services, advice
ion pasture - improvement,
lichemes for subsidised seeds,
.repair of milking-machines and
In Peters Creameries Factory, Grafton.
artificial insemination, worked
in conjunction with the N.S.W.
Milk Board are of great
benefit to suppliers in increas-
ing farm productivity. In
addition, an incentive premium
is paid for milk produced dur-
ing the winter months.
As Councillor Saul and
Alderman Melville pointed
out, Kempsey has been particu-
larly hard hit by the timber
slump. To date, they said, 250
men had been laid off and five
mills closed. Since Kempsey
depends on tim&er for 40 per
cent, of its income, this was
serious.
We inspected the condensery
after lunch, and were told how
the fresh milk is collected from
600 farms spread over an area
of about 1500 square-miles,
being received at the factory
either in cans direct from the
farms or by road-tanker from
Bowraville, where the company
operates a receiving and cool-
ing depot. At the factory the
milk is processed into various
products, which supply the
local market and are also
exported to Africa, South-east
Asia and the Middle East. We
saw some cartons being packed
for dispatch to Hong Kong and
Colombo.
Leaving the condensery, we
went on towards Kempsey,
travelling through the heart of
the Macleay Valley, which is
situated halfway between
Sydney and Brisbane and on
the borderline of two very dis-
tinct climates,
Arriving in Kempsey, we
visited the hardware-and-
produce store of the Macleay
River Co-operative Dairying
Company and then saw one of
their retail-stores. This com-
pany was formed about 50
years ago with 200 single-
pound shares and has now
developed into a leading Aus-
tralian co-operative organisa-
tion, with assets exceeding
£1,000,000. It first introduced
the manufacture of European
soft and fancy cheeses to
Australia about 25 years ago ;
now it makes all types of


ANGUS
PACERS of PROGRESS
FOR GREATER PROFITS
ANGUS
WORLD-WIDE EXPORTS-
REGARDLESS of CLIMATE
WHY! WHY!
BECAUSE . . .
ANGUS mature earlier, are persistent foragers, ideal proven cross-breeders (either on
beef or dairy cattle), excellent milking mothers, natural dehorners, standardise colours
black, resistant to eye cancer and sunburn.
ANGUS bulls are joined with heifers of other breeds to safeguard first calvings.
ANGUS and ANGUS CROSS-BREDS have gained majority of the MAJOR PRIZES in
“ALL BREED FAT CATTLE COMPETITIONS” in Great Britain (Smithfield), U.S.A.
(Chicago), the Argentine, Canada, New Zealand and Australia.
ANGUS CARCASES WORLD RECORD, under point appraisalment system 95 points
out of a maximum of 100. ANGUS CARCASES are uniform and excel in weight for age.
ANGUS RECORDS—I96I PERTH (Scotland) SALES
TEN ANGUS yearling bulls, at the 1961 Perth Sales, brought 120,400
guineas (sterling).
An ANGUS sold for 29,000 guineas. A BRITISH BEEF RECORD.
ANGUS SHOWS and SALES
1961 Royal Easter Show Tuesday, March 28. Wagga Friday, June 9.
Rockhampton Thursday June 1 5 to 18. Tamworth Thursday, June 22.
COMMERCIAL ANGUS BREEDERS
YOU are cordially invited to become a Commercial - Member of the Angus Society of
Australia. Annual Fee, £3/3/-.
TO LEARN MORE and GAIN MORE apply to HAROLD N. SARINA, Secretary, The
Angus Society of Australia, 56 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone BU 2049.
Committee Secretaries in each State.
cheese, runs a butter factory
and carries a well-known brand
of lactic casein, which is used
almost exclusively by the Aus-
tralian Paper Mills and pro-
duces the beautiful finish on
Rothmans cigarette containers.
Like Nestles, the Macleay
River Co-operative exports in
quantity.
Our short visit to the two
stores convinced us that the
Macleay River Co-operative is
a thriving concern and, apart
from its important manufactur-
ing activities, of great value in
supplying the man on the land
with everything he needs.
From Kempsey we emplaned
in a chartered aircraft to return
to Sydney, at the end of an
interesting and very instructive
tour. Thanks to the careful
organisation of the R.A.S., the
co-operation of civic leaders
and individuals we visited and
who showed us so much hos-
pitality, and the generosity of
the Shell people, we travelled
more than 1000 miles and saw
a great deal of Australia’s
primary production.
As the military historians
say, the whole operation was
admirably planned and exe-
cuted. And the “butcher's
bill?”. . . Only casualty: one
distinguished journalist, who
sprained his sword-arm in
prolonged action against a one-
armed bandit, but who
gallantly continued the fight
with his left hand until even-
tually beaten by overwhelming
odds!
Crosscuts
The motto of the Yorkshire
Grassland Society —Aes merei
herba —has been translated by
hard-headed Yorkshiremen as
“Grass earns brass.” Of the
cou n t y’s 3,900,000 acres,
2,400,000 are under crops and
grass, while 448,000 are classed
as rough grazing.
Most farmers are satisfied to
see eight or ten stalks to a single
plant of Orient oats, but an
outstanding oat-plant of this
variety grown this season by
L. Dumesny, of Polkemmet
(Vic.), where slush had been
cleaned from a dam, had 96
vigorous stalks.
Some mathematician in the
Australian Institute of Agricul-
tural Science estimates that by
1965 there will be a 30 per cent,
increase in the demand for
Australian primary products,
which form 80 per cent, of our
exports, but furnish only 44
per cent, of the national
income. This demand can be
met by a 10 per cent, increase
in local consumption and a 20
per cent, increase in export
trade. But he offers no sug-
gestions how the Australian
farmer, whose costs have now
risen 10 per cent, against a
mere 4 per cent, rise in the
prices paid him, is to bring out
this increase in his production.
Miss Pat Smythe, Britain’s
leading showjumper, hopes to
ride during the annual Camden
(N.S.W.) Show, March 16-18.
At the Royal Easter Show she
will ride Ted Dwyer’s Ocean
Foam and Colin Kelly’s Poiar
Bay in “A” Group jumping
events. Among her other en-
gagements will be the official
opening of Gunnedah (N.S.W.)
Show on April 14, and she
will compete in the Olympic
showjumping contest there,
entry-fees for which are being
devoted to the E.F.A.’s 1964
Olympic Games Fund.
No fewer than 14 axemen
from New Zealand —-including
a team of seven for the Hall-
strom international teams relay
—will be among the record
total of 152 competitors in the
wood - chopping and sawing
section of Sydney’s 1961 Royal
Easter Show. One American,
H. David Geer, of Jowett City,
Connecticut, has also entered
for six underhand and tree-
felling events.
C. J. A. Moses, general-
manager of the A.B.C. and
himself a keen and competent
axeman, has been elected chair-
man of the wood-chopping
section committee of the Royal
Agricultural Society of N.S.W.


There's a
GOODYEAR TYRE
I
GOODYEAR IMPERIAL NYLON
The finest car tyre ever made in Australia.
The deep, tough tread adjusts instantly
to every condition of driving. Built with
3.T nylon cord for greater strength and
safety—many more recaps too.
GOODYEAR CUSTOM SUBURBANITE
On mud, clay, grass—unmade as well as
made roads, the deep, tough tread of this
tyre wears long and evenly—gives smooth
riding on the highway. Built with Good-
year 3.T super-rayon cord.
y
GOODYEAR WINTERTREAD
A rugged tyre with a self-cleaning tread
70% deeper than ordinary tyres to grip
in mud and slush! For sure, safe traction
anywhere, anytime depend on Wintertread.
Built with 3.T super-rayon cord.
GOODYEAR CUSTOM SUPERCUSHION
The deep, tough, twin-tread gives safe,
smooth, non-skid traction and long, even
wear. 8640 biting edges grip the road
for positive starts and stops. Built with
3.T super-rayon cord for greater strength,
more recaps.
C
fQ
1
LOCK AT THE TREADS of these tyres see the
deep, tough, husky look. Each tyre gives
the best possible service in the use for which
it is planned. Goodyear treads are safe,
long-lasting treads. Goodyear tyres are
built with 3.T cord either nylon or super-
rayon. The 3.T process is exclusive to
Goodyear; it triple-tempers cord like steel
for greatest strength and stamina. And,
because it is stronger, when the tread is at
last worn smooth, the Goodyear 3-T tyre
will take more retreads than any other tyre.
@
WORLD'S GREATEST 'KNOW-HOW.' Goodyear is
the world’s biggest rubber company and,
having built more tyres than anyone else,
knows what it takes to give you a tyre with
more safety, performance and value.
Ask the man who knows tyres best . . .
See your Goodyear Dealer,
Garage or Service Station—ask
him to show you these tyres
and recommend the one that
will give you better performance
at lower cost per mile than any
other tyre. Goodyear 3.T tyres
cost no more than ordinary l
tyres—so insist on Goodyear.
Your present tyres, if smooth
but sound, may make a down
payment on a new tyre or a
new set of Goodyear tyres.
Ask your Goodyear Dealer
LOOK FOR THIS SIGN


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS* ON &
O'SULLIVAN
PTY.LTD A.
l B Hi
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•MACKSUL,” BRISBANE
mmi
r
ii
ewd £B
c
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony oj Hong Kong.)
A Britisn Office: ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines). H. G. CRAY, Manager.
LETTERS
THE SCRIPTWRITER'S
CHANCES
Sir,
H. A. Lindsay in a letter (B.
l/3/’6l) states: “An analysis
of A.B.C. programmes over the
last few years shows that nearly
all the plays, serials, etc.,
which used to be written by
Australians are now 8.8. C.
transcriptions.” This is the
kind of irresponsible statement
which the new Bulletin
should, with all respect, know
better than to print.
Actually the A.B.C. Drama
Department was never more
keen than today to have plays
from Australians—and to have
them in quantity. This applies
both to radio and to TV plays.
Further, we are paying higher
fees than before.
During the past 12 months
(March to March) there were
no fewer than 79 presentations
(mostly hour-length, but some-
times shorter or longer) of new
or revived radio plays by Aus-
tralians. This is more than in
any previous year. Forty-one
authors were represented.
As for serials, it is true that
we have lost the 10.45 a.m.
quarter - hour Monday - Thurs-
day serial (which used to be
repeated at 6.45 p.m.), but as
against this we are now present-
ing a half-hour serial episode
each Saturday at 7.30 p.m. right
round the year, and for the
scripting of these serials only
Australian authors need apply.
Half-hour documentaries, as
presented on Thursday and
other nights for most of the
year, are almost exclusively
written by Australians. One
of our features, “Death of a
Wombat,” won a prize in the
international Italia competition.
Returning to radio plays, the
position at present is that with
about 200 hour-length radio
play “spots” available in a year
we would like to increase the
Australian representation above
the 79 (or nearly 40 per cent.)
previously mentioned. But we
only want to do it provided we
can maintain the quality of the
Australian-written material on
a standard equal with that of
the imported. In the last few
years or so we have managed
to do this and, if we can read
public reaction aright, it is
appreciated.
It is true that at present tele-
vision does not offer big mone-
tary rewards to authors. This
is partly because of budgetary
limitations, partly because of
limited facilities for produc-
tion. But we do try to see that
among the “live” plays at
present given in a year, at least
50 per cent, will be Australian,
as well as a 12-part serial. In
1960 this programme was main-
tained. Of 23 plays produced
either in Sydney or in Mel-
bourne, 11 were of Australian
authorship and most of the
others were adapted by Aus-
tralians. Some of the Austra-
lian plays were written directly
for television —this is what we
prefer —others were from stage
originals. Authors included
Alan Seymour, Ralph Peterson,
Chris Gardner, George F. Kerr,
Peter Kenna, Rex Rienits, Don
Houghton, Kay Keavney, Ray-
mond Bowers and Denys Bur-
rows.
Fees? We are now paying
£75 for the first performance
of an hour-length radio play
(plus percentage fees for re-
petitions). We pay £33 for a
half-hour documentary feature.
We pay £l2O for an hour-length
television script. If the “tapes”
are sold (this is likely to be a
growing practice) for use by
overseas broadcasting concerns,
further fees are paid.
Naturally, such fees are not
comparable with those secured
by the playwright who strikes
the world jackpot with a popu-
lar stage play. But how often
does this happen? Playwrights
need to know that there is a
continuing market at the A.B.C.
for radio and TV plays. Even
if it is a modest market, so
far as fees go, it does allow
writers to do their best work,
without pandering to senti-
mental or corrupt tastes. Ex-
perience proves, more often
than not, that if a dramatic
work is outstanding, it can be
used on all or most of the
mediums, eventually, to the
financial and general advantage
of the author.
PAUL O’LOUGHLIN
Acting Director of Drama
and Features,
Australian Broadcasting
Commission.
Sydney.
Sir,
I haven’t heard of Mr Lind-
say, but he has the tone of one
who knows what he is talking
about —perhaps he’s in the TV
business. If he is, he’s going
around with eyes and ears
stoppered. I hold no brief for
either radio or TV networks,
but I am keen on the truth.
Taking radio first: The A.B.C,
is running itself ragged seeking
radio scripts, for its documen-
tary-feature slots, “The Land
and Its People” series, etc,
Recently I got a letter from
Australia's largest commercial
network, listing umpteen differ-
ent categories of scripts they
wanted, and badly.
But my main quarrel with
Mr Lindsay is his dogmatism
(“Nobody repeat, nobody-
in Australia has yet managed
to break into TV as a big-time
writer”). This is just plain
wrong!
Peter Yeldham, featured in
the A.B.C.’s “Showman”
session because he had four
TV scripts telecast in one
week in London recently;
Michael Noonan, author of
many firstclass TV plays tele-
cast in Britain and the U.S.;
Bruce Stewart, whose “Shadow
of a Pale Horse” has been seen
in England, Canada, U.S.A.
and Australia ; Phillip Mann,
whose “Sergeant from Lone
Pine” is to be telecast soon by
the A.B.C. here and the 8.8. C,
in England—just how many
more examples does Lindsay
want before he will admit he
has grossly misinformed aspir-
ing writers? It’s bad enough
moaners cascading cold water
over writers’ hopes without
giving out misleading data
Similarly, his assertion about
film rights, etc., is hopelessly
wrong. TV is a writer’s best
showcase: In London the story
editors of the big companies
watch TV unceasingly, seeking
good film stories. They don’t
give a hoot about the so-called
obstacle of TV one-night ex-
posure to millions —there are
millions more who will always
go to a good movie, and TV
is a wonderful way to see
what’s around in the way of
scripts. My own TV play, “Tl( e
Big Day,” was first telecast in
Sydney and Melbourne, then
bought by I.T.V. in England;
and negotiations for its filming
are almost complete.
JOHN FORD
Hunter’s Hill (N.S.W.).


Probate Notice
; ; IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
j NEW SOUTH WALES.
L, Probate Jurisdiction.
H WILL of JOSEPH HEWS late of
j'Zo near Sydney in the State of
|| South Wales Retired Saddler de-
? e d PROBATE granted by the
tfeme Court of New South Wales
t<£e l»th May 1932 Pursuant to
I Wills Probate Administration Act
PB-1954 (Testators Family Mainten-
S Guardianship of infants Act
!,;l 954 and Trustee Act 1925-1942)
“LIAM BELL HARRIS the Executor
representation of the will of the
JOSEPH HEWS who died on the
March 1932 hereby gives notice
• creditors and others having any
® against or to the estate of the
deceased are required to send par-
jars of their claims to the said
iut/ 5 Quarantine Station
■a Head Manly on or before the 17th
ol May 1961 a t the expiration of
Jr time the said Executor will
Jibute the assets having regard
to the claims of which he then
notice DATED the 2nd day of
ch 1961.—LANE & LANE, Proctors
the Executor, Solicitors, 34 Martin
Sydney.
By every test . . .
&
v
'
1
//S'
Whether you are looking for
efficiency, simplicity, economy or
dependability, the Tilley Storm
Lantern represents incomparable
value for money. It gives you 12
hours of 300 candle power light
on only 1 £ pints of kerosene.
It gives years of reliable, trouble-
free service under all conditions—it’s wind and weather proof 1
£6. 17.6 (freight extra outside metropolitan area)
REGD.
you can trust your Tilley
IT’S 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
S H AV E—FA STER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
Yes. Wherever you may be and at any time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard torch batteries give months of
easy shaving. MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Fully
guaranteed. Complete same day service.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
POST FREE
CUT OUT POST NOW
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for f : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
WELLS REPLIES
j feel that it is important
jt such a prominent and
Lonsible citizen as Mr J. B.
%ishaw, the Deputy Premier
(jN.S.W., should express con-
jjii over the police and civil
fiite treatment of the abo-
lines at Brewarrina in his
fjjly (B. 8/3/’6l) to a previous
hjcle of mine on this subject.
{Understandably, Mr Ren-
|aw asks for facts. With
Jjgard to this request, may I
Ate an incident? Recently,
It an aboriginal settlement in
«his State, I was recording
traditional songs. The singers
ire talking about a song con-
jrffliing the shooting of the
rfrigines by a prominent
jiJite settler. When I asked if
j could record their conversa-
|jn I was asked not to. I was
id that if it became known
iplhe district that they had put
inch information on record,
jften the descendants and rela-
tes of this pioneer would
{victimise these aborigines.
I When I told my aboriginal
friends the story of the meet-
ing of the mice to decide who
jtould bell the cat they gave
jmethe traditional song of this
looting.
I' If this fear among the abo-
rigines prevails about past
how much more
»o does it prevail in the
Ipresent? I do, in all sincerity,
K Mr Renshaw to make
linquiries among the persecuted
Aborigines at Brewarrina and
flsewhere.
mes, Mr Renshaw, I am up
fj date on the proposed
Government legislation to
fow aborigines access to one
lithe worst of the white men’s
fees: the effects of alcohol
r the human cerebellum,
fnt I ask why, in the name of
Common humanity, can we not
flow our aborigines access to
le virtues of our society?
At Brewarrina I observed
matters for myself. Also, my
informants were the aborigines,
who have repeatedly proved to
me that they are not liars, and
a white man in a position of
responsibility. For myself, I
do not fear recriminations ; I
regret only that my friends
should live in fear of this cat
in the guise of any authority.
M. WELLS
Sydney.
HORACE LAUGHS
Sir,
Knowing just a little of
Norman Lindsay’s philosophy
of life, it is certain that he will
refrain from replying to Martin
Haley’s accusation that “his
history is all awry” (B. l/3/’6l).
Norman would simply smile at
what he, rightly or wrongly,
would designate a survival of
the medieval mind.
It is discomforting, but none
the less true, that the interpre-
tation of history on these
matters is occasioned by one’s
attitude to orthodoxy.
On the other hand, perhaps
Martin Haley did not intend
his outburst to be taken seri-
ously. If so, Quintus Horatius
Flaccus would be the first to
laugh at the breezy treatment
of cultural life in the villa on
the outskirts of Rome. Unfor-
tunately the voice of that genial
pagan was silenced along with
those of all his Hellenic for-
bears in the faith age, the dark
age, or what you will.
STAN COCKING
Bentleigh (F/c.).


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Australian Chemical Holdings Ltd
(formerly Reiehold Chemical Industries)
'T'he group had a good year. Consoli-
•*- dated net profit rose by a further
39 p.c., and expansion continues. Last
term the registered name was changed
from Reiehold Chemical Industries
(Australia) Ltd to Australian Chemical
Holdings Ltd.
The Sydney-based Australian Chemical
Holdings Ltd was incorporated in N.S.W.
in August, 1953. In affiliation with
Reiehold Chemicals Inc. of U.S.A., the
group manufactures synthetic resins, in-
dustrial oils and chemicals, etc. Out-
put is absorbed by many important
industries, including producers of brake
linings, laminated foundry castings, ply-
wood, moulding compounds, paints,
plasticisers and chemical colors.
The group operates through four
main subsidiaries: Reiehold Chemicals
Inc. (Aust.) Pty, Euston Chemical In-
dustries Pty, A. C. Hatrick Pty and A. C.
Hatrick (N.Z.) Ltd. The main factories
are located in Sydney, Melbourne, and
Wellington and Auckland in New
Zealand..
In January, 1959, Morcom, Green and
Edwards Ltd (of Auckland, N.Z.) was
acquired. Further acquisitions include:
Frank G. Spurway (Holdings) Ltd (repe-
tition engineers), Star Machinery Pty
(jobbing engineers, specialising in equip-
ment for the paint and ink trades) and
Walter A. Cox Pty (importers and general
merchants). Takeovers were financed
by issue of shares at substantial pre-
miums.
The co.’s chairman said that “the most
important venture, at present in the
course of promotion, is the establishment
of a new company ... to be jointly
owned by Hercules Powder Co. of Dela-
ware, U.S.A., and A. C. Hatrick Pty, the
latter a wholly owned subsidiary of the
holding co.” Australian Chemical Hold-
ings has called for tenders for the erection
of a chemical plant in Victoria, which is
to be operated by the newly incorporated
joint subsidiary, Hercules Powder Co.
(Aust.) Pty. Production is scheduled
to commence by the middle of this year,
and already large contracts have been
obtained for the supply of chemicals to
paper manufacturers and synthetic rubber
industries.
Ploughing back of profits and a
consistent expansion programme have
resulted in steady increases in earnings.
Consolidated net profit for the year ended
June 30, 1960, was £113,798 higher at
£403,784, after providing £120,890 for
depreciation (up £9725) and setting aside
£269,699 for taxation (up £83,957):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June To Re-
-30, Profit. r~ —Dividend —serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £98,474 . . 22,584
1955. .243,035 111 p.c. = 60,300 182,735 205,319
Add diff. between cost and par values
of shares acquired, £217,832 .. 423,151
1956. .250,210 15 p.c. = 105,456 144,754 567,905
Net revaluation of assets, £127,074 694,979
Reserves capitalised, £351,521 . . 343,458
1957. .240,349 11 p.c. = 125,670 114,679 458,137
1958. Ilf „ „ 165,215 89,598 547,735
Acquisition costs subsidiary w/off,
£2932 .. 544,803
Capital profit, £1209 . . . . 546,012
1959. .289,986' 12J p.c. = 178,020 111,966 657,978
Assets revaluation, £70,977 . 728,955
Share premiums, £947,694 . . 1,676,649
Less added intangibles, £555,955 . . 1,120,694
1960. .403,784 12-J p.c. = 207,157 196,627 1,317,321*
•After deducting intangibles, £555,955 at June 30,
1960.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 24.4 p.c. on the higher average capital,
compared with 20.1 p.c. in 1959, 18.1 p.c.
in 1958 and 21 p.c. in 1957.
The steady p.c. dividend rate
absorbed £207,157 (including 2\ p.c. from
tax free reserves), leaving £196,627 to be
ploughed back. Reserves also benefited
by £70,977 asset revaluation (freeholds)
“Don't stand there like a clot — Circulate !”
and £947,694 share premiums on the
issue of scrip to finance takeovers.
Newly acquired subsidiaries brought
in their wake £555,955 intangibles de-
ducted from total consolidated reserves
and undistributed profits, which were
disclosed at £1,317,321.
A complete new chemical plant is
being installed at Avondale (an Auck-
land, N.Z., suburb) by A. C. Hatrick
(N.Z.) Ltd, the principal New Zealand
subsidiary. Large scale extensions were
completed recently at Tawa (N.Z.), the
main New Zealand plant.
A new three storey laboratory building
is under construction at Botany (N.S.W.),
in addition to other plant extensions.
Paid capital was lifted during the year
by the issue of £31,375 in 10s. ords. in
acquisition of Star Machinery Pty,
£BOOO in 10s. ords. to finance the take-
over of Walter A. Cox Pty, and £390,625
in 10s. ords. as purchase consideration
for Frank G. Spurway (Holdings) Ltd.
This raised the one - class capital to
£1,872,250 in 3,744,500 10s. f.-p. stock
units.
The book value of fixed assets in-
creased considerably. Freeholds rose
by £526,844 to £1,570,338 (including the
£70,977 write up). Plant was £229,930
higher at £1,143,944. Shares in other
cos. rose by £127,716 to £163,716:
Australian Chemical Holdings Ltd and
Subsidiaries.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,406,084 £1,442,250 £1,872,250
Reserves . . . . 547,735 657,978 1,317,321
Outside interests. . 100,000 100,869 100,874
Mortgages . . 232,050 235,036 273,242
Loans .. .. —•— 103,380
Conv. notes . . 291,575 311,084
Overdraft . . 274,622 125,109 330,493
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . . . 405,926 609,392 855,012
Final divs.* . . 90,380 92,640 119,510
£3,056,797 £3,5.34,849 £5,283,172
Freeholds . . 872,901 1,043,494 1,570,338
Plant . . . . 777,595 914,014 1,143,944
Shares other cos. 36,000 36,000 163,716
Stocks . . .. 902,536 983,596 1,476,388
Debtors . . 429,647 545,237 904,240
Cash . .. 38,118 27,928 19,584
Endowment policy 4,5 8 0 4,962
£3,056,797 £3,554,849 £5,283,172
•Includes final (£2500), attributable to outside
shareholders.
Current stocks and book debts increased
substantially. Liquidity was satisfactory.
The 6| p.c. convertible notes rose to
£311,084. Last October the co. issued
580,000 7 p.c. notes, convertible into 10s.
ords. (at 10s. premium) in May, 1963.
Net tangible assets backing works out
at 17s. for each 10s. ord. stock unit,
on the basis of consolidated accounts.
Australian Chemical Holdings Ltd has
a sound financial structure. The future
seems promising, although this year the
tight credit conditions may somewhat
dampen earning rates in some sections
of the business.
Last quoted in Sydney at 395. 6d., the
10s. ords look interesting at the pn ce ’
The 20s. p.c. convertible notes, matur-
ing May 1, 1963, last changed hands at
375. 6d. a unit
The immediate return from the 10s.
ords. is 3.2 p.c. p.a., on the basis of steady
12i p.c. dividend rate. The 6} p.c. 20s.
convertible notes offer an immediate
return of 3.7 p.c.


Telegraphic and Cable address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B\V 1771—B\V 8088.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, VI. R. JL. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St,,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
PRING. DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt,
J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
20-22 O'Connell St., Sydney. 33 Bligli
St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4011, BVV 5505 (6 lines)
Telegrams Address:
Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Limvar, Sydney.
lelaide Chemical and Fertilizer
Company Limited
fTABLiSHED in 1904, the Adelaide
< Chemical and Fertilizer Co. Ltd is
1 of the three producers of super-
Isphate fertiliser in South Australia.
I co. also manufactures commercial
J$ and chemicals.
t[he use of fertiliser is a major factor
Increasing agricultural output. Close
Section with the State’s primary
istry makes the co. subject to the
fience of seasonal changes, and Auc-
tions in the level of agricultural
tomes.
fast term was marked by a severe
Might, which had hit the State. Despite
deliveries of fertilisers were slightly
’tier at 136,500 tons, “halting the down-
id trend, which commenced three
Its ago following peak sales of 145,000
its in 1956-57.”
jSales of acids and chemicals again
Leased in volume. These sections con-
iiie “to make a substantial contribution
Jllie profit for the year.” Cobalt pills,
d as a counter to cobalt deficiency
ii the Phalaris Staggers disease, im-
jved. The co. is one of the manufac-
jirers licensed by the C.5.1.R.0., and has
iiccessfully produced and marketed a
]» improved formula pill.
i Gross profit for the year ended June
11960, was £29,097 higher at £217,724.
|et profit rose by £29,581 to £124,785,
liter providing an undisclosed amount
and setting aside £71,750
lor taxation (up £23,371):
, Dividends — s
4f p.c. To Re- Re-
ne, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
lit. 47,673 7,125 124 p.c. = 27,963 12,585 225,487
Tax underprovided. £8173 .. .. 217,314
Profit sale assets, £15,440 .. .. 232,754
it 43,997 7,125 124 p.c. = 27,963 8,909 241,663
i Assets revalued, £202,158 .. .. 443,821
Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 468,821
'Reserves capitalised, £74,596 .. .. 394,225
Jl. 64,567 7,125 124 p.c. = 33,685 23,757 417,982
I Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 442,982
fc1.127,435 7,125 124 p.c. - 48,750 71,560 514,542
[Tax underprovided, £7335 .. .. 507,207
155..112,772 7,125 124 p.c. = 50,000 55,647 562,851
‘4.122,222 7.125 124 p.c. = 50,000 65,097 627,948
[Assets revalued, £277,725 .. .. 905,673
4.116.441 7.125 124 p.c.=50,000 59,316 964,994
14.109,571 7,125 124 „ ~50,000 52,4461,017,440
[Reserves capitalised, £200,150 .. 817,290
Tax overprovided, £6879 .. .. 824,169
6 p.c.
N- 95,204 9,000 8J p.c.=66,667 19,537 843,706
jt.124,785 9,000 84 p.c.=66,667 49,118 892,824
jiter paying £9OOO pref. dividends, the
•raing rate on the unchanged ord.
Ipital improved to 14.5 p.c., compared
% almost 10.8 p.c. in the previous term,
P-c. in 1958, 27.3 p.c. in 1957 and
‘P p c. in 1956 (the last three on
I®,ooo ord. capital, compared with
®O,OOO in the last two terms).
jjhe steady 8y p.c. ord. dividend rate
£66,667) was well covered,
[•serves benefited by £49,118, rising to
(52,824 free of intangibles. This gives
|et tangible asset backing of £l2 ss.
| for every 20s. 6 p.c. cum. pref. and
| 4d. for each 20s. ord. unit.
fining of pyrites at Nairne (S.A.) and
of acid by Sulphuric Acid
I (a subsidiary, jointly owned by the
?slaide Chemical and Fertilizer Co.
I C r e s c o Fertilizers Ltd and
woo - Mount L y e 11 Fertilizers
I each co. investing £100,000)
deeded smoothly during the year. But
‘ the output, which is geared to meet the
acid requirement for superphosphate,
was at a lower level than desirable. The
higher cost of acid, due to the higher
costs of production from indigenous
materials, is further accentuated while
this unused plant capacity remains.”
The situation is made more difficult by
competition from cheaper imports. The
rate of bounty paid by the Common-
wealth on acid produced from domestic
pyrites, etc., is currently being reviewed
by the Government.
The 1959-60 price of superphosphate,
fixed by the Prices Commissioner,
remained unchanged at £l2 13s. a ton.
The board complains that this price was
based on a sales budget considerably in
excess of the actual sales. “In addition,
as the price had been fixed for the whole
season, no adjustment was possible to
offset increased labor costs which resulted
from the increase in margins granted
half-way through the year.”
Construction of a new storage and
dispatch building at Port Adelaide is
nearing completion. The new high-speed
bagging and loading facilities will be of
great benefit during the peak dispatch
periods. The co. also acquired a new
head-office building in Adelaide last
April. This expansion is reflected in the
higher book-value of fixed assets.
The liquid position was tighter. Cur-
rent stocks and cash decreased. Book-
debts were higher:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
or d 400,000 800,000 800,000
Reserves .. 1,017,440 843,706 892,824
Creditors .. 132,915 138,320 137,808
Tax provision 84,384 48,379 72,351
Final divs. .. 33,562 37,834 37,834
£1,818,301 £2,018,239 £2,090,817
Freeholds .. 375,810 382,750 576,104
Plant . . .. 547,303 566,012 595,635
Shares . . .. 150,005 150,005 150,005
Stock .. .. 372,365 376,578 270,965
Debtors .. .. 162,794 172,862 230,598
Cash, bonds . . 210,024 370,032 267,510
£1,818,301 £2,018,239 £2,090,817
Theoretical working capital was £173,859
lower at £521,080.
The long-term prospects for an increas-
ing demand for artificial fertilisers,
particularly superphosphate, look en-
couraging. The co.’s laboratories are
engaged in research work essential to
keep abreast of international trends in
the industry.
The immediate seasonal outlook for
South Australia is said to be the most
promising for several years. Good rains
in the inland pastoral areas, where about
three-quarters of the State’s sheep and
two-thirds of the cattle are carried,
make current term’s prospects seem
encouraging.
At the last sale in Adelaide the 20s.
ords. fetched 355. 7d. a unit. The imme-
diate return is 4.8 p.c. on the basis of the
present 8| p.c. dividend rate.
Hopkins Odium Ltd
'T'urnover was “an all-time record.”
-*• New plant enabled the co. to meet
a steep increase in demand. Earnings rose
substantially. The well-covered dividend
was steady at 10 p.c.
Hopkins Odium Ltd made its public
debut in Melbourne in August, 1952,
when it acquired the £76,875 share capital


Dtl
SECURITY!!
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Deposit & Investment Co. Ltd.
Registered in Sydney , Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Financiers Established 1882
DIVIDENDS HAVE BEEN PAID ANNUALLY
SINCE THE COMPANY WAS ESTABLISHED
79 YEARS AGO
PER ANNUM 5-10-15
20 Years
6 MONTHS
, -
61*
2 YEARS
9 MONTHS
3 YEARS
7L
12 MONTHS
7i-<
4 YEARS
Interest Payable Quarterly
Free o f Exchange
DIRECTORS
T. H. Martin W. R. Schofield (Chairman) Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange) Kindersley
House, 20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
84 William Street, Melbourne, and at Armidale and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie St., Canberra (Members of
Sydney Stock Exchange).
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA:
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN QUEENSLAND:
Charles Elliott & Son (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange),
356-358 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
S. C. Ward & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.),
25 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANTS
Kent, Brierley & Fisher, Chartered Accountants.
APPLICATIONS and PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:—
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland,
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Deposit & Investment Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel. BW 4521-2-3
AND BRANCHES:
City Road (opp. Grace Bros.) MA4563 —Hurstville 57-8026—Parramatta YL9761
Bankstown 70-7122 —Newcastle B 1040 —Wollongong B 2918—Cessnock Cess. 415
—Goulburn Goul. 2485 —Canberra J 3992.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
of Apex Belting Pty, a producer
of machine-belting, etc.
Apex continues to be %
main operating subsidiary and
manufactures leather, rubber
and rubber-canvas transmission
and conveyor belting, marketed,
under the popular “Apex” and
“Brammer” brands.
Competition from imports is
severe. The co.’s chairman
claims that “gross profit mar-
gins are small, and will become
smaller or disappear altogether
if price reductions are made in
order to meet competition from
imports and to keep the plants
operating.”
Cotton duck, representing
more than 50 p.c. of the cost'
of most conveyor belts, is]
approximately 75 p.c. dearer in
Australia than in U.K. Protec-
tion on imported belts is at
present 17J p.c., and the indus-
try is now seeking a higher
tariff. The main importers of
conveyor belting from over-
seas are said to be Government'
and semi-Government enter-'
prises.
Last term sales were a record ’
both on a volume and turn-'
over basis. Consolidated net 1
profit for the year ended]
December 31, 1960, rose by'
£24,411 to £67,783 after writing
off £39,598 for depreciation (up 1
£14,000) and providing £45,370 1
for taxation (up £19,494):-
Hopkins Odlu-m and Subsidiary, J
/ Dividends Be- *
Dec. Profit. Pref.,- Ord. servfflJ
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ !
Tax n- e-pro- ided. °
’52..15,311 171 B*= 6,000 12,859,
Tax overprovided, £lu,udu 22,W-
-’53.. 31,953 1,250 8 = l(i,o00 37,562 J
’54. 52,693 582 10 - 20,000 69,P I
’55.. 53,4 0 6 10 - 20,0 0 0 103,019*
’56 .37,736 10 = 20,000 120,8i5d
’57 .53,740 10 = 22,850 151,70 S
’58.. 45,847 10 = 26,000 171,552
’59..43,372 10 = 26,000 188,921]
Tax underprovided, £2606.. 186,3191
Profit sale investments, £250 186,598]
Surplus consolidation of
further subsidiaries, ~J
£20,668 207,230/
’60..67,783 10 = 29,010 246,0091
* For period 14/8/’52 to 31/12/’52. J
This was equivalent to ant
earning rate of 23.4 p.c. on the 1
average capital, compared with)
16.7 p.c. in 1959, 17.6 p.c. in
1958, 23.6 p.c. in 1957 18.9 p.c.
in 1956 and 26.7 p.c. in 1955.'
The steady 10 p.c. dividend!
rate absorbed £29,010. Re-
serves benefited by £38,773, and
also by £250 profit on sale of
investments and £20,668 surplus]
on consolidation. Consolidated,
reserves and undistributed]
profits were decreased by £2606>
tax underprovided in the previ-j
ous year, and were disclosed at
£246,009.
This gives a net tangible
asset backing of 17s. Bd. f° r ,
each of the 640,000 10s ord.
units, on the basis of con-
solidated accounts. ,
During the year the co. took-
over John O'Neill Pty, a diT
tributor of “Apex” brands n>
N.S.W The subsidiary’s name


leave it to
the expert ...
n
r 2
m
Confronted by a maze of electronic
gadgetry, this do-it-yourself repair-
man is realising that there's more to
TV than a picture-tube. He needs
expert help . . . fasti
Making a Will and planning your estate
should also be left to an expert, especially
as Taxes and Death Duties are so high these
days.
Perpetual Trustee, for more than 70 years,
has specialised in estate administration. You
can depend on their staff of experts to take
a personal interest in your affairs, helping
and advising you on every phase of your
estate planning.
Make a point of arranging a confidential
talk with a Senior Officer of Perpetual,
today. He will be happy to show you how
the company can benefit you and your
family.
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES ALSO AT WOLLONGONG. ORANGE ANO
TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA CITY
5 then changed to Apex
ting (N.S.W.) Pty. Paid
jtal rose to £320,000.
Liquidity was higher. Theo-
ijcal w o r k i n g-capital in-
ksed by £73,090 to £200,847.
acks, book debts and cash
Je all higher:
(Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960.
a capital ..£260,000 £320,200
irves .. 188,924 246,009
Jlgage .. 90,000 85,000
lies .. .. 150,000 150,000
•draft .. 24,974
fetors .. 39,143 108,434
af fund .. 5,932 11,106
ft provision .. 57,092 85,030
fsl div. .. 13,000 16,010
£829,065 £1,021,789
Molds .. 253,346 282,972
it, etc. .. 306,689 315,508
Ires .. .. 1,132 1,882
A .. .. 163,915 230,953
Lors . . •. 103,824 173,794
p, bonds . . 159 10,680
£829,065 £1,021,789
Ik. accommodation increased
|£24,974 but all the other
|irent liabilities were lower.
Ink value of fixed assets was
(jter, reflecting the installation
iaew plant.
Demand continues to in-
Jase at a satisfactory rate
ajlthe future looks promising,
jfovided the industry can with-
tod overseas competition,
fists must be carefully watched
fause keen business rivalry
tithe market makes absorp-
Cof rising expenses in-
singly difficult.
I At the last sale in Melbourne
felOs. f.-p. ords. fetched 13s.
|1 The immediate yield is an
tractive 7.4 p.c. on the basis
[the steady 10 p.c. dividend
|
|e Queensland National
Pastoral Co. Ltd
ast term was highlighted by
J a virtual one-for-one
«us-issue in March, 1960,
flh both preference and
jinary shareholders partici-
ttng. The gift distribution
? scrip, made from an assets
(raluation reserve, lifted paid
pital to £650,000 in 250,000
j p.c. 20s. cum. prefs. and
m),000 2s. 6d. fully-paid
Ms. Nominal capital was
ied to £850,000.
[Seasonal conditions were
icult and earnings sagged,
fiireholders received the same
W dividend cheque, but the
iv.-rate on the new capital
is halved.
The Queensland National
storal Co. Ltd was estab-
ied some 46 years ago.
>m its registered office in
sbane the co. controls over
0 square-miles of leasehold
i in the far west of Queens-
-1 and across the border
the Northern Territory,
iother 46,000 acres of free-
Jds are held on the State’s
east coast. Primarily, the co.
is interested in cattle for beef.
Woolgrowing is a subsidiary,
although not an insignificant,
source of earnings.
Exceptionally dry to drought
conditions prevailed during the
greater part of the last financial
year, “severely impairing the
turn-off of fat cattle.” This
was said to have caused “con-
siderable difficulty of opera-
tion, particularly on the
western runs which were the
hardest hit.”
Relief storm rains came last
November and December, but
substantial rainfall is still
required to ensure a good
season and see Q.N.P. safely
through the winter months.
Late rains helped to save the
branded calves and averted a
higher mortality rate in the
older stock. The number of
calves branded increased by
3976 to 13,437.
Gross profit from trading in
livestock and wool for the year
ended December 31, 1960, was
£122,259 lower at £365,593.
Income from other sources
amounted to £23,981. Station
and administration expenses
were £81,078 down at £285,845,
including an undisclosed tax
provision. After providing
£42,219 for depreciation (up
£2165) net profit was £45,413
lighter at £51,510:
f —Dividends—Re-
Dee., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
15 p.e. 15 p.c.
1953 . .109,366 37,500 11,250 211,202
1954 . . 94,016 37,500 11,250 229,600
17A p.e. 17-J p.c.
1955 . .104,241 43,750 13,125 248,349
20 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956 . . 81,965 50,000 15,000 265,314
1957 . . 89,707 50,000 15,000 290,023
1958 . . 65,899 50,000 15,000 290,922
1959 . . 96,923 50,000 15,000 322,845
Asset revaluation, free-
holds, £330,000 .. .. 652,845
Reserves capitalised,
£325,000 .. .. 327,845
Net reduction reserves,
£5OOO 322,845
10 p.c.* 10 p.c.*
1960.. 51,510 25,000 40,000 309,355
* On bonus-increased capital.
This represented an earning
rate of 7.9 p.c. on the bonus-
doubled total paid capital
(15.8 p.c. on the old basis ; no
new funds were introduced
into the business) compared
with 29.9 p.c. in the previous
term and 20.3 p.c. in 1958.
Dividend rates for prefs. and
ords. were reduced to 10 p.c.
on the post-bonus capital, but
the actual payout was the same
(£65,000).
Freeholds were written up
by £330,000. Of this £325,000
was capitalised as the one-for-
one gift distribution. Reserves
were depleted by £5OOO net
reduction and £13,490 excess
of the total dividend cheque
over last term’s net earnings.
Total reserves and undistri-
buted profits were disclosed at
£309,355, free of intangibles.
Liquidity remained satisfac-
tory. Creditors, stores and
book-debts were higher:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960.
Preference .. £250,000 £250,000
Ordinary .. 75,000 400,000
Reserves . . 322,845 309,355
Overdraft ..
Creditors, etc.*.. 471,833 481,444
Dividends . . 65,000 65,000
£1,184,678 £1,505,799
Freehold land . . 27,903 357,903
Plant, fittings .. 87,518 ( .„ rQa ,
Leases . . . . 289,358 j 40j ’ 984
Livestock .. 171,470 169,362
Stores, etc, . . 45,807 56,444
Shares other cos. 108,187 111,576
Debtors . . . . 7,217 8,961
Cash, bonds ' . . 447,218 395,569
£1,184,678 £1,505,799
* Includes provision for taxation and
contingencies.
Livestock and holdings of cash
and bonds were lower. Net
tangible asset backing works
out at £3 7s. 9d. for each 20s.
pref. and at 4s. sd. for every
2s. 6d. fully-paid ord.
Beef-cattle are still bringing
good prices, and the demand
seems steadly. Wool values
last week reached the best level
for the season, and are
expected to remain fairly
steady at least till after Easter.
However, general prospects for
wool earnings are not the best.
Changing seasonal condi-
tions, fluctuations in demand


and prices, etc., are an occu-
pational hazard. On the
whole, shareholders have had a
very fair run over the post-war
years.
At the last sale in Brisbane
the 2s. 6d. fully-paid ords
changed hands at ss. 9d. a unit.
The immediate yield is 4.3 p.c.
on the basis of the current 10
p.c. div.-rate. The 20s. 6 p.c.
cum. prefs. last fetched 48s. 6d.
for an immediate return of 8.2
p.c., also on the basis of a 10
p.c. dividend distribution. The
prefs are entitled to a 6 p.c.
cum. dividend plus the right to
participate in any distribution
above that rate.
Hooker Seeks New Capital
'T'he new one-for-five share
issue, at 3d. premium on
each ss. ord. unit, may result
in further sagging of the
market price of L. J. Hooker
Investment scrip. There is
little doubt that the current
flotation was forced upon
Hooker’s directors by the Gov-
ernment's economic squeeze,
which has seriously affected
the liquidity position.
The fact that the board is
confident of raising £754,723
share capital plus £37,736
premiums (said to be sufficient
to cover all the flotation ex-
penses) is a tribute to the
resilience of the Hooker organi-
sation, which so far has been
weathering the short run fiscal
storm quite creditably. Hooker's
scrip has fallen by some 50 p.c.
from its glamor peak, but still
commands an adequate pre-
mium on the sharemarket. In
this sense the high div.-rate lias
been an asset.
The resale of Commonwealth
General Assurance to European
insurance interests, and sales of
cattle from the Victoria Downs
properties have materially aided
the co.’s liquidity position.
The latest issue (both share
and optionholders participate)
will raise paid capital to about
£4,538,340. It is unlikely that
the 20 p.c. dividend rate may
be reduced easily ; this aggra-
vates the long term problem of
finding cash for the huge divi-
dend cheques.
Directors stated that L. J.
Hooker Investment Corpora-
tion Ltd sales for six months
to December 31, 1960, in-
creased from £19,205,387 to
£24,121,854, a rise of 25i p.c.
“Despite the credit squeeze
. . . sales of industrial, com-
mercial and retail property con-
tinue at a satisfactory level.
The most seriously affected type
of property is the small home
in the £3OOO to £4OOO bracket
where sufficient finance is most
difficult to raise to enable the
homeseeker to buy his home.”
Work on the Cooma (N.S.W.)
motel stopped, but hotel and
motel sections were reported to
be doing well.
Net profit for the six months
was disclosed at £360,263 (up
£115,203 or 47 p.c.). A second
5 p.c. interim dividend confirms
the 20 p.c. annual rate.
The ss. ords. last fetched
10s. 6d. at Sydney. The options
changed hands at about 4s. 6d.
each.
Hooker Finance Co. Ltd
TAirectors report a consoli-
dated net profit of £31,381
for the first six months’ trading
as a public co. The profit, for
the half-year ended December
31, 1960, was arrived at “after
providing for amortisation of
the costs of debenture and note
issues, and for all other operat-
ing charges and expenses,” in-
cluding £1457 depreciation and
£27,662 income tax provision.
Earning rate on the average
capital employed during the
six months was 18 p.c. p.a.
Hooker Finance Company
Ltd was floated as a public co.
in June, 1960. Prior to that
it was operating as a subsidiary
of L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation Ltd, since July,
1959. Net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1960, was dis-
closed at £21,052. Paid capital
is £900,000.
The co.’s h.-p. outstandings
rose by 116.8 p.c. during fhe
six months under review (by
£3,973,984 to £7,375,684). Out-
standings include loans totalling
£3,004,704. I nco m e yet to
mature (£1,965,101) represented
42.6 p.c. of the outstandings.
The co.’s chairman, Sir
Arthur Fadden, says that the
Government’s economic and
fiscal policy “has to a degree
slowed down the rate of expan-
sion . . . contemplated.”
The board is “confident that
the earning rate will be main-
tained during the remaining
six months of this financial
year.” A 5 p.c. interim div.
will be paid at the end of
March, indicating an annual
div.-rate of 10 p.c.
Current credit restrictions
may seriously affect the co.’s
volume of business. On the
other hand, disclosure of earn-
ings may be conservative. Tax
provision certainly seems gener-
ous on the consolidated net
profit reported.
The ss. ords. last fetched
6s. a unit in Sydney. The im-
mediate yield is 8.3 p.c. on the
basis of the indicated 10 p.c.
div.-rate.
The 10s. 7 p.c. conv. notes,
maturing in 1965-68, were last
traded below par at Bs. a unit.
The immediate return is 8.8
p.c.
Ten-pin Bowling
r\irectors of Ten-Pin Bowl-
ing Ltd report that the
construction of a 20 lane
Centre at Mitcham, Adelaide,
“is proceeding according to
schedule. Certain changes in
original planning resulting
from experience of current
American practices are being
incorporated.”
Directors claim that “despite
high building and labor costs
in the U.S.A. refined manage-
ment practices have made it
possible to operate bowling
centres on a lower lineage basis
than previously. In terms of
games played, Australian bowl-
ing centres already operating
were enjoying more than
double the lineage required for
satisfactory trading.”
If the Australian public
responds to an intensive pro-
motion campaign to popularise
this new indoor sport, the cos.
operating ten-pin bowling
centres may look forward to
an adequate return on the
capital invested.
Initial promotion costs may
be high and American experi-
ence may not be a sufficient
guide to the Australian scene
in this respect. There is an
element of risk in the venture.
At this stage public interest
looks encouraging.
Ten-Pin Bowling Ltd floated
1,840,000 ss. ords. at par, pay-
able 3s. on application, early
last October. The issue was
underwritten by B. Curran and
Co., Sydney brokers.
Esanda Ltd
Limited, the wholly
•*“' owned hire purchase and
general finance subsidiary of
the E.S. and A. Bank Ltd, has
filed a prospectus covering
issues of registered first mort-
gage debenture stock and regis
tered unsecured notes. Direc-
tors state that the funds will be
used to replace maturing deben-
ture stock and unsecured notes,
and for general business.
Interest rates on debentures
range from 7 per cent, for six
to ten years to 5J per cent, for
two years ; and on unsecured
notes from 1\ per cent, for six
to 10 years down to 6 per cent,
for two years.
Esanda’s business continued
to expand between July 1 last
and November. “However, in
keeping with the purpose of the
economic measures announced
by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in November last, the co.
is containing the volume of
new business written so as to
hold total outstandings at about
the present level.”
Net profit before tax for
six months to December 31,
1960, was disclosed at £351,138
(compared to £491,878 earned
in the full year ended June 30
1960). This was before the
present credit restrictions were
felt by the market.
Current trading is influenced
by the Government’s tight
money policy. Final results
may also be affected by the
higher co. tax rate, and the fact
that interest payable on new
borrowings is no longer deduc-
tible tax-wise.
The E.S.A.. Bank’s powerful
backing is an important asset
in the present conditions.
Commercial and General
/Commercial and General
Acceptance Ltd, popu-
larly known as CAGA, is rais-
ing further funds with issues of
registered first mortgage deben-
ture stock and unsecured note
yielding up to 74 p.c. p.a.
Launched in N.S.W. three
years ago, the co. had maoe
good progress until the recent
credit restrictions began to limit
expansion. CAGA is backed
by the Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Ltd, whick
holds a 40 p.c. interest in the co,
Oil Development, N.L.
/'Ail Development N.L., re-
ports that the Penola Well
No. 1, in South Australia,
was recently advanced 881 fee!
to a depth of 2501 feet. The
section consisted of consol-
dated silt stones and mud
stones, with some sands up to
ten feet thick. Marine fossi's
were found in cuttings taken a!
2110 feet. Cores were tab
at 1805, 2010, 2210 and 2350
feet.
After reaching 2501 feet,
electric logs were run. The
hole is being reamed in prepa-
ration for running a seven-inch
casing to that depth. Special
apparatus for detecting hydro-
carbon gases in the drilling
mud arrived recently by air
from the United States. This
“gas sniffer” will begin opera-
tion when drilling is resumed
after setting the casing.
Wapet
West Australian Petroleum
Pty Ltd reports that the seis-
mograph crew has been moved
to the head-waters of Cockle-
shell Gully in the Hill River
area west of Three Springs
(W.A.). During June and July
last year it was necessary to
transfer the crew from this
area owing to the extremely wet
conditions.
The crew has just completed
an eight weeks’ assignment in
the Exmouth Gulf area. A
study of the results will be
made to check the latest ge°'
logical theories in connection
with the oil discovery at Rough
Range No. 1 seven years ago.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
What are the present populations
of Australia’s capital cities Y
The estimated populations as at
June 30, 1960, are as follows:
Sydney, 2,098,490; Melbourne,
1,831,100; Brisbane, 578,000;
Adelaide, 577,000; Perth, 395,000;
Hobart, 111,250. These figures
relate to the “Metropolitan Area.”
a • • *
Will nearby brick walls be dis-
colored if l burn out the trunks
end roots of some felled trees ?
Explosives seem to be ruled out.
Are there any other methods of
removal ?
Any smoke stains should be
removed by warm water and deter-
gent, but if the wails referred to
are chose of a house, there must be
a fire danger. If the fire danger
is not great, one method of burning
is io bore a hole an inch deep in
die centre of the stump, put in
two ounces of saltpetre and till
wida water, then plug the hole.
This should be done towards the
end of summer, and the stump left
till sprjjag. Then the plug should
be removed and the stump tired
with kerosene. if the fire danger
is great, the only remaining method
is to drg out the slumps.
*• • * *
What was the “New Italy’’ settle-
mem ?
New Italy was the name given
to a seulcmcm of Italians near
Wondburn, on the Richmond River,
N.S.WI, in the 1880 Y. The Italians,
who came from Venetia, had been
induced to join the scheme of the
Marquis de Rays for forming a
colony m New Ireland, the second
largest island in the Bismarck
Archipelago.
They had sailed from Barcelona
in July, 1880. Eleven died on the
voyage and 22 more on arrival at
Port Breton, as the New Ireland
settlement was known. The group
left the island in December of the
same year. On their way to Aus-
tralia the captain threatened to sell
their ship, but the Italian Consul
at Noumea arranged with the
N.vS.W. Government to help them,
and they were housed when they
arrived, later being given employ-
ment on farms.
About a year after their arrival
in Australia, one of the Italians
went to the Richmond River dis-
trict and selected a 40-acre block.
Later in 1882 eight other Italians
selected blocks in the same
locality, and in 1883 another batch
of 17 arrived. By 1885 the Italians
had occupied 53 selections covering
a total ot more than 3000 acres.
The men were employed in the
limber-mills or in sugar-cutting lor
about six months of the year, dur-
ing which time the women carried
on the farms. The colony remained
intact for about 10 years, but
gradually the second generation
found employment elsewhere, and
by 1930 only a few settlers were left.
* * * *
What is the location, and what is
the extent of the Khyber Pass ?
The Pass commences near Jam rad
to the west of Peshawar, and twists
north-west through the mountains,
ending near Laipura, on the Kabul
River. It is about 33 miles long,
and its width varies from 50 to
45!) feet. It is flanked by mountains
which reach a height of some
3000 ft.
• • • •
Is “ typiste ” an acceptable usage
to denote a female typist ?
Whether or not he would
approve of the form of the word,
Fowler makes out a strong case
for the use of words which dis-
tinguish the sexes. Women, he
says, make objection to the use
of such words for the reason that
it reduces them to an inferior, or
at least unequal, status. He makes
the point that there are some, and
increasingly more, cases where a
feminine distinction is oi great
use. Waiter and waitress are
equally accepted * so are abbot
and abbess; so are actor and
actress. Words like doctress,
editress and jurywoman are coming
more and more into use. Why
not, therefore, have martyress,
teacheress, etc. Typiste is already
used widely, and it seems likely
that it will be commonly accepted
soon unless a better word with
the same meaning is coined. So
it may be as well to stick to
typiste. Certainly nobody con-
fuses the meaning of an advertise-
ment which asks for a typiste.
• * • •
Is it the rule when one buys
Commonwealth bonds on the Stock
Exchange to pay the seller the
interest accrued to the dale of
purchase ?
When buying bonds the seller is
not paid accrued interest directly.
But by buying the bonds on the
Stock Exchange he is in effect paid
by the variation of price. If the
bonds are traded just before the
interest is due the price will be
higher than that just after interest
has been paid. The holder ot the
bonds has the only dividend interest
and is the only one to benefit from
payable interest, but the purchase
price will regulate the yield,
* * * «
What is the history of St George,
patron saint of England '!
He is believed to have been born
in Cappadocia, of Christian parent.-,,
towards the end of the third cen-
tury, and to have served with dis-
tinction as a soldier under the
Emperor Diocletian, including a
visit to England on a military mis-
sion. When the persecution of
Christians was ordered he remon-
strated with the Emperor, and after
a profession of faith left the arm>.
He was then arrested and tortured
and martyred at Nicomedia on
April 23, 303. His legendary slay-
ing of the dragon seems to date
from the removal of his remains
from Nicomedia to Lydda near the
end of the sixth century. Lydda
is close to the scene of the legend-
ary exploit of Perseus, who" slew
the sea-monster when he rescued
Andromeda, and the credit for thia
mythical deed became attached to
George.
• • • «
How was the Unknown Warrior
chosen ?
The body that was to become
that of the “Unknown Warrior”
was one of six dug up from name-
less soldiers’ graves. The six were
uncovered on November 9. 1920,
one from each of the battlefields
of Ypres, Marne, Cambrai, Arras,
Somme and Aisne. They were then
placed in coffins, taken to an army
hut not far from Ypres and laid
in a row in the hut. A senior
officer entered the hut and was
blindfolded. He was then turned
in the direction of the coffins. He
placed his hands on one of them,
and thus chose the man who now
rests in Westminster Abbey.
• • • *
/ have often noticed that people
still use “an" before hotel, humble,
etc. Is this usage still grammatically
correct ?
An was formerly used before an
unaccented syllable beginning with
an h (an historical work), buL now
that the h in such words is pro-
nounced the distinction is pedantic
and “a historical” should be both
said and written.
• • • •
Are there any Australian share-
holders in General Motors Holden
or Ford Motors ? Are the profits
made by these companies in Aus-
tralia subject to Australian tax ?
Do the companies issue balance-
sheets ?
There are no longer any Austra-
lian shareholders, but balance-sheets
are issued, and the profits are
subject to Australian tax.
Wants
A 78 r.p.m. recording of the
National Anthem. —53.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 634
Across
I—Moderns1 —Moderns mightn’t be interested in this drink. (12)
B—l8 —1 warned a modified character of the century’s first
decade. (9)
10 — As. some joint aboard (5)
11— Beauty in red resisted authority. (8)
12 — Write enclosure 149. (6)
14— Tuck in. (3)
15— 150 always equipped with plenty
grey matter. (6)
16 — A friend and Yours Truly using
the sacred language of the
Buddhists. (4)
18— A stinger loud in complaint. (4)
19 — Employs what's left. (4, 2)
20— Backward fuel slump. (3)
22 Ensnare the woman below. (6)
23 — He who seeks a contract to
behave like a maid in waiting to
royalty a couple of times. (8)
25 — One medical man is a Welsh
hero. (5)
26 — A gentleman is disturbed by the
abo. caller. (9)
27 — Clark leaves irrigable professional
men among old-time Italian
patriots. (12)
Dows
1 — Nothing close to a university
course, but the orchestra takes
it familiar club furniture. (3-5, 6)
2 The posterior feathers are sink-
ing, rear first. (4, 2,3, 5)
3 He and I never take direction
from German poetry. (5, 5)
4 Has snow drifting. (4)
5 Name displayed in elecLnc light
with a glossy finish. (6)
6 The blolling-pads of! sensational
writers? (5, 9)
7 Giving the blues a lay-oil
period? (8, 6)
9 —Widow. (6)
13 —Same rebels secretly get together
again. (10)
17—A seedcase on Joison lacking
feet. (6)
21 —Perfume issues from this screen
adaptation. (6)
24—Cricket club team gets 211. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 633


BY APPOJNTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEM
SCOTCH WHISKY DiSfiLLERS
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD., PERTH, SCOTLAND
*'The Thin Red Line” by Robert Gibb, depicts the 93rd Sutherland Highlanders sustaining
Russian Cavalry at Balaclava in 1854. The Regiment was raised by Major-General Wemyss,
nephew of the Earl of Sutherland, in 1798, and formed part of the Highland Brigade. It was
later fused with the 91st Highlanders and became known as the 2nd Battalion Princess Louise’s
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders. The 93rd wore no badge.
This picture, from the collection of the late Lord Dewar, now hangs in Dewar House, Haymarket, London.
a
■ -
t
m 1
K
' i
1 ■
-
* €,
t
t
S''-.
,
mrj
V
:
m
m i i
S\
'
.
V s
m
1
wmm
m
m
, - .
m
•' ; m
€1
... ....... .
Vv , v
''
3
*
m
■
T/"- V ’ T"! ' Vv< ? ’ ?^ v fT 'y -y
c/cof/am/ti c'/Vu/t -Me 7fo/'AA) TpAoice
“White Label
The Classic Blend of Scotch Whiskies known to generations
for its consistently fine quality and
distinctive character.
More people than ever are asking for it by name
Blended solely by
Dewars
The famous name in the history of
Scotch Whisky
■it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled , matured and blended in Scotland
