

The Bulletin
1<
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
August 19, 1961
SHEARING
who fleeces who?
/
/
cr
r
/


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS: ...
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; * year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign :
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year —£1 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.


The
Bulletin
AUGUST 19, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4253
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
E.L.-H.: Not for u5....8.E.:
Try it somewhere else.... J.R.R.:
You have outlined a situation rather
than told a story... .W.E.L.:
Couldn’t decipher it; you find a
typist... .P.A.K.: Sorry to upset
the applecart... .C.U.: Try it in
English... .K.P.: A case of two-
bob each way?.... A.P. • And the
big bad wolf ate her all up....
K.J.M.: Too cut and dried....
E.M.: Might go as a radio serial,
but the cliches stick out too much in
cold print.... G.F.: Interesting
subject, but your clergyman, par-
ticularly in his speech, was lifeless.
... .K.G.: Might have made a par,
—once.... A.R.: Pattern of a City.
... .L.A.: It’s not only in shearing
that brains beat brawn... .C.S.D.:
Well, isn’t that nice... .C.R.:
Splendid beginning, but it trails out
into mere p10t.... K.R.: From
what we’ve been hearing lately,
studying philosophy is a sure way
to get yourself into trouble....
E.M.W.: Quite strongly felt, but
not really a story... .J.P.: “The
Bushranger” is on its way back.”
. ...8.L.5.: Too confused....
W.D.: They certainly have them-
selves a time on that “Thirsty
Island” of yours... .D.M.E.C.:
Your story line is strong enough,
but the characters are too stock.
... .S.H.A.: We just happen to like
small b0y5....A.H.A.: Very
clever. Don’t say you’ve given up
writing ; try a short story J.H.:
Two other-worldly. ..P.R.: You
won’t pay your gas bill with that
0ne.... M.U.M.: Tell it to the
Marines they’ll recognise the
accent.... J.McD.:
“Leave early, get home late,
Is the rail patron’s fate.”
Have read more poetic conclusions
but none truer... .P.J.: Didn’t
think the day would come where
a poet would use “The Paris end
of Collins Street” as the refrain
of a poem that is deadly serious.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
I N THIS ISSUE
Dreaming of the Past
week’s cover story on shearers provides yet further evidence of
what humbug it is to talk of the old Australia as if it still existed.
The shearer was one of the main symbols of that Australia—rebellious,
mateship-minded, individualistic, a vital freedom-figure. Now, in his own
way, he is becoming a member of the Welfare State and the Affluent
Society.
There was something just a little alarming about the desire of city-
confined intellectuals to go on perpetuating the myths of “the bush”; it was
as if they were making up for the vigor and robustness they lacked in
themselves by dreaming of brawny mates doing coarse but democratic
things in the country. They couldn’t boil their billies in Pitt Street or bake
their dampers in the bar of the Oriental Hotel; they would probably have
run for their lives if they had ever found themselves in an old-time shearers’
hut; they mostly lacked the kind of Army service that might have given
them a taste of robustness in practice; the best they could manage was a
boozy Bohemianism that entailed just sufficient coarseness to make them
feel they were “Australians.”
There is plenty of robustness left in Australia—and in the bush but
some of it is not where the myth-makers would like to find it. It is in
New Australians who have escaped death from totalitarian masters and
built their way up in Australia from nothing; in union leaders who take
on the Communists; in businessmen who expand and improvise; in Govern-
ment officials who take on the Government; in agricultural scientists who
are expanding productive frontiers and the farmers who take a risk on
their findings. It is wherever there are men of enterprise and courage who
go out for what they want and risk their necks to get it.
Sad Jest
r J£ , HE Bulletin has been in the habit of devoting some space each week to
contributed verse. It has not done this for its own benefit (there is
no percentage in verse) or for the benefit of the majority of its readers
(who do not read verse) but because it is supposed to be of cultural ad-
vantage to the country that poets should have some regular weekly place
where they can publish what they write.
The management and, for that matter, the editor of The Bulletin
have no particular theories about what verse should be published; this is
a matter that has been left to some person who has. The man who selects
the verse has a completely free hand in his selection, but it is to be under-
stood that more than one school of verse-writing has been represented and
that every poem published does not necessarily meet the personal taste of
the selector.
What is achieved by using this section of The Bulletin as a place
in which to scrawl a coarse word is hard to imagine. A genuine literary
hoax would have some point to it. But the use of a “dirty word” seems a
very sad jest indeed.


This Australia
THE D.L.P. CONFERENCE
Emphasised in
Black Type
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
SENATOR McMANUS
A “Peace Corps”
The big question that was not aired at
the annual conference of the Vic-
torian D.L.P. in the North Melbourne
Town Hail last weekend was whether the
A.L.P. and D.L.P. can conclude an
electoral pact on preferences. It was
nowhere on the agenda and it was not
raised from the floor. It appeared only
in historical guise, in a section of the
executive report outlining the McManus-
Cole overtures to the A.L.P. in Novem-
ber, 1960. Emphasised in black type,
however, was the D.L.P.’s essential con-
dition that in any move for reconciliation,
Mr Calwell's party “must act first.”
In specific terms, D.L.P. members are
waiting to see if the A.L.P. will run a
candidate against the Communists for the
general-secretaryship of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, and whether the
A.L.P. Federal Executive at its coming
meeting in Canberra will make any move
against the wild men of the Melbourne
Trades Hall.
Coming soon after the D.L.P.’s 17 per
cent, vote in the Victorian State elections,
the conference strengthened the party’s
feeling that it is riding with the tide.
Morale was high and keen debates with
close divisions were no luxury.
The 219 delegates included 44 from the
five unions affiliated to the party, the
Clerks with 17 having the biggest contin-
gent. Another ten came from industrial
groups linked to the D.L.P. in the
Wharfies, Railways, Electrical, Tram-
ways and Ironworkers Unions, but the
vast majority came from the party’s net-
work of branches, now totalling 231.
The greatest decay in the A.L.P. has
been in country regions, but in the case
of the D.L.P. a slight majority of its
branches are in the country —118 as
opposed to 113 metropolitan branches.
Most of the 19 new branches set up
during the past year have been in country
centres and the executive claimed that
“the D.L.P. has now, by far, the strongest
country organisation of any Victorian
political party.”
Resolutions carried —and lost—covered
a wide field. Conference sought improved
benefits for widows, the sick and unem-
ployed and instructed party officials 10
draw up a comprehensive federal policy
on education. It attacked what it saw as
growth of monopoly in the dairying in-
dustry through the weakening of the co-
operative butter factories and called for
changes in the Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion Act to give more protection to
unionists attacked “by unscrupulous
forces in control of certain unions.” it
adopted a scheme for a national dental
health scheme and decided to approach
the State Government with a request to
give casual workers long service leave
benefits. Conference did not favor giving
the vote at 18, but it did support pro-
poitional repiesentation (which would
ensure u seveial seats in the Victorian
and Federal Parliaments).
Delegates supported Senator Me-
Manus’s stand against credit wheat sales to
China and advocated an Australian form
of President Kennedy’s “peace corps.”
While obviously anti-Communist in tone,
debates did not reveal any measure
of obsession on the subject. One of
the most strongly worded motions was an
attack on the Victorian Football League
for its method of selling tickets for the
finals—“grossly unfair to genuine foot-
ball supporters and working people gener-
ally .. ” It did not reach a vote.
The D.L.P.’s financial statements (if
accurate) should worry the A.L.P. (assum-
ing those are also truthful). They reveal
receipts of £19,500 and expenditure of
about £16,000 —both being significantly
higher than the corresponding Victorian
A.L.P. figures presented this year. The
D.L.P. statement showed some £7OO as
coming from members’ dues. If, as the
executive claims, it gets Is. per member
this points to some 14,000 members in
Victorian branches.
Meanwhile, elsewhere in the Town
Hall, Federal leaders of the D.L.P. were
conferring with Q.L.P. officials. Agree-
ment was reached on a joint Federal
policy centering around Australian
defence and the formation of a confedera-
tion of Pacific States (Australia, New
Zealand, Japan, the Philippines, Thailand,
South Vietnam and Taiwan were listed)
to offset any trade losses resulting from
British entry into the European Common
Market. The proposed confederation also
envisaged co-operation in the military
and political fields against Red Chinese
expansion.
These policies are not so much import-
ant in themselves as the reminder they
give to the A.L.P. that the breakaway
groups will be contesting seats in all
States at the next Federal election. Far
from being some mere exotica of Vic-
torian politics, the dissident Labor
groups must now appear to the Federal
A.L.P as the biggest road-block on its
way to office in the National Parliament.
The next move, as the D.L.P. has said,
is up to the Federal Executive of the
A.L.P., but D.L.P. officials are not expect-
ing it to come this side of the Federal
elections.
TV
“Breach of Payola”
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Tn one of the most unusual law suits
seen in Melbourne for some time, a
TV comedian won £1450 damages on
Tuesday for what was virtually a “breach
of payola.” In the Supreme Court, before
Mr Justice Hudson, mop-haired, English-
born comedian Jackie Clancy claimed
£1355 damages from the Eiffel Tower
Group, a firm of car dealers operating
at Dandenong. Clancy said that he had
obtained a Chrysler car from the firm
under an agreement whereby he was to
give them “plugs” in his TV and other
public appearances. Subsequently the
firm had repossessed the car. The firm’s
proprietors, John Alan Nougher and his
wife, Marie Noel Nougher, did not deny
the existence of the agreement, but
claimed that Clancy had not given the
Eiffel Tower Group the required number
of “plugs.”
Clancy told the court that he obtained
the car in February, 1960, when he war,
appearing twice a week on the Channel
9 show, “In Melbourne Tonight.” In the
following six months he had slipped in
mentions of the firm some 30 times on
TV and during 120 various public appear-
ances he had made. However, in July
the station management cracked down
on him and there were no more plugs
for Eiffel Tower. The following month,
Clancy was sacked from Channel 9. (At
the time he said he was being underpaid


and was going to start a business selling
barbecued chicken from a caravan he
had fitted up.)
t-u « *• . . • e „ \ji-
The stations chief announcer, Mr
_ a r' i u’
Geoff Corke, told the court that he had
w , • , , , ...
appeared in comedy sketches with
Clancy on “In Melbourne Tonight” and
had heard him mention the Eiffel Tower
Group some 12 to 16 times in the course
t ~ , •, ...
of three or four months. Corke said that
he knew of other TV artists who gave
, ~ , . , , , „
unspon r p ug uc ic at .
heard of any of them doing so under
a contractual agreement. He knew of
, •, m c . .
cases, he said, where manufacturers got
z. ’ .• a
free mentions after supplying everyone
~ . .• . „ ..u ~ .
on the station staff with shoes or shirts.
„ . „ vj 11 r’l • • i f
Douglass Berneville-Claye, principal of
a school, who had been working for
Eiffel Towers in 1960 told the court that
u j-j , ~ . ...
he did not regard the arrangement with
rinncv as imnroner
? P
Earlier, Clancy himself had referred
to the practice of TV artists “getting
things on the side” in return for free
plugs, and for the benefit of the court
explained the meaning of the word
“payola,” Clancy said that he did not
regard the Chrysler car as a bribe, but
under questioning from Mr S. Strauss
(for the Noughers) replied “I’ll admit it
was a bribe if you want me to.” This
earned him a rebuke from Mr Justice
Hudson: “You’re on your oath now-
not putting on a show.”
Mr Strauss told the court that the
agreement with Clancy had provided
.A . ~ : , r , ,
that Eiffel Tower could take the car back
~ , . . , . ,
if the plugs were not up to standard. Ihe
-G * repossessed (at 530 am)
£" : n an cv had not fulfilled his
agreement Y h 1
f ' . A ioso
Before coming to Australia in 1959,
n had a v ° ried career in Fnaland
„ ncy hac J a vaned career in England
He was taken prisoner at Dunkirk and
subsequently escaped on a Swedish ship
h Da y nzj This isode earne^
, • K . .
him a Military Medal, conterred by
XT \ . D \ ■ u D i
King George VI at a Buckingham Palace
. fe ... & u , , & . ,
investiture. He has been an amateur and
e ■,, , • . ,
professional boxer and came into show
. , . , m,
? u I!les , s ' hro . ll S■ , b«mg a combined PT
'n«™ctor and entertainer at Billy Butlm s
holiday camps. He was also for a time
, . y . . X/r A . n
bodyguard to the late Mr Aneurin Bevan,
then Deputy Leader of the British Labor
Party. His published works include an
article “Payola and Me” which appeared
in a Sydney TV magazine last September
(but not in the Melbourne edition of the
same journal) in which he said: “1 decided
that television was a precarious business
and w>e had to get as much out of it as
we could . . . I’ve been given payola to
mention products on television, and while
I cannot speak for anyone else I’d take
if again if I could get away with it.”
CRIME
The New Trend
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
COMMISSIONER
PORTER
Copies are scarce
One of the most enlightening documents
on the seamy side of Victorian life
has been coirmiled bv the Victorian
Police. Called Statistical Review of Crime
i 960 it is published by the Victorian
Government Printer. Copies are scarce.
In the vear the value of property
reported stolen was £3,419,012. The
chief " category was motor vehicles,
valued at £2.53 million, most of which
were recovered. (Describing cars which
are illegally used as “reported stolen'’ is
legally correct until they are recovered,
and is a police gimmick to draw the
attention of the Victorian community to
the prevalence of the crime.)
Considering that they are invariably
of the age at which crime is committed,
come out of the survey very
well They were charged with 18 per
cent, of the homicides, 16 per cent, of the
assaults occasioning bodily harm, 11 per
cent, of the robberies with violence, 18
of the natural and seven per cent, of the
unnatural sex offences, nine per cent, of
breakings, 13 per cent, of common
larcenies, seven per cent, of motor
vehicles thefts and eight per cent, of
false pretences, on an average of nine
per cent
Juvenile crime is widespread, leading
Police Commissioner Porter, on the pub-
lication of the statistics, to ask for power
for policemen to take home juvenile
offenders to confront their parents. Teen-
agers (18 to 20 years) also have a high
peicentage debit.
Victorian courts deal very gently
usually with first offenders and in par-
ticular with youngsters. The bond
system has been remarkably successful
for minor offences and the results of
probation quite outstanding,
The increase in unnatural sex offences
reported is arresting. From 137 cases in
1959, buggery rose to 548, buggery on a
female from zero to 11 and gross
indecency, the law s definition of anothei
homosexual offence, from 197 to 256.
Indecent assaults on males rose from 103
to 216, male soliciting from 32 to 40 and
indecent suggestions from two to four.
BALLET
A Short Odds
Gamble
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TULXiiNG by the Leningrad Maly Theatre
** Company’s current rapid tour of four
Australian capitals, whoever coined the
word balletomania understood well the
kind of enthusiasm he was dealing with.
The company, which opened its tour in
Brisbane on July 31 and has since moved
through Sydney to Adelaide on its way
to Melbourne, is being presented by the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust in
association with J. C. Williamson Iheatres
Ltd for the Australian Ballet Foundation.
The Trust, however, bears most respon-
sibility for the tour, and the brunt of the
financial risk —according to some obser-
vers, the biggest financial risk of its career.
No figures have been released, but it is
known in ballet circles that in order to
get the Russians to make the tour the
Trust had to agree to pay a considerable
share of the cost of transporting a com-
pany of 55 by air from Russia and back ;
share the cost of accommodating the
company at such hotels as Lennons in
Brisbane and the Hampton Court in Syd-
ney ; pay the company a set fee for each
performance —on the understanding that
the fee, which is said to run well into
four figures, is to be somewhat reduced
if the Trust loses money on its houses.
Other expenses to the Trust involve
theatres and orchestras.
On the matter of orchestras the Rus-
sians took up a curious position. They
insisted that the orchestra consist of
either three players or 57 ; they would
accept no number in between, and gave
no reason for this. Considering the size
and eminence of the Leningrad company,
the Trust arranged for orchestras of 57.
These are the chief costs on which the
Trust has based its admission prices—
five guineas a seat everywhere except the
gallery on opening nights in each capital;
four guineas a seat for preferential book-
ings for succeeding performances ; three
guineas and two guineas for all other
bookings.
At that, the Trust reports that it has
done good business in Brisbane and Syd-
ney. Bookings have been heavy for every
performance, but there have been few
capacity houses. The Trust sees this as
a paradoxical result of the enormous
amount of publicity the Russians have
been given: imagining that they will have
no chance of getting seats for such a
popular show, people who would other-
wise go simply do not try. However,
there has been no shortage of customers
for the cheaper (gallery) seats
An indication of what the tour is cost-
ing the Trust is the rumor, persistent
among balletomanes, that in spite of the
seat prices and the heavy bookings, the
Trust will be relieved if it breaks even
on the tour, and more than happy if it
is able to present a profit to the Austra-
lian Ballet Foundation.


PHILOSOPHY
Who Put the Arsenic
in the Chocolate?
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
JOHN ANDERSON
“Bite noire”
When Dr V. J. Kinsella first began his
crusade against the Sydney Uni-
versity Philosophy Department in his
pamphlet “Empiricism and Freedom he
was mainly concerned with what he
deemed to be the Department's errors and
its evil influence. “The ‘philosophy’ fed
to our youth by the Sydney University,
he decided, “is rubbish. It is devoid of
strength and manliness, but contains the
seeds of moral corruption and political
subversion.” He also warned us this
influence was not confined to the Univer-
sity : it “soaks outwards through the
teachers’ colleges and the secondary and
primary schools, and is carried by gradu-
ates and undergraduates into the factories
and offices, to politicians, lawyers and
journalists, to the man-in-the-street and
into the homes of our community.
In his latest statement, a 30-page letter
to the Youth Committee, he goes further
in his campaign to find out who put the
“arsenic in the chocolate.” He extends his
attack to philosophers at the University
of N.S.W. and describes one of the basic
text-books used in both Universities,
John Hospers’s “An Introduction to
Philosophical Analysis,” as “unspeak-
ably evil.” He gives further examples of
how the “immoral” teachings of the
Philosophy Departments have spilled over
into other departments, naming one
psychiatry lecturer who even denies free
will and attributing to Professor Brown, of
the Sociology Department of the Univer-
sity of N.S.W., a denial of the existence
of morality. (“If I understood the Profes-
sor aright, and if this is taught in his
department, then his department should
be closed.”) He denounces a Sydney
University club called the Libertarian
Society which preaches atheism and
immorality and advertises its meetings on
gaudy notices on a notice-board between
the Philosophy and Psychology lecture-
rooms, and he welcomes a report that
the Criminal Investigation Branch is
investigating immorality in the Sydney
University Philosophy Department.
Finally he offers some solutions: the
University Philosophy Departments
should be “cleansed” of empiricists or
closed down and restaffed ; and the Uni-
versity be called upon to show cause why
it should not lose its Royal Charter.
The philosophers took this new attack
philosophically. Professor J. B. Thorn-
ton, the head of the Philosophy Depart-
ment at the University of N.S.W., said:
“I would not like it to be supposed
that our course had Dr Kinsella’s whole-
hearted approval.” Professor J. Anderson
said: “If the Youth Advisory Committee
takes Dr Kinsella seriously it is not fit
to investigate the moral state of youth.”
But Dr Kinsella (and Dr Gough who
drew on his earlier pamphlet) have not
been the only ones attacking the Sydney
philosophers recently. For some weeks
a controversy has been raging in the
Sydney “Catholic Weekly” about whether
Catholics can accept the teachings of the
modern linguistic philosophy, which as
well as Andersonianism is taught in
Sydney’s universities and which sees philo-
sophical problems to be matter of words.
A “Student of Bondi” asked Dr L.
Rumble this question straight out, and
Dr Rumble replied: “No.” (He said it
leads to materialism and atheism.) As it
happens Professor Anderson (Dr Kinsella’s
main bite noire ) has also always opposed
linguistic philosophy and tried to keep
the taint of it out of his department;
it is only since his retirement three years
ago that the linguists have finally got
a foothold in Sydney University. Some
of these linguists (and some of their most
eager students) are Catholics. So there
were bound to be reactions to Dr
Rumble’s reply to “Student of Bondi” and
it took the form of a lengthy correspond-
ence between Mr John Small, a student-
at-law, defending a Catholic’s right to be a
linguist, and Mr G. Deegan declaring it
anathema.
The cross-currents are all very con-
fusing : Dr Kinsella attacking Anderson ;
Andersonians and linguists attacking each
other; Catholic linguists attacking
Catholic Thomists ; Anderson attacking
everybody. Dr Kinsella has tried to find
one thread of unity by linking together
all the atheists; some of the Catholic
linguists have now tried to find another
thread in the fact that Mr Deegan has
strong affiliations with, and Dr Kinsella
is an old student of, the Aquinas
Academy. This Academy in Gloucester
Street, Sydney, was founded in 1945 by
the Marist Fathers of Church Hill to
teach the laity true philosophy and expose
“modern errors.” Under its Principal,
Dr A. Austin, it has eight lecturers and
over 600 students. It has not publicly
supported Dr Kinsella, though the
Marist Fathers at Church Hill have
warned their Sunday congregations about
the truth of the Kinsella-like charges
against Sydney philosophers made by
Archbishop Gough.
It would be ironic if the main result
of Dr Kinsella’s campaign were an inten-
sification of Catholic linguists’ hostility
to the Catholic Aquinas Academy.
POLITICAL POINTS
Subsidising Communists
By MUGGA
Australians are by now accustomed
to expect some employers, such as
the shipowners, to donate money in
various ways to unions (normally Com-
munist ones), in an effort to guarantee
themselves some sort of immunity. A
recent example is the building industry
in Victoria. “Unity,” the organ of the
6000-strong Victorian Builders’ Laborers
Federation, carries many advertisements
from employers in its August issue,
including one full-page advertisement
from the American Utah Construction
Company. It is obvious from the issue
that the advertisements not only pay for
the publishing cost of the journal all year
round, but also provide the union with
profit. Yet the journal is little more than a
facsimile of the Communist “Tribune.”
Official union positions seem to
be reserved for Communist-party mem-
bers. Silver-haired “Paddy” Malone, Cen-
tral Committee member of the Communist
party, and one of the leading spokesmen
on the Melbourne Trades Hall Council,
heads the officials. Paddy is now fighting
fit as 1 e has just returned from leading
a “delegation” to Moscow and Peking.
He seems to be starting a personality cult
all of his own. Under his portrait,
“Unity” unblushingly claims that “Today
our union is still the main force in the
fight to consolidate that (the present)
agreement throughout Victoria and also
for a new and improved agreement for
1962.” This rather odd statement must
cause some heartburn to the tradesmen's
unions in the building industry who have
been the main force in bargaining with
the employers.
Assisting Paddy is Communist presi-
dent Harold Donaher and five Corn-
munist organisers: Norman Gallagher;
Harry Carslake, one-time functionary for
the party and now an appointed organ-
iser ; “Marks” Masterson ; Neil Wallace,
another Communist-appointee who re-
placed Jack Toy, a member of the party
who was put-off for not following the
party line, and Jock McEwan, at present
on a pilgrimage to Peking,
“Unity” carries a letter from McEwan
informing the interested members about
China. “Dear Comrades,” he writes,
“since October 1, 1949, ‘Liberation Day,’
the trade unions have flourished. Member-
ship is voluntary.” He finishes up by
telling the members that “Nobody is


forced to do anything in China,” and
adds for good measure, “the workers love
their Government and Chairman Mao.”
The journal, financed by the “hated
capitalist class,” goes even further than
Khrushchev in an article discussing
Eastern Germany. “Berlin is a city 110
miles inside the boundaries of the Ger-
man Democratic Republic’s western
frontier. It is the capital of the German
Democratic Republic, a sovereign inde-
pendent State. This sovereign State
cannot be expected to tolerate forever
the occupation of its capital by foreign
Powers.”
RELIGION
Cumbersome
Machinery
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
Western Australia has no special
laws like those in N.S.W., Victoria
and Queensland to allow doctors to give
life-saving blood transfusions to a child
whose parents oppose transfusions on
religious grounds. So when a 17-year-
old Jehovah’s Witness recently refused to
accept t blood transfusion to save his
life after receiving a gunshot wound in
the chest in the Western Australian town-
ship of Boddington, the clumsy machin-
ery of the Child Welfare Act had to be
invoked.
In a dramatic series of high-speed car
trips and urgent telephone calls section
four of the Act was used to enable a
magistrate to declare the boy neglected,
with his physical welfare in jeopardy, in
order to make him a ward of the State
and give him a blood transfusion.
Without the transfusion the boy would
have died within an hour or two of his
admission to Boddington Hospital (the
rifle bullet had entered his chest and
punctured a lung). To ensure that he
did not rip off the transfusion equipment
hospital authorities told him he was not
receiving pure blood but a “mixture.”
When he recovered last week the boy
declared that he would rather have died
than receive the transfusion, and his
parents claimed that the State bore the
responsibility for the act and must accept
judgment “before God’s laws.” The
father, an illiterate laborer whose whole
family are members of the sect, said he
would have been happier if his son had
not been given the blood, even if it
meant his death. “I really love my son,
but I would not let him have the trans-
fusion because he would not be resur-
rected in the new world of righteousness
when paradise is regained on earth. We
are looking after the eternal welfare of
our son.”
The Child Welfare Director, Mr J.
McCall, said last week the boy would be
released from the order and returned to
the custody of his parents when he was
considered well enough. He had no
intention of maintaining the order any
longer than was physically necessary.
Tanner
"WHAT BERLIN CRISIS?"


TOURISM
That Color-bar
Hotel
DR H. W. NOBLE
"it angers me"
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN BRISBANE
The manager of Atcherley Private Hotel
in Brisbane opened his newspaper one
morning last week and found his establish-
ment well publicised as one that had
applied a color bar to a group of “native
administration officers” from the
Northern Territory and New Guinea,
who were down for the Royal Show.
This, according to the manager, Mr G.
Dillon, was news to him.
He had received a telephone call from
Canberra three months before, asking for
bookings for a party of about 12, includ-
ing some native students, the accommo-
dation to be in singles and doubles.
Checking the booking sheet in his office,
Dillon said he could only offer half the
party accommodation of this kind at
Show time when many families were
booked in year after year. He was asked
to make that a tentative booking, because
it would be preferable for the party to
remain intact. A week or so later he
was advised by letter that the rooms would
not be needed so he scrubbed the booking
and forgot the whole thing until a reporter
from the “Courier Mail” rang him last
Tuesday to ask whether it was true he’d
applied a color bar.
His story was duly recorded in the
“Courier Mail” next morning, under a
heading, “Colored Govt, men not taken
at hotel.” The item quoted three white
Territories Department officers by name,
and they described the alleged color bar
as shocking, an insult and wrong. All
three officers seemed certain that the
refusal had occurred.
The story was kicked along in the
Brisbane “Telegraph” that afternoon, and
in Sydney and Canberra newspapers next
day. And one of the principals
in the aflair, Tokuradal Torakura, was
quoted as saying, “This rather shocked
me. I’ve never been to Australia before
and was unprepared for it. I intend to
visit Canberra after your show here. I
don’t expect any discrimination there.”
By Thursday of last week, when the
story was prominent in Sydney and Can-
berra newspapers, and heaven knows
where else in the wide Pacific, the
“Courier Mail” weighed in with a page
2 article on chumminess among multi-
racial students at International House in
Melbourne, under the heading, “No
Color Bar in This House.” Alongside it
was a short letter from a reader who
said that a hotel refusing to accept
’espectable guests on the grounds of
color should be closed down. How this
could be done to an unlicensed private
hotel neither the reader nor her publishers
were able to suggest. (Presumably by
Government edict, as in Moscow). On
one of the back pages of the same news-
paper the State’s Minister for Native
Affairs, Dr Noble, commented, “Such
action angers me.”
At this stage The Bulletin decided
to try to discover the truth of the affair,
and Mr Dillon saw his first reporter face
to face, a fact somewhat remarkable since
Atcherley Private Hotel and the two
relevant newspaper buildings are within
a few blocks of one another in Queen
Street. Brisbane. Dillon repeated his
story and said that all Brisbane hotels
took the same attitude and would only
refuse accommodation to dubious people,
white or black. He also showed proof
that he advertised Brisbane accommoda-
tion in the “South Pacific Post,’’ circulat-
ing in New Guinea and the Islands, and
in other journals which go to various
parts of Asia. “We don't advertise for
white people only. I'm in business, I’m
not a fool. The only colored person
who'd be rejected by this or any other
hotel is the disreputable kind, and the
same would apply whether he was brown,
white or brindle.”
The story was then checked with one
of the Territories officials at the Royal
Show, who again seemed certain that a
color ban had been applied. His in-
formation came from Canberra. He had
not spoken to Dillon or anyone at Atcher-
ley. And so it goes on. Even a Queens-
land Government Minister, while noting
its dangers, had fed the story with com-
ment based on information which he or
his officers could have found at least
doubtful at the cost of one telephone call,
to the manager of Atcherley.
LITERATURE
The Hoax that Misfired
BY A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
Come months ago two prominent poets
—Gwen Harwood of Hobart and
Vincent Buckley of Melbourne —worked
out a rather complicated scheme to
expose what they considered to be the
poor judgment of some Australian literary
editors. Their idea was that Gwen Har-
wood would write some automatic and
almost meaningless poems, that Vincent
Buckley would sign them and they would
then publish them in some prominent
literary journal and hope they would be
selected by Dr Leonie Kramer for her
anthology “Australian Poetry, 1961.”
Mrs Harwood wrote two sonnets. So
that the editors whom they hoped to
hoax would not be able to claim that she
had written good poems despite herself
—as happened in the Ern Malley case —
she decided to show that she had full
control over the nonsense she was writ-
ing by making her poems an acrostic.
The initials of each line taken together
made up words which carried an indecent
message.
She sent the poems to Buckley, who,
though he did not recognise the acrostic,
immediately saw that, despite Mrs Har-
wood's best efforts, they had two defects
which made them unsuitable for their
hoax: they made real sense and they had
a limited but definite literary merit. Mrs
Harwood accepted these criticisms ; the
poems were put away ; the plan for the
hoax was abandoned.
Some time later Mrs Harwood re-read
the poems and decided they were good
enough to justify their being published
for their own sake. Since for the pur-
poses of the abandoned hoax the first
part of the acrostic made up the words
“Vincent Buckley,” she now decided to
reshape those lines—though to satisfy her
own special humor she still wanted the
new lines to have an acrostic meaning.
She whimsically altered the first part of
the acrostic to read “So long Bulletin.”
She then submitted them to The
Bulletin, which had often published her
poems before under her pseudonym
“Walter Lehmann.”
They arrived at The Bulletin office
between, as it were, poetry editors. The
regular poetry editor had left and the new
one had not yet taken over. The acting
poetry editor, knowing Mrs Harwood to
be a distinguished and widely published
poet—some would say she is among the
best poets in the country —and believing
that the poems had merit, decided they
were worth publishing. He did not
notice the acrostic. In due course they
appeared.
Melbourne University English students
were the first to hit on the acrostic.
Within a matter of hours the story had
spread throughout the literary world.
Soon the issue was sold out, and there
was even talk of a “black market.”
The Bulletin contacted Mrs Harwood
in Hobart to ask for an explanation.
She was as astonished as The Bulletin,
and apparently had imagined that the
acrostic would remain her private secret
for ever. Such are the fantasies of lady
poets.


“Yeah? Well tell them if they've got so much damn faith in Sir Garfield they'd better send the bill to Sir Garfield!"
TOBACCO GROWERS
Squeezed out of Existence
FROM JOHN GRAHAM IN PERTH
' \\7T might as well push it into the sea,”
’’ said W.A. Tobacco Growers’ Asso-
ciation president Mr Tom Tannin bitterly
as he watched bale after bale of W.A.
tobacco rejected by buyers at last week’s
annual tobacco sale at South Fremantle.
The growers had good reason to be glum
as they watched their crop sold at prices
40 per cent, below last year's average and
about 50 per cent, below the average they
had become accustomed to in the boom
years 1954-58. What made their position
worse was the rejection rate, which
averaged more than 50 per cent, for the
first four days of the sale and brought
their average return back to about 32d.
a lb.
Since it costs growers about ss. a lb
to harvest, grade and cure their crop, it
is not surprising that some of them were
talking about getting out of the industry
as they left the auctions to return home
*o the State’s production area in the south-
west district of Manjimup.
The calamity which hit them last week
has been a long time coming, but the
dgns have been there for several years
lor those who cared to heed them. W.A.
has never been a producer of quality
tobacco, and the rapid increase in pro-
duction in the more favored areas of the
Eastern States in the last two years has
iepresented a growing threat to the
stability of the W.A. industry.
Despite these threats, the W.A. growers
have kept on producing the same acreage
in the now vanquished hope that prices
generally would remain stable. They
became uneasy when they saw prices fall
at Eastern States auctions, but com-
forted themselves with the thought that
the quality of their current crop was
better than last year.
The buyers blasted even this hope as
they moved along the lines of bales spill-
ing over their golden-yellow leaf. They
characterised the current crop as im-
mature, lacking in character and with a
high chloride content. They made it
quite clear that they had warned the
W.A. growers that the type of leaf they
were producing would become harder to
sell in comparison with the same grades
in the Eastern States with each passing
season.
Growers claimed there was little com-
petition at the sale and pointed to the
valuations averaging more than IOOd. a
lb. put on the W.A. crop by appraisers
of the Queensland Tobacco Leaf Market-
ing Board before the sales started as
evidence that the buyers were deliberately
trying to bid them out of production.
The truth or otherwise of this claim
became a purely academic question as
negotiation between the growers, the
State Government and the Federal Gov-
ernment revealed that the Commonwealth
has little power to regulate the industry,
despite the fixed quota it imposes on
manufacturers each year of the amount
of Australian leaf that ought to be used
in Australian-manufactured cigarettes.
The quota is based on a reduction of
excise duty on imported tobacco if the
quota is used, but manufacturers have
made it plain that they have gone about
as far as they can in raising the quantity
of Australian leaf in their cigarettes to
43 per cent, for this year s production.
The figure should have been 48 per cent,
if the total Australian crop was to be
absorbed.
Caught in a system which automatically
rejects about seven per cent, of the Aus-
tralian crop, the W.A. growers are slowly
being squeezed out of existence. An in-
crease in quality is their only hope of
survival. Whether this can be achieved
in an area which experts characterise as
inherently unsuitable for tobacco growing
is a question that will have to be thrashed
out before the growers put in another
crop which could prove as uneconomic
as the one they produced this year.
Most of the 250-odd Manjimup growers
are Macedonians who have known no
other form of production. Their farms
are generally too small for dairying and
most of their capital equipment can only
be used for tobacco growing. They faced
a grim future indeed as they drove home
last week.


ABORIGINES’ FRANCHISE
Namatjira was Sorry
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
ALBERT NAMATJIRA
“We don’t need yours”
TThe Newspaperman’s Best Friend—the
A aboriginal certainly rose to the
occasion in recent weeks when the Parlia-
mentary Committee on Voting Rights
for Aborigines was touring the North
hearing evidence.
There was little real interest in the
franchise among the natives. In the
entire Alice Springs district the only
native ward who had heard of Mr
Menzies was Menasie, of Hermannsburg
Mission: “Him head boss man of Aus-
traha” On Groote Eylandt, Roper
River, and other “top-end” settlements
and missions, wards did not seem to know
quite what all the fuss was about.
But there were some strange dis-
closures. At Tennant Creek Singleton
Station, manager John Walsh said his
head boy wanted to lead a deputation to
the Prime Minister seeking return to the
aborigines of their tribal lands. The
head boy had promised other natives he
would get control of Singleton and they
would become managers of surrounding
stations including one owned by the
Northern Territory’s Federal Member,
Mr JocK Nelson who is on the Select
Committee. Mr Walsh said he believed
his head boy had been indoctrinated by
Communists while attending a hygiene
school in Alice Springs. (A gratifying
thought, Mr Walsh said, was that when
the natives took over the station they
planned to keep him on as adviser.)
A bearded native, Leo John, fronted
the committee in Katherine with a
problem which, after 16 years of
“thinkin’ about it,” he had decided to
put before “them fellers from Canberra.”
He said that during the war he had
worked for the Navy on Melville and
Bathurst Islands. For five years he had
acted as a courier ; he had found the
spring which now supplies Snake Bay
Government settlement with water; and
he had, at one stage, the status of “boss
boy,” with six natives working under
him. But in all that time the Navy had
not paid him one penny. They had given
him food and some clothes and that
was all. Leo, who works for Katherine
Hospital on £3 10s. a week, said a native
needed £l6 weekly to live decently these
days. His present money went “like
water.” He had heard about voting
and parliaments, but was not getting any
benefits from either, he said.
In Tennant Creek a garage proprietor,
T. Kittle, said if natives were granted
citizenship they should be allowed to
drink only beer—not “plonk.” He also
advocated weaning of native children
from their parents in the same manner
as puppy-dogs, to shield them from the
influence of tribal elders.
At Papunya—the scene of recent anti-
white riots —the committee met several
hundred potential voters —Stone Age
Pintubi tribesmen who had wandered
onto the reserve in the course of their
travels through a huge area of inland
Australia. Not being listed on the Terri-
tory’s “Register of Wards” (commonly
known here as “the Stud Book”), they
are, in effect, citizens.
At Papunya the committee also met
Nosepeg, co-star with Darwin's Robert
Tudawali in a television film series.
Nosepeg proudly showed them a daugh-
ter one of his two wives had just borne
him. Superintendent George Holden told
the committee not one of Papunya's 600
natives had any inclination to enrol or
vote. The adults were illiterate and did
not know Parliament existed.
The most novel idea was that of the
Legislative Council Membei for Stuart,
Mr Bill Petrick, a veteran cattleman, who
advocated setting up of “autonomous
states” or “provinces” where aborigines
could experience themselves in local
government before tackling the Federal
vote.
In Alice Springs, Rex Battarbee,
“father” of the Aranda art colony, intro-
duced a sad note. He said the late Albert
Namatjira, before his death, had twice
approached the authorities and asked
them to take his citizenship away.
Namatjira once told Battarbee: “We
aborigines have had a good social life
for hundreds of years. We don't need
vours.”
Feiffer
mm a me-mu
peuuoueuT uoopto
Bf A BAM* kMflu)
WHAT 1 MBAtf? IT
USED To BC IM6IPE
AW VERH HIP
M THft) If GOT NOTORIOUS.
$/£Ryoopy mu moot irt
urn a thiw? promos
Tie SQOARB6 me in ov it.
HOO Spew A lt)tfoU6 t/lff
SWAINS AUP
cup up mvm a)
S(P6 'txPiAium wj-
WO WHAT 910 w 56i)ms DO 7
1m SWT WOOW *,OC\kV
VJORK£RS! 40U 6060. m
pmite WOOUO A SOCIAL
Dome? Wcan'T!
Mm roo omRSTAMD-
IN6f 60 T£« TO L6M 0>
A SOCIAL liWtte ANP WT
TH!fJ6 wu moD wee IW
acm &ad Pm io6 Sfcwmi!
AJOI7 uIHBN HOP pour tfAN
<?N OK£ SOCIAL COORKSR
A COUPLCHORi SOCIAL
IVORKSRG MOVC ft). T U M
MmatHCOPS OSIiR Rv.'M
WITH Wf we HAP TC
Move THREE tfMeb wsr
lf£AR. SOCIAL ttfM&RG
me property mv&
m,?me mriwwte-
o)hw wo <bo a amo
I?PR>RMIIO6 J'M-NIU
Vtimwws W KILL OFF
mi INCOME HOUbm
OKAUS6; ate, if i mr
m POWM A W6H&ORHOOQ
IT 6003 100 GOOD - Mi
m seams m\oe pack"
PROM W&TCH&T6R MOi'O l«.
$0 mTHAPftIK? PRICES
go dpi social too/?Ke& m
Rwuitfs rue poor, maij.
wu 6ot 10 mum
it, I'M Nlgo£D.
I flUJtf’
TfaßOfLlZt
m m
me or
m
peo?ie-


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Lost Conscience?
AS was to be expected from a confer-
ence which was attended by many
of the men who are fighting hardest to
mmitain democracy in the trade unions,
'U H //n ' / P ,h n
good ideas about how unions should run
f, • T , ■ , , , , ~
their affairs. It is hard to see why the
Government should not accent at least
Government should not accept, at least
m principle, the suggestions that it should
legislate to prevent muon funds from
being used to support certain candidates
,n union elections ; to provide protection
for unionists who petition for dean
ballots to make compulsory political
levies .1 egal and to regulate the member-
ship rules of unions to avoid executive
arbitrariness. The conference rmght as
well have gone the whole hog and
demanded that court-controlled ballots be
compulsory in all unions.
Speakers at the conference were also
right when they suggested that the
Federal Government was too indifferent
to the regulation of union affairs. It is
an extraordinary thing that the Govern-
ment has lately shown no interest in
the appalling disregard of ordinary mem-
bers’ rights that is displayed daily in the
worst-run unions. Why not include
reform of the unions in its forthcoming
election policy? In the great days of
reform some of the worst constitutional
abuses that were corrected were very
similar to those being flagrantly practised
in Australian unions today. Talk of
progress is humbug if it does not include
plans for ensuring democratic self-
government in unions. The idea that
employers are the only potential
exploiters is ridiculous in 1961.
other M h confer-
ence also showed a liveliness of debate
f ~ , ru o f
that is missing from the deliberations or
Q , *•
the seat - winning political parties.
Perhaps some of them are the kind of
, hi P hat a t that is more concerned
with influel £ 1 inion than aini
seats can affor | to p , h| . ow £ ut th |
statements on national defe p c ’ e> decen .
tra i isati social services and trad( _
although one might not agree wilh every .
thi * aid _ at le s ast show “ a briskness of
a val that ts a from a mere
r PP etltion of d( f ad doctri y ne . To be able
1Q do |h|S is
one of the luxuries of a
that is not going to be a govern .
meat; it is also, in a sense, its duty.
’ J
But where will it all end? Is the
D.L.P. to become a genuine third party,
intent on reform? Is it to remain the lost
conscience of the Labor party, keeping
it out of office, but achieving little else?
Is it to rejoin that party and perhaps
go back to a modified version of the year
before 1954 when those who now run
the D.L.P. were accused of standing-over
Labor and dictating its policy? Can it
form an alliance, with mutual independ-
ence? Will these matters be settled by
private treaty? Or will the demands
of those who vote for the D.L.P. on their
own decision have something to do
with it?
Running Menzies Down
T'he latest dismissals in the motor-
-*• vehicles and rubber-tyres industries
could have all the characteristics of a
thinly camouflaged attack on the Menzies
Government, launched immediately
before the 1961-62 Budget.
Whether rightly or wrongly, many
people believe that these firms timed
their temporary sackings to embarrass
Mr Holt into giving concessions
to motor-vehicles producers. Their
much - publicised action, affecting
Victoria, South Australia and N.S.W.,
came hot on the heels of the Prime
Minister’s strongly worded speech, in
which he justified his economic policy in
Sydney Town Hall. Certainly there has
been unrelenting pressure put on the
Government by the car industries from
the very beginning of the anti-inflationary
drive last November.
It is true that car manufacturers and
hire-purchase companies financing sales
of motor vehicles were forced to bear
the brunt of the credit restrictions. Their
earnings shrank accordingly. But it is
also true that this sector of the economy
had over-reached itself, and had to be
restricted if economic sanity was to be
preserved. Among all the inflation-prone
durable consumer-goods, motor vehicles
were the largest single factor contribut-
ing to a galloping inflation. Car manu-
facturers were producing in excess of real
effective demand well before last Novem-
ber. They were expanding their market
artificially through hire-purchase financ-
ing, which allowed them to support a
largely artificial price - maintenance
scheme.
A return to normal trading cannot
mean new support for inflationary car
prices. Prices must be reduced to sell
excessive stocks. This is the only way
out, and at least one firm, Standard,
has realised that and, has reduced its
quotes accordingly. However, the other
firms do not seem prepared to accept a
realistic level of earnings. They seem
to prefer to take on the Government.
No one can have it both ways. If car
prices are not reduced, car manufacturers
must remain saddled with their huge,
virtually unsaleable stocks. The very fact
that the latest wave of sackings in the
motor industry is planned to be tem-
porary, and will bring hardly any savings
in costs, suggests that car manufacturers
may be just taking us on.
Not All That
Brave
r T' I HE adulation of Soviet achievements
in space travel is getting out of hand.
We are living in the greatest age of dis-
covery since the Portuguese and Spanish
navigators made the first big push for-
ward of the world’s frontiers, and for the
moment the Soviet has taken the lead.
The Soviet system enables a ruthless
accumulation of resources in whatever
projects are favored by the Soviet regime ;
the loss in consumer goods and political
liberty that this entails makes the Soviet
system the least efficient in the world, if
the measure of efficiency is ordinary
creature comfort and the ordinary
humanitarian and liberal decencies. It is
this situation that Senator Hubert Hum-
phrey had in mind when he said: “If
the United States had spent 97,000,000,000
dollars on space technology instead of
foreign aid it would have had many men
in orbit long ago. Perhaps we talk too
much of catching up the Russians in space.
Let's challenge them to catch up with us
in service to mankind.”
We certainly talk too much of Soviet
space “heroes.” The men who volunteer
for space flights are brave, and we should
salute their bravery. But they are not as
brave as all that. They have subjected
themselves to the risk of death as pas-
sengers, but under conditions that are
controlled by others. They do not display
the braveness, for instance, of aeronauti-
cal heroes such as Kingsford-Smith, or
Ulm or Hinkler, who —incredibly—seem
to have been forgotten. These men ran
risks of their own doing ; it was their
own judgment that made them heroes —
or killed them. Nor have the space pas-
sengers displayed the bravery of the
soldier or the civil hero who risks almost
certain death in the ordinary execution
of his duty. The passive bravery of the
space passengers is a kind of bravery that
many of us would not be capable of.
But it is a poor commentary on the human
spirit in 1961 that we should give the
highest praise to men who have done
what could have been done equally well
by dogs or monkeys.


SHEARING:
Who Fleeces Who?
The last 30 years have revolutionised the shearing game
By BILL HOWARD
THE shearing season has just begun in N.S.W., and this
is written at a depot shed in the Central West. It
could be almost the shape of things to come in the
industry: a fast six-shearer team with a competent
woolroom personnel.
Some seven or eight small and not-so-small owners
shear here. Each pays the normal contractor’s price, plus
3d. a sheep shed rent. With 2500 sheep this rent would
amount to about £3O. His general shearing is over in about
three days. No agonisingly, prolonged, two-stand shearing.
No uneconomic, used-once-a-year shed, plant and huts, and
no acrimony with Mum in the homestead, who hates cook-
ing for shearers and their inevitable smokos.
There are four methods of getting the sheep shorn:
suburban shearing, station shearing, cost-plus shearing and
“sugar-bag” shearing.
The first method is the shearers’ idyll—the shed within
striking distance of their home town ; home with Mum
every weekend for months on end ; only four nights in
the huts, one of the hardships of the game. A shearing
contractor in a biggish country town with a fountain of
good reliable labor and a long run of suburban shearing
has the game sewn up.
One such contractor boasted: “I’ve got ’em tamed.”
Over the years he had culled the belligerents, the grog
merchants who lie in the huts, the incorrigible wet voters,
the bloke who wants the cook and accommodation right
up to standard. Undoubtedly with these tamed teams,
wanting all these months of suburban shearing, a lot of the
shearers’ little privileges and traditions, so hardly won over
many battling years, have been lost. With these teams the
contractor can give the squatter a smooth and trouble-free
shearing. The contractor commands a good price per sheep
and gets back year after year. This “cushioning”—A.W.U.
boss Doherty’s term for shearing contractors —is a pretty
expensive upholstering ; but after many years of summit
strife and prolonged and anguished shearing the squatter is
prepared to pay.
Station shearing is where the station people organise
the shearing themselves, eliminating the contractor. This
may work out pretty well in the off-shearing season. A
team can be picked up in a country town in a few hours
but the amiable shearer bloke you engage over a middy
may, a few days later at the shed, be the biggest bunger-on
of blues since the 1891 strike. In the height of the shearing
season, to engage a team in this way is generally pretty
explosive. You are only getting the private contractors’
culls and discards.
The third method is to engage a cost-plus outfit, like
Grazcos. which contracts the shed about sd. a sheep above
all costs. By this method the squatter is taking a gamble,
punting against capricious weather and capricious shearers.
With fine weather and a good team he can sometimes beat
the private contractor’s fixed price, but with the weather
and shearers malevolent costs often soar above it.
Many shearers maintain the cost-plus outfits wilfully
send their teams broke by enormous travelling distances
between sheds and much broken time. The cost-plus people,
1 believe rightly, deny this and point out the difficulties and
complexities of their involved organisation.
The fourth type of shearing, sugar-bag shearing, is
where the men travel out daily from town to the cocky’s
shed. They are pretty crooked on this method, saying it
wears out themselves, their utilities, their stomachs, and
why shouldn’t the cockies build huts for them and put on
a cook?
'THERE are four types of shearers. First, the professional
A and proud of it. He does no other type of work except
crutching. He wears a miniature shearing comb in his
lapel. The second type, and not so proud of it. disappears
into the back country for months, returns looking like the
president of the local Graziers’ Association, side-boots and
hacking jacket and all, and tells his new doll: “I’m in the
wool game.” Third is a local man combining shearing
with other rural work, and working only in his own district.
The fourth, a new development, is the small cocky’s
youngest son, who has learnt to shear in his old man's two-
stander shed, and goes out to get a good few extra quick
quid he would not get at home.
This introduction of cockies’ sons with the taint of
Country-party conservatism into the industry has led to a
further diminishing of the traditional A.W.U. bellicosity.
Perhaps because I have been with tamed teams for years,
it is a long time since I have seen “a show of tickets” before
the shed kicks off, or an organiser on the shearing board.
The first type of shearer sometimes, often ruefully, sits
in the huts for days watching the rain belting down and
laments: “A man’d be better off with a steady job in town.”
But offer him that steady job and he’d knock it back. This
big-tally boy has a distinctly Roo-ish attitude towards the
degradation of an 18-quid-a-week steady job. Remember
the humiliation of the gun canecutter Roo in “The Summer


of the Seventeenth Doll,” who was forced to work in a paint
factory? This man would rather sweat it out in midsummer
at a Paroo shed for a few weeks, than sit down all cashed
up.
To generalise about the typical squatter would be more
than difficult. There is no typical squatter. They are as
broad and as variegated as the acres they own. The
luxurious homestead with the owner coming to dinner
dressed like a bagman ; the decrepit homestead with the
family tizzying up at night with county elegance ; articu-
lates like the poet David Campbell and the late Eric
Schluncke ; not-so-bright ones whose only reading is the
stock reports in their weekly pastoral papers. But, bearded
or clean shaven, rich or poor, they are all concerned about
one thing: costs. And one of their most formidable costs
is shearing.
A squatter in a fairly big way, running 5000 sheep
and using a private contractor, has to write out a cheque
at the cut-out for about a thousand quid. It really hurts.
A few years ago he would write it out with a smile and
put on a bottle of Scotch for contractor, export, boss of the
board and woolclasser. Now it's a glum face, a phone call
tc his bank manager, and not even half a bottle of
Australian.
Shearers assert that the squatter is still doing all right:
still being bred into a fortune each year through his
rams and ewes. They assert, too, that the cocky pulls his
economic and social head in quicker than anybody else in
the community. A stationhand put off, no more Scotch
parties, less frequent trips to town. The squatters’ answer
is that costs have risen continuously, but instead of the
hundred quid he used to get for a bale of wool a few years
ago, he’s lucky now if it's sixty-five.
Nothing in the shearing industry causes more melo-
drama, bitterness, frustration and increasing costs than the
method of determining whether woolly sheep are wet or
dry—the shearers’ vote. This method adds pence per sheep
to the squatter’s shearing cost. In his price the contractor
must make allowance for possible wet weather, and in
station or cost-plus shearing the owner bears the cost of
the team sitting down, sometimes for days on end. In a
wet year the team may only work for two or three days a
week for weeks on end.
The national economy, the grazier and the shearer
himself just cannot afford this interminable, expensive lost
shearing time. The grazier maintains that the wet vote is
often not a detached or judicial one by the shearers ; that
shearing is often needlessly prolonged by the frivolous vote
of one shearer with a hangover, a boil on the knee or just
sheer perversity. He asserts that he and the woolclasser
should determine whether the sheep are dry enough to shear.
The shearer objects strongly to shearing wet sheep, saying
it leads to rheumatism, arthritis, blindness and early
impotence. But I’ve heard old, ex-gun shearers, now over
70, still shearing their ton (a hundred a day) say: “We’ve
shorn ’em wet all our lives” —and deny the consequences.
Shearers are now getting £8 6s. 6d. per 100 sheep. In
many cases the squatter does not resent this big dough.
He can shear a sheep himself and he knows what devilishly
hard work it is: hard on the back, equally hard on the
spirit. The shearer says this looks only apparently big
money. All he does is handle a lot of it. It costs him
about 255. to load his bogghi with comb and cutter before
even shearing a sheep. Tucker messes in the back country,
with high freights, are terribly high. If he is a rum man,
and likes to slug himself after work, he has to pay the
grossly inflated back-country prices.
There is much lost time because of wet weather and
lack of continuity of sheds.
The dinkum, all-the-year-round shearer will tell you
the costs of his yearly expedition have soared tremendously.
He may travel from Melbourne to Charleville or Longreach
by plane. By the time he reaches the remote shed, often
by taxi, he is behind nearly a fortnight’s hard shearing.
It is the hope of every shearer to somehow “get off the
tube” by cracking it for a big double or by getting a bit of
dirt for himself. It has been done. A fast and consistent
shearer, by burying himself in the back country for a few
years, by eschewing rum and beer and the dice box, can
get a bank together and get that bit of dirt. A product of
the old bike days, ex-shearer George Johnson, now owner
of a remunerative bit of dirt near Yass, a Country-party
nominee for several State elections, a Pastures Protection
Board director, a Shire councillor, still rather impishly
describes himself in the local telephone book as “George
Johnson, shearer.” But the professional shearer maintains
that miracle would now be impossible. His costs are too
high, he says, with much smaller sheep numbers in sheds,
and says, rather paradoxically: “Who’d want to be a bloody
cocky now. anyway.
TN the last 30 years there have been many changes in the
shearing game—in transport, in accommodation and
tucker, in gambling, drinking and social habits.
The best-dressed and immaculate bowler on the Sunday
in the country town is often a shearer on the Monday. There
is none of the social ostracism of 30 years ago—no stigma
to be able to earn 12 fiddlies a day.
The revolution in transport is probably the biggest.
The old pushbike and horse days are as extinct as the blade-
shears. Most shearers own cars—from flash utilities to old
bombs. A squatter may sardonically comment: “I see


number-four shearer has a later model ute than mine.”
In Queensland and the more western parts of N.S.W.
shearers and rouseabouts refuse to travel on the back of
trucks. It is too undignified, cold and dangerous. They
would all rather dob in for a taxi. It is only in recent
years that the clause “no bull camels allowed on property,”
and another that a paddock must be provided for shearers’
horses have been deleted from shearers’ agreements. A
resolution was sent in from a shed last year urging: “graziers
to provide garages for shearers’ cars.”
Oldtimers, garrulous with their after-work rum, often
talk of the accommodation in those bad, tough days. There
were no lined two-bed rooms with soft mattressses, clean
covers and pillow-slips provided ; no separate dining-rooms
with decent plates and cutlery and Tilley lamps. The dining-
room was also the bunkhouse —wooden board bunks,
forecastle-like, one on top of the other. There would be the
stench of unwashed “greasies” (shearers’ working clothes),
of bag boots and home-made slush lamps. The total lack
of privacy with the inevitable drunk weaning himself off
the grog and in the yelling horrors.... the plaintive
wail of the mouth-organ of some homesick b0y....
The modern shearer carries sheets, pegs and blue, and
boils up every weekend, and many men go to work each
day in a clean set of “greasies.” On top of their heavily-
reduced wool cheques and increased shearing rates many
squatters have had to spend thousands of pounds bringing
their shearers’ accommodation up to the standard required
by the Act. A particularly vigilant and efficient hut
inspector has been on the warpath. That’s the men’s
description of him. The squatters regard him as a greater
scourge than the blowfly, with his rigid insistence on their
already good accommodation being improved —hot-water
system, louvred dining-room windows and all to be installed.
Graziers hold that this large capital investment, used only
three or four weeks a year, is disastrous and uneconomic.
The shearer retorts that he spends months on end in shearing
sheds, so why should he live like a boong? The industry
can afford it.
Despite the high shearing rate, shed tucker now is
often disappointingly sparse, poor and unimaginative.
Good “babblers” (cooks) are increasingly rare. Their
employer is the contractor. With a mob of “kept”
employees on the books, all he wants from the cook is
cheapness, not haute cuisine ability. The shearer still has
the right “to track the cook,” but with tamed teams and
suburban shearing they usually put up with the “bait
layer.”
'T'HERE was no “game” at Wingadee shearing this year.
Wingadee, a 26-stand shed out of Coonamble, one of
the few remaining big sheds in N.S.W., has always been
known for its “good game”—always a clean, well-run game,
without “nobs” (double headers) or “greys” (double tailies).
Spectacular big gambling, except in Western Queens-
land is practically unknown now—perhaps a little clerkly
cautious s.-p. betting on a Saturday arvo. In the big Western
Queensland sheds the gambling concession, or “right to run
the game” is auctioned the night the shed kicks off. Up to
a hundred pounds is sometimes paid for the game. This
money goes to the local ambulance or bush hospital.
You seldom see a shearer on the traditional drunken
spree of the Lawson era. Now when they hit the town at
the cut-out of a shed with a big shearing cheque in the
kick, the first building they enter is the savings-bank, not
the pub. There is still a clause in the agreement the shearer
signs that no grog will be brought onto a station. There is
even a £SO fine. But try and enforce this clause and see
how long you would hold your shearers. Eight hours of
head down and tail up fighting recalcitrant sheep and any
man needs a Brindabella—a rum with a beer chaser. Some
shearers don’t carry grog to the shed—some because of
economy, some because they don’t like it, some because
they like it too much. The most heinous crime in the back
country—worse even than “scabbing it” —is “to bull” your
room-mate’s rum. That is, to take a slug of his rum and
replace it with an equal amount of water.
These days it is pretty difficult for a dinkum shearer
learner to get a pen. The private shearing contractor is
reluctant to give him a go. A real learner means reduced
daily tallies and an invasion of profits. The award says
there has to be a learner in every five shearers ; the award
also says he has to have the guaranteed wage of an adult
shed-hand, no matter how few sheep he shears. The
Graziers’ Association has engaged in a great amount of
publicity exhorting squatters who engage a private shearing
contractor’s package team to insist that a real learner be
on the board. But except by the Grazcos shearing crowd
this is seldom enforced.
Old gun Jimmy Gibbs would turn in his grave to see
the sartorial set-up of some of the learners. Sweat-shirts
instead of grey flannel Jacky Howes ; cast-for-age bodgie
shoes in place of shearing moccasins ; and in an extreme
case a learner wearing a woman’s hairnet to keep his long
hair out of his eyes as he goes up the long blow. However,
the learner soon learns the vocabulary of the old days, of
“cobbler” (a rough sheep) ; “snobbing your pen mate”
(leaving the cobblers for your pen mate to shear) and
“grabbing a bell sheep” (diving in and catching a sheep
right on the knock-off bell).
TTHE classing of the clip, on an extending buyer’s market,
A is obviously important to the owner and the national
economic structure.
In a lighthearted article in “The Bulletin” some years
back I wrote that there were more woolclassers than sheep
in Australia, and that classers were needed to class the
classers. It is even worse now. Owners’ reluctance these
last couple of years to increase costs by blending small
lots, has greatly reduced the “woollies” off season and
between shed work. Many woolclassers, if they are young
enough, are getting out of such a perilous game.
There is a Woolclassers’ Association —the “association”
is indicative of its gentility —but it lacks numbers, coherence
and determination. It is trying to devise a system to register
woolclassers ; to give each registered woolclasser a number
to be stencilled on each wool bale. Classers assert that the
Australian wool clip should be handled by the professional,
all-the-year-round tradesman, with woolstore experience.
This, they are sure, would result in infinitely better classing
and give buyers increased confidence. But it is ironical
that a not particularly bright or energetic shed-hand —an
A.W.U. member —dividing the wool two equal ways, gets
within about £5 of the woolclasser responsible for the whole
clip.
Most shearing sheds are well laid out and adequate
for clip preparation. But in some cases the old squat shed,
with hardly a skylight, is as dark on a cloudy afternoon as
a dubious nightclub. The “guesser” (classer) is really
guessing. The squatter says: “I’ll put in a new skylight over
the classer’s table for next year, and build some extra wool
bins.” Next year the old remaining skylight has a bag over
it. and one of the few wool bins is chockablock
with superphosphate.
There will have to be “an agonising reappraisal” in
the shearing game. The smallish cocky living off his fat,
has just about had it. The shearer says his costs and lost
time with much hardship makes his yearly expedition hardly
worth while.
The solution? Only God, the Du Ponts and Sir William
McGregor know.


The Tone of Adelaide
The New Class Is Breaking In
By WILLIAM KING
Ironically it was not so much Sir Thomas Playford who
brought about the industrial revolution to Adelaide, but
the Japanese. Early in World War II the Federal Govern-
ment looked to S.A. as a place sufficiently remote from
the bomb-threatened Pacific coast to build defence plants.
These were later swung over to peace-time production. When
peace took a new turn with the Cold War, Woomera Rocket
Range and Maralinga found convenient locations in the desert
country of the Far North, fostering new factories to support
them, notably at semi-suburban Salisbury—and so arose the
much-publicised satellite town of Elizabeth, with 12,000 people
(mostly British migrants) living in the S.A. Housing Trust’s
“model” homes. In due course came General Motors-Holden,
Chrysler, Philip’s Electronic Industries, Kelvinator and a bevy
of others making refrigerators, washing-machines and TV-sets.
However, what charms visitors is not industrial Adelaide
but the remnants of its almost feudal atmosphere: the hand-
some private mansions and public buildings that recall its
“colonial” or Victorian era. Adelaide, after all, is Australia’s
only planned city. “In the beginning,” runs the old adage,
“God said ‘Let there be Light’—and there stood Adelaide.”
Since S.A. has only two folk heroes, Sir Thomas Playford
and Colonel Light, it is only natural that the city’s founder
should be revered for fashioning it on a grand scale, with
some of its main thoroughfares nearly two cricket pitches wide,
even though it was hardly cricket for him to have lived openly
with his mistress in the decorous 1840 s. The square ring of
parklands he set about the city has since prevented the slums
and decaying land values that have affected metropolitan
Melbourne and Sydney so disastrously. The city proper does
have character ; the inner square mile of broad, clean-swept
streets, terraces, grassy squares and solid bluestone or freestone
buildings. Within the famous green belt itself are some 900
acres of parks, lawns, rose gardens, shady gums and English
trees, not to mention the black swans drifting on Torrens Lake
and sylvan banks where wary lovers and plonk-drinkers can
elude patrolling constables.
But the authorities are scarcely attempting to recreate the
pleasantries of Swan Lake. Local princelings have more to do
than chase pretty ballerinas through the parklands. Like
fellow huntsmen elsewhere, they are just as eager to run down
Sir Roland Wilson’s greenbacks. “Property and bank deposits
are sacred here,” a family solicitor remarked the other day.
“You’ll get three months for troubling a girl under the age
of consent. By God, they’ll give you two years if you try
passing a single dud cheque.”
Cociety (capital S) still has the overtones of Galsworthy’s
“Man of Property.” It is almost as Edwardian in tone.
Read the “social pages” in the daily press, with their echoes
of the “Burra Bunyip” or “Jamestown Gazette.” And surely
no other State still requires suburban and country-town
debutantes, in organdie and pink sashes, to curtsey to the
Governor or local bigwig at frequent coming-out balls. But
why not, when the Old Adelaide Families still set the tone.
As Dr Douglas Pike remarked, in his shrewd survey of early
history, “Paradise of Dissent,” “the worship of the ‘Old
Colonists’ began as far back as 1840.”
Later generations, he observed, broadened this ancestor-
worship into three classes: the “founders” were those wha
preceded Foundation Day in 1836 ; the “pioneers” who
arrived before 1841 ; the “old colonists” acquiring their free-
hold land before the goldrushes. He said that the “royal road
to respectability.” then as now, was in the ownership of land,
whether large or small hardly mattered.
This is why Adelaide tends to remain as much an island
of Englishness as Tasmania, despite the ruggedness of its out-
back and strong financial stake in the N.T., which it once
administered. Early settlers were mainly middle-class English
and Scots, with some capital, with a later injection of dour,
hard-working, frugal German Lutherans. There was no
rebellious Irish element to unsettle this conservatism (and
Roman Catholics still remain a minor influence in politics),
though the chief factor in fostering Adelaide’s exclusiveness
was its much-vaunted freedom from any “convict strain.”
In the superior suburbs —North Adelaide, Medindie and
the backwaters of squatter-residing Unley—you still feel the
city must have been at its best in the days of broughams and
four-in-hands. The wide, sweeping thoroughfares, crescents,
terraces and multi-road intersections were made to show them
off, though they have become mighty dangerous for fast,
modern traffic.
Nonetheless, if factories multiply in outlying areas, myriads
of tasteless, jerry-built bungalows swamp the older colonial
and Georgian homes and the suburban sprawl engulfs vine-
yards and farmlands and fertile market-gardens, this remains
a city where you can live with more grace and leisure, less
discomfort than anywhere except possibly Perth.
Maybe it lacks the vigorous crosscurrents of larger cities
—life is certainly more lusty in Toorak or Double Bay —but
most of the amenities of modern civilisation can be found—
if you look hard enough—good restaurants, especially since the
influx of European migrants, a bohemian fringe, art galleries
and theatre-in-the-round, call-girls, night clubs and, organised
with rather un-Australian good taste, beefsteak-and-burgundy
clubs and wineries only too glad to let you taste fine wines.
Despite a recent sprinkling of sin and smog, it is above
all a clean city, filtering the smoke of industry through its
parkland “lungs.” It has little to keep a small vice squad on
its toes. This work is mainly restricted to shunting bodgies
from one milk bar to another, picking up some teenager hope-
fully suspected of professional aims, or examining coffee cups
in Hindley Street night spots for traces of forbidden liquor
after hours. Some late-homing pedestrians have even been
quizzed from a patrol-car. “Is there a curfew or what?”
demanded one respectable citizen the other night, narrowly
escaping a charge of “loitering” while waiting on a street corner
for his friend.
As for the graft and civic horsetrading the “eastern
States” take for granted, it barely exists. It just isn’t necessary.
I recall a Sydney businessman once saying he had long ago
given up trying to fight Labor. “In the end you just come to
terms.” With a pliant Labor party in opposition in Adelaide
for 22 years, terms are not needed. It is said that in Adelaide
real power, both economic and political, rests in less than a
dozen hands. Nor is there any warring party system in the
City Council. Aldermen are elected by property owners only ;
there are no barrow-boys nor Labor-dominated wards. In
fact, this year all members were re-elected unopposed. Their


Name
your Scotch ...
r
frnsm
BY APPOINTMENT*
70 r yft<£STy- 5
I QcEEN 4*
% cJ2*BSTHI* j
**SKY
**A
' E ot -D SCOTCH V/H jSK
V A r l
1
„ 0tl "N» Distili.e bS '
h. T 1 PT. 6FI OZS RV( S | o"
s jpl
°EH
COMMONWEALTH
«fc
THERE’S NONE FINER!
NZL9I2
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
meetings are gentlemanly affairs. You can keep order with the
flick of an old school tie.
Most influential of these are the blue-and-white stripes of
St Peter’s Old Collegians. (A recent school publication listed
87 knights among its old boys.) Though St Peter’s massive
wrought-iron gates may not stand at the entrance to Heaven,
they do open the way to the executive suite, to nomination
for the Legislative Council and the best clubs.
“Which side of North Terrace is Government House?”
asked a sightseer fresh from his tourist bus. Though the tree-
shaded driveway to that fine old colonial mansion was only a
few yards off, the local pointed directly across the street to a
more modest, three-storey building with green shutters,
Georgian portico and firmly closed cedar door. Even the
Adelaide Club’s oldest member owns no key but must ring for
a venerable retainer to open up. Few passers-by notice the
soberly-suited gentlemen in black homburgs or bowler hats
that stroll in to lunch or dine there, though the members’ list
is restricted to the most distinguished of Adelaide’s citizens.
You must be old family, squatter, Cabinet Minister, one of
the judiciary or assured pillar of your profession to occupy a
leather armchair beneath the fading Harold Herbert or pastoral
Streeton on those dark-panelled walls. To be “in trade” is still
not quite good enough, even if trade tends to be dominated
by casual conversation here in a manner that no longer
applies to the Melbourne or Sydney clubs, once of equal
influence.
TThere are other advantages. In a city where pubs close at six,
-*• and wine only can be taken with meals till 10 p.m.. the
club is one of four with 24-hour licences. The others are the
Adelaide Bowling Club, the C.T.A. and the handsome but easy-
going Naval and Military Club. (There is also a fifth club:
Parliament House.)
Oddly enough, though Liberal Country League policy tends
to reflect Adelaide Club opinion, the Premier stays aloof from
it. The most astute of Australia's politicians, given to sudden
bursts of apparent radicalism —nationalising the State’s elec-
tricity supply and Leigh Creek coalfields, making the Govern-
ment Housing Commission the largest builder of homes and
serving writs on the Menzies Government when he feels the
mood —Sir Thomas likes to court more widely-based popular
support than any pressure group can give. No doubt he knows
also that, even if he digs his toes in now and then, fear of an
A.L.P. Government will always muffle criticism.
Barrister Don Dunstan, M.P., the real brains of the Labor
opposition, will not have this picture of Playford at all. The
Liberals only stay in office, he insists, because of their electoral
“gerrymander.” He likes to point out that the A.L.P. has
averaged 53 per cent, of all votes since 1941, that only 13 of
the State’s 39 seats are city ones, even though Adelaide has
60 per cent, of the population, and that the “reactionary”
country vote alone keeps the Playford Government in power.
Even so, it has a majority of only one.
In many ways, Adelaide’s innate conservatism has its
virtues. The raffishness, social discord, delinquency, money-
grubbing and class-conscious brawling of Sydney or Melbourne
are notably absent. It has strong civic pride, a sense of business
ethics and charity—-especially in privately-endowed homes tor
the aged —and remarkably good taste in architecture (of the
traditional kind), social entertainment and the arts. Maybe
its musical tradition was largely shaped by earlier German
settlers, but the University’s Elder Conservatorium has a
nation-wide reputation for its string playing—and where else
would members of the Elder String Quartet, as good as any
overseas quartet yet to visit us, be allowed 2\ hours each day
of their paid teaching time for rehearsals. It is worth noting,
too, that the ambitious Festival of Arts is backed by a similar
group of businessmen to that which in Melbourne can only
produce a Coney-Island Moomba.
How long the present even-tempered and leisurely tempo
can continue is another matter. The social structure is changing
fast; a new class of managers, professional men and technical
experts are upsetting the feudal calm, while their wives break
into the gossip columns and wear the more striking clothes.
It may well be that the genial autocrat, Tom Playford, by
fostering so many industries, is digging his political grave by
the very increase in working-class votes.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
The Great Debate:
Russia and China
NIKITA KHRUSHCHEV
“Zig-zag diplomat”
’‘The optimists dreamed of 'peace' in a co-existence
world. The pessimists feared that our 'blunders'
would cause war"
By DONALD HORNE
To some people Mr Khrushchev’s attack on his late beloved
leader and teacher, Comrade Stalin, in February, 1956,
shattered their faith in Communism more than his
suppression of the Hungarian revolution later in that
year. It was finally brought into the open by Mr Communism
himself that a whole range of criticisms made of the Soviet
regime for the previous quarter of a century were right. If it
had not been for this attack the revulsion against the Hungarian
massacres may not have been so great
But of even more lasting significance were his statements
made at the same time about the possibility of peaceful
co-existence between capitalist and Communist countries and
the possibility of Communism being achieved by peaceful
means rather than by revolution. These two semi-heretical
observations set off reverberations that still affect Soviet and
Chinese diplomacy and the policies of every Communist party
in the world. Not only did they lead to a public dispute
between China and Russia in 1960 that was reflected within
the Communist movement and to some extent changed its
nature, they also led to a rash of bewilderment, armchair
strategy, vague hopes and general demoralisation of Western
observers that finally had some of them so mixed up that in
watching Khrushchev’s famous “zig-zag diplomacy” last year
they saw not a confidence-man who was desperately trying to
fight his way out of the diplomatic and political mess he had
got himself into, but a cunning superman who single-handed
was trying to brainwash us all. The optimists dreamed of
“peace” in a co-existence world run by perpetual summit
conferences, or of a divided Communist world in which a
“democratic” Russia was disowning .a totalitarian China and
seeking its friends elsewhere. The pessimists feared that our
“blunders” would cause war, or that the Super-Machiavellian
Khrushchev would outsmart everybody.
It is hard for the ordinary layman to draw any conclu-
sions from the ideological battle that went on between Russia
and China because the ideology perplexes him. He is as much
at sea as if he had dropped into the Council of Trent or
Cromwell’s England. It would probably help us understand
Communist jargon if we did a compulsory course at school
unravelling the theological debates that were the very stuff
of politics in significant periods in our history. As it is, the
secularly-inclined, rational-minded Westerner of today is almost
certain to come out of the rattle of Marxist-Leninist verbiage
with one of two misconceptions: that this is a purely ideological
battle of no practical importance or a purely practical battle
in which the ideology is a smoke-screen.
These two conceptions are both true and untrue. The truth
lies in a mixture of both. Ideology is used cynically by Com-
munists to cloak ambitions and changes in policy ; but it also
has a force of its own —Communists have beliefs and these
beliefs can have as practical an effect as their more practical
actions. They both use mumbo-jumbo and are affected by it.
It is the purpose of this series of three articles to first of all
summarise the Great Debate between Russia and China, then
to comment on its ideological significance and then on its
“practical” significance, then to hazard some guesses on the
effects of this on Soviet diplomacy, on the world Communist
movement and, as an example of the latter, on the Australian
Communist Party.
'T'he battle began on February 14, 1956, when Khrushchev
A told the 20th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party
that they had to revise their Leninism in two respects. In
launching what he described as “the Leninist principle of
peaceful co-existence” he said by inference that Lenin, though
right in his time, was now wrong when he said that war was
inevitable so long as “imperialism” existed, and again by
inference that Lenin was also wrong when he said that Com-
munism could be introduced only by revolutionary violence.
He did not, of course, attack Lenin. In arguing his first point
he heretically stated that what was true in Lenin’s world was
not necessarily true in Khrushchev’s world because things had
changed. In arguing his second point he managed to dig out
a quotation from Lenin (described as “Lenin’s brilliant
precept”) which, he said, supported what he was saying. Lenin’s
brilliant precept was a pretty weak affair ; it simply stated that
all nations would inevitably arrive at “socialism,” but not
all “in exactly the same way”; but this was the best Khrush-
chev could do.
Khrushchev was in such a “de-Stalinisation” mess for the
rest of 1956 that the Chinese intervened only to strengthen
his hand, joining him in 1957 in a declaration in Moscow signed
by the leaders of all the Communist regimes which confirmed
his heresies of 1956. There was one significant change. To
the list of reasons Khrushchev provided to explain why Lenin
was out of date about the inevitability of wars another one
was added: that “national liberation movements” were now
strong enough to help prevent war The “national liberation
movements” by inference got another and more significant
mention: the possibility of peaceful evolution to socialism was
dropped in reference to colonial or formerly colonial terri-
tories. This privilege was now reserved for “imperialist”
countries only. The others (perhaps) still had to have their
revolutions.
At the 21st Soviet Communist Party Congress in January,
1959, Khrushchev —who was now engaging in his “Summit
diplomacy” drive —extended his heresy. He said that when
the other Communist countries had reached full strength “even
before the complete victory of socialism on earth, while
capitalism still remains in part of the world, there will be an
actual possibility of excluding world war from the life of
society,” that is to say that, from being inevitable, war would
become impossible.
By the time of a meeting of the Warsaw Treaty Powers
in Moscow in February, 1960, China (wh ch seems to have
gate-crashed the meeting) finally began to make puolic its


JJaiffi in ifve
future
m
\
The great paradox about this age of surpassing
discovery is that men still have to find how to live
with themselves.
Nations, and groups of nations, work in rivalry
to advance their respective causes; and the world,
for all its brilliant achievements, rema ins a challenge
—as life itself is a challenge.
This has ever been so. Problems of some kind
or another have been pursuing mankind since
history began. We have our own here in Australia
at times; the world has them at large.
It can be attributed, in part, to the fact that
progress has always required its price. And
expansion of the type to which Australia is
committed has its particular price, because we have
the needs of a growing country to meet, while still
having to keep up with what is happening in the
rest of the fast-changing world around us.
This thought could be disturbing if we were
to give ourselves over to doubt or fear. But history
has a habit of making its own right perspectives.
And our immediate duty as Australians is to prove
that we have the living power within us to justify
our opportunity in having this country to develop
and enjoy. The fulfilling of our national and
international destiny demands it.
To think that the future will be lived easily
or without effort, however, would be quite
unrealistic. Just as it would be unwise to allow
any besetting events, here or abroad, to distract us
from our purpose.
And that purpose is to press ahead with all
the industry and application we can command;
placing a new value on ourselves, and maybe
adjusting our thinking and our ways to the flexible
order of the times; but most of all, confident that
when the turbulence in the world has subsided, as
it must, and men at last have learnt to live with
themselves. Australia will be established in a
strength founded on the faithful effort we ourselves
were able to give to it in our lifetime.
// Q
c^
y
hitherto private restlessness. Russia and its satellites issued
a declaration that again confirmed the Khrushchev heresies;
China issued a counter-declaration. The Chinese counter-
declaration was suppressed in the Soviet and satellite press;
both declaration and counter-declaration were published in
China so that the Chinese could understand what their leaders
were talking about.
TTnlike almost everything else that was subsequently said in
this turgid dispute both statements were couched in prac-
tical rather than ideological language ; the full force of
Marxist-Leninist theology was not yet involved, which makes
it easier to understand what the quarrel was about. The Soviet
declaration speaks of how the “world has now entered on a
period of negotiations concerning a settlement of the prin-
cipal international issues in dispute”: the Chinese counter-
declaration uses the language of “realism”: “. . . the U.S.
ruling circles were obliged to make some peace gestures .. .
nevertheless, even the U.S. ruling circles themselves do not try
to hide the fact that the change in their way of doing things is
aimed at numbing the fighting spirit of the people of the world
by means of the strategy to win victory by peace, wrecking the
unity of the peace forces of the world and disintegrating the
Socialist camp . . . While being obliged to make certain peace
gestures, the U.S. ruling circles are still pushing ahead vigor-
ously with arms expansion . . . war preparations . . . inter-
continental ballistic missiles . . . missile bases . . . nuclear-
weapons tests . . . military blocs . . . The actions of the United
States prove fully that its imperialist nature will not change.”
To the Soviet statement that there is a need to “rule out com-
pletely the possibility of a new war, which in the present
conditions would lead to the death of hundreds of millions of
people and the annihilation of whole States,” the Chinese
counterpose the statement that “any international disarma-
ment agreement and all other international agreements which
are arrived at without the formal participation of the Chinese
People’s Republic and the signature of its delegate cannot, of
course, have any binding force on China.”
Tt was with an article, “Long Live Leninism,” in “Red Flag”
that the Chinese first attempted to discredit Khrushchev
theologically and to isolate him in Marxist-Leninist terms as
a heretic and schismatic. With true fundamentalism this article
went back to the real Leninism Khrushchev had by inference
denounced four years before. As long as imperialism existed
war was possible ; Communism would be achieved by revolu-
tion, not reform. Lenin's “irrefutable truths” were upheld.
“War is an inevitable outcome of systems of exploitation and
the source of modern wars is the imperialist system. Until
imperialism and the exploiting classes come to an end, wars
of one kind and another will always occur.” “Lenin considered
it of prime importance for the proletariat to establish its own
genuinely revolutionary political party ... Its programme is
to organise the proletariat . . . for class struggle ... it must
closely rely on the masses in revolution.” Under the banner
of Lenin the article then used the fighting word “revisionist”
and in the subsequent theological debate “revisionism,” the
sin of watering-down Marxist-Leninism for opportunist reasons,
was the pejorative term used to threaten Khrushchev’s
orthodoxy.
The Soviet counter-attack was launched six days later. A
member of the Soviet Presidium at a Lenin anniversary meet-
ing at Moscow’s Sports Palace used another pejorative term—
“dogmatism.” The sin of a formalistic, unrealistic misapplica-
tion of the letter of Marxist-Leninist writings was henceforth
the main weapon in the Russian counter-attack. “In the West”
(by which is meant, of course, the East) “at the present time
there are glib propagandists who allege that Lenin was against
the peaceful co-existence of the two systems. These falsifiers
pick out individual quotations from Lenin's works . . . But
then, these gentlemen carefully pass over in silence Lenin’s
entire policy during the first years of Soviet power.” There
is talk of a “creative development” of Lenin’s ideas, of “new
contributions to Marxism,” and so on.
At no stage in this, or any of the later controversies do
the Russian or Chinese spokesmen specifically attack each
other. With tortuous fulsomeness they flatter each other by


WORLD-WIDE
m
Wit i
Radiator R 1
100% British Made
warmth
where you
want it...
1
Completely portable and self-
contained, the Tilley Radiator
brings radiant warmth to
every corner of the house.
Entirely safe; burns for 12
hours on only pints of
ordinary kerosene.
For economical warmth whenever
and wherever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexandar Road,
Essendon, W 5. Austra.ia.
“The department improved my wheat, but they can't
tell me how to harvest it!”
name and then tear to shreds each other's arguments as if
those arguments had been presented by some third person.
They both appeal to Lenin and other Marxist-Leninist pre-
cedents like weary old witches mumbling over their charms.
There are whole passages of mere ritual, which may even
appear to contradict whatever else has been said, but to the
keen eyes of the members of the world’s 87 or whatever it is
Communist parties, the significant passages stand out like code
messages left in gleaming bottles in an otherwise desolate
garbage dump.
After the dogmatist-revisionist clash (all associated, like
a family quarrel, with celebrations of the birth of Lenin) the
Chinese pushed on with their theological attack on “revisionism”
in a series of statements that are too wearisome to mention.
The Russians then chose to give battle as the defenders of
orthodoxy. “Pravda” quoted passages from Engels and Lenin
in a context that was by inference critical of the Chinese
communes. Khrushchev poured scorn on those who ran back
to their Lenin without looking at reality. “If Lenin could rise
from his grave he would take such people, as one says, to task
and would teach them how one must understand the essence of
the matter. We live in a time when we have neither Marx, nor
Engels nor Lenin with us. If we act like children who, study-
ing the alphabet, compile words from letters, we shall not go
very far . . . All this gives grounds for saying with confidence
that under present conditions war is not inevitable.” This
kind of thing brought the Soviet satellites into line, but it did
not satisfy the Chinese. They adopted “factional” tactics in
Communist parties in non-Communist countries. Khrushchev
was forced to call all the world’s Communist parties to Moscow
for a conference in November.
Tn preparation for this conference Khrushchev did a little
A switching. He continued to insist that Lenin was no longer
right on war and that to say otherwise was “Trotskyite
adventurism” (which is really saying something). But “peaceful
co-existence” ceased to be concerned with “improving rela-
tions” and “strengthening confidence”; it became—in a bland
exercise of double-think —“the highest form of the class
struggle.” Civil wars and colonial revolts were back in vogue
and on the question of revolution (in underprivileged countries
at least) Lenin may have been right after all. Amongst world
Communists Khrushchev was becoming a little shaky as a
peace-lover, but he was again something of a revolutionary.
In this latter role the Chinese still outdid him. They now broke
from the 1957 Declaration and affirmed that Communism
would never be established anywhere except by violence. The
Russians countered with attacks on “adventurism,” “dog-
matism” and “sectarianism” and a refusal to work with broad
national movements.
Then came the three weeks’ Moscow conference. The
emergent statement reaffirmed that Lenin was still wrong on
war: mankind might be freed “from the nightmare of another
world war even now.” “Peaceful co-existence” was found to be
ideologically correct, but only in the sense that it is “a form of
the class struggle.” Revolutionary movements also remain-
in a compromise in which it is acknowledged that there are
both violent and peaceful ways of achieving Communism.
The success of the conference can be judged by the fact
that its findings have been interpreted differently by the
Chinese and the Russians.
What this battle has been about will be discussed in next
week’s article.


FORUM
A Case for Aid to
Church Schools
A Third Force Needed
By J. P. PARKINSON
BRASH nineteenth-century experiment has installed itself as
the Educational System in the Australian States. In its
centralised rigidity it was devised for the days when pupil-teachers
looked for direction to the few men in the Colony who were
literate. The brave materialist optimism which inspired it echoes a
little thinly across the apocalyptic battlefields of the twentieth
century. The sectarian jealousies which made it possible
were to be expected of hot-tempered settlers and unhappy exiles;
today they are a tragic anachronism, blind to the lessons of a
hundred years of social history.
It is true that the present impasse in education has led to
eforts at revision. These ta\e the form of re-arranging the pres-
criptive syllabus and of ironing out certain distinctions between
schools which are seen as unfitting in an equalitarian state. The
fact that so few voices radically question the presuppositions of
the State system is a proof of how far, in three generations, it has
conditioned the minds of its products', its ideology is the more
firmly implanted in that it is done implicitly.
TT is tempting to write on in the hysteri-
cal tones which the issue of Church
schools still seems to evoke. But some
weeks ago The Bulletin (“Plain
English,” July B—“Bedevilled8 —“Bedevilled by Sec-
tarianism”) called for a more thorough
and objective debate. The appeal is
timely, when Australian education at all
levels has come to a crisis.
It would be ungenerous to deny the
remarkable achievements of the State
Education Departments. By the turn of
the century they had built primary
schools in remote bush clearings and had
set up high-schools whose pupils were
to reach international honor in their pro-
fessions. In that era, when populations
were thin and educated men and women
few, the advantages of pooling resources
in a unified system were plain. Only the
religious orders of the Catholic Church,
schooled in their own cultural traditions,
could hope to rival it.
The question is whether those two
systems separate and alone—except for
a very few non-Catholic schools —can
give the educational stimulus which our
larger and much more complex com-
munity needs today. To think of the
schools question simply having in mind
the two systems as they have been in the
past is to treat the issues as fossilised.
It is to condemn editors of newspapers
to endlessly repetitive columns of sec-
tarian controversy, and to subject
Ministers of State to the same fulmina-
tions from Church leaders as their pre-
decessors were hearing in the 1860 s. If
Australian education is to move into a
new era, and that is what is demanded
of it, it can only do so by a carefully
planned fostering of the non-State
schools. Catholic schools would have
their place in such a scheme, but a limited
place. Primacy should be given to the
building of new schools by other groups,
whether denominational or non-
denominational. Any plan weighted
heavily in favor of the existing Catholic
system would be unlikely to please the
Australian public; nor would it meet
Australia’s educational needs.
The problem should be put in perspec-
tive by pointing out h~w isolated and
extraordinary the present Australian
position is. The burden of the argument
should really rest with those who wish
to keep it so, not with those who would
like Australian schools placed on the
same footing as those in most other
British nations. Scotland, for instance,
is a country noted for the open and
democratic tradition of its schools and
universities. In 1918, under the Educa-
tion (Scotland) Act, the voluntary schools
transferred their properties to the public
education authorities. In return there
were arrangements for the local authori-
ties to appoint teachers whose beliefs
would continue the religious character
of the schools concerned. This “Scot-
tish Concordat” was the fruit of maturity
and a secure social structure. It created
unity not by eliminating the Church
schools but by drawing them into a
system where each of the religious tradi-
tions had an accepted place.
Australia, however, probably has more
to learn from England than from Scot-
land. It is the diversity of schools and
flexibility of methods that is most striking
in English education. Even the schools
most closely tied to the education
authorities are establishments in their
own right; headmasters and head-
mistresses are responsible beings who
have a say, for example, in the appoint-
ment of their own staff. An English
school is free, within limits, to arrange
its own curriculum, provided it reaches
a standard which satisfies the inspectors.
It is known for a master to choose his
own literary texts and to have even
external examinations shaped to cover
the work of a particular school or form.
Any Church, or independent, school may
apply for a financial grant, which is
given on condition that staff appoint-
ments are approved by the education
authorities. In effect this simply means
that the staff must be properly qualified.
To complete the picture, there are
teachers’ training colleges conducted by
the Churches, the Government paying
the salaries of the lecturers and seeing
that proper academic standards are set.
What makes the Australian picture so
different is the lack of a balanced group
of independent schools —they were
strangled soon after birth by last century’s
Acts of Parliament and the thought of
rebuilding them is forbidding. But the
thought of Australia’s future without
them is more forbidding still. The force
of sheer inertia must not be made the
excuse to protract a situation in which
Australia has the worst of both possible
worlds: the independent schools fighting
a losing battle to maintain their stan-
dards, and the State system growing
heavy with the burden of its own
administration.
In both systems schools are reaching
monstrous size, with numbers not far
from a thousand in some cases. “Waste-
ful reduplication” has been urged as an
argument against subsidising the Church


schools. But reduplication is precisely
what is needed in the growing towns
and suburbs. The particular strength of
the private schools—and of the smaller
State schools—has been in their activities
outside the classroom and the training in
personal responsibility which they give.
In the larger schools this is to a great
extent lost. Very soon a frightening sum
of public money will have to spent on
education. It would reap a better har-
vest if some of it were spent in making
possible the growth of non-State schools.
By making use of the zeal of the Churches
or of groups of private citizens the State
would ease the administrative costs of its
own system. It would be raising the
standards of the Church schools and it
would be fostering a healthy new
development in this country.
In immediate politics, however, it is
doubt about the healthiness of Catholic
education which prevents the granting of
State aid. In an article in “Quadrant”
last year Professor J. L. Mackie gener-
ously accepted the variety which Church
schools go to make in the educational
scene as a point in their favor. His
objection was to their inculcation of non-
rational beliefs, which he saw as depriv-
ing children of the freedom to develop
their minds. It can be answered that
secular education itself implants an ideo-
logy which is non-rational. By treating
religion and moral questions as optional
ornaments it silently nurtures material-
ism. One does not have to be a Platonist
to see that in the long term this is not
merely anti-spiritual but anti-intellectual.
Who is to be the arbiter of what is
rational? Professor Mackie sees a vista
of schools devoted to Marxism or anti-
Semitism, all subsidised by the State.
The answer is that such a dilemma does
not seem to arise. People are willing
to encourage the accepted religions,
though they may not be strictly demon-
strable by reason ; they would baulk at
doctrines wildly incompatible with
reason.
The aim of religious education is not
to deprive children of their reason. It
is to put religious beliefs before them
at an age when they are able and willing
to learn. They are at liberty to reject
them later; many do so, as we all
know. But at least they have learned to
look beneath the surface of things in a
way that those whose vision lacks the
religious dimension often cannot do.
Miss Alison Lyons in her article
against aid to Church schools (Bulletin,
August 5) was strangely preoccupied with
the “question of power and authority”
in education. There was something of
a delusional trend in her view that “the
people” effectively control education in
N.S.W. under the present system. Surely
independent groups of citizens, founding
schools according to their own beliefs
and educational views, would be exer-
cising a more real control? She fears
the power of the Catholic hierachy in
education. Yet any form of State aid
would be certain to bring Church schools
under closer inspection and control by
public authorities than at present.
Miss Lyons has chosen to be cynical
about the interest which all political
parties are now showing in Church
schools. One could be more than cynical
about the political threats which fill the
last column of her own article. But
might there not be another reason for
the politicians’ concern? Perhaps it is
that those with responsibility are gravely
concerned about the crisis in Australian
education, and that they see in the
independent schools the best promise of
an answer.
LETTERS
Outcasts of the A.B.C.
Sir,
In your issue of August 5 M. H. Ellis
violently attacks the current A.B.C. tele-
vision dramatic series “The Outcasts.”
This is cause for concern, as are some of
the statements made by Mr Ellis.
As the writer claims, he is an authority
on Australia’s early history—particularly
the Macquarie period—and those who
follow our history will recognise him as
such and read weight into his words. This
could seriously detract from the con-
siderable value of “The Outcasts.”
In general Mr Ellis appears to have
ignored the relative positions of the
historian and the historical dramatist.
While it is the historian’s task to sift
a\ailable material so that he may arrive
at an accurate assessment of what hap-
pened in the past, surely the dramatist
must interpret the facts of history so that
they will most vividly—and correctly—
impress themselves on his audience. In
television particularly he must deal with
facts through the emotions and reactions
of the people concerned with them, other-
wise his work will be impossibly dull and
have no social nor historical value what-
ever.
This does not make it necessary for
him to pervert history. But to give a
correct and vivid picture of men and
their lives in another time he will cer-
tainly have to marshall the facts into the
confines of his medium —the particular
scenes and characters that express what
he has to say. To do this he will shape
a few minor details to his dramatic pat-
tern, ensuring that the important social
and historical facts of his story remain
accurate.
To any viewer interested in the Mac-
quarie era it will be apparent that the
author of “The Outcasts,” Rex Rienits,
has done no more than this. Careful
reading of Mr Ellis’s article suggests that
even he doesn’t feel that the major events
of the period have been falsely presented.
So why worry whether we should pro-
nounce the Lieutenant-Governor’s name
“Moll” or “Mole,” or that Mrs Macarthur
had her feet up at home instead of fondly
greeting her husband on the wharf? It’s
doubtful that either of these “facts” had
much bearing on the course of Australia’s
history.
But let’s look at some of these facts
disputed by Mr Ellis.
Mr Ellis is an authority, so he should
be answered by an authority. Generally
accepted as the most comprehensive and
accurate work on the period is the bio-
graphy entitled “Lachlan Macquarie, His
Life, Adventures and Times,” published
in 1947.
In his article Mr Ellis states that Dr
Redfern, the leading character of “The
Outcasts,” was not the central figure in
Macquarie’s fight for the emancipist re-
habilitation, was not the humanitarian
pictured, was not Macquarie’s number
one choice as medico. Literally, all this
may be so. Yet the impression of Red-
fern given by the biographer suggests
that the dramatist did not tamper very
much with the truth here. When probing
the inquiries of Mr Commissioner Bigge,
the biographer states: “From now on
Redfern was the core of Bigge’s anti-
pathies. No chance was missed to strike
at him and, through him, at the Governor,
and at those of the latter’s policies which
were especially anathema to the exclu-
sives of the McArthur faction. To
warrant this attention, surely Redfern
must have had some prominence in the
Emancipist group.
Not a humanitarian? To quote again:
“In 1814, Macquarie, on Redfern’s report,
had discovered how awful were the con-
ditions in some transports . . . Redfern’s
remedial scheme of supervision and
hygiene, devised by Macquarie’s orders,
had been adopted swiftly. The voyage
to Botany Bay was thus ‘Disarmed of
half its terrors.’ ”
While the biography doesn’t deal with
the question of the Macquarie family
doctor, it does graphically describe the
joy which attended the birth of the
Governor’s son —and the announcement
by Dr Redfern, who delivered him.
Possibly Dr Wentworth was indisposed
that day, but there is certainly no sug-
gestion that Macquarie had any qualms
about the attention of the Assistant Sur-
geon.
Mr Ellis is disturbed that Lieut.-Colonel
Molle should be cast for one of the
villains’ roles in “The Outcasts.” The
drama deals with the conflict between the
Emancipists, and their Vice-Regal cham-


pion, and the Exclusives and their sup-
porters. As our sympathies are with the
Emancipists and Macquarie, obviously
their opponents appear in a less favor-
able light. So it is with Lieut.-Colonel
Molle. Neither does the biographer paint
Moile in a favorable light.
It may well be that Marsden’s hard-
ness is overdone. But the impression of
the reverend gentleman after reading the
biography has very few soft tones. The
author is careful to note McArthur's refer-
ence to him as “that arch-hypocrite,”
Macquarie’s label of “discontented, in-
triguing and vindictive,” and other similar
contemporary opinions.
However, there is little point in exam-
ing at length all the charges against “The
Outcasts” laid by Mr Ellis. In every case
he is undoubtedly correct —literally. It is
unlikely that a historian of his eminence
would be otherwise. But is he correct in
the implications he makes in his method
of stating these literal facts? Or is “The
Outcasts” correct in the looser dramatic
implications made by playwright Rienits?
Mr Ellis makes much of the fact that
Col. Molle ordered the caricature of Mac-
quarie washed from the wall of the
Officers’ Room, and prepared to court-
martial the author. He was an officer,
junior to the Governor ; could he have
done otherwise? These particular acts
do not demonstrate his real attitude to
his superior, nor his correct place in Aus-
tralia's history.
On the other hand, the licence used
in “The Outcasts” does show us very
clearly the problem facing Macquarie in
having an openly critical and arrogant
Lieutenant-Governor —surely the import-
ant historical aspect. This picture of
Molle is evidently correct. It is the same
painted by Macquarie’s biographer.
So it is with most of Mr Ellis’s points
of criticism. He criticises the literal fact,
and ignores the veracity of the recreation
of an important period of their country’s
history which is being impressed on the
minds of perhaps a million Australians.
He sneers at the term “manuscript scores.”
Does he imply that Mr Rienits's reference
sources were inadequate? Or does he
mean, as he is a very literal man, that
there are no manuscript musical scores of
the period still available? He certainly
wouldn’t have us believe there are no
manuscripts available. The biography
referred to lists pages of them.
No, this criticism is unjust—not in
what it says but in what it implies. In-
accuracies of detail there may be, but
the important issue is that through “The
"Says he's trying to find himself."
Outcasts” the A.B.C. and Mr Rex Rienits
are providing Australians with a clear
and fascinating picture of the men who
founded their country, and the way they
went about it. If the picture painted
by the biography were different one
would give more credence to the criticism.
But it isn’t. The impressions of the
Macquarie period left by the historical
work and the television drama are sub-
stantially the same.
Mr M. H. Ellis should be delighted
with the success of “The Outcasts.” It
will undoubtedly stimulate interest in the
period it portrays —and even in that
excellent book he wrote, “Lachlan Mac-
quarie—His Life, Adventures and Times.”
BRIAN WRIGHT
Cheltenham {N.S.W).
Surely Mr Ellis’s quarrel was not with Mr
Rienits for writing a drama, but with the
A.B.C. for overstating its claim to authenticity.
—Editor, The Bulletin.
WHY SALESMEN CRACK UP
Sir,
The writer of your article on selling
(B. 29/7/61) says that tens of thousands
of salesmen, beaten battlers as he calls
them, often more or less neurotic, are
typified by the man who sells consumer
goods at the door. What a brilliant piece
of generalisation ! Mild neurosis exists
in the majority of people today and it is
a very small proportion of our total sales
force that is occupied in door-to-door sell-
ing. It is doubtful if Mr Browne’s brief
meetings with salesmen would arm him
with sufficient knowledge to form a very
accurate opinion about salesmen in
genera). He labors a truism when he
states that successful salesmen he has met
all displayed the ability to withstand
rebuffs. Just as a surgeon must not react
emotionally to an operation situation, so
the successful salesman must not react
negatively to the “no-no” people he
meets in the course of his work. The big
majority of salesmen choose their vocation
because they have the moral stamina to
withstand the stress and strain of selling
and they accept it on the whole cheerfully
and philosophically.
The article displays a decided lack of
appreciation of the sterling job done
by thousands of travellers, salesmen,
representatives and shop assistants, who
work hard bringing knowledge of new
products and services to retailers and
consumers. They are part of the vast
distribution mechanism of our economic
system, certainly by no means perfect,
but on the whole our sales force does a
very good job.
If Mr Browne had some capacity for
true research he could have presented a
highly interesting article covering income
distribution, age groups, industrial
and commercial groupings, volume of
sales, educational background, trading
methods, and export selling. As it is he
has failed to reveal why so many sales-
men crack up and presents rather a
dismal piece of cynicism which does
little to invite admiration for his pro-
fession.
G. S. DOIC
Manly ( N.S.W. ).
NO PRECEDENT
Sir,
It is unfortunate that the above heading
for the law story in your August 5 issue
was inaccurate. Firstly, because it was
contradicted in the first paragraph, and
secondly, because it imputed that Mr
Justice Hale had overlooked the precedent
of Oliver v. Ashman, a case decided by
the Lord Chief Justice in the Queen’s
Bench Division last year, and one which
every first-year student in the faculty of
law at Sydney University is familiar with.
Whatever else law reports should be,
they should at least be accurate. If, in
the opening paragraph, “difficult to obtain
a precedent” equals “No Precedent” then
logic, never a forte of newspaper court
reporters, is sadly astray.
From the following extracts from
Lord Parker’s judgment in Oliver v. Ash-
man it can be seen that Mr Justice Hale
must have had that case firmly in mind,
and that your heading is entirely unfair:
“So far as damages for pain and
suffering are concerned any award must
be small and possibly nil because the
general view is that this child really does
not feel pain and suffering ...”
“The child is entitled to something for
what he has lost, whether he knows he
has lost it or not ...”
GERALD McCALLUM
Manly (N.S.W.).
AID TO CHURCH SCHOOLS
Sir,
There are a great number of points in
the article by Alison Lyons (Forum,
August 5) upon which issue can reason-
ably, and must be, taken.
But first, I must protest against the
framing of the question in terms of State
“aid” for church schools. What Catholics
claim is not any “aid,” but that the
property of Catholic parents be left to
them. Neither the Catholic Church nor
the Catholic hierarchy nor the Catholic
schools claim this property for themselves,
but they do maintain that it is the property
of Catholic parents and that these parents
should not be unjustly deprived of it.
I am referring to the immense sum
(amounting to something near £lB million
in N.S.W. alone) which is taken in the
current year from Catholic parents for
aid to State schools. And in the face
of this, your contributor has the effrontery
to misrepresent the Catholic position by
stating that the Catholic hierarchy claims
a “right” to State “aid” for their schools.
“ What's this I hear about you
taking sick leave?”


The Catholic position has its roots at
a far deeper level than your correspondent
imagines. Fundamental to all Catholic
social teaching is the belief that the human
person is possessed of natural rights,
derived from God and not from civil
authority, and which civil government is
therefore obliged to respect, and which
it is indeed the duty of civil government
to defend. Any government, whether
supported by 51 per cent, or 99 per cent,
of the community, is acting wrongly if
it does not respect these rights, high
among which is the right of parents to
determine the nature and manner of
education of their children —as is ex-
pressly recognised by the United Nations
Charter.
Your correspondent seems to me to
confuse “taxation,” in the sense of the
raising of revenue for the due functioning
of government, with “charge"’ for the pro-
vision of services. The exacting of a
contribution for the conducting of a
“State” school system certainly belongs
to the latter, not to the former, category.
Your correspondent also confuses “un-
usable” with “unused.” With this distinc-
tion in mind, may 1 ask what right has
the State to exact financial contributions
from Catholic parents to a school system
which to them is (not merely unused but)
unusable? To provide for use some-
thing which is unusable is simply not to
provide: and then to levy a compulsory
charge for it merits assuredly no com-
plimentary name.
But the fundamental assumption is the
Socialistic thesis that it is a due function
of Government to conduct a school
system at all. It seems to me most basic
that the State (and Government?) exists
for the sake of goods which cannot be
had without it, not for the sake of goods
which can be had without its supplying
them. Surely the State and Government
are a necessity, not a luxury. I would
readily concede to the State the right, even
the duty, of insisting that all children be
educated in a manner that good citizen-
ship requires (and, incidentally, here is
my answer to Alison Lyons’s query about
Communist schools), but this does not
mean that the State is the primary reposi-
tory of the right to educate, or is by any
natural right the performer of the educa-
tional task.
If a certain number of parents wish
the State to act as their delegate in the
education of their children by providing
a school system acceptable to them, then
surely it is incumbent upon them to pay
for this service ; but what right have they
to insist that other parents share the cost
with them? And if a majority of the
parents do this, and at the same time,
use their power as the voting majority
to compel others to help foot the bill,
then can any weaker words than tyranny
and injustice be used?
May I hope that I have said enough
to allow your contributor and others to
see that our position, far from under-
mining the free and harmonious society,
exactly guarantees it? But surely your
correspondent will not seriously contend
that the public paying of the salaries of
the teachers in the Catholic schools of
England and Scotland has meant, in those
countries, “the breakdown of public life
and the division of the community into
sectarian groups.”
A. F. DWYER
Sydney.
Sir,
Alison Lyons says that the crux of the
whole controversy lies in the question:
“Shall the State agree to become the
temporal arm of the Church or not. it
is, in fact, the people versus the hierarchy,
democracy versus religious authoritarian-
ism.'’
The acid test of any democracy is the
freedom it gives to its minorities. If
the State tells a minority that if its
members insist on educating their child-
ren in accordance with their consciences
they will be penalised for it, then it is the
State which is being authoritarian.
If a majority of people were Catholics,
would Alison Lyons believe they had a
right to set up a Catholic system of edu-
cation as the State-subsidised system? In
such a system, non-Catholics could opt
out of the religious classes and have,
during school hours, instruction from
their own ministers of religion. If non-
Catholics wanted their own system of
education they would have to finance it
themselves while still contributing through
taxes to the Catholic State-subsidised
system. I would regard this as religious
authoritarianism. But Alison Lyons must
allow it if she persists with her notion
of “the people” and their “rights.”
Alison Lyons’s next main thesis is this:
“To give the people's money into the
control of a sectarian hierarchy would
mean the semi - establishment of a
religion.” What nonsense! The money
would be given on a per capita basis to
all groups who wished to exercise their
rights in education. Initially this would
most favor the Catholic schools. But as
time went on, the other religious groups
would take advantage of “State aid” to
bring religious education to the children
of their lower-income members. At
present, the only non-Catholics who give
a religious education to their children
are those of comfortable means.
“State aid” would mean therefore,
not the semi-establishment of a religion,
but the establishment of a climate in
which education would return to being
the prime responsibility, not of the State,
but of the parents. The State system,
of course, would continue for the children
of those people who preferred the State
secular system of education.
Finally Alison Lyons states: “Only a
minority wants State aid ...” In fact,
a Gallup Poll just released makes a
different finding. It estimates that 51 per-
cent. of the people favor “State aid,” 43
per cent, oppose it and 6 per cent, have
no opinion. If the poll is accurate, and
if Alison Lyons really believes that the
“will of the people” (by which, she said,
the State system was set up) should
prevail, then she should be a supporter,
not an opponent of State aid.
However, the moral case for State aid
does not depend on the number of people
for or against it. It depends on the
argument that parents have the right to
choose, without financial penalty, the type
of education their children are to have.
PAUL ORMONDE
East Malvern (Vic.).
COMMUNISM IN UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
Mr Brian Buckley's second letter
(Bulletin, August 5) has the small virtue
of being more precise than his first
(Bulletin, July 15). Who would have
guessed, reading his tirade against Com-
munists who “were able to intimidate
fellow academics and grossly violate the
ethics of their profession," who were
guilty of “burglary” and “poison pen
letters,” that the instance of Lloyd
Churchward’s teaching was intended as
an exception to the rule? Mr Buckley
is either reckless of the impression he
creates or made an innuendo he now
finds it expedient to get out from under.
Either way, it is good to see him ready,
when pressed, to state his estimate of
Mr Churchward's character and integrity
in plainer language.
His more specific criticisms of the
course in Soviet Government are open
to many objections. In the period during
which he studied Political Science B, the
subject offered a comparative survey of
the political institutions of four countries.
The short course on each touched only
briefly on foreign policy, ft is therefore
natural that such topics as the Nazi-
Soviet pact and relations with the Com-
intern were not dealt with in great detail,
although they were most certainly men-
tioned and discussed. The separate course
in international relations dealt with them
exhaustively.
The status and cultural relations of
such minority groups as the Jews and
Ukrainians is a matter of importance,
but it is open to question whether or
not a short course of lectures on the
machinery of government and party
apparatus should deal with it at length.
It could be, and, I expect, was, raised
in tutorial discussion.
The only pertinent candidates for
culpable neglect are, therefore, the first
three Mr Buckley mentions: the purges,
the secret police, and Stalin's domina-
tion of the C.P.S.U. I would suggest that
he either did not attend these lectures,
has lost his notes, or is deliberately mis-
leading your readers. The course in
Soviet Government in 1953 included a
series of three lectures on “political
power in the U.S.S.R.” The second of
these dealt with precisely these questions ;
the factional struggles in the C.P.S.U.
after 1921, the role of Trotsky and his
viewpoint, the purges of the ‘thirties and
the emergence of the “monolithic” party
at the end of that period. The third
lecture in this group contained a discus-
sion of the role of the secret police as
an instrument of State power. The final
lecture of the course, which followed
these three, discussed, inter alia, the
question: “Is the Soviet Union a Police
State?” In the course of a lengthy dis


<32^
.B.C.
SAVINGS BANK
INTEREST
INCREASED TO
%
PER ANNUM
on balances up to £3,000
as from Ist July, 1961
Interest on societies' and clubs'
cheque accounts increased to 3 1 /2%
up to £3,000 and thereover 2% p.a.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
a wholly owned subsidiary of
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
cussion of this issue the sharply critical
views of Laski were quoted, as were such
facts as the vast number of people in-
volved in the purges. So much for Mr
Churchward’s alleged suppression of
historically relevant material.
Enough has been said of the status
of the short list of prescribed texts in
the Arts Handbook to indicate that Mr
Buckley's reference to it is at best irrele-
vant and at worst disingenuous. The
books he is sorry to see omitted deal
mostly with foreign policy. To call such
studies as those of Towster, Fainsod,
Harper and Thompson, and Hazard
“Left-wing liberals’ apologies for the
‘objective view’ ” is ridiculous. The
phrase is far more revealing of the tenor
of Mr Buckley’s views than of theirs. It
is worth noting that in the years of Mr
Churchward’s absence, when the course
was taken by a lecturer who happened to
hold strongly anti-Communist views, the
reading guides remained substantially un-
changed. This was probably not because
of orders from Moscow.
I do not accept the naive equation of
Communists and Fascists implied in Mr
Buckley’s final rhetorical flourish. It j s
possible to be a Communist and still
retain some intellectual detachment and
much humanity: much harder to do this
if one is a Fascist. A fairer parallel
issue might be the legitimacy of a Catholic
lecturing on the Reformation. Yes, Mr
Buckley, that’s O.K.
ALAN HUGHES
Parkville (Vic.).
EDUCATION AS POISE
Sir,
1 consider it most unfair of “Observer' 1
(July 29) to call the fruits of the Wynd-
ham committee “sour,” merely because,
as is patent, he has had no opportunity
to cultivate the same “poise” and
“balance” which he decries. As one who
is involved in the “process” of education,
I would like to point out certain specific
inaccuracies in his comments:
(1) The selective schools may well be
the best schools of their kind (i.e., in
teaching the difficult academics —lan-
guages, English literature, mathematics
and the sciences—to those who are
capable of benefiting from these studies),
but i fail to see that this necessarily makes
them the best schools of any kind.
(2) Strangely enough, in this revoltingly
“progressive” age, primary-school child-
ren no longer require the “stimulus” of
an examination to make them “work,"
as they rather enjoy the process.
• (3) I hope that “The whole idea that
education is hard work and the cultiva-
tion of intelligence” will be replaced—
no comment.
(4) The idea that education is the
cultivation of poise and balance is neither
“passe,” “modern” nor “cant.” Over a
period of years, many individuals have
realised with a shock that the Australian
State school produces, at best, candidates
for university studies and, at a far more
frequent worst, a race of semi-literate
cultural snobs (inverse and otherwise),
with the manners, as to be expected, of
recalcitrant schoolchildren.
This realisation has not, of course,
reached the corporate sensitivity of educa-
tional society until recently, as in the
Wyndham Report, but the ideas are old.
Hence it is foolish to call them “modern,"
and if they have not yet been tried, they
can hardly be classed as “passe,” while to
accuse earnest, sincere men of uttering
“cant” would be faintly ridiculous, were
it not so pathetic.
(5) Finally, to claim that a year spent
in making students “more mature, more
poised, and more balanced,” as we 1 ! as
(N.B. not instead of) giving them a
grounding in their academic studies, is
the waste of a year indicates that the
writer has somewhere along the line, lost
his sense of values.
If “Observer” wishes to have his child-
ren “educated” under a system imported
from England and intended for the
English gentleman’s son in 1880, he is
welcome, but I fail to see that he has
any right to decree that all others should
share his spiritual blindness.
K. J. BRIDGE
Mt Gambier (S./4.).


OUT and ABOUT
Atfuned to Modern Living
'The Spanish classical guitar is regarded
by aficionados as the instrument best
attuned to modern living. It is cheaper
than a piano, it is self-contained {you
don't need an accompanist), it is port-
able so you can take it to parties, and
in these days of small flats and thin walls
it is relatively quiet. Added to this is
that even in the hands of a beginner the
guitar does not give out the excruciating
noises of a suffering violin.
The visit of Spanish classical-guitarist
Segovia in November is expected to swell
the local band of players. Sixty-six-
years-old Segovia will be making his first
visit.
In classical-guitar circles there is none
of the Callas v. Sutherland, Heifetz v.
Oistrakh controversy. “Segovia is our
Messiah,” said Melbourne player Sadie
Bishop with a smile. Miss Bishop is in
Sydney this week for a concert at the
Conservatorium on August 19. This will,
she thinks, be the first classical-guitar
concert given in Sydney.
Miss Bishop studied under Segovia at
the summer schools at the Chigi Palace,
Siena. Each year the Count Chigi opens
his palace to leading teachers of singing
and instruments for them to conduct
“perfection” classes for advanced
students.
Miss Bishop said an audition was
necessary, but whereas hundreds of
singers competed to attend the schools,
only about 25 guitar players made up
Segovia's class each year.
“You pay only about £8 for daily
lessons and nightly concerts, held over a
period of two months,” Miss Bishop said.
Miss Bishop began studying 11 years
ago in Melbourne under Englishman Len
Williams. Williams returned to England
and his son, John Williams, is now a
tutor in classical guitar at the Royal
College of Music. Miss Bishop came
home in 1958 and now has about 70
pupils at her school in Melbourne. She
said that the school, founded by Len
Williams, was still going in Melbourne,
but that although there has been a
Classical Guitarists’ Society in Sydney,
there was no established school for the
classical guitar.
Miss Bishop said that the production
of guitars locally had quickened interest
in playing the instrument. Guitars, cost-
ing about £BB, which compares with a
price of £2OO or more for an imported
one, are made by a Dutch-born luthier,
Andries de Jager, in Western Australia.
Twentieth-century Spanish composers,
such as de Falla and Turina, and the
South American Villa-Lobos, have written
for the guitar. Miss Bishop said that
now that there are top-flight players in
England, British composers, such as
Britten and Malcolm Arnold, are writing
for it.
One of Miss Bishop's preoccupations
is keeping a layer of callous on the tips
of the fingers of her left hand which stop
the strings. If the callous is not deep
enough stopping the strings can hurt, but
if it grows too thick Miss Bishop’s fingers
slide off the strings. The nails of her
left hand are cut short, but the fingers
of her right hand, which pluck the
strings, have moderately long nails.
Smoke-screen
Tasmania, which has now made it
illegal to leave a child unattended in
a house or car, is taking further steps
to protect the little dears.
An amendment to the Police Offences
Act will extend the provision which
makes it illegal to supply tobacco to
children at vending machines. The
clause says the owner of the vending
machine must take “such steps as are
ordinarily necessary” to prevent the
operation of the machine by a child.
Opposition - leader Angus Bethune
claimed that the legislation was, in fact,
aimed at vending machines, not smoking
by children. He said that the Govern-
ment was trying to protect the interests
“Cheer up, my friend, think how famous you'll soon he...
THE TEST OF FORM
The fans of form in other days
Were very different in their ways :
What ageing roue can forget
The shapely legs of Mistinguette ?
Today, as ladies go, we go
For Loren, Mansfield or Monroe;
But when it comes to form we find
That it is men who come to mind.
What if Lawry lost his eye,
Lobbing Lock into the sky ;
Or Harvey slipped, and was run out
By over-anxious Booth or Grout?
What is the chance of victory missed,
If Norm O’Neill has hurt his wrist;
And what of Benaud, growing older,
Dragging on a tired shoulder ?
Rather than win, the tipsters hope
To drag out all the inside dope,
Studying deviants from the norm
In the holy name of form.
Perhaps, when cricket comes of age,
We’ll find it on the Doctor’s Page ;
With signed post-mortems day by day,
Submitted by the B.M.A. ?
Meanwhile, one fan cannot forget
The luscious legs of Mistinguette;
Or, thinking form, can quite forego,
A forward look at Miss Monroe.
ANTON VOGT


of tobacconists, but it would not come
out in the open and legislate against the
machines.
It was reported from Launceston this
week that two boys sat in a cloud of
smoke and asked for half-fares. “If
you’re children you shouldn't be smoking,
and if you’re not children you shouldn’t
be travelling half-fare,” said the ticket-
collector. The boys took a long drag
each, butted their cigarettes and tendered
their half-fares.
Potters' Progress
C*o successful has the Warrandyte (Vic.)
group of craft potters been that they
are now moving their “potters’ cottage”
to larger premises and enlarging their
membership from five to eight.
The group will next month move from
their original “potters’ cottage” to
another bigger cottage, still at Warrandyte
but on the other side of the Yarra.
The group eventually hopes to form
a “craftsman’s co-operative,” combining
their talents and working together as a
single business concern.
The new cottage will be open at the
weekend and on some week days. The
potters will serve afternoon tea, as well
as show their wares, and part of the
grounds has been given over to a nursery
for Australian native plants.
How Doth the Busy Bee?
Tt is always pleasing to observe Con-
■*- tinental touches about our cities.
“The Busy Bee” cafe in George Street,
Sydney, has a sign on its window pro-
claiming in the language concerned, that
someone inside speaks Italian, French
and Greek. As an afterthought has been
added, in English, “We also speak
Arabic.” Alongside this is a sign, Scott’s
pies, Is.
FASHION
What is the
Difference?
'T'he two women were idling away the
few minutes before the spring fashion
show began. “See that turquoise coat,”
one said, indicating one of the audience.
“It’s 18 guineas all over town.” “Well,
it doesn’t look bad for that,” said the
friend. “But see that lipstick-red one
over there,” said the omniscient one.
“That’s 80 guineas’-worth.” “Is it?” said
the friend. “I must admit I can’t see
the difference.”
You can’t see the difference, but, of
course, if you wear an 18 guineas’ coat
and an 80 guineas’ one you can feel the
difference. And it is because you can
feel the difference that high fashion
exists. You can feel it in the way that
clothes fit, in the way they keep their
shape, because they are perfectly cut, and
you can feel the difference in the luxury
of pure silk linings and hand-sewn
seams.
“When you buy a cotton suit with a
pure-silk lining then you are really get-
ting the benefit of high fashion,” English
designer Michael once remarked.
It is because of the difference that
women, who can afford it, are mad not
to buy couturier-designed and made
fashions. If you sit at the spring collec-
tion of Germaine Rocher in Sydney you
might be tempted to think that you could
easily get your little dressmaker to copy
this or that model and get exactly the
same effect.
In 99 per cent, of cases you might get
almost the same thing—but not quite. In
the first place generally the type of fabric
used by high fashion is not available in
the shops, or is available only in small
quantities. You can see a perfectly
lovely pale-mauve linen suit, but could
you find that exact shade of linen in a
shop? Probably not. You can see a
watery-green pleated chiffon short even-
ing dress. Even if you could buy the
chiffon, which is doubtful, you almost
certainly could not have that intricate
pleating done satisfactorily.
You might see the beautiful cotton
ottoman topcoats of Balenciaga or
Michel Goma and think that the little
dressmaker around the corner could do
that. However, although they have wide,
rounded shoulders, these shoulders are
cut without padding. That is what you
are paying for when you get an expen-
sive label sewn in the garment.
Germaine Rocher, who twice a year
shows a collection of her own designs,
plus the latest designs of the leading
Paris couturiers, probably shows a more
varied and more wearable collection of
clothes than would ever be seen in Paris.
This is because she has a large clientele
and she knows exactly what they want.
Although she will show elaborate even-
ing dresses and pretty cocktail dresses in
melting, vastly impractical colors, the
basis of her collection is silk suits —often
navy-blue—for day wear, richly-colored,
loose theatre-coats and some short, black
evening dresses, the sort which stay in
fashion indefinitely.
This season Madame Rocher has been
more dashing with color than normally.
There is a lot of chartreuse, those
Gauguin pinks and oranges, and a bril-
liant color called red caviar. (Just try
to get that particular shade at your local
shopping-centre!)
Some of the suit skirts are slightly
flared and jackets are somewhat longer.
Most dresses are sleeveless, which isn’t
the easiest fashion to wear once you have
left the teens.
Crepe is making its first appearance in
quantities since pre-war. It isn’t exactly
kind to the figure and it shows every
crease and mark, but, nonetheless, it is
sure to make an appearance at all the
smart spring weddings.
That was Society
Re rabbits at Rose Bay, Sydney; bunny
is also pretty numerous in that part of
the Cooper estate lying south of Rand-
wick and Kensington. I rarely fail to
get a couple or so with the gun when
I go out at daybreak or towards dusk.
Best spot is about Maroubra Bay.
— “Bulletin,” March 3, 1900.
“Prince George of Wales will probably
retire from the navy, and marry Princess
Margaret of Prussia, one of the sisters
of the German Emperor.” In other words,
the descendant of a long line of epilep-
tics, brother of a Prince who died from
epilespy, is to marry a cousin of his
own, daughter of a man who died of a
mysterious disease and sister of a man
with a sore ear and a withered arm. How
would it all look in the records of a life-
assurance society —ay, or in the herd-
book of a pedigree-pig farm?
• — “Bulletin,” February 6, 1892.
The Bulletin sees it stated that the
Darlinghurst gaol-flogger, who, by the way,
was sent up country the other day to skin
a boy alive at the instance not of a
judge and jury sitting in open court,
but of a couple of mere “beaks” sitting
in secret, has been appointed, his hands
still red with blood, to the governorship
of a N.S.W. up-country gaol. As well
appoint the Government undertaker as
official accoucheur-—as well appoint the
high priest of Venus Cloacena, attired
in his working suit, mayor of the city!
Think of the flogger—the creature only
brought in when all other things have
confessedly failed—being appointed as the
first means of reformation! No more
brutal insult was ever offered to civilisa-
tion than this appointment,
— “Bulletin,” January 2, 1892.
The Sydney public wants a rest. It
is tired of having fired at it, in season
and out of season, in the social column
of every newspaper in the city, the names
of a pair of people whose one object in
life would appear to be to attend every
“function” and get an advertisement out
of it. The much-printed pair may be
“well-connected,” but neither of them
is at all interesting, if one overlooks the
fact that in the male can be seen the
best and finest example of vapid ignor-
ance, brazen front and ghastly snobbery
south of the equator,
— “Bulletin” January 9, 1892.


DESIGN
Thumping Their
Dull Clay
T>ick up a piece of modern pottery, and
A right behind you is the sociologist, the
man with the built-in theories, to explain
the tremendous significance of that
simple little pot. Do you know, he
demands, that the 20th century is the
first time in the history of man that
people have made pots and bowls for
the sake of making something, and not
because they needed some kitchen recep-
tacles?
Do you realise, he demands, that in
previous centuries women made pots or
bowls because they needed them to equip
their kitchen, but 20th-century woman,
the poor, twisted creature, actually makes
them because she wants to get away from
the kitchen?
Many of the pottery-potterers will
admit that the theory holds some water.
“The thing about housework is that you
have nothing to show for it,” said a part-
time pottery student. “You cook a meal,
in an hour it’s eaten. You dust a room,
in a day it’s dusty again. But the thing
about pottery is that it is one of the most
enduring of things. You can look at even
your own cockeyed little clay pots and
think, you might survive for thousands
of years.”
The pottery school at the National Art
School, East Sydney Technical College,
which is under the direction of Peter
Rushforth, devotes one day a week to
design students and another to students
from the sculpture school. To them,
pottery is just one subject of their course,
but to the 30-odd part-time students who
come on Monday (all of whom are house-
wives and all of whom have worked their
Way up a waiting-list) it is fashion, therapy
or “just something to take my mind off
the house, dear.”
Pottery may be fashion or therapy, but
it seems to require patience of an almost
terrible kind.
“An artist can draw something and
look at it straight away, but a potter has
to be so patient,” a student said. “There
are so many things which can go wrong.
You might experiment with a certain type
of glaze. Then after the whole business
of making the piece and firing it, your
experiment with glaze just doesn’t come
off. You might try a different type of
firing, and that doesn’t come off. You
could experiment for years, and still find
just as many things you hadn’t tried. It
is no wonder that pottery was most highly
developed with the Chinese, who are
noted for their patience.”
After perhaps a term at the pottery
school your first effort, a little pinch pot,
comes out of the kiln. It has been made,
of course, without the help of a wheel
and it looks rather more lopsided than
you had expected. Although there is
always the thing that a hand-made object
is distinguished by its slight imperfection,
your lopsidedness is not quite the sort of
slight imperfection which the pottery
teacher admires.
You progress then to making a coil pot.
Taking yard-long coils of clay you mould
them by hand, with sweat, blood and
tears —but no wheel—into a pot or bowl.
Generally, after a few weeks’ hard work
you have something comparable to what
a reasonably bright kindergarten pupil
can make in plasticine after his first week
at school. The coil pot usually finishes
up somewhere in the garden at home,
where it is pointed out as “the funny
thing Mummy made at Tech.”
After that, the going is a bit easier,
although it is not until the fourth and
final year of the part-time course that the
student comes from earthenware to stone-
ware. It was quite some time before the
part-time student, who announced on her
first day that she planned to make a
dinner service, was able to produce her
first bowl.
To the outsider, everything which seems
easy in pottery is “really terribly difficult”
and everything which seems complicated
is relatively easy. Students can manage
majolica-type ware, or slip ware, which
both have all-over patterns, but they just
gaze in awe at the plain celadon glazes
which the Chinese used.
None of the hobby potters can expect


ever to earn enough from occasional sales
of pieces, or even to save enough by
making pieces as presents for friends
(“Thank you, darling. It’s just what I
wanted. What is it?”) to repay the initial
cost of setting herself up as a spare-time
potter.
Few Australian professional potters
are able to make a living from the sale
of their work. Most of the leading potters
have exhibitions at intervals. A bowl or
jar at a couple of guineas, or even a
casserole at 10 guineas, will tempt some
gallery visitors, who know that even the
small-priced painting is beyond their
means - , t ,
Even so, potters who also have to
teach just wouU not be physically able
to do enough work to make a great deal
at it, unless their work commanded a
higher-than-average price. There can be
no Bernard Buffets, with an output of
2000 paintings at the age of 32, among
the general run of potters here.
For the home potter, a wheel costs £5O
or £6O, a modest type of kiln about £4O.
Brushes, of course, can be expensive.
Otherwise the materials which the potter
uses are quite cheap.
Although much pottery-making today
is fashion or therapy, it was originally
protest. The revival of pottery as a
craft was undertaken in England in the
twenties by Japanese-born Bernard Leach.
Countries such as Japan and China have
a continuous history of hand-turned
pottery, and the Scandinavian countries
have preserved some feeling for craft
work, but in England the dead weight of
the Five Towns had proved too much for
all but a few small cottage potteries,
Pottery-making is well established in
Australia now, although some of the local
workers feel that we still fall behind other
countries, notably England and Scan-
dinavia, and even New Zealand, where,
apparently, they take their potting very
seriously.
There is now something of a fashion
in scu i pture i n ceramics. This sort of
thing is very popular in the United States.
There is no doubt that an imaginative
f can create an object which can be
entirely justified on the grounds of its
bea utv
TT y ' . , ...
However, there is some quarrel wi h
P otters - Some pieces which are meant to
be useful have a certain beauty, but jus
don } do what they W u er V
to do All those stories about pottery
beakeis which leak, claret cups wnen
leave dark stains on the good w ite a e-
cloth, cannot have been made up by the
wicked mass-manufacturei s.
Jugs should pour properly, cups should
have a proper grip, glasses should direct
their contents into the mouth and not all
over the face—that is all we ask of the
amateur potters.
FOR THE CONSUMER
There’ll Always
be an England
“/Consuming Interest,” a collection of
pieces written for the London “Spec-
tator” by Leslie Adrian on shopping and
related topics, is, unfortunately, perhaps
too closely tied to the English scene to
be worth buying here.
Of course, for those Australians who
manage to maintain a spiritual home in
London, it is a different matter. For
them, the price of fish in Hammersmith
or how to buy a wedding present at
Harrod’s has meaning and mystique.
For them “Consuming Interest” would
have all the pleasures of poetry.
However, for most of us “Consuming
Interest” has the sort of other-worldliness
you get from Ivy Compton-Burnett and
“The Tatler.” For example, the first
piece in the book discussed the merits of
an au pair girl for a young couple who
cannot afford a nanny for baby but who
still want to enjoy some social life. Pieces
beginning “A certain deb was once
advised by her aunt: ‘Never use a public
library or a public lavatory, my dear,’ ”
or “The Duke of Edinburgh once said,
during a visit to Brussels, that he thought
it was time someone invented a silent
watercloset,” would make most Austra-
lians feel that there was nothing here for
them
This is a pity, because there is a good
deal of factual information and expert
guidance in “Consuming Interest ’ which
would interest consumers anywhere. For
example, any customer of a florist would
be pleased to know that it is better to
buy flowers from small shops because
their turnover of stock is quicker and
one is less likely to get faded flowers.
Also, any putative home-furnisher could
profit by the chapter on the ways of nylon
carpets and wool carpets.
The introduction explains that Leslie
Adrian is a “fussy, voluble perfectionist
who would like everyone else to be, too.”
It explains that the column “Consuming
Interest” first made its appearance in “The
Spectator” of January 4, 1957, because
“Leslie Adrian was annoyed about
inferior fish-and-ehips, standardised un-
crusty bread, and shoddy paper hats in
Christmas crackers.”
“All right, you can go out and play.
But for goodness sake Watch out for
those anti-biotics!"
The introduction does not explain
something which has perhaps always
irritated “Spectator” readers and which
must have detracted from the impact of
these articles of consuming interest.
Leslie Adrian is a “fussy, voluble per-
fectionist,” but of which sex? The
kindest explanation has been that it ts
really two people, a man and a woman.
Otherwise, Leslie Adrian’s tantrums over
the fragility of nylon stockings and his
or her thoughts on electric shavers show
a breadth of personal experience which
is somewhat alarming.
Because these are articles which give
detailed information but. more im-
portantly, a point of view and a certain
amount of criticism, the reader is surely
entitled to know from whom the point
of view and the criticism come -either
from a man who is familiar with his wife's
stocking problems, or a woman who has
studied her husband~s shaving wants.
Although it is our loss that “Consuming
Interest” is too closely tied to British con-
ditions, the publication of the book does
mark an important step forward in the
battle of the consumers.
“We must fight, if we are to have really
good goods,” declares the editor. Nancy
Ryan, in her introduction. “It can be
tedious and frustrating, but we must ask
to see the manager, return the unsatisfac-
tory purchase, write to the public relations
officer of the firm and. if ultimately
necessary, consult a solicitor for redress
of damages. Every time a consumer
doesn't complain, about the hole in the
hem or the mouse in the milk, it is profit
in the pocket of someone who is not
doing his job. He is counting on your
timidity or your apathy to obtain money
under false pretences. In fact, he is
cheating you and getting away with it.”
This rallying-cry to the consumer should
ring out as loud and clear in Australia as
it does in Britain.
(“Consuming Interest,” edited by Nancy
Ryan, is published by Hutchinson. Price
205.)


ABORIGINALITIES
T he Cormorant
He simply arrived.
1 was yarding the cows in the even-
ing when I noticed something moving in
the cowshed.
Sitting in a corner with his back to
me was a large black cormorant, peering
insolently at me over a rather dejected-
looking shoulder. His smallish, red-
brown eyes and surrounding rings of
yellow-brown flesh moved up and down
as he examined me from head to foot ;
then, his head cocked at a cheeky angle,
he looked me over once again. Having
summed me up, he shook his head vigor-
ously, making the loose skin on his neck
flap and his beak rattle.
He looked about 16in. high. I calcu-
lated that his neck and beak if fully
extended would add at least another foot
to his height. His feathers at the time
were dull and a little scraggy, grey-black.
Under the long beak was a patch of
yellowish skin, the beak a dirtier yellow.
He had fascinating black, webbed feet,
the membrane extending from the front
toes around the outside of the foot to the
reverse toe.
His beak was lethal, as I soon dis-
covered when, with a length of sacking
and a pair of leather gloves, I managed
to catch and put him in one of my large
empty birdcages.
He couldn’t fly and was too upset to eat
the meat I offered him. I knew of the
high metabolic rate of cormorants and
was afraid of him starving to death. I
tried to force some liver down his neck.
But every time I threw the sacking over
him his head would somehow immedi-
ately emerge, followed by a rapidly
increasing length of neck, which would
turn on me, savagely stabbing at my hesi-
tant hands. And all the time he uttered
indignant cries, “Huh! Huhuhuh,” in a
hoarse, tremulous, baritone voice. Still,
I managed to slide several pieces of liver
down his neck.
He sulked for several days, but gradu-
ally began eating all the meat we had.
Nearly a pound of flesh each meal ; three
meals a day.
As I approached the cage with his meat
he would become delirious with excite-
ment, neck and breast rubbing against
the netting, wings flapping, head waving
from side to side, beak opening and clos-
ing intermittently, avid eyes upon the
meat.
I would drop a piece through the net-
ting ; he would catch it neatly, flip it
around into a position suitable for
swallowing, release his grip, dart his head
forward, lodging the food further back
in his beak. After two or three such
manoeuvres the meat would reach the
back of his throat; here he would jerk
his head and neck upwards, sinking the
food down his neck a few inches, where
peristalsis would take over and convey
it to his seemingly limitless digestive
tract below.
At this point he’d stand quietly a
moment, blink, raise his head feathers
and ask for more in a half-threatening,
half-pleading voice: “Huhuh?”
no reason at all I named him
Pythagoras. We all grew very fond
of him. He became quite tame, sleek and
apparently contented. But I worried
about his lack of exercise. I called a
family conference ; if liberated, would
he stay with us? We thought he would.
But apprehensive, I very reluctantly
clipped one of his wings. Then I opened
the door.
Pythagoras stepped out with tremend-
ous dignity. He paused for a while to
consider the situation, then set off slowly
towards the house, slip-slopping on his
webbed feet.
He stopped frequently to examine
stones, clumps of grass, bits of stick, test-
ing composition and texture by nibbling
tentatively ; occasionally picking some-
thing up and juggling it. Then he’d drop
it and watch it intently for a few
seconds, to make sure it didn’t move.
The back verandah obviously fasci-
nated Pye (as he was inevitably called).
He took complete charge of it. His
favorite resting-place was on the mat,
immediately outside the door, and he held
to it despite many painful whacks re-
ceived from the flung-open screen door.
Whenever this happened he would make
savage passes at our hurrying legs, some-
times taking a pinch of flesh and twisting
it deftly, often drawing blood.
In time we discovered a successful
technique for getting through the back-
door—the broom. He was terrified of it;
the only thing that ever impressed him.
When chased with it he fled in panic,
wings outstretched, feet skimming the
ground, flinging back terrible obscenities.
A bout a hundred yards from the house
was a dam. I noticed Pye gazing
wistfully at it several times and slip-
slopping up and down the fence, trying
to get out. I cut a hole in the fence for
him ; he stepped through with his usual
dignity, walked about 50ft downhill, then
stopped, disconcerted.
The water had gone out of his sight
behind the bank of the dam. He started
back slowly, disappointed, confused: he
had forgotten where he was going. Hap-
pening to turn his head he caught sight of
the water again. He stared at it for a
while, deep in thought, then began his
downward trek once more.
Every few steps he would stop, stretch
his neck as high as he could, peering at
the water to make sure it was still there.
When it disappeared again he paused,
continued a dogged, zig-zag course for
some distance, but finally, completely lost
and defeated, he turned back. I went to
meet him and lead him down. He fol-
lowed half-heartedly. But on reaching
the top of the bank he gazed astonished,
looking from the water to me, from me
to the water, as if to say, “You knew
about this all the time?” He slip-slopped
off to the water's edge, dismissed me with
a glance and plunged in.
He soon managed to find his own way
down, only occasionally returning for
directions ; once I found him hunched
mournfully on the edge of a dry creek-
bed. He turned on me, embarrassed and
annoyed, uttering hoarse guttural curses.
I often swam with Pye. He would swim
around me in diminishing circles, finally
diving, often surprising me by coming
up quite close to me. Once he surfaced
about 6in. from my nose. We both got
a shock. Uttering a loud, startled “Huh!”
he zig-zagged rapidly to the water’s edge,
scrambled onto a log and concentrated
“You're not WITH us!”


wt
v.w
&
a*
assw
a*
:*a
•’*v‘sXsvXv;’.'’a
&
x*:w:v:^y**v.v
xSaS
«»
WHITt
3»«K« KittitUry. W»ni •<
GLASGOW »"■» l- o * lo
NET I PINT 6 FLUID OUNCES
There’s no
mistaking
White Horse
Scotch
Whisky
(the mellowness gives it away
Available in three handy sizes:
26-oz. bottles, “halves" and
“quarters.”
At Standard Brand Prices.
etu
on drying his wings, stretching them to
their fullest extent, alternately flapping
and waving them gracefully in the
breeze. He would do this for anything up
to half an hour, then, when he was sure
they were perfectly dry, dive into the
yvater again.
Pye made a great hit, at first sight, with
visitors. He would regard them bash-
fully, coyly, from a distance, winning
their hearts. They would then try to pat
him.
A bellow of rage and a furious on-
slaught from a razor-sharp beak, and they
would make the fatal mistake of retreat-
ing at a run. Pye loved chasing people,
Some of them got away, but most were
neatly headed off and steered into a
corner, where they would stand, scream-
ing or swearing, according to tempera-
ment or sex, until rescued by the broom,
or until Pye got bored,
Pythagoras stayed with us for about
a year. Then one evening he failed to
take up his doormat vigil, raving with
hunger, demanding his enormous supper.
There was still no sign of him the follow-
ing morning. He simply vanished, as
abruptly as he had arrived.
I don’t bother to go swimming any
more: it's not much fun on your own.
DAVID SCHLUNKE
That Was the Country
“This ’ere damn country is gone to the
dawgs,” said the red-faced dirty man
as he banged down his pint-pot on the
counter. “The infernal Irish cocky offers
ye a few ’taters. The Scotch one gives
ye good advice. The fat German wants
ye to eat bread and dripping. The
squatter sools his damn cur on ye; an’
this ’ere beer is a sprat a glass! This
country’s no place for gentlemen.” And
he picked up his pint-pot again and hit
the counter quite a severe whack.
— “Bulletin,” February 24, 1900.
Backblock advt.:—-
NOTICE
I hereby give notice that, if my wife
does not RETURN to her home within
a fortnight’s time, I will take strange
people in to live with me.
ALBERT
— “Bulletin,” April 28, 1900.
Heard King Billy, in King Street,
Sydney, the other day, say he was going
to South Africa. “What will you do
there, Billy?” asked the Australian he
was talking to. “Do tracking,” he
answered. Then with a crafty leer on
his dusky face, he added “You give um
thrippence, I tell you what I do now.”
The coin was forthcoming. A huge
smile came over Billy’s face as he walked
away saying, “I trackum beer this trip.”
And he proceeded to trace the ferocious
long-sleever to it's lair.
— “Bulletin,” March 3, 1900.
I was present at the first attempt to
float a balloon in a N.S.W. country
town. Many citizens attended, includ-
ing the local pietist. He was concealed
behind a fence. The balloon engineer
worked like a Trojan nigger. He was
black with smoke and soot- —it was a
hot-air contraption—and singed in 28
different places; but the balloon wouldn’t
float worth a parsnip. It just sank back
and wallowed in its grime. Then the
pietist appeared. He rose above the
top of the fence with a cry like that
of a suffering hyena: “Aha-a, friends;
try how yew will. Ma-an cannot defy
the elements or thwart the will of the
Orlmighty!” It was the last straw that
broke" the back of the balloon bloke s
regard for consequences. With a blister-
ing imprecation he seized a piece of
burning wood and shoved the hot end
fair in the holy gent’s monkey shave.
The agonised yell that followed haunts
me still. — “Bulletin,” July 21, 1910.


The Red Page
Built of Bluestone
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
Men of Yesterday (A Social History of
the Western District of Victoria 1834-
1890). Margaret Kiddle. Melbourne
University Press. 635.
This is a formidable book, not difficult
to read but containing so much
material that it is not easy to get through.
A slight battle on the part of the reader
is perhaps a just tribute to the book’s
subject, those predominately Scots
pioneers whose character was as bleak
and tough as those bluestone mansions
they built themselves after the early years
of hard living. From Melbourne to Cas-
terton, from the Otway Ranges to the
Grampians, the district is rich but seldom
cosy, handsome but lacking in charm, and
the wind that blows through its clumps
of pines is usually distinctly chilly. For
Miss Kiddle the book was obviously a
labor of love, and she has done her best
to warm her pages with wildflowers,
picnics by the creek and even a bushfire
or two, but her district has given her
almost nothing in the way of art or humor
to lighten the gospel of work. This is
not a deficiency on her part ; it is good,
for instance, to find an historian with
the charity to see that even the wild boys
who failed “opened the country and left
it ready for others to profit by their
pioneering.”
About two thirds of her book is more
or less a chronological account, while the
other third deals with homesteads, amuse-
ments, high life in Melbourne, wool
breeding, nomads, selectors and the
doings of country tow-ns. The informa-
tion she has collected will be invaluable
for the student but for the ordinary reader
it could have been substantially reduced ;
at the present semi-pioneering stage of
Australian history the scope of such a
book remains an insoluble dilemma, for
it is impossible to satisfy both the pro-
fessionals and the amateurs.
Miss Kiddle has given continuity to her
book by referring constantly to such
pioneers as Neil Black and George
Russell, the latter being one of the settlers
who went (from Van Diemen's Land) to
what was later Victoria. They were
courageous and efficient people, but one’s
interest in their progress is more historical
than personal. This is a pity, as the
ironic drama of the rise and fall of the
squatters is deserving of more human
sympathy than it usually receives.
According to the authorised version of
the Australian legend, the itinerant bush
workers with their respect for their mates
and their disrespect for authority were
our true ancestors, and we should be
proud of the convict strain. Despite her
respect for the squatters, and her aware-
ness of the dangers of “this levelling
•deal,” Miss Kiddle in her summing up
seems to accept the legend; the bush
workers “were the founding fathers of the
nation not only physically but in a certain
sense spiritually.”
One of the faults of this book is that
Miss Kiddle is so busy marshalling the
information (and so good at it) that she
sometimes fails to draw forth the ideas
lurking like snakes in the woodheaps of
her facts. Some of the ideas are indeed
risky to handle. One of them is that the
old squatters were more independent,
more disrespectful of authority, and more
adaptable than the old hands and bush
workers ; they were also just as lawless
and just as tough. Moreover, instead of
being experts in one field such as shearing
or splitting, they had to be familiar with
all the manual skills and at the same time
able to cope with intellectual problems.
They had to decide where to go in the
first place ; how to treat footrot, scab or
catarrh in their sheep ; how to manage
the shearing when all hands bolted to the
goldfields ; when to sell and what to buy ;
what to do about aborigines ; whether
or not to fence ; how to tackle dingoes,
rabbits and foxes; how to establish
education and religion and some elements
of culture in their districts ; finally, and
worst of all, how to deal with the govern-
ment in the whole basic matter of the
tenure of their land. Often their solutions
to these problems were not very credit-
able, and often their hunger for land and
money was excessive and selfish, but their
achievement was anything but negative.
Despite the sentimental beliefs of a
good many Australians, our country
needed more for its founding fathers than
a bunch of anarchic good mates humping
their swags.
What Miss Kiddle’s book does make
abundantly clear is that the Western
District provides yet another example of
the mortifying respectability that took
over from the first bold independence.
The conservatives of the Melbourne Club
(deliciously appearing in a photo in this
book at luncheon in their top-hats) and
the ladies who clamped their deadly
rituals of gentility on the spontaneous
body of young Melbourne, all of these
were the offspring of those first settlers
who had taken up their land without
asking permission of the Queen and who
had kept it by systematically obstructing
and corrupting the Queen’s laws. Miss
Kiddle states this very clearly:
“The machinery of prison govern-
ment helped to create an attitude of
defiance towards any control, which
was strengthened by frontier condi-
tions. This spirit flouted the dictates
of the colonial governors and created
a turbulent society. It is expressed
all too well by the venomous press of
the time, which held no authority
sacred ; but it is expressed best of all
by the squatting rush itself. As Sir
James Stephen had said, the settle-
ment of Port Phillip and the Western
District in particular was “a
systematic violation of the law”
which was condoned and encouraged
by established colonial society.”
This was at the beginning. In 1862
Neil Black was consulting with two
ministers, separately and at different
times, about Gavan Duffy's Land Bill
He wrote to his friend and partner T. S.
Gladstone: “Both did not hesitate to tell
me that the law must be evaded. That
it is vain to try to place restrictions on
the free use of capital and that the land
will be bought in other people’s names.
Better this they say than let the late
Government remain in power (sic) of two
evils choose the least.”
It looks then as if, after all these years,
the squatters and the bush workers should
be allowed equal credit in the foundation
of the Australian character. Equally
lawless and equally tough, they have sired
one of the most law-abiding and shielded
nations in the world. Not without reason
did Neil Black write, in the words from
which Miss Kiddle has taken her title,
“Are we not all men of yesterday in
various degrees, the democrats of the day
in all things having a majority?”
It is difficult to criticise the arrange-
ment or form of this book, for Miss
Kiddle died of a long illness soon after
she had finished it. The purple style of
the opening chapter, with its geological
and anthropological information, clashes
with the rest of the book; there are
awkward repetitions of information, and
places where the thread is hard to follow.
Most of all, there is an excess of detail.
But these are minor flaws which might
have disappeared had Miss Kiddle been
able to see her book printed ; as it is,
her publishers have made a handsome
and well-illustrated volume of the fascinat-
ing material which she indefatigably
collected.
Inside Dopesters
Love in Four Countries. lan Stuart
Black. Hutchinson. 20s.
When the Bed Broke. Michael Nelson.
Jonathan Cape. 20s.
Sammy Going South. W. H. Canaway.
Hutchinson. 18s. 9d.
The inside story of writing for films
has been done before, and much
better. This book fails because it is
thinner than the racket it jeers at: itself
a fifth-rate movie script, crammed with
melodrama but devoid of feeling. Slick-
ness is all, desperately supported by
gratuitous toughness, modelled on but
missing the essential qualities of “Room
at the Top.”
The young writer portrayed, suddenly
swept into a world of celluloid, is a
hollow man without critical edge ; and
Black, who describes him in the first
person, is too closely parallel to make


QUADRANT 19
If we were asked to nominate
the major forms of socially caused
unhappiness in Australia today,
how many of us would be aware
of the volume of misery consti-
tuted by the migrant bachelor
who has small hope of marriage?
V. L. Borin has brought this
problem vividly to light in the
Winter issue.
20s. a year : : ss. a copy
Box 4714, G.P.0., Sydney
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
HELP
LEGACY
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
Public Notice
The settlement of an action for libel brought by
Mr. Jack Thornton against the printers of a book
entitled “Get Up And Go,” by Don White, was
mentioned in the High Court in London on 29th
March, 1961. It was stated that the Defendants
recognised that there was no foundation for the
unpleasant and defamatory suggestions in the book
regarding Mr. Thornton’s life in the South Sea
Islands, and that they had agreed to pay him £5OO
in addition to his costs. The Defendants
expressed to Mr. Thornton their sincere apologies for
the publication.
LCARN
STORY WRITING,
FtCLANCE JOURNALISM,
RADIO/T.V. SCRIPT WTC.
Excellent Correspondence Courses
are available with Stott’s. If writing
interests you, contact STOTT’S
COLLEGE for free Prospectus.
■Bill
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St., Perth.
j— — —CI7T AND MAIL THIS COUPON———— j
■ To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any •
* obligation, your Prospectus, and full par- I
| ticulars of your Literary Courses. .
| MY NAME J
| ADDRESS |
| * I
) AGE (S.B. 1661) <
a worthwhile comment. A farcical tour
in search of location sets gives an excuse
for a sexy title ; but even the promise
of titivation isn’t fulfilled. Of love in
the true meaning of the word there isn’t
a trace; of the four countries visited,
nothing more memorable than bed-posts
and booze ; of “inside dope” on movie-
moguls, only impersonally portrayed
eccentricities, giving no key to character.
Instead, there are endless digressions
usurping all claim to plot. Eventually
these digressions take over: the reader
is overwhelmed by two-dimensional
crooks, like their author hell-bent for
nowhere.
The inside story of writing per se has
been done even oftener, and seldom
worse. Vaguely one fumbles for a core:
character, plot, situation, comment with
meaning. All one encounters is chatter,
peppered with sly sniggers, ambi-sexual
in intent. This time the echoes are of
Coward and Beverley Nichols, and
occasionally Wilde ; but there are no
bones and no guts to justify the general
nausea. Only words, words, words,
naively naughty.
The inside story of Africa is told every
second week ; but it has never been told
more refreshingly. Canaway is a highly
original writer, with a highly original
theme: a small white boy setting off on
foot from Suez to Durban, after the
death of his parents in the euphemisti-
cally named “Suez Crisis.” The author
knows his Africa, and his readers get to
know Sammy, following with bated
breath a series of adventures that only
one so young and innocent could survive.
Only rare lapses, the price of sophistica-
tion, prevent Canaway from having pro-
duced the rarest type of classic: the
inside-the-mind-of-a-child story, with its
odd mixture of sweetness and cruelty.
ANTON VOGT
What Price the T.U.C.?
The Price of T.U.C. Leadership. Bryn
Roberts. Allen and Unwin. 265. 6d.
"A mono the best known of abbrevia-
tions used in Britain,” claims one of
its publications, “are the three initials
T.U.C.,” and the claim has some validity.
Our own equivalent, the A.C.T.U., did
not emerge till 1927 —a full quarter of a
century after the Labor party made its
debut in Federal politics. The T.U.C.,
however, was an established institution
some 30 years before the British Labour
party saw the light of day, and still some-
times adopts that attitude of avuncular
superiority so irritating to the young.
A book on the T.U.C., then, could
be of considerable importance and when
the author promises to show us “the
dismal failure of the T.U.C. leadership
to guide and direct the trade union move-
ment and its amazing refusal to deal with
the problems that beset it,” he deserves
some attention. Unfortunately Mr
Roberts’s performance does not live up
to his promise. Despite his energy (he
has campaigned tirelessly for industrial
unionism, modern methods in trade union
publicity, and P.R. men, for many years)
and his long experience of T.U.C. affairs
(“I have established a record, not likely
to be surpassed, in the number of times
I have been unsuccessful in the annual
ballot”) his book is a lightweight.
The ballot in which Mr Roberts has
been so often unsuccessful is the annual
election for the General Council, the
supreme executive body of the T.U.C.,
and the story of his failures is perhaps
the most revealing section of the book.
Since 1934—27 consecutive years—he has
stood, and every time he has been defeated
by millions of block votes. In 1941 he
was offered a seat on the Council as part
of a deal involving leaving his union, the
National Union of Public Employees,
for the National Union of General and
Municipal Workers. He refused. He
refused because, he says, he could not
renounce the ideal of industrial unionism,
and there is no reason to disbelieve him.
Bryn Roberts is of the mould that would
rather be right than be President.
Unfortunately, as his fellows in the
Labour party have been forced to learn,
the choice is often a real one. Given
his attitudes, Mr Roberts is predictable
enough. He attacks the T.U.C. for apathy
(but “The T.U.C. leaders are too wise to
expose to mass view the present chaotic
trade union structure” and thus do noth-
ing whenever possible), for its public
relations (but “it is doubtful that there
is a person yet born able to interpret the
views and the policies of a collection of
leaders most of whom are bent on travel-
ling in opposite directions or in no direc-
tion at all”), for its oligarchy (but “The
present disorderly trade union structure,
which enables them to play this sort of
game, suits them fine, and they have no
desire to change it”) and so on.
Obviously Bryn Roberts knows very
well why the T.U.C. is as it is. A con-
federation of some 185 unions and eight
and a half million members, representing
in all some 90 per cent, of all the unionists
in Britain, the T.U.C. has neither the
elegance nor the efficiency of his National
Union of Public Employees. But it does
have immense status. Its representatives
sit on no less than one hundred different
councils and committees advising the
Government. It is, like Harrod’s and the
Bank of England, part of the Establish-
ment, and the General Council was doing
no more than recognise the facts of life
when it announced, in 1951: “It is our
long-standing practice to seek to work
amicably with whatever Government is
in power ...”
But for all his experience and insight
Mr Roberts seems incapable of drawing
the obvious conclusions. To him the
1951 statement illustrates for the nth
time the perfidy of the T.U.C. leadership;
instead of buttering up the Conservative
Government, they should be in there
slogging with the defeated (and power-
less) Labour party. And the same worthy,


but unworldly, attitude dominates his
approach to the immediate problem of
winning control of the T.U.C. for right-
minded unionists. “The only hope,” we
are told, “is that progressive trade union
forces will come together and bring about
its complete reconstruction.” Admittedly
the price of T.U.C. leadership is high, but
given this sort of day-dreaming by the
leadership the British trade unionist might
quite well ask “What price the T.U.C.?”
PETER WASTER WAY
Aristocrat, Pilot, Writer
Saint-Exupery. Marcel Migeo. Trans-
lated from the French by Herma
Biftault. Macdonald. 445. 9d.
Oaint-Exupery was probably the most
read and discussed French writer of
the late thirties and early 'forties and with
Malraux and Camus exerted a tremen-
dous influence on the generation which
succeeded him. He had the rare distinc-
tion of being an aristocrat, a writer and
a pilot for a company that later grew into
Air France. He has been compared most
unhelpfully with T. E. Lawrence and
Conrad. A contemplative devoted to a
restless life of action, he was already a
legend in his lifetime and has inspired
a number of biographies in which the
myth has tended to take the place of
the man and the writer
M Trce,Mgeo was a friend and fellow-
pilot of Saint-Exupery, and his biography
is the result of ten years’ labor and
thorough investigation into all the avail-
able information. Various aspects of the
myth wither away in the light of the facts
Migeo presents us with (including the
story about St-Ex. being found after a
crash in Guatemala with a small plant
growing from a wound in his arm) and
the sentimentalists who prefer their
images of St-Ex. to the man will be
disappointed.
He was capricious, childish, domineer-
ing, self-pitying, lying, petulant, at times
extraordinarily selfish, making exorbitant
demands on his mother’s purse at a time
when she was struggling to educate her
° dier children, and his relationship with
his wife appeals in a rather ambiguous
K f ™ m Ml S eo s . afount-though it is
a " L 01 . to cie ■ not l^st
e f, use “ “ Presented rather evasively
but because there are certain realities and
simp [Cities in any mans life that the
coa, . se net of b'°graphy cannot hope to
ca c *
Migeo's book is not a stridently de-
bunking work. It simply sets out to restore
a portrait that has been glamorised out
of recognition by those who were not as
close to the subject as Migeo himself,
And 11 does succeed in presenting us with
a visage which is truer to humanity than
>^" d the
e c e 1S enemies -
Saint-Exupery disappeared on a recon-
naissance flight from Corsica in 1944 and
m a l° n g appendix Migeo lists all the
available information that points to the
a * he was shot down by a German
fighter.
The only objection that one could make
to this book is that Migeo too often
uses Saint-Exupery’s creative work to
illustrate the writer’s life and that not
enough attention is given to its rather
special place in literature,
VIVIAN SMITH
High Church Socialism
Dissent. Editors: Peter Wertheim and
James Jupp. 2s. 6d.
Tf the editors are right there is no fear
of this new quarterly dying before it
reaches its age of reason. First, they
claim that over the last three or four
years there has been a “renewed interest
in political and social questions, particu-
larly among young people.” Secondly,
that no journal exists covering the sort
of questions “Dissent” is anxious to
discuss. Thirdly, there is a group of
people, unpublished at the moment; “who
are capable of writing adequately on the
questions we are raising.” I think they
are wrong on all three counts.
The “renewed interest in social and
political questions” among young people
has been confined, mainly, to some Catho-
lies at Melbourne University. In Sydney
a rather tired and waist-high new Left Las
not yet emerged from the smothering
cocoon spun by a previous and dispirited
generation. Their second point while an
implicit and welcome disowning of “Over-
land” and “Outlook” overlooks the fact
that, say, “Prospect,” “The Catholic
Worker,” even “Quadrant” not to men-
tion “Overland” and “Outlook” would
publish intelligent Leftist articles. As for
S 1 *; nt writers, if Dissent can entice
them f r ° m sa .^ e |y of the suburban
mainland we will all be pleased. It seems
froni their third point that Dissent
desires to be a movement more than a
magazine.
These days only the most rabid “Out-
look” supporter would deny that the
A.L.P actively discourages participation
in its affairs by intellectuals, even of the
most orthodox variety. Nearly all the
editorial board of “Dissent” are linked
with the Melbourne University A.L.P.
club. Like its fellow student club, the
LJniversity D.L.P., the student A.L.P. is
most unpopular with the Victorian A.L.P.
Given this, what could they do but start
a magazine?
Both “Overland” and “Outlook” are
embarrassing in their adolescent attempts
to discuss Socialism, the first because
it is preoccupied with the Socialist in-
tellectual’s dream, the “dinkum” member
of the working class, the second because
Mermaid
How hostile you and it may prove,
though I
Am supposed to have your love, and
sky
Which has heaven in it I am taught,
is only
Your other eye. Blue, bluest sea . . .
It is you, again, woman, you, you!
With your blue eyes: one for him
and one for me.
His, Heaven above —I know it to be
true—
Which is all his. Ah, sea, other eye
Deep, deep, and cold, and sometimes
angry.
Mine, mine, with the brine content,
mine.
Bitter, bitter sea! You can be calm
On those rare days, too few; then
heaven
Duplicated, I see you truly, with palm
Leaf, and sea limpid, lyre, and wine.
JOHN BLIGHT
Dialogue with a
Contemporary
And so you see your life before you
not like mountains seen through trees,
but like a book of shapeless poems:
glittering felicities
but botched and not a verse that works,
the brilliant image and the random
phrase,
but where’s the poem? It’s not here
before you
in days divided into different ways.
And so you say perfection’s not for
man,
and that is true: but laziness you
mean.
Division has its comforts like despair:
the odd convenience of the in-between.
But look these words are wrong, a
verbal play:
despair is voiceless or is not at all.
Distraction and evasion aren’t implied
as man’s whole nature since his primal
fall.
Let’s face the facts: this is a botched-
up job ;
these days, these verses don’t belong to
art.
You must begin again and turn and
trust
the deep resistant silence of the heart.
VIVIAN SMITH


it is too doctrinaire, dogmatic and re-
actionary. “Dissent’s” particular brand
of socialism, as shown in its editorial
and in Peter Wertheim’s thoughtful
“images of Socialism,” although non-
Establishment, strikes a tone of high-
church Socialism. Many sympathetic
readers will be “alienated” (a favorite
expression of “Dissent”) by this “moral
line.”
The cover is attractive, the layout
patchy and the range of articles unexcit-
ing. James Jupp’s “Migrants in Mel-
bourne” throws some light on why
migrants choose to live in certain areas
of Melbo u r n e. In passing he offers
evidence that “Australians are racialists”
which controverts attempts, such as that
of Sir John Latham in a recent “Quad-
rant” to prove our migration policy is
only “restrictive immigration” or some
other face-saving verbalism. Norman
Fisher’s “New Guinea —Australia’s Time
Bomb” will be a useful reference and
there are two facts and figures articles
on housing by David Scott and Ray
Burkitt. Chris Wallace-Crabbe (with the
somewhat thoughtful air of an “I’m not
in anybody’s camp” intellectual, discusses
our literature’s tradition. The book re-
views are workmanlike but “Dissent” has
so few pages one good review article may
be preferable.
PETER KELLY
Daly River-O
Life on the Daly River. Nancy Poli-
shuk with Douglas Lockwood.
Robert Hale Ltd. 18s.
Only a handful of Australians know
the Daly River, though it is one of
the continent’s great watercourses. Near
its mouth there is a small settlement of
agriculturists, peanut farmers and croco-
dile hunters, living on tracts of Aus-
tralia’s richest land and almost unable
to market their commodities because of
the crudities of transport. The personal
vehicles here are the tractor and the
kapok canoe. The inhabitants number
less than a score ; their names are tallied
in the song “Down on the Daly River-O,”
and in their lifetimes are part of the
country’s legend.
In the big flood of 1957 Nancy Poli-
shuk, the newest of the river’s settlers,
while being rescued from her flooded
home, was tipped into the flooded river
with her baby and a four-year-old
daughter, and somehow, in that crocodile-
haunted current, then running ten miles
wide, managed to bring them to safety.
The incident made headlines in most
newspapers; this book is the detailed
story. It also gives the background of
er r * ver b/ e in brief, quick, vivid
sketches. It is told with grace and humor
and permeated with the qualities of
courage and acceptance which mark the
most adventurous of our pioneers,
In the early flood of that same wet
season I accompanied John Polishuk
from Darwin to the Daly and spent some
weeks there. I saw the river rise 60ft
at the incredible rate of five or six feet
an hour. I became acquainted with the
people. I’ve been back since, unable to
forget that beautiful, neglected country,
So I can testify to the book’s veracity,
Lockwood’s journalistic ability is here
employed at its high-level best, keeping
continuity and eliminating gaps,
An increasing stream of sound Aus-
tralian outback books is flowing through
London these days ; there is a vogue for
Ibis kind of reading. With books of this
quality the reason is not far to seek,
OLAF RUHEN
Abominable Genius
The Sapbucket Genius, by Pierre
Sichel. W. H. Allen. 225. 6d.
Valley of No Escape. James Preston.
John Long. 15s. 6d.
T ike the Abominable Snowman, the
genius is a creature most of us have
never seen, and only know of by hearsay.
In the “old days” it was customary for
him to be well-fossilised before it was
realised that he would be a priceless speci-
men for our innumerable museums —
literary and anthropological. He was then
dug up and put through the posthumous
third-degree of our laboratory-tests.
These days, we are so anxious not to
be found wanting that we are over-quick
to hail every passing talent. For instance,
the publisher’s blurb of this long Ameri-
can novel claims that the author, Pierre
Sichel, has at last written the “big” novel
expected of him. His subject is big, at
any rate.
What Mr Sichel has done is spotted the
large splay footprint of the late Dylan
Thomas in the upper reaches of litera-
ture, and from it he has constructed the
horrific image of that Yeti-like creature
—the poetic genius. He gives his Cheney
Gorson the magnetic speaking-voice of
Dylan Thomas, and a wife, Valencia,
who indulges in the same globe-trotting
(mis)adventures as Caitlin Thomas in her
widowhood.
We have Cheney Gorson lifting women
up on the palm of his hand at parties,
going berserk at the height of his success,
and generally behaving in a most Dylan-
ish fashion. The story is interspersed at
regular intervals with erotic set pieces,
dangled before the flagging reader’s nose
all the way like a carrot before a donkey.
Mr Sichel writes in brisk, tireless
Americanese, and the emotional tone of
the book has the stale ring of a cliche.
His women are mainly sex-symbols, and
his men their ever-ready counterparts.
Here and there an extra dimension of
jealousy or ambition enlarges them
momentarily, then the breathless author
races on, leaving them dangling limply
on their puppet-strings in their under-
wear.
Perhaps the most interesting facet of
the book is the love-hate relationship
between the self-styled Commercial Writer
and the Genius. Their juxtaposition
forms the theme of the book and the
author sustains it with skill.
But by overloading his Dylan Thomas
model with every human foible, Mr Sichel
presents us with a “stock figure"’ like the
stage Irishman. Cheney is an unwashed,
grog-swilling, wenching, cheating, un-
grateful reprobate, spouting poetry when-
ever he goes. Mr Sichel keeps assuring
us of his genius by frequent references to
his “wild shock of hair.” Are geniuses
really such a hirsute breed?
Never mind, that’s what people like,
and it is no use telling them that there
have been bald and moral geniuses, they
prefer the violent legend of Dylan which
Pierre Sichel has re-hashed for us with
his competent and unabashedly “com-
mercial” pen.
“TTnnoticed the strangers came to the
Australian valley—four men on the
run, nerves taut from the strain of their
prison break and the wild dash for free-
dom.” This is the opening and the subject
of 48-year-old Victorian writer James
Preston’s first novel, an honest and
economically-told story of adventure.
When Gunner Maxwell, one of the
escaped criminals, rapes a valley-girl, he
is stalked by her archer sweetheart, who
finally castrates the rapist with a well-
aimed arrow. Compare this Australian’s
handling of a rape scene with the weil-
known American manner.
“Maureen Shannon!”
“That’s right. This afternoon. Her
father was away from the farm for no
more than an hour and this rotten skunk
came to the farm. Gave him food, she
did—and then he —”
“But I can’t believe anyone would be
low enough to —”
I found Mr Preston’s evasiveness re-
freshingly “old world.” His nervous
dashes brought back nostalgic memories
of asterisks and rows of dots.
We are told on the dust-cover that
the author has worked for two years as
a prison-warden, and that he has hiked
over many remote parts of Victoria. It
is a pity that his story reveals nothing
of the impressions and observations he
might be expected to have made during
his prison experiences and on his rambles.
But for an occasional laconic reference
to a gum tree or thick scrub the story
might be set in any rustic region. H> s
characters suffer from the same im-
poverishment. Despite some shy passes
at the lurid, there is a curiously whole-
some air about the book which makes
one feel that the author might find a
successful niche as a writer of adventure
stories for boys.
THELMA FORSHAW


Shows
Another Outcast of the A.B.C.
Encouraged by the gratitude of its army
of viewers for giving them the
“authentic” facts about early Australian
history in its serial by Rex Rienits called
“The Outcasts,” the A.B.C.
excelled itself in its episode of
August 6 on Sydney’s Channel
2. Another Baddie came into
the drama, Mr J. T. Bigge, Royal Com-
missioner sent out by the British Govern-
ment to inquire into the affairs and
government of N.S.W., with power to
override the authority of the Governor
should he feel it necessary. In this episode
there was not one strictly accurate fact
or convention and few that would not
have both Macquarie and Bigge rolling
on the carpet if they had been viewers.
The circumstances of Bigge’s arrival in
N.S.W. have been told by Macquarie
himself. Having to go to Windsor to
hold the annual muster of inhabitants
there, he left all preparations in train to
receive the august visitor. On September
26, 1819, as the muster was about to
begin at Windsor, the ship “John Barry”
came up the Harbor and the Commis-
sioner and his secretary, Mr Scott (the
latter armed with a dormant commission
as Commissioner if his superior should
die on the job) landed from her the same
day under a salute of 13 guns from
Dawes' Battery.
However, Macquarie wrote, “Mr Bigge
and Mr Scott were attended from the ship-
board in the Government Barge by my
Secretary and Major of Brigade and con-
ducted by them to Government House,
where such attentions were shown them
as the occasion naturally suggested.” And
then “Mr Bigge, being informed of the
duty on which I [Macquarie] was em-
ployed, was so good as to set out on the
same day, accompanied as on landing
(i.e., by Antili, the Brigade Major, and
Campbell, the Official Secretary), to meet
me at Windsor where he arrived next day ;
and I had the pleasure of receiving him
at the Government Cottage with every
possible Mark of Attention, Respect and
Kindness . . . Having spent some days
with me [on the muster], he returned to
Sydney, whither I followed him.” So
much for the facts.
The taking of the annual muster was
the great local ceremony of the year.
The Governor arrived in the muster town
with his staff, much as a Governor per-
forming a high official task would arrive
today, but with outriders to his carriage.
He would be received by a guard-of-
honor, take up residence behind sentries
and under his flag at Government Cottage.
He would then proceed to hold levees,
receive and entertain the local gentry and
officialdom, entertain at his official table
—always open by custom in those days
TV
to respectable citizens of gentleman status
who dined at the Governor’s personal
expense. When the inhabitants assembled
to have the census taken he would inspect
them. He would perhaps give an official
dinner and ball. He would ride round
the farms, visit new buildings, perform
some official ceremonies and then, worn
out, would inspect the guard-of-honor
once more. Then the dwellers along the
turnpike to Sydney would have a glimpse
of a glitter of scarlet and gold through
a swaying window as his carriage rocketed
towards the sea behind lathered horses
which could do the 16 miles from Parra-
matta to Sydney Cove in an hour. What
a chance the whole train of events offers
a dramatist and a discerning producer!
But here is the arrival of Mr Bigge
as presented by the A.B.C. and Mr
Rienits. Macquarie, Captain General and
Governor-in-Chief of N.S.W. and the
islands adjacent in the Pacific, and his
dear pal Dr Redfern, 2nd Assistant Sur-
geon and lately a convict, have decided
to step down to the pub—Dick Fitz-
gerald's Macquarie Arms, 1 presume—for
a quick one. Macquarie, with that nice
taste in dress which was so characteristic
of him, has arrayed himself in what is
apparently the full-dress uniform of a
Field Marshal of the Royal Bolivian
Musical Comedy Corps, complete with
frogs, ruffles and, incidentally, the in-
signia of a lieutenant-governor, which he
is not. Mr Redfern is wearing, inter alia,
a servant’s livery waistcoat of the type
affected by Sam Weller. Prostrated by
the terrible tropic heat for which Windsor
in September is so justly famous, the
Governor-in-Chief and Captain General
has removed his dress-tailed military coat
and hung it on the back of his chair in
the open public taproom of the pub, and
Mr Redfern has followed suit with his
black outer covering. The two friends —
bareheaded, which no gentleman would
ever have been in pub, club or parliament
in 1819 —are the sole customers, familiarly
sharing their views as equals on matters
of State within the hearing of the bar-
man.
Into the convivial scene intrudes the
newly arrived Baddie Bigge, who looks
more like Mr Jingle in a funereal mood
and a new suit than a Royal Commis-
sioner making his first call on a Governor.
As he comes through the tap-room door,
which opens straight on to the footpath,
he has an exasperated air about him as
if he has been fruitlessly wandering round
the many licensed houses of Windsor,
peeping in taproom doors in an attempt
to find where His Excellency might be
crouched over a noggin with his familiars,
the emancipists.
However, Governor Macquarie, that
old-fashioned 18th-century master of
punctilio, does not forget his manners.
Seeing the entry of the Great Baddie
imminent, he gives Redfern a meaning
glance which any Old Lag could well
interpret and says grudgingly that he
supposes they “had better put on our
coats.” Fully attired, he prepares to
allow Mr Bigge to do wrong by him,
as it is clear that the new Commissioner
intends to do with a will. It appears that
he has not, as in real history, come racing
up from Sydney in an official carriage
attended by his secretary, the Official
Secretary and Mr Scott and the Major of
Brigade, Tin Soldier Antiil. He has
thumbed a ride to Windsor, it seems,
with Baddie Marsden (who, it happened,
was already there). Evil plots have been
hatched on the way and he thus can-
not stay as Macquarie’s guest (as he
actually did) to see the muster taken.
Baddie Marsden is arranging for him
to go to Parramatta to confer with retired
Baddie Macarthur about the Governor’s
destruction and the ruin of saintly Red-
fern.
Governor Macquarie, as the implica-
tions of what is about to happen sink in,
is so shocked that he obviously forgets
to do what comes naturally on such an
occasion ; but, evil as he is, Baddie Bigge
is not insensible to the parching heat and
the dictates of hospitality. “Can I offer
you some refreshment?” he asks his
Excellency. And one can almost see Old
Sandy, as the soldiery affectionately called
him, say, “My oath” under his breath.
Happily they step towards the bar where
Mr Bigge says crisply to the barman:
“Two brandies, please!”
Or was it two middies?
M. H. ELLIS
The Kitchen and the Outback
Ronald Greenaway and Arunta Artists.
Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
'T'he artist is rare these days who does
not oblige his viewers to be portent-
ous or mysterious. With Greenaway at
least one may be blunt. He appears to
have spent most of his artistic
life in his own well-stocked
kitchen, and from that emin-
ently satisfying experience he
has produced paintings which should
please anyone still commonplace enough
ART
to like good food and plain furniture. It
is not easy to remember which of the
kitchen tables with coffee-pots was most
meritorious, but certainly the best paint-
ings were those in which objects asserted
themselves as they should be. The sun-
flower is brilliant, the lily leaves graceful
and clear-cut, the French loaf and frying
pan appetising, the chairs old and friendly,
the kitchen at night too full of kettle.
To his credit Greenaway does not force
his domestic delights into cubist moulds.


For the first time in Australia!
A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY FOR
COLLECTORS, AND CONNOISSEURS
An extensive exhibition of current paintings
l ’ |\|dan
including many from the famous LEDA series
BONYTHON
ART GALLERY
88 JERNINGHAM STREET, NORTH ADELAIDE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
From September 11 to September 29
Undoubtedly his patterns are well made,
and his coloring brilliant, but they do not
get in the way of the pleasure that the
common objects yield of themselves.
These paintings would grace a kitchen or
a dining-room, and maybe serve as a
reminder of what has long since been
forgotten, that what providence provided
to nourish us may well also engage our
higher faculties. This is honest, accom-
plished painting, The style may not be
fashionable, but Greenaway demonstrates
that there is still value in thoughtful
cubism.
Although these paintings should ang
on suburban walls, they will probably
not win the day against the accompany-
ing Arunta efforts. Apart from a few
bark works in red and white, sacred to
some branch of the tribe, the bulk of
the exhibition consists of work by sons
or followers of Namatjira (or of whoever
he followed). The colorful pleasures of
the Central Australian landscape are
repeated to infinity. Junior students of
composition may find it interesting to
note that of 62 almost identical paint-
ings, 47 may be distinguished by a tree
posed to one side of the foreground, 13
by t^e a bsence of a tree in the foreground,
one by a ree j n middle, and one by
a tree on each side. The Arunta may
have learnt their lessons well, but they
noI learnt many lessons .
BILL HANNAN
Rather Predictable
Anyone who likes landscapes rendered
without any nonsense in clear washes
will enjoy the many traditional water-
colors in the Australian Watercolor In-
stitute’s 38th Exhibition at
D.J.’s, Sydney. As in most
forms of art there is much that
is merely reminiscent of the
more vital originators of its tradition, but
there are others that are using a familiar
method to state something of their own.
Alfred Cook, whose control over the
problems of handling watercolor is
breathtaking, creates a convincing feel-
ing of the light and spaciousness of the
Kangaroo Valley ; Edward Hall uses pen
and wash to advantage in describing a
Moreton Bay fig tree and an iron railing.
Miriam Moxham, in her “Dora,” has
produced a convincing figure that is
probably an accurate likeness of her
sitter. But is is impossible not to compare
this work with J. Kilgour's ‘ The Model,”
in which he enhances our awareness of
the human figure by discovering unusual
character in the forms of his subject.
Together with his orchestral pattern which
hangs nearby, this picture begins to give
an idea of the way in which this artist
ART
is able to vary his method to suit his
subject.
J. Carington Smith uses soft smudgy
washes and a liquid line in works that
are essays in watercolor rather than state-
ments about landscape, yet he does not
seem to extend the horizons of the
medium further than they have been for
some time. On the other hand. G. K.
Townshend does not seem interested in
the medium’s native qualities at all. His
dramatically toned pictures “The Cottage”
and “The Quarry” are so real that the
paint seems hardly to exist at all.
It is extraordinary that in a country
where painters are experimenting vigor-
ously with the possibilities of other media,
recent European developments in Mater-
color have been largely ignored. Norma
Allen in her “Yellow Hill” overlaps some
semi-opaque washes which soften and
give depth to her abstract forms : Henry
Salkauskas's landscape looks very little
different from his oils of similar subjects ;
and Brian Stratton’s “Arrangement” is a
good abstract in which wash seems too
weak to carry the strong geometric shapes.
Only in Elaine Haxton's free use of
wash and gouache does one see a really
vital surface. Her elegant “Flamingo
Pool” is one of the most lively pictures
in a rather predictable exhibition.
SALMON
Standards Up
'T'he last few years have done more to
advance local concert standards than
has ever been done before. Twenty years
ago Australia had no orchestra of per-
manent standing and full
symphonic strength. Now we
have not only two major
orchestras but a background
which allows us to measure their quality
on international criteria, following the
Australian performances of orchestras
from Europe (the Czech Philharmonic)
and America (the Boston Symphony).
The increased sophistication which
this gives to our standards of perform-
ance is immensely important to a people
as scattered and distant from the rest of
the Western world as we are, and it is
an excellent thing to see that this kind
of work is not being left entirely to semi-
public bodies like the A.B.C. In the past
fortnight Melbourne has had concerts by
a chamber orchestra from Berlin, and a
chamber ensemble from Rome, both tour-
ing for the Musica Viva Society. Though
it is still a matter for regret that the
society could not hold its local quartet
together, there can be no dispute about
the energy of its executive in arranging
recitals by noted overseas groups.
The Quartetto di Roma did not leave
itself open to the classical rebuke of
Cana by keeping its best wine till last.
Opening with the less familiar of the
piano quartets of Mozart, its programme
declined through Schumann into the Op.
26 quartet of Brahms. Its playing, on the
other hand, grew steadily better. Ornella
Santohquido's touch at the piano lacks
the extreme delicacy of a Badura-Skoda.
or the pearly clarity of Schnabel, and this
tended to fur the scales and ornaments of
the Mozart. To the yearning cadences
of the Brahms, though, she brought a firm
resilience which made this an attractive
performance. The string playing through
out the evening was taut, graceful and
beautifully pitched.
MUSIC
KENNETH HINCE
Sheer Drive
Juno and the Paycock, by Sean
O’Casey. Canberra Repertory.
r T''HE dangers of O’Casey’s play are well
known ; they are the Irish accent and,
even more, the mixture of comedy and
tragedy. Canberra Rep.'s
performance, produced
by Ralph Wilson, coped
with the second
danger much better than the first.
THEATRE


Irish, as spoken by all the actors
except Sybil Smith (Mrs Boyle) was at
times quite incomprehensible to the
“foreigners” in the audience. This was
a pity, for the details of O’Casey’s play
are as rewarding as its whole. But the
vigor and conviction which all the cast
brought to their characterisation carried
the evening through most of the other
potential difficulties.
The play is a women’s tragedy, and
the three women involved —Mrs Boyle,
Mrs Tancred and Mary —conveyed their
suffering by quiet understatement, which
constrasted well with the rowdy selfish-
ness of the men. Sybil Smith was uni-
formly impressive as the tired wife of the
hopeless Boyle, sustained only by her
faith and her love for her children. But
her last appearance was her highest
moment, and the play’s, when her quiet,
exhausted voice spoke almost without
expression in the near darkness.
The shock of Joxer’s and Boyle’s
return to the empty tenement was united
to this scene by an imaginative use of
lighting. The two staggering figures cast
distorted shadows on the back wall, and
these made a sort of nightmare comment
on the whole play.
Altogether there was an unusually
happy combination of producer and
actors, marred only at one point. Mrs
Madigan and Joxer Daly, played with
great gusto by Joy Warren and Jim
Hutchins, were both allowed to overplay
their songs, until this scene became pure
farce. It was extremely funny, but it
belonged to another convention alto-
gether, cutting across the solid realism of
the other performances and the sordid
slum-tenement setting.
HOPE HEWITT
Fine Authors make Fair Films
Macbeth. Embassy, Sydney.
Sanctuary. Regent. Sydney.
No Love for Johnnie. State. Sydney.
William Shakespeare and William
Faulkner are not billed in the news-
paper advertisements for current Sydney
films. That one wrote “Macbeth' is
common knowledge ; that the
other is possibly the greatest
living novelist is less well
known. But why is it that
fine plays and novels seldom make first-
class films? Why is a flimsy, celluloid
thing like “No Love for Johnnie” a better
film than “Sanctuary" or “Macbeth”?
The answer is surely that it is true to its
medium, itself flimsily celluloid, but
astonishingly direct in its appeal and
persuasion
At a play the spectator is involved
with everything that goes on, including
the audience. At a film the viewer is
essentially alone, moved or unmoved.
Oddly enough, the willing suspension of
unbelief, necessary to participation in a
play, is even more difficult to achieve
in a film. Because we have all become
experts in the conventions, aware of the
technical possibilities, critical of errors,
and certain of our own judgments, the
great “impersonal art" of the film makes
a more personal impact that the shared
experience of the theatre. Everything is
magnified and intensified ; including
faults, which jar more readily.
The problem with Shakespeare is that
his poetry is already visual. What he did
not have he suggests: “murder most
foul ...” off-stage ; and mighty battles,
with a handful of men beating each
other about the ears with wooden broad-
swords, and messengers bringing woeful
tidings, “ . . . and anon, methought, the
wood began to move.” The cameraman
can scarcely fail to exploit technical pos-
sibilities which Shakespeare would have
welcomed ; but would not Shakespeare,
the great improviser, have altered his lines
accordingly? Except for “Henry V.” all
film versions of Shakespeare have been
FILMS-
failures, magnificent or pathetic. Even
Olivier’s “Richard,” more splendid than
this rumbustious “Macbeth,” had the
fault of laying on the bloody spectacle
with a trowel, describing too closely what
the words evoke. From the double blast
of two techniques, the listening viev/er
is overwhelmed.
All this is not to say that “Macbeth”
is not a fine sight to see, or a lovely thing
to listen to. As melodrama it is superb ;
it is studded with the careless brilliance
of its author, and the studied brilliance
of Judith Anderson, Michael Hordern
and Maurice Evans. I name them in that
order, because Judith Anderson’s Lady
Macbeth stalks off the screen, chillingly
alive ; and because Hordern’s Banquo is
sweetly juted, to make the most of the
new mediant within the conventions of
the old. Maurice Evans, as Macbeth,
bears the responsibility (with the direc-
tor) of lifting and lowering the produc-
tion by turns, fluctuating between con-
ventions and putting the melo- in the
drama.
“Sanctuary” is not the film of the
novel, but a film of two novels and a
play. The Faulkner elements remain, un-
evenly joined together: sin, consequence
and expiation, in the Deep South of his
study and invention. What the film does
best is to evoke the prohibition era, with
its naughty, shallow youngsters (naive
Lee Remick, surly Bradford Dillman)
driving to perdition in open roadsters,
and (tough, face-askew Yves Montand)
gangsters in striped suits, running houses
of evil (blonde molls, illicit liquor),
whooped up with the hit tunes of the
time (“Pagan Love Song,” etc.). What
it fails to do is to subjugate a carefully
contrived “period authenticity” to a not-
so-carefully-followed Faulkner plot, in-
volving multiple guilt for the murder of
a child. In intention, the film is tragic.
What saves it from bathos is the calm,
brooding presence of the Negro actress,
Odetta (not given star billing by the pro-
ducer, Darryl Zanuck).
In contrast to “Macbeth” and “Sanctu-
ary,” “No Love for Johnnie” is plausibly
contemporary. “Saturday Night and Sun-
day Morning” showed us a boy who might
get somewhere sooner or later. “Room
at the Top” showed where he might go,
at a price. “No Love for Johnnie,” in
the same genre and mood, shows us the
man, full-blown: middle-aged, a Labor
Member of Parliament, returned with an
increased majority, outwardly at ease, but
inwardly desperate and unloved. Peter
Finch gives a splendid performance, in
what is without doubt one of the best
films of the year. He is ably supported
by a strong cast; but the best qualities
of ihe film derive from Ralph Thomas’s
superb direction, and use of authentic
background, in and around Westminster.
Postscript: The most charming film on
in town is “The Prize,” a short running
with “Macbeth,” made in Australia on
a shoestring, with a few kids and a goat.
ANTON VOGT


Binda on Saturday
There was nobody around Binda quite like Marianne's fiance
By PATRICIA ROLFE
THERE was a mob of sheep sprawled across the road
with a young man kicking the dust at their heels.
Howarth was so intent on getting the car through the
aimless, silly sheep, and so busy thinking of what he
would say to that dreamy young man that he didn’t notice
the girl at first.
She was standing by the side of the road, waving to him.
She wore a blue dress, that bright, washed blue that country
people are so fond of. Some sort of denim. Often it matches
the blue of their eyes and the blue of the harsh, summer sky
until there seems nothing in the landscape except this
insistent color.
The girl was wearing a blue dress, and her eyes were
blue. The dress was full in the skirt but tight in the bodice.
Not that the tight bodice made much difference, because she
was so slender and her fair hair so long that at first Howarth
took her to be a child. But when he had stopped alongside
her, and her face was close to his, he could see she was at
least 20, probably more.
Without speaking, she sprang forward to pull the car-
door open.
“Here, take it easy.” he said. Annoyed, he put out his
hand and held the door.
“But you will take me . . .”
“That depends on where you’re going. I’m only going
into Binda. If you want to go on to Osborne ”
“No. No. Binda Binda.”
“Jump in.”
“Thank you,” she said abruptly when they were a mile
along the road.
“That’s 0.K.”
Now she’ll begin to talk, he thought. That was always
the trouble with giving people in the country a lift. They
talked your ear off. And generally just out of the kindness
of their hearts, because they felt a man by himself on a long
country trip must get lonely.
But she said nothing more, just sat alongside him with
her hands folded on her lap.
“Family not going into town today?” he asked finally.
“No.”
“You must’ve been pretty keen to get in.”
“Oh, yes.”
“Boy-friend?”
She looked down at her hands, but said nothing, so he
left it at that.
“It’s a lovely car you have,” she said eventually, run-
ning her fingers along a strip of chromium. It seemed she
spoke only for politeness’s sake.
“She’ll do.” He pulled out a rag from the glove-box.
“Here, give her a wipe over there, will you? The dust on
these roads is terrible.”
“Yes, the dust is bad.” She wiped the chromium care-
fully, then folded the cloth squarely and put it back in the
glove-box.
“She was like a new pin when I left Sydney,” he said.
“You’ve come from Sydney?” she asked without
curiosity.
“Yeah. Sydney. I live there. I’m on the road for
Handee Household Products. Your family use Handee
Products?”
“I don’t know.”
“They’re good. I’ll show you some afterwards.”
The car ran down the long, wide street which was the
whole of Binda Binda.
“Where can I drop you off?” he asked.
“It doesn’t matter,” she said. “I’m early. I thought I
might have to walk in today.”
“Pretty hot on a day like this.”
He looked at her, suddenly speculative.
“Say, listen,” he said, his eyes now on her slim, pointed
chin. “If you’re not doing anything for a while, come with
me to the Greek’s. I’m going for a meal. I haven’t had
lunch yet. Come along and have a cup of coffee or an ice-
cream or something.”
“It is hot,” she said. She held her hair away from her
neck with both hands, then leant back against the car seat.
“I would like an ice-cream.”
“That’s good,” he said. She turned her head and faced
him, and for the first time she smiled. He smiled back.
“That’s good,” he said again.
He parked the car at an angle in the middle of the
road. He took her elbow and they went across to the
Greek’s. Its real name was “The Canberra.” An immense
legend to that effect was on the plate-glass window. Under-
neath was written “All-Australian Cafe,” the whole bordered
with Australian flags, inside, dark wood booths lined both
sides of a long, narrow room. From the ceiling hung
tattered, dusty decorations left over from Christmas, but
probably only the Greek remembered which. Two large
fans lazily stirred the hot, still air. The place was almost
deserted.
Howarth called. “Hello, there.” to the girl behind the
counter. When she heard a man’s voice she automatically
put up her hands to touch her dark hair. She smiled at
Howarth, then turned and yelled, “It’s Bill, Dad,” the length
of the cafe.
She poked her head between two immense jars of
colored sweets. “Just get into town?” she asked brightly.
Then she noticed the girl, and her mouth opened in surprise.
“Dad’s coming,” she said, withdrawing her head from
between the glass jars. She drifted down the counter and
began polishing the shining surface of the espresso machine,
but she still looked back.
TOE the Greek hoisted himself from the end bench near
** the kitchen, where he sat gossiping and eating all the day
and half the night, and waddled up the passageway.
Bill shook the plump, damp hand.
“Late today, Joe,” he said. He motioned the girl into a
booth and sat alongside her. “Got held up at Nundle. Can
you manage a steak?”
“Sure. Bill” —the Greek was looking at the girl now
—“anything you say. Chips? Tomatoes? Eggs?”
“Whatever’s going, but no pumpkin. I’m as hungry as
a hunter.” Howarth turned and smiled at the girl. “Sorry.”
he added quickly. “What are you going to have?”


“An ice-cream. A chocolate ice-cream with lots of
nuts.”
“Fine,” He turned back to Joe. “And a chocolate ice-
cream with plenty of nuts for”—he turned back to her smil-
ing again. “I don’t even know your name.”
“I know the young lady,” Joe said, looking down at her
and shaking his head.
“I suppose you do. Now shake it up, Joe, there’s a good
lad. I haven’t had a thing since breakfast.”
“O.K. 0.K., Bill.” Joe shuffled down the passage and
into the kitchen.
Howarth pulled out a packet of cigarettes. He offered
one to the girl and took one himself. He leant towards her
to light hers, then sat back.
“What is your name, by the way?” he asked.
“Marianne Dashwood.”
“That’s quite a name.”
“Yes, it is. Marianne Dashwood,” she said to herself.
“What’s yours?”
“Howarth. Bill Howarth.”
“Bill Howarth. That’s a nice-sounding name, but
plain.” She slowly blew some smoke into the air and
watched it. “I prefer something more—well, not so plain.”
The Greek came back and put some cutlery on the
table.
“Miss Dashwood and I are just getting to know each
other,” Howarth said. “I gave her a lift ”
“Miss who?”
“Miss Dashwood.”
“O.K. O.K. Miss Dashwood.” Joe the Greek went
back to the kitchen, slamming the door after him.
“What is your name?” he asked again.
“Marianne Dashwood. You must call me Marianne.”
“Marianne,” he said, coming nearer and putting his
hand down on hers He smiled at her, and she smiled
back.
Joe the Greek came back with a tray of food.
“You want a game tonight, Bill?” he asked, close to
Howarth’s ear as he set down the plate of steak.
“No, not tonight.”
“The boys are expecting you.”
“I think I’ll skip it tonight.”
“They’ll be disappointed. They’re expecting you.”
Bill shrugged.
“I don’t see any reason why I should play cards if I
don’t feel like it,” he said to the girl when the Greek had
gone again. “Do you?”
She ran the spoon round the edge of the dish where
the melting ice-cream had begun to form a moat.
“No, of course not.”
He paused with knife and fork in mid-air.
“That’s one thing about me,” he said. “I can take a
thing or leave it alone. I like a game of cards as well as the
next bloke, but I don’t have to play, see?”
“No, of course not ”
“I can play for, maybe, two months. Then, suddenly,
finish. Beer—it’s the same with beer. I like my beer. I can
drink with the rest, but I can leave it alone, see? Sometimes
at home —1 live at Bondi right near the beach —the blokes’ll
come round Saturday for me to go to the pub with them. If
1 feel like it, good—off I go. If I don’t, I just say no. and
that’s all there is about it. Sometimes when I don’t feel like
drinking I go for walks” —he looked at her intently—“by
myself. Just looking at things. You know, flowers and things
hke that. D'you ever go for walks by yourself?”
“Oh. yes. I go for walks by myself all the time.”
“You like looking at flowers and stuff like that?”
“Oh, yes.”
He set down his knife and fork. “Perhaps after-
wards ”
The Greek was back again standing over Howarth,
watching him.
“You worried about your wife finding out about the
card game again?” he suggested.
Bill shook his head, laughed abruptly and turned back
to the girl.
The Greek laughed, too, and went on up to the door.
He stood watching the crowd of shoppers moving slowly
through the hot, sun-bright street.
“And other times instead of going to the pub,”
Howarth went on smoothly, “the wife, the wife and I go to
the pictures. She’s not fond of walks. She’s an impatient
sort of woman. Got a rough sort of temper. We have no
children, you see.”
The girl nodded.
“There’s one thing I always say,” he went on. “If you’re
on the road you’ve got to be able to take things or leave
them alone. Otherwise you’re in real trouble. You can’t,”
he wiped his fingers on the paper serviette, “be a slave to
your passions.”
“Oh, no,” the girl said seriously.
He drank a mouthful of coffee.
“/~\F course, I haven’t always been on the road,” he went
on expansively. “Before the war I was in a bank. I’d
just begun to get the hang of it. Then 1 was in the Army six
years, 1939 to 1945. When I came back I just sat down
and said to myself, I can’t go back there. It was like with
the beer and stuff. I said no, and I meant it. You’d think
a bank was all just sitting quietly adding up figures, but it’s
not. I was in a suburban branch and there were always
people telling the teller —that sounds funny. That’s English
for you—telling the teller their troubles. Not just money
troubles, all sort of troubles. Everything that was wrong
with their insides, everything that was wrong with their
husbands. In the suburbs in the afternoon when it’s quiet
there’s a regular procession of them. I thought to myself,
the higher 1 got up the more I’d have to listen to them, until
I’d be a big, fat bank manager trapped in an office listening
to troubles all day. Now I like this life. Suits me down to
the ground. Home one weekend, away the next. The wife
doesn’t like it, though. Doesn’t like me being on the road.
Women are terrible snobs. At least most women,” he
amended politely. “Women like my wife. And I don’t think
she likes me being away so much. Most weekends I make
for Binda. It’s a quiet place, but people here know me, and
I can get most things I want. Funny I haven’t seen you
round here before.”
“I don’t come to Binda Binda often.”
“Go on to Osborne? Yeah, it’s a bigger town, better
shopping. I’m travelling for Handee Household Products.
You use Handee Products at home?”
She shook her head.
“Sorry, 1 asked you that before, didn’t I? Sorry, it’s
kind of a habit now. They’re good. I believe in them. You
have to believe these days. That’s the new way to sell. I’ll
show you some afterwards. I suppose 90 per cent, of the
people in Binda Binda use them now. That comes of
knowing me.” He offered her another cigarette and took
one himself. “That was the old way to sell. It worked, too.”
He lit the cigarettes. “You’re a quiet sort of girl,” he
said. “Don’t talk much.”
“That’s right.”
“Suits me. I like ’em quiet. Still waters run deep.
You’d be a deep one.”
He ran his fingers under his collar.
“Gee, it’s terribly hot here. I think we’d better get out
of this place. What do you say we go down the river for a


while? It’d be cool there. Or would you like to drive into
Osborne? We could go to the pictures there.”
She looked at her watch.
“You meeting someone?”
“I don’t know.”
“You don’t know?”
“I sent him a message saying I’d be there, but 1 didn’t
get an answer.”
“He’s probably not coming, then.”
“You don’t think he’ll come?”
“How should I know? Where’re you meeting him?”
“Down by the river at four o’clock.”
“Well, then, we can take a stroll down there, and if he
doesn’t turn up
“But he will ”
He shrugged.
“Anyway, it’s nearly four now. He might go away if
you’re not there on time. Sure to. Men don’t wait, not in
places like Binda.”
He stood up and went across to the desk. Marianne
powdered her nose, then stood at the door, waiting for him.
The Greek came across to the cash register as the girl
was taking Howarth’s money.
“How’d you get mixed up with that girl, Bill?” he
asked anxiously.
His daughter, still fidgeting with her hair, looked from
one to the other. “Yeah, Bill,” she said, “how’d you get
mixed up ”
“I’m not mixed up with her.”
“No?” asked the Greek. “Well, if I was you I’d put her
right back where I found her.”
Howarth turned away. “ ’Bye, Joe. So long, Olga.”
He took Marianne by the elbow and left.
“They think I’m going to try something,” he said
angrily.
“What?”
“Nothing. Nothing,” he said, and took his hand away
from her elbow.
They turned down a side street and came to the river.
No one was in sight.
“Nobody here,” Howarth said.
“No, he’s not here, but he’ll come.” She looked down
the track that ran alongside the river.
“Well, would you like to wait, or perhaps we could go
for a bit of a walk and come back and see if he’s here then.”
“No, we’ll wait.”
“Might look you’re too keen, your waiting here for
him.”
“I don’t mind.”
“Would you like me to go?”
“Oh, no. I’d like you to stay.”
He sat down heavily on the grass and rested his back
against a pepper-tree.
“Well, might as well be comfortable,” he said. “Mind
if I take my coat off?”
She shook her head.
He took his coat off, then his tie, and opened his shirt
at the neck.
“Here,” he said, patting the grass alongside her. “Come
and sit here.”
She sat alongside him and they waited perhaps five
minutes in silence.
“Still think he’ll come?” he asked at last.
She looked back down the path. He leant across and
took her hand.
“Gosh!” he exclaimed. “They’re soft. Soft for a country
girl’s. Most of them’ve got hands like sandpaper. What do
you do? Wear rubber gloves?”
“What do you mean?”
“When you’re working.”
“Working? Oh, yes, rubber gloves.”
“I’ve got a new line in detergents. Just fine on the
hands. And it works out very cheap, too. Research in the
Handee laboratories shows you can do a whole wash
for . . He stopped. “Don’t laugh at me. I mean it. m
show you afterwards.”
“Thank you,” she said. She laughed a little, and he
laughed, too.
“Sorry,” he said. “Business before pleasure.”
TJpB kissed her wrist. He looked first at the white skin with
its tracery of blue veins, and, as he puts his lips there,
he w'ondered if he would be able to feel the slow flow of
blood through those tiny veins. But, of course, he couldn't,
Just the cool, soft flesh.
“What’s he like, this bloke of yours?”
“He’s beautiful,” she said, looking away.
He laughed.
“Go on, you’re kidding. You wouldn’t want him to
hear you call him that.”
“Ah, yes, he is,” she said seriously. Then she smiled,
too. She looked down the river-path. “He’s tall and thin
and fair. Fair hair, not yellow like mine.” she fingered her
own hair disparagingly. “But pale, pale hair. He has blue,
no, green, really sea-colored shadows under his eyes. They’re
as delicate as flowers. Sometimes I say to him, “Luke, are
you tired? Luke perhaps you’re ill.’ But he always says no.
The shadows are just there.”
“Luke? His name is Luke?”
“Luke Wolstenholme.”
“Yes? I never heard of anyone called Luke, except
that one who wrote the Gospel.”
“My family doesn’t like him. That's why we have to
meet like this.”
“Gee, that’s tough! Why don’t they like him?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” she said, shaking her head and
looking at him. “But they get angry when I even begin to
talk about him. They won’t listen at all.”
He touched her long, yellow hair.
“Well, it doesn’t look as if he’s coming.” he said gently.
“What are we going to do, sister?”
“I’ll wait. I’m waiting.”
He held her wrist, moving his thumb slowly across the
pulse, knowing she would say nothing until he spoke again.
Only a couple of months ago, in the spring, he had come
down here with a woman. Only a few yards away they had
lain, just out of sight and sound of the track, behind that
willow. It was night, then, of course. And bloody cold,
too, he remembered. She was a girl from Osborne with
dyed red hair, but a good figure.
It was the very week after Dolly had first found out
how much he’d been losing at care. Not that he was out of
his depth, but he was down quite a bit. That’s the way it
goes at cards —you win a while, then you have a losing
break, then you start winning and you’re on top again. Any-
way, he’d had quite a run of bad luck, and Dolly’d seen his
bank statement. There wasn’t nearly as much there as there
should be. They’d had an awful row. Then he’d gone out
and got drunk, well, near enough, and when he’d got home
there’d been another row.
The next weekend away he’d told the boys he wouldn’t
play. He said no, and he meant no. That was always the
way with him. He’d been sitting by himself on the upstairs
verandah of the hotel with a beer at his elbow. This girl
from Osborne had come up and sat alongside him. Then
she began to talk. That was always the trouble with people
They trapped you, and then they began. Talk. talk. talk.
And lord, you could have cracked rocks on her face.
Honestly, nothing had been further from his mind . . .
They’d had a few beers, then bought a couple of bottles
of wine. Raw stuff it was. His stomach contracted at the
recollection of it. And then they’d gone down to the river.


But wasn’t it half Dolly’s fault, nagging him about
drinking, when he never really got drunk, and going on
about cards? If she’d just let him alone about the cards he’d
have hit a winning streak, and probably would be a few
hundred pounds to the good now.
No one could say he was always chasing women. Why,
it was only when Dolly and he were fighting or something
that he even looked at another woman, and then mostly he
just looked at them. When he was a bit older, even a few
years older, he probably wouldn’t even worry about them
at all. He wasn’t going to be one of these middle-aged fools
always making an ass of themselves. He’d take up some-
thing, golf, or bowls, or something.
And another thing—if Dolly didn’t nag he wouldn’t
have this ulcer. When she was having a go at him he could
just feel it. as if someone were pricking holes in the lining
of his stomach until it looked like a sieve. Well, it probably
didn’t look like a sieve, but it certainly felt like it. If he
didn’t have an ulcer, and Dolly had given him the ulcer, the
wine that night wouldn’t have seemed so fierce.
As he said to himself afterwards, nothing had been
further from his mind than committing fornication with
some woman from Osborne. No, adultery, because he was
married. That was one thing, being sent to Sunday school
when you were a kid—at least you knew the names of the
sins. If he had had kids he’d have made sure they went off
every Sunday. He’d give them one hell of a hiding if they
didn’t. If he had had any kids
“Hey, hey, hey.” he said, sitting up and looking at the
girl. “I must have nodded off. Did I nod off? I’ve come a
long way today.”
“You did sort of go to sleep,” she said. “At least you
were lying there with your mouth open and your eyes
dosed.”
She was standing in front of him now, and he noticed
she had a sort of garland of rather scruffy-looking wild-
flowers in her hair.
“He came while you were asleep,” she said dreamily.
He looked at her and wondered if Dolly had ever looked
like that. Gee. it was terrible when you thought how it
started and how it ended up! You could understand women
carrying on and crying at weddings, seeing how beautiful it
was then, and thinking of their drunken, useless husbands
at home. Dolly and he had been pretty young when they
got married. Too young, he sometimes thought now, and
wished he had his time over again. Had they ever looked
like that? At least he had felt like that, he told himself
defiantly. Yes, he could remember feeling like that.
“Does it look silly?” she asked, touching the flowers.
“Luke made it while we were talking.”
“No, it looks pretty,” he said. “Say, listen,” he de-
manded, wrenching at his shirt to draw it together at the
neck “Why don’t you two get married? You might as well
get married. It’s silly for young people to hang round.”
“Yes. but ”
“Listen,” he said, with new urgency as the idea gained
strength in his mind. “Why don’t you elope? Once you’re
married there’s nothing anyone can do about you, you know.
You’re 21, aren’t youf”
“Oh, yes,” she said.
“Has he got a job?”
“Of course. He works on a farm.” She looked down
the path. “You can’t see it from here, of course.”
“V\?ELL, at any rate, there are plenty of jobs. Listen, I’m
nearly old enough to be your father. Old enough to
give advice, anyhow. I know what. Why don’t you and this
Luke come down to Sydney for a few days? You can tell
your family you have to go to the doctor or something. Then
you can get married down there. The wife’ll put you up.
She’d love to, and the excitement of a wedding. She’d love
that. We’d do it like you were our own daughter. Gees, it’d
make all the difference to the wife! She’d be that happy.
The wife’s a good scout, you know. It’s just having no kids
and things like that. And it’s not her fault she doesn’t
understand me. I’m a complicated sort of chap.” He dwelt
on this for a moment. It made him almost forget what he
had been talking about. But he came back to it.
“Now, let’s get down to business. Here’s my card.
That’s my home address and phone number in the left-hand
corner, there. As soon as you and Luke get to Sydney, ring
up. We’ll be expecting you. But, anyway, you probably
won’t be able to do anything for a couple of weeks at least.
I’ll be back in a fortnight. I’ll see you then and we can fix
up the details. In the meantime I’ll tell the wife. She’ll be
that excited and pleased. She’d do anything for anybody,
my Dolly. Got a heart as big as herself. Well, what do you
say?”
“Oh, it would be wonderful!”
“It’d be dead easy,” Howarth went on enthusiastically.
“And there’s nothing the family could do afterwards. If you
didn’t want to come back to this dump Luke could easily
get a job in the city. Come on, what d’you say?”
He leant towards her.
“And, listen, I’m no one to be giving advice about
marriage, but, after all, I’m old enough to be your father.
D’you know I’m 42? Would you have thought it?” He
paused. “Of course, I’ve put on a bit of weight lately, but
my hair’s still pretty good, isn’t it?” He lowered his head
for her to see, then leant back with his mouth wide. “And
haven’t lost a tooth, see.
“Anyway, as I was saying,” he went on. “I’m nearly
old enough to be your father. I will nearly be your father,
if you come down home and the wife and I fix your wedding.
Well, my advice is, once you’re married just don’t let things
get complicated. Once one sort of complication comes in,
the whole lot follow. Just keep it the way it is in the
beginning. That shouldn’t be too hard, should it? Just don’t
let it get complicated. It’s complications that spoil things.
That’s my experience.”
He stopped and looked at her.
“Well, now, come on, we’d better be getting back.
Your family will be wondering where you’ve got to. You
know,” he added, “this has been a pretty good afternoon,
even if it didn’t finish up exactly the way I thought it would.
And I’ll be pretty excited about that wedding myself.”
They walked back up to the town and got into the car.
He drove swiftly back along the road to the spot where
he had picked her up that afternoon.
At the home gate he stopped. It was nearly dark now
and the house at the top of the hill was a dark outline with
two squares of yellow light at the windows.
She lifted her hands and took off the garland of wild-
flowers.
“I nearly forgot this.” she said. “If the family had
seen ”
He put out a hand and touched the flowers.
“They’re dead,” he said. “You wouldn’t believe they
would die so quickly, would you?”
She looked down at the flowers, then threw them out
of the window.
“Now, listen,” he said. “In a fortnight I’ll be back
and then ”
“Yes, I understand,” she said.
They heard footsteps down the track leading to the
house and a woman’s voice.
“Are you there. Ellie? You’ve got her? Is she all
right?”
Howarth got out of the car.
“You’re Mrs Dashwood?” he asked. “Marianne and
I ”


•V
* ss
L
Oaken casks of
specialty selected
matured whiskies on
their way to the blend-
ing rats where they
are “married ” in the
age old way to produce
the famous Bond 7 blend.
mm
-
*
*>ND?
Whisky
m
ffim
fine liqueur whisky.
BOND 7
ONE OF THE FIVE GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
92868
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established, IB'S
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
“I’m Mrs Maguire,” she said. “You’ve got her? She’s
all right? She didn’t do anything awful?”
Howarth stopped at the gate and stared at her. She
turned from him and pulled the girl from the front of the
car.
“We’ve been so worried,” the woman went on. “Her
father has been looking for her in Binda Binda all the after-
noon. He’s still there. I walked all the way to Dodger's
Creek and the girls have been all over the paddocks. Thank
you so much for finding her and bringing her back.”
Howarth still stood and stared at her.
“What is this?” he asked finally.
“Oh!” the woman said abruptly. “You didn’t know
about her?” She came forward in the darkness to look at
his face. “You’re a stranger round here. You wouldn't
know. She’s ” She tapped her forehead.
Howarth shook his head and looked at Marianne.
“I'm so sorry you were put to all this trouble,” the
woman said unctuously. “It’s late. Do come in and have
a cup of tea before you go.” She turned without waiting for
an answer and began to walk towards the house. She was
still grasping the girl’s arm. Howarth came after them.
When they reached the yard the woman called out and a
heavy, plain girl came out of the house.
“Here she is, thank God,” the woman said.
The girl came forward without speaking, and with her
eyes averted from Howarth. She took one of Marianne’s
arms and led her into the house. Marianne didn’t look
back.
“You’re a stranger,” the woman said again when they
were in the kitchen. “I’m sorry you were put to all this
trouble. You see, everyone round here knows about Ellen.”
“But she’s all right. I’ve been talking to her all the
afternoon.”
“Oh, yes,” the woman said, angry for the first time.
“She fools everybody if she thinks she can get away with it.
She’ll go a whole day. She can go for days on end and seem
perfectly all right. If only she’d be like other, other you-
knows, so that we could have her”—she lowered her voice
—“sent somewhere. But nobody will have her. It drives me
crazy.”
She stopped and motioned him to a chair. She went to
a dresser and took down two cups and saucers and put them
on the table. She went across to the stove, took the kettle off
the flame and began making tea.
Howarth sat down heavily, staring at the opposite wall.
“Sometimes I almost think she is all right,” the woman
went on. She brushed thin, greying hair back from her fore-
head. “But there’s always something. What did she tell
you her name was?”
“Marianne Dashwood.”
“You see, that’s one of her tricks. She’s always chang-
ing her name. She probably got that out of some book.
She reads all day. She’s read nearly everything in the muni-
cipal library. It keeps her out of mischief, so I let her. And
did she start telling you about her young man?”
“Luke?” he asked and faltered. “Luke Wolsten-
holme?”
“For heaven’s sake,” the woman said, laughing. “Where
did she get that one? And is he still tall and fair and
handsome?”
He nodded. “She met him today,” he said. “Down
by the river. I saw him. At least, I didn’t see him. I was
asleep when he came. But he came.”
“There’s no such person,” the woman said scornfully'
She looked out across the dark paddocks, and Howarth
looked too. “There’s never been anyone like that round
these parts,” she added wistfully.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
ECONOMIC POLICY
Menzies Blasts “Calamity Howlers”
With a confident gait the
Prime Minister strolled
into Sydney Town Hall early
last week and expertly deli-
vered a typical Menzies pero-
ration about the state of the
nation's business. Some fifteen
hundred enthusiastic N.S.W.
Liberal Party members and
supporters all specially in-
vited for the occasion stood
up and clapped Uncle Bob as
he entered.
With a great show of spirit,
and the utmost confidence
almost bordering on arrogance
—in his political skill and
economic acumen, Mr
Menzies proceeded to assail
his numerous and noisy critics.
Businessmen, academic econo-
mists, political opponents and
a section of the press all
received a thorough and dex-
terously administered tongue
lashing.
The Prime Minister reserved
the choicest bits of his biting
and sweepi g sarcasm for the
customary clients —“the cala-
mity howlers,” who are per-
sisting in “undermining the
confidence of the 97 people in
every 100 who are in employ-
ment." In this way he success-
fully got around the current
3p.c. unemployment level.
Mr Menzies asserted that his
views on economic problems
facing Australia stemmed
from his "own experience and
judgment," and that “this
Government’s policy has
worked."’
He was rather unkind to the
academic and professional
economists and made it sound
quite an asset that among the
six Cabinet Ministers present
at the meeting not one was “a
theoretical man.”
jV/fiNDFUL of the elections. Mr
A Menzies solemnly pro-
mised his audience that Aus-
tralia will never again have a
depression, and implied that
boom-breaking with all its
necessary but unpleasant
consequences has ended.
'What we need from now
° n is a steady state of
offairs, in which people go
a bout their affairs in the ordi-
nary way.” In effect, the
r ‘me Minister asked for
increased business confidence
and spending.
Next day, speaking at
Maitland (N.S.W.), Mr
Menzies again stressed that,
despite its effect on Australia
and the Commonwealth,
Britain’s decision on whether
to join the Common Market
was for her alone to make.
As was to be expected,
Uncle Bob’s forthright and
colorful Sydney speech pro-
voked a chorus of vociferous
and angry comments from his
usual critics. Particularly
indignant was Mr Gordon
More, president of the Vic-
torian Chamber of Manu-
factures, who seemed deeply
distressed by the statement that
the Prime Minister was
shocked to have to tell of
people in his “own State of
Victoria publishing advertise-
ments to encourage the idea in
the minds of their employees
that their jobs are going to
end tomorrow.”
Mr More, as usual, criticised
the Federal Government for
lifting in.port restrictions
his favorite topic. Then, while
admitting that the Govern-
ment successfully curbed an
undesirable boom, he pro-
ceeded to attack the admini-
stration for drawing on the
resources of the International
Monetary Fund and for
the unemployment situation.
It must be held in mind,
however, that many of the
Government’s critics have been
anxious to have the economic
cake and eat it to.
Quite a few were content to
chase the boom and make ever
larger paper profits on the
rapidly unwinding inflationary
spiral. At this stage there are
few serious businessmen,
financiers and economic
theorists who can honestly
deny that curbing of the boom
was essential for the national
economy. Mr Menzies has
quite correctly pointed to the
latest austerity measures in the
United Kingdom as an
example of similar policies
abroad.
The Prime Minister's words
may sound a bit strong and
his general attitude may
occasionally seem irritatingly
complacent. But the basic
elements of the Government’s
economic policy have been
sound right through although
several important tactic a 1
errors have been committed
Restrictive measures should
have been more discriminating
and occasionally even sharper,
but directed more specifically
against certain sectors o£ the
ec °" omy - , ,
The consumer goods boom
had to be slowed down and the
basic industries and primary
producers aided. There is no
doubt that the upward pressure
of costs and prices has been
substantially slowed down.
This is precisely what is worry-
ing manufacturers of a number
of products with huge unsold
stocks on their hands. The
imaginative and proper way
out of this dilemma is to dis-
pose of excessive inventories
by lowering prices. At a time
like this there is no better way
to stimulate demand than by
price reductions in the durable
consumer goods field. And
this can be achieved without
recourse to price wars.
Tt is also true that the inces-
sant attempts of sectional
interests to force the Govern-
ment to abandon its economic
policy, only too often under-
taken in the form of much
publicised layoffs of manpower
by corporations which can
well afford to get by for a
while on lower earning rates
in the interests of the nation’s
economic stability or by means
of huge advertisements about
rising unemployment, can be
classed as calamity howling,
Despite mistakes, some of
which were caused by exces-
sive regard for the demands
of its business critics, the
Menzies Government must be
praised for having acted with
courage, and a reasonable
degree of skill, in a very diffi-
cult economic situation.
It is unlikely that the
employment position will be-
come rosy overnight, and the
Government may have to go to
the polls with a fair number
of unfortunate people still on
the dole. It is to be hoped that
this prospect will not tempt it
into further appeals for indis-
criminate spending, which may
do more harm than good.
Stimulation of the basic indus-
tries is the real key to the
problem.
By and large Mr Menzies’s
statements on economic policy
make good sense, while
those of his numerous
and varied critics often do not.
On the other hand, there is
no place for complacency or
for contempt for formally
trained minds. These days
good theoretical training in
economics is a major asset,
not a drawback and this
should be remembered by the
gentlemen at the nation’s helm.
FURS AND SKINS
Synthetic Koalas
These days foreign trade
plays some remarkable
tricks.
Some Australian firms have
been steadily exporting limited
quantities of kangaroo skins
to the United States. The
Americans have found them
both useful and exotic, and
demand has been rising.
However, certain West
German businessmen got the
message and began producing
synthetic koala skins with fur
—especially for the American
market.
The synthetic koala furs are
manufactured in the Federal
Republic and sold in the U.S.
at competitive prices.
During the year ended June
30, 1961, Australia exported
£412,000 of kangaroo and
wallaby hides and skins.
Kangaroo skins, with their
attractive, warm and inexpert-
sive f u . r ’ re increasing in
popularity in Europe. Quite
a number of overseas business-
men and trade officials who
had come to Sydney for the
Trade Fair are taking kanga-
roo skjns back as souvenirs
and samples. It is to be hoped
Australian exporters will


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts—
skilled in the modem conception of
Investment—can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne. C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton. Townsville and Charleville.
UT34a-82N
manage to keep at least a step
ahead of synthetic kangaroos
manufactured overseas as
they undoubtedly will be if
there is any money in the
game.
PENSIONS
Time for Fair Deal
Last week’s protest march
and meeting held in Sydney
by members of the Original
Old Age and Invalid Pensi-
oners’ Association once again
highlighted the plight of those
members of the community
who have to eke out an exis-
tence on fixed pension pay-
ments.
No one can dispute that the
present full old age pension of
£5 a week is inadequate. So
are the widows’ pensions and
many other fixed social ser-
vices payments. Moreover
these pensions are subject to
substantial reductions when
modest amounts are earned by
the beneficiaries.
One of the principal worries
of pensioners is that they
receive a fixed amount despite
continuous price rises caused
by steady inflationary trends.
This could be overcome by a
system of gearing pension rates
to a productivity and con-
sumption index, specially and
exclusively designed for this
purpose. This has been done
in several European countries
and could with advantage be
tried out in Australia.
Such an index need not be
based on the Federal basic
wage or on consumer prices
index changes, but should be
constructed specifically for the
purpose of bringing pensions
into line with real cost-of-living
variations. There is also a real
need for a flat increase in
current pension rates. Old age
pensions should be made
sufficient for a modest living
standard, and not be a mere
pittance which is often inade-
quate for bare essentials.
The costs of such adjust-
ments would not really be pro-
hibitive on the national scale,
and could be amply covered by
minor changes in the tax
structure. The nation’s
economy can afford this, and
t h e nation’s conscience
demands it.
Economically a moderate
rise in pensions would be
useful as it would increase
demand for essential domestic
primary and manufactured
products. It is unlikely that old
age pensioners would stimulate
inflation by overspending on
TV-receivers and the like.
A good case can also be
made out for an increase in
unemployment benefits, parti-
cularly for family men. This
could be achieved by larger
payments for every child, and
by a system of specific grants
for educational expenses.
It is to be hoped that the
Federal Treasurer wall give
these matters some thought in
his Budget speech.
AIRLINES
Qantas to Form Public Co.
Oantas, Australia’s Govern-
ment-owned international
airline, has announced plans
to build a 400-room first-class
hotel in Elizabeth Street —the
heart of Sydney. Estimated
cost is about £5 million.
The decision, announced
early last week by Qantas
chairman, Sir Hudson Fvsh,
has already aroused excited
comment in several quarters.
Investors on the Sydney
Stock Exchange are particu-
larly interested, because
Qantas proposes to float a new
public company to provide
part of the finance required.
Details have yet to be worked
out and an underwriting
broker appointed, but it is
expected that investors will be
offered about £2 million in
shares in the new company
next year. The shares will
probably be issued in ss. units.
There is also considerable
speculation about the position
of shareholders in Qantas
Wentworth Holdings Ltd.
Shareholders in this com-
pany are almost certain to get
preferential treatment in apply-
ing for scrip in the new Qantas-
sponsored public float. It is
not yet known whether their
holdings will be purchased by
Qantas at a fixed valuation or
exchanged for shares in the
new firm.
Senator Paltridge, the
Minister for Civil Aviation,
disclosed that some £3 million
would be raised by an outside
loan, secured by a first
mortgage on the new hotel.
Among people somewhat
thrown out of gear by Qantas’s
hotel building plans are Sydney
City aldermen and Pan
American Airways officials.
Sydney City Council has been
considering selling its Martin
Place land to Pan American
Airways—likewise to build a
£5-£6 million tourist hotel.
It must now be considered
whether it will pay the Ameri-
can international airline to go
ahead with its own plans. W
is to be hoped that the U.S.
giant will not be deterred by
the prospect of new competi-
tion. Sydney can find enough
guests for two new first-class
hotels, particularly in the city
area, and additional “world
standard” accommodation can


IT
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £891.419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEBRING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in E-ngland )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
, BEEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
Oll ly increase the flow of
tourists—to everybody’s profit
an d benefit.
However, in the immediate
future the new hotel project
may throw a bit of a shadow
on the prospects of the part-
completed Sydney Chevron
Hotel in Macleay Street, King’s
Cross. The Chevron faces
immediate difficulties because
the credit squeeze has slowed
down its building schedule *
the portion of the hotel already
in operation must now of
necessity temporarily bear a
disproportionate share of over-
heads.
From the sharemarket
angle, Qantas’s decade as a
hotelier is encouraging. Qantas
Wentworth Holdings Ltd last
year earned 17 p.c. and paid a
12| p.c. dividend.
MOTOR INDUSTRY
Are Dismissals Justified?
The motor industry's giants
are manoeuvring again.
The Government's efforts to
stimulate economic activity and
increase business confidence
have come up against skilfully-
timed, large-scale dismissals in
the motor and rubber tyres
industry.
The latest moves to lay-off
staff came almost immediately
after the Prime Minister's
speech on economic policy in
Sydney Town Hall, and less
than a week before the Federal
Treasurer’s Budget speech.
These reductions in the
motor indu s t r y's work
force —1400 employees by
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd
in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, 1500 by Goodyear Tyre
and Rubber Company (Aus-
tralia) Ltd in Granville
(N.S.W.), and 200 by Joseph
Lucas (Aust.) Pty Ltd in Vic-
toria—will have far-reaching
adverse effects, particularly by
giving ammunition to the pro-
fessional panic-mongers who
have been preaching for
months and months now that
Australia faces tragedy unless
the Federal Government gives
immediate relief to manufac-
turers of motor vehicles,
finance and hire-purchase com-
panies and producers of house-
hold consumer goods.
People may be pardoned for
suspecting that some motor-
vehicle producers are
consciously using the rising
unemployment to force the
Government into acceding to
their demands for sales-tax
concessions, easier credit, etc.
The timing of the latest dis-
missal notices gives further
height to this suspicion.
The official reason given for
the dismissals was the latest
huop in the motor-vehicles
registrations figures, slack
demand and the building up
°f excessive inventories. With
the exception of the producers
of the Standard, who took the
logical way out of their diffi-
culties and reduced prices, car
manufacturers have not made
any serious attempt to sell off
their surplus stocks or stimu-
late effective demand for the
current output.
Apparently they still remem-
ber the “good old times” when
a customer had to wait for
weeks for delivery after having
placed his order. It is time
they realise that those
days are gone and they are
now living in a different era —
the era of intense quality and
price competition and imagina-
tive selling. It is gratifying
that the consumers have gener-
ally refused to buy cars at
prices which are too high in
present economic conditions.
But it is distressing that car
manufacturers, who have
received every consideration
from the Government and the
public from the earliest days,
and who for many years
rode on the very crest of the
prosperity wave, are so short-
sighted as to try to intimidate
the Government and the people
into accepting price mainten-
ance schemes, which have out-
lived their purpose, as sacro-
sanct at a time of national
economic emergency.
The managing - director of
G.M.-H. is surely not as naive
as to claim that price reduc-
tions will not stimulate demand
for the Holden, unless they are
so substantial as to endanger
the national economy. The
laws of supply and demand
are simple—when money is
tight a price reduction will
result in a marked increase in
demand. Holden cars are no
exception to the rule.
G.M.-H. and the other
motor - vehicles manufacturers,
particularly G.M.-H., can
afford to reduce prices and
still show a reasonable profit.
There is no doubt that present
car prices are too high. The


• • •
You’re so right
insist on
BLACK &
WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘BUCHANANS’
By Appointment
to Her Majesty The Queen
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
lAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD. Glasgow • Scotland • London
BLACK & WHITE
it
3456
Bulletin has always acknow-
ledged G.M.-H.’s right to its
splendid earnings on a buoyant
market. But it is one thing
to charge a price which an
active market can carry and
another to try to maintain an
unrealistic price level when
effective demand has sagged
down.
The cost of arresting infla-
tion must be borne by all pro-
ducers, especially by those who
had contributed to the develop-
ment of last year’s runaway
boom. Attempts to maintain
artificially high prices by
means of extensive production
cuts, resulting in a wholly
unnecessary aggravation of the
difficult employment situation,
are poor business, bad public
relations and socially danger-
ous economic philosophy.
Motor - vehicle manufac-
turers and car-parts producers
can well afford to keep almost
all their present employees on
the payroll without incurring
any substantial real losses. In
this way they would materially
aid a growing nation, in the
economic development of
which they have shared and
prospered. In the long run,
and even in the near future,
this economically sound policy
would pay a handsome divi-
dend in goodwill and orders.
The Government was justi-
fied in putting the brakes on
the motor industry and con-
sumer spending last Novem-
ber. It is to be hoped that it
will continue to stand firm and
will not make excessive con-
cessions in the wrong sectors
of the national economy.
E.B.
Speculator' s Diary
Monday, August 14.
Tt hardly seems fair for a
speculator to go on record
on the eve of the Budget when
goodness and Holt alone know
what will happen tomorrow.
Not even the Canberra news-
paper correspondents are pro-
fessing to be in the know this
year: no inside stories reliev-
ing us from payroll tax or
threatening us with a capital
gains tax (mercifully). The
result is that the market is well
prepared for a rather smug,
“do-nothing” Budget. But, on
the off chance that a crumb
or two might fall from the
Treasurer’s table, I have been
pressing on with the buying
and have added 100 Mt Isa
and 400 Derrin Bros, to my
portfolio this fortnight.
Mt Isa strikes me as one of
those “long-term” investments
with short-term possibilities.
Already its shares have pro-
duced a capital gain of 900 per
cent, since 1952 and that
astronomic figure could be
pushed higher still next month
when the annual report comes
out. Higher production and
improving metal prices should
have helped the profit figure
along nicely.
A close look at the recent
Derrin Bros, prospectus
seemed to suggest that the
shares represented a bit of a
bargain when they came on the
market at 10s. Although the
company operates 79 grocery
stores, its capital was only
£223,000 until very recently—
lower, in fact, because a bonus-
issue (of unstated size) was
made in February. Since June
capital has been increased by
nearly 50 per cent, with an
issue to shareholders and then
the public issue. Profit for the
past year is expected to equal
22 per cent, on capital as it is
now. But on capital actually
employed, the rate should be
about 30 per cent. On this
basis the earnings yield at 10s.
would be 15 per cent., which
more than measures up to my
standards. So I bought 400.
These purchases brought my
indebtedness with my broker
up to the unprecedented figure
of £961. So selling became
imperative.
To begin with, £l4O came in
from London for my 132
Marley Tile, subject of the
angry outburst in the last diary.
The loss on these was £lB.
Then I began to look hard
at the rest of my portfolio.
Antill Ranger has been treated
with exemplary patience, hav-
ing stood at the head of my
portfolio for nearly six months
and hardly budging in price.
Still, I have hopes that my
patience will finally be re-
warded when the profit is dis-
closed. The same goes for
Merica. P.M.U., however, has
provided one of the high spots
of my year and I could resist
the temptation to sell no
longer. So away went 50 for
a most gratifying profit of £lOB.
Then along came Phillips
Oil on to the market and I lost
no time in selling my 400. I
got 6s. Bd., which was more
than I really expected. Profit
here was £29.
Further down the list were
those 200 Johnells which had
disappointed me by not attract-
ing a better offer from Fibre
Containers. I could get only
19s. for these, making a loss
of £2B.
These sales produced a net
profit of £9l but brought in
only £771, so that I still have
to dredge up another £2OO.
Maybe those James Hardies,
on which I missed the bus to
sell, will recover quickly from
last week’s sharp drop.
Details of the week’s tran-
sactions were:
BOUGHT
100 Mt. Isa at 69/9 .. £341
400 Derrin at 10/- .. £206
SOLD
132 Marley Tile at 21/7 £l4O
50 P.M.U. at £6/7/6 £315
400 Phillips at 6/8 .. £129
200 Johnell at 19/- .. £lB7
I now hold:
Cost Clir-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 Antill R. £251 12/3 13/6
50 Pick-Me-Up 207 81/6 £6/6/-
500 Merica 105 6/4 6/J
600 Stocks & .
Holdings def. 261 8/6 10/6
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 24/J
200 Marriekville 217 21/3 20/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10/ 3
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/U
100 James Hardie 391 77/- 81/
300 McDonald 207 13/6 lor
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 22/s
400 Ampol rights 42 2/- jj'
400 Besser (Q) 174 8/6
400 Rio Tinto 307 15/- I b C
300 Pyrox new 87 5/9 w
200 Dodge 136 13/4 W
400 Motel Corp 61 2/11 "/
50 A.C.I. 273 107/6 lOg/'
100 Mt. Isa 341 69/9 Wf
400 Derrin 206 10/-


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange')
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO’'
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. AiLLEN, M. R. X,. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Del fin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (30 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 246 S
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Dennys, Lascelles Ltd
u/oolbroker and stock-and-station
™ agent, Dennys, Lascelles Ltd, has
teen in the wool game, now, for more
Ilian a century—the co. was incorporated
in 1857. Head-office of the organisation
is in Geelong. All told, there are 39
branches and 29 “special-agencies” scat-
tered throughout the home State, Vic-
toria and in the southern Riverina, N.S.W.
Activity is concentrated in the good rain-
fall areas of the Western and Wimmera
districts, Thomas Mitchell's so-called
Garden of Eden, and the good rainfall
areas of the Central and North-eastern
districts. As a result, Dennys, Lascelles
picks up, generally, a better than average
fleece The co. handles somewhere in the
vicinity of 9 p.c. of the whole Victorian
wool clip, figures for which compare as
fellows:
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1950-57 .. 1,361,424 £132,402,118 £97 5 1
1957- . . 1,252,142 9 7,522,931 77 17 8
1958- .. 1,325,542 81,927,943 61 16 2
1959- . . 1,416,013 105,155,570 74 5 3
1960- . . 1,390,032 93,600,826 67 6 9
The past wool season (Victoria) opened
in Geelong, October 4, 1960. Prices at
that time were approximately 15 p.c.
lower than at the opening sale of the
previous season. A steady improvement
was evident until the end of November,
hit this was not sustained and prices
moved back to the opening level at which
they held firm until the end of February.
A further strengthening movement then
developed which reached a peak early in
May. by which time the market had fully
recovered the ground lost since the previ-
ous season. This improved level was
maintained with minor fluctuations to the
®d of the season except that in the final
Week’s trading a slight decline was regis-
tered. The chief buyers were Japan, the
Continent, Eastern Europe and the U.K.
Since then, all quiet auction-wise, the
British wool futures market has exhibited
a distinctly bullish note auguring better
wings in the future.
Only moderately successful in pre-war
Ve ars, Dennys, Lascelles has given an
Client account of itself under the
generally favorable conditions prevailing
oVe r most of the last decade (conditions
"hich have tended to decline in latter
years), net earnings during this period
Paging 24.8 p.c. on share capital, in-
leased in 1955, by a two-for-five issue
ijtpar. Paid capital at balance date, June
® last, £546,000, all in f.-p. 20s. ords.,
was supported by £740,499 of reserves
(as against £335,062 at the end of the
1952 term), intangibles appearing in the
books at £83,428. Equity interest has
since been increased, by £218,400 to
£764,400, a further two-for-five par issue
going the way of shareholders registered
June 2.
It can truly be said that Australia is
still saddled firmly to the sheep’s back ;
that wool prices, despite growth of manu-
facturing industry, remain the basic
determinant of levels of prosperity. But
Dennys, Lascelles has inured itself, if
not wholly, then partially, to the ups and
downs of supply and demand. The co.
has steered a fluctuating but compara-
tively steady, course through the trials
and tribulations of recent years.
The golden fleece, somewhat tarnished,
but still flecked with hope, tabled a much
drabber fibre in the 12 months to June
30 last, the average price of wool, greasy
and scoured, Australia wide, dropping
9.88 p.c. to 52.20 pence per lb., compared
with 57.92 pence per lb. in the 1959-60
wool-selling season. Total receipts of
wool into brokers’ stores pressed out a
reduced 4,715,343 bales as against the
preceding tally of 4,925,606 bales, Aus-
tralia's greatest clip ever. Sales rang in
at 4,755,482 bales (down 173,745 bales),
aggregate proceeds skirting in, finally, a
lack-lustre £314,479,811, representing a
decrease of £44,949,679, or some 13 p.c.
less than in the previous season, a long
way short of the record shed, £483
million, gathered-in in 1956-57:
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1956-57 .. 4,886,561 £482,859,860 £9B 16 3
19.37-58 . . 4,374,694 336,770,554 77 4 3
1958- . . 4,790.282 295,652,526 61 14 5
1959- .. 4,929,227 359,4.29,490 72 18 4
1960- .. 4,755,482 314,479,811 66 2 7
Last term, Dennys, Lascelles gunned
the Victorian shed to ring up a tally of
126,387 bales received into store. In-
cluding a carry-forward of 852 bales from
the preceding season, the strong-backed
champion sold, in all, 126,427 bales (up
115 bales and a record), the carry-forward
to the current season settling 40 bales to
812 bales. This result can be construed
especially satisfactory bearing in mind a
reduced activity pervading Victorian pas-
tures. Total sales dropped 25,981 bales
to 1,390,032 bales, throughout Victoria,
in the 1960-61 wool-selling season.
Sales of sheep, as recorded by the co.,
were slightly less in number than in the
previous year, but the average price per
head was considerably higher. The total
number of cattle sold was also down, but
again the average price was much higher.
Land sales figures were well maintained.
Judged on last term’s effort and the
circumstances in which it was achieved,
Dennys, Lascelles’ quest for the golden
fleece —in the more favored rural areas —
was well rewarded. Earnings from trad-
ing operations, after allowing for doubt-
ful debts and including £1562 income
from investments, were £935,616 (down
£26,818). Unfortunately expenses rose
sharply and pre-tax profit slipped £55,261,
or 22 p.c., to £199,045. Net profit, after
tax £87,500 (down £13,500), depreciation
£36,032 (down £1671) and general man-
agement expenses £689,372 (up £31,442),
declined £41,761 to £111,545.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends. N serves, -serves.*
1956 .. 132,644 16 p.c. = 87,360 45,284 495,644
Profit sale assets, £3610 .. .. 499,254
Tax overprovided, £6OB .. .. 499,862
Written-back investments, £906 .. 500,768
Accrued long-service leave, £14,236.. 486,532
1957 .. 164,733 T7|p.c.= 95,550 69,183 555,715
Profit sale assets, £9554 .. .. 565,269
Tax overprovided, £8983 .. ... 674,252
Written-back investments, £1219 ... 575,471
1958 .. 118,879 15 p.c. ~ 81,900 36,979 612,450
Profit sale assets, £9992 .. .. 622,442
Tax overprovided, £756 .. .. 623,198
Profit on bonds, £1582 . . . . 624,760
1959 .. 104,824 15 p.c. = 81,900 22,924 647,684
Profit sale assets, £4319 .. . . 652,003
Tax overprovided, £2433 .. .. 654,436
Profit on bonds, £ 625 .. . . 655,061
1960 . . 153.306 17*p.c.= 95,550 57,756 712,817
Profit sale assets, £9508 .. .. 722,325
Tax underprovided, £5705 .. .. 716,620
Loss on bonds, £306 .. .. 716,314
1961 . . 111,545 16 p.c. = 87,360 24,185 740,499
* Subject to intangibles, £83,428 at 30/6/6L -
This works out at 20.4 p.c. on capital,
as at June 30, as against 28.1 p.c., 19.2
p.c., 21.7 p.c., 30.1 p.c., 24.3 p.c. and
27.1 p.c. back to 1955. The fluctuations,
so clearly apparent, are demonstrative of
a relative independence, when viewed
alongside the performances of other pas-
toral concerns, from the constantly vary-


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
3 MONTHS’
notice
PA
a
6 MONTHS’
notice
%
OFFERS TO LONG OR
SHORT TERM INVESTORS
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
12 MONTHS’
notice
2 YEARS
and now for only
SYEARS
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange.
This is not a Prospectus. Copies of the Pros-
pectus covering these issues have been lodged
with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
CUMULATIVE STOCK 4 TO 20 YEARS, 7% PER ANNUM
Applications must be made on Forms enclosed in the Prospectus, now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
EVERY BRANCH OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
All Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
100 New South Head Road, Edged iff, Sydney
Secretary-General: Keith Love. Telephone: 32.0111
Branches: Bankstown, Chatswood, Hurstville, Liverpool, Newcastle, Parramatta, Wellongong.
CRD 1.861
ing ups and downs of the world
wool market : they do, of
course in absolute measure, re-
flect a very pronounced sym-
pathy.
Dennys, Lascelles eased the
div. rate from 17) p.c. to 16
p.c. last term. The average
handout since 1952 is calculated
equivalent to 16.45 p.c. Re-
serves. augmented by profits
from the sale of assets, £9508,
but reduced by tax under-
provided in the previous term,
£5705, plus capital loss, £306 on
“adjustment of Commonwealth
bonds to quoted market,” rose,
all told, £27,682.
The balance sheet is, taken
all round, a well integrated
sfatement exhibiting a solid
financial fibre:
1900. 1961.
Paid capital .. £546,000 £546,000
Reserves .. 712,817 740,499
Overdraft .. 159,398 150,499
Creditors, etc. .. 147,796 112,337
Staff funds .. 68,016 68.923
Tax provision . . 101,000 87,500
Final div. 68,250 60,060
£1,803,277 £1,771,823
Freeholds .. 624,129 639,444
Plant, etc. .. 74,147 79,175
Stock .. .. 52,699 54.959
Debtors .. 742,250 860,499
Cash, etc. .. 220,624 54,318
Goodwill .. 83,428 83,428
£1,803,277 £1,771,823
Book debts jumped £118,249 to
£860,499. Creditors fell
£35,459 to £112,337. Theoreti-
cal working capital appears to
be ample, setting the current
ratio at 2to 1 (1.9 to 1). Dur-
ing the year, Dennys, Lascelles
completed erection of a second
section at its new wool store
in Broughan Street, Geelong.
Funds channelled into this pro-
ject. which, incidentally, has
proved “very successful in both
the speedy and economical
handling of wool,” boosted the
book-value of freeholds a net
£15,315. The book-value of
plant advanced £5028 to
£79,175.
As to the future it is the an-
nounced policy of the Com-
monwealth Government that
export industries should not be
hampered by credit restrictions,
but the practical application of
this policy to wool production
is a matter of the greatest diffi-
culty. There is no doubt as to
Dennys, Lascelles’ ability t 0
“ring” the Victorian shed this
season, “cobblers” and all, and
it is almost certain that the co.
will keep its “comb” full of
wool as well. But whether the
champion’s tally will earn him
a proportionate profit is an-
other question and one open to
individual judgment. Wool
prices and weather are still the
determinants of pastoral per-
formance, and they are both
unstable, unpredictable and in
a constant state of flux.
Investors, however, are
generally optimistic, attaching
considerable importance to
Dennys, Lascelles' deserved
reputation for reliability The
20s. ords., each backed by
375. 2d. of net tangibles, con-
servatively reckoned and in
terms of post-issue capital
(£764,400), fetch 465. 6d. on
’Change in Melbourne and at
this price yield 6.9 p.c. from a
continued 16 p.c. div.
Draffin Everhot Ltd
From Mr A. R. Draffin,
chairman of Draffin Ever-
hot Ltd: “Whilst the total
turnover for the whole year
was in advance of the previous
year there was a steep fall in
the last few months of that
period, due to the effects of
the financial restrictions.”
Sallying forth to the public
lists in December, 1950,
Draffin Everhot Ltd exchanged
110,000 10s. ords. and £5OOO
in cash for the share capital
of Draffin Bros. Pty, offering,
at the same time, 70,000 ords.
at par to the public. The
stripling newcomer was early
called on to assert its capabili-
ties and resourcefulness.
Shortly after flotation, Vic-
toria introduced regulations
restricting the sale of electric
hot-water systems (at the time,
the co.’s main product)
throughout the State. Draffin
set-to to diversify production
and develop interstate markets.
This it has done successfully.
Today the co. turns out
electric, kerosene-, gas- and
oil-burning hot-water systems,
sink-heaters, low-level flushing
cisterns and slow-combustion
cooking ranges. The non-
electric lines have opened up
hitherto untapped markets in
rural areas.
If the co. has proved itself
dynamic and adaptable in the
manufacturing and selling con-
texts (factors looking advan-
tageous in present circum-
stances), it has just as surely
shown itself generous and fi ee "
handed from an equity p oint


£34,000,000
Backs this gilt-edged investment
51%
LOAN
NOW OPEN!
The Sydney County Council offers -this assured return to investors in the largest
electricity undertaking in New South Wales. S.C.C. annual income exceeds
£34.000.000, and guarantees Loan interest and principal for the next 5, 10 or
20 years
S.C.C. sales of electricity—now 3000 million kilowatt hours per annum—have more
than doubled since 1950, while customers have grown by 176,000 to almost half a
million. Now serving 1,500.000 people, the S.C.C. must continue to expand as
Australia's greatest metropolis demands more power every week.
If you hold securities in the Council’s 5£% Loan No. 70 (maturing 15th October,
1961). now is the time to convert to higher interest.
FroUt safely by Sydney's expansion !
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank; Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited; or ’phone your Stockbroker or the S.CiC. (2 0259).
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Underwritten by:
Ernest L. Davis & Co. Ralph W. King & Yuill
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
of view. Dividends, reduced
to 8 p.c. in last term (the 12
months to March 31, 1961) in
a n endeavor to conserve
liquidity, had been maintained
at 10 p.c. since Draffin’s incep-
tion in 1950, the steady hand-
out gracing a paid capital,
which, in the same period, had
been increased more than two-
fold. Shareholders benefited
by a one-for-four par issue in
1953, a one-for-three par issue
in 1954 and a one-for-four
bonus issue in 1959. Today’s
paid capital, £187,500, is held
in 375,000 f.-p. 10s. ordinary
shares.
At one stage in 1960, in the
pre-November days, the 10s.
ords. fetched as high as 28s.
to return 3.6 p.c. from the then
postulated 10 p.c. div. The
present calendar year has seen
a top price of 15s. 6cL with
current trading around the 13s.
6d. mark. Immediate yield
works out a not unreasonable
5.9 p.c. for the 8 p.c. dividend.
The shares look a good buy,
Draffin’s basic strengths ensur-
ing quick recovery once the
general economic situation
begins to brighten.
Turning to last term’s effort,
to the problems marshalled
suddenly along the Draffin
horizon, the unexpected down-
ward trend in sales from
November on, together with
high production costs of a new
major product, had “quite an
adverse effect on net earnings.”
Despite difficulties, Draffin
battled through the closing
phases of its latest financial
year to bring home a reason-
ably satisfying but, at the same
time, much reduced net profit.
After draining off £21,968
(down £5584) to depreciation
and £23,000 (down £7000) to
tax, consolidated net profit
settled £12,024, or 27.5 p.c., to
£31,647. Note interest took
£3500. there being 150,000 10s.
7 p.c. unsecured notes, con-
vertible, one-for-one, March
31, 1966:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Ke-
Mar. Profit. , Dividends—. serves.*
31, £ £ £
1955.. .37,027 10 p.c. = 12,500 95,693
Une-xplai ned addition,
, £1425 97,118
195 C. .34,467 10 p.c. = 15/000 116,585
Tax overprovided, £-636 . . 117.221
1957.. 47.440 10 p.c. = 15,000 149,661
Tax overprovided, £2094.. 151,755
**sB. -45,085 10 p.c. = 15,000 182,440
Tax overprovided, etc.,
, £8717 .. .. 186,157
1959. . 42,2.27 10 p.c. = 15,000 213.884
Tax overprovided, £3665.. 217,049
UaexpT'd reduction, £1427 215,622
1960.. 43,671 10 p.c. = 18,750 24.0,543
Note issue expenses w/off,
£48.8 ‘240,055
l *«L . 31,647 8 p.c. = 1-5,900 256,7;0?
‘Subject to intangibles, £.83,993 at
March .81, 1961.
The net figure was equal to
an earning-rate of 16.9 p.c., as
against 23.3 p.c., 28.1 p.c., 30.4
p.c., 31.6 p.c. and 23 p.c. back
to 1956. The div. handout
took a reduced £15,000 (down
£3750). Reserves, subject to
intangibles, £83,993, and after
deducting note-issue expenses
written - off, £4BB, jumped
£16,159 to £256,702.
Although the credit squeeze
is still having a detrimental
effect on trade generally, par-
ticularly in respect to the build-
ing industry, Draffin is making
a tremendous drive to obtain
a greater share of business
available, and “for the first few
months of this current year the
results are most encouraging.”
A cost-conscious management
is continually sniping at
expense rates. The co. has
recently reorganised its manu-
facturing division and produc-
tive efficiency has advanced.
Bad debts were especiafly
burdensome, particularly dn
accounts associated with the
building trade, whilst competi-
tion gathered intensity. Dur-
ing the year “we developed
prototype electric stoves and
hard-fuel room heaters, but
due to the conditions of trade
which arose it was decided to
delay the expense involved in
going into production at least


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
osuixrvw
y> pTY.LTD.
TRAOr^gMARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS Sr OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
B **CIAL
s&>
?OVp
AWTOAI^
i)
SI
S
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
Aneoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
A 7568
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY ... ST. AGNES BRANDY
until trade conditions show
some improvement.”
Draffin displays a very live
interest in liquidity ; hence the
lowered div. rate. The co. is
in good financial fettle:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital. .150,000 187,500 187,500
Reserves ..213,384 240,543 256,702
Notes .. .. 75,000
Mortgages ..103,642 100,218 88,347
Overdraft .. 22,784
Creditors, etc. 106,312 176,811 133,218
Tax provision 45,000 39,000 53,000
Dividends .. 15,000 18,750 15,000
633.338 762,822 831,551
Freeholds ..115,587 126,141 126,182
Leaseholds .. 51,372 55,002 92,788
Plant, etc. .. 64,068 63,043 67,771
Stock .155,976 221,575 263,323
Debtors ..153,001 182,065 187,712
Cash, etc. . . 48,793 32,955 9,782
Intangibles .. 44,541 82,041 83,993
633.338 762,822 831,551
Theoretical working capital
moved forward a healthy
£34,781 to £236,815 with stock
at £263,323 (up £41,748),
debtors at £187,712 (up £5647),
bank overdraft, drawn on for
the first time, at £22,784, and
creditors reduced £43,593 to
£133,218. Cash slipped £23,173
to £9782.
The book-values of lease-
hold and plant rose £37,786
(£92,788) and £4728 (£67,771)
respectively. Mortgage liability
was reduced to £88,347 (down
£11,871). Net tangible asset
backing at March 31 was 19s.
2d. a 10s. ord. Book-values of
fixed assets benefited finishing
touches to a new factory at
Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria,
completed early last term.
Meantime directors are con-
fident that “with the energetic
sales campaign continuing and
an efficiency drive in our fac-
tory the utmost results obtain-
able will be achieved in the
current year.” Draffin Ever-
hot Ltd has a good, if not
spectacular, record.
COMPANY NOTES
Stocks and Realty
TVirectors report that during
the eight months to June
30, 1961, Stocks and Realty
Corporation Ltd earned a con-
solidated net profit of £16,174
after setting aside £6680 for
taxation and providing for
eight months’ interest payments
on convertible notes. Earning
ratio was equivalent to 14.1
p.c. on the capital employed.
Stocks and Realty invested
its funds in three main direc-
tions: to acquire commercial
properties “in selected posi-
tions with likely capital appre-
ciation, which have been
income-producing from the
date of acquisition; to dis-
count real-estate mortgages
and lend on real-estate securi-
ties on short-term basis; and
“to develop new commercial
centres which are part of, or
independent from, existing
shopping centres in the metro-
politan area.” The company
had mainly relied on the third
avenue of investment.
Wholly-owned income-pro-
ducing properties were
acquired at Liverpool, Cabra-
matta and Blacktown, near
Sydney. “Various joint com-
panies have been formed dur-
ing the year, whose shares are
held in conjunction with Stocks
and Holdings Limited.” These
companies have purchased
commercial development sites
at Carlingford (about nine
acres), Merrylands (about ten
acres) and Toongabbie, near
Sydney, to establish “Ameri-
can-style drive-in shopping
centres” within the next two
or three years. It is said that
plans for the proposed develop-
ment have been approved by
the competent authorities.
Further sites were acquired at
Merrylands station and at
Seven Hills.
Building commenced at
Merrylands and the project is
expected to be completed and
ready for occupation by
tenants by the end of this
month.
“In view of the company’s
liquid position, the credit
squeeze has only had one
effect on its activities, that some
negotiations with large retailers
are taking more time to con-
clude.”
Directors say thay are con-
fident that a dividend of not
less than 10 p.c. p.a. will be
declared for the next full
financial year. A first interim
dividend is expected to be
declared early in 1962.
Stocks and Realty Corpora-
tion Ltd, a sister company of
Stocks and Holdings Ltd, com-
menced operations on Novem-
ber 1, 1960. After the 2s. 6d.
a unit share and convertible
note call last April was paid
in full, paid capital rose to
£250,000. In addition there
are £250,000 ss. convertible
notes.
At the last sale in Sydney
the ss. ords. fetched 4s. lid.
and the ss. convertible notes
4s. 6d.
P.G.H. Industries Ltd
p.G.H. Industries (S.A.)
-*■ Pty, a division of P.G.H.
Industries Ltd, has recently
opened Australia’s first fully
automatic brickmaking plaid
in the Adelaide suburb of
Renown Park. The plant, cap-
able of handling raw materials
for about 30,000,000 standard
bricks a year, includes artificia
driers and an oil-fired tunnel
kiln. It will boost S.A. brictc
capacity by approximately 12
p.c.
The chairman of P.G.H. In*
dustries Ltd, Mr J. W. Blaik-
lock, has it that further re-
organisation and expansion oi
production facilities will make


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA.
No. 414 of 1901.
To: THOMAS DOUGLAS IRONS
formerly of Holbrook in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that LEONIE FRANCIS IRONS has
instituted proceedings against you for
Dissolution ot Marriage for cause of
desertion Unless you file an answer
with the Registrar of the Supreme
Court oi Victoria at Melbourne on
ot before the Twelfth day of September
1961 a decree may be granted against
you and you may be ordered to pay
the costs and TAKE NOTICE that the
sealed copy Petition and Notice of
Petition in this suit may be inspected
bv you at the office of JOHN Mc-
DERMOTT JONES, of 31 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria,
Solicitor. —J. McD. Jones, of 31 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
drilled to a depth of 8730 ft.,
representing a gain of 1142 ft.
in one week.
The formation remains
basically sandstone, siitstone
and claystone. From time to
time coaly material has
appeared in cuttings from the
well and some gas, presumably
occurring in association with
this, has been indicated by
instrument readings. Cus-
tomary logs are being run in
the well at its present depth.
Positions Vacant
HISTORY
A non - resident History Teacher
required at
BARKER COLLEGE,
HORNSBY,
to teach History at all levels of
the secondary school. A know-
ledge of Ancient History is essential.
Salary according to training and
experience.
RESIDENTIAL SCHOOLS AT
UNIVERSITY OF NEW
ENGLAND, ARMIDALE,
Beginning January 3rd, 1962.
• Music; Drama; Practical Art
and History of Art; Apprecia-
tion of the Arts (all 14 days).
• Television Producers (5 days).
• Mass Media and the Individual
(3 days).
Details from Director of Adult
Education, University of New
England, Armidale.
Positions Vacant
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill, Sydney
The Council invites applications tor
the position of
ASSISTANT TO THE
PRINCIPAL
as Director of School Studies.
Applications close 30th September,
1961. For full particulars, apply
The Principal.
CRANBROOK SCHOOL,
BELLEVUE HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Vacancies occurring from Ist
Term, 1962.
English Master (1)
To take over English Department
or, if no suitable applicant, to teach
English, including 6th Form.
Science Masters (2)
Any combination to teach Chemis-
try, Physics and Geology—Senior
and Junior work.
Accommodation
Two Flats for married Masters in
Eastern Suburbs and Resident Single
Accommodation available.
Write to Headmaster stating lull
academic and extra curricular
qualifications and experience.
Ike brickworks the most
modern and efficient in Aus-
tialia. The entire cost, so far,
aggregates little short of the
00,000 mark. The plant is
(he first of several which, it is
aid. will revolutionise the clay
i hrickmaking industry in Aus-
tralia.
oil AND MINING
Oil Development
Oil Development N.L.
reports that the seismic
survey in the Alpha district of
central Queensland, extended
to cover a total traverse length
of 105 miles, was completed
at the end of July. “The pre-
liminary review of the infor-
mation obtained indicates that,
as anticipated, a first-class
drilling target is likely to
result.''
The company also reports
that the stratigraphic test well,
Bathurst Island No. 2, pianned
to 2000 ft., began drilling on
July 27. The well was last said
to have reached 841 ft. The
section penetrated consists of
marine cretaceous sediments.
The gravity survey project
in Oil Development’s Bona-
parte Gulf Permit Area in
Western Australia has com-
menced.
Wapet
W7est Australian Petro-
leum Pty Ltd reports
that 92 miles of seismic marine
survey has been completed in
four working days in the waters
in the vicinity of Exmouth
Gulf.
Further, that good progress
has been achieved at Eneabba
where the No. 1 well has been
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 656
Across
I—One device of getting Banquo to the banquet in which
condiments are served with spirit. (7, 5)
8— Influential Moslem is again dropping in. (3) ,
9 Additional vagabond without his compact dominion as
entertainment. (13)
10— Set about murder with a boiler with adroitness and
French. (7)
11— Cooler state, but why finish an imaginative composi-
tion? (7)
14—This bird is one with a short moustache. (3)
15 —Surpass when batting expels one
party in the eternal triangle. (8)
17 — Sun like this right angle. (3)
18— Beverage. (3)
21 —Westless present. (3)
23 It’s an eyesore for you, by the
way. (4)
24 Doctor’s client prepared to
wait. (7)
25 Listener backing a West Indian
opener in Goddard's team. (3)
26 — Mount taken from Benaud has
the old-time sex-appeal alter-
native. (7)
28— Conserved enough to make Ted
bolt. (7)
29 But the young might be willing
to participate in such a senti-
mental tune. (3, 3,7)
30— 'One State mount in another
State. (3)
31 — Those who angle to replace the
hot stuff in 1-across, a play by
Douglas Stewart. (7, 5)
Down
1— Agreeable insect after en-
treaties. (8)
2 A woman editor slipped? (11)
3 He is careless with one of
Chaplin's wives seen on the
military shoulder. (9)
4 Quick-minded transport upset. (5)
5 Correct way to dive makes the
damaged shirt fade. (4, 5)
6 When’s I Zingari more than we
need in a surface prepara-
tion. (6)
7 Upsetting an Iberian artist in
Japan. (6)
8— Anglo-Saxon of a backward
State. (2)
12 —Wherein 1 confess that 1 shall
be bowling until there's a party
with wine. (11)
13 —Sun has love alone. (4)
16 —Tobacco topping of the
mouth. (7)
19— Use a reformed biblical charac-
ter. (4)
20 — What the fusspot can do in a
trifling mist. (8)
22—Layerless when a help for the
brick - carrying unit is a
mystery. (8)
25 —Fruit is in the rain. (6)
27 — One of the Roman fountains has
tea about six. (5)
28 — Less draped place to spot the
Queen. (5)
29 — Farewell is halved, thank you. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 655


Sc*
Nfiir
h
1
m
i
CD
is 2
vw^^«wwvyvy%o^rt~v\rjvw.w«>?
■ &n
•jWI *»
£
IW
ri
¥xk.
---nnorf.-j,.
::
:
Hf\P
1
Esso
v \(^V
2926/103
It’s one of life’s pleasures to be just driving, with the family
in merry mood along for the ride. There’s a pleasant day
ahead. You know, because you’ve filled up with the right
petrol, used the right oil. . . had everything checked at your
family’s favourite service station . a . That’s Atlantic, of course
... for safe, Happy Motoring. :
ossj
3IIMIV
SIGNS OF QUALITY, SYMBOLS OF SERVICE
Atlantic Union Oil Company Pty. Limited.
tfafifif/ Afotdxmf!
begins at your
Atlantic Service Station
