

The Bulletin
April 12, 1961
and The Observer
POVERTY
IH
AUSTRALIA
A BULLETIN
INQUIRY
Export
or Expire?
The Factions
in Wool
The Italian
Racketeers


,4 M-
r-*-. ,-^K
Tn
-f
n
vT
m
i*****'-*
*■■*■■ m
"K
ONE THING
HASN’T
CHANGED-
A PROGRESSIVE
OUTLOOK
When, in 1903, the Wright brothers flew the world’s first powered aeroplane. New South Wales, on
the threshold of the Motor Age, was manufacturing its first pneumatic tyre. Many said that the
arrival of these new forms of transport presaged the end of the Railways.
But what are the facts?
In 1903, the New South Wales Government Railways operated 3,280 miles of line . . . logged
35,000,000 passenger journeys and carried 6,700,000 tons of freight.
Last year, the Railways operated 6,108 miles of line ... logged over 254,000,000 passenger journeys
and carried 22,000,000 tons of freight.
mm
&
O
CO
Si
fo
m
The plain fact of the matter is that the Railways are carrying more people and moving
greater payloads than ever before.
Despite the impressive and laudable development of other forms of transport, the
New South Wales Government Railways remains, as it has done for over a century, the
State’s most valuable and productive transport system.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


Society
Smoky Go Home !
Farents may not always realise the
terrible traps being laid for their
children on the comic-strip pages of the
newspapers, but the Communist party’s
Eureka Youth League is ever vigilant.
When Smoky Dawson, the comic charac-
ter of a Sydney afternoon paper,
announced recently that he was setting
off on an important mission to Laos, the
League scented a plot to corrupt the
morals of Australian youth and sent the
newspaper a deputation composed of
various “youths” from the Boilermakers’
Union, the Building Workers’ Union and
the waterside workers. Smoky Dawson,
they pointed out, was apparently going
to fight the Communists in Laos, and
they were naturally worried lest young
readers “might seek to emulate the
heroics of Dawson, which were an inter-
ference in the internal affairs of another
country.” Smoky, they insisted, must be
brought back to Australia immediately.
We understand, however, that if parents
are worried about the vision of thou-
sands of young readers rushing off under
Smoky’s inspiration to fly arms to Laos,
they may rest again in peace. Meanwhile
Smoky is still in Laos . . .
Top Story Demolished
There is no truth in the story going
round Sydney that the big gum-tree
on top of the unfinished A.M.P. sky-
scraper at Circular Quay was put there
for the convenience of the dogmen. It
was put there to encourage nesting
cranes.
Theatrical Bcnanzac
Cpeaking of his play, “The One Day
of the Year,” which will be the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s third offering
of the year at Sydney Palace, author
Alan Seymour says: “Australia is going
through a transitional phase, and young
“This is the story of a typical Australian middle-class family. The son ,
Steve — that's you Tony—has stolen a Holden in Albury and shot his
Way through a road block in a desperate effort to reach Margie—you
Beth—who is planning a spectacular break from the Parramatta Girls
Home ...
Hughie, the university student of this
play, sums up the new generation’s
distaste for old customs and new institu-
tions when he attacks his father about
Anzac Day, which Hughie believes has
become a ‘boozy, meaningless ritual.’
The conflict which breaks out could
happen in any family, between any father
and son ; the disagreement over Anzac
Day crystallising the conflict between
two generations.”
Seymour also investigates a part of
Australian urban life usually dismissed,
by starry-eyed egalitarians, as non-
existent ; through Hughie’s girl-friend,
a North Shore type, the author takes a
pretty dramatic look at class-conscious-
ness. As Seymour sees it, there’s a world
of difference between Paddington and
Pymble, and the people from both places
know it.
Ron Haddrick will play the father, and
television personality Lew Luton will
play the boy. His girl-friend will be
Brisbane actress Judith Arthy, who is
making her professional debut, and the
mother another of the richly drawn
Mums who seem to appear in all locally
written plays—will be Perth actress Nita
Panned.
Opening the play on April 26, when
Anzac Day is still nice and hot, the
Trust is not worried about any con-
troversy which might arise out of a
discussion sometimes pretty heated —
about our “National Day”; the play,
the Trust feels, puts a number of points
of view fairly. From then on, it’s up
to the audience.
Chosen for production at the Adelaide
Festival last year by one section of the
Festival planning organisation, the play
was regarded as not suitable by another
(the deciding) section. However, when
produced later by the Adelaide Little
Theatre group, it aroused no con-
troversy at all —despite the presence of
some R.S.L. representatives on the
opening night.
Fashion Footnote: One consequence
of the delay in getting “The One Day of
the Year” produced is that the Pymble-
Paddington idea is now somewhat out of
date. Increasingly the inner suburbs are
INDEX
• Poverty in Australia 7
_ w. „
• Italians As Racketeers? 10
• Phillip the Founder 11
Aboriginalities 28
Business, Robbery, etc. 35
Consumer-Observer ">6
Letters 44
Look Back At Anger 50
Man on the Land 47
Overseas 23
Personal 18
• Nobody Ever Asked Me 14
• Factions in the Wool War 16
* The Kangaroo Shooters
(Part 3) 51
Plain English 6
Political Points 22
P a S e 30
*' rvice ”
Society 3
Sport 42
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 54
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pry Ltd. Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney.


A Win for Censorship
The forthcoming republication by Hor-
witz of Lawson Glassop’s “We Were
the Rats” turns out to be, though still
welcome, not nearly so brave a gesture
against the censorship as was imagined.
Writing to The Bulletin from Adelaide
Mr Glassop says: “I believe it could be
republished in its original form, but
Horwitz felt, after legal advice, that I
should tone it down. I have done so,
omitting the three pages Judge Studdert
said were ‘just plain filth,’ but the spirit
of the book has been retained.” Mr
Glassop also says that he has cut the
book, for literary rather than censorship
reasons, from 146,000 to 100,000 words.
As cut, it will be able to circulate in New
South Wales, where it was banned, as well
as in the other States. The three pages
of “just plain filth” were three pages of
lightly amusing salacity which Mr
Glassop quoted from a magazine.
Sly-gasseries
"Cor Queenslanders caught short of
petrol after hours there are two
ways out. The Royal Automobile Club
is allowed to sell small amounts to mem-
bers whose tanks are bone dry; so
members with enough gas for half the
distance they want to travel can siphon
“My etchings !”
it into a bottle at some place near a
telephone, then howl for help. Many
such calls are said to come from hotels,
where the motorist can drink until 10 p.m.
Non-members and visitors to Queens-
land can ask around for Brisbane's lone
sly-gas shop, which is raided and closed
for the night as regularly as any sly-
groggery in Richmond or Surry Hills
Outside, the uninitiated wonder why so
many cars are being driven into an
indoor service station at such an hour.
Inside, the cars follow a circuit of pillars,
the leader held well back from the car
being fuelled at the pump near the
entrance. This keeps the entrance clear;
a natural gambit for the bucker of
prohibitions.
The expressions of the men and
women drivers in the waiting circle
would fit out characters in a suspense
film: relief at finding the place open,
fear that it will be raided before their
turn at the pump, and (perhaps) a wish
to reverse laws that deny cars petrol but
enable their drivers to get tanked.
“in,” and the outer suburbs are “out.”
The girl should now be from one of those
chic little Paddington terrace houses, stiff
with wrought-iron and converted at a
cost of thousands, while he’s just a boy
from the sticks—Pymble, where you can
still walk through paspalum to get to the
station.
That was Society
In a recent Saturday edition of a South-
ern daily there were 20 advts from well-
known abortionists. In the majority of
cases a stranger may call and, on payment
of 10s. down, the balance by instalments,
time-payment in fact, without any in-
quiry, the operation will be performed
there and then.
—“Bulletin”, October 26, 1895.
Sydney signs of the times: —“All meals
a penny” (shop, Darling Harbor) ; “bed,
with cup of tea, and two slices of bread
and butter on rising, 6d.” (Shop, George
Street North); “pint of beer, with plate
of hot curry-and-rice, and potatoes in
their jackets, 3d.” (Hotel, King Street) ;
“shaving Id., and hair-cutting 2d.” (shop,
Sussex Street) .
— “Bulletin”, November 30, 1895.
The practice of hiring out “harmless”
lunatics from the local asylum has become
popular at Sunbury (Vic.) . One local
family engaged an amiable, matronly
crank for her “keep” and were delighted
with their bargain for a while, as she
would start working at daybreak, and go
on without pause for rest or refreshments
unless turned off at the main. But one
day, when washing, she dreamily dipped
a billy of boiling water out of the copper,
and poured it over the baby sitting near,
and then cheerfully proceeded to grind
the infant on a washing board. Where-
fore, the cheap idiot is in temporary dis-
favor at Sunbury.
— “Bulletin”, October 12, 1895.
Said the secretary of the London Cab-
drivers’ Benevolent Society, in a recent in-
terview:
In many ways the cabman’s lot has
improved greatly of recent years. Rubber
tyres, foi instance, make the long hours
on the box less fatiguing. And in saving
of wear and tear of both vehicle and
horse they amply warrant the outlay of
the six pounds they necessitate.
The first Australian cabman with a
smart turn-out, who puts rubber tyres
on his wheels, will much increase his
earnings. Rubber tyres were running in
London ten years ago.
— “Bulletin”, October 5, 1895.
A Collingwood (Vic.) man, charged
with assaulting a constable, cheerfully
explained: “I thought it was my wife,
your Worship.” But they fined him, all
the same. A shameless magistracy has no
sympathy even for the man whose wife
is indistinguishable from a policeman.
— “Bulletin”, September 14, 1895.
THE DOWNED CUP
“A 16-year-old girl swallowed a three-inch
long waxed drinking cup while returning to
Sydney by train from the Blue Mountains.”
Girl, sixteen,
Beauty queen,
Returning in a train to town,
Took a cup,
Drank it up,
Then reversed, and drank it down.
The waxen cup
Litters up
Public places, thick and thin;
This young miss
Won’t have this —
She is her own rubbish bin.
Cups of wax
Are artifacts
Based upon the cylinder:
Only tum-
blers to some,
They are meat and drink to her.
And good enough!
Although it’s tough,
Paper cooked in waxen fries
Is better scran
For travellers than
Railway sandwiches or pies.
SWILLIAM.


CONTAINMENT IN WEST NEW GUINEA


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Coming War in
West New Guinea
There is very little doubt that Presi-
dent Soekarno will attempt a
military adventure in West New
Guinea this year—if he thinks he can
get away with it. And even less doubt
that this month he is going to try to
get what he wants by threats.
He will go to Washington, where
he will try for President Kennedy’s
non-intervention, presumably by play-
ing the inflamed-Afro-Asian-opinion
gambit and making Cold War (closer
to Russia) and economic (oil-interest)
threats. Around this will be wrapped
the quite spurious moral and legal
arguments for Indonesia’s claim to
West New Guinea to act as an appeal
to the spirit of anti-colonialism in
Washington.
If it were just a question of West
New Guinea, President Kennedy
would probably not waste more than
five minutes in tossing it to President
Soekarno. But he has his allies to
consider: Mr Menzies must make Mr
Macmillan support whatever we want
on this issue ; the Dutch are part of
the Atlantic Alliance ; we are allied
to America in Seato and Anzus ; the
French are still touchy on this kind of
issue. And he also has to consider
the necessity for keeping some kind
of order in the peripheries of the
Indonesian Empire. If President
Soekarno gets West New Guinea he
may go for Portuguese Timor, British
Borneo, Australian New Guinea, and
God knows what else next. That
President Kennedy will worry about
what happens to the West New
Guineans is too much to expect.
In speaking to Mr Macmillan,
President Soekarno will presumably
repeat his diplomatic (Cold War) and
economic (oil) threats. He might care
to cast an inflamed glance at British
Borneo, and he will certainly threaten
to split the Commonwealth. How far
he gets with Mr Macmillan is Mr
Menzies’s business.
In the meantime General Nasution
will be here next week to eye Mr
Menzies and the Australian people
over and display his strength. That
Dr Subandrio, when he was here, pro-
mised to keep the peace may be
forgotten by General Nasution. We
will remind General Nasution of that
promise and score a moral victory,
and jolly good luck to us.
What else will we score? The
answer to that will be a judgment in
the record of one of the few important
moments in Australian diplomatic
history. Our attitude on this matter
is decisive. If we cave in, the Dutch
will give up and the rest of the world
will thankfully stop searching the
more obscure bac!: pages of its
atlases.
If President Soekarno does not
achieve a diplomatic victory by diplo-
matic means (threatening a war) he
will attempt to secure a diplomatic
victory by military adventure. There
is little question of prolonged fight-
ing for the western part of the island ;
such a war would be almost unfight-
able. And unnecessary. These days
the trick is to maintain some kind
of an invasion for long enough (a
few days should do it) for the United
Nations to order a cease-fire, send
observers, call conferences and in
general let a belligerent get on peace-
fully with his business. The Indo-
nesians would be implacable; the
only compromise they would accept
would be one that was guaranteed to
give them what they want in 18
months’ time.
With astuteness and decision, there
are possible ways out of this mess,
but it is Australia that must find them
—and they must be found very
quickly. For that reason for the next
few weeks The Bulletin will provide
space for what we consider to be the
right line of conduct in a problem
that is going to hit us, and hit us hard,
embarrassingly before the coming
Federal election. Until next week
there is only one thing to say: the
Prime Minister must at once shed
himself of some of his responsibilities
so that the administration can fight
the diplomatic war it must start fight-
ing quickly.
Poverty in
Australia
r T'HE report on poverty in Australia
appearing in this issue of The
Bulletin shows how there are still
many gaps in the fabric of our Wel-
fare State; many people are still
living in distress through no fault of
their own. Some of these ills can,
perhaps, never be remedied. We are
not likely to build ourselves a perfect
society utterly without blemish. But
some of them are remediable, and
now that most of the humbug has
been cut out of talk about social
services someone should get on
quietly with the remedies.
The days when broad hit-or-miss
sweeps over the canvas were needed
to share wealth out and alleviate dis-
tress are gone. In fact, broad measures
could do more harm than good. If
you are hitting a small target you
need a small weapon. What the
Government should do is to set up
a fact-finding commission—if possible
on a multi-party basis —to track down
all the things that still go wrong with
the social services. And then there
should be an attempt to secure the
consent of all political parties to what-
ever remedial proposals are put for-
ward. Since most of the sting went
out of political struggle in Australia
both sides have shown a lamentable
lack of interest in the many perhaps
unexciting and perhaps non-vote-
getting kind of reforms that —if some-
body would only bother to carry them
out —would make life for a number
of Australians slightly more worth
living.
The Crawford
Letter
A nyone interested in the welfare of
Australian universities should read
Professor Crawford’s letter on page 44
about Communist disruption of aca-
demic life in Melbourne University.
As well as being a leading historian
Professor Crawford is a well-known
liberal who has suffered in his time
from “Red-baiting.” He is not the
sort of man to express himself loosely
on this matter. Yet he says he is now
“unable to reject” Dr Knopfelmacher’s
description of how Communists
operate in universities —a description
which attributed to Communist
academics a willingness to fake
research, to indoctrinate students and
to intimidate colleagues.
In recent years, Professor Craw-
ford says, he has seen a Communist-
led faction use these well-known
tactics in an attempt “to drive the
heads of two small departments and
those loyal to them into acquiescing
in the faction’s control of depart-
mental policy, or even into resigning
and leaving the field clear.” He
argues that a university appointment
should naturally take into account an
applicant’s membership of the Com-
munist party, and he pleads for more
sophistication in university circles
about how this party actually
operates. Let us hope that the Federal
Council of the University Staff Asso-
ciations reads this letter.
By OBSERVER


Poverty
in
Australia
A "BULLETIN" INQUIRY
AUSTRALIANS have a horrified pity for the
underprivileged and underdeveloped who always live
overseas; they are sure that it can’t happen here. Of
course it does happen here: Dudley Flats in Melbourne,
Herne Bay, the Sutherland Shire tin humpies, and La
Perouse aboriginal settlement in Sydney would all,
at some time since the war, have provided material
for films which would have shocked them overseas.
The occasional newspaper story of a slum atrocity
only temporarily clouds the belief that we are all revel-
ling in an affluent society. In fact, apart from those
who are living in squalor, there are large numbers
who are desperately poor in Australia. It is the purpose
of this report to remind those who are worried by credit
restrictions that there are still Australians who wonder
why they are alive.
“t\° n *t grow old, son, don’t grow old.”
At 80 old people begin to be proud
of their age and pensioners often add a
few years on, claiming to be 80 from
the time they are 77. Women stop telling
their age when they are about 27 to
resume with pride when they can claim
80, but this white-haired old fellow
seemed to be advising an early death.
No, he said, life was not worth living
once you started to lose your faculties:
his sight was declining, his heart was
giving him trouble. Yet he was fortu-
nate: he had a few rooms at the back
of a house for a reasonable rent, the
landlady cut his nails and combed his
hair, he could still get about, his Masonic
friends and his children visited him —
he was fortunate, but only in comparison
with other aged persons.
He was lightly afflicted when com-
pared to the blind man and his blind
de facto wife who sat in a darkened
room listening interminably to radio
serials, to the two former school-
mistresses who occupied a double-storied
house whose furnishings had not changed
since before the First World War, who
needed not money but security. The elder
sister is frail but can move around the
house, the other sister is bedridden but
stronger. She is terrorised when her
sister stays downstairs for a long period
and wonders whether she should contact
the outside world ... a telephone stands
by her bed. The elder sister hopes the
younger one will die first but the odds
are that one day the bedridden ex-teacher
will call and her sister will not be able
to mount the stairs. Their sight is failing
too, so they cannot see that their bed
linen is dirty. Even if they could, they
say they have not enough money to send
things to the laundry. They need a re-
serve for, if something terrible should
happen, they could not accept charity.
Failing sight is one of the commonest
complaints of the aged and as much as
anything else it reduces them to a state
of dependence. An aged partially-blind
woman excused her barking fox terrier
by explaining that he was useful: a few
days ago her front door had opened
but when the dog barked furiously the
door closed and the intruder scurried
away —or, at least, she thought he did.
Some of the aged poor would welcome
even a burglar ; they see so few visitors.
A woman whose arms and legs are
crippled with arthritis greets the meals-
on-wheels people, who dash into her
house daily, with a spate of amusing talk,
but they have to dash off again to other
people with their hot meals and once
again the house falls silent —except for
the constant radio: she sees no one else
from one week’s end to another, and
has been out of the house only once in
15 months.
Loneliness can be as destructive as a
disease: in one of the Sydney housing
settlements a woman lived in such
absolute isolation for five months after
her husband’s death that when she was
visited she was found to be mentally
unstable. But most of the poor aged
seem to meet their condition with accep-
tance as well as regret. Aged people who
can get along to welfare centres have a
great advantage over “shut-ins”. Such
self-governing clubs provide both the
feeling of belonging and the possibility
of exercising some authority. Indeed
some club members take their clubs so
seriously they have to be reminded that
it is not the Saville Club and that they
cannot enforce a rigid code on all
members.
'T'he aged are usually prepared for their
poverty but widowhood nearly always
comes unexpectedly and it does not re-
quire much imagination to appreciate
the plight of, f<rr instance, a Sydney
woman left with 14 children between
the ages of 19 years and six months
when her husband was recently killed
by a hit-run driver. A case of such
spectacular need attracts more attention
but is less typical than that of a widow
who is left with a few children, a half-
paid-off house and more worries than
she knows what to do with. Certainly
there are Federal and State allowances
for children, so her total income with
three children would be £7 12s. 6d. with
no other income permitted. How is she
to meet the payments on the house? Yet
if she shifts she will probably pay more
in rent but have no property at all.
It is obvious why widows are cam-
paigning for abolition of the means test
or for its lifting to bring the pension and
permissible earning up to the female
basic wage with extra allowances and
earning permissible for each child. As
it is, widowhood often means a dramatic
switch into lonely, pinchpenny poverty
with hungry children, frustration and
forced dependence on charitable relief.
The restriction on widows’ earnings
means a constant temptation to outwit
the regulations, a fear of informers and
of policing, surprise visits and searches
from Social Service inspectors. Widows
nourish their resentment with stories such
as that of an inspector who told a
widow that in her position she had no
right to have the fruit that he saw on
her table, or that of the inspector who
told a widow she should not be able
to afford a television set. Many have to
request an exemption which allows their
children to start earning when they are
14 and, as the Housing Commission
homes rents rise as soon as widows’
children begin to earn, many of them
send their children to board with friends
once they work. The following example
shows what waste this implies. A mother
was informed that her son’s performance


at his intermediate examination showed
that he had high technical ability and
above average intelligence, so he should
study engineering at the university. But
as she was dependent on her widow’s
pension she not only could not keep
him at school, she could not even afford
to let him serve an apprenticeship.
Instead he had to go into a job without
prospects which would give him more
money immediately ; he is now struggling
to do a night course at a technical
college.
In order to draw attention to their
plight civilian widows are becoming
more militant and between 10,000 and
11,000 of the 51,922 drawing pensions
are banded into the Civilian Widows’
Association. War widows are in a better
position for, in addition to the help
of Legacy, no means test is applied to
their income but the civilian widow has
a permissible income of only £3 10s. on
top of her pension of £4 7s. 6d. The
misconception underlying this injustice
is that widows should be treated in the
same way as aged and invalid poor but
obviously their capabilities and responsi-
bilities are very different.
TVeserted wives are, to all intents and
purposes, widows and are eligible
for the Civilian Widows’ Association.
Provided they have applied for main-
tenance they receive Commonwealth
benefits six months after desertion but
this period must have been the blackest
of their lives for many of the 10,000
women now drawing this pension. In
many cases the husband leaves home
because he cannot face his family’s
financial problems, and since the wife has
to confront them without even a pension
it is not surprising that some seek help
in unorthodox ways Many find another
man who will live with them and shoulder
obligations. The newcomer often begets
additional children but is not interested
in a lasting union and once more the
woman is deserted. In some cases these
women have religious objections to
divorce from their first husband but they
are not entitled to benefits as deserted
de facto wives unless they can prove
they have lived with the second man
for three years. They are eventually
left with nothing but a large brood and
the debts which probably made their
husbands flee.
Some social workers find that deserted
de facto wives are unaware of the benefits
available to them and many isolated
people are probably in the same posi-
tion. If the Government were less
worried about possible fake applicants
than about those genuine ones that at
present never go near their offices it
might hold an imaginative television
campaign to inform people of the help
available. Between those who are
ignorant and those who imagine that
requesting help is “undignified” there
From THE BULLETIN, August 8, 1891.
A LEGEND OF THE N.S.W. WORKS OFFICE'
THE MINISTER (who has been listening to an appeal from one of the un-
employed): “Here William” ( sobbing convulsively ) “put this poor man
out into the street. He is breaking my heart!”
seem to be quite a few who are missing
out on what is due to them.
Women whose husbands are in prison
or insane are also entitled to widows’
pensions ; obviously they have a hard
time of it but you can always go one
stage further in these needy cases.
Deserted wives live a marginal existence
but wives whose husbands pay them
maintenance once every few months, so
preventing them from obtaining a pen-
sion, are worse off. In the same way
there are women who know something
worse than to be receiving a pension
while their husband is in prison. And
that is being dependent on his earnings
while he is out of prison, watching him
spend everything he earns on drink even
though he is bonded not to drink for
five years and waiting for the beatings
he will give if she complains that the
children have been hungry since he came
out of prison . . .
A voluntary agency recently had to
cope with this case: a deserted wife with
three children was left penniless and had
to cope with a War Service Homes' mort-
gage. The local police station gave her
30s. for some weeks to augment her
£1 17s. 6d. child-welfare payments until
the State social welfare payment of £3
7s. 6d. plus £1 ss. weekly for her children,
came through. This gave her £6 10s.
weekly. In all, the voluntary agency
found it necessary to pay her £3B in three
months to keep her and her family alive.
Such voluntary agency activity prevents,
people starving in the streets. But it
also stops their needs making themselvesj
felt as a pressure which might cause a
change in the social services provisions.
Tnvalids inevitably figure in any account
-®- of poverty because as well as being
physically handicapped many are emo-
tionally incapable of supporting them-
selves. At a welfare centre the visitingi
social worker was talking with a member'
and asked him his age. He was 32, but
given his untidy clothes, his expression
and his slouch it was excusable to con-
fuse him with the majority of aged
pensioners. He was on a full invalid
pension of £5 a week, which meant he
was at least 85 per cent, permanently
incapacitated for work. Pension pay-
ments vary according to one's assessed
capacity for work, but it can be seen that
a 50 per cent, capacity for work, in most
cases, is really a 100 per cent, incapacity..
Married invalid pensioners often go,
deeply into debt as they have to borrow
to meet periodic expenses such as light
bills. There are a number of war victims
who receive a 30 per cent, pension—-£1
13s. weekly. Their nervous state in many
cases prevents them from holding down
a job ; they try to get by on casual work
and too often seek escape in drink when
they should be getting medical treatment.
The conditions of this proportion of the
80,816 invalid pensioners steadily
deteriorates: many of them pass fronij
one city night refuge to another as they
slip slowly out of the human race.
Sickness or unemployment can quickly
force a single man into the company
of the bums, alcoholics and prisoners on
parole who, with others, share dormi
tories in city night refuges and wander
the city streets of a day. The voluntary 1


agencies try to save men from this experi-
ence, for while it only depresses some
it converts others into tramps. A current
case has cost an agency £26 13s. 9d. to
date: a single man who has fallen sick
has to pay £2 ss. a week rent and £1 17s.
for food. The agency supported him
in the three weeks’ lapse between apply-
ing for and receiving the £3 ss. weekly
sickness benefit. It is still making up
the difference between the benefit and his
weekly expenses in order to keep him
out of the night refuges.
Even for a single man the distance
between being an independent wage-
earner and a person dependent on
charity is less than most imagine. But
the worries of a single person cannot
compare with those of a family once it
enters the needy category. Many lose
their Housing Commission or War Ser-
vice homes through misfortune and are
then forced to pay higher rents than that
which would have saved them from
eviction. Many begin by paying a tem-
porary mortgage of £5 7s. 6d. weekly on
a War Service home, but once the £2 11s.
War Service loans come through they
have to face the cost of a second mort-
gage of £5 a week, plus £1 a week for
two years for fencing, plus £1 4s. 6d.
to the gaslight company which partly
finances the homes. In addition to pay-
ing £7 4s. 6d. on the home weekly on a
salary of, say, £l6, many have hire-
purchase commitments so, with mis-
fortunes, a basic-wage earner with four
children has only two alternatives —
eviction or cutting down his children's
food.
Sickness reduces innumerable people
to charity, but one group deserves par-
ticular consideration: those who have to
leave their country town to come to the
city for treatment. They are usually
isolated and ill-at-ease in the city, they
have difficulty finding convenient and
inexpensive accommodation and often
they have to extend their stay until they
are reduced to requesting assistance.
Dickens could have let out all stops over
some of the unfortunates the agencies
deal with daily: a 22-year-old wife in
hospital having her sixth child gets word
that her house with all its belongings has
been destroyed by a fire, but her husband
refuses any help ; a pregnant woman’s
husband loses her job . . .
'"There are two things that most oppress
A the poor. The housing shortage
keeps board and rents heartbreakingly
high. And inflation constantly depresses
the value of pensions. Here is a com-
parison of old-age pensions and the basic
wage since 1939:
Basic
Pension. Wage.
9/9/39 .. .. 10/- 75/-
5/7/45 .. .. 32/6 98/-
3/7/47 .. .. 37/6 110/-
2/10/48 .. .. 42/6 120/-
2/11/50 .. ..50/- 146/-
1/11/51 .. .. 60/- 207/-
2/10/52 .. .. 67/6 235/-
29/10/53 .. .. 70/- 243/-
27/10/55 .. .. 80/- 243/-
24/10/57 ~. .. 87/6 263/-
8/10/59 .. .. 95/- 283/-
6/10/60 .. .. 100/- 283/-
The poor are legion; there are numer-
“They offered me five hundred quid, to get out. Fancy me breakin' up
me 'appy ’ome.”
ous worthy organisations trying to help
them ; but nobody knows exactly what
is going on. The Council of Social Ser-
vices in Sydney has a central index which,
among other things, provides a check on
those who attempt to make a career of
living on charity, but there is no speedy,
efficient pooling of statistics which would
tell agencies about current needs and
expected costs. There is even a danger
of duplication of services with, for
instance, the establishment of domiciliary
nursing services in districts already
covered by the District Nurses who have
the advantage of a large organisation
with a wide range of equipment. One
has to go back to 1953 and Bertram
Hutchinson’s “Old People in a Modern
Australian Community” (Cheshire) to
find an attempt to discover what the
sociological problem is on any large scale
and answer it in sociological terms.
T
I was one of the interviewers gather-
ing material for that book and a com-
parison of the people I interviewed in the
Victorian goldmining iowns and out
through the Western District to Horsham
with those I have seen in the last few
. . „ , , A r .
weeks in Sydney bears out one of the
basic assumptions of the Hutchinson
study: that the change from the large
family group to the single family has
meant isolation loneliness and lack of
purpose for the old. Many of the
country people I interviewed still held a
central position in their families, but
most of those m Sydney were living out
their last days on their own, grateful for
visits from their children.
Hutchinson’s survey enabled him to give
figures which demanded action: 36,000
old people need regular attention and
fear falling ill, 60,000 would benefit from
a hearing-aid, 15,000 need skilled nursing
service, 15,000 never leave home,
Perhaps the census on June 30 provides
an opportunity to make a similar survey
which would give us the facts on a prob-
lem we prefer to ignore. The thousands
of voluntary workers attempting to
alleviate poverty are doing a most un-
glamorous but highly rewarding job.
My two outstanding memories of a few
weeks on the wild side are of a Boer War
veteran lying in bed in his Newtown
home, cheerful as a boy despite a recent
operation and the news on the radio that
the Boers had won the war 60 years
later, and of the change that rather stiff,
cold, reserved nurses or voluntary
workers undergo once they were actually
helping the poor: without ever being
condescending or saccharine they estab-
lished immediate contact. In helping the
poor they helped themselves to be more
human
There is no ready-made solution for the
Problem of Australian poverty no one
P lece ° f legislation that could tidy it all
u f\ no tT wlf r * £T
gesture. The Welfare State was able to
* olve the problem of gross inequality by
massive legislation without worrying
about detail but it is pre cisely the
details that create the prob i ems of the
We do not even know enough of
the facts to be aWe to legislate success-
full What is needed is a number of
painstak i n g inquiries and a variety of
pie cemeal solutions. Is it too much to
h that some politicians, some time,
will ward do something about the
poor, even though there will be very few
votes in it?
DESMOND O’GRADY


Italians as Racketeers?
By WILLIAM HANNAN
Italians have never been popular with
some Australians and they were the
obvious target in Melbourne when
the Victorian police recently alleged
that a majority of the men charged with
procuring young girls in espresso bars
were New Australians, “mostly,” they
said, “Southern Europeans.”
Although it would seem a simple
matter to establish who was actually in
the racket, the statistics nonetheless
varied widely from paper to paper and
from authority to authority. Obviously
someone was wrong, but the public could
never be sure. For example, over a period
of six months leading to the revelation
of the scandal, 25 men had been charged
with procuring or pandering, of whom
16 were New Australians. Of the 16
nine were Italians. These figures are
attributed to Sergeant Dawes of the
Vice Squad. The Chief Secretary, Mr
Rylah, quoted from the police report sub-
mitted to him, 28 charged, of whom 22
were New Australians, but no time
period was given. Unfortunately when
public statements are to be made, rough
percentages seem to be preferred to pre-
cise figures, and Mr Rylah allowed him-
self to be quoted as saying that “ninety
per cent, of the men charged were mig-
rants.” Perhaps the error of 11 per-
cent. can be excused on the grounds that
news of the existence of young pros-
titutes in Melbourne was upsetting.
What is clear from all the rough
estimates is that, although Italians were
undoubtedly involved in the racket, they
were certainly not in the majority. Why
then did everyone single them out for
attack? One newspaper, in huge head-
lines, stated that the espresso bar racket
had been broken by the arrest of four
Italians, who it was suggested were
the ringleaders. Others, though they were
careful to point out that no national
group should be singled out, always in-
vited Italians and no-one else, to defend
themselves. Thus, whatever the inten-
tion of the paper, the public was left with
the impression that chiefly Italians were
involved.
The most sensational event of all,
which alone did more than anything else
to lead people to believe that Italians
were corrupting the country was a tele-
vision interview with a young girl who
claimed to have worked as a prostitute
for 18 months without ever earning a
penny. In the course of the interview
she was asked how many men she had
“entertained” in the profitless 18 months,
and she claimed a tally of four thousand,
all of them Italians. Interviewers ques-
tioned the likelihood of this, but she
insisted. In follow -up articles in the
papers, the organisers of the programme
expressed further doubts, but public re-
action to the interview was far less cau-
tious. Churchmen, civic leaders, mothers
of four and men in the street were all
deeply shocked by the girl’s account.
Later, in court, the girl who had been
interviewed and was appearing on appeal
against a conviction of having insuffi-
cient means of support, claimed that
what she said on television was a pack
of lies. She also gave the same story
to the Melbourne Italian weekly, “II
Globo,’’ which had searched her out, and
added that the interviewers, with the
collusion of a detective, had bullied her
into telling the lies. The organisers
claimed that she had been recommended
to them by the police and been allowed
to tell her own story. Obviously in the
circumstances, her whole story is a
dubious one.
Still the damage was done, and
the Italian community had been
blackened. “II Globo” pressed the issue,
and added to it further complaints about
the conduct of the police towards mig-
rants, especially Italians. Their case
was echoed in the Legislative Council
by the Labor leader John Galbally. He
condemned the “wave of hysteria” which
followed the television interview, and
called for a Royal Commission on the
Police Force if certain acts of provoca-
tion and maltreatment of Italians con-
tinued. He alleged that Italians had been
manhandled in espresso bars and in
police cells and drew attention to the
activities of policewomen who were being
used as decoys.
At least one case of a policewoman
having been used as a decoy appeared in
the court. An Italian was arrested in St
Kilda and charged with having molested
a woman. It turned out that the woman
molested was a policewoman in dis-
guise who admitted that she was on
the streets for the purpose of trapping
men, who could then be arrested by a
uniformed constable lurking nearby.
The Italian claimed that it was rather
the policewoman who molested him, and
since the evidence of the two police
officers was conflicting anyway the case
was dismissed.
Questioned on these practices con-
demned by Galbally, the police were
sparing with their information. The
Commissioner, Porter, said that the
policewomen were carrying out a normal
operation of investigation for the pro-
tection of the public. A spokesman for
the Vice Squad on the other hand
denied that there was any pre-established
plan in the matter, whilst the St Kilda
police sergeant said that there might
well be such a plan in operation, but it
was no business of the public's.
“II Globo” which claims to have many
cases of police provocation and maltreat-
ment of Italians collected from their
compatriots, has forcibly asserted that
the Italians are the victims of a deliberate
racial campaign initiated by the police
and supported by the press. Certainly
there is a startling number of indica-
tions that the Italians have been singled
out for attack in a campaign against
vice which should have been spread
much more widely. Other Italians too
have protested against the anti-Italian
campaign. At a meeting in the North-
cote Town Hall, attended by 500 Italians
and several Parliamentarians, a petition
was sent to the Governor asking for a
“Royal Commission Of Enquiry into the
recent anti-Italian campaign, and a pub-
lic retraction and apology to the Italian
community from all those responsible.”
Tt is impossible to ascertain certainly
the reasons for an anti-Italian cam-
paign carried on by the police, if indeed
there is one. The only clue available is
that the Victorian Police and the press
have severely criticised Immigration
Minister Downer, for being too lenient
with deportation orders. If the police
really want more deportations, and there
is no doubt whatever that the press does,
then a full scale attack on the most pro-
minent national group in the commu-
nity would be useful to their argument.
A statement from Mr Downer himself
to “II Globo” lends some weight to the
surmise. According to him the Vic-
torian police “have deliberately tried to
falsify the statistical data and statements
issued by the Federal Department of
Immigration.” The Department calcu-
lated that of all the ve:ified cases of
men living off the earnings of juvenile
prostitutes, only 30 per cent, were mig-
rants. The Victorian Police, despite
appeals from the Department both to
the police and to the press, insisted on
putting the figure at 60 per cent, (not
to mention Rylah’s 90 per cent.). Downer
also agreed that most uncomfortable
relations existed between Melbourne
police and press and the Department. In
the past, he said, he has been criticised
for ordering deportations. Lately the
press have been attacking him for being
too lenient simply because he must con-
sider many conditions before he can
recommend deportation. A complaint of
the police and their press supporters is
that their recommendatons for depor-
tation are ignored. Some deportations
have been made. Others recommended
by the police could not be made. Per-
haps the conditions governing depor-
tation should be made less restricting, but
the Federal Department surely doesn’t
merit the sort of abuse, dished out by
a Melbourne paper, which cries with
mock horror at ‘the astonishing situa-
tion of the Commonwealth Government
acting as the protector of racketeers
extracting great profit from the wholesale
debauchery of teenage girls’! The Immi-
gration Department, they say, hides be-
hind the law that a migrant must be
sentenced to 12 months’ gaol before he
can be deported. The police do not
agree with the law. So the law should be
changed. It is to be hoped that many
Victorians, would think twice before they
supported the police against the rulings of
magistrates and cabinet ministers.


Phillip the Founder
TffllTH this issue we begin a series of profiles of the early Governors of N.S.W. from Arthur Phillip
to Sir George Gipps. M. H. Ellis, who will be writing the series, is the author of biographies of
Lachlan Macquarie, John Macarthur and Francis Greenway. In 7955 he was awarded a C.M.G. for
his services to Australian literature, and he is at present editing the Australian Dictionary of Biography .
By M. H. ELLIS
When the British Home Secretary,
Lord Sydney, announced his
intention to appoint Captain
Arthur Phillip as Governor and
Captain General in the new colony of
New South Wales embracing half a
continent, surprise was the most com-
mon emotion engendered.
The hard-bitten Lord Howe, First
Lord of the Admiralty, for example,
who had been down to Cape Horn with
Anson in the Severn nearly 50 years
before, was certainly astonished. He
could never, he wrote, have thought of
contesting the choice, since the Home
Office had the responsibility for it, but
he could not say “the little knowledge
he had of Captain Phillips {sic) would
have led him to select him for a service
of this complicated nature.”
Hitherto Phillip's life had been so
obscure in an age of great naval oppor-
tunity that nobody had ever become
quite sure how to spell his name, not
even his commander-in-chief. Phillips,
Philips, Philip, Philipe, Phiiipps—it was
all one to those who mentioned him,
for the most part rather casually, in
letters and documents. Only his birth
certificate was clear about it when it
was written exactly a month after he
had been born on October 11. 1738, in
Bread Street, City of London, the son
of a German father from Frankfurt,
described variously as a teacher of music
and as a steward, and of Elizabeth
Breach, widow of a Captain Herbert, a
connection of the Earl of Pembroke and
herself the member of a family which
had been associated with the estates of
the Pembrokes.
A darkish, broad, Hebraic-looking
little figure, Phillip went through life
sensibly, apparently efficient but unim-
pressive ; through the Pensioners’ School
among 32 pupils at Greenwich Hospital,
where he devoted two years and five
months to the task of being trained for
able seamanship ; for two years of a
seven-year apprenticeship to William
Readhead, a Greenland trader in the
Fortune, 210 tons, in which the owner
had agreed to “continue to instruct the
said Arthur Phillips in the art of naviga-
tion.”
At the end of 1755, when he is 17
years old we find him entering the Navy
by the same route as Nelson, a servant
to Captain Michael Everitt of H.M.S.
Buckingham, 64 guns, third rate of the
Line ; and in that ship, leading the van
of Rear Admiral West’s squadron on
May 20, 1756, in the fight off Minorca
ARTHUR PHILLIP
A somewhat distrustful disposition
which proved fatal to Admiral John
Bvng, there is his diminutive figure in
the uniform of a yeoman corporal.
From then onward he served in as
many and more ships as there were years
between 1756 and 1763, from giants
like the Neptune, 98, down to a 32-gun
frigate, and in nearly as many warlike
operations and campaigns, steadily rising
from clerk and able seaman to a fourth
lieutenancy. He was in Hawke’s breath-
less dash into Quiberon Bay. He was
off Barbados with Rodney. He was in
Douglas’s Squadron in the bloody fight
of Port Royal which took Martinique
from the enemy and with Sir George
Pocock’s Squadron in Jamaican waters
at the taking of Havana on August 13,
1762, which made the Spanish Main
temporarily a British main, and in the
roughest voyage of the century in the
prize Infante, Captain Charles Napier,
which bore him homewards to a reward
of 11 years of a lieutenant’s half pay
and a farming career down at Lyndhurst,
handy to Portsmouth, apparently with
the aid of a marriage portion from the
young Welsh widow whom he married
three months after arriving in England.
Yet in a fi that time, save for the men-
* tion of his promotions through the
humbler ranks to the still humble one
of lieutenant, and the record of his
prize-money of £234 13s. llfd. from
Havana, nothing stands out about him.
When Rear Admiral Augustus Hervey,
a Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty,
was called upon in 1774 to recommend
a captain for a Portuguese Royal Naval
vessel, he chose “Lieutenant Phillips”
only when he could find nobody of
higher rank to accept the commission,
and his reference, in bad French, was
scarcely as reassuring as it might have
been.
But it was in the period of his four
years of service with the Portuguese
Navy that responsibility and power of
command began to come to the founder
of Australia. It was a legend that when
he went out to South America in com-
mand of the little Pilar, a fast merchant-
man, turned 24-gun frigate, he carried
400 transported convicts ; that when an
epidemic attacked his crew he persuaded
these criminals to work his ship and
secured land and pardons for them by
way of reward. His name became known
along the South American coast, standing
off the mouth of the Plate, waiting to
pounce off Monte Video, guarding Rio,
advocating bold strategy based on solid
defence, rushing in with his tiny craft
under the very guns of a 70-gun Spanish
ship of the line with five times his weight
of metal and helping pursue her to
capture with terrier-like tenacity, and
being rewarded with command of the
stately prize.
It was the Portuguese Command that
wrote our first extant description of him
when he hauled down his pennant in
July, 1778. He was, in its eyes, a man
whose service had been “honorable and
meritorious,” skilled in his profession
and well up in all military matters and
in the art of fortification. England’s
oldest allies saw him as a man of some-
what distrustful disposition, but “an
officer of education and principle,”
ready to “give way to reason” who did
not “before doing so, fall into those
exaggerated and unbearable excesses of
temper which the majority of his fellow
countrymen do, especially those who
have been brought up at sea.”
His health, it seemed, was “very
delicate”; but he “never complained save
when he had no special duty to perform
in the Royal Service.” All in all, indeed,
“very clean handed” and “an officer of
great truth and very brave”; “no
flatterer, saying what he thinks, but with-
out temper or want of respect.” Those
who know his later record cannot help
admiring the insight of the Portuguese.
The British, for the time being, could


find nothing better for him to do when
they got him back at the beginning of
war with France than to give him a
few short temporary commands of ships
in process of refitment while their
captains were on leave. In the end they
sent him to sea as a commander of
43 in the little fireship Basilisk, which
he described as “very old, weak and
consequently unfitt to cruise with a
fleet,” though she sailed well. He was
happier in the 24-gun frigate Ariadne,
even though she was an unlucky ship,
when he was promoted post-captain, even
in the North Sea winter.
Suddenly he is in a command of
another kind and we are able to
watch him on a long voyage which
brings out both his qualities as a seaman
and his nature as a human being. We
can see him here for the first time both
through his own writing and the eyes
of an unfriendly petty officer, Edward
Spain, up to all tricks of a hardbitten
trade who apparently has met his match
at last.
In 1782 the Admiralty had become
weary of watching Sir Edward Hughes
with his coveys of rotten ships out by
Madras fighting his five inconclusive
battles with Suffren in the East Indian
seas. They decided that Sir Edward and
his two heroic commodores, Sir Richard
Bickerton and Richard King, taker of
Calcutta and the Hoogli in Clive's war,
should have a real chance to make the
sixth affray decisive. So, at the end of
the year, though peace seemed imminent,
they sent off a secret expedition, under
command of Commodore Kingsmill, to
join him. And in that squadron, sailing
into mountainous seas in the break of
the winter of 1782 was H.M.S. Europe,
an old wood-sheathed third rate, 64,
commanded by Captain Arthur Phillip,
piped aboard with a queer assortment
of camp-followers who seemed to sedate
men like Mr Spain more fit for a pirate’s
lair than the Royal Navy.
The captain, according to Mr Spain,
was a cunning fellow. His immediate
Man Friday, Henry Brewer, his clerk
and assistant purser, had been a builder’s
clerk, a fellow who went about in the
queerest assortment of ragged uniforms,
changed his clothes, which he never
washed, only about once in a blue moon,
and whose ditty-box contained “a dirty
shirt, a case bottle without a nose, a
broken tea cup and a piece of salt pork,
a broke platter with some of the salt out
of a beef cask.” There was William
Sutton, the Master’s mate, who told a
senior lieutenant when he accused him
of being half-seas-over, that anyway all
the ward room would be drunk before
dusk. There was Thomas Brooks, who
had sailed in the Providence, which Bligh
was later to command, and who had
been handed back to the Navy by a judge
on Assize, after having been convicted
and sentenced for the remarkable crime
of stealing a 13in. hawser. Obviously a
useful man in an age of naval scrounge.
All these, it would appear from Mr
Edward Spain’s account, Captain Phillip
brought aboard for good reasons of his
own. Mr Brewer, whom he had picked
up in the Ariadne, he needed for his
artistic powers. He cared not that he fell
down a hatch the first night aboard and
every time he brought the rum stocks
aboard imbibed copiously and was seen
going round the ship, shaking hands with
the gratified crew and exclaiming again
and again, “I love a British seaman,
as I love my life.” All his captain asked
of him was faithfulness and the exhibi-
tion of his artistic skill whenever he
wanted a few original drawings of ships
and places to placate or bribe an admiral.
He got both.
His reason for keeping Mr William
Sutton, though he could never pass a
bar on shore or address an officer with-
out insulting him, was: “I know he gets
drunk, but does he ever come off (shore)
without bringing what he went for?
No? Then, sir, I want my ship watered,
so let Sutton go in the boat again and
not these boys.”
It appeared that because his favorite
midshipman’s father was of use to him,
it did not concern him that the snotty
was an uncouth fellow who referred to
a superior who wore a monocle as “some
glass-eyed b ——r.” And (according to
Mr Spain) his leason for having with
him Mr Thomas Brooks, the father of
all Australian scroungers, he of the 13in.
hawser, was a more gallant one: Mr
Brooks’s woman came into the ship with
him, because “she it was our noble
captain had a partiality for and through
her for the man.” So she, as well as her
husband, was allowed to go to sea in
the Europe with three other ladies,
though Mr Spain warned his readers not
to imagine that it was “out of any
partiality” for any of the four except
one that all the ladies were aboard, for
“had he [Phillip] admitted her alone to
the ship, the reason would have been
obvious to all the officers and crew.”
Tt was on this voyage that Phillip, after
going through the worst seas that
Mr Spain ever experienced in the Bay
of Biscay, disobeyed his sealed orders
to rendezvous with the squadron at
Madeira. He said this was because a
damaged rudder-head was like to make
him miss the rest; Spain said it was
because he “was in slender circum-
stances” and feared that news of peace
or the condition of the other vessels
might send him back to England and
half pay.
Thus, he sailed on to St Jago, where
he showed himself “perfectly at home,
for he spoke Portuguese fluent and could
shrug up his shoulders with the best of
them.” He was even happier in Rio,
where he made the Portuguese Vice King
call in the commander of the forts, who
had fired across his bows, to apologise
under threat of being himself bombarded.
And in Madras he seems to have made
friends in high naval places.
Having been ashore for two years,
after the Europe was paid off on May 14,
1784 half the time apparently being
spent in Grenoble, France, where he
asked for leave to go on business
—he found himself in October, 1786,
appointed Governor of New South
Wales and commodore of a fleet of six
transports, three victualling ships, a
sixth-rate named Sirius specially for the
voyage, “from ye bright star in ye
southern constellation of ye Great Dog,”
and accompanied by a naval tender
Supply, 170 tons, “much too small for
a long voyage ... a very improper
vessel for the service.”
Before he came into the picture there
had been a fumbling lack of imagination
about the conception of the Botany Bay
enterprise on which he was to embark ;
but so soon as he appeared the colors
brightened, the dangers and difficulties
were brought into relief and remedies
prescribed, if not always applied.
had thought, apparently, what
it would be like to take 750 con-
victs, with three men to every one
woman, plus 200 Marines, only some of
them with wives, and several hundred
sailors, and put them down on an un-
explored shore after a 15,000-mile voyage
in little ships, and dependent on their
own resources. Nobody had foreseen the
dangers of rebellion, of starvation, of
enemy action, of the psychological
reactions of guards and prisoners alike.
Nobody truly envisioned how different
this voyage, over seas on which scarcely
any men had sailed, would be from other
voyages. Nobody had considered what
would happen when the exiled 1504 men,
women and children of diverse habits and
station and status landed in a place which
offered them neither shelter nor the
benefit of local experience or resources
for survival.
But the moment the little captain
appeared with his queer entourage—
Lieutenant King, who had sailed with
the crusty Byron of Dolphin fame, Mr
Brewer in his too-large blue coat and
dirty shoes and stockings, Mr Thomas
Brooks, and four ladies —the atmosphere
changed. Phillip’s curious level voice was
heard remarking that he “would not wish
convicts to lay the foundations of an
empire.” He clearly knew that what-
ever the limited intention, his work must
lay the basis of a dominion.
He foresaw that it was not enough to
have the sketchy knowledge of Botany
Bay that had been imparted by Banks.
He envisioned the need that the act of
settlement should be in two instalments:
that, first of all, an advance expedition
should find a proper site to occupy,
build up shelters, put up enclosures for
the stock, shelter for the convicts ; dig
vegetable gardens to provide the immi-
grants with greens and food and protec-
tion against the dreaded scurvy.
He pictured, before anybody else,
what sort of site would be needed for
the foundation town of the prospective
empire. It was exactly the sort of site
that he miraculously found on the
balmy January day on which he led the
first white men to peer into the sheltered
estuary of Sydney Cove —a place where
ships might anchor right up to the shore,
where an axis stream would provide a
central water supply and, at the same
time, means to separate the convict camp
from the administrative headquarters;
a place which could be locked most


Private View
“If I was a painter, that’s the sort, of subject
you’d find ME doing!”
“Madam, I wish you’d explain its hidden signifi-
cance to me. I painted the thing!”
“I know this much about art — it’s a lousy sherry.”
“I’m afraid she’s spoiled me for other women.”
“So that’s your ‘Portrait of a Young Girl’?
How much would you charge to paint a
mother-in-law?”


easily both against native in /asion and
convict escape.
IN his preparations for his voyage he
was thorough, personally attentive to
the minutest detail and not afraid to
speak his mind without respect for per-
sons. He had no illusions about his
convict charges: the males, persons in
whom “no confidence can be placed
and against whom both persons and
provisions must be guarded”; the
“women possessed of neither virtue nor
honesty.” But his view of them did not
damp down a commonsense desire to
bring them all to their new home across
the seas alive. He expressed strongly
his fear that if his measures were not
carried out the public might “impute to
my ignorance or inattention in matters
I have never been consulted in, and
which never coincided with my ideas,”
the probable “loss of half the garrison
and convicts, crowded and victualled in
such a manner and for so long a voyage.”
He declared angrily that the magis-
trates who had sent women convicts into
a ship “almost naked and so very filthy
that nothing but cloathing them could
have prevented them from perishing,”
had stamped themselves “with infamy.”
He would not, in fact, sail until he felt
that all was well. His control of the
Fleet at sea was as calm and sure and
as thorough as his preparations for the
unprecedented journey.
Neither a strike of seamen for their
pay at the last moment before sailing,
nor the fact that even in Biscay there was
a reported convict mutiny in the Scar-
borough, nor that the Marines had left
most of their ammunition behind, nor
that many of the women had sailed
almost naked, could shake his confidence
that once at sea, with his fate in his own
hands, “all our difficulties are over.”
The nature of the little man becomes
more and more clear during that voyage
which carried him and nearly all of the
1504 souls who sailed with him, from
May 13, 1787, to January 20, 1788, safe
into the unpromising harbor of
Botany Bay. Here he is at Rio chafing,
thinking of everything, allowing the con-
victs, whose irons he had cleaned off
them once they were at sea, to be on deck
by day and sometimes at night, and stuff-
ing them with fresh meat and vegetables
and fruit. You watch his personal atten-
tion to the providoring of the ships, his
purchasing of rum, his acquisition of
fruit and medicinal plants and trees. You
note his prudent forethought when buy-
ing root crops to reserve rations and
when insisting that the fabric of the bags
should be preserved for convict clothing.
When he reaches his goal, after having
been held back irritatingly by the con-
trary breezes that blow in the strange
seas into which he has ventured, he
shows no dismay that the surroundings
on which he had been ordered to land
the convicts immediately, offer only the
prospect of windy anchorages and dank
water meadows and mountainous sand-
hills.
He does not, apparently, even pause
to write a reflection on the magnitude
of the feat he has just performed.
The Way I Write
Nobody Ever Asked Me
By DON WHITE
Have you—have you ever been asked
by an editor? About the way
you write, that is. No? Well,
neither have I, but that’s never
stopped me yet.
In 1958 I decided to write a best-seller.
I needed the money and it was either
write a best-seller or look for work. I
was in London and I was 22. 22 seemed
as good an age as any to write a best-
seller and London as good a place as any
to get it published. All I knew about
best-sellers was that 1, writers wrote
them, and 2, publishers published them.
So I went into a bookshop and asked for
a best-seller. Any best-seller. They tried
to sell me “The Naked and The Dead.”
It was a thick book and I think it was
about the war. But more important, it
had been published by Wingate’s at Ken-
sington (where the statue of Peter Pan
is).
On the bus to Kensington, I wondered
whether I should call my best-seller “Get
Up and Go” or “Around the World on
£25.” I finally decided on “Get Up and
Go” subtitled “Around the World on
£25.” (After all, Hecht-Hill-Lancaster,
when they bought the screenrights, would
change the title to “The Don White
Story,” anyway.)
“1 have an appointment with Mr Win-
gate,” I said, with confidence, to the
receptionist—and raised one eyebrow.
She went completely to pieces. “There
is no Mr Wingate, there has never been
a Mr Wingate and, God willing, there
never will be a Mr Wingate. Have you
come about the Spanish-Portuguese trans-
lation of the Annual Review of British
Industry?”
I lowered my eyebrow and said. “Si,
si,” and she handed me to Anthony
Gibbs, who looked suspicious and said,
“Have you come about the Spanish-
Portuguese translation of the Annual
Review of British Industry?”
I told him that I had come about “Get
Up and Go, or Around the World on
£25.”
“Did we publish that?” he said, coldly
No yet, I told him, and explained
that I had just travelled through 65
countries in 64 years on £25, and was
now ready to write a best-seller. I think
this must have gotten over, under and
through his mental bloc because he
began to tell me about his father.
Sir Philip Gibbs, he told me. He wrote
“The Street of Adventure,” he told me.
Curiously, Wingate’s hadn’t published
any of Sir Philip’s novels, which I thought
a highly unfilial state of affairs and in
the heated discussion that ensued I told
Anthony so, and that had Sir Philip been
my father, I certainly would not have
treated him so shoddily.
At twenty past three we had tea and
biscuits (I remember they were ginger
nuts) and when I left, he instructed me
to post him a couple of chapters and a
synopsis. A couple of chapters and a
synopsis and eleven days later, 1 received
a telegram from our Mr Gibbs to come
up and sign a contract, which I did with
alacrity and a post-office pen. He gave
me a cheque for £5O (I asked him not to
cross it) with the promise of £5O more
upon receipt of the completed manu-
script and a further £5O upon publica-
tion, after which royalties would be paid
bi-annually.
I wrote “Get Up and Go or Around
the World on £25” (all 304 pages of it)
in six weeks on a portable typewriter
purchased on easy terms —no deposit, ss.
weekly until the book was completed and
1 was able to have it repossessed—and
on paper by courtesy of the Pioneer
Timber Company Ltd. of Port McNeill,
British Columbia —where 1 had been a
stocktaker in 1957. People ask me if I
write under the influence of drugs. Well,
1 do. Television. At the time, I was
sharing a first floor walk-up on Wanstead
Flats with my mother and a number of
other friends, whose names 1 forget. I
did some of my best work between the
hours of “Sergeant Preston of the Yukon”
and the end of the Late Movie, with the
typewriter perched on a kitchen chair so
that 1 could watch TV through the bars
as I wrote. I could not work past the
end of the Late Movie because mother
wanted to go to bed and 1 was sitting
on the night-and-day.
The fact is that “Get Up and Go, or
Around the World on £25” was edited
by no one but myself—not that any edit-
ing would have ruffled my literary in-
grity, but probably because Mr Gibbs
didn’t care. I didn't bother to edit
it myself either, except for the final
chapter which I wrote during a rather
dull episode of “Wagon Train” (you can
tell) and which I rewrote when the book
was in its final proof stage.
I corrected the final galleys in June
1958 and “Get Up and Go or A.T.W.O.
£25” reached the booksellers in January
1959 to some remarkable extremes of
criticism (“Everybody’s” Book of the
Month, “Illustrated London News” Book
of the Week. The Times Literary Supple-
ment said: “Enthusiasm is not enough!”
The “Sydney Morning Herald said: “It
takes courage to do what Don White has
done and it takes courage to write it
down.”)
My book looked well on the way to
becoming a best-seller when Wingate’s
inconsiderately declared themselves bank-
rupt. And I never did receive my first
bi-annual royalty cheque. Not to worry.
Perhaps I can cash in on William Saro-
yan’s latest gimmick and ask all my
readers to send me 2s. (after all, it would
cost more to join a library).
And that’s the way I write. On think-
ing it over, maybe it’s just as well that
nobody ever, EVER, asked me!


This new, low cos
GRAIN AUGER
your silos cheaper
than ever before
: i s A
' : :v. :i.
I
ill
m mtm
u
It will pay you immediate and lasting dividends to
investigate this new Auger, especially developed for
use with Lysaght Silos. With oats particularly, the
Auger is fasterand more economical than bag handling.
Operates by flat belt drive from tractor and the
tractor is very easily positioned. Easily assembled !
Designed to fill a Silo battery from one position.
AUGER SELECTION TABLE
3 POPULAR SIZES
21 FT £97
26 FT. . ... £lO9
31 FT. ......... £ll6
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
SUPPLIED COMPLETE WITH 8 BUSHEL
BUILT-IN HOPPER
FEATURES
• Suits all Lysaght Silos in the 1,200 b.
to 3,700 b. range.
• No maintenance all bearings sealed.
• Flat Belt Drive . . . pulley supplied.
• Complete ready for attachment of belt
. . . guide rollers for belt provided.
• Designed to fill Silo from centre of roof
enabling maximum capacity to be
obtained.
• Exceptionally easy to assemble and erect.
• Chute tubes are telescopic; cleaning
doors provided in hopper.
ORB
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle A4SMC


Factions in the Wool War
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
There is a nice air of informality
about the room on the fifth floor
of the Pitt Street building where
the Commonwealth Wool Market-
ing Committee of Enquiry is holding its
initial, Sydney hearings—the first Com-
monwealth inquiry into the state of the
wool industry since 1932. There is a
press table, seats for the public, and when
the Committee walks in or retires every-
one stands up.
But this is the only touch of ceremony.
There are no wigs or gowns. The chair-
man is Sir Roslyn Philp, of the Queens-
land Supreme Court, but he is in business
mufti The other members of the com-
mittee are A. M. C. Buttfield, former
general manager of the A.M.P. Society,
and D. H. Merry, chief economist of the
A.N.Z. Bank. There is no examination
or cross-examination in the i sual legal
sense. The witnesses are not s\ /orn ; they
sit at a table near the committee's bench
and talk quietly, almost conversationally,
about large matters such as the Australian
wool clip, a reserve or minimum price
scheme, world wool promotion . . .
The three members of the committee
usually have the witnesses’ written sub-
missions in front of them, and the ques-
tions tend to be alphabetical: In regard
to F (a), Mr X, do you wish to consider
that under little b? That sort of thing.
The questions, in their context, can be
pretty searching, but the questioners can-
not hammer witnesses about their answers.
To the casual observer, much of this must
seem dull —lacking, for instance, the
occasional brilliant fireworks of the Goul-
burn Wool Enquiry. Apart from enter-
tainment value, there is another element
lacking in this type of enquiry: The
emergence of evidence, otherwise in-
accessible, either from cross-examination
or by the exercise of powers of subpoena.
The basic trouble with this kind of
enquiry is that too much of the evidence
is mere opinion unchecked by searching
cross-examination. This aspect was
raised by the chairman when G. D’A.
Chislett, economist to the Australian
Graziers’ and Woolgrowers' Council, was
giving evidence.
'T'he basic issue is whether or not to have
A a reserve (i.e. minimum) for wool.
But first, a glance at the background. The
committee was appointed by the Com-
monwealth last year, following repre-
sentations by the two Federal organisa-
tions, the Australian Graziers' and Wool-
growers’ Council (which is basically
against a minimum price) and the Aus-
tralian Wool and Meat Producers’ Federa-
tion (which is forthrightly for one). These
organisations are given equal recognition
by the Government in all wool matters
and share equally in producer representa-
tion on statutory bodies such as the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau and the Wool Re-
search Committee. Due to cross-member-
ship between their affiliated State organi-
sations, each could probably claim to
represent more than 60 per cent of the
total wool production in Australia. How-
ever, such claims, once rather frequent,
are not heard much now.
The anti-minimum price A.G.W.C. is
the product of a recent merger of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ Council and
the Graziers’ Federal Council. The
A.W.C. was formed in 1919, the Graziers’
Federal Council was formed in 1891.
Both drew their membership from the
State graziers’ and pastoralists’ associa-
tions. However, the A.W.C. dealt exclu-
sively with wool matters, whereas the
Graziers’ Federal Council dealt with a
variety of commodity matters.
TCCr Chislett, an important witness in
the current enquiry, was secretary of
both the Graziers’ Federal Council and
the Australian Wool Growers’ Council. In
the latter capacity, with the then chair-
man of the A.W.C., W. Weatherly—an-
other witness —he made an overseas trip
to investigate marketing. The joint
report was published in 1959. Following
a recent re-organiration of the A.W.G.C.
staff, Mr Chislett has become economist
to the Council.
The first annual conference of the
A.W.M.P.F. was held in Melbourne, in
1940. But. from its beginnings, it has
supported the idea of a minimum price
plan. Its case has been put to the com-
mittee by the president, L. H. Heaslip,
of South Australia, former president F.
E. Hitchens, from Western Australia, and
the secretary of the Federation, A. R.
Johnston.
F. E. Hitchens has been an advocate
of a minimum price scheme for many
years. His association goes back to 1930,
when the first meeting of the Southern
Woolgrowers’ Association was held at
Cranbtook (W.A.), his home town. Pro-
fessor George Irving, later president of
the association, moved a resolution that
“pending the formation of a workable
scheme for the marketing of wool, this
conference press upon the Commonwealth
Government the desperate position of the
smaller woolgrowers, and calls upon the
Government to guarantee at once a
minimum price for all wool sold in Aus-
tralia, based on a valuation of 15d. per
lb. for wool of 64’s quality.” The Wool
Enquiry Committee of 1932, “practically
endorsed the figure of 15d. as a basis,”
Hitchens comments, in his book, “Tangled
Skeins,” and he was a W.A. grower repre-
sentative before the 1932 Committee.
When the Southern Woolgrowers’ Asso-
ciation became merged in the (W.A.)
Primary Producers’ Association, he moved
the resolution on a floor price which
largely determined the association's
policy.
During War 11, and in the immediate
post-war years, he was one of the men
who, on a succession of organisations,
handled the Australian wool clip. The
scale of these tasks in indicated by Sir
Owen Dixon, a former chairman of the
Central Wool Committee: “Two most
important considerations in assessing the
work of the Central Wool Committee
should be emphasised. The first is that
it served a double set of purposes and
occupied a dual position. One set of
purposes was concerned with the control
of the wool plan on the Australian side
—on the side of the vendor country.
The other set of circumstances consisted
in fulfilling obligations to, and perform-
ing services for, and on behalf of, the
United Kingdom—the purchaser country.
The former could never be wholly
divorced from the latter. Obviously they
interlaced and the one reacted at many
points upon the other. But the interests
involved were not the same. Indeed they
were often diverse and in conflict. It
was the paramount duty of the commit-
tee to discharge its functions with justice
to the interests of both governments and,
in particular, to see that no local interest
and pressures led it into sacrificing and
prejudicing the interests of the United
Kingdom. This was little understood
here.”
Hitchens also went to London to take
part in the discussions which led to the
Joint Organisation Plan, and served on
the Australian Wool Realisation Com-
mittee, on the winding-up of the Central
Wool Committee. In the course of his
evidence before the current committee,
Hitchens mentioned that “we operated a
floor price plan for five years, under
Joint Organisation.”
'The terms of reference of the present
-*• Committee of Enquiry are: To in-
quire into the present system of market-
ing and of promoting the sale of the Aus-
tralian wool clip and matters relating
thereto, and report upon the efficacy of
these systems, and to report upon the
merits of any other systems or of modi-
fications of the present systems which may
be advocated to the Committee of En-
quiry or which the committee considers
would be of long-term benefit to the
woolgrowing industry and in the best
interests of the nation.
The A.W.M.P.F. submissions cover a
wide field, but could be summarised as
stating that all, or nearly all, the weak-
nesses of the wool auction system could
be overcome by introducing a reserve
or minimum price, within the auction
system.


**¥ »S
V
>v
?
n «m n mm as HMHMms«
i*. •
■■vmmmwmiMrn
,v ?
w ';
• » ,
'. v. • ■__;:
i— m
i
W-w >••• . •
u
in
• ;
iSs^fe* . .V&^vl
-* - gg|g
Reflecting the vigour,
enterprise and
enthusiasm of a growing
nation.
A great
Australian enterprise
THE
NATIONAL Ml/TUAI
UEE ASSOC/AT/ON OE A/AS/A 17D.
(Inc. in Vic.)
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. PHONE 62-6541
SYDNEY: 350 GEORGE STREET. PHONE BL 1271
BRISBANE: 293 QUEEN STREET. PHONE 31-1711
ADELAIDE: 91 KING WILLIAM STREET. PHONE LA 2091
PERTH: 81 ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE. PHONE 23-1341
HOBART: 119 MACQUARIE STREET. PHONE 2-2851
The A.G.W.C. submissions are more
complex and, in part at least, turn upon
an interpretation of the terms of refer-
ence.
Mr Chislett, in his introductory re-
marks, said that the submission was “his
own.” He had been instructed to place
certain material before the committee
but, since it had not been approved in
its final form by his council, he did not
want it reported in the official transcript
or in the press as the submission of the
council. That point made, he analysed
the terms of reference under a number
of headings, which, he submitted, the
committee should consider.
Chislett: “In practical terms, I would
say that the committee has been asked
to look for ways and means of increasing
the wooigrowers’ net income by saving
on costs of marketing, or raising the gross
income without incurring a commen-
surate increase in costs. Towards this
end the committee must study the move-
ment of wool from the moment it
becomes fibre until it passes into con-
sumption, except that they will not be
concerned with the processing of w'ool.
If this inquiry should come down merely
as an inquiry on alternative systems of
marketing then it would not be accept-
able to my council.”
Chairman: “How long do you expect
us to be on all these things that you
suggest. Five years? 1 mean, it is really
a question of time. You have very care-
fully set out what you say are the matters
we should inquire into, but as far as I
could see it would take years.”
Mr Chislett replied that he expected
it would take a “very long while,” but
it was a long time since there had been
a Commonwealth inquiry into wool
marketing. There had been a limited
inquiry in 1932, and his Council’s view
was that this was an opportunity which
would not be likely to occur again in
the foreseeable future. “Therefore we
want a full inquiry into all aspects of
wool marketing.”
The 1932 Enquiry Committee consisted
of four members of the A.W.C'., two
“outside growers”—the A.W.M.P.F. did
not then exist —two economists, and an
M.L.C. representing the Australian
Workers’ Union. The “outside growers”
were James Clark, from Queensland, and
B. A. N. Cole, a former president of the
A.W.M.P.F. and currently a member of
the Australian Wool Bureau. In his book,
Hitchens deplored the fact that the
inquiry had limited powers: “A Royal
Commission could have called witnesses,
taken evidence on oath, compelled the
production of books, documents and
marketing reports . . .”
However, the major opinion of the
1932 committee was that a minimum
reserve price should be implemented.
The A.W.C. refused to accept this recom-
mendation.
T>ut to return to the current inquiry,
Sir Roslyn Philp pointed out to the
witness that to do what he asked would
require a Royal Commission. He also
remarked that when the two organisa-
tions saw the Minister they said they
did not want a Royal Commission, but
an inquiry. The chairman said that he
understood that the “burning question”
was whether any marketing scheme
would be of benefit to the woolgrower
and the community generally. Mr Chis-
lett said that his Council had always
maintained that the subject was a “very
big and complex one,” and was not
capable of being treated along “very
simple lines.” The chairman later re-
marked that the committee might decide
to go a certain distance, and then recom-
mend some other investigation to the
Minister. After some further discussion,
the subject was dropped—for the time
being. But it has all the earmarks of
developing into a major issue. The
A.W.M.P.F. view is almost certainly that
this is a delaying move. What they will
do about it, at the moment, is not clear.
The chairman has also said that the
committee is considering—but only con-
sidering-going overseas, at some stage.
And this, again, could hold up pro-
ceedings.
He summed up the difficulties of a
Committee of Enquiry in trying to in-
quire into a large number of things.
“Not only have we to try to evaluate
the evidence, but we have to try to find
the evidence.” Taking the longer view,
it is surprising that the two Federal
organisations asked for an inquiry
instead of a Royal Commission. Expense
could be a factor, of course. Counsel
have to be retained. But, if the stakes
are so high, perhaps the expense would
be justified . . .


PERSONAL
Wodehouse Peer
When Lord Carrington, First Lord
of the Admiralty, flew out of Sydney
this week the staff at Kirribilli House
(and the local R.A.N. brass) settled down
to rest their weary legs. They knew now
what Canberra had to put up with during
Lord Carrington’s term as U.K. High
Commissioner in Australia.
On first sight a caricature of the fop-
lish English aristocrat, a slim figure in
elegant suits and dark glasses, his conver-
sation larded with Bertie Woosterisms
(in fact, he belongs to the Turf and
Beefsteak Clubs in London), Carrington
is a man of remarkable energy, with
a razor-like mind. Dashing up the sloping
lawns of Kirribilli House with admirals
and political advisers trailing exhaustedly
behind, after a tour of naval establish-
ments in the Harbor, he greeted visitors
last week with a cheery, high-pitched
“Helloooo!” and an invitation to down
a gin-and-tonic before discussing business.
Non-committal about the reasons for
his visit to these parts, Carrington was
equally deprecatory about his own career.
He went to Eton and Sandhurst, but
later tried to join the Navy.
“Turned out I was blind, and they
wouldn’t have me,” he said. “So I joined
the Army — which isn’t much of a
recommendation for this job, I suppose.”
When his naval adviser pointed out
that this remark might be construed as
a reflection on the sister service, Carring-
ton looked pained, and said it was only
meant as a “jolly joke.” In fact, his
record shows service in Europe as a
major in the Grenadier Guards, and
an M.C.
As a political appointee to the
Admiralty, he knows that his days may
be numbered. But he is taking a zestful
interest in ships and submarines—not
to mention spies.
“Yes, we’ve had a bit of a fuss about
spies,” he said, with a sigh. “Jolly
tedious, in a way. Awkward questions,
you know. Fortunately, everybody is
telling us how clever we were to catch
them. Nobody’s asking why the devil
we were stupid enough to have them in
the first place.”
In keeping with his image, he is fright-
fully keen on cricket. He expects, how-
ever, a dull series in England. “Can’t
hope to match what went on out here,”
he said gloomily. Sipping his gin-and-
tonic, he asked if it were true that many
Australians had hoped to see the West
Indians win. When it was suggested that
English crowds also, on occasion,
appeared to want Australia to beat
England, he simply said: “Ah, yes, but
that’s because we hate our cricketers so! ”
Black Hope
A new hope rose for Australia’s 70,000
aborigines last week when a 47-year-
old Cairns (Q.) aboriginal was elected
president of the Federal Council for
Aboriginal Advancement. He is Darwin-
born wharf-laborer J. D. McGinness,
whose quiet voice and amiable diffidence
of manner belie his appearance —he is
6ft tall and weighs 14 stone.
Queensland University’s senior lecturer
in psychology, Dr J. A. Keats, was
frankly pleased at the election result.
“Mr McGinness can do a lot for his
own people,” he said. “He has their
confidence, and that’s a big start.”
Mr McGinness will need this con-
fidence. His home State has more than
half of Australia’s colored population
(46,234), but not one of them has ever
reached university education standard,
and at the moment only 18 of them
are attending secondary schools. There
is no suggestion of “Uncle Tomism,”
however, in Mr McGinness’s approach
to his new job. “We’re not the only
people who need educating,” he told
Brisbane pressmen. “There are many
people who need educating to realise
that aborigines are human beings and
should be accepted as such. Aborigines
have not been able to play a full part
in community life because of the restric-
tions put on them by legislation.”
Well-spoken and well-dressed, Mr
McGinness is also secretary of the
Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders
Advancement League in Cairns. As
president of the F.C.A.A., he will head
an organisation representing 11 affiliated
bodies in Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria
and South Australia.
• •
Into the Silence:—
At Geelong (Vic.), at 78, Hubert C. French,
managing-director of the Ford Motor Company
of Australia from its beginning in 1925 until [
he retired in 1950. A 1923 survey of Australia
by French led to Ford opening its first plant!
in this country.
In Brisbane, at 77, William Herbert Alan -
Dunn, who began a career in journalism in \
1901 with the Maryborough “Chronicle.” After j
working with several Queensland papers he
became managing-editor of the Toowoomba
“Chronicle” in 1922 and later chairman of the
Toowoomba Newspaper Company.
In Brisbane, at 61, Douglas Stark, theatre
and radio personality. Born in Glasgow,
educated in New Zealand, Stark gained experi-
ence in radio and films in America, later joined
J. C. Williamson, with whom he played comedy
and character roles for 12 years. Since 1950
he was on Brisbane radio as “Theatregoer” and
“Filmgoer.”
In Sydney, at 82, the Rt Rev. Francis de
Witt Batty, Bishop of Newcastle from 1931
to 1958. Bishop Batty came to Australia in
1904 as domestic chaplain to the Archbishop
of Brisbane. In 1915 he was appointed sub-
Dean and in 1925 Dean of Brisbane. He was
consecrated Coadjutor-Bishop of Brisbane in
1930 and in the same year was elected Bishop
of Newcastle. Bishop Batty played a leading
part in gaining a new constitution for the
Church of England in Australia.
In Adelaide, at 70, George Lyle Ball, for;
27 years secretary of the Bread Manufacturers’
Association of South Australia.
Award-winning Novelist
Winning the 1960 Miles Franklin
Award of £5OO for her novel “The
Irishman” brought Mrs Barbara Mc-
Namara to Sydney for the fourth time
in 11 years. Since her marriage 19 years
ago she has lived in North Queensland
—firstly in the Gulf country proper,
but more recently at Lyndhurst, an 800-
square-mile cattle station on the black-
soil plains up Hughenden way, which
is managed by her husband.
A rambling homestead and four child-
ren keep Mrs McNamara busy. Even
when she began writing seven years
ago she was clear about her order of
priorities: she was a housewife and
mother first, a writer only when she
could find the time. Fortunately she
has the concentration to push on with
a paragraph and a conversation at the
same time. She has written two books
in three-and-a-half years, mainly between
4 and 6 p.m. each day, in longhand in
school exercise-books, typing and revis-
ing later.
Although publicity-shy and modest
(“my next one will probably be awful”),
Mrs McNamara, smartly-dressed and
with a tan that most Sydney beachgirls
would envy, gives the impression that
she is very sure of her own mind.
MRS BARBARA McNAMARA
A paragraph, a conversation
Her father, novelist Eric Lowe, who
has always encouraged her writing, was
running a sheep station in the Henry
Lawson country near Mudgee (N.S.W.)
when she was born, but she spent most
of her childhood in the Blue Mountains.
She was in Brisbane during the war
as junior housemistress at Somerville
House and met her husband when she
went north from there to stay with a
friend.
She has found subjects for three books
up north. Her first, a series of sketches
called “Steak for Breakfast,” was a
best-seller and saddled her with hei
pen-name Elizabeth O’Conner, from the
O’Conner family in the book.
Her husband’s descriptions of scenes
from his own boyhood, such as the
rounding-up of the blacks, provided a
basis for “The Irishman,” which, set in
the 1920’5, is the story of an adolescent
boy’s growth to manhood. The third,
which she is writing now. is a novel
about the people who first brought cattle
to Lyndhurst a century ago.
I
,


This Australia
Sodom of the South
The “Jill” fiasco (see story, page 10)
has not dampened the ardor of
Melbourne’s constabulary in its ceaseless
hunt to uncover vice in the Sodom of
the South. It now appears that vice is
not confined to the foreign community
and, if anything, assumes even more
exotic forms among locally born Anglo-
Saxons. Evidence for this was presented
recently when police laid charges in the
City Court against Raymond Roy
Marshall (36), of Royal Parade, Ascot
Vale, treasurer of a new cultural group
called the Irving Club. The name is
presumably taken from Sir Henry Irving
(1838 - 1905) who, according to one
reference book, was “an actor.... of
magnetic personality and originality of
conception, but of mannered elocution
and gait.”
The police claimed that theatre-lovers
who attended the Irving Club’s shows
at 333 Flinders Lane witnessed strip-tease
acts and other lewd performances. Girls
clad only in G-strings served spirituous
beverages, the price of these being in-
cluded in the £3 10s. admission fee.
Marshall was charged on two counts of
having kept a brothel, with selling liquor
without a licence and with living off the
earnings of prostitution. Police also
claimed that girls were raffled during the
shows: Tickets cost 10s. or £1 each, and
the winner had the prize for the night.
However, no charge was laid against
Marshall for having conducted an illegal
lottery.
Marshall denied knowledge of any
lewd acts being performed at the club:
the stage shows, he said, were under
the control of the producer, a Mr
Johnson. He also denied any knowledge
of prostitution at the club or at the
house he owned at Ascot Vale. He con-
ceded that girls had been raffled, but
only as a way of making extra club
revenue. As a piquant touch, he pointed
out that the club’s constitution strictly
forbade gambling.
The magistrate sentenced Marshall to
12 months on the immoral-earnings
charge and two months each on the
brothel-keeping counts. The sentences
were made concurrent, and on the liquor
charges Marshall was fined £6O. He gave
notice of appeal against the convictions.
While the daily press were recording
this cultural renaissance in the heart of
the city’s business area, “Truth” had
turned to those old faithfuls, the espresso
bars, and triumphantly uncovered
another Vice Racket. Teenage girls were
selling liquor in the espressos, and as a
service to readers the papers published
fhe code words used by the cognoscenti
ln search of a drink—-“Americano”
(brandy and coke), “Italiano” (Rum and
coke) and “coffee special” (coffee and
whisky).
A reporter, accompanied by an Italian-
speaking female friend, had a night out
on the expense - account. He visited a
dozen coffee lounges and espressos “con-
sidered by the police to be suspicious”
and scored drinks at ten of them. This
was tepid stuff compared to some of the
earlier stories about espressos running
back-room bordellos and mobile maisons
de tolerance fitted up in caravans, but
the police obligingly endorsed it.
For real thrills, however, the Special
Duties Branch is all on its own. It has
been given the green light to seize and
smash pinball machines used for
gambling. These fantasies of chromium,
colored lights, bells, buzzers and things
that whizz and click, are a kind of poor
man’s poker-machine, found in milk-bars
and espressos. In one raid last week
police seized 20 of the contraptions
valued at £lO,OOO, bringing their recent
tally up to 100. The machines are zest-
fully smashed with axes, the woodwork
burned and the electrical entrails dumped
at sea in a way suggestive of the dis-
posal of radioactive waste. The former
owners are summonsed under the gaming
act. Last week’s raid was long in
preparation—three constables spent three
weeks in civvies playing the machines.
But let none thmk tha t the law does
not fall with equal impartiality on the
high as well as the low. The ill-fate
that has befallen the University Club,
in its lofty Collins Street glasshouse,
shows that none is spared. Until recently
the club had the privilege of being
exempted from police visits except with
prior warning. At its last annual meeting,
members were told that the police had
succeeded in having this privilege re-
voked by proving in court that a club
steward had been taking bets. Members
who heard this sad news glanced around
and noticed that the club’s sole pinball
machine was missing from its accustomed
place. They then received yet another
reminder of their moral turpitude when
the committee reported that members
had been seen playing billiards beyond
the allotted time to which their hire
of the table entitled them. Solemnly the
committee announced its counter-blow —
near the billiard table it had installed a
gadget like a parking meter to police the
potting of these cue-armed delinquents.
History on Whose Side?
Tf Karl Marx turned up in N.S.W.
during the current referendum cam-
paign to abolish the Legislative Council,
he would undoubtedly be intrigued by
the way in which all parties are using
his “history-is-on-our-side” theory. April
29 is yea or nay day for New South
Welshmen ; and all political parties are
delving into history, searching for evi-
mence to show that the evolution of
Parliament proves their case.
The Labor Premier, R. J. Heffron, went
back to 1848 and quoted a letter from
Sir William Denison to the Colonial
Secretary in London, saying that the for-
mation of the Upper House in N.S.W.
was necessary “to check democracy.”
Mr C. B. Cutler, the State Country party
leader, said that New South Wales had
had the bicameral system of Parliament
for 105 years and it had worked well.
Liberal leader Askin, seated on the plat-
form at Orange with Mr Cutler, nodded
agreement. The Communist party’s
journal, “Communist Review,” for March
said: “Queensland has been without an
Upper House for 38 years and despite
the rule of the Labor party for most of
the time, conditions are not funda-
mentally any different for the masses.
Monopoly rule continues and flourishes.”
(History is on their side, too.) The his-
tory prize goes to the Constitutional
Association of Australia: in a brochure,
“A Case Against Abolition,” it goes back
to the 18th century and offers a quote
from John Stuart Mill to prove its case
against a unicameral government,
The abolitionists are the Labor party
and the Communist party, although the
L abor party rebuffed a “let’s do it
together” offer. The anti-abolitionists
are the Liberal party, the Country party,
the Constitutional Association of Aus-
tralia, and the “Citizens ‘Vote No’ Com-
mittee”—an organisation describing itself
as “non-political, and having no party
affiliation.”
All groups are conducting their cam-
Paign using the same apparatus as is
used for elections. The abolitionists
intend to have “three five-minute spots
on TV,” some radio talks, lunch-hour
workshop meetings, advertisements in the
press, and “lots of pamphleteering.” Anti-
abolitionists are doing roughly the same,
The Liberal party, in its publication “The
Australian Liberal” for March, issued a
supplement on the “Case for No” and
are distributing it throughout the State,
As well, they plan to hold many meetings
in suburban homes at which “the party’s
friends will be able to hear why they
should vote no.” No party would give
any indication of how much money it
was spending on the campaign.
The referendum, which has aroused
little interest generally in New South
Wales, is not without ironic touches. The
Premier is believed to have only half his
heart in the campaign. The abolition of
the Upper House, although long a plank


in the platform of the Labor party, was
forced on him by a decision of the party
at its 1958 conference. As it is consti-
tuted, the 60-member House is elected
jointly by both Houses, and members
receive £5OO a year, a gold pass and the
privilege of having Honorable pre-fixed
to their name. All this at the cost of
9|d. a year to the electors—say the anti-
abolitionists. When the Government
asked the Council to abolish itself nine
Labor rebels dissented, crossed the floor,
and voted with the Opposition. The
Premier is believed to be happy with a
hostile Upper House ; it serves as a brake
on impetuous and sectional agitation
from trade unions.
The Liberal party also has its rebel.
Legislative Assembly member Mr Kevin
Ellis, of Coogee, has been an ardent
abolitionist since 1948. He has repeat-
edly embarrassed the Opposition by his
statements in the House and in the press
advocating abolition. The “Sydney
Morning Herald” in an editorial implied
that Mr Ellis should be deprived of his
party endorsement. Labor members
defended him from the “Herald’s” attack.
He is taking no further part in the
campaign.
The press, with two exceptions, say
that the Upper House needs reform but
not abolition. The two exceptions to the
“retain and reform” line are the Com-
munist papers and the “Daily Mirror.”
Map of the Year
is the most important map
A Australians will see in 1961. It
outlines the proposed network of all-
weather roads to be constructed for
the mineral and beef-cattle industries
in Queensland and the Northern Terri-
tory. The scheme, estimated to cost
between £l7m. and £2om.„ is the
biggest road-building operation ever
undertaken in Australian history and
is the outcome of Commonwealth-
Queensland State negotiations over
the last few months. The 4200 miles of
bitumen roads are being made to
direct Northern Territory and
Queensland cattle mainly to Queens-
land’s rail- and road-heads and to
link Queensland’s huge mineral-de-
posits areas with the rest of Australia
Weipa is already expected to provide
360,000 tons of alumina annually by
1966. A major development of iron-
ore deposits found by the B.H.P. at
Constance Range is expected later
Although details for the financing
of the scheme have not been fully
worked out the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is expected to give assistance
on a £ for £ basis. According to in-
formed Federal Government circles,
the Commonwealth has already agreed
to grant £7|m. to the State and with
the Commonwealth providing
for the Northern Territory section the
whole project may only cost Queens-
landers £7|m.
The Federal Government is inter-
ested in the scheme because the roads
are expected to lift the beef-cattle
export earnings by £lsm annually.
The origin of this export boost lies
in the series of country Cabinet meet-
ings which Queensland Premier Frank
Nicklin has been having over the
last 18 months. The road network
is believed to have been first sug-
gested at one of Cabinet’s meetings in
the far west of the State.
The Whipping
State
Tt is a paradox that South Australia, the
one State that had no convict
birth-stains, should be the only one still
to keep flogging on the statute book.
The Howard League for Prison
Reform has just challenged this attitude,
describing as “a matter for deep disgust,”
whippings imposed on two teenage
vandals during March. A 15-year-old
junior porter and his student companion,
aged 14, recently damaged Taperoo High
School and later set fire to it. A special
magistrate sentenced them each to ten
strokes of the birch on the first count and
15 on the second.
“What else could be expected of a
State which refuses adequately to support
or develop its reformatory and child-
welfare services?” said the league’s secre-
tary, G. C. Harcourt. He was clearly
referring to last year’s widespread
criticism of primitive conditions at Magill
Reformatory, to which these two boys
were committed after their lashing.
Only a few weeks earlier another
magistrate decided to have two brothers
—aged nine and 14—whipped in the
presence of their father. Certainly they
were classed as uncontrollable children ;
three times they had stolen sweets worth
at least £1 in each case ; but critics have
described such penal clauses in the S.A.
law as “sadistic, barbarous and vin-
dictive.”
Last August, Premier Sir Thomas Play-
ford assured the State House that it had
only been necessary to whip boys and
adults 18 times in the past decade. He
was answering a Labor question
prompted by the birching of a 34-year-
old Adelaide laborer who had raped an
lli-year-old girl. Because of the nature
of the crime, there was no public protest
such as had arisen in October, 1957, over
a whipping order against a boy aged 12.
The boy, who had broken out of the
Reformatory, was to have been given 15
strokes with either the birch or the cane
—it did not really matter which, said
Mr Justice Abbott after dismissing an
appeal. But the Sheriff charged with
these high responsibilities was not able


to take action: a petition was presented
to the Governor, Sir Robert George, and
Cabinet was obliged to intervene.
The Premier then stated that any
alteration to the Police Offences Act,
dealing with the whipping of juveniles
under 16, would be considered “in due
course.” Next day Attorney-General
Rowe announced that his Government
intended to consider what penalties could
be imposed on youths under 18. This
would be done, he said, “with a view to
bringing them into line with modern
ideas.”
No more has been heard of this com-
mendable intent. Judges and magistrates
are still given power to order floggings
under three separate Acts —the Criminal
Law Consolidation Act, the Police
Offences Act and the so-called Children’s
Protection Act. This last, framed in
1899, prescribes a whipping for anyone
under 16 found guilty of indecent
language or behavior, obstructing railway
lines, stealing with violence —or throw-
ing stones dangerously. The instrument
of punishment is laid down as being as
similar as possible “to the birch rod used
in England.”
Those who urge a more humane
approach to delinquency point out that
England, which gave us so many of our
early settlers under the broad arrow and
the cat-o’-nine-tails, has herself barred
corporal punishment of any kind since
1947. The whip may not often be called
for in S.A. courts, but it has been used
frequently enough for a N.S.W. visitor
last Christmas to write in a letter to “The
Advertiser” that “this medieval and bar-
baric form of punishment appears to be
part of the Adelaide way of life.”
Sir Arthur's
Shadow
'T'he shadow of a former deputy Prime
Minister hangs over the W.A. Gov-
ernment’s decision to call tenders for the
export of iron ore from the major North-
west deposits at Mt Goldsworthy, follow-
ing the decision of the Commonwealth
Government to relax its 23-year-old
export embargo on iron ore. Long
before the State Government has called
for tenders on the Mt Goldsworthy
deposits, Sir Arthur Fadden has an-
nounced that he is forming a public
company to exploit its 30-million-ton
deposits for export to Japanese steel mills.
Sir Arthur’s statement that he has sole
accreditation from Japan’s seven blast-
furnace steel mills to sell Mt Golds-
worthy ore looks very much like present-
ing the W.A. Government with a fait
accompli, and the reply by Mines Minis-
ter Griffith that Sir Arthur’s company
would be free to submit a quote when
tenders are called has done nothing to
dispel this impression.
The interest of the wily Sir Arthur,
who has already joined the board of L.
J. Hooker’s since he resigned from gov-
ernment, is ample evidence that there is
a future in the iron-ore export business
in W.A. That the State Government
realises the opportunities for lucrative
royalties in this field is proved by its
decision to grant exploration permits
covering its medium- and low-grade
deposits, which are estimated at 223
million tons, and for deposits not yet dis-
covered.
Now that Sir Arthur’s company has
obtained what looks like an unbeatable
lead in the race for the high-grade Mt
Goldsworthy deposits, the chances of
obtaining these more lucrative deposits
look slim for other operators. The
B.H.P. company has already collared the
really big deposits at Koolan and Cocka-
too Islands in the North-west and at
Koolyanobbing (near Kalgoorlie) on the
promise of establishing an integrated iron
and steel industry in W.A.
This gives the company more than two
thirds of the State’s high-grade deposits,
but there is still plenty of room for those
who see a future in the low-grade
deposits. One group of companies is
establishing an upgrading plant to exploit
large reserves on the Scott River near
the south-west tip of the State and also
plans to establish a £lO million sponge-
iron industry on the site.
Development of the State’s huge
deposits could make a great deal of
difference to the public budget, which
has been chronically in the red for as
long as anyone can remember, and make
a big contribution to development of the
outback. It has been estimated that
revenue from the standardised rail gauge
from Kalgoorlie to Perth, which is an
"WE'LL HAVE TO GET RID OF THAT LOT!"


integral part of the B.H.P. steel industry
plans, could wipe out the railway deficit.
Development of the Mt Goldsworthy
deposits would entail new port facilities
at Port Hedland, which would in turn
stimulate more mineral activity in the
North-west. So Sir Arthur, by his in-
fluential interest in iron-ore, may do the
State a bigger service than he ever did
as Commonwealth Treasurer.
D.L.P. the Key
in Victoria
IN Spring Street, Henry Bolte is tipping
heavy winks to his Liberal sup-
porters when the sensitive subject of
D.L.P. preferences at the State election,
to be held in June or July, is mentioned,
suggesting they already are in the Liberal
ballot-box.
Liberal tenderness on the subject is
understandable. The party got 20 of
its current 39 Assembly seats on D.L.P.
preferences (and one, Kara Kara, on
Country-party preferences) at the 1958
general elections, and in November won
Ballarat North from the Country party
with them.
Bolte’s optimism has a sound basis,
whatever his private information. Ten-
sion between the D.L.P. and Country
party has heightened since the Ballarat
North by-election last November because
the Country party peddled the sectarian
issue very vigorously (as did the Inde-
pendent, who also lost). From the D.L.P.
preferences, the Liberals get the Treasury
benches. What does the D.L.P. get? It
keeps out the A.L.P.
The Victorian D.L.P. is becoming in-
creasingly anti-Socialist. In 1958 the
party got 14.75 per cent, of the aggregate
vote and may be gaining votes slowly
from both the Liberals and A.L.P. At
the time of the State election unity
tickets for the Waterside Workers’ elec-
tions will be circulating in Victoria,
which should give the party more votes
from moderate unionists.
On its total vote, the D.L.P. is prob-
ably entitled to ten Assembly and five
Council seats. It has none, but has a
very good chance of winning Melbourne.
Tom Hayes has been endorsed again.
He lost by only 54 votes in 1958 when
Liberal preferences were given to him.
The character of Melbourne electorate
is changing. Some thousands of Catholic
migrants will vote for the first time.
Whatever reservations they may have
about local issues, these will, no doubt,
be less forbidding to them than Com-
munist unity with the A.L.P.
Since 1958, Hayes has regained his
City Council seat within the Melbourne
constituency, and the D.L.P. vote has
been reaffirmed by Johnny Meere’s suc-
cess in the same ward, Hotham.
The D.L.P. may also have a chance in
the Sunshine area, West Brunswick, and
a remote one in Albert Park. At present
the party is grandly instructing campaign
organisers not to consider second
preferences and to concentrate on
primaries. The vital second preferences
will not be determined (officially) until
a fortnight before the poll.
POLITICAL POINTS
TN the letter columns of The
Bulletin (5/4/61) Mr Judah
Waten, the Australian Communist
Party’s cultural commissar, wrote a
letter discussing whether members of
the Communist party should be
appointed to academic posts in Aus-
tralian universities. Quite irrelevantly
he said: “Since the humble beginning
of the Communist party movement
in the International Communist
League of the 1840 s Communism
has in 112 years become a colossal
movement of 36 million members with
strong foundations in every continent
and region and with parties govern-
ing one-third of the world. This
tremendous success demonstrates that
Communism has an irresistible attrac-
tion for large sections of the world
population, in the first place the work-
ing class, which constitutes the
strongest support for the Communist
parties.”
1 have quoted this statement at
length because it is the best example
I have seen for some time of typical
Communist propaganda. Mr Waten
uses what is meant to be “irresistible
appeal” to people who are potential
Communist sympathisers. The tech-
nique he uses is the “everybody’s
doing it” criteria. It sounds almost
like a soap advertisement: “Because
nine out of ten Hollywood film stars
use Communist soap,” so should you.
Mr Waten, says in effect: “See how
successful Communism is—we already
possess one-third of the world —you
should join us too.” Just look at the
language he employs to “prove” his
case: “humble beginning”; “a colos-
sal movement”; “strong foundations
in every continent”; “this tremendous
success”; “an irresistible attraction”;
‘strongest support.” Surely you can
do better than this, Mr Waten.
» •
'T'he campaign for the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Assembly seat of Liverpool
Plains, won narrowly by the Country
party, provided observers with many
laughs. The country-siders seemed to
be pulling both parties by their politi-
cal tails. The first encounter occurred
in a township in the electorate in
which one of the spruikers received a
good hearing from a group of
workers. After the speech was over
he shouted for the locals at the pub—-
not bribery, just good fellowship. His
was the face on the bar-room floor
when he discovered they were itinerant
workers who had no vote in the
election.
The next incident was the “Battle
of the Loudspeakers” at the country
town of Scone. The Country party
was addressing the residents at 5 p.m.
from a vacant block of land adjoining
a bank. Things were going well until
the Labor party let fly with a blast
from their loudspeakers, which they
had set up at the other end of street,
on the balcony of the local pub. This
effectively disrupted the man-to-man
stuff of the Country party. With the
Labor party getting the better end of
it before the tea adjournment locals
wondered what would happen when
the two groups re-assembled to try
and capture the votes of the theatre-
goers. The Country party reappeared
with a new loudspeaker placed on
the back of a truck with two large
cones strafing the whole street. As
soon as they uttered their first “We
believes” the Labor party roared back
from the other end of the town their
“We says.” The theatre crowds for
whose benefit this was done could
only hear mingling phrases from both
camps. Their verdict when asked by
a reporter who would win the election
was “The one with the loudest voice.”
• •
A substantial disagreement is
evident in figures being quoted
by the Victorian Chamber of Manu-
factures and Premier Bolte. The
Treasurer made a no-confidence vote
seem footling when he pointed out
that the State’s population had risen
150,000 in two years and the number
registered for employment by 300.
Unfortunately, the Premier's figures
were some months behind the credit
squeeze. This will not stop him
quoting them in the forthcoming elec-
tion campaign, although the Cham-
ber’s figures are later, precise and
authoritative from its members.
They show that employment fell
by 3.1 per cent, in Victoria between
June 30 and March 17. Aside from
neckwear, in which the fall was 24
per cent., a fashion trade which has
no real economic significance, the
worst fall was in automotive parts
(14.5). There were other substantial
drops in rubber goods (12), plastics
(12.3) and furniture (9.6).
Take-home pay has dropped on a
descending scale in 17 industries,
ranging down from iron and steel
factories (£3 Is. 3d.) to neckwear
(Is. 7d.). Inexplicably, employment in
food industries has risen 16.6 and
take-home pay risen by 365. 4d.
BY MUGGA


OVERSEAS
Spain
The Civil War Continues
By NEIL McINNES
IN the last days of March a conference
was held in Paris for an Amnesty in
Spain. It brought together about 500
delegates from 17 European nations.
After discussion that was carried on in
the most moderate terms (eminent French
jurists did most of the talking), they de-
cided unanimously to address petitions to
U.N.O. and Pope John protesting against
violation of human rights in Spain, and
to organise a dignified campaign of
petitions to Spanish embassies throughout
Europe. Like the similar congress held
by the Latin Americans in Montevideo in
January, this was an expression of the
now almost universal pressure on Franco
to temper his dictatorship, to introduce
a civilised penal code and above all to
decree the amnesty that Spain has been
waiting for since 1945. Unanimity
among foreigners on these points is
scarcely surprising ; there are few avowed
fascists left this side of the Pyrenees and
one cannot imagine any live political
force in Europe opposing the restoration
of elementary civil liberties in Spain.
What was surprising, indeed frighten-
ing, was the passionate and uncompromis-
ing division of opinion among Spaniards
who attended, hovered around or sought
to sabotage the conference. There are
about one million Spanish expatriates in
France, plus two governments-in-exile, a
dozen political parties and of course the
representatives of the Franco regime. In
the wings of the amnesty congress, where
foreigners of all opinions were taking a
benign interest in their affairs, the
Spaniards staged a discouraging replica
of the Spanish Civil War, demonstrating
once again their eternal political incom-
petence, their inability to co-operate in
view of limited objectives and their
preference for puritanical violence over
practical action. One realised that the
Spanish emigrant will one day return
to Spain having learnt nothing, forgotten
nothing ; and one saw that in 22 years
of complete power Franco has settled
no issues, made no options seem out of
date and left the cleavages of Spanish
opinion just what they were in 1939. If
the Spaniards mean what they say (and,
with Spaniards, there is always the grave
danger that they do), the Civil War could
begin again tomorrow and be fought
around the same old questions, except
that “intervention” would now come from
the U.S.A. and Soviet Russia and on a
much more massive scale.
Franco tried desperately to have the
French ban the congress and, when he
failed, got his embassy here to proclaim
that the whole thing was a Communist
stunt, that it had no support in Spain
°r among any non-Communist Spaniards,
and finally that it was pointless because
there were no political prisoners in Spain,
or genuine exiles without, left to amnesty.
All of which is false. The official figure
of 1,078 political prisoners is known to
be vastly short of the truth. No general
amnesty has been declared, and the
decree of 1945 allows the return of exiles
only if not guilty of “common law
crimes or terrorism,” whereas all the
regime’s opponents are automatically
classed as bandits and terrorists. The
amnesty proclaimed for the coronation
of John XXIII concerned only those
serving sentences under two years, where-
as political -crimes” get a minimum of
nine years. As for internal, non-Com-
munist support for an amnesty, it has
been constant since 1959 and more or
less open. The bar of Madrid and of
Barcelona, certain ecclesiastics and the
regime’s own intellectuals such as Lain
Entralgo have all petitioned for a general
pardon and “national reconciliation.”
The walls of Spanish towns everywhere
bear the scrawled sign “Amnistia!” or
(since that has become dangerous; ff
earns nine years’ jail) with the letter A!
The Paris conference itself received
messages from the Barcelona arts students
and from a monastery of Catalan monks
pleading for an amnesty. Finally, the
conference was attended by the exiled
Basque and Central “governments” and
by the CNT.
Official lies were, perhaps, to be
expected. Less so was the active sabotage
of various groups of exiles, Salvador
de Madariaga, Francisco Garcia Lorca,
the philosopher Jose Ferrater Mora and
others wrote from London endorsing
Madrid’s line that the conference was
“run by Communists” and dissociating
themselves from the humiliating business
of seeking a pardon for men who had
done no wrong. This last might sound
like a literary man’s debating point, but
unfortunately it represents the stand of
many revolutionary exiles. The Iberian
Anti-Fascists, for example, declared that
they would ask and accept no pardon
from Franco, with whom there was only
one way of dealing: “a fight to the death."
Spanish pride is admirable, but it is also
the source of many of the country’s
political failures. It is from sentiments
like these that civil wars are made, and
perpetuated. This stand reproduces
Franco’s attitude to republicans: the
only republicans with whom he will be
Amsterdam “Algemeen Handelsblad.”
EASTER AFTERMATH.


reconciled are dead ones as he showed
by building a monument to the dead of
“both sides” in the war, while con-
tinuing to persecute the survivors.
Republicans did not have to be
amnestied in Germany or Italy in 1944
because the State had been swept away
in a catastrophe, but if one hopes for
a less violent solution in Spain, the
possibility of an amnesty has to be
envisaged. The members of the Com-
mune accepted an amnesty to return to
France in 1880, whereupon they founded
the proletarian movement again. Even
Captain Dreyfus accepted an amnesty in
1906, when it was proven that he had
done nothing to be pardoned for.
More serious was the campaign of
opposition and vilification run by the
Spanish Socialist Party and the U.G.T.,
which denounced the congress as a Com-
munist racket. Indeed Thorez and
Picasso supported it, along with occa-
sional Communist catspaws like Sartre,
Simone de Beauvoir, Francoise Sagan
and the like—but so did hundreds of
Catholics like Francois Mauriac and
Father Riquet, established notables like
Gabriel Marcel, Andre Maurois and
Jean Cocteau, ex-premiers, newspaper
editors, barristers and even the anarchist
artist Sine. Yet because of a few Com-
munist names on a list that was open
to all to sign, half the Spanish Left
falls for Franco’s story that the affair
is “arranged by the butchers of Budapest
and some political innocents whose good
faith has been abused.” The problem
of whether one should support liberal
causes when Communists support them
too is by now monotonously familiar,
but it is worth recalling that it first arose
for most of us precisely in the Spanish
Civil War. It takes one back 20 years
to see the Spaniards still wrestling with
the problem they set us, and still failing
to see that no liberal cause in our societies
(one leaves aside the bogus “peace”
question) is going to succeed without
Communist support—because the Corn-
munists will support it once it looks like
succeeding. So the only way to prevent
suc h causes becoming Communist causes
} s t 0 multiply liberal support for them,
as France and Britain ought to have done
in 1937 Today after three years of
, d , wo decades of bitternesS;
. B , , .. „„„
11 ls^ou uw e ... , . ,
outside intervention will resolve el prob-
lema de Espana until Spaniards them-
selves accept the conditions for a return
to cohabitation—and that means the
exiles as much as Franco.
Kenya
Where Resentments Flourish
By CLIVE BARRY
T AST month Mr Mann relinquished his
legal practice and with his wife and
two sons he got out of Kenya. He
travelled to Australia and joined a legal
firm in Tasmania. He left an ailing
economy in Kenya and entered a thriving
economy in Australia. He left a multi-
racial community which contained 3000
Europeans in Nakuru and he entered a
mono-racial community which contained
16,000 Europeans in Burnie. He ex-
pressed relief at having moved his family
a step in the direction of security and
naturally he also expressed regret at
Berlin Taranlel Press .
“IS ZERO THE SAME AS NEUTRAL?”
having relinquished a long-established
legal practice and a way of living which
by Tasmanian standards could be called
exciting.
In Nakuru last week a colleague, Mr
Oliver Shaw, had still not relinquished
his dwindling legal practice and he was
prepared to attest that the way of living
in Kenya could be called exciting by any
standards. While driving the Nairobi-
Nakuru road with 400 shillings’ worth of
racetrack winnings in his pocket he hit
an African child. As he left his vehicle
to give assistance to the child he was
attacked and beaten up by Africans who
had seen the accident from a bus. Mr
Shaw’s jacket was ripped to ribbons, his
400 s. were stolen, he was dragged, kicked
and punched and when he sought refuge
in the cab of a Land Rover he was pulled
out and punished further. The loss of
time involved in this punishment might
have aggravated the child’s condition.
Mr Shaw was eventually allowed to drive
the child to hospital but this week the
child died.
Not all the Africans in the bus attacked
Mr Shaw. Some stood by indifferently
while others actively tried to protect him.
But the urgent task of getting the child
to hospital was disregarded while
emotions such as horror, disgust anti
exasperation were overtly expressed.
Throughout Kenya today far too many
people are concerned with expressing old
resentments instead of dealing with
urgent tasks. While European and Asian
capital emigrates in alarming amounts
people still prefer to discuss the atrocities
committed on both sides in the Mau
Mau uprising. While drought conditions
bring widespread famine the armed
forces organise partial voluntary relief
but national leaders in conference in
Cairo attack the old colonial system
which in East Africa is too dead to need
attacking anyway. While crime and un-
employment are increasing some people
dance with glee at the Union of South
Africa’s withdrawal from the Common-
wealth. And while sources of national
revenue are being eroded dangerously
far too few people are concerned with
preserving and improving one of the
country's biggest money spinners: the
game animals that were the star attrac-
tions for tourist money.
f'ANE old resentment which might come
up for overt expression soon is the
situation of the numerically insignificant
yet remarkably impressive Masai people
who, according to their jealous neighbors,
have received preferential treatment from
the old colonial administration for the
past 60 years. The Masai people are
as red as berries, as tall as Nullarbor
aborigines and as thin as storks and in
1904 they were given a vast tract of
land in which to graze their cattle. Today
the Masai people cover Masailand
thinly with a population density of only
two or three to the square mile while
the neighboring Kikuyu people have a
population density of 300 to the square
mile.
In spite of the resentments of neighbor-
ing peoples the Masai have one shaky
chance of being allowed to retain their
vast grazing land. While they herded
their cattle across Masailand they did
allow the herds of wild game to share


the land with them. They did not hunt
that game and eradicate it as was done
in other areas. Today Masailand is one
of the few remaining places in the world
where enormous herds of ungulates are
still extant. Now if the value of wild
game as a tourist attraction were clearly
recognised by the peoples of Kenya then
the Masai could be allowed to retain
their thinly populated land on the under-
standing that they would control and
preserve the wild game. But if old resent-
ments are allowed to dictate the policy
then the herds of ungulates and the
Masai themselves will be extinguished
just as they were almost extinguished
60 years ago.
As a measure of the Masai people’s
conscientious attempts to control and
preserve the wild game one could point
to the angry cries coming from white
hunters who are now asked to pay a
fee of from five to 355. each night for
each safari-party member camping in
the vicinity.
When the Masai people arrived in
East Africa from the north-east as
Hamitic migrants only a few hundred
years ago they brought their cattle with
them and custom ever since has kept
them herding cattle. But research now
being carried out in Masailand by Mr
and Mrs Lee Talbot would indicate that
the Masai would have done better to
herd the wild game which already grazed
across the broad savanna. Even today
on Serengeti the count is estimated at
150,000 wildebeest (gnus) alone and
herds of herbivores 15,000 strong con-
taining 20 different species and ringed
by 15 different kinds of scavengers and
predators can be observed.
Mr Mervyn Cowie, controller of
national parks in Kenya, is gravely con-
cerned at the diminishing numbers of
wild animals in the country and at the
inroads being made into existing num-
bers by poachers. Attempts are being
made to move wild animals from areas
where they were a threat to farm gardens
and people into national parks where
they threaten only tourists and each
other. Sometimes this fiddling with the
ecology of the land has unlucky effects.
Over the last year 20 leopards have been
gently trapped near populated areas and
transferred to Tsavo national park but
recently it was recalled how expensive a
decreasing leopard force could be. A few
years ago leopards were declared vermin
and shot on sight. Being unpruned by the
leopards the forest pigs, wart-hogs and
baboons increased in numbers explo-
sively and did great damage to farm
gardens. Some animals just could not
be moved.
Mr Cowie’s main concern at the
moment is to find money to increase the
amount of water available to wild
animals. While it is understood that too
much available water would lead to an
increase in the numbers of animals and
thence to possible denudation of the
land, efforts are being made to establish
watering points where the amount of
water available can be controlled. This
concentration on the control of the
habitat rather than on the control of
the animals themselves is the new fashion
in game administration.
Indonesian Pointers
THE AIR FORCE
ipiFTEEN years ago, a bus conductor and
a policeman, from odd parts of aban-
doned Japanese aircraft, built an aero-
plane which flew. That was how the
Indonesian Air Force came into being.
Fifteen years ago, they had one pilot.
Today, more than 300 fully qualified
Indonesian pilots fiy the fastest British,
American and Russian jets. By 1962,
the Indonesian Air Force will have 60
qualified staff officers, mostly British
trained.
It w'as after the Japanese capitulation
in 1945 that the bus conductor, a Dutch-
trained pilot called Adisutjipto, and the
policeman, a Dutch-trained Army officer
named Suryadarma, created the Indo-
nesian Air Force out of spare parts and
bits of string. Adisutjipto was shot down
and killed. Suryadi Suryadarma, now 49,
lived to become Indonesia’s first Air
Marshal.
By the end of 1949 the Indonesian
Air Force had grown to 15 pilots and
about 200 ground staff. A succession
of revolts and rebellions held back its
expansion so it was not until 1957 that
Air Marshal Suryadarma could embark
upon a Five Years Air Force Plan of
modernisation.
Under this plan the Air Force recently
purchased from the Soviet Union
modern aircraft including helicopters and
jet fighters. The Indonesian Air Force
now consists of some 500 aircraft, rang-
ing from helicopters and American trans-
ports (each capable of carrying 200 fully
equipped soldiers), to trainers and the
fastest M.I.G.s and llluysin bombers.
On the ground, the Air Force has
Swiss-made missiles (Russian weapons
are on order), and Russian and British-
made mobile radar units, in addition to
a defensive British-installed static radar
warning service operating on the three
largest islands.
Indonesia has an air force co-operation
agreement with India. Altogether, India
has trained about 1300 Indonesian engi-
neers. Another 360 Indonesian officers
will go to India before the end of 1961 to
receive the latest training in electronics.
In future, Indonesians will be sent in in-
creasing numbers to the Soviet Union
and Czechoslovakia.
By the end of 1961, the total strength
of the Indonesian Air Force will be
about 25,000 men. A small number of the
25,000 men have been trained as para-
troopers to defend airfields. There are
no recruiting difficulties in Indonesia:
of every 3600 applicants, the Air Force
usually accepts 100.
PORTUGUESE TIMOR
Indonesia has formed a committee to
“liberate” Portuguese Timor, the tiny
colony 350 miles north of Darwin, and
radio broadcasts are already urging
Timor natives to revolt against the
Portuguese.
Indonesian threats have produced
angry reactions in the capital, Dili, and
the Government - dominated newspaper
“Avoz da Timor’’ has complained of
Indonesian “arrogance” in strongly
worded editorials. Although there is a
strict Government censorship, reports
have leaked out of border clashes and of
Indonesian raiders attacking and burning
Timorese villages. The most vulnerable
strip of Portuguese territory is an enclave
on Timor’s north coast but because the
Army, which is largely native, is equipped
with outmoded rifles and antique
cannons all Portuguese Timor would
quickly be overrun if a full-scale attack
was launched. At least that is the im-
pression that visitors get when they see
that, apart from a few Regular Army
men from Portugal, the troops are ill-
trained and ill-disciplined. Perhaps the
most impressive fighting unit is the native
cavalry which rides tough little Timor
ponies.
The high mountains and appalling
roads would delay any Indonesian
advance but a recent incident shows that
the Army would have little more than
valor to fight with. The French frigate
Francis Gamier celebrated her arrival
in Dili with a 21-gun salute. In reply
the Portuguese trundled out some 1914
cannons on high wooden wheels. A
young lieutenant ordered more than the
normal two pounds of powder in order
to match the Frenchmen’s noise. When
the order to fire was given the first gun
split its barrel. The second shot exploded
in the breech almost blowing the officer
in half ; other soldiers were wounded.
Ihe guard of honor at the military
funeral next morning had trouble with
their rifles. When they fired a salute to
the dead only a few guns went off.
What little had been done to develop
the island in nearly 400 years of Portu-
guese occupation was destroyed by the
Japanese during the war but since then
efforts have been made to develop a
tourist trade, plantations have been re-
established and an Australian-American
company is prospecting for oil. The
island is rich in coffee, rice and copra,
also in unworked deposits of gold and
other minerals. Work began recently on
a £1 million harbor improvement plan at
Dili which will give improved refuelling
facilities for Portuguese warships so that
the frigate Goncalvos Zarco, which
steams on a circuit calling at Goa, Macao
and Dili, will no longer have to refuel
at Darwin.
Despite the accelerated development
and reports that 1000 additional troops
will be sent to the colony before the
year is out Portuguese Timor, with its
500,000 natives, 10,000 Chinese and
about 2000 Portuguese, has no hope if
Indonesia’s threats ever become acts.


FOR THE OBSERVER
Presenting the Wool
Follies of 1961
A short film, in color and on a wide
screen, is going the suburban rounds. In
it there are some breathtaking views of
Sydney, a city which can always take
your breath away, one way or another.
At any rate, this film does at times get
a fresh eye on such places as the Harbor,
Observatory Hill and the Public Library.
It is the sort of film which, if shown
overseas, might attract tourists here. It
could persuade interstate people that
Sydney is worth a second glance. Full
marks would go to tourist bodies respon-
sible for such a film. Unfortunately, it
was made by the Australian Wool Bureau
to sell wool.
As far as the average filmgoer, settling
back into his seat after interval with a
box of chocolates on his lap, is con-
cerned, the film has one flaw. This is
the figures which from time to time
move languidly across the screen, ob-
scuring the views.
The wide screen is a device which has
bested many notable film producers. It
can turn Kirk Douglas’s Adam’s apple
into a hillock, or convert fleeing armies
into scurrying pygmies. In the Wool
Awards film it makes the mannequins
look much broader, when viewed retreat-
ing, than any graduate of any modelling
school could possibly be.
But the wide screen cannot take the
whole blame for the fact that there
is so much background and so little
fashion. The whole concept of the film
is faulty. If you study skilful fashion
photography nothing is ever allowed to
take attention from the clothes being
shown. In Paris, a scrap of a poster for
the Comedie serves to evoke the whole
city. In London, a glimpse of a police-
man’s hat is enough background for a
Hardy Amies fashion.
Why on earth would the Wool Bureau
try to show quite everyday fashions
against the scene-stealing backgrounds
of Sydney? The fashions on display,
when an effort is made to concentrate
on them and not on the backgrounds, are
not bad. However, one is soon dis-
tracted again by the pitiable efforts of
the mannequins to act out simple scenes
which would be child’s play to kinder-
garteners. The models are busy reading
inscriptions on monuments, their lips
moving as they do so, or pointing towards
unseen objects way off-camera. In an-
other sequence, a young man and two
girls are standing beside a snazzy sports
car on a country road miles from any-
where. Presumably they are waiting for
the coast to clear before darting into
the bushes.
It’s been proved time and time again
that mannequins can’t act. Once you
take them off the catwalk, get them to
behave like human beings and wipe
off those superior smiles, which they
spent £5O at the academy acquiring,
you’re left with a wooden doll. Bad
enough to try to get them to examine
a monument on the wide screen, but to
try them on song-and-dance routines is
to invite disaster.
This is what the Wool Bureau, ever
optimistic, did at its presentation at the
Sydney Royal Show. The presentation
was called “Wool Rhapsodies of 1961”
and was claimed to be something entirely
new in fashion parades. Certain it is that
the like has never been seen before.
Ponderous efforts were made to give the
parade a city-meets-the-country flavor.
The audience sat on hard benches with
no back support. These, undoubtedly,
were imported specially from the Bog-
gabilla School of Arts for the presenta-
tion.
As a prelude to the parade there was
an exhibition of shearing. This, of
course, wouldn’t be of much interest to
the man from Mungindi who’s having
his annual taste of city sophistication
during Show fortnight. Anyway, it’s
a difficult thing to present shearing satis-
factorily on stage, and if anything beats
a J. C. Williamson’s chorusboy at up-
staging, it’s a pure - bred Merino. The
shearer spent 95 per cent, of his time
with his back to the audience.
After the shearing, there was a sort
of side-show performance by the Wyatt
sisters. One sister stands centre-stage in
a one - piece black corselette (the man
from Mungindi can certainly see better
and more in Sydney night-clubs) while the
other sister pins pieces of wool fabrics
on her. When the pinning is finished,
the garments look exactly as if they
have been pinned on.
After the side-show, the mannequins
appeared, mouthing songs. Again, the
actual clothes shown were quite good,
when you could concentrate on them
and not on pinned-on clothes, the viva-
cious Wyatt sisters and the wooden man-
nequins.
FOR THE CONSUMER
Becoming Conditioned to
Home Air-conditioning
If you want an accurate weather re-
port, you can by-pass the meteorologists.
Just ask an air-conditioning salesman.
Any salesman in an electrical-goods shop
filled with unsold room air-conditioners
can recapitulate the whole of our
summer, month by month, State by State.
Do you realise, for example, that the
only really hot day in Sydney this
summer was the Sunday of the Anniver-
sary holiday weekend? The shops, of
course, weren’t open on that day, or the
next day, and by the time Tuesday came
it was coolish again and nobody was
going to make an “impulse” purchase of
an air-conditioner. What the air-con-
ditioning people were really hoping for
was something like the very hot spell
which Sydney had in February, 1960,
with temperatures around the 105 mark
for four or five days, midweek. But,
alas, they didn’t get it.
Air-conditioning is the latest appliance
intended for mass consumption in Aus-
tralia, but the companies marketing and
making the room-conditioners have
plenty of time. There is nothing else in
view, except, perhaps, improved refrigera-
tion, so they can give themselves five
years to persuade Australians that no
home should be without air-conditioning.
In the post-war years, new or improved
home appliances have been following
each other very quickly on the market.
Australians were pretty well sold on
refrigeration even before the war Then
the washing-machine came into more
general use. For the past 10 or 15 years
pop-up toasters, electrical food-mixers
and -blenders, automatic stoves have been
jostling each other for attention in the
electrical-goods stores. Then, of course,
came television.
There has been plenty to attract the
eye, to enable the buyer to keep one step
ahead of the Joneses, and to keep the


hire-purchase companies happy. Now,
partly because of the credit squeeze,
which has caused a sharp downturn in
production and staff retrenchments, there
is a lull.
But getting something new for the
house via the H.-P. has become an Aus-
tralian habit, and the electrical industry
may pretty well take it for granted that
it’s a habit hard to break. Many people
are nearly through with their H.-P. pay-
ments on the television-set and will
shortly be looking around for something
else.
There seems no doubt that Austra-
lians will be won-over to air-conditioning
even if the winning-over does take five
years. This summer’s end the shops are
full of unsold units (the installation-
engineer for a big Sydney retailer said in
February he was doing only two installa-
tions a week on an average), but one
summer does not make a failure.
Manufacturers have had an easy vic-
tory with large-scale air-conditioning for
most of the new buildings going up in
the cities. They have done well, too, in
restaurants and stores, where the com-
petition is keen and air-conditioning is
an added service, enabling an owner to
keep ahead of his rivals.
Air-conditioning for the home is
another proposition. Some new home-
owner might install it when the house
is being built, but it is an expensive busi-
ness to air-condition an existing building.
The big sale to householders will be with
room air-conditioners or portable units
which can be moved from room to room.
It may be accepted that more room air-
conditioners were sold this summer than
last, but no figure is available. The
Commonwealth Statistician’s latest
figures on production (which, at the
moment, unhappily, doesn't coincide with
sales) gives a 43 per cent. rise.
South Australia and Victoria have
shown satisfactory returns, but in other
States air-conditioning has been received
rather coolly. In Queensland, where the
makers of air-conditioning units hoped
to do well, sales have been slow. They
have been better in the south than the
north. In the north, the inhabitants,
living in a climate which every expert
has described as next to impossible for
the white man, insist they have no need
for air-conditioning, that the summer
isn’t really hot, that the climate, in fact,
is ideal.
This attitude is the sort of thing which
the manufacturers hope to overcome with
“education.” “Education” will be aimed
first at the retailer, who must have con-
fidence in what he is selling. For prac-
tical reasons, it is easier for the manu-
facturer to keep in touch with the city
retailer and “educate” him, rather than
the country seller, although country
homes, many of which now have elec-
tricity, should welcome air-conditioning.
Manufacturers also hope to “educate”
consumers to the belief that air-
conditioning is a year-round thing and
not just something for the hot spells.
However, the market isn’t sufficiently
buoyant for much advertising along
those lines to be worthwhile this winter.
Manufacturers want people to keep
their air-conditioners on when it’s neither
too hot nor too cold so that the air
coming into the room will be filtered.
The makers also claim that the “reverse-
cycle principle” by which, roughly, the
hot air from the motor which in summer
is blown outwards, in winter can be
blown into the room, so that the air-
conditioner provides its own heating
apparatus. This use of the air-conditioner
would, it is claimed, halve the average
family’s winter-heating bill, once the air-
conditioner was paid for.
However, the public will need a cer-
tain amount of “education” to think
along these lines. A Sydney business-
man who installed an air-conditioner in
his office in one of the city’s smoggiest
areas declared he wanted “pure” and not
filtered air. This attitude is not un-
common.
Another attitude is that air-condition-
ing causes colds. Upholders of this
theory claim that nearly everyone who
makes a voyage in an air-conditioned
ship arrives here with a head cold.
However, the makers still staunchly say
that it’s only a matter of “education.”
When refrigeration was first introduced
most people thought it was only suitable
for summertime and many English
people still insist that in their climate
refrigeration is unnecessary. However,
because of consumer “education” to year-
round refrigeration, it would now be
difficult to find any Australian who
turned her refrigerator off on May 1 and
back on again on October 1.
Another finding from recent experience
which shows that “education” is needed,
is that men have been much more recep-
tive to the air-conditioning salesman’s
talk than women. In more than one
instance, a man has been sold a unit, it’s
been delivered to the house and the next
day his wife has sent it back. The trade
can find no rational explanation for this.
Perhaps women have a greater resistance
to the idea of soft living. Perhaps they
just don’t feel the heat as much. What-
ever the cause, the trade will have to
stop women sending air-conditioning
units back to the shop, if they want their
sales graph to rise.
Feiffer
iTA A real
AioaßEcirO
UATCHIM6
SUMPAM TV
fIR ST THERE S THE "AU STAR
THUIOOH HOUR" evERH u)EE<
Thu 6pt a morel? famous
Theolexsiam IOHO comes OM
REAL Diotitfieo AMO SAMS -
"The root of our Trouble is
MO SPIRITUAL VALUES'"
AFTER THAT theres THE 'AU star
PHILOSOPHY HOUR" EVERY IOEEK
THEY 6CT A UOORLD FAMOUS PHILOS
OTHER U)HO COMES ON REAL
P(6M(F| EV AW SMS ■ "T HE ROOT
OF OUR TROUBLE IS NO
EntCAL VALVES r
THgfO foexr M<i mi M "AU
0TAI? PWCHOLO6« WO (?.'
Wf£K WM 6CT AIMRU? FAMOUS
KHCm-OGtiT WHO COMBS Ott
r6ai omneo aw sahs m
ROOT oroOR TROOOLO fc-'llfo
MSA NmFOL RELATION-
SHIP 9"
arv finally to acse out the
oam mrcs the ■■all-star experi
hour; IVHICH IS a Pawl SHOiN 10ITH
THE THREE IWRIP FAMOUS OTHER
60ms being questioner by a
ioorlo famous moderator
amp after tuo hours them
DECIDE THAT THE ROOT OF OUR
trouble is no spiritual
VALUES-NO ETHICAL VALUES-
AND NO MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIPS.
THEU
I
d)A7CH
*HA VERICf '


ABORIGINALITIES
A Bush
Wine-tasting
A national vigneron approached the
Extroverted Lions Club in our town
to organise a wine-tasting—vigneron to
supply expert lecturer, vino and bally-
hoo ; Lions to supply hall, mob and
enthusiasm ; admission ten bob.
All Main Street came. Some squatters
and cockies were mustered up, too.
We’re a town that can handle more
than our share of beer or rum without
undue manifestation. Although we have
the second-highest D.U.I. (Driving
Under Influence) rate in New South
Wales, we maintain it is due to our over-
zealous highway constabulary. It's no
longer news in the Plainsville press to
be D.U.I. It’s news if you’re not.
One returned-soldier bloke now signs
himself Charles Marsh, M.M. and Bar,
D.U.I. and Bar, M.I.D. (twice).
We admitted we didn’t know too much
about the subtleties of the grape, but
with our record we approached the
wine-tasting with confidence and with
typical Australian earnestness, deter-
mined to get our half-fiddly’s worth.
The Lions, determined to make the
wine-tasting a success too, plied the mob
with sherries, ports, muscats and marsalas
in enormous beer-like quantities. The
few shrewdies stuck to the unfortified
table wines. The results were varied,
colorful and quite astonishing.
There were 11 blues between gents at
the back of the hall ; there were six
blues between ladies right where they
were. The cops lumbered so many off
to the cooler that the cells were more
crammed than on the memorable night
when a big scab team of shearers hit
town and the local strike committee got
stuck into them.
The pretty local virgin, a heroine of
many male sieges, surrendered her
lonely status ; married couples, adamant
about no more kids, blamed the wine-
tasting for a big increase in population
months later.
The local dentists (secretly lobbying
for another wine-tasting) were busy for
weeks, making 27 new sets of false teeth
which were lost because of rebellious
stomachs.
Main Street next day had its biggest
rash of absenteeism since V.J. Day.
“Tom won’t be down today, Mr Prince.
A touch of food poisoning . . .” Mr
Prince, the leading storekeeper (sorry,
merchant), swept his own frontage—the
only one at work.
Our rival town, Dernabella’s, Chamber
of Commerce, hearing of Plainsville’s
cessation of industry, prevailed on their
Lions Club to cancel their wine-tasting.
Plainsville became known as Plonkville.
Our local paper, edited by a cast-for-
age Norton old - boy, thundered
editorially: “Civilised ceremony descends
into sordid Saturnalia.” He sold every
copy of that issue.
Two telephone linesmen, after hitting
their waterbags hard and stirring up
the fortified fumes, went up a pole and
fell down and broke their legs. The
hospital matron —all the nurses sick in
their quarters harassed to billy-oh,
resigned when the two linesmen arrived.
Unable to get another matron, the hos-
pital is about to close.
Only one junior turned up for football
training next night, and our expensive
imported football coach resigned and
shot through. Dernabella beat us 28-0.
Our local Chamber of Commerce,
hard hit economically, convened a special
meeting and deprecated wine-tastings.
The postal clerk, one of the shrewdies
on the telegram counter, sniggered to
himself on reading the telegram to the
vigneron’s head-office: “TASTING
HERE GREAT SUCCESS IF LITTLE
UNINHIBITED STOP REPLENISH
FORTIFIED WINE SUPPLIES STOP
UNABLE ACCOUNT FOR DERNA-
BELLA CANCELLATION.”
Our local wag copped the biggest
stinker ever in the Riverina when next
night he approached a tastee normalising
himself with beer and said: “How about
a mug of muscat, mate?”
Our local colored people, when they
can scrounge a few bottles of plonk to
take to the river, now say: “You come
along our wine-tasting, eh?”
W.H.
NO LARK MORE BLITHE
Australia has four kinds of lark-like
birds —five if you include the Euro-
pean skylark, an introduction which used
to be fairly common in south-eastern
Australia but which, in some parts, has
fallen away in recent years. Only one
of the four natives is a true lark (accord-
ing to old-world standards), and it is
this little fellow, the bushlark or field-
lark, that has lately been costing certain
naturalists a good deal of perspiration.
Sparrow-like in size, quietly colored,
with a relatively thick bill, the field-
lark is wholly devoted to open spaces,
rarely resting anywhere but on the
ground. And whereas our so-called
songlarks “shout” what they have to say,
the male of this species is a brilliant
warbler, a performer at heaven's gate in
the true skylark tradition.
Indeed, this fellov. improves upon the
famous European bird by singing fre-
quently beneath the moon. He thus
provides rare p easure: there are few
more uplifting experiences in nature than
to hear, on a soft night of mid-spring
in Australia, a spate of melody pouring
down from an unseen bird flying above
a paddock.
This air-rover is also a talented mimic ;
often he affords a listener the enjoyable
novelty of hearing the voices of low-
flying birds, such as the chatter of the
wagtail and the “too-t’-weep” of the
stubble quail, not only coming from high
aloft, but woven into the texture of a
charming song.
Why, one wonders, does such a singer,
so competent in his own right, draw upon
the voices of other birds? Apparently
he is simply a lover of sounds ; there
is no indication that his mimicry has the
slightest practical value. The same prac-
tice has been reported on the part of


some of our bird’s relatives in Africa —-
where, by the way, the term “bushlark”
appears to have arisen because some larks
there do frequent bushy areas.
Probably, too, our lark itself originally
derived from Africa, as did also, it would
seem, another of Australia’s small grass-
dwellers, the little tailor-bird or fantail-
warbler ; for that continent, above all
others, contains many species of both
groups. But it must have been a very,
very long time ago that the pioneers in
each case found their way across the
Mediterranean, along the south of
Europe and Asia, and then down to
Australia.
Anyway, the fieldlark is now well
distributed throughout much of contin-
tal Australia (not Tasmania), and because
it’s a late breeder—doubtless because it
feeds largely on grass-seeds—-it gains the
attention of bird-observers when most
other species have finished their seasonal
domestic duties.
“Larking” is no light job on hot days.
Gentle movements and alert eyes are
essential, and it needs some effort to
maintain these under a strong sun. And
when larks are bobbing up all around
you it's difficult to concentrate on indivi-
duals ; so we have not been able to
determine whether the male fieldlark is
monogamous or whether he sometimes
has, like the songlarks, more than one
wife.
Nor are the nests easy to find. Small
circular excavations scraped in the earth
beneath tufts of grass, and roofed over
with dry grasses, they are so well hidden
that there’s small chance of locating one
without the birds’ assistance ; and, while
the searching and spying is proceeding,
the sun beats down heartily, much too
heartily, on those open spaces,
Alec Chisholm.
AUTUMN SPIDERS
p you can overcome an unnecessary
fear of spiders, autumn in the bush
will give you some strange contrasts in
beauty and horror. The gorgeously
colored Spined Spider, the Leaf-roller,
St Andrews Cross and Golden Orb-
weaver spread their nets between the
foliage of low-growing bushes, then
heave-to under a leaf. In the low shafts
of morning sun the dew on the symmetri-
cal pattern of trap-strands has inspired
countless photographers. But as the sun
gets up and dries things off, warm
currents of air flow down the corridors
of the bush, bringing moths, butterflies,
grasshoppers, beetles and flies into the
net. The eight-legged lady dashes down
the gantlines to deal with her six-legged
prey by pouring silk string all over the
kicking legs. When her victims have been
subdued and mummified, she sinks her
long fangs in to funnel out the juices,
If there is no action while you are
watching you can fill in time studying
the structure of the web. Those long
mooring lines stretched radially out to
anchor the central net, though very
elastic and strong, have no adhesive
properties. But the slightest touch of a
finger on the concentric circles between
these will tear a piece out of the web.
Spiders have the astonishing ability to
alter the viscosity of their web strands
at will. Having set the basic pattern and
fixed it to the outer supports, they then
start to fill in the spaces with the “bird-
lime” type of web to which their victims
will stick. The web of some of the big
orb-weavers is tremendously strong.
If you have a garden of shrubs you
have only to put the next spiders you
see into a matchbox and liberate them at
home. You can then spend some absorb-
ing hours watching them at work. They
have no objection to light—artificial-
on their labors.
C.H.
THE BARRAMUNDI PUZZLE
'T'here has long been, and still is, much
speculation among biologists about
the fresh-water barramundi, which, like
the Australian lungfish and the Mada-
gascan coelacanth, is a sort of living
fossil. Its group, once world-wide, has
survived only in Australia and New
Guinea, Borneo and Sumatra, Africa and
South America ; in all of these countries
the members of the group stick to fresh
water —they can’t tolerate salt conditions,
even for a short time.
The Australian representative, first
discovered in Queensland’s Mackenzie
River by Leichhardt’s party in 1844,
extends to the Northern Territory and
New Guinea, and a close relative fre-
quents streams in Sumatra and Borneo.
These last-named countries are on the
other side of Wallace’s Line, so the
question arises: How the devil did this
come about with two such closely related
denizens of fresh water?
Dr F. W. Whitehouse, of Queensland
University, recently came up with a
theory on the point. His idea is that
before the parting of the continents (quite
a long time ago) the barramundi
inhabited Australia, Southern Asia and
Africa, and that it died out in Africa and
Asia, as the group as a whole has in
other lands. That is, it did not cross
Wallace’s Line. It did not spread directly
from Australia to Borneo-Sumatra (or
the reverse); but, for some obscure
reason, it has survived in these countries
while dying out in other parts of its
roundabout range.
Phil Anthus.
SIGN OF THE TIMES
The drive for progress is destroying
even the leisurely habits of Queens-
land’s tropics these days. Last year
Townsville’s City Council decided to
install parking-meters along Flinders
Street, the main thoroughfare. They also
have a large street sign—right outside the
tourist bureau —announcing: “Standing
of horses, motor vehicles and velocipedes
forbidden here.” Great credit to the city
fathers that velocipedes have already
vanished from the streets.
L.G.
That Was the Country.
The Afghans are now on the road be-
tween Port Pledland and the Pilbarra
fields (Westralia) in droves, driving the
white teamster out of the running. It is
an everyday occurrence to meet 60 or 70
camels carrying stores to Marble Bar
and Nullagine lor the storekeepers and
publicans, who support the Asiatics in
preference to their own color. They
carry £2 cheaper than the white; pay no
wheel tax; destroy all the water along
the track; and the Government wells
and camping places have become loath-
some and swarm with vermin.
— “Bulletin”, September 1, 1904.
A drover greatly distressed a Riverina
pastoralist lately by offering to bet him
£5O that he had anthrax on the far end
of his station. The presence of the dis-
ease causes a big slump in the value of
property, and the squatter didn’t sleep
much that night. Next morning, he
hurried after the drover for further par-
ticulars. The latter grinned a huge grin
and led him off to a large ant’s nest,
where he pointed out an abundance of
ant-tracks. The fight lasted 45 minutes.
— “Bulletin”, September 8, 1904.
The most deadly bush epithets are
“scab” and “informer”. The latter is sel-
dom deserved. Few stationhands will
dare to do their duty by informing on
sheep-stealers, and many honest bushmen
have told me they wouldn’t even “tell
on” a murderer because he “might get
hung, you know.” A corpse was once
found in a forked tree near a Riverina
traveller’s hut, where swagmen must
have seen it, kept their own counsel and
passed on. Some of our people seem to
regard the police as a natural enemy, to
be misled where possible rather than
aided. The sooner this survival of the
chain-gang era is eradicated, the better
for our national character.
— “Bulletin”, October 6, 1904.
A northern nigger of my knowledge
was given a commission to secure a croco-
dile dead or alive. After trying vainly for
several days to entice the wary croc, with
live dog-bait, it dawned on his barren
intellect that live human bait might
secure the prize. So he got his gin down
to the river, shoved her in, and tied her
to a stake so that she wouldn’t drown
too quickly. Mary splashed and squealed,
a mass of bare flesh and top notes, while
Bill sat stolidly on the bank with an old
rifle and waited for a shot. Finally the
gin became quiet, but she was kept going
with stones, lumps of wood and cheery
words. Still no croc, happened along, and
the fishing was given up for the day.
Mary was cast adrift to be used on future
occasions, but next day there was no
Mary in the camp, and a poor, sorrow-
ful black brother scanned the distant hor-
izon for his live crocodile bait.
— “Bulletin”, December 16, 1909.


The Red Page
Two Novelists
Australian Writers and their Work,
Patrick White, by Geoffrey Dutton;
Norman Lindsay, by John Hethering-
ton. Lansdowne Press. Bs. 6d.
■WRITING as they do at opposite
’ * poles of the novel, Patrick White
and Norman Lindsay are the strangest
pair of Australian novelists to have
come together by chance or design in
the first two booklets published in this
pleasantly produced series.
In some ways it is a fortunate con-
junction, in that it reminds us how
many-faceted the art ot the novel is,
and that our view of it should be broad
enough to accept both Norman Lind-
say’s earthy comedy, light as it is, and
Patrick White’s high and massive
tragedy. It could remind us too. since
both novelists have written books
worth the serious attention of
students (to whom these essays
are obviously directed), that an appa-
rently light view of life such as Norman
Lindsay's is not necessarily a lesser
thing than so serious a view as Pat-
rick White’s. It is a question of the
mind behind the novel, and the angle
from which it chooses to look at life;
and I should not like to say that Nor-
man Lindsay, because he thinks people
are funny, has any less clear under-
standing of them than Patrick White,
who is chiefly concerned with their
sufferings. You have to have a cer-
tain amount of ruthlessness to get
through life.
The greatest writer, of course, is
the one who can encompass both
tragedy and comedy; a feat which
Geoffrey Dutton rightly claims for Pat-
rick White —who also, of course, enor-
mously exceeds Norman Lindsay in
scope, depth, subtlety and the archi-
tecture of the novel. But when
I try to compare the pure enjoyment
I have had out of “Saturdee” and the
best parts of “Redheap” with the
sterner rewards of Patrick White; when
I try to evaluate the pleasure of first-
class comic writing against the plea-
sure of White’s fine prose —I think
it is time to stop making useless com-
parisons. Both writers, in fact, signi-
ficantly enlarge our experience of life,
which after it has satisfied the require-
ments of form and tale-telling, I take
to be the final purpose of the novel; the
one by direct observation of the human
race—or such specimens of it as have
come Norman Lindsay’s way—the
other by meditation on its potentialities.
But, useful in some ways as is
the chance that has thrown the two
novelists together, I think it is unfor-
tunate—since it over-emphasises the
contrast between them —that Norman
Lindsay should have fallen into John
Hetherington’s unpractised hands while
Patrick White is discussed so expertly
by Geoffrey Dutton. Everybody knows
John Hetherington’s skill as a bio-
grapher and profile-writer, but in
literary criticism he is naive and un-
easy; while the departure into this field
seems also to have undermined his
talents as a biographer. No clear pic-
ture of Norman Lindsay as a personal-
ity emerges here; not even a satis-
factory picture of his environment.
Mr Hetherington has made one
worthwhile and quite surprising criti-
cal discovery: that the women charac-
ters in Norman Lindsay’s novels are
not in general as clearly portrayed as
the men. But he bothers me extremely
when he decides that “Mr Gresham
and Olympus” (of which I think very
little) is one of Norman Lindsay’s
best novels; when he makes a category
of “the ‘Redheap’ trilogy” which ex-
cludes two other autobiographical
novels which surely should be con-
sidered in the same company (“A
Curate in Bohemia” and “The Cousin
from Fiji”); when he announces, as a
discovery, that Lindsay must have been
fond of Mr Bandparts in “Redheap”
(it is as if one discovered that Dickens
must have been fond of Wemmick);
when he muddles about trying to
find out why “the critics” haven’t
valued “Halfway to Anywhere” as
much as “Saturdee” (haven’t they?
what critics?) instead of just making
his own valuation; and when, at the
end, he makes the extraordinary state-
ment that it would be “valueless” to
try to decide why “The Magic Pud-
ding” is a better book than “The
Flyaway Highway” —and then, any-
how, gives one perfectly sensible rea-
son for the “Pudding’s” superiority.
I don’t know that I could go along
all the way with Geoffrey Dutton in
his evaluation of Patrick White; and
I wonder, when he is rating White’s
gift of phrase with Shakespeare and
Dickens, and again when he is making
his more appropriate comparisons with
Melville, Faulkner and Emily Bronte,
and again when he is claiming that
White is “the most gifted and serious
novelist that Australia has yet pro-
duced” (Henry Handel Richardson?),
whether he has thought to make a
comparison between White and Wil-
liam Gosse Hay.
“The Escape of Sir William Heans”
seems to me a novel that could very
appropriately be compared with
“Voss.” Both are historical novels that
do not descend into costume-pieces.
Both (though White's style is certainly
much clearer in “Voss”) depend for
much of their effect on curious man-
nerisms of prose, curious effects of
visualisation. Both are studies of the
sufferings and humiliations of out-
standing men, to the point of damnation
and redemption. Hay's, to my mind,
is the more powerful novel because
Heans is always human; whereas Voss
is more an Idea than a man.
But this is, nevertheless, a thoroughly
admirable study: clear, economical, and
persuasive. Whether the student (or
the general reader) wants to know
what sort of man Patrick White is
and how he lives, what his earlier
novels are like, what is the purpose
and theme of “Voss” (“the battle
between pride and humility”) or how
one should attempt an evaluation of
his quite outstanding talent, it is all
stated here as succinctly as one could
wish; “The reader has to look else-
where for the normality, the sunlight
and proportion of the classic; ‘Voss’
belongs with ‘Wuthering Heights’ or
'Moby Dick.’ ”
Douglas Stewart
History of a Literary History
[H. M. Green’s long-awaited “A History
of Australian Literature” is to be published in
two volumes by Angus and Robertson this year.
Here —on The Bulletin’s invitation —is Mr
Green's account of the task he has under-
taken.]
r TWO large volumes; over 1400 pages!
A I hadn’t the faintest idea, when
this history was begun, how big it
would grow or how long it would take
to write or what sort of a book it would
become. It was begun without a plan,
developing of itself like a character in
a novel. And now it has used up over
20 years; though there have been con-
siderable gaps, when as a librarian I
had other work that absorbed my days,
and later on account of illness or
because my publishers had to fry some
other fish.
In dealing with the earliest Aus-
tralian books I forgot that according
to the accepted convention many of
them should have no place in a history
of this kind. After a while 1 began to
see that a question of principle was
opening up. and that its decision would
make all the difference to the nature
as well as to the size of at least the
early part of this history. Without the
books that so interested me the first
part of Australian literature would
indeed be what it has been sometimes
called, a futile and backward-looking


period, consisting of one minor and
several even lesser poets, a few minor
novelists, some insignificant play-
wrights and perhaps two or three
explorers in parenthesis.
Yet this was an exceedingly
vigorous and active period, whose
physical achievements were remark-
able, and if its whole literary output
were shown the result would be much
more appropriate. There was Tench,
whose books certainly fall within the
accepted convention, though they are
not usually considered from a literary
point of view; and Alexander Harris,
whose descriptive autobiography is
usually thought of only as a source-
book for Australian history: these
surely deserve discussion, if only
because of Tench’s humorous interest
in people and Harris’s feeling for style
and his passages of fine descriptive
prose. But apart from Tench, the
books written by the other officers of
the First Fleet have a literary import-
ance comparable with that of the
English chroniclers, or at least of the
works of John Smith in early American
literary history.
And what about Loveless’s account
pf the tribulations of the Dorsetshire
Laborers, Holt’s Memoirs, Lang’s
books and the works of Ulla-
thorne and Maconochie and Caro-
line Chisholm? Nobody could
say there was no literary quality in
these. What about the speeches of
Wentworth and Lowe? What about
that wonderful little paper the “Atlas,”
and the rise of the first semi-convict
newspapers, and how the Australian
press won its freedom and what it did
with it? And of course all the subse-
quent periods of Australian literary
history would have to be treated in the
same manner.
But if this was the right way to tackle
the subject, ought not the accepted
convention to have been expanded in
dealing with other literatures also?
The boundary between what Oliver
Elton calls, somewhat regretfully,
“pure” and “applied” or purposive
literature has always been vague and
elastic, and others as well as Elton
have been content to admit to their
enclosures some of the impure, pro-
vided it involved a sufficient element
of form. But actually they admit all
books, purposive or no. provided they
attain a high standard in their own
fields. Indeed if they stuck rigidly to the
convention of what constitutes “pure”
literature there would be very little that
could legitimately be discussed. Not
only would most histories and memoirs
and books of travel and description
have to be excluded, as indeed they
are, but even novels, which are
purposive in that they attempt to
picture life
As a matter of fact individuality,
sincerity, personality are likely to give
any important work a “literary”
quality, intended or no. Elton almost
“Say! Right here in the beginning, there's a great ‘boy meets girl' angle!”
apologises for admitting to his canon
Darwin, who “would not have called
himself a man of letters.” but he could
not have avoided admitting him. So
that 1 haven't broken any ice here but
only broken it up more widely. Of
course it is not contended that books
without literary quality should be
treated as literature, but only that they
should not be excluded because their
main object is purposive; certainly not.
and this is the main point, to make
room for some otherwise inferior book
because it is “literary.”
Naturally a number of other motives
influenced me before the question of
“pure” and “applied” literature
emerged. For one thing 1 was not
satisfied with existing histories of Aus-
tralian literature, including a little one
of my own. mainly because of their
omissions and commissions. Few of
their authors seemed to have heard of
Catherine Spence’s novels except the
first, which is not her best; few seemed
to appreciate Ada Cambridge’s A
Marked Man, and in particular the
tragic scene, which looks forward to
the death of Richard Mahony; or her
verse, some of which is beautiful.
The part played by Mrs Praed in the
development of the Australian novel
seems to be unrecognised, and where
are Mme Couvreur's Unde Piper of
Piper’s Hill and Penn-Smith’s Hang?
And. among short stories, who has
read “Ferdinand and Jolinquitus.” or,
unless they came across it. as 1 did, in
Nettie Palmer’s anthology, “Copper
Jack’s Alibi”?
And there were other motives behind
this history, to me not unimportant. I
wanted to make some points about
Vance Palmer, and about Steele Rudd,
though these had been made before
in “The Bulletin.” by. I think. Cecil
Mann. Beyond all this. I wanted to
try to establish a better awareness of
Australian literature as a whole and of
the nature of its achievement, a per-
spective and a scheme that would
provide a place for Kendall as well as
Slessor. 1 wanted to urge that we
should not be so limited by the
atmosphere and attitude of our own
day as to be prevented from perceiving
the merits of literary work that was the
product of a different atmosphere and
attitude. I wanted to try to establish
an accepted definition of what con-
stitutes Australian literature, of what
it includes and excludes: not an easy
job, considering how it overlaps,
naturally, that of the mother country,
and how authors fly about from one
place to another like birds.
I wanted to analyse what seems to
me Christina Stead's best novel, Seven
Poor Men of Sydney, and her short
stories, or at least those that may be
considered Australian. I wanted to
recall the speeches of Higinbotham and
Deakin. some of which seem to me
to reach a high level; this of course
could not be done effectively without
quotation, which involved a good deal
of work. And f wanted to exhume the
fine stuff that lies buried in some of
the reports of the New Guinea patrol
officers. Many of these things might
have been done, of course, in magazine
articles, but they would not have hung
together in the same way.
All this involved a big book, much
bigger than I had expected: far too
big. some will say. though I hope they
will run through it first. And then
there is the index, in which also the
accepted convention has been
expanded. Many readers of large and
indexed books must be as dissatisfied
as I am with such references as
“Armitage, X. Y„ 156-7. 173, 261,
380 n.,” and so on. Even where the
most important entry is printed in black
type this method conveys little and


wastes the reader’s time, so the index
to this history has been made analytical,
some indication being given of the
contents of the pages referred to,
wherever the reader is likely to want
to know them.
Almost all the great libraries in
Australia have been drawn upon in the
production of this history. It could
not have been written without the
Fisher Library of the University of
Sydney, still less without the Mitchell
Library, at which I used to spend every
day during my “sabbatical years” as
Librarian at the University, and during
most of my holidays. The National
Library took an infinity of trouble hunt-
ing up details, and incidentally it lent
me. through the Mitchell, microfilms
of parts of Richard Mahony, when I
was studying Richardson’s style. The
Adelaide Public Library lent me the
valuable manuscript of an unpublished
novel by Catherine Spence, and a
friend on the staff of the Melbourne
Public Library posted me bound vol-
umes of Melbourne newspapers that
were unavailable in Sydney. “The
Bulletin” also helped in many ways,
especially the late Mr Fitz Henry, who
found me innumerable biographical
details.
No less important was the help of
a number of experts who went to a
great deal of trouble in answering ques-
tions and suggesting additions to my
working lists in connection with those
parts of applied literature of which
I knew least. But legal training and
experience as a journalist and as a
librarian have all been useful, and we
were seldom in disagreement; where
mistakes have been made, of fact or
opinion, the fault must of course be
imputed to me. There were too many
of these goodnatured experts to list
here, but I should like to mention
Dr D. J. Butlin, Professor of Economics
at the National University; Dr A. P.
Elkin, then Professor of Anthropology
at Sydney; Mr L. A. La Nauze, now
Ernest Scott Professor of History at
Melbourne; Dr C. H. Currey, then Lec-
turer in Constitutional Law and Legal
History at Sydney; and Dr Bean, the
War Historian, and Mr A. H. Mc-
Lachlan, now General Manager of the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” for advice
and suggestions in connection with the
newspaper part of the history. Among
books of reference, Morris Miller was
invaluable, and there was of course
Ferguson’s Bibliography, as well as
other works of reference, English and
Australian, too many to mention.
H. M. Green
The Rustic Suburbs
Land of Milk and Omelettes. Ken
Kraft. Hammond. 16s.
TT has suddenly occurred to me that
A ours is a fairly remarkable family.
Years ago we removed ourselves from
a city house with a tiny garden to a
bungalow about 25 miles from the
G.P.O. The house stood in over three
acres of cleared land and orange
orchard, and bush grew to our
boundary fences. Not exactly a farm,
of course, but we had hens and fruit-
trees and vegetables galore, and snakes,
native cats, foxes, frogs and eccentric
neighbors—well, only a few of these,
and not very, but they could have been
Worked Up. But we never wrote a
book about it all. Extraordinary.
This habit of seeing oneself as a
Dick Whittington in reverse is
apparently ineradicable in our post-
industrial revolution society, or per-
haps one should say in post-pioneering
society. “Land of Milk and Omelettes”
is an American book —most of the
works in its genre are. So far. Aus-
tralia still rests close enough to the
“real” pioneering days to produce more
books like “No Roads Go By” than
books like Kraft’s. But we have lately
seen “Steak for Breakfast,” which is
a transition stage as it were, and
surely the saga of the peripheral
suburbs must even now be hatching,
or calving, or foaling, or fruiting some-
where in the area served by that hand-
maiden of the P.M.G. whose name is
ELSA.
And, while in prophetic mood: when
those hypothetical books are comfort-
ably collecting dust in the secondhand-
shops about fifteen years hence, what
odds that we’ll be eagerly reading
about the hilarious times someone is
having in renovating their quaint
terrace-house in some erstwhile slum —
can’t you hear the remarks that a comi-
cal police sergeant is fated to utter
when confronted with the antique safe-
breaking equipment which Ern is sure
to find when he demolishes the ram-
shackle lean-to?
Be that as it may, Ken Kraft pro-
vides a pleasantly escapist few hours’
entertainment. He is a good-humored
raconteur who can be uniformly amus-
sing about gluts, shortages, cows, city
guests, country friends, financial prob-
lems and the information contained in
government pamphlets. It is a shallow
sort of book really, with characters
sketched rather than developed, and
he makes no attempt at any sort of
serious description or evaluation. But
at least he does not essay greater things
than his flip prose style can handle;
and, if he rises to no heights, neither
does he bog in any morasses—in style
at least, for the Kraft farm had plenty
of hills and quagmires of mud and . . .
shucks! I guess you know the kind of
thing I mean.
Nancy Keesing
In the Jungle
Chavante. Rolf Blomberg. Allen and
Unwin Ltd. 495. 9d.
'T'HE story of the British explorer
A Colonel Percy H. Fawcett, who in
1925 entered the South American jungle
of Mato Grosso with his son Jack
and another young man, Raleigh
Rimell, and has never been heard of
since, has received tremendous pub*
licity. Occasionally there would be
rumors and reports that Fawcett was
still alive; his wife, a spiritualist,
claimed to have had telepathic com*
munication with him; and many ex*
peditions have gone in search of him, or
at least have tried to clear up the riddle
of his disappearance.
Erling Nordenskiold, the Swedish
authority on the South American
Indians, met Fawcett on various occa-
sions and described him as “an ex-
tremely original man, absolutely fear-
less, but of boundless imagination.”
Fawcett’s Eldorado of golden cities in
the Mato Grosso he dismissed
as pure myth. Now another
Swede, the film-producer, travel-writer
Rolf Blomberg, provides what is prob-
ably the most authentic and feasible ex-
planation of Fawcett’s disappearance.
“Chavante” is an absorbing and color-
ful by-product of an expedition Mr
Blomberg conducted into the interior
of Brazil to make a film of primitive
tribes and of the “jangadeiros,” the
intrepid coastal fishermen.
In Brazil the expedition obtained the
invaluable services of Nilo Vellozo, an
officer of the SPI, a Government orga-
nisation for the protection and pacifi-
cation of the Indians. Nilo Vellozo
was the SPl’s official photographer. He
was also a man with a natural ability
for making friends with the Indians,
a man with fifteen years’ experience
working under the famous General
Rondon.
“I know that Colonel Fawcett
was killed,” said Nilo. “Together
with a journalist, Edmar Morel of
the paper 0 Cruzeiro,’ I took down
the full confession —if you can call
it a confession—of the man who
murdered Fawcett. He was Izarari,
chief of the Calapalo tribe who live
along the Rio Cunuene, a tributary
of the Xingu. On the expedition,
which we made specially with a view
to solving the Fawcett mystery, we
carried photographs of the three
members of the Fawcett expedition.
We showed these to Izarari and asked
if he had ever met any of the people,
and after looking at the one of Faw-
cett he said • ‘I know this ‘caraiba,’
white man ; I killed him.’ We got
convincing evidence that that was
what had really happened. We sent
our tape-recordings and a short
documentary film which I took,
along with a report on our inquiry,
to the Royal Geographical Society
in London.”
According to his murderer, Fawcett
wanted to go on from the Calapalo


to the Chavante tribe, and asked for
ffuides and porters. These Izarari re-
fused, as his tribe were not on friendly
terms with the Chavantes. But Faw-
cett was headstrong and persistent,
and pressed Izarari for the men he
wanted. To put an end to further
nuisance and inconvenience from the
troublesome white stranger, Izarari
killed him and his son. Raleigh
Rimell was already dead. He had been
gravely ill with a malignant infection
of the leg caused by the larvae of the
bot-fly.
The Chavantes are one of the most
savage, splendid, and isolated tribes
of Brazil. They have only recently re-
acted favorably to the pacification
efforts of the SPI. Blomberg succeeded
in visiting and filming them.
As well as dealing with the Fawcett
story and his journey to the Chavantes,
Blomberg writes engagingly about the
spectacularly beautiful and modern
city of Rio De Janeiro; Manaus, the
“rubber-baron’s” jungle town, with its
£2,000,000 “Teatro Amazonas,” the
opera-house which was shipped in pre-
fabricated parts from England and
built in the heart of the Amazons. The
book has fine illustrations.
Roland Robinson
Penguin Novels
The Collected Stories of Isaac Babel
is a particularly welcome choice among
the new Penguin fiction. This
Odessa Jew and protege of Gorki
fought with a regiment of Red Cossack
cavalry in the Russian revolution, and
the tales and sketches he drew from
the pressures of this background
before the Soviet literary bureaucracy
began to hound him have a remark-
able freshness, power and exactness
of form beneath their seemingly raw
surfaces. Many modern short-story
writers, Frank O'Connor among them,
have acknowledged a debt to Babel.
With the theatre still divided on
Bertolt Brecht’s dramatic theories,
The Threepenny Novel, one of his few
ventures into prose fiction, commands
the attention due to fashion. A bustling
fugue of swindles and exploitation in
which “Beggar’s Opera’’ characters in-
habit an improbable London during the
Boer War, it is wryly funny until, as
with many another fugue, its too-even
pace and tone begin to defeat it. More
successful is Young Torless, by Aust-
rian author Robert Musil (“The Man
Without Qualities”), which, though
written in 1906, drills close to contem-
porary nerves in its examination of
cruelty and the abuse of power among
hoys in a military academy. Another
translation from the German is
Fni Not Stiller, by Swiss author Max
Frisch, which examines the question
of human identity in the story of a
man who claims, with some disturbing
logic, that he is no longer his former
For My Wife
The white bauhinia in the spring
whose branches swell and stream with
bloom
holds all the good world blossoming
as promise of the fruit to come.
My wife, whose body swells in bloom
as laden as the trees of spring,
smiles with the knowledge that her
womb
contains the first seed ripening.
The flowers toss and splash in light,
they cup the essence of all springs.
My wife moves in the same delight
and in her smile such knowledge
sings.
And when she lies with me at night,
1 touch her body and am awed:
The joy that swells to make her great
can not be told, may not be shared,
although she lies so close to me
that I might touch the springs she
knows.
I who planted the white tree
may only watch how rich it grows.
QUEENSLAND.
T. W. SHAPCOTT.
Sometimes ...
Sometimes,
Here in darkness with the terrible
beauty of music,
I, sunken near sleep's negation, am
alone
Suddenly—
Crouch, abandoned, in my enormous
silence,
In this cavern of nothingness,
And know only
The still cry of every vanishing
laughter.
The inner-outer vacuum of desire ;
Then the golden hills and their lonely
singers
Are departed, and
Alone, the desolation, the terrible
beauty of music
Remains.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SWAN.
The Numbers
They did not see the numbers —an
innovation
Of ours, meaningless, except to statis-
ticians —
Yet they had sorcerers and magicians
More enterprising than our scientists.
A nation
Of islanders, rock-hoppers, to whom
waves
Were not repetitions: each wave, a
god.
Or spirit. We conquered them, made
slaves
Of their people ; but nobody under-
stood
Why we did, just how we did and
that it did us good.
It was our trick of numbering beat
them. They
Had not acquired ten fingers, nor two
hands,
But an inconvenience of being limbless,
when
A hand was lopped in battle, or one
of the ten.
Extravagance, we’d call it, who'd used
sands
In hourglasses to count every hour of
the day.
Does it matter? We are a fairer
people ;
They are lost. We are about, now,
To venture into space. Above the
steeple
Of our church (to which we'd made
them go)
Towers a rocket pointed at a planet.
Everything’s been checked and
docketed.
Old Noah was less thorough. He
began it,
I suppose, this numbers business;
rocketed
The Ark into our day as an example
Of meticulous calculations. He took
ample
Precautions, used a dove to test-check
first
—We used dogs and monkeys. We are
about,
Now, to venture into space! We are
Shooting at another planet. Looks a
star
To us from here ; but there can be no
doubt
It's Mars, a planet Let’s go ; give it a
burst.
(Ten thousand years have passed . . .
another ten)
We’ve wires for bowels, and our swivels
ache,
Corrosion worries us; there are ills
whatever scientists make
Out of us automatons who were once
men.
But we'll tick on for lightyears.
Galaxies
Are like those islands in our history.
It makes us fuse, though, to equate
those seas
As one space-molecule of dew which
we
Have vaporised atomically. But the
Funny side of all this venturing’s not
that
It’s our top egg-heads who have iso-
lated all
Emotions from us, and don’t let us
slumber ;
Just keep us hurtling on to each new
number.
Because that’s all that's new now;
cannot tell
How many numbers they are number-
ing at.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


BOOKHUNTER
l>ept. “D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text hook, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE LOSER
PETER USTINOV
Peter Ustinov, actor, playwright, linguist, incomparable raconteur, has
written his long-awaited novel.
20/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
self and therefore cannot be blamed
for a crime he has committed.
Three French novels are interest-
ingly related. Andre Malraux’s Man’s
Estate, set against the seizure of
Shanghai by Chiang Kai-shek’s
Nationalists in 1927, set the pitch for
many of the novels of politics and
violence in the ’thirties, and was later
hailed by the existentialists as an
example of their concept, “man is
what he does,” translated into fiction.
The same concept is set forth, though
less successfully, in The Age of Rea-
son, Part 1 of Jean-Paul Sartre’s tri-
logy about love and the search for
freedom among the intellectuals of
Paris just as World War II was coming
with their chains; and again in The
Outsider, the short novel in which
the late Albert Camus first dramatised
his doctrine of absurdity through a
tale of senseless crime and punishment
which, for all its North African heat
and metaphysical terror, manages to
appear as serene and logical as a
marble column.
John Abernethy
Inkwell and Flagon
The Wandering School. A. F. T.
Chorlton. Wingfield Press. 7s. 6d.
(N.Z.).
nrURN back the clock to the early
± century and people Wellington city
(N.Z.) with hard-drinking journalists,
barmaids and bohemians and you
have a fair idea of what this book is
about. It made me thirsty.
“The Wandering School” presents a
problem for psychologists in that the
old-time journalists could drink by the
gallon and avoid becoming alcoholics.
Maybe the secret was that they could
not love their beer so much loved
they not writing more. Certainly when
I worked alongside “Chorley” on the
Wellington “Post,” me a cub-reporter
and “Chorley” a senior, his work was
always faultlessly done in perfect
copperplate. As a copy-holder I found
“Chorley’s” copy ideal for easy read-
ing, and John Gibbons’s the worst. No
typewriters in those days.
Many of the early giants of New
Zealand journalism stride through the
pages of this book: Gresley Lukin,
Frank Morton, Erskine Crawford and
Paddy Gough. Some good yarns, too.
The one about Morton and Melba: —
They drank and drank all the way
through Tasmania to Hobart with a
result that might have been sus-
pected. Melba was “indisposed”
when they arrived at Hobart and
could not sing that night.
Another one. Claude Jewel ran a
weekly column in the old “N.Z. Times.”
So stiff was the social starch in the
capital city in those days that Claude
was sacked for including in his column
the following:—
Visitor to Wellington (to a local
lady over the teacups): “I hear you
are troubled with wind in Welling-
ton.”
Local lady: “Oh, yes ; but I find
that a little gin and peppermint is
good for it.”
Half of “Chorley’s” book is
devoted to his early rhymes, which
are pleasant and musical.
Pat Lawlor
Private Eye
Back to Life. Jonathan Wade. Col-
lins. 18s. 9d. An out-of-the-rut first
thriller: what happened when quiet,
conventional George Grey sees his wife,
who has been killed in an air-crash,
wave to him at Piccadilly Circus. Is
it a ghost or . . .? Witty, deliberately
underwritten, excellent dialogue, and
no gore. Genuine tightening of the
screw. Solution unconvincing, but does
not mar haunting quality. Buy it, and
watch for Wade.
* * * *
Pierce with a Pin. Kenneth Hopkins.
Macdonald. 15s. 6d. Gerry Lee,
journalist-detective is in at the death
of Lady Helena, donor of a small town
museum. Nice mixture of big business,
family feuds and local politics, and
presented in fairly gay manner. Hop.
kins is urbane and takes his deaths
lightly. Strongly recommended.
* * * *
Where There’s a Will. Kip Chase,
Hammond. 15s. 6d. Lively pace
makes up for tired old formula:
wealthy hostess murdered, and bunch
of oddball guests provide welter of sus-
pects and surfeit of red herrings,
Entertaining enough. Local Southern
California fauna and flora quite
cleverly tied up with solution. Spotty,
but recommended.
* * * *
Samantha. Dorothy Eden. Hodder
and Stoughton. 18s. 9d. Hopeful plot,
partly taken from Tichborne case: mis-
sing claimant to vast estates turns up
out of blue. Lawyer is sure he is an im-
postor, sends his girl friend to spy
on him . . . Spoiled by presentation:
full of anachronisms, and hopeless on
historical color. Reasonable idea gone
to pot.
* * * *
Confession of Murder. Margot
Neville. Bles. 17s. Australian author
tries her hand at digging up the dirt
concealed under those thick wall-to-
wall carpets: Sydney smart set family
boasts more pedigree than dough . ~
Double murder to save the family
name. Characterisation crude, whole
thing melodramatic and cluttered with
cliches. Sorry Margot.
* * * *
Current Paperbacks: Our pick is
Raymond Chandler’s High Window
(Horwitz, 55.) and Ellery Queen’s The
King is Dead (Penguin, 4s. 6d.). Other
Horwitz reprints include: Erie Stanley
Gardner’s Case of the Drowsy Mos-
quito; Case of the Caretaker’s Cat; and
Agatha Christie’s Ten Little Niggers,
Penguins are Nicolas Bentley’s classic
Third Party Risk and J. C. Mastermans
boring Case of the Four Friends.
Nero
Lawson Festival
UOR the 1961 Henry Lawson Festival
at Grenfell (N.S.W.) the awards
(“Oscars”) will be given for: verse,
not more than 60 lines, on “any aspect
of Australian or New Zealand life
associated with Henry Lawson”; short
story or sketch, not more than 2500
words, subject “from the general area
of subjectmatter with an Australian or
N.Z. background treated in the works
of Lawson”; and (with prizes of £2O
each) paintings in oils or watercolors
of any subject. An additional “Oscar”
will be awarded to “the Australian who
has done most during 1960-61 to ad'
vance Australian art, literature, music
films, radio or TV.”
The date of the festival is June 10
1961, and entries close at varying dates
in May. Details from the hon. see
Grenfell Henry Lawson Festival Coni'
mittee, Grenfell.


Business.Rollery,Etc.
Signed....
Export or Expire?
By LINDSEY BROWNE
So long as the self-choking
device of import restriction
by licensing is avoided by
Australia, and the useless
subterfuges of devaluation and
perennial credit strangulation
are rejected for the economy,
bedevillers that they are, a
bigger volume of Australian
exports can be the only answer
to the nation’s adverse balance
of payments —and this job of
exporting, neglected by so
many Australian producers and
manufacturers who find the
pickings of the domestic market
quite enough to keep them fat,
will have to become every-
body's affair, with all the cun-
ning and ferocity of modern
salesmanship as its spearhead.
Exporting, known by too few
to be the mainspring of this
nation's prosperity, can no
longer be allowed to muddle
along on the desultory supposi-
tion of too many Australians
that exporting is merely a way
of picking up a bit of spare-
time pocket money when you
feel like it. The point is that,
with Australia’s trade balances
slipping in such a way that
every Australian’s everyday
welfare is threatened, exporting
is every Australian’s business
and now a desperate business,
to boot. The spare-time-pocket-
money school of thought could
find itself without any pocket
money at all if it does not face
that clear, menacing fact.
Decent statements by the
Minister for Trade, Mr
McEwen, have left no doubt
that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment knows what is needed,
and that it is intensifying every
effort that can be made at the
official level to boost Austra-
lia’s overseas sales but, at
best, the Government can only
steer the export vehicle; in-
dustry and commerce have to
pour in the fuel and keep pour-
ing. Even the backyard balloon
maker who thinks he might
possibly sell a balloon to an
Afghan urchin (and Australian
balloons are being sold on Eng-
land’s holiday piers!) has his
bit of pouring to do.
“There is no escaping the
necessity for continued growth
>n export income,” says Sydney
e conomist Mr G. D. Chislett,
“and, although this seems to
be acknowledged by those who
have the responsibility for pro-
duction and marketing, there
does not seem to be the same
appreciation in the domestic
policies required to develop
export trade, particularly com-
petitive export trade, free of
special assistance such as
export ‘incentives’ which in
reality are subsidies, part of the
cost of which falls on the un-
assisted export industries.
“Our projected needs by
1965 are for an additional
annual export income of £250
million, but it is no one’s
responsibility to earn this in-
come and, to be realistic, one
must assume that the hard job
of selling abroad will be left
to ‘the other fellow’ so long
as satisfactory profits can be
made by supplying the domestic
market. While we have con-
tinued to talk for years about
the need for vigorous develop-
ment of export industry, both
traditional and new. conditions
have favored the expansion of
industry catering for the
domestic market and increas-
ingly unable to face the rigors
of the external world, because
their costs are getting further
out of line with overseas costs.”
Mr Chislett’s suspicion of
“incentives” may be valid, in
the long term, but there has
been wide and enthusiastic
acceptance of the set of tax-
concession incentives to ex-
porters recently announced by
Mr McEwen, not only for the
particular benefits that may
flow to Australia by this chan-
nel but also for the proof it
gives that the Government has
stepped its export thinking
right up from stonewalling
to hard - hitting aggression.
Appointment of two brilliant
businessmen to the Department
of Trade's trade - promotion
team, Mr A. van Bochove of
Sydney and Mr M. V. Apple-
ton of Brisbane, is a further in-
dication of this. Jogtrot ex-
porting is out, so far as
Government thinking is con-
cerned ; producers and manu-
facturers must confirm it.
T>ut producers and manufac-
turers will be waiting to see
to what extent the Govern-
ment’s export drive encom-
passes the three essential in-
gredients which Mr McEwen
himself has defined:
• There must be adequate
inducement, based on con-
fidence of profitable operations,
to produce for export;
• Markets must be dis-
covered and access to them
negotiated ;
• Products must then be
adapted to the needs of in-
dividual markets, presented
well, and vigorously promoted
with effective servicing to over-
seas agents.
One of the paramount needs
in an export drive is the estab-
lishment of an institution by
which Australian exports can
be financed. It has already
been announced that Common-
wealth legislation will soon be
introduced to empower the
Export Payments Insurance
Corporation to give cover to
certain transactions which are
at present outside its scope, but
which the Government may
consider should be covered in
the national interest. Whether
financial aid in this form is
sufficient is open to question,
and two voices well worth hear-
ing on this aspect of the export
problem are those of the chair-
man of the Sydney Stock Ex-
change, Mr A. H. Urquhart,
and the chairman of the influ-
ential Metal Trades Export
Group, Mr W. J. Austen.
Thirst, Mr Urquhart. who said
at the annual meeting of
members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, that the time has
come when some sort of specia-
lised credit facilities should be
established for exporters. “I
would like to see the formation
of an Export Credit Corpora-
tion to deal with this vital prob-
lem. Such a corporation, I
believe, could be established by
the Government or by private
enterprise, or both. We are
lagging behind other countries
in the provision of specialised
export credit facilities ; in fact
Australia, I believe, is the only
Western nation in the world
without such facilities. At the
same time, I believe it is futile
for the Government to talk of
boosting exports without pro-
viding worthwhile incentives
for manufacturers who cannot
be expected to be able to com-
pete unless they first have a
stable local market capable of
absorbing their initial costs.”
Now Mr Austen, who said at
“This looks like being a hard sale.”


51% FOR 5 YEARS
OR LONGER-
HIGHEST Interest ever offered by this
MIGHTY ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKING!
Never before has a Sydney County
Council Loan given you the oppor-
tunity to invest so profitably—and
for 5, 10 or 20 years. Just as
important is the fact that you make
sure of all your money. Council’s
entire annual income of more than
£34,000,000 guarantees payment of
interest every 6 months and full
repayment of principal at maturity.
If you really want a bigger income
without speculating your capital,
then the S.C.C. Loan is the right
place for your money. That’s where
it can earn 5J per cent every year,
working for you with Sydney’s
major electricity undertaking.
YOUR S.C.C. LOAN
INVESTMENT TAKES
ONLY MINUTES TO MAKE
Walk into the nearest office of the
Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited; Bank of New South Wales;
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited. Or you can con-
tact your Stockbroker or call at any
S.C.C. office.
5%%
LOAN
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL 5 3 /«% LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
SC2Q/6I
the annual meeting of his
organisation that there was par-
ticular need for “an Australian
export bank whose sole func-
tion would be to give extended
credit terms to enable us to
compete on an equal footing
with other manufacturing
nations. This is a most im-
portant factor when seeking
markets in the undeveloped
countries, and one that has not
been overlooked by the Gov-
ernments of the U.K., Ger-
many, Japan and U.S.A.”
Overlooking, in point of fact,
is not an American business
habit —and, with an adverse
balance of payments position of
its own to rectify, America is
already well advanced on a
huge export-drive programme
which, apart from hinting of
the intensified competitiveness
that Australians and other ex-
porters must expect to find in
international trade, gives some
pointers to us as to the fierce
go-getter stratagems by which
boosted exports are to be
wrung from an unwilling
world.
Among other things, America
will establish five permanent
trade exhibition centres abroad,
it will actively encourage more
businesses to enter the export
trade, and it will (through the
Export-Import Bank) provide
vastly expanded export credit
insurance facilities, with guar-
antees of various commercial
risks (default or bankruptcy
abroad, for instance) and poli-
tical risks (governmental
actions such as war).
HThe Australian administration
is not unmindful of the
corresponding needs that Aus-
tralian exporters have for such
assistance. Much, for instance
is being done in the trade ex’
hibiiion field. At the Inter,
national Trade Fair in Van-
couver next month, Australia
with a vigorous promotional
campaign to “sell” its goods,
will display 100 varieties of
primary and secondary pro-
ducts which are believed to
have qualities which specially
suit them for Canadian market
requirements. The achieve-
ments of this exhibition, plus
the contribution Australia is
to make to the Canadian
National Exhibition in Toronto
in August, may yet prove that
there is more realism than day-
dreaming in the estimate made
by Sir Douglas Copland, after
heading an Australian trade
survey mission to North
America last year, that Austra-
lia's exports to Canada could
increase by as much as 70 per
cent over the next five years.
A ustralian trade promoters
have learnt a possibly price-
less lesson, too. from the Japan-
ese floating fair which, on ship-
board, came to Australia last
year as part of its permanent
world cruising to “sell Japan.' 1
And at a time when this float-
ing Japanese fair is cruising
around Central American ports,
Australia is readying the float-
ing trade mission ship, Straat
Banka (9000 tons), for depar-
ture in May on a two-months
tour of Singapore, Malacca,
Port Swettenham. Penang,
Bombay, and Cochin. Some
96 Australian exhibitors will
display their products on this
ship.
The ports at which the ship
is to call show the greatly in-
creasing Australian awareness
of the value of a market like
Malaya, where Australia has
outstanding opportunities if it
has the energy and drive to
capitalise them. In Malaya,
the exporters of Germany, the
U.S.A. and Japan are making
a powerful assault on this
traditionally British-dominated
market, and the effect of this
is that old brand loyalties are
being broken down, with a
resulting market situation
which is very fluid. Australian
businessmen could be the ones
to profit—and Holden cars and
some food packers have already
done so, spectacularly but
many Australian businessmen
operating there are loafing on
the job of adapting the Aus-
tralian-made product to local
market requirements. The
whole difference between suc-
cess and failure rests in that.
"Dranding of goods, for in-
stance, is a special field of
study on its own. Some big
distinctive symbol is vital in a
country whose people mostly
cannot read English, or cannot


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
I
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts—
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment —can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THi
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne, Cl.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT34a-82N
read anything at all —and the
bird’s nest on Nestle products,
a nd the crown on Denmark’s
Carlsberg beer are the symbols
by which most Malayan pur-
chasers identify and order
them. Where words are printed
in a local language (Chinese
being one of them), the trans-
lation needs to be done with
considerable cunning. Hor-
licks, for instance, is a big
seller in Malaya because it is
sold under the Chinese trans-
lation of: Hao Li Keh. Be-
cause hao means good, and li
means stand, and keh means
conquer, the whole name sug-
gests to a Chinese buyer:
“Strong enough to conquer the
World.” A bad translator might
have chosen the syllables
HoLek which merely mean
lotus and history.
But such things, as the super-
stitions which make the Chinese
regard red and yellow as lucky
colors and blue and white as
unlucky funeral colors, are
mere minutiae in the whole
problem of packaging effec-
tively for export, itself a mere
detail in the whole problem
of selling Australian goods
abroad in sufficient quantities
to keep out of the color which
no Australian overdraftee con-
siders lucky!
“Competition for the South-
east Asia markets is becoming
keener,” according to the Par-
liamentary Secretary for Trade,
Mr Swarts, “and unless Austra-
lian exporters follow up the
present trade representation
and promotion work there,
there is a danger that some of
the opportunities offering in
these markets will be lost.”
'There are, of course, obvious
A signs that Australia can sell
heavily of products other than
its traditional exports. lapan's
recent heavy purchases of Aus-
tralian coal, its reported
million-pound interest in iron
ore in the Grafton area of
N.S.W., its intention to send a
mission to the north of Western
Australia next month to study
the possibilities of a steel
refinery there—all these are
evidences of Australia’s ex-
panding export range. But. on
that, it cannot be too often
emphasised that it is the great
primary and mining industries
which will continue to earn for
Australia the bulk of the
nation’s foreign exchange.
“These industries must,
therefore, be assisted to hold
and expand their markets,” Mr
M c E w e n emphasises and,
quite apart from the huge pro-
motional expenses to be in-
curred in doing that, a large
series of internal public works
will have to be undertaken to
enable these industries to “hold
and expand” their markets.
Discussion between Common-
wealth and States on all such
projects as road-making in
Queensland, Western Austra-
lia and the Northern Territory,
as provision of modern berth-
ing and loading facilities at
coal ports, as modernisation
and standardisation of key rail-
way links in W.A. and S.A.
have as their basis the need
for expediting production for
export.
"D oad development in the
North, it is generally be-
lieved, would set off an expan-
sion of private investment in
the beef industry sufficient to
add £2O million to the nations’
export earnings within a few
years. Efficient port facilities
could boost coal exports to £lO
million by 1965. Perhaps more.
Certainly, on the question of
the exportation of beef, there
has been reputable talk that
Australia’s export income from
beef could rival its income
from wool in 10 years. Much
could depend on how long Aus-
tralia's embargo on cattle im-
ports (including herd-improv-
ing stud bulls) is to continue in
fear of the so-called “blue
tongue” disease which, while
infecting only sheep, can be
carried by cattle and goats.
To produce more goods for
export is one thing; to sell
them is another. And some
remarkable selling feats are
already being reported —as by
the Melbourne manufacturer of
spoons and forks who has made
sales in the world capital of
cutlery, Sheffield! But hun-
dreds of individual selling suc-
cesses are no substitute, against
that balance of payments rub,
for concerted success. That
can come, in part, from such
Government projects as the
development of warehousing
facilities for Australian pro-
ducts in important overseas
markets, the establishment (by
preliminary financial aid to
shipping companies, if neces-
sary) of regular shipping ser-
vices to markets difficult of
access, the step-up of oil and
mineral exploration, and busier
“fishing” for tourists . . . And,
for businessmen of all kinds,
the nation’s choice must be
made clear. It’s a choice of
being exporters or paupers.
Take your pick!
And, obvious though the
correct pick must be, it will be
easier to make, in the national
sense, if there is careful weigh-
ing in Canberra of all the fac-
tors which deprive manufac-
turers of the incentive to export
—high rates of company taxa-
tion, as Mr Urquhart suggested
in his Sydney Stock Exchange
speech, and insufficient depre-
ciation allowances.
N.Z's Turn for Credit Squeeze
Traced with economic prob-
A lems rather similar to those
of Australia, the N.Z. Govern-
ment has steered clear of drastic
repressive action. It has, how-
ever, announced an intensifica-
tion of measures to reduce
trading bank advances.
The Reserve Bank’s discount
rate (which is the rate which
the Reserve Bank charges the
trading banks when they
borrow under the reserve ratio
system) has been increased
from 6 to 7 per cent.
An arrangement has been
made for the trading banks to
use higher interest rates on
overdrafts as a means of dis-
couraging excessive use of bank
credit. The average overdraft
rate, which has been about 5.22
per cent, will be increased up
to the maximum authorised in
1957, 5t per cent, the increase
to be applied selectively.
The Government is also
making use of psychologi-
cal weapons in the fight against


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
¥
<soti
<7
097
os?
■sifeHataasrfa
Australm’s
Better Brandy
STAGI76S
Pot-stiii brandy
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
BRANDY
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK AtSO FOR ANCOVI'S WINE
inflation. A series of warning
ministerial statements recently
has obviously been designed to
damp down business.
N.Z. is facing a more serious
economic situation than at any
time since 1931, according to
the Minister of Labor, Mr
Shand. In his opinion there
are no grounds for optimism
that the overseas exchange
situation may change in a few
months time.
“The rate at which we are
developing our capacity to pro-
duce has been inadequate,” he
added. “The rise in our stan-
dard of living in this country
has not been matching that of
Australia —whereas up to the
end of World War II we were
ahead. If we want a progres-
sive raising of the standard of
living, we must spend more of
our income on productive capi-
tal.
“We have been trying to live
about 2\ per cent above our
income. Last year we spent
about that amount more than
we could afford on consumer
goods.”
The acting Prime Minister,
Mr Marshall, followed Mr
Shand with a call to the busi-
ness community and the coun-
try as a whole to “steady up
and consolidate advances.”
“New Zealand needs a year
to steady up,” Mr Marshall told
members of the Auckland
Chamber of Commerce. The
country is like an adolescent
boy—a bit clumsy and awk-
ward, but growing straight and
true. Unfortunately in this
awkward stage we have out-
grown our labor force and we
are trying to do too many
things at once.”
The Government had some
responsibility to increase pro-
duction and encourage savings,
he said.
“Economists say we should
increase taxation,” said Mr
Marshall. “Political sense says
we should make some reduc-
tion. We shall see. In the
meantime —steady does it.”
TThe Government aims to
bring 5000 assisted immi-
grants to N.Z. in the 1961-62
year and to spend up to
£695,000 on assisted passages.
'T'he Government has ap-
proved recommendations
by the Power Planning Com-
mittee for hydro-electric works
which will cost £45,300,000.
The seven-year programme
includes:
• Cook Strait cable includ-
ing equipment and transmission
lines—£lB,Boo,ooo.
• Aviemore, on the Waitaki
River, a station of 200,000 kilo-
watt capacity at a little more
than £75 a kilowatt
£15,500,000.
® Kopuriki, on the Rangi-
tiki River, of 60,000 kilo-
watt capacity at about £ll5 a
kilowatt —£7 million.
9 Remaining four units
each of 90,000 kilowatt capa-
city to be installed at Benmore
—£4 million.
Speculator's Diary
Friday, April 7
TTow lucky can you be? With
L. J. Hooker shares back
up to 9s. 3d. and Stanhill jump-
ing up to 6s. 6d., I would be in
real trouble with my shorting
if I hadn’t bought back when I
did.
Nevertheless the close shave
might be enough to frighten me
off shorting again for a while.
What it does show, though, is
that shorting is usually only
worth the risk if the shares can
be bought back again within a
matter of only a few days. So,
heeding the moral in this, I
bought back the 100 Union
Carbide I had shorted the week
before at £5 10s. 1 was able
to buy them back at £5 3s. for
a profit of £2O.
This means I*m no longer
short in any stock. In fact I
decided the time had come to
revert to a bit of genuine buy-
ing again.
My first buying move was to
snap up 200 Marley Reliance,
the old Reliance Industries
company which is in the final
stages of being swallowed up
altogether by Marley Tile of
England. The takeover offer
is not exactly generous (16s.
cash or a share exchange) but
since the offer was announced
in mid-February the London
share market has been boom-
ing and so, I hope, has Marley
Tile’s share price. All I know
is that the London industrial
index has risen almost 10 per
cent so there seems every likeli-
hood of the share offer now
being worth about 2s. more
than it originally was.
Then I noticed that my
friends, Merica Foundations,
had slipped back to 6s. 6d.
So, knowing that the interim
report was near and that there
was a good chance of a divi-
dend increase, I bought 300
more to bring my holding up
to 500.
Finally I decided to buy 300
Bayview Quarries, the success-
ful Melbourne quarrying com-
pany. As with Pioneer Con-
crete, this company seems to
be a very good one in its own
right and, besides, could well
be in line for a takeover bid.
Now all this buying made me
something of a victim of a
self - created credit squeeze.
These purchases cost me £519
and I had only £216 cash in
hand (including the Union Car-
bide profit). As I didn't seem
to be getting very far with my
400 Queensland Brewery shares
1 decided they could best be
sacrificed in the interests of
liquidity. This sale meant a
loss of £6, partly offset by a
£3 6s. Bd. dividend. But I still
owe my broker £B5 so I’ll have
to sell something else soon.
The we e k's transactions
were:
SOLD
400 Queensland
Brewery at 11/- £215
BOUGHT
100* Union Carbide
at £523
200 Marley Reliance
at 16/6 .. .. £169
300 Merica Founda-
tions at 6 6 .. £lOl
300 Bayview Quar-
ries at 16/3 .. £249
* Bought back to cover
shares sold short.
The shares I now hold are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total I*er rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
200 An till R. £12.-; 12/- 13/10
400 Motels of A. 145 7/- 8/3
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 Sl/G 85/-
400 Watty 1 140 7/3 0/0
50 G. E. Crane 280 110/- 115/-
500 Merica 165 6/4 6/6
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 S/3 7/6
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 24/6
400 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 16/6
200 Hornibfook 234 23/- 24/-
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16/6
200 F. W.
Williams 275 27/- 30/-
200 Marrickville 225 22/- 24/-
200 Marley
Reliance 169 16/6 37/6
300 Bayview 249 16/3 16/3


Shows
Mahler Magic
Brilliantly performed by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra under Lorin
Maazel, the ninth symphony of Gustav
Mahler emerged as the great harrowing
MUSIC
summation of this man’s
struggle between his per-
sonal hell and his personal
heaven, the last wringing
confession of a haunted man in perpetual
torment from life and in perpetual con-
templation of the refuge of death.
The grasp that Maazel revealed in
generalling the merely acoustic forces
in this huge and complex score would
alone have been sufficient to indicate
that he is destined to become one of the
master conductors of our time ; the
grasp that this young man, at 30, re-
vealed of the tremendous psychological
battle forces in contest in this score
suggested that Maazel has fulfilled that
destiny already, a master musician now!
Mahler’s ninth is the symphony where-
in, having made his farewell to life and
every memory of vanished days in “Song
of the Earth,” he seeks to communicate
the same vision and the same farewell,
sometimes almost in hatred of his own
vocabulary, by purely instrumental
means.
Yet the work is nowhere a repeti-
tion of Mahlerian things said already.
Yes, there are echoes, in almost every
page, of the earlier symphonies, with
frightening images of forest land and
the terrible threat of barrack trumpet
call heard from afar off and the lone
dead drum beat, but these things are
put to such a process of refining and
elevation that one feels more exclu-
sively in pure music here than in any
other of Mahler’s symphonies, where the
musical matter so often seems inseparably
harnessed to both the literature and the
art of their time, as if Dostoievsky and
Strindberg and Buchner and Bochlin
were essential parts of it.
It is for that reason that all the
familiar phrase-making which imagina-
tive critics delight in when Mahler is
in their range, the familiar verbal tour
of the demonology of Central Europe,
seems out of place in discussion of
this work. The picture-book terrors and
face-clawings by distraught hands, validly
suggestive allusions where some of the
earlier works are concerned, would here
imply a naivete and little-boy nightmare
much too pretty for the full-grown
anguish of one of the most sophisticated
orchestral thinkers of all time.
This is a man bitterly face to face
with implacables which, he knows, can
and must destroy him. Mahler was in
himself a musical epoch ; the death of
his own time, as much as his own per-
sonal passing, is envisioned in that last
long, long evanescence of orchestral tone
down a thread of whispers into silence.
Lindsey Browne
ART 1
MELDRUM IN RETROSPECT
The art world today does not know
what to think about Max Meldrum,
yet somehow it feels obliged to do some-
thing about him: witness the retrospec-
tive exhibition of his work at the Mel-
bourne National Gallery. He is an
enigma, neither before, nor after nor
of his time. He just doesn’t fit into
any of the tidy theories about the
development in Australian painting from
the English-echoing landscapes of
Buvelot, through the assertive Austra-
lianness of the Heidelberg school, to
the modernistic myth—recreating of the
Nolans, the Boyds and the Tuckers.
The difficulty is that the literal ele-
ment is as utterly lacking in his work
as is any tendency to formalisation. He
was no more and no less than a look-and-
put man if you like, the difference being
that within his limitations he has had
no peer in this country.
Light and shade affect people and
the environs they inhabit much the
same the world over, today, yesterday
and next week ; and that was his abid-
ing passion. Thus Meldrum’s art, in
approach at least, is timeless and essen-
tially regionless. Like the scientist’s his
over-riding preoccupation is with an
understanding of things entirely detached
from what he may feel emotionally about
them. This may seem cold, even inhuman
in an artist. But one cannot say also that
there is no evidence of passion in this
show: a passion for recreating external
appearances under every possible light
condition.
Looking through the paintings gathered
here it is perhaps possible to note a
decline in the sheer quality of paint as
Meldrum’s concern for clarifying his
theory led to over-simplification and
here and there the overstressing of
tonal and color relationships. Probably
his best work came earlier, from his
middle period, and it reached its peak
in a painting which has few parallels in
landscape in the entire Gallery collec-
tion: “Picheret’s Farm.”
Meldrum is dead now, most of his
theories forgotten or discredited, and
for some years before this show one
might have thought he never existed for
all the attention paid him in recent
Australian art histories. But his voice,
and not that shrill one of his still
numerous camp-followers, who may be
able to recite the theory but can rarely
back it up with a talent remotely like
that of their master, was and still is a
significant one, and it is vital to our sens©
of proportion that it be heard in this
fashion as frequently as possible.
A. S. Jorgensen
VISIBILITY
I have found myself a little embar-
rassed lately by the very high praise
which one of my colleagues on The
Bulletin has been giving to the ex-
cellent art-criticisms we have been getting
from Dr J. V. Duhig in Brisbane —on
the grounds that Dr Duhig makes the
paintings visible, describing them so
clearly that anyone who has not seen
them can still, as it were, see them.
I could not agree more. Yet I find
myself muttering defensively that Dr
Duhig has had the good fortune to
encounter shows by such artists as Clif-
ton Pugh and Albert Tucker who are
extremely visible painters ; and it is one
thing to describe Pugh’s black crows zig-
zagging across his hot earth or Albert
Tucker’s huge and craggy explorer strid-
ing through the wilderness, but quite
another thing to describe the sort of
abstracts one mostly sees in Sydney
these days.
It is easy enough with the exhibition
by Chinese painters living in Hong Kong
now showing at the Wales Saving Bank
Gallery; for these artists, though they
are always getting into hot water for
doing so, still paint visibly. In or out
of the Communist areas, the poor Chinese
artist seems to me to be in a hopeless
dilemma. If he repeats his ancient
tradition he is rightly reproached ; if he
imitates the West he is rightly reproached:
so what on earth is he to do?
Maybe his solution lies simply in
modifying the ancient tradition enough
to allow for fresh observation, as a few
of these painters do. Pine trees, misty
mountains, waterfalls, roosters and
blossoming boughs are old hat; but at
least (I hope this is visible) the painter
who has seen the white rooster with the
red comb swooping down from the top
of the scroll to eat a red centipede nine
inches long under the mauve magnolia
flowers seems to have seen something
for himself. And so does the man who
painted the single soft pink tree-peony
(if that is what it is) floating timelessly
in space ; and so does the man who saw
the ramshackle village on stilts standing
so peacefully by the remote curving bay;
and so, undoubtedly, does the man who
saw the pylon and the toy train looking
not at all inharmonious among the
traditional soaring grey mountains.
But what is the critic who would like
to write visible criticism to do with Louis
James’s abstracts at the Macquarie Gal-
leries? You really need a new, abstract
kind of language to describe abstracts.
That, in fact, is what most of the critics
use —a kind of agitated geometrical ter-
minology. They have fits about verticals.
I never could master it myself, nor do
I really see that it gets you anywhere
except for those who speak the same
language. It is like trying to talk about
Shakespeare’s plays in terms of his control
of the iambic pentameter.
Louis James, by a singular mercy,
comes close enough to actuality in many


of his paintings almost to be described
in visible terms. His enchanting “Blue
Landscape” might be a blue island
floating in a purple lake, or rocky cliffs
or castles floating in purple space. His
“Dawn Landscape” has distinct sugges-
tions of chunky cliffs of green and blue
and orange rising up, perhaps, from
blue water. His “Andalusian Landscape,”
full of hot gold and cool dark green,
must imply the hot deserts or moun-
tains and fertile valleys of that far
country. His city landscapes, which I
don’t care for so much, look like intricate
machinery.
But you don't really approach such a
painter looking for such visible actuali-
ties. His primary impact is of color ;
his next of smooth and rich impasto,
implying a firmness and sincerity of
technique ; and all that you can honestly
say, unless you are going to talk geometry,
is that these are exceptionally colorful
and accomplished abstracts.
Maybe, in the long run, that is a
criticism of abstraction. The nearer it
comes to visibility, the more there is to
say about it. But James’s paintings, for
the present, are visible enough; and all
the better in that they are essentially un-
pretentious distillations of colors and
shapes from the landscape, not attempts
to solve the riddle of the universe.
Douglas Stewart
PRINTS
The changed emphasis in artist’s prints
which has evolved since the days when
there were no machine-made prints is
highlighted in the Sydney Printmakers’
first Graphic Arts Exhibition at Farmers’.
The nervous line scratching its way
through metal, the accidental corrosion of
acids, the blur and the smudge and the
sweep of the knife through linoleum or
wood, the whole enjoyment of using tools
and the careful press of selected papers
against the hand-worked surface have
become all-important while the business
of reproducing millions of precise fac-
similes is left to others.
Here for the price of the machine-
produced print the public can buy works
which have the personal touch of the
artist: works such as the decorative
“Nude” by John Henshaw which would
enhance any room, or the “Image of
Space” lithographs of Michael Nichol-
son and the lino-cuts of Henry Sal-
manskas which capture the stylishness
of the new developments in abstract art.
With the pungence of the contact of
acid on metal Strom Gould evolves
from long experience of his craft works
such as his earlier delicate etchings
“Bats” and “People” and his later bold
aquatints in which he freely splashes,
scrapes and corrodes his way into the
plate producing the destructive force and
heat of “Trail of a Bushfire” and the
mysterious nuance of “Pub Counter.”
With lighter touch in the use of his
medium Earl Backer produces the swift
tracer lines and sluggish blobs of
“Combat.”
In contrast to these David Strachan’s
handling of the craft is allied to a more
literal interpretation of his subject, the
delicately scratched lines help evolve the
feminine mood of the “Two Girls” and
the velvety firm tones give a romantic
strength to his “Poet.”
There is a delicate beauty in the draw-
ing of Joy Ewart’s lithographs “Sleep”
and “Fever,” and Eileen Mayo’s cats are
wonderfully feline monograms, but
neither has the conviction, as a print,
of Frank Hinder’s “Gee Bung Polo
Club” in which the surface of the plate
can be felt through the ghostly images
of polo players.
Thomas Gleghorn shows in his two
lino-cuts the versatility and competence
that his craftsmanlike paintings make us
expect and Roy Fluke’s “Summer” shows
a respect for restrained calligraphy which
one misses in his rather casual “Nude.”
Altogether it is a very lively exhibition.
Salmon
ADELAIDE ART
Kym Bonython’s new gallery got off
to a successful start with the Lawrence
Daws exhibition, and follows it with a
fine show of paintings and drawings by
Bob Dickerson. The Dickerson simpli-
cities really work; they underline the
fact that to a sheep we may all look alike,
but to us the tiny differences are vital.
From the sly hilarity of “Man in the
Bush” to the trapped intensity of “Bank
Clerk” to the various emotions of many
children, Dickerson deals with indi-
viduals, however much he formalises their
features At present this is rare in
serious painting.
By concentrating so closely on charac-
ter Dickerson leaves himself with some
wide open spaces to fill in, especially as
he likes to paint on a big scale. In
“Family Group,” “Bank Clerk” and
“Late Night Shopper” he successfully
manipulates these large areas of paint so
that they are extensions of mood, hints of
disaster, suggestions of horror . . . that
bank clerk’s hand, is it reaching for a
bundle of fivers or a revolver? That man
disappearing behind the late shopper,
what appalling proposition did he make?
This might lead to a Charles Addams
creepiness were it not for Dickerson’s pity
and sympathy. Where these are absent,
as in “Dressing Room” or “Woman on
the Beach,” there is a corresponding
banality of paint, and the result is just
a shocker. Some of the drawings are
surprisingly charming, as “Feet First.”
At an exhibition to celebrate the fifth
birthday of the game little Hahndorf
Gallery in a pretty hills town the offer-
ings are varied but not impressive, apart
from a Heysen watercolor of a New
Zealand mountain showing a wisp of
cloud, flanked by a delicate flower group
by James Cant and a strong head by
Dora Chapman.
The Citizens Art Group has been show-
ing a large number of paintings in the
open air on the corner of North Terrace,
the subjects ranging from landscapes to
wrecked windjammers. No hidden talent
is brought to light, but certain standards
are kept up and obviously everybody has
enjoyed himself.
Geoffrey Dutton
THEATRE
“THE KNIGHTS OF THE
BURNING PESTLE”
Beaumont and Fletcher collaborated
on this theatrical joke, “The Knight of
the Burning Pestle,” a burlesque of the
theatrical conventions of their period,
employing cliche to demolish cliche.
It does not attain the status of great
art, but it lives on as a great joke
although much of its essential irony is
lost on us creatures of a different era,
far removed from the apparently sorry
state of affairs which made such a play
possible.
As a pointed reminder of what can
happen in art when conventions are
practised more for their own sake than
for what they can express, it was prob-
ably far more effective than the most
penetrating invectives levelled by the
critics of its times. And consequently
there is a strong possibility that the vices
and virtues of this production by the
combined forces of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Dramatic Club, the Marlowe
Society and the Tin Alley Players (at the
Union Theatre) would be best underlined
in a similar manner, rather than by this
reviewer’s pen.
However, accepting our limitations, we
can say that if something of the original
bite and relevance of such a piece is to
get across to us today those responsible
for its revival must emphasise one
element above all else: style ; for that
was the very reason for its coming into
being, a style gone wrong.
Though obviously the attempt has been
made by Keith McCartney and Meg
Smith, the co-producers, the illusion of
style is largely absent; the modes of
acting, especially in voice and body
mannerisms, are invariably inconsistent;
no two actors seem to be playing the
same game. Paul Clarkson, fopping and
flopping around in a romantic swoon as
Humphrey, hinted in most things he did
at the directions his colleagues might
profitably take ; but, alas, few saw the
light.
John Joyce, as a citizen of London,
was one ; Murielle Hearne as his wife,
another, and their broad and bawdy sense
of comedy provided the production with
some of its most delicious moments.
Looked at severely this production
could be characterised as having all the
wrong things right. As with so many
Melbourne attempts at period plays,
meticulous care is taken to get costumes
and incidental effects as authentic as
possible, while more important considera-
tions—to take a most obvious and simple
example, the application of make-up to
transform a young actor into a believ-
ably old character —are treated absurdly
lightly.
A. S. Jorgensen


“HOUSE OF BERNARDA ALBA’’
Kevon Kemp’s production of Lorca’s
nine-women play at the Sydney Theatre
Club, Enmore, running neck and neck
with the Independent’s 42-women pro-
duction of “The Women,” is a further
illustration of how well these interesting
creatures can do when they are left to
their own resources.
Women are supposed to dress to
impress, not men, but women; maybe
they only act their best for the same
reason. And then, when there is no man
in the cast who can be blamed for a
play’s failure, each is doubly determined
that it will not fail because of her.
Certainly, in this hot-house of five
daughters shut up by their mother on the
death of her second husband, one is not
going to expose one of them to the frus-
trated ferocity of the rest: obliterated,
she would be, by the beautiful super-
cilious accent of Magdalena (Susan
Newton), torn to pieces behind her back
by Amelia (Narelle Drinkwater), and
twisted out of shape by the crippled
Martirio (Fay Brown). She would have
her heart cut out by plangent-voiced
young Adela (Jane Gabriel), who stole
her sister’s lover, and she would be told-
on by the oldest sister Angustias (Sanda
Crawford) to their sculpturally handsome
mother Bernarda (Germaine Greer), that
frightening woman who startled us all by
firing a gun at Pepe the lover rather
than have him creating scandal around
her house.
Nor would one increase the woes of
Maria Josepha (Zeka Nestor), the softest-
voiced old mad grandmother who ever
wandered loose through a dark house in
the early hours ; or of Poncia (Louise
Ratliff), a female Sancho Panza and
Greek chorus combined, weighed down
with everyone’s confidences and crushed
by her mistress when she tried to cheer
them up ; or of the little maid (Frances
Gardner) like Vermeer’s girl with a pearl
ear-ring, constantly perplexed at finding
herself in such a ferocious Goya.
Lorca’s single set suited Mr Kemp’s
open-stage production ; you felt that you
were in the room with all those terrible
women in black, and you were (it is no
unfavorable criticism) relieved to get out
of it.
Ronald McCuaio
FILMS
“THE ANGRY SILENCE”
A candidate for every critic’s ten-
best list for 1961, this intense and hurt-
ful drama of ugly victimisation among
the unionists of a Midlands factory
is a grim and a poignant study of
the eternal vindictiveness of majorities
to minorities. It shows, in visual images
of great force and beauty, and with
masterly narrative speed, how the man
who does not go along with the crowd
can be hurt by the crowd, perhaps not
so much because of his daring to differ
as because of the crowd’s need to re-
venge itself on somebody for the fears
which are part of its conformity.
This is a situation for which every-
body has sympathy—the man honorably
alone against the crowd dishonorably
“This year We think it's OUR turn for the Blake.”
massed —and very many filmgoers, every
one an unwilling conformer in some
field of life or other, can ache to iden-
tify themselves with the valor of the man
alone. And this is so, quite apart from
the secondary consideration as to whether
this lone man is punishable as a “scab,”
for that is what he is. The human
issues transcend the industrial ones.
Richard Attenborough is the good-
natured process worker who, not much
caring either way about the petty issues
which start a work stoppage in the fac-
tory, stays on the job without feeling
that he has betrayed either commonsense
or mateship.
The threatening pressures brought to
bear on him are so malignant, however,
that his easy-goingness is blasted and
angry obstinacy takes over. Before he
knows it, with his family being molested,
he is in a fight for life itself. When
work resumes temporarily, he is given the
silent treatment by all his workfellows,
even by those whom he had some reason
to count as steadfast friends.
Director Guy Green, with this film,
establishes himself in the front-rank of
English film-makers. His methods of
cutting swiftly from one scene to another
are quite spectacularly clever. “It’s
only a storm in a teacup,” says one
character in a chat about the industrial
rumpus—and then, bang, the camera
catches a full view of a teacup in a
works canteen where anger is rising.
The swiftness of such devices as this
gives locomotive weight and power to
Green’s narrative style. But it is not
merely in cinema dynamics that he excels.
He has a contemplative side, too, and
the moody little studies of the skylines
of an industrial town, seen intermittently,
have a haunting artistic beauty. Of
these views of stone and shadow, noth-
ing is more heart-seizing and poignant
than the scene where a distraught mother
Pier Angeli runs into an empty school-
ground in search of a lost child, the
long shadows of the sunset giving threat
of night as piercingly as her own fears
give threat of grief. (Sydney Embassy.)
L.B.
TWO WAR FILMS
“Under Ten Flags” (Sydney Prince
Edward) shows the captain of a German
raider (Van Heflin) as a knightly figure,
while “Kanal” (Palladium) shows the
survivors of the Polish uprising of 1944
trying to escape through the sewer from
the brutal German oppressors.
They lightened the raider film with
Mylene Demongeot as a prisoner dancing
on deck practically naked, with a com-
plementary action at the British
Admiralty in which Charles Laughton
genially directs the hunt, and especially
with the theft of the German code by a
spy disguised as a German naval officer
crawling to the safe through a web of
rays visible through only special
spectacles.
No such outside incident lightened
“Kanal.” A man disclosed to his girl that
he was married, so she shot herself dead ;
a girl got her wounded man to an outlet,
but it was blocked with a steel grille ;
a musician went mad and walked the
reeking sewer playing an ocarina. There
were wild rushes of men screaming that
the sewer reek was poison gas; the
commanding officer and his aide got out,
but when the aide confessed that he had
lied in saying the men were following
them the commanding officer shot him
and lowered himself back into the sewer—
too heaped with horror on the one hand
and dramatic ingenuity on the other, it
left one a little shocked at not being more
shocked.
R.McC.


Ruffi ht lAc
As Australia expands, the demand for
university graduates in its commerce and industry
is increasing.
It has been estimated that the number of
students at our universities will have to rise from
sixty thousand to one hundred thousand within
six years, if the national need for highly trained and
educated minds is to be satisfied.
This will necessarily place extra stresses on
the universities for the extension of buildings and
the employment of staffs. But it also will be
providing our fine young brains with greater
opportunities in careers than any generation of
Australians in the past has known.
And the responsibility for making fullest use
of these talents will rest not with the students
alone. No matter how much intellectual weight
they carry around with them, it is valuable only
to the extent that it can be applied for the benefit
of themselves and their country.
For instance, a graduate could have the most
brilliant academic record and still be wasted
through either not taking or not being given the
right opportunity.
Those who elect to become teachers or research
workers are in a distinct category, for their
knowledge will be sown back to the reaping of a
rich harvest m the training of others.
But there are by far the larger number who
will have decided to find their way in an individual
career, rounding out their knowledge with practical
experience. It is this type of graduate to whom
Australia must look increasingly now, particularly
in the fields of production and management.
They are in the mould from which future
leaders will be cast, and commerce and industry
have a duty to attract and encourage them.
For, while the natural resources of our country
are great, while we enjoy a prosperity that comes
of Australia’s growing and thriving, our worth as
a people in tomorrow’s world will be decided by
how well we have placed the best of our trained
young brains along the path to leadership.
Tulloch Not Up
With the Greatest
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Tn his progress to greatness Tulloch has never profited the
Sydney Turf Club, which next Saturday gives him a further
chance to be the first horse to win £lOO,OOO in Australia. The
race will be the Caltex Quality Handicap (li miles).
Sydney Turf Club does not stage many weight-for-age races
in the season, and its Cup and trophy events are not of the type
nor in season to attract horses, like Tulloch, bound to get heavy
imposts.
But owner E. A. Haley will make up for this “neglect”
because Saturday’s crowd may break all records, irrespective of
the quality of the horses opposed to the champion.
There are plenty of “knockers” of the race. The “Haley
Benefit” is one name applied it, the “Tulloch Presentation” is
another, each of them carrying the unfortunate suggestion that
the race will be a “fix” in some way or another best known
to the originators of the names.
Except for the records the race has little if any significance
for either Mr Haley or Tulloch. The money required to round-
off Tulloch's present grand total of £94,973 10s. cannot possibly
mean as much to the owner as Tulloch’s safety, even if Mr
Haley were not a man of completely independent means.
Tulloch will not be any the greater if he wins ; he will not
damn his record if he finishes last. Tulloch's greatness was
achieved in his three-year-old year, by which time he had run
in 29 races for 21 wins, seven seconds and one third and
£66,148 10s. His two-year-old year yielded £18,474 10s. of the
total.
Just how good Tulloch was at his best—he certainly is not
at his best these days, for which there are several owners who
can be truly thankful—will be the subject of argument for many
years to come.
If he had won the Melbourne Cup as a three-year-old, or
last year for that matter, he would have rated much higher
among the great horses of Australia.
There is no measuring-stick. Tracks and tactics in racing
have changed so much that the time test is not reliable. Training
is entirely different. Stake money has grown so that winnings
do not give a satisfactory guide.
Tulloch is great. But he has not toppled Phar Lap’s photo-
graph from my mantelpiece, and I doubt if he quite threatens
to push Peter Pan’s picture aside, either.
The seal of greatness among the great in my book is the
winning of a major two-mile handicap under weight, and the
ability to sprint as well as stay. Did Tulloch ever match Phar
Lap or Peter Pan that way?
'T'here was a time when Turkestan was considered one of the
most promising three-year-olds in Sydney. He had won a
Rosehill Cup and seemed the right type for a Derby colt.
Probably no horse was more disappointing at four years
and five years, even though he did better than a majority by
winning three races, including an Epsom Handicap. Then he
was sent to Melbourne where he won his second race when he
beat Rising Rocket and Famed in the Shannon Handicap at
Moonee Valley.
Turkestan is raced by G. E. and M. G. Clarke, a father-son
combination with the father the trainer. They are not profes-
sionals, either. They are executives of one of Melbourne's
biggest advertising organisations, but horses are their hobby.
Tt is unusual for a horse to run in a two-mile race and within
a few days win at one mile and a quarter. Rimyll did it
easily enough, leading practically from start to finish to win
City Tattersall’s Autumn Handicap at Randwick on Saturday.
The previous Monday Rimyll had made the pace and had
finished third to Sharpley and Tulloch in the Sydney Cup.


Among the Flashing Blades
By S. W. KEOUGH
It’s no easy thing trying to
interview axemen, espe-
cially at Sydney’s Royal Easter
Show —when they’re not out in
the centre gouging great hunks
out of logs they’ll be sitting in
the dressing-room gently mas-
saging their axe-faces with a
Turkey stone.
Just as you insert the first
wedge into the conversational
log, so to speak, the interviewee
will rush off to see the start
of the “13in. underhand.” If
there has ever been a compe-
tition axeman who has resisted
the temptation to watch his
rivals in action nobody has ever
heard of him!
Axemen are like that —not
keen to talk about themselves,
but keen enough to talk about
the other fellow. And an axe-
man speaks of the prowess of
others not grudgingly, but
with pride of one craftsman
in the skill of another.
The sport seems to breed
a serenity of outlook among
its practitioners, and you get
an inkling of that during a heat
of the “hard-hitting, standing-
cut world championship.” One
competitor is going great guns
when, impatiently and unthink-
ingly, he pulls out a loose chip
with his free hand and is dis-
qualified since the rules forbid
any touching of the timber by
hand. On a comparative deci-
sion like that how many of the
top tennis players would have
cast themselves on the grass to
sob? This axeman just grin-
ned ruefully and stropped his
axe lovingly on his hand.
a mother handling
” her first-born in his first
bath, or Yehudi Menuhin tak-
ing his Stradivarius out of its
case, and you get a rough idea
of the affection and care with
which an axeman hoists his
Hytest or Keesteel out of its
polished wooden topcoat, re-
moves its leather guard from
the curved edge, and goes to
work on it.
The analogy of the fiddle is
not long-drawn, either, for in
his own sphere a top axeman
is a virtuoso artist. Examine
the logs after eight top men
have operated on them and
you’ll note that the cuts all fol-
low the same pattern exactly
—a pattern set by experience to
reduce the number of strokes
to a minimum. Almost in-
variably the first cut is dead
on the chalk-line.
Ceaseless concern for the
condition of his axe is born
of the competition axeman’s
knowledge that his axe, far
from being the tough thing
wielded by any backyard chop-
per, is highly vulnerable to
damage because it is ground
to such a fine edge.
Everyone knows you can
shave yourself with such an
axe; it is far sharper than
any razor-blade. Under the
microscope, a razor edge is
seen to be serrated. The axe-
edge is perfectly smooth, this
being the outcome of proces-
sing on electric sandstone, then
on the fine carborundum and
finally the Turkey-stone.
Tf a competitor in the “hard-
hitting” contest suddenly
stops half way through his cut,
to look look at his axe, and put
on his shirt, it isn’t any Maria
Callas brand of tantrum.
Having struck a knot in a
“bony” log, he is aware that
the next stroke could shatter
the axe-head!
The boxing dictum that the
good big man will always
beat the good little man
doesn’t hold in wood-
chopping, even though most
of the axemen competing
are in the giant category. Last
year’s world champion, Jim
Lavers, is over 17 stone. Manny
McCarthy, a many-times cham-
pion, is around the same
weight. Tom Kirk, 14 times
world champion in some 30
years of chopping, is not much
lighter. But a year or so ago
M. C. Parker, a bare 11 stone
odd, whipped them all.
Tip-top nick is vital, and
the axemen who knocks him-
self about hasn’t the ghost of
a chance against the rest. That
is why, collectively, they’re the
soberest fellows you could meet
anywhere. And they last long.
Take Ernie Livingstone. At
33 he was doing well, winning
a £lOO purse at Bangalow
(N.S.W.) and, with the famed
Leo Appo (now banana-farm-
ing on N.S.W.’s North Coast),
winning the saw-cut off scratch
at Grafton. Two years later
Ernie gave it away, deeming
himself too old for it at 35.
But four years ago, at 62, this
old Digger took it on again,
and he’s still chopping.
Amos Murrell is a classic
case of evergreenness. Start-
ing chopping on the N.S.W.
North Coast at 17, he went
through an unbroken 55 years.
'T'his year, for the first time,
an American, Dave Geer,
competed in Sydney. Raised
on softwoods, this hefty Con-
necticut axeman brought with
him an 81b axe with the
shortest handle anyone had
seen here. It was quite useless
on our hardwoods (South
Coast ash is used at Royal
Show chops, all eight competi-
tors’ logs coming off the same
trunk and balloted for), and he
was given a preliminary crack
at our native hardwoods at
Mt Wilson under the tutoring
of Tom Kirk. But he was
never in the hunt with our
men.
He’s never seen anything like
our ironbarks. Dave, who -uys
the U.S. has nothing compar-
able to our wood-cutting con-
tests, intends to take some of
our ideas back home.
TJeading the woodchop
handicapping committee
at this year’s Show was Charles
Moses, general manager of the
Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission and no mean hard-
ware-wielder himself. Tom
Kirk describes him as a “good
bush-axeman” —and that, com-
ing from such a quarter, is
praise indeed.
Among the half-dozen axes
which Charles Moses has
stacked in a cupboard near his
desk is a Spanish one of Toledo
steel. The features which dis-
tinguish it from our Hytests,
Keesteels and Plumbs are its
rounded back and peculiar
curved faces. Spanish axemen,
he says, are the real marathon
choppers, it being usual for
them to go non-stop through
eight logs of about 72in. girth
and taking up to an hour.
These days he chops at
week-ends, mostly for the bene-
fit of friends who need to have
dangerous trees removed. Not
long ago in a very confined
space in the Sydney suburb of
Woollahra, Charles Moses
felled a row of unwanted pines
according to a plan which
would give him about 12in. to
spare on each side between two
fences. It shouldn’t have hap-
pened, he confesses, but he was
quite mortified when a branch
knocked one picket off a low
fence!
“One of the best players in the game, except for his eyesight.”


LETTERS
Communism in Universities
Sir,
The discussion begun by Dr
Knopfelmacher’s article, “The New
Scare Campaign” (Observer,
January 21), appears to have been
concerned with two major sets of
questions.
The first is whether freedom of
opinion in Australian universities
is in some way restricted by Right-
wing pressures. In all the Austra-
lian universities known to me, and
that is the majority, the answer is
certainly no. The only restriction
is the self-imposed one arising from
the fact that most academics, in
common with other people, shun
public controversy.
The second set of questions con-
cerns the behavior of Communist-
party members and whether aca-
demic selection committees may
justly take party membership into
consideration. No one has main-
tained that all Communist academics
engage in fractional politics all the
time, and the quiescence of one
declared member who has joined
in the correspondence on the matter
scarcely affects the main argument.
I should once have regarded Dr
Knopfelmacher’s account of Com-
munist activities in the University
of Melbourne as exaggerated. I
am still unable to accept his state-
ment that “the decisive, ideological
influence at Melbourne University
since the war and until the middle
fifties was the Communist party.”
I should phrase the matter
differently.
There is no doubt of the activity
of the Communist party in staff
and student organisations during
that time, nor of the widespread
interest of students in Marxist
theory and practice; but that
interest, though widespread, was
also, so far as I saw it in my own
students, profoundly critical, and
was expressed, for example, in the
rise of the Fabian A.L.P. Club as
a rival to the Marxist “Labor Club.”
The letters of Mr Truman and
Mr Turner refer specifically to dates
no later than 1947 and give no
information about the stepping-up
of “activity” in the 1950 s before
the defections of 1956-57. The
academic Communists now appear
to be a quite small remnant, enjoy-
ing no high prestige and exercising
very little influence over students.
This point needs to be made, for
controversy can obscure the fact
that the University of Melbourne,
while allowing proper freedom of
ojpinion to its academics, is not
widely penetrated by Communist
activity.
Nevertheless, the Communist
remnant, probably the more so by
the defection of those who could
not stomach the party line on Hun-
gary, is not to be regarded as
unimportant or merely a peripheral
nuisance.
It will be understood that as one
who suffered a good deal in the
late 1940 s from the obtuse and mis-
directed attacks of Red-baiters, I
might have been expected to doubt
Dr Knopfelmacher’s description of
fractional politics as played by
some Communist academics. If
I now find myself unable to reject
his description, it is because I have
in recent years seen a dissident
group, which I believed to be
Communist-led and to have used the
known tactics of fractional politics,
attempt to drive the heads of two
small departments and those loyal
to them either into acquiescing in
the faction’s control of departmental
policy, or even into resigning and
leaving the field clear.
This attempt has been contained
and checked by means which have
at no time threatened the freedom
of opinion of the dissident group;
but at the cost of much wasteful
expenditure of time and energy on
the part of senior people in the
university and at the cost of much
undeserved distress for those
attacked. The faction, indeed, over-
played its hand, thereby alerting
many unsuspecting people to the
fact that even university depart-
ments are not immune from the
party tactics for gaining power that
have been perfected outside uni-
versities.
Behavior of the type referred to
would once have earned dismissal
for those engaging in it, and might
still do so if there were clearly no
question of political belief involved.
But Australian university adminis-
trations in general fall over
backwards to avoid any possible
appearance of attempting to punish
or control dissident political beliefs
—and it may even be that the pom-
pous hypocrisies beloved by frac-
tions are believed by some of their
members.
Furthermore, university adminis-
trations are well aware, in view of
recent history, that disciplinary
action, however well deserved, is
almost bound to be followed by
appeals beyond the constituted uni-
versity authorities and by a great
deal of publicity which may react un-
favorably on their ability to attract
staff and to gain the support of the
community.
Nevertheless, universities must
be allowed to solve these problems
for themselves. Any attempt at
outside intervention is dangerous
because the absolute necessity of
free play of independent views to
a university is likely not to be
fully understood outside academic
circles.
One of the paths to a solution
is the painful acquisition by liberal-
minded academics of increased
sophistication about these problems,
and the discussion conducted in
the Observer may contribute to
that result. If fractional politics
are played in universities, we need
to become aware of them. And
it is just as proper for academic
selection committees to take into
consideration any evidence leading
them to fear that an applicant may
indulge in fractional politics as it
undoubtedly is to take account of
defects of personality. In both
cases, they have to consider the
possibility that an appointment may
ruin the peace and good order of
a department.
This is not a case of referring or
deferring to non-academic bodies;
it is simply to urge increased
sophistication in academic selection
committees so that they know what
they are doing if they decide, as
often they must, to take a risk.
If it has become difficult to get
rid of those who play the game of
fractional politics, we have every
justification in exercising greater
caution in selection. The protec-
tion is that the selection of aca-
demics must be made primarily by
academics. The count against the
University of New South Wales in
the Ward case is essentially, as I
see it, that the recommendation of
an academic selection committee
was rejected, to the loss of the
University of New South Wales and
the gain of the University of New
England. But if we claim this
degree of autonomy, we are bound
to face facts in making our recom-
mendations. And the fact is that
one cannot safely assume that in
the Communist academic, the aca-
demic will always overcome the
Communist.
Flaving written this, I must repeat
my conviction that the Australian
universities are, in all the cases 1
know, in very good health indeed.
Research and teaching were never
at a higher level, and if their rapid
growth creates the well-known diffi-
culties, which, after all, they share
with universities elsewhere, they
offer a stimulus and opportunity to
those who work in them never
approached in their past history.
R. M. CRAWFORD
Camberwell (Vic.).
MYTH OF SOVIET
IMPERIALISM
Sir,
Dr Stargardt seems to have two
objections to my 1952 pamphlet,
“The Myth of Soviet Imperialism”
(B. 29/3/61). He disagrees with
my interpretation of Soviet foreign
policy, and he objects to sources
quoted in one of the 107 foot-
notes.
Let me say that I do not con-
sider “The Myth of Soviet
Imperialism” as a contribution to
academic research. It was written
as a popular pamphlet and written
in a hurry—in fact, in two sittings
over Easter, 1951. It was frankly
partisan in tone and argument, but
it did not involve any fabrication,
falsification, or suppression of
evidence.
The central thesis of the pamphlet
was that the U.S.S.R. is not an
imperialist Power. This is a view
which I have held since my under-
graduate days and which I still
hold today. What I tried to do in
the pamphlet was to present some
of the factual evidence for holding
this view and to present it in a
popular form to a non-academic
audience. I was arguing a case,
not investigating a problem. Had
I been arguing this out to an
academic audience I would have
argued it somewhat differently.
Dr Stargardt has correctly pointed
out my uncritical acceptance of the
official reports of the Rjak and
Rostov trials as evidence for the
existence of links between Yugo-
slav and Western intelligence ser-
vices. No doubt similar examples
from the same pamphlet could be
citgd. Yet the argument in the
pamphlet does not rest on these
few examples of unconvincing docu-
mentation. Were I to re-write the
pamphlet now I would make cer-
tain changes. These would include
my evaluation of Soviet-Yugoslav
relations, but not my evaluation of
the Soviet-German Pact of August,
1939. However, 1 would not alter
the basic thesis of the pamphlet,
and so, no doubt, Dr Stargardt
would still take exception to it.
Dr Stargardt’s final paragraph is
a puzzle to me. He acknowledges
my frank admission of political
preferences, yet he considers my
claim to “reasonable objectivity”
a lecent pretence. My attitude here
has been consistent since my initial
appointment to a university staff
position in December, 1944. AH
1 ask is that my work as a univer-
sity teacher should be judged by
the commonly accepted standards
of objectivity which operate in my
field of the social sciences. I do
not fear comparison with my col-
leagues on this score.
Perhaps Dr Starga.dt thinks that
partisanship and objectivity are
mutually incompatible. Or does he
think that a Fabian and a social-
democrat can resolve this contra-
diction whereas a Communist
cannot?
L. G. CHURCHWARD
Mitcham (Vic.).
UNDERSTANDING
SOUTH AFRICA
Sir,
Concerning Mr A. F. C. Hender-
son’s view of South Africa (B.
22/3/61), I must protest at this
repetition of the old “I was there”
argument. Mr Henderson was in
South Africa, and saw nothing to
condemn —ergo, the;e is nothing to
condemn. He was personally
acquainted with a judge of the
highest integrity—ergo, the South
African legal system is “exem-
plary.”
But we are asked to take on trust
the adequacy of Mr Henderson’s
observations. Perhaps he made an
intense examination of the South
African social system —and then
again, perhaps he saw South Africa
out of the bus that took him from
his suburban home to his place of
w'ork.
Journalists of the highest pro-
fessional standing (and “they were
there,” too) have shown us quite
a different picture. Mr Henderson
dismisses their views with the sug-
gestion that they have perverted
truth for the sake of a sensational
story. Perhaps they may have
merely looked deeper below the sur-
face of everyday African life....
But in any case journalists are not
the only observers to be disquieted
by the South African scene.
The International Commission of
Jurists has recently published a
special report on “South Africa
and the Rule of Law.” This body
represents and draws support from
37,000 judges, lawyers and teachers
of law throughout the world and
some extracts from its cold,
analytical report merit reprinting.
The commission found the prin-
ciple of apartheid “morally repre-
hensible and a violation of the
Rule of Law” —that is, a violation
of “the principles, institutions and
procedures important to protect the


>u FRENCH vf
THIS f4sy WAY
,4
ii-v
No textbook can teach you to SPEAK a foreign language
correctly. To do that you must HEAR the rhythm, the
lilt, the everyday speech by ordinary people. Lingua-
phone teaches you by this quick, thorough, effortless
method. You learn by LISTENING to the voices of
expert native teachers on gramophone records, folloAving
the words in the illustrated textbook. In half the usual
time, this method enables you to SPEAK, READ and
WRITE the language—and above all, to understand it
when spoken. There is no formal learning. From the
start you are thrown into the conversational atmosphere
of the boulevard and cafe.
Put in fifteen min-
utes a day, and in
a few weeks you
can express yourself
freely in the lan-
guage of your
choice. Find out all
about the unique,
modern method of
learning. Post the
coupon below for a
free illustrated
booklet describing the Linguaphone language courses
and Week’s Free Trial Offer.
Linguaphone
For LANGUAGES
- —POST THIS TODAY— - ‘ — — 1
Linguaphone Institute Pty. Ltd., 1 Fleming: Place, off
359 Tittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me without obligation your free, illustrated
booklet of the Linguaphone method of learning languages.
I am interested in FRENCH □ GERMAN □ ITALIAN Q
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager
Brandies in all Slates Agencies in nil Country Centres
individual from arbitrary govem-
roent and to enable him to enjoy
the dignity of man.”
It found in South Africa “the
deliberate infliction of an inferior
way of life on all who are tainted
by non-white skins.” It declared
that “in all conceivable forms of
human relations a ruthless dis-
crimination against the non-white
population has become the law.”
It continued: “The humiliation
inflicted by such measures is the
testimony on which apartheid can
be judged. It’s price in terms of
human degradation will never b'e
known ”
But it is not only the non-whites
who have suffered. The commis-
sion also found that “as part of
this human suffering, both whites
and non-whites have been exposed
to steady encroachments on their
basic freedoms,” and it stressed
that “the fundamental principle of
fair trial, knowing the exact nature
of the accusation, appears to have
been forgotten and defendants still
stand trial en masse wondering on
which of the many possible per-
mutations resulting from what an
English judge once called ‘the
bastard conjunction and/or' they
can expect to be attacked by the
prosecution.”
Mr Henderson found the judicial
system in South Africa was “exem-
plary.” The International Com-
mission of Jurists, however, which
might be expected to have more
adequate means of measuring the
competence of its own proicssion,
found a “systematic decline in the
very institutions which exist to
promote and protect justice.”
The commission agreed that
South Africa’s legal institutions
had "a great tradition of an inde-
pendent Bench and legal profession
of the highest quality,” but it
pointed out —and here is the crux
oi its argument —it was not examin-
ing "the legality of constitutional
processes that instituted apartheid.”
Rather —“It is the spirit in which
such law is made by the legislator,
interpreted by the administrator and
enforced by the judges that is being
brought to the attention of world
public opinion.”
The report, of some 240 pages,
includes actual affidavits taken
from cases which have come before
the South African courts. These
tell of arrests of natives for
trivialities (one native jailed for
not having a “pass” was arrested
by police while waiting in a queue
to obtain one), jailing without
trial, “sale” of prisoners as farm
labor, although they have never
been before the courts, bashings,
mutilation of their feet to prevent
them running away, beatings to
force natives to urinate in the faces
of fellow-laborers who have fainted
from overwork and starvation, in
one case even shameful murder by
overseer bullies....
It is a frightening document
which should be recommended
reading for all Australians —even up
to Prime Ministerial level.
J. P. ELLIOTT
Ashgrove (£>■)•
Sir,
As an ex-South African and a
New Australian, may I comment
°n Mr A. F. C. Henderson’s letter?
From the eye-witness reports I
have read, no justification of the
Sharpeville massacre would appear
Possible, even allowing for bias
on the part of the observers. One
point that has not been stressed
enough is that Sharpeville was not
ai ) isolated incident. South Africa’s
whites—and particularly its police
an d Army—are tough - minded
enough to make any programme of
civil disobedience en masse not
only unlikely to succeed but also
very dangerous.
Statistics are, of course, danger-
ous, but those available seem to
indicate that very few natives “can
earn a good living.” Most natives
in Johannesburg earn incomes
b'elow the bread-line or minimum
wage to provide food, rent and
clothing. I refuse to believe that
these people are not willing and
able to earn more than starvation
wages—if the South African
economy would allow them to.
Our own former employees
earned an average of 30s. a week,
plus a free hovel and up to seven
bottles of a very weak wine. This
was on a farm 20 miles from Cape-
town, and the men were “coloreds”
(mixed blood). In towns wages are
higher, but not much, and wages
for natives and for those further
from the cities are lower.
I think that any country in which
mails are tampered with and phones
tapped and where the police exert
as much arbitrary power as they
do in South Africa (including
imprisonment without trial) must be
called a police State. I don’t
believe that Mr Henderson knew
any natives personally—if he even
met any other than in a master-
servant relationship he would be
most unusual for a white in South
Africa.
The “pass” laws have not only
controlled the influx of people into
urban areas; they have also forced
them to starve in rural slums and
have forced men to resort to prosti-
tutes and homosexuality by prevent-
ing them from bringing their wives
with them when they do get a
permit to work in the city. They
have taken away the individual’s
right to withdraw his labor by
resigning from a job. The native
who is sacked or leaves his job is
sent back to the reserves.
The natives in South Africa are
poor and illiterate and split by
tribal and linguistic differences.
The whites have a highly efficient
police force and Army. But any-
body who thinks that the natives
are happy or that the present state
of affairs can be maintained indefi-
nitely is deluding himself or is
misinformed.
As for South Africa being the
“last major bulwark against Com-
munism in Africa”—on the con-
trary, it is the spot where
Communism is most likely to enter
Africa. Many native leaders regard
the Communists as the only whites
they can trust. Sooner or later
the white Government in South
Africa will be overthrown, and
unfortunately the resulting mess will
be a ripe (and strategic) plum for
the Communists.
H. W. SHAW
Edgecliff (N.S.W.).
POETRY AND JAZZ
Sir,
One can forgive Mrs Drake-
Brockman her mistake about my
footwear (Bulletin, March 15);
one wouldn’t expect Perth stores
to run to hand-stitched Italian
casuals nor to include in their lists
of fashion colors the comparatively
new tone, “bone.” But her other
mistakes suggest an unexpected
carelessness in so charming and
usually astute a critic.
My recitals are called “Poetry
and Jazz,” not the reverse, for a
very good reason; the poetry is
paramount. Despite my 4000-word
introduction (which most people
found clear and detailed enough)
Mrs Drake-Brockman seems to have
missed the point. It is not the slap-
dash romp her writing implies but


m
jm
mm
m
-
What has this to do
with the C.B.C. ?
Quite a lot! In the days when this sort of thing was
happening we were establishing branches in the country
to help our sturdy pioneers who were opening up the
land.
We have made many friends since those days and
today we are proud to be serving the 3rd and 4th
generation of some of those pioneer families as well
as many of those who followed them.
The manager of the bank’s branch
in your district will gladly tell you
how you can benefit by its wide range
of services and facilities including
C.B.C. savings bank accounts for the
family.
THE
w
tUU
© f
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF~S
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO CLEYE RONALD HOPKINS late
Ingleburn in the State of New Son
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that ®
BRIDGET HOPKINS has filed a Petit
for Divorce No. 4021 of 1960 on I
ground of desertion without just cauel
excuse for three years and upwards
you wish to defend you may enter
appearance in the Divorce Kegis*
Supreme Court Mint Building
quarie Street Sydney by 12th i
1961 and obtain a copy of the Petit
without charge from L. W. WILLIE
Solicitor, of 79-81 Campsie Strj
Campsie, or his Agents, JONES JO* l
& JONES, Solicitors, of 76-78 Clara
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. lIAW
Registrar.
a serious albeit new form
approached seriously and rehearsed
sufficiently to ensure success.
Composer James Pemberthy used
terms like “intuitive genius” and
“the audience was somehow caught
up in the spirit of creation and
given a challenge to thoughtful-
ness” to pronounce us successful,
and in later conversation with me
indicated that it was the informality
coupled with the quality of the
actual work which made “P. and
J.” such a vital and commendable
phenomenon. A better description
than “accompaniment” is given in
the Victorian “Teachers’ Journal”
as “the linking of spoken poetry
and jazz in one fused art form.”
Mrs Drake-Brockman’s careless-
ness with titles is even more extra-
ordinary. “The Long Street” is
by the American Lawrence Fer-
linghetti, not Collinson. Aileen
Palmer’s poem is entitled “Song
From a Distant Epoch,” and
Laurence Collinson’s magnificent
long poem is called “Aspects of
Modern Education” and carries the
sub-title “Double Standards in
Search of a Schoolboy” (Mr. Col-
linson is a teacher).
ADRIAN RAWLINS
Melbourne.
HERBERT v. STEPHEN-
SEN
Sir,
The “hostility” which Xavier
Herbert (B. 29/3/61) states has
existed between himself and me “tor
years” has been all on his side. 1
have not seen him, or had any
correspondence with him, since
1938. I had almost forgotten his
existence until he suddenly
attempted to patronise me in The
Bulletin on March 8.
That attempt to make me the
butt of his crude wit was a release
of his own bad conscience, in his
self-sought “isolation.” The case
is one of Narcissism, the product
of a hermit’s dodging away from
his equals and superiors: exempli-
fied by Xavier's dodging of a
friendly visit from a successful
writer and aviator, Olaf Ruhen.
In city life, or other sociable
contacts, there are not such oppor-
tunities to develop a swelled head.
When Xavier attempts to break the
rules of decent literary conduct by
writing fictional short stories, told
in the first person, with himself as
hero, and living and known persj
held up to ridicule in their J
names, he is due to be pulled i
short; and that is what happen
to him w'hen he tried that
on me.
Most people wouldn't care he
“Capricornia” was made; but
Xavier will place in the Mitch
Library his original typescript,
that novel (the dog-eared one, J
tomato sauce on it, that he wro;
in London), and with it for cot
parison the revised version writh
in Sydney under my tutelage, th f
students may be able to examinetl
effects upon a naive and amateuri
author of a professional editor
helpful criticisms.
P. R. STEPHENS
Cremorne (N.S.W.}.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Nattie and. address must appear «
all MSS. No liability is unJ
taken re contributions votunm
submitted; and no MS. will ]
returned unless stamps uccojj
pany. MSS. should be address
to the Editor; they will be coj
sidered for publication on ilj
understanding that they may 1
shortened or altered as the Ediil
thinks necessary
Z.J.8.: No adventures of inaij
mate articles like pennies aj
broomsticks; they're too like 11
characters in most stories... .J.H
People you meet in parks doii
make good stories —you havecl
got enough on them... .U.H.: I
right, so she brought home]
sailor... .G.O’C.: Heartbreakinl
. ...J.C.S.: Your aged Miss A. hi
such good luck at the races I
half-strangled her before sendi
her home in the R 0115.... R.A.Wj
If the solution is as good as 111
mystery we don't want it... .J.HI
Nice of you not to tell them tkj
had no chance with perpetiij
motion—we’ll help you keep lr
secret.... M.A.M.: “We setlli
down to watch three hours j
pugilism”—we were bored, t00..1
R.C.S.: “Home Units” too skimp!
. ...N.0.R.: If you could ka
that strong feeling, direct languaj
and urgent rhythm, but at the sail
time mould it into a sonnet, orj
least into regular blank veil
you'd have something worll
while... .R.H.: The statue got]
second 100 k... .C.F.R.: Spare ll
mosquito and squash the poem..
J.S.: You should have made mot
of Julia and the muu-muu..
J.S.: You're in:
The learn has been selected, eve
man reported fit, I
Except for Richie Benaud, wltf
resting up a bit, |
All keyed-up and waiting, for t|
liner to depart, :
Each man keen and eager, to pi
a vital part; j
Let’s hope it’s brighter cricket, till
it was in fifty-four,
The totalled runs for one dal
play, was a very poor scoir


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
At this time of rising costs
and falling prices, the main
hope for primary producers lies
in increased efficiency of pro-
duction. That calls for guidance
in dealing with problems, in-
formation on the latest tech-
niques, and advice about how
to apply them, which should
all come from the agricultural
extension services existing
throughout Australia. Accord-
ing to the findings of a com-
mittee appointed by the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricul-
tural Science (and quoted by
tjC. I. A. Beale, past president
of the N.S.W. branch of the
Institute), these extension ser-
vices are failing sadly in their
task at a time when farmers
have most need of them.
“There is a great deal of frus-
tration all round,” says Mr
Beale. “Research men feel
frustrated because the informa-
tion they are obtaining is
tanking up and not reaching
the producers. Extension men
feel frustrated because they are
|oo few in number and because
their facilities and equipment
are inadequate for the task.
Administrators are frustrated
because they cannot obtain
either money or suitably quali-
fied men for the extension ser-
vices. Most primary producers
cannot get the information and
ju'vice they need.”
tj Mr Beale considers that
™iting extension services to
wore or less a Government
function is bound to limit their
iffectiveness. Government
Officers, he points out, are
by having to carry
jut inspections and similar
duties which could be done by
°nen with lower qualifications,
to some extent they are
jound to come under political
control. But, in addition to
jhese disadvantages, status and
Jrospects of advancement
’ t ;|ttered to extension officers in
government service were un-
attractive to trained men in
elation to those available in
Jjpsearch, so that agricultural
n Cle ntists and others commonly
h e §arded extension as a second-
r| e Profession compared with
This hardly helps in
'Uuding up confidence between
dv >ser and farmer.
“So long as the Government
fails to pay the full market
price in the form of salaries,
it cannot expect to attract many
University graduates to exten-
tion work,” Mr Beale con-
cludes. “Industrial firms,
wool brokers, insurance com-
panies banks, the press, and
others, are usually far more
liberal in their treatment of
the extension officers they em-
ploy.”
IyfYXOMATOsis has left a light
1 A infestation of rabbits
throughout Australia, but ow-
ing to resistance to the virus
its effectiveness as a check to
the rabbit-population is steadily
diminishing. The danger is
that, with rabbit numbers still
low, landholders tend to be-
come complacent and so pro-
vide for the possibility of a
future plague if myxomatosis
fails to give some continued
measure of control. Yet, except
for a few properties where
owners have always kept rab-
bits down, the only real im-
provement has been due to
myxo. Two experts from the
C.5.1.R.0. Wild-life Survey
Section—Mr F. N. Ratcliffe, in
charge of the section, and Mr
B. V. Fennessy, one of its
officers—made this clear at a
conference held in Sydney
lately, when a new plan of
campaign was put forward by
senior rabbit-control officers
and research specialists from
all States in the war against the
rabbit.
An annual blitz against rab-
bits was not enough, warned
Mr Fennessy, and myxo. in its
weakened form would flare up
only when rabbits had reached
damaging numbers and had al-
ready taken considerable toll
of production and profits.
Poisoning with 1080 could give
kills almost as high in num-
bers as myxomatosis, but when
the disease was working at its
best, farmers tended to poi-
son only once a year.
The only sensible thing to
do, said Mr Fennessy, was to
organise matters on a commu-
nity basis, so that rabbit num-
bers were kept as low as pos-
sible all the time and in many
areas completely destroyed. He
quoted the New Zealand sys-
tem as an example, because
there locally elected rabbit
boards took over the land-
holders’ responsibility for con-
trol. Unless rabbit-control
organisations in the various
States were reorganised, he
said, “the second century of
the battle against the rabbit
will end as dismally as the
first.”
An important step toward*
freeing the Queensland
cheese industry from depen-
dence on cheddar types was
taken last month when locally-
made blue-vein cheese was
put on sale. Made at Too-
woomba by T. A. Morris, of
the Queensland Agricultural
Department’s dairy-research
branch, in association with the
Darling Downs Co-operative
Dairy Association, the cheese
was the result of overseas
studies and investigation car-
ried out by Mr Morris in 1959.
Starting with successful experi-
ments on Dutch types of cheese
Mr Morris then turned to the
more difficult process of pro-
ducing blue-mould ripened
cheeses. Blue-vein cheese is
normally produced in cool cli-
mates and Queensland has been
importing large quantities from
Denmark and New Zealand.
This successful production is
a landmark in the history of
Queensland cheesemaking.
There’s a lot of research and
experiment still to be done be-
fore commercial production of
blue-vein cheese can be firmly
established under conditions
applying in the State, but pro-
duction is expected to increase
in the near future.
Instead of only cheddar —
all that was available a short
time ago—there are now ten
or 12 different types of cheese
being made in Queensland.
A s I sat pondering the impli-
cations of the last para-
graph, who should come in—
like a breath of fresh air from
the outback —but J. H. (Jack)
Kelly, of the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics, just re-
turned from his tour of the
cattle stations of Northern Aus-
tralia. He tells me that he’s
ready to put his thoughts on
“Well, it Was your idea to send them to the city for a holiday.”


paper; and they should make
good reading, because Jack
knows exactly what he’s talk-
ing about and never minces
matters when it comes to
expressing his views on the
future of Australia and par-
ticularly of the Territory. He
gave a very interesting talk at
the symposium of beef produc-
tion held at Sydney Show-
ground on March 22, under
ffie auspices of the Australian
Society of Animal Production.
ROLLO GILLESPIE
Trees for the Farm
By S. W. KEOUGH
Tn the not-so-distant past, too
many men on the land were
Kelly-happy. The sight of a
growing tree fired them with
an uncontrollable urge to grab
an axe and give it either the
collar-cut or the frill, often to
no purpose. In many areas to-
day you will come upon these
memorials to man’s supreme
stupidity—mile after mile of
gaunt dead trees, still standing
where they were ringbarked
decades ago.
One result of these long
years of ruthless slaughter has
been a serious denudation of
our native timbers. The process
of natural regeneration is neces-
sarily a slow one.
It may be thought that in an
age in which steel, aluminium
and concrete play so large a
part in the construction of
everything from buildings and
ships to sheds and dairies, the
demand for timber would have
been lessened. The fact is that
more timber is used now than
ever, with the demand always
a jump ahead of the supply.
For instance, in the building of
the Queen Mary, five million
super-feet of timber was used
that would represent ap-
proximately five years’ output
for one of our biggest mills.
Forestry authorities in all
States are making big efforts,
by intensive re-afforestation
programmes, to catch up on
the leeway. In the State forests
results of the planning of for-
mer years are now paying
handsome dividends. But it
has to be remembered that,
taking N.S.W. as an instance—
and this would obtain with
slight variations in the other
States —90 per cent, of all land
is in private hands.
It is all too true that there
are still many landholders—
whether they be graziers or
cattle raisers, sheep-, dairy- or
poultrymen, wheat-farmers, or
any other workers of tracts
large or small, who fail to ap-
preciate the value of timber
on their holdings. That old pre-
conceived notion that the tree
is the enemy of the man on
the land too often persists.
In fact, the very opposite is
the case, and the more ad-
vanced men are appreciating
the truth, to their advantage.
The others are paying heavily
for their refusal to see the
benefits.
Take, for example, the
poultryman who just couldn’t
be bothered putting in a few
shade trees near his pens.
Without warning a midsummer
day hits 108 degrees in the
shade. With no shade available
he could lose 1500 or more
out of a flock of 2000—and at
<£ 1 per head that could break
him.
It has been scientifically
proved that windbreaks, strate-
gically placed, can reduce
evaporation and transpiration
by 30 per cent.; they provide
shelter for stock and protection
against soil erosion by water
and wind; increase ground
water-supplies; reduce fodder
consumption by stock in win-
ter and fuel consumption in
the home; provide shelter for
insect-eating birds; and not
only improve the appearance
and value of a farm but make
living and working conditions
so much easier, especially
during the extremes of winter
and summer.
nroDAY windbreaks are being
A used more and more in
systems, arranged according to
the terrain, to form shelter-
belts which give almost com-
plete protection against des-
tructive winds. The N.S.W.
Forestry Department estimates
that a well-designed system of
windbreaks may occupy up to
10 per cent, of the available
farm-land, and that this, far
from being a waste of land,
will more than pay for the
space they occupy.
The short-term benefits that
flow from the planting of trees
on a property are many ; but
the long-term ones are even
more and greater.
The ever-increasing value of
accessible timber has led, in
many cases, to uncleared land
carrying good-quality millable
timber being more valuable
than cleared land in the same
holding. In any case, the man
who has the foresight to plant
extensively on his property
will have right on hand his
future supply of fencing-posts
and rails, the timber for
building and repairing sheds
and home, for decking lorries
and the other innumerable
uses to which it may be put.
His firewood is virtually at his
backdoor. Mills, usually not
far distant, can convert his
trees at maturity into sawn
timber for his use; or he can
sell them “on the hoof” to the
mills.
If the man on the land were
to depend on private nurseries
for his supply of seedling
trees he would not only have
a greatly restricted choice but
it would be costly. For that
reason the various State for-
estry authorities provide ad-
visory and nursery services.
In N.S.W. the Forestry
Department officer whose
patient, persuasive preselytis-
ing, combined with the solid
experience he has had in the
field, is doing much to break
down prejudices against trees
on the farm, is E. L. Regan;
and that he is succeeding in
bringing home to farmer,
grazier, orchardist, cattleman
and poultryman, by pen and
tongue, the enormous benefits
to be derived from accepting
this sound advice, is confirmed
by the steady rise in the num-
ber of seedling trees being
grown and sold at the four
nurseries which the depart-
ment runs at Dubbo, Forbes,
Narrandera and Pennant Hills.
Production costs at all nur-
series are the lowest on record
—which is in itself a wonder
when elsewhere upward-spiral-
ling costs are the order of the
day. In addition, the percent-
age of sales are well up. Last
year Forbes sold 98 per cent,
of its plants, Pennant Hills 89
per cent. Ten years ago no
more than 44 per cent, were
sold. The total sales for the
State last vear was just over
250,000.
Costs of the seedling plants
are low enough to urge any
property owner to go for them
baldheaded. Tubed stock
which would be 99 per cent,
of output, the one per cent,
being open-root seedlings—are
3s. each. But if you buy one
dozen lots of one individual
species there is a discount of
33i per cent.; lots of 250 or
more, 50 per cent.; and 66|
per cent on orders for 1000 or
more. So that the grazier who
wishes to plant 1000 kurra-
jongs for fodder and shade or
Eucalyptus Gomphocephala
for windbreak, shade, honey
and strong wood can get the
lot for £5O.
Along with this almost]
culously cheap service goes
valuable free advice fj
experts: the best trees to g
having relation to dim
rainfall in both summer
winter, type of soil, heigh]
mature trees, rate of gro\i
length of life, wind-firmi*
rooting habit, susceptibility
diseases (particularly as lii
for orchard and crop diseas
crown-density, value of tin
for building or fencing, oi
firewood, etc.
At the Pennant Hills nurs
about 80 varieties of Ei
lypt (Australia has over i
varieties altogether) form
major part of the seed
raised. Each country nurs
gives particular attention to
eucalypts and other nat
trees which are indigenous
or do well in that district,
The other 20 per cent,
seedlings grown are those
ornamental trees, pines, t
and there is a big sale
these to golf-clubs, com
and other public bodies,;
private buyers in cities;
suburbs. Forestry nursei
don’t compete with pro
nurseries in the usual sh
field.
Seed of native hardwood
sent in by Forestry Deps
ment officers from all over
State to be sown in seed-bo
by the thousand. When
their second leaf, sometii
less than half an inch higl
the smaller and sturdier t
are the better—the seedli
are “tubed.”
The tube is a wrap-aroi
metal container 6in. If
open at both ends, wilt
catch-clip in the centre, 1
tube is filled with a mix!
of screened loam and sa
fumigated to keep do
weeds. A dibble pushed i
the filled tube allows aci
for the seedlings roots. Ii
then rammed down tight
placed in trays. Five or
seedlings can be tubed ii
minute.
Semi-protected at first,
seedlings are gradually h|
ened-off, with greater spat
later allowing freer circulaf
of air through them, andi
attainment of a unifij
height.
All the farmer has to
when he gets them is undo
clip and open the tube,
seedling tree will have
roots encased in the earth
shape of the tube, and all
has to do is plant it, will
disturbance, at the s
depth as it was in the t
give it a good soaking"
away it goes, without
check to its growth.


f
ns
J
u
m
Undergarments made from science s new Thermalon Fibre bring spectacular relief!
You wear Thermalon undergarments just like normal undergarments—and by wearing
them you fight your rheumatic troubles all day long. Soothing warmth will flow through
those painful parts of the body, because Thermalon creates Tribo-Electricity, a wonderful
natural force now harnessed by science to treat rheumatism and allied complaints.
Thermalon has been clinically tested and the reports hy sufferers are truly amazing.
Mr. H.J. of Melbourne, VIC.:
"I found a prompt improvement
in muscular pains, common at
this time of the year. My wife
borrowed one of my vests and
also appreciated the comfort and
relief."
Mr. B.M.M. of Woomera: “Since
buying the Thermalon under-
wear I honestly can say I have
received great benefits from
these garments. I am free from
aches and pains, & am free from
bronchitis & feel a new man."
Mrs. A.M.H. of Dulwich, S.A.:
"Please send another Thermalon
vest and pantee as last. I find
they have cured my trouble, but
I wish to keep on with Thermo-
Ion."
This is the simplest way to fight your rheumatic pains—without medicine, ointment or
pills. Even if you've suffered for years, this latest scientific discovery will bring you
amazing relief. Convince yourself, send now for full details FREE to:
THERMALON PTY. LTD., 107/30 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
zn
Making Increase
rTs a ticklish caper, making
1 u p your bee flock! If you
listen to the bee-herds in the
spring, they are going to have
!a hundred nukes (nuclear hives
consisting of three layers) going
by Christmas, or they're going
to double the “Caucasian yard
L.for certain.” They intend to
'get every bottom board pro-
ducing, then poke around again
in the autumn. They rub the
bristly chin, stare over your
head at the west horizon and
.remark how time is the big
factor. And at most of the
1 camps, the nukes are still
stacked and the red-backs are
.’boss of the bottom-boards.
The men who make a living
selling queens and nukes ask,
•respectively 15s. and nearly £37,
Thus pricing themselves out of
a lucrative market for the bulk
of the commercial-honey men
do not buy either nukes or
queens. The breeders depend
for the most part on the back-
yarders, who have more effici-
r ent methods of gathering a few
spare quid together.
,i The bristly bee-herd, back at
the bee camp, is right when he
yblames time and money for the
empty nuke-boxes, but there are
.one or two more subtle reasons
that probably escape him.
r First step in making increase
o is to “bust up” a colony.
not a bee-herd alive
r _who enjoys taking a queen
away from a prospering colony.
: Not only the queen must go but
tiall the unsealed brood as weil
for this reluctant hive will be
the “starter” colony. Result,
j.a “busted” hive. One which
■‘Won’t gather much honey for
‘ weeks to come. Next, conditions
in the field must be fairly good.
sj pnd if the flow is on at ail,
I then the honeyman is more in-
vested in filling honey tins.
Thirdly, for every nuke that is
To be made up, there must be
'available in the yard a colony
•strong enough in bees, brood
r N stores to supply that nuke.
"P an increase of 100 is in-
tended, the honeyman must
-peahen down to a fairly con-
siderable degree 100 of his best
ia |atherers. Whilst he is hesitat-
V§, the flow finishes and the
fljhance is gone. There there
i‘| re technical difficulties. A
tuke taken from the parent
totolony and left queenless on a
i tends to drift back to the
.Wd site. This can be avoided
eT making the increase in one
thfard and moving them to an-
al ther. Even then, some of the
i# u kes will be deserted for
sponger ones or ones that have
retained a queen
"{The next hurdle is setting out
:® e queen-cells. This is where
the bees’ natural crankiness in-
terferes with their well-being.
So engrossed do they become
with the plight of their com-
parative weakness (three or
four indifferent frames of bees)
and their queenlessness, that
they tend to set upon anything
that brushes them. Thus, when
the diligent bee-herd goes about
—carefully giving each of his
morose mob a queen-cell, hold-
ing them the right way up so
that they won’t bruise in the
cocoon, shading them from the
sun, stuffing them in his shirt if
the wind blows cold—hardly
has he set the lid back on the
nuke before the mob are tearing
the cell to pieces and throwing
the cherished result of his toil to
the little black ant.
The next hurdle is mating
time. Those queenless nukes
get so cranky they sit on the
doorstep when the virgin goes
out and if they feel mean
enough when she returns —
which she does if she doesn’t
provide a choice breakfast for
a bee-eater —they lose their
heads and literally tear her
wing from wing.
Woe betide any old and
plodding bee-herd who ventures
to open a nuke in the next
week of egglessness when the
queen is maturing and the bees
waiting and giving the cells a
double polish in readiness for
the first batch. Not only do
they set upon him but again
they turn on their own young
queen and tear her to pieces.
The explanation for this seems
to be that the young queen, un-
fitted by evolution for inter-
ference, panics when the bee-
herd lifts the lid and runs
helterskelter through the small
hive. Every bee-herd has wit-
nessed what happens: the bees
chase after her, some will seize
a wing, some a leg or two and
before the herd has time to
drop a tear for his lost colony
she is held fast by a mass of
insane bees doing their best to
smother or sting her. It doesn’t
always happen. But it happens
often enough for the average
nuke-raiser to keep well off
whilst the queen gets ready to
lay. As soon as she has laid
a few frames out, the brood-
nest is established and the nuke
is a self-sufficient colony again,
the bee-man can open them in
safety and in leisure.
Always, there is a percentage,
rising and falling with outside
conditions, which fail to be-
come hives. The big, success-
ful apiarist manages. His men
gather his crop whilst he raises
queens. He sets aside a yard
of bees to chop up and they’re
not even missed. But the
struggling bee-herd, battling to
pay the baker and the butcher
from his couple of hundred
colonies, watches his bees roar-
ing out to work and somehow
never gets around to chopping
a nuke or two out of ’em.
Therein lies his own nemesis:
caught in that tight circle
he meanders from season to
season and never has enough
bees.
ART HAUSLER


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: "Hop” on Australian Sunday
From THE BULLETIN, July 26. 1890.
SUNDAY OPENING
WORKING MAN: “If you don't open the door We'll have to break it open.”
GILLIES (Premier of Victoria): “Don't ask me to open the door for a continental Sun-
day. Why not stop at the Athenaeum Club and read
the story of Jonah and the Whale?”


The Kangaroo Shooters
By JOHN LEWIS
Hunting where the fences
run away out of the
last of the good graz-
ing country leads you
into places you can be sure you
are the first to have discovered.
Wide, flat valleys where old,
old marsupials had lived out
their lives unmolested for cen-
turies. Dark, rocky creeks
where the hairy, black-faced
wallaroo regards you in won-
der, nuggety and thickset and
harder-living in his stony hide-
aways than his bounding kan-
garoo cousins on the plains.
You shoot duck on lost
lagoons, you stumble across
strange ground formations, you
find bora rings and rude flint
tools in remote corners where
smoke from the white man’s
campfires has never risen
before. The petrol pump on
your ute fails and you twitch
a kerosene drum of fuel on
top of the cabin roof with
fencing wire and gravity-feed
into the carby through an im-
provised line.
You splint a cracked tail-
shaft with discarded bore-
casing heated over a log fire,
pack engine - bearings with
shims cut from the lid of a tin
cl fruit, straighten a bent tie-
rod in the fork of a tree and
hand-rivet rawhide to brake-
drums scored and shiny with
wear.
Unnecessary tasks like wash-
ing clothes are neglected. When
shirt and trousers become too
grimy to wear you put them in
a n old canvas mail-bag with
fhe half-hearted idea of wash-
lng them sometime. You
never do wash them, but when
the second shirt and trousers
become stiff with sweat and
dirt in their turn and you go
hack to the clothes-bag the
first dirty set seems to be quite
flesh again by comparison.
Y°u put them on once more
and stow away the second lot
of clothes.
The hunters found vast num-
bers of pigs in the many chan-
nels of a deep, almost-dry
watercourse. The pigs would
never go far from the soaks and
remaining holes. It became a
contest between Liddy and Pat,
when they had time, to put up
a mob and see how many each
could shoot, for the bounty on
the snouts covered the cost of
bullets, and leaseholders liked
to see evidence of shooters
cleaning out pests other than
kangaroos.
Once Pat found a mob
wallowing, shot the boar and
then twice emptied his maga-
zine into the rest as they milled
around their stricken leader.
That night he threaded 23
snouts like hard leather washers
This is the third and concluding instalment of John
Lewis’s account of a winter’s kangaroo-shooting.
onto a wire, and roasted two
hams from a young sow in the
camp-oven, with wild yams,
tree-cabbage and the last of a
bag of onions. As with the
goats, you have to catch your
pigs early. At a few months
of age they are in pig with
their blood full of toxins.
When a change of diet was
needed one of the men drove
into the nearest homestead for
mutton. Sometimes it was beef,
dry-salted and delicious, or
fresh-killed and even sweeter.
There was never any charge for
the station meat, for in the
country where it is bred it has
no money value. To charge a
visitor for meat would be un-
thinkable.
TN a hunter’s life there are a
A million moments that stand
out, clear as a sharp photo-
graph to the heightened senses
of the hunter himself.
Life is without care, com-
plications or fear. When a
deadly snake wriggles into your
camp it is casually killed, when
the front wheels of the jeep roll
heavily into a melon-hole in
the grass, deep enough to
swallow the entire vehicle, they
are levered back and out with
trunks of small trees felled
nearby with your axe. When
a rushing, whirling willy-willy
takes up the entire camp in its
hot breathless grasp and strews
it over an acre and a half of
scrub, you collect the gear
again without complaint. Only
the hunt matters.
Mounting a rise in the jeep
after dawn you see a long
diamond-snake stretched full
length on the eastern side,
warming itself in the new sun,
a thing of beauty in the dew-
dropped grass. You throw the
gear - lever to neutral, roll
quietly down onto the reptile
and lock the brakes hard at the
last moment, tearing it to pieces
before it can stir.
More than anything, the
emerging diamond-snakes sig-
nalled for Liddy the end of the
winter. They were more a
symbol than the wireless re-
ports of falling prices. Ameri-
can buyers, most discriminating
of all in their appreciation of
the steel-tough lightness of
good kangaroo hide, had filled
their orders. Although the
nights and days remained cold
the winter was ending.
The men hunted as assidu-
ously as ever, but they got the
skins away more regularly. No
mail-truck left the station with-
out a bale or two of theirs.
They moved on now fre-
quently, on and out, and fox
tracks became thick on every
marsupial and sheep pad, the
speedy little animals’ canine
eyes blazing green in the prob-
ing spotlight beam. These
made a good target but like the
pigs were barely worth a bullet.
For a time the shooters were
puzzled by the reflections from
eyes that shone as bright as
diamonds from ground level.
They found by experiment that
you had to be directly above
the pencil-shaft of light to pick
them up, but when you turned
the jeep or ute and drew near
the eyes vanished.
It was Pat who eventually
spotted the flip of a door
swinging shut. Then they found
the so-faintly defined ring of
the trapdoor in the ground,
bevelled at the edges with great
care, hinged on one side, pre-
cision-fitted and next to im-
possible to detect. It is the
entrance to the home of the
night - predatory trapdoor
spider.
When you find a door still
open you cautiously torment
the housekeeper with a twig
until a long, hairy arm reaches
out, displeased with your lights
and your practical joking, and
slams the door shut, clinging to
the subterranean side and re-
sisting all your efforts to prise
the door open again.
T iddy’s parting from Pat was
as casual as their meeting.
They got drunk again in
Bourke in a sedate, post-
graduate way after they arrived
there late that last night, made
some calculations from skin-
brokers’ statements on the zinc
bar, and divided between them
bv cheque a sum w'eli over
£2OOO.
Pat’s earthmoving contract
team had started on Siddenham
Downs, and after a mug of tea
in the camp on the reserve with
Jack next morning he was
gone. They’d meet again one
of these days: “Come up to
Wambo at Christmas, maybe,
Jack. Look after yourself, you
ole bastard. Keep takin’ them
pills. Don’t forget, now . . .”
The shops and small busi-
nesses and cafes had not opened
when Jack drove into Bourke,
a much lighter load under the
worn tarp. on the battered ute
for the return journey.
He had a list of commis-
sions, usual sort of thing: there


Hstab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SULUVAAj
PTYLTD
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS C PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the day right!
r
Hi
HOt fl
-Miiy’**®
THE “WILD CAT’*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
was a note from Bill to Bow-
den’s garage—the mailman had
placed Bill’s battery in the road-
side mailbox on its side, so
Bill wanted battery acid soon.
There was a bag of lemons to
deliver to the doctor. Morrell
wanted a standing order for
bread fixed up at the bake-
house.
Liddy saw the baker about
the bread order and while he
was there bought two meat
pies fresh from the oven. He
would have preferred a cafe
meal but it was too early, and
he had only three shillings in
cash. He parked the ute near
a hotel and ate the pies from
the brownpaper bag.
When he had finished his
breakfast he left the ute and
entered the still building. In
the passageway he passed a
thin, browned young man
carrying a wide-brimmed hat.
“Where do you go, mate? ”
he asked as they passed. The
other paused for a second, don-
ning the hat.
“Out onto the verandah,
’round the corner. Follow the
path.” The young man was in
a hurry.
Liddy found the lavatory
well back in the pub yard. He
had a fancy when using these
that made him always select
the seat furthest from the door,
on the theory that everyone
else uses the closest. But he
had a choice of only two
cubicles this time and someone
had been sick the night before
in the first. The water was
still hissing in the cistern of
the second and Liddy looked
down into the pan in distaste.
He did not like seats already
warmed.
Then he saw it, a black
leather wallet on the floor. He
stooped and picked it up. The
concrete floor was moist and
the wallet was wet on the
underside. Jack Liddy loosened
his belt and seated himself,
opening the wallet in his hands,
elbows rested on his knees.
TTHMat he saw inside made him
™ very thoughtful indeed,
and he sat there a long time
staring at the contents of the
wallet and at the concrete
between his booted feet.
When he walked slowly back
through the lobby of the hotel
a mousy, anxious - looking
fellow with a heavy stoop to
his shoulders had opened a
side door and was tidying the
bar-room.
F. Kerr, North Bourke, had
been scrawled on the crumpled
envelope, and scratched on the
flap of the wallet with a sharp
nail or a needle.
“Yes?” the barman asked.
“Is a Mister Kerr staying
here, do you know?”
“Kerr? Kerr? No Kerr—”
“Young bloke. Thin. Looks
like a sheep man. Wears a
brown hat, wide brim. Riding
trousers, grey sports coat,
laughing-sides.”
“No. No Kerr. Never heard
of him. Never heard of him.”
Liddy drove slowly down the
wide, deserted street and parked
again in front of the Bank of
New South Wales. There he
sat, still thoughtful . . It would
be handy. You could do with
a lucky break.
But you’re doing all right as
it is . . . But you’ll never have
enough money. There’ll always
be a mortgage on the pub . .
Wonder what sort of a cove
he is?
What does that matter? It
would buy the petrol home and
a piano and you’d be able to
dice the old kero fridge. You
could spend up a bit on the
trip home. Stop at the big
pubs. You could even get a
new ute for the trip home,
leave this old bomb here.
Conscience? That talk about
your conscience worrying you
forever is nonsense. You know
that?
Well . . .
What about those horses on
the Barkly? That was no
different. And that wing of
bullocks?
1 didn’t lift them. They got
over the river by themselves,
and I just picked ’em up.
Yair. And it took you two
years to sell ’em, what you
didn’t eat.
It was a company place.
They never missed 'em. Long
time ago, anyway.
Okay —what about the time
you let Ken take the blame for
that bushfire? Or how about
the jack you picked up on the
Tara road?
That was only twelve quid.
Turn the wallet over to the
police.
Like hell. The police will
never trace it. If they did
they’d never shake your story.
How could they prove any-
thing?
What about the girl in
Townsville?
Why bring her into it?
T iddy walked across and
' entered Hales’ when the
doors opened, a place of much
confused merchandise ; hobble-
chains, rope, sides of bacon,
canvas, mountains of tinned
foods, cigarettes, kerosene,
pocket-knives, furniture, boiled
lollies, biscuits, mechanical
lawn-mowers.
The books of Hales would
tell a similarly confused story
of long-term credit to battlers
over many years. Liddy made
his purchases and returned with
them to the ute and then
walked along the pavement to
the eastern side of the bank
and waited in the sun because
it was still cold.
He’s probably rotten with
money.
How do you know?
Most likely he got it easy,
Betting on the horses. Most
likely he’s been born into a
string of sheep stations, never
been short in his life. College
boy.
Well, he didn’t look it. He
might have got it the hard way.
What if he did? You lost
your hat out of the ute yester-
day ; today you find a wallet,
You might blow a tyre today,
The whole engine might blow
up. You might have a heart
attack on the road.
A newspaper boy was pass-
ing and Liddy fished in his
pocket and brought out all the
coins he had, a sixpence, a
threepence and a penny. He
bought a paper and asked for
some coppers, then he walked
across the street to a red tele-
phone booth. The directory
was on the shelf and at once
he found the Kerrs. A girl
answered. Yes, this was J,
Kerr’s. No, there was no F,
Kerr. Don’t know any F.
Kerrs in Bourke. Thanks.
The shooter walked back and
stood in the sun again.
Best to just pocket it and
forget it. You need the money.
You work too hard for your
bloody money.
Hand it to the police.
To hell wdth the police.
You’ve never gone to them
yet.
Well, put it in your kick and
get on the road.
Soon the bank doors opened.
Liddy walked straight in.
He made out a cheque and the
teller nodded.
While Liddy was counting
the notes for himself he asked,
casually, “You know an r"
Kerr?”
“I haven't been here long.
I’ll see if I can find out fo [
you.” The teller disappeared,
returned at once.
“Frank Kerr lives in North
Bourke,” he said. “A cousin
of his just got the licence o!
the hotel there if you want to
find him.” .
“Thanks. Is he in the hotel
business too?”
“No. He’s a drover.”
Of all the sweat-stinking
dead - wool, sway - back, fly-
blown, mis-mothered, cuM
for-age, Barcoo-rotted, No°'
goora-burred bastards! A
drover! Liddy might ha' l
known it.
“Well, thanks. I should v
able to find him.”


SHAV¥—FASTER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
les. Wherever .you may he and at any time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard torch batteries give months of
easy shaving. MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Fully
guaranteed. Complete same day service.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
OST FREE
C U T O D T - I* O S T NOW
({U AL, IT Y APPLIA XCE S,
412 Hardy’s Chambers,
I)e Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
A drover. Earned the hard
way. Twenty-four hours a day
with stumbling, dusty, bleating,
pinhead-brained sheep. Sleep-
ing on the ground with ants in
the swag, mosquitoes in swarm-
ing, bloodthirsty droves. Rid-
ing in the rain. Dry beef and
stringy mutton and tinned
peaches.
At the door Liddy stopped
and turned again to the teller.
“I picked up something
belonging to him,” he said over
his shoulder. “But I got to be
moving on right away. If I
can’t find this Kerr do you
think I could leave it with this
publican?”
“Sure.” The teller smiled.
“You could trust him all the
way.”
On the way out of town the
barman at the North Bourke
pub told Jack Liddy to look
for a tall chap in overalls in
the yard ; and the Queens-
lander found Kerr’s cousin
mending a tap.
“ ’Morning. I’m looking for
a drover called Frank Kerr.
They tell me you know him.”
“Yes, I know him.” The
tall man was preoccupied with
the tap. He glanced up and
then back to his work.
“He was in town early.”
Liddy went on. “Dropped a
wallet. Will you look after it
for him I got to get on.”
The publican took the black
leather wallet and thrust it
casually into a back pocket,
bending again over the tap. He
grunted, busy.
“Well, i’ll get going,” de-
clared Liddy awkwardly. Then,
over his shoulder as he walked
off, “Don’t you drop the bloody
thing too. It’s got four hundred
and seventy quid in it in notes. ’
“Just a minute!” Now the
publican came after him the
open wallet in his hand. He
hesitated, then said, “Look, a
lot of men wouldn't have
brought this back.”
He was speaking to himself,
but Liddy answered: ‘I
wouldn’t blame them. I nearly
wouldn't have myself.”
“I’m going to give you a
fiver from Frank,” the overalled
man decided.
“I'll take it, too. I'll get a
couple of bottles of rum from
you. Tell Frank hip pockets
a ren't any good at all.”
“I’ll tell him.”
“I always find breast pockets
best.”
“Yair.”
“Breast pockets.”
“I’ll mention it.”
“And a safety-pin through
the flap.”
At the aboriginal township 40
miles south of the border
Liddy camped again, and again
he met Charlie. Charlie remem-
bered him, that was plain.
“You still shooting, mister?”
“Done shooting for a while
now, Charlie.”
It was late afternoon and the
billy was beginning to bubble
on the embers, a steak singing
beside it on the hot coals.
Charlie wore a dress now, a
bright floral cotton, quite new
and clean, and you could see
the mounds of breasts and the
lithe hips, soft thighs.
She was no longer bare-
footed but was shod with high-
heeled shoes with long, pointed
toes. Unknown events of the
past months had matured
Charlie. There was no little
shuffle of embarrassment. Her
eyes still roved, but her bear-
ing was direct and she came
to the point almost at once.
With the same sympathy Liddy
recalled the rejected, lost figure
on the lonely road nearly four
months before. She did not
hang her head when he told her
he was broke, but stayed to
talk for a long time before she
returned to the township.
Things were happening to
Charlie. She had been earning
money and some of it had
stuck. Her fees were much
higher. She was engaged to be
married, and soon she was
going to Bourke to help her
man get together the down
payment on a truck to start a
carrying business.
You could see that to her the
prospect was as unthinkably
exciting as a luxury trip f o
Paris. She was growing up into
a smart woman, Charlie. There
was a tradesmanlike way about
her. She would do well in
Bourke.
The ute rolled back through
Brewarrina, Gadooga, Hebei,
Dirranbandi, St George and up
the Moonie road towards the
Tara turnoff. It was a lonely
road, and the driver stopped
seldom, anxious to put the
miles behind him. He would
drive for hours until the road
began to mesmerise him and
then pull off to the side, take
a tot of rum and a heart pill,
sleep lightly and briefly, and go
on.
He grew tired and irritated
at small things, at himself. He
thought with regret of the
wallet and the £470, of easy
shots he had missed over the
weeks gone by, of the work
that lay ahead of him at home.
Of Charlie —why hadn’t he,
anyway?
Approaching the Tara turn-
off at midnight he realised he
had forgotten distances. He
knew the turnoff went around
to the left, but for location he
began watching for finger posts
that showed up in the head-
lights. The signs were all
station names and his tired
mind began playing tricks,
making them seem unfamiliar.
Had he taken a wrong turn?
Another white sign showed
up and the ute was past it
before he could read it. Liddy
braked, reversed, and swung
the wheel so that the ute came
to rest with lights blazing full
on the sign.
No Shooting, it announced.
This annoyed him. He didn't
want to shoot. He had had
a bellyful of shooting. Until
next winter, anyway. What
sort of a goat had put the sign
up? Why? How did he intend
to enforce what it said, in any
case?
Jack Liddy’s temper boiled.
He hated the foolish notice.
He got out of the ute and tore
it and its slender post from the
ground. The violence satisfied
him, and the surge of rage
ebbed away.
He threw the sign into the
back of the ute and drove on,
feeling less tired and more con-
tented with himself.
At last he found the turnoff,
and swung left and on over
Moonie Bridge and past
Tommy Nation’s at four in the
morning.
All was dark in the sleeping
town. He had come nearly 500
miles in good time, and after
a rest in his swag on the road-
side just out of Tara there
would remain only another 300
miles, which he would cover
easily by sundown that day.
Liddy climbed out to stretch
and take a drink from the tap
outside the weatherboard coun-
cil chambers. As he refilled the
radiator with a billy his eyes
made out the bla«k bulk of the
wooden church across the
street.
Before he drove on he
fumbled in the back of the ute
and found the No Shooting
sign. It had broken in two,
but he carried it wearily across
and stood it up against the
church notice-board, so that it
then read:
Next Sunday
Service at 11.30 a.m.
12.15: Shooting.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Clyde Industries, Ltd.
TAespite stiff competition in the heavy
engineering industry the group had
an active and profitable year. Expan-
sion continued; new subsidiaries were
formed and acquired. Group earnings
increased and the 15 p.c. dividend rate
was maintained.
Originally established (as Clyde Engi-
neering Ltd) in 1898, the Sydney-regis-
tered Clyde Industries Ltd is a major
light and heavy engineer, engineering
merchant and consultant, etc.
The rapidly growing Clyde group is
becoming increasingly diversified. Last
term two new wholly owned finance
subsidiaries (Clyburn Finance Pty and
Clyde Securities Pty) were formed, in
addition to Lease Plan (Inc.) Pty estab-
lished in the previous year. This auxi-
liary group is engaged in leasing of
machinery, motor vehicles, plant and
equipment (Lease Plan), general finance
activities (Clyburn) and raising funds
(Clyde Securities).
The basic manufacturing activities in-
clude the production of diesel-electric
locomotives, railway coaches, motor
bodies, bridges, car batteries, garage
equipment, hydraulic pumps and valves,
aluminium kitchenware, plywood and
veneers. Through the subsidiary Martin
and King Pty, the group assembles
Renault’s Dauphine cars and distributes
various spare parts and engineering pro-
ducts, etc. A 24L p.c. interest is held
in Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty, assem-
blers and distributors of Volkswagen
motor vehicles. Recently, a 49 p.c.
interest was acquired in Regent Motors
(Holdings) Ltd.
Last term Clyde acquired British Stan-
dard Machinery Co. Pty (manufacturer
of a wide range of earth moving equip-
ment, low loaders and various metal
products and franchise-holder for the
full range of Gabon graders and road
rollers) and Bethune Holdings Pty (manu-
facturer and distributor of Pomona
pumping equipment, produced under
licence from Fairbanks Morse and Co.)
by an exchange of shares.
In addition, Clyde formed a joint sub-
sidiary, Raco-Bissell (Australasia) Pty,
with Bissell Inc. of U.S.A. to manu-
facture under licence and distribute Bis-
sell vacuum cleaners, floor polishers,
detergents, etc. The actual manufactur-
ing is done by Raco Corporation Pty
(a fully owned subsidiary of Clyde) on
behalf of the joint subsidiary, which
handles the distribution.
Other principal subsidiaries include:
A. C. Willard and Co. Pty (manufacturers for
the food, textile and chemical industries).
Apac Industries, Ltd (jacks and greasing equip-
ment).
Automatic Electric Telephones Pty.
Clyde Batteries Pty.
Clyde Constructions Pty.
Fowler Constructions Ltd (manufacturers of pump*
and valves and bitumen road-making products).
John Carruthers and Co. Pty (consulting engi-
neers).
Lease Plan (Ine.) Pty (lessor of machinery, motor
vehicles and all types of plant).
Martin and King Industries Pty (motor-bodies and
rolling-stock).
Material Handling Pty (tractors and earthmoving
equipment).
Norman N. Benson Pty (engineering agents).
Paul and Gray Pty (ship-chandlery and mer-
chandising) .
Raco Corporation Pty (aluminium hollow-ware pro-
ducts).
The Clyde Engineering Co. Pty (manufacturing
diesel-electric locomotives under licence from General
Motors Corp., U.S.A.).
Westeels Industries Ltd (boilers, steam-cleaners
and machine-tools).
Highly competitive trading conditions
made heavy engineering “the most diffi-
cult” of the co.’s activities. The position
was “aggravated by the intensity of
competition for the relatively small
amount of work offering in relation to
the capacity available.” Rising excess
capacity in the industry trimmed down
profit margins and earning rates.
Intensive diversification and widening
range of products handled by the group
was useful. Merchandising and automo-
tive subsidiaries had another prosperous
year and increased their market pene-
tration. The subsidiaries Clyde Batteries
Pty, Apac Industries Ltd, Martin and
King Pty, John Carruthers and Co. Pty,
the Fowler group, Raco Corporation
Pty and Norman N. Benson and Co
Pty had a very successful year, with
substantially increased earnings. Only
Proofwood Pty traded at a loss, and was
sold at a profit during the year.
Consolidated profit for the year ended
June 30, 1960, was £139,088 higher at
£1,328,849, before deducting deprecia-
tion, amortisation, directors’ fees and
taxation.
After providing £335,456 for deprecia-
tion and amortisation (up £47,105), pay-
ing £16,248 directors’ fees and setting
aside £242,958 for taxation (down
£38,639) consolidated net profit was
£128,834 (or 21 p.c.) higher at £734,187:
Clyde Industries, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves. serves.*
£/ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1954. .337,417 5 if)’ 178,850 158,567 771,275
Reserves capitalised, £220,213 .. 551,062
Share premiums, £31,766 .. .. 582,828
Add reserve adjustments, £58,555 .. 641,383
Add reduction intangibles, £3498 .. 644,881
1955 .379,668 5 10 217,181 162,487 807,368
Less added intangibles, £4932 . . 802,436
1956. .403,543 5 10 228,192 175,351 977,787
Reduction intangibles, £8620 . . 986,407
Surplus on revaluation of freeholds,
£18,600 1,005,007
1957. .462,639 5 277,740 184,899 1,189,906
Reduction intangibles, £171.. .. 1,190,077
Revaluation freeholds, £596,902 . . 1,786,979
Increase book-value over cost, shares
in subsidiaries, £127,316 . . 1,914,295
1958. .547,273 5 12J 296,043 251,230 2,165,525
Reduction intangibles, £6918 .. 2,172,443
Increase book-value over cost shares
in subsidiaries, £413,483 .. .. 2,585,926
Subsidiaries’ plant depreciation
written-back, £150,000 .. .. 2,735,926
1959. .605.353 5 15 420,226 185,127 2,921,053
Less added intangibles, £29,435 .. 2,891,618
Increase book-value over cost shares
in subsidiaries, £396,462 .. .. 3,288,080
Share premiums, £381,800 .. .. 3,669,880
Revaluation assets, £1,569,000 .. 5,238,880
1960. .734,187 5 15 480,136 254,051 5,492,931
♦After deducting intangibles, £54,814 at 30/6/60.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 23.4 p.c. on the higher average ordi-
nary capital (after paying the pref. divs.)
compared with 22.1 p.c. in the previous
term, 24.3 p.c. in 1958, 21.8 p.c. in 1957
18.8 p.c. in 1956 and 18.7 p.c. in 1955.
The lower tax provision looks anoma-
lous, but could have been caused by
“severe trading losses,” incurred by the
subsidiary British Standard Machinery
Pty before the takeover by Clyde and
then charged against group earnings.
The dividend rate was steady at 15
p.c. on the higher capital, and absorbed
£450,136. Reserves benefited by £2 54,051
and also by £396,462 increase in book
value over cost of shares in subsidiaries,
£381,800 share premiums resulting from
issues of scrip to finance purchases of
shares in other public cos. and £1,569,000
revaluation of assets. After deducting
£29,435 increase in intangibles, total con-
solidated reserves and undistributed pro-
fits were disclosed at £5,492,931 (free of
intangibles).
Paid capital rose during the year by
£421,771 in ss. ords., issued in acqui-
sition of British Standard Machinery Ltd,
Bethune Holdings Pty and shares in
certain public cos. (including Regents
Motors). Paid capital at balance date
was £3,699,440 in 300,000 5 p.c. 20s. first
prefs., 300,000 20s. second prefs. and
12,397,762 ss. ords.
In February, 1961, Clyde issued another
1,250,000 ss. ords., ons-for-three at a
premium of 4s. a unit.
Liquidity improved. Theoretical work-
ing capital increased by £837,601 to
£4,152,010. Stocks rose by £1,139,197.
Investments, cash etc., increased by
£2,145,330. Book debts were higher: 1
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Preference .. £OOO,OOO £OOO,OOO £000,009
Ordinary . . 2,2 1 0,3 3 9 2,0 7 7,6 6 9 3,0 99,441)
Reserves .. 2,197,8 2 2 2,9 4 6,4 3 2 5,5 4 7,745
Outside interests 238,299 363.870 437,324
Notes .. .. 1,112,500 722,250 848,750
Overdraft . . 276,473 905,821 1,525,716
Creditors . . 2,587,011 3,500,821 6,142,709
Final divs, . . 100,757 229,922 232,456 ;
£9,395,201 £11,940,785 £18,434,144 I
Freeholds, etc. 2,661,807 2,436,650 3,542,709 i
Plant .. .. 1,369,914 1,533,783 2,783,726
Stocks . . . . 2,371,776 3,288,340 4,427,543
Debtors . . 1,2 2 5,4 3 0 1,9 0 7,0 4 9 2,7 2 4,444
gars* ! >-«m» *.»***
Intangibles . . 32,297 25,379 54,514 I
£9,395,201 £11,946,785 £18,434,144
Creditors jumped by £2,641,888. Bank;
accommodation was £619,897 higher an
£1,525,718. Fixed assets (including free-1
holds and plant) were included at con- 1
siderably higher book values.
Investments in other cos., written up j
by £1,500,000, were shown at £4,900,908.
Diversification and empire-building
continue. An offer was made recently to
acquire Glazebrooks Paints and Chemi-1
cals Ltd.
The heavy engineering market remains
very competitive. This term’s earnings
may be influenced by the dampening
effect of the credit squeeze on the group’s
automotive activities. On the other hand,
the subsidiary Clyde Engineering Co. Pty
has just secured a £1 million contract for 1
13 diesel - electric locomotives from the
Victorian railways. The order comprises
ten locomotives for branch line service,
and three for operation on the express
run between Melbourne and Albury on
the new standard gauge track. Clyde!
has a solid financial structure well pad-
ded by reserves and the future seems
promising.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 15s. a unit for an immediate,
return of 5 p.c. p.a. on the basis oft
the 15 p.c. dividend distribution. The
20s. 5 p.c. first prefs. and 20s. 5 p.c.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 P.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Ralph W. King & YuilS
33 Bligh St., 20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
2-0137.
84 William St., Melbourne. 67-5089.
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191.
Cables: “RAIPHKING,” Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane.
Branches at Grafton and Armidale.
For the investor
who looks
before he leaps
THE
WILD CAT
MONTHLY
is the best
available
company guide
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION:
22/6 from
THE BULLETIN
NEWSPAPER CO.,
PTY. LTD.,
252 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
second prefs. were last traded for 15s.
and 175., yielding 6.7 p.c. and 5.9 p.c.
respectively.
At balance date net tangible asset
backing worked out at £3O 12s. lOd.
for each 20s. first pref., £29 12s. lOd. for
each 20s. second pref. and 13s. lOd. for
every ss. ord., on the basis of consoli-
dated figures.
United Motors (Holdings)
Adelaide-registered United Motors
Ltd sells new and used cars, parts
and accessories, and provides general
service facilities. The co. is one of four
metropolitan distributors of Holdens in
Adelaide ; it also handles the Pontiac.
Xhe “new look” of the United Motors
organisation —parent co., United Motors
(Holdings) Ltd ; subsidiary cos., United
Motors Ltd, United Motors (Wholesale)
Ltd, and United Motors Acceptance Cor-
poration Ltd amplifies the group’s
growing stature and spread.
United Motors (Wholesale) Ltd was
registered in 1958-59, its main aim the
more equitable time-distribution of the
incurrence of sales-tax liability. United
Motors Acceptance Corporation Ltd was
registered in 1960, its aim the processing
of h.-p. business, especially that apper-
taining the group.
Shares in the holding co., formed
little over a year ago, were first listed
in April, 1960. They came onto the
market at 20s. following the equivalent
of a one-for-one bonus issue—two ss.
ords. of the holding co. were exchanged
for each ss. ord. held in United Motors
Ltd. Shareholders in the holding co.
have now subscribed a further issue,
a one-for-one par issue, July 6, 1960
(equivalent to two-for-one on original
holdings in United Motors Ltd). Paid
capital is upwards of £IBO,OO0 —34,000
ss. ords. were allotted after close of
accounts (June 30, 1960 ; accounts were
ruled off twice last year, once on Janu-
ary 31, the old balance-date, and again,
following re-organisation, on June 30)
to trustees of the staff provident fund.
Paid capital, at June 30, was £90,001.
Proceeds from the latest issue (£90,000)
were used to take up, or “capitalise on
a more permanent basis,” 90,000 20s.
ords. in United Motors Acceptance Cor-
poration Ltd —the co. had been financ-
ing selected new and used car vehicles
sales since March.
The Holden franchise was acquired
in October, 1958, when the co. (United
Motors Ltd) relinquished metropolitan
distribution of the Vauxhall. The move
stopped a progressive diminution of pro-
fits since 1956. In the year ended Janu-
ary 31, 1956, profits had risen to record
levels, and at £60,003 were equal to
133.3 p.c on capital (then £45,000).
Twelve months later they had fallen to
£50,610 (112.4 p.c.). By 1958 they had
settled to £32,999 (73.3 p.c.), and by
1959 to £28,357 (63 p.c.). Factors con-
tributing to the decline were increased
s ales-tax on new vehicles (as from March
1956, up from 16f p.c. to 30 p.c.), more
stringent import-controls resulting in
reduction of Vauxhall allocations, and,
Paramountly, the fast growing popularity
°£ the then competing Holden. In
1959-60 (a full Holden year), profits
soared to £51,778 (up £23,421).
Latest results are for five months only
(Feb.-June inclusive) as against 12
months in the 1959-60 term. Consoli-
dated pre-tax profit is down £28,513 at
£55,275, and consolidated net profit
down £20,115 at £31,663 after tax £23,612
(down £8398) and depreciation £2566
(down £3134). Although comparison is
difficult, it is clear that the rate of profit
improved:
United Motors Ltd
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. , —I—Dividend 1 —Dividends ——* serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
£ 138 359
1956 .. 60,003 40 p.e. = 18,000* 42,003 180[362
Tax rebate year-end. Jan., ’55, £1896 182,258
1957 .. 50,610 40 p.c. = 18,000* 32,610 214,868
Tax overprovided, £2711 .. .. 217,579
1958 . . 32,999 40 p.c. s= 18,000* 14,999 232,578
Tax overprovided, £854 . . . . 233,432
1959 .. 28,357 40 p.c. = 18,000* 10,357 243,789
United Motors Ltd and Subsidiary.
Added on consolidation, £231, . . 244,020
1960 .. 51,778 40 p.c. - 18,000* 33,778 277,798
United Motors (Holdings) Ltd and Subsidiaries.
Tax underprovided, £866 .. .. 276,932
June,
1960 . . 31,663 15fp.c.= 7,387 24,276 301,208
* Includes 20 p.c. bonus div. f For five months only.
Earning - rate for the five months (and
on doubled capital), is 35.2 p.c. as against
115.1 p.c., 63 p.c., 73.3 p.c. 112.4 p.c.
and 133.3 p.c. back to 1956. The final
div. of p.c. (£7387) together with an
interim 15 p.c. (£13,500) paid in April,
effected a total distribution for the year
on ord. capital of £90,000, of 22 y p.c.
Reserves, subject to intangibles,
£45,000 (goodwill attaching share ex-
changes on formation of the holding
co.), jumped £23,410 to £301,208.
Balance sheet figures illustrate con-
tinued expansion and purchase of addi-
tional property:
United
United Motors
Motors (Holdings)
Ltd and Ltd and
United Sub- Sub-
Motors sidiary. sidiaries.
Ltd January, June,
1959. 1960. 1960.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. £45,000 £45,000 £90,001
Allotment moneys
paid in advance 86,949
Reserves .. 243,789 277,798 301,208
Mortgage .. 30,000 30,000
Overdraft .. 17,372
Creditors . . 40,344 58,858 100,119
Tax-provision . . 17,000 49,169 55,622
Final divs. . . 13,500 13,500 7,387
£377,005 £474,325 £611,286
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 97,942 168,006 180,623
Plant, equipment,
etc 18,659 20,128 24,180
Subsidiary . . 22,508
Investments .. 2
Stocks .. 149,827 175,010 232,546
Debtors . . 87,334 84,889 150,316
Cash, prepayments
etc 733 26,292 38,621
Goodwill .. 45,000
£377,005 £474,325 £671,286
Liquidity was more than ample with
theoretical working capital bulking a
solid £258,355 (up £93,691). The cur-
rent ratio was a healthy 2.6 to 1.
Directors have forecast 15 p.c. divs.
on today’s capital. The forecast, made
in April, 1960, prior to the credit squeeze,
will involve a payment of £27,000 per
annum. Profits are bound to fall but
the co. is certain —at least it has the
ability—to pay as planned.
United Motors ss. ords. (there are
now 720,000-odd) look a good buy at
current prices. Yield is attractive at
8.2 p.c. granted a continued 15 p.c.
handout. The ords fetched 9s. 2yd. in
Adelaide last week. Net tangibles are
substantial; at 19s. 3d., June 30 last,
when 360,000 ords. were listed.


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
4113 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 87 1324
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
El> EI3D
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,000,000 ISSUE AT PAR
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
J. C. Ludowici and Sons Ly
'T'he Ludowici business has
been trading now f ol
more than one hundred years-
its origins go back to 1858,
The co. was incorporated j t
1891 and converted to public
status in 1911. • J. C. Ludowici
and Son Ltd has never passed
a dividend.
The co. is very modestly
capitalised—it is no empire
builder —-and nearly half of the
£225,000 of paid capital consists
of pref-money. The co. has
had a rather unpredictable
course of profits in the past,
these being subject to the
market for hides and leather
and fluctuating industrial de-
mand, but a disposition to
share the wealth when the going
is good, or even when it isn't
so good, has always been the
outstanding attribute of the)
board.
Ludowici was set-up basic-
ally as a tanner, with the
emphasis, initially, on industrial
leather belting—indeed, some
of the co.’s present employees
actually made leather springs
for the last of the Cobb and*
Co. coaches —but the scope of
manufacture has steadily taken
in other power-transmission
accessories and now includes)
pulleys, drives, bearings, gears,
industrial gloves, etc. There)
are also agency lines such as
switchgear and electric-motors'
More recently the co. began;
to manufacture synthetic elas-
tometer products for a wide
range of industrial applications,
and it now has a full engineer-
ing and supervisory staff con-
trolling the production of
moulds and “tools of extreme
accuracy and precision.” The
moulds are used in the co.’s
plastics division which produces
Lur e n e hydraulic packings.
And finally “further develop!
ments” have occurred in the
production of polytetrafluo-j
roethylene parts, marketed un-
der the brand-name of Lupac-F,
and generally known to the.
industry as Fluon or Teflon.
Latest profits from Ludowici
—for the 12 months to Decern-;
ber 31, 1960 —are satisfactory
despite the higher costs en-
countered during the year. The
co. has made substantial pro-
gress in relatively new spheres
of activity and so long as trad-
ing remains buoyant in these
various spheres of activity and
so long as there is a substantial
market for the new products
the higher costs should be
absorbed. “Should sales fall
off, however, the company be
comes relatively more vulner-
able as a result of heavier over-
heads.”
The latest showing, at £43,9®
(down £2727), was
after writing-off £16,511 f° (


4 IB&l 1
Closes 14th April
SECURITY!!
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
CD
CO
■
Registered in Sydney , Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Fmantiers Established 1882
DIVIDENDS HAVE BEEN PAID ANNUALLY
SINCE THE COMPANY WAS ESTABLISHED
79 YEARS AGO
il
PER ANNUM 5-10-15
20 Years
6 MONTHS
2 YEARS
9 MONTHS
3 YEARS
12 MONTHS
4 YEARS
Interest Payable Quarterly
Free of Exchange
DIRECTORS
T. H. Martin W. R. Schofield (Chairman) Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange) Kindersley
House, 20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
84 William Street, Melbourne, and at Armidale and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie St., Canberra (Members of
Sydney Stock Exchange) .
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA:
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN QUEENSLAND:
Charles Elliott & Son (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange),
35 6-358 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
S. C. Ward & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.),
25 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANTS
Kent, Brierley & Fisher, Chartered Accountants.
APPLICATIONS and PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:—
0 AS! Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Deposit & Investment Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel. BW 4521-2-3
AND BRANCHES:
City Road (opp. Grace Bros.) MA 4563 —Hurstville 57-8026—Parramatta YL9761
—Bankstown 70-7122—Newcastle B 1040 —Wollongong B29lB—Cessnock Cess. 415
—Goulburn Goul. 2485—Canberra J 3992.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
depreciation (up £2143) and
providing an unchanged lump
sum £30,000, for taxation:
Dividends Re-
iw Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
v ’ £ p.c. p.c. £ £
,052 30,289 5& 6 15 23,416 78,482
1053' 21,106 5& 6 12 20,500 79,088
1954 .36,379 5& 6 15 24,250 91,217
1055.. 41.610 5& 6 15 24,250 108,577
Assets revalued, £192,795.. 301,372
1956.. 367 5& 6 15 24,250 312,489
Xo staff fund, £5OOO . . 307,489
Profit sale assets, £6844 . . 314,333
1957. 5& 6 15 24,250 314,884
Freeholds w/down, £14,685 300,199
Capital profit, £11,460 .. 311,659
Xo reserve for doubtful debts,
£3OOO 308,059
1958. o& 6 IT*2/,3i5 316,335
Freeholds w/down, £11,341 304,994
Capital profits, £12,605 .. 317,599
To reserve for doubtful debts,
£2OOO 315,599
To staff fund, £4OOO . . 311,599
1959. 0 7 5& 6 15 24,250 334,056
Freeholdi w/down, £37,667 296,389
Profit sale assets, £56,772 353,161
To reserve for doubtful debts,
£3OOO 350,161
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 348,161
To maintenance and re-
organisation, £.3000 .. 343,161
1960.. 43.980 5& 6 15 24,250 362,891
‘lncludes bonus 2§ p.c. in 1958.
After satisfying pref.-div. re-
quirements (a steady £5500),
the earning-rate on ord. capi-
tal (£125,000) worked out at
30.8 p.c. as against 33 p.c. in
the preceding term, and 23.6
p.c., 15.4 p.c., 23.9 p.c., 28.1
p.c. and 24.7 p.c. back to 1954.
The ord.-div. was steady at
15.p.c.—in 1958 a special 2\
p.c. centenary loading was
added to the basic rate.
Freeholds were written down
by £37,667, £3OOO was trans-
ferred to reserve for doubtful
debts and £2OOO to the staff-
fund. A capital profit of
£56,772 was made on the sale
of the old Marrickville (N.S.W.)
property —the Marrickville
plant was transferred “without
any appreciable loss of produc-
tion” to new and improved
premises at Lane Cove
(N.S.W.). Reserves, including
undistributed profits £19,730
(a shade under 45 p.c. of
total profits), rose £28,835 to
£362,891 (almost three times
aggregate ord. equity).
Ludowici operates in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide ; also
in Brisbane where the newly
established branch has just con-
tributed its first 12 months
trading. The book-value of
freeholds, last term, increased
a net £7546 to £322,190, reflect-
ing Lane Cove additions,
£58,265, and Marrickville dis-
posals £50,719. The last two
years have seen considerable
improvement to the general
condition of plant and buiid-
mgs at Lane Cove and renewals
and maintenance charges, to-
gether, have exercised a heavy
burden on profitability. “It is
hoped that by the end of the
current six months the re
mstallation of certain auxiliary
equipment will be completed
and from then on we hope to
begin to reap the twofold
benefits from lighter renewals
?nd maintenance charges and
miproved efficiency . . The


mm
CONSUL? THE MAN WHO CAN
advise yen on year investments
He will tell you how to increase your income.
Invest in Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
FIRST MOR
DEBENTURE
9s>
| P.A. 10 YEARS
9>
P.A. 4 YEARS
SHORT TERM RATES
8% p.«. 12 Months' Notice
7% P.A. 6 Months' Notice
6% P.A. 3 Months' Notice
5% P.A. 1 Month's Notice
Interest Paid Quarterly Free of Exchange
RENEWAL INTEREST RATES apply to all investments. FUNDS MAY
BE WITHDRAWN in a personal emergency.
CAMBRIDGE
CORPORATION
Prospectus available from
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
The Company's Offices,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House,
249 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 5542
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Corrie & Co. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Leonard G. May (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
or any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
CANBERRA.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
CLIP and POST COUPON
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED CC62
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus
with Application Forms.
NAME
ADDRESS.
(Bu’iietln/i’O)'
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
C lncorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
book - value of plant, etc.
jumped £31,937 to £127,249.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital- £ £ £
Pref. . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Ord. . . 125,000 125,000 125,000
Reserves .. 316,835 334,056 362,891
Mortgage .. 48,883 71,291 67,446
Overdraft . . 87,688 36,433 71,755
Creditors . . 73,759 91,272 99,048
Staff funds . . 12,826 18,643 17,352
Final div. . . 12,925 9,800 9,800
777,416 786,495 853,292
Freehold . . 321,296 314,644 322,190
Plant, etc. . . 97,086 95,312 127,249
Shares . ! 34,378 34,378 34,287
Stock . . 194,627 191,997 192,637
Debtors, etc. 129,712 148,352 176,646
Cash .. 317 1,812 253
777,416 786,495 853,292
Liquidity is reassuring. Work-
ing-capital was more than
ample (down £14,402 at
£171,611) with the current ratio
a healthy 1.9 to 1. Debtors in-
creased by £28,294 to £176,646 ;
overdraft by £35,322 to £71,755.
Shares, valued at cost, £34,287,
comprise holdings in Mel-
bourne listed A. Flavell Ltd —
oil seal manufacturers and
Tinsley-Lloyd Investments Ltd
—69,143 10s. ords. in A. Flavell
(market value, latest quotes,
£62,229 ; div.-rate Ilf p.c.) and
1996 20s. ords. in Tinsley-
Lloyd (£3518 ; p.c.). In-
vestment in A. Flavell Ltd. was
increased last term by receipt
of bonus shares, one-for-seven.
Turning to the future, chair-
man F. J. Ludowici said in
Sydney last month, “. . . while
our sales for the first two
months of the current year are
comparable with last year and
we expect to maintain them at
least at this level, the next
couple of months will reveal,
we believe, the effect of the
present economic policies on
the economy generally and on
our sales and earning rate in
particular.” The co. is pinning
its hopes on a continued devel-
opment of new products even
though earning power might
suffer temporarily “in a period
of depressed trade as a resuit
of the bigger overheads which
this policy necessitates.”
Investors, meantime, remain
optimistic, attaching consider-
able importance to Ludowici’s
deserved reputation for reli-
ability. The market has con-
tinued to support Ludowici
scrip despite Change despond-
ency ; the 20s. ords. have
slipped in recent trading, but
only slightly, from 735., the
high point reached last Octo-
ber, to 68s. 6d. last week. Im-
mediate yield is 4.4 p.c. on the
15 p.c. div.-rate. Net tangible
asset backing, conservatively
reckoned, weighs up a solid
£3 18s. Id. Prospective buyers
should not overlook the possi-
bility of a cash and/or bonus
issue in the next year or so.
The 20s. 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
last changed hands at 15s. a
unit; the 20s. 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
at 17s. 6d.
COMPANY NOTES
PJastalon (Holdings) Ltd
T>lastalon (Holdings) Ltd
will launch an export drive
of high-frequency electronic
machines and ancillary equip-
ment produced by a sub-
sidiary, Amtrac Electronics
Pty, to Asian markets.
These machines, ranging in
output from 600 watts to skw.,
are used in the manufacture
of rainwear, toys, stationery,
hospital appliances, packaging
and novelties. The latest
machine developed by Amtrac,
a I.skw. desk-type welder, will
be on display on board the
Trade Ship, Straat Banka,
which will visit a number of
Asian ports in June and July,
1961. Plastalon’s associate
director and engineering
manager, Mr E. P. Treacy, will
travel on the ship.
The old-established export-
import firm of Kian Gwan
Ltd has been appointed as the
agent in Asia. Kian Gwan,
with head office in Holland,
maintains branch offices in all
Asian countries. The Austra-
lian subsidiary, Kian Gwan
(Australia) Pty Ltd, specialises
in development of exports from
Australia.
OIL AND MINING
Ampol
A mpol Petroleum Limited
has registered a new sub-
sidiary, National Share Ser-
vices Pty Limited, to “operate
and maintain stock, share and
note registers for large or small
public companies.”
The new company would em-
brace Ampol’s existing share
department, said to be one ol
the biggest and most efficient of
its t> pe in Australia. Registers
now handled by the company
include Ampol Petroleum Ltd,
Ampol Exploration Ltd, and
Bowling Centres (Holdings)
Ltd, involving more than
130,000 separate accounts.
The new subsidiary is said to
have adequate premises, effi-
cient staff and modern equip-
ment and to be in a position
to offer “a complete service
in the share registry field.’’
It maintains branch offices in
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart and has agents in Can-
berra. Registered office is in
Balmain, N.SAV.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
fur how long lias Eau-de-Cologne
■been manufactured as a specific
pjitme ?
Eau-de-Cologne is supposed to
Have been established by an Italian,
Giovanni Maria Farina, who settled
a, Cologne in 1709. The perfume
Had gained a high reputation by
1766, the year or Farina's death,
and the secret of its manufacture
was kept by members of the taimly,
who still make it under the name
of the founder. The discovery is
also ascribed to Paul de Feminis,
who is supposed to have brought
his recipe from Milan to Cologne.
01 which he became a citizen in
1690, and left the secret, at his
death, to Farina. It was prepared
from an alcoholic infusion of cer-
tain flowers, pot-herbs, drugs and
spices, distilling and then adding
definite quantities of several vege-
table essences.
What is the first recorded instance
cf a snowfall in Sydney ?
The following account, from the
"Colonist” of June 30, 1836,
describes what was probably the
first fall since settlement.
"Tuesday last, the 28th current,
will De memorable in the annals of
this good town as the day on which
its inhabitants were favored for the
first time with snow. The fall was
by no means considerable in
Sydney, although we are told it was
several inches deep towards Parra-
matta. It lay for an hour or two
on the tops of houses, and in other
similar situations, and the Sydney
boys were seen for the first time
in their lives making snowballs.
The day was very cold throughout.
We never felt it so cold before in
Sydney.”
• * • •
When was coal first exported
from Australia ?
The first Australian coal exported
was a load of 45 tons which was
exchanged for a quantity of nails
and iron with the master of the
ship Cornwallis. Captain Michael
Hogan, who arrived with a group
of Irish convicts in January, 1800.
The coal, from the Hunter River,
was taken to South Africa. The
first regular export, also to South
Africa, began the following year,
using the locally built Anna
Josepha.
* • • •
What was a "pise" house ?
“Pise” (pounded), more fully
“pise de terre,” is used to describe
the method of building walls with
rammed earth. The method seems
to date from the goldfield days. A
pise house is usually erected by
pounding the earth on a wood and
iron frame, as hard as possible,
until the walls are completed, then
cutting out doors and windows.
This is a fairly rough-and-ready
method, but other pise houses were,
and still are, constructed of
pounded, but unbaked, earth bricks.
The exterior surface can be
smoothed with lime and white-
washed, and the finished product is
usually much cooler than an
ordinary brick house.
• • • •
Why is the plimsoll line on ships
so called ?
The plimsoll line is named after
Samuel Plimsoll, an English poli-
tician. Plimsoll, keen to reform
the practise of using unseaworthy
and overloaded ships, entered
Parliament as a Liberal member in
1868 and tried to get a bill passed
to this end. Failing in this he
published a book on the subject
called “Our Seamen,” which created
a great deal of interest, and the
next year succeeded in having a
Royal Commission appointed. In
1875 a fresh bill was introduced,
but later in the year Disraeli with-
drew it.
PJimsoH's efforts, and public
agitation, forced the Government to
act and an amendment was passed
to the Merchant Shipping Act which
gave strict powers of inspection to
the Board of Trade and made
provision for the “plimsoll line.”
How is weight-for-age calculated
for horse racing ?
Weight-for-age is allotted on a
specific table whose weights vary
according to the time of year and
the distance of the race. Initial
weights are calculated on races ol
six furlongs and under for the
month of August. Variations occur
at five other distance limits (1 mile.
14 mile, 2 miles, 24 miles and three
miles) and in each month of the
year. Two- and three-year-old
horses carry less weight in the
longer races; five-, six-year-old and
aged horses carry more. Mares
have an allowance which decreases
three times in the year.
• • • •
What is the meaning of “bogey”
as used in golf ?
In 1891 the first golf competition
against a “ground score” took
place at Great Yarmouth, in Eng-
land. By ground score is meant
a score based on the supposed
number of shots that should be
played at each hole. At the time
there was a popular song called
“Hush, Hush, Here Comes the
Bogey Man.” The “Bogey Man”
became the imaginary opponent
a player had to beat, and he later
was elevated to “Colonel Bogey.”
Bogey was at first a fairly liberal
estimate for the “proper” score for
a course, but it came to be of a
standard which we would now call
standard scratch. It has never been
as exacting as a par rating, and
in America it now signifies a score
of one worse than par. Bogey
competitions have now to a great
extent been superseded by Stable-
ford competitions in England and
Par competitions in America. In
Australia both the latter are fre-
quently played and bogey has no
real significance at all.
When was the doctrine of the
divine right of kings established ?
The doctrine has never been, as
such, established. It may be true
to say that it reached its ultimate
definition, and gained its greatest
number of adherents, after the
Reformation, when the challenge to
Papal authority gave it. a new
importance, but its origins are much
older.
The doctrine of the divine right
of kings is based on a kind of legal
fiction, or presupposition. When
any State has become civilised there
arises a need for government.
When this government, in whatever
form it takes, has been established
for a short time the supposition,
based on natural law, arises that
there exists some form of moral
contract betweeen government and
governed—a contract that on the
one hand acknowledges the right to
just government and on the other
acknowledges the right to govern.
When government is by king, the
idea of succession enters the con-
tract, and one of the easiest ways
to support claims to the legality of
royal succession is to increase the
fictitious right to govern by religious
connection. In some ancient
societies the founder of a dynasty
proclaimed himselt an ancestor of
his gods. The advent of Christianity
in the West may not have led to
this, but the right of a Christian
king to govern was churned more
strongly than the righj of a pagan
king. Lj
What is the best way in which
to learn passages of prose and
poetry by heart ?
It is difficult to give, a specific
answer to this question, but the
following general principles should
help:
1. Read the whole of the passage
(whether poetry or prose) through
several times and try to learn as
much of it as possible at the one
time, either by writing it out or,
preferably, by saying it aloud. It
is more difficult to learn a passage
line by line, and this (method has
the advantage that the sense of the
passage will be clear all the time.
2. Do not spend Tpo long a
period at one time trying to commit
anything to memory. One and a
half hours is perhaps the maximum.
3. Once the passage is well
known, put it aside for 12 hours
and then go through it again. This
will enable you to hold it in your
mind for much longer.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 638
Across
I—Nipponese editor was prankish. (5)
4—Film-acting Diana is against a type such as engage in
bull-fighting (8)
9 Baldy has failed in such scaring. (4-7)
10— Timber journal. (3)
11— It may appear as a rasher
essayist. (5)
12— Sport to brace a midget. (3-6)
13 — Space advantage in a tennis
match provided by the better
hotels. (4, 7)
17—Wider peaks, (anagram) (10)
20—Got the disgraceful sack wherein
I searched. (9)
22 — Medieval official seen here about
the mother of us all. (5)
23 — Unmarried roaring of a Spanish
town. (3)
24 — Furniture of a French story can
be opposed. (11)
25 — Shingle the first person in English
and Roman and Californian
port. (3, 5)
26 — A stew prepared as an outcome
of the heatwave. (5)
Down
I—Hooch1 —Hooch makes a policeman cry
for a truce on literature of soap-
operatic quality. (4, 10)
2 and 3 —A swarthy blueblood
Satan. (6, 2,8)
4 Indicate a fieldsman. (5)
5 Credit one lineless garment. (9)
6 Leave to follow the condition of
he who lies low. (5)
7 Tell about the unpunctual. (6)
8 — Garden game isn’t in it!
Enlargement is essential. (14)
14 — Newly organise the back moun-
tains. (9)
15 — Hates Devonshire river boxes. (9)
16— Seems able enough to gather
together. (8)
18 — Cross into the middle of
Spain. (6)
19 — Sticky Spanish hero of six. (6)
21 —James of Spain is to leave twice,
once permanently. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 637


Am
&
• ' ??£■
?m:c
>
up
m
■m-
Uubi
r*%»
ft-
/ jm
T^l
kML
/ :■ „
THE MAN ON THE
LAND KNOWS
FROM EXPERIENCE
There is NO satisfactory
substitute for
STEEL PIPE
Steel Pipe is simply a way to carry
things almost without exception
the best way.
Steel Pipe carries gas, chemicals, oil, wires,
cables, voices and WATER.
From almost every point of view: strength, long
life, versatility, ability to withstand pressures,
exposure and economy there is not, and
never has been, any satisfactory substitute for
steel pipe.
So, for agricultural needs, in particular, specify
STEEL PIPE wherever water has to be conveyed.
STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . ECONOMY . . .
EXPOSURE PROOF . . . GREATER PRESSURES
. . . VERSATILITY
STRENGTH
LONGER LIFE
EEmJn
EXPOSURE PROOF
GREATER PRESSURES
VERSATILITY
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
09' LVSS
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle,
Wollongong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs
AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie
