

The Bulletin
What the Japanese Think of Us— page 22
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
January 11, 1961
Price 1/-
D U SSELDORP'S DAY
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


The Red Page
E. O. SCHLUNKE’S STORIES
There is a line somewhere in E. O.
Schlunke’s writing—not easy to say
exactly where —that divides his sim-
plicity from his cleverness. I have no
doubt whatever on what side of that
line lies his true greatness as a story-
teller.
On the one hand his stories grow
from the soil, on the other they spring
from the brain. And it was a good
brain, active and inventive, and it had
learned to overcome the difficulties that
beset writing —but the crop, alas,
though more plentiful, lacked some
indefinable and elusive quality.
Perhaps the point can be best made
by reference to a problem of the
Riverina wheatgrowers, and it was
Schlunke himself who once outlined it
to me: modern methods, new varieties
and extended use of artificial fertilisers
had enormously increased the area and
production of wheat, but the gluten con-
tent was constantly being lowered. And
so—at least it seems to me—the wider
range of his more recent stories had
lost something analogous to gluten
I might admire many of these stories.
The writing in them, for one thing, was
better, certain crudities had been
skilfully eliminated, but the real affec-
tion I have always had for his early
work was often hot so strong for these
—not nearly so strong. Take a story
from each side and make compare.
Not quite at random let us select “Old
Heinrich and the Lambing Ewe” and
“Into My Parlor.”
They are, each of them, I think,
written by a man of no common power.
But one is written in the slow, sweet
rhythm of the earth—the other in cruel
and polished prose. There is humor
in the first, the humor of the accom-
plished country man, and it shines
quietly in humans and animals alike.
It is that rare sort of story that makes
one lastingly grateful that it ever came
to be written—hardly so much written
as growing. But there is humor, too,
in the second —a hard and bitter humor
that makes one feel anything but
thankful, for the laugh of the cynic is
not pleasing.
And, yet, in its way, “Into My
Parlor’’ is almost superlatively good
Clever, but isn’t it just a trifle too
slick? At least that is how it came to
me, making me feel sorry that
Schlunke ever wrote it. The two stories,
each so good in its own way, served
to illustrate a great disparity, a -vast
gulf.
Eric and I over the years fell into
the habit of exchanging manuscripts,
It is a good practice and so often pro-
ductive of joyful moments. Of disap-
pointments, too, at times. One of the
first of these exchanges was a novel
that had been accepted by a Sydney
publisher and vetted ready for print-
ing. And then the publishers jibbed
and threw it back to the author. I
can only imagine how bitterly Schlunke
must have felt, for already I realised
keenly enough how seriously he took
his work. I read that novel with infinite
pleasure, amid which I felt and shared
some of his bitter disappointment at
this last minute summary rejection.
I don’t know how the minds of
publishers work, but I imagine that
in them shrewd business instincts are
not altogether wanting. Of necessity—
else few books would ever get pub-
lished. This book did not seem to
have the promise of a bestseller to it.
Its appeal would be a limited one. But
to me it was pure gold in every out-
crop it explored. Or, to vary the simile,
there was the wholesome smell of the
good brown soil in every page of it,
the music of the eternal seasons, the
crackle of ripened straw and the happy
and anxious sweat of harvest. A lovely
piece of work, so natural and uncon-
trived.
And at once I understood that
.Schlunke was one of that small band,
who make the good fruitful earth a
very character in their stories. And
the whole scene becomes not merely a
background but a character, too. No
Australian writer, as far as 1 know,
has succeeded in so doing as pre-
eminently as Schlunke. And few Eng-
lish writers.
Fortunately the book was not
entirely lost. Parts of it, incidents of
it, were worked into short stories and
subsequently published. His third- and
fourth-generation German settlers were
rescued from the condemned pages—
and they live on gloriously in all their
virtues and foibles.
Incidentally, I was prompted to sug-
gest to Schlunke that, despite the pub-
lisher’s action, he widen the theme and
develop a saga that would cover even
more adequately the land-seeking Ger-
mans in their journeying from the
Barossa to the Riverina. Going back
over a hundred years to Governor
Grey’s time, to that second migration
to the upper Murray and, after
Robertson’s Act, to the northern
Riverina. A wide canvas and one
worth filling. How far he toyed with
the idea I do not know, but nothing
apparently came of it. Some day some-
one will surely do that story, but I feel,
in advance, that it will not be done.
however we!!., better than Schluni
could have done it. A vague resent
ment haunts me, too. that that Sydnt
publisher had helped to discourage hj F
and perhaps put him off the theme.
Fairly recently I read another nove
in MS. He told me he had sought it
vain for a. publisher. But this time
could not share his disappointment
Possibly, if printed, it would have solo
far more than his first, but it woulc
not have added, ultimately, to his
reputation. A clever piece of ingeniou
invention and given over damnably to
a process of psychological analysis, ano
probing. With very little, or mert
echoes at most, of the old Schlunk
in it.
I can’t determine why he abandoned
his old German settlers, and, later, his
truly delightful prisoners -of - war
Maybe they abandoned him at last
Perhaps there was a feeling that he had
ploughed all the furrows that field
could hold and he must break ness
ground. If so, the new ground was
beyond the limits of profitable culti-
vation.
What I sent him in exchange hardlj
matters here. Mostly unpublished
work, which I fear will remain so
Despite that he was ever the merciful
and great-hearted critic. More so than
ever I deserved. But always our really
common meeting-ground was the land
We warmed to each other there, though
I could never give expression, as he
did. to that keenly felt affinity with the
soil—and give that expression the true
touches of the lyric and idyll.
And now he remains to me the Ger-
man peasant—under a different skj
and circumstance—made articulate. I
can appreciate that aspect of him, for
half of me also stems from the Ger-
man peasant, and that has made me
love his early Riverina stories so very
much—not merely for the literary
qualities alone. And that is why. most'
of all. that I regret his later abandon-
ment of the rich field he had worked
so successfully. But he has left enough
of really good work to give him an
honored niche in' Australian writing.
Brian James
Chisholm on Lyrebirds
The Romance of the Lyrebird. A. H.
Chisholm. Angus and Robertson.
275. 6d.
Readers familiar with birds and bird
books might think that most of what
can be said about the lyrebird has been
said already: but not so. Mr Chisholm
takes a historian's rather than a
naturalist’s viewpoint this time and
from the first page of his introduction,
when he is talking about the references
to the lyrebird in Judge-Advocate
Collins’s “Account of the English
Colony in New South Wales,” it is
(Continued on page 49)


x- •**
-&*<
v/X
Mils
!«&•«■«<
ass
'.»W>s->--
Holden’s 12 years
Australian experience
is worth a 10t... to you!
PROVED
THE FINEST VALUE BY
750,000 AUSTRALIAN OWNERS
PROVED
SIX-CYLINDER PERFORMANCE
PROVED
RELIABILITY AND LONG LIFE
PROVED
OVERALL ECONOMY
PROVED
HIGH RESALE VALUE
PROVED
ROADABILITY UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
PROVED
NATION-WIDE SERVICE
Enquire about convenient GMAC Hire Purchase.
It s worth lots to you, because Holden engineering has been proved right for
Australia by 750,000 owners. And it’s worth a lot to you in sheer motoring value,
because model by model, Holden has been made even finer value. In Holden you
get more room, more luggage space, more quality, more proved features for your
money than in any other car.
POLICY OF CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT
Every improvement on Holden during
the past 12 years has been influenced
by the reports of Australian owners.
Holden is the only car designed specific-
ally for Australia, so it has more of the
things you need for Australian motoring.
PROVED ON AUSTRALIA’S ONLY PROVING GROUND
At Lang Lang, Victoria, GMH operate
the only automotive proving ground in
Australia. Here, Holden has been proved
right for Australia by millions of miles
of testing.
EXCITING TO OWN
Holden gives you beautiful styling,
luxury appointments and sparkling
colours in Magic-Mirror Finish. And
you enjoy six passenger comfort with
more room than in any other car of
comparable price. You also get a six-
cylinder engine which gives the best
combination of power, economy and
long life.
Holden is your finest motoring invest-
ment. It’s backed by the new GMH
Protective Maintenance Plan and a
guaranteed supply of genuine low-cost
replacement parts. So call at your
Holden Dealer’s showroom. Discover
why Holden is the car for you.
HOLDEN -AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAB—£BBs'«*,™
Z 199
■SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S PTY. LIMITED*


The Bulletin
JANUARY 11, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4222
INDEX
COVER STORY
Dusseldorp’s Day 10
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Wheeler’s Return; Futile
Petition ; Labor in N.G.;
Frightening Report ..... 6
Political Points ... .. ... .. 19
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities .. ... ... ... .. 38
Personal .. 14
Service and Information .. .. 42
Society ; 8
FEATURES
How NOT to Get a Novel
Published ... .. .... 20
What Asians Think of Us.
No. 3: Japanese ....... 22
FICTION
Princess Jasmine Flower, by
Hal Porter ..... .. .. 16
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
How to Boost Exports/ .. 34
The N.Z. Share market ..... 36
Wild Cat Pages ... ... .. .. 24
LETTERS 46
MAN ON THE LAND
Uneconomic Dairyfarms: A
Way Out 43
Citrus from the Sand ...... 44
OVERSEAS
The Moscow Summit Confer-
ence .. ; .. ... .. .. .. v 40
-REVIEWS
The Red Page
E. O. Schlunke’s Stories 2
Verse 49
Shows .. .., .. ... .. .. 26
SPORT
Making Their Pitch ...... 31
John Schofield .. 33
WOMEN
Back in Fashion Cast-iron ;
The Beauty Business .. 29
NEXT WEEK
THE SENATE
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
How Labor Could Win
(Some) Election
IF Mr Calwell really wants sometime to win a Federal election—and
incidentally to revive the Australian Labor Party’s collapsed integrity—
there is one simple thing he could do that might set about a train of events
that would end up shunting him back into office. He could announce
next week that no A.L.P. supporters should vote the Communist ticket in
this year’s Waterside Workers’ Federation election.
This is not a suggestion that the A.L.P. should set up Industrial Groups
again. (Although there would be nothing wrong with that. Why shouldn’t
the A.L.P. try to drive Communists out of the union movement?) It is
merely a suggestion that Mr Calwell should get up on his legs and say that
Mr Jim Healy and his associates are Communists and that in the interests
of Australian democracy the Australian union movement and the Australian
Labor Party they should be kicked out of office.
He might even go down to the wharves and say it. Mr Menzies has often
shown how courting interjections and even threats of violence can rebound
as good P.R. Yet the last time Mr Calwell went down to the wharves (in
Melbourne) during a wharfies’ election it was to speak from the same
platform as the executive about peace, or something, thereby giving A.L.P.
members the idea that they might as well vote for the retiring executive.
There is no doubt that if A.L.P. leaders gave public encouragement to
the anti-Communists in the Waterside Workers’ Federation this would, over
a period of time, drive Healy and his colleagues out of the union executive.
In 1946 an anti-Communist group kicked the Communists out of the Sydney
branch. They only lasted for a year because they were not properly organised.
There is certainly no doubt that if the Industrial Groups had not been
disbanded they would have got Healy, and every other Communist union-
leader by now.
But not only will Mr Calwell and his associates not give encouragement
to union anti-Communists. The whole A.L.P. apparatus still operates to
support Communist control of unions. Anti-Communists are driven out of
the A.L.P. or constantly smeared as red-baiters, anti-Labor agitators or
pro-Catholics; State Executives turn a blind eye to the unity tickets A.L.P.
members enter into with Communists ; and A.L.P. leaders fawn on men like
Mr Healy and play up what are reported to be their pleasant personal
characteristics —which is as relevant as saying that Stalin was kind to
children or Hitler to dogs.
| F Mr Calwell began to say what he thinks about Communists in unions
(presumably he still thinks it) and got some of his supporters to do the
same he would help cleanse the union movement, he would project the
kind of courageous anti-Communist image of himself that would get him
votes, and he would ensure that if he ever does become Prime Minister
Communist unions could not wreck his Government as they wrecked the
Chifley Government in 1949.
He might also, of course, get himself the sack. His attack on Communist
union officials would infuriate the Victorian A.L.P. Executive, which still
seems to set the tone of the whole A.L.P. The long-delayed fight about who
is going to run what kind of A.L.P. would be on. Would that matter? If
Labor ever wants to present a sensible kind of image of itself to the electors
and regain the support of D.L.P. voters it must have this fight. Otherwise
things will stay as they are, with the moderates temporising forever with the
Communists and the near-Communists, partly through fear, partly through
sentiment and partly through sheer inanition.


HELP COMING?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wheeler’s Return
'T'he Public Service Board is a power-
point in the Commonwealth public
service. On occasions it has been very
important, but recently it has tended to
be in eclipse, its top men a little on the
outer because the problems facing Aus-
tralia were mostly economic and they had
not the technical knowledge sufficient to
make their weight-felt. But the board’s
next chairman, sallow, sharp - featured
Frederick Henry Wheeler, has that know-
ledge and could make his weight felt.
Wheeler is an example of the returning
native who finds success waiting for him.
When he left Canberra for the opulent
Siberia of an 1.L.0. appointment at
Geneva some eight years ago he was a
disappointed man.
True, he was going to a job for which
many of his colleagues would have given
their eye-teeth. As Treasured and Finance
Controller of the International Labor
Organisation, he was to start on 13,000
dollars a year tax-free. True, it was
a prestige job for which there had been
many international claimants. True, he
was to live in an attractive city with
limitless opportunity to see Europe in
comfortable circumstances.
- But Wheeler, who despite his youth—
he was 37 in 1951—had been the con-
fidant of some of the most powerful
figures in Australian politics, had wanted
other things.
When G. P. N. Watt retired as Secre-
tary of the Commonwealth Treasury that
year, Wheeler had wanted to be his suc-
cessor, and despite his relative inex-
perience he looked for a while as though
he was well in the running. But the
appointment was within the jurisdiction
of the then Treasurer, Arthur Fadden,
and Fadden was a “Wilson” man. Roland
(now Sir Roland) Wilson got the appoint-
ment, and Wheeler, frustrated, looked
round for other fields to conquer.
When Wheeler later accepted the
Geneva appointment, his erstwhile rivals
in the same public - service age - group
breathed a sigh of relief. With Wheeler
gone, their way up the ladder would
be much easier.
Occasionally stories drifted back to
Canberra of how Wheeler was enjoying
life in Geneva, how effectively he had
been assimilated into the European scene,
and how his salary was rising. For the
rest he was forgotten, and it was taken
for granted that his career in the Aus-
tralian public service was over.
But if Wheeler was forgotten, he did
not forget. About a year agojie returned
for a holiday to Australia and, naturally,
revisited Canberra.
At that stage nobody was worrying
overmuch about the impending retire-
ment of Sir William Dunk, chairman
of the Commonwealth Public Service
Board. There was plenty of time —over
a year—to fix upon his successor. The
“boys” who could see themselves as the
next titular head of the public service
were biding their time.
Wheeler, a very competent player in
the field of bureaucratic politics, drifted
round seeing people —important people.
The most important was Prime Minister
Menzies himself.
Wheeler has some fine qualities. In
the public service world of tortuous, in-
volved thinkers who can have every
detail of a many-sided problem at their
fingertips but who cannot reduce the
problem to its essentials, he has a mind
that works clearly and simply —a quality
that endeared him to and made him an
important influence upon the late J. B.
Chifley when Chifley was Prime Minister
and Treasurer.
Menzies, who had inherited Wheeler
as an adviser from Chifley (just as
Chifley in his turn had inherited him
from the earlier Menzies and Lyons
Governments —Wheeler started with the
Treasury as research-officer in 1939) also
liked Wheeler, probably for similar
reasons.
Whether Wheeler turned his holiday
last year into a working one is known
only to Wheeler and Menzies. But sub-
sequent events showed that Wheeler had
lost none of his charm. Not long after
it was announced that when Dunk re-
tired in early 1961, Wheeler would suc-
ceed him.
The announcement caught Dunk’s
other would-be successors on the wrong
foot. They had not expected the Govern-
ment to act with such swiftness and
finality. Bitterly they complained that
“the Wheeler charm is still working” or
made disparaging remarks about “exiles”
who had been given preference over
those who had stayed loyally at their
desks at home instead of pursuing glamor
jobs overseas.
Actually the p.s. job (salary £6900 a
year) is a testing for Wheeler. Though
Chifley always regarded him highly as
a “pure” administrator, Wheeler in Aus-
tralia was an adviser and economic con-
sultant rather than an executive, and the
chairmanship of the Public Service Board
is strictly administrative.
There will be highly critical eyes watch-
ing Wheeler’s every move from here on.
The Works of Satan
/'An the Melbourne books of J. B. Were
and Son, and lan Potter and Co.,
two of the biggest Stock Exchange
brokerage houses in the nation, are a
number of Anglican clergymen who regu-
larly invest —the euphemism for having
a go on the extremely volatile Australian
stock-market.
This form of gambling for private gain
has not yet. earned the censure of the
Anglican Synod, but the simpler pleasures
of its flocks, such as mystery envelopes
and spinning-wheels, have been expressly
forbidden. The most intolerable dif-
ference between the two, apparently, is
that the second is open and public, and
not a broker-and-client confidential trans-
action.
The man who brought this up is a
recent arrival from Suffolk (England), the
Rev. Arthur Dence. In the four months
since Mr Dence became vicar of Drys-
dale and Portarlington (near Geelong), he
has discovered vestrymen acting for the
Demon King with gambling devices on
which it is possible to lose upwards of
a shilling.
obviously a man who likes
to be noticed, lost no time in communica-
ting with the Anglican Archbishop of
Melbourne, Archbishop Woods, and get-
ting a ukase from him on the use of such
shilling shockers at the seafront carnival;
and when the carnival workers looked
at this with their blind eye he purpose-
fully strode to the scene, spoke in a loud
voice and put an advertisement in the
local newspaper.
Discussing these efforts later, the vicar
said the vestrymen would now Suffer the
Consequences. It is quite clear that they
are now in danger of eternal damnation.
Actually the presumption of Mr Dence
in his first months in Australia is high.
The carnival is held for five organisa-
tions, including the local Catholic
Church, the R.S.L., the infant-welfare
centre and the fire-brigade. At least two
of these, the ex-Servicemen and the
R.Cs., are incorrigible and unrepentant
gamblers with small change, and there
have, been no protests from the others.
Mr Dence might have done his church
more service by making his protest pri-
vately to his vestrymen, having already
put his objections to his Archbishop. He
could then have gone for a hike, as did
Archbishop Woods.
Futile Petition
r T''HE futile petition to the Queen to
disallow Sir Garfield Barwick’s Uni-
form Divorce Bill met the only fate to
be expected for it.
The petition was organised by an
ephemeral body called the Association
for the Defence of the Family, with head-
quarters in Melbourne. It asked that
the bill be refused Royal Assent in its
entirety, or alternatively that Clause 28M,
which provides for separation for five
years as a ground for divorce, be re-
jected.
The promoters secured 155,000 signa-
tures, many of which no doubt were
those of people ready to sign anything,
and the executive of the association is
naively indignant that the Common-
wealth authorities submitted only the
first of the 4000 pages to the Queen’s
scrutiny.
Whether there were 100,000 or a
million signatures on the petition it was'
bound to fail. The most useful purpose
it served was to point to another section


of the Constitution which has become
obsolete and which calls for elimination
when, if ever, the Constitution Act is
revised.
Under Section 58 of the Act the
Governor-General may either give assent
to a bill in the Queen’s name, or refuse
or withhold assent. Section 59 provides
that the Queen may disallow any law
within one year of the Governor-
General’s assent, and Section 60 that any
bill reserved for the Queen’s pleasure
shall have no force unless her assent
is notified by the Governor-General
within two years from the day on which
it is presented to him by Parliament.
In the earlier period of Commonwealth
history there are instances of bills re-
served for, and denied, Royal assent —
the Customs Tariff (British Preference)
Bill of 1906, for instance, which the
United Kingdom felt might cut across
some of its treaties;
The powers of the Crown in the same
matter came under review again when
the Judiciary Act Amendment Bill of
1914, and the subsequent one of 1939,
were in passage.
But, short of proof of illegality patent
and clear, and transgressing the Consti-
tution, it has been unthinkable since the
passage of the Statute of Westminster
in 1926, and certainly since its adoption
by the Commonwealth Parliament in
1942, that the Crown would refuse assent
against Ministerial advice.
Any refusal by the Crown, and par-
ticularly by the Queen in person, to give
assent to a legal Act of Parliament against
the advice of Ministers would cause a
Constitutional crisis calculated to shake
the foundations of the relationship be-
tween the Queen and Parliament and the
Commonwealth itself.
The Act will be proclaimed on Febru-
ary 1 on the opening of the Victorian
courts (the first to resume after the
vacation), and objectors to its provisions
can only follow the advice of the Rev.
Gordon Powell, of St. Stephen’s Presby-
terian Church, Sydney: “Since the bill
has passed through the democratic pro-
cess of Government it must be respected.”
Labor in N.G.
Tn an unexpected and welcome breach
A of bureaucratic traditions the Depart-
ment of Labor and National Service last
week published a Report on Labor Mat-
ters prepared by the Tripartite Mission
to New Guinea. Its publication could
not have been more timely—the same
week in which troops of the Pacific
Islands Regiment demonstrated over de-
lays in granting them wage increases.
The report is itself a victory for the
department, since although the five-man
mission consisted of two employers’
representatives (Mr A. M. Simpson and
Mr A. L. Blake) and two unionists (Mr
A. E. Monk and Mr W. P. Evans, both
of the A.C.T.U.)—apart from Mr H. A.
Bland, secretary to the Department of
Labor and National Service —they all
ended up supporting the departmental
line of paternalistic caution.
They opposed, for example, fostering
trade-unions: “We are inclined to think
that nothing should be done for the
present to force the growth of trade-
unionism.” Their reasons for this deci-
sion was the absence of the sort of
“exploitation” that has led the British
trade-union movement or the I.C.F.T.U.
to encourage unionism in other parts of
the tropical belt ; the zeal with which
Administration guards the interests of
Papuans, sometimes even Overdoing the
“fairy godmother” role; the lack of
understanding of unionism by natives
outside Port Moresby ; and overseas
experience, which casts doubt on the
value of trying to impose unionism from
the top. The mission did, however, think
that native co-operatives and friendly
societies should be encouraged.
The same caution inspired the mission’s
remarks on the desirability of introducing
arbitration machinery. We must not
think in Australian terms, they say. What
suits one country may not suit another.
Even if serious disputes are likely to
arise in the future, there is no need
prematurely to constitute comprehensive
machinery—machinery which may in
fact never be needed. But it urges the
preservation of the Native Employment
Board with advisory powers and the
setting-up ad hoc of conciliation officers,
or a special investigation.
In the field of wages policy the mission
was more critical. A new salary struc-
ture should be worked out: it is ridiculous
that the rawest native clerk gets £2O a
week while an experienced native planta-
tion worker earns only 255. a month’
(plus rations and accommodation). It
was also adamant on the need for legis-
lation governing workers’ safety, health
and accommodation (labor inspectors
have been too lenient with native entre-
preneurs) ; the need ultimately to abolish
the indentured-labor system with all its
inefficiency ; the need to accelerate the
technical and managerial training of
native workers: “While we recognise that
an enormous effort is about to be put
into the general educational programme
we feel that somehow or other greater
provision should be made for educational
training.” They want to see more techni-
cal schools and the extension to New
Guinea of the Australian Institute of
Management.
The report is a step in this direction
but with native soldiers striking and
trade-unions developing spontaneously
the main criticism must bear on its con-
servatism. It does, however, look ahead
in one respedt: Expatriate Australian
public servants should, it says, receive
the same rate of pay as natives, plus the
difference between this and what they
would get at home, plus extra allowances,
in order “to attract and retain them
pending nativisation”!
Frightening Report
'T'he primitive conditions of science-
A teaching in Australia are never
openly mentioned in the report just re-
leased by the Western Australian division
of the Australian and New Zealand
Association for the Advancement of
Science on the teaching of science in uni-
versities and schools, yet they underlie
all its recommendations.
The series of reforms it proposes look
like overdue repairs, and point to a situa-
tion in science-teaching in Australia
which may be quite as alarming as Pro-
fessor Messel would have us believe.
Its recommendations on the improve-
ment of facilities for science-teaching in
secondary schools are frighteningly basic.
It finds that scientific training is at present
hampered by over-large classes, lack of
equipment and sufficiently trained techni-
cal assistants, and, at times, shortage of
raw materials. It suggests such primary re-
forms as the reduction of class numbers to
24, the installation of enough equipment
to enable students to work independently,
or at most in pairs* and the provision
of technicians for school laboratories to
release teachers for their proper academic
duties. It also makes the astonishingly
simple suggestion that the University, the
Education Department and the indepen-
dent schools should co-operate in buying
equipment from overseas and in estab-
lishing a central supply department for
the collecting and distributing of biologi-
cal materials.
The report's elementary nature is no
reflection on its value. The people who
subscribed to it range from university
professors to private-school headmasters,
and the degree of their unanimity sup-
ports both the urgency of the reforms
and their suitability for the entire educa-
tion system.
In recommending the abolition of the
Junior (or Intermediate) and the Leaving
examinations and the substitution of a
general certificate of education at the
end of the fourth secondary year fol-
lowed by a university entrance examina-
tion at the sixth year, the report points
the way to a solution of the problem
of inadequate preparation for university
study. At the same time it seems unlikely
to impinge too heavily on the basic job
of secondary schools, which is to train
youth to face the problems of everyday
living.
At the university level the report
recommends a more broadly based
science degree for science-teachers while
rejecting the idea of a separate teacher’s
science degree. It also suggests measures
designed to keep teachers up to date
with new scientific developments, to keep
specialists teaching rather than push them
into administration, and to encourage
competent teachers without degrees to
study at university on a full-time basis.
The report delivers a stinging rebuke
to the teaching standards of universities
themselves when it urges a policy of
appointing lecturers, particularly those
engaged in teaching, “who not only have
the necessary knowledge but who also
have the ability to impart it to students.”
The next step will be the establishment
of a committee by the association to in-
vestigate these recommendations.


Society
Sin City
of the South
Adelaide’s saloon-bar wits are being
highly diverted by two contrasting
moral views of their staid city.
Rigby and Ward, the brilliant satirical
combination from the Perth “Daily
News,” recently visited Adelaide in search
of high' life and excitement. They pub-
lished a most depressing report. The
moment “the sinful darkness is about
to sneak up on them, Adelaide’s citizens
respond by scuttling off the streets as if
there were rumors of radioactivity in
Rundle Street... .comes the curfew and
the whole milling metropolitan popula-
tion suddenly melts away in what must
be the most efficient piece of city
evacuation in the world.”
Rigby' and Ward found few oppor-
tunities to fall victim to the demon drink:
“By signing approximately as many legal
documents as a tribe of Walussi warriors
would need to enter Australia as nomi-
nated migrants, a genuine out-of-towner
can get a drink after 6. It beats me
why South Australians put up with all
this gloomy nonsense.”
The Rigby-Ward satire moved a well-
known Adelaide ecclesiastic to comment
in public print: “The mockery of virtue
is Satan’s chiefest weapon.”
Local patriotism, however, is not dead!
Reporters in Adelaide’s “Truth” were
hard at work disproving the Rigby thesis,
jealously working to prove that Adelaide
has as much right to the proud title of
Sin City of the South as Melbourne,
for all its mobile bordellos. “Truth”
made a nocturnal exploration of Hindley
Street and found enough vice to make
Collingwood seem like a residential for
retired Pilgrim Fathers.
The headings screamed: “Girls, white
and colored . . . liquor in coffee cups . . .
tough bodgie groups . . . sailors.” (It’s
a little hard on the Navy that Adelaide
should consider sailors “a spicy ingredient
in Adelaide’s night life.”) “Truth’s”
special reporter found the steaming
centre of Adelaide vice at a solitary fun-
parlor: “You can hear the jukebox
blaring into the street. There are pinball
machines, youths and girls clustered
laughing and swearing. There were three
aboriginal boys drinking cordials at the
bar” (coke-addicts no doubt).
The reporter, taking his life into his
hands, approached the aborigines. “How
do you get a girl around here?” he
asked.
“Dunno,” said one of them. “We’ve
just lobbed in from the bush.”
Irked, the reporter thea approached a
half-caste youngster, demanding a girl.
“Go to a pub and find yourself one,”
replied the youngster incredulously.
But a sucker and his money are soon
parted. The reporter offered the lad a
pound-note. Disbelieving his luck the
half-caste took it and said: “I’ll see you
back here in half-an-hour and fix you up.
I have to go home to tea now.”
The reporter’s luck was in. The lad
did turn up again and faithfully pointed
in the direction of some aboriginal girls.
The reporter was disgusted and shocked:
“They were dressed in dazzling colorful
sweaters.” That, apparently, was all he
got for his pound.
But the payoff came later in the night.
He got a coffee-and-brandy in a dim-lit
restaurant after hours, and it cost 3s,
(which sounds cheap compared with
Sydney prices). Thus, through diligence
and doggedness, “Truth” justified its
headlines “LID LIFTED FROM
ADELAIDE VICE.”
Without doubt Adelaide is the true
Sin City of the South . . . and be damned
to Rigby and Ward.
AN OPEN LETTER
“Mrs H. Warren, of the Salvation Army,
who for 4\ years has written 1200 letters a
month to members of the Outer Circle
Womenls Home League and also kept up a
personal correspondence of 50 letters a month,
is to hand over her pen to the new secretary,
Mrs Bramwell Lucas.”
Dear Mrs Warren,
Care the Salvation Army,
Your monthly correspondence would
drive me barmy :
Twelve-hundred letters to outback women
who in due course
Respond like twelve-hundred unleashed
artesian bores —
What puzzles me is how you find time,
once or twice a day,
For your fifty personal letters a month
when you’ve really got something to
say ;
Though, in order not to add to your
epistolary congestion,
I’d rather you treated my remark as a
purely rhetorical question.
I’ll just say, as you lay down your pen:
Mrs Warren, thanks a milliam ;
If the Postmaster-General were here, he’d
. thank you also,
Yours truly,
SWILLIAM.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“I 'm Mrs Lumley from Vagabond. Could I borrow a pint of oil, a cup of sugar, a vulcanising outfit, some
baking-powder and an egg-beater ?”


The Certainty
With Sharks
Swimmers at Sydney’s surfing beaches,
where an unusually large number of
sharks have been sighted, are offered the
following rules governing shark behavior,
compiled by the ’Curator of Fishes at
the Australian Museum from-reports of
shark attacks all over the world:
Sharks attack (1) on the surface ; (2)
near the bottom ; (3) isolated individuals;
(4) swimmers in a crowd ; (5) near the
beach ; (6) well out to sea ; (7) when the
tide is coming in ; (8) when the tide is
going out ; (9) in daylight; (10) by night;
(11) when they're hungry; (12) when
they’re not hungry.
The only certainty is that they don’t
attack so much when the water is cold.
But swimmers aren't around then, either.
♦> ♦> *l*
And There
Was Light
Tn a Melbourne bar an odious young
* advertising man who seemed entirely
assembled from teeth, cuff-links and
moustaches was being introduced to a
jargon of his peers as “The chap who
thought up the car gimmick.” The car
gimmick, one learnt, bordered on the
subliminal. His client, a famous auto-
mobile company, delivered some models
by road, in convoys. The odious young
man had suggested that the cars should
“Now, I'm different —I can never remember FACES!”
be driven with their parking-lights on,
thus attracting attention from oncoming
traffic.
Later, the conversation forgotten, we
drove the Hume Highway. In the heat
of noon, on a straight stretch, a car
dawdled toward us with burning yellow
eyes. “Chap’s got his lights on,” the
driver said, and switched his own lights
on and off in warning. The oncoming
car left its yellow stare unaltered. “Here's
another one with his lights on,” the driver
said as a second car appeared. ‘‘There’s
another one behind him, too. What’s
wrong with these chaps?” He tooted his
horn and switched his lights on and off
again. The cars with their lights on
passed us gravely.
“There’s a whole convoy of them,” the
driver said, almost running off the road
as he watched them. “A lot of new
-——-s. Now, why would they all
have their lights on?”
❖ ❖ +*♦
Curmudgeons
at the Terminals
HThe arrival of the liner Oriana at
Sydney’s new overseas terminal and
the announcement that new radar
approach equipment has been ordered for
Sydney airport made the man in the
street feel, as the New Year came in,
that Sydney was indeed keeping up with
the world.
Only a few curmudgeons pointed out
that the new terminal had no parking
space for cars, offered no facilities in the
Customs area (where long waits for
baggage were unfortunately the rule) for
getting anything to drink, and that the
moving belts for bringing up the baggage
from the ship were not much good at
actually finding missing pieces.
Similarly,, as the jets flew over and
everybody basked in the Civil Aviation
Department's announcement that our
record in air-traffic accidents is enviable,
only a few returned travellers pointed
out that one reason for this is that our
skies are practically deserted by compari-
son with those round New York or
Chicago. Chicago’s main airport handles
1200 arrivals or departures every 24
hours, and frequently has two aircraft
moving off down the main runway while
a third lifts into the air at the far end.
That was Society...
The highest people in rank and
society at St Mark’s, Darling Point
(Sydney), are the plainest dressed. The
others cannot afford to dress plainly.
— “Bulletin,” January 8, 1881.
Governor Hopetoun states that he
has an engagement on hand for every
day of the next three months. A
Governor’s life is an arduous one
nowadays. So is the life of the Indian
fakir who undertakes to stand on one
leg for a quarter of a century or more,
and it is quite as intellectual. —
“Bulletin,” November 1, 1890.
The Sydney boarding-house is,gradu-
ally leaving Macquarie Street, Phillip
Street and Wynyard Square for
Darlinghurst, Bayswater Road and the
fashionable Wollahra. The popula-
tion of Sydney must have wonderfully
increased during the past few years,
for during that time hotels, coffee-
palaces and boarding-houses have
arisen in all directions, and the tariff
has not decreased. The Hotel Metro-
pole opens this month. Darling Point
is fast losing its “exclusiveness.” More
than one-half its present residents are
wealthy traders —not retired from
business. A city alderman has a fine
place there, and some most unsightly
boarding-houses have recently been
erected. Even its proximity to the
(Sydney) I Zingari Cricket Club will
scarcely save it if the present invasion
continues. — “Bulletin,” January 18,
1890.
Young Judge M , of Sydney,
promises to be a big improvement on
the old gentleman, who, notwithstand-
ing that his intentions were always
excellent, somehow or other could
never see more than one side of a case.
The young judge has just had his bap-
tism of blood as a full-blown Supreme
Court justice. He was “deeply
affected while passing his first death
sentence.” By the time Judge M- ——
has been on the Bench for a few years
and sentenced a few scores of people
to be skinned and hanged under dear
old Sir Alfred Stephen’s bloodthirsty
Botany Bay laws he won’t sniffle and
drop tears as big as horse-beans when
ordering somebody to be choked.
Experientia docet and case-hardeneth.
There are some Australian judges to
whom a double-barrelled hanging
sentence is merely an ante-prandia ;
sherry and bitters. — “Bulletin,” March
8, 1890.


DUSSELDORR’S DAY
By GORDON BRADLEY
IF anything since the war has changed
in character more than the popula-
tion of Australia, it is the sky-line
of the cities. And it seems appropriate
that our newly cosmopolitan communities
are receiving their most striking face-lift
from a New Australian with steam-shovel
and concrete-mixer, a Dutchman named
G. J. Dusseldorp.
At present directing £15,000,000-worth
of construction, ranging from the tallest
residential block in Australia to the most
remarkable opera house in the world, this
newcomer to the local scene has not only
revolutionised our current approach to
the techniques and financing of building,
but has managed, somehow, to create an
almost mystical rapport with that pillar
of pre-stressed independence, the Austra-
lian worker.
The public image of the man is of a
powerful and steel-reinforced tycoon, a
speculator in sky-space who has ridden
the building wave right up the beach. But
is Dusseldorp really like that? And how
has he achieved his mastery of labor
relations, unparalleled anywhere else in
the industry? How will the threatened
collapse of 4and speculation affect him?
Will he ever have as much effect on the
way people live as he is having on the
way their cities look? What, in fact, is
really going on behind those hoardings
labelled “Civil and Civic” and “Lend
Lease,” the two companies that Dussel-
dorp controls?
The best way to find out seemed to
be to meet the man not in his office in
Caltex House (which he built), but on
the job— to go round with him and see
just how he operates. But his public
relations counsellors were at first doubt-
ful. “He’s extremely busy,” they said.
Finally they called back. “How about
the end of Christmas week?” they said.
“Mr Dusseldorp’s visiting the sites to
wish the men a merry Christmas. He’ll
be at Toohey’s new office block in Surry
Hills at two o’clock.”
At a quarter to two, two days before
Christmas, work had stopped on the
Toohey’s site. About fifty men, riggers,
steel-fixers, concreters, carpenters, and
laborers, were gathered on the ground
floor, eating prawns, sausages, and sand-
wiches, and drinking beer and whisky-
all on Civil and Civic. /
“I heard of a firm charging thirty bob
a head to go to the Christmas party,” said
one man, drawing another glass of beer
with relish.
Sharp at two the head-office party
arrived: the general manager, the N.S.W.
manager, the construction manager, and
Dusseldorp himself.
Dusseldorp is a well-built man in his
early forties. He has a strong, handsome
face and a cool, direct look under a
broad brow. His dark hair is cut boyishly
short, but grows down his neck in a way
unmistakably European. On this occa-
sion he wore a light grey suit, a white
shirt, and a blue tie. The only decorative
touch was a pair of opal cuff-links. He
headed straight for one of the men
around the barrel of beer, greeted him
by name, and shook hands.
As Dick, as they all called him, began
peeling and eating prawns in the middle
of a growing group of men, the site fore-
man, watching from the sidelines, ex-
plained some of the secrets of Civil and
Civic’s success.
“They know what every man is doing,
all the time,” he said. “Every man on
the site is fully occupied, all day. I’ve
never seen anything like it in this game.
In most building jobs, work just goes
on until the job’s finished. Half the time
there’ll be men doing nothing, or sweep-
ing-up, waiting until some part of the
work is ready for them to carry on. A
firm like that never knows how much
the job really costs.
“Here, everything that every man does
is listed by the leading hand on time
sheets, jobs across the top, hours down
the column, and totalled up both ways.
The site managers from all Civil and
Civic jobs meet every Monday night to
discuss progress and hold-ups. First they
try to find work on their own site for
anybody with nothing to do. If there
are concrete form-workers doing nothing,
we’ll get them fixing steel, and so on.
And if work can’t be found on the site,
they’ll switch men from site to site. This
way they can spot a loss before it
happens, and then it doesn’t happen.
“Every man on this site is paid two
pounds fifteen a week over the award —
a straight eleven shillings a day profi-
ciency money. They’re expected to work
for it, and they do.”
The foreman emptied his glass of beer.
“I was seventeen years with other firms
before I came here. This is my first jab
with Dusseldorp. I’ve got less authority
here, but I don’t mind. We’ll be out of
this building in six months instead of
nine. What’s wrong with that?”
Dusseldorp’s men did not seem to hold
his full-employment policy against him.
Many of them wanted to shake his hand,
and in the odd moments that it was free
someone shoved a glass of beer into it.
“Remember that fight we had in the
office?” Dusseldorp said to one man, a
powerful worker with a red face and a
loud voice. The man laughed. “We had
the gloves off that night, Dick,”
he said. “But when it was over we all
knew where we stood," said Dusseldorp.
“You told me that what I suggested didn’t
agree with past experience, remember?
And when I said I still wanted to do it,
you said we were a most unusual firm.
And I said I hoped it would stay that
way.” They both laughed.
Dusseldorp, despite his characteristic
air of watchfulness, seemed at ease
among the laborers, and let them talk
more than he did. After about 20 minutes,
someone hammered for silence, and the
boss. Dusseldorp moved into a small
clearing in The crowd. His various
managers stayed at the back.
“There seem to be some compensations
in working on this site,” he said, looking
at the dripping beer-barrel. There was
an appreciative laugh. “I remember
another site that was popular. When the
job got above the fence you got a good
view into a girl’s school.” There was
another laugh. Then Dusseldorp looked
more serious. “I don’t have to tell you
that this has been a close job, in many
ways.”
“Put it down to experience, Dickey,”
said someone at the back, and everybody
laughed again. “That’s right,” said Dus-
seldorp, a smile appearing and just as
quickly disappearing. “It’s experience that
we count on. This is the kind of job
in which a man’s service is counted in
months, not years. You finish here, and
go on to another shore. But on all our
sites we’ve got men who know what
they’re doing, and who stay with us.
They show the new men what to do. So
let’s drink, this Christmas, to the men
of experience, and the new men.”
“Good old Dickey! ” shouted someone,
and the beer barrel spurted eagerly.
Someone from head office touched Dus-
seldorp’s sleeve. “I’m afraid I have to
go,” he said, as the men crowded round
him, “we’ve got four other sites to-visit.”
Chitting between his lieutenants in the
back of the automatic Chevrolet as
it slid through the Christmas traffic, with
his plant manager, a young man with a
neat black beard, at the wheel, Dussel-
dorp relaxed, and looked out at the city,
and recalled his' first job in Australia.
“It was in 1951. An Australian mission
had been going round Europe looking for
companies interested in construction
work out here. When they got to Holland,
Civil and Civic took on a contract to
build two-hundred houses at Cooma for
the Snowy Mountains Authority. They
sent me out to do it. I brought only
thirty-five workers with me; and found
the rest here. Half those original thirty-
five are still with us. That job was worth
half a million. This year we’re doing
fifteen main jobs, worth about a million
each.”
Dusseldorp’s voice is soft, but firm,


with the slightest trace of an accent. The
relationship between him and his
managers seemed free from strain. They
listened when he talked —but he listened
when they talked, and never interrupted
them.
At the Opera House site on Bennelong
Point the party picked its way through
puddles towards the first stage of the
building, rising from the centre of the
cluttered site. As Dusseldorp went ahead,
one of his managers ventured an opinion
of his boss’s outstanding quality of
success.
“It’s his mind,” he said. “He can think
broad, and think big. He makes the rest
of them look like brickies. And he never
tries to show his power.”
Dusseldorp led the way up a gangway
of sloping planks. The wind from the
harbor carried •'the hoot of a ferry and
the hum of traffic crossing the bridge. It
was easy to see, as Dusseldorp looked
keenly about him at the site basking in
the warm sunshine, that this was his
favorite child, his baby.
“Look at that,” he said. “That’s the
most difficult concrete work going on in
this country. It’s the roof of the main
concourse, the main entrance to the
place.”
The wooden form-work stretched back
towards the road, ready for the pouring.
It lay in swelling and narrowing curves,
like Viking longboats excavated from
some peat bog.
The noise of the party came rolling
through the scaffolding. A piercing
Italian tenor, greatly amplified, cut
through the hubbub of talk. There must
have been nearly 200 men, drinking beer
out of paper cups. “That’ll cut down
on breakages,” said Dusseldorp’s general
manager approvingly.
Dusseldorp was immediately sur-
rounded by workmen. He knew many
of them by name, and could tell them
without hesitation what had happened to
old Paddy or Stanislaw. From time to
time someone with the microphone
bellowed an introduction to yet another
Italian singer. Here the proportion of
New Australians seemed very high.
“Almost eighty per cent, of the laborers
would be New' Australians,” said the
general manager, “but it’s not because
it’s a Dutch firm. It’s the same every-
where.”
A carpenter dragged forward three
grinning apprentices and presented them
to Dusseldorp. They were very young,
and slightly drunk, but, bolstered by
each other's company, defiantly non-
obsequious. Dusseldorp shook their
hands gravely and leaned forward to
make himself heard above the tumult.
“Remember what you learn here,” he
said. “In all your lives you'll never see
another job like this one.” (Dusseldorp
has a teenage son of his own and four
other children, but he doesn’t think he is
fitted for the construction business —“per-
haps something in the newspaper business
or television would suit him better.”)
A short, fat man pushed his way to
the microphone, and shouted for silence.
“Communist union-organiser,” murmured
the general manager.
“QUIET!” bellowed the speaker. “I
want to say that although we’ve had our
differences, if it wasn’t for people like
Dickey here we wouldn’t be having this
party and this booze.” A mixed burst
of laughter and clapping greeted this,
and the microphone was offered to Dus-
seldorp. After some energetic shouting
by various authoritarian voices the rear
ranks were quiet enough, for him to speak.
“At Toohey’s site I just told them they
had compensations working near a
brewery,” he said. “Here all you can do
is jump in. the water.” The laugh was
quick to come. “But what I really want
to tell you is this,” continued Dusseldorp,
his voice ringing from the bare walls of
the skeletal building. “When I go over-
seas and say I'm Dusseldorp, nobody
takes any notice. When I say I’m from
Civil and Civic, there’s silence. But when
I say we're building the Sydney Opera
House ...”
There was a roar of laughter and cheer-
ing. A beer barrel blew dramatically
offstage.
“The eyes of the world are on this
job,” said Dusseldorp. “On this site, and
what you’re doing here. You will never
work on another job like this. Nor will I.
None of us will. So good luck.”
The crowd closed round him again.
The Communist union-organiser put a
cup of beer into Dusseldorp's hand, and
poured out a tale of how a friend of his
reckoned Dusseldorp was a “smooth
operator,” and how he agreed with this.
He then gave Dusseldorp a verbatim
account of a recent meeting that Dussel-
dorp had attended. Dusseldorp must have
been surprised, but he didn’t show it. He
listened amiably, and laughed occasion-
ally. He looked like a man who wanted
to be friendly.
Walking down the gangway of planks
half an hour later, Dusseldorp waved his
hand back towards the hubbub and the
singing. “They talk about the lazy Aus-
tralian worker,” he said. “That’s who
they’re talking about. They're all right.
What you have to do most of all is to
give them a fair go—and not just in
money.
“When there’s a dispute—and there are
plenty in this business —you must give the
benefit of the argument to the man who
is weaker, socially or economically. This
is something they have never had. In
this business the weaker man has always
gone under. But if you don’t use your
power to overcome him, even in small
things, he’ll work for you, and really
work.”
across the site, Dusseldorp
thought for a few moments before
he would specify which of all his jobs
had pleased him most.
“You work in this business for two
reasons,” he said finally. “First, to make
money. Well, that’s obvious, otherwise
you couldn’t stay in the business. Per-
sonally, I’m not particularly interested in
the money any more. And then you work
for the other reason for kicks, you
know? I’ve got most kicks out of the
Opera House, and the Academy of
Sciences inJDanberra, the copper dome.”
As the car swung across lower Mac-
quarie Street to the slim new building
that has risen between Unilever House
and the 1.C.1. building, Dusseldorp ex-
plained the link between the signs for
Civil and Civic and Lend Lease that
hung from the facade.
“We offer something new in Australia
—a complete package deal. Lend Lease
is our financing company, Civil and Civic
the construction company. If a client
wants a building, we buy the land, design
the building, put it up, supply consulting
engineers, and finish it off, right down
to the air-conditioning.”
“We do everything but supply the
secretaries,” said the general manager.
He looked as if, given time, he would
do that, too. Dusseldorp has central
design and costing offices in Sydney,
which service his operations in New
Soqth Wales, Victoria, Canberra, and,
soon, in Queensland. The advantages of
keeping in the family all the percentages
due to estate agents, finance companies,
architects, consulting engineers, and
builders seem fairly clear.
In the lower basement of the Mac-
quarie Street building about 50 men were
sitting at long tables, drinking beer.
“Here’s Dickey! ” shouted somebody
delightedly, and the barrel wheezed
happily as fresh glasses were drawn off
for the visitors. As Dusseldorp plunged
into the thickest knot of men, a guest
from another company watched him
curiously.
“I’ve known Dick for nearly ten years,


although not closely,” he said. “I’ve
worked with him, and I’ve sailed against
him, but I’ve -never seen him smile.”
As he said it, Dusseldorp joined in a
loud general laugh over a joke. “Yes,
I know,” said the guest, “but it’s not
what I call a smile, you know what I
mean?” His voice trailed off. He could
not explain the enigmatic quality about
the laughing Dutchman.
This party was going well. And yet
over it hung the knowledge that the job
was nearly finished, that within a few
weeks everyone would be paid off (even
though many would probably go on to
new Civil and Civic enterprises). There
was a feeling, in that basement, of being
shut away, isolated, lost. Dusseldorp
didn’t have to be told this. And in his
speech he changed his approach.
He stood up and told the men, at some
length, a story about an experiment in
the United States to find out just how
much effect the improvement of working
conditions in a factory would have on
productivity. After extensive surveys, one
department was chosen. The lighting was
improved, the walls repainted, the
machines rearranged. The productivity
curve immediately began to go up and
up. The case was proved.
Then, said Dusseldorp, while the men
listened intently, someone suggested a
simple check. To make certain of their
findings, they should revert temporarily
to something like the original conditions,
and then return to the new look—just
to see if the productivity curve fluctuated
accordingly. *
So the survey team, explained Dussel-
dorp, began reducing the level of the
lighting. When it got so dark in the fac-
tory that the workers could hardly see
what they were doing, the productivity
curve was checked again. It was still
going up.
“In the end,” said Dusseldorp, as a
low murmur of amusement rose from
the men, “they realised that it was really
the men who had changed, not the con-
ditions ; the very knowledge that the
management had taken some interest in
them and their surroundings was enough
to stimulate them.”
And with that reminder, which seemed
to reach its mark, of Civil and Civic’s
interest in its labor force, Dusseldorp
stepped back, to steady applause. His
newly appointed construction manager,
aged only 29, then underlined the point
by reminding the .men that he had, only
a month before, been plucked from a
supervisory job on that very site to take
over the head office job. (This young
man, crew cut and fashionably dressed
in a plain, dark light-weight suit, seemed
still slightly bewildered at his promo-
tion. “Somebody must have picked me
out,” he said with a grin, \‘but I don’t
know who.”)
“Getting behind schedule, Dick,” said
the general manager as the Chevrolet
slid under the Quay railway and headed
for the next site.
As his team led the way through the
scaffolding into the new Anchor
House, in George Street, Dusseldorp
answered without hesitation a question
about what he looked for in his top men.
“First of all, commonsense,” he said.
“And then they have to be big enough
so they don’t have to keep proving that
they’re the boss. It wasn’t always easy
to find good men,” he said, bounding up
a dark, unfinished stairway towards
sounds of celebration, dodging twisted
steel and dripping water. “But we happen
to be the firm of the moment, you know.
That’s attracting the ones who want to
get on. They come and have a look at one
of our jobs and they meet somebody
they used to be at school or college with.
So they apply to us for a job, too. We
get them now, all right.”
The small gathering on the first floor
of Anchor House —a building that will
soon pass the twentieth floor —had been
celebrating, it seemed, for some time.
The afternoon was creeping on, and the
beer had run out. While extra supplies
were urgently sent for, Dusseldorp
climbed on to a bench and, raising his
voice above the roar of the George Street
traffic, admitted that this was his first
visit to the site.
“Unfortunately, I have to spend too
much time these days listening to people
talk about money,” he said. The men
listened. They seemed prepared to give
him a go —even if the beer had run out.
“But even if I haven’t been here, I’ve
watched the building go up,” said Dussel-
dorp, “and I can tell you that you’re
working on a very unusual job. It’s going
up on land that nobody could afford to
buy. It’s owned by the Bank of New
South Wales. Recently they found that
their building was so old and gloomy
that customers were staying away. They
asked us if we had any ideas. We said
that this was just the kind of job that
interested us. We said, tell us what kind
of a bank you’d like and we’ll build it
for you —if you let us have the space
above the bank for our own purposes.”
And the men finally laughed at the
boss’s way of describing how Civil and
Civic had thereby obtained nearly 20
floors of prime office space to sell 'in
the highest-cost part of the city.
“On behalf of the carpenters,” shouted
a man, climbing on to a table, “I’d like
to thank Mr Dusseldorp for coming here
and showing an interest in us.”
“How long will that keep you alive?”
said a man loudly. Dusseldorp eyed him
speculatively, and bent to the general
manager to ask who he was. “He’s the
best rigger in New South Wales,” said
someone. “Fair go! ” shouted several
men. It was impossible to tell whether
their solicitude was , for the carpenter’s
spokesman or because of the anticipated
reinforcements of beer.
The dissident mumbled something
more. Dusseldorp walked over to the
group he was with, shook hands with
everybody and then with the heckler, who
was swaying slightly. The man shook
Dusseldorp's hand with a sheepish grin.
Then the beer arrived and all was for-
gotten.
Thriving over the bridge in the late
afternoon sunlight for the final visit
of the day, Dusseldorp pointed across
the inner harbor to what was obviously
another of his favorite projects, the Blues
Point skyscraper of home units (a con-
ception as different from the A.M.P.
building as a rapier from a club).
“It took me a long time to get that
site,’’ he said, staring across the waiter at
the promontory thrusting into the harbor
from North Sydney. “It’s the finest site
I have ever seen. Water on three sides.
From there you look straight down the
Harbor. Ships coming into Pyrmont
look up at it. It would be a crime to
cover it with low buildings. So we de-
cided to go straight up; twenty-six
floors, with six flats on each floor. Prices
from three thousand-odd up to eight
thousand, and you wouldn’t find a finer
place to live anywhere in the world.”
As the Chevrolet swung through the
trees that have been left in the park-like
area surrounding the slender, half-built
tower, a voice boomed out from the
group of men round the beer barrels:
“Here he is! Me old mate and sparring
partner!”
“That’s Banjo,” said Dusseldorp. “I
met him first in Canberra, years ago,
when he was secretary of the Building
Laborers’ Federation. He got beaten in
an election. Now he’s in charge of our
laborers here.”
Banjo came to meet Dusseldorp. A
wide grin split the lean brown face above
the green shirt. “Have a spot of the old
pearl, Dickey boy!” he shouted, holding
out a bottle of Barossa Pearl. “You
know I’m off the beer. I’ve lost four
stone! ”
Dusseldorp accepted gracefully. “He’s
a beauty, this one,” shouted Banjo
hoarsely, looking round the group of men.
“When I ran up against him in Canberra
I thought: Here’s a tough one, but I’ll
toss him before I’m finished. When he
offered the building laborers a rate we
turned it down. Then we thought it over
and we accepted it. It’s better than the
award, so we’d be mugs if we didn’t,
wouldn’t we?”
The men laughed raucously, and
Dusseldorp smiled. After some cajoling
Banjo was pushed up on to a table. He
planted his feet firmly among squashed
sandwiches and rolling glasses.
“Oh, I’m descended from Banjo
Paterson, all right,” he shouted, look-
ing out across the crowd challengingly.
“I wrote a poem myself .once, about the
building laborers. Some feller up at the
Journo’s Club’s got it now. And if you
want a speech I’ll give you a orati-on
that Mark Antony never made in
‘Julius Caesar’!”
There was some laughing and cat-
calling. A worker in sunglasses watched
Banjo sourly. “Who put that loud-
mouth up there?” he said to nobody in
particular.
“There was a time,” shouted Banjo
dramatically, his eyes closed, his arms


outflung, “when the building laborer in
Australia was nothing but a donk!
Donks, that’s what they were! Pick it
up here and put it there. Dump it here
and dump it there! ”
“You’re a rabbit, Banjo,” said his critic
near the table. “Nothing but a ——
rabbit.”
“The building laborer has come a long
way since then,” shouted Banjo, “and it’s
because of people like Dickey! I’m
talking to all of you, including the
Abyssinians! ”
This reference was apparently to a
colored workman, happily drunk, who
was trying to climb on to the table to
support Banjo. Dusseldorp and his
managers listened quietly.
“No, don't applaud!” shouted Banjo.
“Only fools listen to flattery. But I tell
you Dickey Dusseldorp is the greatest
Australian you ever met, even if he is
a Dutchman!”
(And the word he used wasn't “flying,”
either.)
As the laughter died down Dusseldorp
said he wanted to go up in the lift, whose
framework rose high above the 11 floors
already completed. The lift-driver was
found and the power switched on.
Slowly the open cage rose, through the
completed floors, into the open and on
up into the blue. The harbor and the city
unfolded all round. “We only go up to
the thirteenth floor-level at the moment,”
said the lift-driver. “I’ve been up to
the twenty-sixth,” said Dusseldorp
calmly. “I sat up there in a helicopter.
You can see over the deck of the bridge,
right down the Harbor. It’s unbeliev-
able.”
As the lift climbed into the sky, sup-
ported only on four steel tubes, Dussel-
dorp leaned on the rail and looked round
the Harbor and talked.
“Look at that —the most magnificent
habitation on earth. It’s being ruined,
and nobody is doing a thing about it.
“What’s my biggest problem? Govern-
ment. Small men in big positions.
People who make their fifteen-hundred
a year and make decisions that affect
the lives and the amenities of millions.
Take this block. The fire department
has ladders that go up to a hundred or a
hundred-and-twenty feet. Above that
level they say nobody can be safe. So
this is the only residential block in the
world that has sprinklers in every room.
“At one time the objections from the
local authorities to the height we wanted
—it was the height that frightened them
—got to such a pitch that everybody in
my organisation said to hell with it, let’s
cut the building in half and put two
side by side, ninety feet apart. It would
have saved all the trouble. But I felt
it would be wrong. This site deserves
something better than that. So I said
that we would hold out for the single
building. And we won in the end.”
A liner below hooted mournfully and
slid slowly under the bridge.
“I went to sea when I was a boy,” said
Dusseldorp, leaning on the rail and
watching the liner. The lift had come to
a halt, hanging motionlessly in the sky.
“My father was a merchant, but I wanted
to go to sea. I did two years as a deck-
hand. They made it tough for me be-
cause I was big for my age. So now I
know what goes on in men's minds.” He
smiled briefly. “But I also know that
you can’t do much with one pair of
hands.”
He pointed down to the trees and the
grass that carpeted Blues Point all round
the building. “We’ve asked the council
if we can make a park down there for
all ’the people to enjoy. We’ve got plans
to landscape it and everything. There
are so few places where the people of
Sydney can get to look at their harbor.
Originally there was a council storage
depot down there where you see that lawn
near the water. We asked them if they'd
shift the old sheds and they did. But
not the Maritime Services Board. Look
at that mess.”
Dusseldorp pointed to piles of old
rotting timber at the waterside, almost
at the foot of the building. “We asked
them to move it. You could put that
stuff anywhere. They don't do any work
down there. It’s an eyesore. But people
like that don’t care about how things
look.”
Dusseldorp raised his eyes and gazed
across the Harbor towards the south end
of the bridge.
“Look at that Rocks area over there.
The City Council is advertising in the
United States for proposals to redevelop
it. I’ve got a plan for that. It would cost
us fifty millions.. I will probably put it in
next year. Area development is what I’m
really interested in. But the conditions!
They say you have to make provision in
the area for bond stores. My plan would
keep some of the fine old buildings—but
bond stores!
“And take the density of people. The
authorities are terrified of this. They
think of slums, or something. They don’t
know what you can do by going up. In
this block we’re in the density per acre is
about a hundred and fifty. Over in the
Rocks area they think they’re doing won-
ders by permitting three hundred per
acre. This is ridiculous by overseas
standards. I could put sixteen hundred
people per acre on the Rocks and they'd
be better off, freer and happier, than
crammed into fibro houses at twenty to
the acre.”
Finally Dusseldorp came round again
to the idea that really obsesses this
remarkable builder, in the fulfilment of
which he may yet alter the pattern of
Australian urban living.
“I want to build for people to live in,
not just for them to work in,” said
Dusseldorp, his eyes roving across the
smoky wastes of Pyrmont, Gladesville
and Glebe. “We’ve got a big area in
Campbelltown. When we get round to
that you'll see something different. I’ve
got ideas for the future —but I can’t talk
about them just yet.”
But as we hung there, suspended be-
tween heaven and earth, it became clear
that it is to men like this, from the new
Europe, that Australia may have to look
for an escape from the blight on the
landscape, the sprawling wastes of
unserviced, unsewered, unattractive camp
sites —for they are hardly more —that
have soured the relationship of man and
nature in this last great area of occu-
pation and settlement


PERSONAL
Harry Messel's Vision
AUSTRALIAN MEN OF
SCIENCE
Second of a Series
The cloud the size of a man’s hand,
which by legend heralds the hurri-
cane, appeared on the horizons of Aus-
tralian science in 1951, in the form of
a brief report in an Adelaide newspaper.
It said that a young Canadian lecturer
in science at Adelaide University hdd
announced his aim of setting up a
scientific research foundation to provide
facilities then lacking in Australia, and
that all he needed was money.
The reaction in the “Athens of the
south” was mixed, but mainly derisive.
The vice-chancellor of the university
hastily disowned the whole idea. Harry
Messel’s first press-cutting in Australia
impressed nobody—except the governing
body of Sydney University, whose Physics
Department had water in the basement
and rats running up the stairs. A messen-
ger was sent to inspect this 29-year-old
with the full beard and the wild ideas.
And eight months after arriving in
Adelaide, Harry Messel left for Sydney.
This week, eight years and hundreds
of press-cuttings later, Professor Harry
Messel, B.A. (Hons.), B.Sc. (Hons.), Ph.D.,
heads one of the most extraordinary
Schools of Science anywhere in the world.
His academic staff of 37 includes figures
of world renown: Watson-Munro, the
man who built the first nuclear reactor in
Britain, Canada, and Australia ; Mills,
whose work in radio-astronomy has
pushed back the boundaries of the known
universe ; Butler, whose insight into the
atomic nucleus is utilised in every
research laboratory in the world ; Ma,
whose cosmic-ray research has brought
scientists from the U.S.S.R. to Australia
to work alongside him ; Bennett, whose
theories on computing have put Aus-
tralia right up with the high-spending
countries abroad.
Tn eight years the Sydney University
School of Physics has become one of the
largest in the world (2800 students start
first-year courses this year) and one of
the most productive (its output of pub-
lished research papers exceeds 300). But
its most remarkable feat has been to do
all this —in a complete reversal of over-
seas practice—on private rather than
public money.
Today 98 per cent, of Harry Messel’s
research work is financed by money con-
tributed to his much-derided Research
Foundation, a total of £3,000,000, com-
pared with the magnificent grant of
£50,000 from the State Government and
£50,000 from the Federal Government —-
the only official money Messel has ever
received.
Tr is, whichever way you look at
A Messel, a spectacular achievement for
this young Canadian son of a railroad
foreman —and for Australia.
Harry Messel was born in 1922, one of
a family of six, in the Canadian prairie
town of Rivers, Manitoba (pop. 700).
“It was fifty below in winter, and a
hundred-and-ten in the summer,” recalls
Messel. “You spent half the year prepar-
ing to survive the other half.”
Young Harry helped keep himself at
school by working throughout his child-
hood. In winter he got up at 4 a.m.,
and went out to inspect his trap lines
until it was time to go to school. He
trapped mink, muskrat, ermine, weasel,
skunk, beaver, fox —anything he could
sell.
In summer, at the age of 14, he swung
a sledgehammer on the railroads, driving
rail spikes. Altogether he made the extra
few hundred dollars a year that made all
the difference between staying in Rivers
or going east, to the Royal Military
College in Kingston, Ontario.
TN 1942 he finished college with the
Governor-General’s silver medal for
the best student of the year. Then he
went into the Army. He was in turn in
the infantry, the artillery, and the para-
troops, and was with the Canadian Task
Force in the Pacific preparing for the
invasion of lapan when the bomb was
dropped.
HARRY MESSEL
A Career of Specialised Outrage
Back at college (Queen’s University
Kingston) he outraged academic opinion
—the first step in a career of specialised
outrage —by taking honors courses hi
arts and science simultaneously. “It just
about killed me,” he says. In 1948 he
took three honors papers of three hours
each, on different subjects, in one day
—from nine to twelve, from two to five,
and from seven to ten at night.
From Canada he went to St Andrew’s
University in Scotland, because there was
a German professor there giving a par-
ticular course in mathematics that
attracted Messel. Then he went across to
the Institute of Advanced Studies in
Dublin, to work on theoretical physics
under Professor Brian McCusker (now
one of Messel’s staff in Sydney) and
Schrodinger, one of the fathers of
quantum mechanics. After winning his
Ph.D., Messel looked around the world
for a likely opportunity to go places.
He chose Australia, and got a senior
lectureship at Adelaide. “Australia
attracted me,” says Messel, “because it
was like Canada in character, but unlike
it in being far enough away from the
United States, I hoped, to avoid losing all
its graduate students to the well-heeled
institutes there.”
■pysAPPoiNTED in Adelaide, Messel laid
down terms •of employment in his
letter of acceptance of the offer of the
Chair of Physics from the Senate of
Sydney University. He said he wanted to
set up a leading research school, as well
as run courses for students.
“It seemed to me that Australian
science was in a bad way in 1952,” says
Messel. “There was no money for
research, and so the best graduates had
to go abroad, and most of them stayed
there. No country can afford to lose its
best brains and keep only the fourth-
raters.”
Messel, even at the age of 29, knew
enough to realise that Australia could
not compete with other countries in all
fields of scientific research. “You have
to pick narrow, specific research field;
and lead the world in them —then you
will not only keep your best men, but
attract the best from other countries,”
he says.
So Messel got rid of the water and
the rats from the musty School of Science,
and set up five departments, specialising
in cosmic-ray research, thermonuclear
physics, theoretical physics, radio-astro-
omy and computing. He headed these
with overseas scientists, having per-
suaded the University authorities to
permit him the unprecedented step of
hiring 12 new academics at University
expense.
'T'hen came the biggest headache—find-
■*- ing the money to enable his depart-
ments to do research.
Messel drew up the constitution for
a Research Foundation, to be a corporate
body within the University, under Senate
control. “1 was going to approach
private bodies, and offer them nothing
in exchange for their money, except the
satisfaction of doing what government
was not doing—helping Australian scien-
tific research in the place where it can


best be done, and where it is done over-
seas: in the universities,” says Messel.
The University authorities were politely
sceptical, to say the least.
. Messel’s first approach was to Frank
(now Sir Frank) Packer, newspaper pro-
prietor. “After two minutes he inter-
rupted me and asked how much I
wanted,” says Messel. He got his first
donation —£50,000. Then he got £50,000
from George Falkiner, the grazier, and
£50,000 from Adolf Basser.
Soon the money began to pour in.
Some professors at Sydney University
were horrified. But Messel, in the
celebrated phrase of Liberace, “cried all
the way to the bank.” Such was the
reputation of his staff and their output of
research work, that money began to come
in from abroad: from the Department
of Scientific and Industrial Research in
Britain (£lOO,OOO for radio-astronomy) ;
from Harwell Atomic Energy Establish-
ment, for thermonuclear research ; from
the United States Army Air Force, for
cosmic-ray work ; from the University of
Illinois (designs for the computers) ; and
finally £120,000 from Cecil Green, an
American businessman.
Today Messel has collected £1,000,000
from Australian sources, and £2,000 000
from abroad. His annual subscriptions
from his 130 foundation members come
to £lOO,OOO, including £2OOO from the
Australian Workers Union, £5OOO from
the City Council, £2OOO from the County
Council, and similar amounts from
practically all the large organisations in
this country. (There are now 17 founda-
tions in Australia based on Mess.ls
model.)
The prestige of his School of Physics
is still increasing. Watson-Manro left
the job of chief scientist at the Australian
Atomic Energy Commission to join
Messel as a reader at less salary. Mills
left the C.5.1.R.0. to take a reader’s job
with Messel when he could have gone
to any one of half-a-dozen top prestige
positions in the U.S. Messel's Summer
Science Schools for-teachers attract over-
seas scientists of the stature of Garnow
and Gold and, next year, Messel hopes,
von Braun and Sir Laurence Bragg.
A/lessel himself, still only 38, has
recently turned down an overseas
appointment at four times his present
salary. He and his wife and three
daughters are staying in Sydney. “The
Australian public has given me tremen-
dous support,” says Messel. “I am keep-
ing faith with them. It’s as simple as
that.” He is also keeping on his own
cosmic-ray work, and has 55 scientific
papers to his name.
He considers that his School of Physics
has much to do yet —particularly in the
absence of government money for univer-
sity research, such as that distributed in
Britain by the Department of Scientific
and Industrial Research, and in the
United States by the National Science
Foundation. He is. in favor of Federal
support of the C.5.1.R.0., the Atomic
Energy Commission, and the School of
Sciences at the National University, Can-
berra, but feels —and says frequently—
that this is not enough ; that it is in the
universities that the best research work
is done.
“I’m not against the humanities,” he
says, pointing out that he took an honors
course in arts. “Although when you
consider how much has been spent over
the centuries in research into the humani-
ties, how much better do we understand
our fellow man?
“It’s just that scientific research is more
expensive. Our job is to convince every-
body of this.”
• •
Architect With a Pen
13 obin Boyd, coiner of the word
“Austerica” (as a convenient label
for the visible effects of Americanism
in Australia), and enfant terrible among
Australian architects since the war, con-
tinues to be widely discussed, praised
and damned for his latest book, “The
ROBIN BOYD
Discussed, Praised, Damned
Australian Ugliness,” which since its
publication early in December has
already run into a second edition. It
is Boyd’s third major published work.
The others are “Victorian Modern”
<1947), now out of print, and “Aus-
tralia’s Home” (1952), which is to be
republished this year in the Melbourne
University Press paperback series.
The Melbourne-born (1919) son of the
noted painter Penleigh Boyd (he is a
fourth generation Australian), Robin
Boyd learnt architecture at the Royal
Melbourne Technical College at a time
when the University had no Chair of
Architecture. When the Melbourne
“Age” endowed the first Chair under
Professor Brian Lewis in 1947, Boyd,
who had served with the A.I.F. in New
Guinea during the war, was among the
first to be invited to join the staff. Two
years lecturing on design left him little
time for actual building; during the
same period he also established and
directed the “Age’s” now famous small
homes service.
In 1950 he went to Europe (“To study
the latest trends, as they say,” he explains
with a satirical glint in his eye) and in
1956 he spent a year as a visiting pro-
fessor at the Massachusetts (U.S.) Insti-
tute of Technology.
Apart from these breaks, he has
been practising solidly as a domestic and
industrial architect with the firm of
Grounds, Romberg and Boyd since the
trio joined forces in 1953.
Despite his many excursions into print,
Boyd insists on regarding himself
primarily as an architect, and as an
architect he finds writing as necessary to
him as his T-square. It is only through
the constant struggle with words and
images and arguments, he says, that he
feels best able to clarify and crystallise
his visual thoughts.
• •
Basque Still Bounding
Jean Borotra, president of the Inter-
national Lawn Tennis Federation, is
a case of do-as-I-say rather than do-as-
I-did. He admits amateur tennis is dead
because players must depend on the game
for their livelihood, but he never did
that. For the last 38 years he has been
working as a mechanical engineer with
a petrol-pump company. He is on the
board of directors of ten companies and
president of three. In fact, he became
such a bounding Basque because he
took his engineering work so seriously.
It did not allow him time to develop
ground strokes or a killer service, so he
was constantly bounding to cut off pass-
ing shots —-which he did with the elan
of an accomplished high-jumper and the
speed of the 1919 Rhineland sprint
champion. ,
A lean 62, with corrugations on his
brown forehead as straight as any side-
line, Borotra has the energy for non-stop
discussion of the problems of the game
he played in perpetual-motion style. An
impassioned advocate of the moral and
educative aspects of sport, he wants to
put an end to hypocritical amateurism
and looks forward to an open Davis Cup
in which professionals and amateurs
compete.
In the meantime, business and tennis
continue to run in harness for M.
Borotra —there is a good chance he will
return to Australia on business at the end
of this year . . . about the time the
Challenge Round is played. ,
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Perth at 73, John Forrest, third son of
Western Australian explorer Alexander Forrest,
and nephew of the more famous explorer and
statesman, John Forrest. Fie was chairman
of the A.M.P. Society (Perth) and Sydney
Atkinson Motors, Ltd., member of the execu-
tive of the Pastoralists’ Association of W.A.,
and for manjr'years chairman of the Pastoral
Labor Bureau; also first president of the
W.A. Branch of the Royal Flying Doctor
Service, owner of racehorses, member of the
W.A.T.C. committee, and former governor of
Hale School. i
In Melbourne, at 94, Alfred Galbraith, first
general secretary of the Victorian Railways
Institute, and holder of the post for 23 years.
In Sydney, at 65, Ralph Symonds, chairman
and managing director of Ralph Symonds. Ltd.,
one of Australia’s largest plywood-manufac-
turing firms. An expert on timbers, glues-,
veneers and plywoods, Symonds designed the
company’s 15-acre factory at Homebush —the
largest single-story arch building in the Southern
Hemisphere.


PRINCESS JASMINE FLOWER
By HAL PORTER
On Tuesday nights my two little
sisters were watched over and
bedded-down by a Miss Singh.
A Miss Singh! By Miss Singh ;
by the Miss Singh.
In those days she was not called a
baby-sitter nor, I imagine, was she paid
in cash, although I don’t really know, for
my parents were carelessly lavish —there
was always a pineapple going rotten in
the fruit-stand, sandy-bristled tramps
(they seemed always to be sandy) were
shooed off with a ten-shilling note, my
father would not wear darned socks, my
mother had more bangles than a
maharanee.
I know that Miss Singh had a sort of
four-course supper when my sisters went
to sleep. I know that my mother, who
was skilled in their manufacture, gave
her flat sponge-cakes, pallid scones,
botched biscuits, jars of jam either liquid
or set like jasper (“Don’t bothah to bring
beck the jah, dulling!”), as well as
Collins Street hats worn once or twice,
evening-dresses fringed and embroidered
with seed-small beads, shoes she had
taken a dislike to after a week, once even
an old coat of some unidentifiable fur
somewhat resembling a marmalade cat’s.
Miss Singh, who lived in a cottage
held together by dolichos, with a frail,
ancient, turbaned father, was some sort
of half-white, half-Indian . . . Afghan?
Parsee? Cingalhese? . . . and worked
in a little shop on the Marine Parade.
This shop was next to the Crystal Palace,
Fruiterer and Confectioner, where the
names of exotic sundaes and spiders
were misspelt on the vast looking-glasses
behind the marble counter under a per-
petual greeting:
A MERRY XMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
TO ALL OUR FREIND’S.
Next door to this Versailles glamor,
Miss Singh sold —or did not sell, for the
revolving stand of them was ever change-
less—postcards of enormous wives (or
mothers-in-law), all semi-circular curves,
in red bathing-togs, being nipped on the
biggest curves by crabs. These assaulted
females all wore polka-dotted bathing-
caps, just as the postcard mashers all
wore boaters, striped blazers and co-
respondent shoes as they had a delicious
time rolling their eyes at the jazz-garters
an ozonous breeze from the briny had
revealed by tossing up the insufficient
skirts of flappers. As well, she sold, or
was there to sell, shell-covered handker-
chief-boxes, kewpie dolls wearing the
district football colors, crystal scent-
sprays and powder-bowls, and trays
under whose glass lay flashy landscapes
in which were incorporated iridescent-
blue butterfly-wings.
Miss Singh was small in a conspicu-
ous manner; she seemed deliberately
diminished ; she could' have appeared
larger had she not withdrawn to some
wary inner fastness. She was mediocre
in an exotic but declassee way, and
declassee to the point of a shyness so
pat and soft as to be obviously fake, and
designed to fit her slender hands flexible
as seaweed in water, her strained-open
treacly eyes with whites yellow as elderly
knife-handles and underlined by bruise-
colored arcs. Her ears were always on
show ; their lobes were pierced by circles
of gold. She smelt of stale sweat with
an extra quality that may merely have
been extra staleness. I thought her sly,
but kept that to my sly self.
/"Vne Tuesday night Wock did not turn
up at the Crystal Palace where we
always met, sophisticatedly, to get rid
of our Rechabite money and any more
we'd been able to steal from our mothers.
I dallied, raising one eyebrow villainously
at myself in the looking-glass in a Lew
Cody manner, until three raspberry
spiders made me feel sick.
I walked the beach as far as the cliff-
base where rocks taller than I sucked
the cream of the surf—it was full moon-
light in autumn —between their fangs.
I toiled up the path to the cliff-top. No
lovers in sight. Not that I cared to search
for or spy on them without Wock hotly
reeking of licorice allsorts at my
shoulder. I gave* an offhand monarch-of-
all-I-survey glance at the ocean. Alone,
it seemed a longer way down and not at
all water.
The head-bowed rollers wore flakes of
nickel across their mile-long humpbacks,
Remorse, autumnal weariness, anguish at
the thought of cold closing in, and an
ominous rebelliousness, rose from the
ocean almost like sentence-forming
words. The lovers’ boxthorns moved
several feet nearer behind my back ; I
turned to catch them just as they pre-
tended movelessness. I went home—
quickly, not looking back, whistling
“Bye, bye, Blackbird” in a key so high
as to be bat-like.
At the back-door I heard a keen mono-
tone going on and on with unsettling
clarity and choir-boy sexlossness. It was
Miss Singh and a bedtime story. As the
fly-wire door banged her voice ceased.
Then, “Who’s that? Who’s there?”
she cried, sharply as if she were a mere
broomhandle length away from Lon
Chaney in “The Phantom of the Opera.”
“ ’Sme, Miss Singh. Back early,” I
said, Contemptuous of fear. Then, evil-
mindedly thinking she might depart, even
supperless, and leave me to my sisters
who meant nothing to me, though I
assumed and felt that I loved them, I
adeptly constructed and most clearly
delivered a lie: “I’ve got some studying
to do. Some reading. Books.”
To indicate poise to the unseen and
unseeing I tugged a dirty comb through
my stale-brilliantine-dirty hair.
Miss Singh made no reply. I poked
out my tongue in her direction. I walked
up the passage to my bedroom, which
was opposite my sisters’. I heard them
implore, at the same time anxious, sincere
and cheeky, ‘‘Please, Miss Sing-song, go
on with the new story.”
“Miss Singh, if yew don’t mind,” said
Miss Singh, less than graciously, but
immediately slipping, as into a dull but
comforting macintosh, into her story-
telling monotone.
Tlt7iTH a sufficient display of drawer-
opening noises and damn-and-
blasting, ejaculations as to myself, but
primarily to convince Miss Singh that I
was study-mad, I got out my copy of
“The Confessions of Maria Monk.”, It
fell open at titillating pages I knew as
well as the Apostle’s Creed. I sat on my
bed to perve over them.
However, Miss Singh’s deadly and
elaborately static account of the adven-
tures of some Princess Jasmine Flower
was more qverpowering than goings-on
in a nunnery. I was considering going
to Wock’s place when, suddenly, I
realised what Miss Singh was talking
about. It was another of those fissures
which, in my adolescence, used to appear,
unheralded, in the walls of the adult
citadel, to reveal something blinding and
new, though often incomprehensible,
about the adult.
“Now,” Miss Singh was saying, “the
poor lonely Princess Jasmine Flower was


forced to go to work in a shop. Not an
ordinary shop. As yew shall see. It
was a very, very high-class establishment.
In the best part of the town. It was right
next to a reely very high-class, a very,
very high-class, palace called the Palace
of Crystal, which had lots of reely lovely
mirrows.”
“Florrie says mirrors,” said Janice
sternly—or was it Irma?
“Put yewr feet under the bed-clothes,
Irma. Quick now!” said Miss Singh,
tartly enough.
Ah, I thought, Irma!
“And,” said Miss Singh, really tartly,
almost sinister, “if yew interrupt again,
Jan-ice, Miss . .
So it was Janice! Sly, oh, sly, sly, sly
Miss Singh, I thought, for some obscure
and insulting reason silently gibbering
like an ape while scratching exaggeratedly
under one armpit.
“Lots of reely very, very lovely
mirrows,” she proceeded flatly. “There
were some in Jasmine Flower’s shop, too.
What do yew think she sold? She sold
pretty postcards of many varieties, and
seagulls made of mussel-shells, and dainty
cups and saucers with moss-roses on, and
very, very tasteful crystal perfume-
atomisers . . .”
The Princess Jasmine Flower who sold
very, very tasteful crystal perfume-
atomisers was Miss Singh who tried to
sell cheap and ghastly machine-cut scent-
sprays.
Immediately Abracadabra! she
became as fascinating; almost, to me as
the silent film actresses and actors I was
allowed to spend sixpence to adore, each
Saturday night, at the School of Arts
Hall: Colleen Moore, Corinne Griffith,
Barbara la Marr, William Haines and the
sternly unsmiling Antonio Moreno. I
became, in short, a Singh fan. Peremp-
torily, though with guile, I banished the
pretence of being Rechabited towards
wowserism, for the pretence of being, to
my parents’ confounding and their
cynical delight, a scholarly bookworm, a
Tuesday-night-only one. With an
“Algebra” or “British History” open at
its most dreary page, I listened hvidly to
Miss Singh’s pastiche of fact and
fantasy. After several weeks I got this:
The very, very beautiful Princess Jas-
mine Flower with her lustrous almond
eyes, her jet-black lashes (“Very, very
long and upeurving,” said Miss Singh.
“Irma, little girls, little ladies, don’t pick
their noses.”) and blue-black hair she
could sit on, had been brought-up on the
best of everything . . . salmon sandwiches,
sago plum-pudding, roast lamb on golden
plates, cream-puffs, kola tonic in tasteful
cut-glass goblets ... in a far-off country
where the sun never ceased shining from
morn till eve. Princess Jasmine Flower
spent a very, very joyful girlhood
picnicking in flowery glades under the
jasmine trees, served by hundreds of
servants with dainty salmon sandwiches
and kola tonic. She grew into a very,
Vei 7 beautiful young woman.
(“About how old is Miss Singh?” I
asked my mother, with loudly creaking
offhandedness, the day after Miss Singh
had called Princess Jasmine Flower
young.
. “Rilly, dulling!” said my mother buff-
ing away at her fingernails. “Rilly,
mothah doesn’t know. But she’d hazard
a tiny guess at thirteh to thirteh-three.
At least, dulling!”)
X>Y the time Princess Jasmine Flower
was a very, very shapely young
woman, S.W. in evening-gowns, there
■ were cruel plots against her and her
kindly father, the Grand-Emperor Ranjit.
(No one called old Mr Singh Mr
Singh: he was known to the town as Old
Ranjit Singh or, less kindly, Old Monkey
Singh.)
Wicked thieves broke into their many
lovely high-class palaces. Chests of
rubies were stolen, and emeralds, and
sapphires and . . . and . . . very, very
many other precious gems. Bales of
crepe-de-chine and fuji silk and lace. The
Princess’s two . . . no, three . . . thousand
dresses. Yards of diamond necklaces.
Glass slippers. Fur coats, Supplies of
food: tins of salmon, chocolate sticks,
hundreds of packets of jelly-crystals.
Pearl-embroidered stockings—flesh color,
pure silk.
Bereft of all their priceless valuable
treasures, of everything except the clothes
they stood up in, the Grand-Emperor and
Jasmine Flower were forced to flee the
country on a very, very high-class ocean-
liner owned by a kind neighboring
emperor. They were set ashore (after
an elaborate but dull three-day storm, the
description of which occupied one whole
agonising Tuesday night, and nearly
turned my hair white with frustration)
on the sea-coast of a far-off land where
they retired to a very, very comfortable
albeit humble cottage.
“The cottage,” recited Miss Singh,
“was a thatched one,
The outside old and mean,
Yet everything within that cot
Was wondrous neat and clean.”
Thatch apart, I knew the outside of
the humble cottage well enough: shat-
tered and gateless picket fence, privet
hedge run amuck with buffalo-grass run
amuck in its tangles, back-yard of hore-
hOund, a dead cherry-tree and a drift
of salmon tins. I took the Princess’s—
I took Miss Singh’s—word on a neat and
clean within with many reservations.
'T'he Princess, because the Grand-
A Emperor grew old and feeble from
disappointment, very, very nobly went to
work in a shop, a reely high-class estab-
lishment, with mirrows, et cetera. How
lonely she was as she watched the waves
of the sea through the shop-window!
But she suffered very, very patiently
for she knew that, one day, a prince
would - arrive to save her.
He arrived.
He was as handsome as Richard
Barthlemess. Blue eyes, very, very blue.
Reddish hair, reddish-go/r/ hair. Jasmine
Flower knew instantly that he was only
buying the packet of envelopes so that
he could gaze into her lustrous eyes
and . . .
Miss Singh’s relentless monotone cut
out: my sisters had obviously fallen to
sleep.
I could have cried like a koala.
As Miss Singh, softly singing “Mary
Lou” just out of tune, tucked in my
abominable sisters, I switched out my
light.
Miss Singh, loudly attempting to tiptoe
quietly, next whispered at my door, “I’m
going to make myself a little supper.”
Little! Huh!
“Would yew like a cup of cocoa?”
I snored.
“Are yew asleep?”
I snored more loudly.
Miss Singh crept with ear-splitting
inaudibility to sack the kitchen while I
undressed in the dark. I did not know
how I would live through the week that
separated me from the Somethingth
Episode of the serial.
TypEXT Sunday was windy ; not a veer-
ing, thrust-and-parry wind but an
endless, streaming one as though it poured
through an immense keyhole on the
horizon.
Since I affected romantically solitary
walks in wind, muttering to myself, “The
teeth of the gale!” I strode in knicker-
bockers along the empty, empty beach
to the pier. No sooner had I set foot
on its planks than, to my intertwisted
embarrassment and excitement, I found
myself compelled to pass . . . oh, those
lustrous, almond eyes, I see them still!
... to pass and be greeted by Miss Singh
dressed to kill in a red hat, a red coat,
red shoes, all once my mother’s, and all
of different reds.
She hung, doting and brazen, on the
arm of a stocky .young man, slightly
pigeon-toed in light-tan shoes, with a pig-
pale face under an aluminium-grey,
deeply dented felt hat.
From the end of the pier I watched
them walk on the wet sand. Once he
broke from her to execute some show-off
cartwheels. His hat fell off. How quickly
she picked it up How ginger, how red-
dish-gold, his hair was!
Linked once more, they toiled up the
cliff-path, seeming to fuse together, to
kiss, to melt into a tremulous red unity.
As he melted thus, so he melted from my
vision. I never with actual eyes saw
him again, or saw them together again.
Never. But with the eyes of my mind—
oh, yes. Often. To this day.
On Tuesday I learned that the Prince,
whose name was Prince Larry, was in
disguise. He had heard of the Princess
Jasmine Flower’s very, very tragical life,
and had come to save her. To be near
her, and to prove how much he loved
the dainty young Princess, he had taken
a position in a high-class pastry-cook’s
where he made cream puffs, Victoria
sponges, ufe-licious buns, lamingtons and
wedding cakes.
At this stage, Miss Singh’s voice across
the corridor ran riot like the dolichos
over Old Monkey Singh’s shack - like
cottage. She described wedding cakes
of all heights in a choosy, questing
fashion. They grew taller than cathe-
drals and more embellished than Dresden
shepherdesses.
I was just going mad when she re-
turned, with less dreamy dreariness, to
Prince Larry. He had very white refined
hands. But strong and very, very manly
hands. He could stand on his hands. He
could turn very, very circular cart-wheels.
“Pooh!” said one of my evil sisters.
“I can turn cartwheels.”
“Yew must not get out of bed,” said
Miss- Singh, unavailingly.
“Ooh, I can see your bottie,” squealed


the other diabolic sister just before the
crash. There were screams, there were
sobs.
The next several Tuesday nights gave
me glimpses of the external adventures
of Princess Jasmine Flower and Prince
Larry. Miss Singh sounded so gay that
she could have been as radiant as Princess
Jasmine Flower certainly was. The dis-
guised royalties saw Charles Farrell ahd
Janet Gaynor in “Seventh Heaven.” (So
did Wock and I.) They ate high-class
sundaes at the Palace of Crystal: the
King of the Palace was very, very gen-
tlemanly and refined.
The Prince gave the Princess a sweetly
pretty scarab brooch bought in the
very shop where the Princess worked.
They climbed a picturesque hill to look
at the moonlight on the sea. The moon-
light was also very, very picturesque.
/'AN the next Tuesday night no pre-
tence of study was necessary: I was
lumpily in bed with a throat which
seemed raw as far as my navel, and a
headache that aspros had reduced to a
burring; a steadily rotating knife-
grinder’s wheel.
My skull reverberated, spacious and
muggy as a crypt. My pillow and I were
soaked with eucalyptus. Death would
scarcely have been incommoding; I
almost hoped Miss* Singh would not
heighten my forlornness by a gaily
rippling account of Princess Jasmine
Flower and her luminous love-affair with
Prince Larry.
Indeed, my father having departed to
chess, and my mother (“Bah-ee, dulling
.;. and no more aspro-things till mothah’s
back!”) to play-read “Nothing but the
Truth,” Miss Singh seemed reluctant to
utter a sentence.
My sisters, however, nagged in a
fashion so relentless and somehow
threatening while being cunningly sweet
and pathetic that, presently, Miss Singh
gave way.
My ailment having put me in a sort of
other dimension, the strange quality of
Miss Singh’s voice was blameable on my
distorted senses. Her voice was thickened,
slower, burdened with a mud of despairs.
And it seemed smaller, as though slyly
folded smaller.
Princess Jasmine Flower was having,
in a petty bits-and-piecy way, a hell
of-a time. I cannot now recall all . . .
The Grand-Emperor Ranjit had been
sick to his stummick, the Princess had
knocked down a crystal butter-dish from
a shop shelf ; its price was docked from
her wages ; she had cut her thumb open-
ing a tin of salmon . . . altogether there
were uncountable perverse and bitter
winds tugging at the Princess’s tattered
garments. It was cold, cold . . . Miss
Singh said something almost acid about
old fathers and firewood.
Her voice began to speed up, to become
gritty and, in some inexplicable way,
unhealthy. Prince Larry, it revealed,
was not of royal heritage at all! Far
from it. Jasmine Flower should have
known. He was very, very false. A bad
man. A deceiver. A dirty beast of a
man. He betrayed the Princess with
others who were not high-class and re-
spectable. There were a barmaid and
the daughter of the town’s gutter-sweep.
Prncess Jasmine Flower's heart was
broken.
"What,” said Miss Singh, difficult to
hear, “was the deceived Princess to do?
What? What could a betrayed woman
do? What would yew do?” she seemed
to be asking my sisters who were aged
six and eight. “Poor Princess Jasmine
Flower! ”
Silence fell. Silence persisted for
minutes. Amazingly, my sisters did not
broach it. Perhaps they had long ago
fled into sleep from the drizzling climate
of aristocratic griefs. I shall never know ;
they may have lain comfortably half-
awake, warned, as women are, even so
young, by the thought of another
woman’s anguish, and contemplated it,
sleepily blinking. Silence continued so
long that the knife-grinding wheel in the
crypt began to lull me: my eyelids began
to descend.
Suddenly they retracted. I was wide
awake.
A/Tiss Singh had abruptly tossed a
laugh into the silence, a short
throaty laugh as if she were a chunkier,
more muscular woman.
I was certain, now, that my sisters were
asleep. Miss Singh began again, her voice
guttural and pitched nowhere.
“What was the Princess to do? What
could she do? Very, very proud. Intelli-
gent. She promised to meet ... to meet
the Prince . . . On the hill . . . Above the
sea . . . Waiting, waiting, waiting ... A
red hat, red shoes, Jhe red dress . . .
Waiting in the cold. He comes. He takes
her in his arms. He kisses her. He says
‘l’m going tomorrow morning. But I’ll
come back.’ Lies!”
It was difficult to hear Miss Singh.
“A pack of lies! the Princess said,
‘Light a match. I dropped my purse near
the edge, while I was waiting.’ He lit
four matches, looking and looking nearer
the edge. She pushes him. His hat on.
‘Oh,’ he says, ‘Oh!’ Such a lot of
stars . . .”
Miss Singh stopped.
I was disappointed by Miss Singh, and
bored. I restrained myself from croaking
out, “Shut up l”
In a few moments I heard her go to
the kitchen. I fell asleep to her furtive
but almost visible din. I saw kettle hit
stove, drawers open and shut, dropped
cake-tin lid strike linoleum. On Wednes-
day the doctor said I had influenza.
~VText Tuesday Miss Singh did not
turn up. My mother said she’d have
been madly livid but she was, anyway,
giving the play-reading the go-by to
ministah to her poor feverish ’ickie dull-
ing.
Miss Singh, my mother went on, had
left on Monday to go to a wardsmaid’s
job in a Melbourne hospital. “Rilly,” she
said, “I expect it’s a gay change for the
poor little thing. Awkward-making for
me, though. I’ll have to chivvy out
another mild old maid for next Tuesday.”
She fussed high-heeledly about making
my room untidier. She put scent on my
pillow. She made a hot lemon drink with
lots of pips in. Although puffing a cigar-
ette she undoubtedly felt like Florence
Nightingale, and was inspired to offer to
read to me.
I was having hot and then cold flush-
ings so I refused, so ungraciously, and
shaking her hot hand off my hotter fore-
head, that she snapped.
All this came from traipsing about in
the wind and rain on the beach. And,
while on the subject, dulling, I was
to be madly careful on that giddy-making
cliff. Yesterday they’d found a bodeh
that had been stuck between the rocks
for nearleh a week. Some little pastreh-
cook from Rule’s had fallen over. The
crabs . . . wasn’t it shudder-making!
. . . had been eating him.
I could not tell if the hotter and colder
waves that surged through and through
the length of my body were from in-
fluenza or the fact that I had learned
something I did not want to and could
never impart.


POLITICAL POINTS
One of the Federal Government’s chief
concerns about raising interest-
rates on Commonwealth borrowing is
that a lift of, say, half of one per cent,
would bring a fall in the market price
of 5 p.c. securities. The Government no
doubt remembers the storm of criticism
that followed the lifting of the bond-
rate from 3| p.c. to 4\ p.c. in November,
1952. But the main point in that outcry
was the fact that as late as January of
the preceding year the Treasury had
exercised its right to convert to 3i p.c.
securities which had been compulsorily
reduced to 4 p.c. (from as high as 6 p.c.)
during the depression. Some of these
need not have been converted or repaid
until 1953, some until 1961. The old
4 p.c. bonds also carried special tax con-
cessions and could be used for payment
of Commonwealth estate-duty ; this did
not apply to the 31 p.c. issue. The whole
operation was rightly regarded as a piece
of Treasury ruthlessness, especially when
the history of the old bonds and the
devaluation of the currency meantime
were taken into account. Following the
conversion operation, which was not a
success, Government paper was mostly
at a discount for two years. The so-called
“Horror Budget” coincided with this
period.
• •
About the best news for politicians
with elections in the offing next year
is the good rains over the whole of the
drought areas of eastern Australia. Every
Government will take credit for a large
moiety of the results.
• •
The Congo situation seems to be work-
ing to a crisis which will flare-up if the
Lumumba faction gets enough arms from
behind the Iron Curtain to attack the
Western area held by Kasavubu and
Mobutu. The Communist-backed con-
ference at Casablanca —Morocco, Ghana,
Guinea and Mali were represented at top
level—when last heard from was framing
an overall plan to back Lumumba, the
Kremlin’s nominee, and it doesn’t need
two guesses to decide where their techni-
cal resources and strategic know-how is
coming from. The delegates arrived in
aircraft which were Khrushchev’s Christ-
mas-gifts to them.
• •
'The situation in Laos a fair ex-
A ample of why Communism is winning
all down the line in the battle for the
world The .Communists are doing —
landing parachute - troops, armaments,
war-supplies in general. Seato is only
preparing to retaliate, and by the time
it has even framed a threat the damage
will be done.
The Khrushchev plan of “coexistence”
seems to be revealing its pattern and
objective—to coexist with somebody
(even forcibly, as in Laos) wherever he
can threaten the security of Western de-
fence ; or with the Moroccans, in a posi-
tion which threatens peace in Africa and
the Atlantic trade-routes and the Gibral-
tar gate to the Mediterranean ; with the
United Arab Republic, which lies athwart
the Suez Canal, the oilfields of the Middle
East and the air-routes through Africa
from Europe ; in Indo-China, the road
to South-east Asia from China, com-
manding the China Sea routes to Japan
from the air ; in Cuba, commanding the
entrance to Panama and the adjacent
rocket-defence centres of the United
States.
• •
A cademic freedom issues, such as
T*- those raised by Professor Hartwell’s
claim that an appointee was rejected by
the University of N.S.W. because of a
Commonwealth Security report, need to
be discussed against the background of
the fact that “Security” is an organisa-
tion designed for the protection of Aus-
tralia. Some of the debaters —especially
the alleged victims —seem to be trying
to turn “Security” into an equivalent of
“McCarthyism.” It seems healthy to ask
why Communists and others are so much
afraid of the service and so intent on
destroying its effectiveness.
o •
Sydney “Herald” heading: “Australian
Group Searching for Storms in Space.”
Why go past Canberra, which is far
more comfortable than the stratosphere?
o •
Western Australia will be the venue in
1961 of Commonwealth Technical Train-
ing Week, a gathering originally spon-
sored by the Duke of Edinburgh. Eight
Commonwealth countries and 23 British
colonial territories will participate in the
functions arranged for the week from
May 29 to June 4. Objects are to make
young people aware of training and edu-
cation opportunities; stress the advan-
tages of training-schemes both for firms
and young people; make employers aware
of their responsibility to employees just
starting work ; and emphasise the import-
ance of young workers in the com-
munity.
a a
West Indian immigration into the
United Kingdom has increased at an
alarming rate —43,000 in the 10 months
January-October, compared with 16,000
in 1959. It is against British principles
to impose a color-ban, but with unem-
ployment mounting in the motor in-
dustry, an influx of unskilled labor on
this scale raises serious problems. In the
long run the tide will ebb when it becomes
clear that jobs are no longer freely avail-
able in Britain. But that’s a slow process
and some action is needed now. There’s
a strong feeling that the Government
intends to bring in legislation to restrict
entry not only from the West Indies,
but also from other parts of the Com-
monwealth and from Eire.
• •
The rise in interest rates on home-
building loans by about half of one
per cent, was to be expected in view of
the revised cost of borrowing in a market
short of capital. But those families lucky
enough to get finance at 6 p.c. or there-
abouts from life-offices, savings-banks
and building-societies will still be better
off than those who have to pay 6j p.c.
flat on a h.-p. contract or 8 p.c. p.a. -on
a mortgage.
• •
In the Communist argot which he now
speaks, well seeded with references to
“criminal activities,” “putrid Govern-
ments,” “provocation” and “aggression,”
Castro sent packing all but 11 of 87
employees of the U.S. Embassy in Cuba
on 48 hours’ notice last week, and Uncle
Sam promptly broke-off diplomatic rela-
tions. At the same time Castro sent his
Dr Roa to New York to prove to the
Security Council that the U.S. had been
using its Embassy “to introduce con-
spiracy-agents and terrorists” protected
by diplomatic immunity, the F. 8.1. and
the Pentagon furnishing them with
explosives and the most modern
detonator equipment. All this as a pre-
lude to U.S. invasion.
The whole thing'is beginning to smell
strongly of a deliberate attempt to pro-
mote hostilities with the U.S. for the
benefit of the Kremlin.
• •
The shortage of labor is apparent in
ship’s crews as well as in wharf labor,
and to an extent which has moved
Foster, J., to ask Elliot V. Elliott, the
Seamen’s Communist secretary, to tell
him why. It wouldn’t be that seamen
are beginning to realise what mugs they
are to work in continual turmoil and to
be under threat of loss of wages through
strike whenever they set foot on a ship,
would it? Anybody who wants to be
a member of Elliott’s union is a glutton
for punishment.
• •
Y*7hen Eddie Ward from his sickbed
** made his mischievous prediction that
Menzies would retire in 1961 to the cosy
vacancy of the High Commissionership
in London he again provoked specula-
tions over the P.M.’s successor as leader
when he does step down. Most observers
let it go as a tussle between Holt and
Barwick, with the odds on Harold because
of his longer experience. But the name of
Jack McEwen is cropping-up more fre-
quently. As Country-party leader,
McEwen, of course, can’t be leader of the
Liberals, who will continue to form the
•majority party in a partnership which is
happy enough in Canberra but uneasy or
disrupted in three of the four States which
have a Country party. McEwen has
ability, and he has managed to keep clear
of the kind of troubles which have
recently beset Holt and Barwick. Yet on
paper his elevation seems improbable.


How NOT to Get a Novel Published
(In One Hard Lesson)
By ALAN REID
So you want to write an Australian
novel that does not reek of gumtips
and dispenses with such stylised
props in Australian fiction as sun-
bronzed bushmen and the squatter’s
daughter? And you would like some
advice from a man who though he has
never had a novel published has earned
his living from writing in Australia for
over a quarter of a century? My advice
is simple. Forget it.
For if your theme is a large one —
such as power seeking—and those you
are depicting are influential people —such
as politicians—Australia may prove for
you, as it has proved for me, too narrow
a stage on which to stage such a drama.
There may be too many timid people
about. The headaches are not worth it.
My experience started some three years
ago. I was in Canberra, driving home
late at night from Parliament House.
Labor had done something particularly
stupid that evening (I have forgotten pre-
cisely what). As I drove, I wondered
whether the Labor split, then well under
way, was really a split. .Was the Labor
party —that most colorful, picturesque,
and restless of all the Australian political
groupings—merely split? Or was it in
the throes of final disintegration?
I felt there was both tragedy and high
drama in this, and, as I drove, I mapped
out a novel in my head. I would re-write
Machiavelli’s “Prince” in modern dress.
I would call the book “The Bandar-log”
—from Kipling’s Jungle Book. The
Bandar-log were the Monkey People.
Alone of the animals who lived in the
jungle they observed no law whatsoever.
The book was a novel of politics and
politicians.
When I finished it a literary neighbor,
an External Affairs type, read it and he
was so enthusiastic that finally—more to
placate him than for any other reason —
I promised to submit it. I am under con-
tract to Australian Consolidated Press,
which has book publishing interests, so
I submitted it first to my present em-
ployers.
I admit it was a most unenthusiastic
submission. “You wouldn’t be interested
in a novel on politics?” I asked the com-
pany officer who looks after the firm’s
publishing interests. I added—dampen-
ingly—that I realised political novels
were a bit outside his normal line of
country.
“No,” said the officer. “I don’t think
we would be interested. Sounds more
like A. and R’s (Angus and Robertson’s,
Ltd.) cup of tear Why don’t you try
them?” So I did try them.
When I returned to Sydney some time
later, I revisited Angus and Robertson’s.
I was received with open arms. The
adjectives dazzled me. My characterisa-
tion was “brilliant.” The novel would be
“one of the most mature ever produced
in Australia.” It was forecast that it
would win the Franklin prize.
Did this mean that A. and R’s had
accepted the novel? Of course it meant
that. Only one thing remained to be
done. I was a controversial figure writing
on a controversial subject—politics. The
novel would have to be cleared with the
directors (“the board” is my memory of
the precise words used). But that was
only a formality. The. book would be
published within the next few months.
1 would be notified of the precise date.
I went downstairs, spent some of my
prospective royalties in a mild book-
buying spree, and returned to Canberra
to give my delighted literary neighbor the
news and to await publication day.
TThen one day I am standing in King’s
Hall in Parliament House, Canberra.
Session is in progress and a Labor Par-
liamentarian, whom I am very aware is
capable of keeping both his ears close
to the ground while standing in an erect
position, drifts up alongside me.
We are talking about this and that
in the political world when suddenly
he says “They tell me you’ve got a book
with Angus and Robertson’s, sport.”
I look at him, surprised, for I haven’t
told too many people about the book
and I say “Yes. It is coming out next
month or the month after.”
He said “It isn’t coming out.”
I said (in my innocence) “You’d better
check your info, again. You’ve got the
story wrong. It’s been accepted, and
they’ve told me that it’ll be out within
two months.”
He said “You’re the one who needs
to check his info., sport. You’re not up
to date. I don’t know what’s in the
book. I don’t even know what it is about.
But I do know that it isn’t coming out.”
He watched me think this over. He
was obviously enjoying himself. He
guessed at the lines along which my
mind was working for he added “Unless
your boss (meaning Sir Frank Packer)
publishes it, it is not going to be pub-
lished. Not in Australia at least. Not
by anyone who makes a few quid out
of the Commonwealth Literary Fund.
And most of the publishers who’d be
interested in your sort of stuff do make
a quid that way. You’ve had it.”
I said “Others have asked me to give
it to them if A. and R’s pull out.” (I
had had an inquiry from a possible pub-
lisher just a few days before.)
“They’re not interested any more,” said
my Labor acquaintance. “I know.”
He knew. And his “info.” was cer-
tainly later than mine. I wrote a deadpan
letter to A. and R’s, asking for a firm
publication date and telling them I must
have it. Otherwise I wanted the manu-
script back.
. I got back a charming letter. It ex-
pressed bitter disappointment that the
firm had to lose a writer who obviously
had the capacity to produce further work
of high quality. But my characterisation
in “The Bandar-log” was just “too
brilliant.” There could be “trouble”—
the type of “trouble” that could be ex-
pected was delicately left undefined.
A. and R’s could just not go on with the
novel.
I began to wonder if my Labor
acquaintance was merely embroidering
one correct scrap of information the
decision not to publish the novel which
he could have learned about in a dozen
different ways—or if he really knew
something.
To satisfy myself, I asked my own
company to have a second look at the
novel, this time to consider seriously
whether they would publish it. The com-
pany did. Tlie reports on the novel from
the book tasters were gratifyingly flatter-
ing. But the chief executive of the pub-
lishing section shook his head. “Political
novels are chancy things financially,” he
pointed out. I argued that political novels
often made money. I instanced “The
Last Hurrah,” “Advise and Consent,”
“All the King’s Men,” and others.
“Yes,” said the executive. “But they
were published in the States. The U.S.
is a big market. Australia is a small one.
I can’t see a quid in a novel on Australian
politics—and we’re not in this business to
lose money.”
Maybe I’m a vulgar person but that
—the inability to see a “quid” in it—
seemed to me a good, earthy and honest
reason to decide against publishing a
book. It satisfied me. And the executive’s
forthrightness assuaged much of my
previous, vague feeling that I was per-
haps being pushed round. I felt that it
could be that A. and R’s felt the same
way—that there wasn’t a “quid” in “The
Bandar-log”—but were too highminded
in the literary sense to phrase a rejection
in that blunt manner. I returned to Can-
berra and threw the manuscript in a
drawer.
HTHE manuscript stayed there and prob-
ably would have stayed there until
I had another ruthless spring cleaning
out only I met a man who publishes


paperbacks and who wanted to have a
crack at breaking into the hardback book
publishing business. This man has politi-
cal connections. His political views—and
political philosophy—and mine are about
as widely apart as the Poles.
He said “The whisper is that you’ve
done a novel. How about giving me a
look at it if you haven’t already placed
it?”
. I laughed. I said “It’s no good to you.
It wouldn’t suit your brand of politics.
In fact the viewpoint from which it is
written is diametrically opposed to what
I think you and your mob stand for.”
He said “I’m not interested in it as
a political but as a business proposition.
There may be dough in it.”
I shrugged my shoulders. I did not
intend to do anything further with the
manuscript. As he said what had I to
lose? I posted him the manuscript when
I returned to Canberra. A few days
passed. Then he phoned me. He told
me he did not like the novel’s politics.
But he thought my people were wrong
in their view that there “wasn’t a quid
in it.” He could see both a “quid” and
an opportunity to break into the hard-
back business. He was sure that I had
other novels in me and if I was prepared
to give him the manuscript he would
carry it on from there.
I said “You’re Catholic, aren’t you?
This book is not anti-Catholic. But I’d
imagine it’ll be interpreted as anti-
Catholic by some people. It’s nothing of
the kind, of course. I'm just telling a
story —a story of disintegration in a
modern Australian setting. And
Catholicism —and sectarianism —is part
of the modern Australian setting. But
you’re going to get into trouble with your
mob if you publish this.”
He said “Let me worry about that.
Will you give me the manuscript?”
The manuscript was no good to me.
I had reached the stage at which it was
merely a wad of paper taking up space
in my limited drawer space. I gave it
to him. “But I don’t want to have to
worry about it any further,” I told him.
“You look after it from here on. I don’t
even want to know what you’re doing
about it.”
The publisher did not take me literally
at my word. He consulted me meticu--
lously about what he was doing and
kept me posted on progress. He had the
punctuation tidied up—punctuation has
never been my strongest point. He had
a cover designed but did not push ahead
with it until he was sure that it met with
my approval. He informed me of what
he proposed to do with the jacket and
“blurb.”
Then he notified me that he had given
an order to Halstead’s, a subsidiary of
Angus and Robertson’s, to do the print-
ing. They were good printers. As his
first hardback he wanted a prestige pro-
duction job. The printed novel was to
be delivered in mid-1960 in plenty of
time to catch the Christmas trade.
Though I did not like his politics, I had
to admire his business efficiency.
Shortly before delivery date, however,
he phoned me. “Halstead’s have been
in touch with me,” he said. “They’re
frightened of one of your descriptions.”
He named a politician whom (among
hundreds of othbr men) the description
would fit. He told me that Halstead’s
wanted the description changed.
“Look,” I said wearily. “There are
only limited ways in which I can describe
people. . They can be tall, middlesized
or short. They can be fat, thin or
middling. I can of course make them
all dwarfs or giants; give them each
two heads and six fingers apiece. But
they don’t come that way too often, even
in politics. And this is a political novel.
If I change the physical characteristics
of this particular character, people will
merely identify him as someone else in
politics. I can’t be responsible for their
imagination. This is fiction. Nothing
more and nothing less.”
The publisher said “I think we’ll have
to change the description Halstead’s
are questioning. Otherwise Halstead’s
mightn’t go on with the job. And if they
don’t and I have to find another printer
1 mightn’t be able to get as good a
printer. And I certainly won’t be able to
meet my selling programme. I want this
out for the Christmas trade.”
I said “You make the changes. I
couldn’t care less.”
C|o he arranged with Halstead's for one
of their editors to do the changing
on a paid basis, the publisher doing the
paying. Halstead’s had assured him, he
told me, that once this was done in this
manner there would be no further hold-
ups. The editor made the changes, and
once again things got under way.
I was sent proof copies. By this stage
I was so bored with the stop and start
progress of the novel towards the re-
viewers’ desks that I wished my literary
neighbor had been able to sleep through
my night typing and had not urged me
into doing something about what I was
writing. But I dutifully corrected the
proofs, read the editor’s change of
description with considerable amusement
(I estimated that I knew at least twenty
politicians who would fit his description
adequately) and sent back the proofs.
Delivery date was two weeks off. I was
sent the unbound but corrected copies.
I sat back. “The Bandar-log” was prac-
tically on the bookstalls. I began to feel
a stirring of excitement. It could be that
all the fiddling round was worth it. I
was about to publish my first novel —
quite an important milestone under any
circumstances in the life of a professional
writer which I was.
Then the publisher phoned me again.
“There’s another hitch,” he said.
“Halstead’s refuse to deliver the novel.
They claim it is defamatory.” As the
persons defamed, he named two promi-
nent politicians, one of whom I knew
only slightly.
I am quite a restrained character. I
did not explode. I merely asked “What
characters in the novel do they identify
them with?” (I had secured the names
I used in the novel by anglicising names
taken from Machiavelli and the Borgian
period in Italian history in conformity
with my belief that I was re-writing “The
Prince” in serge suiting instead of doublet
and hose.) He named them. They had
identified the politician I knew only
slightly with a character I had depicted
in the novel as being a highly efficient
but slightly corrupt politician.
“As far as I know So-and-so is a
completely honest man,” I said. “Have
they any reason for believing the con-
trary? What reason have they for
identifying him with ‘The Bandar-log’
character? He never once crossed my
mind, even as a type, while I was writing
‘The Bandar-log.’ Why should he cross
theirs?”
And then I recognised the futility of
the argument. No matter how I described
the persons I was writing about some
people would insist upon identifying
them with actual living politicians.
I could write fiction about crocodile
shooting, homosexualism, life in the out-
back or in a city slum or a highpriced
suburb, about a whole variety of
things about which I might know
very little and care less. But under
the conditions that were being
laid down for me I could not write
a fictional work about politics because
the political animal is a cosmopolitan
creature. He has characteristics which
he shares with politicians the world over
whether they do their prowling in the
political jungle of the Kremlin or the
political jungle of Canberra. It is only
in traditions and techniques that demo-
cratic and authoritarian politicians vary
—the basic motivations are constant.
Even if I set my novel in the U.S.A.
some readers would identify in it what
they would believe to be political per-
sonalities (actually they are political
types) that exist also in Australia. If
you doubt this, read "The Last Hurrah,”
pure American, but if the accents are
ignored, a story that could have been
set in this State once the place names
were altered.
My would-be publisher—a far more
patient man that I —sought a way out
of the impasse. He interviewed Hal-
stead’s. He was left in no doubt about
what Halstead's wanted. They wanted to
see the last of “The Bandar-log.” It' was
suggested that he take the type (which
would represent a considerable saving in
production costs for him) and have the
novel printed elsewhere.
At first he demurred. But recognising
that it was that or nothing and that with
the type set up he would avoid further
delay and still be in time for the Christ-
mas trade he reluctantly came round to
acceptance of the offer. He was shopping
round for another printer capable of
giving him the same prestige production
as Halstead’s when he got a further set-
back. He was advised that he would not
be given the type —that the “higher-ups”
had vetoed the proposal.
I suggest there is an interesting prob-
lem in my experience for both the Aus-
tralian writer and the Australian pub-
lishing industry.


What the Japanese Think of Us
We Are A Compulsory Subject
By MASSEY STANLEY
The Third in a Series of Asian Attitudes to Australia
Australia is of increasing import-
ance to Japan, and is better
known to the average Japanese
than Japan is to the average Aus-
tralian. Since the war, and especially over
recent years, thousands more Australians
every year have come to know Japan
directly through visiting it as servicemen,
sportsmen, businessmen or tourists ; but
I have in mind here the stay-at-home
people in both countries. Comparing the
average of these in both, I would think
that the literate population of Japan (one
of the most literate on earth) would fare
better than Australians in general in
answering five_or six questions about the
other country ; on such matters as area,
population and resources the Japanese
answers would be accurate. So it is
reasonable to assume that the great
number of literate Japanese must have
quite widespread general thoughts about
Australia.
A curious fact is that less is known
about Australia’s part in the war than
Australians might expect. This is
apparently not a rejection of unflatter-
ing or unpleasant facts —the recent visit
which Lieut.-General Gordon Bennett
made to Japan showed that there is
plenty of interest in the details, whatever
light they throw. The biggest war-time
play the newspapers gave Australia was
the honor paid to the dead from the
midget submarines. It is still a cherished
legend. Nowadays, in a population
which reached 93,406,445 on October 1,
and that is 20,000,000 more than when
the war ended, the proportion of sur-
viving ex-servicemen who had contact
with Australians in the war is small. So
little was said at the time that at the
present day practically only the specialists
are aware that it was the Australians
who turned back the Imperial Japanese
Army at its southern-most points of ad-
vance, in Milne Bay and the Owen
Stanleys. It is undoubtedly true that the
atrocities Japanese soldiers committed
against prisoners-of-war were unknown
to the mass of the people until they were
forcibly publicised by Scap three weeks
after the surrender. The revelations have
remained as a shock even to the post-
war generation, disclosing a sense of war
guilt and an abhorrence of being involved
in any renewal of war which doesn’t
exist to a similar extent in Germany or
Italy. General Bennett, in a recent TV
session, told of a teenager having asked
him the question, “Do the Australians
bear any grudge against us for having
started the war?” According to General
Bennett these war babies are not sur-
a “grudge” should exist.
Something may have been accomp-
lished in Colonel Tsuji’s book on the
campaign to bridge the hiatus in general
knowledge about Australia’s part in the
Malayan fighting. As to the blanks on
Papua, homeward communiques from an
Army that had become cut off were
erratic, and, after all, General Mac-
Arthur’s own communiques, at a time
when the Australians were the only land
force operating in Papua, never referred
to them except as “allied troops.” Xhe
outstanding reaction of Japanese people
"It's not really a pain, Doctor, it's a hollow feeling with a
prickle in the middle."
of the old and new generations who can
and do discuss the war-time relations of
their country and Australia is that, as in
Manila, these did not help Japan in any
way ; but active service ex-soldiers don’t
like being lumped in with the prison
guards.
There are two reasons why, in other.,
respects, the average Japanese is likely to
do more thinking about Australia than
the average Japanese does about Japan,
One is that news about Australia appears
almost daily in Japanese newspapers,
notably on sporting events. The clashes
of Furuhashi and Yamanaka with Aus-
tralian swimmers are always lead stories,
The other reason is based on an educa-
tion system under which, of necessity,
Japanese learn at an earlier age about
Australia than Australians learn about
Japan. English at Japan’s compulsory
schools is a compulsory subject. Many
students go on to universities still not
speaking it easily ; but throughout Japan
it is generally only a dunce or an illiter-
ate who cannot make some sort of fist
at reading English. The Japanese school-
child learns sooner than many Americans
that Australia is one of the countries
where English is the common language.
Also, geography is a major subject
almost from kindergarten in a country
which must export or die, and which de-
pends on the world outside for all the
ra\tf materials needed for making those
exports. As a vital source of wool, metals
and more recently of coal (apart from
wheat, barley and sugar), Australia is a
country which every Japanese kid has
studied rather thoroughly by the time
he leaves primary school.
TThe in high and middle schools
is such that increasing numbers of
pen-friend letters are coming from them
to Australia. Churned out maiply by
youngsters with a better capacity for
written than/ spoken English, they are
often stilted, but they can improve. They
have resulted in at least one marriage,
and the Japanese bride (now a mother)
lives happily in a Sydney suburb.
A practical result of a different kind is
being achieved at Fort Street Boys’ High
School, Sydney. The class in Japanese
there has extended the pen-friend medium
to a direct exchange of records, thus
getting for both ends first-hand guidance
in pronunciation of the respective
languages.
Not all the scholars, including the pen-
friends, stay at school. There is no rea-
son to believe that the average Japanese
differs from the average Australian in
the degree to which he retains all that
he boned up on at school after he leaves
school. Yet at whatever stage he leaves
he has learned plenty about us. The bulk


of the Japanese people have had primary
education only. (I am again alluding to
the stay-at-homes. You will seldom meet
any Japanese here —certainly none in
Government and few in commerce —who
has not been through some university,
and university entrance in Japan is highly
competitive.)
Amongst the people who stay in
Japan, of whatever class, proportionately
few have had any direct contact with
Australians, before, during or after the
war. The occupation w'as predominantly.
American. Of the ordinary run of the
population, amongst these few are people
who were in contact with our soldiers
and airmen in places like Kure and
Iwakune (there was also Hiroshima), in
downtown Tokyo, on the Yamate line
from Tokyo to Ebisu, at assorted “leave
places.” In these contacts the impres-
sions on both sides have been vivid. Of
course some will think immediately of
the desertions, especially around Kure,
which have given Australians an unenvi-
able name ; regrettable, but a concomi-
tant of the occupations throughout his-
tory —and one in which the Australians
were not pioneers. (This problem gets
far more public attention in Australia
than in Japan, incidentally.) On the
other hand, the Australian record on
brides brought back from Japan is
regarded in Japan as being exceptionally
good. With the knowledge gained from
a close association with the British Com-
monwealth Occupation Force I can say
that the overall impact that the Aus-
tralians left with the Japanese in this
period is to our credit. It is the more so
having regard to the unnatural circum-
stances, notably an all-pervading black-
market (which, so far as the average
soldier did engage in it, he did so under-
standably, almost excusably, perhaps
inevitably).
VV/Jth the memory of the then far from
” perfect conditions, what interests
me about the opinions Japanese friends
and acquaintances express about Aus-
tralians to this day is that they have
stayed pretty consistently to what the
Japanese who were in contact with our
8.C.0.F. troops ten to 15 years ago said
about the typically decent fellows they
met. Hence, without claiming to know
what thoughts are entertained of Aus-
tralia in every stratum of Japanese
society, 1 may have got as close as one
person could get to such general opinion
as does exist. This is based on varied
contacts in Japan, in experience there as a
correspondent of Australian newspapers,
in experience here as a correspondent of
a Japanese newspaper, and the oppor-
tunity provided—in handling the pub-
licity of the Japan Industry Floating Fair
—of meeting a cross-section of interests
(crewmen, traders, industrialists and Gov-
ernment officials).
I can’t give their names, but much of
what they had to say—and the part
corresponding most to what the
Japanese of 15 years ago said of our
troops—can be summed up in the words
of Mr Kempei Shiba, editor of the
English-language edition of “Asahi,” one
of Japan’s leading national dailies:
“I found the Australians to be the most
even-tempered people on earth, and the
“ Frankly , it looked better on the rabbit
most undemonstrative, except when the
horses come down the stretch. The
expression on the face of the average
Australian man makes one think he has
lost a £lOO bet. Outwardly he gives you
the impression he doesn’t want to bother
others, or others to bother him. But from
personal contact I found him to be the
kindliest, friendliest, most helpful and
hospitable person you could hope to
meet.”
Other opinions, coming from observers
who have stayed longer in the country
than Mr. Shiba did, do not go as far as
that. A particularly experienced long-
termer said: “Once you get inside the
Australian he’s 0.k., but it’s hard work.
Why is this occidental so inscrutable?
I think it is because he is only emerging
internationally. Up to the war Australia
was virtually in the position of Japan
under the Shogunate—a hermit kingdom.
Suddenly exposed to the world, the Aus-
tralian is a little on the defence. Gradu-
ally he will gain confidence, get rid of
his inferiority complex and be philo-
sophical about criticisms.”
“In Japan,” said another quite senior
critic, “the average person may or may
not know Canberra is the capital of Aus-
tralia, but he knows about Sydney and
Melbourne, and knows that Australia is
a big country with a small population
that is prosperous. We learn all the fine
points when we get here.
“The first thing that strikes us about
Australians is that they are friendly,
candid and informal and they like parties.
They think nothing of travelling what to
Japanese are enormous distances to
attend these parties. It is probably a
hangover from the old days of loneli-
ness. Also, the monotony of endless
gum-trees must have its effect. It cer-
tainly makes us Japanese glad of diver-
sion when we have to travel through ft
all.”
IX/hite Australia the average Japanese
** regards as Australia’s own busi-
ness. Although it is a little silly to try
selling him the economic line, his atti-
tude is perhaps the way Kempei Shiba
put it in his paper: “Australians got
where they are the hard way. They built
their'country up by rolling up their own
sleeves rather than taking it easy import-
ing cheap Oriental labor. The time may
come when they will change their minds
about this labor, especially skilled varie-
ties. So far as Japan is concerned, it will
be too late. The difference in wage rates
between Japan and Australia is no
greater, all things considered, than the
difference between Australia and
America. Japan has turned the corner
from a have-not to a have nation. Its
birth-rate has dropped by 50 per cent, in
13 years, from one of the world’s highest
to one of the world’s lowest. Japan’s
need to send emigrants is far, far less
than Australia’s need to accept them.”
It is a pretty widespread Japanese
belief that, while wool will continue to
be a great Australian export, it has
reached its apex. To expand Australia
must look to her industries. So Japan
is pushing heavy machinery in this
market —not abandoning textiles but
shifting the emphasis. She /has already
bought into Australia’s industrial future
with investments in Queensland and Vic-
toria ; and the Embassy at Canberra
continues, as it has been since 1951, to be
one of the really senior posts in the
Japanese diplomatic service.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Cyclone continues to expand. Last
June, Melbourne Iron and Steel
Mills, Ltd., of Brooklyn (Vic.), was
taken-over through the subsidiary K-M
Steel Products Pty. It is intended to
develop the Brooklyn plant into a major
steelworks at a further cost of £1 million.
Business conditions improved last term
and group turnover increased by 24 p.c.
Consolidated net earnings were appreci-
ably higher.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1914,
Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltd., operates
some 20 factories and branches through-
out the Commonwealth, and manufac-
tures a wide range of metal products. The
parent co. puts-out gates, fences, pre-
fabricated buildings and other equipment
from tubular-steel and wire. Subsidiaries
produce drop-forgings of various types,
tubular scaffolding, steel and aluminium
window-frames and other sheet-metal
articles.- Particular attention is being
given to the scrap-metal trade, and four
recently-acquired subsidiaries are said to
be doing well in the game.
Intensification of sales - promotion
pushed up group turnover. Consolidated
trading-profit before tax and depreciation
rose by £209,031 to £1,139,170.
Income from investments and sundry
revenue brought in another £7793. After
setting aside £265,638 for depreciation
(up £39,182) and providing £336,850 for
taxation (up £92,450), consolidated net
profit for the year ended June 30, 1960,
was £71,054 higher at £512,793:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/ ——Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
6 p.c. 12J p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1957. .298,402*39,000 227,453 31,949 1,621,801
Profit sale assets, £9048 . . . . 1,630,849
Share premiums, £230 .. .. 1,631,079
Tax overprovided, £10,259 .. .. 1,641,338
Add adjustment minority interest,
£397 1,641,735
Less net difference between par and
book values of shares acquired in
subsids., £37,367 1,604,368
Unexplained reduction, £3410 ~ 1,600,958
12| p.c.
1958. .510,857*39,000 293,918 177,939 1,778,897
Profit sale assets, £18,457 .. .. 1,797,354
Share-premiums, £2 .. .. .. 1,797,356
Less net difference between par- and
book-values of shares acquired in
subsidiaries, £1479 .. .. 1,795,877
Unexplained reduction, £5020 '.. 1,790,857
Tax overprovided, £29,300 .. 1,820,157
Add adjustment minority interest, £9l 1,820,248
1959. .441,739 39,000 293,918 108,821 1,929,069
Tax overprovided, £5705 .. .. 1,934,774
Share-premiums, £817,095 . . . . 2,751,869
Contingencies written-off, £10,696 .. 2,741,173
Profit sale assets, £69,683 .. v .. 2,810,856
Less net difference between par- and
book-values of shares acquired in
subsidiaries, £225,398 .. .. 2,585,458
Decrease general reserve, £12,316 .. 2,573,142
1960. .512,793 39,000 303,449 170,344 2,743,486
* Less pre-acquisition profits, deducted from the excess
of cost over par-value of shares in subsidiaries.
Tax looks high on group earnings shown,
but the position is obscured by activities
of subsidiaries.
After paying £39,000 pref. divs., profits
disclosed represented an earning-rate of
19.5 p.c. on the larger average ord. capi-
tal, compared with 17.1 p.c. in the previ-
ous term, 20.1 p.c. in 1958 and 21.6 p.c.
in 1957.
Ord. divs. were steady at 121 pc.,
absorbing £303,449. Reserves benefited
by £170,344 and also by £5705 tax over-
provided in the preceding term, £8i7,095
share premiums and £69,683 profit on
sale of assets. Cyclone wrote-off £10,696
from contingencies reserve and £12,316
from general reserve.
After deducting £225,398 net difference
between par- and book-value of shares
acquired in subsidiaries total reserves and
undistributed profits were disclosed at
£2,743,486, free of intangibles.
Paid capital was increased tc
£3,453,839 (in £650,000 6 p.c. 20s. prefs.
and £2,803,839 10s. ords.) by the issue
of £152,500 10s. ords. in acquisition of
M. Metals Pty. and £300,000 10s. ords.
to pay for the takeover of Melbourne
Iron and Steel Mills Pty. Scrip issued to
finance these two acquisitions netted
£817,095 in share-premiums.
Liquidity improved. Theoretical work-
ing-capital was £87,229 higher at
£2,036,009. Overdraft, creditors, current
stocks and book-debts were higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Ord. . . . . 2,351,339 2,351,339 2,803,839
Reserves . . 1,778,897 1,929,069 2,743,486
Minority- interest 332,673 335,251 347,204
Mortgage, etc. . . 785,000 701,875 728,450
Notes .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Deposits, etc. . . 14,076 14,266 11,399
Overdraft . . 773,966 808,477 1,468,002
Creditors, etc. .. 626,440 643,659 845,895
Tax provision . . 350,?00 244,400 336,850
Final divs. .. 166,459 166,459 175,990
£8,829,050 £8,844,795 £11,111,115
Land, buildings 2,811,498 2,819,165 3,411,412
Plant, etc. . . 2,277,818 2,199,659 2,825,558
Stock .. .. 2,354,635 2,315,695 2,949,142
Debtors .. .. 1,248,746 1,349,120 1,858,155
Cash, etc. .. 136,353 161,156 66,848
£8,829,050 £8,844,795 £11,111,115
Book-value of fixed assets increased
appreciably, reflecting the expansion of
Cyclone’s productive capacity.
Since the accounts were ruled-off the
factory and office building at Rosebery
(N.S.W.) were sold “at a very satisfactory
figure.” A new factory complex is under
construction at South Granville (near
Sydney) at a cost exceeding £300,000.
Cyclone intends to centralise most of its
N. activities in the new factory and
sell its other surplus assets in the State.
The factory at Geebung (Q.) is being
expanded and a new gantry building is
being built to cope with the heavy de-
mand for prefabricated steel buildings.
Work should be completed this year.
Operations in the current term are re-
ported to be going well. Profits are
rising. Recent credit restrictions may
have some dampening effect, but, on the
whole, the outlook for the immediate
future is optimistic.
At last sale in Sydney the 10s. ords.
fetched 225. 3d. a unit for an immediate
return of 5.6 p.c. p.a. on the basis of the
steady p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at £9 10s. Bd. each for the 20s. prefs. and
19s. 9d. for every 20s. ord. on the basis
of consolidated accounts.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
Severe price - cutting in the sanitary.
ware market during the last four
months of the trading-year reduced
profits. In the earlier part of last term
business was good and a fourth tunnel-
kiln was put into operation to help cope
with demand.
One of the oldest firms in Sydney, R.
Fowler, Ltd., began trading as a small
potter’s shop in 1837. Public status was
assumed in 1919. Today the co. is a
leading manufacturer of sanitaryware,
stoneware, pipes, etc. Other products
include crockery, wine-and-spirit jars,
wall- and floor-tiles and insulators, etc.
The main factory is located at Marrick-
ville (near Sydney).
Other plants operate in Victoria,
Queensland and South Australia. A sub-
sidiary (Marsfield Pottery Pty.) has its
workshops in Ryde (N.S.W.). The most
recent expansion-move was the takeover
of Australian Fire-clay Co. Pty., com-
pleted in 1959 and financed by the issue
of scrip.
During the first eight months of last
term demand was brisk and sales im-
proved “substantially” both in quantity
and value. But towards the end of the
financial year intensification of competi-
tion led to widespread underselling in
the industry. Earnings dropped, affecting
annual trading results. R. Fowler fought
back vigorously to maintain its share of
the market and introduced several suc-
cessful new lines.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended September 30, 1960, was £7523
lower at £109,706 after providing
£59,743 for depreciation (up £12,063) and
setting-aside £92,283 for taxation (down
£7745): —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t —> ——Dividends —^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
Added on consolidation, £118,386 . . 578,645
1957.. 97,219 4000 12|p.c. = 32,712 60,507 639,152
Revaluation freeholds, £31,154 .. 670,306
1958. .108,659 4000 12|p.c. = 32,712 71,947 742,253
Revaluation freeholds, £134,920 . . 877,173
Reserves capitalised, £130,850 .. 746,323
Profit sale assets, £21,077 .. .. 767,400
Adjustment re takeover, £14,000 .. 753,400
Pre-acquisition profits, £5568 . . . . 758,968
Share premiums, £1641 .. .. 760,609
1959. .117,229 4000 lUp.e.= 41,841 71,388 831,997
Profit sale assets, £2434 .. .. 834,431
1960. .109,706 4000 10 p.c. = 60,782 44,924 879,355
After paying the unchanged pref. divs.
(£4000) this was equivalent to an earning-
rate ©f almost 17.4 p.c. on the average
ord. capital compared with 30.4 p.c. in
the previous term, 39.9 p.c. in 1958 and
35.6 p.c. in 1957.
It must be noted that the average ord.
capital employed last year was nearly
1.6 times higher than in the preceding
term, for the first time reflecting fully
the 1959 one-for-two bonus-handout,
which was followed by the one-for-two
par issue. Last year’s earning-rate was
satisfactory in the circumstances. Tax-
provision looks generous on consolidated
earnings disclosed.
The div.-rate was fixed at 10 p.c., com-
pared with 11-j p.c, on lower real capital
a year ago. The £60,782 div.-cheque was
well covered. Reserves benefited by
£44,924 plus £2434 profit on sale of


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatinax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. 11. AILE\, M. R. TL. DOWLING, P. R. EEVY, A. P.
KISVNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Oelfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney— 2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building-, 150 Queen St., Melbourne — 67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
assets, rising to £879,355 (free of
intangibles).
Creditors, etc., book-debts and cash
were higher. Stocks were lower: —• v
©©xsolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital — 1958. 1959. 1960.
' p re f .. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord .. .. 261,700 607,825 607,825
Reserves .. 742,253 831,997 879,355
Overdraft . . • • 44,873
Creditors, etc. .. 163,925 166,922 . 192,-677
Tax provision .. 103,442 104,651 106,950
Final divs. .. 18,356 27,485 32,391
£1,374,049 £1,778,880 £1,859,198'
Freeholds . . 545,264 700,309 704,712
Kilns, plant, etc. 258,098 848,924 455,306
Investments .. 2,911 8,063 2,911
Stock .. .. 306,641 360,514 347,995
Book-debts .. 260,612 282,459 297,811
Cash .. •• 523 78,611 50,463
£1,374,049 £1,778,880 £1,859,198
Book-value of kilns increased by £106,382
to £455,306 following installation of addi-
tional productive-capacity.
Restrictions on building-credits re-
cently introduced by the Reserve Bank
may somewhat dampen industrial
demand in current term, but sales
to private home-builders (exempt from
the credit-squeeze) need not be affected.
General outlook for the immediate future
seems favorable. Long-run prospects are
likewise good, as population - growth
ensures a steady demand for the co.’s
prosaic but essential “pottery.”
Popular on the sharemarket through-
out the year, R. Fowler’s ords. were
recently split into ss. units. At the last
sale in Sydney the ss. ords. changed
hands at 10s. a unit. The immediate re-
turn is 5 p.c., on the basis of the present
10 p.c. div.-rate. At this price the shares
are well worth attention. Management
and the board are first-class.
Net tangible asset-backing (on conser-
vative book-values) works-out at 12s. 2d.
for each ss. ord. unit on the basis of con-
solidated accounts.
Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd.
T AST year was successful despite highly
competitive trading conditions. There
was a general increase in turnover, and
profits edged-up.
A public co. since 1912, the Queens-
land-registered Intercolonial Boring Co.,
Ltd., is a manufacturer and supplier of
water-raising equipment, engineering and
mill supplies, plumbing, electric motors
and related machines and tools of trade.
Headquarters are in Brisbane, with work-
shops at Yeerongpilly. There are
branches in Townsville, Rockhampton
and Cairns (all in the Sunshine State).
New capital was last raised in 1956, when
the shareholders were offered a two-for-
five issue at par.
Rising costs are a constant problem.
There is intense business rivalry in the
industry. But 1.C.8. has been able to
improve its share of the market.
Net profit for the year ended October
"He Was a great pianist!”
31, 1960, was £9452 higher at £105,488,
after providing £22,009 for depreciation
(up £7095) and setting-aside £77,000 for
taxation (up £20,000):
To Re- Re-
Oet., Profit. , —* —Dividends serves. serves.
1955 ... 86,388 15 p.c. = 51,686 34,702 305,287
1956 . . 90,532 15 „ „ 52,978 37,554 342,841
Profit sale property, £9643*.. .. 352,484
Provision staff-training plan written-
off, £3346 . . 355,830
1957 .. 97,104 15 p.c: = 69,345 27,759 383,589
1958 .. 99,045 15 „ „ 72,360 26,685 410,274
1959 .. 96,036 15 „ ~ 72,360 23,674. 4334951
Asset revaluation, £224,038 .. ... 657,989
From tax provision, £14,000 .. 671,989
Profit sale assets, £4700 .. .. 676,689
1960.-105,488 15 p.c. - 72,360 33,128 709,817
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 21.9 p.c. on the unchanged paid capi-
tal, compared with 19.9 p.c. in the previ-
ous term, 20.5 p.c. in 1958 and 20.1 p.c.,
21.7 p.c. and 25.1 p.c, back to 1955 (the
1955 earning-rate was calculated before
the two-for-five par issue).
Shareholders collected their sixth suc-
cessive 15 p.c. div.-cheque. Reserves
benefited by £33,128 and also by £4700
profit on sale of assets and £14,000 trans-
ferred from accumulated tax-provisions.
Brisbane freeholds were written-up
by £224,038, raising reserves to £709,817
free of intangibles. This term the co.
intends to revalue freeholds in Rock-
hampton, Townsville and Cairns. The
new valuations are said to be “very con-
servative in relation to replacement cost.”
Last August the co. issued 321,958 20s.
7 p.c. convertible notes, two-for-three at
par, payable in full on application and
maturing August 31, 1967. Notes par-
ticipate in all share-issues during their
currency on the same basis as crds. In
case of a bonus-issue the co. undertakes
to first redeem the notes by issuing fully
paid ords. (one-for-one), so as to enable
noteholders to participate.
Formal liquidity looked satisfactory.
Bank overdraft disappeared. Creditors’
stocks and book-debts were higher:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £482,398 £482,898 £482,898
Reserves .. .. 410,274 433,951 709,817
Mortgage . . 105,000 101,000 97,000
Oonv. notes .. - - .321,598
Overdraft .. .. - 41,841
Creditors . . . . 118,246 174,102 260,145
Tax provision . . 169,057 140,900 139,238
Staff benefit fund 17,315 15,868 13,131
Final div. . . 36,180 36,180 36,180
£1,338,470 £1,426,240 £2,059,507
Freehold properties 132,164 161,999 407,639
Plant, etc. .. 97,924 97,192 106,324-
Advances .. 16,383 19,587 16,964
Investments .. 76,069 1,069 1,706
Stocks . . . . 582,285 699,625 ~ 858,642
Debtors, bills re-
ceivable, etc. . . 380,077 445,373 598,538
Owed by subsidiary 50,857
Cash, deposits, etc. 53,568 1,395 18,777
£7,338,470 £1,426,240 £2,059,507
Book-value of freeholds was up following
the asset-revaluation. ,
Agreements have been made with
Jacuzzi Brothers Inc. of Richmond, Cali-
fornia, U.S.A., for the manufacture
(under licence) of pumps, domestic water-
supply systems and filtration swimming-
pool equipment.
Prospects seem fair. Current trading
is satisfactory.
At the last sale in Brisbane the 20s.
ords. fetched 575. 3d. a unit. The im-
mediate yield is 5.2 p.c. on the basis of
the 15 p.c. div.-rate. The 20s. 7 p.c. conv.
notes can be bought for 345. a unit.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at a visible 495. sd. for each 20s. ord.
unit.


Shows
Never-Never
was Nearly-Nearly
TV
Some time ago Australian television
drama came of age with the A.B.C.’s
production of “The Slaughter of St
Teresa’s Day.” A week ago the
same thing nearly happened for
television documentary. “Into
the Never-Never,” despite its
tired title, was the nearest of misses.
This ambitious A.B.C. production re-
called the McDouall Stuart trek across
Australia and gave a kaleidoscopic pic-
ture of the social life of that vast territory
today.
The outbackery theme is a sitter for
the film cameraman; but very rarely
has there been such sensitive, poetic, yet
honest camera work as that of Gunnar
Isaksen. It is a pity that the inspirations
of the producer, Robert Raymond, were
so patchy and immature in comparison.
Through feeble editing and defects of
taste Raymond destroyed whatever
homogeneity this film could have had.
Bo’h Raymond and Isaksen obviously
felt deeply for the hopeless and home-
less aborigines; and the passages on
aboriginal life, particularly in the Darwin
leprosarium, were keen, moving and
unsentimental. Similarly the ghost-town
life of Pine Creek was observed in a
mood balanced between tenderness and
ruthless clarity.
But this high order of things was con-
stantly destroyed by Raymond’s out-
backery cliches, and episodes dragged
into the film for no other apparent reason
than to make a hotchpotch out of a
unity. An interminable sequence was
devoted to Wigley’s indifferent mural in
the Darwin pub. A mature editor would
have cut the sequence to 30 seconds.
For no discoverable reason a large
passage was devoted to the Blakean
visions of William Ricketts. One has no
objection to the visionary idealism of
Ricketts, but the viewer should be spared
the embarrassment of being asked to
linger among his .sculptural works.
Throughout the film the voice of John
McDouall Stuart emerged from the past,
quoting from his expedition journals. A
nice idea. But once again Raymond
was compelled to romanticise and
vulgarise. Stuart, a cussing, violent,
uncouth little cock-sparrow, was narrated
by a voice of beautiful melodic timbre.
The impression conveyed was that
McDouall stuart was some Ei nc i G f
Glaswegian John Gielgud; a thought
that would have sent McDouall S. yelping
in horror for his brandy bottle.
Despite these aberrations “Into the
Never-Never” constitutes something of a
landmark in our television. The Austra-
lian environment can be exotic and
absorbingly interesting. Classic documen-
taries of this kind may cost the A.B.C.
money, but they can be shown and re-
shown. With a little more polish and
technical sophistication they could com-
mand a world market.
Max Harris
Hither and Zither
We have seen enough of the “Shirley
Abicair in Australia” series to get the
pattern: the demureness of Shirley occa-
sionally interrupted by bits of Australian
environment. The A.B.C. has discovered
the Star system. Woe is us!
The idea of travelogues of the human
geography of Australia backed by folk-
song was good. But the producer went
to work on the assumption that the pub-
lic’s appetite for Miss Abicair is insati-
able. The Snowy Mountains turn out to
be a background for Shirley doing this
or interviewing that or singing something
else. If Miss Abicair is interviewing an
opera - singer or a group of Australian
poets the director can barely endure
having his little big-shot off-camera.
Even when Miss Abicair is off-camera
she becomes narrator full time, telling us
about everything in schoolgirl declama-
tion. The Star obsession prevents the
director following the rules of sound-
film technique, of neutralising the visual
material when the point of required con-
centration is aural. When Miss Abicair
is singing the Eumerella folksong in the
Snowy River episode the camera con-
centrates on long shots of guess-who
tittering and tottering across a stony
stream. Her little-girl voice may have
great night-club charm dealing with
English turtle-dove type folksy material,
but she de-natures Australia’s rough-as-
bags bush songs the moment she twangs
her zither.
It is not necessarily Miss Abicair’s
fault. I am told this session has an
enormous following amongst youngsters ;
and I can understand it. Her talent and
personality have a winning quality which
children will buy any tick of the clock.
And if the programme is viewed from a
5 p.m. Aunty-Shirley-in-Australia point
of view, then it’s altogether excellent.
Lovely singing, and educational, too.
But as viewing for grown-ups, no. The
series needed so little rethinking to be-
come first - rate ; the playing - down of
Miss Abicair, a narrator in the Leonard
Teal class, a various approach to the
singing of folksongs ... As it is, “Shirley
in Australia” is one of our cultural wines
to be dumped in bulk on the export
market only.
M. H.
THEATRE
Melbourne Shows for 1961
While the old-time musical “East
Lynne” enters its eighth month at Mel-
bourne Bowl and the inconsequential
farce “See How They Run” is running
into an extended season at the Union,
“West Side Story,” a finer evening’s
entertainment, prepares to close at the
Princess after a run of only three months.
This is why the four main live Melbourne
theatres will concentrate in the new year
on lightweights. They say they must give
the public what it wants or go bankrupt.
Carroll’s (at the Princess): February,
“The Winifred Atwell Show”; April,
“Lock Up Your Daughters,” a new
“naughty” musical set in the 18th cen-
tury ; June, “The Most Happy Fella,” a
Broadway musical ; later in the year,
“Sound of Music,” the last Hammerstein-
Rodgers musical.
Little Theatre: late January, “Capture
the Castle,” a comedy by Dodie Smith.
Producer Irene Mitchell also has in mind
“A Touch of the Sun,” by N. C. Hunter,
author of “Waters of the Moon”; two
classical plays and at least two Australian
plays. The theatre’s play competition,
won by Oriel Grey last year with “Burst
of Summer,” attracted 247 entries. Some
are being rewritten, one at least for pro-
duction later this year.
M.U.T.R.C.: late January, “The
Mystery of a Hansom Cab,” by the
young South Australian Barry Pree—
based on Fergus Hume’s novel, it is being
advertised as “An Australian Melo-
drama.” After this the possibilities are
“The Importance of Being Earnest,” “All
in the Family” (Care-Gilbert Sauvason)
and “Five Finger Exercise” (Peter
Shafer).
J.C.W. shows were outlined last week.
The new show Googie Withers was seek-
ing to tour with “Winter Journey” looks
like being Somerset Maugham’s “The
Constant Wife,” while Robert Pomies
Australian ballet, “The Surfers.” shown
on an experimental stage in Sydney a
while back, is to be the final production,
with “The Nutcracker Suite,” of the
Borovansky season in Melbourne.
A. S. Jorgensen
“Charley’s Aunt”
William Hodge, the Welsh actor of
“Seagulls Over Sorrento” and last year’s
“Simple Spymen” farce, took over
Charley’s Aunt from Gordon Chater at
Sydney Elizabethan last Thursday.
His was a quiet Aunt who didn’t lose


sight of the fact that she began as Lord
Fancourt Babberley and had to return
as Lord Fancourt and appear worthy
of the admiration of Ela Delahay (Betty
Lucas). A gentlemanly Aunt; rather
the Oxford sportsman than the Oxford
student; perplexed, forthright, maybe
bumbling ; but never completely a clown.
Whether being an rmgentlemanly
Aunt could spoil the piece would be hard
to say (the only other aunt one could
contrast him with was Sheila Bradley, as
the real Aunt ; and she was ladylike
rather than ungentlemanly) ; in this play,
so long as the people look a little like
their parts and remember their lines, it
must be extremely hard to fail.
On the other hand, in the general com-
portment and facial gymnastics of Lou
Vernon, as old Spettigue, as he tripped
and gambolled after the .Aunt of his
desire, there was a sense of Cruikshank
caricature which one did not notice in
the other piayers ; the audience seemed
to think so, too, and gave Mr Vernon
quite a hand as he ended his drawing-
room scene.
Ronald McCuaio
FILMS
“G.I. Blues”
In this, one’s first view of America’s
Presley, one was amazed at how closely
he had copied a young Australian of the
reviewer’s acquaintance ; there was that
curl of the lip, as though always on the
point of saying, “Huh, women!” and
there was that weary, slit-eyed tolerance
of the world . . .
But Presley sang much better than his
Australian original. There waS~ no
masterpiece as towering as “I Need Your
Love Tonight,” but a little German folk-
song novelty where he is posed very
prettily against a doll from a Punch and
Judy show, and quite a number of pieces
where, in restaurants, barracks, night-
clubs and suspended in midair in a
flying-fox car, orchestras come to his aid,
and you get that curious transposition
from headnotes to chestnotes which is his
trademark, and that general ease that
makes him (to the reviewer’s mind)‘ the
finest singer in the trade today.
But he has his failures. All the time
while the reviewer watched him a tiny
child was alternately clutching at the
reviewer’s shoulder from behind, being
smacked by its mother, yowling and
clutching at the reviewer’s shoulder.
Well, when Elvis was baby-sitting and
took the baby to the flat of Miss Juliet
Prowse, the athletic dancer, where he had
a bet that he would spend the night, and
the baby began howling, and Elvis
started to sing it to sleep with a lullaby,
one thought: here is where Art is going
to catch up with Little Miss Behind.
But it was not so. The baby went to sleep
in the film, all right ; but Little Miss
Behind redoubled her yowling. Maybe
Elvis hasn’t had enough practice yet at
putting babes of that kind to sleep.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
R. McC.
“The Cousins”
Charles (Gerard Blain) comes from
the country to his cousin Paul’s Paris
flat; they are both students. Paul (Jean-
Claude Brialy) has a circle of moustache
and wild friends ; the moustache goes
right around his mouth and meets under
his chin ; the friends, especially the girls,
circulate also, and wherever they meet,
Claude Chabrol, the author and director,
takes candid camera shots. Charles falls
for Florence (Juliette Mayniel), an experi-
enced circulator, and just for the novelty
she tries to fall in love with him.
But Paul points out that she is going
to ruin simple Charles’s life ; to protect
Charles a bit more he takes Florence over
himself. The scene where he and a friend
persuade the girl is extremely manipula-
tive. So there are the three of them,
Charles trying to study law while
Florence sunbathes in a simple pair of
shorts and has hot baths behind corru-
gated glass walls with Paul. Paul passes
his examination and throws a wild party
with a professional strong man and
Wagner recordings ; next day Charles sits
for his examination and fails.
Charles loads a pistol with one bullet
and clicks it harmlessly at Paul while
Paul is asleep. Then Paul wakes and,
thinking the pistol isn’t loaded, clicks it
at Charles in his old playful way, and
Charles falls dead: this proves- that some
people naturally have it hard.
Brialy does everything with that air
of doing something else which is wel-
come to women, and the wild parties and
Juliette Mayniel may delight those who
are too young or too old to have such
parties themselves.
At Sydney Savoy.
R. McC.
Besides “The Cousins,” Sydney Savoy
will show this year “The Secret of
General Della Rovere,” Rossellini's pro-
duction of the resistance novel by Indro
Montanelli, with Vittorio de Sica as the
smooth-tongued swindler, which won the
Golden Lion award at Venice in 1959,
and first prize at San Francisco. Also
“Full Sun,” adapted from the novel “Mr.
Ripley,” by Patricia Highsmith, a French
suspense film directed by Rene Clement;
a French version of Arthur Miller’s “The
Crucible,” with script by Sartre and
starring Yves Montand with his wife,
Simone Signoret; “The Testament of
Orpheus,” a Jean Cocteau confection with
Yul Brynner and Jean Marais; and the
anti-apartheid film “Come Back Africa,”
secretly produced in Johannesburg by
Lionel Rogosin. This and “The Crucible”
were both shown at the Sydney Film
Festival last year.
ART
Archibald Prize for 1960
Archibald, Wynne and Sulman prize
entries, selected and hung on January
6, will be judged and the winners
announced at noon on January 27, and
the exhibition will be open to the public
on Saturday, January 28.
The Archibald (portrait) prize is £7OO.
The Wynne (landscape) has been in-
creased this year from £3O-£4O to £2OO ;
and the Sulman (subject-painting) from
about £BO to £l2O. The Gallery Trustees
judge the Archibald and Wynne, and Mr
Desiderius Orban will judge the Sulman.
Last year’s winners were William
Dobell (Archibald), Reinis Zusters
(Wynne) and Susan Wright (Sulman).
NEW RECORDS
Brahms’s Piano Concerto No. 2,
Op. 83: Artur Rubenstein with the
R.C.A. Victor Symphony Orchestra
under Joseph Krips (R.C.A. L 16262). A
notable partnership, Krips being a
Brahms specialist and Rubenstein a
pianist who revels in the biggest works
—and this is the biggest concerto of all.
The heroic writing for the piano is finely
filled out; the orchestral score finds a
Krips at once forthright and mellow ;
and there is a notable contribution by
the first-desk ’cellist in the meditative
romanza interpolated in the slow move-
ment.
March Time: South Australian Police
Band conducted by Senior-Sergeant A.
Radcliffe (Coronet, KLP9I2). An album
of continuous marches in strict 1/20
time, devised specially for the use of
Marching Girls. A good proportion of
the 14 marches is traditional, such as
“Colonel Bogey,’’ “Invercargill,” and “On
the Quarter Deck.” But “Middy,” “Great
Little Army,” “St Kilda” and “Medal-
lion” cut away slightly with rousing airs.
Crazy Titles For Dancing Cha Cha
And Merengue: Alfredito and his
Orchestra (R.C.A. L 10949). The open-
ing adjective is certainly no overstate-
ment. Among these dozen hot numbers
are “Egg Foo Young,” “Tan'Tan Tun,”
“Goofus Mambo,” and “Round the
World No. 2.” All played in the true
spirit of idiocy in which they were
written, with some quite clever instru-
mental effects on the side.
The Viennese Magic of Johann
Strauss: Boston Pops Orchestra under
Arthur Fiedler (R.C.A. Camden 47).
This album contains ten of the Waltz
King’s best-known waltzes ; “Thunder
and Lightning,” “Gypsy Baron,” “Tik
Tak Polka” and the “Annen Polka,”
“San Souci,” and “Citronen” are among
them. Fiedler extracts the maximum of
lilt and life from music which has a
fadeless charm.


b
QUEENSLAND
the BIG State with
the BIG future
offers you an investment opportunity to match!
COMA,
O*
THE STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION A| H Ik H
OF QUEENSLAND * ■»
NEW INCREASED INTEREST RATE
£515 -0%
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
6, 10 or 20 years
apply now THROUGH-Commonwealth,
Trading Bank-A.N.Z. Bank - Commercial
Banking Company - Commercial Bank of
Australia— E.S. & A. Bank - Bank of N.S.W.
-National Bank of A’asia; any Stockbroker;
or direct to the State Electricity Commission
of Q’ld., 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
Phone 5 2701.
Underwritten by
lan Potter & Co.


Women
CAST-IRON...BEING BEAUTIFUL
Iron Lace
It was a lucky day for Australia when
the vogue for lacy ironwork swept round
the decorating world, for Australian cities
could produce quantities of the stuff,
having been built largely at a time when
both cast-iron and wrought-iron were
running riot in Europe.
Ten years ago you could buy—or even
acquire free —all the iron lace you wanted.
Today there is little to be had except
from dealers. It has reappeared as patio
furniture, coffee tables, hallstands, bird-
cages, bedheads. Painted white and set
against a contrasting wall, it has displayed
unexpected beauties, and even the trouble
of dusting all its intricate curves and
corners has not deterred home-decorators
from using it in all sorts of ways.
Also, of course, there has been the
delight of discovering “treasures” in the
attic or the toolshed —old garden-seats,
tables and chairs formerly despised and
neglected, now revealing themselves as
valuable, either in hard cash or as status-
symbols.
The most distinguished type of iron
garden-seat to have is a “Colebrookdale.”
It is worth at least £2OO. It is unlikely,
however, that you will be able to find
one at the bottom of the garden: it is
believed that only eight were imported
to Australia. Also, if it is broken (as in
all probability it is, cast-iron being quite
brittle), it will cost about £4O to repair.
More frequently found are Victorian
letter-box stands, lamp-holders, trivets
and wall-brackets. These can be bought,
even “authentic” examples, at quite
moderate prices, and they can be suc-
cessfully made up by experts from pieces
of cast-iron railings from terrace-houses
and Victorian mansions.
Many people make the miserable
mistake of calling all this newly fashion-
able ironwork “wrought-iron.” But as
any tradesman can tell you, most of the
more flowery ornate material is cast-iron.
Wrought-iron is essentially a handcraft.
Iron is heated at the forge, and the
patterns are beaten out by the smith. The
history of this craft is very old, examples
being found in England which go back
to the days of the Vikings.
The patterns in most of the wrought-
iron seen today were developed from
medieval designs inspired by the illumi-
nated manuscripts of the monks, or from
the memories of complicated oriental
designs brought back from the Crusades.
The establishment of great foundries in
the 18th century made cast-iron possible
and contributed to the decline of wrought-
iron and the art of the blacksmith. The
metal was melted and poured into a
mould, so that any ornamentation could
be provided in any quantity at a fraction'
of the cost of a similar work in wrought-
iron.
Cast-iron began its life in the very
highest circles. Sir Christopher Wren
used it for the railings round London’s
St Paul’s (though it is said that he agreed
■only grudgingly to it), and the Adam
brothers illustrated its possibilities by
combining it with wrought-iron in their
elegant classical designs.
Later the dangers of mass-produced
cast-iron began to rear their ugly heads.
The Great Exhibition of 1851 saw mon-
strosities such as umbrella-stands in the
shape of dogs or birds perched on cockle-
shells ; hats were hung on hallstands
where honeysuckle, shells, ribbons and
acanthus leaves entwined about naked
cupids.
These curiosities would be regarded as
“quaint” and “amusing” today, but they
represent the decadence of the cast-iron
fashion. Hand-made wrought-iron began
to reassert itself with the Gothic revival
in England, and there are hupdreds of
examples to be seen in grilles, railings,
street-lamps and doors, both in England
and Australia, dating from this time.
In its early 19th-century buildings Aus-
tralia reflected the finer use of cast-iron
when combined with wrought-iron. The
great leap forward in building in mid-
Victorian Australia naturally took its
tone from the cast-iron riot of decora-
tion then afflicting England. That is why
there has been so much available to cater
to the 20th-century vogue.
Examples of cast-iron and wrought-
iron are easily distinguished, wrought-
iron being simpler and generally more
finely finished. Cast-iron breaks if it is
hit hard enough; wrought-iron bends.
The one is a factory product, the other
a handcraft.
There are signs that the vogue for cast-
iron is on the wane, though it still has a
good deal of the course to run. Com-
bined with marble, glass, fibre-glass,
mosaic-tiles or laminex it is ideal for
indoor-outdoor furniture. Reproduc-
tions of Victorian pieces are plentiful,
and what is called “fractional reproduc-
tions,” which add flower-motifs or scrolls
to modern mirror-frames, lamp-stands,
etc., are sometimes more pleasing (cer-
tainly easier to keep clean) than the
massed designs of Victorian days.
At the same time there is a strong
challenger to iron in the interior-decorat-
ing race. Brass, since it can now be
treated to eliminate the endless polish-
ing that was once necessary, is beginning
to show up. More expensive than cast-
or wrought-iron, it lasts longer.
The iron-age may soon give way to the
brass-age. So search out that old brass
bedstead and paint it with clear lacquer.
Then set it up in your bedroom as the
latest thing—if you can bear the sight
of it. ' • \ '
☆ ☆ ☆
Beauty Business
It can be taken for granted that most
women want to be beautiful. The ques-
tion is, how?
Even little girls seem to feel instinc-
tively that the prettiest girl in the class
is the one to be envied. While they have
often to be forced to do their homework,
the beauty-treatments seen on television
easily set them to plastering soap on their
faces for 14 days and then wondering
why they are not more beautiful. \
How to be beautiful used to be a
straightforward if tedious business. You
bought a shampoo, a hair-cream (or
creme) for after-shampoo and a hair-
tonic for between shampoos. You mas-
saged your head and brushed it vigorously
with two brushes upwards for 10 minutes.
Then you dressed it and perhaps got the
fashionable look, which like as not was
“the artlessly tousled.”
Then you got creams for your face,
your arms, your feet, an appropriate one
for practically every hour of the day.
They were nourishing, underlying, ab-
sorbable, vanishing, lustrising. They con-
tained vitamins, serums, hormones, con-
cidium, subidium, reisma, royal jelly and
anything else that could be thought up. A
recent advertisement offered a new cream
for 40gns. the pot, asking “What makes
a cream worth 40gns?” (What indeed!)
Similarly with eyes and hands and
fingernails. Each had its appropriate,
time-consuming treatment, as had the toe-
nails, the elbows, the nape of the neck.
You worked hard on yourself, but in the
end you achieved a measure ofThe envied
beauty.
All these beauty-aids are still necessary,
but so is something else.
What that something is, the beauty-
editors do not seem to be quite sure. One
suggestion is that you must convince
yourself of the need to be beautiful. You
must look at yourself in the glass, assess
your skimpy hair, your freckles, your
pimples, your heavy ankles and say to
yourself: “No one must ever know that
I am not beautiful.”
Another way is to ask yourself: “Who
am I?” Formerly there was only one
ideal of beauty at a given time. The
Gibson Girl had to be tall and proud and


“The butler done it!”
large. The mid-Victorian maid had a
tiny waist and a dainty foot. If you were
hefty or petite at the wrong time you were
beyond hope. Today there are many
ideals of beauty, the scope is more gener-
ous.
When you ask yourself “Who am I?”
you mean “Am 1 Audrey Hepburn?”
The answer must obviously be “No!” if
your head sits down on your shoulders.
So you try again: “Am I Ingrid Berg-
man?”, “Dawn Lake?”, “Co-co Chanel?”
When you find someone you might
possibly be you work at that, even if you
are presumptuous enough to pick Greta
Garbo and cultivate a haunted, haunting
gaze.
There are difficulties with this method
since one could -so easily choose the
wrong type. Possibly some measures will
eventually be taken to prevent this. A
time can be envisaged when one’s B.Q.
(Beauty Quotient) will be taken along with
one’s I.Q. and there will be type-guidance
at the schools with appropriate courses
for different classes of beauties. The
Katharine Hepburns will learn to speak
nasally, the Joan Greenwoods to croak
huskily, and so on.
In all this, too, you must keep up to
the minute. You must ask yourself, “Is
my face dated?” and if it is you must
get yourself another. This necessity
arises when your model herself goes out
of date, but it is easy to overlook it.
There are still some elderly Mary Pick-
fords around.
Alternatively you can choose to
dramatise some particular feature you
possess (an amused, almost pie-face grin
is one of those suggested).
Nobody knows just what makes people
beautiful these days. It is up to you
to discover your highest potential, the
thing that says: “I'm the only one of
my kind.” Hollow cheeks or huge eyes,
flashing teeth, an angular figure, any of
these may be the key.
Still another, method recommended by
the beauty-editors is to behave habitually
as if you were a beauty. “Forget your
looks,” said one. “Simply decide you
want to live like the grandest lady-tiger
in all the jungle, adored and charming.
Think dazzling—a few sparks are bound
to come through.”
This will be difficult when you are not
feeling too bright. But you must make
an effort It is your duty to be beautiful.
But stop for a moment to ask your-
self, “Why?”—to consider that the suc-
cessful in love, life and marriage are no
more beautiful than the unsuccessful
(rather less so in some cases) —and you
may stop creaming your face and brush-
ing your hair and asking yourself who
you are.
And that would never do.
☆ ☆ ☆
Soap Story
The men who come to service the
washing-machine have recently taken to
asking: “What washing-powder do you
use?” When you tell them, they say you
should have used something else. They
then mend the machine for £l2 10s., and
you decide to change soaps.
Is this just a stunt, an advertising
gimmick? Perhaps not.
Some washing-powders are detergent
types, some a compound of soap. The
detergent has the ability to make water
thinner, to cut grease away very efficiently
(which is why it is so good for Washing-
up). It doesn’t leave a scum on the tubs
or a film on the machine. When it is
cold it does not form a jelly-like substance
that is hard to dissolve.
These are all excellent features, but
like most virtues they can be shown
to resemble faults. The soap that leaves
a film behind acts as a lubricant, and
this is good for machines. The jelly-like
substance, which can block up grease-
traps, can also protect and prevent wear,
One make of washing-machine has a
rubber seal designed to keep the water
from the pump out of the motor, because
the motor would fuse if the water got
into it. The detergent washes all the
film away from this seal, and after a
while the seal begins to wear. Soap-
powder, on the other hand, coats it over
and helps to keep the water out.
That, at any rate, is what the repair-
man says.
* ☆ ☆'
Evergreen Gadget
Considered superficially, the tin-opener
is the symbol of inefficiency among the
house-proud. Yet recently a group of
women were forced to admit that, of all
the gadgets in their kitchens, the old-
fashioned tin-opener was probably the
least expendable.
Apart from its ability to open up the
wide world of tinned goods (from snails
in the shell to baked beans), it is also
effective for punching holes in those con-
tainers which protect perforations with
little bits of tin. A fork won’t puncture
these. A skewer will; but then a skewer
cannot open a tin.
Unassuming, almost naive, in its design,
the old-fashioned tin-opener is successful,
too, in its function of cork-screwing. You
can get a grip on it, and when in repose
the corkscrew is neat and bedded down)
unlike more elaborate types which merely
lie about uselessly when not drawing,
corks, occupying valuable space.
As the penknife is to the man, so the
tin - opener (old - fashioned) is tp the
woman. With it she can take the caps
off bottles, dig winkles out of shells,
spear potatoes, even lever wooden crates
open. At Is. lid. it seems quite a
bargain.
* ☆ ☆
Many Returns
When a Sydney store offered in the New
Year to exchange unwanted Christmas
gifts, they received, among the £ 10,000-
worth of goods brought in, £2OOO-worth
of underwear and stockings, a 112-piece
dinner-set, a couple of cameras worth
over £3O, a swimming-pool, a pair of
button-up boots, a library-book, two
Is. toys (from a little boy —Santa Claus
got the message wrong), a waist-high
shoe-horn for lazy people, a vintage
corset made in 1920. Liquor was ex-
cluded. In the previous year the firm had
had to divide 160 bottles of Scotch among
the staff, as they had no licence to re-sell.
A bad year for the staff, this.


SPORT
Making Their Pitch
By S. W. KEOUGH
The layman watching the
special pitch being pre-
pared at the Sydney Cricket
Ground for the Third Test
Match against the West Indies,
beginning next Friday, can
hardly help asking how couch
grass, tough as it is, can take
the prolonged bashing of a five-
day match and still survive.
The first rough preparations
of that revered strip of turf
would begin immediately after
the end of the football season ;
and, if the last few matches
had been played during a wet
spell, the sight of the churned
mud-patch on which he would
have to work must, you would
think, appal even the most
case-hardened curator.
The last of the muddied oafs
having folded their jerseys and
noisily stolen away, the first
thing that curator Athol Wat-
kins and his staff of eight
groundsmen do is to sweep the
central area of what he calls
the “debris” as a preliminary
to repairing the wreckage. He
would have no more than about
eight weeks to transform that
boot-torn area measuring 80ft
by 78ft into a smoothly shaven,
verdant turf of billiard-table
evenness for the first match of
the season.
Not every spectator, looking
from the vantage point of
stand or hill towards that cen-
tral area of the ground would
suspect that there are eight
pitches out there, side by side,
each 10ft wide. They are 78ft
long, all bedded down in
Bulli soil, reputedly the best in
Australia for cricket-pitch pur-
poses.
Although the pitch itself is
only 66ft long, the extra 12ft
is allotted to allow greater
flexibility in the selection of the
exact area, which may be taken
from half one pitch and half
of another.
the cricket season,
which begins in November
the changes are constantly rung
pn the pitches. Thus the first
inter - State match may be
played on the second from the
end near the Members’ stand ;
the next on the third from the
side facing the Hill. But during
a season such as this, when a
Test Match will be played, one
in the centre is reserved exclu-
sively for use on that occasion.
Right from the day on which
the ground is taken over from
the footballers, the centre pitch
and the other nine are worked
over religiously. They are
spike-rolled, seeded, “sprigged”
and top-dressed.
“Sprigging” is the filling-in
of bare patches of earth with
clipped runners, or sprigs, of
couch.
Any footballer who has
played on the S.C.G. during a
very dry winter can attest to
the concrete-like qualities of
Bulli soil whep water is with-
held from it. Go down on a
bare patch in a hard tackle
and that earth will rasp the rind
off you as efficiently as a car-
borundum stone.
The groundsmen when sprig-
ging have to bore into the
Bulli soil with a sharp brad-
awl, and the blisters it raises
on the palms of their hands
bear witness to the soil’s solid-
packing qualities.
They were still sprigging the
ground just outside the test-
pitch area a week before the
two teams were due on the
ground. Those patches of
sprigs, each standing at an
angle, all looking like miniature
seedlings, would be allowed a
couple of days for their roots
to get a grip. Then the patches
would be mown.
By that time, with the aid of
ample water and sun, they
would be well on their creep-
ing way, and before the big
day comes round they will
have knitted and become one
with the rest of the turf.
A few yards away on the
western side of the Test-
pitch there is a patchwork of
freshly placed square turves
which have replaced worn-out
grass. They are raised about
an inch above the surrounding
turf, and it would seem im-
possible that these too could
be made to merge with the rest
in time. But they will.
This has been a particularly
bad season for the preparation
of turf pitches in Sydney,
there having been practically
no summer till towards the end
of December. Hot sun is what
the curator must have if he is
to get his grass growing. Only
-now is the true heat getting
down into the soil, and heat
and water are the ingredients
on which touch thrives.
Last Thursday morning the
pitch was well watered ; then
the 2|cwt roller went onto it —
up and down, up and down,
for at least an hour, bringing
the moisture out gradually. So
that the earth doesn’t cling to
the rollers, couch-clippings are
sprinkled all over the pitch
before the two groundsmen
begin their slow ritual back and
forth.
As well as going up and
down they haul the roller side-
wise so that the pitch gets no
ridges in it. After the first
lengthwise haul the wet pitch
looked a hopeless mud-patch.
Within an hour it was almost
bone-dry, and it would take a
strong man to get a thumb-
dent into it.
The same treatment would
go on all day, and the next,
and the next —in fact right up
to within a few days of the
opening of the match.
You would think that with
this savage treatment no grass
could possibly hold up a green
head again. But it gains a
respite at night.
Watkins’s last chore each
evening is to give the pitch a
drink, after which the grass
blades that have been flattened
and re-flattened under the
rollers almost all day will
spring magically from the hori-
zontal to the vertical until the
morning, when they will be
subjected to the same gruelling
treatment as the previous day.
A touch of sulphate of am-
monia will give the grass the
final tint of green.
HThe smaller roller will be fol-
•*- lowed by the scwt one, also
man-handled. Then as the
pitch is allowed to dry out
during the final stages of pre-
paration will come the giants to
iron it into its shirt-front finish
—the motor-driven 30 cwt and
three-ton rollers.
The special type of motor-
mower made for bowling-
greens and cricket-pitches—


RuiJi in Hie
jn w
future
\
*
Australia has produced some fine talents in
various fields; medicine, science and aviation, to
name just a few.
A distinguished example of this in recent
times is Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet, who went
to Sweden in December to receive the Nobel Prize
for Medicine.
It was awarded for a particularly brilliant
piece of medical research on which he worked with
Professor P. B. Medwar, of London, and joint
bestowal of the prize has confirmed both of them
in positions of world leadership in biological science.
The list of Australians who have won to
eminence in their callings is no short one. Workers
in several divisions of the Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organisation, and in such
agencies as the Australian Atomic Energy
Commission, have earned international honours.
And there are others.
Now the importance of this —admitting that
exceptional brilliance is a gift to the relatively few
in any community—is that it establishes a national
quality of intellect and gives Australia a respected
place in this fast-advancing world.
It reminds us also that to do a really efficient
job of building Australia into permanent prosperity
we will need to draw upon the best in our
intellectual as well as our material resources.
Few, of course, can hope to be the winner of
a Nobel Prize. But each, according to the abilities
his Creator has given him, can render of his best-
knowing that in all things, as in medical research,
the rewards come not from easy chance but from
long, patient, and often wearing, application.
Talent is one thing, the. will to employ it is
another. And the urge to excel for the sake of
excellence itself is something quite individual.
Governments or institutions may foster it, but none
can confer it. Like Faith, it resides within
the person.
Without it, even granted the natural bounty of
a continent to work upon, the task could become
harsh and hopeless. With it, we can raise Australia
to heights our forefathers would never have
thought possible.
Q
// //as7
7
which has extra cylinders for
finer cutting—will ensure, to-
gether with the rolling and the
watering, that, despite the odd
look it may have a week before,
the pitch will be as true and
as sound as human hands can
make it.
It has to be good. It will
have to last five days with the
possibility of up to 2000 runs
being knocked off it.
From the moment play be-
gins until stumps are, drawn on
the final day it will not have a
drop of water on it. Rain or
shine, it is covered every night
while the match is iti- progress.
The old “covered wagon”
that used to be trundled out
whenever a shower broke over
the ground was in three separ-
ate sections, an unwieldy affair
requiring several men to handle
it. The modern touch is pro-
vided these days with a simple
plastic cover which does the job
as well or better.
lime is ever put on the
pitches; it would break-
down the wonderful qualities of
the Bulli soil. But every three
years the outfield is limed.
That area is already a picture —
a magnificent green lawn of an
evenness that could not pos-
sibly produce a false bounce
for a fieldsman.
A couple of days before the
stumps go in the outer playing
area will get a final shave, the
clippings caught by catcher. The
overall area of the ground
measures 175yds by 162yds.
One of the remarkable attri-
butes of Bulli soil is that it is
virtually self-aerating. After
the day-long pounding of the
rolling steel cylinders the
famous patch of dirt will find
the biting ball and the leather
boot of feather-light touch,
But the thirst it will necessarily
endure for five days will crack
it, and the spinning ball will
bite into the cracks to give the
slow merchants their big
breaks. And, if the weather
holds between now and the
opening, the speedsters’ deli-
veries will flash off that pitch,
with its bright-green topping,
like lightning.
Bringing a pitch to perfec-
tion can’t be learned out of
books. The craft can only be
mastered through years of ex-
perience. Curator Watkins
learned his craft as a grounds-
man under his predecessors,
Wally Gorman and Bill Watt
(the latter is now curator of
Melbourne Cricket Ground).
But you have to be a philoso-
pher to be nursemaid to Test
cricket-pitches. You just can’t
please everybody.
If you turn out the perfect
pitch that is a quick bowler’s
delight throughout, the spinners
will moan that they can’t turn
the ball an inch. If it cracks
on the last day to give the
spinners a rout, the victims
whinge about the “crook pitch.”
So Watkins, in common with
all other cricket-ground cura-
tors, just goes ahead, produces
the best pitch of which his
trained skills are capable, hands
it over to the flannelled fools,
and hopes for the best.
Where are the Entries?
No one can remember when
entry day for the major
races at an A.J.C. autumn meet-
ing has, of necessity, been ex-
tended.
But up to Saturday only eight
nominations were received for
the Doncaster Handicap and
13 for the Sydney Cup—and
closing date was Monday!
Nominations for the Cham-
pagne Stakes (two-year-olds)
and the Adrian Knox Stakes
(three-year-old fillies) were also
well below standard.
Entry day is now extended
for January 23, and for the first
time in history the club may
have to “ring round” to see that
the top-class horses are entered,
It is almost incredible that
this should be so. With the
R.A.S. Show and the yearling
sales as added attractions fbr
the autumn carnival, Randwick
at Easter invariably has pro-
vided one of Australia’s greatest
racing fixtures.
Last year the meeting cele-
brated the centenary of racing
at Randwick and the sesqui-
centenary of the beginning of
racing in Australia. A special
programme was arranged and
the dates changed so that the
Doncaster Handicap and the
Sydney Cup were decided on
Easter Saturday and Easter
Monday respectively—at the
conclusion of the carnival in-
stead of at the beginning,
The change was an unquali-
fied success, and the same order
of the week’s racing wa s
adopted again for this year’s
fixture,
The Invitation Stakes (l|m.)
will again be on the pro-
gramme, and the A.J.C. will
invite the owners of the 40 top
horses in Australia and Nejv
Zealand to compete. This race
is a handicap, but the highest
weight is 9.5 and the lowest
7.5, so that Tulloch and last
year’s winner, Valerius, who
later won the Brisbane Cup
after running second in the
Sydney Cup in record time, are
bound to be in the field.


£200,000 Search for a New Champion
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
The search for another Tulloch is on again. Australian
trainers and owners will soon be on their way to the
New Zealand yearling sales to buy what appears to be
the cjeam of the catalogue. There will be anything up to
130 or 140 yearlings bought, and the greater part of
£200,000 will be spent before they are ready for racing.
Of course the man who buys the “Tulloch” will be
well rewarded, but, by and large, it is not the yearling
bought in New Zealand who wins the big races in Aus-
tralia ; it is the New Zealand-bred horse who is developed
in New Zealand and brought across here as a matured
racer.
At the last New Zealand sales Australians bought
eight yearlings by Ruthless (imp.), and they cost just on
£15,000 landed in Australia. From them has come one
winner, Peter the Great, who won two races of a total
value of £595, which did not even pay for his keep!
Chatsworth (imp.) was the leading sire of two-year-olds
in New Zealand. Australians bought four yearlings by
him, none of which won a two-year-old race here. Ruth-
less was second on the list of winning sires of two-year-olds
in New Zealand.
In New Zealand Gabador (imp.) had five two-year-old
winners of nine races, which put him third in the list of
successful sires. Australian buyers spent just below £15,000
to land 12 yearlings by him in Australia. One of them,
Taihape, won a race worth £2BO ; another, Aphonia, a
race worth £7O.
, ' Are Australian buyers such bad judges that they pay
big prices for the inferior yearlings, leaving the best to
remain in the Dominion? Are Australian trainers inferior
td their New Zealand counterparts, and so fail to get the
best from their purchases? Or do horses develop better
in New Zealand, and, if so, is New Zealand racing better
designed to develop horses than Australian racing?
The answer to the first question, surely, is “No.” As
to the second, Rising Fast, Redcraze and Toparoa im-
proved so much under training in Australian stables that
there cannot be any inferiority of Australian trainers and
their methods. Horses probably develop better under
New Zealand racing and other conditions. ,
The man who goes racing is not concerned at all where
the horses are bred so long as they are good and the racing
keen. Racing clubs probably do not worry much about the
source of the performers. In the overall picture, of course,
they want Australian studs to succeed.
There is talk of a further move to. induce racing
clubs to include in their programmes more races for
stayers. Some of the breeders are behind the move, and
they will do a good service if they press home their point
of view.
\X7idden Stud, owned by A.J.C. committeeman Frank
’’ Thompson, is to have a grey stallion next year—
probably the first of that color in more than 100. years of
horsebreeding.
The newcomer is Chris, a son of Vilmorin and Tie
Silk, who is by Ballyogan. He will be brought from
England as soon as possible so that he can acclimatise
before he begins stud duty next September.
Chris is a sprinter described as a massive individual
of great character and ability. He won three races from
five starts as a two-year-old ; at three he had six starts for
three wins and a second ; and at four, although he did not
win from seven starts, he raced in top-class company with
weights up to 9.10.
Vilmorin, a grey, is half-brother to the successful sire
in Victoria, Meadow Mist, who was also a grey. Vilmorin
is by Gold Bridge, who has carried on successfully the
sprinting line that came down from Orby through The
Boss.
Tie Silk’s sire, Ballyogan, is by Fair Trial, so that Chris
is bred on a cross similar to that which pfoduced the
English stud success Whistler —the Orby sprinting line on
the Fair Trial line.
Tie Silk is sister to Vestogan, the best two-year-old
filly of her year in Ireland. She is also half-sister to
Roisin, the dam of Roistar, a good two-year-old winner
who later was second in the Irish Derby and third in the
English Derby.
The family is known in Australia through a number,
of mares brought here from time to time. One of the
best-remembered was La Bergeronette (imp.), who became
dam of the great stayer Sylvandale.
Purchase of Chris places Widden in a position to
develop a line of very fast horses. The stud owns the
young sire Edmundo (imp.), already proved a success by
his first crop to race. Edmundo is by Owen Tudor, a son
of Hyperion, and his second dam is by Gold Bridge. The
mating of mares by Edmuhdo with Chris, or vice versa,
should be very successful.
T^our- year-old Chartwell, who won at Moonee Valley
*- on Saturday, has the distinction of having in three
successive starts won in Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne
—but there were long gaps between the successes.
When Chartwell, a half-brother to the good stayer
Sir Blink, won in Sydney last May, the stewards took
exception to what they regarded as a reversal of form
and imposed disqualifications which were subsequently
lifted, following an appeal to the A.J.C. committee.
Chartwell won in Brisbane in June, and was later
sold to his present owner, Mr and Mrs L. Reid, of Mel-
bourne, and given to N. Creighton to train in Melbourne.
Chartwell was not produced again until Saturday,
but recent track trials had prepared close observers for a
first-up win. Chartwell was always prominent in the
betting market on Saturday’s race.
Over the last 100 yards or so Chartwell, sprinting
down the outside, dominated the race to beat Hill Plain
and Nashor. 1 v
Tt is not the province of this page to issue tips, but here
■*- is one given in all good faith. Back the mounts of
apprentice Denis Sullivan —of course, using some judg-
ment ; no jockey can ride home a winner unless the animal
beneath him has some ability.
This 15-year-old apprentice rode his first winner on
Saturday at Canterbury Park —the old and tried galloper
Nearco Lad.
Some time or another an apprentice has to ride his
first winner ; sometimes because he is a born rider, but
more often because his mount, on the day, is much too
good for the opposition. In the case of Sullivan the first
alternative applied, because Nearco Lad had to be hard
ridden to beak New Stand in a close photo finish for the
Sutherland Welter Handicap.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
How to Boost Exports
"D eports that the Federal
Government is considering
proposals by the Export De-
velopment Council for the
reduction of company income-
tax by two-thirds, from Bs. to
2s. Bd. in the £, on profits made
from exports, is the most
hopeful news on the export
front for several years.
The Government (and its
Treasury advisers) have the
example of the Australian coal
industry before them if they
want any precedent to guide
them in making-up their minds
in this matter.
Coal a decade ago (like
exports at present) was a de-
pressed industry. Then it was
decided to grant tax-freedom
in respect of profits reserved
for expenditure on new plant
aimed at increasing the effici-
ency of the industry.
The effect has been revolu-
tionary. The cost of coal to
the consumer has been reduced
dramatically at a time when
other costs have risen steeply.
Export markets have been
regained (the snag is exporting
coal at present is not the cost
at pit-head but the expense of
loading and shipping), and coal
companies have become profit-
able to their shareholders again
—a most essential thing.
Coal and Manufactures
It may not be so easy to
resuscitate or stimulate exports
of manufactured goods as it
was in'the case of coal.
Exemption from taxation was
applied to all coal produced
whether for home-consumption
or for export. This is not sug-
gested in the case of Aus-
tralian manufactures generally.
But there is undoubted merit
in the proposal of the Export
Development Council. The
extent of merit will depend
principally upon whether, even
granted freedom from tax on
profits, there will still be any
profit on manufacturing for
export because of the recent,
steep increases in wage-costs
in Australia.
As has been mentioned
here several times, the wage-
fixing authorities in the past
seem to have regarded the
export industries as a foreign
affair x
Following the National Ex-
port Convention in Canberra
last May The Bulletin com-
mented that, “while things
which have to be considered by
an exporting industry are
“Somehow I feel yours is an unfortunate choice
of emblem !”
efficient production and effec-
tive marketing policy on its
own part, at the same time it
will not succeed if Common-
wealth industrial and fiscal
policy makes it impossible for
industry to achieve the aims of
its own efforts. It may even
be beaten before it starts either
by arbitration awards or by
taxation policy.”
It went on to say:
If the export development pro-
gramme is to get anywhere it will
be necessary for the Treasury to
abandon its inbred economic policy
—mothered by Canberra revenue
necessities and sired by departmental
expediency—and cast its mind
around the broader fields and
aspects of Australian activity. It
has not come to light with the
concessions which European Trea-
suries, knowing that their countries
have to export or - die, have been
willing to concede. Yet there seems
little doubt that Australia has to
start giving earnest attention to
the export of manufactured goods.
And in this field we have none of
the cost or inbuilt quality advan-
tages which attach to our wool, our
steel or our silver-lead.
Chief obstacles to the stimu-
lation of exports by Australia
are the 40-hour week, a wage-
policy that transfers to the
wage-earners too much of the
increased productivity which is
the fruit of ploughed-back
profit rather than greater
wage-earner effort, and the
unimaginative and hide-bound
(at times irresponsible) atti-
tude of the Treasury (in taxa-
tion and similar matters) to the
needs and problems of
industry.
The Real Workhorse
Private - enterprise industry
is the real workhorse of the
Australian economy, but the
Canberra bureaucracy these
days seems to be suffering from
delusions of its own grandeur
in relation to the productive
side of the economy, and the
condition of our industrial
workhorse is not nearly so
robust as it should be or as
many people seem to think it
is.
Its profit-earning, after tax,
has been generally unreward-
ing when inflation is allowed
for, whereas wage-earners,
politicians, civil servants and
judges of the various, courts
have lately been taken care of
in the light of increased living-
costs.
New Investment
In June, 1959, the Manufac-
turing Industries Advisory
Council, a body set-up in 1958
at the invitation of John
McEwen, reported in “Aus-
tralian Manufacturing In-
dustry in the Next Decade”:
“To absorb its share of the
rising work-force, investment
in manufacturing needs • to
expand greatly. It has been
doing so for many years now
under the special stimulus of
war-time backlogs and the
steady flow of new techniques,
inventions and new product de-
mands. If there is confidence
in the coming stimulus of rising
demand it should go on
expanding.
“Generajly speaking, manu-
facturing-industry has not been
short of funds during the post-
war period, although develop-
ment might have been faster in
recent years, particularly
among the smaller businesses,
had the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment extended to manufac-
turers similar concessions to
those granted to primary-
producers and the mining
industry.
“The principal source of
development-finance for manu-
facturing-industry has been
retained earnings. The sample
of manufacturing - companies
suggests that retained earnings
have supplied on the average
well over half of the funds
needed to support the expan-
sion of recent years. Retained
earnings include provision for
depreciation, plant - replace -
ment and other purposes. Only
part of retained earnings is
non-taxable; indeed, some
part is taxed heavily, with the
result that this basic source of
funds is subject to consider-
able erosion.
“If industry is to remain
efficient and competitive,
modern technological develop-
ment demands a rapid replace-
ment of obsolete plant and
equipment, and for this reason
manufacturers should be given
every encouragement to accu-
mulate resources which can be
used for this purpose.
The Tax-drain
“It is certainly not a satis-
factory argument for the con-
tinuance of the present polisy
to say that manufacturing
industry has attained its pre-
sent strength in spite of it. The
Government will have to con-
sider whether or not manu-
facturing-industry can continue
to expand sufficiently quickly
without some lessening of the
tax-drain on funds not avail-
able for distribution to share-
holders, but required for plant-
replacement and capital-forma-
tion. Retained earnings are
one of the most economical
sources of funds, and manufac-
turing-companies should be
encouraged to regard them as
such.”
The Advisory Council was
also accurate in its prophecies
regarding coming capital-
raising problems:
“Another important source


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of The Sydney Slock Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE
33 BLIGH ST., 20 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. 2-0137
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
67-5089. 67-5080. 67-1257.
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking,” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armldale.
4
Your
money
earns
12 months notice
i
$
10
YEARS
z
%
z
1
✓
a
Ml
P
nurrt
3
Your
money
earns
• SHORT TERM
12 MONTHS
8% P-A.
6 MONTHS NOTICE
7% P.A.
3 MONTHS NOTICE
P.A.
AT CALL
4%% P.A.
• LONG TERM
10 TO 20 YEARS
9% p*.
5 TO 9 YEARS
P.A.
4 YEARS
S% P.A.
Investments in short term
stock are for an indefinite
period. Repayment is ob-
tained by giving the notice
selected on the application
form.
ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Trustees for Debenture
Stockholders: THE M.L.C.
NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Applications will be accepted
only on printed form attached
to the Prospectus.
WHERE TO INVEST:
Invest at any H. G. Palmer
Showroom in N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland, South Australia,
and A.C.T.
Underwriting Brokers:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co.,
27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Victoria: Vinton Smith, Doug-
all & Co., 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: Ernest H. Corser,
Henderson & Hale, 334 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
South Aust.: Woodhead, Need-
ham & Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania: H. W. Bayley & Co,.
A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
West. Aust.: Geo. H. Newton,
Fuller & Co., 105 St. George's
Terrace, Perth.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown.
UY4035.
Any Branch of Australia &
New Zealand Bank Ltd.
Any Member of a Recognis-
ed Stock Exchange.
Post this coupon today!
To: H. G. Palmer
(Consolidated) Ltd.,
321-5 Chapel Rd.,
Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send copy of Pros-
pectus to:—
NAME
ADDRESS.
of funds for development is
capital-raisings; these include
private capital raised in Aus-
tralia and inflow from abroad,
at present mainly from the
United Kingdom and the
United States. Throughout the
post-war period there has been
no real shortage of funds in the
capital market, almost all new
issues (including debentures
and notes) offered by manu-
facturing - companies having
been readily taken up. The
council does not agree, how-
ever, that such a favorable
position of supply will con-
tinue throughout the 1960’5.
Competition for Capital
“Conditions are likely to be
different in several important
respects. The competition for
funds is likely to be extremely
keen, and in this connection
the rapidly-growing influence
of the hire-purchase business in
Australia is particularly im-
portant. The rising intensity
of competition in Australia
may make it more difficult for
manufacturing - companies to
obtain all the funds they would
like from the capital market.
If, under pressure of these
demands, interest-rates rise
higher than they are now, this
will add a burden to the in-
dustrial financial structure and
also to Government borrow-
ings.
“Manufacturing- companies,
if they are to recommend
themselves to -the investing
public, will have to show evi-
dence that they are compe-
tently managed, financially
stable and capable of yielding
a satisfactory, return on
invested capital.”
Market Reopening
/Apejsung share prices for
1961 were a little firmer
than at the close for 1960, with
B.H.P. outstandingly strong.
The Bulletin was the first
newspaper to emphasise re-
cent U.S. interest in the stock
and to point out that local
sentiment could hardly have
been responsible for keeping
the fall in B.H.P. scrip down
to 10 p.c. when the average fall
in the market was more like
21 p.c.
At one point last week, with
B.H.P ~ ex bonus, 675., there
was little or no loss in this
leader’s market price compared
with the peak figure for 1960.
No other stock can show a
corresponding market perform-
ance.
On the other hand, excessive
falls appear to have occurred
in Australian Gypsum Indus-
tries (now 10s. 6d. for the ss.
units, compared with 605.-655.
for the £1 shares before the
split), R. Fowler (10s. for the
ss. scrip, compared with 58s.
for the £1 shares three months
ago), Frederic Ash (455.,
against 725.), Ford Sherington
(7s. 9d., against 145.), National
Consolidated (265., against
375. 6d.), Cuming Smith (385.,
against 585.) and Bank of
N.S.W. (£32 155., against
£44 155.).
A.W.A. Notes
VjyiTH A.W.A. convertible £1
** notes selling for 81s.
among “unlisteds,” an oppor-
tunity exists for deferred buy-
ing into A.W.A. ss. shares at
under 21s. (against .the present
market of 255.). The notes are
convertible, £ for £, into
A.W.A. shares on June 30,
1962.
Meantime they carry interest
at 6j p.c. p.a.
There is no provision in the
trust-deed governing the con-
vertible notes for participation
in other note-issues or in
bonus-issues, though provision
is made for participation in
cash issues. No conditions in
respect of takeovers have been
included.
But it is unlikely that any
further issues of convertible
notes will be made under the
new Federal taxation provi-
sions, or that any bonus-issue
would be contemplated by
A.W.A. between now and
conversion-date.
There would be loud pro-
tests if, before a merger with,
say, Email, a bonus-issue
were to be made to share-
holders and not to noteholders.
However, any idea of a
merger with Email has been
so long on the ice that it has
become almost deep-frozen.
Now the sale of A.W.A.’s
103,849 £1 shares in Amalga-
mated Television at £6 a share
to the John Fairfax group will
provide over £620,000 in cash
and should look after any
expansion contemplated over
the next 18 months.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
14 Spring Street, SYDNEY - - - - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
DAVES, ROTHWELL & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
103 Summer St., 117 Pitt St., Sydney. 48 Fitzmaurice St.,
Orange 4054. BL 1855 (3 lines). Wagga 2436.
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEF,” Sydney.
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Muelens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
Bff 8171 (3 lines) BL 5327
Cables and Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
A. L. NEViTT & CO.
A. Li. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 81 2761 <4 Lines) P.O, Box No. 1887 W
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
★
ST AGlf€i
CbandXj
jfi
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGI7GS
potstiii BRANDY
°LfN7
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO SOR ANGOVE'S WINE
The N.Z. Sharemarket
An interesting feature of the
N.Z. sharemarket over the
last year has been the narrow-
ing of the gap between the
nominal Australian and N.Z.
prices of Australian shares.
This reflects a growing
shortage of available overseas
currency in relation to demand
in N.Z.
Recently N.Z. investors buy-
ing Australian shares have
been paying a premium of
about 18 per cent, above the
N.Z. equivalent of the Austra-
lian price.
Theoretically, Australian
shares should cost, in N.Z.
currency, the Australian price,
less one-fifth for exchange. In
practice there is normally a
premium to be paid over and
above that figure. The pre-
mium represents the amount
required to secure the overseas
funds with which to buy the
shares. It fluctuates according
to supply and demand. At the
end of February it was about
5 per cent. Since then it has
risen steadily.
A series of capital-issues by
Australian companies over
several months has mopped-up
a considerable part of the
liquid Australian funds in
N.Z. hands. And, recently,
low prices of some Australian
shares have attracted more
N.Z. buyers into the market,
thus increasing demand for
funds.
Dominion Fertiliser
Opening shots in a take-
over battle for Dominion Fer-
tiliser have been fired bj
K.P.N.Z. Drug and Wright
Stephenson.
Dominion Fertiliser is a
prize worth competing for
Reserves of £459,731 at last
balance - date were nearly
£lOO,OOO ahead of paid capital
of £360,839. Claimed profit for
the year to March 31 was
£64,751, but tax provision of
£74,420 indicated that the
figure was conservative. As it
was, dividend of 10 per cent.,
including 2 per cent, bonus,
was covered 1.8 times.
K.P.N.Z. has offered three
of its £2 shares for every
five Dominion Fertiliser,
Wright Stephenson’s bid is five
of its £1 shares for every four
Dominion Fertiliser.
On the basis of market prices
of 575. (N.Z.) for Wright
Stephenson and £5 10s. for
K.P.N.Z. shares, the Wright
Stephenson bid is worth 71s,
3d. and the K.P.N.Z. bid 665,
for each Dominion Fertiliser
share.
On full acceptance of its
offer, Wright Stephenson would
have to issue 451,045 £1 shares,
increasing its paid ordinary
capital by £451,045 to
£4,642,091. Ordinary capital
will be increased by another
£400,000 in June, 1963, when
£500,000 of debentures is con-
verted at a premium. Prefer-
ence capital is £1,020,000,
Reserves at last balance-date
were shown at £3,766,818. Net
profit for the year to June 30
rose by 29.4 per cent, to
£565,106 and covered the 10
per cent, ordinary dividend
1.8 times. Not all the present
capital was productively em-
ployed for the full year.
On full acceptance of its offer
K.P.N.Z. Drug would have to
issue 216,504 £2 shares, in-
creasing its paid capital, ail
ordinary, by £433,008 to
£1,638,364. Reserves at last
balance-date were shown at
£952,270. Profit for the year
to January 31 rose by 35 per
cent, to £196,232. Dividend
of 11| per cent., including H
per cent, bonus, was covered
1.4 times.
Recent sales of Dominion
Fertiliser shares were at 51s.
Retail Trading
Results of the quarterly
sample of retail trading for the
period ended September 30,
1960, reveal that turnover in-
creased by 12.1 p.c. compared
with the corresponding quarter
of 1959, states the Statistics
Department. Compared with


w-s*.
life
i
assurance
Old established, sound and progressive, the
“Metropolitan Life” is a completely Australian financial
institution, providing a variety of attractive policies to
suit every purse and purpose.
You will find the “Metropolitan” representa-
tive to be a friendly and courteous advisor.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
( Inc. in Qid. 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
WYNYARD HOLDINGS
LIMITED
Offer to the Public An Issue of
1,795,960 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each payable in full
on application, in
The Wynyard Project
The object of the Company is to develop the
Wynyard Station leasehold site by the
construction of shops, Wynyard
House Office accommodation, a modern
first class hotel, and a car park.
The Directors are confident in the future of the
development during its term of a 98-year lease in a
location unparalleled in Australia, providing security
of capital and increasing real estate value, together
with the assurance of substantia] income derived from
shops on the entrances of the station, from offices, and
from an hotel and car park.
BANKERS: ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN
BANIC LTD.
18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Of the Issue of 1,795,960 Ordinary Shares
of 5/- each, 995,960 have been
underwritten by: j
WILLIAM TILLEY, HUDSON, EVANS & CO.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
Applications for shares will proceed only on one of the forms
of application, contained in the printed copy of the Prospectus,
which is available from the Registered Office of the Company, from
the Brokers, or from any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Phone 8X2850 or,Post this Coupon to:
Wynyard Holdings Limited, 291 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a Prospectus, relating to
proposed issue of shares.
Name
Address
the quarter ended June 30,
1960, there was an increase of
1.7 p.c.
The highest increase was
21.9 p c. under the heading of
appliances, electrical goods
and radios, and this was fol-
lowed by footwear with a 21.1
p.c. increase. Furniture and.
soft furnishing increased by
20.5 p.c.
Control of TV
The Government’s intention
to institute commission control
of television was reaffirmed
by the Minister of Broadcast-
ing, Mr Kinsella, on Decem-
ber 14.
“We will give the greatest
measure of freedom possible—
while maintaining standards
and guarding against the evils
which have crept into tele-
vision overseas,” he said.
The National Government
will give early consideration to
the present labor shortage. Mr
Holvoake discussed the short-
age with employers’ representa-
tives recently.
“The employers’ representa-
tives gave me their ideas, and
I reminded them that the
National Party had promised
to step up immigration,” he
said later. “I assured them
that the matter would be given
early consideration by the in-
coming Government.”
Exit Convertible Notes
Convertible-note issues have
no attractions, for companies
now that the Government has
decided that they are to be
treated as equity capital, which
means that interest is not
deductible from earnings before
profit is struck for tax pur-
poses.
First company to come up
with a scheme to fill the gap
is Consolidated Brick. It pro-
poses to make an issue of
ordinary £ 1 shares at par, under
restricted dividend conditions.
The shares will not carry a
dividend the first year and will
qualify for only 4\ per cent,
in each of the next two years.
Thereafter they will rank
equally with existing ordinary
shares.
It remains to be seen how
the market will react to this
scheme. Assuming that the
company maintained its current
8 per cent, dividend-rate,
holders of new shares would
receive an average return of 5
Per cent. ,over the first five
years of their investment.
N.Z.F.P.
A £4.75 million development
scheme for New Zealand Forest
Prod uc t s establishments at
Kinleith and Penrose should be
completed by 1963, according
to Sir David Henry, chairman
of directors of the company.
Sir David said about £li
million was involved in devel-
oping the board-mills at Pen-
rose. The third paper-machine
at Kinleith would cost about
£2 million, and extensions to
the pulp plant would involve
about £250,000. Substantial
sums were involved in a semi-
chemical plant and about
£300,000 would be spent on
thermal investigations. The
Penrose plan should be com-
pleted toward the middle of
next year, when the pulp plant
should be in operation. The
paper and sawmilling activities
should come to fruition in
1963.
Investment Outlook
Young investors should seek
advice from members of the
Stock Exchange rather than
listen with any great attention
to idle rumors about such
things as possible “takeovers,”
and capital issues, said the re-
tiring chairman of the Welling-
ton Stock Exchange, I. A. H.
Symes, in his annual address.
Lately there has been definite
signs of hesitancy in the
market, and it was members’
earnest wish that the young in
vestor should not panic over
such movements. Holders of
first-class equity stocks with
good past records had little to
fear in the long term.
Greater care should be exer-
cised in the choice of avenues
for investment at this juncture,
through the rather ominous
rumblings from Great Britain
and the United States. In the
event of any recession in Lon-
don or New York, N.Z. must
be affected.
Sufficient attention has not
been paid in the past by in-
vestors to overseas trends.
During the past two months
reports of dramatic falls in
price-indexes in New York and
in London had been immedi-
ately followed by a rise in
N.Z.’s price-index. That atti-
tude was quite unrealistic, and
the public should know that
in particular “Where Great
Britain goes, we go,” for obvi-
ous reasons.
N.Z.’s future should be
reasonably bright, and the
sixties should offer rich oppor-
tunities for industrial progress,
but for N.Z. to progress at the
required tempo, it must en-
courage overseas investment
for the future development of
manufacturing industries. While
company-tax was at its present
rate, it was 'extremely doubtful
if overseas funds could be
attracted to N.Z. to the desired
extent.


ABORIGINALITIES
Training at Tranby
By KYLIE TENNANT
you have all your life walked
barefoot on sand or bush
tracks, lived in a tiny, palm-
thatch village with the Barrier
Reef a few miles offshore.
Now you come to Sydney to
study for two years. What
does it feel like?
John Butcher and Frank
O’Brien were two students at
Tranby Co-operative Training
Centre who had come down
from the “Peninsula” —John to
learn boat - building, Frank
to study motor - engineering.
John is a big, gentle full-
blood aboriginal, and Frank is
aboriginal, with a dash of . . .
Anyway, his skin is lighter than
John’s.
Sydney at first amazed them.
There were the flashing cameras
when they stepped off the plane,
the TV studio, the whirling ride
through the streets to the quiet
old house in Glebe that is
Tranby. They approached a
telephone as if it might blow
up. Worst of all, they con-
fided, was the noise.
“Feet,” John said darkly.
“At night. Feet go past.”
You lay awake at night and
listened to the far roar of
traffic like the surf off the Lock-
hart River shore. And what
was that? You raised your
head from an unfamiliar
pillow. A crisp hollow sound
of tapping. In the bush are
evil spirits of four different
sorts, but what of the city?
Then John said, and Peter
nodded agreement, it was
“boots.” People walking in
boots.
Another strange thing was a
harbor pool. Frank and John
submerged at once. To the
excitement of crowds of white
children they came up bn the
far side of the baths. “No
coral,” John explained, be-
wildered. Only an old boot
and bottles.
They were saving to take
back presents to their wives
and children, but a letter was
a tremendous task. They were
directors of their far-off
aboriginal co-operative, but
they had never learnt to read
or write very well. Now, at
night, they had to learn. They
could sail a lugger or repair an
engine, ride after cattle or
“ Sh-h-h! Confidential Magazine Publishers."
build a house. Now they must
grapple with business principles
and accounts.
“We fellows,” John said with
dignity, “got to help them
others.”
»
At Moa Island, in Torres
Strait, the co - operative
wants to put in experimental
crops. They need a tractor,
but they also must have one
of their members trained to
drive and repair and service it.
Down he came to Tranby on
a scholarship, a dignified
bronze St Paul’s man. A full-
blood aboriginal from Mitchell
River Mission is apprenticed as
a fitter-and-turner at the British
Motor Corporation. Another
boy is an apprentice fitter-and-
turner at Emmco.
Not all the aborigines at
Tranby are from the far north.
Promising lads recommended
by the N.S.W. Aborigines
Welfare Board are there,
too. This year, there will be
aborigines from every State in
Australia.
Although it is sponsored by
the Australian Board of Mis-
sions of the Anglican Church,
Tranby is quite independent,
and its students may be of any
religious affiliation. Sometimes
they are recommended as likely
leaders of their dark com-
munity. The men from the
co-operatives have signed that
they will go back and give two
years’ service in return for the
training they receive at Tranby.
Before a co-operative can be
started there needs to be a
study-group, adult education.
In the isolated settlement of
Cabbage Tree Island on the
Richmond River, Russ Mc-
Crohon, headmaster of the
school, conducted such a class
in the schoolhouse at night
before the Numbahging Co-
operative Store was opened, the
first aboriginal co-operative in
New South Wales. Picked men
from the study-group will come
to Tranby, then go to the coal-
field to learn store book-keep-
ing and management.
T167H0 provides the scholar-
* ships to bring these young
men to Sydney? Women’s
organisations and Apex Clubs
have helped Tranby with labor,
furnishings and money, but the
chief financial support comes
from trade-unions and c&
operative societies. The Trade;
and Labor Council of Broket
Hill now strikes an annual lev;
of two-shillings a member ti
provide scholarships and helj
the aboriginal co-operatives.
Tranby was formerly a Uni
versity hostel. When it wa;
made over as a free gift t ( j
the Aboriginal Co-operatic
Department of the Australia)
Board of Missions the direc-
tors decided they would always
have some white student
living with the aborigine
students.
“It takes a scholarship 0 j
about £3OO to support on
aboriginal student for a year,
said the Rev. Alf Clint, direc
tor of co-operatives for thr
A.B.M. “You reckon boanj
at £4 15s. a week, and thei
there are fares, clothes, pocket
money. We haven’t turner
down anyone yet. Next yet
we will have to extend some
how. We’re usually full ii[
Some students pay full board
some work part-time whit
they're studying, some we keq
wholly. There are short-tern
courses —a minimum of sii
rnonths. The long-term course
are two to four years, and the
men doing those are mainly
apprenticed to a trade and wit
come out fully qualified.”
At Collaroy there is a hostel
for aboriginal girls who are
also brought to Sydney on
scholarships. This centre is
called Durungaling, the tribal
word for “girl” of the abori-
gines who once lived at Colla-
roy.
Two aboriginal girls work it
Maitland Co-op Store, lean
ing to keep books and hand!
accounts. They will go bad
to their native co-op to run til
store there. Another girl comes
to Durungaling this year ti
train as a nurse. Yet anoth:
has just finished a secretary
course.
nPHE annual summer school!
Tranby in February \
attended by missionaries
aborigines, teachers from abo
riginal settlements and mat!
people interested in helping tbj
aboriginal co-operatives. The;
hear lectures, discuss problems
inspect co-operatives and see
films of work in other co®
tries. The lectures are la®
sent to study-groups where ne"
co-ops are being develops
Simple leaflets in basic English
are prepared at Tranby to hell
the study-groups.
The Australian Board f
Missions now trains the n®
sionaries it sends out in wa)
of helping primitive people j
set up co-operatives. In ti®
it hopes to see all its miss® 1


stations run by the aboriginal
people working on this system,
Aborigines understand the
idea of all men of the tribe
working together—it is their
old tribal pattern. But the
catch is that a modern co-op
is a highly technical business,
and the more aborigines take
up the idea the more trained
men you need, black and white;
the more education you need,
more training centres. At
present there is only one in the
whole continent—the unique
experiment at Tranby.
No Freak Cyclones
The cyclone which struck
part of the Kimberleys
(W.A.) at Christmas, badly
mauling Cockatoo Island and
flooding station homesteads,
upset a lot of calculations
while it moved along the coast,
bypassing areas that were
poised to take it and hitting
others that weren’t. But it
wasn’t a freak blow, as .some
commentators said, simply be-'
cause no other blow has ever
followed a similar path. In
fact it would have been a freak
if it had duplicated the course
of any other cyclone during the
past century or so.
Cyclone courses are unpre-
dictable —obviously, since they
are controlled by other huge
weather-systems thousands of
miles away. A cyclone de-
veloping in the Timor Sea may
be drawn or diverted in any
direction, intensified or dissi-
pated by the action of one or
more anti-cyclonic systems as
far south as the Antarctic. This
long-range effect on each other,
over thousands of miles, of
systems whose strengths and
intensities can’t be assessed
accurately, shows what chance
the meteorologist has of pre-
dicting the direction the
cyclone will travel.
Basically there’s some sort
of a pattern for each cyclonic
area. In W.A. blows tend to
strike the coast between
Broome and Onslow, move
south or south-east and either
blow themselves out, turn
westerly and pass out over the
Indian Ocean, or continue
southerly and cross the State
to the Bight. This is a very
wide pattern, but it doesn’t
cover more than about half the
big blows. The rest are ‘‘irregu-
lars”—they can do anything
and go anywhere.
Twelve years ago one of
these formed in the Timor Sea
and moved south to a point
north of Derby, bringing
strong winds and heavy rains
to much of the Kimberley
coast and for 50 to 100 miles
inland. Any local would have
bet on the blow continuing
south, south-east or south-
west. It didn’t.
A high - pressure ridge
formed south of W.A., and the
cyclone was forced gradually
north for a few days and then
held stationary. It hovered
over the sea for days, gaining
in intensity, while a trough de-
veloped .down through the
middle of the State. Nine days
after the cyclone first appeared
off Derby it struck at Onslow,
a good 6000 miles to the south-
west. It penetrated a couple
of hundred miles inland before
an anti-cyclone south of the
Leeuwin forced it north and
east and out to sea again,
where it blew itself out.
'T'hat could have been called
a freak blow. So could
one of the earliest to be traced
in W.A. —about 60 years ago.
After striking the coast it
travelled south-westwards for
two days, then turned east and
swung north again. Another
struck the coast at the 80-
mile beach, moved about a
hundred miles inland, swung
in a semi-circle to the right and
moved back over the coast
again about a hundred miles
from where it first struck.
To the inland stations wait-
ing for the blow —with its rain
—that one would have been a
Forget about me, Sergeant, I don't embarrass easy!"
freak blow. But it wasn’t. It
simply illustrated how unpre-
dictable cyclones can be.
Even well - established
theories can be badly bent.
Until 1956 it was generally
held that cyclones couldn’t
describe a complete loop to
the right in the Northern
Hemisphere, or to the left in
the Southern Hemisphere, be-
cause the barometric situations
necessary for such a manoeuvre
simply couldn’t occur; and
there was fairly conclusive
proof in support of the theory.
Then in February, 1956, a
blow came inland near
Broome, directed by two anti-
cyclones—one west of the
Leeuwin, the other east of
Tasmania—between 2000 and
3000 miles apart. Anyone rash
enough to predict would have
said its future course lay along
the trough separating the two
high-pressure systems. But the
two anti-cyclones joined forces
and blocked that path, and the
cyclone was held stationary
over Central Australia, losing
some of its intensity and speed;
and “normally”—if the word
can be used for cyclones —it
would have dissipated there.
But it revived, moved north
and westwards, formed a com-
plete loop, crossing its previ-
ous path and swinging out to
sea again. Then it came down
the west coast of W.A., cut
across the south-west corner
and then eastwards across the
Bight to Tasmania. It covered
about 4700 miles.
This was the only cyclone to
have described a complete loop
in W.A., and it did it in a way
the experts were almost agreed
was impossible. The loop was
about 800 miles long by 200
miles wide, which gives a clue
to the blow’s power and inten-
sity. It brought rain to about
three-quarters of a million
square miles of land and prob-
ably as much sea ; and on the
land it deposited nearly
100,000,000 acre-feet of water.
Even in the atomic age
there’s unimaginable power in
a blow like that. Yet it can
be pushed around by other
natural forces which pass
almost unnoticed. How often
do you read about anti-
cyclones?
G.
* * #
/'Yn the Pacific Highway near
Stroud (N.S.W.), where a
traffic policeman waited round
a bend to swoop on speeding
motorists, some aborigines the
other day exhibited a sign:
“Policeman Ahead! Slow
Down.” The drivers took their
cue and escaped booking ; but
some distance along the road,
well away from the long arm,
other aborigines waited with a
collection-box —to receive a
handout from grateful
motorists.
* * *
A SLEEPY town in N.S.W.
advertises the virtues of its
alderman on a billboard in a
paddock. His picture and his
accomplishments are listed,
over the fact that he has
declared himself a Liberal-
party candidate for Parliament.
According to the billboard,
he has the proper civic spirit.
He is chairman of the St John
Ambulance, president of the
Rugby Association, treasurer
of the local Cancer Appeal.
Passing that way a week after
first sighting the sign it was
noticed that another sign had
gone up in the paddock. It
said: “Beware of the Bull.”
Jarrangulli
Described to
Roland Robinson
by Percy Mumbulla
ITear that tree-lizard singin’
out. That tree-lizard when
he sings out, he’s singin’ out
for rain. He’s in a hole in that
tree. He’s singin’ out for rain.
He wants the rain to fill that
hole right up. He wants it to
cover him up with water. That
water will last him until the
drought’s on again.
When it’s cornin’ dry he sings
out. Jarrangulli. Soon as ever
he sings out, it’s sure rain.
He’s the real rain-lizard. He’s
just the same as them black
cockatoos. They’re the rain-
fellers.
That Jarrangulli is real
poison. He’ll bite you, that
feller. You climb up that tree
and happen to put your hand
over that hole, he’ll bite you
sure enough. He’s a black
lizard with white stripes on
“ Irn - Jarrangulli. He’s deadly
Poison.


OVERSEAS
The Moscow Summit Conference
By G. F. HUDSON
r "T'HE most impressive fact
about the Declaration of
the Eighty - one Communist
Parties recently issued in Mos-
cow was the time it took to
arrive at it. Nearly three weeks
of deliberations behind closed
doors would hardly have been
required for such a statement if
the dispute over its terms had
not been obstinately fought
out. An agreed declaration was
nevertheless in the end pub-
lished and it is important for
the rest of the world to under-
stand the nature of this com-
promise and its bearing on
practical issues of current inter-
national politics —for theoreti-
cal restatement of doctrine by
professed Marxist-Leninists is
framed with a view to action
on events.
The Soviet Communist Party
obtains in the Declaration a
fresh tribute to its pre-eminent
status, and this may appear
to some observers to mean
that it has vanquished Chinese
opposition and secured its
supremacy over the whole inter-
national Communist move-
ment as in the days of Stalin.
The Chinese have always
been prepared to follow the
Soviet Union if the latter, will
only lead; it is a modest'
Chinese way of pushing the
Russians on from behind.
When Liu Shao-chi arrived in
Moscow last year he referred
in his first public speech to the
socialist camp led by the Soviet
Union standing against the
imperialist camp led by the
United States. Khrushchev can
count on the faithful support
of China as long as it is quite
clear that he is heading in the
right direction.
A fter all the touring of Soviet
statesmen in the United
States, the birth of the “Camp-
David spirit,” and Khrushchev's
moves to renew with a fresh
President the negotiations
which broke down with Eisen-
hower, the Declaration lays it
down that America is the main
enemy. “The United States,”
it declares, “is the mainstay of
colonialism today.” Was it
quite the time to stress the
hostility of the Communist
world to America just after
Khrushchev had expressed his
hope that, with the election of
Ken n e dy, Soviet-American
“The Observer,” London.
“THEY'D BETTER MAKE UP OUR MINDS SOON.”
relations would be again as
they were in the time of Roose-
velt?
For the reason why the
Kremlin found Roosevelt _so
ready to fall in- with the aims
of Soviet policy in those days
was that he fondly supposed
that, with the dissolution of
the Comintern, Russia had
given up international Com-
munist aims and that the
United States as Russia’s ally
could not possibly be viewed
from Moscow as imperialist.
To win Kennedy’s confidence it
might be expected that Khrush-
chev would now try to minimise
his interest in Communism in
other parts of the world and
would seek to stress the absence
of fundamental conflicts be-
tween Russian and American
interests.
Instead of doing this, he
endorses a document, with all
the Communist parties of the
world as co-signatories, declar-
ing the United States to be the
“enemy of the peoples of the
whole world.” If it is argued
that he could not help himself,
that he could not but have the
representatives of world Com-
munism come to Moscow and
draw up such a document, then
it means at least that he is less
of a free agent for a summit
conference than is often sup-
posed, and that, however much
of an autocrat he may be
within certain limits, he cannot
go beyond the bounds of the
political system on which his
power rests.
There was nothing particu-
larly Chinese in calling the
United States the “enemy of
the peoples of the world,” it
has been a theme of Soviet
propaganda for the last decade
and a half. But it certainly
suits the Chinese that it should
be said again at this moment
emphatically and with all the
authority that eighty-one Com-
munist parties meeting in
oecumenical council can give
it. For they have undoubtedly
been alarmed lest Khrushchev
in his quest of a deal with the
United States should go too
far in compromising basic
principles of the Marxist-
Leninist creed, not to speak of
the sacrifices of specifically
Chinese interests which he
might be willing to make. They
can, after all, point to the
repeated failures of his humili-
ating attempts to be reconciled
with Tito.
TVTOR, indeed, is it any acci-
dent that the Declaration
pulls no punches in condemning
Yugoslavia any more than it
does in denouncing the United
States. America and Yugo-
slavia are the two twin monsters
of Chinese Communist demon-
ology, the one as- the chief im-
perialist power and the other
as the incarnation of revision-
ism ; the Declaration was very
severe on the Yugoslav Com-
munists, accusing them of
carrying on “subversive work”
against the whole international
movement.
On the vital question of
peace and war, the Declaration
tells us that “the peoples of all
countries know that the danger
of a new world war still
persists” with American im-
perialism as the main force of
aggression. War is not, how-
ever, “fatally inevitable,”
because “the time has come
when the attempts of the im-
perialist aggressors to start a
world war can be curbed.' 1
because the socialist camp and
the peace-loving forces of the
world are continually growing
stronger ; if, on the other hand,
the “imperialist maniacs"
should after all, start a war,
“the peoples will sweep capital-
ism out of existence and bury
it.”
The section of the Declara-
tion on peace and war clearly
shows the effect of the com-
promise between the Russian i
and Chinese arguments. The
Chinese appear to have con-
ceded that war is not “fatally
inevitable,” it can be avoided,
not because of any change in
the character of imperialism,
but because the Communists
and the peace forces may,
become too strong for it. This,
however, is not certain ; war
may still come and then it will
end in the victory of socialism
and the end of capitalism.
This qualification meets the
Chinese case in so far as it
regards world war as an alter-
native way in which the world-
wide victory of Communism
might come about, and
leaves no room for fears that
an all-out nuclear struggle
might be as ruinous for Com-
munist as for non-Communist-
ist states.
The Chinese have never for-
mally maintained that Com-
munists should seek war ; they
do not, it'would seem, have to
maintain that it is absolutely:
unavoidable; it is sufficient
for their thesis that it can
come about and that it can be
won, as against the tendency to,
rule it out.
Once it is admitted that war
can be the means of carrying
through the great world-histori-
cal transformation in which
Marxist-Leninists believe, then
at least one ought not to
shrink from taking great risks’
in policy without regard to the
consequences. The first World
War led to the creation of the
Soviet Union, the Second to the
Communist conquest of China;
how could a Third fail to com-
plete the process?
It is through violence and
confusion stimulated across
frontiers, through civil wars
aggravated by conflicting
foreign interventions, if not
through full-scale international
war, that the conditions for
Communism are best promoted
Expansion of this kind,


iV?SJ
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
t PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
y* !
)>'
f* u h
M
»fel
THE “WILD CAT*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 Jr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
despite all the talk of peaceful
C o-existence, is plainly indicated
by the language of the Declara-
tion on colonial and newly in-
dependent territories and the
‘‘moral and material support”
that is to be given to their
peoples; it has been well illus-
trated in practice by the Soviet
policy with regard to the
Congo, the campaign against
the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, and the
threats to help the
“Congolese people” as repre-
sented by the Lumumba faction
against the President whose
delegates have been seated in
the United Nations. No doubt
jt is better that the Soviet
government, having so far
failed to establish an anti-
Western and near-Communist
fanatic in power in the Congo,
should try to keep up a savage
civil war there rather than
that it should make a direct
attack on a member state of
N.A.T.0., but it still falls short
of what most people in the
West understand by peaceful
co-existence.
In all this the Declaration of
the Eighty-one, if it does not
altogether correspond to the
theses recently maintained by
the Chinese Communists, in-
volves a tightening-up of Com-
munist theory, a new militancy
and hardening of attitude.
Operation Grivas
By ANDRE GARMAND
Two recent events have
seriously endangered the
political stability that Greece
has been enjoying for several
years. The sanguinary inci-
dents in Athens, in Decem-
ber, when several thousand
workers on strike came into
conflict with the forces of law
and order, have shown the
formidable strength of the
Communist Party, which is
still outlawed.
The other event, in Novem-
ber, was the entry into the
political lists of the Movement
of National Regeneration
founded by General Grivas,
the ex-leader of EOKA (the
Cypriot resistance organisa-
tion). In a few days, owing to
the defection of several depu-
ties, this party rose to the
third rank of importance in the
Greek Parliament, after the
Radical Party of Mr Karaman-
lis (which has the comfortable
majority of 171 seats out of
300) and the EDA, the union
of the extreme Left, which
commands 61 votes.
General Grivas published a
manifesto to the Greek nation,
Lying down his programme in
seventeen points which may be
summarised as follows: politi-
cal and economic spring-clean-
mg ; war on corruption ; sanc-
tions against all who have en-
riched themselves at the ex-
pense of the State; solution
°f the unemployment prob-
lem ; development of agricul-
ture ; the extension of social
insurance to the peasants ; and
the withdrawal of the disabling
legislation against the Com-
rnunists.
Such a programme is capable
°f rallying large sections of the
Population around the Move-
ment for National Regenera-
tion: but the personality of its
promoter is of a kind that
alienates a great many sym-
pathisers. People recall his fana-
tically anti-Communist past,
when he was the leader of a
resistance movement which
imposed a veritable white terror
on the Peloponnese during the
war and for years after it.
Discontent with the present
regime does not appear to be
based upon very sound reasons.
Mr Karamanlis has been in
power for five years, which is
a record for ministerial lon-
gevity in Hellenic democracy.
This stability has made pos-
sible an economic and social
development without precedent
in the history of modern
Greece. The drachma is firm,
the prevailing confidence is
shown by the levels of bank-
deposits and savings. The
merchant fleet amounts to
1100 units, about six million
tons. The Government has
just extended social insurance
to the peasantry, thus taking a
step of the utmost importance
towards the achievement of
better living conditions in the
countryside.
But there exists in Greece a
mass of political opinion, repre-
sentative of some 35 per cent,
of the electors, which stands
between the traditional Right
and the Communising Left.
This “Left Centre” section is
at the moment disintegrated
into a number of parties, and
the new movement started by
Grivas tends precisely to the
regrouping of it. To get to
power, it would be sufficient
for the new movement to re-
unite this 35 per cent, and
attract another 3 or 4 per cent,
from the Right and as many
from the Left: it would then
have the situation well in hand.
It all depends upon whether
General Grivas is in a position
to carry out the operation.
And that is very unlikely.
First of all, General Grivas
is not a new political star but
an old politician of the extreme
Right whose successes as leader
of the Cypriot resistance have
not expunged the memory of
his excesses and mistakes when
he was the leader of a party
with a Fascist tendency. He
has been too long in forming
his movement, and thereby lost
the advantage of surprise,
while the prestige he won in
Cyprus has been melting away
before the fire of politics.
Above all, he does not repre-
sent any factor of renewal, for
he presents no new plans, such
as might have seduced the elec-
torate. His henchmen have
been exposed to the wear and
tear of politics at least as much
as those now in power.
General Grivas has succeeded
in winning a few independent
deputies, but not all, and none
of the group of the Ten who,
a few months ago, formed a
New Political Movement of
liberal democratic tendency;
and these are, of all the men
now in politics, those who enjoy
perhaps the highest prestige in
the country. Notable among
them are the ex - Ministers
Athanassiades-Novas, Mavros,
Papaligouras and Rhallis. They
look upon Grivas as an aspirant
to dictatorship, and fear that
if he came to power he wouid
ins t a 1 an anti - democratic
regime.
However, the ex-leader of
EOKA can count upon the
support of a good proportion
of the Greek people ; in par-
ticular, upon the electorate of
the Peloponnese, of Thessaly,
and of the North. He seems
also to have considerable
credit among the peasants, at
least in some localities, as
well as in the lower ranks of
the army. His movement also
has the backing of several
influential journals.
“Operation Grivas” would,
therefore, have been able to
attain its first objective—which
was the overthrow of Kara-
manlis if he had only
managed, as he claimed, to
have made twenty deputies
desert the majority. But no-
body budged, although there
are malcontents in the govern-
mental camp; so this first
attempt was a failure.
The manoeuvre against the
Karamanlis Government is still
in process of execution, but
with a mere long-term objec-
tive. Meanwhile, it is quite
possible that Mr Karamanlis
may remain until the normal
term of his mandate ends in
1962. But to do so he would
have to renovate—that is, to
rebuilt—his Cabinet.


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSULUVan
: PTY LTD V
ARK
tra
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS Sr OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables'
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
ltapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et„. Mahers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Yalres,
etc
Start the weekend well with
Weekend
★
1/- from your newsagent
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Supplied
Entries close on Friday, January
13, in the national exhibition of
photography to be held at Sydney’s
1961 Royal Easter Show. Members
of camera clubs throughout Aus-
tralia have been invited to com-
pete in the exhibition, which is
being conducted by the R.A.S. in
conjunction with the Australian
Photographic Federation. Entry
forms are available at the society’s
city office, at the Showground and
at all branches of Kodak (Austral-
asia) Pty. Ltd.
Information Sought
Words of the poem by W. T.
Goodge, which was in the
“Bulletin Reciter,” and whose
rhymes were all variations of -ough ?
“OUGH!”
(A fonetic fansy)
The baker-man was kneading dough
And whistling softly, sweet and lough.
Yet ever and anon he’d cough
As though his head was coming ough!
“My word!” said he, “but this is rough;
This flour is simply awful stough!”
He punched and thumped it through and
through,
As all good bakers always dough I
“I’d sooner drive,” said he, “a plough
Than be a baker, anyhough!”
Thus spake the baker kneading dough ;
But don’t let- on I told you sough!
* * * *
What are the words inscribed on
the .tomb of the Unknown
Warrior ?
The inscription rea^s: “Beneath
this stone lies the body of a British
warrior, unknown b’y name or rank,
brought here on Armistice Day,
11th November, 1920, in the
presence of His Majesty King
George V., his Ministers of State,
the chiefs of his forces and a vast
concourse of the nation. Thus are
commemorated the many multitudes
who during the Great War of
1914-1918 gave the most that man
can give, life itself, for God, for
King and country, for loved ones,
home and Empire, for the sacred
cause of justice and the freedom
of the world. They buried him
among the kings because he had
done good toward God and toward
His house.”
* * * *
What is the area and population
of the Isle of Man ? Is it governed
by the British Parliament ? Is it
self-supporting ?
The island, which is nearly equi-
distant from England, Scotland
and Ireland, has an area of 227
sq.-miles and a population (census
1951) of 55,253.
It is governed in accordance with
its own laws by the Court of Tyn-
wald, which consists of the
Lieutenant-Governor, appointed by
the Crown; the Legislative Council
(the Bishop of Sodor and Man,
two Deemsters, the Attorney-
General, two members appointed
by the Lieutenant-Governor, and
four members elected by the House
of Keys); and the House of Keys
itself, a representative assembly of
24 members elected for five years
by the six “sheadings,” or shires,
and the four municipalities. The
island 'is not bound by Acts of the
Imperial Parliament unless specially
mentioned in them.-
The island is self-supporting in
agricultural products and ' livestock
and its chief industry is the tourist
trade, with an estimated half-
million tourists a year.
* * *
Is Sydney’s Australian Museum
the oldest in Australia ? How long
has it been situated on its present
site ?
It is Australia’s oldest museum,
and dates back to 1827, when
Governor Darling of New South
Wales was informed that the
Colonial Office had granted £2OO
a year to establish and keep a
museum in Sydney. The museum
was first housed (1830) in the
Judge-Advocate’s office. Discus-
sion about the establishment of
the South Australian museum dates
back to 1839, but its official history
does not begin until 1856. The
earliest museum besides the Aus-
tralian was founded in Tasmania in
1842, near Hobart, and was known
as the Acanthe Museum.
From the Judge-Advocate’s office
the Australian Museum was moved
to the Legislative Council
Chambers; in 1836, because the
collection had become too large,
it was transferred to the house of
the Chief Justice, Sir Francis
Forbes. The first catalogue (1837)
showed that it then contained 800
exhibits. In 1840 the museum moved
to the Surveyor-General’s office
opposite the Sydney Mint and in
1842 it was placed in Darlinghurst
court-house. The present name,
which replaced that of the “Colonial
Museum” dates from 1834.
In 1831 Darling gave approval
for the erection of a building in
Hyde Park by the Australian Sub-
scription Library, on the condition
that rooms be set aside for the
museum. Sir Richard Bourke, in
1835, reversed this arrangement and
proposed that a museum be
erected, in connection with the
Botanic Gardens, in which accom-
modation should be given to the
A.S.L. ; the Colonial Office sanc-
tioned expenditure of £4,000 on this
project in 1836.
Nothing was done about the
matter until 1845, when Charles
Nicholson persuaded the Legisla-
ture to authorise the building oppo-
site Hyde Park in which the museum
is now contained. Part of the
existing north wing was completed
in 1849 and the collections were
transferred lo it from the court-
house.
Brief Answers
W.J.T.: Port Jackson comprises
all the waters within Outer North
Head and Inner South Head exclu-
sive of the Parramatta and Lane
Cove (livers: that is, as far west
as a line drawn from Mann’s Point
to Long Nose Point. “Sydney
Harbor” is not the same as Port
Jackson, and is defined as that part
of the port excluding North
Harbor (the water north of a line
from Cannae Point to Dobroyd
Point) and Middle Harbor (the
water west of a line from Grotto
Point to Middle Head)... .L,Jj
Petroleum oils are marketed as j
mant oils, semi-dormant oils i:
white or summer spray oils, j
mant oils, such as red oils, }
semi-dormant oils should never
used on vegetables. White or st
mer oils are normally used in c«
bination with nicotine sulphate
Bordeaux mixture, which is prep*
from bluestone (copper sulpha
and lime. The mixture is very e|
tive against aphids... .S.T.: In
1959 season Kel Nagle won
Canada Cup (with Peter Thornso
Australian Open, Australian P(
and N. S. Wales PGA Champ];
ships, New Zealand Open Foursoi
(with Peter Thomson), Queens]?
Open and the Ampol £3,000
Sydney. He lost a play-off
Thomson in the New Zealand Op
. ...P.K.R.: Australia's first tie
paper was the “Sydney Gazette
New South Wales Advertiser,” jff
published on March 5, 1803, d
was published weekly until ir
twice a week until 1827 and t$
times a week until October 20, ip
when publication ceased... .Tis;
The Palm Isles are a group 0
islands and rocks off the east etc
of Queensland, about 45 miles ncP
of Townsville. They were narrh
by Captain Cook, who reached th
in June, 1770... .J.J.G.: Ap
from those signs which have obvir 0
connections with the Monai#
several are “cognizances” for is;
ferent monarchs or other nobles, lb
“Red Dragon” is the cognizai
of Henry VII, the “White Har
of Richard 11, the “Swan P
Antelope,” of Henry V, the “Pib
(plume) and Feathers,” of u
Prince of Wales.
c
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENT!
3V.
Name and address must appe^\ r
all MSS. No liability is uni-
taken re contributions volunir
submitted; and no MS: will fv
returned unless stamps
pany. MSS. should be addm
to the Editor; they will be CL
sidered for publication on P
understanding that they- may 111
shortened or altered as the Eus
thinks necessary. L
....The Cabramattan: Here )
g°:- i
T.H.: In Sympathy:— n
J
The bureau plots the weather, and 5
rain
Streams from the heavens on the lit
away; |j
They draw their maps and hum the r
refrain: 1!
“Let’s keep them guessing for $(
other day”....
LAND OF A MILLION DREAM
I went off to bed it was almost nini
And through my window a star choslr
shine Jl
It twinkled away till asleep I fell*j
And drew me into its magic spell
Then in crept a dream to take me if.
And helped me aboard a shooting stir
We came to the land of a million drfA
Where diamonds were sand by the siij
streams
r
I sat on the throne as dreamlands <l®
With long rippling- hair of won#,
gold sheen
I spoke with a voice like a harps ro«(
note L
That tinkled and swelled as it cy
from my throat I
My dream then gave me a moony
berth f
That would take me safely back
to earth L
So I stepped aboard the silvery W
And sailed from the land of a mini
dreams ....


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Uneconomic Dairyfarms: A Way Out
Most controversial of all the
findings of the Dairy In-
dustry Report is the section
which deals with the closing-
down of uneconomic farms. To
Isay that this is the answer to
qne aspect of the overall dairy
problem is easy enough ; but
how to put into effect?
1 Fjrst, there is the question
iof deciding exactly which farms
are uneconomic. There are
said to be about 3000 of them
-in all. Which ones are to go?
" Second, the closures, whether
by force or by the less
brutal but equally drastic means
of economic pressure, are
bound to cause hardship.
The ultimate question is:
What should be done about
these dairymen who cannot
nake the game pay? The Gov-
Sernment could buy them out,
sell their land to others and
increase the area of existing
“profitable farms. But that
(would mean throwing a con-
siderable number of unskilled
“Workers on the labor-market.
And in the long run it would
lot help either the dispossessed
farmers or the Australian
Jconomy.
At the opposite extreme, the
government could ignore the
Endings of the committee-of-
"nquiry, increase the subsidy,
e lirectly or indirectly, and so
issume responsibility for en-
suring that the farms are run
a reasonable profit. Such
i solution would gladden the
,ieart of most politicians —
inxious, as always, about the
ballot-box—but it would be
ineffective and disas-
trous to the country’s economy,
i The answer must be some
tj.orm of compromise which
rfwould both support the eco-
'iomy and do justice to the
ndividual dairyfarmer.
| The best form the com-
>romise could take would be
1 o combine the dairy-industry
/ith the beef-producing in-
lustry. In England and on the
continent, where dairy-herds
depleted after World War
T it was found that these two
industries could dovetail to the
“"'enefit of both.
I am satisfied that rearing
heifer-calves to three months
gives a good comparative return
to dairyfarmers, and I have
before now advocated research
on this subject by State agricul-
tural departments and the
C.5.1.R.0.
In any dairy-herd there are
some cows ,which, though pos-
sibly only marginal milk-pro-
ducers, have a high potential
value for rearing calves ; and
most farms have outside pad-
docks not put to full-use where
calves or vealers could be
raised.
This method could do much
to help marginal dairyfarmers.
Those who have already
adopted it have found it profit-
able. Competent farmers in
Queensland and N.S.W. have
done well from rearing one
crossbred vealer on a dairy-
cow to seven or eight months.
By rearing calves only to three
months, putting two or three
calves on selected cows, and
using supplementary feeding or
creep - grazing wherever pos-
sible, the profit could be in-
creased accordingly.
But, like the abolition of
surplus farms, such a policy
cannot be brought into effect
just by the sweep of a pen. It
needs much hard thinking.
'T'HE real problem areas are
the butter-farms outside the
milk-zones. Here the Govern-
ment could help by organising
extension-services, in the spirit
of the Dairy Report, to conduct
research and investigation and
to educate farmers in how to
make best use of their land and
cattle on the lines suggested
above.
Then there is the question of
how a farmer would be able
to get hold of thp right type
of bull to follow the plan of
vealer-production.
The Canadian Government
started a system of subsidising
or buying the right type of bull
for a certain group of farms,
then put the beast under con-
trol of the departmental dairy-
expert for the district, who was
made responsible for lending it
to farmers as necessary.
In England, where artificial-
insemination stations have
been established, farmers have
no difficulty in following any
defined policy suited to their
herd-production programme.
Australian Federal and State
Governments could adapt these
ideas to suit Australian con-
ditions.
Adequate cropping should be
encouraged everywhere;
seasonal crops should be grown
and used for feed ; and pasture-
improvement should become
essential, especially on butter-
farms, which generally owe
their lack of profit to the acci-
dent of being situated on natur-
ally poor land. Advice and ex-
tension-services are needed here
again.
Tt is known that at present the
climate of the N.S.W. North
Coast and Queensland will not
grow a perennial legume.
These species of plant are
necessary to provide protein
and improve soil-fertility by
establishing pasture-ration. In-
tensified research from appro-
priate bodies is therefore well
worthy of Government finance.
This compromise seems to be
the only practicable solution to
the problem of the surplus
farms. It would also relieve
farmers of the constant ties
associated with constant dairy-
farming.
The plan would undoubtedly
cost money, but not as much
as the present dairy-subsidy,
and what it does cost would
be more profitably spent. It
would support the Australian
economy by improving herds
and production without risk-
ing a lot of capital on wild-cat
ventures.
Its advantages to the farmer
are obvious. Far from being
turned off his land, he would
be able to make it more pro-
ductive.
The question might be raised:
what is the potential market
for this turn-off?
It is well known that the
most palatable way of getting
required quantities of protein
is by eating beef The Austra-
lian is a good beef-eater and,
with an ever-increasing popula-
tion, our surplus margin for
export is declining. At the
same time, the world is hungry
for beef, and demand seems to
be for younger carcasses. So
it looks as though the channel
of development on dairyfarms
could help to build up the
export - credits which the
national economy urgently
needs today.
The method here expounded
could, I think, be applied on
most farms throughout Aus-
tralia. Research is clearly in-
dicated. -
A. S. BINGLE.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
The time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS Ob SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
vFs
PROOf
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
MMMHI«h
.< - *
w
ps^swassa
, 1 ' >»"
L>
*»
i
iiilis
im
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
Citrus from the Sand
The Department oft
Agriculture, U. S. A.,
J has announced that the
wool and lamb pro-
ducers’ self help pro-
motion program will
be financed by deduc-
tions made from pay-
ments for the year
commencing April Ist,
1960 and 31st March,
1961. From the 1960
wool payments made to
producers funds will
be allotted to advertis-
ing, promotional and
related market activities,
on wool and lambs.
Deductions rates of one
cent from shorn wool
payments, and five cents
per hundredweight
live weight from un-
shorn lamb payments.
In Australia, as else-
where, graziers have
discovered the many
advantages of Elastrator
over other metjiods of
castrating and tailing.
Elastrator Green
Rubber Rings are the
safest, surest and the
most humane method of
castrating and tailing.
AN all too rare example of
individual enterprise spark-
ing off a large-scale project
comes from a group of orange-
growers at Waikerie (S.A.).
Their efforts in opening-up
deep-sand country back from
the M-urray River are likely to
become a landmark in the his-
tory of the citrus industry.
On dry, barren sandhills they
are bringing new land to fer-
tility by intelligent use
of spray-irrigation. This sets a
pattern for future development
of deep-sand lands which can
be irrigated.
Driving force behind the
project has been 47-year-old
Waikerie orchardist R. G. W.
Coats, who has been growing
citrus for over 20 years. Head-
ing a committee of local busi-
nessmen and growers, he has
brought to reality the dream of
extending the citrus-growing
area.
The land being developed is
as much as 210 ft above river-
level, so a fairly large pump-
ing-installation is needed. The
sandy soil is fertile and very
deep —40ft to 50ft in most
places. With water it will pro-
duce magnificent crops of
Washington Navels and Valen-
cias.
The project—privately spon-
sored throughout, though sup-
ported by the State Govern-
ment —grew from Waikerie’s
experience in 1956, when flood-
ing of some of the older
orchards close to the river
suggested that new areas would
have to be brought into use if
Waikerie was to hold its place
as a citrus-producer.
With an average rainfall of
9yin. Waikerie was established
as an irrigation-area in the
1890’s. From the first, grapes
and oranges were grown, but
the trend swung towards citrus,
and the district is now the
principal orange-growing area
in South Australia with an
average 500,000 cases a year.
In the past irrigation at
Waikerie —as elsewhere
along the Murray —was con-
fined to heavier soils and
lower-lying land where water-
ing could be done by traditional
furrow methods. TThe idea of
watering the higher areas of
deep sand developed from the
success of spray- irrigation,
which some established
orchards have been using since
about 1950.
A 300-h.p. pumping-station
provides water for the first 550-
acre section, which is called
Golden Heights. Before the
land was handed over in March,
1960, the sprinkler-system was
installed so that planting could
begin immediately.
The second area under devel-
opment —1000 acres, with a
pumping-station of 450-h.p.
is well advanced and should be
completed by June, 1961.
Settlers will be able to plant
trees from that time.
Blocks are handed-over com-
plete with irrigation-system, but
the operating-company arranges
the supply of water for all
settlers.
Blocks are sold complete
with vermin-proof fence, pump-
house and pumping-equipment,
main pipeline and complete
sprinkler-installation of nine
sprinklers to the acre ; cost is
£248 an acre. Most blocks are
of about 20 acres and can be
double-planted with peach and
citrus, with 180 trees to the
acre. Settlers can grow vege-
tables as a cash-crop while
trees are maturing.
In both sections a central
housing-area has been planned
with streets and gardens. This
simplifies the provision of
household services and reduces
waste of land under irrigation
But there is no control here
and settlers may build their
homes on their irrigation
properties.
Administering the project is
the Waikerie Extension Com-,
pany, which took over from’
the initiating group, the Wai-
kerie Irrigation Land Exteii-
sion Committee. Control win
eventually be handed over to
a trust of growers’ represent
tives.
The sponsors are confident 1
that settlers will have a net
annual return of over £3OO an
acre when their trees mature,
Under full production the
orchards will require about 46
acre-inches of water a year,
Annual cost of this to the
grower will be £26 an acre. ,
R. MICHEL.
Making Shearers
Tt is pretty difficult for a real t
■*- shearer-learner to get a pen
(job); the private shearing-
contractor is reluctant to give
him a go, because a learner
will reduce the daily tally of
shorny sheep, with a consequent
invasion of the contractor's
profits.
The award says a learner has
to have the guaranteed mini-
mum wage of an adult shed-
hand, no matter how few sheep
he shears. The award also says
there has to be a learner in
every five shearers. Except by
the Grazcos Shearing crowd)
this is seldom enforced ... I
There may be a “hairy-legged
learner” on the board—a
youngish-looking bloke, often
shearing within a few sheep of
the ringer. If an organise!
comes on the board the bloke
slows-down and handles the
woollies awkwardly. 1
Owners, shortsightedly, sel-
dom insist that a real learner


it
p
fa $h& r, %o* »
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
Obtainable in '4 oz., 8 oz.,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM * HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
STOP
SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
START TODAY
TAKE
L|C|H|l|S|o[N|E
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from the intense pain of Gout —Rheumatism—Sciatica-
Lumbago Fihrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOWS. This special COLCHISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most cases is the
cause of the inflammation and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases, 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England—Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUSTJ,
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
jj e given a pen ; A.W.U. mem-
bers shearing on the board are
flo t blameless themselves in
condoning all this.
The absence of a learner adds
an increased tempo of work, in
the already overworked wool-
room, for the classer, wool-
rollers and piecepicker ; and the
clip suffers in its preparation.
This rather unfortunate set-
up is somewhat redeemed by a
few public-spirited and alert
men on the land who have
started shearing-schools on
their pastoral properties at
some considerable personal
economic loss because of cut
sheep, an excessive amount of
second-cuts, and the kicking-
around of valuable fleeces.
Last year a shearing-school
was completed at Peter Milson’s
property, Laverstock, Yass
(N.S.W.), organised by the
Bowning Farmers and Settlers’
Association. There were 11
youths in the school; nine
were sons of men on the land,
and two intended making a
career of sheering.
George Crossley, of Illoura,
Bowning, secretary-treasurer of
the Bowning F. and S.A., is the
man who originally had the
idea of ru n n in g shearing-
schools in this Yass district.
The president, Ron McGrath,
of Rosebank, said the wonder-
ful thing about last year’s
school was the generosity of
Peter Milson:
Mr Milson stood everything
for the whole week —we rang
him to see if he would let us
come to Laverstock shed for
one day. In previous years the
school has had to move about
from day to day to various
sheds; Mr Milson said they
could come to him for the full
five days of the school. In the
first place we told the boys they
would be staying in the huts
and they would have to feed
themselves. When Mr Milson
heard this he said they would
starve, so he would feed them.”
The whole week cost the
* students only £1 each.
Shearing-instructor was Walter
Southwell, of Yass —one-time
shearer who now has land of
his own.
As he watched the youths
feeling their way into their new
skill Walter Southwell ex-
plained : “We don’t even count
®e number of sheep. We are
jt°t after numbers at all —it’s
®e know-how we’re after. We
Wa nt to see the learner use the
jw holds and shear to the
best of his ability. Not at any
sta ge, even at the end of the
school, would we look for pace,
he quality of the shearing is
all that matters.”
A break here, while the in-
'ttttor stepped forward and
corrected the position of one
of the learner’s feet so the ewe
was in a better position. If
sheep have memories the
wethers and ewes being sub-
jected to this treatment may
have wondered dimly why they
were taking so long to go
through this annual ordeal.
Walter Southwell went on:
“All you can do is give them
the basic holds and blows. They
gradually get the feel of it. By
the time they’ve shorn three-
thousand to four - thousand,
they’ll be something like
shearers.”
The prize for the best shearer
was divided between two
brothers, John and Bill Gran-
ger, Pine Hill, Gunning. Ron
Bush, Fish River, was awarded
the prize for the most improved
shearer.
BILL HOWARD.
Crosscuts
R. E. Wettenhall,i of the
Stanbury Stud, Ceres, near
Geelong (Vic.), who has previ-
ously shipped stud-sheep to
America, has had 11 of his
Corriedales exported to
Rhodesia. This, the first con-
signment of the breed to go
to Africa, opens possibilities of
further orders. Buyer was P.
L. Storrer, of Rusape, Southern
Rhodesia.
A sale of Shorthorn and Poll
Shorthorn bulls will be held at
Katherine (N.T.) in April, 1961,
to coincide with the Katherine
Experimental Farm’s field-day,
which draws a big attendance
from the surrounding district.
The New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency will be
responsible for the sale, and the
N.T. Administration is co-
operating with the venture.
Exact date for sale and field-
day has not yet been fixed.
Entries for the Beef Short-
horn section of the Perth (Scot-
land) Show and Sales, to be
held in February, show a slight
increase in numbers over last
year’s figures. Forty-four studs
are represented and present
indications are that 385 bulls
and 120 females will be offered
by major Shorthorn breeders.
David Teakle, of Brisbane, a
28-year-old graduate studying
for his doctorate in plant-
pathology at the University of
California, has made the im-
portant discovery that fungi
are implicated in the transmis-' 1
sion of viruses from sick to
healthy plants. Ele made this
discovery while investigating
the relationship of tobacco-
necrosis virus and olpidium
brassicce to big-vein disease of
lettuces.


LETTERS
The Changes in “The Bulletin”
Sir,
I was prepared not to
accept the changes in The
Bulletin —but I do. You have
managed to preserve all of The
Bulletin’s old appeal, but you
have also added something new.
J. P. Harrison
Ash field (N.S.W.).
Sir,
Any, more meddling with The
Bulletin, and I defect.
L. D. Bingley
Prahran (Vic.).
Sir,
In expanding the “Red Page”
and providing more room for
verse you are doing a service
to Australia.
D. Billancourt
Essendon (Vic.).
. i
Sir,
Why not more short para-
graphs in the “Personal” page?
And why Miss Lee Sharron?
G. J. Montgomery
Balmain (N.S.W.).
Sir, '
The “Society” and “Abo-
riginalities” pages, which were
formerly made up of pithy,
interesting and often humorous
short paragraphs —I think the
most attractive pages —have
now been replaced with sordid
and uninteresting items.
D. J. Willis
Chatswood (N.S.W.)
WHAT INDIANS THINK
OF US
Sir,
It is disappointing that your
series, “What Asians think of
us,” should begin so ineffectu-
ally. Neil Mclnnes’ contribu-
tion, “To Indians: Distant. In-
significant” (B. 28 /12/260) is
indeed insignificant and distant.
In the first place the Indians
don’t think of us at all ; most
of their millions would never
have heard of Australia. If, by
“The Indians” Mr Mclnnes
means, as he must, the few
who formulate opinion, re-
marks less superficial would
better have justified the page.
The only Indians with more
than a random concern in or
about Australia are a few busi-
nessmen and the political and
military leaders who, out of
duty, must sometimes include
this country in their calcula-
tions.
The intellectuals, most of
whom are Communist or
oriented that way (the painters ;
the Urdu and Bengali poets ;
the young novelists) alternate
in attitude between regarding
this country as a Capricornian
South Africa (White Australia),
as an unimportant unit of a
politically hostile alliance, or,
frequently, as an ex-colony of
Britain’s, whose people, like
themselves, struggled from
under the yoke of the Raj and
should be nearer to them in
sympathy.
The White Australia Policy
is a Hankie with the Indians
because it seems to them an
act of rudeness and a humilia-
tion of their pride, prestige
and patriotism. At a purely
practical levehthey believe it is
an unfair exchange that Aus-
tralians should be able to earn
a good living in their country
while they are barred an entry
here because of the color of
their skin. (For what the
matter is worth, most caste
Indians, particularly North
Indians, are as fair as and
fairer in skin than the people
of the Mediterranean.)
It would probably be a blow
to Australia’s sense of patron-
age if the “Asian Quota” ever
becomes legislation. I doubt
if there would be many Indian
applications. The peasants will
still not have heard of Aus-
tralia by then. The trading
classes can do much better on
the made grounds of Fiji,
East Africa, South Africa, the
Arab Coast, than would be
likely here. A few professional
people would probably be in-
terested : those doctors and
.lawyers who have gone by habit
to practice in Britain and who
seem to flourish in respect and
income in North England’s
cotton country. We might get
a few mystics, a few sadhus,
looking for improvement.
They could be established in
Canberra, where absurdity
would not shy at employing in-
cantations.
Mr Mclnnes speaks about a
“folklore” that we exterminated
aborigines here and brutally
oppress the survivors. I, too,
was charged with these stories
in India, but not in the exag-
geration he suggests. To the
best of my knowledge it is not
folklore that the Tasmanian
aborigines were enthusiastic-
ally helped to extinction by the
settlers. The mainland sur-
vivors seemed sadly placed to
me when I toured some inland
missions recently.
The Indian has a particular
interest in the aboriginal.
Photographs and reports about
their own are common in
Indian journals. The many
aboriginal tribes in their own
country are handled with a
sense of custody which our own
authorities should study.
Their settlements and lands are
sancrosanct; their tribal laws,
myths, culture patterns are
protected ; they - are assisted in
herding, handicrafts, agriculture
and education. It is not sur-
prising that Indians should be
puzzled by what they hear of
the aboriginal’s treatment in
Australia. It seems to puzzle
a good many native-born.
If The Bulletin is really
interested in “What Asians
think of us” it should not be
too late to have Asians write
the pieces—beginning again
with the Indians, under such
bylines as Frank Moraes, R. K.
Narayan or Mulk Raj Anand.
HUGH ATKINSON.
Sydney (N.S.W.)
TREATING THE NEW
ARRIVAL
Sir,
That article on the migrant
camp (B. 28 /12 / ’6O) was a
trifle too sanguine on the
benefits new arrivals receive
here. Cigarettes may be
cheaper here but they do not
cost 6s. Bd. for 20 in England.
The standard price for Players,
Benson and Hedges, Church-
mans, etc., seems to be around
4s. stg. or ss. A. The only
items that are cheaper here at
the rate of exchange are pipe-
tobacco, second-hand cars,
petrol (4s. stg. a gallon), wines
and liquors. Anything else
considerably dearer, rangij
from food (40 per cent, deart
to clothes (60 to 70 per cem
and electrical goods (100 j
cent.).
The only people homeless j
England must be either e;
tremely unlucky or no-hopei
The Government had hit
numbers of council hous
built for rent after the ws
And English council houses a
first-class compared with Aus-
tralian so-called low-cost fib#
housing. A good brick ho®
can be bought from £2OOO up
wards on a deposit of £2OO o{
so.
Australia has an attraction
for factory people sins :
working-conditions here seen
slightly better. In England ft,
majority in industry still wo®
a 42-hour week with overtiffi,
paid at the rate of single tiii
for the first six hours. Ti
does not mean that factor. (
workers in modern industry a|
badly paid compared wi|
here ; the average factory wag'
for men is £l4stg. The averai
factory wage here is £AI7 Ids,
The purchasing power of ft
£A is three-fifths of the £st|
Incidentally, 40 per cent, ofstj
British migrants since the
have returned as against 20
cent, of foreign migrants.
If poor people are unhapf,
in England, they can consol
themselves with the thougl
that poor people are just a|
unhappy in Australia. I don-
like at all the smirking way i
which some people talk abouj
poverty in other countrie
while ignoring the poverty that
is here right under their nose.
In the early post-war yea|
this was indeed a land of opp fl[ l
tunity for whoever had wj
necessary capital, and prkj
WHAT DO YOU
THINK?
Readers are invited to
contribute letters, prefer-
ably no longer than SOI
words, on subjects oj
interest in The Bulletin,
All letters should be
signed with the writer si
own name and address for
publication.
As from the issue of
January 18 no payment
will be made for letters.


were considerably lower than
in Europe. But these condi-
tions have long since vanished.
Australia is no more a land of
opportunity or perhaps no
l ess than England is.
What we can say about Aus-
tralia is that there is (1) political
tranquillity, (2) full employ-
ment and therefore work for
married women, (3) no Negro
or Asiatic minority, and there-
fore no racial problem. Other-
wise this is a rich man’s coun-
try where the ordinary man
needs a minimum of at least
two years’ pay just as a start
in order to be able to live.
When we consider how our
neighbors to the north-west
live, and how little reason they
have to like us, Australia’s
treatment of new arrivals since
the war seems not only foolish
and shortsighted but downright
criminal.
The first requisite of a migra-
tion scheme should have been
the building of good cheap
housing for . rent in quantities
enough to satisfy both the
natural increase and the new
arrivals. But of course this
would not have suited the land-
sharks who have waxed fat at
our expense.
J. PEMBERTON.
Neutral Bay ( N.S.W. ).
WOOL TRADE WINDS
Sir/
In true Bulletin tradition
John Fountain (B. 21 /12 / ’6O)
has managed to present an un-
biased account of the Walgett
meeting of the North West
Wool Marketing Committee.
Though of much lighter “ton-
nage” than many of the celebri-
ties he mentions, may I present
some arguments for the other
side of the case?
If the committee really triecl
to get opposing speakers it is
hard to understand why the
schedule was so tight that only
10 minutes remained after the
last speaker for any discussion
to take place.
Following such a one-sided
presentation of the case, one
can hardly attach a great deal
°f significance to the result of
the vote.
Incidentally, the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association is not
opposed to a reserve price.
Present policy, as determined
by the last annual conference,
js an open mind and a readiness
1° examine any scheme put
forward.
I One weakness in the argu-
ments favoring a reserve price
I s font all of them assume that
(Puce is the only factor in-
volved, whereas the real prob-
; m is the steadily narrowing
margin between costs and
returns.
The danger of putting a
reserve price on wool is that
costs of production are not
fixed but steadily rising, and
the successive rises in the
reserve price that would be
required to maintain a satisfac-
tory margin would soon lift
wool to a price level at which
it, ceased to be competitive
with synthetics. Then we would
really be in trouble.
Advocates of reserve-price
schemes are too ready to quote
the “success” .of the New
Zealand scheme. They neglect
the fact that this scheme has
operated in an economic
climate so different to Austra-
lia’s, that any comparison ' is
useless.
In New Zealand costs have
been held reasonably stable by
means of internal price-fixing,
by strict capital-issues control
and by the fact that the amount
of overseas capital entering the
country has been negligible.
By way of contrast, Austra-
lian secondary industry is going
through a period of uninhibited
expansion, encouraged by a
large volume of overseas capi-
tal, which last year reached
£238 million —equivalent to 58
per cent, of the wool cheque.
This, together with plenty of
internal credit by way of hire-
purchase facilities, is accelerat-
ing the competition for avail-
able goods and services. The
effect has been to make the sky
the limit so far as costs are
concerned, which in turn is
making it difficult for the wool-
grower to keep up with the
Jones’.
J. S. POTTER
Beecroft (N.S.W.).
HOW TO FARM ANTS
Sir,
Who’s pulling whose leg
about ant-farms (Bulletin,
21/12/ ’60)? About the only
correct information in the
article was the description of
the case necessary to found the
formicary.
To prepare a formicary you
arrange a layer of pebbles
from Hin. to 2in. deep, cover
these with a layer of fine, dry
soil, then another 2in. layer of
moist, but not wet, earth.
You’ve already located the
nest you intend to rob to start
the new colony, so fill the case
to three-quarters of its depth
with loose earth from this
vicinity.
Now comes the hard part.
That casual reference to the
queen —“easily recognisable —
she is at least twice as big and
fat as the other ants”- —made
me smile. The trouble is—
finding her! And “it is a good
to include a queen
amongst the ants gathered” is
surely the year’s masterpiece
of myrmecological understate-
ment. It is essential —repeat,
essential —-to include a queen ;
otherwise the ants you have
collected will just go home
again.
Get a spade, a trowel, a
large piece of calico, forceps,
string, a polythene or light
plastic bag and go to the nest.
Dig a trench a foot wide
around the mound. Slowly lift
the cover from the nest and
gently lay it on the ground.
Catch a few workers. Collect
some grubs and cocoons. Place
your catch on the calico, fold
the corners carefully, place the
lot in the polythene bag and
tie it with string.
Now for the really hard bit.
Find Her Majesty! You may
do it first hit—but I’ve spent
days trying to find a queen.
When you do spot her, if you
do, take her gently in the for-
ceps and transfer her to a
matchbox. Place the match-
box in the polythene bag and
carry your booty carefully to
the kitchen. Empty the fridge
and put the bag inside for at
least 20 minutes.
Bring your ant-house out-
side, spread newspapers out
and carefully pour the catch
into the case. A properly con-
structed formicary has a cover
made of wood with three
drilled plugholes. These are
filled with sponge - rubber
“corks.” When the catch is
safely inside dampen the
sponges and place the formi-
cary in a cool,'dark place for
at least a week. Then you
can bring it to light for inspec-
tion.
By this time the ants should
be established and working.
Never expose them to direct
sunlight,, even for scientific
observation. When it is not
being studied always keep the
case covered with red trans-
parent plastic.
Feed the inmates, with dead
insects, chopped meat and per-
haps a few breadcrumbs. If
you introduce a twig infested
with aphids you may be able
to see the ants start a “dairy-
farm” —many species “milk”
the aphids and in return hus-
band their “cows” with great
care.
When you’re quite sure the
colony is established buy a
notebook and pencil and you
can start on a study that will
last a lifetime —if you’re really
interested.
JOHN ORRELL
Smithfield (Q.)
COBB AND CO. IN JAPAN
Sir,
Regarding H. S. Williams’s
article, “Cobb and Co. of
Yokohama” (B. 28/12/’6O), it
was Tom Gallagher, road
manager for Cobb and Co.,
who told William Lees, author
of “Retrospect of Coaching in
Australia,” that Cyrus Hewitt
took a team of coaches to
Japan. Probably Gallagher
and Lees confused the name
Hewitt with the name Hoyt.
Sailing from New Zealand,
the Hoyt brothers reached
Japan in June, 1868. One
brother wrote a long letter in
the “Otago Witness” of Sep-
tember 19, 1868. He stated
that the Albion cargo consisted
of goods of almost every des-
cription, including two pianos
and one harmonium ; also
some stock. To Hoyt’s disap-
pointment the cargo, at the
time of writing, was all un-
sold. After their Cobb and
Co. Telegraph line of coaches
failed, the Hoyts sailed for
Australia.
There is little doubt that
Cyrus Hewitt never went to
Japan at any time. In 1925,
at the inaugural meeting of
the Cobb and Co. Old Coach
Drivers’ Association, his son
spoke of his activities. I quote
from “Men of Cobb and C 0.,”
by E. J. Aismith (published in
Melbourne, 1940): “Mr A.
Hewitt, a son of one of the
principals of Messrs. Watson
and Hewitt, stated that his
father entered the business in
1857 and pioneered the Gipps-
land service in 1&63. After-
wards he went to South Africa
and started services to the gold-
diggings.”
The coach depicted in the
interesting old woodblock print
could hardly be one of the
original coaches brought from
New Zealand. That it is a
Cobb and Co. coach there is
no doubt, for Mr Williams,
author of “Tales of the
Foreign Settlements in Japan,”
has done much original his-
torical research into foreign
activities in Japan. But it is
more than likely that the coach
was one of local design and
build, suitable for wet condi-
tions. Whilst it has the typical
“Concord” canoe front, the
doorway appears to be at the
rear, and no thoroughbrace is
apparent.
A most interesting article,
and perhaps from Australian
and New Zealand sources we
shall learn something more of
Cobb and Co. in Japan.
ALAN QUEALE
Wynnum ( Q .).


V
\€(Zrt\?S I TOO HARP, P£AR.
i just NevefL seem to feel.
HutA69y WHEN « G&T Howe."


obvious that he has information that
will be new to all but a few specialists:
It is now clear that although
Collins was broadly correct in his
outline, he picked the wrong man
as the one who first obtained a
specimen of the bird (and inci-
dentally gave the wrong man a
wrong Christian name) and for good
measure he gave a wrong date and
■ wrong place for the taking of the
specimen.... After credit in this
matter had been accorded during
many years to the wrong man the
right man was nominated, but he
was given a wrong name!
Collins’s mistake, due to misleading
information he got from Governor
Hunter, was to say that the first speci-
men was shot by “John” Wilson, whose
real name was James Wilson. Wilson,
“a wild idle young man,” an ex-convict
who had been living with the
aborigines, did indeed have a great
deal to do with the discovery of the
lyrebird, since it was he who, when the
“wild white men” were told to come
home and behave themselves, first
reported the existence of the bird and
led the expedition when the basic speci-
men was shot. This was one of the
two expeditions authorised by Gover-
nor Hunter, which were designed partly
to explore the country south-west of
Sydney and partly to convince the
Irish convicts that there was no New
World of white people living in a sort
of earthly paradise in that area ... a
fantasy which the Irish so firmly
believed in that they had a habit of
absconding to it.
But the man who actually shot the
bird on that expedition, on January 26,
1798, was a young servant of Hunter’s
whom the Governor had sent to take
notes. Through a further series of
historical confusions it came to be
thought that this youth was named
Barracks, and so he was duly honored
in the naming of Barracks Falls in
New South Wales. But “Barracks”
never existed. The name was a mis-
reading for Francis Barrallier, who
explored south and west of Sydney in
1802; and the youth who shot the
bird on Wilson’s 1798 expedition was
John Price. And if all this is some-
what confusing, John Price’s account
of the episode is clear and to the point:
January 26th —The ground is
very rockey and brushey, so that we
could scarce pass,.. .We saw several
sorts of dung of different animals,
one of which Wilson called a Whom-
batt, which is an animal about 20
inches high, with short legs and a
thick body forwards with a large
head, round ears and very small
e yes, is very fat and has much the
appearance of a Badger. There is
another animal which the natives call
a Cullawine, which much resembles
the Sloths in America. Here I shot
a bird about the size of a Pheasant,
but the tail of it very much
resembles a Peacock, with two large
long eafters which are white orange
and lead colour, and black at the.
ends; its body betwixt a brown and
green, brown under his neck and
black upon his head. Black legs and
very long claws.
So that settles that.
Some others of Mr his-
torical researches—into the naming of
the bird and into the pioneer illustra-
tors, etc.—are not so interesting for
the general reader, though doubtless it
is as well to have it all recorded; and
even in the chapters where Mr Chis-
holm writes as a naturalist one wishes
he would give more of his personal
experiences and observations, in a per-
sonal style, instead of confining himself,
as largely he does, to a sober recording
• of facts.
i t becomes a book to dip into, rather
than to reac ( straight through with any
t literary pleasure. But the reader
wi Uj ng , di wil , everywhere find
f
pol " ts ° f intense forest: the aboriginal
rock-drawings of a lyrebird which is
, f?und somewhere near Sydney
and which Mr Chisholm rightly sug-
gests should be preserved and pro-
tected; the various aboriginal names
for the bird, one of which was
“Beleck-beleck”; the decision that it is
probably related to the scrub-bird but
certainly not to the domestic fowl; the
curiously restricted range both of
Menura Superba and its cousin the
Prince Albert lyrebird; the lyrebird
that was said to be able to talk; the
female that sang in the air; the belief
that the bird is probably monogamous
and mates for life; the lordly habits of
Spot-lighting
Rabbits scurrying, baulking, twitching,
Flood-lit for death from my .22 ;
As the seeking beam sweeps, blind-
bewitching,
Eyes glint blue.
And each crack spells a drawing-down,
Limp-brown,
Blood-flecked, in stiffening line,
Of blinds on fur-flanked life.
An owl carved by my spotlight knife '
Immobile on a strainer-post,
Glares at the counterfeit day, concerned
By my trigger-boast,
And blinks bewildered, world awry
■—A Delphic oracle lost for reply.
VICTORIA.
B. A. BREEN.
A Tree’s Being
O has a Tree that Being
That poets would allow
Or is it just the sun
At work in a green bough ?
Perhaps it’s only Time"
For Time’s reality
Is sculptured in the shape
Of age in a green tree.
It could be that a tree
Is intimate with light
As deeply as the stars
Are intimate with night ,
Perhaps it is because
A tree in its great strength
Can lift upon a wind
The tonnage of its length.
Perhaps it’s not the tree
But just the stature there
Of Residence that grows
Into a height of air.
It might be that a tree
Has Silence at its heart
That softens into music
As other sounds depart.
But all of these agree
That full and towering trees
Give generously in turn
Their personalities A
That do instruct a man
And flag with joy the weather
And hold with their green life
A sum of things together.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.
Kingfisher
Out of the gold wash of sunlight, that
unexpected throaty gush of sound
familiar once
when my home lay in the arm of a river,
and a fellow
in brash enamelled blue kept calling
just as this one in a smother of yellow
cassia, blithe round after round.
So small a thread of music, yet so strong
it can roll back memory’s rusted gates
and fill the afternoon with lost white
fervor of a searching moon
over an empty range bereft of love and
lovers —
only that voice that hovers,
, symbolic of things that will not, can not
change.
Under his naive spell I see the moving
shade
cast by pink flowering gums, and hear
unseen water fall
gently and almost without sound under
a bridge
that day a white horse grazed, and
a young wagtail played
beside me in the tea-tree’s gloom ;
tang of past summers blowing through
my quiet rooni
as if in answer to this blue bird’s call.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


the male, which takes no interest in
nest-making or brooding, being content
to sing and dance; and the happy con-
clusion that “The lyre-tailed maestro
of Australia indulges in mimicry purely
as a hobby. His natural notes doubt-
less are used, in the courting season at
least, largely on a practical basis, but
his imitations are simply vocal orna-
ments—-the playthings of an artist who
glories in his own power.”
Douglas Stewart
Up field on the Coast
Boney and the Kelly Gang. Arthur
Upfield. Heinemann. 17s.
“You Irish are loaded with imagina-
tion. It’s why the Irish have produced
so many great poets and writers. It’s
why most of you Irish think you can’t
be wrong, ever. You have a one-sided
mind. Nice-looking bird you’d have
been with the beard pulled off your
face, a rope around your neck and a
trap under your feet for strangling your
own son.”
This is Arthur Upfield's famous
half-caste detective, Napoleon Bona-
parte, speaking. In the guise of a
seasonal worker, he has taken a job of
potato-digging in order to investigate
a murder. He is speaking to the
murderer. Red Kelly, a big, tempestu-
ous, brutal Irishman who is one of the
leaders of an Irish community settled
in Cork Valley.
“Cork Valley” is on the south coast
of New South Wales, and this reviewer
will disclose its location. It is at the
back of Jamberoo and just south of
Robertson, in that area of the still-wild
sandstone country. It is a deep, gorge-
like valley, fertile and enclosed by
massive cliff-faces. Mr Upfield, who
now lives in the vicinity, at Bowral,
has so captured the spirit of place of
this region that recognition of it is
unmistakable. It is, of course, this
quality of regional writing which gives
Mr Upfield’s c;ime-detection novels
their distinction. Whatever their set-
ting, the Nullarbor Plain, the Inland or
the coastal mountains, he captures it
memorably.
As a detection story, “Boney and
the Kelly Gang” holds the interest
without holding one in breathless or
fascinated suspense. The story is rather
manufactured and, while the novel
contains many vivid and convincing
scenes, the heroine, the Irish girl
Rosalie Ryan, is a stock-in-trade,
romantic type.
Napoleon himself is obviously a
creation arising from Mr Upfield’s
sympathy for the aborigines. One
would like to set him right about the
boomerang. His detective maintains
that this object was, or is, used only
for play-aboqt purposes. But the
boomerang, including the deadly hook-
boomerang. which is designed and
thrown to bound along the ground to
overtake and strike down its quairy, is
universally used by the aborigines for
both hunting and fighting purposes. It
is used with as much accuracy- as the
spear, but is a much more versatile
weapon.
Roland Robinson
"Lord Alabaster"
Curzon. Leonard Mosley. Loi
mans. 375. 3d.
In 1923, when Stanley Baldwin!
came Prime Minister of Britain j
George Nathaniel, first and \
Marquess Curzon of Kedleston, faj
in his life’s ambition, the revolution
British government really began. Net
again would a peer hold the preml
ship, because the aristocratic traditi
of statesmanship had gone and f
New Men were in. This was inei
able, with the rise of the Labor pan
because it seemed intolerable to pi
fessional politicians avid for pou
that the centre of government shot
lie in the House of Lords. But i
interesting feature of the event whi
speeded the change was that Curzoi
failure was due more to his personal
than to his position and background
This biography, by a writer who!
had access to the Curzon papers (whi
contain facts never before publish
and to letters, notes and memorat
not available to previous biograpk
does full justice to all facets
Curzon’s complex character and k
a dramatic story in so doing.
There must have been some defei
in the make-up of “a most supen
person,” who triumphed at Eton (tl
“vast incubator dedicatedly engaged
the task of hatching-out the futii
rulers of the greatest Empire the woi
has ever known”), won the Arno
Essay at Oxford in a fit of pique i
a last-minute entry, became t
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 625
Across
I—The spirit of desert progress? (5, 5)
6—Turf information printed by a health-resort. (3)
10 — How the paint’s laid on the boast of a batsman -as he
breaks his duck. (7)
11 — Equipment for a hellbroth like Colman, Archer,
Randell, etc. (7)
12 — They meet each other face to face. (7)
14 — Unter den Linden is out of this
world. (7)
15 — Horses capable of winning at
Randwick, but nowhere else,
might be so called. (3, 5,5)
19 — The tiny silk, (anagram) (11)
20 — Listener’s home is by no means
frivolous. (7)
23 Love affajr in Cremona. (7)
24 Used to be plenty in this
instance. (7)
25 — Drinkable island summit is taken
aback. (7)
27 Catch to the outfield run off. (3)
28— Contracting as Wagner’s tetra-
logy is shown in tfie tent. (10)
Down
1 — Kenneth the Stylish meets
Khrushchev rather than Stalin
or. Lenin, being somewhat
yellow. (7, 7)
2 Legislator swallowing one
plan. (3)
3 Stevens singularly heartening to
the ultimate happening. (4, 5)
4 —Spilt beers Spot again,
then. (9)
5 Formed into a company like
South Americans. (5)
7 Mrs I. Ha’penny, (anagram)
(7, 4)
8 — Society suit. (4)
9 —Truant meets Ned suppressing a
characteristic of English act-
ing? (14)
13—Essen rings the edge of the foot-
path and everything may be
potted. (7, 4)
16 — A chirpy bird. (9)
17— A mosquite takes mother home
with sunburn. (9)
21— Spot. (4)
22 Steer into the vegetation. (5)
26 —Queen the mother of this out-
burst of voluntary work in a
community. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 624


BOOK.HTNTER, Box 2671, G.F.0., Sydney.
A service tor readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let u.s find it for you— fiction,
text book, biography, iiistory, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
youngest Viceroy of India in history
at the age of 39, was later a member
of Lloyd George’s War Cabinet and
Foreign Secretary, received aH the
honors he ever dreamed of winning but
still never reached his full potential.
Leonard Mosley traces part of
Curzon’s strange personality to the
influences of his childhood. Son and
heir of the fourth Baron Scarsdate
(who, as a clerk in holy orders, held
the living of Kedleston in Derbyshire
as well as the lordship of Kedleston
Hall), George Nathaniel was born in
1859 with an enlarged head, which he
later outgrew but which earned him
his mother’s lack of affection and his
father’s indifference. He fell under the
spell of a dominating and sadistic
governess at home and of an equally
baleful master at his preparatory
school, so went to Eton a “puny boy
of thirteen, much given to spots, bods
and colds, with a great deal of know-
ledge packed inside his brain, but
emotionally unstable and unpredict-
able as a half-trained greyhound.”
From then on Curzon. with some
reason, considered himself a self-made
man. He made his way through school
and university—and meanwhile injured
his back in a riding accident and found
himself ever afterwards forced to wear
leather harness entered politics,
married an American heiress and.
bringing the surplus wealth of Levi
Leiter to supplement the more meagre
Scarsdale finances, became a statesman
who could afford to set his sights
higher.
India was his heaven and. ennobled
in his own right—he took an Irish peer-
age. so that he would not be excluded
from the Commons, but fell into dis-
pute with Earl Howe, whose family
also bore the name Curzon as part of
their remainder and was forced to
adopt the style of Baron Curzon of
Kedleston—he was an admirable
viceroy for two-thirds of his term.
Impressing Indian princes with the
pomp and circumstance of his high
office; working-out his own policy for
“the outposts of my Empire” in Persia,
Afghanistan and Tibet; ordering his
officials to attend functions in knee-
breeches and stockings instead of
trousers; and wiping-out the cherished
independence of the Calcutta City
Council: all these things, and many
more, were just what his autocratic
nature needed for its satisfaction.
He fell foul of the British Army over
some trouble with a regiment in
Rangoon and later in the more import-
ant case of the Ninth Lancers. Then
like a man bent on self-destruction, he
went against advice and chose Lord
Kitchener as his Commander-in-Chief.
The fight was on. It started simply on
me question of signing official docu-
ments; because “Kitchener of Khar-
toum" looked more impressive than
Curzon of Kedleston,” he asked
Kitchener to use his surname only and
promised to do the same himself (more
trouble from Lord Howe!) It ended
in an all-out struggle for power.
Curzon lost and went back to England
discredited but determined never again
to allow a lesser man to take advantage
of him. There was still much before
him, and he enjoyed the pomp of office
as Foreign Secretary to the full, earn-
ing the nickname of “Lord Alabaster”
from Churchill, Birkenhead and
Austen Chamberlain.
Consoling himself for a while, after
the death of his first wife, with the
admiring affections of Elinor Glyn, he
eventually married another American
heiress (it is interesting to note
that the three most important women
in his adult life all had red hair),
but still foiled to produce an heir
to the title which he prized so
highly. He was later elevated
to a marquessate. but his heart was
finally broken when he missed the
premiership. He, who might have led
his country, died leaving posterity little
to remember him by, beyond the castles
of Tatershall and Bodiam, which he
gave to the National Trust, and the
restoration of the Taj Mahal and other
Indian shrines, which he brought back
to their original beauty. One cannot
help imagining him looking in dismay
at the final result of his life’s long labor
in his country’s service and muttering
the typically Curzonian expression of
distaste: “How ghastly; how absolutely
ghastly!”
Rollo Gillespie
Kiss Kiss
Kiss Kiss: Roald Dahl. Michael
Joseph; Angus and Robertson.
18s. 9d.
Years ago this reader, at the last
moment, jumped aboard a country
train, clutching a luridly covered cheap
paperback hastily snatched from the
bookstall and, expecting the worst,
opened its war-time horrible pages to
“discover” through “Brighton Rock,”
Graham Greene. The sensation was as
unmistakeable as when, in a women’s
magazine, one read Eudora Welty’s
“The Petrified Man” and knew that
here was a superb story-writer, years
before her book came on the market
here and everyone talked about her.
So it was, too, in 1954. when Roald
Dahl’s “Someone Like You" came with
a batch of review copies. Was there
ever a more subtly mordant study in
irony than the story “Lamb to the
Slaughter” in that volume? Briefly,
there, a wife murdered her policeman
husband by cracking his skull with a
frozen leg of lamb, which she then
cooked and served for dinner to his
colleagues who came to investigate her
tragic discovery; and when one detec-
tive, belching after the feast, pro-
pounded his theory that the blunt
instrument was concealed somewhere
in the apartment, another replied,
“Probably right under our very noses
What do you think, Jack?”
Now, bearing, the news on its jacket
that the earlier volume is to be
reprinted in 1961, comes “Kiss Kiss,”
containing eleven Dahl stories, some
from the “New Yorker.” They are as
well written as any in his first book,
as insanely logical in their surprising
conclusions that almost invariably arise
from the minor insanities or petty
nastinesses of the characters por-
trayed.
As before, some of the tales depend
upon a sort of fantasy that brings them
almost, if not quite, into die realm of
Science Fiction —where else quite
belongs the Iwain of William Pearl,
which, after his death by cancer, was
kept alive in a basin by means of an
artificial bloodstream? Or what of the
apiarist who saves his baby daughter’s
life with large doses of Royal Jelly?
He has eaten quantities of it himself:
and are we, together with his hapless
wife, to suppose that her husband and
child are becoming nearer bee than
human?
Though it is all very weird, it is
compellingly believable, for Dahl is a
tremendously skilful and compelling
writer. But is it, honestly now, terribly
enjoyable any more? For myself the
reluctant answer is no. To make quite
certain I looked again at “Someone
Like You” and found that the later
stories are no whit inferior to the
earlier, in fact there is no discernible
difference in quality between the
volumes.
Maybe one is grovying old, or maybe
Roald Dahl isn’t, or maybe there is a
limit to the amount of this fare that
anyone can digest, and two volumes
exceed it. Certainly one would
unreservedly recommend this book to
anyone who has not, before, explored
the off-beat world of Roald Dahl.
Nancy Keesing
What the World Owes Me, by Mary
Bowes. Sylvester Stein. Faber. 15s.
A cleverly constructed novel of the
espresso-bar generation. There is a
certain brilliance in the writing for
which Mr Stein has already been
praised elsewhere on the strength of
earlier novels.


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference- -
%e
I
99
Published by
,e
■ P-
21-
per single
copy
A review of : —
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
BOX 2521. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
